Strong Bad knows he's awesome. And has a chart to prove it.

_"You know, some people feel like they haven't 'beaten' the game until they found every single available token. But I think that's just unnecessary padding."_

A way of extending gameplay by setting completed tasks (such as collecting a certain number of items and doing optional sidequests) as a percentage, sometimes given explicitly. This feeds into the obsessive nature of the player.

Gamer opinion regarding this mechanic is roughly divided between those who feel that it should be easy for all players to obtain this and those who believe it must be difficult enough for only a few players to reach it during the game's lifetime. A common middle-ground is that anyone should be able to beat the final boss, but only the dedicated can achieve 100%. It is always Serious Business, however. This can get tedious, especially if the game has several Empty Room Psychs or Missing Secrets.

One usually doesn't need 100% to beat the game, but often will be rewarded with things like proper endings, extended story sequences, or "the making of" videos. Any powerful gameplay reward you might receive, such as infinite lives or an ultra powerful weapon, is inherently going to be Awesome, but Impractical, as you've already overcome all of the game's challenges (unless you can take it with you into New Game Plus). Other times, you receive nothing but the satisfaction of putting so much time into completing everything in the game. Or some spiffy new outfits. Or a very weird picture congratulating you. Or just some message telling you to get a life.

Occasionally, this is humorously extended _way_ past 100%. For games that do this, see Over 100% Completion. See also 100% Heroism Rating. Often related to Gotta Catch Them All or Gotta Rescue Them All. For the items a game requires you to collect to achieve this, see Pickup Hierarchy.

Completionist gamers can come in several varieties, and have different ideas of what they consider 100%. As a result, some of the conditions they set can fall under Self-Imposed Challenge at times, with more hardcore players having more extreme conditions. This can include:

-   **Maximum Level**: In games that use a leveling system, expect these players to grind all the way to the cap regardless of how long it takes. Mon games are the bane of these types of players due to the sheer amount of units required to fulfill this criteria. If a game has Anti-Grinding to prevent this, they'll usually try to subvert it by waiting until the end of the game before attempting this.
-   **All Items**: If a game has non-story items to collect, expect these players to get one of every last one; weapons, armor, accessories, consumables, the whole shebang. Diehard completionists will attempt to take it a step further and get the maximum number that their inventory can hold, and barring that, the maximum ammount in the game total. For games with item-management that forces them to throw old items away to obtain new ones, they'll make a mental checklist of everything they had obtained at least once.
-   **Completed Compendium**: If a game keeps a record of things in the form of a compendium or bestiary, then they'll hunt out every little thing, from the rarest of enemies to the hardest of item recipes, filling out every little bit of information and leaving no blank pages.
-   **Maximum Ranking**: In games that grade a player's performance, these players will settle for nothing short of the highest that can be obtained; Gold, or Platinum? Triple A rank? 5 Stars? 100 out of 100 points? They'll do it, no matter how many attempts it'll take, aiming for the highest of titles one can achieve.
-   **All Character Modes**: If a game has an Arrange Mode, or at least the choice of multiple playable characters, they'll play through the game as each and every one, getting 100% in every runthrough, possibly combining with all the other criteria above.
-   **All Difficulties**: This one can simply be a natural matter of course, starting from the easiest of difficulties and working your way up through each one, though completionists will often combine this with all the other criteria above for each runthrough.

The trope became more popular with the rise of Achievements and Trophies during the The Seventh Generation of Console Video Games, allowing the player to not only get one hundred percent completion, but show everyone online that they did.

Have fun finding the Last Lousy Point. Or dealing with That One Achievement. Or, in more humiliating cases, Achievement Mockery and/or Completion Mockery.

Contrast Do Well, But Not Perfect and Minimalist Run. See also True Final Boss. Triple AAA games have required unlocking parts of the map via Crow's Nest Cartography to achieve 100%.

___

## Examples by genre:

    open/close all folders 

    Action 

-   The _Armored Core_ series of games usually have hidden parts for your Humongous Mecha in some stages along with getting graded for beating the stage. There's also a combat arena in most games which also net you parts. Some games even count your mission complete/fail ratio. So getting 100% can take some time, and true 100% means you can't screw up once. Getting 100% usually gets you more parts. But the Armored Core series has a lot of Mission-Pack Sequel games between next installments, so it means something in the end. Armored Core for Answer takes the cake: getting 100% nets you an emblem. Then again it's Nineballs emblem — the game series memetic That One Boss. Also, in-universe, some of the characters have 100% mission success rates, but that doesn't mean anything.
-   _Blast Corps_ is incredibly persistent. Clear the main levels, find all the scientists, save a shuttle, clean up the moon, find all the bonus levels, get gold on all the bonus levels, find everything on the main levels, get gold on all the secret planet levels, get gold on all the time trials for the main levels, and your reward for all this is unlocking **platinum** targets for all the levels. The reward for getting all platinums is a very appropriate rank.
-   _Batman: Arkham Series_:
    -   _Batman: Arkham Asylum_ has things such as the various puzzles and challenges that the Riddler has scattered throughout Arkham for Batman to find. Listening to him gradually succumb to his inferiority complex as you find more and more of them is really quite fun.
    -   _Batman: Arkham City_ is even more infuriating than Arkham Asylum when it comes to 100% completion - assuming they have the 4 DLC packs, the player needs to complete the main storyline and all side missions **twice**, complete all 440 Riddler story mode challanges (riddles, trophies, etc.) and aquire all 888 Riddler's Revenge medals.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  As a reward, you finally get to punch The Riddler in the face.
    -   _Batman: Arkham Knight_ has a similar set up to _Arkham City_, with the added twist that _you need 100% completion to see the full ending cutscene of the game_. Hope you like hunting Riddler Trophies!
-   In _Bayonetta_, the achievements/trophies are actually a part of the game in the form of "Umbran tears of blood". Getting the 51 achievements _and_ catching the 51 crows hidden throughout the game (both required to beat the hardest difficulty setting) will give you the Climax Bracelet, a Game-Breaker item. And if you are really hardcore, you can collect 10 million halos to fight a Superboss, for which the aformentioned Climax Bracelet will actually be useful and who will reward you with a secret weapon. Which you can use in the Bonus Level of Hell Angel Slayer, to unlock a new character named Little King Zero. And if you _still_ don't have enough, try and get platinum awards in every chapter on Normal to unlock Jeanne as a playable character.
-   The fifth ending of _Drakengard_ requires that you collect every weapon in the game first, which is completely arbitrary, as what weapon you have equipped doesn't even matter to the plot of this ending. And the ending itself is rather anticlimactic.
-   _NieR_ requires you to get every weapon for getting all the endings, but the weapons are easy to get. However, the endings are climactic and all Tearjerkers.
-   The _God of War_ games kinda have this in terms of unlockables. Each one is locked in the main menu and it tells you exactly what you need to do to unlock it. This varies from completing that game's challenge mode to completing the Harder Than Hard difficulty. Good luck with that. Ghost of Sparta has most of its unlockables purchasable using blood orbs, and purchasing them all lets you play as freaking Zeus... but only in the combat arena.
-   Gundam Vs Zeta Gundam has a percentage for completion in two modes: Universal Century and Gallery. Universal Century's completion rate goes up to 300% as the mode is divided into three separate factions. To complete it entirely, the player has to complete every single mission for every single playable character in the game (45 in total), including the alternate story scenarios and what-ifs that have to be unlocked. To get those, an ally or enemy either has to survive or die when they shouldn't have at that time and this can even open up special scenarios where their deaths or survival have a major impact on future events. These can apply to either major characters like Amuro or minor ones like Gates, bringing up the total count to 805 in total. And your reward for completing every single one of them is...a Haro to look at in the gallery. However, if you managed to unlock everything else in the Gallery along with the Haro (some items that can only be randomly unlocked at a high price), your final reward is...a Haro trophy.
-   _Jet Force Gemini_: The player is required to rescue all 282 Tribals in the game to reach the final boss. They're distributed through the numerous planets and spacestations visited in the game, and the reason why they're required is because the reward is one of the 12 missing parts of a ship that takes the player characters to the final level. Within the optional collectibles, there are numerous Bonus Totems (which unlock characters and stages for multiplayer), capacity upgrades for the weapons' ammunition, and the Floyd minigames (completing all of them with an Expert rank will unlock yet another character for multiplayer).
-   _Katamari Damacy_ takes this to the point of insanity: beating the game once opens a bonus level in which you are asked to collect _one million roses_, **no more than 10 at a time**. (Thankfully, you aren't required to do this all in one sitting.) Completing this task unlocks some slight graphical tweaks (roses everywhere) and a new song. In most Katamari games, there's a catalog of all the items you can roll up, with a brief description of it by the King of All Cosmos. It doesn't contribute to overall game completion and is totally optional, but many completionists strive to fill it in, which can be a very daunting task.
-   Getting 100% completion on your save file in _Kid Icarus: Uprising_ involves completing the story, obtaining at least one level of every Power, opening every Intensity Gate, and collecting all the Idols. That last one is interesting, because there are some Idols that can only be gotten by scanning AR Cards, and while they aren't necessary when it comes to collecting them all, they still give percentage completion points. So by obtaining them, it's possible to go over 100%. There are also several achievement lists in the game, but those don't count towards 100% completion. Instead, they have their own completion percentage, and you'll need to do everything that's needed to get 100% game completion in order to get 100% achievement completion, making that the true sign that you've conquered everything in the game (especially as that's the only percentage that's shown off to the players you Streetpass with).
-   The LEGO Adaptation Games (_LEGO Star Wars_, _LEGO Indiana Jones_, _LEGO Batman_) require you to collect a set number of Lego Studs in each level to achieve "True Jedi/Adventurer/Hero" Status, and there are ten pieces of a Lego Minikit scattered around each level. Later games have open world hubs full of puzzles and quests to unlock gold bricks and characters.
    -   In _LEGO Star Wars: The Video Game_, collecting all of the minikit pieces from a chapter got you a single piece of a larger ship. Getting all Minikits and True Jedi Status for every chapter unlocked the Episode 4 preview.
    -   The amount of "collectibles" has been greatly increased for _LEGO Star Wars II_ as compared to _LEGO Star Wars The Video Game_, with red power bricks.
    -   In the DS versions, though, it's made tougher by the fact that in each of the vehicle levels, one of the minikit pieces requires _not dying even once_, though this is made easier when you find the "Invincility" red brick, which makes you unable to die no matter what you do.
    -   In _LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga_, getting 100% requires you to collect _**1166**_ Kyber Bricks, 225 minikits, 380 characters, 69 starships, 5 capital ships, 45 micro ships, and 19 datacards, unlock all 24 planets and the 19 extras tied to the datacards, complete all 9 episodes, 135 level challenges, 45 True Jedi meters, 140 side missions, 731 puzzles, 38 trials, and 10 challenges, and fully upgrade all the core abilities and all 9 character classes. Chances are by the time you finished the entire story mode, you’ll won’t even have collected a quarter of the Kyber Bricks. By the way, that’s just the base game, as DLC adds even more characters and levels with collectibles.
    -   The PC version of _Rock Raiders_ features a cinematic of the LMS _Explorer_ getting its engines charged up and heading home, one that plays when the player gets a score of 100% on every level. But because one level doesn't contain enough energy crystals to meet its crystal requirement, it's impossible to see the movie without digging through Program Files.
-   Billy Mitchell became the most famous gamer on the planet for being the first to complete a "perfect game" of _Pac-Man_. This consisted of not only clearing every level that could be completed (255), but eating every fruit and ghost in every single level.
-   Getting all 50 Oboro coins in the PS2 version of _Shinobi_ will unlock the final piece of artwork in the Concept Art Gallery, as well as an extra stage in Trial Mode that is nothing more than a glorified training stage.
-   Near the beginning of _Spider-Man 2: The Movie_, snarky narrator Bruce Campbell tells you that if you activate all of the 200+ Hint Markers (icons that provide hints spread throughout the city), he will say something different every time you activate them again. Several hours later, after activating the last marker, you activate it again, expecting more snarky advice. And Bruce says..."something different". Yes, the phrase "something different".
    -   The third game has a similar issue. Photographing all the bad guys, beating gangs, collecting spider tokens to unlock a black suit you no longer have any goddamn need for because the tokens only appeared when you took down Venom for the last time...perhaps the worst is the meteorite fragments, which unlock you a large yellow "CONGRATULATIONS" sign.
-   Several of the later Bomberman games, including but not limited to _Bomberman 64_, _Bomberman Generation_ and _Bomberman Jetters_ feature collectable cards scattered throughout the level. Collecting all the cards usually results in you gaining access to another set of levels and in the case of Bomberman 64, some pretty major plot development and the true ending.
-   The _Yakuza_ series has a _massive_ amount of mini games, side quests, and hidden items. It's possible to complete the main story and still have over _90%_ of the game to complete. There is a Completion List that tasks you with exploring every nook and cranny, beating up a lot of enemies, and completing all the mini-games to their fullest, which gives points that can be exchanged for permanent character bonuses and Infinity +1 Swords. You're gonna have to learn how to play Japanese gambling and board games if you want to 100% the list.
-   _Viewtiful Joe_:
    -   The original game unlocks a new mode or character each time you complete the game on normal or harder with certain requirements. Unlocking Sylvia and V-Rated mode are fairly easy, but Super V-Rated, Alastor, and Captain Blue to play are a bit harder - the toughest of which requires beating V-Rated or Super V-Rated with Rainbow V ranks in _every single mission._
    -   _Viewtiful Joe 2_ also has the harder difficulties unlocked by beating the game, but instead of new characters has the 36 Chambers unlocked when certain achievements are performed. True completion means unlocking everything and beating all 36 Chambers with a Rainbow V rating.
-   _WarioWare, Inc.: Mega Microgame$_: Unlocking all the microgames in every character's grid will unlock the Pyoro minigame. And earning a flower badge in all microgames will unlock the Pyoro 2 minigame.
-   Unlocking all 100 bottlecaps in _The Wonderful 101_ unlocks the 101st bottlecap and grants you access to Wonder-Bayonetta. Of course, getting all the bottlecaps is no easy feat. Requiring you to beat the game on the hardest difficulty, complete every single secret mission across all five difficulties, and beat a certain boss without getting hit.

    Action-Adventure 

-   _Badland_ fewer than 10 people have actually successfully gotten over 3000 clones or completed all achievements. Out of 20 million players. With levels like Doomsday, the game is notoriously Nintendo Hard.
-   _Ed, Edd n Eddy: The Mis-Edventures_ keeps track of various collectables, including the literal Easter Eggs from chickens and the costume pieces needed to unlock the bonus levels. The biggest collection hunt is getting all 40 jawbreakers, most hidden around each level, some needing to be bought from a machine. Getting 100% completion rewards the player with the ability to activate three cheats: One making the Eds invisibile to enemies and people in stealth sections, one allowing them to One-Hit Kill anything, and one greatly speeding them up.
-   _Graffiti Kingdom_'s story portion is relatively easy to get through, but obtaining all the attacks and monster cards can be insanely tough at times. (How were you supposed to figure out that defeating a certain number of frogs on that bridge would cause the only monster in the game with Poison Breath to appear?) The only thing you get for obtaining everything is the ability to create anything you want and see all the enemy models in detail.
-   In _Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets_, if you find all the Chocolate Frog cards (there are about 40), you will be able to open a bonus area. Doing so requires collecting Chocolate Frog cards hidden in challenge/test areas for each of your classes, which must be completed within time limits (although you can replay them) as well as thoroughly searching the castle and grounds.
-   _The Legend of Zelda_:
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time_: If you want to get everything in the game, you had better scour every single area with the most precise attention to detail and logic possible, or have a trusty player's guide or online walkthrough at your side - you have a LOT of ground to cover: Finding all of the fairy fountains to receive their upgrades and powerups, all equipment-based items and upgrades from both the past and the future like quivers and bomb bags, the Heart Pieces, hunting all Gold Skulltulas, and completing sidequests like the Chain of Deals to get all masks (past) and the Biggoron Sword (future), rescuing Epona in the future and then earning a pet cow for your house, and finally completing the Bonus Dungeon in Gerudo's Fortress.
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask_: There are plenty of collectibles in the game: 52 heart pieces, upgrades for your items, Great Fairy rewards, increasing the capacity of your wallet, quiver, etc. Most notably, there's the collection of all the masks in the game, which results in you receiving the Fierce Deity's Mask at the end of the game. It is easily the most powerful mask in the entire game, but is only usable during boss fights. Each earned mask also corresponds to a piece of the Segmented Ending, showing the happy ending of whomever you helped in order to earn the mask.
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker_: To get 100% in the game, you have to:
        -   Collect 41 Treasure Charts (46 in the remake), plus the 12 extra Special Charts, and the mandatory 8 Triforce Charts (3 in the remake). The benefit of getting the Special Charts is that they're helpful to locate many other things, such as Pieces of Heart, the Great Fairies who grant the ammunition and wallet upgrades, the Big Octo minibosses (whose defeats yield rewards on their own), submarines, special treasure lights, secret caves and watchtowers.
        -   Special items like the Hero's Charm, the Magic Armor, both special tickets from Bettle (for which you have to make a total of 60 purchases), and the availability of all three colored Potions in Doc Bandom's shop in Windfall Island. The latter is prone to being missable if the player sells too many Chu Jellies to Beedle.
        -   Collect a figurine of _every single character in the entire game_. To get a figurine, you have to take a photograph of the character, then go to a particular island and have somebody make the figurine from your photo. Your camera can only hold 3 photographs at once. There are **134** characters in the game, and more than a dozen of these can only be photographed at specific times: if you miss your chance, you miss your shot at 100%, though you can take a New Game Plus for a second chance after you beat the game. This nets you yet another trophy (Link riding The King of Red Lions), which is unobtainable otherwise.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  This completion is made easier in the Wii U remake.
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass_ and _The Legend of Zelda: Spirit Tracks_ have the ship/train parts collection, which are infamously obtained through random loot renewed daily. Some of these are at the very bottom of the Temple of the Ocean King and the Lost at Sea Station respectively, meaning you'll visit these dungeons again and again and again, every day, if you want to completely fill your collection.
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword_ has, along with the main quest, 80 Gratitude Crystals (whose collection involves a vast array of sidequests in Skyloft and the Sky, including the collection of stray Gratitude Crystals during nightime), all sorts of mini-games (one of which gets the Hylian Shield), many Goddess Cubes, and plenty of upgrades, bugs, and treasures.
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_ can be beaten in an hour or two if you're fine with skipping all the story segments and just run straight to the final boss. If you want your game to read 100% completion, though? Be prepared to spend well over 100 hours visiting every possible location on your map, clearing all 120 shrines and 4 main dungeons, and collecting _**900**_ Korok seeds. If you _truly_ want to complete **everything**? You've got 16 armor sets (plus 15 individual armor pieces) to collect and upgrade, 18 memories to rediscover, 76 side quests to tackle, 14 Resurrection Towers to activate, 385 photos to take for the Hyrule Compendium, 84 Miniboss "Medals of Honor" to grab, and a handful of bridles and saddles for your horse companion. Oh, and if that isn't enough for you, you can buy a number of Zelda amiibo (and the DLC) to unlock some exclusive armor sets/pieces and Epona.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   In _Maximo: Ghosts to Glory_, there is a secret level named "Mastery" that requires you to get 100% completion to enter.
-   In _Ōkami_, collecting all 100 Stray Beads nets you a Game-Breaker for your New Game Plus. Completists will also want to acquire at least one of every type of fish and treasure as well as feed 100% of all animals; for the latter case, there is one dog that is Permanently Missable, though it's not out of the way. When you go to the past Kamiki Village, feed the dog in the village.
-   _Skylanders_:
    -   All of the main games have been designed to be played with physical buyable action figures that connect to the console and become a playable character. The thing is that certain areas can only be unlocked by a specific group of Skylanders, and the starter pack only gives you three or two of them. A level's star objective list has a specific star that's only earned once all the collectables in a level. Meaning that if you want to earn all 3 stars on a level, you're gonna need one Skylander of every element, on top of the bonus levels that some games have available for you to buy that are sometimes lumped in with the rest of the completion total. And with the later games, certain areas can only be accessed by that games main gimmick Skylanders.
    -   Taken up a notch by Trap Team. To 100% the game and reach Portal Master Rank 40, you can't just use any past Skylanders to open the element gates. Now only the Trap Masters can do so. And a fourth star was added to the level completion goals, which you can only see after rolling the credits.
    -   Superchargers thankfully calms things down. Now in order to get 3 stars on a level, you just need to complete each vehicle type's mission, lessening the need to buy all the toys since any Skylander can drive a vehicle. Element Gates were removed, replaced by Supercharger Gates, which any Supercharger of any element can access. And by Imaginators, the three-star goals can easily be accomplished with just one Skylander, without the need to buy any toys outside of the starter pack characters. However, for true 100% completion in Imaginators, you're gonna need to buy one Sensei of each element to unlock the "Sensei Realms", short mini levels that have their own set of star objectives to complete. And the game also received a content update adding two more levels only accessed by other toys... which are now incredibly expensive due to their low print run.
-   Several of the _Tomb Raider_ games have secrets (via items or just hidden rooms) which usually contain extra health and ammo. While some of the games' secrets are nothing but bragging rights when you get 100%, the third game unlocks a bonus level for you to explore and beating that gets you all guns with infinite ammo for any level you play over.
-   The _Uncharted_ games play with this, dotting treasures around the world for you to find. 100% completion requires 61/60 treasures in _Drake's Fortune_ and 101/100 in _Among Thieves_ and _Drake's Deception_. The rewards are things like weapon select, character skins, making of videos and the like.
-   _Marc Eckō's Getting Up: Contents Under Pressure_: Complete all the main and optional graffiti pieces (and do them perfectly), the freeform challenges, find all the iPods, find all the Eckō rhinos, find all the Gold Montana spray cans, take pictures of all the graffiti legends...

    Adventure 

-   The adventure games _Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade_ and _Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis_ had "Indy Quotient" as score. In fact, it was two separate scores: one for what you had gained during the current playthrough, and another one which kept track of all score-giving actions you have accomplished in the game on any play. To gain full score in the latter includes doing things which are nearly impossible or result in an instant death, such as _punching Hitler in public_.
-   The third _The Legend of Kyrandia_ game parodied the scorekeeping mechanic of other contemporary adventure games. The stated maximum score is 911, but the developers have admitted that they pulled the number out of thin air, and it is absolutely impossible to actually reach that score. Points are often awarded for completely irrevelant and nonsensical actions, such as _tripping over a log_.
-   Sierra adventure games like _Space Quest_ have a points score of "X out of X" at the top of the screen. Some of the puzzles have multiple solutions, with the most difficult solutions required to reach a perfect score. This becomes even more complicated because Sierra is the master of the Last Lousy Point.
-   _Strong Bad's Cool Game for Attractive People_ always has that _one thing_ that you're not going to stumble across in normal play and that you can't go back and get later. In episode 2, it's insulting Strong Sad that's likely to trip you up. In episode 3, There's an "expression of affection" in a line that is only heard if you have high hint mode turned on.
-   In the _Nevertales_ series you need to find all of the hidden bonus items and then assemble a jigsaw with the pieces they give you in order to unlock the first book of the hidden chapter which serves as a bonus bonus chapter. Unlocking the second book requires finding all the collectables, while the third requires two book tokens found at the end of the first and second books.

    Eastern RPG 

-   The _Baten Kaitos_ games love to torture completionists.
    -   _Eternal Wings_ had about _1,000 magnus_ that have to be collected for 100% completion. As if that wasn't daunting enough, there are a lot that are easily Permanently Missable; the Trail of Souls is the most infamous offender, but Maskless Mizuti is another nasty one.
    -   _Origins_, meanwhile, has the torturous Pac-Man sidequest, which involves feeding Pac-Man 147 different quest magnus. In addition, there's also the 'Milly's Rocks' sidequest, which involves pushing humanoid rocks around Nekkar. Thankfully, the game eased up on the Permanently Missable Content; only three quest magnus and four field guide entries are missable.
-   The Achievements for _Blue Dragon_ require you to, among other things, find every single item, every single monster, and max out every single character and character class. It's only for fun though, and the game's over after you beat the final boss (not counting New Game Plus).
-   A gamer finished up _Dragon Quest IX_ with a 100% completion rate. Number of hours played? 773.
-   _Etrian Odyssey_: The player's Guild Card in each game keeps track on the achievements you meet through your adventure (they're retained in the New Game Plus). Some of them will come to you with normal progress (complete a certain stratum, for example), but for others you have to collect all treasures from chests or defeat all bosses on the highest difficulty level available, for example (which is easier said than done, due to the series' Nintendo Hard nature). The first game in the series deconstructs the idea: get 100% completion and Etria is reduced to a Ghost Town, as there are no longer any mysteries or secrets in the labyrinth that was its only attraction.
-   _Final Fantasy_:
    -   One bit of 100% Completion in _Final Fantasy IV: The After Years_ devolves into What the Hell, Player? territory. To complete the bestiary, you have to kill Shiva, Ramuh, Asura, Leviathan, and Bahamut instead of rescuing them from the Big Bad's control. You're a heartless bastard if you're proud to kill Rydia's family, AGAIN, just to fill a few blank entries.
    -   _Final Fantasy VII_ had the Master materia; collect and master one of every kind of materia of a particular type, and you would be rewarded with a single materia that gives you all of the capabilities of all the rest of them combined, giving you more options in combat than you could possibly have otherwise. The optional bosses might count, though they generally don't give you any items that you couldn't get somewhere else.
    -   Rewards for completing side quests are becoming more popular in Final Fantasy; _Crisis Core: Final Fantasy VII_ featured 300 extra missions that needed to be done for full completion of the game, not to mention many a Guide Dang It! side quest. The reward is a literally God-level Zack, though. New entry to the series _Dissidia Final Fantasy_ features an achievement system with some very obvious goals such as completing each character's story line and number of battles fought, along with some obscure ones such as distance traveled across the game's maps and how high you can raise your luck level, to make 150 "missions" in all.
    -   _Final Fantasy VII Remake_ has its own share of completion to do. It involves completing every sidestory (and three in Chapter 9 being exclusive on how Cloud asks around for Tifa), getting every dress variant, completing every one of Chadley's requests, learning every weapon skill, learning every enemy skill, scanning every monster and boss, completing all rounds of the Corneo Coliseum and the Shinra VR challenge, as well as finishing the game on Hard mode.
    -   With _Final Fantasy IX_'s Tetra Master, getting perfection in the form of a perfect Collector's Rank of 1700 is insane. To do this, you have to collect all 100 card types (and you can only have 100 cards total at a time). On top of that, you have to "level up" your cards by using them enough so that they all have an attack type of A, and _have a different pattern of attack arrows on each one_. Your reward for doing this, however, is very disappointing. "Would you like to discard?" is superimposed over the other text in the card menu. Yes, that's right, for all your hard work, you get a glitch.
    -   _Final Fantasy X-2_ is the only game in the series that scores players based on how much of the game they've completed, and it's notoriously sadistic about it—miss a single obscure, time-sensitive quest, pick the wrong option in an arbitrary choice, neglect to sleep at the Trauma Inn at least once a chapter _even though it serves no gameplay purpose_, or even _skip a cutscene_, and you lose any hope of 100% completion. Fortunately, your completion percentage will carry over to a New Game Plus. There are two paths through the main plot, depending on which faction you ally with early in the game. If you take the other path in a New Game Plus, you can earn the additional completion points that weren't available on the first path, making it easy to reach ~130% completion (the game stops tracking at 100%). On the other hand, the two paths have slightly different numbers of points, so it's only possible to reach 100% completion in a single playthrough if you pick the right path and then only by beating the Bonus Dungeon — 100 floors of increasingly difficult fights: by about floor 90, the random encounters are with boss monsters — not only that, but the best equipment in the game only appears once, so without going through a new game plus several times, your party will be underequipped too. Getting 100% completion without a New Game Plus may be possible, but it's far, far, far easier (and quicker!) to just play through the New Game Plus.
    -   The Xbox 360 version of _Final Fantasy XI_ has achievements for getting jobs to level 75. Since there are 16 jobs in the game, and getting _one_ to level 75 takes at least _a month_ of dedicated playing, getting 100% achievements will take a very, _very_ long time.
    -   Getting the highest clan rank in _Final Fantasy XII_ requires you not only to kill every mark, but also to complete the Sky Pirate's Den, the game's proto-achievement list. Among the achievements are things like encountering every monster in the game (including all the rare monsters), triggering every Quickening finisher at least once and having visited every section of every game area (thankfully excepting the ones you can't return to.)
    -   _Final Fantasy XIII_, being on the PS3 and 360, supports Trophies/Achievements, which provides a percentage figure to work towards. To get all of the trophies, you will have to (among other things) earn a five-star rating on all 64 Marks, and acquire every weapon and accessory in the game (not all at the same time, but you have to have had at least one of every unique item at some point). Given the game's Upgrade system, this means not only acquiring all of the basic weapons and accessories, but also leveling them up.
    -   _Final Fantasy XIII\-2_ has 160 Fragments to collect, which nets an achievement. It also unlocks the cruelest Secret Ending in history, featuring the villain mocking the _player_ for trying to find a way to defeat him.
    -   _Lightning Returns: Final Fantasy XIII_ awards 100% Achievement/Trophy completion with the Pallas Athena garb, which has a very rare ability as its locked command. However it's impossible to achieve 100% Completion of quests, as one sidequest is only obtained through _failing_ another sidequest. Though the rewards from reading the journal and performing the subsequent quest are much greater.
-   _Kingdom Hearts_:
    -   In _Kingdom Hearts_, you have to lock all the worlds, rescue all the Dalmatians, and beat the Hades Cup to get an extra bonus movie after the credits. A later release of the game requires you to do all the Trinities and beat Kurt Ziza as well, but gives you a longer movie. _Final Mix_ ups the ante some: to get the extra long secret movie, you have to rescue all 101 Dalmations, find every Trinity mark, play every minigame at least once, and beat every single enemy in the game, which includes the Superbosses. Unless you play on Proud Mode, in which case you merely have to lock all worlds and beat the Hades Cup.
    -   In _Kingdom Hearts II_, to get the final movie you must do several things. Unlock all the worlds. You have to complete Jiminy's Journal, which includes collecting _all_ synthesis items, which are often quite rare monster drops and take a long time to find. And then you need to find enough to synthesize all the items too. You also need to level all your drives and summons up to Level 7 (very difficult with Final Form, as it requires defeating 500 nobodies in total while transformed), and then beat the Hades Paradox Cup with 15,000 points. However, on Proud mode you just have to unlock the worlds.
    -   In _Kingdom Hearts: Birth by Sleep_, the final movie in standard mode is unlocked with this. You need to play through the story, get all the secret reports, beat every Mirage Arena challenge, play every mini-game, get a hit count with every D-link and shotlock, collect all the character files, defeat every Unversed, make every ice cream, and collect all the commands, treasures, and stickers. With every character. Once again, on Proud Mode you just have to beat the game and collect all the Xehanort reports, a trivial task.
-   _Light Fairytale_: Each episode has completion percentages based on all game events and battle zones, which are tracked across all save files to account for mutually exclusive events.
-   The first _Mana Khemia: Alchemists of Al-Revis_ keeps track of how much of the encyclopedia you've filled in. Scanning every enemy, including the ones that only appear in certain endings and the Bonus Dungeon of Hell, and collecting/synthing every item gets you a rumor that adds 30 to everyone's stats. This is made more frustrating by the fact that the bonus dungeon locks up on a regular basis.
-   _Odin Sphere_: Doing everything right (completing all of the story chapters, watching all of the cutscenes, and eating all of the available foods) nets you a bonus scene where Velvet and Cornelius collect all of the Valentinian coins and undo the Pooka curse.
-   _Persona_:
    -   Maxing out all your social links in _Persona 3 Portable_ or _FES_ gives you the colorless mask. With that, once you reach level 99, you can fuse Orpheus Telos, a Palette Swap of your first persona, but one that is strong against every attack in the game (except Almighty attacks), and can inherit any move in the game. With a lot of work, time, and intensive planning, you can create a persona with the eight best moves in the game, which would normally require 8 different personas. Of course, maxing all the social links requires an absolutely perfect understanding of the games relationship sim mechanics, and fighting normal gamer instincts to move the plot forward for as long as possible, as you just don't have the time to succeed otherwise. Or in other words: a guide. It is also necessary to get 100% of the persona compendium, meaning you've had every persona at least once, although achieving that gives you absolutely nothing. Completing all of Elizabeth's side quests gets you nothing, but completing certain ones are necessary to get all the items and persona in the game.
    -   Unlike _Persona 3_, maxing your social links in one playthrough in _Persona 4_ doesn't give you access to the ultimate persona. You have to get the true ending for that. And maxing all of your social links in one playthrough only gives you a trophy in the Updated Re-release but if you want 100%, you'd still be wanting to do it anyways, which like the above example, requires a guide. It is also best saved for your New Game Plus playthrough as you need your social stats to be maxed to get access to the best answers to some links. Of course, you'll need to max them all anyway to get 100% in the persona compendium anyway. But, in this case, they don't all have to be maxed in one playthrough.
-   _Pokémon_: It's the Trope Namer for Gotta Catch 'Em All, after all. As far as the games themselves are concerned, though, they're pretty lenient on the matter. Most Pokédexes tend to exclude Mythicals for the purposes of qualifying for 100%, as they are event-exclusive and otherwise impossible to obtain legitimately in-game, and later entries only require you complete the region's Pokédex rather than a national one to be rewarded with a diploma.
    -   _Pokémon Yellow_ lacked Pokémon you could only get in _Red_ AND only in _Blue_, so if you bought _Pokémon Yellow_, you also needed to trade with BOTH _Red and Blue_ to get certain Pokémon. The release of _Pokémon Gold and Silver_ alleviated this somewhat with use of the Time Capsule; _Silver_ and _Crystal_ both have all the Pokémon that can't be found in Yellow, and also make it easier to obtain multiple Eevee and the other Tyrogue evolution, meaning if you can trade with one of those, you only need another RBY player for the fossil you didn't pick. You still need two other games, but it's not limited to only _Red_ and _Blue_. Of course, this is offset by giving you access to the three starters without trading and some overall updates, basically sacrificing easier 100% Completion for a better gameplay experience. _Emerald_ and _Platinum_ pull the same trick, but without that trade-off.
    -   Taken to ridiculous levels in _Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire_, where completing your Pokédex means trading across seven different games and two systems. Your best method, if you didn't have a friend who owned some of these games, was to pick up both _Ruby and Sapphire_ for about half of them, both _FireRed and LeafGreen_ for most of the other half, and a copy of _Colosseum_ and _XD: Gale of Darkness_ for the remaining few. If you're gunning for Mythical Pokémon, in addition to attending Nintendo events, European and Australian players also had to buy _Pokémon Channel_ and connect it to their GBA games to get Jirachi... which might be an improvement over America and Japan, which could only get the Pokémon through **preorder-only** versions of _Colosseum_.
        -   Completing the Pokédex just awards you with a star on your Trainer card. The requirements for actual 100% completion of the Trainer Card varies from game-to-game, but in _Ruby and Sapphire_, getting all 5 possible stars/Trainer card colors on the card involves: beating the game (duh), beating all Master Rank contests, and winning 50 battles in a row in the Battle Tower. In _Pokémon Emerald_, the last one is replaced by the ridiculous requirement of getting all Symbols in the Battle Frontier, which involves around _14 times_ as many battles, _at least_ (you have to restart you winning streak from zero with each factory every time you lose).
    -   _Pokémon Diamond and Pearl_ 100% completion of the Pokédex was complicated in part due to the GTS's obvious limitation at the time of only being able to request Mons you've already seen, which was frustating on its own but made even more so by the fact that in order to even see one certain Pokémon (a Manaphy), one must physically import it from Spin-Off game _Pokémon Ranger_... which could only be done once per _cartridge_ (not save file), so if you got a used copy, you were screwed. This was rectified in _Platinum_ and later games, which allow the player to see a picture of Manaphy in books sitting around in certain locations, registering Manaphy as "seen" and enabling the GTS route. Also, for those without near friends who own a copy, don't even think about trying to get a Spiritomb without the GTS in Gen IV. This near-impossible-to-achieve-alone feat requires meeting 32 players in the underground (or the same one person thirty-two different times), which can only be done through local multiplayer.
    -   Generation VI does contain every single necessary Pokémon by itself, but you'll \*still\* need all four games and a lot of work to do it. That said, you get an amazing reward for doing completing the National Pokedex - the Shiny Charm, which increases the rate at which the super-rare Shiny Pokemon appear.
    -   The Generation VIII companion app _Pokémon HOME_ has its own Dex, which is an amalgamate of all Dexes from Generation VI through Generation VIII. However, to fully complete it without trading, at bare minimum you'd need all four Gen VI games, all six Gen VII games, _Pokémon GO_, and _Pokémon Sword and Shield_ (including the DLC). Registering every single Pokémon to the _HOME_ Dex nets you Original-Color Magearna.
-   _Radiata Stories_ has the interesting quality of having at least 120 characters that can join your party, all of which must be added to your Friends List through various means. It's impossible to get all the characters on one go, as the story branches halfway through the game and some characters are only found on one path or the other. When you do get every single character, you get an extra little picture on your Friends List. Hooray?
-   _Recettear: An Item Shop's Tale_ has an item encyclopedia, which tracks all the items you've managed to obtain, and displays your "completion rate". Many of the items either drop very rarely from enemies, or need to be fused from such random drops, so obtaining a 100% completion rate is a very long-term project.
-   To achieve 100% in _Riviera: The Promised Land_, you have to view all of the CG scenes, collect all of the items, use all of those items' Overdrive Moves, and defeat the Bonus Boss after completing the game. And to get all CG scenes, you have to finish the game SIX times!
-   _Star Ocean: Till the End of Time_ features "battle trophies"; as you unlock more, you get things like more difficulty levels and extra characters for the pseudo-fighting game Mini-Game. The challenges include things like beating bosses within a particular amount of time, or at low levels, getting X number of combos, walking X number of game-feet, playing for X amount of time, etc. One of the trophies is for defeating the last Bonus Boss in under two hours on the highest difficulty setting. This is actually quite difficult to accomplish.
-   _Star Ocean: The Last Hope_ also has Battle Trophies. This time around, however, they are character specific; each of the 9 playable characters have 100 trophies to obtain, for a total of 900 Battle Trophies.
-   _Stella Glow_: On the first playthrough, completing the game 100% is impossible due to time constraints. You'd need to reach maximum affinity with all characters, including the one with whom you can proceed to unlock the Golden Ending, since each character has also their own epilogue which is only viewable after the credits if your bond with them is optimal. There's also the need to maximize the side jobs. All of these activities spend Free Time, of which you're only given three turns per period. Therefore, it's more ideal to wait until the New Game Plus, where each period of Free Time grants _nine_ turns, so you can reach maximum affinity with everyone, complete the side jobs in all their levels, and still have lots of time left to do free exploration to find goodies in the open field. Then there's the optional objectives in the main quests' missions, whose completion grants unique gear and weapons, and some of them are pretty tricky to complete unless you know what you're doing.
-   In all of the _Suikoden_ games, you get the true ending only if you have all 108 Stars of Destiny in your party. The exception is _III_, in which all you get is the ability to play through the game as the antagonist, though part of the "Where Are They Now?" Epilogue changes.
-   _Tales of Symphonia_:
    -   Like most _Tales_ games, this one has an item completion book which records all the items that come into your inventory. It takes two whole playthroughs and going through another 85% of the game before you complete the listing. And that was only if you were very careful in manipulating relationships between characters.
    -   There's also the "Monster Book", which records every monster you encounter. Since there is one point where depending on which choice you made at an earlier time the boss is different it will take at least 2 playthroughs to record every enemy. The one good thing is that, contrary to popular belief, you don't need to record all the stats (which requires you to have a certain character use a certain item on each enemy). Your reward? A title for one character.
-   _Tales of the Abyss_ has something similar. The reward for completing the item list? A title for a single character that comes with a small stat boost and access to a special store.
-   Most _Wild ARMs_ games will offer special Ex. Game rewards for completing particular challenges, such as opening every chest in the game, filling in every spot on the world map, getting to Level 100 with all characters, or beating particular bosses.
-   _The World Ends with You_ has 22 secret reports, 96 Noise reports, 472 items, and 304 pins to collect (and a Speedrun Boss Rush which only counts on tougher difficulties). Completing each set gets you a star rank for that collection and a new character on the save screen. Collecting all the secret reports also unlocks The Stinger. Then there's your ESP'er score... You gain one point for each battle cleared and each item bought worth more than 10,000 yen. And you need _exactly_ 10,000 points in the North American version to achieve God rank. One more and you're back down to Demon.

    Fighting 

-   _Super Smash Bros._:
    -   _Melee_ has nearly 300 trophies (290, plus three special ones), special items that you receive by fulfilling certain conditions in-game. Each trophy is modeled after a character, item, or setting from a Nintendo game, and comes with a little bit of trivia regarding the item it represents.
    -   _Brawl_ adds stickers to the mix. SEVEN HUNDRED OF THEM, plus 544 trophies and 128 challenges. Here's a list of all the unlockables.
    -   _Super Smash Bros. for Wii U_ replaces the stickers with custom character moves (394 in total), as well as 716 trophies, 437 songs, and 140 challenges to complete. There are also bonus rewards for completing the special objectives in all the solo and co-op event matches.
    -   _Ultimate_ replaces the custom moves and trophies with Spirits, the number of which started at around 1300 and has increased with successive game updates. You can only get just over 600 of them from World of Light, though. Others are exclusive to Spirit Board battles, others are only available through summoning, others can only be obtained after enhancing certain spirits at level 99, others are only available as rewards from completing one of the 124 challenges in the game, and the fighter spirits can be obtained by completing Classic Mode with that character. Some spirits are initially only available through Old Save Bonus or limited-time events, only becoming part of the regular rotation in much later updates.

    First Person Shooter 

-   _Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2_ played this straight, displaying the completion percentage in each of its mode: Singleplayer, Spec-Ops, and Multiplayer. Interestingly, after entering Prestige Mode in the multiplayer, the counter will go up past 100. A player level 25 in 3rd Prestige, for example, may have their percent counter at 454%. The ULTIMATE completion (that is, 10th Prestige) will display 1100%.
-   _Doom_ has several goals to shoot for per level: a time target, monsters killed, and secrets found. On Nightmare difficulty, however, monsters will respawn, making it possible to get more than 100% monsters killed, and at least one 'Doom construction kit' actually advocates creating a 'secret area' that the player can't reach, to keep them coming back to look for 'that last 10 percent'.
-   _Wolfenstein 3-D_ has a registry of enemies killed, secrets found, treasure collected and time spent for each level, with the former three being measured by percentage and the latter being compared to a record-type time known as _PAR time_. The kills, secrets and treasure collected net you bonus points for acing them, as does the time if you completed the level under the PAR time.
-   To get the best ending in _Painkiller_, you not only have to beat the game on Nightmare difficulty, you also have to beat the card condition on each level and unlock their respective cards...which unlocks Trauma difficulty, beating which finally rewards you with the best ending.
-   This is parodied in the Valentines Day DLC for _Borderlands 2_, which doesn't have a completion system per se, but rather a checklist of finished missions. During one post-story mission, you're tasked with stealing a wig from a robot. You ask politely first, however the robot couple declines, telling you that the wig is also a control system that keeps the female robot from going crazy and detonating herself. The couple tries to persuade you to leave them be by saying there's nothing wrong with just leaving the quest uncompleted and ignoring it. There's no way to progress the quest without stealing the wig anyways and causing the female XPloader to detonate (which makes the male Junk Loader hostile which now requires him to be destroyed), with your character remarking in some way about how they just _had_ to finish the quest.

    Metroidvania 

-   In both _Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow_ and _Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow_, Soma not only has 100% map completion to look forward to, but 100% soul collection as well. Every non-human enemy in the game, save for their respective final bosses, has a soul that will randomly drop when Soma kills it, giving him a new power to play around with. Obtaining the soul of every enemy in the game will give him access to the infinite-MP Chaos Ring. Needless to say, this is extraordinarily difficult, with some souls refusing to drop until you slaughter the enemy 100 times or more.
-   _Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin_ takes this to an even greater extreme, with percentage markings for map completion separate for each map, as well as a combined total (1000.00%). In addition, there are percentages for items found/obtained, enemies fought (which are written in gray letters unless the player battles the enemies enough times to obtain the items they drop), and subweapons/skills obtained.
-   _Castlevania: Symphony of the Night_ allows you to explore 100% of the map. This score can then be increased to 200.6% in a "mirror" version of the castle; if you exploit a couple of wall bugs, you can increase this to ~240%. Most every item in _Symphony of the Night_ is a random drop from enemies. Though these items don't count toward a noted in-game percentage, completionists who want to collect them all will be tortured by the low appearance rates, which result in revisiting the same room upward of one hundred times to get a single item. Further, certain items such as the Muramasa Blade and Familiars can be even be "leveled up," and the maximum level is only achievable by killing literally hundreds of thousands of enemies. Extreme collectors can gather 99 of every item in the game if they don't have anything else to do for the next few years.
-   _K.O.L.M._: There are a bunch of metal plates to collect, each with a letter on it. If you have them all at the end of the game, they spell out It's Kind Of Like Metroid
-   _Metroid_:
    -   Every game from _Super Metroid_ onwards tracks your item collection percentage. While earlier games in the series, including _Super Metroid_ itself, gave different endings based on completion time rather than item collection, item collection has since become a factor in determining which ending you get. _Samus Returns_ and _Dread_ extend this to give every area in the game its own completion meter and associated unlockable gallery picture that's used to elaborate on background details.
    -   Item collection fully displaces time regarding true completion in the 3D games (_Metroid Prime Trilogy_ and _Metroid: Other M_). Completing each _Prime_ game at 75% gets you a face reveal during the ending, while 100% nets you a foreboding Post-Credits Scene. Note that the _Prime_ games also have a separate percentage for the logbook scans, for which there's unlockable material for completion as well. Players of the _Trilogy_ compilation itself can get a whopping 300% completion, or 100% per game. In the case of _Other M_, collecting all items will unlock the path to a True Final Boss (Phantoon, of _Super Metroid_ fame) and ending.
-   _Shantae_: Starting with _Shantae: Risky's Revenge_, the series rewards players that collect all the items in the game (which includes collectibles and all upgrades bought in shops) with different 100% Completion ending pictures being shown depending on how quickly they complete the game.

    MMORPG 

-   RuneScape has special capes that can only be gotten by getting 100% completion.
    -   The Master Quest Cape. To get it, you must complete every quest and miniquest in the game, claim all hidden quest rewards, collect several hidden books in the game, and get several other achievements.
    -   The Completionist Cape. It is the best cape in the game. To get it, you must complete every quest and several miniquests, level up every skill to max, unlock every music track in the game, unlock every spell, complete several difficult challenges, beat every boss at least once, and get several other achievements.
    -   The Completionist Cape (t). It is the same as a Completionist Cape but looks cooler. To get it, you must meet the requirements for the regular completionist cape, and complete several more achievements, including some that take a ridiculously long time to finish.

    Platform Games 

-   To reach the final battle with Specter in the _Ape Escape_ series, the player is _required_ to obtain 100% completion (by capturing all the monkeys). However, monkeys aren't the only collectible in _Ape Escape_. You can reach the final battle without any Specter Coins, for example. There's also the gold medal you have to get for every level's time trial.
-   _Ayo the Clown_: Collecting all three teddy bears and lollipops in each level.
-   _Banjo-Kazooie_: In the original game, collecting 100 Jiggies will extend the ending, where Mumbo shows you three secrets and talks about _Banjo-Tooie_. In the latter game, collecting 90 Jiggies unlocks the Character Parade in Replay Mode. _Banjo-Kazooie: Grunty's Revenge_ sits somewhere in the middle between _Banjo-Kazooie_ and _Banjo-Tooie_, requiring 50 of the game's 60 Jiggies and 470 of 600 notes to reach the final boss; collecting all the Jiggies gets you a good ending, but collecting the rest of the collectibles only changes your star rating on the ending screen. Finally, _Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts & Bolts_ gives you an achievement and a gamerpic if you get all 131 Jiggies.
-   Several _Crash Bandicoot_ games have taken it all the way up to 120% and above, starting with _Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped_ which offered 105% completion for clearing the two hidden levels, collecting all the bonuses on them, getting at least a golden relic on every single level's time trial, and finally collecting the hidden gem in the main warp room. _Crash Bash_ features up to 200%, but good luck getting there.
-   _Crossbow Warrior - The Legend of William Tell_: To get 100% completion, you need to shoot every level's secret apple,collect all the Edelweiss in each level, and best each level's expert time as well.
-   _Curse Crackers: For Whom The Belle Toils_: The game shows a percentage on each save file that shows how far you are in terms of the main story, collecting the Ardel Roses, Lore Books, Oath Blades, and the three different medals for each level. Getting 100% will unlock the Spark Bangle, which is the only item that will be unlocked across all save files, and is very useful for doing speedruns. You'll certainly have earned it if you manage to unlock that, since getting Longshot Medals for the majority of the Cursed Book stages require you to not take any damage for _the entire stage_.
-   _de Blob_ is a HUGE PAIN to get 100%; not only is there a time limit, but each level takes more than 15 minutes to complete and when you finish it, the level saves your scores and resets, meaning if you go back to it it's completely unfinished and you have to do EVERYTHING over again. Specifically, for each stage, you have to:
    -   Paint every significant object (mainly buildings), as well as all trees, billboards, landmarks, Raydians, and a blimp
    -   Slam into every transformer\*\* Complete every challenge, including the aforementioned landmarks
    -   Find every style collectible
    -   Achieve a gold medal for score, as well as one each for two sub-levels
    -   And finally, complete each level in a certain amount of time
-   _Donkey Kong Country_:
    -   The first game takes it up to 101%, giving you a slightly different ending for completion.
    -   _Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest_ ups the ante to 102%, and _Donkey Kong Country 3: Dixie Kong's Double Trouble!_ goes up to _105%_ (which requires a cheat code that removes most of the DK Barrels and all the midlevel star barrels).
    -   _Donkey Kong 64_: The game is particularly infamous for the amount of effort required to get 101%. There's a total of 201 Golden Bananas for you to collect, and 3500 regular bananas scattered throughout the levels. Add all the other collectables such as Battle Crowns (10), Banana Fairies (20), Banana Medals (40, though you do get each of them automatically once every 75 regular bananas of a particular color) and Blueprints (40, which net 40 of the 201 Golden Bananas) and you have a game that'll last you at least 40 hours if you want to find everything, possibly even longer. Fortunately, the game only requires slightly over half the total of collectibles (and, in the case of certain collectibles like the Battle Crowns and Banana Medals, _less than half_) to finish the game, as the reward for reaching 101% is optional.
    -   _DK: King of Swing_ takes it even higher with 200%. To get it, you must collect all 24 medals and 20 Crystal Coconuts, collect all the medals again in Diddy Mode, beat all the top times as both Donkey Kong and Diddy Kong in Time Attack Mode, and place first on all of the Jungle Jam events (including three that are only unlocked through a password screen accessible only through a code).
    -   Both _Donkey Kong Country Returns_ and _Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze_ have 200% as their maximum amount. However, the only things that count towards completion percentage are the Kong letters (since you need them all to open all the stages), completing said stages and then completing them again in Mirror/Hard Mode. Puzzle pieces and Time Attack medals don't factor in.
-   _Eyra the Crow Maiden_: There are six tied up tribesmen in each level (besides the boss levels) for Eyra to free.
-   _FreezeME_ requires you to get all 40 Golden Cubes in the game to free your friend and see the game's Golden Ending.
-   _Garfield's Fun Fest_: Collecting all items in the game is necessary to obtain all trophies in the Awards section: The Pooky plush in every exploration level, all dingle balls in every riding level, all balloons in every flight level, all food in every level from the aforementioned types, and all cues (plus hitting them with perfect timing) in every dance level.
-   To 100% _Geometry Dash_, you need to unlock all ~450 character creator items<ref>Which includes all colors, all icons for all 7 gamemodes, all trails, all death effects and a glow toggle</ref>. For this, you need to get all the achievements, which includes beating 60 demons, 100%-ing official levels, beating over a thousand star rated custom levels and the hardest is getting a star rate at your own level. However, apart from getting all the achievements, you also have to open all finite chests (which requires beating all Gauntlets) and buying everything in the shops, because these are not included in any achievements and still they do unlock character creator items. There is also one condition that is highly arguable, which is getting all golden coins. Their amount is limited and equals 149 for the past 6 years, but to obtain them all, you have to beat those very annoying old map packs, and there are no achievements/unlockable stuff for getting over 130 golden coins besides the coins themselves.
-   _Jak and Daxter: The Precursor Legacy_: Achieving 100% (out of 101%) will net you a bonus ending. All ten ambiguous seconds of it. The Updated Re-release gives a platinum trophy upon getting 100%.
-   _Jed_; interestingly, Challenge doesn't count toward the percentage.
-   _Kirby_:
    -   Getting 100% in _Kirby Super Star Ultra_ will get you golden shiny text on your file on the file select screen, a golden rim on the corkboard, and a special Kirby dance video. You can also unlock the original introduction videos by completing Helper to Hero with all twenty helpers.
    -   100% completion in _Kirby's Adventure_ will unlock Extra Mode, which disables saving and cuts Kirby's maximum health in half. In the remake, _Kirby: Nightmare in Dreamland_, completing Extra Mode (which now allows saving) will allow you to play through again, but this time as series badass Meta Knight. You can't save, though.
    -   100% on _Kirby: Squeak Squad_ nets you a strawberry shortcake. It does nothing. Turns out the cake isn't a lie, But it's pretty damn useless. (Except for Kirby.)
    -   It takes hours of searching to 100% complete _Kirby & the Amazing Mirror_, even with the Master power. Getting it all unlocks the Boss Endurance sub-game.
    -   In _Kirby's Dream Land 2_, _Kirby's Dream Land 3_, and _Kirby 64: The Crystal Shards_, the player is required to collect every single Rainbow Drop, Heart Star, and Crystal Shard (respectively) in order to fight the True Final Boss. However, these games also have their own processes and awards for gaining actual 100% completion, as obtaining all the MacGuffins isn't enough.
        -   In _Kirby's Dream Land 2_, gaining actual 100% completion (which is obtained by collecting every Rainbow Drop, getting a "Perfect" on all 6 bonus minigames, finding Chao/Blob and collecting her at least once, and defeating Dark Matter) allows the player to access the Sound Test, Boss Rush, and a mode labeled "Bonus" where they can replay all of the bonus minigames in order and try to get as many stars as possible.
        -   _Kirby's Dream Land 3_ has a rather unique way of tracking 100% completion. After getting all 30 Heart Stars and defeating Dark Matter and Zero, you'd be surprised to see that your save file is only marked as 97% complete. However, Boss Butch happens to be unlocked. After beating it, your save file becomes 1% more complete and Super NES MG5 (a mode that allows you to play through all five Heart Star minigames in order, similarly to Bonus in _Dream Land 2_) is unlocked. Completing that adds another 1% completion to your save file and unlocks "Jumping," a minigame where Kirby replays the goal game and must land on a smiley face ten times, with the amount of smiley faces growing smaller and smaller each round. Only after completing _that_ is your save file finally 100% complete. And what do you get after all that? The ability to view the game's cutscenes from a special menu.
    -   _Kirby's Epic Yarn_ tracks completion in several categories, from characters encountered to fabric textures acquired and so on. The "Flicks" category is the only one you're guaranteed to complete simply by finishing the main plot. And for each category you finish... a bell appears that strikes a unique note. Woo-hoo?
-   In _LittleBigPlanet_, collecting all of the prize bubbles and acing all of the levels of the story mode or the DLC Level Packs. Specifically, this is the name of the Platinum Trophy in all the games except Vita.
-   In _Mega Man Powered Up_, if you chose to play through the game in New Style, you can play through 13 stages in all. Not too bad, right? Then there are the Difficulty Levels, which are 3 in all. And it's available in all the stages, totaling up to 39 possible stages. Not daunting enough? Now factor in every Secret Character in the game: Cut Man, Guts Man, Ice Man, Bomb Man, Fire Man, Elec Man, Time Man, Oil Man, Mega, Roll, and Proto Man. That's twelve characters in all (Mega Man, Mega Man S, and Mega Man C are all considered the same character, as is Roll and her various costumes). Combined with the aforementioned stages and difficulty levels, you'd end up with _**468 stages**_ to complete to achieve 100%! Old Style? No difficulties, no additional characters, all you have to do to get 100% here is to clear all 10 stages. That's it.
-   _Mega Man X_ takes this approach literally, giving you a percentage number that corresponds with how many challenges you have completed. The normal game is relatively short, and will take 5 or 6 hours to complete, less for _Mega Man_ veterans. But the challenges will take many more hours to complete. Essentially, the game doubles or triples in length if you go for this trope. Getting a 100% requires you to beat all challenges with a Gold Medal, which requires you to beat each challenge without taking any damage, among other things. Your only reward for doing this is showing an S Rank on the challenge screen.
-   Getting 100% completion in _Operation: V.I.D.E.O.G.A.M.E._ is accomplished by collecting at least 100 Rainbow Monkeys in every level and finding every Sooper Secret.
-   In _Psychonauts_, not only can you clear all the figments, emotional baggage, and cobwebs from every in-brain world, and collect the items from the scavenger hunt, but it's also fun to try to talk to, punch, burn, telekenetically lift, and read the minds of every single character you come across. And all the characters will have something different to say to those. The level total goes up to 101, because of one bonus level given for clearing a combat mini-game. Doing this on the Steam version gets an achievement titled Math is Hard.
-   _Raccoo Venture_: To get this, you have to find all the items in each level, such as the chessboard tiles that, once all collected, reveal the chess piece in each level you must collect.
-   _Ratchet & Clank_
    -   For 100% in _Ratchet & Clank (2002)_ you simply had to beat the game with all thirty skill points. Some of these skill points were simple things, such as going through a level without taking damage, others required blind luck, and worse still, some are Guide Dang It! conundrums. However, one of the skill points was to buy all the weapons and gold weapons, which were only available on the second playthrough, and required all the gold bolts you'd been collecting for the full set. Though these were unlocked on the first level, assuming you had the money, which chances are you didn't if you saved up for the RYNO.
    -   _Ratchet & Clank: Going Commando_ complicated things somewhat. Full completion was still tied to the skill points, but the skill points now included things like getting all the crystals in the Tundra Wastes, upgrading all the weapons (twice, once in the regular game, once in New Game Plus), finding all the hidden health upgrades and maxing your health out. However, due to the way the skill points were set, and the fact that the platinum bolts were merely used for weapon mods, it was possible to get all the skill points, without doing all the Mini Games or finding all the hidden items.
    -   In _Ratchet & Clank: Up Your Arsenal_ however fixed all this. Full completion was tied to a set of trophies, one for every possible thing in the game, such as arena challenges, maxing out the weapons, maxing out health, beating all the ranger battles, and getting all the skill points, which now included things such as complete speedruns of all the bonus sections in the game.
-   The first _Rayman_ game requires 100% completion (breaking all the Electoon cages) to get to the final level.
-   _Scaler_ has two endings, the good ending with both the main character and his dad returning from the alternate world, and a bad ending where his dad doesn't make it back. Completing the game with anything less than 100% gives you the bad ending.
-   Getting 100% completion in _Sly Cooper and the Thievius Raccoonus_ nets you a "making of" movie.
    -   In _Sly 3: Honor Among Thieves_, 100% earns you "a music video". It's actually totally worth it. Watching it on YouTube doesn't do it justice.
-   _Sonic the Hedgehog_:
    -   Getting every emblem in _Sonic Adventure 2 Battle_ unlocks a 3D version of Green Hill Zone. Unfortunately, that means completing every mission with an A rank (some of which are nigh impossible, such as getting 100 rings in a set amount of time when there are only 114 rings in the level), surviving three boss rushes, one racing mini game, and beating all the races and all the levels of karate with your Chao.
    -   The first _Sonic Adventure_ did not feature the ranking system, but still had plenty of Emblems that were collected by either completing missions, finding them in the hub world, or through beating minigames. Once you had all the Emblems you had completed everything there is to do in the game, and were promptly awarded with... absolutely nothing. Sonic Team stepped up their game with the Nintendo Game Cube rerelease by having fully playable Game Gear Sonic games get unlocked as you get more and more Emblems, and once the game is 100% you unlock Metal Sonic as a playable character. They also made it harder to 100% with a new Mission Mode that added 60 more challenges that had to be completed before reaching 100%.
    -   There's also getting Amy in _Sonic Advance 2_ which means you have to get all the Chaos Emeralds 4 times, which is really tough to do. She's also a clone of Sonic on top of that and to 100% the game you have to all Chaos Emeralds a 5th time with her.
    -   The Cyberspace levels of _Sonic Frontiers_ do not need to be completed for the game to be completed 100%, as the game only tracks progress done in each of the individual islands. The collectibles you would have gotten from the Cyberspace levels can instead be collected from Big's fishing minigame, which you would have to do anyway for 100% completion.
    -   _Shadow the Hedgehog_ has 10 possible endings. There are also 326 possible _paths_ to reach those 10 endings, and yes, the game keeps track of which ones you've followed. They're even individually named! Luckily(?), there's no reward for filling up the list, other than the list being full.
    -   Then there's filling the Treasury and getting all Followers and 5-Stars on every mission in _Sonic Andthe Black Knight_ which requires playing all the Missions multiple times and most are really hard and even more annoying.
-   _Spyro the Dragon_: Each game in the original trilogy brings different rewards for 100% completion: the Big Bad's treasure vault in the first game, an unlimited supercharged flame breath in the second, and a final level with tons of treasure and the last dragon egg in the third.
    -   _Spyro 2: Ripto's Rage!_: After you get that eternal superflame, save the game, start the game over (without resetting the console), and dominate EVERYTHING!
    -   _Spyro: Year of the Dragon_: After you collect every gem and every dragon egg, you meet Moneybags, the irritating bear that you had to pay so many precious gems to get him to do things like lower a bridge or start a fan. He reveals that he has found one of the dragon eggs and intends to sell it for a fortune back in Avalar (where the second game took place). What follows is the player chasing him around, ramming into him horns-first (or roasting him, whichever you prefer) until he coughs up every last gem he took from you.
    -   _Spyro: Season of Ice_ takes this to the extreme: you have to have 100% to finish the game.
    -   Also from Spyro: Skill Points. They are like Achievements before Achievements. Getting all of them in Spyro 2 gave you the "Epilogue" and some concept art for things that didn't make it. The third game did as well, which hinted at the plot of the next game and that Insomniac wouldn't be making the series anymore.
-   _Super Mario Bros._:
    -   In _Super Mario World_, there are seventy-three levels with ninety-six possible exits between them (since the game can't be saved after the credits, Bowser's Castle doesn't count in the total of exits, regardless of whether you entered through the Front Door or the Back Door). Your game file is updated to reflect not the percentage of the game or number of levels you've cleared, but the number of exits you've found. When you get ninety-six, a little star appears in your save file. In addition, for completing the Special World, you are treated to a Halloween-themed palette shift in the world map, and in the levels themselves, the Koopas wear giant Mario masks instead of shells, the piranha plants become jack o'lanterns, and the Bullet Bills become pidgits. Other ports vary this change in some way, but the general idea is intact. The Game Boy Advance remake adds another challenge: collecting all 5 Dragon Coins in each level. Your reward for doing this? The Dragon Coins will turn into Peach Coins.
    -   _Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins_ has 32 levels, but since there's no save option after defeating the Final Boss or seeing the credits, the game's completion count in the file can only clock at 31 at most.
    -   The ending of _Wario Land: Super Mario Land 3_ is determined by how many coins and treasures Wario has picked up during the game—specifically, this determines how big a castle he can buy. Finishing with 99999 coins _and_ all the treasures results in getting his own planetoid.
    -   In _Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island_:
        -   Getting 100% on every level in a world opens up both an additional level and a bonus game which can be played an infinite number of times for extra lives and/or inventory items. Achieving 100% completion, however, requires collecting twenty red coins, thirty star points, and five flowers, which is _insanely_ tougher than it sounds, because it's not the type of game where you can miss one and go back in and get it later; _you have to pick everything up in one go_ and, in the case of stars, you must defeat bosses without getting hit because damage reduces their overall number
        -   One of the GBA exclusive levels, World 5-Secret ("Items are fun!"), actually seems to _assume_ that everyone is going for 100 percent completion. The goal ring is in the second screen and requires almost no effort to reach; the challenge comes in figuring out where all the coins and flowers in the level are.
    -   All _New Super Mario Bros._ games have Star Coins hidden in the levels (three apiece). Collecting all of them will net you one of the completion stars that decorate your save file.
    -   _Super Mario 64_ has 120 stars total, 70 of which are _strictly_ necessary, though how many you decide to acquire really depends on how much you want to break the game. Snagging all 120 offers a slightly different speech when Bowser's finally defeated, as well as a cannon to meet Yoshi on top of the castle (or just fly around).
    -   _Super Mario Sunshine_. Several Shine Sprites are gotten in levels that qualify as Platform Hell and That One Level, and obtaining lots of collectables that are challenges by themselves, such as the 240 Blue Coins (which are spent to purchase 24 Shine Sprites). A group photo is unlocked when the game is cleared with all 120 Sprites at hand).
    -   In _Super Mario Galaxy_, there are 120 stars, but you only need 60 to get to the ending. In fact, several stars are only available after getting the ending the first time. Furthermore, full completion demands you to get all stars again with Luigi via a New Game Plus. After fighting the final boss again, you unlock Grand Finale Galaxy, for both Mario and Luigi. All in all, you'll have to beat the final boss two times across two playthroughs before you're done, and collect a total of 242 stars.
    -   _Super Mario Galaxy 2_ continues the trend. After beating the game, you unlock the World S. Getting all the stars and Prankster Comet stars across all seven worlds gets you 120 stars. You must then beat the game a second time to unlock the Green Star challenge, which gives you _another_ 120 stars to collect. Then after that, you unlock the Grandmaster Galaxy, which contains the final two stars. Like the last game, there are 242 total stars.
    -   _Super Mario 3D Land_ unlocks the Brutal Bonus Level World 8-Crown once all five completion stars are displayed in that playthrough's file. They're earned by, respectively, defeating Bowser in the final level of World 8 for the first time, clearing all the stages in the first 8 Worlds, defeating Bowser for a second time in World 8 after clearing Special World 8 Castle, gathering all Star Medals within the levels (it is not necessary to gather all of those from the Mystery Houses, since they appear randomly), and beating all levels as both Mario and Luigi while touching the top of all flagpoles at least once (it is not necessary to get golden flags with both brothers).
    -   In _Super Mario 3D World_, the game tracks all the green stars and stamps you've collected in each stage, as well as each flagpole you've turned golden by touching the very top of it. Not only that, but killing Bowser will reveal a rocket ship in World 1 that will take you to a bonus world: World Star. Beat all the levels in World Star, and another rocket ship will take you to World Mushroom. Beat that and abridge will form leading you to World Flower. There you will see another covered rocket ship that you can't access even after beating all the levels in World Flower. To open it, you need to collect every green star, every stamp, and every golden flagpole in every level up to that point, which means a total of 342 stars, 76 stamps, and 91 gold flagpoles. Then the rocket in World Flower will take you to World Crown, wherein lies 38 more green stars, 4 more stamps, and one more golden flagpole. Not only that, but when World Crown is unlocked, the game also tracks which characters you've beaten each level with, and you also have to beat every level (including Champion's Road in World Crown) with every character for the final 5 stamps.
    -   In _Super Mario Odyssey_, more moons are unlocked in each world after finishing the main story. Collecting 250 in all will unlock the Dark Side of the Moon, where 24 more moons await. Collecting 500 total will unlock another bonus world, the Darker Side of the Moon, where the final moon awaits, for a total of 880 at the end of everything. Getting all 880 will turn the Odyssey's sail golden and unlock a harder version of the final boss with a group photo of all the characters appearing after the credits as your reward. Furthermore, you can buy additional moons in the shops in each world to max your total out at 999. Doing this will put a top hat on top of Peach's Castle and unlock a fireworks display that you can activate any time by throwing Cappy onto the pole on the hat.
-   _Super Meat Boy_ has a percentage for each world. Getting 100% in a world means completing all levels (both Light and Dark Worlds) with an A+ rating, defeating the boss, getting all the bandages, and completing all warp zones. There's even an achievement for getting 100% on all worlds. The glitch levels don't count towards percentage, though.
-   _Rocket: Robot on Wheels_ lets you fight the final boss and accomplish your goal of saving the theme park without requiring you to collect everything, but bizarrely doesn't roll the credits until you get all the collectables, leaving that feeling that you didn't really beat the game at all. Once you do do get all the Tickets and Tinker Tokens, the game rewards you with a very short cutscene in which the owner of the theme park decides to name the park "Rocket World" from this day on, and you become the new mascot. Would be cool, if you actually got to see this happen, but you're only told about this in a text box.
-   Getting a hero score of 100 in _Rockman 4 Minus Infinity_. This involves beating the game under a certain time, getting all 5 bonus points, getting most of the items, and caring for Megaman's friends.
    
    **Proto Man:** I have no advice. You are real hero! I hope you will not fight as Megaman anymore. Do you think Dr. Wily give up? No answer needed.
    
-   _SpongeBob SquarePants: Battle for Bikini Bottom_ has a total of 100 Golden Spatulas to collect (each is worth 1% of your completion rating), however you only need 75 of them to access the Final Boss. Once you collected all Golden Spatulas in all levels and boss fights (reaching the total amount of 84), you'll have to get the remaining 16 from Patrick and Mr. Krabs. For the former, you have to collect all 80 socks. For the latter, you have to grind the levels for Shiny Objects and the price increases for each trade. Collecting all 100 Golden Spatulas and beating the Final Boss again awards you with a bonus cutscene featuring all the main characters who have appeared in the game singing the _SpongeBob SquarePants_ Theme Tune, and a 100% completion rating on your game file. And, while it doesn't technically count for 100% completion, collecting 40,000 Shiny Objects will gain you access to the Movie Theatre which showcases the game's concept art and proposed ideas that were scrapped from the final product.
-   _Sydney Hunter and the Curse of the Mayan_: In order to get 100% completion of the game, you need to collect all the unique power-up items, get all the Crystal Skulls and yellow diamonds in each level, max out Sydney's health, and unlock both magical abilities for the bird.
-   _Tiny Hands Adventure_: To get 100% completion on a level, you must collect all five regular gems, and the orange rectangular gem. Doing so unlocks that level's hard mode. Then you have to collect the white gem in each level's hard mode variation.

    Puzzle Games 

-   An online game called _Achievement Unlocked_ parodies this. There are achievements for things like _pressing the space bar_ and _dying_. And the reward? What reward? The game was meant as a _criticism_ of achievement mechanisms in games (the game's designer made a previous game with a very unsubtle crticism of upgrade mechanisms), yet it became popular exactly because people loved the achievements so much. The sequel made the "satire" tone a lot lighter.
-   _Antichamber_: In the form of fully exploring the map and locating all the images. And to a lesser extent, finding all the hidden pink cubes, though the game doesn't keep track of how many you have found.
-   As part of its anvil Aesop, _Braid_ 'rewards' players that achieve this by making the already sobering Gainax Ending even _worse_. You do have to have 100% completion of the first five worlds (in terms of the 60-ish puzzle pieces, not of the various secret stars) to open the sixth, though.
-   _Fez_ exaggerates this. Finding all 32 Cubes and 32 more Anti-Cubes is all you need for the good ending. However, there are also 9 Treasure Maps, four Artifacts, and 3 "Heart" Cubes to get 209.4%. Even then, only 32 cubes and/or Anti-cubes are needed to "beat" the game. There is also at least one more secret we haven't solved yet: What do the concentric squares mean?
-   _Gruntz_ has coins and WARP letters. Finding them all on all levels from a world gives you access to cheat codes.
-   _Inked (2012)_: In each level is a set of canvas paintings to collect. Collecting all of the ones in a level unlocks artwork in the gallery.
-   The _LocoRoco_ games have a goal of obtaining 20 LocoRoco in each level (which is tougher than it sounds), as well as excessive Randomly Drops\-Level Grinding to completely build the MuiMui house. Also, one of the LocoRoco 2 unlockable levels seems to assume that people are going for this trope, much like a Yoshi's Island GBA-exclusive level is (see its entry above in the Platform folder). The goal is just downstream (really), while the challenge comes in Wreaking Havok upon realistic Jump Physics to obtain all 20 LocoRoco.
-   _A Monster's Expedition_ keeps track of how many islands and exhibits are visited, and how many snowmen are hugged. Visiting every island and exhibit and hugging every snowman gives the player a hat as a cosmetic award.
-   The _Oddworld_ games give you a bonus ending if you save all the mudokons in the game.
-   In _Patrick's Parabox_, the game keeps track of how many puzzles you have solved, allowing you to gauge your progress towards full completion.
-   _Pokédex 3D Pro_ has an extensive list of things to do for completion - reading every entry, seeing every AR Code, finishing the 35 main quizzes, and remembering all but two of the Pokémon in one form or another in the quizzes. However, finishing the 35 quizzes unlocks another 34 to beat, each Pokémon has 4 aspects about it that can be remembered (appearance, entry text, cry, and type) with points for each, and how many quizzes you got perfect. In the Japanese version, there are also passwords that can be used to unlock a few other things, including one of the two missing entries.
-   In all _Professor Layton_ games, completing all puzzles available on the base content (for which, in turn, you must have completed all stages of the special minigames, since that's the only way to unlock 15 puzzles normally inaccessible within the story mode) will also complete the Concept Art Gallery unveiled when the game is completed once. You can also unlock all story cutscenes and music tracks by gathering a minimum required total of Picarats by solving puzzles. There are also collectible treasures and Hint Coins, but they don't unlock anything and are purely to satiate completionism needs.
-   _Squaredle_: If you find all the bonus words for a puzzle in addition to the required words, you're rewarded with a congratulatory message, including a picture of the Success Kid.
-   _The Talos Principle_: You only need to collect about 90-some of the actual sigils to complete the game. There are a number of star sigils that require exploration and more creative solutions (such as solving one of the puzzles in a different manner, or finding ways to use elements of a puzzle outside of the normal puzzle bounds) to access, and the various messengers that you can wake.
-   _Twin Robots_: Collecting the battery, and all of the energy tiles, in each level us how you get this in the game.
-   _World of Goo_ has Obsessive Completion Distinction for individual levels and one cannot call oneself a true Goo Master unless one has achieved this on every level of the eponymous world _and_ built a ridiculously tall tower in the sandbox environment.
-   _Hell Yeah! Wrath of the Dead Rabbit_: Every area has a completion percentage for the amount of areas you uncovered.
-   _Unpacking_: The game has 27 stickers you can collect by completing hidden achievements.

    Racing 

-   _Burnout Paradise_ goes as far as 102%. Let's break it down:
    -   You get 100% (Burnout Elite) for winning all 120 events. Not that hard, just tedious. Your reward for that is gold paint on the "original" set of seventy cars.
    -   You get 101% (Criterion Elite) for doing all of the above, and also for breaking every time and crash record of every road, smashing all gates, jumps, and billboards, and getting all fifty Paradise Awards in the game. The jumps aren't that hard to find (there are only fifty), but getting all 120 billboards require some leaps of faith across parking lots, _very_ accurate jumping, and, in one sadistic case, _very_ quick braking. And then there are the gates. There are 400 of them, and you can bet you'll get stuck on 394, trying to find the remaining six everywhere for days. Doing that nets you five carbon fibre cars (one for smashes, jumps, billboards, time rules, and crash rules) and platinum paint for the rest. For the extra percent, you have to do two complete sets of online challenges, with fifty in a set.
    -   The same counts for bikes; 100% for all 38 events, chrome finish for breaking the time rules for both day and night for every road, and the extra percent for completing two sets of online bike challenges (five in a set).
    -   And, for the truly masochistic, 102% for doing all _five hundred_ challenges, getting 101% on the bikes and mainland, and 100% for Big Surf Island. This is definitely a Luck-Based Mission since online players can be quite unreliable and difficult to rally into doing challenges. People can just sit on the map doing nothing, get lost trying to get to destinations, or just be a pain in the butt and attack other players trying to stick to the objective. Before an update to the game, if a player left during a challenge the whole thing would just end, adding another layer of frustration.
-   _Diddy Kong Racing_ basically requires you to get 100% of the collectibles to enter the final world and finish the Adventure mode. This includes all four pieces of the Wizpig amulet from each of the first four boss races to open Wizpig's first race, getting gold trophies in all four Trophy Races and beating Wizpig's first race to open the final world, 47 balloons (16 from the single races in the first four worlds, 16 from the Silver Coin Challenges in the first four worlds, 3 from Taj's challenges, and 4 hidden in the overworld just to enter the first race in the final world, and then 8 more there), and all four pieces of the T.T. Amulet which are obtained through battle challenges in each world that require a key hidden in one of the tracks in that world. Only after all this can you open the door in the final world leading to the True Final Boss race against Wizpig.
    -   As an extra bonus, if you get the gold trophy in the final world's trophy race, the trophy sign outside Sherbet Island that you ran into to unlock the final world will disappear.
    -   If you really want to get technical, then true 100% completion means repeating the above process in Adventure Two mode (unlocked through getting the Golden Ending in Adventure), and beating all of T.T.'s time trial times in Tracks mode to unlock him as a playable character.
-   _Crash Team Racing_ also requires 100% completion in Adventure mode for the Golden Ending. After you beat Nitros Oxide the first time, he'll challenge you to collect all of the time relics in the Relic Races and then race him again. The track where you get the 18th and final one requires collecting literally everything else in the game. Specifically it requires collecting 5 gems, which are collected from the gem cups in Gemstone Valley, which are unlocked by collecting a full set of the corresponding color of CTR token which are obtained from the CTR challenge on each track, which in turn is unlocked by winning all the trophies and beating the boss in each world. Then once you have all 18 relics, Oxide will challenge you again. This time you'll get the Golden Ending, and you'll have beaten the game 100%. However, if all of your relics are Gold or Platinum, the percentage goes to 101%. There are also unlockables for beating the Arcade Cups on each difficulty, as well as time trial ghosts for N. Tropy (all of which must be beaten to unlock him as playable like T.T. in Diddy Kong Racing), and faster ghosts for N. Oxide unlocked after beating N. Tropy on each track.
-   The _Gran Turismo_ series of games is demanding enough to achieve 100% completion on, but _Gran Turismo 2_ was especially noteworthy—due to being Christmas Rushed, it was only possible to recieve a maximum of 98.2% Completion on the official status screen! Sony fixed this, however, and offered replacement discs to people who bought the first run of GT2.
-   The _Mario Kart_ series usually rewards you with extra karts, characters, and tracks when you start getting gold trophies in each cup. The series starts to ramp up the unlockables requirement by not only forcing the player to get star ranks in each cup, but players are also forced to do this for _every cup in every engine class_, which means you will be playing the same 4 to 5 cups at least 4 times each just to get everything. In _Mario Kart Wii_ and _Mario Kart 8_, getting everything will also require achieving good times against ghost racers in Time Trial.
-   _F-Zero_
    -   _F-Zero X_ records your GP victories for each machine for each cup on each difficulty, so for 100% completion, you have to collect trophies from all 5 cups on all 4 difficulty settings for all 30 characters. That's a total of 600 GP cup races. The Japan-only Expansion Pack for the Nintendo 64DD adds two more cups on top of that, taking the total number of GP cup races to 840. But if you pull it off with the Expansion Kit enabled, you get a special ending with Mr. EAD dancing. And then there's the Staff Ghosts in Time Attack mode. If you beat one, an X appears next to the option indicating that you beat it, adding the challenge of beating all 24 (36 in the Expansion Kit) Staff Ghosts for true 100% completion.
    -   _F-Zero GX_ has mini-movies for each character that play during their credits sequences. You unlock these by beating any GP cup on Master mode. Each character also has interview questions, and you can also unlock one of each character's answers to those questions by beating any cup. Some of these questions are specific to a certain difficulty or a certain cup, making this the closest thing to beating every cup with every character on every difficulty like in _X_. There's also the Story Mode that requires you to beat every chapter on Very Hard mode to unlock all of the machines, and the Time Attack Staff Ghosts also make a return appearance. There's also a shop that's used to buy all the unlockable stuff. So, to recap, here's what you need for true 100% completion: All character movies unlocked, all Staff Ghosts beaten, all Story chapters and GP cups beaten on all difficulty settings, all interview answers for all characters, and everything bought from the store.

    Roguelike 

-   _Baroque_ (a strange sort of roguelike) has the item list which you fill up by giving/sending new-found items to the Collector, you can save less then 20 items per tower run and the game has a little over 300 items. It's all random which ones you find in a given run, and even then, you still need to send up your best gear since you need them to actually finish the tower. But wait, there's more! There's also Idea Sephirah, which have a rare drop chance, in addition to counting as items, you can give it to the Baroquemongerer in order for him to add a line of fluff out of around 8 to whichever creature you dropped it from's "profile". Then of course, there are all the storyline videos, one of which there are three variations depending on how your first run ends, (clearing four levels of the dungeon, dying in the dungeon, or getting killed by pissing off an NPC outside the dungeon), and others depending on whether or not you flipped a heat switch regulating whether or not certain levels of the tower are frozen over or not.
    
    If that wasn't enough, there's the Baroques, Achievements for doing different actions in game, like clearing a certain point in the story, obtaining a certain number of items, not killing any enemy on a single tower run, including stepping on the small bugs which can be hard to notice and harder to avoid, or doing absolutely nothing before you die outside the tower, (which means this trope can be impossible for some PS2 units, due to a firmware bug which causes the controller to move slightly) - granted, you gain boosts to your stats from gaining these achievements, but there are loads of them... Now, if you thought, "Okay, that's it, at least there can't be anything else.." then you're dead wrong. Lastly you have voices, yes, you can collect in the Database, (where everything is stored), certain select voice tracks by hearing them, some of these require quite alot of work to reach, and quite a few of them are missable due to conflicting criteria, and there are 234 of them. Needless to say, it's impossible to manage everything in one playthrough, but everything carries over into a New Game Plus.
    
-   _The Binding of Isaac_:
    -   The original game has a Golden God achievement which is gotten after getting all the items in the game during playthroughs.
    -   In _Rebirth_, Platinum God is just defeating both end-game bosses, but True Platinum God is reserved for collecting every secrets and items, a much harder task compared to the original. The achievement for doing the same with the Afterbirth DLC gives you the 1001% achievement, which calls you a "Nerd x 1000000" for your time.
    -   _Afterbirth†_ awards the **1,000,000%** achievement. There's also _**3,000,000%**_ completion (which is basically getting 1,000,000% completion in all three save files), though there's no achievement for this.
    -   _Repentance_ continues the Serial Escalation with the **Dead God** achievement, which is unlocked after getting every new achievement and collecting every new item on top of all of the previous achievements and items. And if you do this with all 3 save files like with 3,000,000%, you will end up with an ∞% save<small>◊</small>. And also like 3,000,000%, there's no achievement for this.
-   _DRL_ has a number of instances. The most obvious is a win with a 100% kill rate, complete with a special message in the log file ("This ass-kicking marine killed them all!"). The 100% kill rate is itself a requirement for some badges and medals, mostly combined with other requirements (e.g. Sunrise Iron Fist medal is awarded for a 100% kill rate win using nothing but your fists. And the medals _themselves_ are subject to this trope - increasing the number of unique medals received over multiple games raises your Heroic Badge level, from 8 needed for Bronze, all the way up to Diamond for all 43 of them.
-   _NetHack_ is a difficult enough game to begin with, but in addition it has conducts, which forbid key strategies in the game such as praying, reading, eating, and killling a monster directly. There is also extinctionism, in which you kill _all_ of the monsters in the dungeon (they stop reappearing when you kill enough). 100% completion would be ascending while keeping all these conducts, achieving full extinction, and getting a final maximum score of 2147483647. This has never been accomplished and probably never will be (some have come close).
-   _Cadence of Hyrule_ awards you with the "Expansive Repertoire" achievement if you collect every A/B/X/Y item and permanent upgrade in the game. This becomes a bit harder if you own a physical copy or downloaded the "Symphony of the Mask" DLC, as that campaign's new items are now counted towards the total, in addition to all the collectibles being divided between the two maps.
-   _Risk of Rain_ and _Risk of Rain 2_ tracks your completion by a percentage. To fill it, you need to beat the game with each survivor, pick up every item and artifact at least once, collecting the rarely dropping Monster Logs and the rarely spawning or hidden Environment Logs, and complete all achievements.

    Rhythm Game 

-   _Guitar Hero_ and _Rock Band_ usually require players to complete the entire tracklist in Career Mode so that the same songs can be eventually played in Quick Play, which is probably the most commonly used mode in both franchise. This gets pretty ridiculous in _Guitar Hero 3_ in particular, where not only is there no co-op quickplay option at all in the PS2 and Wii versions, the co-op mode has its own tracklist, with several tracks being exclusive to the co-op mode, forcing players to play through the career mode in co-op if they want to unlock all the music. Thankfully, the more recent games in each series have gotten a bit better with this, allowing players to play all songs in quickplay from the get-go. Rock Band 3 seriously upped the ante for completionists. Besides the normal achievements and trophies, there are hundreds of in-game achievements, most of which you also need to reach the "fan" cap. Only one person has ever gotten all gamerscore and ingame achievements and maxed out the fan meter (the addition of pro mode essentially means you need to be a real life well-rounded musician and a hell of a lot of time to get them all).
-   The flash game series _Super Crazy Guitar Maniac Deluxe_ has these (minus the first game):
    -   In the second game, getting perfects on all songs rewards you with this message on the "progress" screen:
        
        "There is no reward for all the perfects... but\[sic\] you rock! You are officially crazy! :D"
        
    -   The third game has the same prerquisites as the previous game, except the message is on the songs menu:
        
        "ALL PERFECT?! OMG SRSLY?!?!one1 YOU ROCK!
        
    -   On SCGMD4, earning all of the achievements nets you a big message saying that you did it all, along with unlocking the final prize: A toggleable Sea of Lava.

    Shoot 'Em Up 

-   _Sigma Star Saga_ would acknowledge if you had found all of the Gun Data when beating the game.
-   _Dariusburst Chronicle Saviours_' CS Mode can be beaten just by completing missions necessary to unlock more missions, until you reach and complete the final mission. However, to unlock the extra mission and earn the true ending, you have to clear all 185 missions as well as their "Warning" variants.
-   _Raiden Fighters 2: Operation Hell Dive_ enforces this trope in gameplay mechanics; You must have achieved 100% target destroy rate (that is, killing all enemies without missing any one) on Stages 3 and 6, in order to face the True Final Boss Red Eye in Stage 7.
-   _Touhou Eiyashou ~ Imperishable Night_ has a Practice Mode which allows you to practice all the boss stages ("spellcards"). The game keeps track of all spellcards cleared in this mode. Each spellcard comes in several versions (one per difficulty level), and the completion percentages are separate for each of the four player characters, so there's quite a lot of spellcards to complete if you want to obtain 100%.

    Simulation Games 

-   _Ace Combat_:
    -   _Ace Combat Zero: The Belkan War_ had this by way of getting all Ace Records, buying all weapons and aircraft, and beating the game on Ace difficulty with S ranks in each mission. Doing so makes Ustian flags appear in the hangar.
    -   Full completion of _Ace Combat 5: The Unsung War_ changes the graphical representation of the game's save file on the console's memory card. Before, it's only a standard F-14 (the protagonists' canonical plane). After, it's an F-14 in the protagonists' custom black/red paintjob.
    -   Full completion of _Ace Combat 04: Shattered Skies_ rewards the player with a blink-and-you-miss-it quote to the effect of "_many have claimed the title of ace throughout history - but few truly deserved that title_".
-   _Air Force Delta Strike_: Get all the endings and unlock all the bonus planes.
-   The _Animal Crossing_ games have an in-game catalog of all the items you've obtained in the game, allowing you to buy most of them easily. Collecting all the items of a type puts a star on the catalog for that group- collecting every item is about the closest thing these games have to a main goal. There's also the museum, or the town models. Fully investing in your house is important, too. In the GCN version, it is impossible to "complete" the catalog because some items are entirely inaccessible without a cheat device.
-   In _RollerCoaster Tycoon_, if the player wins/completes all of the scenarios, a special, unbeforeseen park is unlocked.
-   Added on v1.5 of _Stardew Valley_, to achieve it you must: Ship one of every crop and forage, max out friendship level with every villager, complete all Adventurer's Guild quests, reach level 10 on every skill, cook every dish, craft every item, find all the Stardrops (which itself requires: Reaching the bottom of the mines, getting married and achieving a 14 heart relationship level with your spouse, catching every fish, and donating one of each type of mineral and artifact to the museum), build the 4 magical obelysks, build the Golden Clock, and find all Golden Walnuts. Doing so unlocks a cutscene in which the player character and their spouse/roommate sit at the valley's summit and watch a credit sequence.
-   _Hardspace: Shipbreaker_ awards collectible stickers for certain tasks, that you can paste over your tools; "Mini-Me" stickers require you to salvage over 98% of a ship for each (95% in the full release). 100% is impossible due to material lost during cutting and to give you some lenience with the more abundant, less valuable pieces of salvage, but you're not getting 98% without clearing the teardown bay completely.

    Sports 

-   The reward for Hundred Percent Completion in _Backyard Skateboarding_ is... a board.
-   _Wii Sports Resort_: Getting all 80 i Points in Island Flyover gets the player a vacation home built on the Private Island. The game also has the collective Stamps earned via completing achievements in each sport (and branch thereof), but they don't unlock anything — they're just there to satiate completionist needs.

    Stealth 

-   _Assassin's Creed II_ has both the Monteriggioni value and the Synchronization stat; the former represents collectibles and progress. Scoring all the collectibles (all armors, weapons, paintings, feathers, etc.), clearing the story (to get the last assassination target portrait), and maxing out all the renovations to the town will result in the "Podesta of Monteriggioni" Achievement/Trophy (at 80% completion), a regular income of 15,000 florins every 20 minutes and a maximum of 60,000 florins that you can store. Synchronization on the other hand represents overall completion — which in addition to the above, and "synchronizing" with every Viewpoint, seems to require that you clear _every_ possible mission, which may include the DLC ones.
-   In _Hitman 2: Silent Assassin_, completing missions with a perfect 'Silent Assassin' rating (normally by killing no one other than your mark(s) and firing your weapon only once) will grant you more impressive weapons as a reward, eg. a silenced version of the two silver hardballers that Codename 47 often poses with. Vanilla _Hitman 2_ only gives you bonus weapons for the first two missions that you complete with a "Silent Assassin" rating; _Hitman: Contracts_ gives you a bonus weapon for every mission completed with the rating.
    -   The "Age of Assassination" trilogy has a list of challenges to complete for each stage. These challenges range from killing NPCs in specific ways, achieving certain game events, finding hidden items, the "Silent Assassin, Suit Only" challenge, and some secret, redacted challenges. Each challenge gives experience points towards the stage which unlocks new starting locations and stash locations or new weapons and outfits. Completing every challenge gives you XP way past the maximum level.
-   _Metal Gear_:
    -   Completing all 300 missions in _Metal Gear Solid: VR Missions_ will show a picture of Metal Gear Ray, the mecha from the next game, which cannot be seen again once you save your progress after seeing it.
    -   _Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty_ has dogtags, with various unlockables tied to collecting them off of guards. Snake just gets the same bandana and stealth camo from MGS1 for the Tanker chapter, while the Plant gives Raiden, in addition to the same stealth camo as Snake, various colored wigs to wear, starting with a brown one (that gives infinite ammo) and ending with a blue one (that gives Super Not-Drowning Skills) for collecting all 218 of them.
    -   _Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater_ has two special items for the completionist in you. The first is the Infinity Facepaint, only awarded to those who finish the game with a perfect score or capture a small invisible animal and keep it alive until you finish the game. The other is the Stealth Camo, only rewarded to those who go through the whole game without killing anyone or being spotted or to those who can find 64 tiny, really well-hidden green frogs (or Yoshi dolls in the 3DS remake) scattered around the game. There's also various camouflage uniforms that can only be unlocked by non-lethally defeating most of the bosses.
-   All _Thief: The Dark Project_ and _Thief II: The Metal Age_ missions track whether you have all the loot and all possible pickpockets; the latter also tracks whether you have found all the secrets in the mission.

    Strategy 

-   _Command & Conquer 3_ has optional completion on every level for both completing bonus objectives, which are entirely bragging rights, and for collecting all the fun facts about the game world.
-   _Fire Emblem_:
    -   The series had the Support Conversations page, which while the players were working towards 100% completion, would reveal backstory of the characters whose supports were unlocked. The problem with this is that in order to fill the page to 100%, one single player would have to play the game several times over, because each character could only have five support conversations in one playthrough. Not only that, but occasionally one may have to choose a sub-optimal support to complete the page, thereby denying the players the stat bonuses they could use. And in some games with this feature, there would be occasions where a player could only pick one character and be forced to lose your chance at recruiting another.
    -   This is made even harder in _Fire Emblem: Awakening_ and _Fire Emblem Fates_. The nature of the customisation allowed in the game makes it so the players would have to play the game dozens of times, just to get all the options for the Avatar's support conversations (as the character's gender, as well as their paternity status with the second generation characters, influences what conversations one gets).
    -   _Fire Emblem: Three Houses_ makes this marginally easier. It's very easy to grind support levels with playable characters, so you can easily make a file, grind up your affection in a single map over the course of a couple hours, and then return to the monastery and watch a number of these conversations back-to-back. Additionally, nearly every character can be recruited, so you don't have to be in someone's house to get the vast majority. The main menu has an easy guide of support conversations which can be reviewed at any time, so it's possible to finish a run with almost every conversation. That said, you will still have to replay the game multiple times. Characters like Lady Rhea cannot be recruited, and thus you have to focus on gifting them items and raising their support levels. Lady Rhea and many others have to have their support levels raised by a specific time in the story, otherwise you cannot see that support conversation and miss out. Any characters you didn't recruit do not show up during part 2, so even if you got to an A rank conversation with said character, you can't ever view it. Finally, certain characters are house specific. Dimitri, Claude, and Edelgard can never be recruited and only can be raised easily if you're in their house, Dedue and Hubert cannot be recruited like other characters due to in-universe reasons, Hilda cannot be recruited if you're in the Black Eagles, Gilbert only joins your party to see his last conversations if you are in the Blue Lions, and you can't obtain S-Rank support conversations unless you're the opposite sex of the character. This basically requires a minimum of 4-5 playthroughs to hit everyone, but at least once you're in said playthrough it's not hard to _get_ them, it's just a matter of being patient and doing multiple playthroughs.
-   _JARS_: You must fill the book in with every missing picture and passage of text, which is done so by completing achievements in game.
-   _Luminous Arc 2_ got this, with guild missions, Final Intermission CGs, as well as the Hot Spring Intermissions...
-   In _Medieval II: Total War_, completing the Long Campaign is basically the highest achievement you can get, it involves taking over about one third of the known (at the time) world, and as a reward you get a victory cutscene. However it is possible to continue playing, and take over the entire known world (this takes a LONG time), and what do you get for this? Nothing, the game just keeps going, but with no-one left to fight. Oh the futility of war.
-   Achieving 100% item completion in the _Disgaea_ games put you at the mercy of the Random Number God, since a large number of drops can only be gained by either earning them through bonuses (whose availability is limited to certain tiers of the Item World) or stealing them from enemies (who spawn with any number of random equipment). _Disgaea D2_ makes this marginally easier by increasing the rarity value of any (non-Legendary) item once you've completed all of the floors of its respective Item World, but with many items still remain unavailable for purchase it's still a toss-up whether you'll be able to get a significant percentage of them.
-   _StarCraft 2_ has an achievement system, with every stage in each campaign having three objectives. The first is often just beating the stage, the second is usually some simply challenge, and the third is a harder challenge that often requires you play on higher difficulties. In addition to this you also have class XP which can be gained in any multiplayer map and rewards you with new portraits and dance commands for units as joke. You can also clear some multiplayer challenges such as winning a certain number of matches or getting a specific victory against AI. The Co-op mode also has individual challenges for each commander that reward portraits, each character can be leveled up to level 15 with new abilities unlocking as you go, Class Mastery for all classes which can go up to Level 90, and Ascension levels with go up to 1000 and are entirely cosmetic outside of showing off how much you play.
-   Unlocking every achievement in _Into the Breach_ rewards the player with an additional mech squad.

    Survival Horror 

-   _BARK (2022)_: There are five doggy treats in each level to eat. See if you're able to find them all.
-   In the newest version of _Ib_, replaying the game after getting at least one good ending unlocks a Bonus Dungeon. Completing that dungeon and getting the key at the end unlocks in turn a bonus gallery that shows all the characters and pictures Ib has found in the game so far.
-   In the Super Mario Bros. fangame _(Mario) The Music Box_, Getting all of the journal entries and taking the "Puppet" ending route will instead give you the true ending.
-   _Resident Evil_:
    -   If you do absolutely everything there is to do in the GameCube remake of _Resident Evil_, rather than a congratulations screen you instead get a heartfelt thank you letter from the developers telling you how much it means to them to have someone get that much enjoyment out of one of their games.
    -   In _Resident Evil 3: Nemesis_, collecting every single file _in order_ grants the Jill's diary, a secret file that explains some of the events that occurred during the Time Skip. Annoyingly, each file has to be read as soon as it is obtained to get this. However it's incredibly easy to screw this up due to optional paths and a room containing two files at once, with no indication of which one comes first.
    -   In _Resident Evil 4_, completing each level of the Mercenaries mode with each character _and_ with the maximum rank (5 stars) in each case will unlock the Handcannon in the main campaign, though it will only be available in a New Game Plus.
-   In _Siren 1_, getting 99% completion of the archives (which aren't actually listed as a percentage, but there are exactly 100 entries in the archive, leading to the same effect) unlocks two extra videos. One of them is just a filler that shows what one of the characters was up to during a gap when we didn't hear from her in the course of the normal game... but one of them gets you 100% completion and shows the event that caused everything that happened in the game. And getting 99% completion is basically impossible without a guide, as archive items are hidden throughout all the game's stages, and sometimes don't stand out, or require you to do odd things to find them.

    Third Person Shooter 

-   _Destroy All Humans!_ has a completion percentage. In the first game, 100% completion is nearly impossible, because it requires searching for probes scattered around the landscape, which don't show up on your radar. In the second game, completion is possible, but what happens when you finally reach 100% completion? Absolutely nothing.
-   _Gears of War 3_ takes this to absurd levels. "Seriously 3.0" requires the player to reach level 100 and get _every_ gameplay medal at its maximum score. Note that some medals require achievements on certain difficulties that Xbox Live public matches don't support. For example, the "I'm a Beast!" medal requires the player to succeed on all 12 waves of Beast Mode on Insane difficulty—but only Private matches can have their difficulty set to anything other than "Normal." On top of this, the player must also get 1000 kills with all six starting weapons, 500 kills with every other weapon (VS matches _only._ Campaign and Horde do _not_ count), win 100 matches of Capture the Leader as the Leader _without ever getting captured once_, complete every non-PVP gametype on the highest possible difficulty, and more-or-less master every game type. Oh, they must also play as a female character in 500 matches.
-   _Splatoon 2_
    -   The game silently tracks your completion of the single player "Hero Mode" campaign. Beating every level, which you have to do anyway, nets you 100% completion. Meanwhile, beating every level with every weapon nets you 1000% completion, with the player getting rewarded with the Replicia Hero Weapons (reskinned versions of the base weapons) for undergoing that (frustrating) extra mile. You can only see your completion percentage with the SplatNet2 companion phone app, though.
    -   The _Octo Expansion_ DLC doesn't require you to beat every level (mercifully), but you'll need to aim for 100% completion if you wish to see the bonus chatlog, get all of the available gear, and fight the Superboss. Go even beyond that to get 1000% completion by beating every level with every weapon and beating the Inner Agent 3 boss battle, and the game will acknowledge your efforts with a nice Kamabo Co.-themed flair on Agent 8's CQ-80 menu, with the text "COMPLETE" in Inkling.

    Visual Novels 

-   Visual novels generally at least allow the player to unlock CGs in a gallery section as they are encountered in the game, requiring the player to seek out all the branches in order to clear them all. Sometimes there is a completion percentage, other times the player makes do with simple blanks. Unlocking all the CG usually doesn't do anything else. Unlocking enough (or all) of the Multiple Endings, however, usually does.
-   _Aoi Shiro_'s image gallery helpfully gives the percent CG collected for each character and overall. Another screen keeps track of all the endings by marking them with pearls as they are reached.
-   In _Coffee Talk_, there's an achievement for collecting all the other achievements, which encourages you to replay the game several times to see the other story branches, discover all the recipes, collect all the images in the Concept Art Gallery, and reach a high score in Challenge Mode.
-   Seeing every cutscene in _Doki Doki Literature Club!_ rewards the player with a different ending. How to see them all is a bit more complicated without advance knowledge of the game; Save Scumming is needed, but you have to do it before the game gets weird about that sort of thing.
-   The first _Galaxy Angel_ had, along with a set of CGs for every available girl, a secret set for Shiva, which accompanied The Reveal of the true identity of the White Moon's heir. Of course, getting them all made the next game make a lot more sense, as Shiva's secret was common knowledge in the game by _Moonlit Lovers_.
-   _Fate/stay night_:
    -   The novel keeps track of the (numbered) bad ends with tiger stamps. Collecting all the stamps and completing all the endings nets the player a short video and a new title screen. But getting the bad endings is its own reward anyway.
    -   Getting all the deaths and every ending (1 Fate, 2 UBW, 2 HF) in the Realta Nua Updated Re-release unlocks a very heartwarming extra ending to the Fate route, which before had only had a Bittersweet Ending, but now has Shirou and Saber/Artoria finally reunited in Avalon.
-   There's an actual meter for it in _Fate/hollow ataraxia._ Reaching 100% unlocks a bonus scene.
-   In _Katawa Shoujo_, to get 100% completion the player needs to fill up the library with every scene possible. When completed, they're rewarded with an extra CG in the gallery with a simple picture of the six girls and a "thank you" message for playing the game.
-   Reaching all the endings in _Tsukihime_ unlocks the epilogue 'Eclipse.'
-   In Kizuna, the DS adaptation of _Higurashi: When They Cry_, in each volume, after you finish the arcs, you can go back to complete the situation tree and get alternate endings, as well as unlocking CG pictures and music.

    Western RPG 

-   _Dragon Age: Origins_ has the "Easily Sidetracked" achievement for completing 75% of all side-quests (no ordinary feat, considering it's a BioWare game) and the "Traveler" achievement for visiting _every_ location in the game. The stage of the Final Battle counts as one.
-   _Fable_ series of Xbox games has its share of difficult collectibles - in both Fable II and Fable III you can collect either Hero Dolls or Legendary Weapons, respectively, which you need to find all of to unlock their achievements. The kicker is that each play through of the game only has a limited number of these available to them; two out of six Dolls in Fable II and 26 out of 51 Weapons in Fable III, randomly selected - so you'll need to trade online through each game's clunky gift system to acquire all collectibles. Luckily they also let you get the achievement simply for seeing someone else get them all instead, reducing the trades needed.
-   In _Marvel: Avengers Alliance_, five-starring all missions in a chapter gets you the powerful Golden Weapon for that chapter. Also, completing every fight and deploy in some missions gives you access to an Epic Boss which when defeated offers a chance at strong weapons/gadgets and more Command Points for unlocking characters.
-   _Mass Effect_ has Achievements (see Xbox 360) that provide hidden Gamerpics or damage bonuses with certain weapons.
    -   Specifically, there are the "Completionist" achievement (acquired by completing most of the game — not actually 100%, but including most of the sidequests), and the six different ally achievements, which require you to have a particular character in your squad for almost all of the game. The achievement for Liara is particularly tough to get, since you have to deliberately avoid sidequests in the early part of the game so you can advance the plot enough to rescue her first, then go back and do the quests you avoided once you have her on your team. Of those six ally achievements, the Arbitrary Headcount Limit will likely prevent you from achieving more than two at once, meaning you'll need at least three playthroughs to get those. This is just as well, since you'll need more than one playthrough in order to get the Power Gamer achievement (reach level 50) and likely more than two to get the Extreme Power Gamer achievement (reach level 60). The game does have New Game Plus, but there are also achievements for heavily using certain abilities which aren't available for all classes. You'll probably need to play through the game at least four or five times in order to get all of the achievements.
    -   Even aside from these metagame achievements, there are several in-game Collection Sidequests that require you to visit a large fraction of the explorable galaxy and often go out of your way when exploring uncharted worlds in order to complete them. Similarly the "Scan the Keepers" sidequest, which while confined to a single large space station, requires exploring nearly every nook and cranny of said station.
    -   The _Expanded Galaxy Mod_ for _Mass Effect 3_ does this with the achievement system. Two of the achievements are only awarded if you've gone for every Last Lousy Point in the previous games, with each and every sidequest in _1_ and _2_ completed and all main quests/miscellaneous tasks completed in the optimal fashion. A third achievement, which awards you with a secret vehicle after the completion of the "Priority: Tuchanka" mission, is only awarded if you've aided the Krogan in the optimal fashion throughout the entire trilogy.
-   _Undertale_ goes out of its way to deconstruct this trope. There are three basic routes you can take through the game: the Neutral route where you play the game normally, the True Pacifist route which involves not killing any enemies and making friends with the key characters, and the No Mercy route where you kill everything that stands. Someone who wants to get 100% will naturally want to try every single route, but at what cost? Restarting the game after completing the True Pacifist route will have Flowey calling you out on depriving everyone of their happy ending just so you can find out what happens if you decide to try a more cruel option. And if you complete the Genocide route? The Fallen Child will possess Frisk, completely corrupting your game data so that if you get to the Pacifist ending in a new save file, the Fallen Child will awaken and ruin your happy ending by killing all your friends. If you complete the game 100%, there is no happy ending at all; is it really worth it to permanently ruin your Golden Ending just to see absolutely everything? Sans even provides a Kirk Summation to a No Mercy player and their need to do everything there is to do in a game, no matter how horrible:
    
    i know your type. you're...uh...very determined, aren't you? you'll never give up, even if there's, uh...absolutely NO benefit to persevering whatsoever. if i can make that clear. no matter what, you'll just keep going. not out of any desire for good or evil...but just because you think you can. and because you _can_...you _have to._
    
-   Only one player has ever gotten 100% completion in the entire series run of _Nexus Clash_ due to a combination of the sheer number of stats available for Stat Grinding and the limited number of actions that any one character can take in a day.
-   In the ending for _Save the Light_, Peridot mentions she just beat the RPG she was working on. Steven asks her what she'll do now, and she says she'll go for 100% completion. A rather unsubtle way for the narrative to tell the player to go collect all the items and upgrades.

    Wide Open Sandbox 

-   In _The Godfather_, reaching 100% completion allows unlocks the ending where Aldo Trapani becomes the Don of NYC.
-   _Grand Theft Auto_ games often give neato whiz-bang prizes for completing 100% of all the optional tasks, tests, and races. All the required tasks for plot completion total around 20%.
    -   In _Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas_, the player's childhood home in Ganton is upgraded with spawns for a Rhino tank and a Hydra jump jet.
    -   In _Grand Theft Auto: Vice City_ you get infinite ammo, upgraded health, maximum armor, the ability to recruit two gang members and a t-shirt that says, "I beat _Grand Theft Auto Vice City_ and all I got was this lousy t-shirt." Oh, and an easily accessible Hunter helicopter - toughly armoured and armed with infinite double missiles and a chaingun.
    -   In _Grand Theft Auto IV_, getting 100% only removes the ammo cap.
    -   _Grand Theft Auto V_ pushes 100% completion to the extreme. The game has 69 main story missions, 50 odd side missions (Strangers and Freaks) 4 of these being collection sidequests (two of these are _long_), tons of random encounters, and quite a few side activites (most of which are needed to be participated in to achieve what the game considers 100 percent completion.) Once you've achieved 100% completion, you unlock one last side mission in which you hunt Bigfoot himself as Franklin And getting every trophy/achievement requires things like getting a gold medal on _every_ story mission and side mission.
-   Getting this in _Just Cause 2_, in the PC version at least, is actually _impossible_; the game keeps track of the sheer number of things you've done out of the sheer number of _possible_ things as a percentage, but it seems that the tasks really _are_ innumerable, because truly obsessive players have discovered that the game crashes when it tries to load saves that are within a few tenths of a percent of 100%. There is a mod has been made for the PC version, which finally allows players to reach true 100%.
-   _No More Heroes_: Going so Over the Top in this regard it's not funny, the game features a set of "trading cards" that the player can collect. There are 50 cards on the first run through of the game, each bearing the picture of a wrestler's mask. There are in reality a total of 150 cards in the game, _which must be replayed at least twice from clear files_ to achieve this (due to the later 100 being exclusive to the New Game Plus. The game also has the numerous purchasable clothes, the gold medal ranks in all sidequests (side jobs, assassination gigs and One-Hit-Point Wonder challenges), the training lessons from Thunder Ryu, and the 49 Lovikov Balls to earn the seven unique abilities from Lovikov in his bar. Last, but far from least, you have the purchasable lightsabers and their upgrades (you even need to buy the most expensive lightsaber to unlock the True Final Boss). This all fits in with the game's over-the-top nature, as the "hero" is an obsessive _otaku_.
-   _No More Heroes 2: Desperate Struggle_: The process to complete the game 100% is more straightforward than with its predecessor, due to the lack of a Hub Level. As long as you don't miss any of the collectible goodies (such as furniture for your apartment, anime posters, etc.) in the rank stages and revenge missions (since they cannot be replayed upon clearing), you'll be fine. All other stuff (namely the purchasable lightsabers and clothes, side job minigames, weight exercises with Jeane, and the training lessons from Ryan) can be accessed anytime until entering the Rank 1 stage (since it's a Point of No Return, especially when you use the Save Point right before the Final Boss).
-   _No More Heroes III_: Completing the game 100% requires a lot of time and dedication, since you'll not only have the usual purchasable clothes like in the previous games (in fact, many of them now require fulfilling prior achievements so the aliens have the clothes available for you) and side jobs, but also sidequests like hunting scorpions, finding Jeane's children, tracking a doppelganger, doing a favor of dubious legality to a friend, planting magical seeds so they later grow into multi-colored trees, gaining points in missions and the like to get all upgrades and abilities, and so on. And this time you have to comb not only Santa Destroy, but also several other areas connected to it.
-   The reward for 100% completion in _Red Dead Redemption_...is clothes. Specifically, it's a Government Agent suit, which lets you do anything you want without being attacked by cops. However, that doesn't stop the citizens from firing back.
-   _Scarface: The World Is Yours_ needs you to buy all the Exotics, collect all the Femme Fatales, wiped out all the gangs in Miami and completed the extra missions on the Islands. Fortunately, there is no need to pass all the races. Achieving this let Tony summon the Femme Fatales as bodyguards.
-   _The Simpsons Hit & Run_ tracks progress on certain things in each level. The seven main missions, bonus mission, three street races, seven Collector Cards, three alternate costumes, five extra vehicles, twenty Wasp Cameras, and the various gags of each of the seven levels are counted, with the percentages displayed from a menu or after each level is completed. Getting all 49 Collector Cards unlocks a special _Itchy and Scratchy_ video, while getting the full 100% allows for enabling the "All Vehicles" cheat. Wager Races, finding the secret vehicle of each level, and destroying Buzz Cola boxes/vending machines (which are permanent unlike most breakable objects) are not counted.
-   _Xenoblade Chronicles X_ has enough sidequests to take well over two-hundred hours to complete. The main quest with an actual 100% tally is uncovering the entire map, which is divided into hexagons, and complete one specific task per hexagon. They are either killing a Tyrant, opening a treasure box, or completing a story mission. There are hundreds of hexagons.

    Other 

-   Jirard Khalil, a.k.a. _The Completionist_, does 100% completions on video games, and does humorously informative videos about them on Youtube, completing games like _Catherine_ and _Super Meat Boy_.
-   Subverted in _The Path_: It isn't possible to collect all items on any run-through with any single girl, and because some events unlock items and events only accessible by another girl, it's not possible to get 100% completion on the first complete playthrough. And even after collecting all secret flowers and inventory items, visiting every site, unlocking every secret room, and encountering The Wolf with all girls, the player is rewarded with a purely arbitrary, semi-random letter grade between D and B...you can never get an 'A' and there will always be some items counted as not discovered.
-   _Progressbar 95_: To beat the game fully, you have to unlock all systems. Each of them also has 10 wallpapers, getting all 10 for a system grants the Professional title for it and a 1000-point bonus for each level you clear on it from then on. You also have to upgrade every piece of computer equipment to the max, which makes your machine incredibly powerful and takes millions of points to achieve.
-   The Trophy system for Play Station 3, PlayStation Vita, and Play Station 4 games has a tier called Platinum trophies. Every game that has it awards the Platinum trophy for the same thing: collect every other trophy in the game. Thus, earning a game's Platinum Trophy is considered essentially getting Hundred Percent Completion on it by a lot of people. Despite this, it’s not always synonymous with getting a full hundred in the game itself.
-   _Quantum Protocol_: Every dungeon node keeps track of which decks were used to beat it, with each new deck clear resulting in more Mastery Points. Getting every Mastery Point requires the player to defeat all nodes with all possible decks.
-   Skawo Often does 100% games on their channel. However, if the 100% is very tedious and boring (I.E., purchasing a bunch of badges), or the reward isn’t worth it (300 rupees at a point where you already have infinite rubees, in the same menu no less) then consider it not done. Everything else is fair game
-   Depicted in-universe in the _Star Trek: Lower Decks_ episode "I, Excretus", in which Boimler becomes obsessed with getting a 100% rating on a Nintendo Hard "infiltrate the Borg" training simulation. It turns out that to get 100% completion you have to **redeem the Borg Queen by teaching her emotion**.
-   Achievements in Xbox 360 games can be completely ridiculous. For example, to get this for the Achievement list for _Gears of War_ required you to get 10,000 kills in ranked matches to get the "Seriously..." achievement. The sequel increases the number to 100,000 but makes it much much easier by letting you get your kills in campaign mode.
-   iCheckMovies gives Platinum awards for checking all the movies in an official list. Some are hard for sheer size (the 702 works at the National Film Registry, lists that state "500" or "1000" right in the title), others for changing (the IMDB ones depend on user grades, the awards ones have anual additions, any movie that grosses at least $200 million is added to "All-time box office") and the "All Best Picture Academy Award Nominees" is near impossible (two movies are lost aside from the single surviving prints held by the UCLA, and can only be seen by arranging an appointment).
-   The Variety is HOPE charity steam game _Vine Realms_ has 24 Avatars, 94 Emotes, and 8 abilities that can be unlocked. The game gives an option to reset the player's unlocks, and a small speed-running community grew after the game was only out for 3 days. Since collecting is the only goal of the game, speed-runs are based around this.

___