_"Seriously, how do you go to the bathroom in that?"_

— _Conduit 2_, in the Heavy Armor loadout upgrade description

In fiction, armor is often presented as a piece of everyday attire to be worn wherever you go, like a sweater. This is notoriously common in RPGs, with characters wearing the same armor continuously for weeks. Often characters even sleep in full battle gear. Some RPGs downplay this by having a character in just a breastplate, possibly with shoulder pauldrons and some other odd pieces. Still pretty uncomfortable pajamas.

In Real Life, while historical armor was not as unreasonably heavy or inflexible as in popular myth, wearing it for extended periods was far from comfortable. It took time (and in many cases, assistance) to don and remove, and one's range of motion would be restricted to some degree depending on the exact construction. It could be noisy, what with the clattering of plates and jingling of mail. The weight would tax one's endurance and make one's neck and shoulders hurt after a long day. It could get very hot and sweaty, especially when incorporating a helmet and/or significant padding. Meanwhile, metal parts would become uncomfortably hot or cold to the touch depending on whether you were under scorching sun or in freezing temperatures. Rust was a constant threat to iron or steel armor in the days before stainless steel, so it had to be regularly polished. If you did that right, then protective oil from your greasy mail haubergon would tend to stain you and your clothes. Leather or textile components—including the arming clothes underneath—could soak up sweat or water and begin to stink. In battle, it could become extremely unhygienic: in addition to sweat, people bled inside their armor, and possibly relieved themselves, both because you can't take bathroom breaks in the midst of battle and because sudden terror can \*ahem\* loosen the bowels. Armor could be deformed or pierced by a mace, axe, polearm, or hammer, causing serious injuries for the wearer. In that case the affected pieces would have to be stripped off the wearer on the way to the surgeon's tent.

Armor could be _really_ expensive, so it had to be treated carefully even when not damaged in a given battle. As the European ironworking industry gradually expanded to meet the increased demands for iron-based armor and weaponry<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  standard-issue sets of plate became more common but remained a significant investment. Therefore, after a military campaign, tournament, or training exercise, armor would be removed, cleaned thoroughly, repaired as necessary, and packed away for safekeeping until the next engagement. People hardly ever wore armor when they didn't need to: they wore it when they had to protect themselves (or at least appear in a military parade), and they took it off as soon as they didn't need it. On the rare occasions where they did sleep in it out of dire necessity, you can bet that it wasn't much fun.

This trope doesn't normally apply to certain types of armor that are designed to be less fully protective and easier to wear in civilian life: certain people do actually wear a light-duty Bulletproof Vest all day, and during The Renaissance some people wore doublets made of mail or small plates sewn inside of fabric that acted like low-profile stab-proof vests. The trope proper is about characters relaxing in the kind of equipment that real people wouldn't wear unless they were on military duty, although the aforementioned concealed armors may qualify as downplayed examples if their wearers even sleep in them too.

It may be justified in the case of magical armor; the enchantments may not only increase defense, but also make it more comfortable than normal armor. Another common justification is that that they literally _can't_ take it off, either because it's a Clingy Costume, or because the wearer is a Dark Lord on Life Support and the armor is keeping them alive. Perhaps the most mundane and realistic explanation is that the wearer is camping in hostile territory or being targeted by assassins, so that they dare not remove it for any length of time until the threat is gone. It may also be justified for Powered Armor or a Man in the Machine if they're designed with extended occupancy in mind, incorporating things like climate control and sanitary waste removal. Often a symptom of Limited Wardrobe. 24-Hour Armor combined with the Rule of Funny may result in Boogie Knights. Can overlap with the Ermine Cape Effect and Loafing in Full Costume: warriors in fiction are often shown wearing the full armor of their profession to distinguish them to the audience, even at peaceful events such as banquets or weddings to which real life warriors wear their nicest civilian dress, or at most their fancy dress uniform and sidearm. Can overlap with The Faceless if the armor has a face-concealing helmet.

If someone spends time in the vicinity of a suit of Animated Armor without knowing its true nature, their working assumption will probably be that it's a person wearing 24-Hour Armor. See Pillow Pistol and Can't Bathe Without a Weapon for people who have their weapons with them even as they sleep or bathe, respectively.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   _Berserk_ shows that Guts rarely takes his armor off - which makes some sense, because he is constantly at threat of being attacked by demons. Other than that, it's usually averted, as most of the armor-wearing cast members only do so in battle.
    -   Ever since Azan was kicked out of the Holy See he has kept his helmet on at all times, possibly out of shame, and was even once seen sleeping in full plate armor. He even _eats_ while wearing the helmet.
    -   Griffith hasn't been shown without armor (other then in bed) since his incarnation. He doesn't wear his helmet when not in battle, and was seen without his gauntlets once, but that's it.
-   Laios in _Delicious in Dungeon_ is hardly ever seen out of his armor. He even sleeps in it occasionally!
-   Karin Aoi from _DNA²_ would even _sleep_ in her armor if she could, and only removed it of her own volition once. Justified as it's a futuristic armor that is rather comfortable to wear.
-   _Dragon Ball_ has many users of futuristic armor (elastic and easily comfortable but also strong enough to tank nuclear strikes, and they continue wearing it even when they've become so strong that it might as well be paper.
    -   The Saiyan constantly wear armor, the only exception being Goku that was raised on Earth outside of their culture. Their prince Vegeta, who once claimed his armor counted as formal wear, actually needs a reason _not_ to, such as all available armor having been destroyed in combat, having entered the Tenkaichi Budokai (that bans armor), or Bulma demanding he wears actual Earth formal wear for an event. Having been part of the Planet Trade Organization (that uses armor as uniform for _everyone_) for years and later going to live with Bulma (who reverse-engineered the PTO armor and has apparently repeatedly improved on the materials) helps him having as many armors as he needs.
    -   The Planet Trade Organization (that for a long time included the Saiyan) uses armor for _everyone_, even noncombatants, with the model and accessories helping identifying the member's role (medical and scientific personnel wear bulky robes, support personnel tend to wear extremely minimalistic versions, special units wear unit-specific armors, and the Saiyan would often customize theirs with different pauldrons or wear the most covering models) and even the period (by the time of Super they have adopted a new improved model and repainted all remaining older model armor green to match). In particular, Frieza in his First Form and King Cold wear armor in spite of being far too strong to need it, apparently just because it's the outfit of their organization - though Frieza removes it and goes stark naked before transforming in stronger forms.
    -   In _Dragon Ball Super_ we get to see a Saiyan from another universe, who doesn't wear the standard armor of Frieza's army. Instead he wears a different pattern of armor, that Vegeta quickly identifies as Saiyan traditional armor before they joined the Planet Trade Organization.
    -   Exaggerrated with Mosco, Universe 3's God of Destruction, who does this to the point that it's a minor plot twist that he even _is_ wearing armor; everyone (in and out of universe) had assumed he was a robot, when he's really just an imp wearing Powered Armor.
-   In _Dragon Half_, little Pia's parents told her never to take off her armor. She never does, not even when diving into a lake. Needless to say, she didn't float.
-   Erza in _Fairy Tail_ is almost always in armor. She only wears something else on rare occasions when she wants to look nice, once while in a construction uniform, or to sleep/shower. In her case she feels unsafe without it after being a child slave, and has the special power to switch between sets at will. However her usual attire is just a single light breastplate over a regular clothes. She only puts on the elaborate huge head to toe armor sets during battle.
-   Mentioned in _Fullmetal Alchemist_, with people wondering how the heck Al can wear that bulky suit of armor 24/7. Of course, we all know the reason for this...
-   The _Goblin Slayer_ is only ever seen outside of his armor twice: once in childhood flashbacks before he became an adventurer, and later when his armor is severely damaged and taken to a smith for repairs. In both cases, his full face is never shown. Otherwise, he eats and sleeps in his armor.
-   _Inuyasha_:
    -   Inuyasha wears a special kimono, the Robe of the Fire Rat, that doubles as full body armor. On the rare occasion he removes any of it, it's only the top outer layer and only when his human companions need protection from things youkai and half-youkai can resist. Otherwise, he sleeps in it and on one occasion was seen scrubbing himself in a pool of water... while still wearing it.
    -   Sesshoumaru never removes his armor. On one occasion he's badly injured, his armor is smashed and he's forced lie in one spot for a day or two; he still doesn't remove the armor. The only time he doesn't have armor is when he assumes his true form as a giant dog demon. This is more or less shape-shifting and his clothes disappear and reappear when he changes back and forth from human to dog.
    -   Kouga has never been seen without his armor.
-   In _Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha_, Fate almost constantly wore her Barrier Jacket even outside of combat and only ever dematerialised her gloves and cape when not fighting. This is used to show how single minded she was in capturing Jewel Seeds and the fact that, at the time, she was little better than a Child Soldier. It's not surprising that, after her Heel–Face Turn, Fate is shown wearing casual clothing when not wearing her school or TSAB uniforms.
-   The warrior Heracles in _One Piece_ has always been seen in full-body armor and a helmet.
-   Big Bad of _Rave Master_, Lucia Raregroove, seems to prefer armor to regular clothing, he's without it when he first breaks out of prison and has to steal some random dudes outfit (and apparently he sleeps naked), but otherwise he always has a suit of armor on.
-   _Rebuild World_: Discussed. Akira, being The Paranoiac, has a tendency to do this, especially after he had to retreat from a Mexican Standoff due to not having his Powered Armor. Once, when Sheryl asks him to take it off to make her cuddling of him more comfortable, he says that it's too troublesome to put back on and refuses. While Sheryl's getting into a dress to prepare for a customer buying relics at her shop, Akira asks her why she doesn't just keep the dress on, and she says it's like the reverse of how he must feel taking off his armor at home (this leads to Alpha criticizing him for sleeping in his armor). Akira also criticizes Kanae for wearing her Ninja Maid themed armor even into a fancy restaurant, while he himself wore his armor in there which is more out of place.
-   Justified in _Saint Seiya_: aside for the protagonists, many characters are usually seen on duty or in occasions that requires a formal wear (as their armor double as). Best shown by Aiolia, who spent most of his early appearances without armor (or even indications he had one) until near the end of the Sanctuary Arc, when he was given a mission and stopped being seen armorless, and confirmed in _Saint Seiya: Soul of Gold_, where the Gold Saints are seen multiple times out of combat or formal situations and thus don't wear their armors.
    -   And amazingly Subverted with the goddess Athena: while the myth has her wearing a helmet and a cuirass all the time, she isn't seen wearing her armor _at all_ until the end of the Hades Arc. This is made even more notable by how most of the other gods who appear are actually shown wearing armor almost all the time when the myth doesn't attribute them having any except for Hades' helmet.
    -   Played straight by almost all the inhabitants of the Sanctuary, who wear leather armor usually composed by a protection for the chest (usually only the left side) and both shoulders, plus often a helmet, with metallic armors being reserved for special jobs outside the Sanctuary. The only known exceptions are Aiolia and Aiolos, who wear a protection for the entire chest with metal shoulders, Shaina and Marin, who wear Chainmail Bikinis, the Pope (or those impersonating him), who wear ceremonial robes that in all versions include a Cool Helmet and in one armored shoulder pads (and _may_ hide some other armor worn under it), Phaeton, who wears what may be a Cloth or just some very decorative metal armor, and minister Gigars, Lithos Crysallis and Garan, who don't wear any-the rule seems to be that warriors must be armored at all times (Gigars was a minister and Lithos and Garan are servants. As for the Pope he's _always_ a former Saint, either a Gold Saint or the Altar Silver Saint filling in). Justified because the armor, being so minimalistic and made of leather, is pretty comfortable to wear-and anyway, when even the common soldiers survived Saint training without crippling damage, they're all far too strong and tough for even full plate to be a hindrance, with the only armor the Sanctuary's troopers ever actually needed being the faceplates on the helmets of some troopers deployed to Siberia... As they needed to protect themselves from _snow glare_.
    -   Back when they were training to become Saints, Seiya and Shun used to wear the most minimalistic version of the Sanctuary soldiers' armor (with extensible chains in Shun's case), Justified in Seiya's case by being training at the Sanctuary and becoming a common soldier being what would happen if he failed the training but survived and for Shun as it was the local training uniform (the only trainee who wouldn't wear it at Andromeda Island was June, who, being a woman, wore instead a Chainmail Bikini). They apparently didn't like it, as they would ditch it as soon as they completed the training and would never again wear armor unless they needed their Cloths for battle.
-   Aside from Masamune and Kojuro in some scenes (and anybody who happens to be injured and bedridden), the cast of _Sengoku Basara_ are always dressed ready for battle. It becomes pretty ridiculous when characters are shown to take their shoes off indoors, but keep their helmets on.
-   _Yaiba_: Onimaru Takeshi is always seen with his Scary Impractical Armor on.

    Comic Books 

-   One example from Marvel Comics is the Jack of Hearts from _The Avengers_, who needs his armor to regulate his energy so he doesn't die from it.
-   For a time in _Captain America_, Cap had to wear twenty four hour armor to be able to move. Most people don't want to think about it. Captain America's regular costume includes something like chainmail, and he wears it like a second skin. Partly justified by his peak human strength.
-   _Democracy_: In all scenes they appear, the Spartans are seen wearing an armor.
-   _Fantastic Four_: Doctor Doom apparently never removes his armor. It includes various high-tech systems allowing him to feed and survive despite the inconvenience this should have. This is a consequence of his Crazy-Prepared nature; the things his armor is designed to protect him from include having _somebody else_ remove it while he's captured or temporarily helpless, and being mind-controlled into removing it (he _can_ take it off, but the process won't be quick or convenient and usually involves great damage to his surroundings).
-   Iron Man's suits of armor sometimes employed this trope. Originally, due to his heart condition, he had to wear a chest piece under his shirt which doubled as his chest plate. Other versions were skintight, allowing him to wear full suits under his clothes. When he's equipped with Extremis, the armor is expressly a part of his body. Most armors also come equipped with a music playlist for long flights, or even noise cancellation equipment if he wants to take a nap. War Machine also had this type of armor during his "cyborg" period.
-   In _Top 10: The Forty Niners_, Steelgauntlet is said to never, ever remove his bulky Powered Armor due to disfiguring burns he received in an explosion. In reality, he's actually a robot, possibly the very first to possess full sentience, masquerading as a human to avoid the common anti-robot prejudice of the time.
-   _Wonder Woman_ Vol 2: The Amazon Aella is always wearing her armor even when other guards are in more casual dress.

    Fan Works 

-   _A Brighter Dark_
    -   During the previous war Nohrian boarder guards remained in their armor for long periods in case of an attack. This ceased after Mikoto created the barrier and the threat of Hoshdian attacks stopped.
    -   Silas wears his armor at practically all times, a habit Benny theorizes he developed from always being on the road and in danger of bandits or animal attacks during his knight training.
-   Courier Six in _A Courier For Kivotos_ wears his full armor and guns wherever he goes, even if its signing documents in the comfortable air-conditioned SCHALE office. Despite the relative safety of Kivotos; being protected by gun-toting schoolgirls with halos and forcefields, he feels very naked without the armor that saved his life multiple times from the ravages of the Mojave Wasteland.
-   Averted in _A Dragon in Shining Armour_. The Royal Knights only wear their armor when they're on duty, sparring, or out on a mission. Otherwise, they wear more casual clothes.
-   Monster X in _The Bridge_ has organic armor in the sense he's partially encased in a bony gear that forms gauntlets, a chest plate, a helmet, etc. Even though it's fairly clearly armor as he has skin beneath and between it, he can't take it off because it's fused to his body.
-   _Fallout: Equestria_:
    -   Steel Rangers never take their armor off around enemies, not even the helmets. Since they view everyone as enemies, they always have their armor on—it's not until halfway through the story that Littlepip sees one without armor.
    -   Steelhooves is a Steel Ranger, but he's also a Canterlot Ghoul created by a flood of the Pink Cloud. Since the Cloud has a nasty habit of fusing materials together, his undead flesh is now fused with his armor, and impossible to take off. Thankfully, the armor was designed to be worn indefinitely, and has plenty of food, waste disposal, healing, and repair systems.
    -   _Fallout: Equestria - Project Horizons_: Averted for the most part - characters put on their armor when needed and take it off when not. But when cybernetic augmentations are introduced, their deteriorating effect on one's mental health is largely attributed to the impossibility to _remove_ them and just feel like a flesh-and-blood creature anymore.
-   Mega Man in _Mega Man: Defender of the Human Race_ spends the majority of his time in his armor. Unlike other versions of Rock/Mega/Aki, he wasn't rebuilt with the ability to switch between his human and warrior forms at will. This causes him a little distress at times as it reminds that he can't really go back to being just Rock until Dr. Wily is defeated. By Episode 17, Dr. Light begins working on subverting this trope by creating an upgrade that would allow Mega Man to change forms at will and restores Rock to his human form after the arrest of Dr. Wily.
-   In _Origins_, a _Mass Effect_/_Star Wars_/_Borderlands_/_Halo_ Massive Multiplayer Crossover, Shepard lampshades wearing armor everywhere save aboard _Normandy_<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> —then notes given present circumstances it might be a good habit to take up again. Zaeed Massani specifically "wore his \[armor\] everywhere" as well.
-   The version of Harry Potter that serves as the title character of _Partially Kissed Hero_ insists on wearing magical silver armor under his clothes at all times, a policy he tries to imprint on everyone and anyone he cares about.
-   Urthblood, the titular character of _The Urthblood Saga_, is never seen without the blood-red armor that's his namesake. It is described as only encasing his upper body, so it's not quite as uncomfortable as it might have been otherwise, but it still can't be very pleasant. He does not sleep in it however because, apparently, he never sleeps.

    Films — Animated 

-   In _How to Train Your Dragon_ most of the residents of Berk besides Hiccup have armor or at least horned helmets as part of their Limited Wardrobe.
-   The interactive movie _Scourge of Worlds_ has the fighter character wear his full plate to bed.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   The gods in the remake of _Clash of the Titans_ can be given a pass because gods can presumably wear whatever they want. Though their super shiny plate armor looks a bit out of place anyway, consider they're wearing it a good thousand or so years before it was actually invented.
-   The knights in _Excalibur_ are the poster boys for this. They eat, sleep, quest and have sex while wearing armor. After several of them spend years questing for the Holy Grail, their armor has become all rusty.
-   In _Hero (2002)_ the King of Qin has justifably worn his armor day and night for the past three years, ever since a failed assassination attempt. He also does not permit outsiders to come within ten to a hundred steps of him.
-   While it is not as egregious as it could be, _Kingdom of Heaven_ has many instances of this trope, with knights variously treating their mail armor as streetwear, business suit, and suitable formal dress for any occasion. Tiberias, for example, wears it on his office job.
-   The knights in Robert Bresson's _Lancelot du Lac_ are shown almost exclusively in full armor no matter what they're doing.
-   _Star Wars_:
    -   Darth Vader, whose armor holds all his life support systems, and if removed outside of a special chamber he will die rather quickly.
    -   Imperial Stormtroopers wear their armor constantly when on _any_ kind of duty that has even the slightest theoretical possibility to have them see combat, even when acting as guards on the Death Star (and the prison break by the heroes proves that it's not out of the question), and Expanded Universe material reveals they're banned from even removing their helmets for a single moment in such occasions... And monitored by COMPNOR for it. They're otherwise supposed to wear a black version of the Imperial officer uniform (as even a Stormtrooper private has officer training and the seniority of an Imperial Army Trooper lieutenant), though the only time we actually see this uniform is when commanders Jir and Praji are talking with Darth Vader and are assigned to find the droids on Tatooine (Praji later appeared in the usual white armor for the mission).
    -   As the predecessors of Stormtroopers, the Clone Troopers are constantly seen in their armor in the movies. The only times we ever see them without armor is in _Star Wars: The Clone Wars_, where some Clone Troopers are seen off duty and thus in officer uniform (plus some _naval_ Clone Troopers, who have unarmored uniforms) and, in one case, put on trial for insubordination and stripped of their uniforms.
    -   As the successors of the Imperial Stormtroopers, the First Order's Stormtroopers are also constantly seen in armor. The _only_ time we ever seen one without the full armor is when FN-2187 removes his helmet while still on duty... And not only he's _immediately_ rebuked by a superior (also armored), this is also when FN-2187 (AKA Finn) has a Heel Realization and starts planning his Heel–Face Turn.
-   In _A Knight in Camelot_, quantum physics researcher Dr. Vivien Morgan (played by Whoopi Goldberg) has a lab accident that sends her back in time to King Arthur's court in a typical Connecticut Yankee plot. When she accepts the villainous Sir Sagramore's challenge to duel despite the warning and protests of her friend Clarence, she has her servants clad her in full plate armor. Hilarity Ensues as she struggles to even walk and balance under its exaggerated weight. She soon complains that she feels like a roasted turkey already and wants to take it off, but the blacksmith explains that because this is combat armor it is riveted on: _it cannot be removed without destroying it_. As for her wanting to go to the bathroom, Clarence explains that she must also do this without taking it off: their solution is to take her to the "knight's closet" and pour a whole lot of water down the back of her armor as she relieves herself. Over the next couple scenes she somehow manages to rid herself of some of the pieces, and at the time of the duel she shows up having decided to forgo it altogether, much to the mockery of the noble spectators.
-   In the _Deadpool_ film series we always see Colossus in armored form, including seeing him wake up in bed having slept while armored. In the comics and other film versions he can assume human form, but it is unclear if he can do that in these films.

    Literature 

### **In General:**

-   One account in the greater Arthurian mythos has Lancelot, ambushed in a lady's bedchamber, praised for his bravery in fighting his way out "unarmed". He had his mail, his sword and his shield, but no helm, and hence by the standards of the time was considered "unarmed".

### **By Work:**

-   The inhabitants of Bara Magna in _BIONICLE_ rarely take off their armor, which is justified by how dangerous the planet can get. And before that, all the inhabitants of the Matoran "universe" also wear armor all the time. Some of it is justified because it is part of their bio-mechanical bodies, but those who wear additional armor is ever seen to take it off, even though they are mentioned to clean or repair it.
-   Gerald from _Black Summoner_ is always seen in his armor. At first, it was justified since he was undead but in flashbacks, it was revealed that he always wears his armor even as a human. He was even seen sunning on a beach while in his armor.
-   In _The Circumstances Leading to Waltraute's Marriage_, the Valkyrie Waltraute never removes her armor, and thinks doing so would be a blasphemy. The other Valkyries are more relaxed about wearing armor. When Waltraute is married to Jack Elvan, she eventually, nervously, gives him permission to remove it, but they are interrupted and she changes her mind.
-   Played for comedy in _A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court_, where the protagonist complains at great length about how excruciating it is to wear knight's armor while traveling cross-country and trying to sleep.
-   Spacesuits in Iain M. Banks' _Culture_ series are really feature-full and can serve as both light armor and sleeping bags.
-   The dwarfs of the _Discworld_ wear armor of variously improbable sorts—including iron _boots_ in some cases—for purely cultural reasons. Wearing a helmet and chain mail everywhere you go is just an integral part of being a dwarf. Meanwhile, the wearing of excessive armament among the young is referred to as 'clang'; i.e. unusually literal Bling of War.
-   Power armor in _Duumvirate_ is a closed system which can be worn for weeks at a time, but starts to stink after a while. This is also a setting in which children's everyday clothing is comfortable, blade-resistant, Class IIIA body armor.
-   Zig-zagged in _Elantris_. The Derethi religion is heavily focused on war and conquest, so high-ranking priests vestaments include heavy armor. However, wearing a full suit of plate armor at all times is cumbersome and unpleasant, so most wear lighter fake armor. Of course Hrathen further subverts this when it turns out he actually wears his real armor at all times, to the surprise of another Derethi priest.
-   _Emberverse_: _Dies the Fire_ frequently mentions how hot and uncomfortable — as well as how necessary — armor is in a world where technology has suddenly been reduced to the level of the Middle Ages.
-   Though the titular _Goblin Slayer_ doesn't _sleep_ in his armor when he's home, whenever he's adventuring and the moment he gets up at home he is _always_ wearing the armor, to the point where he feels uncomfortable without it on (the only time he's seen not wearing the armor is if it's been damaged and he's waiting for it to be repaired). When asked by his companions if he'd feel more comfortable without it, Goblin Slayer bluntly tells them that he's vastly more comfortable in the knowledge that if he was suddenly attacked, he would be safe from goblin weapons. Considering how sadistically-clever goblins tend to be with traps and ambushes, this is totally justified.
-   The Remoras of the _Great Ship_ universe _never_ take off their Powered Armor space suit, spending entire lives (including their birth) within it . Part of it is from living in the pure vacuum of the outer hull of a Planet Spaceship, and the other is cultural; asking a Remora to take off their suit is one of the most offensive things a person can say, and outright impossible without heavy-duty cutting tools. The issue of burial rights generally doesn't come up, because the number one cause of Remora death is being turned into a impact crater from interstellar rock slipping past the Greatship's point defenses and colliding with the hull.
-   In _Is This A Zombie?_, Eucliwood always wears her armor, as it's necessary for her to limit her power.
-   Deconstructed in _The Knight in Rusty Armor_. The knight started wearing his armor to eat and sleep, to the point he wasn't able to take it off after so long. It also caused his family to forget what he looked like.
-   Used deliberately in _The Lord of the Rings_, in which the steward Denethor surprises onlookers by revealing that, despite being mostly confined within the kingdom's walls, he always wears chainmail under his clothes lest he become a pushover. (It's one of the strongest hints that Denethor is becoming quite unhinged.)
-   The title character of Italo Calvino's "The Nonexistent Knight" would have no shape at all without his suit of plate armor. At one point he figures out how to make love to a woman while wearing it — she spends a delightful night.
-   In _Rebuild World_, Akira wears his augmented suit everywhere he goes because of his paranoia and desire to be ready for any situation. It doesn't help that he doesn't have any casual clothing aside from the tank top and jeans he wears everyday beneath the suit. The only times he takes it off are when he's bathing and going to bed.
-   Subverted in _The Rising of the Shield Hero_: while the characters who own armor tend to be seen wearing it, they take it off when going to sleep, allowing Malty to steal Naofumi's initial hauberk when she betrays him.
-   Although he doesn't wear it in bed, Uhtred of _The Saxon Stories_ has mentioned putting his mail on first thing in the morning and wearing it all day despite there being no risk of combat. The reason being that mail is bloody heavy, and he needs to be fully accustomed to moving around in it.
-   _Sir Gawain and the Green Knight_ has the title character, Gawain, doing this while searching for the green chapel.
-   _Skylark Series_: The second book, _Skylark Three_, reveals that since the events of _The Skylark of Space_, assassination attempts on Seaton and his associates have become so frequent that they have to wear armor constantly. Fortunately, they have arenak, a wonder metal that is transparent and only needs a tenth of an inch of thickness to stop bullets, but Seaton is still quite relieved to get away from Earth for a while.
-   In _A Song of Ice and Fire_
    -   The Ironmen fighting in the Neck have to wear their armor all the time for fear of poison arrows from guerrilla crannogmen, although doing so is specifically noted as being very unpleasant.
    -   Victarion Greyjoy is first seen wearing full plate armor during a naval battle, as all good Ironborn are expected to. Most sailors avoid heavy metal armor for fear of drowning, but for devout followers of the Drowned God, drowning is a holy way to die. Of course, the obvious trade-off for the risk of drowning is the enormous advantage of being fully armored against opponents who aren't, and Victarion mentally notes his respect for a young knight he faces who also elects to wear his full armor aboard his ship, calling the knight "almost Ironborn."
    -   Ser Robert Strong, the newest member of the Kingsguard, had apparently has never been seen removing his armor for any reason. Kevan Lannister notes this oddity, as well as the fact that Strong never talks, eats or sleeps, and begins to have doubts about whether he's an actual human.
-   According to the narrator the powered armor in _Starship Troopers_ can keep a Space Marine alive for up to a week, albeit in increasing discomfort.
-   _Star Wars Legends_:
    -   Stormtroopers are usually shown as staying in armor while on hostile planets. _Star Wars: Allegiance_ sort of uses this trope by mentioning a regulation that stormtroopers, even off duty, must wear their armor when not in the barracks. It turns out that the captain of this particular Star Destroyer hates seeing stormtroopers wandering around in armor, but the troopers won't agree to be confined to barracks, so they're allowed out in plainclothes.
    -   Other sources avert this by saying that Stormtroopers (especially the non-clone ones) wear a standard Imperial officer's uniform while off-duty (a Stormtrooper private is of the same status as an Imperial Army lieutenant, as both positions require one to have attended a Military Academy).
    -   In _Death Star_, it's mentioned that one of the first things TIE pilots learn to do when on-call is to sleep in full battle gear (except the helmet) to save time if the scramble alarm is sounded. However, their gear isn't so much armor as life-support and protection against vacuum, since unlike X-wings, TIE-fighters don't have onboard life-support systems.
    -   Hardcore Mandalorians won't take off their armor. Ever. Makes you wonder where little Mandalorians come from...
-   Justified in _The Stormlight Archive_. The Parshendi, who the main characters are actively at war with, naturally grow their own carapace armor. At least when in "warform", they can willingly shapeshift to fulfill different jobs, and most other forms only have small bits of carapace rather than full armor.
-   _Tales of the Five Hundred Kingdoms_: Justified in _One Good Knight_. The knight Sir George wears armor at all times, ostensibly for protection from surprise attack. It has a second, equally useful function: to conceal the fact that "George" is "Georgina". Additionally, the suit is enchanted with spells which make it comfortable to wear.
-   In the Robert A. Heinlein book _Tunnel in the Sky_, Jack wears a (seemingly inconvenient for the climate) armored vest 24/7 after first meeting Rod. This turns out to be because Jack is really Jacqueline, and she wasn't sure that he would have teamed with her if he knew. She is implied to have been correct.
-   Justified in _Villains by Necessity_ with the Black Knight Blackmail, who is clad head-to-toe in all-concealing magic plate armor that has been welded shut, with enchanted rings that keep him from needing to drink, eat, sleep and presumably relieve himself. He never shows his face nor even so much as says a word until the climax, of course so that even his name is just a bad joke one of his traveling companions made up (though he visibly shakes with silent laughter upon hearing it).
-   In the _Vorkosigan Saga_, space armor is designed to be able to be worn for extended periods of time. The protagonist, Miles, is so short that once in a while he has to wear a suit of armor loaned from the shortest woman he can find, and therefore with the wrong sex's "plumbing".

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Game of Thrones_: Soldiers are often seen wearing their armor even when it would be unusual for them to do so, due to Limited Wardrobe.
    -   Bronn wears his armor even when he's relaxing and trading stories with Tyrion.
    -   King Renly Baratheon doesn't seem to have any formal clothing other than his armor in Season 2.
    -   Janos Slynt also wears his chainmail while having dinner with Tyrion.
    -   Most of the northmen are at least in gambesons, the heavy padded garment typically worn beneath heavier armor, even Bran, a boy who is paralyzed.
    -   Ser Jorah Mormont is a notable exception: the fact that he's stripped down to cloth garments in the hot Dothraki Sea shows his adaptability, and when he puts it all back on, you know he's expecting a fight.
    -   Of particular note is Stannis Baratheon, who wears his black and grey mail and plate armor with the sigil of the flaming heart on his chest in almost every single scene he's in. Across 3 seasons! Even the robes he wears have metal plates mounted to the chest.
    -   Since his resurrection and exit from the Watch, Jon has worn the Stark standard-issue Brown coat-of-plate for every scene in Season 6, whether he's eating, resting or fighting. Considering that he was stabbed with only a peascod protecting him recently, this might count as Properly Paranoid.
-   _The Mandalorian_: Mandalorian culture — or at least hard-core orthodox Mandalorian culture, as practiced by the sect the Children of the Watch — is built around this. It's thought to have practical roots in a history of the Empire hunting them and various other dangers, but in time has become predominately a cultural, religious thing. The Children of the Watch can never take off their helmet where any living being can see them. If you do, you're not a Mandalorian any more, and you can never put it back on. Taking it off while alone is fine, and of course necessary for eating. In the second season, the main character encounters other, more mainstream Mandalorians and he's stunned to learn they have no such restrictions and freely remove their armor whenever they want. His clan are considered extremists for their insistence on this trope.
    
    **Din:** No living thing has seen me without my helmet since I swore the Creed.
    
-   King Arthur and his knights in _Merlin (1998)_ seem to wander around in mail at all times, from feasts (which may fall under Ermine Cape Effect for a warrior-king) to more... intimate moments. It's hard to imagine how much of a Moment Killer it would be if you need to call your squire in to help you Slip into Something More Comfortable.
-   Deputy Travis Junior on _Reno 911!_ is alway seen wearing light body armor over his uniform even when in the station. It should be noted, however, that most police departments in the United States discourage this practice as it can encourage certain segments of society to start taking potshots at officers.
-   In a _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_ episode, Weyoun finds Damar in bed wearing his uniform, including the boots and armored chestplate!<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  To make things sillier, Weyoun sneeringly examines what appears to be an article of flimsy, revealing clothing... implying that Damar has possibly engaged in some sort of sex acts with someone the night before, while presumably still fully dressed and in armor. Although that wouldn't be entirely out of character for Damar.
-   In _The Unusuals_ one character has a fear of dying at 42 (his father and grandfather died at 42, and he's now 42) so he wears a bulletproof vest at all times, even at home.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Dungeons & Dragons_:
    -   _Dungeons & Dragons 3rd Edition_ discourages the trope by fatiguing characters who sleep in medium or heavy armor. Players being players, this led instead to PCs wearing _light_ armor as pajamas, buying enchanted or mithral armor that doesn't cause fatigue, or investing in feats or magic that negate the penalty. Or just ignoring the rule altogether along with all the various other nitty-gritty logistics rules.
    -   Referenced in a _Dragon_ article by Robin D. Laws about the difference between a dungeon crawl and a swashbuckling adventure, which opens with a humorous exaggeration of the average dungeon delver's attitude to armor: "So what if, in return for that additional protection, they had to give up bathing?"
    -   _Dungeons & Dragons 5th Edition_: In _Eberron: Rising from the Last War_, Warforged must incorporate their amour into their body to use it. Considering how long this takes and the fact they don't require sleep, they will probably only ever take their armour off for repair and maintenance.
-   _Exalted_
    -   The Terrestrial Exalted's favored magical jade-alloy armor is stated to be as comfortable as normal clothing, and the Solar Exalted have a specific magic power they can take to make armor-wearing less of a nuisance, or just send it Elsewhere.
    -   There's also discreet Essence armor, an artifact that negates the issue entirely—the "armor" is just a matched set of bracers and anklets, which project a force field over the wearer in combat situations. For this reason, as well as the fact that it is much easier to conceal than normal armor, it is highly prized by spies, diplomats, martial artists, and anyone else who might want the protection of armor without the hassle of a cumbersome, conspicuous suit of plated metal.
    -   Another option is silken armor. It's artifact clothing made of a special kind of magical silk which offers the protection of light armor.
    -   The First and Forsaken Lion, for defying his Neverborn master, was permanently welded into his armor, among other things. But he's the ghost of a former Solar Exalted, so the mundane problems don't apply.
-   In _GURPS Time Travel_, the authors suggest telling players who insist that their characters never remove their full plate armor that said character has now developed a full-body fungus.
-   The tabletop game _Iron Heroes_ averts the trope, in that sleeping in your armor leaves you tired and less effective. It also plays it straight-the Armiger class, whose entire schtick is the maximisation of armor effects, later gains the ability to sleep in their armor without penalty.
-   Justified by _Pathfinder_'s 3<sup>rd</sup>\-party Aegis class, which develops the Psychic Power to manifest a "skin" that acts like enchanted Instant Armor but can be slept in without penalty.
-   _Star Wars: Saga Edition_ gives penalties for sleeping in armor. Endurance is a skill that you must check against or you get no bonus from sleeping in the armor.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_ heavily abuses this trope, but then, it is mentioned that most of these armors _are_ designed to be worn for an extended periods of time,
    -   Space Marine armor contains complete recycle facilities not unlike Fremen stillsuits. Flavor text and other media confirm that Space Marines do indeed take their armor off when not fighting people. Their everyday attire depends on what the culture of their chapter is - the Salamanders, who hail from the blisteringly hot world of Nocturne go everywhere in loincloths, the monastic Dark Angels wear robes, the Ancient Grome\-esque Ultramarines wear tunics etc.
    -   Like with everything, Chaos takes this trope to the utter screaming extreme, with numerous individuals wearing the same armor for thousands of years.
        -   The Thousand Sons Chaos Marines essentially _are_ suits of armor. Killing a Thousand Son Chaos Marine will result in an expulsion of dust from the suit through the wound.
        -   In the case of the ones dedicated to Khorne, their armor has actually become part of their body and can't be removed, ever. They somehow eat their recycled waste forever.
        -   Every single Daemon Marine (Warp Talons, Mutilators, Obliterators, and Daemon Princes) all have this and Clingy Costume due to the nature of the warp basically blending them, the armor, and daemons into one being.
    -   The Imperial Guard is confusing. While many troops appear to be wearing armor along with a uniform, the 'flak armor' _can_ be the uniform. While there may be harder and extra sections for them to wear, it's possible a uniformed Imperial Guardsmen is an armored one. On the other hand, it's kinda useless against many small-arms, let alone heavy weapons. The universe never really states if flak armor can be comfortable enough to wear all the time; but carapace armor, which is much more likely at stopping small-arms, is said to be heavy, cumbersome and uncomfortable, as Ciaphas Cain<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  once noted. The Mordian regiments take the cake, however; their armor also doubles as their formal Class A dress uniforms, so in addition to their armor, they're also sleeping and fighting in the military equivalent of a _tuxedo!_
-   In _Warhammer Fantasy_ the chaos warriors do this, because their armor becomes part of them and grows back eventually if it's damaged. They also may not need to eat or sleep, so the usual problems don't apply. Malekith, king of the Dark Elves, also never takes off his armor, as its magic kept him alive after he was hideously burned and disfigured during a literal trial by fire; he also put it on while it was white hot from the forge, and it's _both fused to his skin and nailed into his body_, so taking it off is a non-issue anyway.
-   _Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay_ attempts to avert this in the case of player characters, with characters taking fatigue if walking around all day in armour, the GM encouraged to have people react with suspicion if characters walk around in armour (as it looks like they are expecting trouble and if there's no trouble going on, it looks like they might be getting ready to start some), and in at least one adventure when the characters are awoken from bed, the GM is advised to tell the characters they aren't wearing armour; if the players insist they are, the GM is to understand that the characters must be extremely drunk to be able to sleep in it, and apply hefty penalties.

    Video Games 

-   _Anarchy Online_ before system to change your appearance to one set and having stats from other set and equipping single piece or set of armor could take days/weeks/months of effort no sensible player would remove any of it. And in lore there are rings which can't be even removed without destroying them.
-   Double H in _Beyond Good & Evil_ wears his suit of armor everywhere. Apparently, in the depths of the manual, it's Hand Waved that he rarely takes it off because he enjoys the empowered, manly feeling wearing armor gives him.
-   _Chrono Trigger_ zig-zags with this trope. First, the game features Informed Equipment, so the player doesn't see the armor that the party picks up. The most knightly character, Frog, wears a breastplate as seen in character illustrations, so this is less severe than full-body mail would be. Finally, Lucca sleeps without her helmet, making her case an aversion.
-   A Downplayed example in _Code Vein_ with Murasame Rin, the party's armourer/quartermaster. She doesn't take to the field any more so she never wears a Blood Veil (the power-enhancing jacket revenants wear as armour in combat), but she _always_ wears her miasma-filtering mask, even though everyone else takes theirs off while in base and she doesn't even need it since she never goes outside. The only time she ever removes it is when she bathes in the hot spring.
-   In _Counter Side_ several of your soldiers are in full kit gear at all times, even in the barracks or even _salary negotiation_.
-   Justified in _Crysis 2_ with Alcatraz's Nanosuit, since it's the only thing keeping him alive after his grievous wounding at the beginning of the game. He later discovers that the suit is compensating for the otherwise fatal injuries by _growing into his body._
-   Averted in _A Dance with Rogues_. Whenever your character is in bed (whether sleeping or doing other things one does in bed), the game removes whatever you have equipped in your armor/clothing slot and blacks out the general area.
-   So long as the player doesn't actively take their armor off, this is played straight in _Dark Souls_. This is justified, however, because one of the perks (one of the few) of being undead seems to be never needing to sleep or have food/drink. And besides that, in the world of Dark Souls, wearing your armor all the time is probably a good move....
-   In _Demon's Souls_, Garl Vinland is always clad in armor even while relaxing beside Astraea. Justified since he has to be ready to defend her as her bodyguard at all times and because he wouldn't be able to survive in the poisonous environment of his and Astraea's new home without his armor's enchantments.
-   In _Destiny_ and its sequel, you’re always wearing your armor no matter what you’re doing, though you at least take off your helmet when in the Tower or Reef, as well as during certain cutscenes. Can be downplayed if you wish, as some armor sets (mostly Warlock ones) could pass as fancy-looking street clothes. Lampshaded and parodied a few times, such as a lore entry that implies Lord Shaxx somehow has sex while clad in full combat armor.
-   _Dragon Age_:
    -   In _Dragon Age: Origins_, anyone equipped with armor wears it 24/7. The player can manually give party members normal clothes (or strip them to their underwear), but there is no practical reason to ever do so.
    -   The armor goes away for a moment when the main character and Love Interest decide to do some sparring. It's back on when they wake up the next morning. Because the first thing anyone does after sex is put on their armor, then lie back down, right?
    -   It does make an effort with some of the NPCs though, the landsmeet members for instance are all in normal clothing when you meet them in the city and full armor at the landsmeet itself. Arl Eamon wears normal clothes normally, fancy chainmail to the landsmeet and a suit of full plate when preparing for battle.
    -   There's a scene early on when the main character wakes up without wearing armor. An entire conversation goes by this way, and when it's time to hand control over to the player there's a scene shift and the character is back to wearing full armor again.
    -   _Dragon Age II_ plays this mostly the same way but with one exception: Hawke will wear casual clothes while at home (Gamlen's house or the Hawke estate). The Companions, on the other hand, will wear their armor 24/7 (except the love interests). Even then, the only ones wearing armor heavier than street clothes are Aveline and Sebastian, and the only times you see Aveline out of your party she's on the clock for the city guard.
    -   In _Dragon Age: Inquisition_, the player changes into plain clothes while at the Inquisition headquarters (Haven and later Skyhold). Bizarrely, on most missions where you're invited to a ball or other social event, you stay in armor, except for one story mission where you and your companions wear formal attire instead. Cole is also convinced that this is the case with Cullen, and expresses disbelief that the armor actually comes off after Cullen loses all his clothing playing Wicked Grace.
-   Partially averted in _Dwarf Fortress_. Your militia take a small morale penalty if made to wear their armor when not on duty, but there are no other ill-effects apart from them moving more slowly.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_
    -   You can choose to play it straight as the Player Character throughout the series. There is nothing preventing you from wearing armor at all times.
    -   In terms of NPCs, it is played with by different games within the series. _Morrowind_ has static NPC's who play this trope straight. _Oblivion_ and _Skyrim_'s NPC's have more elaborate schedules and usually avert the trope by removing their armor and switching to more comfortable clothes when going to sleep, but you'll still come across the odd NPC (usually a generic bandit or some such) sleeping in their armor.
    -   In _Daggerfall_, Ebonarm, the god of war worshiped in the Iliac Bay region, is "never seen" without his suit of dark ebony armor. He also has an ebony sword permanently fused to his right arm.
    -   There's also an amusing armor-related story among the many, many in-game books readable detailing a master of heavy armor called "Hallgerd's Tale". Also a particularly epic case of Right Through His Pants.
-   Sun King Aster in the _Erenor_ series is an example of this. Supposedly, his armor is 10 times lighter than steel, but no accounting for comfort.
-   Lampshaded in _Fallout 2_ when your character wears Power Armor in New Reno:
    
    **Hooker**: OK. But no way in _hell_ do you get to be on top.  
    And:  
    **Child**: How do you go to the bathroom?  
    **Player**: Well, I go inside my suit, and then the water is recycl-  
    **Child**: You drink pee! You drink pee!
    
    -   On the other hand, when you have sex with someone the game subverts the trope and awakens you naked (well, as naked as you can get in Fallout, anyway) with your armor close to your bed.
    -   The New Reno hookers will mock you no matter what you're wearing. It's just that armor gets the more amusing jabs.
    -   Justified in the case of Frank Horrigan. He's a cyborg supermutant whose armor also acts as a life support system. Even if he wanted to remove his armor, he probably couldn't without risking death.
-   _Fallout: New Vegas_ has a couple of chilling examples of this in its expansions:
    -   _Dead Money_ has Hazmat suits with a design flaw causing the latching components to seize up, trapping the wearer inside. Those unfortunate enough to be wearing the suits when the bombs fell became more or less immortal in their hermetically-sealed environment. As they lost their sanity, the Ghost People were born.
    -   _Old World Blues_ features the Y-17 Trauma Harness, powered suit prototypes designed to be placed on an injured soldier in combat so that he could be 'walked' back to a friendly area in relative safety. Unfortunately, there were a couple of minor flaws in the Trauma Harness - namely an overly sensitive and aggressive self-defense system, the possibility of it activating without a set base to walk back to, and a lack of recognition on whether or not the inhabitant of the suit was, in fact, alive. Thus, the Big Empty is packed with autonomous harnesses ferrying around skeletons.
    -   Not quite as chilling, Brotherhood of Steel soldiers do indeed sleep in power armor. In _Fallout 4_, however, the player must exit their power armor before sleeping. Brotherhood companion Paladin Danse presumably gets out of his power armor at bedtime if the player is romancing him, but he's apparently pretty good about getting up and putting it back on just before you wake up.
-   _Final Fantasy_:
    -   In _Final Fantasy III_, it is quite amusing to see your characters lying in bed during a cutscene, wearing full Dragoon or Dark Knight armor.
    -   In _Final Fantasy IV_ Cecil goes to sleep wearing his armor in an early cutscene. There are two reasons he has to wear it: One, he feels as though he must, because he wants to atone and we only get to see his face after he does so and two, it's implied it's actually strapped to his _skin_.
    -   This is actually a plot point in _Final Fantasy IV: The After Years_. Since Kain always wore concealing Dragoon armor in the first game, very few if any people recognize him without it, even in his hometown where they've been wishing he'd return for years, though the fact that he hasn't been seen in years also helps (a few former party members either do recognize him or at least find him familiar, but he typically deflects the conversation until the reveal.) Likewise for Golbez. Since he was always in his Tin Tyrant armor in the first game, nobody except for one character very importantly connected to him, has any idea who he is until he reveals it, although again, like with Kain, none of the characters have seen him in 17 years either.
    -   Steiner from _Final Fantasy IX_, much to the amusement of the main character. Contrast with Beatrix, his fellow military officer and rival, who wears no armor whatsoever.
    -   Lampshaded in _Final Fantasy XII_, when one of the Arcadian soldiers got so tried of wearing his armor he got a civilian to pose as him while he lounged about.
    -   You can invoke the trope or avert it in _Final Fantasy XIV_ thanks to the glamour system. While most players will keep their armor as is, others may change them for a more casual look or even something very skimpy like swimwear. When you decide to log out at an inn, your character will get on the bed to sleep, even if they're in a full suit of armor. One sidequest has you partaking a dip in some hot springs with a few other characters and you're given the choice to change your gear for the scene if you want to play the trope straight or avert it.
    -   The magitek infantry in _Final Fantasy XV_ **seem** like this trope, but they're actually Ridiculously Human Robots with sunlight-sensitive energy cores powered by liquified daemons. Other Niflhemian soldiers play the trope straight. And though the main party's attire options mostly look like they'd be comfortable, there's nothing stopping the player from having them wear Magitek Exosuits through the entire game if they've downloaded a recent enough version<sup>*&nbsp;</sup> .
-   _Fire Emblem_ games typically have knights walk around in full suits of armor, even in conversations outside of battle.
    -   Justified in the case of the Black Knight aka Zelgius of _Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance_ and _Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn_, who stays in his armor all the time to hide the fact that he's a Branded and doesn't age as quickly as most beorc do.
    -   A particular amusing case is Jagen of _Fire Emblem: Mystery of the Emblem_ and its remake. He's still dressed in full, relatively heavy-looking battle armor like he was in the preceding games... except here he is in poor health, is just a tactician and advisor, and thus cannot and does not fight _at all_. For _Mystery_ it may be enforced by technological limitations with limited space for superfluous portraits on a SNES cartridge, but _New Mystery_ is a Nintendo DS game and doesn't have the same excuse at all. Though it does allow for one particular moment towards the late beginning of the second DS game where Jagen threatens General Lang with a duel, causing Lang to run away.
    -   Zigzagged in _Fire Emblem: Three Houses_. Characters generally change from their class costumes into their normal clothes while in the Monastery. However, several characters, like Alois or post-timeskip Sylvain, wear some sort of armor as their "normal clothes". Depending on their class, they may even change from one set of armor into _another_ while not in combat.
    -   Also zigzagged in _Fire Emblem Engage_. While this time around all characters wear mundane (if oddly modern-looking) clothes in Somniel, their Supports still have them walking around in their battle outfits. Even odder, it's their _basic_ battle outfits, so if you reclass them, it appears that they don their old armor specifically to talk with other people.
-   Man-Bot from _Freedom Force_ wears his Power Armor constantly. Considering he starts exploding due to Energy X Power Incontinence if he takes it off, he probably considers the constant discomfort worth it.
-   Played straight with and a slight variation in the _Grand Theft Auto_ series. Despite the later games going to incredible lengths to include clothing changes (in V, your characters will change clothes between plays if you don't use them for a time) and lots of attempts at every day realism, when you go to save in a safehouse and sleep, you character always just lays on top of the sheets in whatever clothes you last had them in, no matter how uncomfortable an outfit you have on them (and if you have body armor equipped, that stays on too) or how close to their own closet (presumably full of their own night clothes) they are.
-   _GreedFall_: While certain missions might require you to disguise yourself in either faction-aligned armor or regular clothes, you're still free to wear your regular armor around wherever you please.
-   _Guild Wars 2_ used to have "town clothes", a special kind of equipment that characters could switch into out of combat, automatically switching to armor in combat. The system saw little use even among roleplayers, as there were very few customization options for these, and those that existed were only available through the gem store, so most roleplayers just used armor pieces for non-combat clothes instead. Eventually the town clothes system was removed, and the outfits themselves were converted into either skins for armor pieces or items that changed the appearance of the entire set of armor, both in and out of combat.
-   _Half-Life 2_ occurs over three days and two nights (_Episode One_ and _Episode Two_ extending this to four or five days) from Gordon's point of view, yet he is always in the HEV suit after first acquiring it. Granted, he doesn't go to sleep either other than by being knocked out between episodes.
    -   When he reaches Black Mesa East, Eli Vance mentions getting him "out of that hazard suit and back into your lab coat", but the action picks back up before that has a chance to happen.
-   _Halo_:
    -   Master Chief John-117 very rarely takes off his armor. In the games, he's only had his helmet off four times total, and his full armor off once, at the end of _Halo 4_. In the Expanded Universe, he occasionally takes it off, but he's spent so much time in it, his skin looks bleached, due to lack of exposure to the sun.
        
        -   The series has gone to rather absurd lengths to keep ol' John as The Faceless. Case in point: _Halo 2_ starts off with the MJOLNIR armor worn during the first game having been junked just before the MC is going to an award ceremony in his honor. His choice of attire for this prestigious public occasion? A _new_ set of MJOLNIR armor, with the helmet clamped securely on at _all_ times.
        
        **Chief**: You told me there wouldn't be any cameras.
        
        **Johnson**: And you told me you were gonna' wear something nice!
        
        -   This is all justified though, as he and the other Spartans literally feel as if they are without their skin when taking off their armor, simply because the armor forms so perfectly onto them that they don't even feel the difference, except for the fact that armor multiplies their strength, resistance, etc. And since they've had it on so long, when they take it off, they feel extremely slow, powerless, and vulnerable even with all their already superhuman features.
    -   Every Forerunner, be they warrior, builder, scientist, etc. wore a suit of armor for their entire lives. Justified, since it's the reason they live so long and don't need to sleep, and contains their own personal AI with a massive store of knowledge. At one point, some females are seen wearing ceremonial garb, but even then, it's only colorful cloth suspended over their actual armor.
-   In _Kid Icarus: Uprising_, Magnus brings attention to the fact that Pit enters hot springs completely dressed. Pit remarks that angels should always be ready for action.
    
    **Pit:** ...and I don't want to steam the sacred buns.
    
-   _Kingdom Come: Deliverance_ plays this straight as an Acceptable Break from Reality, as despite the game's heavy emphasis on realism, needing to take Henry's armour off to sleep would be annoying and have no benefit. This is also played straight for soldiers and guards, presumably so you can't dominate fights without using stealth by doing them at night.
-   Two worlds in the _Kingdom Hearts_ series, Space Paranoids and The Grid (both from the same film franchise), will force the player party to wear armor during their visits.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  This is mainly played for Rule of Cool, and is justified from the films.
    -   Although a downplayed example, in the prologue of _Birth by Sleep_, Ventus wakes up in his bed with the exact same model as normal. Although his outfit mostly looks comfortable, he is still wearing pieces of his Keyblade Armour, including one pauldron and both sabatons.
-   _Kings Quest (2015)_ takes this to ridiculous levels. All the Knight Hopefuls are clad from head to toe in shiny plate armor that they never take off. No, not even the helmets. Or when they're crawling through damp caves. Or when racing on a track. Or _playing board games_. Said armor doesn't restrict their movements, seems to weigh nothing, and must be very thin indeed considering some of the knights' outer extremities. Contrast with Graham, whose sole "knightly" equipment is his Badass Cape of Holding.
-   It's possibly apocryphal in-universe, but in _Knights of the Old Republic 2_, Mandalore supposedly **never** takes his full body armor off. It's for a good reason - he doesn't want anyone discovering he's Revan's old buddy Canderous.
-   _Legacy of Kain_: Never mind cursed "Paladin" Malek. The very protagonist Kain goes on 24/7 in any kind of armor he wears. Of course, it might somehow be justified by his being a (Nosgothan) vampire...
-   In _The Legend of Dragoon_, the main character wears red armor all the time, full plate mail, though it's a well-customized fit.
-   _The Legend of Zelda_:
    -   In _The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess_ one can clearly see Link has chainmail under his tunic, and presumably a doublet under that or it'll be mighty uncomfortable.
    -   Ganondorf is also guilty of this: in _The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time_, he wears the exact same armor even after the time skip (the only addition being a brand new cape). In _Twilight Princess_, he wears a different set of armor...but he's apparently worn that for _decades_.
    -   In _The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_, while Link can change in and out of armor and other, more comfortable sets of clothes at any point, there's nothing stopping him from wearing heavy armor at all times and even when sleeping in a bed.
-   _Mass Effect_ has it both ways.
    -   Shepard, Ashley, and Kaidan wear exceptionally bulky armor when out on a mission, but automatically change to a much lighter uniform when on your home ship. Members of alien races, like Garrus and Wrex,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  still seem to wear their armor all the time. In Tali's case, it's implied that taking off her armor in an Earthlike environment would be fatal.
    -   In _Mass Effect 2_:
        -   It's revealed that _all_ Quarians have to wear armor all the time due to their weak immune system, even in their own environments; so it's likely that, yes, Quarians may literally eat, sleep, bathe and even... Well, you know... In their armor, which Tali uses to troll Liara at one point. _Mass Effect 3_' shows that they can also drink alcohol through their armor. Very carefully. Using an Emergency Induction Port.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
        -   Also, Tali finally gets one of two lines sans radio voice in ME3 at the end of The Rannoch campaign. Your decisions<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  decide if that line makes you happy or not.
        -   Their high tech suits are also specifically designed to be lived in, with lots of conveniences like evironment control and neuro stimulators to help them simulate the experience of touching each other. They're also made of a thinner flexible material unlike the bulky plate that other characters wear. The suits have become part of their culture.
    -   _Mass Effect 2_ has Garrus wearing lighter clothing if you invite him up for a cuddle in a female romance plot. It's pretty much the day wear you see regular turians walking around in. Krogan also wear regular clothing, but it looks a lot like their armor.
    -   And Shepard sees fit to wear their armor and weapons to formal situations, like for being appointed to the position of Spectre. Some people try to justify this with the claim that full combat armor is the unofficial Spectre equivalent to dress uniform. It kinda makes sense, as Spectres are all about being badass, so being seen wearing armor all the time, making them look always prepared would probably only enforce that. The books seem to confirm this. Saren is always seen in his armor no matter what, however a krogan battle master doesn't wear any armor when meeting with his employer.
    -   For heavier armor too, it's important to note that the in-game justification is that nanotechnology allows for highly effective modular and self-repairing plates (or some such) as well as that most of the protection actually comes from very tiny force field emitters. Thus their armor is less 'armor' and more hardened space suits than anything else. Wrex gets both a handwave and a justification in that he fought a battle with a rival mercenary... for several days _straight_.
    -   It gets worse in _Mass Effect 2_. Some armors come with the extra special function of completely non-removable helmets. This does not, however, prohibit Shepard from drinking or embracing former loved ones _right through their helmet_. _3_ has the same issue in some cases, such as giving a romanced Jack a "Shut Up" Kiss at the end of the Grissom Academy level, but at least you can switch your helmet from "Default" to "Off In Conversations", which prevents that problem at the expense of a bit of immersion-straining.
-   _Metroid_:
    -   Samus wears her Powered Armor even when walking around friendly bases or sitting in her ship in _Metroid Prime 3: Corruption_, though of course, if she didn't have it, the game would be impossible from that point.
    -   Samus generally spends most _Metroid_ games wearing her armor for the duration of the mission, ultimately playing the trope straight. On the other hand, beating the games fast enough/with enough pickups typically results in her taking off her helmet or entire armor at the end, which lead to the original Samus Is a Girl.
    -   Subverted in _Metroid: Other M_, where her suit appears to be of the Hard Light variety and she can summon or dismiss it at will. She's wearing the skintight Zero Suit underneath, and we also see her wearing ordinary clothes in some scenes.
    -   _Metroid Prime 3: Corruption_ actually starts with Samus sleeping in her Zero Suit while on her ship, she only puts the armor on when she wake's up/arrives at her destination. She also removes her helmet to vomit after defeating Mogenar.
-   In _Minecraft_ there is no reason to not wear armor if you can. It's better to sleep with armor on, in case a monster appears in your bedroom that night.
-   Played straight in most iterations of _Monster Hunter_:
    -   Saving the game involves sleeping in a bed, which means the player-character flops into bed in whatever they happen to be wearing at the time, which may include heavy armor with a full-face helmet. (Weapons, however, disappear into hammerspace, because it's pretty painful to fall on your sword even when it's sheathed.)
    -   Downplayed in _Monster Hunter Portable 3rd_: Taking a bath, which grants a temporary stat boost, causes the player-character to automatically doff their armor in favor of a Modesty Towel. They still sleep in full armor, though. _Generations_, which sees the return of Yukumo Village, allows the player to take off their waist and foot armor to enjoy a footbath.
-   _Mount & Blade_ does this, where both nameless NPCs and the player can be found wearing their armor day in, day out. It isn't unheard of for a player to go around in heavy armor for months on end, and short of a few instances (namely training), your minions will never change their clothing either. The active exception to this lies in the named lords, who will wear full battle kit when in the field, and suitably fancy clothing when standing around in a castle keep.
-   Mugen from _Octopath Traveler II_ is always shown in full armor, even in flashbacks and despite the fact that he lives in a desert nation. This turns out to be justified, as his helmet hides the fact that he's become almost corpse-like in appearance due to overusing his family's cursed side.
-   _Overlord_. The armor never comes off, except when it's time to get jiggy wit' it. Oh _yeah_. Even then it's only _implied_. You never actually _see_ the Overlord without armor.
-   In _Path of Exile_, one of your Heist partners-in-crime, Huck, says the Templar training he received made him so used to wearing full platemail that he feels uncomfortable out of armor. The only time he takes it off is when he goes to sleep. In his chainmail.
-   In _Perfect Dark_, Joanna (Agent Dark) wears an armored Spy Catsuit at all times except when missions call for some sort of disguise. (And even then, she sometimes steals someone else's uniform and wears it _over_ her armor.)
-   In _Planet Explorers_, players can wear armor permanently, even while sleeping out in the cold on a hard wooden bed, and seem to suffer no ill effects whatsoever.
-   Zig-zagged in the original _PlanetSide_. Being set in a Forever War with Resurrective Immortality where people rarely live for more than a few hours at a time, it's not uncommon for people to be in combat armor for their entire short lifespan. However, players respawn in so called "pajamas"; fatigues with a simple bullet proof vest and minimal weapon holster points, which would presumably be used outside of combat. Played straight in _Planetside 2_, as while it tones down the armor that players wear, all classes - bar the skintight Infiltrator armor - wears at minimum a Cool Helmet, a breastplate, and combat boots on top of fatigues or spandex.
-   _Radiant Historia_ has Alistel army commanders who have been explicitly moved to permanent desk jobs still wear full combat armor. A justified example, as Alistel has such a strong military tradition it's quite possible combat gear is the uniform all the way up to the top. Granorg, by contrast, has its noncombatant governors in much less practical finery.
-   _Ratchet & Clank_:
    
    -   Ratchet wears armor during most of his appearances, even in circumstances where it doesn't make much sense, like the heroes' HQ or a civilian town (granted, he's in danger in those too). Considering the time he spends in those places, and that his ships usually don't have enough room to change, one wonders how he satisfies his... bodily functions.
        -   It's the Personal Hygenator that takes care of that.
    -   Ratchet is forced to wear armor at all times during his unwanted stay at DreadZone. The helmet is removed when he's outside of the arena, but the rest stays on. When he first learns this, he... doesn't react well.
    
    **Ratchet:** ...me outta this thing, you blarg-headed frap monkey! I can barely breathe, and my tail feels like it's shoved right up my...
    
-   _Red Dead Redemption II_: While not quite armor, everyone sleeps in their normal attire. This can include heavy leather or fur coats, vests, gun belts (with guns), boots, and spurs. Averted in the Patch 1.21 version, in which almost the entire Van der Linde gang walks around or sleeps in their nightclothes all through the night until early morning.
-   _Rogue Legacy_. No one of Johannes' descendents (including of course every character the player controls) is ever seen without his/her armor on including his/her lover and kids during the ending sequence.
-   In _RuneScape_, the Raptor is always seen wearing his armor, even when the other legendary heroes are dressed more casually. Fans have questioned whether he's human, or even if he _exists_ under the armor.
-   Averted in _Shadow Tactics: Blades of the Shogun_: Mugen is out of his samurai armor when discussing plans at the safehouse.
-   Many games in the _Shining Series_ have a main character in full body armor, once the characters get promoted the armor just gets bulkier.
    -   In the _Shining Force_ games you see all your men relaxing in the HQ, they are of course in full armor even then they should be safe.
    -   _Shining Force III_ opens during peace talks but everybody is in full armor, possibly to present a show of force. Later they show characters sleeping in bed in full armor.
    -   Initially averted in _Shining Wisdom_ where Mars awakes up and starts the game wearing an old-fashioned nightgown; but then played straight almost immediately afterwards as you have to sleep to begin a night-shift, which of course you do in full armor.
-   Krill armor in _Sigma Star Saga_ may not be 24-hour (inasmuch as we're shown Krill beds but never shown any Krill sleeping in them), but the Krill treat it as standard clothing, and an NPC's dialogue snippet informs the player that some Krill even shower with it on. It helps that it enhances the wearer's physical capabilities.
-   In _Sinjid_, Warlord Izumi wears his armor at all times out of awareness that the Imperial Army, who he betrayed out of fear of losing the war they were fighting against the Shogun, were tracking him down and would eventually find him, and wanted to be prepared at all costs.
-   In _StarCraft II_, we have Tychus Findlay who is literally welded into his marine armor. The armor works as a sort of mobile prison, and there are systems to shut off his major organs should whoever released him find that he isn't to be controlled anymore.
    -   This is actually the lore for all Marines in at least the original game. The majority of Marines are convicts serving life sentences who are fitted into armor that cannot be removed and forced into the army until they're killed.
-   Averted in _Trials of Mana_. Not only do characters take off their armor to sleep, most of them sleep in their underwear. Which does _not_ include a bra for Riesz or Angela. If using an emulator, you can even turn off the right sprite layer to see how they sleep. The 2020 remake plays it straight however - staying at an inn will give you a brief scene of your party in bed still dressed in their normal attire, which is particularly absurd for Duran, and doubly so if he's using the Duelist outfit.
-   Barik of _Tyranny_, in his case because it's an amlgamaton of steel stuck to him by the Edict of Storms that he can't take off. And combined with an aversion of Nobody Poops; despite his best efforts to keep his armor clean, it smells _foul_. The _Bastard's Wound_ expansion reveals why he cannot remove the armor. Graven Ashe's Aegis, which heals the wounds of the Disfavored, considers Barik's armor to be _part of his body_ due to the Edict of Storms' magic interfering with the Aegis. Any attempt to remove or destroy the armor is "healed" by the Aegis. Removing the Aegis is the only way to free Barik.
-   Parodied in _Undertale_: according to Sans, his brother Papyrus never takes off his "battle body", even though it's actually just an outfit the two made on a costume party and not actual armor.
    
    **Sans:** oh well... he at least washes it. and by that i mean he wears it in the shower.
    
    -   Downplayed while combined with Ermine Cape Effect with Asgore, whom we first see tending flowers in his garden... while wearing full armor, along with a crown and Badass Cape. However, he knew he was going to fight the player soon, his armor is probably magical anyway, and the Golden Ending shows him without armor. Strangely, he is barefoot even with the armor.
    -   From the Royal Guard, Lesser Dog and Greater Dog are almost always seen wearing armor, (in the latter's case, at the end of their fight they're shown to actually be a small dog wearing large armor), as are the guards encountered in Hotland. Undyne, however, changes out of her armor after her boss fight.
-   Depending on the class, a character in _World of Warcraft_ can be wearing the most outrageously huge armor you've ever seen, but still be able to disco your face off. When was the last time you took off your Shoulders of Doom except to change into a stronger set?
    -   Of course, this doesn't apply to the roleplaying crowd on _WoW_. They blow hard-earned gold on random pieces of low-level cloth armor (which goes for quite a lot on the AH due to appropriate appearance) just to avert this trope.
    -   The Armory system _encourages_ your character to wear his best armor at all times, even when sleeping in an inn. Your equipped items are available for all the world to see, and if you're wearing a flimsy nightgown instead of your Item Level 359 Epic Breastplate of Major Pain Infliction, the other players will call you names, kick you out of dungeon groups inside of the first 5 seconds, etc..
        -   But if a player still insists on roleplaying, a Druid can just say he sleeps in his Bear/Cat/Moonkin form. His robes/armor simply disappear until he changes back.
    -   Downplayed by the Transmogrification system, which allows you to restyle any piece of armor as long as it's the same class (that is, plate can look like any other piece of plate armor)... for a price. And the most recent version of the system allows you to _hide_ any piece of armor except the pants— meaning you can pull off the Conan look if you want to now. It just doesn't _look_ like you're wearing all that plate... just a set of (quite possibly scanty) leggings.

    Webcomics 

-   Kore from Goblins is always seen in gadget-enhanced heavy armor that only exposes one eye and his beard. When Forgath knocks off the helmet, he sees that those are the only parts of Kore's head not overtaken by a smoking, amorphous mass of captive souls.
-   Addressed in _Drowtales_, which seems to Handwave the issue by saying that at least the helmets are designed to be worn all day. The main armored troops we only see now and then, but the more conventional forces (such as the Fallen Legion) wear less bulky armor that's easier to take off. That and weight issues are handwaved by having most things made of "adamantine". Characters are also seen taking it off and putting it on at various times when not in combat. Quain'tana in particular is almost never seen outside of this red and black ensemble, with the only time to date being when she's alone in her quarters.
    -   Also justified with spider silk armor, being made of silk that's extremely strong but also incredibly light.
-   In _The Dreamland Chronicles_, Alexander wears his magical armor whenever he's there - that, or in some rare instances only his boxers. Probably justified in that a) it's magical armor, and b) he doesn't eat, sleep, or defecate in Dreamland. On the other hand, he cuddles with his love interest while wearing the armor, so it has to be magically cuddly, too.
-   With the setting being based on _Dungeons & Dragons_, this is only to be expected of the cast of _The Order of the Stick_, the characters who routinely wear light-to-no armor (Hayley, Elan, Vaarsuvius) are often shown in different outfits. Roy and Durkon, in particular, are almost always wearing their armor except for a few special occasions. Even in the desert. Or on board ship, although having prepared water walk helps with that one...
-   _8-Bit Theater_ has Fighter, whose armor somehow thwarts Black Mage's stabbing attempts even while he's asleep.
-   _Rogues of Clwyd-Rhan_: as seen in this page, an extremely minor character is wearing full armor for no reason except to be one of the many oddballs in a gang of thieves.
-   In _Schlock Mercenary_, Tagon's Toughs wear their fullerene-cloth Powered Armor all the time. Subverted in that with the helmet and gloves retracted, the armor is indistinguishable from an ordinary uniform anyway.
    -   Their heavy armour is even more so, able to act as a completely self-contained life support system, even capable of recycling bodily waste back into food, water, and air.
-   Both played straight and averted at various points in _The Senkari_, in which for most of the time the characters wear normal street clothes, only opting for armor when they know they'll need it in advance. However during the Flashback Freija seems never to take her armor off.

    Web Original 

-   Despite that the series borders on having Armor Is Useless in effect, Jaune Arc from _RWBY_ only seems to take off his armor when he is required to. He wears it while hanging out with his friends, eating dinner or even sleeping and it is implied he never took it off during the timeskip which lasted multiple months and involved him walking through half a continent.
-   One of _Cracked_'s 31 Life Lessons You Can Only Learn From Video Games is that "real men sleep in their armor."
-   In _Steve And Carlos_, this trope definitely seems in effect as the title characters are wearing their armor when they have absolutely no reason to while stranded alone together on an island without even any evidence of fauna to worry about.
-   In _Tales From My D&D Campaign_, the Orc Scorpion Armor is enchanted to let you sleep in it if you want.
-   In _Homestar Runner_, The King of Town's Knight is always seen wearing his armor (basically an elongated helmet to make up for the lack of arms), to the point that he wears outfits _over_ it at times.
-   Yahtzee of _Zero Punctuation_ pokes fun at this trope in his review of _Halo 3_, in which he remarks how Chief so rarely takes his armor off that it's probably in dire need of some odor eaters by now.

    Western Animation 

-   The titular hero of the Franco-Canadian series _Nez de Fer, Le Chevalier Mystère_ (roughly translated to "Steel-Nose, The Mystery Knight") is an exaggerated example that's played for laughs. He's never seen without his signature armor, to the point where he would dive into a swimming pool while wearing the armor under his bathing suit and flippers. Since he never shows his face, his visor is an Expressive Mask.
-   Averted in _Avatar: The Last Airbender_. In the episode "The Boiling Rock", two of the heroes infiltrate the eponymous prison, and, as they go in to the guard lounge to gather information, are told to take off the helmets and relax by the regular guards. The hero with the well known face in the Fire Nation is able to make up an excuse about always wanting to be prepared in case of a surprise attack and the veteran guards laugh it off as an overly by-the-book rookie and let him leave it on without further comment.
-   Lenny, one of the Delightful Children From Down The Lane in _Codename: Kids Next Door_ takes his helmet off a grand total of twice in the entire series. The second time, rather than putting it back on, a new one _forms around his face from his braces and behind his head_, which might avert this trope since that helmet might actually be a part of his body.
-   Kevin from _Daria_ is never, ever shown without his football pads. Except when he was kicked off the football team after breaking his leg.
-   Phaeton from _ExoSquad_ wears his personalized Ace Custom E-frame at all times, seemingly, in the later episodes of season 1. Throughout season 2 however, he begins to fall prey to automutation syndrome, forcing him to constantly wear armor (even inside his E-frame) as the season goes on just to keep his body together.
-   All of The Xtacles in _Frisky Dingo_, who never take off their futuristic armor and helmets. They can barely tell each other apart, or have much of a reaction when one of their own dies.
-   The Heroes of _Hero Factory_ mostly wear their helmets and armor at all times, often just retracting the unnecessary parts, like the mouth-guards and goggles. Being robots, the only time they don't wear these is when they're getting upgraded. Even so, the armor and helmets were all originally thought to be actual parts of their bodies, until in one episode, they took their helmets off and still functioned just fine. It's unclear whether this is a Series Continuity Error, or if they just never thought of taking them off before this point.
-   In _The Legend of Korra_, police chief Lin Beifong wears armor any time she isn't sleeping, even to high-society parties. However, being made of the same kind of metal she's used to bending, it's not restrictive at all to her. She briefly gets sealed in it when Amon takes away her bending, which is needed to take the thing off.
    -   Lampshaded in this comic by makani.
-   The Ruby-Spears version of _Mega Man_ never takes off his armor for any reason whatsoever. The only time we see his household civilian robot appearance at all is during the pilot (which has some elements that never return again anyway).
-   Brucho from the semiobscure Australian claymation series _Plasmo_ was only ever seen in his 24-hour helmet. He even wore it in the bath.
-   _The Superhero Squad Show_:
    -   In one episode where the team is awoken at night, we see that they all wear their pajamas _over_ their masks, costumes, and yes, armor.
    -   In another episode, the team is visiting a construction site and wear hard-hats. Thor and Iron Man wear them on top of their own helmets!
-   Inverted in the _Teen Titans (2003)_ episode "Cyborg the Barbarian", where Cyborg is transported into the past. While the barbarians he befriends take off their armor at the end of a battle, Sarasim remarks that it is sad that Cyborg's armor cannot be removed as it's part of his body — he is a Twenty Four Hour Warrior and must have trouble being outside of battle.
-   In _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (1987)_, unlike most other iterations of the series, Casey Jones never takes off his iconic hockey mask, even when going undercover in a business suit. It helps that he's legitimately a complete maniac here.
-   _Trollhunters_:
    -   In season 2, Jim spends several episodes (and over two weeks in-universe) in his armor while trapped in the Darklands. Despite it normally being Instant Armor, it's an important plot point that he can't ever take it off, since the amulet he uses to summon it is out of reach. Since it's magic, presumably the various problems that could arise are covered by A Wizard Did It.
    -   In the last few episodes of season 3, Jim's armor seems permanently fused to him after he becomes a troll. He tries to pry the amulet off at one point, but can't. Word of God after the series ended explained that the amulet was simply responding to his emotional state, trying to "protect" him from his fears over becoming a troll. After he calmed down, it operated normally.
-   In _T.U.F.F. Puppy_, The Chameleon is rarely seen without his molecular transformation suit, since he wouldn't be able to commit his crimes otherwise.
-   In _The Venture Bros._, Hank Venture once found a Strength Suit and wore it for weeks afterwards without getting it off. The other characters started to mention his stench, and when the suit was stolen from him, it was shown that his limbs had severely atrophied.

    Real Life 

-   According to the remaining sources, it was perfectly common for knights and mercenaries of the Middle Ages to wear some armor everywhere except at home and at formal occasions. Outside of impending battle, they would simply shed any uncomfortable outer layers and wear the lighter armor beneath. It still wasn't particularly comfortable, but it was important 'insurance' and more tolerable than full kit. Squires and knights-in-training were sometimes be tasked with wearing full plate armor for days, mostly to get them used to the weight, the heat, and the technique of moving gracefully in it.
-   After the Marian reforms of 107 BC, each soldier in the Roman legions would march while wearing his torso armor and carrying his shield and helmet on his back, as part of a roughly 50-60 pound (22.5–27 kg) load which also included his weapons, some tools, and 15 days' rations. This burden for each individual—which earned them the nickname "Marius's Mules"—ensured that the whole legion wasn't slowed down by having a large baggage train, and wearing their armor made them ready to defend themselves from unexpected attack. Once they reached their resting place for the night, the soldiers would have to do the sweaty work of constructing a fortified camp while still wearing their armor. It's been suggested that this is part of the reason that most Roman foot soldiers didn't wear as much armor as would have been technically possible: since they depended mostly on their large shields for defense, and since each soldier's armor had to be light enough for him to march and work in, they wore just enough to thoroughly protect the most vital parts of the body.
-   Viriathus, Rome's main enemy during the Lusitanian Wars, slept with his mail armor on in order to be ready to fight in case of emergency. The traitors whom Rome paid to murder him in his sleep had to stab him in the neck, the only vulnerable lethal point.
-   The European brigandine was an armored jacket consisting of small overlapping steel plates riveted to the inside of a textile base. Besides the entry level ones being less expensive than a "white" cuirass of solid plates, it was probably also more practical for foot soldiers to wear: the front-closure type could be put on without assistance,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and the large number of small overlapping plates made it a bit more flexible and comfortable to wear all the time. They were laced across the chest so the weight was taken as tension rather than weight on the shoulders, and tapering at the waist allowed the hips to support part of the weight. While the military version was still intended as heavy protection, usually with a mail shirt underneath, more refined versions were made to be worn with civilian dress as concealed armor, eventually evolving into the "jack of plate" or "doublet of defense" with hundreds of tiny plates sewn into the fabric. Those who could afford it would use a very rich velvet or brocade as the outer covering of their brigandine, and decorative rivets were popular.
-   Sleeping armored and with weapons on hand was a custom during the Spanish Conquest of America to prevent night attacks. Ironically, it also caused a bit of diplomatic trouble when Hernán Cortés signed his alliance with the Republic of Tlaxcala, as the sight of the Spanish soldiers keeping their arms day and night in Tlaxcala offended the local chieftains, Xicohtencatl and Maxixcatzin, who believed Cortés didn't trust them despite the alliance and was wary of being imminently betrayed (which in all honesty he was). The chieftains came to the extent of asking him to pick as many Tlaxcallan hostages as he needed to feel safer, but he declined and managed to convince them that it was all a Spanish military custom, and the ordeal was ultimately set aside.
-   JLIST chemical protective gear is designed for continuous wear; there is a straw/emergency induction port in the pro-mask so you can drink without taking it off.
-   Many Live Action Roleplayers who have already got their uniform "settled" properly are loath to take it off again if they can avoid it. At some of the bigger, regular festival LARP events this can result in the surreal experience of seeing a gang of heavily armored men nipping into the local supermarket to stock up on beer and doughnuts, while the locals don't so much as bat an eyelid.
-   Modern soldiers fighting in theaters where proper fortifications have not been set up yet often have to catch a nap whenever they can. It was not uncommon during the early months of the Iraq invasion for Coalition soldiers to sleep in a dug-out fox hole in the lulls between troop movements, and because they could be attacked at any moment they had to sleep in their body armor.

___