Follow

\[sobbing\] _"Labour camps... That's what they called them last time..."_

— **Wilf** (as he watches an army truck full of foreigners drive off to a "labour camp"), _Doctor Who_, "Turn Left"

From 1933 to 1945, Germany was ruled with an iron fist by Adolf Hitler and his Nazi Party. They eventually used Refuge in Audacity to execute millions of people they found undesirable, with about half (using the 12 million death figure) being Jewish, the rest being various other groups that often got picked on in Europe: political prisoners (especially communists), gay people (along with other perceived sexual deviants), Romani, Slavs, Jehovah's Witnesses, disabled and mentally ill people, etc. The Nazis were also one of the primary drivers in starting the most destructive war in human history, which killed even more people. (Estimates range from 40 to 80 million, based on what you include. Typically reported as the midpoint, 60 million.) Under Nazi control, the German military committed widespread atrocities across Europe, from soldiers partaking in looting, burning, and killing civilians throughout occupied territory, to pilots strafing crowds of fleeing refugees. The result is that they are considered by everyone (including _both_ Western and Soviet history) to be one of the most evil groups of people that ever lived, and therefore easy and acceptable to make look bad. Even prior to World War II, the Nazis were easy targets for political satire.

For that reason, ever since then, people have created villains who are clearly analogous to the Nazis. These pseudo-Nazis can generally range from sympathetic people who got swept up in the chaos to a simplified bunch of Psychos for Hire who joined the army simply so they can massacre inferior races. While the former is better depth-wise, making these Nazis By Any Other Name _too_ sympathetic can result in a Draco in Leather Pants.

Common elements include a black- or brown-uniformed paramilitary political force with simple geometric emblems on their arms, centering on one person as the supreme leader heavily guarded by black-shirted longcoat-wearing minions. Their ideology typically consists of the leader constantly shrieking, "We are the Master Race/Species! We will reign supreme! We will crush all who oppose us! All inferiors shall submit or/and die! Hail Victory!" To that end, they will commit the most hideous of crimes in a heartbeat, and the only thing that will get them to stop is unyielding force.

In fact, if the Nazis didn't exist, they'd have to be invented. Without actually being grateful for Nazis, hundreds of films, books, and other works would not be the same if they had not been their reference and inspiration.

Of course, since the Nazis themselves stole symbolism, slogans, and rituals from other historical sources (and racism _looooong_ predates their existence), much of what is associated with them today is actually far Older Than They Think. (In some cases such as the Non-Nazi Swastika, the symbols may even have had a perfectly innocent connotation before the Nazis got their dirty hands on it.) So a few examples commonly given merely reflect generic totalitarian, cult-of-personality, and/or dictatorship elements. Manga, Anime, and other forms of Japanese entertainment will also borrow from Imperial Japan: for example, the killing of surrendering soldiers, or attempts to stamp out culture. Further justification for this trope in more recent years has been the outlawing of Nazi swastikas and related imagery in Germany and other places, leading to the use of similar-looking symbols that were not previously associated with fascism.

Any strong German ruler (Frederick the Great, Bismarck, Barbarossa, _Merkel_<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> ...) or right-wing German political movement (any one) is at risk of getting this treatment, especially in works from 1970 to 1990.

A subtrope of Fictional Political Party and Does This Remind You of Anything?. Compare with Putting on the Reich, Scary Dogmatic Aliens, and Space Jews. Compare and contrast with Gratuitous Nazis, where actual Nazis are used (where one wouldn't expect to find them) just to have some villains that can be instantly identified as evil. Visit the scenic Reichstropen for more about Those Wacky Nazis and their imitators. For empire builders who consider themselves inherently superior to all other races/nations, but don't necessarily partake of other Nazi ideology or imagery, see Master Race. Similar imperialists who exploit the local people may also fall under Evil Colonialist. And if they're Played for Laughs, that's Adolf Hitlarious. See Commie Nazis for an evil political party that borrows elements (including just symbolic elements) from both the Nazis and the Communists (especially the Soviet Union).

Conversely, comparing someone unfairly to Hitler or Nazis is well known as a violation of Godwin's Law.

Truth in Television given the existence of Neo-Nazism, but No Real Life Examples, Please! Referring to any individual, Real Life group, or movement, as this will cause a massive Flame War. Also remember that eating sugar does not make one Hitler.

___

## Examples:

-   Literature
-   Video Games

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Attack on Titan_:
    -   The Kingdom of Marley, which resides beyond the three Walls. They practice systemic racism and exclusion against the people of Eldian descent (bonus points for the Jewish overtones of the Eldian culture and mythology), forcing them into conditions that heavily remind of the treatment of Jews during The Holocaust, including using extensive propaganda to paint them as "descendants of the Devil", forcing them to live in ghettos and making them wear an armband with the Eldian symbol. Interestingly, both Eldian and Marleyan characters have Germanic sounding names already.
    -   The Yeagerists have this role for Eldians inside the walls. After the truth about the outside world is revealed, and that they plan to invade and exterminate the people of the island. The Yeagerists believe to be the master race destined to control the world, and rally after Eren Yeager, believing his powers will destroy the world outside the walls and help give rise to the New Eldian Empire. Having huge support from the population, they free Eren from prison, and execute a coup d'etat against the Military Junta, taking control of the government, gleefully executing foreigners — even those who were helping Paradis — mass poison dissidents with the Spinal Fluid to turn them into Titans, and adopt Erwin Smith's "Dedicate your hearts!" warcry into a Sieg Heil-equivalent.
-   _Bleach_: Yhwach, The Emperor of the Vandenreich, an empire of Quincies with a German aesthetic. His Sternritter wear uniforms that bear resemblance to the apparel worn by SS personnel. The four Sternritter chosen to serve as his elite guard are called the Schutzstaffel, sharing the name of the paramilitary organization that served under Adolf Hitler. Six years prior to the start of the series, Yhwach enacted a purge on all Quincies of mixed blood, or Quincies he deemed "impure" in order to empower himself.
-   In the final episode of _BNA: Brand New Animal_, Alan Sylvasta is revealed to be what amounts to the Beast Man equivalent of Adolf Hitler. He is an immortal, Kaiju-esque pure-bred Beastman who plans to use his cure for the Nirvasyl syndrome to forcibly turn all "hybrid" beastmen into humans against their will in the name of "genetic purity", which isn't too far off from the actual Nazis' rhetoric.
-   Nishikori in _Cage of Eden_ is explicitly referred to as using Nazi tactics. However, in a rare example, they are _not_ talking about genocide or racism (the population is too small for that). Rather, he borrows the Nazi "whistle blowing" tactic, encouraging his slaves to report on each other. Not only does it keep him informed, but it keeps his followers scared and unable to cooperate against him.
-   Britannia from _Code Geass_ combine Nazism with the British Empire, with a society built around notions of Social Darwinism. They refer to conquered non-Britannian people by a numbered designation ("Elevens" instead of Japanese) and are not hesitant to massacre entire ghettos in order to fulfill their aims. Emperor Charles zi Britannia turns the funeral of his own son, Prince Clovis, into a political rally complete with _All Hail Britannia_ chants. It also borrows from Japan itself, with the Numbers being a reference to the Japanization that happened after Japan began expanding its borders. There is also a Pureblood faction that tries to seize power following Clovis' assassination. At one point, Princess Euphemia, one of the Britannians who opposes this system, is prodded to overlook an apparently talented painter's work due to his having a smidgen of Eleven blood. The uniform style is notably absent, particularly considering how it's used so much in anime _without_ trying to evoke this trope.
    -   To drive the nail further, the often used Britannian chant is "All hail Britannia!", which sounds more like "All heil Britannia!" in the Japanese version
-   The Orte Empire in _Drifters_ is a human supremacist force that seeks to exterminate every non-human race. Turns out to be a subversion since they were founded by Adolf Hitler, making them literal Nazis.
-   Done comedically with the organization ACROSS in _Excel♡Saga_. Characters regularly shout "Hail Il Palazzo" while doing the Roman salute to their leader. Though otherwise ACROSS does not share much with Nazism, besides a desire to Take Over the World. In the anime, you can actually briefly see twin swastikas in Excel's eyes as she vocally expresses her loyalty in the first episode.
-   The Golan Army from _Fist of the North Star_ is a gang composed mainly of surviving members of a special forces unit whose leader (a man known only as "The Colonel") seeks to create Godland, a nation for "the chosen people" (also drawing some parallels with Israel). They do so by kidnapping young fertile women, killing their friends and family in the process, in order to breed a generation of superior children with their soldiers. This aspect is downplayed in the anime, where the gang is renamed "God's Army" and is turned into a subordinate organization of the Kingsmen (the enemy faction that Kenshiro faced in another story arc of the manga), with the Colonel being rewritten into a deluded follower of Shin.
-   Amestris, the country in which _Fullmetal Alchemist_ takes place (probably the best anime example of this trope), is a military nation where the standard — or you might say, the _preferred_ look is blonde hair and blue eyes, ruled by a "Führer" who in the past sought to exterminate an ethnic group living within the borders, distinguishable by their facial features and monotheistic religion. Amestris is, however, rather more like post-World War II Germany, what with the aforementioned "Ishval Civil War" having been a horrible PR catastrophe and most modern Amestrians behaving extremely apologetically towards surviving Ishvalans. The leader who initiated the genocide is somehow still seated in power and continues to uphold a destructive Lebensraum policy, but it helps when you're a superpowered Artificial Human backed by a truly ancient and sinister Government Conspiracy. This is a somewhat unusual example in that Amestris is mainly inspired by industrial revolution era Britain, and the Ishvalans are based on the Ainu people, but it manages to look like a parallel to Nazi Germany anyway.
-   _Gundam_
    -   The Principality of Zeon and its successor movement Neo Zeon from the UC timeline preach a Master Race philosophy that champions Spacenoids (humans born in space) as superior over Earthnoids, make use of Deadly Gas to exterminate dissidents and ultimately plan to cull Earth's population once they've conquered it. Although, the political and military actions taken by Zeon "liberating" other colonies from the Earth Federation are more akin to Imperial Japan's actions of "liberating" Asian nations from Western influence. They also have a salute that goes "Sieg Zeon!" (Hail Zeon in the dub) and are led by a charismatic despot who accepts being compared to Hitler as a complement. While the analogy had been in place since the series started, the 1990s OVAs _Mobile Suit Gundam 0080: War in the Pocket_ and _Mobile Suit Gundam 0083: Stardust Memory_ kicked it into overdrive by having Zeon start slapping German names on practically everything and using flags and banners that were literally just Nazi trappings with the Swastika replaced by their own emblem; the franchise has kept running with the theme and hasn't looked back since.
    -   On the other side of the war, the Titans in _Zeta Gundam_ also have an SS vibe, being a State Sec that believes in the supremacy of Earthnoids over Spacenoids. And yes, they also like using Deadly Gas to massacre undesirables.
    -   The Sleeves, The Remnant of Neo Zeon, have Nazi-esque designs for their mobile suits: example, the Geara Zulu has a distinctive helmet shape. Their soldiers use "All Hail Neo Zeon!" as a battle cry of sorts.
-   _Gundam SEED_ does this to both sides. ZAFT shares Zeon/Germany's look, and their leader, Patrick Zala, is essentially a more sympathetic expy of Gihren, who believes that Coordinators are a Superior Species/Master Race that deserves to replace the Naturals, and advocates the butchering of surrendering troops and the eventual destruction of the Earth (he and his supporters live in space colonies) by Wave-Motion Gun. His archenemy, Muruta Azrael, is a smooth-talking blond psychopath who runs Blue Cosmos, an anti-Coordinator political party and lobby group that is equal parts Nazi Party and Ku Klux Klan cell, and seeks to use nuclear weapons to destroy the colonies and kill all the Coordinators because they are "unnatural." As both sides become more and more Naziesque, the sympathetic characters on both eventually defect, forming the Three Ships' Alliance.
-   _The Hero Laughs While Walking the Path of Vengeance a Second Time_: Just like Adolph, Princess Alessia genuinely believes that she has a divine mandate to exterminate all the "lesser" beings, everyone with less than 100% human blood, and those from other worlds or countries, even if they're all 100% human, purely for the repulsive "crime" of daring to exist in her sight.
-   _Kill la Kill_: The Honnouji Academy Student Council and their minions rule the school like a dictatorship and institute "survival of the fittest"-style policies while wearing white SS-style uniforms. By extension, there is also REVOCS and the Kiryuin Conglomerate, who put them in power and have them spread their propaganda. CEO Ragyo Kiryuin believes that the Life Fibers are a Master Race that is superior to humans, who deserve to be ruled over and consumed by them, and her Evil Plan is effectively a Final Solution aimed at humanity itself.
-   Whilst for the most part the Galactic Empire in _Legend of the Galactic Heroes_ evokes Imperial Germany rather than Nazi Germany, its founder in the backstory, Kaiser Rudolf von Goldenbaum, fits this trope pretty well, being a charismatic dictator who rose to power in a corrupt democracy and then transformed it into an autocracy ruled by his own cult of personality, in addition to implementing a number of distinctly social Darwinist policies like the Inferior Genes Exclusion Act (which mandated the forced sterilization and euthanasia of the poor and disabled).
-   Humarise from _My Hero Academia_ _: World Heroes' Mission_ is a anti-Quirk cult who claim that those with Quirks are abominations that should be purged so the Quirkless, the "true humanity" in their eyes, would be allowed to thrive. To that end, the organization attempted a Final Solution involving a global _genocide_ of Quirk users via Super-Power Meltdown inducing bombs. True to form, because Quirkless individuals are so rare, _most of their own ranks_ have Quirks, with their membership being explained as them either being full of self-loathing for their powers or opportunists who hope they can survive being "cleansed" by making themself useful to the cult. Even the cult's _leader_ is a self-loathing Quirk user, despite his Quirkless Supremacist doctrine!.
-   Neo Atlantis in _Nadia: The Secret of Blue Water_ advocates a return to times of national glory, holds non-Atlantes to be Uplifted Animals only fit for slavery, submitted entire communities to slave labour and their troops routinely operate under No Quarter rules, wear armbands and their pointed hoods are reminiscent of the Ku Klux Klan.
-   Breiking Boss and his Androkorps in _Neo Human Casshern_ are an evil android army that seek to eradicate the human race. Amongst their many Nazi-esque traits are a swasitka-like insignia and a faux(?)-German salute "Yartze Brakkin!"
-   _One Piece_:
    -   The fishman pirate Arlong believes that fishmen are a superior race towards humans whose only purpose is to serve them and even tried to create an empire where fishmen would be the rulers of the world, and these beliefs were passed on to Hody Jones to took them to an even greater extreme.
    -   The New Fishmen Pirates Lead by the mentioned Hody Jones have a very intense hatred for humans largely due to the negative influence of the environment they were living in. Arlong as well as countless human hating Fish-men filled their minds with anti-human propogada, making them believe that it was their duty to deliver divine punishment to humans and any human supporter fishmen. They even burn down a house of a Fishman who had donated blood to save a human while wearing black masks to conceal their identities.
    -   World Government despite presenting itself as a federation like organization composed of kingdoms across the globe, in reality it is more of a totalitarian regime controlled by an oligarch of nobles who see everyone who isn’t one of them as insects including other humans and are lead by a single ruler. Fantastic Racism is common and encourages towards other species especially towards Fishmen who have a long history of being slaves to the World Nobility, and have many assassination groups and death squads to keep them in power and maintain the status quo. Many of their high ranking Marines follow the idea of absolute justice who are willing to commit genocide against any group or nation that opposes them or deemed a potential threat, to the point that they would even erase it from existence.
    -   In the Whole Cake Island arc from, we're introduced to the nation of Germa and its army of Germa 66 (pronounced "Double Six"). Germa itself borrows heavily from Nazi imagery, with one of its national symbols being similar to the Reichsadler (the Nazi eagle) and prides itself on scientific progress and conquest.
-   Choze from _One-Punch Man_ is a practitioner of the 'Fist of the Pure Blood Master Race' martial arts style, and claims to be from a clan of people who have practiced the greatest breeding program to create a superior race, and that they aim to rule the world. He also looks like the generic ideal of an 'Aryan Superman'. Upon becoming a monster, he decides that he is going to wipe out all of the 'inferior specimens' of humanity and only let the 'master race' survive, and one of his new attacks is even called 'Inferior Race Annihilation Shot'.
-   Fairy Tale from _Rosario + Vampire_ plays this trope completely straight. They are a group of monsters obsessed with killing off humans, with social darwinism as one of their founding principles. Their leader is borderline messiah figure in their eyes, and she's a Sensor Character who can detect and purge anyone who shows signs of disagreement. Then there are the uniforms...
-   In _TOKYO TRIBE 2_, the NEO WU-RONZ, after nearly taking over a majority of Tokyo, becomes the "Skunk Empire", named after its leader and former underling of Mera. The outfits of the Skunk Empire members are reminiscent of Nazi uniforms, with the kana "?" in place of the swastika. Even Skunk, who grew a mustache over the course of two episodes, dresses very similarly to Hitler during his reign as the leader of the Skunk Empire.
    -   Averted as the soldiers have little loyalty to Skunk, and more to Mera and Buppa/Bubba (depending on translation) - shown when Skunk orders his soldiers to fight the resisting Tribes who were not destroyed/amalgated into the Skunk Empire after Buppa/Bubba died. They tore their armbands off after receiving that command and moved against Skunk - and all the other Tribes did too. Also, they stopped fighting after hearing Buppa/Bubba died.
-   _Trinity Blood_ has the Rosenkruez Orden, who are a group of vampires (and one evil human) who are terrorists bent on bringing about the end of the world. They are led by Aryan Übermensch Cain Nightroad and most dress in clear black suits that very strongly resemble SS uniforms.
-   _Tweeny Witches_: The military dictatorship of the warlocks is led by Grande, who plans to destroy the Human Realm through dark magic in hopes of making a new home for his species to escape the destruction of the Magical Realm. They believe in the superiority of technology over magic and thus oppress the wizards as the remnants of the old magical order, forcing them to live in Miche Village since the establishment of Wizard Kingdom and having turned them into a Dying Race in the present. At one point, Tiana addresses Grande with "-kakka", a Japanese Honorific used for the Führer. When the special task force urges the witches to fight the warlocks, Luca paints humans as a scapegoat in an effort to get both groups together, claiming that one of them, Arusu, has hidden the True Book of Spells to keep dark magic from saving all the witches and warlocks from the eventual destruction of the Magical Realm.
-   _Voltes V_: While The Boazanian Empire is a parallel to 17-18th Century France, many of their aspects are disturbingly similar to the Nazis, such as the belief that their race is superior to the others (and that it is fair for them to enslave them based on their genetic inferiority), the punishment of anyone who questions them/is considered "unloyal", their practice of eliminating the weak Boazanians, and their usage of slave labour to fund their war efforts.

    Comic Books 

-   Borduria in the _Tintin_ franchise — first played straight by dictator Müsstler (Mussolini + Hitler) and later subverted by "Taschism" by dictator Kurvi-Tasch (in the original French, "Plekszy-Glasz", referring to Plexiglas, implying being "transparently Nazi").
-   The American Survivalist Labor Committee (ASLC) in _American Flagg!_ threatens a fascist American revolution. The Gotterdammercrat party is more overtly Nazi-themed, complete with swastikas and Putting on the Reich uniforms.
-   The Carpathian vampires in _American Vampire_ consider themselves superior to not just humans, but also all other vampire bloodlines and its revealed that during the 1700s, they engaged in a genocidal campaign to exterminate them and were just barely stopped by the Vassals of the Morning Star from taking over the world. Its no wonder that by the time of World War II, they actually sided with the Nazis since they shared their Master Race beliefs.
-   In the "Atomic Knights" stories in DC Comics, post-apocalypse Detroit is ruled by a cadre of thugs called "Blue Belts" who wear a distinctive crisscrossing symbol on their hats and uniforms. Their compound also has the symbol, flanked by a pair of wings. Their leader, Kadey, is called "Mr. Organizer" by his men.
-   The Viltrumites in _Invincible_ are a race of Superman Substitutes who performed a massive cleansing of their own population based on the teachings of a Social Darwinist philosopher, resulting in them halving their own species before going out to conquer the rest of the galaxy. The philosophy considered social bonds a weakness, despite the psychological need for it still being present, making the Viltrumites mentally unbalanced as they try to reconcile the quasi-Nazi ideology they've all been indoctrinated into since birth with their repressed desire for emotion and family.
-   "Arctic Nation", from the eponymous edition of _Blacksad_, consists of rich, influential white animals (as in, with white fur), who wear early Nazi-style trenchcoats, have a flag which substitutes a stylized snowflake for the swastika, and wear armbands, but in their actual workings they're instead The Klan, complete with sheet robes and burning crosses.
-   The "Red Sword" in the classic _Flash Gordon_ comic strip is a thinly veiled copy of the Third Reich: Flash returns to Earth especially to stop them invading America, then zooms back to Mongo again.
-   HYDRA from the Marvel Universe probably fall here. HYDRA started off as an actual Nazi organization during World War II which became independent when the actual Nazis, well, _lost_. When your founders are Nazis it's no stretch that your organization end up Nazi-like. In the Fifth Sleeper story from _Captain America_, the Red Skull tells Captain America that HYDRA was always a front for "the true force supreme, NAZIISM!" It says a lot for how hated the Nazis are that HYDRA is, by comparison, a Slave to PR.
-   Thurim in _Requiem Vampire Knight_ is an Medieval example as a German Teutonic Knight who was secretly an Satanist that fought in the famous Battle in the Ice against the Nodvgorod Republic. Prior to the battle, he makes a speech to his men denouncing the Russians not just as heretics since they are Orthodox Christians (which is rich, considering where his true allegiance lies), but outright _sub-human_ - anti-Slavic racism was an essential component to National Socialism. Just before perishing, he issues a Dying Curse on the Russians promising revenge in another lifetime which he gets when reincarnating centuries later as an _actual Nazi_ fighting in the Eastern Front against the Soviets.
-   In _Sonic the Hedgehog (Archie Comics)_, Angel Island was occupied for a time by the Dr. Eggman\-backed Dingo Regime, whose soldiers not only wore Brown Shirt-esque uniforms, but who imprisoned all captured Echidnas in what were clearly concentration camps.
-   Discussed in _Static_. When caught doing research on the Malcolm Xerox supervillain Commando X and lectured by his parents, Virgil claims that black people can't be racist if they don't have the power to oppress anyone. His Reasonable Authority Figure father explains that anybody is capable of using violence and fear to oppress others and that people like X are no different from the Nazis. Sure enough, X himself begins targeting Jews after Jewish executives have his tv show Screwed by the Network.
-   In _Tomahawk_ #112, Tomahawk battles a Hessian officer named Van Grote: a Torture Technician who is rounding civilians sympathetic to the rebel cause and imprisoning them in them is prison camps (surrounded by anachronistic barbed wire). To further drive the point home he has adopted a good luck symbol stolen from a local Indian chief as his personal symbol: the swastika<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  His personal troops wear the symbol on an armband.
-   Bob Heller, one of the presidential candidates in _Transmetropolitan_, whose rhetoric is equal parts social Darwinism and Patriotic Fervor. His campaign insignia is a black "H" in a white circle on a field of red, and other characters openly compare him to the Nazis and his campaign events to the Nuremberg rallies. (Just how much of a Crapsack World is _Transmetropolitan_? Not only is Heller not the evilest candidate in the race, he's not even the most evil candidate _in his party_.)
-   The Norsefire Party in _V for Vendetta_. The head honcho Leader Adam Susan, in an introspective moment before the beginning of his slide into true madness, reaffirms to himself he is fascist, both by the historic and the Nazi definition. In his own mental phrasing (and Norsefire doctrine, no doubt), the war "put paid to freedom".
    
    **The Leader:** I will not hear talk of freedom. I will not hear talk of individual liberty. They are luxuries. I do not believe in luxuries. The war put paid to luxury. The war put paid to freedom. The only freedom left to my people is the freedom to starve. The freedom to die, the freedom to live in a world of chaos. Should I allow them that freedom? I think not. I think not.
    
-   In Grant Morrison's penultimate arc of _New X-Men_, "Planet X", Holocaust survivor Magneto goes more and more mindlessly berserk as the arc wears on, culminating in his beginning to herd all surviving baseline humans in New York into crematoria. One of his servants even points out that he's acting like a Nazi. This caused a bit of fan outcry, and Marvel execs were so horrified that they immediately said that wasn't Magneto. This is hardly the first time Magneto has been compared to the Nazis, nor the first instance of someone pointing it out to him, or even Magneto acknowledging it himself.
    -   A better received example is an alternate future/dream where Magneto wipes out humanity only to have the dead rise from their graves, including zombie Hitler who compliments him on being such an apt pupil. The look on Magneto's face is priceless. That probably has something to do with this three-page sequence being the only X-Men-related material ever penned by Alan Moore.
    -   Another incident worth noting—just after Magneto took over Genosha, he mused to Xavier that he didn't think a mutant nation was enough; he hoped to find "a more... definitive solution". Xavier suggests the word he was looking for was "final". Cue defensive rant.
    -   Ultimate Magneto, however, is another story. He is a clear mutant supremacist who has attempted genocide many times. Since this is an alternate Magneto, this was far better received.
    -   In "Operation Rebirth" from _X-Men: Evolution_, Logan explains the super soldier program used to turn Steve Rogers into Captain America. Xavier's reply? "A master race?" Logan gets the hint and claims it was the good guys behind the project.
    -   It's hardly just Magneto — extremists who hate and fear mutants want them wiped out in a manner similar to ethnic cleansing. There are numerous Elseworld stories (like _Days of Future Past_) in which this has come true and Mutants are enslaved and imprisoned. Magneto's main motivation is to make sure this doesn't happen. By wiping out the humans first.
        -   Heel–Face Revolving Door and Depending on the Writer decide just whether Mags' solution is "don't start none, won't be none" or "epic mass destruction" or something in between this week. Part of this is because excess use of his powers makes him literally bipolar. The other part is later explained in _Magneto: Not A Hero_ at the end of his savage "The Reason You Suck" Speech to his now psychotic clone, Joseph: "There are no _heroes_ or _villains_. There is just _what I want_ and _how I'll get it_." In short, he'll use whatever tactics seem appropriate.
    -   In the _Magneto_ solo series, he admits to using techniques he learned firsthand from Nazis in his crusade against anti-mutant bigots.
-   The Kreelers (anti-mutant lobby) in the _2000 AD_ strip _Strontium Dog_, led by Nelson Bunker Kreelman (pictured above). There's even a Kreeler Youth organisation.
    -   Replaced by The New Church in the _SD_ story arc aptly titled _The Final Solution_.
    -   Another 2000AD comic, _Invasion!_ and its sequel, _Savage_, feature the Volgans, a far-right Russian regime. Originally intended to be played by the Soviet Union, Editorial Meddling forced the creators to use a generically authoritarian Ruritanian copy so as not to aggravate officials at the Soviet embassy during a period of fragile détente. They were later explicitly revealed to be Russian.
        -   Likewise, the enemy Norts from _Rogue Trooper_ show quite a number of Nazi characteristics.
-   Marvel in particular has a large number of Nazi-esque parties and hate groups, including the Magistrates of Genosha (pre Magneto takeover), The Right, The Knights of Genetic Purity, the Watchdogs, The Secret Empire, Purity, and others. Actually, the name Secret Empire may be a reference to the real life Invisible Empire of the Ku Klux Klan.
-   The villains in _Grandville: Noel_ have a swastika flag and spout rhetoric very similar to British neo-Nazis. Their chosen target is "doughfaces" — the human underclass of the World of Funny Animals.

    Fan Works 

-   In the _Better Bones AU_, Thistleclaw and Tigerstar's ideology "Thistle Law" is explicitly based on fascism, though particularly how fascism would manifest in the context of the Clans' culture rather than copy and pasted from modern human societies.
-   In _Child of the Storm_, HYDRA are this (as per usual), partly because they employ actual Nazis, one of whom is known for experimenting on people, as is Lucius Malfoy, in a roundabout fashion. He's a Social Darwinist who believes that the strong should rule the weak - he's just a bit more flexible about the whole race thing.
    -   Wanda alludes to telling her father Magneto to his face that he was no better than the Nazis and similar — and given that she's Romani on her mother's side, and was raised by her mother's family, it's not just a Godwin's Law comparison. As she notes with a certain degree of satisfaction, he took it badly.
    -   T'Challa accuses Baron Zemo of being little more than a Nazi. The other man objects, claiming to be a Social Darwinist and that Nazism's obsession with race ("mere cosmetics") got in the way of true Social Darwinism, before using T'Challa as an example - Nazis would have seen him, a black man, as fundamentally inferior, whereas Zemo recognises that he is a Super-Soldier and Genius Bruiser who is far superior to any of the Nazis.
-   In _Event Horizon: Storm of Magic_, the Lannisters definitely seem to take on characteristics of the Nazis as they modernize, complete with a "Lannister Salute", foot soldiers who dress up with spiked helmets, and Tywin Lannister openly discussing creating a "thousand year dynasty" and invading the Riverlands to obtain more "living space".
-   _Inkopolis Chaos_'s Lt. Rebecca Obsidian climbed the ranks of the Octarian army via sheer intimidation, sets up concentration camps to hold those she captures, callously executes innumerable Octolings to make an example of deserters, and desires a world where only her most loyal followers remain alive.
-   In _The Lone Traveler_ an unusually insightful version of Vernon Dursley outright calls the Death Eaters Nazis (or wannabes thereof).
-   In the _Robotech_ fanfic _Marque and Reprisal_, the Purifiers are a faction controlling the Lake Victoria area in Africa, who trade the Flower of Life with the Invid in exchange for protoculture. They were engaged in a campaign of conquest and ethnic cleansing in the Serengeti. Their flag even has a red background, just like the Nazis.
-   In the _Infinity Crisis_ spin-off fic _Distant Cousins_, Lex Luthor actually claims that he's not like Hitler because he doesn't consider it 'genocide' to kill aliens as he says "Genocide only counts if it's people who deserve to live".
-   _The Last Son_ features the mutant-hating group of the Friends of Humanity as recurring adversaries of the heroes. Captain America straightly tells Graydon Creed that his bigotry is the kind that died out when Hitler committed suicide, or _should have_, at least. Interestingly invoked by General Zod when he is accused for being "another racist tyrant" by Magneto; however, Zod states that his comparison to Hitler is inaccurate because while Hitler's claim to supremacy was based on pseudoscience, whereas Zod has the might of an entire civilization behind him.
-   _My Little Metro_: The Warden of the New Lunar Republic prison mines is a magical mind-altering expy of Adolf Hitler. His mooks and likely the rest of the Republic fall under this as well.
-   _Returning_: Referenced and lampshaded with the canon example of the Death Eaters. Lyra bluntly refers to them as "wizard nazis".
-   In _Anomaly (Series)_, has the Patriot Party, which calls for the complete deportation of all Monsters from the United States. Their supporters even call humanity the Master Race. After successfully electing their Party Leader John A. Pence Frisk calls them out on their views, calling them Nazis.
-   _Power Rangers GPX_: Ragnar, the villain of _Power Rangers GPX Supercharged_, might as well be an elf version of a fascist dictator, right down to desiring a Final Solution to eliminate humanity, and having concentration camps. To put it in depth, he believes that humans, whom he considers to be inferior to elves, are a threat to Earth. So he manipulates his Queen to be able to attack the Power Rangers (who'd recently saved the world from an alien invasion). But then when she tells him off, he decides he never needed her in the first place and tries to kill her. Then he overthrows the government, installs himself as dictator, and all but declares war on humanity. As the fic goes on, his nazi-like tendencies are fleshed out, culminating in The Reveal of the aforementioned concentration camps.
-   In the Archie Sonic fanverse series _Dimensional Wars_, the New Order faction is introduced as a darker path of what Moebius could become if King Scourge was forced off the throne and what the result would be with an interdimensional and interplanetary war between the prime world and Moebius. While not as technically advanced as the forces of the Egg Empire, the Moebian soldiers are known to be at least better trained than Eggman's usual lackeys, and they put on the Reich in spades. You have Moebian dogs mentally conditioned by dog whistles to attack with more ferocity when ordered, Wehrmacht like tactics and training, black Nazi like helmets, and the kicker? The Order openly supports genocide and interment of the 'rodents' of both worlds (echidnas who are hated for being allied to Eggman, and hedgehogs for being heroes normally in the Sonic fandom). However, unlike the Nazis the Order doesn't believe in harming the disabled, and both male and female soldiers have specific tasks on the battlefield.
-   In _The Owl House_ fanfic _The Girl from Earth_, upon finding out about World War II, Luz's friends and family question how humanity could just sit by and let the Nazis come to power, only for Luz to angrily point out the Emperor's Coven is exactly the same (Cult of Personality, unethical experimentation, attempted eradication of everyone who doesn't fit the coven's rules, etc.).

    Films — Animation 

-   General Mandible in _Antz_ is The Social Darwinist who wants to exterminate the "weak elements" of the ant colony.
-   _Chicken Run_: Mrs. Tweedy's cruel treatment of the chickens wouldn't more obviously resemble that of Nazis if the chickens were given Jewish names. She even has a _gas oven_.
-   _Felidae_ has Pascal/Claudandus, a cat killing off specific cat breeds that he deems 'unworthy' of existence. It's explained more thoroughly in the book

-   _The Spongebob Squarepants Movie_: When Plankton enslaves all the citizens of Bikini Bottom, he turns Bikini Bottom into a totalitarian dystopia that appears to be eerily reminiscent of Nazi Germany.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   Played for laughs in _The Big Lebowski_, when Walter continuously assumes that the gang of German ruffians who constantly harass the Dude are Nazis. Even after the Dude corrects him that they're not Nazis, they're nihilists, Walter seems hesitant to let go of the idea, and later on accuses one of them of being an antisemite.
-   _Bluebeard (1972)_ provides an odd example, due in part to its observance of No Swastikas. For all intents and purposes, it's set during the Nazi era — the characters have Germanic names, one scene depicts an anti-Jewish pogrom, Hitler and Reinhard Heydrich are even mentioned by name — yet the setting is never explicitly identified as Germany.
-   _Cheyenne Autumn_ features Karl Malden as a German-accented cavalry officer named Wessels. When a group of Cheyenne show up to his fort looking for shelter, he locks them up concentration camp-style in a warehouse. He even sports a Hitler mustache and claims, when called out for his cruel treatment of the Indians, that he's Just Following Orders.

-   _Contact_. There's a certain amount of alarm when the First Contact signal turns out to be a retransmitted television broadcast of Adolf Hitler giving a speech. Kitz even suggests it comes from Scary Dogmatic Aliens who find his views appealing. Cooler heads point out that aliens wouldn't understand the context of the transmission — the speech is Hitler opening the 1936 Olympics, which would have been the first strong TV signal sent into space. Sending it back is simply their way of showing the message was received.
-   _The Crimson Rivers_ has two generations of low-profile workers creating a eugenics program in their remote university town in France and actually have some success until they get killed by the real villain, who happens to be a product of said program.
-   The German film _Das Experiment_ is a fictionalized dramatization of the Stanford Prison Experiment, which emphasizes the Nazi-like aspects of the guards' behavior. In case the point isn't obvious enough, their leader actually resembles a blond Hitler. At one point, one of the prisoners even calls him a Nazi. The experiment itself, along with the Milgram Obedience Experiment, were originally devised as an attempt to understand what would drive otherwise good people to commit the atrocities that the Nazis perpetrated during World War II.
-   _Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore_: Grindelwald, as Voldemort's predecessor, loathes Muggles, wants war against them and believes his own kind (the magical people) are naturally superior. He even disparages Muggles as "animals". Further, he nearly takes power in the same year as Hitler, with similar ruthless methods. His Army's symbol also has a vaguely swastika design behind the Deathly Hallows symbol.
-   If you don't consider _The Testament of Dr. Mabuse_ to be the Trope Maker (see example below), then the trope maker is probably 1934 film _The House of Rothschild_. In this story about the rise of the Rothschild family to success in the face of antisemitism in the early 19th century, the most viciously antisemitic character is Count Ledrantz, a German. And just to make the parallel more clear, Count Ledrantz organizes an antisemitic pogrom in Frankfurt, with Germans throwing rocks through the storefronts of Jewish businesses.
-   The Film of the Book for _Fahrenheit 451_ gave the Firemen Nazi-like outfits along with an overall fascistic feel to their system, and a German actor was cast as Montag. This is kind of at odds with the book which makes the dystopian society very "All-American" and rightly or wrongly, Ray Bradbury attributed its start to political correctness, with the idea being that people will be much happier "protected" from "upsetting" ideas, something which is far from the Nazi motivation for Book Burning.
-   The 1940 Charlie Chaplin film _The Great Dictator_ is about a thinly-veiled parody of the Nazi regime, whose leader is named Adenoid Hynkel and whose symbol is the Double Cross. The location is translated from Germany to the fictional country of Tomania; the anti-Semitism is left undisguised.
-   In _Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire_, the Death Eaters are symbolized as Klansmen—check out the KKK-inspired headgear, torches and "burning signal". _Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows_ shows a snippet of Hermione's torture from the book, except instead of just hearing her disembodied screams, we also see Bellatrix doing...something with the dagger in her hand to Hermione's arm. When we see her arm, we can see that Lestrange carved "Mudblood" into the inside of Hermione's forearm, much like how the Nazis tattooed numbers into the forearms of the Jews in concentration camps.
-   In _Man of Steel_, Zod's speeches about saving the world from decline by rooting out inferior bloodlines (and then genociding an inferior species, i.e. humans) are eerily reminiscent of a certain ideology.
-   _Marvel Cinematic Universe_:
    -   In _The Avengers (2012)_, one of the first things Loki does on earth is to force a crowd of Germans to kneel before him while giving a speech about how humans "were born to be ruled". One old German — who is confirmed by Word of God to be a Holocaust survivor — calls him out on this while refusing to kneel:
    -   HYDRA from _Captain America: The First Avenger_ are explicitly stated to have started as a Nazi deep science division, but move away from the Reich after the Red Skull plans on bombing Berlin as part of his plan for world conquest. He even states that due to his deformity, he no longer fits with Hitler's perfect Aryan ideal. Despite this, HYDRA still uses a "Hail HYDRA!" cry and salute that seems suspiciously close to the "Heil Hitler!" salute. Note that HYDRA seems to have at least moved away from the racial purity angle of the Nazi regime, as Jasper Sitwell, a brown-skinned Latino man, is seen as a HYDRA agent in _Captain America: The Winter Soldier_. This is given a big fat Lampshade Hanging in _Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._:
        
        **Ward:** I'm not a Nazi!  
        **Skye:** Yes you are! That is exactly what you are! It's in the S.H.I.E.L.D. handbook, chapter 1! The Red Skull, founder of HYDRA, was a big, fat, freaking Nazi!
        
    -   HYDRA in the MCU seems to be something of an inversion, as despite being formed from a Nazi-splinter faction, they lack the nationalism and racial purity associated with Nazism and are borderline Terrorists Without a Cause. The Agents of HYDRA/Framework arc of _Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._ has them in full force, however, having taken over the United States on an anti-Inhumans party line... and pulling no stops on the "racial purity" issue, as a result.
-   The 1995 film adaptation of _Richard III_ gives us a Setting Update, with Genteel Interbellum Setting Britain gradually Putting on the Reich and turning into a Nazi-esque/Orwellian state. Richard's heraldic boar is even incorporated into an exact copy of the Nazi flag _in the place of a swastika_. Surprisingly, the movie works quite well — both as a Shakespeare adaptation and as a satire on the inter-war period's nonchalance toward the rise of authoritarian regimes.
-   _One Night with the King_ has Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, with his personal sigil almost resembling that of the Nazi party swastiska, and his forces ready to exterminate the Jews by the sealed decree of the king, to whom Esther is married and became his queen.
-   Omni Consumer Products in _RoboCop 2_ uses a flag resembling the Third Reich's: the octagonal OCP logo in black, within a white octagon, centered on a red field.
-   _Solarbabies:_ The E-Protectorate troops wear gray Nazi-like uniforms, break apart families, and try to indoctrinate the world's children into believing their point of view while being willing to kill those who won't accept it. The Big Bad even has a German-sounding name.
-   _Starship Troopers_ (though very definitely not the novel of the same name) uses the Nazi-like symbolism to portray the humans as an evil invading race by Putting on the Reich, and occasionally showing a propaganda commercial. This is capped by Neil Patrick Harris (at the time, best known for _Doogie Howser, M.D._) as a Dr. Mengele Expy. There are even hints that the humans, not the Arachnids, started the war. In the DVD Commentary, director Paul Verhoeven confirms it was very much intended as a Deconstructive Parody, and a middle finger to the book as well. Verhoeven grew up in the Netherlands under Nazi occupation and was working with a satirical script called _Bug Hunt_ when he tried to read the book, found what he read as disgustingly familiar, and decided to adapt _Bug Hunt_ to be a direct parody of the book. Also he used the film to satirize American politics, outright comparing the US Government (specifically what he was seeing in Texan politics in the 1990's) to the Nazis without even blinking, visibly taking fellow commentator Edward Neumeier off-guard.
-   _Star Wars_:
    -   Particularly in the Expanded Universe, it's definitely possible to see The Empire as Nazi-like. It's not just the cut of the officers' uniforms (and Grand Moff Tarkin definitely acts the part of a Nazi official) or the fact that its Faceless Goons are called "stormtroopers". The Empire is also strictly, stridently speciesist, always putting humans before nonhumans, to the point where the nonhumans on the capital planet are restricted to a single sector. And it rose when a charismatic leader talked his way into a high position in a democratic government, created problems, then refused to let go. Emperor Palpatine even gained power by first becoming Chancellor.
    -   In the first film, Tarkin refers to the "regional governors" governing directly in the absence of the Senate. The German translation of "regional governor" is _gauleiter_, and this was the structure of Nazi government, with Germany divided up into various regions that were governed by Hitler appointees.
    -   Rather ironically, a _Rebel_ ceremony at the end of the original film is clearly modeled on _Triumph of the Will_.
    -   There is a shot of Trade Federation battle droids marching through an archway on Naboo in _The Phantom Menace_ that is modeled on a famous shot of Nazi troops marching through the _Arc de Triomphe_ in Paris. It's specifically mentioned (though not shown) that the citizens of Naboo captured during the invasion were taken to Trade Federation concentration camps. And then there's the fact that little resistance is shown in the capital city when the battle droids arrive, evocative of (the story claiming that) French soldiers simply dropping their weapons and surrendering when the Nazis skirted around the Maginot Line. And Amidala leaving Naboo only to return later to take back control is similar to many European monarchs doing the same thing during World War II.
    -   Darth Vader's helmet shares a strong similarity to the _Stahlhelm_. It's also based on the samurai _kabuto_.
    -   _The Force Awakens_ takes this even further, with the First Order, the Empire's successor organization established by Imperial officers that refused to recognize the New Weimar-by-any-other-name Republic. They wave red-and-black banners, and they take after the SS, whereas the Empire took after the _Wehrmacht_. Word of God has compared them to Nazis who fled to South America after WWII. General Hux's speech right before Starkiller Base blows the Hosnian System into a trillion space chunks clearly takes after the way Hitler did his speeches, starting off fairly firm but calm but escalating into outright screaming at the end of his last sentence. Oh, and the Stormtroopers in attendance raise their arms into the air in unison afterwards.
-   _Terminator_: Skynet and the machines' rule are pretty much the future version of Nazi Germany. In the first film, Kyle Reese has a barcode tattoo that is similar in vein to the numbered tattoos that prisoners received in Nazi concentration camps, and in _Salvation_, Kyle Reese and several other humans are being placed in what is unmistakably an _extermination camp_.
-   _The Testament of Dr. Mabuse_ might be the Trope Codifier. Director Fritz Lang recasts Diabolical Mastermind Dr. Mabuse as an evil visionary promoting an "Empire of Crime" dedicated to sowing chaos and destruction. Unsurprisingly, Joseph Goebbels saw Mabuse as a Hitler analogue and promptly banned the film. Of course, Lang's earlier film _M_ made a similar analogy, comparing Berlin's underworld to the Nazi Party.
-   In _Tsogt Taij_, the invading Chinese and Tibetans are cruel and merciless. The film uses a closeup to show the swastikas the Tibetan Buddhists use during a religious ceremony. Of course, the swastika is an ancient religious symbol that predates the Nazis by a millennium or more—but in this film, made in Soviet-allied Mongolia just as World War II was ending, the context is clear. To make it even more obvious, the swastikas shown in the movie are right-facing, Nazi-style, rather than left-facing as used in actual Buddhist iconography.
-   _Trench 11_: The film is set in late 1918 almost at the very end of World War I. Main villain Reiner is a proto-Nazi, complaining that if Germany loses the war Europe will be overrun by Communist Jews.
-   _TRON: Legacy_ has CLU, a digital double of programmer Kevin Flynn who was created to help develop the perfect system. Unfortunately, CLU's idea of perfection wound up being outdated. For the sake of his "perfect system" he not only turned on his programmer, but also began gathering an army of "re-purposed" programs (including Tron himself), wiped out a newly discovered race of ISOs (save one survivor named Quorra), and tossing any programs who didn't meet his standards into games in which loss means de-resolution (which is program-ish for "death", in case you were wondering). His ultimate goal was to escape into the world outside the Grid, the real world, and destroy everything "imperfect" to make way for his perfect system.
-   _V for Vendetta_: Norsefire is essentially the British version of the Nazi Party, complete with a Hitler-esque leader (he even has a very similar mustache plus last name), a swastika-like cross symbol, genocidal persecution of LGBT people and religious minorities (in their case Muslims instead of Jews, at least that we see), concentration camps and brutal feared secret police. They also came into power as the result of a crisis which they'd engineered, not unlike some claims about the real Reichstag Fire, which helped the Nazi Party take over.
-   The film version of Pink Floyd's _The Wall_ features extended sequences of the main character's dreams/hallucinations of himself as the head of a Neo-Nazi group as he spirals further and further into madness. The fascist imagery extends into the three songs played during this part of the album, "In the Flesh", "Run Like Hell" and "Waiting for the Worms". The group's symbol is a pair of crossed hammers rather than a _hakenkreuz_, but the red/white/black aesthetic is still there.
-   _The Wave (1981)_, mostly based on the "Third Wave" experiment in a Palo Alto, California high school, sees a high school history teacher conduct an unusual experiment to illustrate the chilling reality of the Holocaust and Nazi-ism by dividing his class into three social groups with strict rules stressing that an individual is part of something more important than himself. Things are fun and games at first, but eventually it becomes all too real as the lesson's unintended consequences turns the school into a regimental, regressive state of fascism and one of the groups becoming virtual Nazis. A German-language feature film inspired by the experiment, _The Wave (2008)_, was produced in 2008.
-   _X-Men Film Series_:
    -   _X2: X-Men United_: William Stryker's genocidal desires peg him as one.
    -   In _X-Men: First Class_, Sebastian Shaw (who really _was_ a Nazi during the second World War, going under the name "Klaus Schmidt") envisions his mutant-dominated society much as if it were he ruling over 1940s Germany. Ironically, his most scarred victim as a Nazi scientist, Erik "Magneto" Lehnsherr, finds Shaw's mutant supremacy views to be _compatible_ with his own, despite the fact he spends the entire movie chasing the man in an effort to get revenge for killing his mother _during the Holocaust_ (he was a Jewish survivor of Auschwitz). Somehow, he isn't troubled by the similarities.
-   _You Nazty Spy!_ (which came out a few months before _The Great Dictator_) had Moe as Hailstone, leader of Moronica and Larry and Curly standing in for Goebbels and Goering respectively. It also spawned a sequel, _I'll Never Heil Again_. ("Quit yer Stalin!") The Three Stooges were Jews in Real Life.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Alien Nation_: Although they don't wear Nazi-style paramilitary uniforms, Purist rhetoric is very reminiscent of Nazism. They express fear of being outbred by the Newcomers (given their far shorter reproductive cycle), start with "only" demanding they be kept separate from humans and denied all civil rights (as the Nuremberg laws had done to Jews, although it invoked Jim Crow legislation as well, which inspired them) before soon graduating into attempting genocide by creating a bioweapon. In one episode when George goes to a Purist group's headquarters, they have flags hanging in a very similar manner to the Nazis'.
-   The Scourge from _Angel_ episode "Hero" are demons whose ideas about racial purity drive them to destroy all creatures that are part demon and part human, a description that fits two of the show's heroes at that point, Angel and Doyle. The Scourge wear well-fitted grey uniforms of a cut fashionable in 1940's Europe, and drive trucks and motorcycles from the same era. Ironically it had already been established in _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_ that pure-blood demons were actually giant monster creatures, so the Scourge would have been half-breed demons themselves.
    -   It has been debated among the fandom and some have speculate that the Scourge understand "pure demons" not as the Eldritch Abomination in what the Mayor turn or as Ilyria was but as simply non-vampires, non-humans and non-halfdemon half human hybrid. Possibly not every demon is aware of the existence of the "pure demons".
-   _Babylon 5_:
    -   The Night Watch have a number of Nazi/Brownshirt parallels (notably pro-Earth jingoism and anti-alien xenophobia), with Zack Allan as an example of a sympathetic character who gets swept up in it. He turns against Night Watch when the chips are down. Lampshaded in one episode when a shopkeeper asks members of the Nightwatch if they were "late for their Bund meeting", invoking the Nazi collaborationist German/American Bund.
    -   William Edgars states that, thanks to the anti-telepath virus he developed, "The telepath problem... will finally be over". The pause suggests that he realizes what he sounds like... but he doesn't back away from his plan.
    -   Similar to the Magneto example, some in the targeted minority aren't that different. The Psi-Cop uniforms have definite Nazi connotations. The fact that telepaths all wear gloves only adds to the look.
-   _Battlestar Galactica (1978)_ has the Eastern Alliance on planet Terra (surprisingly, an aversion to the Planet Terra trope in that it's not Earth), which serves as a fusion of sorts between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union. The uniforms appear to include elements of both, as well as their attitude towards others. They view the Western Coalition (the democratic bloc) as inferiors and are perfectly willing to make peace with them and then attack. (Does This Remind You of Anything?) When launching their nukes, the Commandant even tells his subordinates to only put the most "critical and loyal" citizens into bomb shelters, citing the projected casualties from the Western Coalition's nuclear retaliation as "acceptable".
-   Averted in _Blake's 7_ despite Terry Nation's fondness for this trope (he created the Daleks after all). The sterile and shoddy appearance of the No Budget sets, lackluster functionaries, brainwashing of dissidents, and ubiquitous camera surveillance draw more from the socialist dystopia of _Nineteen Eighty-Four_ than Those Wacky Nazis.
-   _The Boys (2019)_: Stormfront's more Fantastic Racism comes from her view of Supes and creating more of them with Compound V (she's also a regular racist toward Black and East Asian people). Of course, she turns out to be an actual Nazi from Hitler's time, made ageless in appearance thanks to early experiments by the Nazi scientist who invented Compound V (and then defected to the United States when she saw which way the wind was blowing).
-   The season 2 villain of _Chuck_, Fulcrum, uses a symbol<small>◊</small> that greatly resembles the Iron Eagle used by the Nazis. It also uses the Nazi colors of red, white, and black. However, the show offers no insight into Fulcrum's motivations except for a desire to preserve America's "rightful place" in the world.
-   _Continuum_: The terrorists from the future constantly refer to the main character, a cop from that same future, as a fascist. It initially appears to be an example of Commonly Misused Words, as "fascist" is overused quite often in real life, but as the show wears on and we see more flashbacks to that future, it becomes clear that she really is a fascist. She was a decorated officer in a corporate police state that would make Big Brother proud, and she initially has no problems with the modern world stomping on freedoms and increasing security as a result of her fight with the terrorists, although she amends her views as she spends more time in the past.
-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   The Daleks, of course. They're very fond of shouting, violent threats and talk about racial purity and "extermination". More overt Nazi references come in 1965's "The Dalek Invasion of Earth", where the Daleks refer to the destruction of the human race as "the Final Solution" and greet each other by jerking their plungers upwards. It's nicely lampshaded in the 2008 episode "Journey's End" when Martha teleports to Germany (on-screen text specifies 60 miles away from _Nuremberg_ no less) to play her part in activating the Osterhagen Key, and Daleks can be heard shouting in German: "Exterminieren!"
    -   "Robot": Despite advertising themselves as using scientific principles to make the world a better place, the Scientific Reform Society is in actuality a blatantly fascist organization, right down to wearing blackshirt uniforms and armbands with stylized sigils. The receptionist for the group casually tells Sarah about the group's eugenicist desire to have "superior" people control "inferior" ones in all aspects of their lives, and the one meeting of theirs that gets shown on-screen deliberately mirrors one of Adolf Hitler's rallies.
    -   "Genesis of the Daleks": The Kaleds, ancestors of the Daleks, wear black military uniforms very close to the standard Nazi uniform, complete with faux-Iron Crosses at the neck and give Roman salutes with heel clicking.
    -   Then there's the new British government that shows up in the Butterfly of Doom timeline of "Turn Left". By the time the immigrants are being shipped off to "labour camps", WWII survivor Wilf knows _exactly_ where it's going.
    -   The Saxon incarnation of the Master, who already displayed some Politically Incorrect Villain tendencies, shows even more shades of this in "The End of Time" when he becomes blonde, turns every human on the planet into himself, and calls this new race "the Master Race".
    -   "The Crimson Horror": A debatable example, but Mrs. Gillyflower's plan to wipe out everyone except the few who meet her rigorous standards in order to create a Master Race and obsession with complete blind obedience from her subjects is quite reminiscent of Nazi dogma, especially since, while it's not commented on, all of her perfect master race are white. She's also explicitly The Social Darwinist, planning to kill off all disabled and deformed people along with the others she deems imperfect, including her own daughter simply for being blind.
-   _Dragnet_: The 1967 episode "The Big Explosion" features a Neo-Nazi named Donald Chapman who tries to blow up a racially integrated school.
-   _Farscape_:
    -   The Peacekeepers are basically Nazis IN SPACE!, being fascist overlords who keep the peace through usually violent means with uniforms heavily inspired by Nazi attire. There's also the zealous obsession with keeping Sebacean bloodlines "pure". Any cross-breeding between Sebaceans and non-Sebacean aliens is viewed as an abomination and usually destroyed. That said, they are willing to make exceptions for non-Sebaceans who show particular talent at weapons development. Scorpius, who is the result of Medical Rape and Impregnate between a Sebacean woman and a Scarran (the Sebaceans' arch-enemies) male, is made a high-ranking commander due to his utter _hatred_ of the Scarrans and his extreme intelligence.
    -   One-off villain NamTar from "DNA Mad Scientist" is explicitly compared to Dr. Josef Mengele by John Crichton. When Crichton explains Mengele's For Science! motivations, NamTar responds that the man sounds like a _visionary_.
-   The Wesenrein in _Grimm_, a centuries-old group of extremist Wesen that oppose "race-mixing" (a Wesen marrying a Wesen from another bloodline) and befriending Grimms (traditional enemies of the Wesen in general). Even their flags look disturbingly similar to the Third Reich's flag.
-   _Heroes_:
    -   When Hiro travels to the future aftermath of the destruction of New York City, the future depicts Nathan Petrelli (actually Sylar, who had killed Nathan far earlier) as president, as well as a hunting down of evolved humans in a very similar manner to Nazi Germany. Mohinder even mentions sarcastically leading evolved humans into gas chambers when expressing disgust towards "Nathan's" request to test a serum that would kill evolved humans.
    -   Nathan is responsible for starting a similar initiative in Volume 4, where Evolved Humans are rounded up into camps to either suppress their powers or be experimented on... leading to the question, how much of what happened in the Bad Future from Volume 1 was actually Nathan's doing _before_ Sylar stole his identity?
    -   Volume 5 reveals this had also briefly happened once before in secret during the 60's. Ironically, most of the former inmates went onto found The Company, who did pretty much the very same thing.
-   _Highway to Heaven_: Jonathan and Mark are sent to a Midwestern small town, where a Jewish man named Everett Solomon (a Nazi war camp survivor, whose parents were killed) is set to speak ... and the organizer of a Neo Nazi-type organization is planning to assassinate him as they make their own hate-mongering speeches. The episode's main driver — racism, as many of Michael Landon's scripts did so eloquently — set up the episode's Aesop: During a planning meeting in the Neo-Nazi group's basement, the leader's son accidentally triggers a machine gun, mortally wounding the leader and two others. The Jewish man (whose son was killed by the goons) has a heart attack and needs a transplant ... and only the Nazi leader's blood type is available. Jonathan visits with the Neo-Nazi leader's wife, urging her to consent to the operation (as her husband's hateful "heart" is not the same as the biological functions of a heart, and that Solomom is a good person), which she does. After Solomom learns that he had received his sworn enemy's heart, he wants to die ... but has a renewed purpose after having a dream where his beloved son and his parents urge him to tell their story to counteract the Nazi group (before it has a chance to re-form).
-   _Inazuman_: The Despar Army believe in the superiority of neo-humans and seek to totally exterminate humanity and mutants. The similarity is punctuated by how the Neo-Humans incorporate a lot of thinly-veiled Nazi imagery and their leader Geisel having the title of Führer, alongside being shown burning books.
-   _Kamen Rider_: Shocker are an underground terrorist organization which seeks to convert selected humans into transhuman monsters called "kaijin", then take over the world and subjugate the rest of humankind. In a double subversion, they originally _were_ Nazis who sought to create a literal Master Race, but expanded to the point of recruiting people non-Nazi believers who instead took interest in the other aspects of Shocker's ideology.
-   In _Lexx_, the Divine Order are a fascist empire who often wear leather, greet each other with salutes, and repurpose the flesh of executed prisoners. One scene in the pilot movie even has a group of Hitler Youth-esque brainwashed kids who subsequently get eaten by giant worms.
-   In the _Monty Python's Flying Circus_ short "Mr. Hilter and the North Minehead Bi-election", Hitler flees to England and tries to become the mayor of North Minehead by disguising himself as "Mr. Hilter". He is joined by Ron Vibbentrop and Heinrick Bimmler.
    
    **Man on the street:** I don't think I like the sound of these "boncentration bamps".
    
-   _The Orville_: The Regorians in "All the World is a Birthday Cake" are an advanced society who dress like fascists and seclude a section of their population to concentration camps. Being a sci-fi series, the spin is that their target group is based on _astrology_, with all people who are born under a bad sign from their own history (Gilia, which collapsed into a black hole millennia ago) considered subhuman. By the same token, children born to Giliacs under a different sign are considered normal citizens.
-   _Pennyworth_ has the Raven Society, a fascist organization which seeks to overthrow the British government and purge the country of all "undesirables".
-   In _Robin of Sherwood_, the Sons of Fenris are a (relatively) subtle Middle Ages example. They greet Gulnar by shouting "Hail Gulnar" and punching the air, they use a sun cross as their symbol (which is not necessarily Nazi in nature, but is a banned Nazi emblem in Germany when used in an overt right-wing political context), and Adolf Hitler had a personal near-totemic fascination with wolves.
-   _Sliders_:
    -   The Kromaggs are changed to this after the show was moved to Sci Fi Channel. They start wearing Nazi-like uniforms, having breeding programs, and claiming to be the master race. They also perform cruel experiments on humans in order to further their scientific knowledge.
    -   There's one episode in which the sliders visit an alternate U.S. that is turning into a Nazi-like state under a rising demagogue, Gov. Schick (presumably an allusion to Schicklgruber, the surname of Hitler's father). The episode suggests that in this alternate reality there was no Third Reich or Holocaust, making the U.S. unprepared for that type of occurrence in their own country.
-   The _Space: Above and Beyond_ episode "Eyes" tries to paint Nicholas Chaput, one of two candidates for UN Secretary-General, as this. The emblem of his political party is four "E"s placed in a vaguely swastika-like arrangement, he is described as "far-right", and his thwarted assassin asks West "what if someone had got to Hitler before he rose to power?" Ends up being a bit of Bait-and-Switch Tyrant — Chaput tells West that his political rival's corporation may have instigated war with the Chiggs.
-   _Stargate SG-1_ gives us the Eurondans, who are a white supremacist nation locked in a bunker with most of the planet occupied by their enemies (called "Breeders", because they had children without regard for race) who they try to kill with poison gas. They also put on the Reich. There's a moment when Adar, the leader, expresses that he does not wish for Teal'c to return to his world. Initially it seems that he is uncomfortable because Teal'c is Jaffa, but it's soon made apparent that the reason he states Teal'c is "not like us" is because he is black.
-   _Star Trek_:
    -   _Star Trek: The Original Series_:
        -   Colonel Green, the World War III leader recreated in the episode "The Savage Curtain" as a symbol of evil, was portrayed this way in the Expanded Universe novel _Star Trek: Federation_, where he's the leader of the "Optimum Movement", and his symbols include geometric shapes (interlocked triangles, rather than the swastika) and black eagles. This portrayal was continued in the _Star Trek: Enterprise_ episodes dealing with Terra Prime, with the hate-group's admiration of Green reflecting the neo-Nazi attitude to Hitler. (The Terra Prime arc was partly written by Judith and Garfield Reeves-Stevens, who also wrote _Federation_.) A loud thudding sound accompanied _Federation_ making its villain, Adrik Thorsen (presumably intended to be a German name, but it ended up more Scandinavian...still Middle-to-Upper Europe, though), be blonde and blue-eyed.
        -   The episode "Patterns of Force" avoids this by not having an alien culture coincidentally resembling Nazi Germany, but an alien culture who are consciously imitating Nazi Germany under the influence of a misguided human infiltrator who thought that he could culturally uplift them by replicating the, he thought, admirable social cohesion of Nazi Germany without the whole "racist, ableist and homophobic genocide" bit. Unfortunately, his second-in-command sympathizes with Nazi racial ideals and quickly disposes of him before introducing the Nazi racial ideology and appointing himself as a Hitler-like dictator. Not unnaturally, this led to the episode being banned in Germany for almost thirty years.
        -   The whole concept of genetic augmentation is presented to reflect this trope. In the first Eugenics Wars, a bunch of superpowered dictators (i.e., a Master Race) conquered the Earth until they were deposed. Afterward came the Augments, who fancied themselves a master race.
        -   "The Conscience of the King" gives us Kodos the Executioner, who culled people based on his eugenics theories, and has lived under an assumed name to escape punishment for his crimes decades later. The comparisons to the Nazis (especially in the 1960s, when knowledge of the many fugitives living underground became prominent after the capture of Adolf Eichmann) are probably intended.
    -   In _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_, the Cardassians are a clear analogue to a Fascist dictatorship, but as a whole, they're a mix of most of the major Fascist powers. Their actions during the Occupation of Bajor, however, have clear and distinct parallels to the Nazi regime — right down to the forced-labor camps and their treatment of prisoners. This is alluded to throughout the first season and then put clearly on display in its second-to-last episode, "Duet", which deals with the labor camp Gallitep and Kira's reaction to one of its supposed former officers — the parallels to Auschwitz are undeniable. The parallel is never more clear than during this chilling monologue showing the Cardassian attitude toward Bajorans:
        
        **Darhe'el (actually Marritza):** Oh, no, no, Major, you can't dismiss me that easily. I did what had to be done. My men understood that, and that's why they loved me. I would order them to go out and kill Bajoran scum, and they'd do it! They'd murder them! They'd come back covered in blood, but they felt clean! Now why did they feel that way, Major? Because they _were_ clean!
        
    -   _Star Trek: Voyager_:
        -   The episode "Nothing Human" has the Doctor consulting a holographic recreation of the Cardassian Dr. Crell Moset, before being informed by a Bajoran crewmember that Moset was a war criminal who conducted "experiments" on Bajoran force-labor camp workers, not unlike those done on concentration camp prisoners during WWII.
        -   The two-parter "The Killing Game" features the Hirogen taking over Voyager and forcing the crew to participate in a World War II recreation on the holodeck, with the Hirogen roleplaying as the Nazis. The Alpha Hirogen is dismissive of the Nazis' claims of superiority, warning an upstart SS officer hologram never to underestimate his "prey", but his Beta actually adopts the ideology _for real_ after listening to a speech given by the same SS officer, seeing many similarities between his own Hunter\-Warrior culture and Nazi Social Darwinist ideals.
        -   "Counterpoint" shows an authoritarian nazi-like Devore Imperium bent on eliminating every single telepath species, even children, which forces the Voyager to secretly smug refugees. The Devore military not only uses black uniforms and Nazi-like symbology, the alien commander is Affably Evil and enjoys Tchaikovsky.
    -   A significant portion of _Star Trek: Discovery_'s first season revolves around the Terran Empire of the Mirror Universe, the Federation's Evil Counterpart. The Terrans are fascist, rabidly xenophobic human supremacists with spiffy uniforms, a very Hitleresque salute, and a Cult of Personality centered on their supreme leader, the Emperor. Anything nonhuman is mercilessly hunted down and either enslaved, killed or _eaten_.
    -   _Star Trek: Picard_: In an alternate timeline, Earth government is a fascist xenophobic dictatorship named the Confederation that has ravaged the Ferengi, Cardassians, Romulans, Klingon, Borg, etc.
-   _The Twilight Zone (1959)_ used this a few times with various different groups and planets, sometimes Nazis, sometimes communists.
    -   The best example is "He's Alive", which has Dennis Hopper as a Neo-Nazi figure who's advised by Hitler (He's alive meaning As Long as There Is Evil; Hitler lives on intolerance).
    -   In "Eye of the Beholder", the Leader is based on Adolf Hitler. In his speech, he continually stresses the importance of ensuring "glorious conformity" and abiding by a single norm. He says that all that is different must be cut out like a cancerous filth as differences weaken the state.
    -   In "The Obsolete Man", the State is based on various totalitarian regimes. In his opening narration, Rod Serling says that "it has patterned itself after every dictator who has ever planted the ripping imprint of a boot on the pages of history since the beginning of time." The Chancellor himself says that the State had predecessors who had the right idea such as Adolf Hitler and Josef Stalin but they did not go far enough in eliminating the undesirables such as the elderly, the sick, the maimed and the deformed.
-   The Visitors of _V (1983)_ and its 2009 remake are thinly veiled Nazi stand-ins, complete with extermination camps (meat-processing plants) and an almost-swastika logo (the show was even originally conceived as a straight adaptation of the above mentioned _It Can't Happen Here_ before being changed to be more clearly sci-fi). In the original miniseries, a Jewish Holocaust survivor acknowledges the parallels.
-   _Walker, Texas Ranger_: Season 6's "The Soul of Winter" has Walker dealing with a neo-Nazi group known as the Sons of the Reich. Its leader, Stan Gorman, used to be stationed at Ford Hood with the pastor of a church the former was terrorizing, and tried to kill his son, but ended up killing the wrong kid.

    Music 

-   Pink Floyd's The Wall has Pink become a pseudo-neo nazi leader running his Hammer army from In The Flesh to Waiting For The Worms, after which he has a heel realization. The nazi themes are prevalent throughout, with a symbol that seems inspired by the swastika

    Music Videos 

-   The music video for the Pearl Jam song "Do the Evolution" (seen here) has a scene with what are implied to be Nazi troops, but the Swastika is replaced by another symbol. However, the symbol is actually similar to the symbol used by the SS.
-   Invoked in "The Devil Came Back to Georgia". The Devil is played by a blond, blue-eyed actor who resembles a Viking. Johnny and the Preacher are played by actors with curly jet-black hair. Does not take much to make the connection that Johnny = David, Preacher = Jesus, and Devil = Hitler!!!
-   Nemesis Sudou from the _Evillious Chronicles_ franchise eventually becomes a Nazi without any selective racism—she becomes the dictator of a country based on Germany under the title "Führer" and decided to blow up the whole world during the setting's equivalent to WWII/WWI.
-   Disturbed's cover of "Land of Confusion" features the antagonists as a military force with soldiers wearing Waffen SS-style uniforms, and jet fighters bearing a Nazi flag-like roundel with a dollar sign in place of a swastika.

    Pro Wrestling 

-   TNA had the stable Mexican America, who were encouraging "Hispanics" to takeover the USA/Florida because, in Hernandez's words, "They are the superior race!", however, these words proved to be much narrower than thought when Mexican America assaulted someone sitting at the Spanish Announcers' Table because they discovered one of them was a Mexican and didn't hate his broadcast partner who wasn't, even though he was still of Latin Nationality and Hispanic descent. Mexica/Chicanos were apparently the only "race" they cared about. They did accept aid from a gringo in Jeff Jarrett though, who felt obligated to in order to back up the claim he was "King Of Mexico" after winning AAA's Mega Title. Ironically, of the four members of the stable, only one was fully of Mexican descent. Hernandez is of both Mexican and Puerto Rican descent, Rosita is of Puerto Rican descent, and Sarita is Canadian (real name Sarah Stock).

    Roleplay 

-   v2 to v4 of _Open Blue_'s Sirene (back then called Seran) didn't even try to hide its Naziness. Authoritarian Germanic nation led by a Führer, snazzy (albeit red) uniforms everywhere, an intelligence agency that almost directly parallels the SS right down to the Common Ranks, everything except racial superiority beliefs and swastikas. This was toned down in v5.

    Tabletop Games 

-   In the Greyhawk setting for the _Dungeons & Dragons_ game, one of the main antagonists is the Scarlet Brotherhood, a group of blonde, fair-skinned, blue-eyed humans who preach the inherent superiority of all humans who share their appearance and seek to exterminate the "demi-human" races (such as elves and halflings).
-   The _Flying Circus_ core rulebook describes The Goth Army as "the looming spectre of fascism." Their atrocities include a slave-driven economy and violent revanchism. The rulebook suggests saying to most groups that the Goths are "goddamn Nazis!" to make clear their real-world counterparts and why they're a Threat to topple.
-   There are a metric crap-ton in _Gamma World_. There are the Knights Of Genetic Purity who want to genocide all mutants, the Iron Society who want to genocide all non-mutants (obviously they and the Knights don't exactly get along), the Zoopremacists who want to Kill All Humans, and Hoops who are a would-be master race of bunny-men.
-   In _In Nomine_, the Archangel of Purity, named Uriel, took his role a bit too far and tried to "purify" the world of a race of beings called Ethereals which included most of the creatures of myth and legend. His "Purge" was largely successful with most Ethereals fleeing Earth for the dream-world; however, God himself eventually intervened and Uriel has not been seen since.
    -   Plus, Uriel was so Hitleriffic, he was able to genocide beings which didn't exist yet!
-   _Paranoia_ parodies this (among other things) in one module, where the hapless schmucks (Troubleshooters) become hapless _smershoviks_ (Commie troubleshooters), in a Friend Computer\-engineered experiment to see what all the fuss with Communism was all about. In this alternate Alpha Complex, the equivalent to the Commies are the "NazCIA", pronounced "Not-CIA", and a mix of the worst (read: cheesiest) Nazi stereotypes melded with the worst (read: cheesiest) CIA stereotypes.
    -   Though the fact Registered Mutants have to wear yellow armbands pointing them out as such does play this trope somewhat straight.
-   In _Warhammer_, the Skaven are seen as very analogous to the Third Reich, what with their super technology, horrifying experiments, rune iconography (one of the more commonly used ones is a swastika-styled triskelion), disregard for human life, plan to conquer the world by killing everyone worthless (i.e. everyone, period) and the fact they have a unit called "Storm Vermin".
-   Since _Warhammer 40,000_ likes to take things to the extreme, its Imperium of Man is a mash-up of all kinds of totalitarian nightmares. There's Nazi elements in its militaristic authoritarianism, leader worship, obsession with racial purity (mutants are hunted down and exterminated, because they tend to worship Chaos), awesome tanks and spiffy uniforms. But there's also shades of the Soviet Union in the Imperium's bloated bureaucracy and use of commissars, as well as the Termight Empire thanks to an Inquisition serving as secret police.
    -   Arguable is how much of this fits in with the Emperor's vision of the future. He fought the Great Crusade to unify humanity under an enlightened order and free it from the oppression of gods or xenos. On the other hand, the anti-mutant angle, xenophobia, and militarism were all his ideas, he didn't show much concern about the well-being of Imperial citizens so long as the Imperium as a whole prospered, and his war on religion was an attempt to starve the Chaos Gods which he officially denied existed. In the end, the Horus Heresy happened, the Emperor was put on life support, and his Imperium devolved into a Commie Nazi hellhole where he's worshiped as a god on pain of being burned at the stake.
    -   There's a reason the fandom calls the Imperium "Catholic Space Nazis". Just sayin'.
-   The Imperium in _Strike Legion_, as a copy(or perhaps a Take That!) to the above _Warhammer 40000_ Imperium, is a galaxy-spanning empire with a completely psychotic God Empress at the reins. In the Imperium, conscription and brainwashing are commonplace, and Imperial scientists perform cruel genetic experiments to create new breeds of superior humans to fill out the empire's population. The Empress' core philosophy is that Humanity Is Superior and all other lifeforms, especially Gens (genetically engineered species) are "impure" and must be destroyed; the Imperium has wiped out scores of alien civilisations and continually seeks to wipe out all the others, with varying degrees of success. This puts them at odds with the democratic, alien-friendly Star Republic.
-   The Coalition States from _Rifts_ are a tyrannical Evil Empire noted for Fantastic Racism, ruled by a charismatic tyrant who corrupted a democratic regime, and whose Humongous Mecha and Powered Armor tend to have a prominent skeleton/Death's Head motif.

    Theatre 

-   _The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui_ has a gang that takes over Chicago, followed by the neighboring town of Cicero. Their resemblance to the Nazi Party is entirely deliberate.
-   In _Knickerbocker Holiday_, when Stuyvesant seizes power in New Amsterdam, he proclaims a new "age of strength through joy." His authoritarian rule is compared to "Julius Caesar, dot Italian" and "Attila, dot Aryan," a thinly-veiled allusion to two dictators who held power when the show was written (1938).

    Web Animation 

-   _Terrible Writing Advice_ often advises writers to base their villains off of Nazi Germany. Given the tendency of the series to use Stylistic Suck, it's mocking the over-use of this trope. In the "Evil Empires" episode, the reason he advises basing the empire off of Nazi Germany is because if you chose a different historical empire like Ancient Rome, that would require opening up a history book and actually doing research, which is always discouraged because that requires effort. The "Grimdark" episode also advises basing the bad guys off of Nazi Germany, but then proceeds to show a list of empires and how long they lasted, pointing out that Nazi Germany lasted for a bit over a decade, which is nothing compared to empires like the Ottoman and Roman empires, which lasted for centuries.
-   _Murder Drones_ has the Disassembly Drones, who were sent by JC Jenson in Spaaaaacee!!!! to wipe out the newly independent Worker Drones after the humans they were supposed to be serving died out and there was no more use for them. If wiping out a group of people wasn't enough, they wear uniforms reminiscent of Nazi officers, complete with armbands, though their leader J is the only one who also expresses the Workers' supposed inferiority.
-   The Animesque web-series _RWBY_ has Adam Taurus. Adam's entreaty to Sienna Khan consists of him declaring the Faunus to be a superior race, better than humans in every way, and stating that humanity should be made to serve the Faunus instead of simply respecting them. In Volume 5, his clothing is changed from a black and red Asian-themed suit to a militarised grey suit that resembles a Nazi uniform. He has built a cult of personality around himself that he uses to inflame and radicalise Faunus against humanity. In a scene reminiscent of the Reichstag Fire, he murders Sienna Khan with the intention of fabricating a story about her being murdered by humans to cement his authority as the new leader and deliberately radicalise the White Fang against humanity.

    Webcomics 

-   The Zamoran Government from _Lighter Than Heir_. The similarities include being forbidden from holding a military after losing a war with a neighbor country, being resentful with said neighbor, building up a formidable military in secrecy, performing grisly human experiments on unwilling victims in secret laboratories, being obsessed with genetic "superiority", launching surprise attacks without warning, and massacring entire cities. Even their banner looks similar to the one used by Nazi Germany.
-   In _Minion Comics_ the leader of the evil organization, Von Gernsbach, wears a Nazi-like red armband, hangs his image on red banners, and installs Hitler's head on a giant gorilla.
-   In _The Order of the Stick_, after the revelation of what Minister Malack plans to do with the Empire of Blood when he inherits it in some 30-40 years (to whit: organising for a thousand sentient beings to be sacrificed each day in the name of his deity, Nergal), plus his idle comment of needing to make "some special chamber to do it in" as Tarquin's silly arenas are inefficient, in #875, the forums were immediately filled with posters comparing him to the Nazis and Adolf Hitler in particular. The Giant himself promptly showed up and explained that the issue actually left certain details out; Minister Malack's plans also include creating a ruling caste of vampiric nobles to control the Empire with him, and the chambers were based on equal parts _Soylent Green_ and factory farming. The professional butchering chambers (the Giant is a vegetarian, see?), are supposed to sacrifice via exsanguination, so that Nergal gets deaths in his honor and the vampires get blood to feed their own hungers.
-   The Souballo Empire is presented this way in _Our Little Adventure_, with Elves (and probably Half-Elves) being their primary target of discrimination.
-   The Empire of Russiama from _Tales of the Skull King_ who are in the process of exterminating the Dwarven people who they nicknamed "Drews". Doesn't help that they also speak with stereotypical German spelling such as "Zee" and "Zhem".
-   _Endtown_: The Topsiders are complete xenophobes who kill anything that isn't human. They're all about human purity and believe that The Virus will die if they complete their genocide. But sometimes, they'll experiment with mutant brains and vivisect immune humans For Science!. For extra irony, the reveal that the mutation comes from contact with extradimensional matter and how they just showed up one day at the end of the world, implies that they _might not even be human_, let alone from the same world/dimension.

    Web Original 

-   In Linkara's review of _Secret Empire_, he spends a good portion of the beginning calling out people who would try to say that HYDRA are not Nazis by pointing out they the organization uses Nazi tactics, worked with the Nazis, its founder and many of their employees were Nazis and that all HYDRA needed to really do was do a find-replace on a Nazi pamphlet replacing "Nazi" with "HYDRA".
    
    **Linkara:** _If it walks like a duck, quacks like a duck and "Sieg Hiel"s like a frickin' Nazi, then it's a frickin' Nazi! Don't try to split hairs when it comes to the frickin' Nazis!_
    
-   _Decades of Darkness_ has Shane Mullins and his Vitalists of New England. Fun fact: They have an SA equivalent wearing red shirts.
-   _The Fire Never Dies_ has the falangists. While they existed in real life, some of the entries indicate that not only will they become the dominant far-right philosophy to the point that falangism becomes a byword for any far-right authoritarian system the way that fascism has in our history, but _Britain_ will be one of the nations that falls to falangism.
-   In the online speculative evolution project _A Scientific Fantasy,_ an Austrian elf named Hister is Omnia Sanatem's version of Hitler, having started "the Great War", put people in concentration camps, and killed 6-16 million.
-   _SCP Foundation_ features SCP-1730, a Foundation site from a parallel universe that was taken over by the GOC and run very much like a concentration camp with the intent of destroying all anomalies sent there. The concentration camp-like nature of Site-13 is remarked upon in-universe.
-   In an old version of a _Springhole_ article about how to write villains, Syera advises against these sort of characters, calling them "bargain bin Nazis". Xe notes while taking inspiration from the Nazis for fictional villains isn't a bad thing, most examples of bargain bin Nazis tend to use superficial things like the uniforms and salute rather than any of actual atrocities the Third Reich committed.
-   The web serial _Worm_ has _two_ such organizations. The Empire 88 (with the 88 standing for "HH" or "Heil Hitler") employs neo-Nazi beliefs with the superiority of the White (rather than Aryan) race run by a man who styles himself Kaiser. Gelleshaft however is far more sinister, a Nazi-inspired group that has its home base in Germany. They are not shy about exerting their influence or lending superhumans to others in order to further the cause.

    Web Video 

-   _Vision of Escaflowne Abridged_ plays up the canon Zaibach Empire being "an evil expansionist empire," who use kidnapped children as guinea pigs, and in this version address their Emperor as "Mein Furer."
    
    **Freid Priest:** I can't believe Zaibach would attack us! We thought they'd stop after invading Poland.  
    **Van:** Don't you mean Fanelia?  
    **Freid Priest:** Potato, tomato...
    

    Western Animation 

-   In the Dutch series _Alfred J. Kwak_, which features humanized animals, the main character's nemesis is named Dolf. He founds a party called _National Crows_, he takes power by staging a fascist-style coup, and if he proclaims himself Emperor and dresses in Napoleonic style, he's obviously a satire of Hitler. Oh, and he grows a _characteristic_ mustache. Dolf also tries to enforce "racial purity" while he himself, like Hitler, is hardly up such standard - he's the son of a crow and a blackbird. Calling Dolf, well, _Dolf_ was considered too much in Germany, in fact, where the character went by the name Kraa instead.
-   The Fire Nation from _Avatar: The Last Airbender_. "We are the sons and daughters of fire, the superior element!" a military rally is told. There's genocide in the back-story, attempted genocide in the climax, there's propaganda, revisionist history, indoctrination of the young, and the whole take-over-the-world thing.
    -   While the Fire Nation is definitely paralleling Nazi Germany, its main parallel was Imperial Japan, which had all of the above.
        -   The various Chinese dynasties also were definitively in there if you were looking for them with any regularity. Which just goes to show that "Nazi's" are Older Than Print.
    -   While we don't know what he did in particular, Chin the Conqueror/the Great is a serious contender for Bonapartism, as seen in the episode Avatar Day. Though he is far more obviously a rather blatant copy of the First Emperor of China, whose _name_ he also shares.
    -   In the sequel _The Legend of Korra_, the treatment of non-benders by the Republic City Council (mostly Tarrlok's doing) (Curfews, cutting off electricity, rounding up innocents including children en masse and throwing them in jail) in response to the rising threat of the Equalists is awfully similar to not only the Nazi treatment of Jews, but also the Red Scare and Japanese internment in North America.
        -   The Equalists are also very similar to Nazis, with their desire to "purge impurities..." And there's fact that the leader of this anti-Bender movement in no way fits his own definition of purity.
        -   In Book 4 Kuvira and her Earth Empire not only employ re-education camps for dissenters and traitors but proceed to send any "non-Earth Empire" citizens to prison camps, specifically targeting anyone not of direct Earth Kingdom descent.
-   _Ben 10: Alien Force_ has the Highbreed, a species of genocidal aliens who consider themselves the Master Race and wish to wipe all other "inferior" species out of existence, to the point of enslaving humans and forcing them to work hard labor on their warp gates. Heck, one Highbreed even has a German-sounding name. Although it turns out that their entire reason for doing is because their obsession with genetic purity has made their entire species sterile due to generations of inbreeding, so the current generation of Highbreed is in fact the last. They can't stand the thought of any "inferior" species outliving them, so they've gone on a Suicidal Cosmic Temper Tantrum to make sure that everyone else dies before they do.
-   The _CatDog_ episode "Cat Club" has Cat joining a cats-only club (disguising Dog as a cat) and finding out it's a hate group bent on destroying all dogs.
-   _Chicken Little (1943)_: Tying in with the short's status as a Wartime Cartoon, Foxy Loxy is written as a direct allegory for Nazi Germany and its tactics, using propaganda to manipulate the masses and defame his opponents before literally devouring his subjects. The initial draft further accentuated the allegory by having Foxy Loxy read a copy of _Mein Kampf_ instead of a generic psychology textbook.
-   In _Clone High_, the school's rivals the G.E.S.H. have a pep rally with similar-looking Nazi imagery.
-   The 1943 Donald Duck cartoon "Der Fuehrer's Face" is somewhere between this and Those Wacky Nazis, placing Donald in "Nutziland", where everything is shaped like Swastikas or Hitlers Face (Der Führer's Face). He has to work really hard for the Führer, and everybody is clothed in Nazi Uniforms.
-   The Sweetcakes of _Drawn Together_, who wiped out most of the Sockbat race by turning them into confections.
-   Since _Exo Squad_ is the European Theater of World War II IN SPACE!, it's no surprise that Phaeton's Neosapien Order has Naziesque qualities in rhetoric and ideology, and somewhat in practice. There were definitely some very ironic themes one could pick out if you apply enough Fridge Logic to the Neosapien origins and reasons for being.
-   An episode of the 1980s _Fat Albert_ cartoon had the Junkyard gang confronting a White supremacist group called the Double Cross, their insignia being two X's. This episode subverts things somewhat in the sense that Hitler, the Nazis, Swastikas, and the Holocaust are explicitly and constantly referred to in the course of the episode. Even in the allegorical Brown Hornet segment, Hitler was still mentioned by name.
-   Doctor Emilia from _Kipo and the Age of Wonderbeasts_ is blonde haired, blue-eyed, and seeks to exterminate all mutes on the surface, as she believes that they're savage beasts and that Humanity Is Superior (even after she's proven otherwise.) She also captures several mutes with the intent to experiment on and "cure" them.
-   The _My Little Pony 'n Friends_ episode "Baby, It's Cold Outside" featured a group of penguin supremacists that wanted to exterminate all the impure non-antarctic life by creating an endless ice age, and were clear Nazi homages in the process. It was kind of a strange show.
-   Emperor Belos of _The Owl House_ is a _perfect_ example of this. Belos has some extremely heavy Nazi undertones to his characters. For starters, he is the absolute authoritarian dictator of the Boiling Isles with his own secret police in the form of the Emperor's Coven, who lock away anyone who doesn't subscribe to his plans and or beliefs, primarily Wild Witches into the Conformitorium, not unlike the Gestapo arresting dissidents primarily Jews, and throwing them into concentration camps. Secondly, he makes sure to ban any sort of knowledge that he doesn't approve of so as to keep his rule unquestioned, all the while making sure to use this lack of knowledge to create a false image of himself. To top it all off, Belos is even planning his very own Holocaust in the form of the Day of Unity, which is meant to erase all of the witches and demons of the Boiling Isles, species that he doesn't like, purely because he holds beliefs that said species is inherently sinful and must be eradicated.
-   _ReBoot_ is very blatant about this. Megabyte is even called "mein fuhrer" by Herr Doktor and the bi-nomes loyal to him after Megabyte's fall are call neo-virals. The Bad Future where Megabyte took over had all of his subjects tattooed with bar codes.
-   _Recess_:
    -   In one episode, a particularly nasty villain, Dr. Slicer, is clearly meant to look like Heinrich Himmler, albeit bald. Seriously, he scares even TJ.
    -   The Fun Police in the episode "The Rules". In order for the old, previously lost rules of King Mortimer to be enforced, King Bob employed Fun Police, who even had red armbands with happy faces on them. There were also higher-up Secret Fun Police.
-   One episode of _Robot Chicken_ has the Care Bears plotting to exterminate all the _impure_ Care Bear Cousins using blatant Naziesque dialogue in the process. They succeed and are ultimately punished by having Care-alot turned into a dark and terrible hell on Earth: **New Jersey**.
-   _She-Ra and the Princesses of Power_
    -   Season 3 reveals that the intergalactic Horde has conquered entire galaxies, and is manned by genetically related clones of one man.
    -   Season 4 reveals that the First Ones wanted to purge all "impure" life from the galaxy. Etheria and the She-Ra mantle were appropriated by the First Ones for this purpose, as Adora discovers to her horror.
-   _South Park_:
    -   In "The Passion of the Jew", Cartman got all his Nazi imagery and leads a march where he yells hate messages in German, but everyone following him just thought they were fans of _The Passion of the Christ_.

-   Cartman's ginger supremacist movement in "Ginger Kids". He refers to Gingers as "the chosen race"; in the climax of the episode, the gingers kidnap every non-ginger with the goal of exterminating them. It should be noted that the episode started off with Cartman spreading hate speech about ginger kids, which led to several kids being bullied. Stan, Kyle, and Kenny sneaked into Cartman's room while he was asleep and dyed and his hair and drew freckles on his face to make him think he was ginger so he'd learn a lesson. Being on the other end of the bullying he instigated, Cartman spearheaded the plan to exterminate non-ginger kids because he refuses to be part of a minority. He talks everyone down from beginning the genocide when Kyle secretly tells him why his appearance changed, as Cartman realized if the other gingers found out they'd kill him too.

-   The Great Diamond Authority from _Steven Universe_ is the head of an intergalactic fascist dictatorship, who's leader is obsessed with gem perfection to the point of shattering gems who are overcooked, labeling them as _off color._
-   The episode "Absolute Power" from _Superman: The Animated Series_ brought Superman to an alien planet that had been conquered by Jax-Ur and Mala, two Kryptonian criminals that had escaped from the Phantom Zone. The parallels with Nazi Germany are present but vague in the beginning; there are stories told of economic depression and social unrest that were corrected when a new discipline-obsessed regime came to power, but it becomes patently hard to miss the symbolism when they start using the _Hitlergruß_ (Nazi Salute).
-   1942 animated short "Tulips Shall Grow" has the Screwballs, actual metal balls with screws in them, come barreling into Holland, wreaking devastation.
-   The anti-mutant group "Friends of Humanity" in _X-Men: The Animated Series_ look exactly like Neo-Nazis and their leader Creed even uses a nazi-looking emblem on his arm.

___

## Tyrannus

Dinosaur supremacists? That's new.

### **Alternative Title(s):** Nazis By Any Other Name

-   Leave No Survivors
-   Genocide Tropes
-   Nice Job Breaking It, Herod

-   Gratuitous Nazis
-   UsefulNotes/Central Europe
-   Nazi Gold

-   Nay-Theist
-   Sandbox/NRLEP Too Controversial With Explanations
-   Neglectful Precursors

-   Adolf Hitlarious
-   No Historical Figures Were Harmed
-   Bob Ross Rib

-   Napoleon Delusion
-   UsefulNotes/Europe
-   Nazi Gold

-   Might Makes Right
-   Politics Tropes
-   The Necrocracy

-   The Musical Musical
-   Older Than Television
-   Necro Cam

-   Music to Invade Poland to
-   Reichstropen
-   Nazi Gold

-   Nay-Theist
-   NoRealLife/Tropes L to O
-   Near-Rape Experience

-   Moral Sociopathy
-   The Only Righteous Index of Fanatics!
-   Necessarily Evil

-   Naughty Narcs
-   Villains
-   Nazi Grandpa

-   Names to Run Away from Really Fast
-   Obviously Evil
-   Nightmare Face

-   Those Wacky Nazis
-   Sliding Scale of Antagonist Vileness
-   Hate Sink

-   Murder Makes You Crazy
-   QuoteSource/Doctor Who
-   No Antagonist

-   Strontium Dog
-   ImageSource/Comic Books (M to Z)
-   Pistol-Whipping

-   N-Word Privileges
-   Prejudice Tropes
-   No Equal-Opportunity Time Travel