"_There are names for people who take advantage of women who are not in full control of themselves, and none of those names will ever rightfully be applied to me._"

So Bob's got a crush on Alice. We've seen him looking at her longingly or heard him talk of her beauty but Alice isn't all that keen on Bob. He may have asked her out and been turned down before, or she may be in a relationship. They may be together, and Bob's ready to take it to the next level, but Alice's waiting for the right time.

This trope comes in when something changes. Now Alice wants to have sex with Bob and she wants it now! Maybe she's drunk, drugged, or under some other influence. Maybe she's broken up and on the rebound, or wants to make another guy jealous. Bob's dream has come true!

Only Bob knows that it wouldn't be right. He politely (and often insistently) declines her offer, pointing out that it would be wrong to take advantage of her like this (she may also be underage). He tells her this while she's coming onto him and likely in a near-predator manner.

Bob will then feel bad for possibly hurting a girl's feelings and may get some mocking from if they find out, especially from his guy friends and even more so if he is a virgin. Occasionally Alice, once she has returned to a more sober or stable state of mind, will thank him for being so noble and drop hints that he's an OK guy. Sometimes they get it together after this little talk.

This is almost always a guy refusing a girl because, on TV, men refusing sex is unthinkable. Also note that if the character had slept with the intoxicated person, it might be considered rape, depending on the level of intoxication. If the character or the narrative seems to be laying it on too thick with praise for his behaviour, it can come across as Wants a Prize for Basic Decency. Often a trait of the Chivalrous Pervert.

Not to be confused with the American campaign of the same name, part of the US government's "war on drugs".

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _The 100 Girlfriends Who Really, Really, Really, Really, Really Love You_: Rentarou refuses to accept a romantic confession if he or the girl talking to him is under the influence of a drug or he thinks a girl isn’t conveying her true feelings.
-   In the _Ah! My Goddess_ chapter "Belldandy's Tempestuous Heart", where a mismade love potion has Belldandy doing everything short of ripping off her clothes and shouting, "Take me now!" at Keiichi; he keeps her off because she's not acting like the girl he fell in love with.
    -   This was adapted into the anime episode _Ah! Please don't look at me like that!_ in the first season. He doesn't know what caused the change, but still refrains; you gotta respect that. Future events have revealed his ability to resist may have to do with the Ultimate Force suppressing his sexual drive.
-   _Ayakashi Triangle_: Matsuri is usually oblivious that becoming a girl caused Soga to fall in love with him, but once lost his memories, thought he was always a girl, and asked Soga on a date. Soga rejects Matsuri, not just on moral grounds, but because he _wasn't attracted_ to Matsuri's amnesiac personality.
    
    _What's going on? Even if that's Matsuri, it's still the first time a girl has talked to me like this. Yet, I'm not moved. No, in fact, it's making me angry!_
    
-   In _Ceres, Celestial Legend_, Aya offers herself to Yuuhi, looking for Sex for Solace for losing Toya. Yuuhi gives in at first, to the point of making out and both getting naked. However, right before going too far, Yuuhi snaps out of it after seeing Aya being clearly on the brink of tears. He then kindly rejects her, claiming that he loves her too much to take advantage of the situation.
-   _Code Geass R2_ has a Gender Flip. Lelouch has a Heroic BSoD because Nunnally has become viceroy of Area 11 and stumbles upon Kallen, who idolized his alter ego and is tsundere to Lelouch himself. He approaches her, cups her check, and orders her to "comfort me". Not only she refuses because he's not himself, but she smacks him across the face.
-   _DearS_: Ren explicitly offers to have sex with Takeya when he starts to feel turned on by her presence. Yet, because she's an alien and (primarily) because he feels that Ren isn't really doing it out of love, he politely (for him, anyway) declines.
-   In the 4th _Fairy Tail_ OVA, the girls get drunk. Juvia comes on to Gray (though she would do that even if she wasn't drunk) and Lucy comes on to Natsu. Gray freaks out the whole time, Natsu freaks out for a bit but then carries Lucy to her room and puts her to bed.
-   Dee spends the majority of _FAKE_ trying to coax Ryo into having sex with him, but when Ryo, emotionally shaken after meeting and being unable to shoot his parents' murderer, comes on to him, Dee backhands him and tells him not to tempt him into taking advantage of him in an emotionally vulnerable state. (He does subsequently try to find out if Ryo really _does_ want it because it's him, but Bikky interrupts them before anything can happen.)
-   Love potions strike twice in _The Familiar of Zero_. Although the second time it devolves into massive Les Yay, the non-potion-ed characters are mostly noble.
-   _Great Teacher Onizuka_: Despite becoming a teacher in the first place to have a Teacher/Student Romance, Onizuka realizes he has morals that prevent him from taking advantage of his students, even when some of them (like Urumi) are clearly into him.
-   _How to Treat a Lady Knight Right_: In a bonus chapter of volume 1, Chivalrous Pervert Houli discovers that Leo Can't Hold Her Liquor and is a giggly, playful drunk. When Leo strips off the bottom half of her armor and plops herself onto Houli's lap, Houli is pervert enough to want to feel up her rear, but just chivalrous enough to resist the urge. At least initially, as he does start to think maybe it's okay since she won't find out. Fortunately, at that moment Leo unwittingly punches him into the sky.
-   _Kaguya-sama: Love Is War_:
    -   Hayasaka tried to tempt Shirogane into doing things to Kaguya when he came to visit, saying that she wouldn't remember any of it due to her fever, the two of them were going to be left alone for three hours, and the walls were soundproof. He manages to avoid giving into temptation, though he says that it took every ounce of his willpower. Perhaps more importantly given the nature of their relationship, however, is that he _also_ resisted the temptation to ask how she really felt about him or about any of her weaknesses.
    -   Ishigami nearly loses his virginity to his crush Tsubame on Christmas Eve, but wanting to do things properly, he formally confesses and asks her out before things go too far. When she turns him down, he doesn't go through with it.
-   In _Kotoura-san_, Manabe won't take advantage of Haruka even when he has a decent opening, despite his blatant perversion. This is with him, quite literally, trying to force himself to follow through on his intentions (with Haruka's grandfather's blessing no less); he can't bring himself to act anything less than honorably in Haruka's presence ("honorable" for a horny Manabe, anyway).
-   In _Maid-Sama!_, when Misaki is hypnotized into acting as though she's drunk and starts trying to take off her clothes, Usui rolls her up in a blanket rather than taking advantage, in spite of having already made his interest in her very clear.
-   _Maken-ki!_: Takeru's level self-restraint varies according to the scene in the manga.
    -   In chapter 38, he tried to strip Aki despite her protests, so he could finish oiling her, but was stopped due to Celia dragging him off.
    -   During the Himekagura Festival (chapter 69), Love Espada caught him staring at her ass because she was wearing a thong in public. Yet, when she gave him the chance to bang her<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , he reluctantly refused because she was allied with Kamigari.
    -   In the anime's second season, one episode has Aki's parents strand them alone on the island, to encourage Takeru to impregnate her. Nothing happens between them. Whereas in the second OVA, he pounced her because she came onto him; not realizing Aki was drunk.
-   In _My Bride is a Mermaid_, a Love Potion results in Nagasumi having every girl in his school chasing after him. Then when he finally gets home and tries to take a bath, Maki, San, Lunar, Akeno, and Mawari all show up in swimsuits and start coming on to him simultaneously. He ultimately resists, although a side effect of the Love Potion means that San's dad and his own dad both beat the crap out of him.
-   _Omamori Himari_'s Yuuto's other superpower must be his ability to not be swayed by the (_extremely_ aggressive) advances of every Cute Monster Girl in his harem.
-   Tsukune Aono of _Rosario + Vampire_ may very well be the living, breathing incarnate of this trope; no matter how many times girls proposition him, sometimes while half-naked, he will turn them down. It's exaggerated in the Flower Offering arc: in an effort to avoid an Arranged Marriage, Mizore doped him with a powerful aphrodisiac made from a local flower known to the yuki-onna, said aphrodisiac having a reputation in the monster world for being among the best, and then pretty much threw her naked body at him while literally _begging_ him to knock her up; even with all of those factors, Tsukune _still_ managed to resist her advances.
-   In chapter 40 of _Tales of Wedding Rings_, Elder Peridot, frustrated by how little progress Satou and his wives have made on deepening their bonds since she locked them in her lab, floods the room with a powerful aphrodisiac. All the girls but Amber succumb to the gas's effects, tearing off their clothes and throwing themselves at Satou in an amorous frenzy. Satou manages to keep his wits about himself and runs away, not wanting to take advantage of them in their current state. When they corner him in the bath, he uses the Ring of Wind to knock them all away and disperse the gas, bringing everyone back to their senses.
-   While painful for him (in more ways than one), Rito in _To Love Ru_ will often resist the advances the many girls push on him. Some examples:
    -   Yami gets a blast of Celine's pollen and asks Rito on a date, then tries to kiss him. While his refusal may have been at least partly for fear of what she'd do to him after sobering up, she interprets it as this trope. Notably, an issue or so later, she **doesn't** slash or clobber him for seeing her in a swimsuit.
    -   There was an earlier incident where Lala accidentally gave almost everyone in her class a Love Potion. Naturally, Rito ended up having to fend off Haruna's advances.
    -   From the sequel "Darkness":
        -   Celine's pollen makes anyone, regardless of age, gender or sexual orientation fall in love with Rito. When his _sister_ gets a blast of it... She asks, "What? did you think I'd just run and start clinging onto you? Please." It turns out that the potion _did_ work, but Mikan managed to fight it off, making this a rare opportunity where _both_ people were this.
        -   Averted, subverted and played straight in one sequence. During Yui's visit at Rito's, Momo tries to set up a special mood between them, which is seemingly about to be disrupted by their usual antics. She considers an aphrodisiac but dismisses that thought as she feels it is not appropriate. Then Yui herself makes a move on Rito but is basically shot down by Rito.
        -   Taken to extremes by Rito's apparent resistance to the charm of Charmians, which are supposed to turn any men who witnesses their face a beast. He doesn't. Lala's father Gid resists it as well, but he's from a powerful species.
        -   In the entire series, it has been completely averted by Rito, _once_ and that took the influence of a very powerful alien aphrodisiac that completely shut down his consciousness. Fortunately, he was Sharing a Body with someone else at the time, or things could have gotten really dark.
-   In _Trigun: Badlands Rumble_, Vash, being the Chivalrous Pervert that he is, could have taken advantage of Amelia when she was drunk, but instead offered to simply carry her home, much to her expressed dismay. It didn't help that she couldn't hold her booze and ended up throwing up on him on the walk back to her hotel room anyway.
-   In _Undead Unluck_, Seeing that they don't have a way to defeat Shen and that Andy is willing to go back to being a lab experiment so she can enter the Union, Fuuko offers to him (who had been claiming that he would make her fall in love with him since they discovered that her powers depend of the affection she feels for the objetive, and before that he directly tried to have sex with her in an alley in the hopes that that kind of contact would be enough to kill him) to have sex right there, hoping that the grateful she feels would be enough to either kill him or kill Shen. After Shen decides to give then a chance to kill another member of the Union so they can both become members, Andy angrily tells Fuuko that he's not rotten enough to take advantage of a desperate woman, and to never try something like that ever again.
-   Early on in _Yamada-kun and the Seven Witches_, when Miyamura suggests that Yamada could use the charm power on Shiraishi to make her do anything he wants, Yamada first nosebleeds at the thought, but then refuses.

    Comic Books 

-   _Y: The Last Man_ gives Yorick, the literal last man on Earth, plenty of opportunity to parlay his status into physical gratification. However, as he himself explains it, he would not feel right taking advantage of women like that.
-   _Teen Titans_: Tim Drake politely declined a drunken Rose Wilson's offer to "be friends". Unfortunately, this led to a Not What It Looks Like moment between him and Kid Devil, Rose's other interest.
-   In _Identity Crisis (2004)_, it's revealed that members of the Justice League erased the memories of villains who learned their secret identities, and mind-wiped Dr Light to make him less dangerous. Subsequently, Batman becomes concerned that Catwoman may have also been brainwashed, as she abruptly switched from being his bitter enemy to a flirty Anti-Villain. He deliberately distances himself from her because he fears that he would be taking advantage of her if they did get involved.

    Fan Works 

-   _Advice and Trust_: In a scrapped scene, Rei tried to make a move on Shinji and Asuka when she was heavily medicated, insisting that she was more than clear-headed enough for making such a decision, and the detox was mostly just messing with her inhibition _not_ to hit on them. Even so, Shinji and Asuka tried to resist.
-   _Evangelion 303_: Subverted. In chapter 5 Asuka has got it with holding her emotions back and decides to have sex with Shinji after asking him if he trusts her to not be impaired by ego or alcohol. Shinji refuses at the beginning, arguing that she has drunk several beers that night so that he cannot be sure that she is not inebriated. Asuka argues back she is completely sober (and she might be) and very serious. Shinji still resists but she insists _a lot_ and he finally gives in. Neither of them regrets it the next morning (although they are still very hesitant about their relationship).
-   _Hail to the King (Thuktun Flishithy)_: Asuka accidentally drinks a G-cell serum and her behaviour changes to aggressive and instinct-driven. Right away she tackles Shinji, kisses him and demands sex from her "mate". Shinji refuses since she is not acting normal and he does not want to take advantage of her.
-   Part 1 of the _Knights of the Old Republic_ fanfic Call Me Mud.
-   In the _Firefly_ fanfic _Forward_ Jayne is rather (pleasantly) surprised when River suddenly starts trying to make out with him. However, he quickly realizes something is wrong, then douses her with ice water to snap her out of it. Shortly afterward, they learn that there's a psychic who has been influencing everyone around them, and that said psychic was deliberately pushing River and Jayne at each other because otherwise, River would have been observant enough to recognize said psychic.
-   Happens sometimes to Raven in _Teen Titans_ fanfiction due to one episode showing her emotions as distinct personas. When a certain one takes over...
-   _A Brief History of Equestria_: One side story has Hurricane comfort Clover on the death of her father by sleeping with her... strictly in the platonic sense, even stating he'd never think of taking advantage of her emotional state like that.
-   In _Consequences of Unoriginality_, Emeris spends the first chapter under a curse that, among other things, forces the mares and sometimes stallions around him to throw themselves at him. Despite the resulting loneliness, he never takes advantage of it and manages to resist all of the more forceful attempts (eg, drugs, Fluttershy's stare), though sometimes merely through dumb luck.
-   The protagonist of _Sophistication and Betrayal_ resists giving in to Fluttershy after a night of drinking, as it would only result in meaningless drunken sex.
-   This is a common plot device in fics that pair Lyn with Kent in the _Fire Emblem_ fandom. Kent's straightlaced and lawful personality, mixed with his romantic feelings for Lyn (which are canon in the game), are supposed to make him keep any pushiness or selfish tendencies aside in regards to a relationship with Lyn, and possibly "aid" them in a Hurt/Comfort scenario. Whether it works or not in the fics, eh, it's a case-by-case scenario.
-   Kurogane refuses to respond to Syaoran's desperate, drunken advances in _Shatterheart_ despite having a Friends with Benefits relationship with him.
-   _Weiss Reacts_: Despite Yang's constant advances towards Blake, when a delirious Blake asks her to give her a kiss, Yang turns her down and tells her she'll do it when she can remember being kissed.
-   Despite Roy trying to get back together with Edward and still being in love him in _i'm giving you a nightcall_, when Edward starts throwing himself at him and telling Roy his actual feelings for him. Roy doesn’t do anything but calm Edward down and put him to sleep because Edward was drugged with a very powerful hormone. And he didn't believe Edward.
-   _Old West_: When Grace Glossy is drunk in the 21st chapter, she flirts with Rattlesnake Jake, much to his bewilderment. He opts to carry her to bed and leave her to sleep even after she suddenly kisses him and passes out immediately afterwards.
-   Xander earns a great deal of respect from Faith in _Links Broken, Bonds Forged_ when they drive off to save the world after she's become The Empath. Specifically, she points out that his lust is affecting her and she might end up jumping him instead of saving the world, which causes him to shove it aside and focus on his admiration for her instead.
-   _X-Men: The Early Years_: In the "Boy Scouts, Sex, and Other Mysterious Things" chapter, a heavily inebriated Jean throws herself at Scott, who states it's not happening.
    
    **Scott:** You're drunk. We shouldn't be doing this.  
    **Jean:** Run wild with me. You would never be able to do it with Sue. Let go and lose control.  
    **Scott:** We're not doing this.  
    **Jean:** Why?  
    **Scott:** We are not doing this. One, you're drunk and not thinking clearly. You're the closest thing to a best friend I have and I refuse to ruin our friendship for a five-second hormone rush. I care for you too much to take advantage of you like that; it's a line I won't cross. Two, I am not prepared or equipped for this and I can almost guarantee that you're not either. I refuse to do something in the heat of the moment that could affect the rest of your life. Three, if the guys ever found out, they would trounce me and I'd let them. We all agreed you're off limits. Four, what the guys left breathing the Professor would gladly finish off. So, we are not doing this.
    
-   _My Hero Playthrough_: After Izuku both saves Tsuyu's life and reveals his secret to her, she tries to seduce him. He explains to her why it is a bad idea, and suggests they discuss it again later.
-   _A Possible Encounter for a Phantom_: After Ember casts her love spell, Kim becomes very attached to Danny. Even though he's deeply into her, Danny refuses to take advantage of this, wanting Kim to fall in love with him by choice.
-   In _Spider-Man: Finding Home_, Peter Parker actively avoids doing anything more than kiss Kate Bishop while she's drunk even if he's genuinely attracted to her. When Kate makes it clear that she wants them to have sex after a night out, she stops Peter's concerns about if he'd be taking advantage of her by revealing that she made a recording of herself prior to them going out where she explicitly stated that she intends to take Peter's virginity that evening.
-   "Regaining Perspective": Oliver has been given a Love Potion and is focused on Laurel. They are _moments_ away from having sex when Felicity interrupts them. Oliver's reaction to her presence makes Laurel realize he's been drugged, and not only does she stop things immediately, but she's ashamed that she didn't realize it sooner and let things get that far. Laurel is relieved when Oliver makes it clear that he still wants to be with her even after he's cured.
-   In _The Flower Princess and the Alchemist_, a villainess offers a kidnapped Edward a Love Potion that would "give him Orihime's love for a night". Once it clicks to Ed that she means that she would offer him some sort of aphrodisiac to spike Orihime's drink with, he takes it as well as you might think. He is even more disgusted at the amount of men who have been implied to have actually gone through with her offer, judging by how surprised the villainess is by his furious decline, hinting that he is one of the first to refuse.
-   A variant appears in _Mending the Knots_, where Nora fully trusts Ren to handle her clothes during laundry. Despite having a (reciprocated) crush on her, Ren refuses to take advantage of the situation to get a better look at Nora's underwear.
-   The _Miraculous Ladybug_ fic _Under Love's Enchantment_ features a Love Freak akuma obsessed with making people fall in love by force, with one of her victims being Chloe (who falls in love with Kim). Despite his huge crush on her, Kim never takes advantage of Chloe's newfound devotion towards him to do anything risqué, with their most intimate act being cuddling.
-   _The Phantom Familiar_: When Danny and Kirche meet up again, she goes all out in trying to seduce him. Despite finding the completely willing Kirche extremely attractive, Danny refuses refuses her advances and tells her to value herself more.
-   In _Memories Like Ghost Stories_, a recently traumatized Shen Qingqiu plants a passionate kiss on his rescuer Liu Qingge. In spite of epically crushing on the other man, Liu Qingge nonetheless breaks the kiss and declines to push further until Shen Qingqiu has recovered from the shock. Then, if he still wants it, they will talk about entering a relationship.
-   _Recoil_: Taylor rarely drinks at all, but at Gladys' wedding, she manages to get plastered on some deceptively strong apple cider, and is taken home by her adjutant, Sergeant Kinsey — who has been attracted to her for some time. And who has to help her out of her vomit stained tunic so he can wash it. And her pants, which she's not coordinated enough for. And rub her back, lacy bra and all, as she mumbles about the reasons she got so drunk, revolving around feeling alone, and asking for his help. Through herculean effort, he keeps things professional as he tucks her into bed, and then takes a very long, very cold shower.

    Film — Animation 

-   _The Little Mermaid (1989)_: Eric has a girl he rescued from the beach obviously into him, given how she clings to him when he helps her to the castle, and she happily spends the entire next day with him. This girl also makes him laugh, is gracious as she is silent, and is full of surprises. He hesitates on kissing her, however, because as he tells her, he doesn't even know her name. There's also the issue of Sacred Hospitality in that she's technically his guest. After Sebastian whispers that her name is Ariel and Ariel nods when he asks, Eric loosens up.

    Film — Live-Action 

-   _Austin Powers_: Austin, for all his womanizing and love of free love, turns down a kiss from Vanessa because she's drunk. Vanessa's mother also reveals that Austin never once tried to get her into bed, likely because she was already married. He might be a womanizer, but Austin is also a genuine gentleman.
-   In _Ghostbusters (1984),_ Peter Venkman (who usually gets Distracted by the Sexy pretty easily) refused Dana, because she was possessed by Zuul. Unlike the others, he did it with insulting zingers.
    
    **Possessed Dana**: _I want you inside me._  
    **Venkman:** Haha, go ahead— No, I can't. Sounds like you got at least two people in there already. Might be a little crowded.
    
-   This happens to the central couple in _10 Things I Hate About You_, with the girl drunk after a party. Rather than think of the male lead in a new light after discovering he is too noble to take advantage of her, the female lead _hates his guts_ for seeing her in a moment of weakness.
-   In _The Cutting Edge_ the poor hero refuses the drunken Defrosting Ice Queen, she reacts very badly and yells at him, he goes off alone and depressed and gets very, very drunk, and then The Vamp turns up and lacks his nobility...
-   _Friday the 13th Part VIII: Jason Takes Manhattan:_ One of McCulloch's few redeeming points comes when his student Tamara strips down to her underwear and tries to seduce him so he'll let her graduate without doing her final project. McCulloch angrily pushes her away and vows to have her held back for that stunt.
-   _Superbad_: Seth and Evan plan to mildly avert this, hoping that the targets of their affections will be more open to hooking up with them if they've had a couple of drinks. Ultimately played straight. In Evan's case, although he willingly goes into a bedroom alone with Becca, as soon as he realises just how smashed she is, he stops them going any further than kissing. The same happens with Seth and Jules, but with the roles reversed. The stone-cold sober Jules makes it clear she'd be into getting with the utterly plastered Seth, but not while he's as shit-housed as he is at the party.
-   In _The Bobo_, Peter Sellers' character declines a drunken offer from Britt Ekland's courtesan character to take advantage of her, possibly because he'd made a wager that he could seduce her, but it had to be in her apartment where it could be confirmed.
-   There's Pinto in _Animal House_, who gallantly declines to take advantage of his 13-year-old date who has passed out (to the disgust of his Shoulder Devil).
-   In _Machete_, the hero declines a drunk Sartana's advances and merely sleeps with her in his arms. When she wakes up and realizes he didn't take advantage of her, she falls for him.
-   Eli in _The Book of Eli_, for obvious reasons, refuses Solara's solicitations. When she tells him that he needs to use her, lest her mother be beaten, Eli allows her to stay and report that she was... used.
-   In _The Philadelphia Story_, Mike spurns Tracy's drunken advances. The next morning, she's a bit perturbed by his refusal until he explains:
    
    **Mike Connor**: You were extremely attractive, and as for distant and forbidding, on the contrary. But you also were a little the worse or better for wine, and there are rules about that.
    
-   In _American Beauty_, Lester spends most of the film obsessing over his daughter's slutty friend. But when he finally gets a chance to do the deed, she confesses that she's actually a virgin, and he decides not to go through with it.
-   _Young & Wild_: Tomás manages to stop Daniela giving him a blowjob, which he clearly wants, as he's a committed Evangelical (unlike her) while also objecting that she's drunk (more than him).
-   _Through Black Spruce_: Jesse rejects Annie's coming on to him while she's high the first time, but then has sex with her anyway shortly after this.
-   _Happy Death Day_: Tree calls Carter out for taking her back to his dorm room to hook up with her when she was completely wasted, to the point where she didn't even fully remember it the next day. Carter, appalled, informs her that they _didn't_ hook up, specifically because Tree was way too drunk; he was sincerely worried she'd hurt herself or get taken advantage of, so he tucked her into his bed, lending her a shirt to wear so she wouldn't vomit on her own clothes, and he slept in his roommate's bed. (This is foreshadowed when she changes clothes in front of him, and he turns away in embarrassment; she incorrectly assumes he's seen her naked already.) This is the start of Tree starting to warm up to Carter.

    Literature 

-   In _Akikan!_, Najimi, drunk off soda, is revealing her true feelings and asking Kakeru to do the deed with her, not caring that there are other people around. Kakeru is moral enough and declines.
-   _Daughter of the Sun_: Aelia refuses when Orsina's offering her sex, although she'd clearly like to, as she hasn't been truthful about her identity yet.

-   In the _Dreamblood Duology_, Wana refuses Hanani's request for Sex for Solace after her mentor's death, since she's obviously half-out of her mind with grief. Instead, he stays to console her while she cries it out, and they revisit the matter after she's had some time to recover.
-   _The Dresden Files_ have several examples.
    -   In _Storm Front_, Susan Rodriguez accidentally drinks the wrong potion (A Love Potion instead of an escape potion) and begins aggressively coming onto Harry, whose chivalry is a recurring theme throughout the series. Complicating the matter is that Harry is naked at the moment (he had been in the shower before she arrived) and they are trapped together in a small warded circle by an attacking demon. Ultimately, Harry defeats the demon and avoids Susan's amorous advances long enough for the potion to wear off. They do sleep together at a later point after she's sobered up.
    -   In the short story "Last Call", Harry has a chance to have a threesome with a magically-drunk and _very_ willing Murphy and a Maenad, a Greek mythological figure. Not only does he violently resist, but he also refrains from telling Murphy that she came on to him after the spell wears off.
    -   Molly Carpenter, daughter of Harry's best friend Michael Carpenter, has had a crush on Harry from her teen years, but Harry refrains from taking advantage of her because of how he feels it would make him look in Michael's eyes. When Molly becomes Harry's wizard apprentice, it's exaggerated since he has more authority over her and is involved even more with her life, but he still refuses because it would be taking advantage of her even more now.
    -   Harry is surprised when Marcone makes Harry a platinum member of his "health club". Harry and Marcone both know that Harry is this trope in regards to Marcone's... "trainers", but Marcone was doing it so that Harry would be too distracted by the good treatment to blow up any of Marcone's buildings. Again.
-   In Linnea Sinclair's _Gabriel's Ghost_, Sully's high on some liquid courage and works up the nerve to kiss his longtime crush. She resists because he's drunk; if he really wanted her surely he would have made a move when he was sober, therefore it's just the drugs and he'll regret it in the morning. Then he accidentally implies that he's looking for a one-night stand, and she gets angry at the insult and walks away.
-   _Harem in the Labyrinth of Another World_: Averted. Michio is initially very, very nervous thinking about the concept of sex slavery, and owning one...until he gives Roxanne, the sex slave in question, his virginity and takes hers. From that point on, he sees nothing wrong with the idea.
-   Lee from the _Hero Series_ does this to _herself_, at first starting to seduce Taro while high on music, then breaking it off. Then she comes back to get it on after she sobers up.
-   _Higehiro_: Sayu offers to sleep with Yoshida if he lets her stay at his place, but he continually refuses to take advantage of a high school girl, instead letting her stay if she cooks and cleans.
-   This is what makes Issei a lovable Chivalrous Pervert (with emphasis on the "pervert") in _High School D×D_, rather than a dangerous sleaze. Even pre-Character Development, he refuses to have sex with a girl he's actively lusting after when it's obvious she's doing it for the wrong reasons and not enjoying herself at all. Later, he refuses another seeking Sex for Solace, figuring it'll just hurt her more in the long run. He even manages to resist The Cutie offering him "skinship" when he realizes she doesn't know he'll want to hit for a home run. In short, no matter how perverted his ravings, informed consent is _very_ important to him.
-   Played with in _I, Jedi_. While arguing with Luke Skywalker over his decision to Rage Quit the Jedi Order after Luke decides to forgive Kyp Durron for blowing up the Carida system, protagonist Corran Horn insists he knows plenty about the allure of the Dark Side of the Force, relating anecdotes of times he was tempted in his years as a Space Police officer and didn't give in: he arrested an abusive drug-addicted husband rather than beat the crap out of him, refused a substantial bribe from an organized crime boss, arrested Bossk for the murder of Corran's father rather than murder him, and didn't retaliate against Imperial Intelligence officer Kirtan Loor for releasing Bossk. It's pirate queen Moff Leonia Tavira who nearly succeeds in finding his weak spot, when she tries to make him her boytoy and plays on his lust and male pride.
-   In _Infinite Stratos_, Ichika acts this way partly because he's Oblivious to Love, but mostly because he's the only guy at an all-girls school <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , and because of 5 Clingy Jealous Girls, a few with some slight Yandere tendencies, chasing after him and making sure none of the others get ahead with him.
-   _The Machineries of Empire_: The brainwashing that goes into creating Kel makes them incapable of refusing their superiors, regardless of what the order they're being given is. Jedao is clearly attracted to his subordinate, and mentions how easy it would be to order her to have sex with him, but decides that Even Evil Has Standards, and Rape Is a Special Kind of Evil.
-   _The Kingkiller Chronicle_: In _The Name of the Wind_, Kvothe finds it best if he doesn't follow up on Denna's request to join her for a swim in the lake after she's been subject to denner resin.
-   _The Phantom of the Opera_: Christine obviously expects several times to be raped during her two abductions, but it turns out the Phantom respects her privacy and honor.
-   In _Ringworld_, Nessus uses the tasp on Halrloprillalar in order to enslave her to Louis Wu's will through over-stimulus of her pleasure center. Louis is disgusted by this and refuses to take advantage of it. Instead, he helps her break the addiction.
-   Peter turns down a very drunk Leslie partway through the third _Rivers of London_ book, _Whispers Under Ground_.

-   _Shimoneta_
    -   You'd think having a hot girl like Anna wanting to have sex with you would be a guy's dream come true. But Tanukichi won't do it because Anna's sheltered upbringing has left her incapable of giving proper consent.
    -   Not long into the series, he begins to develop a romantic interest in Ayame. Yet, despite having numerous opportunities to peek at her body, he never does. Nor does it ever occur to him that she's naked whenever she's disguised as 'Blue Snow'.
    -   Deliberately invoked by Matsukage, who's conditioned Oboro, to dress and act like a female at all times while guarding his daughter, Anna. It's to keep Oboro from developing feelings toward her.
-   _Siege of Darkness_ contains a scene where, possessed by her sword (long story), Catti-brie rushes into Drizzt's room wearing a flimsy nightdress and glomps him. He spends a couple of minutes with his brain and hormones going haywire and almost gives in... then he starts adding up certain incongruities and realizes it's not her. They don't get together for years afterward, but their mutual respect jumps several notches.
-   Jake does this with Dark in the _Spy High_ series. She's not drunk or on drugs, but he knows that she is just desperate for affection and encourages her to have more respect for herself.
-   _The Testament of Sister New Devil_ subverts the trope for the sake of comedy and fanservice, during a scene at Chisato's apartment. She has her nephew, Basara, stand behind her and hold her tightly against him while she's dressed in one of his school shirts. Basara tries to resist by saying it's improper since they're related and because he knew Chisato wasn't wearing anything underneath. So she playfully asks if that's how he _really_ feels. Before he can reply, Chisato lightly rubs her backside against his crotch and smirks when she feels him get an erection.
-   In Laurie Halse Anderson's book _Twisted_, protagonist Tyler Miller is given the opportunity to sleep with his crush Bethany Milbury at a party but refuses to do so on account of her being drunk.
-   In _Tytania,_ Lira comes on to Fan Hyulick in an attempt to keep him from leaving, as she needs his help to further her cause. Despite the fact that she makes great omelettes, he declines.
-   _Underground_: While trying to get her out of a bar, Robyn tells Andrew she wants to sleep with him. She's also extremely drunk, and Andrew stops her, noting that he won't take advantage of her drunken state. He drives her home and makes her go to bed to sleep it off.
-   In _Unlimited Fafnir_, Yuu tries really hard not to see Iris scantily clad, despite the latter being okay with it.

    Live-Action TV 

-   In _Ashes to Ashes (2008)_, Gene shows some character development by backing away from a drunk, needy, getting-that-speculative-look-in-her-eye Alex... who proceeds to get even _more_ hammered and jump into bed with the next man who makes eye contact with her, but never mind that.
-   _The Big Bang Theory_:
    -   Leonard gets a kiss from Penny, whom he has been nerdily lusting over (while she's wearing a Cat Girl suit no less), but despite obviously enjoying the moment, he still rejects her on the basis that she just had an argument with her ex and was very drunk.
    -   A few seasons later, a drunken Penny proposes to Leonard (they've been dating a while by this point), and he turns her down.
-   On _The Big C_, at a party, some of Adam's friends invite him to participate in the gang rape of a drunk girl, but he declines.
-   _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_ has a couple:
    -   In "Bewitched, Bothered, and Bewildered", Xander is Above The Influence of every female in Sunnydale, particularly Buffy... well everyone except for Cordelia, who the spell was intended for. The spell was botched, and she ended up the only woman _protected_ from the spell.
    -   Oz is Above The Influence with Willow at more than one point. The first time Willow tries to get him to kiss her, he thinks she is trying to get at Cordelia and Xander and instead he wants to be the gentleman and wait. The second time is after he caught Willow cheating on him, and she tries to seduce him. He lets her down and says she doesn't have to prove anything to him and rejects her obvious sexual advances.
    -   Also happens with Giles and Jenny Calender at one point, but she's possessed by a demon at the time, so it soon escalates into a big fight.
    -   In the comic series, a drunk Buffy throws herself at Spike, babbling about how much she misses him and wants them to get back together. He's not sure whether she really means it or is just really drunk, but he gently turns her down before taking this trope a step further by escorting her to her room, tucking her in bed, and standing guard outside to make sure no one takes advantage of her in her sleep.
-   _Cheers_: There was an episode where a depressed Rebecca gets roaring, sloppy drunk and comes on hard to Sam; notorious horndog Sammy, who's been lusting after her since day one, responds in the negative, and gives two reasons: "One, you've been drinking, and a gentleman has his principles. Two, you look kinda disgusting right now."
-   On _Copper_ Corcoran saves Annie from the man who killed and raped her sister and wanted to rape Annie as well. She wants to thank him for all of this by having sex with him. He declines because _Annie is only ten years old_. Annie had a _horribly_ messed up childhood and Corcoran spends the next year trying to somehow give her a normal childhood while constantly shooting down her sexual advances.
-   The canon explanation for _Degrassi: The Next Generation_'s first season finale, though there's really no evidence Sean even knew Ashley was on drugs.
-   _Doctor Who_: At the end of "Flesh and Stone", Amy, having a case of pre-wedding jitters, tries to seduce the Doctor. He's _really_ not interested, and decides to grab her fiancé Rory and bring him along to further dissuade her from trying again.
-   In _Dollhouse_:
    -   Whiskey makes a solid attempt at seducing Topher, mostly in order to Mind Screw him, but he not only turns her down, but he is also royally creeped out by the whole thing. It likely had something to do with the fact that normally she _loathes_ him.
    -   Echo tries to seduce Paul as well, but he turns her down because he thinks it's because the Dollhouse mind screwed her.
-   In one episode of _The Drew Carey Show_, Kate's mother tries to convince her to dump her current boyfriend, Jay, in favor of Drew. Her meddling results in Kate and Jay going through a rough patch, and Kate, thinking that Jay's about to dump her gets weepy and drunk and ends up trying to hit on Drew. Even though Drew has loved Kate ever since they were kids, he can't bring himself to take advantage of her under the circumstances.
-   There's a very similar scene in the first season of _ER_. Carol shows up on ex-lover Doug's doorstep, despondent over being denied custody of an abandoned girl because she tried to kill herself a year earlier. Between Doug's womanizing ways and the fact that it's been obvious from the first episode that he's still madly in love with her, it's painfully obvious that he wants to take advantage of the situation, especially when she begins to make advances to him. But he ultimately resists, knowing that she'll regret it afterwards, not just because of her distraught state of mind, but also, (a) she's engaged to someone else, (b) they've never hashed out the issues from their broken relationship.
-   On _Eureka_, Sheriff Carter refuses Allison's advances when she's under the influence of a plant spore that removes inhibitions.
-   _Family Matters_ did an episode where Steve Urkel gets accidentally splashed with some pheromones and has to fight off aggressive advances from the normally-hostile Laura. In the end, she doesn't seem to remember what happened, and the situation reverts to status quo.
-   In the _Firefly_ episode "Our Mrs. Reynolds":
    -   Mal accidentally ends up married to a woman named Saffron as payment for saving a village. Given that she sees herself as Mal's property he is unwilling to accept her advances. His crew reminds him of this with Book warning him of a special hell "reserved for child molesters and people who talk at the theater". He conducts himself quite admirably until she shows up naked in his bed, and most of the crew berates him for "taking advantage" of by kissing her. He appeared to be in the process of backing out on her when the drugs kicked in.
    -   Wash manages to resist Saffron's attempts to seduce him.
-   In _Friends_, although Rachel wasn't technically drunk, her grief over her father's ill health left her feeling vulnerable enough to try and get Ross to console her. However, in spite of their fairly lengthy history, Ross declines, feeling that he shouldn't take advantage of her in her state of mind (later angrily muttering "I haven't had sex in six months, I should get a medal for that!"). However, in an unusual twist, she holds it against him, saying she'd been perfectly aware what she was doing, and just wanted to feel close to someone.
    -   The subject of a hilarious exchange the night Chandler and Monica first had sex:
        
        **Chandler:** How drunk are you right now?  
        **Monica:** Drunk enough that I want to do this. Not drunk enough that you should feel guilty about taking advantage.  
        **Chandler:** That's the perfect amount!
        
    -   When Joey mentions finding a drunk girl passed out in his and Chandler's apartment following a party, the rest of the gang asks him in a panic what he did to her. He rather angrily informs them "I put a blanket over her in case she was cold and I put a bucket next to her in case she needed to throw up!", making it abundantly clear that he never even _thought_ about taking advantage of her.
-   In _Game of Thrones_, Tyrion Lannister is wedded to Sansa Stark in an arranged marriage by Tywin. Neither are happy with the predicament as not only is he twenty or more years older than her but their families are at war with the other. On the night of their wedding, Tyrion sees that Sansa is mortified by the thought of sleeping with him, so he explains that he won't force her to consummate their wedding. He sticks by this principle even under mounting pressure to legitimize the wedding and produce an heir.
-   In the _Grimm_ episode "Blind Love", Rosalee is the only one unaffected when a criminal tries to 'punish' Nick for arresting his father years ago by slipping the entire group random love potions while they're having drinks at the hotel where the man works (Rosalee declined because she was pregnant). Potentially subverted as the whole point of the spell was that _nobody_ was in love with someone who loved them back, with the man's final goal being for Nick and his friends to kill themselves either through suicide or fighting each other, until Rosalee manages to devise an antidote.
-   _How I Met Your Mother_
    -   Played With in _both_ directions when Robin, after her nasty breakup with Don, tells Ted that she's pretty sure that she'll try to have revenge sex with him in the near future. Ted swears that he'll be Above The Influence, prompting Robin to laugh and explain just how utterly ruthlessly she will stalk and seduce him and have no qualms about exploiting him the first time she catches him in a moment of weakness. However, when she does try this a couple of weeks later, the rumors of her wiles turn out to be greatly exaggerated.
-   _iCarly_: "iSaved Your Life". After risking his life to push Carly out of the way of a truck, Carly is lovestruck and they enter a relationship. Soon, Freddie realizes that Carly is potentially only in love with him because he saved her life, so he tells Carly they should wait a while, and see if she still has feelings for him later.
-   _Jake 2.0_: After losing his memory in one episode, Jake still trusts/is drawn to Diane (his doctor who works for the people he thinks he should be running from) and almost sleeps with her in the next episode. She wants to but can't go through with it. In the next episode, she tells him her reason was he wasn't himself and she was.
-   _Legend of the Seeker_: In one episode Richard is Confessed by another Confessor who has Power Incontinence. Kahlan realizes this might be their only chance to consummate their relationship without Confessing him herself<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and has the other Confessor order him to have sex with her. But she loses her nerve before they get any further than kissing because she knows in the back of her mind that Richard is Just Following Orders due to being made to be in love with the other Confessor.
-   On _Lois & Clark_ while everyone is under the influence of a Love Potion (except Clark himself because he's an alien) Clark spends a good part of the episode fending off a lovestruck Lois (and at this point in the series, she was still in her Loves My Alter Ego phase).
    -   She also comes close to figuring out his secret identity while trying to seduce him. When she takes off his glasses, she suddenly tells him he looks an awful lot like Superman. Luckily, she doesn't remember much after the potion wears off and is really embarrassed to learn that she performed the entirety of the "Dance of the Seven Veils" to him.
-   _Lucifer_: Lucifer has been trying to get into Chloe's pants since day one. Chloe almost gets back together with her separated husband until she receives a text message ending things before they can begin. She gets so drunk that she heads over to Lucifer's apartment and throws herself at him. They're both extremely surprised when he flatly refuses to indulge her, even though he acknowledges that normally he wouldn't hesitate to indulge his carnal desires. It doesn't stop him trolling her the next morning when she wakes up naked in his bed and jumps to the conclusion that they did have sex. A few days after the incident, she tells him that she's been thinking a lot about why they were both so out-of-character that night (her throwing herself at him and him refusing) and she concludes it's because she can let down her guard and be vulnerable when she's around him; she doesn't do that with anyone else.
-   An episode of _Malcolm in the Middle_ had Malcolm get drunk with a girl at a party at Thanksgiving. When both of them end up well beyond tipsy, the girl propositions Malcolm, and then promptly collapses on the floor, barely able to hold her head up. Malcolm refuses and then ruins his family's Thanksgiving dinner by whining (still very drunk) about how he was too moral to take advantage of her (oh, also by vomiting in the turkey). The next time he sees her, the girl threatens to have her brother beat him up if he tells anyone about her propositioning him.
-   In an episode of _Moonlight (2007)_, Beth gets a sample of a drug called Black Crystal made out of vampire blood. The vampire who makes the drug entices her to try the drug, which will give her the rush of what it means to be a vampire and live in the night, pointing at Beth's beautiful face and how, pretty soon, it'll start to grow old. In a moment of weakness, Beth takes the drug and, later, arrives at Mick's place trying to seduce him. However, it seems she's not trying to seduce him for sex but in order for him to turn her. Mick hold her under the shower but refuses to bite, knowing that this is the drug talking but also himself wishing to be human again.
-   _Parks and Recreation_ has a couple:
    -   In the episode "Rock Show", Leslie and Mark are both somewhat tipsy as they joke about the state of the pit and of obstructive bureaucracy in general. Then Mark starts making moves on Leslie, which she rejects because she doesn't want it to "be like this" (note that years prior, Leslie and Mark had a fling which the former had been hung up on for a while whereas the latter forgot all about it).
    -   Late into season three, when flirtation was skyrocketing between Leslie and Ben, Leslie and Ann get drunk at the Snakehole Lounge. Upset that her relationship with Ben is going nowhere, she asks him to dance with him, but he declines, not thinking it would be in either one of theirs best interest. Leslie doesn't take it too well:
        
        **Ben:** Are you okay? I heard yelling.  
        **Leslie:** Yeah, I'm very angry and I'm really drunk. Do you wanna dance with me? Get me another Snork Juice.  
        **Ben:** Oh I don't think that would be the best thing for you.  
        **Leslie:** Forget it!
        
-   _The Path_: Cal refuses to have sex with Mary when she offers herself naked to him because he senses she's psychologically damaged (and a recovering drug addict).
-   _Person of Interest_:
    -   Not with sex, but when Harold Finch had been drugged with Ecstasy by the Villain of the Week and in a talkative mood, Reese opted out of it knowing that the very private Finch would regret it in the morning. This is despite Reese digging into the background of his Mysterious Backer in previous episodes.
    -   A flashback reveals that before Reese, Finch employed Richard Dillinger as his agent in saving the PoIs. The personalities of the two men are quickly contrasted when we see Dillinger rescue an attractive female PoI and he has no problem with her thanking him with Rescue Sex. Reese would never do this and it portrays Dillinger as mercenary and unethical. By the end of the episode he tries to betray Finch and is killed in the process.
    -   In "Bury the Lede", Reese turns down a chance for Sex for Solace with the woman he's secretly protecting (he's pretending to take her out on a date, so would have every excuse), electing to take the couch instead.
-   _Sex/Life_:
    -   Brad refuses to have sex with Billie, even when she's offering it, since both are in committed relationships. He challenges her on whether unfaithful is really what Billie wants to be, and she admits it isn't.
    -   Brad also (temporarily) turns down an offer of sex from Francesca when they begin dating after he and Billie separate, saying that he's got to see his kids, but only delays it a day.
    -   Billie later successfully rejects Brad after he makes a pass at her when he's gotten married to Gigi.
-   A nasty use of Invoked Trope comes into play on the New Zealand soap _Shortland Street_, where a girl drunkenly comes on to her psychotic Stalker with a Crush, who _murdered her brother_ among other people because said brother wouldn't have been cool with his schoolgirl sister dating his 30-something-year-old friend. The girl has had a crush on psycho for a long time, but he kinda screwed his chances up when he tried to strangle her for suspecting him of involvement in her brother's death. It's been a while since that happened, but she's still doubtful about a relationship with him. So he shows up, gets her drunk, then invokes this trope when she goes to kiss him. Cue the poor girl deciding that he must be a decent guy, and they get together the next day. It don't work out.
-   On an episode of _Skins_, Michelle breaks up with her boyfriend and practically throws herself at Sid, who has had a crush on her since they were kids. Only he knows she's just doing it because she's upset and that she really loves Tony, who is his best friend, so he ends up refusing her.
-   In the _Smallville_ episode "Nicodemus", Lana Lang tries to seduce Clark under the influence of a mind-altering flower that makes her not herself. This includes her stripping down to her underwear, going for a swim at the pool and them doing a Sexy Surfacing Shot in front of him. Despite his attraction to her, he puts up a fight and she ends up "only" kissing him.
-   _Stargate SG-1_: "The Broca Divide". Let's just say "Carter", "sweet little tank-top number" and "de-evolution" and leave it at that.
-   _Star Trek_:
    -   In the _Star Trek: The Original Series_ episode "Dagger of the Mind", Dr. Helen Noel flirts with Kirk, but he refuses to reciprocate. Later on, Kirk is brainwashed into thinking he's in love with her and she desperately tries to explain what happened, in fact seeming rather creeped out.
    -   In the _Star Trek: The Next Generation_ episode "Man of the People", Troi, under attack and Not Herself, comes onto Riker. He backs off and gets slashed across the neck and face with her nails for his trouble.
    -   The duplicate Dax created from Bashir's imagination in the _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_ episode "If Wishes Were Horses" is rather... eager. The scene where Bashir is using his tricorder to try and figure out what is wrong with Dax while she is trying to seduce him is _hysterical_.
    -   In the _Star Trek: Voyager_ episode "Blood Fever", B'Elanna Torres has her mating instincts triggered and comes on to Tom Paris, _hard_. He admits that he'd very much like to do what she suggests, but he recognizes that she's not in her right mind and refuses to take advantage. (They get together in the following season, and ultimately marry.)
    -   A similar plot to the above happens in the _Star Trek: Enterprise_ episode "Bounty" when T'Pol goes into premature pon farr. Both Phlox and Reed turn down her offers.
-   In _Taxi_, this happened to Alex _twice_:
    -   The first time, Elaine was on the verge of a nervous breakdown and started to come on to Alex as a way of compensating. Seeing as she's obviously very vulnerable, he turns her away. (Although later, after she has spoken to a therapist, Alex says he's glad they "stopped before we did something we both would have... fondly remembered for the rest of our lives."
    -   The second time, Latka had cheated on Simka (he had done it to keep himself and the other woman from freezing to death in a blizzard) and the pastor of their religion told her to do it with someone else in order to make amends. (Yes, he was serious; apparently, it was either that or divorce. Alex would later call out the whole organization for thinking two wrongs made a right.) Simka approached Alex for it, but he refused; to him, it would be taking advantage of a woman _asking_ to be raped. (Eventually, an offhand suggestion from Jim that Latka and Simka could divorce and marry a second time - nobody said they couldn't - resolved the issue.)
-   In the _That '70s Show_ episode _Roller Disco,_ Fez rejects a drunken Jackie's advances. Bonus points for creative use of the Good Angel, Bad Angel trope (Batman vs. Riddler variant).
-   _You Me Her_: Jack manages to pull himself back from sleeping with Izzy the first time they meet, and thus not cheat on his wife Emma.

    Music 

-   "What Kind of Man Would I Be" by Mint Condition is about a man who has a conversation with an old flame who is feeling unhappy with her current lover. Although they are attracted to each other, he tells her that they would both lose too much if they had sex.
-   "Finger Weg" (Hands Off!) by the rock band ASP: the singer rejects crude attempts to be manipulated by a woman ("Wrap up your flesh, I'm still not hooked. You stand there looking for applause - just get dressed and Hands Off! You think, I know how he's wired. I'm fed up with your tricks, the signals you're sending.")
-   dc Talk, on an early album<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , had the song "That Kinda Girl", where the basic premise is the singer wanting to wait for 'the one'. The first girl in the song moved too fast for him; it's implied they were on their _first_ date (at Olive Garden), and she wanted to make a move right as he brought her home.
-   In his song Ight Imma Head Out, Youtube rapper YourBoySponge plays the role of Spongebob Squarepants refusing the sexual advances of a married woman. (Yes, really.)
-   "Take a Drunk Girl Home" by Chris Janson is a country ballad about meeting a beautiful girl at the bar who's had a few too many drinks. The protagonist takes her back to her place, tucks her into bed, leaves his name and number for her to find in the morning, and locks the door behind him when he goes, leaving her keys on the counter, because, as the narrator says, a real man would never take advantage of a lady in a vulnerable state. The song ends with the girl calling him back the next day, and the two seem to hit it off.
    
    _There's a million things you could be doing_  
    _But there's one thing you're sure damn glad you did_
    

    Professional Wrestling 

-   The Lovely Lacey openly despised Jimmy Jacobs but kept him around mainly because she alienated all her other Ring of Honor allies. She would sometimes offer Jacobs Sex for Services only to be turned down because Jacobs loved her and didn't want their relationship to be based on lust. Ironically, it wasn't until they actually slept together that Lacey changed her tune and said she loved him.

    Video Games 

-   In _Mass Effect 2_, you can't complete Jack's romance subplot unless you prove to be above the influence (after all, she won't open up if she thinks you're only interested in her for sex).
-   In _Muramasa: The Demon Blade_, Torahime gives Kisuke permission to do _whatever_ he wants to her during their hot spring encounter, and he does nothing.
-   Likewise in _Baldur's Gate 2_ with Aerie, who will break up with the player for having sex with her prematurely. Normally, the _ME2_\-plot would be somewhat of a recycling, but since Aerie and Jack more or less are polar opposites...
-   In _Odin Sphere_, the only thing Oswald really wants is for someone - _anyone_ - to love him, to the point that he only agrees to kill a dragon for King Odin after Odin offers him his daughter Gwendolyn's hand in marriage as a reward. But when Oswald is told that Gwendolyn is under a spell that will make her love the man who wakes her, he flatly refuses to do so and instead goes out on a mission to find a way to undo it. He later learns that not only is she _not_ actually under a spell, but that such a spell doesn't even exist.
-   Much to her chagrin, Musse in _The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel III_ cannot get Rean to notice her as a woman instead of just being his student. Even when she starts influencing his mind through some kind of means.

    Visual Novels 

-   During Kyou's route in _CLANNAD_, Ryou takes a joke Tomoya makes a little too seriously and pretty explicitly offers to sleep with him. However, he declines as he feels it wouldn't be right since he doesn't really love her. Not that he really admits that part yet, instead reasoning that it's far too early in their relationship for something like that.
-   _Katawa Shoujo_ has Hisao in three of these situations:
    -   At one point in Hanako's route, she gets quite drunk and becomes very clingy with Hisao. He gets very uncomfortable and tries to put her to bed as quickly as possible before either of them does something they'll regret. He even lampshades how _wrong_ the idea of taking advantage of the poor girl is.
    -   Something similar happens with Rin after she takes just a little too much cold medicine (active ingredient: codeine). When Hisao visits her, she's only in her shirt and panties and gives him a kiss, but he puts her in bed as well and she forgets about it in the morning.
    -   In Shizune's route, a neither drunk nor high-on-meds but very emotionally unstable Misha asks Hisao to "comfort" her. Whether he is or not above the influence _this_ time, unlike the others, depends on the player's decision. If he's not, it leads to the Bad End.
-   In _Sable's Grimoire_ two of the resident Cute Monster Girls throw themselves at the titular Sable on their respective routes. Lisha offers to have sex with him to help make a magic ritual work and Tix makes several attempts to get him to impregnate her as part of the reproduction strategy employed by her One-Gender Race. In both cases Sable (a man with ambivalent feelings toward romance anyway) turns them down, unwilling to have sex with someone unless genuinely and mutually in love with them.
-   Near the end of Kyohei's route in _Scandal in the Spotlight_, the protagonist - torn up with guilt and confusion over her feelings for Kyohei, and desperate to come up with lyrics for a new song suitable for Revance's 10th anniversary concert - goes to Kyo's room and asks him to sleep with her to give her inspiration. Although at first, he's eager, Kyohei stops himself before matters have progressed very far and spends the night chastely holding her instead; later, he explains that he's in love with her and didn't want to have sex with her if it was going to be for the sake of the song.
-   _True Love Junai Monogatari_ has two instances of this, in which the MC will have to be above it if he wants to get the girl. Namely, he must not kiss Ryouko after a fight with her brother and manager (the correct option is walking her home) and/or he must give Yumi-sensei a hug instead of pushing her on her bed. (In a subversion, the second one leads to sex anyway.)

    Webcomics 

-   In _Something\*Positive_, Aubrey comes onto Jason while very drunk. He refuses on this basis, for which she thanks him the next morning. In a karmic sort of way.
    
    "But I'm not drunk now..."
    
-   It's explained early on in _Erfworld_ that lower-ranking units will do whatever their superiors tell them to do. It's also implied (and later stated) that while the beings of Erfworld don't reproduce sexually, they do have sexual relations. Parson puts two and two together, and realizes that as a high-ranking strategist he can have his pick of women, without them ever objecting or even _conceiving_ of rejecting his affections—and immediately after thinking of this as "awesome," it hits him hard that this is essentially rape, and he reconsiders (he _does_ spend a lot of time with female soldiers, but apparently he's trying to romance them).
    -   Maggie is surprised that he hasn't taken advantage. The reason he tells her is that the scale difference (they're all at most a quarter his size and half his height) squicks him out and brings up the issue of causing physical injury.
-   In _Bittersweet Candy Bowl_'s chapter "Another Shoulder", Lucy goes to Paulo after getting shut down hard by Mike. Paulo just barely resists taking advantage of her throwing herself at him, though a later chapter, "Another Path", explores the possibilities of what would have happened if he hadn't.
-   _Questionable Content_:
    -   Angus refuses Marigold's advances toward him while she was drunk, although she truly did have feelings for him.
    -   Also Claire and Marten in more recent comics. The feelings are there, but when they realize they're both drunk, they decide to wait.
-   Subverted in _Dumbing of Age_, where Danny refuses a girl's advances in the spirit of this trope and is later told off by Ethical Slut Joe because there _was_ no influence, and assuming a woman doesn't know when she wants sex wasn't the respectful option at all. Though telling someone that they should have had sex with someone else when they had reservations about it isn't good advice, either.

    Web Original 

-   In _Receiver of Many_ Persephone gets scared by Cerberus and runs into Lethe, which results in losing her memories from the previous day. This means that she does not remember how Hades abducted her and is still very much the girl eagerly awaiting her mysterious suitor she was right before the kidnapping. When she wakes up to Hades she is very happy and very willing to have sex with him right then and there. Despite being tempted to go through with this Hades rebuffs her advances and gives her water from Mnemosyne's pool, which restores her painful memories.

    Western Animation 

-   In _Captain Planet and the Planeteers_, Wheeler makes no secret on how attracted he is to Linka. But there's the episode "Mind Pollution", in which she's drugged by her cousin. When she starts to come onto him, flirtatiously asking him to try the drug "for \[her\]", he knows she's not in her right mind and refuses to take advantage of it, focusing on trying to break her denial and get her sober again. He also treats her in a supportive but non-amorous way while she's undergoing withdrawal.
-   In _Gravity Falls_, Mabel's fantasy world dreams up whatever the inhabitants desire. For Dipper, it conjures up a version of Wendy who finally reciprocates his interest in her. Notable in that Dipper has struggled for the entire season to let go of her, and his rejection means he's come to terms with the fact that they can't be together.

___