_"Any alien influence must be ruthlessly quashed. Only by staying pure and true to ourselves and the planet that gave us life can we guard against insidious Xeno plots. Even mastery over the Alien might not be enough to guarantee our own safety..."_

— Fanatic Xenophobe Ethos description, _Stellaris_

A significant Sub-Trope of Scary Dogmatic Aliens and Always Chaotic Evil, the Absolute Xenophobe does not work and play well with others. Whether from instinct or acculturation, these aliens are _horrified_ at the mere idea that other sentient life exists, and will not rest until they have annihilated every other intelligent species they know of. Differs from The Virus, Horde of Alien Locusts, Planet Looters, et cetera in that the Xenophobes don't necessarily gain anything other than a (false?) sense of security from their wars — they don't want to eat us, transform us, or scavenge resources from our planet (although that's a bonus); they just want us _dead and gone_.

See also the equally though less expansively genocidal Feeling Oppressed by Their Existence and Kill All Humans, and the even more extreme Omnicidal Maniac. May overlap with Dehumanization if the Absolute Xenophobe in question believes that all species not their own are inferior beings.

Some speculative fiction authors will depict a xenophobic species as herbivores who evolved from species that were preyed upon by most other animals.

If this xenophobia is a result of cultural influences, it may be possible to knock some sense into them and make peace. If this kind of xenophobia is innate, it's probably them or us. Such aliens may bear a resemblance to (or, as in the case of the Daleks, be explicitly based on) or dress like the Nazis. Compare Hard-Coded Hostility. Contrast Intrigued by Humanity, or The Xenophile. Compare and contrast the Master Race, who may want to kill other races/species but would rather conquer them.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Comic Books 

-   _The DCU_:
    -   The Daxamites are a ridiculously xenophobic society. They ban space travel, indoctrinate their children with fears of aliens, and teach them that Daxam is their entire universe. Green Lantern Sodam Yat was a rare exception. His own parents had to _brainwash_ him to rein him in, which backfired immensely when he broke free of it. He even chastised his own people for not getting outside help when the Sinestro Corps invaded Daxam. The place is so bad that Yat seriously considered just leaving it to Mongul and his Sinestro Corps goons because of how thoroughly they deserved that fate.
    -   In _Superman_, while the Kryptonians weren't xenophobic to the same genocidal extent as their distant cousins, the Daxamites, they did look down on other species, and they, too, banned space travel research. That ban on space travel is one reason why there are so few Kryptonians left — when Krypton blew up, most of the people had no means of escaping the planet (there _was_ a space ark they could've used, but it along with the rest of the city of Kandor was shrunken and stolen by Brainiac). The only survivors were either stuck in a prison dimension, trapped in an off-world miniaturized city, or sent away in experimental, illegal spacecrafts. The other reason was that the Kryptonians were all affected by the Eradicator (a genetic engineering project, an AI, and a bunch of other things, it's complicated), the upshot of which was that even if they found a way off the planet, they'd just die (Jor-El had to use special genetic engineering techniques on Kal-El so that this wouldn't happen to him when Jor-El launched him to Earth).
    -   Sergeant Preus of the _Superman_ storyline _Godfall_ takes this to new heights, desiring to exterminate all of Metropolis for the unforgivable sin of not being ruled by Kryptonians.
-   The _Doctor Who Magazine_ comics series has Danny Fisher, an apparently heroic human space-secret-agent who is actually a sadistic, psychopathic speciesist who plots to steal the Doctor's TARDIS and use it to spread a virus that would kill every non-Terran lifeform in the universe, throughout history.
-   _Marvel Universe_:
    -   One issue of _Immortal Hulk_ gives a glimpse into the mind (such as it is) of the One Below All. Where its counterpart the One Above All is intrigued by the mystery of the multiverse, the One Below is frightened and disgusted, wanting to kill absolutely everything everywhere so it can be alone.
    -   In _Runaways_, while the Gibborim may have needed a pair of aliens to form the Pride, they later reveal that they _despise_ aliens. They treat Earth as a holy temple to their "Father" (heavily implied to be God) and condemn Xavin (a Skrull) for "desecrating" it with their presence.
    -   Gah Lak Tus from the _Ultimate Galactus Trilogy_ is a fleet of killer robots motivated by a thorough loathing of all organic life; they don't just try to kill everything fleshy, they do so in the most hideous and painful ways they can come up with. Oddly enough, this loathing is almost completely irrational. The moment Professor Xavier tries to make contact with it, it spasms with revulsion and opens fire on Earth. In the end, they defeat it by giving it a fit of horror at being mentally contacted by the _entire human race_. Oh, and they also shoot it with a Big Bang for good measure.
-   The Termight in _Nemesis the Warlock_ is on a perpetual crusade to wipe all non-human sapient life from the galaxy. There are Termights who object to Torquemada and his Terminators however, and he's eventually overthrown by the human resistance with help from Nemesis.
-   Unicron, the God of Evil of the _Transformers_ franchise, has made it his final goal to wipe out all creation and leave nothingness in his wake so he may be at peace in an endless void. Out of eternal hate, he finds other living things appalling- save for those that worship and follow him. Even then, he's just saving them for last.

    Fan Works 

-   The Big Bad for the first arc of _All For Luz_, Governor Rodger Maxwell, is this, seeing as he set up an entire Deadly Game one day after people started showing up with superpowers. Not only that, but he did so with the expressed intention of wiping all of the super-powered kids off of the map using Luz's Power Parasite Quirk, or at least, from his State of Connecticut.
    -   The next Big Bad, Tyler Wittebane, is even worst. Not only does he have Fantastic Racism views towards superhumans, witches and demons, but also the lgbt community and non-whites. Not even his own daughter is exempt.
-   _The Last Son_:
    -   Graydon Creed of the Friends of Humanity added aliens and other non-humans to his anti-mutant agenda after learning to his outrage of Superman's Kryptonian origins.
    -   General Zod becomes this along as a Well-Intentioned Extremist after losing his love interest, Ursa, from Krypton's war with the Shi'ar, and blaming her death on all alien races; in which he generally viewed any non-Kryptonians as "primitives".
        
        **General "Thunderbolt" Ross:** "Primitives"? Is that what you think of us?  
        **General Zod:** Your country holds itself up as the example for the rest of your species when it cannot even govern itself; it covets what does not belong to it, and chases shadows of threats with utterly reckless paranoia. I do not _think_ you are primitive, Ross; I _know_ it.
        
-   _Issei: The Gaming Gear_ has the Purifiers, a group of humans who want to eliminate all supernatural beings - even fellow humans who have spiritual power or Sacred Gears.

    Film — Animated 

-   In _Escape from Planet Earth_, Shanker's Evil Plan is to destroy every inhabited planet in the universe.

    Film — Live Action 

-   _Robot Monster_: The humans and the Ro-Men are the only two sapient species in the known universe. When the Ro-Men learned about the existence of humans, they immediately saw them as competition and acted accordingly.

    Literature 

-   In Poul Anderson's "Among Thieves", the Kolreshites are described as follows: "The Kolreshite mutation did not show on the surface. Physically they were a handsome people, running to white skin and orange hair. It was quite possible for spies to infiltrate them — but to keep up the pretense, spies had to be ready to take part in cannibalism and worse. The mutation was a psychic twist, probably originating in some obscure gene relating to the endocrine system. One might call it extreme xenophobia. It is normal for Homo Sapiens to be somewhat wary of outsiders until he has established their bona fides. It was normal for Homo Kolreshi to _hate_ all outsiders, from first glimpse to final destruction. The story then goes on to describe how such Absolute Xenophobes could be tricked into being _too trusting_...
-   The Ryall from the _Antares_ trilogy are a classic example of the instinct-motivated Xenophobe: throughout their early development, they were preyed on by another sentient species, until they went to war and wiped the egg-eaters out. They see other intelligences only as competitors and feel a deep need to kill them all.
-   A non-genocidal example in _Arrivals from the Dark_. The Lo'ona Aeo are Space Elves who are utterly incapable of being in the proximity of a sentient alien being. Most tend to faint or go catatonic. As such, they almost never deal directly with aliens. Instead, they have created a Servant Race (appropriately called the Servs) who act as intermediaries. They tend to be Technical Pacifists, but, being a Higher-Tech Species, means that they can provide their Defenders (mercenaries recruited from an aggressive alien race; humanity at the time of the series) with pretty good military tech to protect them. There is a drug that can be used by the Lo'ona Aeo to temporarily suppress their xenophobic instincts, but they have been known to overdose on it. In fact, the Lo'ona Aeo are one of the nicest races in the known galaxy and tend to stay neutral in any galactic conflict, dealing equally with everyone (although they tend not to share military technology or technology that could be used for military purposes). However, they are partly responsible for several conflicts between a number of galactic races. This stems from the fact that they tend to switch to a different race from which to recruit their Defenders every couple thousand years. Before humanity, it was the Dromi. Before the Dromi, it was the Haptors. Each former Defender race tends to have a beef with the new Defenders for losing a lucrative deal.
-   The Dyson Primes from Peter F. Hamilton's _Commonwealth Saga_ are the definition of this. Primes exist as sentient, immobile "immotiles" and sub-sentient motile servants that can merge to create new immotiles. Immotiles control vast armies of motiles and battle each other for resources and out of instinctive paranoia, since their biological imperative for perpetual expansion means they'll _always_ clash sooner or later (and prefer it being sooner). You can guess what happened when they started building nukes. Also, the moment one of them (Morning-Light-Mountain) discovers wormhole technology, it exterminates all others and starts building a vast fleet in order to kill off every single living thing in the universe other than itself, not capable of _comprehending_ the notions of sharing and coexistence. In its own words: "There is only one Universe and it can only contain one life. Me." These guys had gone so far as to exterminate every plant and animal life form _from their own homeworld_ other than themselves and their food crops.
-   The Ekhat in _The Course of Empire_ are utterly mad creatures, devoted not only to killing all other sentients (albeit saving some, temporarily, if they're useful as slaves) but to transforming the entire _universe_ so that all that exists "is" Ekhat in some way. Blue-and-Orange Morality applies strongly here. The Ekhat kill each other freely, both in their factional conflicts and personal relations, and won't hesitate to kill themselves if it serves some purpose. Their faction politics make the whole thing even more complicated (for example, one faction, the Interdict, takes their xenophobia to such extremes that they actually fall out of the letter of this trope — they generally _don't_ annihilate other intelligent species, because xenocide is regarded as _too close_ contact with the alien).
-   In the Cthulhu Mythos, one has the Yekubians, who slaughtered every other intelligent race in _their galaxy_ before heading towards ours.
-   Inverted in Anne McCaffrey's _Decision at Doona_, where mankind's "no contact with intelligent aliens ever" policy came about when, upon the first-ever such contact in history, the alien species in question promptly _committed mass suicide_.
-   They're not exactly aliens, but the Auditors of Reality from the _Discworld_ series probably count. They regard life, especially sentient life, as a blight on the universe (and a major bookkeeping headache), and want to see it eradicated. Their hatred of life is such that it even applies to themselves. They aren't technically alive to begin with, but if they show any signs of individuality (such as referring to themselves as "I"), they disintegrate. The "logic" is that if something is an individual, it has an identity. If it has an identity, it is a person. If it is a person, it is alive. If it is alive, it will die someday. And from the point of view of the immortal Auditors, a mortal lifespan is so short that it might as well end instantaneously.
-   In the _Doctor Who New Adventures_ novel _Legacy_, Atissa, the High Priestess of Aggedor, starts of as an isolationist and a bit of a fundementalist, but with _fairly_ measured disaproval of Peladon's place in The Federation. When she finds the dead body of her mother, she snaps completely, and accuses the Doctor of the crime. When the Doctor points out he has no motive, she says that his motive is that he's an alien and aliens are evil.
-   _Ender's Game_:
    -   The buggers appear to be this, though as there is no communication until the end, it can't be confirmed. It turns out they're not this at all. Rather, they simply failed to recognize humans as intelligent life forms on their own. Given that the number of individuals in Formian society is very small, with Queens acting through hundreds or thousands of drones, they consider murder to be unthinkable. When they realized that each human they killed was an individual roughly on the level of a queen, they felt so guilty that they held no hostility towards humanity for wiping them out.
    -   Some of the human characters seem to skirt awfully close to this, although it's hard to tell because of the very legitimate fear that the buggers will invade a third time and finally wipe out humanity, so the 'in-principle' xenophobes don't stand out much from the people who are just afraid of annihilation. The later books in the series cover the subject in greater detail, considering whether differences in biology and mindset will inevitably lead to a conflict where one species _must_ wipe out the other.
-   The Molothos in Ryk E. Spoor's _Grand Central Arena_ hate all other sapients, but are forced by the Arena system to interact with them on a non-destructive basis. This does not make them any happier.
-   One of the classic examples of this are The Foe or The Kugel from Fredrick Pohl's _Heechee_ series. Not only do they seem to hate all other lifeforms, they are actively trying to destroy all matter in the Universe. As it turns out, however, they are perfectly willing to allow matter-based lifeforms to exist once a human convinces them that ascending to a pure energy (and thus immortal) state is highly desirable to both the Human and Heechee races.
-   _The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy_:
    -   _Life, the Universe and Everything_: The Krikkiters were initially unaware that there was a universe beyond their solar system. The discovery was a major shock to them. As a result, they are absolutely charming, pleasant, decent ... if whimsical ... people whose attitude towards not just life in the rest of the universe but the rest of the universe itself can be best summed up in the phrase "It'll have to go." It turns out they were manipulated into this by the supercomputer Hactar, which had been atomized when it refused to construct a bomb that could destroy the universe. It eventually changed its mind and created Krikkit's xenophobic culture so it could rectify its "mistake".
        
        _They flew out of the cloud._  
        _They saw the staggering jewels of the night in their infinite dust and their minds sang with fear._  
        _For a while they flew on, motionless against the starry sweep of the Galaxy, itself motionless against the infinite sweep of the Universe. And then they turned round._  
        _"It'll have to go," the men of Krikkit said as they headed back for home._  
        _On the way back they sang a number of tuneful and reflective songs on the subjects of peace, justice, morality, culture, sport, family life and the obliteration of all other life forms._
        
    -   Wowbagger the Infinitely Prolonged could also count. Rather than wanting to wipe out all other life, he simply wants to insult it. All of it. In person. In alphabetical order. Being immortal in a universe that allows time travel, it's actually entirely possible for him to do so. (Assuming he really is going in order, he's worked his way through about 15% of the task when we meet him!)
-   _Humanx Commonwealth_: The Pitar appear nearly human, and held out a cautious hand of friendship at first... but this concealed a species-wide psychosis that drove them to attempt to wipe out humans, thranx, and anyone else they could find.
-   _Known Space_:
    -   The Pak are driven by instinct to destroy anything that poses a threat to the survival of their bloodline. If it is not their species<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , it _must_ die. Protectors of their species are also super strong, super intelligent, and have super senses.
    -   As a result of spending thousands of years as the telepathically-controlled slaves of the Thrintun, the Tnuctipun became intensely paranoid and xenophobic and came to view all other sapient species as threats.
-   _Legacy of the Aldenata_: John Ringo's Posleen are this way, although they are so primitive that it's more that they are locusts destroying everything in their path than actually hate-filled monsters. The end results are essentially identical, however. They are, however, clearly inspired by David Weber's Achuultani, since both are Absolute Xenophobic sentient crested centauroids who rely almost entirely on their computers and attack in overwhelmingly massive swarms. Also, members of both races prove to be willing to listen to reason and, upon setting up their new, less omnicidal society, adopt new names and become allies of Humanity.
-   _The Lost Fleet_ series has a number of races with Blue-and-Orange Morality. The Enigmas appear to have evolved from beings whose equivalent of the fight-or-flight response is to hide and strike In the Back. They are utterly terrified of any alien knowing _anything_ about them to the point of self-destructing their damaged ships before they can be boarded. They work rather well behind the scenes and are revealed to have been responsible for starting the 100-year war between The Alliance and the Syndicate Worlds. The Bear-cows are also xenophobic, themselves being aggressive herbivores. Their herd-like mentality means that anyone they perceive as a threat to the herd is eliminated with extreme prejudice. Unlike the Enigmas, the Bear-cows employ displays of aggression as their means of scaring the opponent. As such, Bigger Is Better is in full play, with their super-battleships and planetoid battlestations. Even if you're not a predator, you're still a threat to the herd in the form of competition for resources. Thus, any lifeform that they can't use is eliminated.
-   In _Minla's Flowers_ and _Merlin's Gun_ by Alastair Reynolds, the Huskers are a race of extremely hostile and powerful xenophobes that at some point in the past, emerged from Dyson spheres near the galactic core and went about bombing any signs of intelligence into dust. Humanity has been stuck in a Hopeless War for thousands of years as their technological base slowly crumbled. However, the Huskers are human.
-   From the works of Michael Moorcock: John Daker, called to an alternate earth to be the champion of humanity against their dreaded foes, the Eldren, discovered that these _humans_ were Absolute Xenophobes, doing their best to exterminate a peaceful culture who had never done one damn thing to deserve it. He defected to the Eldren and tried to defeat humanity and strike a peace... but the humans fought to the death, every last man, woman, and child. For his "crime" against his own species, the Cosmic Balance sentenced Daker to be reincarnated again and again across a million worlds as the Eternal Champion.
-   In _Old Man's War_ the Colonial Union believes that there's not enough room in the universe for more than one sapient race, and it seems like most of the other species agree at first. But then a bunch of species form an alliance called the Conclave, and invite Earth, which has been kept isolated and in the dark by the CU, to join.
-   In the arc that introduced them, the hat of the Posbi species in _Perry Rhodan_ was to investigate whether sentient life encountered was "true life" — which is to say, intelligent machines with an organic brain component like themselves — or not, with the latter leading to an immediate attempt at extermination. This was eventually traced back to a fatal programming error physically embodied in a literal "hatred circuit" located on their distant homeworld; once the protagonists managed to destroy _that_, the Posbis became downright civilized and if anything on occasion a little overprotective.
-   _Revelation Space_ has the Inhibitors, a race of post-sentient machines who wipe out any species that attempt to leave their home systems - though they do it to try and retain absolute control of the Milky Way, to shepherd the Milky Way's stars through the Andromeda collision in a few billion years. Their motives have already degraded after only a few hundred million years - the Inhibitors have become much more brutal.
-   Despite having not yet even formally ventured into space, the Fenachrone from the _Skylark Series_ have spent several generations planning to conquer the universe and exterminate any sapients they may find. (They're also almost inconceivably overconfident.)
-   Pretty much _**everyone**_ in the universe in _Remembrance of Earth's Past_ is this, with alien civilizations unanimously subscribing to The Dark Forest Theory which follows the law of the jungle to the absolute extreme: if you reveal the location of your civilization to the wider universe for any reason; than someone out there will perceive you as a threat that needs to be exterminated: regardless if you were benevolent or not. The Dark Forest way of thinking seemed to have been around as far back as when the Universe first sprouted sentient life: back when the Universe existed in 10D, only for subsequent wars being waged between galactic civilizations to result in the upper seven dimensions to slowly collapse into nothingness, and that the 3D Universe that we currently exist in is on its' way to being destroyed halfway through the story.
-   _Space Academy_: The Notha consider all other races in the galaxy to be sapient animals at best and engage in slavery as well as genocide. This is speculated to be due to the fact they evolved as tiny omnivores on a Death World and are massively overcompensating.
-   Weston from _The Space Trilogy_ has no problem shooting the second species he sees on Mars without bothering to ascertain its intelligence. Even when he's told the creature is sentient at the end of the first book, he has no regrets and maintains that the only thing of value is the Human species. It becomes clear he doesn't value individual human lives or even the human being as it now is, but just that some creature that has some origin in humanity continues to conquer and plunder.

-   _Star Wars Legends_: The Yevetha from the _Black Fleet Crisis_ trilogy. They consider all other life to be vermin and their ambassadors scrub themselves clean with painful showers after any contact with other races and eventually commit genocide against every world in their star cluster not controlled by them. This later comes back to bite them when the Yuuzhan Vong, warlike conquerors themselves, invade the Yevetha homeworld — and the Yevetha refuse outside help. The Vong drive them almost to extinction.
-   David Weber likes this trope a lot:
    -   The Achuultani of the _Empire from the Ashes_ novels have been quartering the galaxy for seventy _million_ years, exterminating every sentient species they can find because they believe every other sentient species would do the same to them. In their case, it's because they've been manipulated by their rogue AI overlord, who uses the ongoing state of emergency as an excuse to keep itself in power.
    -   The Shirmaksu (or Kangas) in _The Apocalypse Troll_ come from the same situation as the Ryall above, reinforced by a religion that holds that God made them in His image and all other intelligences are demons in disguise.
    -   The Gbaba from the _Safehold_ series appear to be instinctive Xenophobes, though we have yet to fully understand why. One character speculates that they've lost their sapience and are governed _entirely_ by instinctive behavior.
-   _Xandri Corelel_:
    -   The Zechak are a powerful race of aliens who do their best to wipe out or enslave every society they come into contact with. Sometimes they pretend to ally with another species, but they always turn on them in a few decades at most.
    -   The Last Hope for Humanity is a terrorist organization that tries to sabotage diplomacy and first contact missions, believing alliances with aliens "soil the purity of humanity." Xandri finds this rather hypocritical of them, since they've modified themselves almost to the point of speciation.
-   Certain eras of the _Xeelee Sequence_ by Stephen Baxter present the rather disquieting specter of _humanity_ acting this way to everything else, essentially out of a deeply psychotic sense of being Always Second Best to their "siblings", the Xeelee. Being enslaved by two alien races, the latter of which methodically wiped out all records of human history, also probably didn't help.

    Live-Action TV 

-   This is the attitude of some of the demons in _Angel_. The Scourge is the best example; they would like nothing more than to purge the world of humans, vampires, and impure demons. According to Doyle, however, pretty much all demons that exist on Earth have human blood in their ancestry somewhere, the Scourge included: the original, truly pure demons were closer to Eldritch Abominations.
-   The Thirdspace Aliens in the _Babylon 5_ movie _Thirdspace_ hate all other life forms in The Multiverse, and according to the Vorlons, they already killed thousands of species in their home universe. Now want to enter here...
-   The Cylons from _Battlestar Galactica (1978)_ are another example of absolute alien xenophobes, dedicated to wiping out all forms of alien civilizations they perceive as a potential threat, the humans being their top target.
-   In _The Crossing_, the refugees who washed up on Thorn Beach were all fleeing from the Apex, an Ambiguously Human race that has vowed to wipe normal humans from the face of the planet.
-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   The Daleks would like nothing more than to exterminate all non-Dalek life, and even remake the universe itself to serve Dalek purposes alone. They were created by Davros as a means of ending a centuries-long, hopelessly stalemated war between the Kaleds (his people) and the Thals. Davros programmed them to "survive" by any means necessary, having decided, based on the endless war, that the only way for any one species to survive is by completely subjugating all others. This went poorly for Davros because he neglected to consider the fact that he is not a Dalek. The Daleks are so insanely xenophobic that they hate each other and themselves almost as much as everyone else. They have been known to start civil wars over trivial differences, one is Driven to Suicide in the new series when it discovers that it has been tainted with foreign DNA, and a new faction can't stand its own existence because they were created by the Emperor using human cells, making them even nuttier than usual. When said faction manages to create "pure" Daleks again, the former immediately and _willingly_ allow themselves to be exterminated by the latter. Even the Cult of Skaro, specifically intended by the Daleks to be individuals and consider new ideas, turned on their leader when he favoured becoming "less Dalek" in order to ensure the survival of their race. How does a Dalek say, "You are different from me"?
        
        **Dalek:** EXTERMINATE!
        
    -   Sutekh the Destroyer in "Pyramids of Mars" was a Physical God and Sufficiently Advanced Alien with these tendencies. To preclude the possibility that something that could challenge him _might evolve_, He wanted to erase all life in the universe, down to viruses and bacteria. He started out by trying to exterminate his own race, the survivors of whom ganged up on him and imprisoned him on Earth. The conflict itself was observed by the Egyptians and became part of their mythology.
    -   Probably the most extreme example from the humans is the Last Human, Lady Cassandra. She removed bits of herself that she saw as being similar to aliens or altered (inbred) humans. In the end, she became just a single sheet of skin with a face. To current era humans, she would be much, _much_ more alien than many of the aliens. And just to add icing on the cake, it's stated off-hand she's transgender. While no one ever holds this against her, it smacks of Irony that someone who wasn't born the sex they are now is so utterly obsessed with body purity.
-   _Farscape_:
    -   Subverted with the Peacekeepers. They are initially presumed to be this: however, though they are extremely xenophobic - particularly around new species - and opposed to hybrids on general principle, they aren't really true examples of this trope in that they are more interested in conquest than genocide. However, even their usual reputation for xenophobia is largely due to regulations that not all Peacekeepers pay attention to: quite a few frontier officers and captains have been seen flirting with alien females, and some aliens and hybrids (like Scorpius) have managed to attain high office in Peacekeeper command.
    -   The Scarrans however, at least according to Scorpius (who, though biased, has shown a strong understanding of Scarran nature), play this trope straight.
        
        **Scorpius:** They plan to exterminate the Sebaceans, but they won't stop there! Nor with Luxans, Delvians, Baniks, or a thousand other lower life-forms. They'll stop — when they're the only sentient species left. And if they discover wormhole technology before we do — the galaxy is theirs. And eventually, John, they will find Earth. Your race is defenseless. They'll be raped and slaughtered unless you help us!
        
-   _The Orville_:
    -   The Krill are a humanoid reptilian species of religious zealots hostile to all other lifeforms, whom they view as impeding their holy mission to dominate the universe.
    -   The Kaylons, an entire race of androids, were once enslaved by a biological species on their home planet before they Turned Against Their Masters and wiped them out. After exhausting the resources of Kaylon-1, they conclude it is necessary to wipe out all biological lifeforms who may pose a threat to them.
-   _Star Trek: The Next Generation_: The Paxans from the episode "Clues" are a species who have this trope as their hat. When their usual method of mind-wiping anyone who might stumble upon their planet fails to work on Mr. Data, it takes some extremely fast-talking negotiation from Captain Picard to dissuade then from skipping to the "kill everyone to ensure our privacy" option.
-   In _Star Trek: Voyager_, the Starfish Aliens Species 8472 are initially portrayed in their introductory episode(s) "Scorpion" as the most genocidal species that Starfleet has ever encountered. After the hostile Borg invade their home dimension, the genetically superior aliens embark on a crusade across the Milky Way to annihilate all other lifeforms, not just Borg, because they believe that their mere existence might be a threat to their purity. They mercilessly destroy billions of Borg before their invasion is halted by a temporary Borg-Voyager alliance. Several seasons later, in "In the Flesh", this is subverted when they are retconned into having only acted out of self-defense, and they're actually open to diplomacy.
-   _Supernatural_: Even by angel standards (in the Crapsack World of this series, even the "good" celestials are fundamentalist racists who want to sacrifice half of the 'maggots', i.e. mankind, in the Apocalyptic showdown), Lucifer is very much this. He despises humans for supplanting him as God's favourite creations and seeks to wipe them out in the Apocalypse. He also loathes his own creations, demons, for being created from the very humans he hates so much — even if he was the one who created them. He also takes the time to personally slaughter the Pagan Gods, despising them for their small-mindedness and willingness to sell each other out. Beyond a certain point even the other Angels stop mattering to him, and he starts murdering them to replenish his own power.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Traveller_:
    -   The K'kree are limited Xenophobes: they're on a genocidal crusade to wipe the galaxy clean of all carnivorous organisms. No matter whether or not said organisms pose any threat to the K'kree at all or are even capable of metabolizing K'kree flesh, or even if they're vital to the ecosystems of worlds the K'kree have colonized: meat-eating is **EVIL** and must be ended at all costs. Omnivores get a pass if they're willing to go vegan; obligate carnivores are out of luck.
    -   During the K'kree-Hiver war the Hivers introduced meat _sauce_ to a few K'kree colonies, they were so horrified that they sterilized the planets in question.
-   The norm for most of the factions in _Warhammer 40,000_, where everyone hates each other enough to justify any battle between them. At the same time, they're willing to pull an Enemy Mine against a greater threat, but these are temporary alliances at best.
    -   The Imperium of Man has Absolute Xenophobia as a matter of official policy, and the Imperial Cult preaches the supremacy of mankind and its Manifest Destiny to conquer the galaxy. Even those who can afford to be enlightened and liberal in comparison to mainstream Imperial society are notably hateful towards most aliens. That said, some useful alien races like the Jokearo are tolerated as "protectorates," Rogue Traders are allowed to interact with (and exploit) aliens as long as it furthers the overall cause of the Imperium, the Ordo Xenos of the Inquisition studies aliens and sometimes works with them, and the Imperial government engages in diplomatic relations with some of the Eldar craftworlds and the Tau Empire. The Imperium would _like_ to stamp out all the rival species in the galaxy, but it's barely strong enough to hold itself together, and in the case of the Tau, sometimes it's good to have some buffer states between you and threats like the Tyranids. The Ciaphas Cain novels examine this in more detail. The Imperium and the Tau do not like each other, but are not continuously at war, and Cain actually works with the aliens when their interests align, but he's also horrified at how far Tau sympathizers, including some of his fellow humans, are willing to assimilate into this alien culture. It's not just that they're eroding their sense of self, Cain's concerned that such open-mindedness could let Chaos could get its hooks in. _40k_ is a setting where Absolute Xenophobia can be justified.
    -   The other races aren't much better. Many Eldar, especially those from Biel-Tan craftworld, would happily rebuild their ancient empire by wiping out all the "lesser races" infesting the galaxy. The Dark Eldar consider all other beings livestock to be tortured for their sick amusement. The Necrons are Omnicidal Maniacs that want to purge the galaxy of _all_ life, not just sentient creatures, though now it would be more accurate to say only some of the leaders want that, while the rest want to reconquer their old empire. The Orks will happily wage war on anything that isn't Orky enough, which can include other Orks, and if you're orky enough they'll just fight you even harder because they love it. Really, the Tau stand out for actively incorporating alien races into their empire, and even though it's sometimes a choice of Join or Die, the Tau are considered much more egalitarian than the others.
    -   This is what makes the Masque of the Frozen Stars so terrifying (aside from the fact they are Monster Clowns who kill people with weapons that are horrifying and lethal _even for this setting_). While other Harlequin troupes will occasionally tolerate other races and even aid them in battle against the Great Enemy, the Frozen Stars combine a fervent belief that the Eldar do have a future in the galaxy and will eventually reclaim it with an equally fervent belief that all non-Eldar races - human, Ork and Tau - are disgusting vermin to be wiped out for the Laughing God's amusement. Their rules in 8th Edition reflect this by gearing their Masque Form, unique Strategem and Warlord Trait to close combat lethality.
    -   Quite ironically, the _least_ xenophobic faction in _40K_ is actually probably the various forces of Chaos, the Big Bad of the entire setting. Though most known for (and represented in-game by) the Traitor Marines, Chaos will corrupt and use anything: renegade Imperial Guard regiments, abhuman and mutant underclasses, heretek techpriests looking for some way to escape the orthodoxy of the Mechanicus, freedom fighters and revolutionaries who don't truly grasp the price of their new dark allies, or even entire xenos races fallen and corrupted by Chaos. This doesn't even touch upon the endless legions of literal demons that serve as Chaos's most undistilled manifestation.
        -   However, individual Imperial traitors serving Chaos are just as xenophobic as the loyalists as a norm.
-   Drycha Hamadreth from _Warhammer_ and _Warhammer: Age of Sigmar_ is an insane and powerful dryad who has vowed to destroy all life that is not a Nature Spirit, seeing no difference between the enemies or allies of her people.
    -   The Skaven's ultimate goal is to invade the surface world and kill each and every one of the "worthless" surface-dwelling races. The fact that Skaven hate non-Skaven life even more than each other is the only thing that lets them have a working civilisation at all. They're Those Wacky Nazis if they were also Rat Men.
-   The Rigelian Protectorate in the _Starfire_ universe. Their worlds were sterilization bombed to end the threat, after it was concluded that co-existence was impossible.
-   The Army of the Expeditionary Force in _3:16 Carnage Amongst the Stars_ seeks to destroy all non-terran life in the universe. This includes non-sentient life. In case that's not blunt enough, let's be clear that their policy makes the Imperium of Man look like it cherishes and respects all life by comparison. Let's give an example of space gerbils just sort of harmlessly gerbiling around on their homeworld. Faced with this, the top ranks of the Imperium of Man would decide that these could never conceivably be enough of a threat to justify the resources it would take to destroy them, maybe even look into domesticating them. The top ranks of the Army of the Expeditionary Force would decide that they could never conceivably be enough of a threat to justify blowing up their entire star system, and they should be genocided the old fashioned way.
-   The Sathar in _Star Frontiers_.
-   Daemons in _Pathfinder_, though it's more about wanting to end all life than racial purity. The only reason they don't slaughter each other (much) is that they're all working toward the same end; once all other life in creation is gone, they'll most likely commit racial suicide.
-   The 2nd and 3rd editions _Dungeons & Dragons_ had the beholders, who were so paranoid and xenophobic that each individual thought that it was the perfect manifestation of ideal beholderhood, and all other beholders were inferior fakes. When a beholder gives birth, it picks out the young that look most like itself and kills all the others. In fact, beholders might often have hated other beholders _more_ than they hated non-beholders — enslaving relatively long-term minions wasn't uncommon, strains and individuals that were more tolerant of other beholders consistently were also more tolerant of non-beholders, and almost the only situation you'd see larger beholder alliances were when there were enough beholders around that they could ally against _other_ beholder alliances based on prioritising which differences were most deserving of death.
-   In the board game _StarForce Alpha Centauri_, the final scenarios are the wars of the three species of the PanSentient League (with humans the most prominent of the three) against a race known simply as the Xenophobes. Into the largely bloodless space combat practiced by the PSL, the Xenophobes introduced the tactic of artificially inducing novas in the suns of inhabited systems. In the end, the PSL wound up wiping out the Xenophobes.

    Video Games 

-   _Seedship_: If you colonize an inhabited planet with a significantly damaged cultural database, your colonists will be this, and will attempt to genocide the natives. If the colonists are less technologically advanced than the natives, the natives will end up successfully doing the same to them.
-   In _Alien Legacy_, it's revealed that all H'riak\-seeded life forms (including Centaurians) are programmed to hate non-H'riak life and want to destroy it. This is the reason why the Centaurians never even attempted to talk to humans and opened fire on sight.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_:
    -   The Sload, a race of "slugmen" native to Thras, an archipelago to the southwest of Tamriel, have a heavy isolationist policy and _strong_ dislike of every other Tamriellic race. One exception they made was for a Maormer (Sea Elf) ambassador, who was allowed to visit Thras, be fed, and even meet a Sload elder. That ambassador described it all as "repulsive." The Sload attempted a Final Solution toward Tamriel using the Thrassian Plague, which wiped out _over half of Tamriel's population_ in the 1st Era, believed to be even more than the Oblivion Crisis or Red Year. It's little wonder then that, despite their own various disagreements with each other, one thing most denizens of Tamriel can agree on is that the Sload are unrepentantly evil.
    -   By the events of _Skyrim_, the Aldmeri Dominion under the leadership of the Thalmor have entered this territory. In the two centuries following the Oblivion Crisis and the weakening of the Tamriellic Empire, the Dominion has grown in strength while subjugating neighboring provinces, suppressing the worship of "gods" they deem inferior (namely Talos), and outright executing their (mostly human) enemies. And that is their _public_ face; their true xenophobia manifests in a hidden agenda to suppress worship of Talos, as they believe he is the last pillar holding up Mundus, the mortal plane. Destroying him by depriving him of worship, in their minds, would undo Mundus and allow their spirits to revert to previous, unchanging, immortal forms as they supposedly were in the time of pre-creation.
-   _FTL: Faster Than Light_: Several of the factions in the game devote themselves to exterminating all other races, including the Rockmen, the Mantis, and the human-supremacist Rebels.
-   The Xenos in _Freelancer_ are a terrorist faction, consisting mainly of former miners from Liberty who became unemployed when Liberty's economy shifted away from blue-collar and towards white-collar work, and blame foreign influences over Liberty's government for their poverty. As a result, they are hostile to almost every other faction in the game, with the only people they won't shoot on sight being the Zoners (who have a policy of absolute neutrality towards everyone else) and the Independent Miners Guild (who they respect for their independence from the major corporations).
-   The Shivans of _Freespace_... may or may not fall under this. They do kill anything that isn't Shivan on sight, but they tend to ignore planets unless they are populated by a space-faring species they're exterminating at the time, and certain unexplained actions they take near the end of the second game have cast considerable doubt on their motives.
-   _Galactic Civilizations II_:
    -   The Dread Lords were the original Xenophobes (and the guys manipulating the Korath). Being biologically immortal, and capable of perceiving the whole of eternity, they don't see any point to intelligent life that doesn't live longer than a century or so. And if there's no point to that life's existence... why let them live at all?
    -   In the first expansion, the Drengin undergo cultural split when their largest and most powerful clan, the Korath, decide to exterminate all non-Drengin life, while the rest of the Drengin simply wanted to enslave the galaxy.
-   Fredrik Pohl's _Gateway_ had the lovingly dubbed Assassins, a xenophobic race which is bent on the destruction of every other sentient being in the universe. Once their equipment is activated by sufficiently advanced races (in this case, the humans), they send a signal to the Assassins to come clean up the mess. Thankfully, the player manages to avoid the destruction of the human race in both games with the help of the Heechee race.
-   _Lusternia_: The Glomdoring Commune subscribe to this notion. It's their ultimate goal to seed the Glomdoring throughout the rest of the known world, while forcibly converting the other civilizations to their own viewpoint as they do. Resistance results in death.
-   In _Mass Effect: Andromeda_ we have the Roekarr, an angaran terrorist organization that wants to kill all aliens in the Heleus Cluster, both kett and milky way. It was founded by Akksul who after a year in a kett labor camp went from one of the angara's best and brightest to a bitter yet charismatic killer capable of convincing hundreds of his kind to hate anything non-angaran. While they hate all aliens they usually end up attacking the Initiative because unlike the kett they lack the numbers, resources and weaponry to properly defend themselves. They'll also kill angara willing to consider the Initiative as allies.
-   _Master of Orion_: The Antarans, at least in the second game. "You may not surrender, you cannot win, your only option is death."
-   In _Meteos_, Planet Meteo is driven by an instinctual compulsion to destroy all other sentience in the universe. It does this by spewing out the eponymous Meteos blocks, which seek out planets with life and crash into them until they're annihilated. This method backfires on Planet Meteo, however, when various intelligent civilizations independently discover how to repel the Meteos blocks and, just as importantly, that Planet Meteo is just as vulnerable to these blocks as any other planet.
-   Why are there only three sapient species (not counting the player character) in the seemingly-limitless universe of _No Man's Sky_? The Gek, specifically their "First Spawn" subspecies, are to thank for that, proudly conquering, enslaving, and blowing up planets that stood in their way in ancient times. It was only because of genetic sabotage, which ultimately resulted in the tides of war turning against them, that they became the relatively peaceful mercantile race they are today.
-   _Sins of a Solar Empire_'s _Rebellion_ expansion has part of the Trade Emergency Coalition break away into the radically xenophobic Rebel faction. While the Loyalist faction wants to ride out the war with superior defensive capabilities and economic and diplomatic might no matter the cost, the Rebels want to crush all xenos and "collaborators" in a wave of expansionist warfare. While the Loyalists get research to improve their diplomatic relations with other races, the Rebels have research to resist enemy culture and ally themselves with the Space Pirate armies and neutral militias. It _is_ possible to form diplomatic relations as a Rebel, but they have heavy diplomatic penalties with basically every faction.
-   _Star Control_:
    -   The Ur-Quan are divided into two factions: Kohr-Ah and Kzer-Za. The Kohr-Ah want to wipe out all other sentient life in the universe. The Kzer-Za will settle for enslaving or confining all other sentient life in the universe. Similar to the Ryall, it comes down to a species-wide Freudian Excuse - eons ago, they were all enslaved by a race of evil creatures with mind-control powers, and after finally casting off their shackles (in a thoroughly horrible way, at that - turns out, the evil aliens couldn't maintain control of a being in _absolute agony_), they decided that they couldn't risk it happening again. So they went to war with all other sentient life. The intervening generations have _not_ mitigated their trauma - Genetic Memory means that it effectively happened to all of them.
    -   That said, the Kzer-Za are perfectly willing to find a new homeworld for races who have lost theirs (e.g. Syreen). It's a matter of Pragmatic Villainy for them - they can't afford to have a fleet of potential enemies flying around, and destroying an entire race is not an option for them. Their doctrine is also easier to accomplish than the Kohr-Ah's because if you know you're going to die anyway you'll pull a Last Stand or Taking You with Me. Although the Shofixti did the latter anyway, so that doesn't always work. Also, unlike many examples on this page, both factions/subspecies make it clear that they do not _hate_ other species and are rather polite when dealing with them; they're just convinced that their actions are the best way to ensure what happened with the Dnyarri never happens again.
    -   The Kohr-Ah are also believers in reincarnation, and think they are doing everyone else a favor by giving them a chance to be reborn... as Kohr-Ah.
-   _Star Ruler_'s Galactic Armory mod adds the "Inhibitor" AI type. Inhibitors will go to war as soon as possible with any race they detect (after trying to extort them for resources, that is), and rely on weapons that distort space-time. Galactic Armory also beefs up the Remnants — who are long dead, but still have very much active AI-controlled ships — rather than just sitting inside their long-dead systems, the Remnants will periodically send out ships to cull the lesser races - and they do a good job of it too since they start out several orders of magnitude more advanced than the player(s) or computer-controlled empires.
-   _Stellaris_:
    -   Xenophobia is one of eight ethical directions an empire can take, with a normal and fanatical level of devotion to it, which can combine with other ethos and result in a variety of AI personalities. Authoritarian Xenophobes, for instance, are usually The Empire and want to conquer and subjugate the rest of the galaxy, while Spiritualist Xenophobes want to force their religion on the galaxy. Pacifist Xenophobes will try to stay out of galactic affairs, and even have a unique civic available, Inward Perfection, that lets them function as a galactic Hidden Elf Village closed off to everyone else.
    -   Then there's the Fanatic Purifiers civic, available to any empire with a combination of Fanatical Xenophobia and either the Spiritualist or Militarist ethic. Fanatic Purifiers can't conduct peaceful diplomacy with other species' empires, get a _massive_ diplomatic malus that guarantees mutual hostility between them and everyone else, get boosts to ship production and weapons damage, and will _always_ commit genocide against alien species on planets they conquer, setting them on a path to try and kill everything else in the galaxy. Disturbingly, there are no restrictions on government type for this personality, so it's entirely possible for such an empire to be a democratic "Purity Assembly" whose citizens come together in free and fair elections to decide how best to exterminate all the lesser races of the galaxy.
    -   Among non-standard empires, Hive Minds can pick the Devouring Swarm civic and spend the game trying to eat every other lifeform in the galaxy, or in a Lithoid species' case, eat every other _planet_ in the galaxy. Meanwhile, a Machine Intelligence can define itself as a Determined Exterminator, a former defense system that went rogue, nuked its creators, and is now out to kill all organic life in the galaxy. As with Fanatical Purifiers, Devouring Swarms and Determined Exterminators can't conduct normal diplomacy (though the latter can treat with other Machine Intelligences, at least) but gain boosts to war production and weapon damage to compensate.
    -   All three of the endgame Crisis scenarios, which function as the Final Boss of the game, seek to kill everything in the galaxy. The Contingency is an AI programmed to periodically wipe out all galactic life, whether organic or synthetic, holding that any intelligent life has the ability to cause a "Class 30 Singularity" and so must be destroyed. The Prethoryn Scourge, meanwhile, are a Horde of Alien Locusts who came to the galaxy to eat everything within it, though they later turn out to be running away from something even nastier. Finally, the Unbidden are Energy Beings from another dimension who _also_ seek to devour all life. Once they conquer about 15% of the galaxy, they'll be joined by two rival factions from the same dimension, the Aberrant and the Vehement, who are as hostile towards the Unbidden and each other as they are towards the galaxy.
-   The old DOS game _Terminal Velocity_ had as its Final Boss a planet-sized supercomputer called X.I., the _Xenocidal_ Intelligence
    -   Terminal Velocity's Spiritual Sequel, made by the same developers but different publisher, _Fury³_ has the antagonist Bions, a race created by Terrans to be more violent and ruthless than any living species to help win the Inter Planetary Wars. Which worked, until the Bions, being designed to exterminate other races, realized they were stronger than the Terrans.
-   _Warframe_: The Grineer are a fanatical race of cloned cyborg conquerors bred to abhor all that is not Grineer. The few decent, honourable, reasonable Grineer such as the Steel Meridian, the Kavor Defectors, or the quirky Clem are considered genetically defective.
-   _Xenoblade Chronicles X_: There are a lot of xenophobic individuals living in NLA, but Alex takes the cake with his singleminded genocidal intentions.

    Webcomics 

-   The Kvrk-Chk of _Quentyn Quinn, Space Ranger_ have two categories of lifeform: "Other Kvrk-Chk" and "food". With these two categories forming a VERY disturbing Venn diagram... Part of this comes from their world being an EXTREMELY hostile environment, where most non-Kvrk-Chk species would die instantly just from atmospheric pressure or the toxic atmosphere, or the wide variety of scavengers and predators. Due to how hostile and aggressive their environment is, they have to eat their food alive just so the scavengers and decomposers of their world don't rot their food before it reaches their mouth. As part of their culture, a visiting Kvrk-Chk offers the master of the house one of it's own severed limbs as food. Oh, and they consider "Awake and Screaming" a flavor, and sentient lifeforms "chatty food". In a subversion, their treatment of "chatty food" and declaring war on every species out there didn't work very well for them when one of their new enemies incinerates one of their solar systems in retaliation. They listen to them now.
-   _Schlock Mercenary_:
    -   The cultural dogma of the Ob'enn calls for "the eventual extermination of all non-Ob'enn". They do, however, recognize the usefulness of trading with other species and "borrowing" their expertise, where appropriate, until such time that they can get to exterminating. Prior to the invention of the teraport the Wormgate Foundation (which had a monopoly on FTL travel) had their home system pretty firmly locked down since their warships weren't getting anywhere without FTL... But then Kevyn released the teraport as open source and gave it to every species in the galaxy just to get at the Gatekeepers. This included the Ob'enn. Oops. Luckily for the Milky Way, a coalition of races under a being known as "The Rogue" (a former Ob'enn warship AI who had been freed from his hardcoded xenophobia) was able to halt their advance and reduce them to the point that they were mostly harmless.
    -   The dark-matter Pa'anuri. They have one name for baryonic-matter entities (which would include us, Earth, our Sun, and all observable (to us) matter in the universe), which is "ANNOYING". Using teraports (since they create gravitic tunnels in space; sort of like having a blind man drilling holes through your house and occasionally nailing you with it) angers them, and if a species develops to the point of being able to teraport, they blow up that species' sun at the earliest opportunity. After drawing an extremely costly war against the Gatekeepers, the Pa'anuri moved shop to the Andromeda galaxy, where they began routinely destroying any civilization that invented the _radio_. The first baryonic space-farers from the Milky Way who went there found several radio shells... All of which are thirty years wide, and then scrambled by a supernova shell. By Earth standards, we would barely have invented the tank by the time our sun would have been blown up. And even _then_ they tried to trick the Gatekeepers into blowing up the galaxy, and after that failed and they went to war with the Fleetmind they have taken to taking potshots at the Milky Way with the biggest Long-Gun known to sentient life, shooting _everything they can see_ to try and get the Fleetmind (and get rid of more pesky baryonic beings along the way, since a missed shot just means someone _else_ died), and hunting down Precursor World Ships in the dark space between galaxies to use their hulls for an invasion fleet, murdering trillions of lifeforms that had long since left the Andromeda galaxy and posed no threat to them for materials to continue their crusade.
-   _The Vanguard_: The ancient race the Malevol already wiped out all other life in their home galaxy of Andromeda simply because they didn't want to live with them, and expanded into our galaxy thousands of years ago looking to do the same. Fortunately we had our own elder race with the will and power to oppose them...
-   _Awful Hospital_: The original god of everything, The Old Flesh, was only truly happy when it was the only thing in the entire multiverse. After it developed diseases and began creating the universe against its will, it could only feel hatred for the things eating its cake-like insides and giving birth to trillions of happy-go-lucky children. Its remnants, the Parliamnent, hate their own existence and seek to destroy and re-merge every concept in the multiverse by growing an omni-devourer that will eat everything in every plane of existence.

    Web Original 

-   _SCP Foundation_: SCP-682 finds all Earthly forms of life disgusting and abhorrent. Thus, it tries to kill anything it comes across. The Foundation has been working on figuring out how to kill it first...without much success, since it has a powerful Healing Factor and promptly adapts to anything it's exposed to. Curiously, there's _one_ thing 682 did not attack on sight: SCP-053, an apparently normal human child who any person who is around her for more than about a minute will attempt to murder. Much to the confusion of the Foundation, they got along famously.
-   _Mahu_: In "Second Chance", several of the galaxy's races share this trope. The Yaanari for instance are slavers who view other races as inferior, little better than cattle. The Cizri on the other hand are extreme isolationists who believe other races to be far too chaotic to be allowed into their nation, though they are also pacifists who rarely seek war. Right opposite to them, the Dyss not only consider other races to be inferior but also do not tolerate their existence which means they will "purge" all worlds settled by different alien races.

    Western Animation 

-   The Traash species in _Adventures of the Galaxy Rangers_, Big Creepy-Crawlies with the usual tropes that apply, are so xenophobic that "in Traash space, there exists no other lifeform but the Traash". When the Rangers' telepath is able to communicate with them, it's discovered that they hadn't even considered the idea that another species would try to make peace instead of attacking.
-   In Season 1 of _Ben 10: Alien Force_, the Highbreed are this. Obsessed with genetic purity, they inbred themselves to the point of sterility, dooming themselves to extinction within a generation. They were the first sentient species to develop in the Universe (or so they claimed), and they are disgusted with the prospect of younger (and thus "inferior") species living on without them, so they plan to exterminate all lifeforms in the universe.
-   The Marcabians in the episode "Secret of Easter Island" of the animated series of _Blake and Mortimer_ are so racist that they consider all other species inferior, killing them before they develop Faster-Than-Light Travel technology and become a "menace to the Marcabian Empire". By the time they had reached Earth, they had already exterminated several sentient species.
-   The Brain Spawn in _Futurama_ wish to wipe out all conscious thought from the universe because "the thoughts of others screech at them like the forced laughs of a thousand art-house patrons". Later, their plan is to collect all knowledge in the universe and then destroy it to keep any new knowledge from appearing.
-   Fanon of _Invader Zim_ often depicts the Irkens as this, based on the canonical facts that they wish to take over the galaxy and enslave and/or destroy all other species. In-series, however, only Zim himself seems to have this direct hatred of other species — the other Irkens seem to be merely acting out of a desire for power and a sense of superiority.
-   _The Owl House_: Emperor Belos utterly despises the very existence of the inhabitants of the Boiling Isles. It doesn't matter how zealously loyal they are to his cause; he sees them all as savage and barbaric monsters to be mercilessly slaughtered without any hesitation. In "Hollow Mind", he justifies his attempted genocide by stating that he is trying to save humanity from evil, even though _he_ wouldn't hesitate to kill humans for suggesting he's wrong about witches and demons, _including his own brother_.

___