**Scott Pilgrim:** Don't you just wish this moment could last forever?  
**Ramona:** This moment with your hand on my boob?

He isn't a pervert. No, really! His hands just _happened_ to slip and find themselves on her breasts. He just _happened_ to trip on that rug over there and land (probably head-first) on top of her ample chest. Maybe he needed to use the bathroom and ran into her taking a bath or a shower. And he just _happened_ to be there when the only wind of the day blew up her skirt and his only sin was instinctive goggling. He can't help it if his honest-to-goodness accidental moves make him come off as a lech that can't even muster the... "slickness"... of the Casanova Wannabe.

A characterization trap here is that they sometimes come across as really being lecherous, but are too incompetent and cowardly to be open about it. They really are leering at female body parts; but are terrified of getting hit or yelled at — or more charitably, they're _tempted_ despite realizing that it would be **wrong**; in either case, the gropings are a type of Freudian slip. Of course, the girls will never believe him, and almost always believe the least charitable interpretation (even at times where it's clearly not his fault), usually launching them straight into Pervert Revenge Mode. Cue Bitch Slap, shrill cries, and desperate attempts at redemption. In comic works, the slap is often replaced with the Hyperspace Mallet or Paper Fan of Doom, and God help you if you have this character trait within striking range of a Tsundere. Of course, Forgiving the Accidental Pervert is _also_ an option.

For all practical purposes, his life is a Fanservice-laden version of Cold Turkeys Are Everywhere.

Note the possible This Loser Is You implications.

See also Naked First Impression, Thanks for the Mammary, Suggestive Collision, and Sorry to Interrupt. Overlaps with Not What It Looks Like, except that Accidental Pervert refers to a character type to which this kind of thing happens _all_ the time, rather than just a few times. He's usually also the Unlucky Everydude to emphasize his sheer bad luck in scoring with girls. This can also happen to the Chaste Hero or Celibate Hero, for the obvious comic value. When played straight, the Accidental Pervert has at least some elements of the Chivalrous Pervert, which he may become outright if he gains enough confidence to come to terms with his libido. They can often be mistaken for The Peeping Tom. They fall into this if they Crash Through the Harem. If the misunderstanding involves the man being assumed to be a creep towards _underage_ individuals, then he's Mistaken for Pedophile.

A lot of the times, this trope occurs in very unlikely circumstances. Sometimes, it isn't so much bad luck as it is characters grabbing the Idiot Ball. The girl may not always be very cautious (like changing clothes in her bedroom without covering the windows or locking the door). This could lead into a Double Standard as the boy is treated as the pervert, even though it's just an accident. Men are not exempt from this however, as they often walk into situations that you just know are going to end up like this (like barging into a girl's bedroom without even knocking). If it looks as though he's being _extremely_ inappropriate, this overlaps with Grossout Fakeout.

Sharply contrast Unprovoked Pervert Payback for when the guy didn't even get to see anything and the attack just comes out of nowhere.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

    Anime & Manga 

-   Gender-Inverted Trope in _The 100 Girlfriends Who Really, Really, Really, Really, Really Love You_:
    -   Shizuka happens to be the first girl to see Rentarou naked (ironically, she was trying to _stop_ the other girls from seeing him naked).
    -   When Meme finds herself in a Playboy Bunny outfit, she's so embarrassed she disappears. Shizuka notices Mei's skirt is suddenly bulging, and lifts it up to reveal Meme, who promptly disappears again, leaving Shizuka looking at Mei's underwear. Both Shizuka and Mei are very embarrassed about it.
-   Since it's a harem comedy, this happens a few times to Maeda from _Ai Kora_. Though given that Maeda _is_ a raging pervert, the girls can usually be forgiven for jumping to this conclusion.
-   Subverted and inverted in _Ai Yori Aoshi_. The events are almost exclusively the fault of the girls, and when Kaoru ends up with another eye- (or face-)full of breasts, almost everyone just laughs it off. Kaoru is just too nice a guy to be doing that kind of thing - and his Single-Target Sexuality with Aoi helps smooth over the cracks - albeit sometimes to the other girls' disappointment. It also forms a playful swipe at comedy harem slapstick like that in _Love Hina_: what would happen if you actually listened to the explanations before punching people in the face?

-   In _Angel Beats!_, the second episode sees a human ladder form when Otonashi, Hinata, and Yuri all fall into a pit and grab each other. Otonashi, being on the bottom of the ladder, has to climb up first. When he gets to Yuri, he hesitates a moment, claiming that he doesn't know where he should grab onto. Yuri, being rather more concerned with holding up the weight of two people than physical intimacy, tells him to just grab anywhere and _hurry_. Although, she doesn't give the same grace to Hinata when it's his turn to climb:
    
    **Yuri:** HEY! Don't grab me there! _\[kick\]_  
    **Hinata:** _\[falling\]_ Yoooooouuuuuu biiiiiiiiiiiit—  
    _\[moments later\]_  
    **Otonashi:** Where's Hinata?  
    **Yuri:** His was a noble sacrifice.
    
-   In _Aposimz_ Etherow falls asleep in the public bathroom and Keisha assumes it's vacant. Etherow gets an explosion in his face when he wakes up.
-   Both Aratas from _Arata: The Legend_ are prone to this every now and then. Arata from Amawakuni tends to be complete oblivious about what he's doing or seeing, while Arata Hinohara acts like a typical, awkward teenage boy about it...unless he gets smacked by Kotaha for it.
-   Kickboxing trainer Kunimitsu from _Ayane's High Kick_ is labeled as pervert both for his That Came Out Wrong method of introduction, and for wrapping his arms around his student Ayane's chest when trying to prevent her from leaving the ring.
-   Kosuda from _B Gata H Kei_ provides examples of this on a few occasions, though the difference is that his girlfriend (and series protagonist) Yamada _wants it_. Problem is, he has no idea. That she wants it. Or even that she's his girlfriend.
-   Eiichirou from _Baby Steps_ is referred to as a stalker and a pervert, much to his chagrin, starting when he was caught watching Natsu in secret while she was practicing for her tennis club.
-   _Being Able to Edit Skills in Another World, I Gained OP Waifus_: Reginablus invokes this while trying to Mind Rape Nagi, continuously twisting the laws of causality to have Nagi wind up in compromising positions with any woman who gets too close, even ripping off Rita's dress at one point.
-   _Birdy the Mighty_:
    -   In the original manga, OVA, and the remake manga, Tsutomu's dad makes an attempt at bonding with his son in the bathtub, only to find a naked Birdy in his place.
    -   In _Decode_, Natsumi hears Birdy's voice in the bath, takes a look out of surprise, only to find a naked and embarrassed Tsutomu.
-   After the manager brings in too many plants during a jungle-themed cafe during episode 7 of _Blend-S_, Akizuki ends up getting lost trying to find his way around the restaurant. He accidentally gropes Kaho's breast, but interestingly she doesn't seem too upset by that. However, he immediately goes and grabs Dino's chest, and seems much more at ease doing this, which she says is much more irritating for some reason.
-   This is _the_ running gag on _Bludgeoning Angel Dokuro-chan_, and nearly always results in Sakura getting messily killed and then promptly resurrected by the title character.
-   _Case Closed_:
    -   Since Ran doesn't know Shinichi/Conan's real identity, she's either undressed in front of the "kid" and/or taken baths with him several times. Hilariously lampshaded by his mother Yukiko, who after she manages to keep Ran from finding out his identity, eagerly tells him that Ran would be _not happy_ to find out that the kid she's bathed with is actually the love interest she's Tsundere for...
    -   _Ran_ also played the role once, when she inadvertently saw an important clue pertaining to the identity of the killer when she accidentally walked in on each male member of a local Drama Club while they were changing.
-   In _Cat's Eye_ the detectives investigating the titular female thieves received information that one of the band had a birthmark on her inner tigh, so they decided to check all women near the painting Cat's Eye is targeting... By looking under their skirts. The local cops, who don't know them, arrest them for sexual harassment, and Cat's Eye can steal the painting in the confusion they expected to cause when they leaked the false information.
-   _A Certain Magical Index_:
    -   If Touma casually opens a door, there will be a girl changing on the other side, regardless of what kind of room it is. No exceptions. If Touma bumps into a girl, he'll most likely end up touching her boobs or something. Even when walking in a public park, he isn't exempt from this. This is partly justified in how this guy is supposed to be rather unlucky (although YMMV on how "unlucky" it is to invoke this trope). But a lot of the times, it's because the girl and/or Touma grabbed the Idiot Ball. At any rate, Touma at least _genuinely_ doesn't intentionally engage in lecherous behaviour, in contrast to many other examples of this trope.
    -   Accelerator gets some of this too, such as the time he walked in on two busty twenty-something year-olds (and a little girl) all naked in the shower. Unlike Touma though, his reaction is more subdued.
        
        **Last Order:** Why did you show up without any warning!? Misaka Misaka says as she desperately grabs for the falling bath towel, but it is far too late.  
        **Accelerator:** Why didn't you lock the door?  
        **Yomikawa:** Oh, I'm sorry. I've been living all alone up to now, so I forgot.  
        **Yoshikawa:** Aiho, cover them up for now.  
        **Last Order:** You two don't feel anything even though you're being seen naked? Misaka Misaka asks an innocent question.  
        **Yoshikawa:** It's nothing to get excited about.  
        **Yomikawa:** He's a kid, we're adults.  
        **Last Order:** Instead of sounding like an adult, that sounds more like an old woman. Owowow! Suddenly you two are crushing Misaka's head!  
        **Accelerator:** Have some sense of security, would you?
        
-   In _Chivalry of a Failed Knight_, Ikki first meets Stella when he walks into her changing. Then he uses Insane Troll Logic and takes off his shirt to even the slate. Turns out to be a genuine misunderstanding because the headmaster intentionally made them roommates.
-   Granted, he really _is_ something of a pervert, but the Hideki, the male lead of _Chobits_, seems to suffer this as a constant source of amusement... especially embarrassing seeing how Chii is the Innocent Fanservice Robot Girl.
-   _Cross Ange_ Tusk keeps falling face first into Ange, always in the worst possible position.
-   _DARLING in the FRANXX_:
    -   As he is looking for a wounded bird, Hiro comes across some discarded clothes. He picks one at random... and it just happens to be the underwear of the girl Skinny Dipping in the lake in front of him.
    -   _All_ the boys in episode 8. The first time thanks to a klaxosaur with a nudifier liquid, the second thanks to Zero Two trolling them by tricking the boys into trying to take a bath at the same time as the girls.
-   _DearS_: Ren often winds up in compromising positions with Ren without intending to. By the time of chapter 25, nobody cares anymore when he's found on top of Ren with her panties in his hand.
-   Implied in _Death Note_. When Misa shouts that someone touched her butt, Great Detective L (standing behind her) actually seems unusually flustered before declaring his intent to find the culprit. Shortly after that, Light discovers that L has somehow gotten his hands on one of Misa's cell phones and realizes that L must have taken it in the confusion.
-   The jester's 'Lucky Perv' skill in _Did You Know that a Playboy Can Change His Job to a Sage?_ is specifically designed to invoke this often.
-   In _Doraemon_, this often happen to Nobita with Shizuka. It's a Running Gag with Nobita using the Anywhere Door to go to Shizuka's house and finding her bathing in the tub (sometimes happen also with Doraemon). In other occasions, he accidentally sees under her skirt.
-   _Dragon Ball_:
    -   In the first arc, Goku — being raised in the mountains until he met Bulma — doesn't know how to confirm gender by look, so he innocently pats the girls' privates for any... well, balls. This resulted from an interesting situation in episode 2 when he took off Bulma's undies while she's sleeping...
    -   Apparently cut out from the American version; Goku also pats Chi-Chi in that area with his foot when he first meets her, to confirm that she is indeed a girl. This, of course, leads to him being pushed off the Flying Nimbus by a very embarrassed Chi-Chi. It also leads, directly, to her deciding to marry him. A decision which she carries through with about seven years later.
    -   Yamcha quite lots in earlier chapters of the manga, when his fear of women is still intact, no less. Such as when he accidentally watched Bulma take a bath and likely touched Bulma's boobs when she was naked while sleeping.
-   _Dragon Quest: The Adventure of Dai_:
    -   Early in the story, when Maam meets Dai and Pop for the first time, she helps them defeat a monster and criticizes Pop for his failure to do so by himself. Pop, not happy with her critique and unaware that Maam is a girl, tries to size himself up by poking her upper torso — and only THEN does he finally realize he's confronting a girl, after Maam harshly pushes him away.
    -   When Popp, who's depleted of his magic after barely escaping the Field of Death following a Hopeless Boss Fight against Kill-Vearn and Hadlar through help from Crocodine and Dai<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , is feeling desperate to search for and rescue Dai, he, upon finding out from Leona and Aimi that Marin has some magic holy water that can restore some magic power, rushes to Marin with a desperate plea for the item. Unfortunately, Popp, in his haste to plead to Marin, neglects to watch what his hands are pulling, resulting in him yanking down Marin's skirt by the time Marin is badgered into agreeing. The next panel showing him with enough magic power restored enough to be airborne via spell-work also shows him with a hand-print on his cheek as a result of his carelessness.
-   This happens occasionally to Makoto Mizuhara in _El-Hazard: The Magnificent World_. Primarily when he was serving as _Princess_ Fatora's Body Double.
-   In _Elfen Lied_, Kouta's cousin Yuuka slaps him a lot for this. The first time it happened, Nyu had been out in the rain and her clothes were soaked. Kouta tried helping her change with his eyes closed, but his cousin walked in at just the right moment for his honest explanation to be hardest to believe. Of course, it's all because Yuuka's a Clingy Jealous Girl over how he doesn't pay the same apparent attention to her. This drops out of sight almost completely when the drama gets dialed up even further.
-   Lampshaded in _Fairy Tail_. Gray is often considered to be one because he has a habit of subconsciously stripping to his underwear. Of course, there's also the first meeting with his love interest, a woman whose magic causes her body to be made entirely out of water. When trying to freeze her in the middle of battle he grabs the first thing he can get a hold of: her boob.
-   _Fate/kaleid liner PRISMA☆ILLYA_: Illya is taking a bath at night when she notices something strange in the sky. She turns off the lights so it will be easier to see through the window. Shirou assumes with the bathroom light off that nobody is inside and steps in, embarrassing them both.
-   _Fire Force_ has a rare female version in Tamaki. She's lucky if she can take five steps without tripping or snagging her clothing, and ending up half naked (or more). At which point she will generally crash into someone (usually male and usually Shinra) breasts, butt, or crotch first. Then she will complain about that person. It should be noted that this is played to absurd levels as she's noted to crash into people in a compromising position when it should've been impossible to end up in such a position in the first place. Just snagging her wimple, the nun hat she wears when she acts as a sister for the Holy Sol Temple, on a rock leaves her in her underwear.
-   _Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood_:
    -   Winry walks into her bedroom and starts undressing, without realizing Ed is in the room with her. He gets to see some underboob. Interestingly, while her reaction is explosive, it is more targeted towards the people who enter the room after her screaming. Ed can be seen still in her room after she has changed, while everyone else has been driven out. Granted, this is because the people who burst in started arguing amongst themselves.
    -   Also in _Brotherhood,_ Envy walks in on Edward after Edward just left the shower, and he has no pants or towel on. Screaming ensues.
    -   In the 2003 anime version, Ed accidentally grabs Psyren's breast while fighting her, and blushes awkwardly. Psyren lampshades this and asks him if it's the first time he's fought a woman.
-   _Fushigi Yuugi_: Tamahome often accidentally catches Miaka topless and naked. Not only accidentally looking at, but also groping her.
-   Seo Kouji's _Fuuka_ is based on this trope. The protagonist Yuu is a twitteroholic whose smartphone gets trashed when he accidentally almost snaps a panty shot of a girl on the street. The next time he meets Fuuka, she ends up in another photo, but Yuu manages to explain that he's just taking snapshots of the city. In the end it turns out he did take a pantyshot, since the wind lifted Fuuka's skirt.
-   _Genshiken Nidaime_'s Yajima bravely protects cross-dresser Hato's honour by tackling Yoshitake to stop her from going through his things while he showers. Unfortunately, her flailing hand pulls the bathroom door open to reveal a bollock-naked Hato; Yajima sees _everything_. Cue girly shriek from Hato and refusing to come out.
-   _Girls Bravo_: Yukinari. He has the misfortune of being the protagonist of a harem series, so the laws of plot ensure that it happens and that he suffers for it.
-   In _Gundam SEED_, when Kira is trying to get Lacus off the Archangel, he attempts to give a space suit to put on, but they both quickly notice that it won't fit over the very long dress she is wearing. Lacus responds by, to Kira's chagrin, taking it off right in front of him, giving the audience _and_ poor Kira a very good shot of her pink panties.

-   In the OVA of _Guyver_: out of control; after his first battle, Sho carries and unconscious Mizuki to her house. She then wakes up to see him carry her, more specifically notices his hand under her rear. She then jumps off him and says "Sho, you're a pervert!!" before running off. Leaving him confused.
-   _Hanaukyō Maid Team_. Taro does it five times.
    -   First season episode 3: After Taro gets off a couch he accidentally falls into Mariel and gets a face full of Funbag Airbag.
    -   _La Verite_ episode 2: He accidentally looks up Ryuuka's skirt while she has her foot on his face.
    -   Two Suggestive Collisions in 'La Verite'' episode 7.
        -   He's thrown onto Mariel during an earthquake and accidentally gropes her breasts.
        -   The puppy Fenrir jumps on him and knocks him and Mariel down. He ends up lying face down on top of her.
    -   _La Verite_ episode 12: He inadvertently gropes one of his personal maid's breasts while sleepily trying to turn off an alarm clock.
-   In _Hayate the Combat Butler_ just about every named female has this happen at some point.
    -   Early on in the series Hayate encountered Nagi naked a few times, since his reactions are quite un-perverted they trigger some insecurities in Nagi regarding their 'relationship'. Nishizawa also had a similar moment in Greece. Even Aika, a minor character from the Student Council, got her clothes soaked while visiting and used it to manipulate Hayate into doing some embarrassing errands for her. Maria had about one moment when Hayate tripped on the carpet and landed face-first in her chest while attempting a joke for Sakuya (the actual "punchline" was Nagi beating the tar out of him since Maria didn't seem to react much).
    -   Hinagiku is an odd case where her _sister_ was the one causing these; for a while there was a joke on the forums that Hayate never got to see any Hinagiku-fanservice. This has changed some in later chapters; Hayate opens a door without knocking while ''actually saying'' that there is an extremely high probability of Hinagiku changing on the other side (in fact, that is the reason why the door is special...). Given that both of their reactions seem to imply that this has happened many times before, fans have started wondering if Hayate does it on purpose sometimes...
    -   Athena seems to have escaped this, likely due more to a lack of screen time or the fact that the story tends to be more serious when she pops up.
    -   Ruka tops most of the others when she changed in front of him and even got into a bath that Hayate was in, when she thought Hayate was a girl. This caused her a lot of embarrassment when she finds out the truth.
-   _Heaven's Lost Property_: Tomoki normally averts this, as any perverted actions he gets into are intentional on his part. Despite this, however, walking into Mikako's private hot springs was _not_ something he meant to do.
-   _Hetalia: Axis Powers_: Holy Roman Empire. Several times he has accidentally lifted up (or pulled down) Chibitalia's shorts. In addition, Italy and Romano both have hair curls that function as erogenous zones. Both have been unknowingly felt up by Germany and Spain, respectively.
-   _High School D×D_:
    -   When the girl's kendo team catches Issei next to a hole in the wall of the girl's changing room, he actually hadn't been peeping. Not that he didn't want to, though.
    -   In the "Going Sunbathing" OVA, Rias flirts with Issei by asking him to rub sun lotion on her back, but he ends up pouring too much lotion and her back gets so slippery that he somehow ends up slipping on top of her while inadvertently groping her.
-   Despite being about zombies, _Highschool of the Dead_ manages to get this into its series. One moment especially stands out where one of the girls gets splashed by water coming up from the sides of a hovercraft, the protagonist turns around and she shouts "I'M A LADY" seeing as her Japanese School Uniform is drenched.
-   _If Her Flag Breaks_:
    -   In chapter 5, Souta accidentally walks in on Akane in the bathroom.
    -   In episode 2, he gets pushed into the girl's bathroom by Megumu who chickens out at the last minute.
-   _Imaizumin-chi wa Douyara Gal no Tamariba ni Natteru Rashii: ~DEEP~_: Despite seeing much more before, when Imaizumin comes in while Ruri is changing, he tries to politely walk away, twice.
-   In _Inubaka_, Teppei has to go into the storage room to get something. Yeah, too bad the new recruit is in there changing... and then, later on, when he has to get something else, he finds Suguri with no pants. He then wonders if building a girls' dorm was wasted.
-   _Inuyasha_: Whenever Kagome is bathing and isn't in her own time, Inuyasha will see her naked.
-   In _INVADERS of the ROKUJYOUMA!?_, Koutarou accidentally puts both his hands and head on top of Theia's breasts when she comes through his wall for the first time.
-   In _I Saved Too Many Girls and Caused the Apocalypse_, Rekka often unintentionally gets into compromising situations with the heroines he rescues.
-   Tomoe gets into a few moments of this with Nanami in _Kamisama Kiss._ Part of the reason why is that Nanami is an Ordinary High-School Student while Tomoe is a kitsune who really doesn't understand teenage girls. The other reason is simply that Tomoe has No Sense of Personal Space.
-   Jin from _Kannagi: Crazy Shrine Maidens_; our hero always seems to find himself in strange situations when his childhood friend comes in.
-   Kouta Oyamuda from _Kanokon_ is frequently falling into this position in front of the girls at his school, such as that they call him the "Great Ero-King". Actually, it's quite the opposite: _Chizuru_ (his girlfriend) is the one who's always making a move for him and getting the both of them into... questionable positions.
-   _Kenichi: The Mightiest Disciple_:
    -   Kenichi accidentally groping Miu on a few occasions, usually when one of his masters scares him. His first reaction is usually to run right to Miu and grab her from behind, leading to the inevitable...
    -   Shigure accidentally crushes down the screen between Kenichi and Miu in the dressing room (when stopping Ma Kensei from taking pictures of Miu). This results in Kenichi suddenly seeing Miu (almost completely) naked. Next panel? Kenichi all beaten up and Ma Kensei observing that Kenichi actually shows no regrets about it.
    -   Kenichi has been shown to do this semi-intentionally, though, such as when he hides behind Miu to get away from Appachai.
        
        **Miu:** Kenichi, I don't care how scared you are, that's no excuse to cop a feel!
        
-   _The Kindaichi Case Files_: Kindaichi is a genuine pervert who tries to pretend that he got into these kinds of situations by accident, but he has had his share of unintentional walk-ins, including one time he accidentally barged into a bathroom while it was occupied. He'd then realize later that the character claiming to be female had been peeing with the toilet seat up, and this lead to the solution to the mystery.
-   _Kingdom Hearts II_: Sora unknowingly walks in on Mulan bathing in a pound and sees her breasts, revealing her to be a woman.
-   _Kyou no Go no Ni_:
    -   Ryota always finds himself in some perverted situation. Such as: falling sick and heading to the nurse's office, only to find that Chika has had her clothing stolen by her friends. Or when Chika is being forcibly stripped by her friends to measure her size — that girl needs some new friends.
    -   One especially bad situation happens in the first episode. After Ryota and Natsumi are accidentally looked in the athletic equipment shed by a coach, it turns out that she is afraid of the dark and grasp at him for comfort while sobbing... inadvertently pulling his pants down while he tries to get her head away from his crotch. When the coach opens the door, it appears that Ryota is trying to force her to perform fellatio on him. The fact she thanked the coach for saving her did not help his case. This kind of sets the tone for the series, really.
-   Once per Episode for Akiharu in _Ladies versus Butlers!_. On his first day he made memorable first impressions by accidentally molesting the entire female population of his new school.
-   _Little Witch Academia (2017)_ has a Gender-Flipped version where Akko accidentally grabs Andrew by the pants when they're in danger of falling, and is so embarrassed that she accuses him of thinking that she's a pervert when he makes it clear he doesn't.
-   Keitaro in _Love Hina_ is by far the most insane example; it even happens at his wedding!. He’s like the king of accidental perverts.
    -   The manga even has a filler chapter where Keitaro is so engrossed in studying he winds up doing several 'cool' things in front of the girls while studying (dodging attacks, defending them from turtles, and of course not 'peeping'). This spurs the girls into actually wanting to impress him to gain his affection, something which wouldn't be repeated until many, many chapters later. He studies so hard though, that he doesn't seem to notice and by the end of that chapter, pretty much everyone in Hinata Sou (yes, even Naru) is all like We Want Our Accidental Pervert Back.
    -   In an episode of the anime, the girls actually spot an impostor Keitaro when he catches a falling Shinobu without "tripping and falling and landing with his head up her skirt."
-   In _Love, Chunibyo & Other Delusions!_ Light Novels, Yuuta gets a good look at Rikka's panties after he crashes into her after getting his math test back. She takes it surprisingly well, which is lampshaded by Yuuta.
-   _Lyrical Nanoha_:
    -   Subverted in the first season with Yuuno. HE knows that he's actually a human male, as opposed to the sentient ferret he appears to be, and that Nanoha should probably not be doing things like undressing in front of him and dragging him into the girl's bath at the local hot springs. She, however, is ignorant of this fact, and proceeds to do both of the above. To his credit, he _thought_ she was aware of his true form, and presumably he simply believed she just wasn't a very modest person. And in both of the above situations, he has the good grace to freakin' _panic._ Of course, Yuuno might actually have had the right idea about her! Years later, in the pre-_StrikerS_ manga, Nanoha _still_ wants to take Yuuno with her on a girls-only trip to a hot springs resort. Yuuno is understandably still nonplussed. What this says about Nanoha's thoughts toward him is a matter of interpretation. Unfortunately, we never hear what the other girls who went on the trip (and who also knew about Yuuno) thought about Nanoha's idea.
    -   Subverted in the third season; Erio catches a falling Caro as a way of introduction and ends up with a handful of petite bosom. The subversion is how Caro doesn't get angry, and they quickly and efficiently disengage. This combined with Caro later counting this as a "beloved memory" has lead fans to joke that in Caro's mind, they are now married.
-   Inverted in _Magical Circle Guru-Guru_ when Kukuri and Miruka walk in on Nike and two guys in the middle of changing clothes. The girls quickly run away from the sight while Kukuri remarks that the situation is backwards and wonders "what is it about this anime?"
-   Yuuichi Tate and Masashi Takeda in the first few episodes of _My-HiME_, before the series takes a darker turn. I.e., when Natsuki was Going Commando thanks to a Panty Thief, she was talking to Takeda at one moment, and then a Dramatic Wind flew... eeeeep.
-   _Maken-ki!_ plays it straight and subverts it at the same time. Takeru and Usui spend most of their time trying to see the girls naked, and Haruko and Himegami know it. Which makes the few times when they're _actually innocent_ hard for the girls to believe.
-   The protagonist of the hentai _Mankitsu Happening_ explicitly has a curse/ailment that keeps causing this. It's kept him from being able to hold onto a job until he finds a female employer who doesn't seem to mind.
-   _Mazinger Z_:
    -   It happened several times, not only to Kouji (which is not surprising) but also to Sayaka. One example of it was original manga's episode 8 when they saw each other naked in the hot springs. Curiously there was not slapping or reproaching. After the initials screams they calmed down and apologized at each other. It was even cute.
    -   And in the Mazinger vs Great General of Darkness movie, Kouji accidentally walked in Sayaka when she was having a shower in one of the first scenes. This time he was slapped.
    -   In _Mazinkaiser_'s Beach Episode, Kouji accidentally undoes Sayaka's top<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> ; she's actually more upset by Boss getting a look at her breasts than she is by Kouji, even though he weaponizes her boobs in order to escape the enemy fortress.
-   Occasionally in _Mermaid Melody Pichi Pichi Pitch_, Lucia will happen to walk in on Kaito in the shower, although he doesn't get mad about it. There's also the time when he breaks her fall and just happens to end up with his face in her chest... Then again, Kaito is an _out-and-out_ pervert most of the time, explaining his easygoing attitude even when it's his mistake.
-   _Mitsudomoe_: The series runs on this. If there's a male character, it's guaranteed there will be some convoluted nonsense that puts him into a compromising position ripe for public humiliation.
    -   As Shinya and Chiba wait in Mitsuba' room, they decide to start playing basketball in the Marui triplets' room...with _Mitsuba's underwear_. Chiba tosses it so hard it goes right onto Shinya's face, just in time for Mitsuba to walk in and see him sweating with exertion. She's aghast and horrified at the seeming act ofPervertedSniffing and ignores his protestations that it was an accident. The next day, after she thinks it over, she realizes it's out-of-character for him and goes to hear him out. However, to Shinya's dismay, Mitsuba's sister Futaba has just brought him _even more_ of Mitsuba's panties, under the delusion he really does want them. Naturally, Mitsuba walks in on them just in time to see Shinya trying to pull them away from Futaba.
    -   When elementary school teacher Yabe gets a fever, he is taken to the nurse office. Yabe's student Matsuoka (who fancies herself a Shinto exorcist) ropes another student, Hitoha (who _Matsuoka_ fancies a Shinto exorcist) into performing an exorcism to ward off evil spirits. It involves stripping Yabe naked and painting kanji all over his body. As he wakes up and is horrified at what's been done to him, Hitoha reluctantly tries to explain. That is, until Matsuoka — thinking Hitoha needs Yabe's boxers to perform the exorcism — drops them right onto her head like an oversized hat. Hitoha promptly experiences Color Failure. As Yabe yells at her to take the boxers off, we cut to the nurse listening outside the door, weeping as she thinks, "Yabe-sensei is being a pervert again!"
    -   In episode 3, an overweight, sweaty guy in a trucker's hat who looks like the very picture of a Lower-Class Lout staggers through the streets, clutching several pairs of little girls' panties, and huffing about how he needs to find an elementary school. Turns out he's the Marui triplets _father_, and they forgot to pack fresh underwear for their swim class. When the police show up to arrest him, Mitsuba and Hitoha Marui — who couldn't care less about him — pretend they don't know who he is, while Daddy's Girl Futaba runs after him because getting arrested looks like fun.
-   A girl on girl version in _Modern Magic Made Simple_; Koyomi is always the one to accidentally grab Yumiko's chest, bump into her, rip her bikini top, or see under her skirt when she has lost her panties.
-   _Monster Musume_:
    -   Kimihito suffers from this _all the time_. Luckily for him, most of the girls are either regularly trying to seduce him or not at all adverse to the idea, and thus _want_ him to act like a pervert, so he gets beaten up less often than most examples of the trope.
    -   Miia is a female example in Chapter 31, when she accidentally grabs Kimihito's towel while in the onsen and exposes him to everyone.
-   _My Bride is a Mermaid_:
    -   Nagasumi is better about this than most Unwanted Harem protagonists, but there was at least one occasion where he walked in on Sun in the bath, which resulted in much pain and property damage.
    -   Parodied when Nagasumi incidentally spots Lunar's dad through a window across the street changing into a schoolgirl's sailor outfit. Lunar's dad shouts at him to not look and shuts the curtains. Nagasumi _clearly_ does _not_ like what he just saw.
-   _My Hero Academia_: Toru spends a significant amount of time invisible and naked. She doesn't mind if people see her like that (since they can't see her at all), but when the teacher Snipe accidentally bumps into her while she's naked, she screams and calls him a pervert.
-   In _M×0_, Taiga is usually trying to _stop_ the other boys from doing something perverted, only to end up in a compromising situation himself. Interestingly, the girls identify this pattern rather quickly, and usually assume someone else is to blame.
-   Invoked in one chapter _My Monster Secret_. The Gods of Fortune wanted to help Mikan achieves happiness, by causing her a Suggestive Collision and making her face land on _Shiho's_ crotch. After noting their mistake, they did the same thing, but with the main character Asahi instead. Except Asahi is on the _receiving_ end of the Suggestive Collision, as in, Mikan's face is on his crotch. Understandably, she is completely pissed off.
-   In the Zabuza arc of _Naruto_, Sakura is traveling with the bridge builder and a thief is nearby picking people's pockets, he tries to snatch Sakura's bag but ends up grabbing her butt by mistake, she then proceeds to kick his ass.
-   _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_:
    -   Negi occasionally falls into these situations. But because of his age, the girls are usually far more likely to blow it off or tease him about it than they are to get mad. Hell, they probably _put_ him in the situation in the first place just to tease him! Okay, except for the billion or so times he sneezes and magically blows all their clothes off.
    -   Negi falling over Asuna in a giant bathroom... while _both_ are naked. Then there's the scene in Chapter 1 when he tries to erase Asuna's memories and ends up shredding almost all of her clothing except for her jacket.
    -   It also happens almost as frequently to the _female_ characters, due to Negi's age absolving him of blame. For example, in one of the many "Asuna and Negi fall on top of each other while naked" scenes, a bunch of the other girls walk in on them and accuse Asuna of having her way with their innocent young teacher. Or the time when Ayaka walked in on Makie peeking under Negi's towel. Or when Setsuna grabbed Negi's crotch during a fight because she didn't realize it was him.
-   _Neon Genesis Evangelion_:
    -   Played for Drama in Episode 5. Shinji visits Rei's apartment to give her new ID card, but when he finds the apartment seemingly empty, he has a look around and becomes intrigued by a pair of broken glasses lying on her dresser (unbeknownst to him it is Gendo's old glasses, which has great sentimental value to Rei) and picks them up. Rei then emerges from the bathroom, having showered and is _still naked_. Rei notices Shinji holding the glasses, and due to having No Social Skills, she beelines straight for him to get the glasses back, careless of her nakedness. Shinji panics and gets the strap of his backpack caught on the dresser as he struggles with her, causing him to lose balance and fall over while pushing Rei to the floor along with him, landing square on top of her. Shinji freezes completely up for a really uncomfortable long time, until Rei coldly asks him to move away, and he notices he accidentally is groping her and he quickly jumps back on his feet. The moment is not played for comedy _at all_, instead opting to be as painstakingly awkward and unsettling as possible. Even more notable, Rei, again due to having absolutely No Social Skills, never goes into any kind of Pervert Revenge Mode and doesn't even understand what Shinji is trying to profusely apologize for afterwards.
    -   Episode 8 has Shinji waiting as Asuka is changing clothes downstairs. Impatiently he peeks at her to see if she is done and he sees her partially naked. Cue Asuka donning a Luminescent Blush as she grumbles about pervert boys.
        -   Earlier in the episode, he shared this with Touji and Kensuke. Touji's cap was blown in the wind and landed next to Asuka, who stepped on it. The three went to retrieve it, a dramatic wind flew, and since Asuka was wearing a sundress they caught a view of her panties. The next moment (and one cut to the episode's title later), Asuka has bitchslapped the three of them. This pisses off Touji who flashes her in retaliation... and gets slapped again.
        -   The same episode also has the whole group trying to fit in a cramped elevator, with hilarious consequences such as Shinji's face being pressed into Misato's bossom.
    -   In episode 10 Asuka leans over Shinji as she is helping him with his homework. She is wearing a swimsuit and Shinji accidentally gets a very good glace at her cleavage. Subverted since she was hitting on him (given her next words) in a very clumsy way.
    -   In the infamous hospital scene in _End of Evangelion_, Shinji shakes Asuka, pleading her to wake up, and then he accidentally unbuttoned her gown, baring her breasts. He then becomes an actual pervert by masturbating over her.
    -   _Rebuild of Evangelion 2.0_ when Asuka, startled by PenPen while bathing, runs out naked into the kitchen, Shinji turns around and accidentally sees her. She blushes and retaliates with a kick to the face.
    -   In the _Girlfriend of Steel_ videogame -several years older than _Rebuild_\- there was a very similar scene. During an enemy attack that took place when Asuka was taking a shower, she ran towards the balcony without bothering with a towel, and also not realizing that Shinji was home. When she does notice Shinji staring at her, she hastily covers her breasts, but Shinji decides to snark that she's leaving her bottom exposed, leading her to kick him in the face.
-   Nonomiya Nono from _Nononono_ seizes on the assumption that she's a pervert/transvestite rather than be found out as a girl when the local tsundere finds her changing and sees her panties.
-   _Now I'm a Demon Lord! Happily Ever After with Monster Girls in My Dungeon_: When teleporting home from the Demon kingdom, Yuki comes face to face with a topless Nell, who decided that it would be a good idea to change in his throne room, a _public_ place.
-   Several instances in _Ouran High School Host Club_, one being when Haruhi walks in on Tamaki in his underwear. Awkward.
-   _Penguin Revolution_:
    -   Ryo keeps accidentally catching Yukari bathing or changing clothes, and usually gets things thrown at his head when he does.
    -   Ayaori also tends to wander into the bathroom while Yukari is bathing, but since he's Blind Without 'Em, it takes him six manga volumes to even notice that she's not a boy. By the time he does, Yukari is so used to having him wander blindly in and out that she doesn't really react, not realizing that this time he has his contacts in.
-   _Popcorn Avatar_: Kurando. The other guys in his class all think that he's in a master-slave relationship with Lisa (which is sorta true, but not the way they think) and the girls were all traumatized by his antics when he mentally regressed.
-   This happens near-constantly in _Precarious Woman Executive Miss Black General_. In the beginning it involved Braveman with the General, but once he figured out how to avoid that, the other male characters picked up the slack. While the General enjoys Braverman's unintentional perversions, the other ladies are less than happy.
-   _Pumpkin Scissors_: "Lieutenant, I need your breasts immediately!" Alice slapped his face and then noticed the crying baby he was holding.
-   _Ranma ½_:
    -   Ranma falls victim to this many times, especially when Happōsai is nearby. It appears that people often suspect further lecherous acts from him based on previous non-existent lechery. Akane is near-always the misinterpreter, which shouldn't be surprising given her character. He gets ratted on when Shampoo is near (does the girl exhale stupidity gas? Whenever she's around, everyone else cannot think of the obvious and jumps to dumb conclusion), and when he barges in on Akane's room, as well as the Happy scenes.
    -   Seems more prevalent for only Akane to misunderstand or for her to instigate the misunderstanding in the anime. In the manga, it's other people just as often, especially in the Hinako introduction arc.
        
        **Girl #1:** Don't just stand there, Akane.  
        **Akane:** What do you mean?  
        **Girl #2:** Ranma is making the moves on another woman again.
        
    -   Shinnosuke. At one point, he draws an outdoors bath for Akane... then promptly forgets all about her (but not about drawing the bath). He heads for the bath (naked, natch) and runs into Akane just as she's climbing out.
-   In _Rave Master_, Haru first meets Elie when he accidentally looks up her skirt while he's crawling under a table. Later, he tries to tell Elie about how he saw a mermaid and realizes too late that she was bathing. Later, he visits her room when she was bedridden with a fever and finds her changing.
-   Louie in _Rune Soldier Louie_ suffers from this _a lot_. There are at least three examples in the first episode of the anime alone.
-   It's not brought up often, but even _Sailor Moon_ has a few instances of the trope. One of the most prominent is SuperS episode 136, where Mamoru is briefly staying at Rei's, Rei is going to the bath...not realizing Mamo's already in there unclothed. Worse, Usagi needles Rei later on and goes off when she learns about it.
    -   A more subtle instance is towards the end of episode 155. There's a brief scene where Chibi-Usa and Momo are showing off the sports day ribbons on their shirts, and their friend Kyusuke is nearby with a blush on his face, making you wonder if he's catching a look down Momo's shirt (particularly since Momo as portrayed in SuperS is already filling out).
-   Masataka of _Sakura Gari_ meets Katsuragi... when he walks in on him giving Souma head.

-   _Sakura no Ichiban!_: In chapter 4, when Asami jumps over the gate,she accidentally gets the skirt of her kimono caught on the head of an unsuspecting guard. She then whacks him unconscious with her sword out of embarrassment.
-   Happens during the Hot Springs Episode of _Sayonara, Zetsubou-Sensei_, when Maria climbs on top of the divider between Nozomu and his female students and accidentally knocks it down. Said female students are surprisingly nonchalant about it, albeit mildly annoyed, while _Nozomu_ is mortified enough to cover himself and let out a girlish shriek.
-   Ah-Xuan, Liu Li and Wang He from _School Shock_ had a situation where in the former to were lying on top of each other (with her knee in his crotch and her gun on his chest while the other was lying naked on the floor tied to the chair in a school's storage room. Then a large group of people walks in. With photographic cellphones. It becomes a scandal. And it really wasn't what it looked like.
-   _Sgt. Frog_: Giroro sometimes takes Keroro's role of Chew Toy due to this.
-   In _SHUFFLE!_, Rin ends up this way with just about every girl he can court, and inevitably with one he normally cannot (the last leads to a heated argument about who is more perverted).
-   Chigusa, from _Silver Diamond_, is a frequent example of this trope. So much so that he gets labelled as a pervert by almost every single character that meets him. Pretty much the only one who doesn't is his most frequent victim, Rakan.
-   Strangely enough, Tails becomes one of these in the _Sonic the Hedgehog: The Movie_ OVA. At one point he, Knuckles and Princess Sarah get enveloped by an out-of-control snowball. When they crash and the snow settles, Tails winds up plastered to the chest of the Princess, only to be quickly admonished by an outraged Knuckles. Somewhat ironically, Sarah, who spends most of the movie savagely attacking people she believes are trying to see her naked, does not react to Tails' accidental groping. Considering the fact that Tails _is_ a lot more innocent than Dr. Robotnik or Metal Sonic, his case was probably more believable to Sarah.
-   _Soul Eater_:
    -   Death the Kid. In his introduction episode, he goes off on a symmetry rant and without thinking about it, grabs both partner's breasts, to get an Bitch Slap from Liz... who was not complaining about being groped.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Then later the same episode, Kid is going to go save them, but they had been all tied up at the moment...and Kid was really not much help.
    -   Not to mention Soul. Blair really isn't helping his relationship with Maka.

-   Kirito of _Sword Art Online_ has found himself in this situation a couple of times:
    -   In Season One, he's waiting for Asuna, who teleports in while running away from her Stalker with a Crush bodyguard, and crashes into him. While on the ground, he's in a daze for a bit, until he notices his hand is squishing something soft: Asuna's breast. Cue her Bitch Slap and knocking him into a nearby column.
    -   In Season Two, Sinon strips off her clothes in front of him, unaware that he was a guy (he was pretending to be a girl to get her help). He then confesses and, understandably, she gets pretty mad and slaps him too.
-   Averted with Tenchi Masaki in _Tenchi Muyo!_ - for some inexplicable reason, the girls rarely freak out when Tenchi accidentally drops in on them in a state of undress. Of course, it's probably because he's such a Nice Guy that they give him a pass. That, and most of the time, it's usually Ryoko's fault. The worst he's gotten was being called a "naughty boy" by Sasami and even that was in jest.
-   In _Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann_, Simon ends up with his face in Yoko's breasts after they and Kamina bust through to the surface world in the _Lagann_, following a messy landing. Yoko curiously doesn't seem to mind; in fact, she pulls Simon's face back into her breasts in a gesture of fright when she then sees two Gunmen approaching. This actually foreshadows the conflict between them as it becomes clear that Yoko sees him as a child despite his obvious romantic feelings toward her. Used to a greater extent in the high-school alternate-universe manga version of the series.
-   Sorata from _The Pet Girl of Sakurasou_ has a few moments of this towards Mashiro, who doesn't mind. He also walks in on a naked Nanami, who _does_ mind.
-   _To Love Ru_ has Rito as the ultimate embodiment of this trope. He is often a victim to streams of otherworldly mischief and chaos around him, such as Lala's inventions, Oshizu's psychic powers, or Celine's pollens. But even without such interferences throwing him around, Rito is already often clumsy enough around women to trip over minor obstacles or absolutely nothing, and when he does, he rarely fails to accidentally reach his hands or face into the breasts or other private parts of any girl in close proximity to him. In "Darkness", his clumsiness becomes even more frequent and violating as well as strangely inventive and surreal. He has shown to be able to accomplish difficult feats, such as reaching his hands or various objects into the clothing and undergarments of girls or partially strip off their clothing, and grab several private parts of several girls all at once, all of which purely by accident. And trying to prevent a perverted accident, will just make the accident worse.
    -   Several characters such as Nana even lampshade his piss poor luck when it comes to over the top ecchi scenarios. Momo calls Rito's _ability_ a god-like skill. Even Nemesis is impressed by this (for the wrong reasons)!. Later, Doctor Mikado outright says it's his natural talent manifested because of the way Rito extremely restrained himself with the girls, causing his "libido" to accumulate and release in form of accidentally groping girls' bodies and all other perverted stuffs happened so far. She called his act a disease, namely _Cataplectic Indecency Syndrome_. The more he suppressed, the more extreme and unbelievable his next "accidents" would be.
    -   During his "I Know You're in There Somewhere" Fight with Darkness Yami, he must _literally_ do that on his own free will, when **any** other time would be the end of him.
    -   Currently the Pantheon God of Accidental Perverts.
    -   Yui seems to have caught Rito's accidental pervertness, as shown when she accidentally pulls his pants down and plants her face right in his crotch. Yami also gets a moment where she accidentally grabs Riko's naked boob.
-   Subverted in the case of _Tona-Gura!_ male lead Yuuji Kagura. He doesn't mean to walk in on female lead Kazuki in awkward situations, but he also doesn't hesitate to exploit them.
-   Kyōsuke in _Ultimate!! Hentai Kamen_. A few other characters, but mostly him.
-   A rare example of the accidental pervert getting away with it: In _Ultimate Girls_ Kaiju obsessed high school reporter Makoto hears someone in a room yell "monster", bursts in, takes several photos, reloads his camera, takes more photos, realizes his mistake, and politely leaves. The room was filled with girls who were changing their clothes. Several seconds go by before the first of them reacts.
-   Chapter 276/Episode 167 of _Urusei Yatsura_ deals with a centaur-like alien trying to take over the world by hypnotizing people to do his bidding the way to do it is by kissing them, after he knocks out Ataru he takes his form and infiltrates the school, everything he does makes Ataru look like he's even more of a pervert than he actually is, he sneaks up on girls in dark rooms, jumps out of their lockers, and bathroom stalls all of which results in him getting beaten up, and at one point while planning his next move he raises his arm triumphantly only to accidentally grab a girl's skirt who then accuses him of trying to peep.
-   _Val × Love_: Takuma has several moments in the first chapter, which is also the first time we see him interacting with the Saotome sisters. He still hits this trope sometimes by touching them in moments where he doesn't need to.
-   _Vandread_:
    -   Subverted. The females in the crew, being unused to sexual interactions with men, rarely seem to mind the protagonist walking straight into their jiggling bosoms, often letting him loiter for a bit.
    -   The trope also played to an extreme in the episode where Hibiki's Accidental Perversion gets Bart thrown into quarantine, and leads to a strange campaign to get rid of the men — involving spacesuits worn as quarantine outfits. The girl he ended up in a compromising situation with is extremely reclusive and actually wears a full-size bear costume as her "uniform".
-   Played with in _The Voynich Hotel_. The devil Ashkelon walks into the hotel's VIP suite just after the female devil Demona has apparently come out of the shower, with nothing on but a towel around her neck. She screams and calls him a pervert, but instead of trying to cover her body, she covers her single eye.
-   Spoofed in _Wedding Peach Abridged_. In the original series, this trope is played straight and Yosuke is sometimes inadvertently put into compromising positions. In The Abridged Series, these scenes are edited so that he is portrayed as a Lovable Sex Maniac.
-   In _Your Lie in April_, the wind made Kousei's innocent picture of Kaori with a group of children to turn into a peek of her panties.
-   In _Yuuna and the Haunted Hot Springs_ Kogarashi frequently ends up in these positions. Usually, they are Yuuna's fault; she is a very restless sleeper and tends to lose control of her telekinetic powers.

    Asian Animation 

-   _Happy Heroes_ features a less extreme example. In Season 6 episode 21, Big M. seemingly gives a whistle towards a woman walking near him and Little M., and the woman takes it as him flirting with her and slaps him on the face. When told by Little M. that they should be focused on other things at the moment, Big M. has to explain that his whistle was meant to be a signal to the monsters to come out and fight the Supermen.

    Comedy 

-   On one of his Australian tours, Ross Noble (who is a motorcycle fan) told a story about going to Philip Island to see the Superbike World Championship (often abbreviated to 'WSBK'. He texted his friend in the UK "Going to Philip Island for WSBK", only to get back a confusing message. When he reread his original text, he discovered that autocorrect had converted 'WSBK' to 'WANKS', presumably leading his friend to assume he a bizarre sexual interest in penguins.
    
    _And to make it worse, it was plural!_
    

    Comic Books 

-   In _Legends_, Blue Beetle becomes one when he stands outside an apartment window and sees a woman wearing only a towel, coming out of a shower and looking out. Comically, though, he does say that she has a nice tush.
-   _Les Démons d'Alexia_: When Zünd notices that Alexia has the mark of devil on her lower back and starts raising her shirt, the girl immediately slaps his face.
-   _Red Robin_: When Tim goes to confront "Promise" and learn her motives he discovers that she's taking a shower, then before he's able to back off and come back later, she notices him and starts to try and fight him in the buff.
-   _New Avengers_ Echo ends up accidentally walking into Hawkeye while he's taking a shower. We only see him from the waist up but it's obvious that Echo saw more, and stared for a bit. The incident is what kicks off their Unresolved Sexual Tension.
-   _X-Factor (2006)_: In issue #3, Monet is in the privacy of her room, shrugging off her robe and dancing naked to the tune of "I'm Too Sexy" while wearing earbuds. Naturally, she doesn't hear Rictor knocking at her door and he enters the room just in time to get a full-frontal view (the viewer sees her Toplessness from the Back). Cue Naked Freak-Out while she tosses Rictor out of the room with her Super-Strength.

    Comic Strips 

-   In _Retail_, Cooper and Craig stand behind a female customer talking about how 'that' is something every man wants and who wouldn't want to take 'that' home with them. Outraged, she turns around to confront them...only to realize they were talking about the 80' flatscreen tv she was standing in front of.
    
    **Cooper:** I'd be the envy of every guy I know.  
    **Craig:** Sorry, did you say something, ma'am?  
    **Customer:** Oh, um...no. Never mind.
    

    Fan Works 

-   In _PAW Patrol: Outside the Missions_: Skye's affections for chase sometimes goes too far, but she always feels sorry about it once she's called out on it
-   _Hetalia: Axis Powers_ fanfic _Gankona, Unnachgiebig, Unità_: Let's just say Germany and Japan did not know what touching Italy's curl meant. Worse, they tugged and yanked it _repeatedly_.
-   _Advice and Trust_: In chapter 6 Rei tells Asuka how Shinji accidentally saw her when she was walking out of the shower naked, fell on top of her and touched her breast... Asuka was NOT happy about it, but since it was an accident, she let it go.
-   In _Co-op Mode_, in the middle of massaging Taylor, James accidentally touches Taylor's bottom, but surprisingly, Pervert Revenge Mode is averted - and without needing even explanation on James' part, as Taylor correctly concludes that it was all just an accident. Whether this is out of the fact that Taylor has low self-esteem or that she just trusts James, or even both, is not totally clear.
-   _Erika the Radical_: The titular character has on many unfortunate occasions, confessed to the heir of the Nishizumi school on live broadcast, forced to walk around school for an afternoon without her unmentionables, and groped several women involuntarily. By 'Season 2', everyone who has heard of Erika readily assumes any of her actions to be perversions borne from her new "Radical" persona. Combined with having subordinates like Karen and Elena, Erika is understandably miffed about all of this.
-   _Evangelion 303_: In chapter 4 Shinji goes in the bathroom and walks on Asuka right when she is leaving the shower. Much screaming, shouting and yelling followed.
-   _HERZ_: In chapter 4 Shinji enters the men’s locker room, hears someone showering in one of the stalls. He thinks it must be Asuka so that he strips his outfit and walks in the shower stall… and on Kurumi. Subverted because it was a trap.
-   _Superwomen of Eva 2: Lone Heir of Krypton_: Asuka saw Shinji half-naked when her X-ray vision activated accidentally while he was changing clothes. Cue her blushing brightly and looking away.
-   _The Tale of Solaron_: The titular Snake Person Solaron is this all the time. He continuously spouts innuendo and seductive subtext whenever he tries to come across as charming. And he has no idea he's doing it.
-   _Tamers Forever Series_:
    -   There's Running Gag of Takato accidentally groping Rika on multiple occasions.
    -   This is later mirrored by D.C and Eclipse.
-   Ami from _Dungeon Keeper Ami_ terrifies everyone, partially because of her fearsome reputation (up to this point, she's beaten a Horned Reaper, what is possibly the oldest dragon in the world and the Avatar, all in single combat). But the only thing that everyone seems to recall is her reputation for being the biggest, most depraved rapist ever.
-   In the Yaoi Fangirl's corner of the _Tsubasa -RESERVoir CHRoNiCLE-_ fandom, it's become something of a running gag to have Syaoran walk in on Kurogane and Fai while they're in the midst of sex. Most of this is pure Rule of Funny, since Syaoran is so straight-laced and noble (at least when it comes to sex and Sakura) most of the time. Another twist the fandom uses sometimes is to have Sakura catch them and either not know what's going on or like it.
-   Ben has one instance where he accidentally grabs Ren's breast after crashing into her in the _Ben 10_ Fan Fic _Hero High_, however due to her not being familiar with earthling sexuality, she doesn't even notice.
-   _Omoito_: Marisa rips a drawer out of out of Alice's shelves to protect herself from Hourai, but it turns out to have been her _underwear_ drawer and Alice arrives to find Marisa covered in discarded underwear. Since Alice won't believe that Hourai is alive, Marisa has to say that she just likes Alice's underwear.
-   In _A Pony Out of Place_, Twilight gives Flare Blitz a massage, taking instruction from a book that she doesn't realize is intended for couples. Hilarity ensues.
-   An incident along these lines is detailed in _Love Hina: Like It Could Have Been_: An elderly gentleman was jostled on the bus. Unfortunately for everyone involved, as he tried to regain his balance, he grasped Naru's shoulder. She nearly broke his jaw.
-   A very, ah, steamy incident in "the Black Latios." Pikachu gives Ash "The Talk", who, the innocent boy he is, runs out of his room screaming. Unluckily for him and his good friend Latias, she just got out of the shower, is in her human form, and is only in a towel. One thing after another, and both their faces are as red as Latias's feathers and a cherry.
-   _The Stalking Zuko Series_, Suki accidentally walks into the bathroom while Zuko is bathing. Katara wishes she was one but it is either obviously deliberate or fail to materialize
-   _Hyrule Warriors: Heroes Through Time_: At the end of chapter 3, Wizzro, while going to give Cia his mission report, ends up walking in on her taking a bath. While Wizzro initially flips out and apologizes, Cia calmly brushes it off, deadpanning, "I highly doubt seeing me in a bathtub will scar you for life."
-   _Thousand Shinji_: When Shinji and Asuka set to fighting Gaghiel, Asuka unthinkingly sat in Shinji's lap, and Shinji's body reacted accordingly.
-   _Neon Genesis Evangelion: Genocide_: When Asuka shoves Shinji playfully — while she's wearing nothing but a towel — he stumbles, accidentally grabs part of her towel, and rips it off, exposing her body and getting her _a bit_ angry.
-   _Once More with Feeling_: In episode 9, Misato, Kaji, Shinji, Asuka, Touji and Kensuke were all cramped together in a narrow elevator. This led to Kaji and Touji's accidentally putting their hands where they didn't belong.
    
    "I should have anticipated this" Misato growled, closing her eyes for a second, then snapping them wide open again.  
    "HEY! DON'T TOUCH ME!" Misato shouted as Asuka also let loose a shout of protest and horror.  
    "I CAN'T HELP IT!" Kaji and Toji protested right back.
    
-   When Paul, the main character of the Self-Insert Fic _With This Ring_ and possessor of the Orange Lantern Ring was possessed and looking for the League of Shadows, his eyes being everywhere accidentally caught Beatriz da Costa in the shower. He didn't originally remember, but Ophidian did and "helpfully" reminded him.
-   Hinata gets this in _Kitsune no Ken: Fist of the Fox_ during her second meeting with Yugito; she shows up at the government agent's hotel suite, goes outside to the terrace in searching for Yugito, and then sees the older woman bathing in an artificial waterfall...and aside from the initial surprise of such a sight, Hinata then spends the next minute or two checking out Yugito's assets and comparing them to her own. Much later, though, it's revealed that Yugito, being a Shameless Fanservice Girl, deliberately set this up to try and shock Hinata's sense of genteelness (helped by the fact that, prior to Hinata coming up to the suite, the front desk had called Yugito to let her know she'd be having a visitor).
-   _Shattered Reflection_: This ends up happening to Chrom, much like in the original game, with him walking on Rose naked in the bath. Unlike the original game, Rose takes full advantage of it to get some petty revenge and teases him mercilessly when she catches him Eating the Eye Candy.
-   _Comes a Crossover_: Sunset saves Flash from being beheaded by teleporting him away from a Carnage-possed demon, but he lands on top of Octavia and accidentally feels and squeezes her breast. When she pushes him off her he accidentally sees up her skirt, due to her being dressed like Tifa, and gets a bloody nose from the sight.
-   _Caboose's Guide to Making Friends With Monster Girls_ is one of the biggest examples. In it, he's accidentally spilled water on a shirt which happens to turn see-through, then ripped it off, escorted Miia into a lingerie shop, not actually knowing what it was... His naivety is the running gag.
-   In the _Doctor Who_/_Teen Titans (2003)_ crossover "Equilibrium", Rose Tyler starts cuddling Beast Boy when he turns into a kitten and only realises that she's holding a teenage boy against her after the fact, but Beast Boy is genuinely clueless about why Rose is angry at him and the other Titans advise her not to clarify the situation.
-   In the Marvel Cinematic Universe fic “14,000,606”, when Peter gets stabbed on his first patrol after the battle against Thanos (which here cost him his left arm when he triggered the Snap), he initally goes to MJ's house to get medical supplies as he doesn't want to panic Tony and May, but this results in an embarrassing moment when he knocks on her window to wake her up and activates his suit's night vision in time to realise that she Sleeps in the Nude, even if he only sees her from the back.
-   In _The Wolf Lord_ James accidentally gropes Katie's breasts after a stray hex hits him, then when they both fall to the floor he lands with his head between her legs.
-   In the crossover between _The Science of Discworld_ and _The Big Bang Theory_, _The Many Worlds Interpretation_, by A.A. Pessimal, Leonard Hofstadter makes sure to catch Bernadette when she has to leap a gap between two windows, quite a long way above ground level. Bernadette thanks him for the courtesy, but asks if he could grab her around the _waist_ next time. Penny collapses in helpless laughter at the expression on Leonard's face.
    -   Elsewhere in Pessimal's work, witches taking pillion passengers on broomsticks or Pegasi find it necessary, from long experience, to advise passengers that shoulders or waists are acceptable places to hold on. In case of misunderstanding.
-   In _Fox Rain_, Ladybug notices that Vorpika's costume has an actual fluffy tail and can't help but stare at it, as she _really_ wanted a pet fox as a child... But Vorpika thinks she was checking her ass.
-   _A Possible Encounter for a Phantom_: While trapped in a box by the Guys in White, Danny finds himself stuck with his current crush, Kim. While he takes a breath to calm down, he ends up sniffing her hair. Then, while Kim tries to move, she feels something poking her thigh from Danny, much to their embarrassment.
-   In _Bayonetta 2: Heaven & Hell_, a crossover between _Bayonetta_ and _Kid Icarus: Uprising_, Pit and Bayonetta are both Swallowed Whole by Insidious, landing inside its stomach. When Pit wakes up, he finds himself on top of Bayonetta with his hands on her breasts. Pit being Pit, he's horrified and ashamed. Bayonetta being Bayonetta, she isn't, and actually compliments him for being the first angel to ever touch her breasts. It helps that Pit is a much nicer type of angel than the ones Bayonetta has to deal with on a day-to-day basis.
-   _The Flash Sentry Chronicles_:
    -   While Springer is experiencing a Hedgehog Day Loop where Ponyville is destroyed at the end of each hour he tries investigating everyone in town to see if they did anything to accidentally cause it. While he is spying on Rainbow Dash, he sees her let Soarin into her home and decides to get a closer look at what the two of them are doing. While he is looking inside he suddenly gains a shocked expression at what he sees and declares they are both innocent. It is never explicitly said what he saw, but his dry remarks afterwards, and the reveal that Rainbow and Soarin were in a Secret Relationship, imply that he accidentally saw the two of them having sex together.
    -   Played for Drama in "Spike’s Heartbreak". The chapter begins with Spike hoping to spend some time with Rarity, but when he gets to her boutique, he accidentally walks in on Rarity and Lightning Blitz ‘expressing themselves’. Spike at first thinks that Lightning is forcing himself on Rarity, and attacks him, only for Rarity to pull Spike off of Lightning and explains that she and Lightning are in a relationship.
    -   Happens again with Springer in the first chapter of _Jakhowls Rising_. While looking for Flash around the castle to remind him he promised to take over patrol, he eventually finds him and Twilight having shower sex together, though the two of them claim they are just showering together to "conserve water". They eventually shoo Springer away so they can finish, but Springer purposely flushes the toilet on his way out and runs out of the castle as the two scream in pain.
-   _Fate/Black Dawn_: Shirou walks in on Morgan naked, then immediately blushes and leaves. She finds this exasperating, since (in addition to trying to seduce him) she actually does need to talk to him. She is amused at how quickly he jumps to apologies and trying to appease her, and notes that this sort of thing has probably happened to him before.
    
    **Morgan:** What are you doing?! Get back in here!  
    **Shirou:** BUT MY LADY—  
    **Morgan:** COME IN HERE RIGHT NOW!
    
-   In Chapter 47 of _Pokémon Reset Bloodlines_, a sleepy Ash heads for the bathroom to take a shower to wake himself up. He ends up not needing it since, upon opening the door, he sees a naked Iris drying herself with a towel, which snaps him awake immediately. Iris of course isn't bothered in the least, and acknowledges it was just a "lucky" accident.
-   One of the side effects of Izuku's new class as "Harem Protagonist" in _Level Up (MHA)_ is that it raises the potential for pervy accidents by _200%_, even warping reality to make these events happen. In one instant, Izuku's Quirk teleports him into Momo's bed where he inadvertently grabs her breast.
-   In one of the short stories of _The AFR Universe_, Ryuji Sakamoto accuses Ann of pigging out on pancakes for breakfast the day they were supposed to be running together. He pokes a syrup stain on her shirt to prove his claim, unintentionally poking one of her boobs in doing so. Ann responds by punching him hard enough to knock him into the nearby pond.
-   _Danny Phantom_ becomes this in _Lady Luck's Favor_, thanks to Desiree granting his wish to always be lucky with girls. For example, he happens to accidentally see Paulina's and Star's bras when they get hit with a water balloon which makes their shirts see-through, and he also sees Sam's panties when her skirt is blown off during a ghost attack. However, it goes the other way too, as shown when Star accidentally sees him using the bathroom while hiding from a stalker at a party.
-   In _Ranma's Sudden Wedding_, Kasumi lands on top of Ranma after getting her body back from a cursed doll (It Makes Sense in Context) and her yukata falls open enough for him to accidentally touch her breast.
    -   In Chapter 5, Ranma accidentally sees Akane's breasts when a perverted phoenix (again, It Makes Sense in Context) pulls up her shirt.
-   Invoked in _When Reason Fails_. While Izuku is unable to see her due to a Mirrorgeist's illusions, Himiko positions herself so Izuku would accidentally grab her breasts.
-   _Spy X Family_: There's a two part fan comic discussing "the Plushy Body Condition," a curse that afflicts the Desmond family, which causes the sufferer to turn into plush doll for a few hours one day a month. In part-1, after Anya finds Damian as a plush doll she takes him home with her, and he manages to escape without her knowing, however she finds about his secret when she reads his mind the next day. In part-2, they are in the high school level, and when a girl goes over to confess to Damian, he turns into a plush doll. When Anya, who has kept his secret for years without outright telling him she knows, tells the girl she lost her Damian plush doll, which she made because she likes him, and takes him back. After Anya, mentally, states she knows what he's going through because she too is different, Becky yells out to Anya that she's late for swimming class. Anya tosses the Damian plush into her bag, rushes to the locker room and changes into her swimsuit, while Damian tries to warn her or at least avert his eyes, but can't because he can't move ot talk (though he can still hear and see). After school, he apologizes to Anya while avoiding eye contact, and she then turns bright red when she realizes that he saw her undress, and they have a hard time looking at one another after that.
-   _Shadows over Meridian_:
    -   After falling down into the abandoned light crystal mines to escape the Frostbiter, Amelia lands on top of her Vitriolic Best Bud Alan. When she realizes she's sitting with her crotch on his face, she calls him a pervert and kicks his side.
    -   While the Shadowkhan are neutralizing escaped prisoners in Chapter 31, a Ninja Khan literally kicks one of them from the behind, causing him to try to regain his balance and touch the behinds of the two women walking in front of him. Failing to notice the ninja that slinks away, the women proceed to slap and groin the man before more ninjas subdue them.
-   _The renegade hero!!!....Invader Zim?_: After Zim wakes up in the Pelekai house following a crash-landing and starts attacking everyone in panic, Betty tackles him to try and snap him out of it, only to end up with them on the floor and her crotch in his face. Which is made more embarrassing for her due to having been changed out of her uniform and into just a shirt and panties.

    Films — Animated 

-   _Coco_: Miguel walks in on a lady skeleton without any clothes on while she posed for an artist. Miguel freezes for a moment as he processes what he just saw before scurrying off with a "sorry".
-   In _A Goofy Movie_, When looking for Max at the concert, Goofy accidentally stumbles upon the back-up singer's dressing room (when she's in her underwear), at which point she screams and punches him out of the room.
-   _Flushed Away_: Roddy accidentally pulls down Rita's pants while they're escaping the Toad.
    
    **Roddy**: There are things I want to do, sights I want to see! \[Rita's belt breaks and her pants slip\] _That_ wasn't on the list.
    
    **Rita**: Ahh! Hey!
    
-   Although mildly intentional, in _Ice Age: The Meltdown_ Manny suggests he and Ellie "save their species". Ellie is obviously angered at this notion and storms off stating "you won't be saving the species tonight or any other night". It's more blatant when she demands Manny and his friends to travel at night with Eddie looking back at Manny and loudly calling him a "Pervert".
-   _Tarzan_: When he first meets Jane and after unintentionally tickling her on the toes of her bare foot, Tarzan tries to peek under her dress out of innocent curiosity, not understanding how wrong this is, Jane kicks him in the face with her bare foot and immediately tucks her legs between her arms to prevent a repeat of the same offense.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   In _The Amazing Spider-Man_, Peter accidentally rips off a woman's blouse with his newly acquired and not yet understood clinging and Super-Strength.
-   _At Midnight (2023)_: When Alejandro is doing a final inspection of Sophie's hotel suite, he notices the bathroom has no towels and rushes to get them. But during the time it took for him to pick up the towels and come back, Sophie had already gone inside the room and had stripped down in the bathroom to take a shower, so he ended up accidentally walking on her naked in the bathroom.
-   In _Billy Madison_, Billy purposefully initiates such an experience with his teacher Veronica, blaming the accident on a bumpy bus ride. Of course, he's just being a regular pervert.
-   Danny Noonan ends up as this in _Caddyshack_ after walking in on his younger sister getting out of the shower.

-   Not really accidental, but in _The Cannonball Run_, J.J. takes revenge on Blake and Fenderbaum by telling a cop that they are a pair of flashers dressed as a priest because they think it's kinkier dressed as priests. This leads to Blake and Fenderbaum getting arrested.
-   Happens too many times to count in _Carry On_ series of movies, often occurring multiple times in a single film. A particular elaborate example happens to Dr Kilmore (Jim Dale) in _Carry On Doctor_, leading to his dismissal from the hospital.
-   "Now I know why they call you _Dirty Harry_."
-   _Dr. Jekyll & Ms. Hyde_:
    -   Helen's transformations back into Richard often leave the latter in some rather embarrassing situations — from accidentally flashing Mintz's neighbors in women's lingerie (while trying to climb down the outside of his apartment building), to being stranded at a high society party in drag.
    -   Later, in an attempt to convince everyone that he and Helen are the same person, Richard handcuffs himself in his office naked, in front of a video camera (assuming that he'll transform). Said transformation fails to occur, leaving him to be discovered in what looks like a _very_ compromising position.
-   _Dr. Strangelove_ - Col. "Bat" Guano, heading an Army division that fought its way into an Air Force base, takes British military attaché Group Captain Mandrake to be "some kind of deviated _pre_vert" who killed the commanding general for "finding out about his _pre_version and organizing a mutiny of _pre_verts" - most likely on the evidence of his odd accent and uniform.
-   In _Fierce Creatures_ Rollo Lee is constantly being caught by Willa in embarrassing and seemingly lurid situations (such as being caught in a shower with half-dressed and nubile young lady zookeepers, a sheep wandering out of his bedroom, etc). They all have perfectly innocent but very convoluted and unlikely explanations.
    
    **Zoo Patron**: I can see why they keep him in a cage.
    
-   In the film version of _Get Smart_, Max is thrown across a roof during a fight, landing on top of Agent 99 with his hands on her chest.
    
    **Agent 99:** Max...  
    **Max:** _\[rolling off of her\]_ Yep, still fighting!
    
-   Andrew in _The Gods Must Be Crazy_ repeatedly tries to save Kate from animals that attack her, but the animals run off before she notices them and all she sees is Andrew grabbing her while she's undressing.
-   In _Horrible Bosses_, Dale is labeled a sex offender because, late one night, drunk, he unwisely chose a playground close to a bar in which to stop and urinate.
-   In _How the Grinch Stole Christmas!_, the title character at one point winds up flying face-first into the bosom of his childhood crush. Without removing his head from her chest, he quickly greets her with the words, "Hello, Martha."
-   In _The Italian Job (2003)_, Charlie Croker walks into Stella Bridger's hotel room after he knocks and she doesn't answer. He ends up seeing her in her bra and taking her by surprise. Stella then tells Charlie to not look as she quickly puts a top on.
-   Does Jackie Chan do the famed: "Double Hand Accidental Breast Grab" maneuver once per movie, or does it just seem like it?
    -   Well at least in _Rush Hour_ the victim was wearing a decidedly unsexy bomb suit.
-   Implied in the French film "Le Grand Chemin." Martine (who shows her panties frequently in the film as she's wearing a dress) and her pal Louis are crouched down on the ground, when Martine sees Louis looking at her.
    
    **Martine:** Dirty boy. Why do you keep looking at my pants?  
    **Louis:** I'm not. You keep showing them.
    
-   In _The Little Rascals_, Spanky and Alfalfa are looking to hide from Butch and Woim while waiting for Darla outside her dance recital and hilarity ensues as Spanky and Alfalfa both accidentally look in two different rooms and surprise the girls while saying "Whoops" both times. It continues as Butch and Woim then do the exact same thing in pursuit of them
-   In _Lockout_, Snow and Emilie fall out of an air vent onto the floor below, her landing on top of him with her head about even with his crotch. She looks up, he looks over at her, and says, "Oh, that isn't necessary, a simple thank you will do."
-   _Mallrats_ has Silent Bob turning into one of these: each time a Zany Scheme backfires, he ends up in a women's dressing room, where he sees a girl in the process of trying on clothes. And it's always the same girl. The girl in question, Gwen, is later seen changing in semi-public while talking to Brodie and TS, claiming that it saves him the effort.
-   The Reverend Aimo Niemi in the Finnish romantic comedy _Mies joka ei osannut sanoa ei_ ("The Man Who Couldn't Say No") ends up with a reputation as the biggest womaniser in town through a series of coincidences, even though he's really a virgin. On one occasion, his glasses get so fogged over that he can't see and enters the women's sauna instead of men's. After he cleans his glasses and notices where he is, he hurriedly huffs on the glasses to make sure they fog over again and he can't see, before rushing out.
-   _The Naked Gun_
    -   Drebin escapes a burning room through the window, climbing along a row of anatomically-correct male and female statues. Between two statues is an open window, and a woman in her underwear just _happens_ to be standing there. Drebin accidentally... well, guess. He then falls off the building, just saving himself by grabbing a statue's stone Gag Penis. In trying to save himself he manages to break the penis off the statue and fall into the woman's room through the window, where he proceeds to walk towards her as he groans in exhaustion while brandishing it at her.
    -   In the sequel, _Naked Gun 33 & 1/3_, Drebin is at the store squeezing grapefruits to test for ripeness while looking the other way. A woman in a low cut dress walks by, and Drebin mistakes her breast for a grapefruit and squeezes it. He gets slapped. In a clever Call-Back, it's actually the same woman.
-   In the Disney Channel movie _No Dessert Dad Till You Mow The Lawn_ Tyler unintentionally sees his little sister bathing while confronting about giving him a strawberry milkshake which gives him an allergic reaction.
-   In _On the Buses_, Stan accidentally takes a housewife's laundry bag from the laundrette, only for it to be confiscated by Blakey as evidence Stan has been shirking his responsibilities at work. Unfortunately for Blakey, the housewife sees him with the bag, and he is assumed to be a knicker-snatcher.
-   _The Parole Officer_ has socially-inept Simon Garden accidentally seeing his proto-girlfriend naked after her pet cat shoves the bedroom mirror to the correct position.
-   _The Pink Panther Strikes Again_ opens with Dreyfuss on the grounds of a mental hospital, cured and anticipating his release - then he's clocked in the head with a croquet ball and propelled into a lake - he staggers out and passes out on the grass. Clouseau (who of course launched the ball) rushes to administer resuscitation. He straddles Dreyfuss and thrusts repeatedly with his hands as he cries "OUT with the bad air, IN with the good! OUT...IN..." A passing patient witnessing this looking thrilled; her appalled guardian swats Clouseau crying "Pervert!"
-   In _Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl_, Elizabeth Swann's new corset is laced so tightly that she cannot breathe deeply. As a result, she passes out in a moment of excitement and falls into the sea. Jack dives in to rescue her, and slices the corset open so she can breathe — an action which is misinterpreted by those around him as Jack having perverse intentions toward the unconscious Elizabeth.
-   _Pretty Cool Too_: Walter didn't mean to take a photo of Brittany's cleavage. Honest.
-   Variation occurs in _The Proposal_. Ryan Reynolds and Sandra Bullock _accidentally_ wind up **naked and on top of each other**. She was making a nude run for the wardrobe and he was... good at timing (who takes off their clothes, while listening to music, while standing up OUTSIDE?). They're both not looking and walk into each other at a fast pace with the response "Oh my god, why are you naked?" "Why are you wet?!"

-   _Royal Rendezvous_: One scene has Cat taking a bath in her room, with Rory knocking on her door because he needs her help. She wraps herself in a Modesty Towel and goes to answer the door saying she is "Coming" but he mishears "Come In" and goes inside, startling her and making her drop the towel.
-   In _Run Fat Boy Run_, when he first starts working out, Dennis gets a nasty, itchy rash on his crotch that he absolutely has to scratch... as he is at work as a security guard in a lingerie shop. One can guess what this looks like.
-   In _Star Trek (2009)_ , Kirk gets knocked onto Uhura during a fight, and accidentally puts his hands on her breasts to steady himself. He smirks; she pushes him off.
    -   In _Star Trek Into Darkness_, Kirk is told by Carol to "Turn around" as she addresses him about the missiles, not indicating that it's to change out of her uniform and into the protective suit. Kirk then looks back at Carol before she tells him to resulting in him seeing her fully exposed as wearing nothing but her bra and underwear.
-   In _Superbad_, Evan accidentally punches his crush's breast when someone in the hall bumps into his arm.
-   _There's Something About Mary_: While Ted is in the bathroom waiting for Mary to finish dressing up, he stares at a bird through a window. The bird then flies away, which reveals the half naked Mary through a window on the other side...
-   _Thirst (2015)_: Near the beginning of the movie, after the campers have shown up, Roth ends up entering the tent Courtney is changing in. Not the best first impression he could've made.
-   The Korean romantic comedy, _Too Beautiful To Life_, had a memorable scene that also served to move the entire plot into motion. Yeong-ju, a deceptive fraud who managed to get parole, is sleeping on her train trip back to her sister's wedding. Across from her is Hui-cheol, an innocent village pharmacist preparing to propose to his girlfriend with his deceased mother's ring. A bout of turbulence releases the ring he was holding from his grasp and lands underneath Yeong-ju's feet. Trying to unsuccessfully get the ring under her seat, more turbulence wakes up Yeong-ju in time to notice Hui-cheol rummaging under her skirt. Cue the screaming and angry hitting.
-   In the first chapter of _Undersea Kingdom_, about 17:30 in, Crash Corrigan (as Crash Corrigan) rejoins the group and, apparently trying to place his hand on the shoulder of Lois Wilde (as Diana Compton), instead places it squarely on her (clothed) right breast. She reacts with perfect aplomb and removes the hand from her breast with a motion worthy of a Wing Chun master. They all get on with the boring exciting action, and the editor either was asleep or left work that day whistling over a little victory he (likely) thought no one else would ever notice.
-   _Up the Front_: While looking for Lurk, Colonel von Gutz accidentally walks in on the Buttercup Girls getting changed.

    Literature 

-   _A Lullaby Sinister_ has Yunosuke Kawabata. Subverted sometimes but more often than not, Yunosuke gets into more trouble when he's actually not trying to be perverted and frequently involves Sadako Kojima. One instance takes place at the beach where Kaito Inoue declares a contest to see who could find the coolest object from the ocean floor. Upon surfacing and declaring that his sea cucumber was definitely the winner, Sadako knocks Yunosuke unconscious with a conch shell fearing he was about to flash himself.
-   In the _The Outlaw Chronicles_, this happens in _King's Man_ to the narrator and his principal love interest. Cue Bitch Slap. This is just the beginning of the Trauma Conga Line that he goes through during the book.
-   This has happened to Harry Dresden of _The Dresden Files_ more than once, e.g. _Death Masks_. However, the girl used this to pickpocket him.
    -   He has a particularly bad instance in the short story "Day Off." His girlfriend walks in to find smoking pouring out of his apartment, his pets losing their collective minds, two naked werewolves (in human form) getting it on in the corner, and his apprentice passed out topless with Harry giving her mouth to mouth. Harry assures her that its Not What It Looks Like, but she responds that she has no idea what it _does_ look like.
-   In _Nerve_ by Dick Francis, the jockey protagonist is tied and hung up by the wrists in a barn and left there on a cold night. Later, a doctor tending to his injuries is short-tempered with him, thinking he'd been in 'some sort of disgusting orgy'.
-   _Pan Tadeusz_ has the title character return home after years of absence, walk straight into his old room, and Meet Cute its current inhabitant, Zosia. In her nightie. To his credit, it's early morning and she's literally the first person he sees. And they do hook up afterwards.
-   It happens to the main protagonist of _Zero Sight_ a few times, thanks to a love interest who is a Shameless Fanservice Girl. On one occasion he wakes up naked in a warehouse bathroom and looks around to find the girl showering next to him, after having giving him a bath while he fainted.
-   In the first book of the _Xanth_ series, Bink is riding on a buxom female centaur's back. When she jumps over a crevasse he nearly falls off and accidentally grabs her breasts trying not to. Fortunately for him, she felt him slipping and knew it was just an accident. She makes it clear that if he had done it on purpose, she would've dropped him in.
-   _Cradle Series_: When Lindon is stuck undergoing unnecessary medical treatment, he finally realizes that for the first time in his life, he has a high ranking and can just do as he likes. He leaves his tent, goes to find his friend Yerin, and ignores her doctor when she tries to stop him from going into her tent. He walks in on her topless, blushes, leaves, and apologizes to the doctor for ignoring her.
-   In _Shadow of the Conqueror,_ Cueseg—due to his confusion with Hamahran social cues—ends up saying and doing a lot of things that Hamahrans view as inappropriate at best and sexual harassment at worst. And of course, for his first assignment as an Archknight in Hamahra, his superiors have him work with Lyrah.
-   _Diary of a Wimpy Kid: The Getaway_: Greg accidentally steps onto a nude beach. He ends up paying for it.
-   _Full Metal Panic!_. Sousuke falls afoul of this trope a few times, at one point causing Kaname to come at him with a baseball bat. In one episode he pulls a Diving Save to get Kaname out of the path of a truck, and ends up with a hand on her breasts. Unusually, she actually seems to enjoy it for a few seconds before returning to normal and smacking him. However in the anime spinoff _Full Metal Panic? Fumoffu_ she's become smart enough to know that when Sousuke says it's Not What It Looks Like, it really isn't.
-   _Haruhi Suzumiya_:
    -   Kyon is constantly walking in on Mikuru changing in the clubroom. Though Mikuru does _not_ think he is a pervert because of it. Fascinatingly, she's not even embarrassed after the incident, happily pouring tea into his cup afterwards.
        
        **Kyon:** That sweet, innocent girl... can't seem to figure out how to lock a door.
        
    -   At the end of _The Surprise of Haruhi Suzumiya_, when Kyon is bouncing around in time, he ends up in Haruhi's room. At night. In her bed. _On top of her_. Oh, and Haruhi is the one who unconsciously sent him there in the first place. She's actually surprisingly relaxed about the situation, only insisting he cover his face with the blankets while she changes into normal clothes.
-   _Rebuild World_: While there’s no Running Gag of this, there are a couple moments.
    -   After Akira gifts Sheryl Lost Technology underwear, a lieutenant in her gang Erio runs in to tell her something and sees her in it, ignoring her prior warnings to knock. Sheryl warns Erio in a normal voice there’ll be no mercy next time, which leaves him fearful, but she's forgiven him.
    -   Due to how the three delegate battle roles while Togami is giving Elena and Sara a ride on Akira’s Cool Bike, Togami ends up squeezed between the two, earning him a few glares.
-   In _Shakugan no Shana_ the protagonist Sakai Yuji invoked this trope in the beginning when he fell out of the closet when Shana was changing. And again in the next morning when he almost grabbed Shana who was sleeping with only her underwear beside him.. However, the other times he received the end of Shana's beating is when he pointed her Clothing Damage out or just being there in that unfortunate moment, in which Shana realized her exposed body and proceeds to beat him up for looking at the wrong direction. Rather than accidental, they just realize it after the battle is over.
-   Happens to Bell in S1E11 of _Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon?_ since he's unable to keep himself balanced from his injuries, immediately plunging himself into Aiz's Marshmallow Hell. And in S1E12, Hermes purposely lures him to a spot where they could view the women bathing, then knocks him into said bath. Surprisingly, they're all OK with this and only blame Hermes.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Love and Redemption_: Xuan Ji accidentally teleports into Si Feng's bathtub, then implicitly gropes him while looking for her teleportation device. He reacts by literally throwing her out.
-   _Never Have I Ever_: Once the principal accuses Ben of wanting to watch his girlfriend's field hockey game just to see boobs bouncing around, Devi runs with it. She later taunts him by accusing him of having a foot fetish, which has no basis in reality.
-   In the _Smallville_ episode "Escape", Clark ended up with Chloe in his arms and both of them are covered with nothing but a Modesty Towel. Silver Banshee possessed her and she tried to seduce Clark in the shower, only to be transferred away to Lois, resulting in Chloe having no memory of how she got there.
-   _Father Ted_: The Trauma Conga Line experienced by Ted and Dougal while on holiday in "Hell" features a series of run-ins with a couple staying at the same camping site, when the couple are in a state of undress or similarly compromising situation. It happens so frequently that the husband eventually loses it with hilarious results.
-   _Fawlty Towers_:
    -   Basil Fawlty became this in "The Psychiatrist", in which his efforts to prove that one of his guests broke the rules by sneaking his girlfriend into a room lead him into one Not What It Looks Like after another.
    -   Then there's "The Wedding Party", in which Basil is caught once with a female guest and twice with Manuel; Manuel was drunk the first time and had accidentally knocked him over, and Basil mistakes him for a burglar the second time. Meanwhile, Basil accidentally walks in on two of the wedding guests embracing (they're related) and discovers Polly hurrying out of the lovers' room after hearing some weird noises (Polly was trying on one of the girl's dresses; the girl was giving her boyfriend a massage).
-   In one episode of _Las Vegas_, Delinda offers to allow a blind man to feel her face so he'll know what she looks like. The blind man in question reaches out at eye level and takes hold of her breast. The man comments "Apparently you're very tall" but makes no effort to remove his hand.
-   In _Degrassi: The Next Generation_, JT is caught by surprise by the size of Craig's penis (JT himself being the opposite), and is caught staring at it like it's some sort of monster. It doesn't go unnoticed by Craig.
-   There's an episode of _Stargate Universe_ where Chloe is using the Ancient equivalent of a shower when the power goes out. She calls out for Eli, he comes running... and just _happens_ to shine his flashlight on her, getting a full frontal before realization hits and he stutters an apology while looking away. Too bad the camera's positioned behind her.
-   In _Mahou Sentai Magiranger_, Kai is helping a Yuka Yamazaki, the girl he has a crush on, carry groceries home. Houka, his meddling big sister, turns into a table fan and blows cold wind at them so Kai can offer his coat to her. Unfortunately, she instead causes him to fall down, and her skirt to billow upwards.
    
    **Girl:** Did you see?  
    **Kai:** (dreamy look on face) Yes! _(beat, look of horrified realization)_ I... I mean no!
    
-   In _Silicon Valley_, Richard is so weird and awkward on a date that the woman believes he's stalking her. When he learns that she believes he's obsessed with her, he tracks down her social media accounts to prove to his friends that he isn't and then accidentally hooks his computer up to a big screen at a tech expo, making it look like he has a huge picture of her as his wallpaper.
-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   In the episode "The Beast Below" the Doctor is holding Amy out of the TARDIS by her ankle, looks up her nightdress and laughs. Cue Amy giving him a look.
    -   Also in "A Christmas Carol" the Doctor acts a bit like a pedo with Kid Kazran. Old Kazran is believed to be this by Rory.
    -   In "Closing Time", the Doctor and Craig are checking fitting rooms for anything to do with Cybermen. One of the rooms the Doctor checks has someone changing. Both are rightfully embarrassed... Then the Doctor tells the woman she should try her dress in red.
-   _The Big Bang Theory_:
    -   In one episode, Penny slips in the shower, dislocating her shoulder, and Sheldon has to help her put some clothes on. She insists he do it without looking, which leads to:
        
        **Penny:** You gotta help me get my arm into the sleeve.  
        **Sheldon:** Okay.  
        _(He feels along her body with his hand, eyes closed, looking for her arm, and suddenly her eyebrows fly upward.)_  
        **Penny:** Is that my arm?  
        **Sheldon:** It doesn't feel like an arm....  
        **Penny:** Then maybe you should let it go.
        
    -   In another, Leonard attempts to pin a corsage on Amy, despite that he has no idea where to put it.
        
        **Amy:** When you're done copping a feel, the corsage goes on my wrist.
        
-   In _EastEnders_ Billy Mitchell was hazed on the day before his wedding and found himself wearing nothing but his boxers. He tries to ask a woman for some spare clothes, but then her dog tears off his boxers and she calls the police (even though she could clearly see the dog did it).
-   In the _How I Met Your Mother_ episode "Say Cheese", a flashback involving a picture with Slash reveals that Marshall had been grabbing Barney's ass instead of Lily's all along.
    -   In the penultimate episode, Robin meets Tracy, the Mother, when they accidentally crash into each other and fall onto each other. Tracy remarks, "Well, we did just kind of get to second base with each other there—and we'll always have that—but I don't know you..."
-   In French sitcom _Les Filles d'à côté_, a power cut means everyone in the apartment block is stumbling around in the semi-dark. It is left ambiguous, when Marc gropes out and grabs the busty Fanny, as to whether this is accidental or if he knew what he was doing and took a chance to grope. Hilarity ensues.
-   _Man Stroke Woman_: A man is talking to a woman at a bar and it is going very well. He asks if she would like to go to a party at his house and she says yes. He draws her directions to his home. When he lifts it up it is a picture of a penis, and she leaves disgusted. He looks extremely confused as his friend tells him that he needs to find a better way to his house.
-   _Red Dwarf_: "Polymorph". When you're writhing on the floor, begging an android with a large tube attached to its crotch to pull off your underwear, it's kind of easy for people to get the wrong idea.
    -   This is directly lifted from a similar sketch in radio precursor _Son of Cliché_.
-   In a silent spot on _The Red Skelton Show_, Red is wooing a tall woman with a large, and pushed up, bust. Her father, a short, bald man objects. At one point her father arrives and the young woman runs away. Red does not see this because he is bashfully looking the other way. He reaches over and his hand comes to rest on the guy's bald head. Red panics and pulls his hand away.
-   In _Supernatural_, Sam's surveillance of Meg causes him to appear like The Peeping Tom when she changes in front of the window in "Shadow", which is lampshaded by Dean and a woman passing by on the street.
-   In an episode of _Naturally, Sadie_, Rain has dental work that turns his speech into an unintelligible mumble. Every time he tries to talk to a girl, his mumbling gets interpreted as something filthy. He ends up getting sent to the principal's office, where he runs into exactly the same problem.
-   This trope is used to setup one of _The Benny Hill Show_'s signature closing chase scenes. Hill's character, in a daze, comes upon the door to the Ladies' room and, his vision crossed, misreads the sign as _Laddies_. He thinks it's the Lads' room, goes in, and hilarity ensues.
-   The first episode of _Peep Show_ shows Mark accidentally getting his hand trapped under Sophie's bottom on the bus in an excruciatingly awkward scene.
-   _Person of Interest_:
    -   In "Blunt", John Reese is tailing this weeks' Number to a college dormitory when two college girls returning from the showers pointedly eyeball him. The subsequent camera angle hilariously shows how creepy this middle-aged man with a trenchcoat and a camera phone looks slinking around the dorm rooms, voyeuristically peeking around corners.
    -   In the pilot episode when Harold Finch first tries to recruit Reese to protect the Victim of the Week, an attractive female attorney, Reese states flatly that either she's Finch's ex-wife or he's a Stalker with a Crush.
-   Columbo has to collect a porn tape for evidence, and sure enough is mistaken for a fellow customer by another middle-aged man in a shabby raincoat.
-   Inversion in _Bruiser_, in a recurring series of sketches Martin Freeman plays a character terrified of appearing to be a pervert/pedophile/stalker, he always ends up in situations that are slightly suspect and after trying and failing to work out how to look innocent he throws his arms into the air and shouts "I am not a pervert!", usually to the terror of those around him.
-   _Star Trek: Voyager_
    -   The Emergency Medical Hologram has established comm links with various parts of Voyager in order to get information that he should (as senior medical officer) be routinely be informed of. Janeway raises a Fascinating Eyebrow and demands to know just how many conversations the Doctor has been listening in on. The Doctor indignantly replies that he's a doctor, not a voyeur.
    -   In another episode the EMH calls B'Elanna Torres on the Video Phone while she's still in the sonic shower (this time he's a doctor not a Peeping Tom). Mind you if Starfleet engineers are installing videophones in showers, maybe B'Elanna has reason to think that All Men Are Perverts.
-   While _Law & Order: SVU_ has its share of intentional perverts, every so often a suspect turns out to be one of these instead. In one episode, they show a Peeping Tom picture of a woman undressing taken by the suspect, which he "claims" was for the architecture. Once he's basically exonerated anyway, they show the _whole_ picture. It's a panoramic shot of a bridge the woman's apartment was next to, and he has dozens more pictures of bridges and no more women. Casey declares "It looks like she just happened to be there." This got him registered as a sex offender.
-   _The Equalizer_: Thanks to his vaguely worded We Help the Helpless ad, Robert McCall is shown erasing a series of crank calls on his answering machine, including one woman who seems to be under the impression he'd like to partake in BDSM.
    
    **McCall:** No thanks, I've been equalized enough already.
    
-   Tobias Funke from _Arrested Development_ almost literally can _not_ open his mouth without a double entendre (generally one that implies that he's gay) slipping out. For example, he got a personalized license plate to celebrate his intention to make a new start. However, since there wasn't room to fit it spelled correctly with spaces, he settled for ANUSTART/. Most people seeing it take it _exactly_ the way you (but not the way he) would expect. In a similar mishap, he perceives a niche somewhere in between psycho-analyst and therapist; in itself an excellent idea and one for which he is in fact qualified, but his attempts to ply this new trade fail when he baptises it analrapist/.
-   _The Strange Calls_: Toby has a tendency to trip and fall into people. In episode 4 he bursts into a clearing in hot pursuit of a suspect, but trips and falls onto a teenage boy who was sitting there, who calls Toby a pervert.
-   _iCarly_: In the episode "iLost My Mind", Spencer runs out into the hall, pantsless, calling after Carly to bring back some more olive oil. There he is met with an old lady, a child, and a nun. The old lady pepper sprays him.
-   _CSI: NY_: In "Right Next Door," Stella's young neighbor boy makes a hole thru the adjoining walls to their apartments and she mistakenly believes him to be a budding peeping Tom. He's actually a kidnap victim passing notes with pleas for help that fall behind the dresser in her bedroom.
-   _Young Sheldon_: In "Ruthless, Toothless, and a Week of Bed Rest", George Sr. is put in charge of the laundromat, but when he asks a customer if she needs help, she immediately assumes he wants her panties.
-   _One of Us is Lying_: Vanessa sneaks aboard Nate's yacht to investigate the Murder Club. As she's there, he comes back with Bronwyn, so she has to hide in a closet. Vanessa is mortified to see them make out and prepare for sex while she's hiding inside, trying to not look. However, they soon catch her when her phone vibrates before they've done anything further.

    Myths & Religion 

-   According to one version of the story, the Blind Seer Tiresias received his powers this way. While out for a walk one day he saw Athena bathing in a lake, and she reacted by blinding him. When she realized that he was just in the wrong place at the wrong time and not trying to peep after all, she gave him the power of foresight as an apology.
-   Surprisingly, a form of this happens in the biblical Book of Esther. When queen Esther informs the king that Haman is plotting to kill all the Jews in the land (which includes her), the king is so enraged that he steps out into the garden to cool his head. Haman, realizing that he's utterly boned now that the King Xerxes I, ruler of the Persian Empire is angry at him, he stays behind to beg the queen to get the king to spare his life. The king returns just in time to find him falling onto the couch that the queen is reclining on and mistakenly thinks that he's trying to molest the queen _while the king is still in the same house._ He is...less than pleased with this and has Haman hanged on the gallows that Haman had built to kill his most hated enemy, Esther's uncle, Mordecai. As experts place the authorship of the Book of Esther somewhere in the third or fourth century BCE, it makes this, of all tropes, older than Feudalism.

    Video Games 

-   In Leifang's _Dead or Alive 4_ ending, she is on a train, which suddenly screeches to a halt because a deer ran onto the tracks. An elderly man is sent flying into her and accidentally grabs her boobs to keep balance. Thus, she kicks him off the train and into a river below, and is given a standing ovation by the rest of the passengers. The scene is redone in the next game, only this time Jann Lee is able to stop the man right before he can "get lucky".
-   _Demon Hunter: The Return of the Wings_: When Gun and Perna fall into the Cave of Darkness, with Gun still being unconscious, Perna takes an opportunity to take a bath. Shortly Gun discovers her in a Modesty Towel, and she remains bitter for the entire chapter, especially since he notices her hiding her injuries.
-   A female example from _Devil Survivor 2_, in which Makoto repeatedly finds herself walking in on the protagonist while he's supposedly naked, or at least mostly undressed, in the morning. You can call her a pervert for that, even when she finally knocks before entering his room. In an inversion, _she's_ the one who gets flustered by it, while he seems to find it rather funny.
-   _Fire Emblem: Awakening_ has Chrom walking in on a female Avatar naked during their B support, with predictable yet hilarious reactions. This is later gender-inverted when she does the same to him during their A support... and beats \*him\* up for it (though she does apologize for it). The Avatar finds themself as this in their C support with Gaius, as they walk in on him when he's bathing. (They're more interested in Gaius's prison brand, however.) Similarly, a Female Avatar's C support with Say'ri will have her stepping in her tent when she's getting dressed and catching view of her chest binding.
-   In _Fire Emblem: Three Houses_, after Byleth fuses with Sothis, Hanneman asks them to strip... but only because he wants to see if this has caused them any significant physical changes. If Byleth is female, Hanneman will awkwardly add that Manuela should examine her instead.
-   If you're a boy in _Growing Up_, Vivica will come out of the girl's bathroom and call you out for being a pervert, even if you were just wandering outside. Turns out you could smell her smoking weed and were just wondering where it came from.
-   One of the early rooms in _Ib_ has a painting covered by a curtain. Sure enough, if you remove the curtain, the painting is a nude lady, who slaps you. If Garry's in the party, she slaps him instead (Ib's only nine, after all).
-   _The Legend of Heroes: Trails from Zero and Trails to Azure_: Lloyd, after The Stakeout to catch a burglar, forcibly seizes them when they attempt to escape, and he can't figure out why the burglar won't stop struggling. It turns out it's a Lady Looks Like a Dude situation and he gets chastised by his teammates, while the burglar holds a grudge.
-   Happens to Rean in _The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel I and II_ where in the first one, he happens to get a face full of Alisa's bosom after protecting her from a trap door. She ends up slapping him and doesn't apologize to him for 3 whole weeks. Rean averts this in _Cold Steel III_ where he's Older and Wiser though his student Kurt Vander ends up taking this mantle with him getting a face full of Juna's chest after the new Class VII ends up falling from the same trap door set up like in the first game.
-   Hiro of _Lunar: Eternal Blue_ ends up as this a lot throughout the game... and it's almost always bathing scenes.
-   _Mega Man Legends_:
    -   Mega Man walks in on Roll getting dressed; although Roll doesn't have a different outfit as such. He also walks in on her in the bathroom in the sequel.
    -   Also in the sequel, when Mega Man destroys the robot Tron is piloting, which also causes her clothes to be destroyed.
    -   And again in the sequel, when Mega Man releases Sera from her seal on Forbidden Island, and she is completely naked.
-   _Persona_:
    -   Happened twice in _Persona 3_:
        -   During the Full Moon Operation in July in the male route, the Protagonist and Yukari are caught in a Shadow's spell and Yukari is forced to take a shower. When she snaps out of it, she is only wearing a towel and slaps the Protagonist before returning to the bathroom to change her clothes.
        -   During the school trip to Kyoto, the boys are still in the hot spring after it changes over from men-only to women-only. If they are caught, Mitsuru will not take any excuses and had them executed.
    -   The boys in _Persona 4_ too suffer the same situation during their own trip to the hot spring. This time however, its the girls who forgot to leave and Yukiko only remembers after they kicked the boys out.
-   _Puyo Puyo_, Schezo has just about the worst case of poor word choice ever. His utterances more than likely comes off as sexual, making him come off as a pervert. Naturally, Schezo is dismayed by this.
    
    **Schezo:** I want you to give me all of you!  
    **Arle:** You know, it makes you sound like a pervert when you put it that way.
    
-   At one point in _Rayman 3: Hoodlum Havoc_, Rayman's transport fails on him, causing him to fall into a swamp witch's outhouse... while she's using it. She runs out screaming about perverts while Rayman desperately tries to defend himself. When you see her later she tries to kill you, leading to a mini-boss.
-   _Resident Evil_:
    -   In _Resident Evil 4_, if you're in any position to see up Ashley's skirt, accidental or not, she calls you a pervert. Numerous times Leon has been knocked flat on his back by an enemy, his head under her skirt, and she feels it's more important that he saw her underwear rather than the fact that something is trying to kill them at that instant.
        -   Should Leon's head happen to land face-up beneath her after he's been decapitated, she will \*still\* try to call him out for it.
    -   The remake of _Resident Evil_ has several shots where, if Jill is equipped with her civilian outfit from _Resident Evil 3: Nemesis_, the camera points upskirt. Especially the "Jill Sandwich" cutscene.
-   In _Resonance of Fate_, Leanne is taking a bath while Zephyr and Vashyron kick back and watch a little TV. When the power goes out unexpectedly, she screams, and Zephyr bursts in thinking she's been attacked. She slaps him, of course (though she apologizes for it afterwards; it was probably a knee-jerk reaction). He swears he didn't see anything, but he later claims to be "good in the dark."
-   In _Skies of Arcadia_, Vyse falls victim to this. Really, Aika, while we get you would want to cover up a hole in the wall of your house, what can you expect when you hang _a brightly coloured handkerchief on the outside_?
-   In _Sonic the Hedgehog (2006)_, all the cutscenes have wonky animations and models, especially prominent in the eyes and mouths. This could be the reason why Shadow occasionally stares directly at Rouge's breasts while she's talking to him.
-   A Running Gag in _Star Ocean: The Last Hope_ has Edge accidentally walking in on Reimi when she's in the shower or otherwise "Less than presentable". She, of course, never takes it well, leading to much _hilarity_. Edge eventually gets tired of this and calls her out it though. The first possible moment isn't really an accident, and correspondingly gets the most violent retribution. Getting that scene implicitly turns the genuine accidents into a Once Done, Never Forgotten situation.
-   In _Summon Night: Swordcraft Story 2_, the protagonist accidentally stumbles upon the ninja siblings, Kuuya and Kohina, taking a bath at the Oni Hot Springs:
    
    **Aera:** I'm not a voyeur! You're exhibitionists!  
    **Kuuya:** You idiot! Who bathes in a hot spring with his clothes on!?  
    **Kohina:** If you're a Peeping Tom, you should admit it. Be proud of who you are!
    
-   _Tales of Symphonia_:
    -   During a hot spring cutscene, Zelos attempts to take a peek at the females in the party while they are bathing. Lloyd, being far less of a pervert than Zelos, catches him in the act and loudly tells him to stop. This, of course, causes the girls to march out and "catch" Lloyd in the act, while Zelos escapes.
    -   Subverted in the OAV when Lloyd trips and falls on top of Collete. Both of them are too innocent to see it as anything other than funny.
    -   Played straight in an optional scene in the sequel, where Lloyd becomes the accidental pervert _again_, in an almost identical situation to the first game. It's inverted in a different version of that scene, where Emil decides to go into the hot springs alone, and it's _Marta_, his main love interest, who peeps in on him and then _joins him_. He chivalrously tries to resist her advances, but ends up catching the attention of the rest of the party, who naturally dub him a pervert. Both Emil and Marta try to explain, but everyone thinks Marta is just trying to cover for Emil. Of course, only Lloyd truly believes him.
    -   Carried over to _Tales of the World_, where the girls overhear Chester telling Lloyd about his secret spot with "the best view." Though Lloyd was never given the chance to show if he had any interest in it, he is automatically labeled as a pervert by the girls. The skit ends with him shouting "I was framed!"
-   Jin Kazama of _Tekken_ fame became an accidental pervert in one of _Tekken 5_'s many endings. After being rescued by Asuka Kazama from his monstrous great grandfather Jinpachi Mishima and regaining his humanity through some kind of healing touch unintentionally administered by Asuka, he awakens suddenly and thrusts himself forward to get to his feet, but accidentally bumps into Asuka while she was trying to wake him. Naturally she falls on her back and he lands facefirst between her (somewhat ample for a 17 year old...) bosom with an obligatory "boing" sound effect. Much time passes before he stands up, at which point the hot-headed Asuka becomes outraged and punches him into a rock before storming off. Depending on the viewer, this exchange can be made disturbing when you consider the two are actually cousins, though Asuka doesn't learn about it until _Tekken 6_.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney_:
    -   For completely legitimate and case-related reasons Apollo Justice winds up in possession of two sets of panties, one belonging to a fifteen-year-old girl and the other to a mob boss' wife. The judge is rather disturbed by this.
    -   The reason the panties became involved in the case in the first place is that Wesley Stickler wanted to steal the "Magic Panties" used in Trucy's magic show to figure out how they worked. However, he didn't know where Trucy lived, so he just went around stealing all the panties he could get his hands on hoping to get lucky and find the right pair.
-   In _Ace Attorney Investigations_, case 5, poor Edgeworth ends up with Wendy Oldbag's undershirt as evidence. Franziska takes this the wrong way and promptly whips him.
-   The protagonist of _Daughter for Dessert_ walks into the bathroom once, and sees Amanda coming out of the shower.
-   Two different times in _Double Homework_:
    -   The protagonist walks in on Johanna masturbating to a video clip of him skiing. There are options to either leave, or to stay and watch.
    -   The protagonist walks into the wrong locker room by mistake, hoping to get some training in. Just his luck, Rachel walks in and gets undressed before realizing that he’s there.
-   The first _Galaxy Angel_ trilogy has two major cases for Tact, both of them involving Ranpha. On the first game, an enemy-inserted drone took on his appearance and freaked her out on the locker room, and when he hears her screaming he sees her covered in only a towel. The second instance happens on her route in Eternal Lovers, when they're swimming together and he gets a cramp. When Ranpha tries to save him from drowning, he grabs the first thing he can reach... which are implied to be Ranpha's breasts.
-   _Majikoi! Love Me Seriously!_ has Yamato seeing Chris naked enough times for them to reconsider if there's even a point to make peace, as it would just happen again and ruin said peace.
-   Happens to MC multiple times in _Melody_:
    -   Several times, MC sees Melody’s naughty bits when she’s changing, or when her towel slips.
    -   Also, MC finds himself up against Becca’s rear end (on her romantic path only) after running into her at the library and asking her to get a book for him.
-   As a minor plot point for Kanna's route in _YU-NO_ Takuya walks in on her just as she finishes showering. While he's embarrassed, the point of the scene is her complete indifference. She simply doesn't care about being seen naked.
-   In _Doki Doki Literature Club!_, Natsuki uses a swivel chair to reach a box of manga from a high shelf, and the protagonist helps by trying to keep the chair stable. He realises that he could look up Natsuki's skirt from his position, so he tries to look away. Unfortunately for him, Natsuki notices this and then accuses the protagonist of setting her up.
-   In _Tick! Tack!_, Rin manages to walk in on Sage changing once and Ai in the bath not once, not twice, but three times. The first time is laughed off. The second time is narrowly forgiven. The third time is only if you've pursued Ai, at which point fun times ensue for Rin.
-   In _The Eden of Grisaia_ during the epilogue Yuuji walks in on Yumiko during the bath. While initially irritated, she has to bundle him away before someone else walks in on the two of them naked. A much different type of scene soon unfolds, which sets the general tone for the rest of the afterstory.
-   In _Princess Evangile_, this happens to Masaya from the prologue alone. Accidentally mistaking a shady character "harassing" a random schoolgirl for a man, he accidentally gropes "his" chest, which results in a frenzied Pervert Revenge Mode that forces him and the girl he rescued to flee. Unfortunately for him, his situation goes From Bad to Worse when he ends up studying in an exclusive all-girls school as part of an experiment, as the girls there clearly do not like young men by default, and automatically assume that All Men Are Perverts.
-   In _Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony_, Kaito desperately tries to give himself an alibi during the second trial by using Miu's alibi and saying that could've been anyone walking around in women's underwear, even himself. Tsumugi nervously replies in reponse to his accidental perverted comment by saying "That'd be a whole different issue."
-   The main protagonist of _Moe! Ninja Girls_, frequently ends up accidentally colliding with the girls in his life or witnessing them in scandalous situations, but rarely minds it due to a perverted mind. One of the side-stories, "The Law of Force Majeure", is even dedicated to the main cast trying to analyze why this seems to happen as frequently as it does despite all of them being well-coordinated ninja.

    Web Animation 

    Webcomics 

-   _Akumas Comic_: TJ first meets Jenny Wily by seeing her bathe while sneaking in the villain base she's in at the time. TJ is embarassed but the two deal with the awkwardness not long after.
-   _Bronze Skin Inc._: In many fanservice scenes, Dante fears being identified this way!
-   _Dragon Mango_: Dr. Yong-Yi has to undress and change an injured and unconscious Mango to treat her. Later, when she wakes up and realizes this she has a delayed Naked Freak-Out and doesn't accept his insistence that he's a doctor as an excuse to have undressed and goes into Pervert Revenge Mode.
-   Chapter 19 of _Furry Fight Chronicles_ has Cookie going into Muko's room to cheer her up...only to find her masturbating. After exchanging expressions of mutual embarrassment, Muko kicks Cookie out of her room.
-   _Girl Genius_: When Wooster walked in on Agatha while she was executing her Full-Frontal Assault plan to scare away assassins.
    
    **Agatha:** Tch. What kind of master spy stands around in the hall screaming at the sight of a lady dishabille, anyway? What would your _Queen_ say?  
    **Wooster:** She'd say: "thank you Mister Wooster, for not doing anything- that would make Gilgamesh Wulfenbach _melt England!_"
    
-   In _Girls Next Door_, Sarah faces Male Frontal Nudity not once, not twice, but _three_ times.
-   _El Goonish Shive:_
-   In the Sci-fi arc of _Dubious Company_, Sal becomes an accidental voyeur after she becomes the crew's spaceship which gives her a direct feed of EVERYTHING that happens on the ship. It doesn't stop her from teasing Leeroy though.
-   _Level 1 Housewife:_ Angrboda is a hulking amazon swordswoman who has married a fruit merchant half her size and retired to domestic life. In one episode, she is settling down for sleep when she realizes he has reached around from behind her and is fondling her breasts. He turns out to be asleep having a dream of selling giant apples.
-   Coupled with Values Dissonance in this strip of _Scandinavia and the World_.
-   In _unTouchable_, Sia runs after her new neighbor Jiho, trips, and ends up with her hand on his crotch.
-   Dr. Minivan from _Unwinder's Tall Comics_ comes off as one after he picks a body wash product with a really embarrassing caption.

    Web Original 

-   Inverted in _Tales of MU_: when Mackenzie walks in on Amaranth the nymph trying on a bathrobe in the privacy of her own room, it's treated like walking in on someone naked.
-   Michael Garcia in _The Impossible Man_ can never get a break with his female employees... except for one subversion in the entire story.
-   This poor guy from Not Always Right, who just keeps digging himself deeper...

    Western Animation 

-   _Adventure Time_:
    -   An extreme example from the episode "Blood Under the Skin": In a trial for a quest to gain armor, Finn goes through a swamp with curtains that are all full of people taking showers. Finn was mentally scarred by the sight of old people private parts, and a mother bathing her child called Finn a pervert.
    -   Finn falls victim to this once more in "Marceline's Closet" when he enters Marceline's bathroom just after she removed her clothes to take a bath.
        
        **Finn:** (_mortified_) I'm not going back out there...
        
    -   Finn also has one at the start of "Incendium", when he lays his head in Princess Bubblegum's lap and she tells him he's making it weird.
-   _Avatar: The Last Airbender_: In Book Two's "The Earth King", as Team Avatar invades the Earth King's palace, Sokka accidentally opens a door with a woman (dressed decently) behind it who then yells "Burglar!" and throws herself to the ground. Sokka responds by immediately closing it and calling back "Sorry! Wrong door!".
-   _Chip 'n Dale: Rescue Rangers_: In "Fake Me to Your Leader", Professor Nimnul uses his Gigantico ray gun to enlarge some pill bugs and an unwitting Zipper as part of his plan to fake an alien attack and extort the city's gold supply for spaceship fuel. The police pursue the enlarged Zipper at a department store, and the last place they check is inside its dressing room. A lady changing her clothes (who isn't seen to the viewers) shrieks in horror upon seeing the police, who apologize to her.
-   In _The Cleveland Show_, a major running gag is Cleveland being Mistaken for Gay or Mistaken for Pedophile. Usually it's his lack of social skills or just plain stupidity that causes these unfortunate situations to occur.
-   _Comi Color Cartoons_: The short "Aladdin and the Wonderful Lamp" has Aladdin wish that he was the same place where the princess is, which the genie grants by teleporting him to the princess while she's taking a bath. Strangely, the princess doesn't mind and agrees to marry Aladdin shortly afterwards.
-   In the _Courage the Cowardly Dog_ episode "Remembrance of Courage Past", baby Courage accidentally opens the door to a woman showering. When he closes it and gets ready to keep moving, he stops for a moment and looks inside again.
-   In one of the final episodes of Nickelodeon's _Doug_, Doug and his friends go through great lengths to see the principal physically and plan to see him through the window of his office, with Doug on the top. When he finally reaches the window, he realizes it's actually the window of the girls' restroom instead. Since they are graduating soon, Vice Principal Bone lets Doug and his friends off with a warning.
-   Mickey Mouse, of all people, falls into this trope in the MouseWorks short "Future Mania", which originally aired as part of the _House of Mouse_ episode "House of Genius". When Ludwig Von Drake uses Mickey to test his future viewer, Mickey attempts to call Minnie on a viewing monitor, but ends up seeing her in a towel. When he tries to get Minnie to settle down, he only ends up digging himself deeper. Not helped at all when Ludwig apparently thought that now was a good time to show Mickey the existence of mousedroids.
    -   In _Fantasia 2000_, While Mickey was searching for Donald Duck, he accidentally walked in on Daisy Duck in her dressing room, causing her to shriek very loudly. Mickey quickly apologized to her and closes the door afterwards.
-   In _Justice League_, The Flash once accidentally ended up with his hands on Hawkgirl's chest.
-   _King of the Hill_:
    -   The episode "Naked Ambition" centers around this. Bobby accidentally sees his cousin Luanne naked during a camping trip (Luanne was in the shower and Bobby walked in on her, thinking the shower was vacant), and when he tells his friend Joseph, Joseph becomes obsessed with getting a look. His attempt to peep causes Bobby's girlfriend Connie to accidentally think they're peeping on _her_. At the end of the episode, Connie's father also accidentally sees Luanne and when she screams about it, Joseph (who's passing by on his bike) says "Aw man!"
    -   Also happens on the episode "Hank's Dirty Laundry." Hank (who has been accused of renting a porno movie at a video store and not returning it) is given a collection of porno movies by an anonymous source and watches them so he can find clues that will clear his name by proving that the porno he allegedly rented doesn't exist. With the way Hank is hunched over as he watches the film makes Peggy think he's masturbating to it, causing her to freak out and tell Bobby to get out of the house (the original scene was supposed to have the masturbation illusion more explicit by having Hank's pen dry up and Hank shaking the pen, but FOX censors wouldn't allow it. It does appear as an alternate scene on the second season DVD set).
-   _Looney Tunes_: Bugs Bunny is on the run from an angry shiek with Aladdin's lamp. He runs into a room and is greeted with the screaming of women. He comes out and embarrassingly says "A harem...I think." The genie of the lamp comes out and takes a peek himself. "Oh, that was a harem all right. I know a harem when I see one!"
    -   Bugs pulls this as a gag twice as a woman taking a shower in "Bugs Bunny Gets the Boid" (with Beaky Buzzard) and "Bill of Hare" (with the Tasmanian Devil).
    -   In "Hare Trigger," Bugs hides from Yosemite Sam in a train berth and impersonates a partially dressed woman as Sam encroaches.
-   In the _Oh Yeah! Cartoons_ short "Max and the Pigeon Incident", Max accidentally steps into the girl's bathroom. A woman promptly attacks him and accuses him of being a "sicko".
-   In the _Popeye_ short "A Dream Walking" a sleepwalking Olive walks into a construction site, prompting Popeye and Bluto to keep her safe until she gets home. Eventually Olive makes her way back to her room, but when she sees Popeye looking at her in the window she thinks he's being a Peeping Tom and starts throwing stuff at him.
-   Western Animation can do this Fanservice-free: _Rocko's Modern Life_ has a Running Gag of Rocko or another character accidentally violating the gigantic Hippo Lady's personal space. "**How _DARRRE YOOOU._**"
-   It was the plot impetus for _The Simpsons_ episode, "Homer Badman". As Homer is driving a babysitter home (who immediately wanted to be dropped off after Homer asked the babysitter to take the wheel so he can scratch himself in two places at once), Homer finds a rare gummi candy (which he stole earlier in the episode during the candy convention) stuck to the seat of the babysitter's pants and peels it off her. What the babysitter sees is Homer drooling as his hand reaches out and grabs her ass. She freaks out and runs...and the next day, rallies a protest group against him, which leads to a media circus over Homer being a pervert who likes to molest college coeds. And then, the tabloid TV show who interviewed Homer blatantly edited his interview to support these claims.
-   _Steven Universe_: In "So Many Birthdays", a magically aged-up Steven asks Sadie and Lars to help him into his birthday suit, unaware of the implications and intending to refer to a cape and crown his dad got for him to wear on his birthday. Cut to the next scene, Sadie chasing Steven out of the doughnut shop with a chair.
-   In the _Stickin' Around_ episode "Hit the Showers", the boys and girls run out of the showers and freak out when they see each other.
-   _Superfriends_: Implied in the _Super Friends: The Legendary Super Powers Show_ episode "Reflections in Crime", where Mirror Master traps Superman in the mirror world and the Man of Steel starts appearing in different people's mirrors. One scene has Superman apologize after a woman screams from off-screen, most likely implying that he accidentally appeared in the mirror of a woman who was in a state of undress.

___