If only more adaptations were this honest.

_"That awful musician from the manga? He wasn't in the anime..."_

When a work is being adapted, liberties with the original will have to be taken. Due to time or length constraints, some things may have to be taken out. Sometimes it involves taking out a character or plot element that was very important in the original story. Note that this is only for things with narrative importance, not cosmetic changes like an Adaptational Dye-Job.

Could happen because of Adaptation Distillation, in a Compressed Adaptation or a Pragmatic Adaptation. Adapted-Out characters would usually fall victim to the existence of a Composite Character, with which there is often plenty of overlap. Another possibility is that maybe some aspects of the work may be saved for potential sequels.

This can overlap with The Ghost if it's confirmed that the missing character exists in the adapted work (e.g. they're mentioned in dialogue or narration), but they never actually appear.

Compare Chuck Cunningham Syndrome (where a character vanishes without explanation from the original work), Demoted to Extra (where the character does appear but in a much less important role) and contrast Canon Foreigner (where an adaptation features a character who didn't exist in the original work). If a character or plot element is cut from an adaptation of an ongoing work but then turns out to be extremely important later on, this could result in an Adaptation-Induced Plot Hole.

___

## Examples

-   Anime & Manga
-   Fan Works
    -   _Code Prime_
-   Films - Animated
-   Films - Live Action
-   Live-Action TV
    -   _A Song of Ice and Fire_ (_Game of Thrones_ and _House of the Dragon_)
-   Video Games
    -   _LEGO Harry Potter_
-   Western Animation

    open/close all folders 

    Animation 

-   In the _The King of Fighters_ games, Rugal famously had a pair of henchwomen named Vice and Mature. Mature is present in _The King of Fighters: Destiny_, while poor Vice is MIA.
-   A variant of sorts appears in _Miracle Star_, the Chinese bootleg of _The Amazing World of Gumball_. There's no equivalent to Gumball's younger sister Anais in _Miracle Star_ due to the show being produced at a time when China had a one-child limit (which wouldn't count the Darwin equivalent because he's adopted). This became a plot point in the _Gumball_ episode "The Copycats", which pokes fun at _Miracle Star_ — in the climax of the episode, Anais rescues her family, but their counterparts have nobody to save _them_ and end up getting horribly injured.
-   In the original book version of _Adventures of Captain Vrungel_, the closest thing it had to a recurring main antagonist was the Japanese Admiral Kusaki, who hated Captain Vrungel for trying to heal a whale of its sickness because his idea of saving the whales from dying out is to kill them all, and so later on he becomes the final challenge Captain Vrungel and his crew have to face on their journey. Kusaki was not included for the series, and instead, he was replaced by Archibald Dandy AKA "Chief" as the main antagonist.

    Comic Books 

-   The 2009-2010 _The Clone Saga_ "Director's Cut" miniseries removed many characters like Seward Trainor, Spidercide, Judas Traveller, Grim Hunter, and the Scriers. It also goes with an earlier idea and has Harry Osborn as the one behind it, not his father Norman, who's still dead in this version.
-   _Democracy_: The 1,000 Plataeans who came and helped the Athenian army in the Battle of Marathon are not mentioned.
-   _GoBots_ features some notable instances of characters from the Hanna-Barbera cartoon being left out.
    -   The Last Engineer and the Master Renegade are left out due to the comic establishing GoBots as sapient robots constructed on Earth by humans rather than an organic alien race who had their brains put into robotic bodies to survive a disaster.
    -   Dr. Anya Turgenova and General Newcastle are the only human allies of the Guardians to not appear in the comic.
-   _Jem and the Holograms (IDW)_ comic features every major character from the original cartoon with the exceptions of Danse, Astral and Eric Raymond's henchman Zipper.
-   _Justice League (2011)_ sees the Martian Manhunter replaced by Cyborg as a founding member of the League. He still exists in this universe, but is initially more closely associated with Stormwatch (2011) before rejoining the Justice League after _DC Rebirth_.
-   In Marvel Comics' _Laff-A-Lympics_ comic, Sooey Pig of the Really Rottens and Scooby-Dum of the Scooby Doobies were left out.
-   Dell Comics' Comic-Book Adaptation of _Mad Monster Party?_ curiously left out the Creature, the stand-in for the Gill-man from _Creature from the Black Lagoon_. The captain and first mate of the ship the monsters and Felix take to Baron von Frankenstein's island are also left out because of the scenes of the monsters boarding and traveling on the ship are omitted.
-   The single-issue Comic-Book Adaptation of _Masked Rider_ omitted Count Dregon's lackey Doubleface.
-   _Planet of the Apes/Green Lantern_ only uses Hal Jordan and Guy Gardner, with the rest of the human Green Lanterns who existed at the time (John Stewart, Kyle Rayner, Simon Baz and Jessica Cruz) getting no acknowledgment whatsoever.
-   Despite the crossover nature of the story, the only characters who actually appear in _RoboCop Versus The Terminator_ are Murphy himself and Dr. Lazarus from the former and Skynet from the latter with a bunch of generic T-800s as the underlings, though John Connor and Nikko get namedropped.
-   _Shogun Warriors_ was a Marvel Comics series based on the Mattel toy line of the same name. However, only three robots from the toy line were ever included in the series, as Marvel had only licensed those specific characters. All others (e.g. Poseidon, Daimos, Voltus V, Dragun and Great Mazinga) were completely written out of continuity.
-   The _Sonic the Comic_ adaptation of _Streets of Rage 2_ ditches Adam Hunter completely, replacing him with a new character named Officer Murphy, Skates' stepfather and a former ally of Axel and Blaze. Skates is never even referred by his real name.
-   A few game adaptations done in _Sonic the Hedgehog (Archie Comics)_ either removed some characters or replaced them. Some examples:
    -   The adaptation to ''Sonic 3D Blast replaces Knuckles with Rotor.
    -   The adaption to _Sonic Adventure 2_ removes Tails, Knuckles and Amy as they were caught up in their own adventures at the time.
    -   The adaptation to _Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games obviously_ removed the Mario characters.
-   The 1993 revamp of _Stanley and His Monster_ omitted some characters from the original 1960s version, the most notable ones being Stanley's other supernatural friends the Ghost of Napoleon, Shaugnessy the Leprechaun and Schnitzel the Dwarf (leaving Spot the Monster as his sole companion) as well as Spot's long-lost son Shag who appeared in one of the later stories in the original run (the only relation of Spot's to appear in the 1993 miniseries is his ex-girlfriend Nyx, and there is no indication that they ever had children).
-   _Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins_: Tatanga was conspicuously absent from the comic adaptation.
-   _Supergirl (1984)_ wrote out the pair of tuckers who attempted to harass Supergirl in _the original film_.
-   _Teen Titans: Earth One_:
    -   Founding members Dick Grayson and Roy Harper are omitted from this incarnation of the Titans.
    -   Victor Stone's father Silas Stone is left out, with his mother Elinore Stone being responsible for making him Cyborg.
-   _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles X Stranger Things:_ Despite being a TMNT work, their Arch-Enemy Shredder never appears, which makes sense as the comic is based on the Mirage Comics incarnation of the Turtles where Shredder was a very minor villain, in contrast to the rest of his role in the franchise as Big Bad. Instead, the TMNT side of the villain roster is fulfilled by Baxter Stockman.
-   _Transformers: Deviations_, a comic book one-shot that tells a version of the events of _The Transformers: The Movie_ where Optimus Prime did not die, leaves out Wheelie, Wreck-Gar and the Junkions.
-   _Ultimate X-Men_:
    -   In adapting Proteus into a Composite Character, Gabrielle Haller (Legion's mother) and Joseph MacTaggert (Proteus's father) were written out with Professor Xavier and Moira MacTaggert having the child together, rather than them having sons with separate people.
    -   Emma Frost was adapted, but not her clones, the Stepford Cuckoos.
-   The first _Wings of Fire_ graphic novel has a completely different prologue. Hvitur doesn't appear at all, and instead it begins with the surviving Talons of Peace talking about Aisha's death just before the eggs hatch.
-   _Wonder Woman_:
    -   _Wonder Woman (1987)_: The Amazon research physician Althea, who was friends with Diana and the doctor who saved Steve Trevor's life after his crash in the original comics, makes no appearances and her position as an Amazonian physician trusted by Diana seems to have been taken by Epione. Althea was one of the Amazons who had joined their way of life later in her own, which meant she looked over forty and like all others in the same boat was removed from continuity to be replaced by Amazons who look like attractive twenty year olds.
    -   _The Legend of Wonder Woman (2016)_ is an alternate telling of Wonder Woman's Golden Age WWII era origins in which Steve Trevor's (and in the original comics Diana Prince's) USAAF superior General Darnell doesn't even rate a mention. It also reduces the Heyday triplets to the Heyday twins.
-   Following the New 52 two fan favorite Amazons, Artemis and their captain of the guard Philippus, were jettisoned for the new version of _Wonder Woman_. Rebirth undid many of the changes wrought on Diana and the Amazons by the New 52 by revealing that her mind had been tampered with and that the Amazons she's been interacting with were fakes, paving the way for Temi and Philippus to return to continuity.

    Comic Strips 

-   The only other _Looney Tunes_ characters who appeared in the Stoffel-Hemidahl Bugs Bunny strip were Porky Pig, Petunia Pig, Sylvester the Cat and Elmer Fudd. Everyone else of significance in the cartoons were conspicuously absent.

    Fairy Tales 

-   "One-Eye, Two-Eyes, Three-Eyes": The Russian version cuts the Fairy Godmother and has the helpful animal, here a cow, advise the heroine. Also, some versions cut out the mother and just have the two sisters mistreat Two-Eyes.

    Literature 

-   The novelization of _Batman: No Man's Land_ does away with Azrael, Superman and Young Justice with a lot of Tim Drake Robin's adventures before returning to Gotham for real being culled massively.
-   The children's novel _BIONICLE Chronicles 1: Tale of the Toa_ omits the Toa's climactic fight against Makuta, making their confrontation with the Shadow Toa the climax instead. Due to its length, the author's unfamiliarity with the brand and the confusion within LEGO about what parts of the story were canon at all, many animals and side characters also never appear, most notably those from the _Mata Nui Online Game_ (apart from Jala). A Nui-Jaga scorpion has a scene in the original manuscript but was deleted from the book's final release.
-   The novelization to _The Death of Superman_ yanks out just about _everyone_ in the DC Universe save for the lineup of the Justice League at the time, Wonder Woman and Batman. This also includes Green Lantern Hal Jordan, who is very a big part of the finale due to the destruction of Coast City.
-   _Diary of a Wimpy Kid_: Herbie Reamer was a bully and The Dreaded for Greg in the webcomic, and it was him who made Rowley eat the cheese. The teens from Halloween take his place in the first book, and to this day, Herbie Reamer has never appeared in the book series.
-   _The Enchanted Files_: In the short story "Clean as a Whistle", Jamie's grandmother Harriet "Hattie" Hortense MacDougal is the one who sent the brownie to her, after the last of Jamie's relatives in the U.K. died and Hattie goes to close up the house, finding the brownie and telling him about her granddaughter. In _Diary of a Mad Brownie_ / _Cursed_ (which is expanded from the short story), Grandma Hattie is never mentioned, and said deceased relative, Sarah McGonagall (Alex's many times great-aunt), is the one who tells Angus to go live with Alex shortly before she passes.
-   _Enter the X-Men_, a Random House children's book adaptation of the "Night of the Sentinels" two-part pilot of the 90s X-Men cartoon cuts out the entirety of the second half of part two, resulting in a rather harsh Downer Ending<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> .
-   _Ghostbusters: A Paranormal Picture Book_: Alice the librarian, Zuul, Vinz, and Gozer don’t appear.
-   The Haggunenons of Episode 6 of _The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (1978)_ were written out when the episode was novelized as part of _The Restaurant at the End of the Universe_, to be replaced by Disaster Area. The TV series followed suit. This also eliminated the only actual appearance of the Ravenous Bugblatter Beast of Traal, still mentioned in some Guide entries that were moved up earlier in the books. The reason for this seems to be that the Haggunenons were largely a John Lloyd idea and Adams didn't want the complications of including concepts that weren't his.
-   Some _The Jungle Book 2_ storybooks leave out Kaa.
-   The novel of _Kamen Rider Decade_ omits the Hikari Photo Studio and its owner Eijiro, Natsumi's grandfather. In the series, Tsukasa and friends travel between worlds by changing the backdrop in the studio; in the novel they simply use Tsukasa's camera. Sayo, Tsukasa's sister from The Movie, also does not exist in the novel. The novel has Tsukasa visit the original _Kamen Rider_ worlds as opposed to Suspiciously Similar Substitute counterparts, which means Yusuke Onodera (the alternate Kamen Rider Kuuga) is gone. Since the novel stops after they've visited the nine Heisei Rider worlds, anything that happens afterwards (including the Showa Riders and the Crossover with _Samurai Sentai Shinkenger_) is gone too.
-   _King Arthur and His Knights of the Round Table_: Though in _Le Morte d'Arthur_ Gareth faces five color-coded knights, here he only faces four: Black, Green, Blue, and Red. The _other_ Red Knight, Perimones, is adapted out.
-   The novel adaptation for the first _Kingdom Hearts_ game cuts out Olympus Coliseum, Atlantica, Halloween Town, and 100 Acre Wood.
-   _The Last Days of Krypton:_
    -   In the comics, the Phantom Zone hosts scores of colorful prisoners convicted of crimes of varying severity. Here, Zod and his followers are the only inmates at the time of Krypton's destruction.
    -   In the comics, the Phantom Zone hosts scores of colorful prisoners convicted of crimes of varying severity. Here, Zod and his followers are the only inmates at the time of Krypton's destruction.
    -   Jor-El and Zor-El's brother Nim-El, nephew Don-El, and cousins Kru-El, Van-Zee, and Thara all appear in the Silver Age comics the book borrows a lot from (all of them were in either the Phantom Zone or Kandor when Krypton was destroyed). In this book, none of them are mentioned and the house of El is seemingly composed of just Jor-El and his father and brother.
    -   Lar-Gand/Mon-El, a traveler from a nearby planet who visits Krypton shortly before its destruction and befriends Jor-El in multiple continuities, is absent from this novel.
-   In the Junior Novel version of _The LEGO Movie_, all of the live-action characters are excluded from the film, as is the plotline with Finn and his father.
-   The novelization of _Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots_ by Project Itoh omits the BB Corps completely, rewriting most of their scenes into battles with regular PMC soldiers and Haven Troopers.
-   The _Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain_ novelization by Hitori Nojima never mentions George Sears/Solidus Snake and act as if David and Eli (aka Solid and Liquid) were the only clones that Big Boss ever had. It even goes as far as to mention George W. Bush's presidency in the epilogue, which is inconsistent with the games (since Solidus was President during Bush's term). This is particular odd, considering Nojima also adapted the original _Metal Gear Solid_ and _Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty_ as a two-part novel, where Solidus is a key character in both games' stories.
-   The _Mobile Suit Gundam_ novelizations, written by Yoshiyuki Tomino independent of the TV series (and free from the toy companies' demands), does this not with characters but with the Humongous Mecha instead, cutting both sides down to the bare essentials. Gone are all of Zeon's wacky one-off Super Prototypes; instead they just use the iconic Zaku II and Rick Dom, as well as the telepathically controlled non-humanoid mobile armors Brau Bro and Elmeth (which gets a limited production run unlike in the series) and the massive Big Zam (which does not). This is partly due to the fact that the novel never once goes to Earth, meaning ground- and amphibious-use machines like the Gouf and Z'Gok have no place in the story. The Federation gets off considerably easier, with only the Guntank being cut, but then they never had very many mobile suits in the original series to begin with. It also adds the G3 Gundam from the MSV series as a Mid-Season Upgrade, but that's not much considering it's only a repaint of the original.
-   In the novelization of _My Little Pony: Equestria Girls – Friendship Games_, Derpy is replaced with Trixie, likely to avoid mentioning her name.
-   Some storybook adaptations of _Oliver & Company_ remove Georgette.
-   _Oliver Twisted_, a novel based on _Oliver Twist_ which reimagines that story in a Hell on Earth setting, makes no mention of Monks, (originally Oliver's half-brother), the Maylies (originally Agnes' family, she is Agnes Brownlow instead in this story) or the magistrate and chimneysweep who appeared to Oliver's trial since it never happens, Brownlow immediately brings him into his coach after the chase when he sees that he's injured.
-   _Quantum Devil Saga: Avatar Tuner_ omits Fred: A major character and Narrator All Along from _Digital Devil Saga 2_. This also happens to a number of Mauve Shirts from the first game, such as James Mason and the Hip Hop Brothers.
-   The _Red Dwarf_ novel _Infinity Welcomes Careful Drivers_ replaces Captain Hollister with a female captain named "Kirk" (the name being a Shout-Out to the Captain from _Star Trek: The Original Series_).
-   The novel _Thanos: Death Sentence_ opens with a Broad Strokes retelling of _The Infinity Gauntlet_. While the overall roster of heroes who challenge Thanos is already different, the two most significant absences from the battle are Adam Warlock and Nebula, both of whom played key roles in the villain's downfall in the original story. Instead, it is Kronos, Thanos' own grandfather, who ultimately defeats him.
-   Alan Brennert's short story adaptation of _The Twilight Zone (1985)_ episode "Healer" omits Duende, the Mexican man who warns Jackie Thompson that he is misusing the healing stone.
-   _Wing Commander's_ Player Character, Christopher Blair, is all but written out of most of the _Wing Commander_ novels, save for _Heart of the Tiger_ and _The Price of Freedom_, both novelizations of the games. The books instead tend to focus on the exploits of either Admiral Tolwyn, Jason Bondarevsky, or a number of Blair's wingmen from the games.

    Multimedia 

-   _The New Batman Adventures_, _Young Justice (2010)_, _Titans (2018)_ and any other adaptations featuring Nightwing tend to ignore Superman's role in the character's origin<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . It's especially noticeable since the Nightwing identity dates back to Krypton! Although _Young Justice_ doesn't show _how_ Dick adopted the Nightwing persona, since it occurs some point during a five year Time Skip. It's still possible that Superman was involved. When asked, producer Greg Weisman admitted that they hadn't worked out all the details of how Dick chose the name "Nightwing." Similarly, in _Batman: The Brave and the Bold_, Dick's becoming Nightwing is literally just Batman suggesting the name out of the blue.
-   _Batman_ adaptations featuring Bane tend to loosely adapt parts of _Knightfall_, usually the iconic scene where he defeats Batman and breaks his back. However, to date, almost none of them have featured Jean-Paul Valley (a.k.a. Azrael), the young man who becomes the new Batman and ultimately defeats Bane after Bruce is paralyzed. Instead, the adaptations will usually either have Bruce himself take down Bane in a rematch (_The Batman_, _The Dark Knight Rises_) or tease the back-breaking moment but have Bruce avoid it in the end (_Batman: The Animated Series_).
-   Pretty much every retelling of how Captain America was found and unfrozen (_Captain America (1990)_, _The Ultimates_, _Ultimate Avengers_, _The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes_, _Captain America: The First Avenger_, ect.) has omitted Namor, the one who caused his frozen body to be found in the first place.
-   Power Records's book and audio record adaptation of _Escape from the Planet of the Apes_ omits Dr Milo. Zira and Cornelius are instead the only occupants of the spaceship and it is Cornelius who susses out that he and Zira have travelled back in time.
-   _Marvel Cinematic Universe_:
    -   Ant-Man and The Wasp were left out of _The Avengers (2012)_ and had their spots as founders taken by Hawkeye and Black Widow. Joss Whedon tried to include Wasp as part of the team, but had to write her out of the script.
    -   _Avengers: Age of Ultron_:
        -   Tony Stark creates Ultron instead of Hank Pym, Ultron's creator in the comics.
        -   Quicksilver and the Scarlet Witch's father Magneto and the term "mutant" do not appear, due to 20th Century Fox owning the _X-Men_ film rights — instead, the twins' powers are the result of experimentation, and their father is mentioned to have died in a bombing alongside their mother.
        -   Ultron's body was originally built of the indestructible metal adamantium. Since adamantium is more associated with Wolverine and the X-Men franchise (who, as mentioned, belonged to Fox at the time), Ultron instead builds a new body out of vibranium, the equally resistant element that constitutes Captain America's shield.
        -   In comics, The Vision's mind is a copy of the mind of Wonder Man, and has to struggle with having a human mind in a robotic body. In the film, Wonder Man does not exist and neither does that special relationship, as J.A.R.V.I.S. was already an artificial intelligence to begin with.
        -   Likewise, the Vision was created by Professor Phineas Horton from the remains of the Golden Age Human Torch. In the movie, his body is instead created from scratch by Helen Cho.
    -   Too many characters to count in _Avengers: Infinity War_ and _Avengers: Endgame_. Listing all of the characters from _The Thanos Quest_ and _The Infinity Gauntlet_ who don't appear would take all day, so the major exclusions include:
        -   Mistress Death. This is affects the plot in a major way, as Thanos' motivation for wanting to wipe out half of the sentient life in the universe is changed from seeking Death's love to trying to prevent a massive Overpopulation Crisis.
        -   Adam Warlock, who played a key role in stopping Thanos in the original story. Adam's buddy Pip the Troll is absent as well.
        -   All of the Elders of the Universe other than the Collector. Instead, Thanos steals the Infinity Stones from other characters.
        -   All of the characters whose film rights were controlled by Fox, meaning that Wolverine, Silver Surfer, Doctor Doom, Cyclops and Uatu the Watcher don't show up.
        -   Many of the Avengers, such as Quasar, She-Hulk and Namor, as they hadn't been introduced in the MCU by that point.
        -   Thanos' brother Starfox and Mephisto, who served as an ally to Thanos.
    -   _Black Panther (2018)_:
        -   T'Challa's two most famous love interests, Monica Lynne and Storm, are both omitted. In the case of the latter, it was likely due to the MCU being unable to use X-Men characters at the time. Instead, T'Challa's primary love interest is Nakia, a character he never actually dated in the comics.
        -   In the comics, T'Challa and Shuri have an adopted older brother named Hunter. In the movie, there's no indication that T'Challa has any siblings other than Shuri.
    -   Though he does appear near the end of the film, Nick Fury is replaced by Captain America as the leader of the Howling Commandos in _Captain America: The First Avenger_. This is likely due to the fact that Fury apparently does not possess his comic counterpart's slowed aging in the movies, and thus would be too young to be a veteran of World War II. The fact that Fury is black in the movies might also have complicated things given the institutionalized racism a black soldier would've faced in the 1940s.
        -   Baron Zemo is replaced by one of Arnim Zola's HYDRA mooks as the "killer" of Bucky Barnes.
        -   _Captain America: The Winter Soldier_ revealed that the Falcon's winged flight suit was commissioned by the U.S. Air Force, with supplementary material clarifying that the military ordered it from Stark Industries. This is in contrast to the comics, where the Falcon's wing suit was created by Black Panther.
        -   Barring a Retcon in a future film, it would seem that the first and last of the three replacement Caps who filled in for Steve while he was frozen (William Nasland and William Burnside) have been adapted out as well. The second replacement Cap, Jeffery Mace, does appear in _Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._ as Coulson's successor as the head of the agency once it's reinstated as an official agency.
    -   _Daredevil (2015)_:
        -   Ben Urich doesn't work for the Daily Bugle, as Sony had not yet made the deal to bring Spider-Man into the MCU when the show was in production. This also necessitated the creation of a new editor-in-chief named Mitchell Ellison, who functionally served as a replacement for J. Jonah Jameson.
        -   As mentioned in the _Age of Ultron_ section, the MCU could not use adamantium due to its association with the X-Men franchise. This meant that the material Professor Oyama used to reinforce Bullseye's skeleton had to be changed from adamantium to cogmium, a much more obscure fictional metal from the _Marvel Comics Presents_ anthology.
    -   The vast majority of the characters featured in the _Civil War (2006)_ comic don't appear in the movie adaptation, since the MCU has far fewer superheroes to pick from.
    -   _Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness_: The Illuminati make their debut in the film, and while traditional members Doctor Strange, Mister Fantastic, Professor X and Black Bolt all appear, Iron Man, Black Panther and Namor do not. Robert Downey Jr.'s retirement from the franchise in 2019 likely contributed to the omission of Iron Man, while Namor had still not yet been introduced in film of any form at the time the movie was made (Mister Fantastic and Professor X were also new introductions to the MCU, but would be known to general audiences from their own separate film continuities). Black Panther, meanwhile, was likely left out due to the tragic passing of Chadwick Boseman in 2020. In their place, _Multiverse of Madness_ used two side characters who had taken the place of major heroes in their Alternate Universe: Peggy Carter in Captain America's role, and Maria Rambeau as Captain Marvel.
    -   _Eternals_ omitted Zuras, the leader of the Eternals from the comics. He originally was going to appear, but was cut due to the film already having too many characters. Consequently, his role as the Prime Eternal was given to Ajak.
    -   The two _Guardians of the Galaxy_ movies are largely based on the 2008 relaunch of the comic, but several core members of the team have yet to show up. These include Drax's daughter Moondragon, as well as Phyla-Vell and Bug (the latter of whom could not be used due to legal issues).
    -   Carol Danvers and Scott Lang don't appear in _Jessica Jones (2015)_, and Carol's role as Jessica's blond best friend is taken by Trish Walker. Jessica's schoolgirl crush on Peter Parker was also cut, since there's a significant age gap between the two in the MCU, meaning there's no way they could have been classmates like in the comics (in addition to the above-mentioned rights issues meaning that Spider-Man wasn't part of the MCU when the show was initially written).
    -   _Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings_ omits Sir Denis Nayland Smith and Dr. Petrie from the original _Fu Manchu_ novels, who couldn’t be used anyway due to legal reasons. Fu himself is made into a Composite Character with the Mandarin, while his daughter Fah Lo Suee is renamed Xialing. Leiko Wu and Clive Reston are also absent.
-   In the _Mass Effect_ Expanded Universe, it's fairly common for Commander Shepard to be entirely absent, due to the very customizable nature of the character (in terms of gender, ethnicity, background, and major plot decisions). The writers tend to take it as an opportunity to flesh out the wider universe instead.
-   In the original _Noob_ webseries, an Evil All Along character was introduced under the context's equivalent of a fake identity that lasted a few episodes. The novel and comic first show the character under her real identity. The fake one is mentioned in the novel, but seemingly completely disappeared in the comic before briefly showing up in a comic-only subplot.
-   For the sake of simplicity, this is very common for characters who either originated in or have important backstory elements tied to Crisis Crossovers:
    -   In the comics, the Venom symbiote originated in _Secret Wars (1984)_, where Spider-Man bonded with it on Battleworld. Nearly every adaptation featuring Venom since then has excised this part of the character's origin, with the symbiote instead usually having been brought to Earth by a meteorite or human space exploration (_Spider-Man: The Animated Series_, _Spider-Man 3_, _The Spectacular Spider Man_, _Marvel's Spider-Man_, _Venom (2018)_), or created through human science (both the _Ultimate Spider-Man_ comics and show, _The Amazing Spider-Man 2_, _Spider-Man (PS4)_).
    -   Steel was originally one of the four replacement Supermen (the others being Superboy, Cyborg Superman and the Eradicator) who showed up on the scene after Doomsday killed Superman in _The Death of Superman_. Most adaptations usually ignore the other three replacements and even Doomsday, and instead either depict Steel as merely having been inspired by Superman (_Superman: The Animated Series_) or as a completely independent superhero with no connections to Superman whatsoever (the _Steel_ live-action movie). _Superman & Lois_, meanwhile, has Steel build his armor after his world is ravaged by an evil alternate reality version of Superman.
    -   Betsy Braddock, a.k.a. Psylocke, was originally a white Englishwoman before being given Magic Plastic Surgery (later retconned to be a "Freaky Friday" Flip) that made her look Asian during the _Acts of Vengeance_ crossover. Specifically, this was done so that she could serve the _Iron Man_ villain the Mandarin as his new enforcer, with Betsy even adopting the codename Lady Mandarin during this period. To date, no film or TV show based on the X-Men has included the Mandarin or his role in Betsy's backstory. In fact, adaptations featuring Psylocke (_X-Men: The Animated Series_, _X-Men: The Last Stand_, _Wolverine and the X-Men (2009)_, _X-Men: Apocalypse_) usually just present her as Asian from the beginning and don't even bring up that she used to be white.
-   In the original _X-Men_ comics, Professor Xavier was crippled by an alien named Lucifer. Starting with _X-Men: The Animated Series_, and going through _Ultimate X-Men_ and _X-Men: First Class_, Lucifer is replaced with Magneto, the latter two having it connected to their falling out.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   In _The Count of Monte Cristo_, protagonist Edmond Dantes is framed for treason by four men-Danglars, Fernand Mondego, Gaspard Caderousse and Gerard de Villefort. Caderousse is often left out of many adaptations due to his secondary role in the plot against Dantes (he drunkenly encourages Fernand and Danglars to do it and later says nothing to save Dantes even though he knows the truth) and his implied motive for hating Dantes (his jealous at Dantes's prosperity) is redundant as Danglars shares it.

    Music 

-   In _!HERO: The Rock Opera_, which is based on The Four Gospels, its version of Jesus' (Hero) other disciples are adapted out of the album's story, leaving us with only Jude (Judas Iscariot) and Petrov (Simon Peter).

    Pinball 

-   _Alien (2017)_: Ripley is entirely absent from the game, even though she becomes a prominent character in _Alien_ and is the undisputed protagonist of _Aliens_. This was due to licensing issues — Sigourney Weaver's likeness needed her approval, whereas the rest of the American actors were included with the license to _Alien_ itself.
-   _Apollo 13_ is completely devoid of Tom Hanks, the star of the film. The closest substitute is the astronaut on the backglass, whose face is covered by a One-Way Visor.
-   The Licensed Pinball Table for _Bram Stoker's Dracula_ omits Mina Murray and Jonathan Harker completely, as neither Winona Ryder nor Keanu Reeves would allow their likenesses to be used. Aftermarket plastics with their images based on prototypes are available, however.
-   _The Mandalorian_: While the majority of the original series' recurring cast appears in the game's artwork, Cara Dune is completely absent. This is presumably because she was written out of the show following her actress's Role-Ending Misdemeanor in early 2021.
-   Bally's _The Shadow_ does not list Alec Baldwin, the star of the film, in the game's credits. Tim Kitzrow voices him instead, and could very well be front and center on the backglass as well.
-   Sega's _Space Jam_ Pinball game is notable for completely omitting Lola Bunny.

    Radio 

-   The _Breath of Fire III_ Audio Adaptation drops entire arcs out of the Childhood Chapter, which led to characters such as Rei, Teepo, Palet and the entire Tournament Arc not featuring in there.
-   _Dimension X_:
    -   "Pebble in the Sky":
        -   Joseph Schwarz is removed from this adaptation of _Pebble in the Sky_. His role in causing Dr Arvardan and Pola Shekt to meet in the mall is given to her father, Dr Shekt. His role in forcing Balkis to be imprisoned by the Outsiders is accomplished by Arvardan's attack against a soldier. His role in stopping the virus from being spread to the Empire? Gone.
        -   The (unnamed) High Minister is removed from office in this adaptation of _Pebble in the Sky_. In his place is Balkis, given the title along with the power he already had.
        -   The Synapsifier, Dr Shekt's device, is removed from the story. Dr Shekt is now one of the scientists who worked directly on the virus, all Psychic Powers are removed from the story.
        -   Natter, the agent who observes Dr Arvardan on his flight to Chica and helps Schwartz escape the Radiation Fever soldiers, no longer appears in the story, to help cut down on the subplots.
    -   In H. Beam Piper's "Time and Time Again", the Hartleys have a German housekeeper named Mrs Stauber, who doesn't appear at all in the adaptation, episode thirty-nine of _Dimension X_.
-   The BBC's 2012 audio adaptation of _Through the Looking Glass_ omits Lily. So when Alice asks why she is being assigned the role of White Pawn, the Red Queen tells her to keep quiet.
-   The BBC's radio adaptation of _Tintin_ adventures _Destination Moon_ and _Explorers On The Moon_ omit Thomson and Thompson. Consequently, Jorgen is solely responsible for the oxygen being used up too fast on the rocket.
-   _The Wacky Musical Adventures of Ronald McDonald: Intergalactical Magical Radio_ is an Audio Adaptation of _The Wacky Adventures of Ronald McDonald_, but makes no mention of Sundae or the McNuggets and replaces Tika and Franklin with a different group of children. In contrast, the Fry Kids are featured in spite of the video series dropping them after the very first video "Scared Silly".
-   _X Minus One_: In episode thirty-seven, an adaptation of Isaac Asimov's "C-Chute":
    -   The original story included a sixth passenger, Ben Porter. Porter is a businessman who attempted to purchase alien vegetables, only a little older than Leblanc.
    -   The original story also included a map of Earth in the control room. It was part of the Central Theme, showing how homesick Mullen is. No mention of it is made in this adaptation, so Mullen and Stuart never talk about the cities they are from.

    Religion 

-   Yahwism is an extinct pagan religion which was practiced in the Levant thousands of years ago. It had a hierarchy of gods, with Top God Yahwe and his wife Asherah at the top, filling the standard sky father and mother goddess roles; a second tier of gods below them who filled the typical pagan god roles, i.e. War God, God of Thunder, etc.; and a third tier of minor deities. Most religious scholars believe that Yahwism evolved into early Judaism, with Yahwe becoming the Jewish/Christian/Islamic God, the minor deities becoming Biblical Angels and Asherah and the second tier being discarded as "false gods" worshipped by the Israelite's rival tribes.

    Theatre 

-   Shakespeare's _All's Well That Ends Well_ takes place during a shorter time frame than the short story from _The Decameron_ on which Shakespeare based his play. Therefore, the twin boys Helena gives birth to don't appear in the play, since the play ends before she can give birth.
-   The Screen-to-Stage Adaptation of _Anastasia_ leaves out Rasputin and Bartok, going for a story closer to reality.
-   The _Bleach Musical_ was adapted for stage from _Bleach_ but left out several important characters. The most important characters they left out were Orihime Inoue and Uryuu Ishida, both of them being _vital_ to later arcs.
-   _Camelot_:
    -   The Musical is an adaptation of _The Once and Future King_ and cuts several characters from the source. The most notable are Orkney siblings, Elaine, Galahad, and Pellinore's entire family.
    -   Morgan le Fey is absent from many modern productions.
-   _Charlie and the Chocolate Factory_:
    -   _The Golden Ticket_ (an opera) drops _both_ of Charlie's parents, Mr. Gloop, Mrs. Salt, Mrs. Beauregarde, and Mr. Teavee.
    -   The 2013 stage musical drops Mrs. Salt and Mrs. Beauregarde — both Veruca and Violet are rather clearly daddy's girls for the change — though the latter is mentioned in passing in Violet's introductory song.
-   The Musical version of _Chicago_ eliminated the role of Jake, a reporter who served as the Audience Surrogate.
-   _Super Danganronpa 2: The Stage_ omits the _Twilight Syndrome Murder Case_ video game and its characters, _The Wizard of Monomi_ film (both of which were motives in their respective chapters), Mechamaru (Nekomaru is Killed Off for Real after the 3rd class trial), the Sparkling Justice subplot from chapter 2, and finally, Makoto, Kyoko and Byakuya in the Last Class Trial.
-   _Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School The Stage_ eliminates the cast of _Danganronpa 2_ from the plot. Their Big Damn Heroes moment is given to Kyoko, Daisaku, Koichi and Sosuke, all of whom were resucitated from their poisoned states by Aoi with Seiko's antidote (only Kyoko was saved in the anime, by Mikan).
-   In _Death Note: The Musical_, which compresses the entire series into a two-hour show, several characters from the first arc, such as Watari, Matsuda and Naomi Misora, are not present. The entirety of the second arc is also omitted and both Light and L die at the same time.
-   _The Desert Song_: Benny and Susan are absent from all movie versions except the 1929 one (in which Benny is played as Ambiguously Gay).
-   _Dirk_, the stage adaptation of _Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency_, drops the Monk and his horse, partly to simplify the timeline of events (in the novel, the Monk spends most of the story off on his own doing things that only become significant in retrospect) and partly because incorporating a live horse was beyond the resources of the theatre that originally staged it.
-   In the 1920s _Dracula_ stage adaptation, Lucy's life, death, undeath, and staking all happen offstage and get reported second-hand, so the woman herself never appears. Two of her suitors, Arthur and Quincy, are dropped entirely, while Seward appears in his capacity as head of the asylum but loses his romantic history. Dracula's brides are also dropped, since the play confines all the action to England and Dracula's castle never appears.
-   Julieta, Agustin, Camilo, and Antonio are all absent from the Disney On Ice adaptation of _Encanto_.
-   Noah Smith's stage version of _The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde_ omits Sir Danvers Carew, the gentleman whose murder makes Hyde publicly notorious in the novel. His death is given to Enfield, a minor character in the novel who is given a more significant role in the play.
-   In _Falstaff_, the Verdi opera based on _The Merry Wives of Windsor_, Justice Shallow, Slender, Sir Hugh Evans and Master Page are all eliminated, as is Nym, who was little more than a Continuity Cameo in Shakespeare's play.
-   In the musical version of _Frozen (2018)_, Marshmallow, the rock trolls, and the wolves are all omitted. For Marshmallow and the wolves, the musical goes for more psychological drama, and less physical, and therefore removed their receptive set pieces and, by extension, their characters. The trolls, meanwhile, have been replaced by a group of creatures known as the hidden folk, whom are drawn from Scandinavian folklore. The role of the hidden folk is more mystical when compared to the rock trolls.
-   There were originally six greasers in _Grease_, but the number was shortened to five when the show was tweaked for Broadway audiences. The principal of Rydell High and a few other characters were also cut. A remake of this version (titled _The Original Grease_) was produced in 2011 and re-instated some of the scrapped characters, with the exception of the principal.
-   _Hamilton_:
    -   Several of Alexander's various relatives got cut. He had a brother named James who's not so much as mentioned. They got separated as children and James didn't follow him to America so he wasn't a big part of his life. One of his close friends, Edwards Stevens, is speculated to have been his half brother but neither he nor his (potentially their) father Thomas made the cut.
    -   His wife, Elizabeth, was one of fifteen children despite only two sisters, Angelica and Peggy, being in the show. His mother in law was actually pregnant with the youngest when he and Eliza got married. Angelica even claims her father has no sons, despite that not being true in real life.
    -   Alex and Eliza had eight children but only the oldest Philip is named. There are references to the other kids but it's never stated how many of them there are.
-   _Hello, Dolly!_ dropped several supporting characters from _The Matchmaker_, including a couple more of Vandergelder's employees, a deaf and tactless maid and a drunken clerk.
-   In the theatrical adaptation of _Jingle Bells, Batman Smells, P.S.: So Does May_ from the _Junie B. Jones_ books, Junie B.'s little brother Ollie is mentioned, but not actually seen. Likely true for the productions of other titles from the series as well. This is most likely because all of the children are played by real kids and it would be more trouble than it's worth for a production of this type to try to cast a kid that young.
-   _Land of Oz_:
    -   The original 1902 stage version of _The Wonderful Wizard of Oz_ removes the Wicked Witch of the West and Toto (who was replaced with a cow named Imogene).
    -   _The Wiz_ left out the Wicked Witch of the West's bees and wolves, and everyone Dorothy and her friends encountered on their way to Glinda's palace (Glinda saves Dorothy the trouble of walking there by meeting her in the Emerald City).
-   _Les Misérables_:
    -   With The Thenardiers and their children, the musical reduces the family to just three: the parents and Eponine. Gavroche is present but never explicitly said to be a Thenardier.
    -   Fantine's friends and lover pre-factory worker days are completely absent in the musical; the lover only gets a mention during "I Dreamed a Dream" to explain why Fantine has a child.
    -   M. Gillenormand was cut from the musical.
-   The Screen-to-Stage Adaptation of _The Little Mermaid_ adapts out Ursula's alter ego Vanessa, replacing her scene with an Idol Singer contest in which Eric attempts to identify the princess who saved him. In turn, the revised production drops Carlotta and gives her lines to Grimsby.
-   In _Little Shop of Horrors_ Seymour is an orphan, when in the original film his mother was a major character.
-   The original Stratford production of _Matilda_ included a classmate named Reginald, but he was cut from subsequent productions in order for there to be an even number of desks.
-   The stage adaptation of _Mort_ skips the Librarian due to the difficulty the original production had getting an orangutan costume. It also replaces Rincewind with a wizard called Stibbons (before Ponder appeared in the books) so they could use a "generic" wizard costume rather than Rinso's canonical outfit.
-   The first of the _Naruto Live Spectacle_ theater productions condenses the entirety of part one of the manga into a single two-hour show, meaning _lots_ of characters from the first half, both supporting and villainous, are absent. The second omits the Akatsuki members Sasori, Hidan and Kakuzu, though they still are mentioned in passing.
-   _The Nutcracker_: In the original book, _The Nutcracker and the Mouse King_, there are three Stahlbaum children: Louise, Fritz, and the little heroine, Marie. Most productions of the ballet omit Louise, leaving only Marie (or Clara, as she's often renamed) and Fritz.
-   In the musical version of _Oliver Twist_, _Oliver!_, Monks and the Maylies are omitted.
-   In _Orfeo ed Euridice_, unusually for an adaptation of the Orpheus myth, Hades and Persephone don't feature at all, with Cupid relating the conditions to Orpheus before the journey begins and Orpheus encountering the Furies and Cerberus in in the Underworld.
-   In order to concentrate on the main love triangle, the musical version of _The Phantom of the Opera_ left out several side characters, most notably Raoul's older brother Philippe and the mysterious Persian—the latter's function as Raoul's guide into the Phantom's realm was assumed by Mme. Giry.
-   Ralph Vaughan Williams's adaptation of _The Pilgrim's Progress_ leaves out Faithful and brings the protagonist to Vanity Fair by himself.
-   _Pinocchio: The Musical_ streamlines the plot removing a third of the events from the original book. As a result a lot of characters (the farmer that takes Pinocchio as a replacement guard dog, the weasels, the giant snake, the Green Fisherman, the old snail who serves as the Blue Fairy's housekeeper...) are removed.
-   The Dubai version of _Pokémon Live!_ cut out Professor Oak and Delia Ketchum. This meant that a large portion of the plot, which involved Delia, was scrapped as well.
-   When _The Producers_ was adapted into a stage musical of the same name, Lorenzo St. DuBois, a hippie nicknamed LSD, was given this treatment. In the original film, he walks into the _Springtime for Hitler_ auditions by mistake and is chosen to play Hitler by virtue of his utter lack of talent. LSD's So Bad, It's Good performance as Hitler plays a large role in the play's unintentional and unwanted success. In the musical, Franz Liebkind is chosen to play Hitler, but Roger De Bris is the one to perform the role onstage after Franz breaks his leg.
-   Gounod's opera _Roméo et Juliette_ omits Lady Capulet, Lord and Lady Montague, Balthasar, Peter, Sampson, and various other minor characters, as well as adding a troublemaking Montague page named Stéphano.
-   The Musical of _Romy and Michele's High School Reunion_ drops the "cowboy" classmate that Heather makes out with near the end of the film, and has Sandy reunite with her instead of hooking up with Michele.
-   For practical reasons, Luna, Artemis, and Diana are omitted from most of the _Sailor Moon_ musicals. Luna and Artemis appeared in the first one where they were played by human actors in cat costumes, but were Brother Chucked after that. Diana never appeared in the musicals.
-   _Shrek: The Musical_:
    -   In the UK version, The Magic Mirror is absent. Instead, Lord Farquaad gets the information he needs from The Gingerbread Man. A couple of fairy tale characters were also left out and replaced with characters that would be more recognisable to the UK audience.
    -   The Magic Mirror also tends to be cut when it is performed in community theaters, because the Magic Mirror uses motion capture and most theaters can't afford that. Gingy, like above, gives the information.
-   _Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark_, a musical loosely based on the first two films of the _Spider-Man Trilogy_ that also used characters from the comics that never appeared in said film series, omits Peter Parker's friend Harry Osborn, as Norman Osborn and his wife Emily are apparently childless.
-   The operatic version of _Street Scene_, while preserving much of the Narrative Filigree of the original play, does eliminate the secondary characters of Agnes Cushing and Alice Simpson. Miss Cushing's excited gossip about seeing Mrs. Maurrant and Sankey standing close together in the entrance to a warehouse was transferred to Mrs. Olsen.
-   In _Stupid F—ing Bird_, a modern take on _The Seagull_, Mash(a)'s parents and Sor(i)n's estate workers were deleted, while Sorin and Dr. Dorn were composited into Dr. Sorn.
-   _Toy Story: The Musical_: Certain toys were adapted out from the theater version. Hannah, Sid's sister, is also not present in the theater version.
-   The National Theatre's 2014 production of _Treasure Island_ omits several of the crewmembers mentioned in the novel, with one notable omission being the first mate, Mr Arrow.
-   _Wicked_: Liir (Elphaba's son with Fiyero), Sarima, Nor (and the rest of the family), Nanny, and Yackle (and the rest of the nuns), as well as less important characters like Sir Chuffrey (Glinda's husband) and Shell (Elphaba's brother), were removed in the musical. The play also removes the Unnamed God and Lurline elements of the book, leading to a huge change in Nessarose's characterization.
-   The 2019 Seattle ACT Theatre production of _Romeo and Juliet_ dropped Lady Montague and Balthazar, assigning the latter's roles to Benvolio.
-   _Last Days of the Tsars_ omits two of the Romanov daughters, Tatiana and Maria, as well as Alexandra's lady-in-waiting, Anna Demidova, the latter being replaced by the fictional Ninja Maid Elizaveta.
-   _Walking with Dinosaurs - The Arena Spectacular_ removes about three-quarters of the original series' cast, giving each segment just two or three species, usually due to cost and practicality. The entire second and fifth episodes are omitted, the first episode is cut down to just _Plateosaurus_ and _Liliensternus_ (which replaces the _Coelophysis_), the fourth episode is cut down to just _Ornithocheirus_ and _Utahraptor_, while _Brachiosaurus_ replaces _Diplodocus_ as the protagonist of the second segment (probably because _Diplodocus_ is longer than the arena itself).

    Toys 

-   _Flick-to-Stick Bungees_: The American Series 1 distributed by Jazwares borrows designs from _Bionic Bungees_, the European Series 2, and uses most of them... with the sole exception of the Ukeles clan, for some reason.

    Visual Novels 

-   The "Ultimate Talent Plan" mode of _Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony_ leaves out the Hope's Peak Saga's prequel and concluding casts, keeping it at only the visual novel installments. (There _is_ an unlockable game board in which the _Danganronpa 3_ characters appear, but only as sprites with no meaningful interactions with the other characters.) Justified for the _3_ cast, as it'd be hard to do the same friendships and Ship Tease present in the mode when they're the only adults in a group of teens. The mode also omits any mention of the spinoffs.
-   _A Little Lily Princess_: In the source material, Miss Minchin has a nicer, but less assertive younger sister named Amelia who is nowhere to be seen in the game. For instance, the scene in which Becky gifts Sara a pincushion with someone else's discarded brithday card attached to it is from the novel, but the card is initially thrown away by the younger Minchin sister, not the older one, who is the only one kept in the game.

    Webcomics 

-   In _Avengers… Adventure!!!_, the second half of The Incredible Hulk (this being a screencap Campaign Comic of the Marvel Cinematic Universe) ends up cut. In-universe, it's because Mark (Hulk's player) has concerns about the build. Out-of-universe, it's because the author had trouble finding clean enough screen caps.
-   _The 13th Ghost of Scooby-Doo_ is based on _The 13 Ghosts of Scooby-Doo_, borrowing some elements from _Scooby-Doo! and the Curse of the 13th Ghost_ and serving as an alternate conclusion to the story. One of the many ways the fan comic differs from _Curse of the 13th Ghost_ is that Mortifer Quinch is left out, his role as an associate of Vincent Van Ghoul who originally helped him capture the 13 ghosts instead being split between Boris Kreepoff (an old friend of Vincent from the original cartoon's episode "Horror-Scope Scoob") and Miss Grimwood.
-   In _The Glass Scientists_, Utterson is reduced to a mere Easter Egg, as according to the author, an Audience Surrogate of a gothic horror would not make a good character, and his only function has been taken over by far more lively Jasper.
-   _Megan Kearney's Beauty and the Beast_: Beauty has no brothers in this version, but Virtue is married, like Beauty's sisters in Villeneuve's book. The magic mirror was replaced by the fountain, which also is the counterpart of the evil fairy from the original story.
-   The _Team Fortress 2_ webcomics will adapt out whichever team isn't the issues' focus (usually the BLU team) to avoid the Inexplicably Identical Individuals found in the games and "Meet the Team" videos. _The Naked and the Dead_ goes further and makes it explicit that there was only one team all along: Team Fortress.

    Web Original 

-   In the _Final Fantasy Relay_, the Sealed Cave from _Final Fantasy IV_ is skipped over. Instead, Cecil has the 8th Crystal due to a glitch, and when he walks in Kain betrays him as he does in the game.
-   _Gaming All-Stars Remastered_
    -   G-Man, one of the primary antagonists in the _The Ultimate Crossover_, and a staple of Garry’s Mod animation, is nowhere to be found and replaced with Colonel Radec.
    -   Wart and King K. Rool, whose introductory cutscene is completely cut out as well. The former is replaced with Smithy, which makes more sense considering he’s the one in charge of the Axem Rangers, not Wart, while the latter makes an appearance in _Gaming All Stars 2_ as Kaptain K. Rool.
    -   Globox, Mumbo Jumbo, Ripto and Gulp all vanish due to their cutscene being removed. GASGM has confirmed the reason for this is because he made that scene last-minute, and felt it should be replaced with original content by the time they were wrapping up production on the Remastered series.
-   Certain minor/recurring characters from series such as _Caillou_ and _Dora the Explorer_ in GoAnimate videos don't appear mainly due to fear of being mistaken for an unironic fan of said series due to knowing a character's existence, or due to said characters being difficult to create in GoAnimate.
-   Parodied in the Honest Trailer for _Dragon Ball Evolution_, in which Team Four Star guest-starred as the characters they play in _Dragon Ball Abridged_. Since it adapts Goku's early adventures, Vegeta was never supposed to appear in the film, yet he drops in to complain about that anyway. He quickly retracts his complaint when he sees what Yamcha looks like in it.
-   JoJo's Copyright-Free Adventures: Poco is not present in part 1, which is lampshaded multiple times.
-   The _McBusters_ trilogy serves as a Whole-Plot Reference to _Ghostbusters (1984)_ and _Ghostbusters II_ using the McDonaldland characters, but lacks representations of Gozer, Dana Barrett and Oscar. On the side of McDonald's mascots, no acknowledgement is made of Captain Crook, Officer Big Mac, Iam Hungry, Uncle O'Grimacey, the Professor or CosMc.
-   _Pokémon Legends Neo: Ghetsis_: The Pokémon that have trading as their sole evolution requirement don't exist in Neo-Kanto because the cataclysm forty years prior cut the setting off from the parallel worlds they used to trade Pokémon to for evolution. While species that needed to be traded with an item can now evolve solely with the item, the ones that evolved through trading alone have alternate evolutions they get through leveling up.
-   _Stopmotion Chess_: The Distant Prologue what explains the black and white armies fought each other for seven years is removed in the remixed version so the two armies start to just attack each other for no reason.
-   _Tactical Cupcakes_: Boyfriend and Girlfriend don't appear in the main series of videos, which instead focus on TC herself along with the various characters she meets.
-   The Shea Fontana iteration of _DC Super Hero Girls_ omits a few DC characters.
    -   Etrigan is shown to be a member of the Super Hero High faculty in the _Hits and Myths_ tie-in graphic novel, but his origin depicts him as an evil demon being made good by Merlin without bonding him to Jason Blood, who isn't indicated to exist.
    -   The only Doom Patrol\-affiliated characters to appear are Beast Boy and Elasti-Girl. In regards to the rest of the classic roster, it is likely Robotman, Negative Man and the Chief were left out because the circumstances of the former two's origins and the last character's status of being a sociopathic control freak who created the Doom Patrol in the first place makes it impossible to market the characters towards the toyline's target demographic of young girls.
    -   The only Metal Men ever shown are Lead, Iron and Platinum, the first two being scrapped before ever reaching the potential their creator Dr. Magnus hoped for and no acknowledgment whatsoever being made of Mercury, Gold, Tin, Nameless or Copper.
    -   Hal Jordan and Jessica Cruz are the sole human representations of the Green Lantern Corps, with no sign whatsoever that Guy Gardner, John Stewart, Kyle Rayner and Simon Baz exist in this continuity. In addition, while most of the other colors of the emotional spectrum are indicated to exist when Star Sapphire's ring is broken and various students and faculty of Super Hero High are infected with different shades of the emotional spectrum in "Mood Ring", Sinestro is the only shown Yellow Lantern, Bleez is the only Red Lantern to appear, no Lanterns affiliated with the Indigo Tribe or Orange Lantern Corps appear and the Blue Lantern Corps isn't even acknowledged.
    -   Jessica Cruz in the comics inherited the ring of Hal Jordan's Crime Syndicate counterpart Power Ring before officially joining the Green Lantern Corps at the end of the _Darkseid War_ storyline. This continuity cuts out the middleman and has her gain a Green Lantern ring right away without any involvement from the Crime Syndicate's Green Lantern equivalent.
    -   No characters related to _New Gods_ appear besides Granny Goodness, Lashina, Artemiz, Mad Harriet, Stompa, Speed Queen, Big Barda and Darkseid. It's particularly glaring that Big Barda's love interest Mister Miracle never shows up, as the franchise does acknowledge Wonder Woman, Carol Ferris and Mera's respective relationships with Steve Trevor, Hal Jordan and Aquaman.

___