This entry is trivia, which is cool and all, but not a trope. On a work, it goes on the Trivia tab.

_"David Lynch refuses to have his name attached to certain cuts of the film, because many of the final decisions were taken completely out of his hands and he was so thoroughly bummed with how they turned out that he didn't want to be associated with them. Judging by his filmography, if Lynch had gotten his way,_ Dune _would've been utterly indecipherable as opposed to merely confusing."_

Alan Smithee (his first name was sometimes also spelled Allen) was one of Hollywood's longest-working and most diverse filmmakers.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  From the start of his career in 1969 to his retirement in 2000, he directed dozens of films in practically every genre you can think of, as well as episodic television and even music videos. Though his work was of highly-variable quality, with some films suffering outright backlash, he continued, undaunted, with a truly admirable rate of productivity.

It helps that he didn't actually exist.

See, in the movie industry of the past, if a director's movie fell victim to Executive Meddling and bad acting to the point where they were no longer proud of it, he could request to have his name taken off it, and it would then be credited to "Alan Smithee".

There were, of course, rules about the use of the name - for instance, the studio would have to admit that they had wrested the film from the director's control. Directors using the alias were also required to keep their reason for disavowing the film a secret.

Before 2000, Smithee was the only alias Directors Guild members were permitted to use. This was changed because of the comedy film _An Alan Smithee Film: Burn Hollywood Burn_, which revolves around a director who wants his name removed from his film, but is stymied because his name is actually Alan Smithee. Bad press surrounding the film combined with director Arthur Hiller wanting _his_ name removed due to studio interference created an odd metatextual tangle where, under DGA rules, _An Alan Smithee Film_ had to be credited to Alan Smithee, causing the name to be retired. Since then, aliases are selected on a case-by-case basis. However, the popularity of the name is such that Smithee's IMDb page has several post-2000 entries (none of which are presumably under DGA jurisdiction).

Closely related to Uncredited Role.

Coincidentally, "Alan Smithee" is also an anagram of "The Alias Men". Compare this to the use of the name "Nicolas Bourbaki" in mathematics.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   This is a common practice for union voice actors to use a pseudonym when doing non-union voice work, not just dealing with hentai or fanservice series. This is the main reason why Steve Blum used the "David Lucas" pseudonym. Another practice common in video games is not even listing the English dub credits _at all_.
-   Dan Green is well known for doing voices in children's anime, so whenever he lends his voice talent to a hentai he uses the pseudonym (Tom Wilson). This is standard practice for voice actors when doing NSFW work, made by a writers' union declaration. In this case it's a pseudonym _of_ a pseudonym, as his real name is actually James Snyder.
-   Muppeteer Tyler Bunch uses the pseudonym H.D. Quinn whenever he lends voice talent to an anime dub or cartoon.
-   As explained in this rather comprehensive breakdown of _Eiken_<sup>*&nbsp;</sup> , its creator Seiji Matsuyama, and Matsuyama's impact on Japanese legislation (yes, really), there are currently (as of 2018<sup>*&nbsp;</sup> ) only two recorded instances of the actual Alan Smithee pseudonym being used in the credits of an anime production. The first was the _Eiken_ OVA, where the director of the second episode was credited as "Aransumi" (アランスミ), a diminutive of the pseudonym (アラン・スミシー, _Aran Sumishii_). The second, which garnered much more attention from online anime and manga communities, was the 2018 _Baki the Grappler_ ONA for Netflix, this time credited to the director of the third episode.
-   Rough Draft Studios uses the name "Orange" when doing work for anime series due to issues with the Korean unit's stock holders.
-   Episode 6 of _My Sister, My Writer_, an anime rife with animation errors, has a credit for Shōjiki Komata; this isn't a real person's name, and it actually translates as either "Honestly, I'm Screwed" or "We're in serious trouble".
-   In _Kaguya-sama: Love Is War_, Ai Hayasaka doesn't want her classmates knowing she's Kaguya's maid, so she uses the pseudonym Haysaca A. Smithee if she has to meet one of them in uniform. It's not quite as dumb as it looks — the Haysaca part looks closer in English than it really is, and why would Japanese schoolkids know about Alan Smithee? — but it's still hard to believe she fools the genius Shirogane this way.
-   Episode 3 of _Kanamemo_ features a Shout-Out to the name when Kana and Mika go subscriber hunting. One of the potential customers they visit has the name "Aran Smythee".
-   The members of Team Four Star were credited under various pseudonyms that were all civilian identities of The Flash when Christopher Sabat snuck them into the English dub of _Dragon Ball Z Kai_ as the voice actors for the Cell Games Reenactment. Unfortunately, Toei saw through the ruse and greylisted TFS from doing voice acting roles for not just _Dragon Ball_, but many other properties.
-   The notorious _Chargeman Ken!_ doesn't directly credit any of the voice actors involved, listing them only as belonging to "the Kindaiza Theatrical Company." Evidently, none of them wanted to be associated with one of the most So Bad, It's Good anime ever created.

    Audio Plays 

-   Referenced in the _Big Finish Doctor Who_ mini-episode "My Own Private Mozart": the unluckily-immortal Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart has lived for so long and become so infamous for uninspired rubbish that modern audiences assume that it can't all have been made by the same person, instead opting to believe that his name is just an alias used by composers who don't want to admit to making something _really_ bad.

    Comic Books 

-   "Many Hands" and variants thereof (from the idiom "Many hands make little work") is a similar alias used in the comic book industry, for issues whose art had to be rushed by multiple artists and who do not want their name associated with the (usually sloppy) work. Comics credited to this alias include:
    -   For _Sonic the Hedgehog (Archie Comics)_, the stories "Cry of the Wolf" and "Naugus Games" were credited to "Many Hands"; these stories are usually considered to have the worst art in the series, with the later having four pages of complete darkness except for Sonic's eyes and Sonic's six-page fight with Naugus being completely covered by snow.
    -   _The Transformers (Marvel)_ story "DIS-Integrated Circuits!" has the inker credited as "M. Hands".
-   The incredibly '90s _X-Men_ one-shot _Team X 2000_ gave a writer credit to "A Smithee".
-   Referenced in the _Batman_ miniseries _Harley and Ivy_; when Harley hijacks the film being made about the pair, the director's name is listed as _Alice_ Smithee.
-   Karl Bollers, a former writer for _Sonic the Hedgehog (Archie Comics)_, would sometimes write under the name "Benny Lee", usually with stories that were lighter in tone that his usual fare.
-   Executive Meddling led Steve Englehart to insist on being credited by the pseudonym "John Harkness" in protest on several comic books, most notably for the seven final issues of his run on _Fantastic Four_.
-   The final issue of the Threeboot _Legion of Super-Heroes_, which rapidly tied up all the plot threads before _Final Crisis_ gave us the original Legion again, was apparently written by "Justin Thyme". Mr Thyme has also been an artist for Marvel (penciller on the _Excalibur Weird War III_ graphic novel and colorist on _Black Panther_ Vol 3 #44) and done some work for CrossGen.
-   The writer of the short-lived _X-Men_ spin-off _The Brotherhood_ was listed as "Writer X". Most fans believe the writer was either Howard Mackie or Devin Grayson. 17 years later, Mackie confirmed in an interview that he was Writer X.
-   The final run of _Strontium Dog_ Spin-Off _Strontium Dogs_ was credited to an "Alan Smithee" after writer Peter Hogan was fired.
-   21st-century reissues of Alan Moore's work on _Miracleman_ credit him as "The Original Writer" because he asked for his name to be removed. Not because he no longer likes the work, but because he now believes that original _Marvelman_ writer Mick Anglo was cheated out of his rights.
-   The "Vid Kid" strip in the British comic _Buster_ was credited to "Sue Denim". Initially, this was because the artist, Jack Edward Oliver, drew it very hurriedly in between working on his other _Buster_ strips and disliked the simplistic art style that resulted, but he kept with it out of habit even after he was able to improve the artwork in the following years.
-   Mark Waid asked for his name to be removed from an issue of _Captain America_ saying that after the editors had finished with it, it was no longer the comic he had written. His name was not replaced with a fictional writer credit, and they didn't even bother taking it off the cover.
-   D. G. Chichester still had five issues left in his _Daredevil_ contract when he found out he was going to be fired. He wrote those issues, #338-342, under the byline Alan Smithee in protest. (A few years later, he returned under his own name to write #380, the last issue before the Marvel Knights relaunch.)
-   In the '90s version of DC Comics' _Who's Who_, Elasti-Girl's entry has Alan Smithee credited as one of the artists<small>◊</small> (probably the inker).
-   J. Michael Straczynski threatened to have his name removed from the writer credit on _One More Day_, citing dissatisfaction with Editor-in-Chief Joe Quesada's extensive Executive Meddling (Quesada was outright credited as a co-writer on the finished version of the story-line) and knowing how reviled the story would be. He was inevitably more or less forced to by Marvel under threat of legal action.
-   Letterer Bill Spicer had his name replaced on the credits of _Scooby-Doo_ #9 (Marvel run) with Mordecai Richler, mainly because he was a fan of his books.

    Fan Works 

-   Archive of Our Own has an orphaning system for authors who wish to no longer associate themselves with works they wrote but don't want to delete them. Authors lose control over a work once they orphan them and all orphaned works are relabeled as being written by "orphan\_account". While this can be done with completed stories, most orphan\_account stories are Orphaned Series.

    Film — The Trope Namer 

-   Smithee "debuted" with the 1969 film _Death of a Gunfighter_. After a year of work and arguing — and about 25 days of shooting — star Richard Widmark arranged to have director Robert Totten replaced by Don Siegel. Siegel shot the final two weeks or so, but because he didn't shoot half the movie (and didn't personally like what _had_ been shot), he didn't want his name used as director of the movie. Totten, not happy with how things went, also refused to take credit. And the DGA agreed that the film didn't really represent _either_ director's vision. The first suggestion for the name of the fictitious director was Al Smith, but since the DGA already had a director with that name, Allen Smithee was suggested instead.  
    Unlike most "Smithee" films, while the production of _Death of a Gunfighter_ was troubled, the finished on-screen work was actually reasonably good. When it was released, _The New York Times_ and Roger Ebert both praised Smithee's directorial work, though Ebert forthrightly admitted that Allen Smithee was "a name I'm not familiar with". Eventually, "Alan" replaced "Allen" as the standard form of Smithee's name.
-   As noted in the trope description, the Alan Smithee name was officially retired after 1998's _An Alan Smithee Film: Burn Hollywood Burn_. The movie itself was a parody of "Alan Smithee" as a pseudonym, where the titular movie director who wants his name out of the fictional movie _Trio_, played by Eric Idle, is actually named Alan Smithee, so he resorts to stealing the only copy of the film and threatening to destroy it. Veteran director Arthur Hiller (of _Love Story_ and more) was unhappy with the film's script and asked to have his name taken off the credits — and sure enough, he got credited as _Alan Smithee_, which caused the Directors' Guild to discontinue the practice.  
    Hiller spent over a decade without directing anything due to the movie's awful critical reception and box office gross. It was also strike three for screenwriter Joe Eszterhas after _Showgirls_ and _Jade_ in 1995, and was one of many busts that convinced The Walt Disney Company to shut down the Hollywood Pictures label (which released _Burn Hollywood Burn_). Its greatest legacy is as part of Roger Ebert's Most Hated film list and the winner of five Golden Raspberry Awards, including Worst Picture of 1998.
-   While _Burn Hollywood Burn_ discontinued the use of the name, the _real_ last director to use it was Kiefer Sutherland, for 1999's _Woman Wanted_.

___

-   Alan Moore hates all movie adaptations of his work, and has requested to be called "Alan Smithee" for anything based on his work — except for Zack Snyder's _Watchmen_, where Moore was simply uncredited.
    -   _MAD_ lampshaded this in its _Watchmen_ parody, by having a caricature of Moore introduce himself in the opening splash as Alan "Smithee" Moore.
-   Rick Rosenthal didn't want his name on _The Birds II: Land's End_, which made Alan Smithee the only director with the guts to try to fill the shoes of Alfred Hitchcock.
-   David Lynch took his name off the extended cut of _Dune (1984)_, which was not only directed by Alan Smithee but also written by Judas Booth.
-   The 1989 sci-fi film _Gunhed_, directed by Masato Harada, was instead credited to Alan Smithee for its English dub.
-   _Hellraiser: Bloodline_ was disowned by director Kevin Yagher after Executive Meddling cut chunks from the film.
-   _Leap!: Rise of the Beast_ was co-produced by Alan Smithee over _eleven years_ after his retirement.
-   The 1986 action movie _Let's Get Harry_ was credited to Smithee after the studio made a post-production decision to expand the character of Harry from a Hostage MacGuffin who only appears briefly (giving the film a Secondary Character Title) to one of the main roles, because he was played by Mark Harmon, then at the height of his sex symbol phase. Stuart Rosenberg, the director, protested, Harmon's new scenes were done without him, and Rosenberg had his name taken off the film.
-   _Student Bodies_ director Mickey Rose kept his name on the credits, but the movie was _produced_ by Alan Smithee ("replacing" Michael Ritchie.)
-   As a result of the infamous and tragic Hellish Copter incident on the set of _Twilight Zone: The Movie_, second assistant director Andy House had his name removed from the credits and replaced with the pseudonym Alan Smithee.

    Film — Other Examples 

## Individual creators

-   David Anspaugh apparently doesn't like his films to be edited for TV. The TV version of _Rudy_ is credited to Smithee, while "Jack Nemo" gets the director credit for the edited version of _Hoosiers_.
-   Nathan Juran was not satisfied with his work on the B movies _The Brain from Planet Arous_ and _Attack of the 50-Foot Woman_, so he asked to be credited under his middle name Hertz.
-   Inverted by Takeshi Kimura of _Destroy All Monsters_ fame: after a Creator Breakdown, Kimura wrote all his scripts (_Godzilla_ or otherwise) under his real name Kaoru Mabuchi. They were noticeably less-well-written than his pre-Mabuchi screenplays.

## Specific movies

-   _Ace Eli and Rodger of the Skies_, in addition to spending some time on The Shelf of Movie Languishment, was reedited by 20th Century Fox before finally being released in 1973 (and bombing) - director John Erman, screenwriter Claudia Salter and producers Robert Fryer and James Cresson all took their names off it. The director became Bill Sampson, the writer became Chips Rosen, and the producers became Boris Wilson, which led to a reviewer sarcastically cracking that the person credited with the story kept his real name on it. Said story provider, Steven Spielberg, pretty much disowned the thing.
-   Attempted by Tony Kaye for _American History X_, which was allegedly re-edited by Edward Norton so he had more screen time. Kaye, outraged, wanted to be credited as "Humpty Dumpty" instead of "Alan Smithee", which was flatly rejected. This lead to a war of words culminating in a $200-million-plus lawsuit between Kaye and New Line, and probably costing Edward Norton an Oscar.
-   Soviet example: _Among Grey Stones_ was recut by Soviet censors so hard that outraged director Kira Muratova demanded to remove her name from the credits. The film instead credits "Ivan Sidorov" as the director.
-   One of Peppy's film posters in _The Artist_ gives a director's credit to Alan Smithee.
-   _Brenda Starr_ was partially rewritten by Delia Ephron, who chose to be credited as Jenny Wolkind. Tellingly, it's not mentioned on her website.
-   Ti West, who went on to create a number of Cult Classic modern horror films like _The House of the Devil_ and _The Innkeepers_, wrote and directed _Cabin Fever 2: Spring Fever_. He was so ashamed of the final result, particularly the amount of reshoots and editing done by the producers, that he requested to use the name, but since he was not a member of the Directors Guild of America, his request was denied. To this day, West still has no kind words for it it, viewing it more as a product of Lionsgate and the producers than himself.
-   _City Heat_ was originally going to be directed by Blake Edwards, who wrote the original script—but he was fired (Richard Benjamin took over) and the script rewritten by Joseph C. Stinson; Edwards still has story and co-screenplay credit under the pseudonym "Sam O. Brown" (think about the initials).
-   _Epic Movie_ has an interesting variant with an entire _film distributor_. Although the film was released by 20th Century Fox, neither their name or logo appears on the marketing (aside from a very early poster) or even the movie itself, giving sole credit to producer Regency Enterprises. Some have speculated this may have been because of the film's incredibly toxic reception from critics, although (as is typical with Seltzer and Friedberg's movies) it made a lot of money. This wasn't done with their other films released by Fox.
-   John Alan Schwartz used _two_ pseudonyms for his work on the _Faces of Death_ series, crediting himself as "Conan le Cilaire" for his directing work, and "Alan Black" for his writing credits. This was in partly due to him working as a network television writer at the same time, but also to avoid being targeted by Moral Guardians.
-   An interesting case with _Friday the 13th Part VII: The New Blood_. As the WGA was currently on strike, a scab writer was brought in after original writer Daryl Haney got the boot. Credited as Manuel Fidello to avoid getting a swift expulsion from the Guild. Their actual identity remains a mystery to this day.
-   Spoofed in _The First Nudie Musical_, where the Film Within a Film is directed by an incompetent nitwit named John Smithee.
-   The "Z.X. Jones" credited with the script for the Raquel Welch Western _Hannie Caulder_ covers the film's director Burt Kennedy and David Haft.
-   1987's _The Hidden_ was written by Jim Kouf (_Stakeout_, _Grimm_) under the name of Bob Hunt.
-   Russell Mulcahy was threatened with a lawsuit if he attempted to petition the DGA to remove his credit from the _Highlander II: The Quickening_.
-   During production of _Jetsons: The Movie_ , Janet Waldo's dialogue for Judy Jetson was re-recorded by singer Tiffany after Waldo had recorded all her dialogue, as executives wanted more people to see the movie. Andrea Romano, one of the voice directors, was so against the decision that she asked to have her name removed from the end credits (though this only applies to the theatrical version, since she was still credited on the home media releases and TV airings).
-   The Bette Midler vehicle _Jinxed!_ was a Troubled Production, with, among other problems, Midler and co-star Ken Wahl hating each other's guts and intense mutual hatred between The Divine Miss M and director Don Siegel (who, as mentioned earlier, was one of the creators of Allen/Alan Smithee on _Death of a Gunfighter_). Siegel suffered a heart attack during production and Sam Peckinpah, not the first name that comes to mind when thinking of comedy directors—then again, neither is Siegel—finished the film uncredited. Siegel recovered but this was his final film credit. All of this led to primary screenwriter Frank Gilroy billing himself as "Bert Blessing".
-   Fred Olen Ray used his real name for _Invisible Mom 2_ but was credited as Peter Stewart when directing _Mom's Outta Sight_.
-   David O. Russell used the name "Stephen Greene" for his failed film, _Nailed_, which was kept on ice for eight years (in an incomplete state!) before a 2015 release under a new title, _Accidental Love_.
-   2022's _The Catherine Tate Show_ spin-off _The Nan Movie_ carries no director's credit whatsoever, only being billed as "A Catherine Tate film" at the start of the credits. It's believed, though unconfirmed, that Josie Rourke directed the lion's share of the film, but left the production when filming was halted by the COVID-19 Pandemic, and that Tate took over directing duties herself afterwards.
-   _Night After Night After Night_: Some last minute re-editing by the distributors was responsible for director Lindsay Shonteff adopting the pseudonym "Lewis J Force", making it the only film he's disowned.
-   The 2011 comedy/horror film _Orcs!_ has a directing credit for "James McPherson". That was really a pseudonym used by actual director Andrew Black due to being unhappy with the final results.
-   The Steven Seagal action movie _The Patriot_ has its script credited to "M. Sussman" and "John Kingswell", neither of whom has any other screen credits. The former is most likely frequent _Star Trek: Voyager_ and _Star Trek: Enterprise_ writer Mike Sussman, and the latter, based on early publicity material, is likely none other than David Ayer.
-   Sidney Lumet used the pseudonym for the TV edit of the 1990 film _Q & A_.
-   _The Ramrodder_ was directed by Ed Forsyth under the alias Van Guylder.
-   Alec Baldwin used the name Harry Kirkpatrick when a recut version of his only directorial effort, a remake of _The Devil and Daniel Webster_, was distributed under the name _Shortcut to Happiness_ in 2007 (six years after the film was made, due to legal issues over the production).
-   Paul Verhoeven used the pseudonym Jan Jansen (apparently a Dutch version of "Alan Smithee"; literally "John Johnson") for the TV edit of his 1995 bomb _Showgirls_.
-   The 2001 French dub credits of Disney's _Snow White_ provide a variation of this trope, where the adaptor's and lyricist's names are listed as an "all rights reserved" notice.
-   Richard C. Sarafian used the pseudonym for his 1990 sci-fi flop _Solar Crisis_ due to how ashamed he was of the final product of the film.
-   Walter Hill used the name "Thomas Lee" on the 2000 flop _Supernova_ after MGM constantly interfered with the production and editing process (even bringing in Francis Ford Coppola to reshoot some scenes).
-   Actor Brett Halsey didn't have faith in _Today We Kill... Tomorrow We Die!_ and opted to use the pseudonym Montgomery Ford so people wouldn't associate him with it. The film ended up being his most successful ever and to this day he's credited as Montgomery Ford in Italy.
-   Leigh Chapman took her name off the Blaxploitation film _Truck Turner_ - when her original script was rewritten as something far what she'd intended. She _would_ have received "story by" credit - she chose to be billed as Jerry Wilkes... which was her ex-husband's name.
-   _Wonder Park_ has an interesting variation. Originally, former Pixar animator Dylan Brown was set to direct the movie, but he was booted off the project in 2018 due to allegations of sexual impropriety, and he was replaced by David Feiss. Since Paramount didn't want to credit someone with a sketchy background, nor did they want someone credited for only doing a small portion, it's one of the rare films out there to have no credited director, period.

    Literature 

-   In the Discworld novel _Maskerade_, the Opera House has a similar custom surrounding "Walter Plinge" (the real Walter is the janitor). "Walter Plinge" is in fact another common pseudonym in London theaters, used interchangeably with "George Spelvin" (see below). The gag is that the Discworld theater has an _actual_ Walter Plinge on staff.
-   Robert A. Heinlein was prolific enough selling short stories in his early career that he had several psudeonyms, in addition to publishing material under his own name. If he sold two stories to a magazine that were to be published in the same issue, the second story would be credited to "Anson Macdonald". He also used "Simon York", "Caleb Saunders" and "John Riverside" on one-shot sales. But for stories Heinlein felt were really subpar? The total dogs that Heinlein didn't want to acknowledge were sent out as by "Lyle Monroe". (Heinlein always felt the Monroe material was bottom-of-the-barrel, and refused to have three of Monroe's seven published stores reprinted in ANY form during his lifetime.)
-   In the Stephen King novel _The Regulators_, the script excerpt from the fictious cartoon _MotoKops 2200_ is credited to Alan Smithee.
-   Harlan Ellison uses the alias "Cordwainer Bird" under the same sorts of circumstances when a film director might use "Alan Smithee", and has also loaned the name out to writer acquaintances who need an alias for various reasons. A "cordwainer" is an old term for a cobbler, so the pseudonym is that of someone who makes shoes for birds; in other words, he's useless. Ellison would employ it as a relatively subtle editorial comment, such as when TV executives watered down his ambitious early 1970s series, _The Starlost_. It's also a reference to the classic sci-fi author Paul Linebarger, who wrote as Cordwainer Smith.
-   Discussed by Art Spiegelman in the foreword to the book commemorating _The Garbage Pail Kids_. He was working for Topps making them and "Wacky Packages" at the same time that _Maus_ was being published and released. The publishers for the latter were concerned that Spiegelman would be credited by name for the former, driving away potential customers who wouldn't want to read a comic about the Holocaust done by a gross-out artist. Topps didn't credit Spiegelman and the latter kept his involvement quiet until the foreword to said commemorative book.
-   When Isaac Asimov was commissioned to write the "Lucky Starr" series of juvenile novels, he took the precaution of using the pseudonym "Paul French" in case he needed to disown them. Fortunately, this proved not to be necessary.
    -   Asimov also wrote _The Sensuous Dirty Old Man_, a parody of _The Sensuous Woman_, under the name "Dr. A". However, in this case it was not to conceal his participation (which was exposed fairly quickly) so much as it was part of the parody; _The Sensuous Woman_ was "written" by "J" (later revealed to be Terry Garrity).

    Live-Action TV 

-   Roy Huggins used several pseudonyms when providing storylines and scripts for the shows he worked on in the '60s and '70s (and even on _Hunter_ in the 1980s). "John Francis O'Mara" and "Thomas Fitzroy" were used in the mid-60s; by about 1968, and for the rest of his career, "John Thomas James" was his invariable pen-name. (JTJ even had has own parking space on the studio lot!) In general, Huggins produced material using his own name, but wrote it using a pseudonym — it was said Huggins disliked seeing his own name continually flashing on screen during the credits.
-   _Doctor Who_ has had a few examples over the years, usually for cases where serials had to be radically rewritten by the script editor and/or producer. BBC guidelines typically disallowed staff from receiving credits for positions other than the ones they were officially appointed to, and the process for making exceptions was long and arduously bureaucratic. Thus, the affected stories would often be credited to various pseudonyms.
    -   "The Dominators" was credited to "Norman Ashby", due to writers Mervyn Haisman and Henry Lincoln falling out with the production office after script editor Derrick Sherwin heavily rewrote their storyline and reduced it from six episodes to five.
    -   "The Dæmons" gave the writer's credit to "Guy Leopold", as writers Robert Sloman and Barry Letts were unable to take credit for contractual reasons; Sloman was working for another TV company, while BBC regulations forbade Letts from being credited with any role in addition to his producer's credit.
    -   Terrance Dicks, unhappy with Robert Holmes' rewrites of "The Brain of Morbius", asked for it to go out under "some bland pseudonym". So Holmes credited the story to Robin Bland; Dicks was so thoroughly amused by the pseudonym that he made up with Holmes afterwards.
    -   A special feature on the DVD for the story "The Invasion of Time" was a documentary about the story's writer. _The Elusive David Agnew_ was credited as being directed by Alan Smithee, but the documentary itself was a mockumentary, since David Agnew was also a pseudonym used by the BBC; "Agnew" is the credited writer of "The Invasion of Time", as another story had been discarded at the last minute, forcing producer Graham Williams and script editor Anthony Read to write it themselves, using the pseudonym to sidestep the behemothic process for getting multiple credits.
    -   Agnew was also credited as writing "City of Death", not because it was a bad episode (it's actually considered to be one of the best serials in the show's history), but because it was hastily rewritten from scratch by Graham Williams and script editor Douglas Adams after the original writer, David Fisher, was unable to perform the extensive rewrites required. Once again, the staff didn't have time to go through the lengthy appeals process and used the Agnew pseudonym to get everything over with.
    -   "Attack of the Cybermen" was credited to "Paula Moore", which disguises an extremely complicated and disputed story as to who wrote it. Although the specifics have never been nailed down, the most commonly accepted version of events is that it was largely written by script editor Eric Saward, based on a story outline by continuity advisor Ian Levine. "Moore" (an ex-girlfriend of Saward's, whose real name was actually Paula Woolsey) just agreed to act as the story's author (and allowed the usage of some elements from an unrelated outline she'd previously submitted) so as to get around BBC regulations preventing Saward from being credited as script editor on his own work.
-   There are 54 episodes of _EastEnders_ where the credited writer is the fictitious Julia Honour. The name is used whenever a script from an outside writer is deemed to be totally unusable and has to be rewritten from scratch by a member of the show's editorial team. The name is taken from series co-creator Julia Smith, the idea being that they were protecting "Julia's honour" by rewriting the unsalvageable script.
-   The Season 4 episode of _La Femme Nikita_ "Catch a Falling Star" was directed by Alan Smithee, known to his parents in this case as Joseph L. Scanlan.
-   _MacGyver (1985)_: The pilot was directed by Jerrold Freedman but credited to Alan Smithee, and the episode "The Heist" was also credited to Smithee.
-   The _Mission: Impossible_ episode "Live Bait" credits Michael Adams with the story and (with James D. Buchanan and Ronald Austin) teleplay; this was a pen-name for Meyer Dolinsky (who, like Sonya Roberts below, also suffered from meddling on _The Outer Limits (1963)_ with "ZZZZZ", although he kept his name on the episode). "Michael Adams" also has writing credits on series like _Dr. Kildare_, _Daktari_ and _Hawaii Five-O_ (where he had several credits under his own name—but not "Flash of Color, Flash of Death", which was the last episode he did for the show).
-   Referenced in _Mystery Science Theater 3000_:
    -   During the opening credits for _Morozko_, Mike quips that the names they're seeing are all Russian for "Alan Smithee".
    -   _Carnival Magic_: Upon seeing that Al Adamson was the film's director, one of the riffers quips, "Al Adamson is the name Alan Smithee uses when he doesn't want _his_ name on a film."
-   Rod Serling scripted the pilot for _The New People_ (a short-lived 1969 series that was a precursor to _Lost_ and _Flight 29 Down_), but after it was cut down to fit a 45-minute network TV slot (an experiment on the part of ABC) he chose to be credited as "John Phillips", although he retained "developed for television by" credit under his own name - the series was created by Aaron Spelling and Larry Gordon (Serling described it as "somewhere between _Gilligan's Island_ and San Francisco State. It may work. But not with me").
-   Sonya Roberts's script "Joy Ride" for _The Outer Limits (1963)_ became "Second Chance" in the finished product, which gives her story and (with Lou Morheim) teleplay credit under the name "Lin Dane". Take off the capital letters and you'll guess her reaction to the rewrites (which may have been mandated by Executive Meddling).
-   _Star Trek: The Original Series_:
    -   Gene L. Coon was credited as Lee Cronin on the third season episodes he wrote, as he was a staff writer on _It Takes a Thief (1968)_ by that point, and didn't want to give away the fact that he was still moonlighting on TOS.
    -   D. C. Fontana used the pseudonym Michael Richards on all her third season episodes (except for "The Enterprise Incident"), as a protest against producer Fred Freiberger and script editor Arthur Singer's handling of the show.
    -   Attempted, but failed by Harlan Ellison for "The City on the Edge of Forever", as he wanted to be credited under his pseudonym Cordwainer Bird in order to protest the heavy rewrites, especially Gene Roddenberry's deletion of a drug-dealing character and the Karmic Death that he eventually got. However, it was well known that he used that pseudonym to flag up works that he felt were sub-par, and Roddenberry, afraid that people would otherwise go in expecting the episode to suck, was able to tie things up in legal matters until the episode had already aired, by which point it didn't matter (though this had the unfortunate side-effect of also preventing D.C. Fontana — who had mostly written the final script — getting a co-writer credit).
-   _Star Trek: The Next Generation_:
    -   D.C. Fontana didn't fare much better on _TNG_ than she did in the last season of _TOS_; she was credited as J. Michael Bingham on "The Naked Now" after Roddenberry rewrote her original, darker and more character-focused draft into a more comedic episode that focused heavily on his Creator's Pet, Wesley Crusher. She would have done the same for "Too Short a Season", which similarly got rewritten beyond recognition by Roddenberry, if not for the fact that she had left the show and simply didn't want to deal with Roddenberry's lawyer.
    -   Another former TOS writer, John D.F. Black went under the credit of Ralph Willis for "Justice" for much the same reason as Fontana; his darker and grittier story ended up being rewritten into one with a hamfisted message about how All Crimes Are Equal is inherently injust, with ludicrous levels of fanservice thrown in seemingly for the heck of it.
    -   Tracy Torme used the pseudonym Keith Mills for "The Royale", after showrunner Maurice Hurley rewrote his original, more satirical plot into a straightforward gangster pastiche. Later in that season, Torme, wrote another episode, "Manhunt"... which once again got butchered by Hurley in rewrites, resulting in Torme putting another pseudonym (Terry Deveraux) on the episode and storming off the series for good.
    -   Hurley himself had previously gone under the pseudonym C.J. Holland for "Hide and Q", after it was heavily rewritten by Roddenberry. In this case, however, Hurley later admitted that he had been too hasty, and that Roddenberry's rewrite had actually improved the episode.
    -   In an odd variation, this trope applies to the shooting script of "The Ensigns of Command", but not the aired episode. Writer Melinda Snodgrass wrote the story as depicting Data having to learn that sometimes he would need to resolve a situation through force rather than logic, only for new showrunner Michael Wagner to change the story so that Data is instead prevented from using the forceful solution by Techno Babble radiation. Snodgrass felt that Wagner's rewrite completely destroyed the point of her story and demanded to be credited under the name H.B. Savage, but later relented and allowed her real name to be used after viewing the finished episode, and feeling that her original intent still came through in Brent Spiner's performance (it also helped that Wagner had quit by this point).
-   _The Twilight Zone (1985)_:
    -   Alan Brennert thought that his script "Healer" was so badly acted and directed that he took his name off of the episode. It is credited to Michael Bryant.
    -   "Paladin of the Lost Hour", which was directed by Gilbert Cates, is credited to Alan Smithee, as Cates disliked the manner in which it was edited.
    -   Richard Matheson had his name taken off of "Button, Button", as he was displeased with the changed ending of his short story made at the insistence of CBS executives. It is credited to Logan Swanson.
-   The pilot for _Walker, Texas Ranger_ and the episode "Storm Warning" were written and co-written respectively by Leigh Chapman under the name "Louise McCarn".
-   The theme song composer for several TV series produced by Ziv in the 1950s was, according to BMI's publishing records (he was never credited on-screen), one "Ray Llewellyn". This was actually a pseudonym shared by several composers who worked for hire at Ziv under a buyout contract (Ziv would buy the rights for the compositions and keep the royalties). The actual composers possibly included David Rose (for _Highway Patrol_ and _Sea Patrol_), Ray Bloch (for _Science Fiction Theater_), Dominic Frontiere, Victor Young, Warren Barker and others; some later worked for Ziv under their real names.
-   _Double Dare (1986)_: Dana Calderwood, who was the original director from 1986-1988, directed the _Double Dare 2000_ revial under the pseudonym "Hal Leigh". He based the name on his daughter Hallie.

    Magazines 

-   Over the years, _MAD_ has used several pseudonymous bylines for varying reasons. One of the most common is "J. Prete", actually ex-editor John Ficarra. Also, Sam Viviano began crediting his own artwork to "Jack Syracuse" after he took over as art director in the early noughties.
-   After the ZX Spectrum magazine _Crash_ ended, it was discovered that the letters-page editor "Lloyd Mangram" never existed. The actual editor was sometimes Barnaby Page, but not always.

    Music 

-   Alan also "does" music videos. Among his credits are "I Will Always Love You" by Whitney Houston, "Lose My Breath" by Destiny's Child, "Hunting for Witches" by Bloc Party, "Juicebox" by The Strokes, and "Building a Mystery" by Sarah MacLachlan.
    -   Samuel Bayer directed "Ridiculous Thoughts" by The Cranberries but the band recut it against his wishes after being displeased with his cut, so the video ended up being credited to someone named "Freckles Flynn".
    -   The music video for "Ooh Aah... Just a Little Bit" by Gina G was directed by someone named "Fruit Salad" (probably Kevin Godley due to Medialab, a company he directed several music videos for, having produced the video).
-   On the soundtrack album for 2002's _Trapped_, the conductor of John Ottman's score is called "L. Ton Jon" (a pseudonym for Damon Intrabartolo).
-   Austrian film composer Thomas Wanker (_Buffy the Vampire Slayer_) changed his professional billing on American and British productions to Thomas Wander, for what should be obvious reasons.
-   The last track on Randy Newman's score album for _Maverick_ is a song called "Tartine De Merde" sung by a fellow called "S. Bush." Anyone who gets the reference can probably guess who Mr. Bush is. But if you can't, it's Randy Newman.
-   The single "I'm The Urban Spaceman" by The Bonzo Dog Band credits its producer as one Apollo C. Vermouth - a pseudonym for the one and only Paul McCartney. The band later paid tribute to him with the song "Mr. Apollo."
-   Manager of The Clash Bernie Rhodes produced their infamous final album _Cut the Crap_, being credited under the name "Jose Unidos", which many people mistakenly thought was actually frontman Joe Strummer.
-   During production of Michael Jackson's "Black or White", producer Bill Botrell did a reference take of a short rap hoping to get a big name to re-record it. Jackson liked it enough to use it in the final version, in spite of Bottrell's insistence in getting a real rapper, hence he only gave in while asking to be credited as L.T.B. (referencing _Leave It to Beaver_).
-   The 1951 hit "My Heart Cries for You" was written by Carl Sigman and Percy Faith. The first issued recordings of this song gave the credit to Sigman and "Peter Mars", as Faith had written the lyric to Sigman's melody as a joke (he was dared to compose a "commercial song") and was appalled to see it recorded as a serious song so he refused to have his name attached to it. Later recordings credit Faith under his real name.
-   Several albums by They Might Be Giants, including _Apollo 18_ and the B-side compilation _Miscellaneous T_, have their artwork credited to a German artist named "Rolf Conant"—in reality, a pseudonym for (American) frontman John Flansburgh, whose middle name is Conant.
    -   Flansburgh also used this pseudonym for various side projects in the 90's—Rolf Conant is credited with "fake drums" on the debut EP of the band Spondee (led by his wife Robin Goldwasser) and as the co-founder of the short lived Hello The Band with frequent TMBG collaborator Joshua Fried
-   Within Punk music, the name "Dale Nixon" is occasionally used as a psuedonym. Originally used by Greg Ginn of Black Flag to hide that he had performed the bass parts on the band's second album himself, the name has also been used by musicians such as Dave Grohl and Brian Baker of Minor Threat.
-   Eric Clapton's 2016 album _I Still Do_ features a credit to one "Angelo Mysterioso" on the song "I Will Be There". Since the name bears a similarity to "L'Angelo Misterioso", a pseudonym used by George Harrison, the media began to speculate that "Angelo Mysterioso" was George's son, Dhani Harrison. While Clapton's spokesman refused to reveal Mysterioso's identity, Clapton would perform the song with Ed Sheeran at a show in 2016, and after a guitar solo on Sheeran's _÷_ was credited to "Angelo Mysterioso", Sheeran confirmed that he and Clapton had decided to collaborate, appearing on each other's albums.
-   Back when TIX made russ music, he collaborated with an anonymous writing collective known as "The Pøssy Project", which got the credit/blame for the songs' controversial lyrics. However, an article claims that TIX is listed as the sole copyright holder for many Pøssy Project songs, which raises the question of whether he himself wrote the lyrics and was using the label as a way to distance himself from them (the other option is that The Pøssy Project simply agreed not to be listed as a copyright holder).
-   Paul McCartney wrote the 1966 Peter & Gordon hit "Woman" under the name Bernard Webb, not because he didn't want credit, but to see if people would still buy the song without seeing his name on the label.

    Puppet Shows 

-   _Terrahawks_ often used this trope stylistically to cover up the fact it only had a few writers; while all but four of the series' 39 episodes were written or co-written by Gerry Anderson regular Tony Barwick, the scripts were usually credited to a variety of pseudonyms ending with "-stein", often feline-connected, due to a major character being called Dr. Tiger Ninestein (example: "The Ugliest Monster Of All" was written by P.U. Mastein). The show lampshaded this on several occasions, most blatantly with "Child's Play" being credited to Sue Donymstein. Only three episodes eschewed fake names — "The Midas Touch", by Trevor Lansdowne and Barwick (credited _as_ Barwick for once) and the two-part opener "Expect The Unexpected" by Anderson himself; the only other non-Barwick episodes in the series are "From Here to Infinity" and "The Sporilla", written by Katz Stein and Leo Pardstein respectively (both pseudonyms for Donald James).

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Ars Magica_: Alan Smithee is credited as the co-author of the fourth edition _Mythic Seas_ supplement, though the reason why has never been made public. The fan consensus does seem to be that it’s not one of the better books for that edition, though it’s not all _that_ terrible.

    Theatre 

-   Alan Smithee has a theatrical counterpart. His name is George Spelvin. George Spelvin (or, for females, Georgina or Georgette Spelvin) is also used when the same actor is playing two roles but that fact should not be made obvious to the audience beforehand by the cast list.
    -   He first appeared in the 1906 stage version of _Brewster's Millions_.
    -   The (probably hallucinating) main character of the play "The Actor's Nightmare" is referred to as George Spelvin.
-   The book for _You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown_ was credited to "John Gordon". Gordon didn't actually exist; the original 1967 New York production didn't have a script as such. The cast and crew literally just went through _Peanuts_ books and picked out strips to dramatize for the scenes between songs, but they needed to credit _someone_ for the book, so Gordon was invented.

    Video Games 

-   Using nicknames or pseudonyms in credits, such as "Ten Ten", "Mammy Preco", or "Yuukichan's Papa" was common in the video game industry (especially in Japanese games, like Capcom's arcades whose credits roll are usually about 90% pseudonyms) up through the beginning of the fourth generation, although the practice itself remained until at least 2005. In this case, the reason for not putting their real names on the product was not out of dissatisfaction with their work, but to prevent rival companies from hiring away their talent.
-   _Metal Gear_:
    -   Almost everyone in the English voice cast for _Metal Gear Solid_ were credited under pseudonyms due to them not knowing if their work had the Screen Actors Guild's blessing. The only voice actors who used their real names were David Hayter, Doug Stone, and Scott Dolph<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . When the cast returned to re-record their lines for the Nintendo Game Cube remake, _The Twin Snakes_, they all used their real names thanks to the project having open SAG support.
    -   Referenced in the "CHAIR RACE" teaser trailer for _Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots_—when we see the back of the Director's chair, Alan Smithee's name is written on it, which eventually drops off to reveal the name "Shuyo Murata". This references how Hideo Kojima originally planned to work only as a producer for _MGS4_ (as he planned on leaving the series after _Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater_) and hand it over to his junior team, with Shuyo Murata as the appointed director. This didn't last long, as the rest of the trailer shows.
-   Referenced in _Wild AR Ms 3_, though in a totally different context. Alan Smithy is a legendary Drifter who leaves signposts with advice all over the landscape.
-   In _Street Fighter X Tekken_, Rolento's voice actor is credited as Alan Smithee. It's actually Dameon Clarke.
    -   Clarke is no stranger to this, having reprised his voice of _Dragon Ball Z_ villain Cell in the _Budokai_ and _Budokai Tenkaichi_ series of games under the pseudonym "Dartanian Nickelback".
-   Referenced in _The Wonderful 101_, with one of the supporting characters being a kid by the name of Luka Alan Smithee.
-   _Dragalia Lost_'s English voice credits is subverted, while there are some characters that are credited under actual voice actors/actresses (Vincent Tong, Tabitha St. Germain, Kazumi Evans, Sabrina Pitre, Lizzie Freeman, and Samuel Vincent), the majority of the characters credited are credited with pseudonymous names.
-   In 2000, Acclaim briefly brought back its long-retired LJN label for the Sega Dreamcast port of _Spirit of Speed 1937_, likely fearing poor critical reception.
-   In _Fire Emblem Heroes_, the artist for the Mythic Hero Elimine is anonymous, credited as "Alan Smithee" in English, with the same name transliterated into kanji in Japanese.
-   _Sunset Overdrive_: In-Universe: The _Mooil Rig_ mission called "Alan Smithee's Treasure Ocean", where a film director called "Alan Smithee" starts with talking about directing:
    
    **Alan Smithee:** You know what the key is to directing a great film? Lots of money.
    

    Western Animation 

-   _The Simpsons_:
    -   In-Universe: in "D'oh-in in the Wind", Mr. Burns' recruitment film for the power plant, which had script problems from Day One (i.e., nobody read the script), and which ends with Mr. Burns physically accosting Homer for getting his lines wrong, is credited to Alan Smithee.
    -   Jon Vitti and David Silverman used the pseudonyms "Penny Wise" and "Pound Foolish" for writing and directing the second and third Clip Show episodes, "Another Simpsons Clip Show" and The Simpsons 138th Episode Spectacular".
    -   Two guest stars appeared under pseudonyms in early episodes: Dustin Hoffman as Sam Etic in "Lisa's Substitute" and Michael Jackson as John Jay Smith in "Stark Raving Dad".
    -   Albert Brooks is credited as "A. Brooks" when he voices a character on the show.
    -   When "Goo Goo Gai Pan" originally premiered, the story was credited to "Lawrence Talbot", a pseudonym for regular writer-producer Dana Gould. All subsequent versions (US repeats, international broadcasts and home video releases) used Gould's real name.
-   _Futurama_:
    -   "In-A-Gadda-Da-Leela" was written by "Carolyn Premish", and "How the West Was 1010001" was written by "Nona di Spargement". Both are pseudonyms for regular writer-producer Ken Keeler. In the 2022 L.A. Comic Con panel, Patric M. Verrone mentioned that How the West Was 1010001 was written by Keeler, with crew member Corey M. Barnes later confirming on Reddit that "Carolyn Premish" was Ken Keeler as well.
-   One episode of _Tiny Toon Adventures_ had a couple of cartoons with inferior animation directed by "Allen Smithee." The episode's Credits Gag was: "Number of Retakes: Don't Ask."
-   The late Mary Kay Bergman was often credited as "Shannen Cassidy" (derived from SHANNEN Doherty and Ryan CASSIDY) for voicing many of the female characters of _South Park_. This was very likely due to it being a non-union production, and her simultaneously working for Disney (most notably as the voice of Snow White and Jessie's yodelling in _Toy Story 2_).
    -   _South Park_ also uses this for a gag at the end of "Trapped in the Closet". After Scientologists threaten to sue Stan for denouncing their religion, Stan yells that he's not afraid of getting sued. Cue a credits sequence where everybody's name is replaced with "John Smith" or "Jane Smith," referencing Scientology's tendency to file lawsuits against their critics.
    -   The voice actress for Nichole Daniels, the token black girl at South Park Elementary, is credited to the alias "Laylo Incognegro." The real identity of her voice actress is currently unconfirmed.
    -   The second pilot of _The Spirit of Christmas_ was credited to "Robert T. Pooner" instead of Parker and Stone's real names. After the short went viral, many other animators claimed ownership of the pilot to get jobs before Parker and Stone went public. This name also appeared in the credits of the episodes "Chickenlover" and "Mr. Hankey's Christmas Classics."
-   For unknown reasons in _Sanjay and Craig_, Chris D'Elia was credited as "Remington Tufflips As Himself".
-   John Kricfalusi was so embarrassed about having directed "Robin Hoek / Nurse Stimpy" of _The Ren & Stimpy Show_ (all he could see when he watched the final product were drawing mistakes and timing errors), he credited himself as "Raymond Spum" on the title card.
-   Touchstone Pictures was temporarily revived _specifically_ so that Disney could use it to disown _Strange Magic_ (which they acquired with Lucasfilm). Touchstone was previously used in this manner for _Gnomeo & Juliet_, which stayed with Disney after Miramax was sold off.
    -   Similarly, after Disney refused to let Miramax release _Kids_ for its sexual content, the Weinsteins created a new company called Shining Excalibur Films to release it.
-   Filmation founder and head Lou Scheimer voiced Orko and King Randor on _He-Man and the Masters of the Universe (1983)_ (and other characters on his shows) under the name Eric Gunden; Erika Lane, who shares music credit on the show, is also Scheimer (taken from his children's names). Similarly, the Yvette Blais who has music credit on numerous Filmation series is actually Ray Ellis (who often used that pseudonym - she was his wife).
-   _Anatole_'s first episode "Anatole's Parisian Adventure" was credited to Alan Smithee.
-   A VHS compilation movie based off _Mighty Ducks: The Animated Series_ is credited to Alan Smithee.
-   A rare _quintuple_\-whammy: Joey D'Auria, Cheryl Chase, Rebecca Forstadt, Paul Greenberg and Rick Zieff had voice acting roles in _The Mr. Men Show_ under the respective credits of "Joseph J. Terry", "Sophia Roberts", "Reba West", "Aaron Albertus" and "Danny Katiana".<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  This is likely due to the non-union status of the show.
-   Phil LaMarr Darrin'd Ahmed Best as Jar Jar Binks for much of Season 1 of _Star Wars: The Clone Wars_ under the pseudonym of "BJ Hughes", a fact that went unrevealed for over a decade. Unlike other examples of this trope, it should be noted that this is the only role of his on the show in which LaMarr was credited by a pseudonym, whereas he is credited by his real name for all his other roles, making this a case of choosing not to be associated with a specific role rather than an entire work. Given that Best was going through a Creator Breakdown at the time due to harassment he received from being associated with Jar Jar, LaMarr likely went by the pseudonym to avoid going through the same ordeal.
-   _Looney Tunes_: Friz Freleng has two notable instances which invert this:
    -   He declined a screen credit for 1949's "Dough For the Dodo" as it was a remake of Bob Clampett's original version "Porky in Wackyland" (1938) and Friz felt he'd be stealing Clampett's ideas.
    -   In 1946 Friz was suspended for a month for refusing to direct "Hollywood Daffy," feeling it was too much like Avery for his style. Hawley Pratt (a layout artist in the Freleng unit) directed it uncredited.
        -   Of other films, 1942's "Crazy Cruise" was started by Avery and finished by Clampett after Avery quit (following the "Heckling Hare" confrontation). It went uncredited.
-   Tony Daniels did a number of voices for _Transformers: Cyberverse_ — including both Teletraans, Kup, Croaton, Drift and Lockdown — under the pseudonym of "Mike Rose" due to the non-union status of the show.
-   A number of Porchlight Entertainment productions were non-union, so the voice cast often went under pseudonyms.
    -   The _LeapFrog_ animated movies they produced often made use of these cast lists. For example, all the voice actors on _The Letter Factory_ are credited under pseudonyms. For example, Debi Derryberry was credited as "Dee Dee Green", while Candi Milo was credited as "Mary Jo Rogers".
    -   _Tutenstein_: For the main cast of the first 35 episodes, the titular character was voiced by Jeannie Elias under the pseudonym of "Marcus Muldoon" and Cleo was voiced by Crystal Scales under the pseudonym of "Babi Mosquito".
-   _Codename: Kids Next Door_: The episode "Operation: F.O.O.D.F.I.T.E." is a Musical Episode set to the tunes of Shock Rock band GWAR. Since pretty much all of their discography is definitely _not_ for children, the band is credited as "RAWG" in the episode.
-   _Family Guy_ producer Kara Vallow removed her name from the episode "Excellence in Broadcasting" in protest of the episode's guest appearance from Rush Limbaugh, as a result she went uncredited.
-   _Arthur_ voice actors Daniel Brochu and Bruce Dinsmore reprised their regular roles of Buster, Binky Barnes and David Read, respectively, for the direct-to-video film _Arthur's Missing Pal_, however since it was a non-union project recorded in Los Angeles rather than Montreal and Toronto like the show, they went under pseudonyms. Brochu was credited as "Conway Bruce" for voicing Buster, while Dinsmore voiced Binky and David Read under the pseudonym of "Bruce Smithee".

___