This is based on opinion. Please don't list it on a work's trope example list.

_"Roadrunners are real?"_

— **Homer Simpson**, _The Simpsons_, "Last of the Red Hat Mamas"

A story element that exists or existed in Real Life but is assumed to be fictional by the audience, often because it seems too unlikely, bizarre, or kitschy to be real. Sometimes truth really is stranger than fiction...

The Trope Namer comes from the 1965 _Peanuts_ TV special _A Charlie Brown Christmas_, in which Lucy instructs Charlie Brown to "get the biggest aluminum tree you can find \[...\] Maybe painted pink!" _Aluminum_ Christmas trees? In _pink_?! Obvious hyperbole about the artificiality of Christmas, right? Nope: The '50s and The '60s had their share of oddball kitsch, and the aluminum Christmas tree was _real_. They were artificial trees with foil needles, not hollow metal cones as seen in the special, but they definitely existed, and you could even get them in pink. They were usually called "tinsel trees", which is the name under which they are marketed today. There are many videos on YouTube showing how to set up, restore and repair them.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 

So why do viewers assume these shiny spruces must be fictional? Well as it happened, _A Charlie Brown Christmas_ contributed to their demise. After the special aired, sales plummeted, and tinsel trees had all but disappeared by 1971.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 

In short, when a quaint element of Real Life appears in a work of fiction, the audience might mistake it for part of the fiction. The usual reason is lack of familiarity with the object, so it is more likely to trip up those viewing the work from a different perspective (e.g. years after the work was created, or from another culture). And most "aluminum Christmas trees" are, like the original, a bit out-of-the-ordinary and kitschy. Even so, it's immensely funny (to those in the know) when someone dismisses a Real Life element as patently absurd and "unrealistic".

This can also occur in works where the writers _did_ do the research, but the truth they uncovered is so bizarre or surprising that audiences think they _must_ have just made it up. In this case, writers may add a "Not Making This Up" Disclaimer. Of course, just because something once existed doesn't mean that it was _commonplace_. This is why period pieces which did their homework (all the costumes are reconstructions or composites of documented outfits, for example) can still reveal the cultural assumptions of the time in which THEY were created.

Compare Technology Marches On, Once Original, Now Common, Defictionalization, and Poe's Law. A subtrope of Reality Is Unrealistic, Values Dissonance, and Truth in Television. Can also be used as a means of Shown Their Work. Frequently found in Unintentional Period Pieces. If even the creators were unaware that the "tree" was real, it's Accidentally-Correct Writing.

When this occurs in-universe, it's either Eskimos Aren't Real, or the work will give a "Not Making This Up" Disclaimer.

It could simply be a case of Small Reference Pools.

___

## Example subpages:

-   Film — Live-Action
-   Literature
-   Live-Action TV
-   Video Games
-   Western Animation
    -   _The Simpsons_

## Other examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   In _Arpeggio of Blue Steel_, the _JDS Hakugei_ is a submarine with a rocket propulsion system. This is currently being researched by DARPA.
-   _Berserk_: Kentaro Miura uses Rule of Cool to sprinkle his fantasy world with weapons, armors, costumes, architecture, and technology from various real life cultures and eras, to the point where it's hard for the layperson to distinguish between what he made up and what he borrowed from history.
    -   Miura loves to draw elaborate and fantastical armors with animal-shaped parts and other decoration, many of which did not exist but are inspired by almost equally wild parade and costume armors that survive in museums; he even directly copies some museum pieces, such as the armor worn by Lord Gennon in the Battle of Doldrey which is shaped to simulate puffed-and-slashed clothing of the early 16th century.
    -   For the Kushans, a Fantasy Counterpart Culture of India with some "Arabian Nights" Days thrown in, he depicts real weapons and armor that most Western readers have never even heard of: examples include Silat's urumi swords, with multiple flexible whip-like blades, and the maduvu used by the monstrous Daka soldiers, which consist of two blackbuck antelope horns pointing in opposite directions and connected by two crossbars which serve as grips.
    -   One of Mozguz's disciples uses a strange weapon resembling a spiked collar on a pole, which clamps around a victim's head. It seems so outlandish that such weapons appearing in other works have been misidentified as _Berserk_ references. Not only is it a real weapon, it's still used today by riot control officers in some countries, including Japan.
-   _Bleach_: A flashback set 109 years in the past has Shinji telling Aizen that he's playing jazz music which is just becoming popular in the World of the Living. The fandom reacted with surprise that Tite Kubo, a famous music geek, would be wrong about jazz existing back then. However, in a small joke sketch in that volume, the author informs the character that 'jazz' doesn't actually exist yet, leaving Shinji confused over what he's listening to. The implication is that Shinji is listening to ragtime, which these days is often viewed as an early form of jazz.
-   _Darker than Black_:
    -   The British Secret Intelligence Service is popularly called MI6, thanks to the James Bond series. So, the name "Secret Intelligence Service" seemed too "spy-like" to be real and looks like a fictional agency created by the show. MI-5 and MI-6 were real organizations with responsibility for domestic (MI-5) and overseas (MI-6) human-intelligence assets. <sup>Details&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   Also with the British spies of _Darker than Black_ — it's easy to think that the designs of November 11's cigarettes, black with white skulls on them, are just a joke. Nope, they are an actual British product, which fits perfectly with November 11's sense of humor.
-   To non-Japanese viewers of _Digimon Adventure_, the giant red saw seen in the real world might seem remarkably odd, but it's a real sculpture called "Saw, Sawing" near Big Sight in Odaiba.
-   In the _Universe Survival Arc_ of _Dragon Ball Super_, Goku gains a new power called Ultra Instinct. Ultra Instinct is a fictional, supernatural, and exaggerated version of something that can be achieved in real life — it's based off the concepts of Mushin and Flow.
-   _Future GPX Cyber Formula_:
    -   The series has a handful of cars with 6-wheels, particularly the later incarnations of Asurada, which are basically futuristic versions of the Formula One Tyrrell P34 model used 15 years earlier.
    -   The Asurada cars also have effect fans, which are used to produce more downforce for cornering and to cool the engines. There have been race cars with fans before: Chaparral and Brabham experimented with these models in the 70's, but they were outlawed before anyone else had a chance to copy them (the Brabham fan car remains the only F1 car with a 100% winning record).
-   One episode of _Ghost in the Shell: Stand Alone Complex_ centered around a computer program a person used that automatically traded stock, which continued even after the programmer died. In fact, those kinds of programs _already existed_ and were in use when the episode was made, and have since become commonplace to the point that automated stock transactions are actually the majority.
-   In _Hellsing_, the Papal Knights wear pointed, face-concealing hoods that many American readers assume are a reference to The Klan. They're actually capirotes worn during certain Catholic ceremonies, most famously Holy Week processions in Spain.
-   Many _Hetalia: Axis Powers_ fans have wondered why in flashbacks the _male_ countries seem to be crossdressing as toddlers. They're not, those're boy's clothes. Until the early 20th century, it was common in many countries for young boys to wear dress-like garments until they were at maximum 8 years old. When that happened they would begin "breeching".
-   _HuGtto! Pretty Cure_:
-   In _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Stardust Crusaders,_ Iggy's favorite coffee-flavored chewing gum seems like something that was made up to Western audiences, but it's a common product in some Asian countries. In the west Wrigley's actually sold a coffee-flavored gum for a limited time, and some specialty companies still make them.
-   One episode of _Lupin III_ shows Lupin in a race driving a six-wheeled car. At the time of production, the Tyrrell P34 was competing in F1, using the four small wheels up front to maintain traction while having better aerodynamics than a pair of taller wheels.
-   _Naruto_:
    -   There was some controversy over a claim made by Killer B while fighting Kisame that octopuses eat sharks. In real life though, it's been known to happen.
    -   While the ones present in Naruto are stylized, some types of Japanese armor really did use forehead protectors, sometimes taking the form of a headband.
    -   In _Naruto Gaiden_, Karin is shown to have put Sarada's umbilical cord into a box. Many non-Japanese fans were confused by this, but it's an actual Japanese tradition akin to cutting a piece of a baby's hair and putting it away.
-   In _Negima!_, season one, episode eight, the twins mention a "walking club", which is about professional walking. There actually is a sport called "racewalking", established enough to be included as an olympic event.
-   Episode 7 of _Oh, Suddenly Egyptian God_ shows the titular gods huddling inside to stay warm while the world outside snows over. While it sounds very improbable, snow in Egypt is something that can actually happen in real life, albeit very rarely. Last time it happened was in 2013, which was said to be the first time Egypt (or more specifically, Cairo) has had snow in over 100 years.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   Despite being the Anime of the Game, some viewers were surprised to find out that _Phantasy Star Online 2: The Animation_ is based on a real video game. The anime's use of a _fictional, in-universe_ counterpart of the game it's based on did not help in the least.
-   The English name of the _Pokémon: The Series_ protagonist, Ash Ketchum, would be easy to see as merely a punny play on the franchise's Gotta Catch 'Em All slogan. In truth, Ketchum is an actual English surname dating back centuries.
-   In the 95th episode of _PriPara_, Mirei shows some moms at a playground a "Mama Ticket" she made. Most viewers outside of Japan assume that it's just a mother-themed PriTicket, but it's actually a spoof of mama cards.
-   _Red Sprite_: While Tatsu's Technicolor Lightning seems exotic, it's actually based on a real meteorological phenomenon where large-scale electrical discharges go off in the sky, often in colors like red, forming ethereal "sprites" of plasma. This phenomenon is also the source of the name of Tatsu ship's and the title of the story, "Red Sprite".
-   _Rurouni Kenshin_:
    -   The title character fits this in two respects. One, he's loosely based on an actual person, and likewise, so were a number of the other characters (see below). Kenshin's original was named Kawakami Gensai. Potentially, Kenshin's Bishōnen to the point of Dude Looks Like a Lady appearance could be an example of this. Word of God states that Gensai had feminine features and carried out assassinations in broad daylight because people thought he was a woman and allowed him to get close enough, and at one point was said to have hid out in a brothel following an assassination. It also might have something to do with Uesugi Kenshin,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  who is presented as a bishonen in some historical fiction works. On top of that, there have been some speculations that Uesugi Kenshin was secretly a woman.
    -   Shinomori Aoshi was based off historical character Hijikata Toshizo, and his boss Kanryuu based on Takeda Kanryuusai. Also, there really was a Saito Hajime. And Saito Hajime was married, which the author predicted would be so unbelievable that there was a tag that said "This is historical fact" when Saito mentions he's married. He also spent much of his later life as a school teacher and died of an ulcer.
-   In Continuity Reboot _Sailor Moon Crystal_, the retention of Game Center Crown may seem to run counter to its Setting Update to non-Japanese viewers, given the Western<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  death of the Video Arcade, and the 2003 tokusatsu's change to a Karaoke Bar, but though contracting, arcade gaming remains the _largest_ sector of Japan's gaming market.
-   _Strike Witches_, has the premise of the series it self. Many people may find young teenage girls riding around in World War II era flying equipments on the frontlines of the war to be the most ridiculous things that they've ever heard. Well, just try to tell that to the veterans of the Night Witches and the 586th Fighter Regiment, many of which had pilots as young as the girls in the show. Even better, one of the show's main supporting characters was even based on the Ace Pilot of the latter regiment, who is also the current record holder for the greatest number of kills by a single female fighter pilot.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh!_:
    -   The Duelist Kingdom arc featured a famously altered ruleset from the real game, which led to many kids of the era deriding it for not following the rules of the card game—most evidently, the lack of Tribute Summoning. The thing is, the card game actually _did_ use such a ruleset for about three months, before switching to an "Expert" ruleset. Tribute Summoning was essentially an Obvious Rule Patch to curtail how absurdly overpowered cards like Blue-Eyes were. The manga even acknowledged this by noting that Battle City (which introduced Tributes to its version of the game) would be using similar rules.
    -   An unnamed Rare Hunter in the Battle City arc is known for using a deck focused on Exodia, featuring three copies of every part of Exodia, along with multiple copies of the draw-based card Graceful Charity. Many fans assume his decklist to be a sign of cheating (and it certainly doesn't hurt that his cards are noted to be counterfeit, and he explicitly _does_ cheat in the anime), since the Exodia pieces and Graceful Charity were limited to one copy per deck at best throughout the TCG's lifecycle, but there was a period of about half a year in the OCG where players could indeed use up to three copies of the Exodia pieces and Graceful Charity. At the time the Rare Hunter was introduced in the manga, his deck would have been basically legal.
-   _Zombie Land Saga_: Episode 5 features the girls of Franchouchou participating in the Gatalympics, which are a real event that takes place on the mud flats of Kashima, Japan in late May or early June. While the show was in production, several of the voice actors participated in that year's actual Gatalympics, with Minami Tanaka winning 2nd place on the bicycle race.

    Comedy 

-   Some fans of Barry Humphries' character Dame Edna Everage have been surprised to learn that her home town, the 50's middle-suburban dream Moonee Ponds, is a real suburb of Melbourne in Australia.
-   JJ Bittenbinder from John Mulaney's special _Kid Gorgeous_ is a real person. Mulaney didn't really exaggerate much about Bittenbinder's "Street Smarts" presentation, either. The real Bittenbinder didn't deny anything from the bit other than the fact that he didn't wear a cowboy hat when he talks to kids. The specials that Bittenbinder did for PBS Kids can also be found on the internet to be compared to the bit.
-   A lot of people thought that Bill Cosby's "Chicken Heart" routine was a fake _Lights Out_ episode that Cosby made up just for comedy purposes. There was indeed an actual episode of Lights Out called "The Chicken Heart". While Cosby did exaggerate a bit, the basic premise of "a chicken heart becomes enormous" is mostly intact. However, more people know of Cosby's routine mocking the skit than the actual episode.
    -   Carroll Shelby building Bill Cosby a custom sports car capable of going 200 M.P.H. actually happened.
-   Image Macro: "How are unicorns fake, but giraffes are real? Like what's more believable, a horse with a horn or a leopard-moose-camel with a 40 foot neck?"
-   Played with in The Onion’s article, “Man Consults Internet Whenever Possible”. Yes, when it was written, it really was unusual to primarily use the internet for all the things listed within.

    Comic Books 

-   Jughead's trademark hat in _Archie Comics_ was actually once a _real_ fashion trend among teenagers during the years in which the comic debuted. They would cut up their fathers' old fedoras into jagged-edged inverted caps (it's called a "whoopie cap"). Nowadays, Jughead's hat now just makes him look eccentric, or maybe just like a hipster. Due to Jughead's Big Eater tendencies, some folks confused it for a Bland Name version of Burger King's cardboard crowns they give to kids. The same style was worn by Goober Pyle on _The Andy Griffith Show_.
-   _Asterix_ is mostly Purely Aesthetic Era and the kind of deliberately inaccurate things French children half-remember from primary school history, but the creators did do a lot of research by reading contemporary Roman reports, and occasionally this shows.
    -   For instance, according to the Romans (the Celtic people, as a rule, left no written records) the historical Gauls really were said to be terrified of the sky falling on their heads, and to have shot arrows at the sky during thunderstorms to just _dare_ it to come down. Occasionally Cacofonix will be depicted with instruments besides his signature lyre, usually a ridiculous-looking bagpipe-like thing and an even more ridiculous horn with an animal head, all of which are the instruments the real Gauls would have used — bagpipe-like instruments were known to have been played by the Romans (notably by Nero, who was also said to have been very bad at it), and the horn is a _carnyx_, a kind of early trumpet with a boar's mouth-shaped bell.
    -   At Varius Flavus's orgy in _Asterix in Switzerland_, the women are wearing ridiculous, apocalyptic hairstyles with a bonnet-shaped mass of tight curls at the front of the head. That is a hairstyle seen quite commonly on busts of rich Roman women.
    -   One gag in _Asterix the Gladiator_ involves a trio of Romans in silly costumes walking into the arena covered in advertising slogans before a gladiator fight, while Caesar wonders whether or not people are bothered by all of the commercials. This is obviously a joke about television advertising, but was an actual practice — gladiator matches were preceded by advertising and sometimes the gladiators themselves would carry advertising pennants, wear slogans or use sponsored equipment.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  The Romans weren't even the first to do this, as there are accounts of Product Placement in ancient commentaries on Greek plays.
    -   Whilst the "Place That Sends You Mad" in _The 12 Tasks of Asterix_ is perceived as a sendup of modern-day unhelpful governmental public service departments, the Roman empire actually was one of the earliest civilizations to have the kind of complex, sprawling bureaucracy needed to spawn such locales.
-   _Batman_:
-   The Solicitine sisterhood in _Castle Waiting_ have been criticised by some readers as imposing modern feminist ideals on Middle Ages female monasticism. However, they are very similar to the real beguine movement in Middle Ages Northern Europe, which similarly involved women living together as a religious order with significantly laxer conditions than full nuns — notably, and as depicted in the comic, they were allowed to own property and run businesses, and to leave the community without question if they decided that they wanted to marry a man.
-   People smile in disbelief today if you tell them illustrator Frank Frazetta's art, and similar heroic fantasy creations including some pretty good amateur works, used to appear on vans.
-   _Giant Size Man-Thing_ was an actual, six-issue, comic book series. Marvel had many "Giant-Size" comic books in the 1970s, in this case for the character Man-Thing. Other titles included _Giant-Size Invaders_, _Giant-Size Marvel Triple Action_, and the legendary (if less innuendo-laden) _Giant-Size X-Men_.
-   One of the many things that Linkara criticized about the comic _Holy Terror_ was the ridiculous looking knife on the cover page with spikes on the underside of the guard. In a later video, he says it was pointed out to him by a fan that the ridiculous looking knife actually exists, although the spikes on the underside of the guard would be detached from it if wielded as a weapon.
-   There's a 1940s _JSA_ comic that consists of anti-German war propaganda, which claims (among other things) that the German people are violent by nature. One example of this "natural German barbarity" was called "scar dueling," where young men from high-end academies would fence with the intention of scarring each other's faces, then wear the scars as a status symbol. More than one modern reader thought this was ridiculous propaganda, except it was _an actual occurrence in German academies_! The scar was called a "schmiss". Left unsaid was the fact that the student organizations where this was so common were actually suppressed by the Nazis.
    -   _Mensur_ dueling is a tradition among many of the German equivalent to American fraternities ("Studentenverbindung", types of which include "Burschenschaften", "Corps", "Landsmannschaften" etc). Nowadays it is not mainstream any more, which they were and it was in those times, and the scars ("Schmiss", pl. "Schmisse") are no longer a status symbol accepted throughout society, deliberately sought, deliberately emphasized (by deliberately bad stitching, by adding dirt to the wounds, by excessive use of alcohol specifically aimed at impeding the healing of the fresh wounds), which they were at the time, but rather a prominent (very recognizable, definitely not universally desirable) side effect. Here's the type of safety equipment<small>◊</small> worn for a _mensur_ duel in the late 1950's; unlike a normal fencing mask, it protects the eyes, nose, and throat but leaves the cheeks and forehead vulnerable.
    -   In _Star Trek: New Frontier_, it is assumed (though never said outright) that Katerina Mueller's scar was from a _mensur_ duel from her Heidelberg days. Apparently, the practice is still in existence in the 24th century (though probably on the DL).
    -   There is a Genius Bonus about that in _Batman: The Animated Series_, where Duvall tells Jonah Hex "You cannot defeat me. I am a Heidelberg fencing champion". Jonah is not impressed...
-   _Lucky Luke_: Lucky Luke drawing his gun noticeably faster than his own shadow is a mighty impressive feat—the emphasis being on the word "noticeably". Since your shadow always moves a fraction of a second later than you yourself do, it's physically impossible _not_ to draw your gun at least a little bit faster than your own shadow.
-   _Superman_:
    -   In the Silver Age, Superman disguised the multi-ton key to his Fortress of Solitude as an "airplane marker" pointing to the North Pole. He maintained this facade well into the Bronze Age, long after such markers had become forgotten relics — but there's still a line of them running across the United States, and yes, they used to be painted bright yellow.
    -   "Kenan Kong", or in Chinese name order "Kong Kenan", is a plausible Chinese name, even if it reminds some of the very un-Chinese _Kenan & Kel_ and _King Kong_. Parsed by Chinese characters, it would be _Kong Ke-nan_. And _Kong_ is the surname of none other than Confucius (derived from _Kong Fu-zi_).
-   Many raised eyebrows when _X-Men_ introduced the villainous character Manuel Enduque, a West African teenage billionaire whose wealth comes from a family tradition of human trafficking that goes all the way back to his great-great-grandfather, thinking that the idea to have an African who profited from slave trading was done purely to be edgy. In fact, there was a thriving slave trade amongst African and Arabian nations long before Europeans arrived and established the Trans-Atlantic Slave Routes, and even to this day, many West Africans descended from slavers feel no shame about what their ancestors did, or even regard them with pride for the wealth and power they enjoyed.
-   As in _Watchmen_, which features the Comedian's smiley face button (stained with blood during his Plot-Triggering Death) as a recurring visual motif, there really is a smiley face crater on Mars. This smiley face is called Galle (which is another huge element of the series). Dave Gibbons admits that was incredibly lucky.

    Comic Strips 

-   In _Elvis_, Elvis' daughter listens to "Smurf Hits," pop songs with the lyrics rewritten to be about The Smurfs. Most people in Sweden, where _Elvis_ is published, know that _Smurf Hits_ is a real thing. But the fact that the song that Elvis' daughter is listening to, which goes "Kokobom smurf smurf, kokobom smurf smurf," is real will surprise a lot of readers since it sounds more like a parody.
-   _Garfield_:
    -   In one strip where he put on a singing performance on top of the fence, he had money thrown at him by the resident of some distant Pacific island in the form of a millstone. The Yap islands in the Pacific really do use enormous round stone discs with a hole in the middle as a form of currency. See The Other Wiki for details. Anyone who grew up in the '60s or '70s would remember the Yap stone coin's frequent appearances in _Ripley's Believe It or Not!_ on the funny pages, but everyone else....
    -   In one strip, Jon purchased a "battery powered battery charger". At first glance, this seems like an absurd waste of money, but in fact many people carry external battery packs to recharge the batteries in their phones and other portable electronics when there's no power outlet available.
-   _Knights of the Dinner Table_:
    -   The Faygo soft drink, beloved of the characters, and the bizarre flavours mentioned (like Rock & Rye), is an actual US brand and not something Jolly Blackburn made up. Fans of the Insane Clown Posse will recognize it as the band's drink of choice. For added surprise, Rock & Rye is both a whiskey cocktail and a commercial liqueur made with rye whiskey and rock sweets.
    -   Some fans were likewise unaware that _Hawk the Slayer_ is a real movie. This is somewhat more justified than the Faygo example as _Hawk_ is one of the few films mentioned by actual name; most of the time the characters mention a movie, the title is a made up one. Though this may become less of an example since _Hawk the Slayer_ has been featured on Rifftrax.
-   A story arc in the 1980s Old West comic strip _Latigo_ starts with one character, who is a bit impractical and thoughtless, rejoicing at finding a "three-dollar gold piece". It's got to be a fake, right? Nope, the U.S. Mint tried it, from 1854 to 1889. _Nobody_ liked it. In the 35 years it was produced, less than half-a million were struck, at all three U.S. Mint facilities, combined.
-   In one _Calvin and Hobbes_ strip, Calvin's dad waxes nostalgic about wooden escalators. It's easy to assume he's just talking about regular stairs as a snipe at modern technology (and would even be well within his character to do so), but no, wooden escalators were a real thing.
    -   Though rare, wooden escalators still exist today.
-   The UK adult comic _Viz_ (not to be confused with the Japanese manga company) is an _Affectionate Parody_ of the kind of children's comic that proliferated in the UK even before World War II. Everything from the layout to the tropes therein are in the same style. Given that that type of comic fell victim to higher prices for newsprint and changing tastes, there is at least one generation that doesn't understand what the comic is attempting to copy. (_The Beano_ is the only survivor \[unless you count Genre Throwback _The Phoenix_\], and these days arguably comes across as a kid-friendly version of _Viz_.)

    Fan Works 

-   In _Boys und Sensha-do!_, it is mentioned that there is a sport called Sentoki-do, similar to Sensha-do, but with planes rather than tanks; Akio's family does it, but he is unwilling to do so because of the accident that killed his father. The author says that combat dogfighting actually exists in real life, over the Pacific Ocean, with lasers instead of simunition rounds.
-   _Dragon Ball Z Abridged_:
    -   In Episode 19, Vegeta tries to prepare Gohan for the fight with the Ginyu Force by comparing it to various Toku shows. Gohan didn't know any of them... except for the last of a long list, _Tattooed Teenage Alien Fighters from Beverly Hills_. Judging by the comments in several YouTube videos of that series, a lot of people were surprised to find that the show was real, and not just a joke. Amusingly, prior to making the episode, neither did Team Four Star themselves: when they were writing the joke and needed the most obscure Western Toku-style show possible, KaiserNeko's husband suggested _Tattooed Teens_, only for the others to say "That existed?!"
        -   A clip of that same show used as a gag on Mr. Mendo's Hack Attack sparked so much confusion, he had to amend his reviewing schedule just to prove it was real.
    -   Likewise, quite a few people unfamiliar with the original dubs of the show had no idea that Piccolo's motivational speech after his fusion with Nail was taken directly from them.
        -   In another Piccolo example, _Abridged_ occasionally has characters refer to him as "Big Green". This is another reference to an old dub of the show, where Piccolo was renamed to Big Green.
    -   Cell's comment about how by the time Goku was in his teens, he'd "defeated an army, several demons, and sent a rabbit to the moon" had Trunks asking "Did you make that last one up?" A lot of comments on any video dealing with early _Dragon Ball_ villain Monster Carrot tend to get a response along the lines of "huh, Cell didn't make it up."
-   The _Heroes of the Storm_ fanfic _Heroes of the Desk_ has its protagonists escaping in a vessel propelled by "magnetohydrodynamic" engines. The drive is both a real (if impractical) concept and has been used in fiction before (as the "caterpillar drive"). Its cousin, the magnetoplasmadynamic drive (ion engine), also makes an appearance, though the ability to have both in a single housing switching between modes at will is Rule of Cool.
-   In _A Kingdom Divided_, it is mentioned that the airships' rotary engines tended to lose cylinders in mid-air. It's an actual issue of WWI-era aircraft rotary engines.
-   In _Seven Days in Sunny June_, a group based in several high schools is named "The Club" whose purpose is to drug and date rape girls in the various schools until it was taken down. Some people complained that it was a Very Special Episode plotline doused with a lack of realism until the author pointed out that said groups _do_ exist...and then proceeded to give examples, two cases of which happened at prestigious schools in Tokyo and Philadelphia.
-   In _Vinyl and Octavia Engage in Roleplay_, the two title characters play a tabletop roleplaying game called _Pony Tales_. It's a real thing.
-   In _Origins_, a Massive Multiplayer Crossover between _Mass Effect_/_Star Wars_/_Borderlands_/Halo, a ship propelled by nuclear bombs sounds typically Torgue. Except it’s not. NASA actually had designs for such a ship, called the Orion Drive. Needless to say, just like Torgue, reality set in and it was scrapped.
-   In _Ambience: A Fleet Symphony_, a C-130 is landed on the USS _George Washington_, which led to some readers calling it impossible. Actually, C-130s have been landed on carriers before, although the idea was later rejected as too risky to be made a routine operation.
-   Several readers of _Doing It Right This Time_ were quite surprised to learn that _The Ethical Slut_ is a real book.
-   The _Discworld_ fics of A.A. Pessimal preserve the Original Flavour of Terry Pratchett by incorporating unlikely, ridiculous, strange and little-known concepts from Real Life — usually explaining in footnotes how and where they happened on this world. "Spanish Bacon", for instance, or the little-known Pig War between Great Britain and the USA.
-   _The Pieces Lie Where They Fell_: In the sequel _Picking up the Pieces_, chapter sixteen mentions salmon-flavored vodka. It actually exists in real life — it's brewed in Alaska.
-   _Citadel of the Heart_
-   In _Ghosts (How To Train Your Dragon)_, the pregnancy test Gothi has Astrid take seems like a take on a classic method — peeing in a bag of barley seeds. If they sprout within a few days, that means she's pregnant as is the case. While there is no evidence that Vikings practiced this, this was an actual method of finding out if a woman was with child since the times of 14th century BCE Ancient Egypt and was practiced into the medieval period.
-   In Chapter 29 of _The Chronicles of Karai Getting Her Shit Together_, Karai takes Leo to KFC, claiming that it is super popular in Japan during the holidays. In Real Life, KFC as Christmas dinner has been a widespread practice in Japan since 1974.
-   In Chapter 3 of _Infinity Train: Blossoming Trail_, Chloe shampoos her hair from a flower that smells like chocolate. Sounds fictional? The flower is an orchid called "Oncidium Sharry Baby" which actually does smell like chocolate.
-   In _Fire & Rain: Applejack and the Queen of Knives_ the date and time for the most part is presented in what appears to be straight out of an Alternative Calendar / Standard Time Units invention. Most readers actually thought it as, until it was pointed out that it's actually the military Date-Time Group, based on the Julian date system, and used in real life.
-   _Toonatopia: The Animation Initiation_ has a line where Wanda says "I knew that sponge was going too far as soon as I saw the _SpongeBob_ thermometer!" Believe it or not, that's not a joke — there actually were _SpongeBob_ thermometers.
-   In _A Sad Story_, Uncle Vernon uses a shotgun with a silencer to kill Hedwig. The silencer sounds like a Hand Wave to prevent the neighbors from hearing the gunshot, but shotgun suppressors do exist- not to make the weapon stealthier, but to reduce the risk of hearing damage by making the gunshot less loud.

    Film — Animation 

-   The Statue of Liberty is a golden yellow in the first _An American Tail_ movie. The animators showed their work, because the statue's skin is mostly copper, it really was that color when it was new. The greyish bluey green which the Statue of Liberty would eventually be known for is copper oxide that formed in subsequent decades.
-   In _Anomalisa_, Michael arrives at a hotel in Cincinnati and is given the option of a smoking or non-smoking room, picking the former. The film takes place in 2005; Ohio did not ban smoking in hotels until the following year.
-   In _Beavis and Butt-Head Do America_, Mr. Van Dreissen picks up an acoustic guitar and plays a song called "Lesbian Seagull", which later reprises over the end credits sung by Englebert Humperdinck in the style of an Award-Bait Song. The song is silly enough that you'd think it was made up for the film, but the original version was released in 1979 by gay singer-songwriter Tom Wilson: The album it appeared on, _Gay Name Game_, featured both serious and humorous songs, so it's unclear whether the narm of this particular song was intentional after all.
-   In _The Boxtrolls_, the "tastiest cheese known to man" is aged for centuries from the milk of the _male_ lactating fruit bat. Cheese aged for centuries from bat milk is not a thing (yet, at least), but two species of fruit bats are in fact the only male mammals known to naturally lactate.
-   In _Despicable Me 2_, Lucy uses a lipstick taser on Gru, a moment showcased in the trailer. Stun guns disguised as lipstick actually exist.
-   Many people who viewed _Frozen_ were surprised to find that ice harvesting was an actual thing in the 19th century that was especially common in Norway and many other parts of Europe and North America, and was exported to countries as far as the Philippines and the Carribean. Blocks of ice were put into icehouses to store food before modern refrigerators existed.
-   _Frozen II_: It might look weird to see black people like General Mattias in a 19th century Scandinavian kingdom, but it's not a matter of Politically Correct History. Norse settlers, traders, and Viking raiders explored all over Europe, including North African and Middle Eastern nations on the Mediterranean sea, and some people from those areas came back to Scandinavia (as either slaves/indentured servants or free-men), so it's not impossible for there to be dark-skinned descendants of those immigrants.
-   Many non-European viewers of Disney's _The Hunchback of Notre Dame_ consider Esmeralda Ambiguously Brown, but her ethnicity actually _is_ "gypsy". Gypsies, or Romani as they're more _correctly_ called, are descended from nomads who left India hundreds of years ago. Many people who have never met a Romani don't realize that "gypsy" is an actual ethnic group and not just a term for nomadic travelers. To add to the confusion, like most adaptations, Disney gave the character a Race Lift (in the book she was a stolen white baby raised by the gypsies). Due to the Unfortunate Implications of this, most adaptations cut this part out. With that said, Disney's version of Esmeralda does have a darker skin tone than even the other Romani in the film, so she may be Ambiguously Brown after all.
-   _The Incredibles_:
    -   The way the interviews and news broadcasts were done in the film was how interviews and news were done in Real Life in the '50s and '60s.
    -   One of the film's settings is "Nomanisan Island" its name being taken from the phrase "No man is an island". There really was a "Nomanisan Island" in Lake Kittamaqundi, Maryland, U.S., until it was converted into a peninsula in 2010.
-   _Inside Out_:
-   _Kronk's New Groove_: The idea of an elected Empress (which is one of the schemes Yzma tries to pull off) obviously sounds ludicrous, but, in fact, there are some places that actually did elect monarchy, including the Holy Roman Empire, medieval Ireland, and early modern Poland. There are still elective monarchies, including Malaysia, Cambodia, and Wallis-and-Futuna, a French territory in the Pacific Ocean, which is divided into three traditional kingdoms each led by a king elected among the local aristocracy.
-   _Lightyear_:
    -   In the 1980s and 1990s, it was not uncommon for there to be merchandise or children's cartoons based on more adult geared action films, films that were often very popular among younger viewers (particularly teenagers) despite their ratings.
    -   Moreover, there were a few instances of media aimed at families or younger viewers showing or at least alluding to same-sex relationships in the 1990s. Examples include Willow and Tara on _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_ (a series aimed primarily at teenagers), Xena and Gabrielle on _Xena: Warrior Princess_, and the same-sex kiss in the _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_ episode "Rejoined".
-   _Monsters vs. Aliens_: Dr. Cockroach telling Gallaxhar's supercomputer that his Ph.D is in dance _seems_ like a funny case of Artistic License – Law, but in actuality, dancing Ph.Ds exist, which are designed to help those who earn their doctorates become performance artists.
-   _Mulan_ is sometimes attacked for invoking Interchangeable Asian Cultures and borrowing elements from Japanese and Korean culture. However, those are really just Ancient Chinese aspects that influenced the other countries. Mulan's dress for the Matchmaker resembles a kimono but is actually a hanfu (traditionally Chinese).
-   In _My Little Pony: Equestria Girls – Rainbow Rocks_, the instruments Trixie's bandmates are playing look bizarre to some fans who haven't seen any live performances of electronic music. They're a fairly accurate representation of typical portable sequencers.
-   _Pocahontas_:
    -   John Smith ends the film sailing back to England on a months long sea voyage to get better treatment for a gunshot wound than the Powhatans had. Some viewers think this is ridiculous; that a months-long sea voyage would only put his life in more danger. Except that's exactly what happened (although he was injured in a gunpowder accident rather than being shot by the Big Bad) and he did survive the voyage.
    -   The Green Aesop of "Colors of the Wind" actually ties into traditional Native American values, specifically the religion of Animism. That is the belief that all natural phenomena has a soul (reflected in the lyrics "but I know every rock and tree and creature has a life, has a spirit, has a name"). The presence of Grandmother Willow — a spirit of a talking willow tree — is a representation of this belief too.
    -   The sequel has a moment where Chief Powhatan gives Pocahontas's escort to London a staff — and tells him to cut a notch on it for every "white face" he sees, so they can get an idea of their numbers. This is something the real man actually did.
-   _Ratatouille_:
    -   As crazy as it seems (to American viewers at least), the pest control shop with all the dead rats hanging in the window is an actual store in Paris. It's called Aurouze, and it's been around since 1872.
    -   Anton Ego's last review of Gusteau's prior to the events of the movie said "Gusteau has finally found his rightful place in history right alongside another equally famous chef, Monsieur Boy-ar-dee." Ettore Boiardi was a real chef who ran a restaurant in Cleveland and became famous enough to start marketing a line of prepackaged Italian food. The earliest products were more akin to the boxed pastas and canned sauces still sold by more respectable brands today.
-   The Aracuan bird from _The Three Caballeros_ is actually a real species, called the Aracua or Speckled Chachalaca. However, the real animal looks nothing like Disney's version.
-   _Toy Story_:
    -   In _Toy Story 2_, Al lives in an apartment block that doesn't allow children, which is Truth in Television; 18+ only apartments do exist for various reasons and became more common in the 2010s.
    -   In the opening scene of _Toy Story 3_, Woody has to save a train full of orphans. Orphan trains actually existed in the late 1800s.
-   In _Turning Red_, milk is advertised as being sold in bags which is actually the case in Eastern Canada but rare elsewhere.
-   _Winnie-the-Pooh_: Pooh likes eating honey from jars, which tends to be portrayed as a solid bright yellow color and fairly thick and creamy in texture, rather than a semi-translucent, syrupy orange-gold liquid. However, the honey he eats is crystallised "set" or "creamed" honey, where the honey crystals are ground very fine to prevent a grainy texture. This has sometimes not been encountered by readers or viewers before, leading to confusion due to the lack of similarity with "runny" honey. "Runny" honey will itself crystallise over time, but these crystals are much larger than those in "set" honey.
-   _Legends of Valhalla: Thor_: While having Thor be Odin's illegitimate son sounds like something people only familiar with Classical Mythology would drum up, one must remember that this was the case with Thor in the original mythology.

    Music 

-   _The Arrogant Worms_ song "The Last Saskatchewan Pirate" is a comedy about a down-on-his-luck farmer turned to piracy on the river Saskatchewan. While real life pirates have probably not operated on the Saskatchewan to any great extent, river pirates have been a thing on most major rivers in the world.
-   Many American listeners thought that the "Electric Avenue" of Eddy Grant's early '80s hit song was a made-up name for a party place. In fact, it's a real street in the neighbourhood of Brixton in South London, which gets its name from being the first market street in the area to have electric lighting and hosts a regular immigrant street market (and once you realize that, the fact that it's a protest song about the 1981 Brixton riot rather than a party anthem becomes clearer).
-   "Punk Rock Girl" by The Dead Milkmen features the lines "Someone played a Beach Boys song on the jukebox / it was 'California Dreamin''..." Some have expressed irritation at such an error, since "California Dreamin'" is of course by The Mamas & The Papas. Others have called it a deliberate mis-attribution: the main characters are portrayed as Quincy punks, so it would sort of be in-character for them to not know (or care about) the difference. However, the song is actually referencing a Cover Version of "California Dreamin'" The Beach Boys had released as a single two years earlier (in 1986).
-   Perhaps because of its use in _Super Size Me_, "Rock N' Roll McDonald's" is one of the better-known Wesley Willis songs. Listeners tend to think it's just about McDonald's in general, and are therefore puzzled by lyrics like "McDonalds is the place to rock" and "people flock here to get down to the rock music" and assume they are simply part of Willis' unconventional songwriting style. Rock N' Roll McDonalds was an actual place—a large flagship McDonalds restaurant full of rock and roll memorabilia in Willis' home city of Chicago.
-   In 1949, Mel Blanc recorded a wild takeoff on Al Jolson singing "Toot, Toot, Tootsie (Good-Bye)" (which Jolson sang in _The Jazz Singer_). At one point, Mel whistles in a manic bird-call-esque fashion. Just Mel being silly? Nope! Jolson had done a new recording of the song two years prior where he did a whistle solo that was almost as wild as Mel's.
-   Listeners can be surprised that "the Rolling truck Stones thing" or "the mobile" in "Smoke on the Water" <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  refers to the Rolling Stones Mobile Studio, a truck with a built-in recording studio that was owned by The Rolling Stones, who loaned it out to bands such as Deep Purple and Led Zeppelin to record music.
-   "Weird Al" Yankovic:
    
    -   The song "The Biggest Ball of Twine in Minnesota" recaps a family road trip to see the world's biggest ball of twine. He also rattles off a list of other tourist traps they've visited in the past:
        
        _Like Elvis-A-Rama, the Tupperware Museum,  
        The Boll Weevil Monument and Cranberry World,  
        Shuffleboard Hall of Fame, Poodle Dog Rock,  
        And the Mecca of Albino Squirrels_
        
    
    Even if you're aware that the world's biggest ball of twine is indeed a roadside attraction — if only from the number of other times it's been mentioned or parodied in popular media — and correctly assumed that it is indeed located in Minnesota (its creator's hometown of Darwin, to be exact), you'd probably think that list was made up like the rest of the song's details. Nope, they're literally all real places, even the last one, which could actually be referring to a number of different towns vying for recognition of their albino squirrel populations.
    
    -   "Virus Alert" claims that the eponymous virus will "invest your cash in stock in Euro-Disney". Euro-Disneyland (now known as Disneyland Paris) was an infamous flop, but how could someone specifically buy stock in a particular Disney property? But no, he's referring to Euro Disney S.C.A., an independent company that built and operated the park in partnership with Disney and which, prior to 2005 (admittedly before the song was released, but probably not before it was written), did indeed have its own stock listing on the London Stock Exchange.
-   In the post-Thatcher era, many younger listeners assume that the line "It's one for you, nineteen for me" from The Beatles' "Taxman" was an exaggeration. It wasn't; the top marginal tax rate really was 95%. (Note that this means only income above a certain \[very high\] threshold was taxed at 95%.)
-   The Marty Robbins ballad "El Paso" begins in Rosa's Cantina. This cantina does exist in the same city and fans of Robbins and The Grateful Dead (who covered the song) regularly visit the place.
-   Indie rock musician Kurt Vile is often assumed to be using a stage name, with some believing it's a pun on either Kurt Weill or Alan Moore (who once used the pseudonym Curt Vile). In fact, Kurt Vile is his real name, the similarities are a coincidence and his parents were apparently unfamiliar with Weill when he was born.
-   In Frank Zappa's song "The Blue Light", from _Tinseltown Rebellion_, there's a line about smoking the white stuff from the inside of a banana peel. As ridiculous as this sounds, people really used to think you could get high this way.
-   Nas's "No Introduction", Kendrick Lamar's "HUMBLE", and likely a large slew of other rap songs mention "syrup sandwiches". It's an actual recipe where you put syrup between pieces of bread, similarly to jam.
-   Tom Wilson's "Lesbian Seagull" (see above) counts. Nowdays, the song sounds like some strange joke, if you don't know the historical context. The song refers to actual scientific interest in the 70s about an explosion in observed same-sex female couples among seagull colonies. It was quite a to-do in Gay and Anti-Gay circles; given the theme of the surrounding album was homosexual life in the 70s, the debate would have been somewhat well known to Wilson's intended audience at the time.
-   The video for Ultravox's "Dancing with Tears in My Eyes", during the line "We love to the sound of our favorite song", depicts a boombox that plays vinyl records. Several models of vertical turntables were in fact made by Sharp at the time.
-   The 1961 hit "Tossin' and Turnin' " by Bobby Lewis has the lines "The clock downstairs was strikin' four" and "I heard the milkman at the door". This wasn't contrived to make a good rhyme. It's an Unintentional Period Piece from the days when dairies would deliver milk door-to-door, before supermarkets were common or grocery stores sold milk. A delivery man would be out from about 4 to 6 in the morning, delivering glass quart bottles of fresh milk every day. Since the milkman was out so early, most people never saw him.
-   The cover of Less Than Jake's _Pezcore_ is an illustration of a young girl shooting Pez candy out of a small pistol — Pez did briefly market a "pez gun" in the mid-'60s, and the cover art is a detail from a real print ad.
-   Sabaton's Horrible History Metal frequently calls attention to obscure, forgotten, or lesser-known parts of history that might come across like something out of an exaggerated Hollywood war movie. An all-female regiment of teenage girls who fly biplanes against the Nazis? Less than 800 Polish infantry holding off a Nazi tank invasion force numbering 40,000 strong, _for three days?_ Nazi forces attempting to besiege a castle being successfully held off by a motley assortment of American GIs, French POWs, Austrian resistance fighters, and _deserting Wehrmacht troops_? 7000 Germans being forced into retreat by a numerically inferior Russian bayonet charge even after the Russians had suffered a gas attack so devastating that they were literally **coughing up bloody flesh and pieces of their own organs as they charged?** All real.
-   Yello: Listeners in Europe commonly assumed that Domingo de Santa Clara was made up by the band for the song "Domingo", given the mystical description of him in the lyrics and the band's other eccentricities. However, Dieter Meier confirmed in a 1985 interview with _Vinyl_ magazine that he was a real person, specifically a notoriously bizarre Augustinian monk named Abraham a Sancta Clara. The Domingo title (taken from the Spanish word for Sunday) was tacked on purely because Meier liked the word.

    Mythology and Religion 

-   The Trojan War was long believed to have been pure myth until Heinrich Schliemann succeeded in finding the ruins of Troy in Hissarlik, Turkey. They still turned out to have grown in the telling somewhat, however. For one, there wasn't a single city of Troy, but many, each built over the ruins of the last. Which one of these, if any, inspired the story is hard to say, though the sixth city (destroyed c. 1250 BCE) or more often the seventh (destroyed c. 1180) are the most favored. It wasn't just Troy either; Greek cities mentioned in the story but not inhabited in Homer's time have been found, and some of the stranger pieces of equipment like boar-tusk helmets have been found dating to the Bronze Age.
-   Archaeological discoveries apparently related to myths and legends tend to be all over the place with regards to this phenomenon. Each new find has different groups declaring that a tale is confirmed, disproven, or needs to be rewritten and all can usually offer up at least a token bit of evidence for their viewpoint. Even _the discoverers themselves_ are often at odds with each other over how to interpret what they've dug up. At least part of this problem derives from a sort of ancient Memetic Mutation. Good stories spread, and locals alter those stories to relate to local heroes, events, and locations. It's often a mistake to attempt to point to an archaeological site as _the_ source of a story, because it's just as likely that there are literally dozens of such sites scattered around.
    -   For example, the famous Twelve Labors of Hercules were likely originally the famous acts of ten or twelve different local heroes, whose stories all got clumped up and attributed to the most famous one.
    -   One explanation for Zeus' legendary hypersexual reputation (including family members) is that various myths involving the Top God or thunder god were syncretized over time into happening to a single god (so if one culture had a myth where the thunder god and fertility goddess had a child but weren't related, they became Related in the Adaptation as Zeus and his sister Demeter).
-   Historians assumed that King Belshazzar from the Book of Daniel was made up, due to non-Biblical sources identifying Nabonidus as the king of Babylon at the time of its conquest by Cyrus the Great and other historical inconsistencies. However, it was later discovered that Nabonidus's son and heir apparent was named Belshazzar and that he was his father's regent in the capital while he was campaigning.
-   Gilgamesh, King of Uruk, is usually thought to be merely a mythological king, because the only stories we have of his life are outlandish and framed in that kind of setting, and also because the name "Uruk" doesn't sound like a real city. However, Uruk was a real ancient Sumarian city-state, and Gilgamesh was its historical king. Gilgamesh is widely accepted to have ruled sometime between 2900 and 2350 BC, and we know this because of references to him from a different ruler we KNOW existed.
-   Timbuktu is believed by many to be a fictitious location found only in mythology and African folklore. Some even believe that "Timbuktu" is a general term for a dreamlike and/or nonsensical parallel universe. Timbuktu is a real place, a city in Mali with over 50,000 people living there and has a very interesting history. The reason why it's so often believed to be made-up is because of its odd-sounding name and because of the many ancient stories written about the city which make it sound like it only exists in legend.

    Pinball 

-   The playfield freeway signs in _Truck Stop_ refer to various towns with funny names, such as "Santa Claus, IN", "Smackover, AR", and "Metropolis, IL". These are all Real Life Cutesy Name Towns.

    Podcasts 

-   In _Behind the Bastards_ during the second episode on Reinhard Heydrich, Evans mentions that some listeners wrote in to say they were shocked to find out that the "knife missile" mentioned in his Running Gag about Raytheon is an actual thing. Specifically, it's the R9X variant of the AGM-114 Hellfire air-to-surface missile, nicknamed the "ninja missile" and "Flying Ginsu" which replaces the explosive warhead with a cluster of heavy metal blades. They've been used in targeted strikes against terrorist leaders, to kill the person without blowing up the area around him and harming others.
-   _Hey! Jake and Josh_:
    -   A more disturbing example pops up during the _Cool Kids Table_ game _Bloody Mooney_. When Ms. Pear the detention teacher threatens to hit the students with a paddle, Jessica shoots back that she can't because it's 1986. The DM Alan, through the teacher, points out that striking students was actually still allowed until the nineties.
    -   In Episode 51 of _Pokémon World Tour: United_, Alan describes a Chansey dipping her cookie into her tea as something strange, causing Jake, Josh, and Matt to all roast him for having never considered that that's the purpose of cookies in the first place.
-   _Pretending to Be People_ includes an off-hand reference to cashew chicken. While nobody would be surprised by the existence of cashew chicken itself, the podcast is actually referring to a variant of the dish from Springfield, Missouri.

    Professional Wrestling 

-   Ric Flair and Harley Race both seem like obvious kayfabe names. They aren't. Neither is Rick Rude.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   Likewise, a tag team named the Hardy Boyz seems totally made up, but Matthew Moore Hardy and Jeffrey Nero Hardy really _are_ brothers and those really _are_ their birth names.
-   Katey Harvey didn't invoke My Nayme Is when she became a wrestler. Her name is naturally spelled 'Katey', and she's competed under her real name for her whole career.
-   Mickie James likewise sounds like a stage name, but it's her given name. Especially unusual considering she used a stage name in TNA and the indie scene (Alexis Laree) but went by her real name when signed to WWE.
-   Vince McMahon had a concept called Friar Ferguson back in 1993, 13 years before _Nacho Libre_. Of course, the Catholic Church of New York called him out on this, forcing the character to be dropped. Yet, there was a priest named Fray Tormenta, who earned extra money for an orphanage by taking part in professional wrestling. Yes, before Jack Black, Vince McMahon had done his research.
-   Brock Lesnar's name is so fitting for his image that it might be shocking to find out it's his birth name.

    Puppet Shows 

-   Many modern American viewers can't make sense of a scene in the original _Captain Scarlet and the Mysterons_. Lt. Green is manning the gun turret on a moon rover. After blowing up all the enemies (for the moment), he asks, "Do I get a coconut?" The response is something like, "When we get out of this, you'll have all the coconuts you can eat." This is often misinterpreted as a racist joke. It's actually a reference to Coconut Shies, where coconuts were a common prize. They're still common enough at fairs in England. As is memorialized in the old novelty song, "I've Got a Lovely Bunch of Coconuts".
-   Many people would never believe you if you told them that Alice Cooper appeared on _The Muppet Show_ in 1978. But he did — performing "Welcome to My Nightmare" dressed as a vampire and "School's Out" dressed as a devil, _and_ trying to get the Muppets to sell their souls to him! (And yes, that episode did come in for some flak — to the point that the writers had to slip in a totally extraneous scene of Robin the Frog singing "Over the Rainbow" just to placate the censors.)
-   In the _Under the Umbrella Tree_ episode "What's Cooking?" Jacob makes peanut butter and lettuce sandwiches for dinner. This might seem like Bizarre Taste in Food today, but actually, peanut butter and lettuce sandwiches with mayonnaise were a popular cheap lunch during The Great Depression.

    Radio 

-   _The Goon Show_ has Bluebottle talking about how when his grandad retired, his firm gave him "one of dem tings what it is that wakes you up at eight o'clock, boils the kettle, and pours a cuppa tea," which turns out to be Bluebottle's grandma, but you're supposed to think he was talking about a teasmade. Listeners from less tea-obsessed countries might think it's just more Surreal Humor. Which, incidentally, is why in the video for Queen's "I Want to Break Free", Brian is woken by by an alarm clock that's _blowing steam_.
-   "Never Be Rude To An Arab" from _Monty Python's Contractual Obligation Album_ may seem like just another example of the troupe's boundary-pushing humour, but there is actually a Danish children's song titled "Jeg har set en rigtig negermand"<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  which is basically the same concept, except played 100 percent straight.
-   KFM 94.5's Whackhead Simpson prank-called a woman to tell her that her car had some serious problems, and reeled off a list of fictitious repair parts, one of which was a headlamp gasket (not to be confused with a _head gasket_, which goes between the engine and the cylinders). Headlamp gaskets are, in fact, real car components which seal the headlamp and protect it from rain and road debris.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Dungeons & Dragons_:
    -   In the campaign "Living Greyhawk", there was a Veluna event where the heroes visited an anarcho-syndicalist commune near the border of the country. Many players claimed that this was a blatant reference to _Monty Python and the Holy Grail_ that had no purpose in the setting. The author had to explain both on the Internet and repeatedly in person that much of Monty Python's humour was based on British politics, and that there once was such a political system. Early Anglo-Saxon communities were rather democratic, often appointing a honcho solely to command in wartime and booting him shortly thereafter. In pre-industrial societies, it would be quite common to find communes making collective decisions and informal positions of authority. Many people wouldn't even know the king's name; the young Chairman Mao didn't hear of the Emperor's death until two years after. Even as late as the early eighties, some Chinese peasants were still referring to Deng Xiaoping as "the best Emperor we've ever had." Aside from the precise term used as a title, he literally was.
        
        Although what is incorrect here is the use of Anarcho-Syndicalism as the name for the system used there. Communal decision making was often the norm in Europe, but Anarcho-Syndicalism is a separate ideology based around revolutionary industrial unionism that would be really anachronistic in a pre-industrial world.
        
    -   Also, a lot of players may be surprised to learn that a fair amount of the more ridiculous monsters of _Dungeons & Dragons_ are actually derived from real mythology.
    -   If you're not a devout Catholic, you probably don't know that St. Cuthbert, the _World Of Greyhawk_ god of mercy, is an actual saint (in fact, he's the patron saint of Northumbria). Along with Tiamat, he's one of the few real-life religious figures who remain in the default pantheon.
    -   Ah, the Monk class. A giant homage to Shaolin monks and Hong Kong kung fu movies, totally out of place in the Medieval European Fantasy setting of a typical _D&D_ campaign — right? Not quite — in medieval Germany, it wasn't unknown for monks to be trained in martial arts, and there are even records of them threatening knights. The Royal Armories Manuscript _I.33_ (also known as the Tower manuscript and the _Codex Walpurgis_), a 13th-century German martial arts manual, _actually depicts a monk and a scholar fighting each other_, not knights as you might assume.
-   One may be forgiven for thinking that, due to frequently going for The Theme Park Version of feudal samurai culture, the majority of samurai family names in _Legend of the Five Rings_ are faux-Japanese hackjobs. Well, several are, but the game gives us a good number of legit surnames as well: Shiba, Matsu, Yoritomo, Asahina, Isawa, Togashi, Ujina, etc. A few others aren't proper _people's_ names, exactly, but do reference things that were actually in Japan. Hida was the name of one of the old feudal provinces on Honshu Island, and Ikoma is the name of a mountain. Most of the place names are technically Japanese, as well. At least, they use real Japanese words that make sense and were probably intentional... Just not in the right order. A notable example (which is both common and understandable, among novice speakers) is the usage of "no" as equal to the English word "of" rather than the possessive "'s".
-   Some of the names the designers of _Magic: The Gathering_ come up with for the cards are actual archaic terms or derived from archaic terms. In fact, Doug Beyer hosted several linguistic looks at sets and divided certain names into "okra" words (real but strange), "twinkie" words (completely made up), or "tofu" words (made from real words, but are really alien), inviting readers to guess which category a certain word on a card fell into.
-   The "Get Out of Jail Free" Card from _Monopoly_ was indeed a real thing in Britain in 1567, done to raise money for their Navy. They created a lottery with first-prize being a whopping £5000 worth of money, precious metals, fine tapestries, and linen cloth (so, around $2.6 _million_ in today's money). They cost about 10 shillings a pop (about $270 in today's money), which was far too rich for most people's blood, so they also declared that anyone who had a ticket was promised freedom from arrest for all crimes excluding murder, felonies, piracy or treason. Yes, this means not only was it a very real thing, but the one-time-use "Get Out of Jail Free" Card from Monopoly is actually _more believable_ than the real thing.
-   _Pathfinder_ includes Mummy paste as a moderately addictive Fantastic Drug. In real life, mummy powders and extracts saw occasional use as drugs for centuries and only finally fell out of use in the 1920s. Of course, real-life _mummia_ wasn't harvested from a supernatural source and didn't risk transforming its users into undead abominations... as far as anyone knows.
-   Part of the extensive backstory of _Shadowrun_ includes an earthquake hitting New York City in 2005, which completely devastates Manhattan. Sounds like it could only be the product of the setting's magic, except there _do_ exist fault lines in New York and New Jersey, including many close to the Big Apple itself. The largest of these occured in 1884, which was estimated to be Magnitude 5.
-   In _Warhammer 40,000_, there's a shard of an ancient star god called the void dragon on Mars in an area called the Noctis Labyrinth (Latin for "labyrinth of night"). This is an actual place on the surface of Mars, called "Noctis Labyrinthus", where deep valleys form a maze-like structure.

    Theatre 

-   Samuel Adams wrote in one of his letters that if the Founding Fathers did not ban slavery, "there will be trouble a hundred years hence." He was off by fifteen years. The writers of the musical _1776_ had to modify the line because they were afraid the audience would think they had made it up.
-   Performances of _The Complete Works of William Shakespeare (abridged)_ often result in the audience asking "did William Shakespeare really write that?" afterward; he did. Sort of. Many of the Shakespeare quotes are verbatim. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   In Mozart's opera _Don Giovanni_, there is a scene where there is a party where everybody is supposed to watch Don Giovanni eat. A satire on the decadence of eighteenth century aristocracy? An example of an absurdist flight of fancy? Not at all: watching the nobles eat was a popular form of entertainment in pre-revolutionary France. The Palace of Versailles even sold tickets to the King's meals. (Anyone could go, whether local or tourist.) It could be described as the eighteenth-century version of _Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous_. Unfortunately, the logistics of providing viewing space meant that the food served, while superficially magnificent from the audience's point of view, was often cold, congealed, and barely edible by the time it reached the head table. And testing each dish and drink for poison meant that a glass of wine took about 20 minutes to pour.
-   In _Hamlet_, the title character tells Horatio he endorses Fortinbras as king in the ensuing election. The Danish nobility of that era did, in fact, elect the king. By Shakespeare's time it had become common for son to follow father on the throne, but that was by no means automatic, and the Kings had to invest significant political capital in making it happen. It took a coup d'etat _perpetrated by the reigning King_ (yes, that's a thing) in 1660 to make the throne automatically inheritable.
-   The fate of Cinderella's stepsisters in _Into the Woods_ seems like an addition to tie into the musical's Deconstruction of fairy tales. But this is what happens to them in the Brothers Grimm version — one sister cutting off her big toe and the other her heel, and the birds blinding them afterwards. Likewise instead of a Fairy Godmother, Cinderella prays at a tree planted on her mother's grave.
-   In _Knickerbocker Holiday_, Stuyvesant, obviously grasping for a Pretext for War, asserts that "the Connecticans have built a fort on the Connecticut River, within our territories". Though the musical is riddled with historical inaccuracies, particularly Stuyvesant's Historical Villain Upgrade (which is even lampshaded), it is true that New Netherland did claim the Connecticut River as within its territory at the time. New Netherland/New York gradually surrendered its claims to territory bordering on the Connecticut River through separate treaties with Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont.
-   Given the changes made to the story of the von Trapp family in _The Sound of Music_, viewers might be forgiven if they assume that Georg's membership in the navy of landlocked Austria was invented as well, but they'd be wrong. Before 1918, Austria controlled a large empire including all of what is now Croatia and far-northeastern Italy (specifically, the city of Trieste). In that territory were numerous sea ports that were protected by a small but well-respected navy. The real Kapitan Georg von Trapp was one of Austro-Hungary's most decorated naval officers during World War I: he commanded two different submarines and was responsible for the sinking of an Italian armored cruiser and a French submarine.
-   In the original productions of the musical _Spring Awakening_, the punk rock-esque hairstyles some of the boys sported are assumed by many to be a result of the show's Anachronism Stew, but in fact, the director claims that they were inspired by some actual hairstyles in photos from the era.
    -   Also, those unfamiliar with the 19th century play the musical is based on (if they even know there is one) can be surprised to find that many scenes from the musical that seem to touch on modern controversial topics, such as one featuring a kiss between two boys, or the female protagonist's back-alley abortion, were, in fact, in the original.
-   A latter-day viewer/reader of the stage or film versions of _State of the Union_ may wonder why Conover is so monomaniacal about gaining the support of party power brokers for presidential candidate Grant Matthews, and is contemptuous of Grant's support with voters. The answer is that in those days, as had been the case throughout history and would still be true for a couple more decades, the party nominating process was controlled by power brokers. Party primaries did exist but were largely irrelevant, and in Real Life, candidates really were nominated by people controlling blocks of delegates at conventions.
-   The audience of _The Tsars Bride_ are often skeptical about the German physician being called Eliseus Bomelius and suspect it's a case of As Long as It Sounds Foreign. Actually, Bomelius is a Historical Domain Character who really had that name (or at least went by it) and really came from Westphalia. (There was a fashion to Latinise German names, which resulted in some truly odd but real names.)

    Visual Novels 

-   _Ace Attorney_:
    -   A major plot point in the first game is the Statute of Limitations on an old murder case being almost up. Just another aspect of the series' ridiculous Kangaroo Court, right? No, Japan really did have a Statute of Limitations on murder until 2010. The abolition applied to all murders that were still active under the prior Statute, i.e. within the past 15 years. Given that the murder in question happened in 2001, the plotline for the revisit in 2016 falls under the assumption the law would remain.
    -   Non-Japanese players might be surprised to learn that the Defense Attorney's and Prosecutor's badges in the series are the designs of the actual lapel pins worn by Japanese legal professionals.
    -   The court system itself (no jury, enormous amount of power in the hands of the prosecutor, no respect for defense attorneys) is only a minor exaggeration of the Real Life justice system in Japan at the time the games first came out.
    -   Case 4 in _Spirit of Justice_ has a few examples. Time Soba and Soba Glutton are both real Rakugo routines, and English-language karuta cards do exist. They're often used to teach Japanese speakers English phrases and idioms.
-   Followers of the Let's Play thread for _Hatoful Boyfriend_ were convinced that the bird photograph used for Anghel Higure was either Photoshopped or a bird that had been shot (or 'shopped from a bird that had been shot). Bleeding-heart doves do exist, and the namesake red stain on their chest is natural.
-   _Nine Hours, Nine Persons, Nine Doors_:
-   John Titor was not just some random name made for _Steins;Gate_. He was an actual figure from 2000 who claimed, on the Internet, to be a time traveler from the year 2036.

    Web Animation 

-   _Awesome Series_:
    -   In _Metal Gear Awesome 2_, the player is skipping through an annoying Cut Scene when Snake first meets Otacon (at Otacon's suggestion). Halfway through, he stops skipping just when Otacon is complaining about Snake coming onto him, causing Snake to get annoyed the player had to stop skipping at that part. It scans pretty much like a standard Shallow Parody Queer People Are Funny gag, but in fact the scene is a direct spoof of an out-of-place Ho Yay moment that actually _is_ in that cutscene, in which Snake starts feeling up Otacon asking if anything's wrong, and Otacon complains that Snake's "getting friendly all of a sudden", causing Snake to get embarrassed and flinch backwards (in reality, Snake is checking Otacon for symptoms of FOX-DIE). The scene also takes place immediately after a cutscene 'chapter break', so a player skipping through could easily stop skipping _exactly_ at that scene.
    -   The _Awesome Series_ parody of _Trauma Center_ has a gag where the doctor protagonist defuses an atom bomb. A number of viewers thought this was just one of the series's usual surreal jokes and were rather caught off guard to find that, no, there really is a scene in this surgery simulation game where you defuse a bomb.
-   _DEATH BATTLE!_:
    -   In the battle between Deadpool and Deathstroke, Boomstick makes up the alloy "boomstickium" in response to Deathstroke's promethium armor, only to get told by Wiz that promethium is a real thing, although it's still nothing like it's portrayed in the comics — it's actually a chemical used in atomic batteries.
    -   In the battle between Samurai Jack and Afro Samurai, Wiz compares Jack being forcefully sent to the future after years of training to "spending sleepless months in college only to find out no one cares about your English major", which Boomstick remarks that he should've gone with a more realistic major like his, which is poultry science. That's an actual major, by the way.
-   _Homestar Runner_:
    -   In the short "Meet Marshie," the title talking marshmallow mascot advertises "all-marshmallow mayonnaise." To those not in the know, it just sounds like a silly (and rather disgusting) idea, but _marshmallow creme_ is an actual product and is used for making actual sandwiches — for example, a peanut butter and marshmallow creme sandwich is called a Fluffernutter. Of course, that didn't stop Homestar from using the mayonnaise to make Marzipan a veggie burger.
    -   In the idle _Strong Bad Email_ animation on the _Homestar Runner_ Toons menu, Strong Bad tells a sender that there is "no such thing" as too much salty plum soda. Such a beverage does exist and it is popular in Vietnam.
    -   In another email, Strong Bad misinterprets the "CA" after a correspondent's name as a title of "Certified Arborist". That sounds like the sort of word salad that he and his costars drop on a regular basis — and many word processors' and browsers' spell checkers don't even acknowledge "arborist" as a real word — but there is indeed such a profession.
    -   Similarly, in the game "Peasant's Quest," looking at a particular tree brings up the message "It's Arbor Day, Charlie Brown!" which is indeed the name of an actual _Peanuts_ special and not a parody of how _Peanuts_ had a special for seemingly every holiday.
    -   The Cloitsterizer, a wooden Cartoon Cheese on a string first seen in the Strong Bad Email Suntan, is based on a real toy the creators saw a kid dragging around at a thrift store. They're actually mass-produced and known as lacing cheese, and are meant to teach lacing and sewing skills to toddlers.
    -   In the email "lunch special", Coach Z orders a "cod plank platter", which sounds like a made-up foodstuff akin to "Super Chinese Fish Buffalo Rice" in the same email, but is a real menu option from \[https://www.menuwithprice.com/menu/mandys-pizza/ Mandy's Pizza\].
-   _Hunter: The Parenting_: Episode 1 takes place in Norfolk, England, and has the cast being amused by a nearby village named "Cockthorpe". Another nearby village is called Warham. An immature joke and a reference to the group's previous project? Nope, real Norfolk villages.
-   Part of the humor in _If the Emperor Had a Text-to-Speech Device_ is that even the weirdest of elements used have shown up at some point or another, and are usually entirely canon.
    -   The biggest one is the Adeptus Custodes being hellaciously Stripperiffic, which came from a few references straight out of the First edition of Warhammer 40K that weren't contradicted until the 8th Edition (long after _Text To Speech_ made the joke). Indeed, many believe it was this series' portrayal of the "Fab Custodes" that prompted the new material.
    -   While Karstodes receives a lot of mockery for thinking there's a Warboss called Big Green, he is correct, down to the book and page he references to try and justify himself.
    -   During the Fourth special, Kitten stops Magnus' dramatic speech about the power and millennial legacy of the Ouija Board by asking "Why does it say 'Hasbro Incorporated'?" Hasbro does own the Ouija trademark and has sold boards before.
    -   From the Eight short, crotalids. You'd think they would be entirely made up for the sake of Steve Irwin jokes, since Warp-dwelling crocodiles are generally kind of a ridiculous concept, but they are entirely canon. Just as the Deathwatch books say, gigantic crocs that can migrate through Hell itself for no conceivable reason genuinely exist in the Warhammer universe.
-   Episode 8 of _Inanimate Insanity II_ has Test Tube use a bag of rice to attempt to repair a damaged MePhone. As ridiculous as it sounds, the "bag of rice" method actually works in real life to repair water-damaged iPhones. Test Tube just didn't execute it properly, as Fan must not have provided all of the details.
    -   Later in the same episode, Steve Cobs makes an off-hand remark about the time where he was a video game designer. It's a rather unknown fact, but Apple did at one point design a console—the Pippin—which predates Microsoft's Xbox by a good few number of years. Unlike the Xbox, though, the Pippin was a massive failure and was quickly discontinued.
-   In _Ratboy Genius_, Little King John gets an unsettling Villain Song where he sings about how he makes "Potato Knishes" in his factory. It's not uncommon to think "Knishes" is just a random, surreal-sounding word for the sake of the magic and the mystery. But no — a knish is an Eastern-European snack made of a vegetable filling (like potatoes) inside a baked, grilled, or fried dough covering.
-   _Salad Fingers_: In the episode "Glass Brother," Salad Fingers is making a dish following a recipe that calls for "spider milk." While that sounds like something made up for the series, spider milk is real, and is actually healthier than cow milk.
-   _Sonic for Hire_: Seniqua is an actual given name. It's not quite as common of a name, especially outside the US, so many viewers thought this was made up.
-   This one is likely unintentional, but one episode of _Two More Eggs_' parody of British children's shows, _Trauncles_, focuses on the coming-of-age tradition of a school-age boy getting his first pair of trousers. While there's no longer such a tradition, there used to be.

    Webcomics 

-   _Concession_ had a Story Arc where the character Artie is taken to a NAMBLA meeting after being Mistaken for Pedophile. The author had to assure people that it was a real organization and not something he made up for the comic.
-   _Digger_ by Ursula Vernon frequently invokes this, most notably with the Hyenas' creation myth, and the vampire squash. A direct result of the author having been an anthropology major in university, and being fond of showing her work (she often comments on her website about the sources of the various odd myths, folklore, and biological quirks used in her comic).
-   Many _Dumbing of Age_ readers who did not grow up in Christian North American households were surprised to learn that _Hymmel the Humming Hymnal_, Joyce's favorite TV show as a child, was a parody of a real Christian children's entertainment character: Psalty the Singing Songbook.
-   A lot of readers of _Harkovast_ believed the strange, forward curving Junlock swords were a concept invented by the author (referred to by some readers as "crowbar swords"), rather than based on the falx used by Ancient Dacians.
-   _Homestuck_:
    -   A number of readers on the _MS Paint Adventures_ forum didn't realize that John's Trademark Favorite Food, Fruit Gushers, are an actual product. Ditto for WV's and Gamzee's Trademark Favorite Drinks, Tab and Faygo, respectively. More understandable if you're viewing the comic from somewhere outside of North America. American Homestucks well aware of the existence of Fruit Gushers likely didn't realize that said fruitsnacks were a product of Betty Crocker until reading the comic either. Even then, they probably thought that was made up as one of the smaller examples of how much of the world the Betty Crocker corporation has control over.
    -   The troll culture might seem like an over-the-top spoof of militaristic civilisations and Proud Warrior Races. In fact, many elements of troll society — including all citizens above a certain age being automatically drafted into the military, a strict class-based society with the lower classes being freely abused by the higher classes, and babies being left in a hostile environment at birth to fend for themselves — were practiced by the original Proud Warrior Race Guys, the Spartans.
    -   Another thing that surprises a lot of people is the fact that "I'm a Member of the Midnight Crew" was not made up for _Homestuck_: it was written by ragtime singer Eddie Norton in 1909, and the Midnight Crew are named after it, not the other way around. The _a capella_ cover of the song usually featured in the comic is a modern performance, however, sung by David Ko in 2011. The original version is owned by Terezi as a vinyl record and can be listened to here.
-   _IDGet_ annual has strips dedicated to celebrating Cheap Plastic Frog Day, which actually _is_ a legitimate holiday, it's just a regional holiday in Ohio.
-   The comments section in _morphE_ were skeptical on the idea of Billy Thatcher being able to play a game of chess with Curio from dictation alone (no board and nothing to note where the pieces were). A comment read "how anyone could hold a game of chess entirely in his brain. Once there is a disagreement over the positions, it's basically over.". It turns out that not only is a dictated game of chess possible but grandmasters, such as Billy, are capable of running multiple games at once in their head. The present world record is 32 games running at the same time.
-   _Oglaf_:
-   _The Order of the Stick_: Obviously, it's not _real_ real, but the Monster in the Darkness's darkness-producing umbrella is a real _Dungeons & Dragons_ magical item. It's called the Parasol of the Night Fiend, and is popular with sunlight-averse monsters like vampires and drow. (The kitties and duckies are Rule of Funny, however.)
-   The protagonist of _Poison Ivy Gulch_ is Lotta Doler, a female Professional Gambler. Women gamblers like Lotta really did exist in the Old West! Some examples include Belle Ryan Cora, Eleanora Dumont and "Poker" Alice Ivers.
-   How many people realized the "Sogs" featured in this Captain Crunch parody were actual characters in old Captain Crunch commercials?

    Web Original 

-   One episode of _The Angry Video Game Nerd_ has the Nerd pull out and quote the philosophical text “On Bullshit” by Harry G. Frankfurt. An obvious joke, riffing on the Nerd’s love of calling things shit right? Nope. It’s a real book.
-   _Atop the Fourth Wall_: Many fans thought that Linkara made up "It's magic, I don't have to explain it," unaware that it's a jab at Joe Quesada, who said it to justify the controversial changes made to Spider-Man in _One More Day_. The exact quote is a case of Beam Me Up, Scotty!, and was coined by a Spidey fan writing in response to the story. Quesada, upon being asked why he essentially responded with "It's magic. We don't need to explain it," in regards to the story, said that other Marvel characters used magic and no one needed an explanation for those.
-   _The Black Guy Who Tips_ opens every show by mentioning that "The unofficial sport \[of the show\]... Is Bulletball! (And Bulletball Extreme!)". While "sport" may be too strong a term, Bulletball is real. Rod and Karen were on board even before Bulletball's creator brought it to _Dragon's Den_.
-   _Can You Spare a Quarter?_: Jamie at first isn't convinced that Jason knows an actual medicine man, thinking that they only exist in films.
-   _Constable Frozen_ is a tumblr blog that specializes in surreal photo edits of _Frozen_. When the short _Frozen Fever_ came out and images started trending on tumblr, some users were legitimately surprised that they weren't Constable Frozen's work.
-   Considering the weirdness of _Don't Hug Me I'm Scared_, you'd be surprised to learn that "Aspic" from Episode 5 is a real food. It's a clear and gelatinous ingredient made from meat stock which is eaten on its own, or used to season and preserve meat in pies, mostly those of the pork variety (Hence its earlier use in the King Crimson album title _Larks' Tongues in Aspic_).
-   Although the www.dft.gov.uk Department for Transport (DfT), part of HM Government in the United Kingdom uses Lampton a lot as a placeholder name on road sign designs, it isn't a fictitious name, but a small village near Hounslow. The place-name has nothing to do with lamps, meaning "lambs' farm".
    -   Axtley, another place holder name, is also a real one, being a misspelling of Astley, a town in either Greater Manchester or a smaller village in Worcestershire, where x was used in medieval times sometimes if s was misspelt.
-   Dr Glaucomflecken: In the "First Day of Rural Medicine" video, the rural physician is the mayor of the town and says that he's "running up against a goat whose got some pretty impressive ideas" in the coming election. The line seems like it's simply a joke about how the town is in the middle of nowhere, but it's a reference to how the town of Lajitas, Texas has elected a series of goats as mayors since the 1980s.
-   _Epic Rap Battles of History_: "Gordon Ramsey vs Julia Child" caused this reaction in younger viewers, as Child died in 2004, so they didn't grow up with her on TV. As a result, the video sent many searching Youtube for clips of her cooking show to confirm that yes, she really did speak that way and Mamrie Heart's mannerisms in the video weren't exaggerated much.
-   The point of divergence of the AlternateHistory.com timeline, _The Footprint of Mussolini_, is Mussolini being saved from assassination by a Jewish blackshirt. As it turns out, there were in fact Jews who joined the fascist movement, and many Italian fascists who opposed antisemitism. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   Many of Freeman's bizarre anecdotes in _Freeman's Mind_ are actually true, based on things that happened to the series creator. Squirrels really have been known to cause very large power outages by chewing through substations, and a quick Google search will bring up quite a list of burglars who died after slicing themselves open on window glass.
-   _The GREYLOCK Tapes_:
    -   While it's a little more well-known nowadays, the fact that Project Stargate, mentioned in _orientation protocols_, was real and really did investigate Psychic Powers for the US Government can still take people by surprise.
    -   Commentators have found Jim randomly picking up a dead rat at night only to find a tape inside it to be bizarre. This is a very real technique used by spies to pass information since most people would prefer not to touch an animal carcass.
-   _The Gumdrops_ has an episode titled 'Whipping Day', centered around a strange Slavic tradition of whipping girls on Easter Monday as part of a fertility ritual to keep them beautiful and healthy for the upcoming year. Lindsay assumes it means A Taste of the Lash — only to find out it's a light tap with a homemade switch made from pussywillow.
-   The web series _Hot Bikini Beans_ available to view on YouTube.
    -   The very title is named after the bikini coffee stand which the show centers around. Though coffee stands with baristas serving drinks in two piece swimsuits is more-or-less a Northwest enterprise, they have grown in popularity and do actually exist. Exploitation of sex appeal and the demand for coffee, is it really that hard to believe?
    -   Also in Episode 2 of the series, the character Cassie refers to "Sleep Dentistry" which just sounds too ridiculous to be a thing, right? Wrong. Sleep Dentistry clinics exist for people who experience anxiety at the dentist office, who are given a sedative or completely anesthetized.
-   Internet Historian's video on the _Costa Concordia_ disaster of 2012 has a part where the coastguard calls up Captain Francesco Schettino, furious to learn he'd abandoned ship in the middle of the rescue efforts without even trying to help, to which Schettino protests he _did_ try to help, but slipped and fell into a lifeboat. With how pathetic of an excuse this is, combined with the fact that while the rest of the video is filled with footnotes clarifying and elaborating on other details, this part doesn't have any, it's easy to write this off as an exaggerated joke mocking Schettino for how poorly he handled the situation. Yet according to news reports, Schettino really _did_ try to use this as an excuse for why he fled.
-   _Kickassia_ focuses on the main characters taking over Molassia, a "micro-nation" that's one acre in the middle of Nevada. Many people were surprised to find out that Molassia actually exists — and that they actually got President Baugh to play himself. The part where Baugh dresses up in a different uniform and insists he is not the President but rather one of his Ministers also seems like a gag for the series, but it's actually a standard part of the bit and he has several more costumes they didn't use. All the filming took place in Molassia as well.
-   In Mega64's video of a fictional newscast reporting about the hype of _Modern Warfare 2_, Derrick reports that Obama plans to restrict the release dates of _Modern Warfare 2_ and all future _Call of Duty_ games to Sundays only in order to prevent disruptions. This sounds like a cheeky joke that Mega 64 would make but it's based off an urban legend where Japan decided to restrict sales of _Dragon Quest_ to weekends due to children skipping classes and violence over lack of supply. While it's true that there were children skipping class to buy the game, the legend is false; there never was a law placed to restrict sales and the games being released on weekends was done voluntarily by Enix in order to avoid bad press.
-   Some Neopets players outside of the UK are surprised to find out that cheese rolling is not something the site made up, but a real event held in Brockworth, Gloucestershire. Similarly the Dandelion and Burdock drink is a real drink dating back centuries.
    -   A cheese rolling minigame also temporarily existed in _RuneScape_ during an Olympics-themed event.
-   The Fictional Video Game in which _Noob_ is set mixes elements of real MMORPGs and completely made-up stuff and the fact is generally well-known within the fandom. As a consequence, someone sometimes assumes a feature is made up, only for someone else to inform them that it actually exists in a game.
-   SCP Foundation:
-   In one of Ashens' '80s toy videos, he reviewed a toy that came with a story on cassette tape. He dragged out an actual tape deck to play it, and fast-forwarded through the tape in order to find the interesting bits. Several of his younger viewers were surprised to discover that in some players, cassette tapes actually _do_ make a high-pitched, garbled noise when fast-forwarded, and that it wasn't just a sound effect invented by foley artists.
-   _Trinton Chronicles_ features seemingly impossible _future_ technologies, several of which are actually being tested in Europe and Asia right now, including:
    -   Mag-Lev Trains: Trains that ride on magnetic thrusting power like a roller coaster using LMS launch systems. Japan is a world leader of this super silent and fast system but France is building an infrastructure based on Mag-levs. The first commercially operated Maglev train was a 1984 low speed system at Birmingham airport. The first commercial high speed Maglev line is the Shanghai Transrapid, which was developed by the German company Transrapid International and completed in 2003.
    -   Recycle Tanks: Pay-As-You-Recycle devices that give change for weight of aluminum, plastic, and paper.
    -   Paper-Thin Phones: Actually real world tech is going into making cellphones disposable and paper-thin using nano fibers and microchips the size of ants.
    -   Hydrogen Power Cars: A new fuel source using hydrogen gas to power cars. Testing in Germany mostly, although there was a bit of a push in California in the mid 00s. The main problem is people's fear of what will happen in an accident (The _Hindenburg_ was filled with hydrogen, and look how that turned out.)
-   In _Two Best Friends Play Spider-Man Games_, the two spent a while bringing up increasingly weird misadventures of Peter, many of which seem absurd to casual listeners but actually did occur. This reached a new level when Matt asks if Pat remembers the time Mary-Jane died due to Peter injecting her with his radioactive semen, which Pat promptly declared was not real. It was actually from the _Spider-Man: Reign_ comic.
-   Vinesauce: During the "Windows Longhorn Destruction" video, Joel comes across a program called SUPERAntiSpyware and thinks it's a rogue security software. Despite its shady name and old-looking interface, SUPERAntiSpyware is actually a legitimate security software, but is not designed to replace antivirus software.
-   In a _Whateley Universe_ story, Bladedancer and Phase complain about Generator's love of Hello Kitty gear. Bladedancer complains about a 'Hello Kitty maternity ward'. Readers found this one pretty silly. There is a real Hello Kitty maternity ward in Asia.
-   In _Wrestle Wrestle_, Spoony noted that in an earlier review of a WWF VCR game, he played a clip of a really silly character intro, The Zombie, and fans thought he faked that somehow.
-   One of the many insane cooking techniques used in _Regular Ordinary Swedish Meal Time_ is melting butter by screaming at it. Turns out there actually is a traditional Scandinavian brewing technique that involves screaming at your ingredients.
-   Taiwanese manga-style artist Ironlily has a fondness for historically accurate medieval European weapons and armor, and posted one of their characters proudly showing off a dueling longsword hybridized with a _morning star, hammer, pick and a spear head_. It _looks_ ridiculous at first glance, and some people assumed it was just a shitpost, but no, Ironlily proceeded to show their work with these examples of medieval hybrid dueling weapons. Youtuber Marcus Vance talked about this post and showed off _more examples_ of how this sort of weapon was _not_ far off from what medieval european duelists were known to actually use, due to their multi-functionality enabling more options during a duel when participants were permitted to only bring one or two weapons into a fight.

___