Follow

They're all just _so happy_ to see you.

_"Do not offer them riches, they care not for your coin. Do not offer them surrender, they care not for victory. Offer them nothing, for they come only to murder."_

A common concept of the sci-fi and fantasy genres (and especially games of those genres) is the notion of not an organization, not a clan, not a city, but an entire _race_ of bad guys who brag about how _**Evil**_ they are.

Though the Trope Namer is _Dungeons & Dragons_, this trope is actually Older Than Dirt — one would be hard pressed to find any myths or folk tales that _don't_ have some creatures that are portrayed as always evil.

**Note that the race can also be Lawful Evil or Neutral Evil. In fact, 99% of the time, it will be a race that simply is evil to the core, with some individual differences in their stances on Order Versus Chaos**. The orcs in _The Lord of the Rings_ are a perfect example: they are arguably a Lawful Evil race overall, even if individual members are not. Just because there's an army of Lawful Good humans, doesn't mean that the evil army that opposes them can't also be lawful. It must be said that merely showing an evil, conquering army is not enough to prove this trope, so long as a doubt that everyone of the same nationality or race approves remains. They are part of the same group after all, of course they would share the same beliefs. Nor does showing a few evil members of a species proves that this species qualifies. It must be beyond the shadow of a doubt, that this holds true for every single individual, and in the well-done cases even justified. Also a variation playing with this trope is of creatures having basically the same background, but some choosing evil and transforming into something different.

How, exactly, these folk have unanimously embraced one ethos (especially one so detrimental to the survival of the group), when humans have been known to kill each other over the kind of hip-hop they prefer, is often unknown and inconsequential. When the ethos is justified, often the race is explicitly artificial in origin, rather than natural. Their nature is determined by the evil individual who created them as slaves/warriors/etc. — thus dodging the problem that Children Are Innocent. This is often reinforced by having their society believe in Asskicking Leads to Leadership... and in this case, anyone weak (good) will be killed _very_ quickly.

One must consider that morality exists due to the fact that humans are social animals. Parents care for their offspring so they can grow up strong and so they can teach them lessons that they would otherwise have to work out for themselves. A tribe of hunter/gatherers pools the food it gathers and splits it so those that don't get much one day due to bad luck will be in good condition to get some tomorrow. Farmers raise crops and feed a blacksmith who forges tools so said farmers can better till the land. Society is built on said interactions, but all of which is predicated on interactions going smoothly and being unlikely to end in one side murdering the other for momentary gain or a laugh. In that case the rational thing to do is to avoid others of your kind like a plague.

Expect the national dress to be Spikes of Villainy and black leather, the reason for keeping pets to be kicking or as weapons, and their language to be the Black Speech.

The Defector from Decadence typically comes from this stock, usually with some qualifier, or after having become an Ascended Demon. Having an ancestor from such a race usually qualifies a character's evil (or potential for it) as being part of a Villainous Lineage.

It's quite common for a fantasy Big Bad to have an Always Chaotic Evil race at the ready to use as mooks (possibly even engineered by them). It's usually justified as an arrangement among the various Powers That Be. The heroes are likely to be from races where good and evil are possible, to contrast their differences.

When a fictional character (whether human or a member of another fictional race) _wrongly and unreasonably_ believes that a fictional race in their world is this trope, it's a case of Fantastic Racism. A member of a fictional race holding the same unjustified and false belief about humans would likewise be Fantastic Racism.

May be the subject of a Genocide Dilemma, sometimes going so far that a Final Solution against the defined-as-evil race is portrayed in a quite cheerful light. This is Planet of Hats when evil is the hat. For evil professions like pirates and hitmen, see Villain by Default. For cases where humanity, aliens, or predators really are this trope, see Humans Are the Real Monsters, Aliens Are Bastards and Predators Are Mean respectively. For tropes that include cases where animals are _depicted_ as Always Chaotic Evil, see Bears Are Bad News, Cats Are Mean, Savage Wolves, Wicked Weasel, Wicked Wasps, You Dirty Rat!, and Reptiles Are Abhorrent.

Be careful when writing these: may lead to Unfortunate Implications; for some of the methods by which authors attempt to avoid said Implications, see this Analysis page.

Members of an Always Chaotic Evil race usually cannot qualify as a Complete Monster no matter how intelligent they are, because being evil is a part of their job and thus they don't pass the moral agency test. The only exceptions are situations where a supposedly Always Chaotic Evil race has multiple members manage to turn good.

See also What Measure Is a Non-Human?, Hard-Coded Hostility, My Species Doth Protest Too Much, Dehumanization, and Scary Dogmatic Aliens. If the trope's subjects are a distinct _species_ as opposed to an ethnicity, their reasons for being this may be Blue-and-Orange Morality. Compare Lawful Stupid, Chaotic Stupid. Contrast Always Lawful Good. Should not be confused with Chaotic Evil.

For subversions of this trope, when it turns out that an enemy race is not necessarily bad, see Not Always Evil and Token Heroic Orc.

___

## Add Examples, ya scum! Get crackin! If _He_ catches you lollygagging, you knows what will happen!

-   Literature
-   Video Games

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   In _Attack on Titan_, the titular giant humanoids devour humans for no apparent reason other than because they enjoy it. They are incapable of digesting food, seem to draw their energy from the sun, and ignore animals completely. In fact, when their stomach becomes full from devouring victims, they vomit to make room for _more_ tasty human treats. The unique variants that do display intelligence are even more dangerous, actively seeking to Kill All Humans while showing no interest in eating anyone themselves. Only it turns out to be far more complicated than that. The Titan Shifters are all morally complex individuals, most of them traumatized Tyke Bombs struggling with the terrible duties they've been assigned. The regular Titans are similarly not what they seem, but are transformed humans trapped in a Lotus-Eater Machine with no control over their actions. Hange theorizes that their instinct to devour humans is because eating a Titan Shifter allows them to regain their humanity via Cannibalism Superpower.
    -   The rest of the world sees Eldians as this, especially Eldians living on Paradis Island (even to non-Paradis Eldians), thanks to propaganda by the Kingdom of Marley, who are in an eternal power struggle with the Eldia Empire for control over the Nine Titans.
-   The evil, thieving, drunk, cowardly, scumbag-y mice from _Black Cat Detective_.
-   Hollows in _Bleach_ are considered to be a race of evil spirits, driven to eating anything living or dead (including each other). Their more evolved "Arrancar" counterparts have been portrayed as having different dispositions, ranging from evil (Nnoitra, Szayelaporro), to slightly bad (Starrk, Harribel), to outright good (Nel).
-   Subverted in _Chrono Crusade_ (although differently, depending on which version you're watching). In the manga, this seems to be the case at first (with Chrono being the only exception), but it turns out that the Sinners are more complex than that, and among other demons most of them are simply following orders in a corrupt culture that can't even remember how they got that way in the first place, making them practically victims of a bureaucracy who simply refused to question WHY things were the way they were. In the anime, the Sinners are portrayed as more blatantly evil, while the rest of the demons seem contractually obligated to play "villains" for God in order to keep humanity in line, making them a bit more like Punch Clock Villains.
-   The youma from _Claymore_, who live entirely to eat humans. And the awakened beings, whose nature is also to feed on humans, but are far more dangerous. This probably has something to do with the fact that the youma are manufactured. The chaotic bloodthirstiness of the Awakened Beings is implied to be a bug the Council is desperately trying to work out, or at least turn into _directed_ bloodthirstiness. The youma aren't even truly evil being mindless parasites. They mutate their hapless human hosts, driving them insane with a hunger that can only be satisfied by human flesh.
-   _Combattler V_: For a while it seemed the trope was being played straight, but was ultimately averted. The Campbellians attacking Earth were not representative of the entire race, but a rebel fraction led by leaders constantly indoctrinating their troops into believing it is HUMANS who are Always Chaotic Evil. The greater part of the Campbellians were not presented as evil or harbouring ill will towards humans, and actually at the end Deus, the Campbellians' true leader, came to Earth to stop Big Bad Empress Janera personally, and vowed he would help to rebuild what Janera destroyed on Earth.
-   The titular Demons in _Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba_ as a whole- save measly three exceptions Nezuko, Yushiro and Tamayo\- are all ravenous canniballistic predators. Many commit atrocites above and beyond basic man-eating. This is however played with, as many demons have tragic or otherwise human reason for their evil; the enduring narrative is akin to the Oni folklore said demons are really modeled after, losing their humanity was the path to become truly evil, that’s why human slayers are mostly honorable people, while demons went completely evil, in the setting.
-   Played with regarding Demons in _Devilman_. While some demons like Sirene and Kaim are capable of displaying care for others, the vast majority are bloodthirsty, violent hedonists eager to destroy humanity and take their place as the dominant species, and only through being dominated by a human they attempt to possess and becoming a Devilman are they capable of displaying selflessness and compassion (and even then the Devilman still has to fight against their baser urges.)
-   In _D.Gray-Man_ the akumas are specifically created by the earl to be this. They are actually supposed to be more weapons than characters. The level 1 and 3 play this completely straight but the level 2 have shown to be able to develop other interactions with humans though their killing urge will eventually come back. Level 4 are an exaggerated examples as they are sadistic bastards whose only defining trait is killing humans. Oh..and they also kill their own allies.
-   _Digimon_ have their personalities dictated by five "Attributes" that form a Tactical Rock–Paper–Scissors system in the games; Data, Vaccine, Virus, Free, and Variable. Virus-type Digimon tend to be violent, with a thirst for power and domination with prominent examples being the Vamdemon variants or any with "devi" in their name. However, this trope is actually _played with_ in terms of Virus-types. Guilmon and Gammamon are protagonist Digimon; despite both of them have a Superpowered Evil Side, the former has its _natural_ Gallantmon Mega form as a Virus-type too and the latter's "Superpowered Evil Side" is actually a _different_ Digimon inhabiting his body. Others like BlackWarGreymon and Guardromon are Noble Demons or had managed a successful Heel–Face Turn like _Ghost Game's_ Mummymon. All-in-all, Virus types have an equal proclivity to goodness as they would with evil, and evil Vaccine-types such as Cherubimon: Vice and Data-types like Dynasmon had existed.
-   _Dragon Ball_:
    -   Most of the Saiyans are barbaric, planet destroying bullies known, among other things, for their love of fighting. The known exceptions are Goku (who was raised as an Earthling and became mellow after hitting his head), his and Vegeta's children (who had human ancestry), Goku's mother Gine (who was born with a soft heart, and a soft retcon indicated Goku inherited her personality) Vegeta's younger brother Tarble and canon Broly (who’s Forced into Evil by his father Paragus). The crux of it is that while gentler Saiyans did exist, they were the minority and were either cast out or on the lower rungs of their society. Later media such as _Dragon Ball Legends_ would further subvert this revealing in ancient times Saiyans were a more righteous and benign race, but were overtaken by a sect of evil war-loving Saiyans who only became worse after King Cold found them and folded them into his evil galactic empire.
    -   Goku, the one consistently heroic Saiyan, even though generally peaceful and even a protector, was flanderized as The Cape in the anime adaptations, especially the movies. This was opposed to his original manga personality of someone who, though still moderately heroic, was mostly driven by a selfish desire for a good fight at the end of the day. This was walked back in _Super_, where the change in personality was jarring to many fans who weren't familiar with the manga <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> .
    -   Vegeta himself, the only other full-blooded Saiyan to survive the series, took _years_ of living among humans to even _slightly_ mellow out. While his overwhelming sense of pride would remain intact, years of living on Earth and becoming a family man made his eventual Heel–Face Turn, and in fact became even more family oriented than Goku usually is. This is often overlooked by fans, which Akira Toriyama parodied in Neko Majin Z with the character of Onio.
    -   Goku's father Bardock was just as much of a murderous warrior as the rest of the Saiyans, but he still fell in love with Gine and her gentle personality, and fathered two sons with her. This was unusual for Saiyans, who don't typically operate as a family, usually seeing their mates and children more as friends who can take care of themselves. Bardock also had a brief stint as a heroic Saiyan when he was given precognitive powers and learned that the Saiyans' employer Frieza was planning on destroying their planet. Bardock didn't make a Heel–Face Turn, but he made a stand against Frieza to protect what he valued, even in the face of a hopeless fight.
    -   Broly, in contrast to his previous portrayal is a gentle hearted Saiyan like Gine, Goku and Tarble in Canon. He doesn’t display any of the usual battle loving tendencies of his race and is a Fluffy Tamer similar Goku. Granted Broly does slip into the more violent Saiyan behaviour, when protecting Cheelai and later when fighting Goku and Vegeta Broly gains a Slasher Smile the more he powers up, going on a Unstoppable Rage that almost destroyed the planet. Although this can be explained due to the Super Saiyan transformation making the user more violent and vicious (also not helped by Frieza killing Paragus triggering Broly’s Despair Event Horizon) and is not reflective of Broly’s actual personality.
    -   _Dragon Ball Super_ subverts this with Universe 6, which exists parallel to Universe 7, home to the mainline _Dragon Ball_ series. U6 Saiyans are described as a race of noble warriors who sometimes take jobs to defeat villains and hunt down criminals. It's implied that this is just how Universe 6's Saiyans are; they still have their homeworld, Planet Sadala, which in Universe 7 was destroyed by internal conflict. Although like Universe 7 Saiyans, the Universe 6 Saiyans do become more aggressive and unhinged the more angry and powerful they get, which is a lot of them like Cabba keep their temper and emotions in check.
    -   Also subverted in the same story with Frieza's species. Frost is to be a kind person who helps people in need and is a hero in U6. This is in fact a Double Subversion, as Frost really is a genocidal monster like all the rest of them. Vegeta even says they shouldn't have expected anything else from Frieza's race. Except in the manga adaptation, where Frost is just an underhanded Pragmatic Hero.
    -   Played straight with Frieza’s family species as his father King Cold, brother Cooler, son Kuriza and ancestor Chilled who are all just as as psychotic and violent as Frieza himself (although Cooler at the very least is a Benevolent Boss to his mooks and Cool Uncle to Kuriza). Subverted with rest of Frieza’s race who despite their appearance are more benevolent and many of them are heroic Time Patrollers in _Dragon Ball Xenoverse_, one such as Jierra even mentions how much he hates that Frieza’s clan has given his species such a bad reputation.
    -   Most of the Demon Realm race play this straight in _Dragon Ball_, as Garlic Junior, Lucifer, Dabura, Towa, Demigra and numerous other demons are extremely tyrannical and besides some care for family members in Towa and Dabura’s case have little to no redeeming qualities simply doing things For the Evulz. The few exceptions are Spike the Devilman (who while a bit arrogant, is a good guy who gives Goku’s Spirit Bomb energy and has an attack that targets the evilness inside a person’s heart), Melee and Shola (who help out kid Goku out in the original _Dragon Ball_) and Fu (who as seen in _Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2_ is not genuinely evil, just Chaotic Neutral).
-   The Diclonius from _Elfen Lied_ are viewed as beings that are hardwired to cause destruction and extinction among humans (with the exception of Nana), making them a near-literal example, though their behavior may also be influenced by the inhumane treatment they received at the hands of humans. Though later in the manga we find out that the Diclonus are allegedly descendants of the Oni from ancient times (with Lucy being the only true genetic descendant), and that their need to kill humans stems from their demonic ancestors genetically encoding them to want to seek revenge on their destroyers. But the man who believed that turned out to not be a Diclonius at all, but rather have a case of atavism, bringing that whole origin into question. Lucy was just the result of a mutation in her mother.
-   _Fabricant 100_: Ashibi argues that there are no good Fabricants, whatever they say is all an act to get fresh organs easier.
-   In _Frieren: Beyond Journey's End_, Demons have a mentality that makes them incompatible with other races in that they are motivated solely by killing others. They lack the ability to understand human emotions such as empathy and the only reason they learned to communicate with other races is for the sake of manipulation. The few times that a demon attempts to try and understand others typically results in them committing large-scale slaughter in order to see emotions for themselves.
-   Played with by the mermaids in _Hekikai No Aion_. They're introduced this way, but Sheila complicates things by demonstrating that the mermaids are capable of friendship and love even if it doesn't come naturally to them...but they still need to cause natural disasters that kill humans _en masse_ in order to eat, so humanity will never be able to live in peace with them.
-   Vampires in _Hellsing_ are mostly like this. Good vampires, like Seras, are a very special exception. It is not clear if the transformation to a vampire brings out the worst of person or if all vampires are all irredeemably evil. It is possible that since the survival of a vampire requires killing people for blood and souls at some point all vampires simply give up to their bloodlust. At one point one vampire even comments on how he and his comrades can never enjoy things normal people enjoy, but are forced to live the life of a monster. Most of the vampires we see in the series were Card Carrying Villains _before_ becoming vampires, being vicious war-mongers. Who were also Nazis. In their case, becoming vampires didn't turn them evil. It just gave them fangs.
-   _Inuyasha_:
    -   The "lower yokai" have the shape of large insects or worms. Whenver they're shown, they have nothing else in mind than attacking humans (or half-yokai). And although many can speak, they do not seem to be overly clever.
    -   The yokai who have human-like appearances are different. Even among them there are many who are evil, but many are good. Apparently, they are endowed with reason at the same level as sentient human beings, even if many of them despise the humans.
    -   Inverted completely with the "Trickster-Yokai" such as Shippo and Hachiemon. Each of them seems to be genuinely good. Shippo is even the most innocent character among the protagonists. However, they seem to have a (harmless) tendency to scare people, annoying them or playing pranks.
-   _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: JoJolion_ has the Rock Humans, a race of silicon humans who serve as the main antagonists. They are inherently antisocial, with parents abandoning their children almost as soon as the birth is complete. Baby Rock Humans infiltrate hornet nests, parasitizing the insects inside until the colony is completely dead. Grown Rock Humans take part in baseline human society for their own gain, and will take the first opportunity to lie or manipulate to get their way. Part of the reason the Big Bad is so dangerous is that he's one of the few to convince a large group of Rock Humans to think long-term and share a common cause against baseline humanity.
-   The Life Fibers from _Kill la Kill_ are revealed to be a parasitic race of aliens who travel from planet to planet and later implode them to scatter their seeds throughout space. They disguise themselves as clothing because simply covering their host whole overwhelms and kills them. The sole exceptions to this are Senketsu and Ryuko, and it's only because they have human DNA in them.
-   The New Blood, or, at least, those directly related to Sicks in _Majin Tantei Nougami Neuro_. For a long time, they intentionally bred so that the most evil would be the ones to reproduce. Eventually, they actually became a separate species, according to Sicks.
-   Subverted with the Ill from _March Story_, who seem like this at first before we see any of the good ones. The organization that hunts them still believes them to be this trope, though.
    -   The people Heuller kills were planning to kill Rodin, and she was just trying to protect him. Too bad he never found out about her reasons.
    -   The beaver woman was misguided, but she is shown to genuinely care for her (adopted)son.
    -   The possessed doll in chapter 13 never harms anyone, was only trying to entertain his owner, and killed himself so that the Unlucky Childhood Friend could get lucky and get the girl.
-   It is justified in _Mazinger Z_: The mooks are zombies revived thanks to cybernetic implants by the Big Bad Dr. Hell. Since he mechanized their brains, wiped their minds out to erase any memory of their former lives and any shred of independent thought and programmed them to be absolutely and unquestionably loyal and obedient, they have no choice other than being Always Chaotic Evil.
    -   _Great Mazinger:_ The Mycenae play with this trope. The Warrior Monsters are Humongous Mecha with the head of a Mycenae soldier implanted in the giant mechanical body. Since the soldiers are indoctrinated to attack and wipe out anything non-related to the Mycenae civilization, the trope is justified. On the other hand, the commanders of the army display different personalities and honorable qualities (specially Ankoku Daishogun), and though they are not portrayed as _good_, neither are they portrayed as proud of being _evil_, but a Proud Warrior Race who want to return to the surface world after being forced to live underground for millennia.
    -   _UFO Robo Grendizer_: At the beginning it looks like the trope is being played straight, but it is finally averted. Several of the Vegans are decent people and many of them are given redeeming qualities.
-   In _Mobile Suit Gundam SEED_, you can count EACH and EVERY member of Blue Cosmos/LOGOS (and, to a lesser extent, Earth Alliance) an irredeemably evil, racist bastard, with the most likable person being a Brainwashed and Crazy super soldier who Shinn falls in loves with.
    -   But since Blue Cosmos is, by the period the series take place in, very clearly shown to be an organization of such people, completely gone off track from its original purpose, this shouldn't be a surprise. LOGOS just exists to keep wars happening because hey, it's good for business.
    -   The Veigans in Gundam AGE are all fanatically loyal to Lord Ezelcant without exception, deeming the extermination of all non-Veigans from their prized Eden to be a national goal/ideal.
-   In _Naruto_, the Uchiha clan was an entire family of Arrogant Kung Fu Guys with a genetic predisposition towards mass destruction and insanity thanks to their "Curse of Hatred". Even Obito, the most decent guy among them, ended up becoming a Woobie, Destroyer of Worlds and Sasuke spent virtually the entire series in the Heel–Face Revolving Door. They saw themselves as above the rest of the village and planned a coup d'etat despite being given more power than every other clan _combined_ via being Military Police. They also believed they were unjustly persecuted and discriminated against despite being a well-beloved clan and the Second Hokage trusting them to have power over the other Clans. It's because of all of this that Itachi agreed with his superiors the rest of his family had to go.
    -   Later subverted. The root cause of their insanity was due to Black Zetsu controlling their ancestor Indra and rewriting the Uchiha tablet to trick his descendants in a gambit to resurrect his mother. Once the truth is revealed, and the remaining Uchiha members resolve their differences with their long rivals (Madara/Hashirama, Obito/Kakashi, and Sasuke/Naruto), does the Uchiha clan take a turn for the better.
-   The crows in _Princess Tutu_ are shown this way — justified because their characters escaped from a fairytale. They're so evil that even their _blood_ can affect a character's personality.
-   In _Soul Eater_, witches are genetically predisposed to cause destruction, and indeed, it forms the basis of magical power in most cases. There is one case where a witch's magic can only be used creatively (i.e. healing), and she is an outcast because of it.
    -   Although Always Chaotic Evil is how the DWMA and most of the world view witches, Kid, the future Grim Reaper and thus leader of the DWMA, starts to have his doubts after he discovers that pure order isn't any better than pure chaos. While trying to get help from the Witch Council he ultimately comes to the conclusion that everyone has some sense of order _and_ destructive instinct, even witches. He reasons that if they were really chaos incarnate, they'd never have formed a functional society. Conversely, he claims a destructive urge isn't necessarily a bad thing; humans can channel such things to a positive, so witches must be capable of the same.
-   How Zero views purebloods and to a lesser degree vampires in general in _Vampire Knight_. He gets better though.
-   The mazoku from _Violinist of Hameln_. There actually are two exceptions, but the rest feel that their calling is to torment humanity For the Evulz. Sure, their whole race exists through magical power gained by consuming human blood and souls, but regular mazoku cannot extract it, so evulz still is the driving reason for their atrocities.

    Art 

-   _Thor's Fight with the Giants_: The giants that Thor is fighting are commonly seen as allegorical for general wickedness, Thor's battle against them being a mass-smiting of the evil that blights the world.

    Comic Books 

-   _Ace of Space_: The Slogons are a race of ruthless conquerors.
-   The Carpathian bloodline of vampires in _American Vampire_, who are all power hungry sociopaths on a mission to wipe out the other vampire breeds. While very rarely they may show non-asshole traits such as Even Evil Has Loved Ones, these are very few and far between, and doesn't get in the way of the general cruelty and viciousness of the breed. It's even discussed In-Universe, as the local vampire experts note that some of the other types of vampires can have have very different personalities or be a Friendly Neighborhood Vampire, it's almost as though being turned into one of the Carpathians destroys any conscience or capacity for goodness.
-   Subverted in DC Comics of the early-to-mid Silver Age. That era almost invariably depicted alien cultures as having made a _choice_ between Good Republic and Evil Empire. Every alien race was assumed capable of both "good" and "evil", and "evil" regimes could always be overthrown, while "good" ones could always be subverted.
-   _Dungeon Twilight_:
    -   The olfs are three billions of xenophobic assholes who get even worse when King Bouboulou comes back from the dead, as he removes the reforms such as capital punishment being abolished and break the treaty with the only race they are allied to with glee, as a bloodbath is the best way to celebrate his return.
    -   The invisibles are a race of Eldritch Abomination who made the treaty with King Bouboulou. The treaty was simply: The invisibles may live on the rooftops in exchange for mutilating every non-olf they spot in the city. They are also shown to be siding with the Big Bad despite not needing to breath like the other conscripts (who'll lose their oxygen the moment the villain hear their treachery), implying they are just fine with a demon ruling the world.
    -   The Great Khan's Géhenne army are made of winged lizards who only care about strength, drinking and eating villagers. They have a twisted code of honor about blind obedience and preying on the weak and those with no honor just change blind obedience to Chronic Backstabbing Disorder.
-   Prior to the DC reboot, the precursors of the Green and White Martians, the Burning Martians, were psychotic monsters that fed on flame and destruction.
-   Marvel Comics has several examples:
    -   The Skrulls, the most recurring evil race and, in fact, the first one created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. The Kree are evil as well, being an empire of smug space fascists, but we usually see them though a pariah that turned to the light side (usually using the name "Captain Marvel"), rather than as a full evil race.
        -   Instances exist of good or good-leaning Skrulls, such as Ethan Edwards (Raised by Humans) and Jazinda. Also, Cadre K, the mutant Skrulls who were brought together and taught by Professor X. And occasionally a Skrull who's gone native after impersonating humans for too long, such as Lyja or Effigy. They are rare, though.
    -   The Brood (Xenomorph Xeroxes) are depicted as inherently, irredeemably corrupt because of the evolutionary peculiarities of their reproductive methods. In _World War Hulk_, Broodling manages to make a decent play at being good, but when she tried to reproduce, she ended up having to kill her own spawn to save some children from them. There's also Broo of the Xavier Institute, whose mutant nature allows him to feel actual compassion in contrast with others of his species.
    -   The Dire Wraiths from _ROM: Spaceknight_ wholeheartedly embraced evil. Their planet was so supernaturally suffused with corruption that Galactus _couldn't eat it<small>◊</small>_. The Wraiths were about as close to being literal demons as a flesh and blood race can hope to be, and they took pride in it. While one Wraith did try to make a Heel–Face Turn after disguising himself as a family man for years and discovering love and kindness were actually pretty nice, his comrades taught his son how to be evil, and the boy took to their lessons so well that he eventually murdered his parents. The Dire Wraiths actually enforce evil by indoctrinating it into their young so decent Dire Wraiths are the exception rather than the rule. It also turns out they're actually a divergent offshoot of the Skrulls (or maybe the other way around), above.
    -   In Jack Kirby's _The Eternals_, the Deviants qualified abundantly. The Celestials "gifted" them with constant mutations, causing them to generally look monstrous, and inflicting them with a seriously high infant mortality rate — their culture uses eugenics simply to keep mutations from getting too out of hand. They also hate baseline humans, previously enslaved them in prehistoric times, and would generally like their slave empire back, thank you. However, Neil Gaiman's 2007 reboot introduced considerable ambiguity into the picture.
    -   From _The Mighty Thor_ we have the Dark Elves and Fire Demons. The Dark Elf culture is built on treachery and violence with even the nicer members of the species shown as war-mongerers. The Fire Demons have a desire to kill everything that isn't them. Both are responsible for numerous wars of aggression against the other realms, are willing to commit any atrocity imaginable and no regret about any of it. Though the queen of the dark elves was perfectly willing to call off an invasion of the mortal realm in exchange for a booty call from Hercules.
    -   Joss Whedon's "Breakworld" arc in _Astonishing X-Men_ deconstructed this trope with its portrayal of the eponymous Planet of Hats. The Breakworlders, whose society is built around endless war, are set up as the antagonists of the arc for fairly obvious reasons. But then it's revealed that the true Big Bad is the ultra-pacifist leader of a resistance group, who wants to end the wars by destroying the planet and wiping out its entire population. The conclusion points out that, in a society where violence and tyranny are the norm, the truly "evil" people would be the ones devoted to peace. Accordingly, their actions would probably be far less moral and logical than the average people who simply believe what they were raised to believe. _Also,_ they were only trying to destroy Earth because they thought Earth was trying to destroy _them_.
-   _Mother Hubbard_:
    -   Gnomes are all either lazy slavers or sadistic tricksters.
    -   Ogres are all brutal thugs who eat babies.
-   Torquemada in _Nemesis the Warlock_ claims that all aliens are Always Chaotic Evil, although even he privately acknowledges that this is a lie given to justify the extreme Fantastic Racism of his regime. The series, in fact, spent much of its early run subverting the common application of this trope to the more grotesque aliens.
-   _Paperinik New Adventures_:
    -   The Evronians are Emotion Eaters that _need_ to attack other races to drain them of the emotions that feed both them and some of their technologies, and cause untold and unneeded destruction for no other reason they can. It's subverted by both a few individual members (especially Gorthan) and the fact that, before Xadhoom exterminated most of them, they were trying to solve the energetic problem (in fact one possible alternative power source was _Xadhoom herself_, had they managed to keep her captured long enough), and after that a group of survivors prove themselves relatively peaceful when they ask Earth for help, but is later Double Subverted when that same group of survivors use the chance to insert a shape-shifting spy on Earth to prepare a future invasion.
    -   In the reboot it's shown the Evronians had not always been like that, and imply that they had become that way due a combination of the emotion-powered technology and the war with the Guardians of the Galaxy (in fact, when Zondag changes the timeline to prevent the birth of the Guardians it results in the Evronians becoming peaceful, not using emotion-powered technology anymore and using their dietary needs to _free people from bad emotions_).
-   In _Gilgamesh the Immortal_, the protagonist occasionally encounters races of this type, but the best example is _The Primordials_, a race of extraterrestrial (extradimensional?) beings obsessed with war, destruction, and conquest. Even Gilgamesh joins an alliance of multiple extraterrestrial civilizations to combat the Primordials in a galactic-level war.
-   _Shakara_: Just about every species within the Hierarchy are evil to the last individual. The Succubi at least have the justification of needing to eat other worlds to survive, but others like the Psicos revel in bullying other species by lording their vast psychic powers over them.
-   _Transformers: More than Meets the Eye_ shows more of the Decepticons' lives, aside from destroying planets and good-guys. The Autobot Ore mentions that his goal at the end of the war was to get a new alt-mode and befriend a 'Con as "they can't all be psychopaths right?". The story shifts to 6 Decepticons for an arc to show the mentality; they joke around, fail at their quest, and their leader tries to reign in the more eccentric of their group, but they also joke about killing organics, and rob their dead comrade instead of mourning him, because hey, he ain't gonna be needing those parts. Also, in the IDW-verse, as things get more and more complicated, we see characters who were Decepticons working alongside Autobots more than once. Even _Starscream_ can rein in his trademark tendencies for the right reason. They're definitely shown to be individuals once the usual status quo no longer applies.
-   _Transformers: Beast Wars (2021)_: Discussed and downplayed with the Predacons. Maximal Nyx states that Predacons are naturally aggressive, something that Dinobot (a Predacon himself) doesn't deny, due to them starting out as a warrior caste. However, he also says that during times of peace they channel their aggression into things like athleticism, law-enforcment, peace-keeping and even science due to them finding struggle in challenging old notions.
-   The Wolrog Empire in _Strontium Dog_ is composed entirely of Neutral Evil baddies.
-   _Typhon_:
    -   The baddies of _Weird Comics_ #2 are a race of mermen who sadistically torture anybody who enters their domain.
    -   The baddies of _Weird Comics_ #5 are the Sea Demons, a race of brutal conquerors raiding the Sea Amazons.

    Fan Works 

-   In crossover Alternate Universe fics, usually with the _Stargate-verse_, the Twelve Colonies from _Battlestar Galactica (2003)_ are portrayed as psycho gun-happy Earth invaders, despite there being no evidence for this. Most of these fics are absolutely horrible derivatives of _Reunions Are a Bitch_, which laid most of the blame on the _leaders_, and the Average Joe Colonial earnestly believed that they're doing the right thing and helping Earth with their invasion.
-   In the _Mass Effect_ fanfic _The Council Era_, the dezban race are perceived as being utter savages by the rest of the galaxy. For the vast majority of the species, this became true after the Great War, but an exception is introduced in the dezban bounty hunter Sevalaus Morkaneto, who is both rational-thinking and far less aggressive than most of his brethren.
-   _A Crown of Stars_: Subverted in chapter 15. After Shinji mentions that he and Asuka got forced to work for military dictators, Rayana says there are groups of purely evil people... but simultaneously she remarks that those groups are mercifully rare.
    
    _“Which is why target discrimination and appropriate levels of force are integral parts of our military’s training. We know that purely evil people and groups are thankfully rare. So we exercise careful attention when it comes to meting out judgment on those who become our enemies.” Daniel swallowed a bit of his own fish. “And as for Jinnai, we’ll see to him later. Death may be a little too merciful for him.”_
    
-   The Uchiha are usually portrayed as this, except Mikoto, Itachi due to having been Good All Along, Obito with even his canonical turn to becoming the Big Bad having at least a sympathetic reason and, on **rare** occasions, Sasuke.
-   Subverted in _The Equestrian Wind Mage_, as it's stated that the monster races of Hyrule are _not_ mindlessly evil, but were long ago cursed by Demise to obey anyone who summons them, for whatever purpose. As such, Vaati's servants go along with his Heel–Face Turn, and actually befriend the ponies of Ponyville. And when Demise is reborn, and subsequently destroyed for good, at the end of Season 2, the curse is broken, allowing the monster races to integrate peacefully into Equestria.
-   In _The Gotham Knights of Middle-Earth_, when Tim Drake and Cassandra Cain join the Fellowship of the Ring, they soon establish that this applies to the Orcs and the Goblins. Tim compares them to Darkseid's parademons more than once, using this to justify their willingness to kill when facing these opponents, although the two Gotham vigilantes silently agree not to use lethal force against Sauron's human followers.

-   In _Hellsister Trilogy_, all Parademons are completely evil, to the point that the army of heroes has no compunction in killing them all. Justified because they were created by Darkseid, who was never a fan of free will.
-   The Tayhil in _The Keys Stand Alone: The Soft World_ are murderous snakemen who are the chief minions of the Black Tower and the #1 enemy of all other humans on C'hou.
-   The undead in _Metagaming?_ are all destined to eventually bcome this way. The necromantic magic animating them warps their souls and causes them to first envy and eventually hate all life until they want nothing more than to kill everyone and everything that isn't undead like them. Fortunately, Harry (after many months of experimentation) manages to find a way to resurrect the undead and remove the necromantic energies infecting them, though he admits many will later kill themselves anyway from the trauma of what they experienced.
-   _The Night Unfurls_:
    -   Orcs, in classical fashion, are portrayed as this. Every single orc is a violent maniac and a rapist, with Kyril outright telling his soldier recruits that orcs exist to kill, so their job is to take them out without hesitation. Meanwhile, some people like Olga and Vault are shown to be able to _bargain_ with orcs, which brings the extent of this trope being true into question... and then it quickly turns out that the orcs do get something in return for their alliance — the prospect of raping, pillaging, and burning a place/region (Loraine for Olga's deal; all the dark elves in the Black Fortress, as well as the entire kingdom of Eostia for Vault's deal).
    -   Lampshaded at one point by Kyril in the remastered version.
        
        _"The Hunter found more small camps, and killed off more of the greenskins. He slaughtered them without mercy, their cries for their gods sounding piggish in the coming dusk. Were they truly so reprehensible? He wondered if the orcish gods even heard their pleas for their aid._
        
        _He thought this as he brought down another greenskin with an offhand swipe of the Holy Moonlight Sword. Did the gods of this world create such creatures fit only to be despised and cut down like vermin? He probably would never find out the answers, standing here in the gore of dead orcs."_
        
-   In _Perfection Is Overrated_, the SUEs lack the free will to break away from their intended purpose, that being the destruction of the Himes. While there is one who questions her orders when told to kill the Himes, that’s because she was initially designed with the intent of destroying them unintentionally, and trying to do so deliberately runs counter to her purpose. Even with her Mind Control powers, she can’t convince the others, who were all created to deliberately kill the Himes, not to go through with it.
-   The Muk and bug-type Pokémon in the _Poké Wars_ series are portrayed as mindless killing machines.
-   _Pony POV Series_:
    -   Subverted with Discord's species, the Draconequi. While they're not nice and have altered senses of morality, they're for the most part out to help the universe keep running smoothly. Even their mother Entropy, the Anthropomorphic Personification of the End of the Universe, is only an Omnicidal Maniac because it's essentially her job description. Discord is the only one that's actually genuinely evil.
    -   The Wedding Arc makes a point about how the Changelings are _not_ inherently evil. The Interviewers even say that every race has its saints and sinners.
-   _Ruby and Nora_: Grimm beasts are still this, even in a universe where they’re given the possibility of a choice. The sole exception is the Spider, who was despised by Salem for being benevolent.
-   Deconstructed for Orcs in _Splint_. Although they can be violent and brutish, in this fic they are depicted as being far more complex than most people give them credit for. Most only served the Dark Lord because they had nowhere else go and now just want to live in peace, and they were just as afraid of Sauron and his generals as the free peoples of Middle-Earth. Although their culture can seem strange to humans, they also do have a sense of morality and values, and they are capable of love and loyalty.
-   _Sword and Claw_ has monsters being generally perceived as this and not without reason, since almost all of them attack humans to eat them. Lilith is a rare exception to this, and more exceptions show up later on.
-   _Triptych Continuum_:
    -   One of the defining traits of "monstrous" species in Menajerian scholarship is an inability to form positive emotional connections. True monsters will never sacrifice their own well-being even for kin or their own offspring, will never feel gratitude or loyalty, and can be cowed but never trained, domesticated, or befriended. However, there are some races colloquially referred to as "monsters" for which this does not apply: Manticores, for example, are capable of gratitude and of loyalty to those who have aided them.
    -   The flaw which makes pigs a tenant race rather than fully sapient is unrestrained appetite and selfishness. Pigs are biologically hard-wired to always take as much as they can get, without concern for long-term viability or what anyone else might need, and if not forcibly restrained by the fully sapient races would destroy themselves by consuming every possible resource and leaving a wasteland that cannot sustain life.
-   In _The Wanderer of the North_, the Diamond Dogs are nothing more than packs of barbarians.
-   It would be easier to list off the races in _My Brave Pony: Starfleet Magic_ that _don't_ fall into the "one or a few of their members attacked us, so they're all evil" category. The Crystallites, the Demonites, and the Insectos are just a few examples.
-   This trope is discussed as a significant plot point in the _Project Dark Jade_ fic _Webwork_ regarding whatever Oni (which is something Jade becomes) and other demons are evil by default:
    -   After hearing both Jade and Jackie's side of what has happened, Jade's former teacher Liz Hartman decides that evil is a conscious choice and believes that like Jade, other dark entities the Chans have fought became what they are by their experiences, saying that there is no such thing as inherent evil.
    -   Hartman's Armor-Piercing Question filled talk with Jackie causes him to come to a conclusion similar to hers, which leads him to allowing her transformation into an Oni to be complete and let her prove her point. When's he's called out of this by Uncle, he in turn calls Uncle out of his narrow views about good and evil that are a large factor in how far Jade is out of their reach. He brings up the time they used the Tiger Talisman to split Spring-Heeled Jack into his light and dark sides as an example that even demons have their own yin-yang balance, and when Shendu tried to save his son from being banished even when it would have benefited him more to simply let him be sucked away. He also states that the Demon Sorcerers are monsters because of their personalities rather than their species and that they chose to use their abilities for evil, just like any number of humans have.
    -   Uncle has a more unbending Black-and-White Morality view of the whole situation, and insists that while Jade is their niece, she is now an Oni and has to be stopped. He's unhappy when Jackie's above mentioned Calling the Old Man Out moment forces him to reconsider long held beliefs and wonder if he has already listed Jade as a casualty without realizing it.
    -   When asked of Tohru's opinion, it comes between those of Jackie and Uncle — he thinks that Jackie has a theory that has some evidence to support it, but he's unsure if it's worth the risks. He proposes that dark entities suffer from a functional disorder that makes them more inclined to darkness than light, making it hard to determine how much of their nature and actions are inherent or a matter of choice. He also suggests that their liberty of choice may be taken away when everyone, including themselves, thinks under the assumption that it doesn't even exist.

    Films — Animation 

-   The Vikings of _How to Train Your Dragon (2010)_ initially believe that all dragons are horrible monsters who will always go for the kill. This is later proven false when Hiccup befriends Toothless and a few other dragons.
-   The _Kung Fu Panda_ franchise has a few species that seem to fall into this. The most notable examples are gorillas (although the television series has some morally ambiguous gorillas), crocodiles (with the exception of Master Croc; according to Word of God he did a Heel–Face Turn), and _especially_ wolves. Snow leopards aren't shown in a very positive light either, considering that this is the species of both Tai Lung and the Wu Sisters. The young snow leopard Peng, who is Tai Lung's nephew, is an exception. So much so that when he thought he _might_ end up following Tai Lung's path he temporarily gave up Kung Fu.
-   _Legend of the Guardians: The Owls of Ga'Hoole_: Bats, specifically flying foxes and vampire bats, are among Metal Beak's servants. They are vicious and deadly, with metal blades attached to their wings, and red eyes, and they don't speak the same language as the owls, which makes them feel more mysterious. The owls are much bigger though, so they are mainly a threat when they have larger numbers, and in one scene because of their lack of gizzards.
-   All hyenas seen in _The Lion King (1994)_ are the hungry, antagonistic pawns of Scar. In _The Lion Guard_ this trope was retconned away when Kion meets a good hyena who insists that most hyenas are good. It just so happens every hyena seen so far besides her has been evil. There is also another good hyena in a non-canon book for the first film that is probably the inspiration for this character. Two of Janja's (main hyena antagonist for the show) lackeys are shown not to be so bad after all, as they readily and genuinely agreed to behave when in the Pride Lands after he kicked them out of the group, and true to their word they did no harm. They are pretty much the animal equivalent of Punch Clock Villains, only doing wrong because he's their boss.
-   The Hun army in _Mulan_ is portrayed as evil and bloodthirsty.
-   _Ruby Gillman, Teenage Kraken_: Mermaids are depicted in the movie's universe (with no exceptions) as an inherently evil, vain, and power-hungry species that use their pretty looks and charm to manipulate other beings into helping them get what they want, with the krakens being the one thing preventing them from taking over the entire ocean.
-   In _The Tale of Despereaux_, even the narrator states that rats are always greedy, dirty, unheroic, and terrified of the light, with the exception of Rascuro who falls to the dark side for a while after he tries _not_ to be Always Chaotic Evil.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _300_ was criticized for portraying the Persians this way, although it is justified by the Unreliable Narrator... and how the Persians are an _invading army_. It's also implied that many of the Persian soldiers are Punch Clock Villains cowering in fear of their god-emperor's might. It's only the immortals and literal demons who are pure inhuman evil.
-   The Xenomorphs in _Alien_. They seemingly exist for the sole purpose of killing everything on a planet. It is subtly implied that they are indeed intelligent, not just bestial animals, which simply makes them even more terrifying. If you listen to _Prometheus_, this is because they were _designed_ to be weapons. They can't help killing everything in sight that isn't them, it's what they're _for_. The Expanded Universe plays with the trope a lot. More than a few characters who start out believing the aliens to be pure evil on par with Satan himself eventually come to the conclusion that they're no more evil than a volcano or a tsunami — simply a terrifying, destructive but ultimately neutral force which cares nothing for whatever morality its prey ascribes to it.
-   _Baahubali_: The Kalakeyas are a race of warmongers who are depicted as so horrifying that they're Ambiguously Human.
-   _Battlefield Earth_: With the exception of Ker and the bartender (who eventually gets decapitated), the Psychlos seems to be made entirely of greedy, obnoxious, drunken and Stupid Evil Space Pirates, which makes the destruction of their homeworld in the climax less controversial.
-   The Troglodytes in _Bone Tomahawk_ are completely mindless rabid animals who have no human form of communication, are so inbred they're basically a Human Subspecies, and are strictly cannibalistic.
-   The Skeksis in _The Dark Crystal_. Justified in that they're the other half of a species that accidentally split itself into good / evil races. Supplementary materials, most notably the comics _The Dark Crystal: Creation Myths_ and _The Dark Crystal: Age of Resistance_, explore this a bit: they weren't inherently evil, just hedonistic (though some were assholes from the start), but eventually became despots once they realised they weren't immortal. One of them (skekGra the Heretic) even turned good completely, suggesting they have full moral agency.
-   The Subsiders in _Daybreakers_. The regular vampires feed on blood but retain enough human qualities for some of them to even be sympathetic characters, but the Subsiders are feral monsters that kill on sight and prey on vampires and humans alike.
-   The Deadites in all three _Evil Dead_ films, as well as the Army of the Dead in the third, _Army of Darkness_. Justified as they're possessed by demons and/or evil spirits.
-   Subverted in _Fury_. While some of the solders clearly believe this is the case for all Germans, Wardaddy tells Norman early on that most of the enemy army are simply doing exactly what they are doing (which doesn't they should go easy on them however), and both in the movie and deleted scenes Wardaddy does try to keep German civilians from being abused, at least without reason. Wardaddy does have a thoroughly justified _murderous_ hatred of the SS for understandable reasons, and by and large the film backs him up on this. That said, one of the few acts of mercy in the entire movie (and the only one done outside of Geneva Convention regulations) is done by not only a German but by a member of the SS, who spots Norman alone, unarmed, and just trying to survive after the battle, and decides to spare Norman's life, since he's obviously not a threat. (Although considering the time, being set only about a month before the final surrender of Nazi Germany and the hopelessly depleted state of Germany's armed forces, it wouldn't be unreasonable for the kid in question to not actually be SS, but perhaps a member of a civilian militia or random conscript who got dragged along with the SS battalion.)
-   _God's Not Dead_ and it's sequel got a lot of criticism for depicting people who don't share Christian beliefs this way. Pretty much every Atheist character in the films is characterized as a smug, angry, selfish, obnoxious, mustache twirling and unhappy person who wants to destroy christians because he hates their faith.
-   Gremlins from, well, _Gremlins_. Gizmo is the only member of the species who is good, and you'll notice that he never becomes a gremlin himself. The other Mogwai spawned from Gizmo also apply, but they're somewhat more benign than the full Gremlins. The novelization explains that the Mogwai were a failed attempt by alien scientists to create the perfect companion. Most Mogwai turned out to be dangerous. The rare few who turned out right like Gizmo are called "Eternals".
-   The aliens from _Independence Day_ are kind enough to use a People Puppet to let humanity know straight-out that there can be no possible peace with them and that the only thing they want humanity to do is "die."
-   The alien invaders in _Killer Klowns from Outer Space_ are an entire race of Monster Clowns, and are consequently all pure evil. They're essentially space clown vampires, but rather than killing humans only to feed on them, they're all utterly sadistic and genuinely enjoy murdering people in increasingly gruesome ways and laughing psychotically about it.
-   The martians in _Mars Attacks!_. Besides this one, relevant tropes include For the Evulz, Violence is the Only Option, and We Come in Peace — Shoot to Kill. The cards on which the movie was based subverted this, showing a much more peaceful organization of martians who opposed the invasion. Given that, in the same set, humanity invaded Mars, kicked their asses while the war machines were off to Earth, and it eventually ends in Mars blowing up, it leads to the most unfortunate of implications. Or further villainization of the aggressive side of the populace for ruining it for everyone.
-   Marvel Cinematic Universe:
    -   The Chitauri from _The Avengers (2012)_ are a legion of ravenous aliens whose only personality characteristic is to be led into battle by Loki. When they arrive in New York, they raze the city and cause mass chaos with little objective or purpose.
    -   The main antagonists in _Thor: The Dark World_ are the Dark Elves, a species of being from Svartalfheim (the eponymous "Dark World"), led by Malekith the Accursed. Due to mostly unexplored motivations that never made it into the final cut of the movie, their goal sums up as a Generic Doomsday Villain's would, trying to return the Nine Realms to a place of darkness and little else. Bor Burison (Odin's father) slaughtered as much of their race as he could find, mostly because of this trope, as he believed their decimation was the only key to peace (which ultimately ended up true).
    -   So far, the MCU version of the Kree seem to be this, interestingly in contrast with their comic book/616 counterparts who, Depending on the Writer, are Noble Demons; they constantly flip flop between Lawful Evil and Lawful Neutral and there are also a few heroes of Kree origin in the comics. Here, starting with Ronan the Accuser in _Guardians of the Galaxy_, the Kree are usually depicted as needlessly cruel, warlike, imperialistic, goth tinged, always angry and downright brutal bastards.
-   All cars became this in _Maximum Overdrive_ after a comet makes them sentient.
-   _Men in Black_ has at least two intelligent alien species, the Bugs from the first film (represented by Edgar) and the Boglodites from the third film (represented by Boris), who are completely hostile to everything else out there due to their nature as ravenous Planet Looters. Serleena from the second film is implied to be similar, but we never find out if she has any brethren. Discussed in the first film regarding the Bugs:
    
    **Kay:** Bugs thrive on carnage, Tiger. They consume, infest, destroy, live off the death and destruction of other species. \[...\] Imagine a giant cockroach, with unlimited strength, a massive inferiority complex, and a real short temper, is tear-assing around Manhattan Island in a brand-new Edgar suit. That sound like fun?
    
-   From _Monty Python's Life of Brian_, the Judean Peoples' Front. And the Romans, according to the Peoples' Front of Judea. You know, apart from the sanitation, the medicine, the education, wine, public order, irrigation, roads, fresh water system, and public health.
-   The Bugs in _Starship Troopers_. Although it's deliberately left unclear whether the Bugs started the war or if the humans did, they are absolutely merciless in battle and kill the humans without restraint. _Starship Troopers 2: Hero of the Federation_ makes it clear that the Bugs themselves see humanity as this, regarding them as a virus. In any case, the humans' Fantastic Racism toward the Klendathu is obvious, to the point that they stomp on _little, harmless bugs_ for reminding them of the big ones.
-   _Star Wars_:
    -   The Tusken Raiders (or Sand People) are a very literal example; as far as the movies go, they never seemed to be portrayed as anything other than evil. In _The Phantom Menace_, they show up very briefly, and it's just to randomly shoot at podracers. In _Attack of the Clones_, they kidnap and torture Anakin's mother, killing her when Anakin finally shows up, though Anakin's massacre of them is treated as a Kick the Dog moment nonetheless. In _A New Hope_, they are shown to be savagely attacking random human beings into unconsciousness and stealing their vehicles.
        -   In _Star Wars Legends_ there is one Tusken Jedi, A'Sharad Hett (actually a human foundling raised by them) who initially seems to be an exception. Then, after surviving Order 66, he becomes evil anyway when he embraces the Tuskens' ruthless culture. Fast forward a few centuries, and he's a Big Bad in his own right, Darth Krayt. The Tuskens' way of life is Rape, Pillage, and Burn incarnate, so it's understandable that good people don't appear among them.
        -   _Knights of the Old Republic_ is a notable exception which gives the Tuskens a Freudian Excuse: Tantooine was turned into an arid Death World by orbital bombardment, so the Tuskens see space-faring races as this. They can even be convinced otherwise, with the Player Character able to broker a truce between the settlers of Anchorhead and the local tribe of Tuskens (or alternatively wipe them out to a man).
        -   _The Mandalorian_ actually features an aversion, as well as an explanation for their hostility. Tuskens see themselves as the only true inhabitants of Tatooine, and everyone else is trespassing. The eponymous character peacefully barters with them (in sign language) for safe passage and they let him pass once he's paid a toll, presumably because Mando tells them he's not intending to stay long. Later on, we see a village on Tatooine who definitelyviews Tuskans as this, but the a pressed to work with the Tuskans by Mando.
        -   _The Book of Boba Fett_ continues this, showing Boba Fett's time among them.
    -   Another Star Wars race that are almost never depicted in a positive light are the Hutts. Every Hutt seen in the movies — and most of the ones in the Expanded Universe as well — are greedy, conniving mobsters who run criminal enterprises. There are several cases of Hutts retiring from crime or siding with the New Republic such as Boonda in _Star Wars: Droids_ and Ka'pa in _Jedi Knight: Mysteries of the Sith_, though this is usually done out of self interest or apathy rather then the goodness of their heart. There was _one_ known instance of a Hutt Jedi, but even he fell to the Dark Side. While there are no known heroic Hutts in canon, _Legends_ did feature one good Hutt, Honest Corporate Executive Aarba the Hutt from _Tales of the Jedi_. Aarba was a reasonable being who helped the Daragon twins, and even managed to kill two Sith in a Dying Moment of Awesome.
    -   Ditto for the Nemoidians, the leaders of the Trade Federation. Viceroy Gunray pretty much embodying every single one of their traits: they're Dirty Cowards as described by Qui-Gon Jinn, have no qualms about invading (they call it "occupying") a peaceful planet just for profit, and threw their lot with the Separatists in the Clone Wars partly motivated for Gunray's desire for revenge against Padmé Amidala due to the invasion fiasco. They only consider their own profit, with the damage they might cause others being irrelevant. It took until 2022 _Queen’s Hope_ and _Brotherhood_ novels for sympathetic and flat out heroic Neimodians to be introduced.
-   The goblins in _Troll 2_ fit the bill pretty well. All of them want a tasty snack of the humans in the movie.
-   The Djinn from _Wishmaster_ are a possibly unintended byproduct of God's creation of the universe, and are basically indistinguishable from stereotypical demons, in that they are confined to a Hell-like dimension, oppose angels, and have no apparent goals beyond sowing chaos and discord For the Evulz. While the one that is featured in _Wishmaster 4: The Prophecy Fulfilled_ appears to start falling for his oblivious human summoner, Lisa, this only comes about due to the demands of her third wish (he needs her to love him for who he truly is) and his ultimate goal is to still bring about Hell on Earth by granting the wish to release his fellow Djinn. Seemingly feeling affection for someone does little to change his attitude; while courting Lisa, he continues to terrorize and murder people on the side, including Lisa's best friend immediately after the woman had happily helped him by giving him advice on how to win over Lisa.
-   The Witches in _The Witches (1990)_, based on the Roald Dahl book of the same name, are shown to be like that; evil, ugly, hateful and despise all the children with murderous rage (with only one exception).

    Gamebooks 

-   Orcs and goblins in the _Fighting Fantasy_ books are always evil. Dark elves are an interesting case — in most books, they are portrayed as powerful and very, very evil, but in _Night Dragon_, they become allies against the eviler Night Dragon. The first one the player meets explains that he doesn't want to see his entire race destroyed, just as the PC, a human, would not want to see all humans wiped out.
-   Both used and subverted in the _Lone Wolf_ franchise. Those beings created directly by Naar, the God of Darkness, such as Agarash and the Darklords, have his essence in place of the souls that living creatures possess, accounting for their Always Chaotic Evil nature. Their servants, such as the orc-like Giaks, are evil only because they have never had any other choice, having been bred and used as warrior-slaves for generations. They do not know love, kindness, or compassion because they have never seen it, and readers are swiftly led to feel pity for them even as they kill and torture their way across the heroes' homelands. Also, anyone described as "swarthy" is _not to be trusted_ (leading to some _very_ Unfortunate Implications).
-   The book _Titan_, which serves as the backgrounder for the world that most _Fighting Fantasy_ books are set in, subverts this trope with the Halfhand brothers. The humans Rerek and Myzar Halfhand, and their human followers, invaded and slaughtered a nation of orcs that were living in a fertile territory that the humans wanted. The book lampshades the fact that the humans were very much in the wrong in this case, since they were the ones who attacked the orcs first, even though the humans are also celebrated as the heroes!

    Live-Action TV 

-   In _The 100_ — a show that deconstructs and disproves this trope by portraying most characters as having valid reasons for doing terrible things — there are still the Reapers, who have been transformed via Fantastic Drug from regular violent warriors into unreachable murderous monsters.
-   In _Andromeda_, the Magog are obligate carnivores who need to kill their prey themselves to start the digestive process, prefer sentient "food", and lay their eggs in the stomachs of other humanoids. Nietzscheans are genetically engineered superhumans who follow a themepark version of Friedrich Nietzsche's philosophy mixed with a heavy dose of Social Darwinism and overthrew the Systems Commonwealth causing the Long Night. However, the Andromeda Ascendant's crew includes one of both species; Rev Bem is a Magog converted to a non-violent religion called Wayism, while Tyr Anasazi was a Nietzschean mercenary who saw the Andromeda as a way to further his own interests.
-   _Babylon 5_: The Drakh are this trope. They are portrayed as universally obsessed with exacting "revenge", at all scales from Mind Rape to genocide, over all other races, for the departure of the Shadows. The species has no internal "good guys", deeper motivations, or other redeeming qualities.
-   _Battlestar Galactica_:
    -   The Cylons in _Battlestar Galactica (1978)_ were not created by humans, but by a different and now-extinct race. They were more like a weapon that got out of control than a species in their own right, as the newer series' Cylons were.
    -   _Battlestar Galactica (2003)_ is considerably more nuanced. Indeed, the logical impossibility of an Always Chaotic Evil race is Helo's argument against the proposed genocide of the Cylons in the episode "A Measure of Salvation". He really hammers home the point when talking to his Cylon wife, after she says she "chose to be a person."
        
        _"You were a person before you put on that uniform, okay? You were a person before I fell in love with you."_
        
-   Subverted in _Brimstone_; the escaped souls are often evil, and one would expect them to be, but at least a few were shown to have been genuinely good people who made horrific decisions, or. in at least one case, were doing what they believed to be the best, only to then be judged by another religion's values, after dying. One was even so genuinely contrite and seeking redemption that he was taken to heaven instead of sent back to hell upon his recapture.
-   In _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_ and _Angel_, this almost universally applies to vampires, who lose their human souls (and thus, their sense of right and wrong) along with their humanity... although there are some very rare exceptions, such as Sam Lawson, the only person Angel sired while ensouled, and who seems to have retained parts of his soul (which he remarks as being worse than hell, as he's both wracked with guilt for his vampiric actions but can't stop doing them). Interestingly, this isn't true of other kinds of demons, especially in _Angel_ and the later seasons of _Buffy_; some are always evil, but some may be neutral, and there are even good demons dwelling both on Earth and other planes of existence who just want to make their way with no trouble, such as recurring character Clem on _Buffy_ and main character Lorne on _Angel_.
-   Muzzles in _Bullets of Justice_ are a sadistic species without exception, completely obsessed with farming humans for food or killing them in painful ways. A completely justified case, since they were created by a government program during World War III as Super Soldiers. To make things worse, when they began to attack civilians, the military decided to kill the witnesses instead of doing anything to stop them, making possible the setting 25 years later instead of dealing with the problem then.
-   Warlocks, demons, Darklighters, and vampires in _Charmed (1998)_. There was literally only two members of one of those species (demon) who displayed a capacity for good, and even then it was only due to special circumstances (one had acquired a soul, while the other was an empathic seer who was capable of feeling and experiencing things — if only tangentially — that others demons simply could not). While some are worse than others, it is constantly emphasized that being evil is a part of their very nature, and that they only do good for pragmatic reasons, because they are being forced to, or because they are a Half-Human Hybrid (like Brendan Rowe, Cole Turner, or the manticores). One episode even went as far as revealing that the Elders employ an agent whose job is to round up and exterminate demon children, all of whom were portrayed as deceitful and murderous Enfant Terrible.
-   _Doctor Who_ has a few of these, although they usually have a reason. For example:
    -   The Daleks are mutated aliens in travel machines who are only capable of hate and negative emotions due to being bred that way by Mad Scientist Davros (in the serial "Genesis of the Daleks", we learn that Davros "removed the brain cells of the conscience" from the proto-Daleks — a feat that would be, to put it mildly, challenging). They simply are made to believe that Daleks are a Master Race and (unless events outside of their control are threatening reality with oblivion) everyone else deserves to die. They're Space Nazis. In fact, the Daleks are so evil that the good Daleks or Dalek factions can be counted on one hand, and most of them turned good after being infected by humanity. In the episode "Into the Dalek", the Doctor reveals that part of every Dalek's extensive cybernetic modification is a computer that constantly monitors the Dalek's mind and memories to delete any trace of compassion or empathy. This is probably a Revision of the "removed the brain cells of the conscience" origin.
        
        **The Doctor:** Imagine the worst possible thing in the universe, then don't bother, because _you're looking at it_ right now! This is evil refined as engineering.
        
    -   The original Cybermen had lost all their emotions after being cybernetically reconstructed, and couldn't see _why_ someone wouldn't want to "become like us". The new series' version is closer to the Daleks, but they still try to Cyber-convert their victims instead of just killing everyone. And similarly to the Daleks, the Cybermen have had a few good specimens, mostly humans who weren't fully converted and refused to hop on the Cyber-bandwagon. These specimens include Yvonne Hartman, Danny Pink, The Brigadier, and the Doctor himself, as well as pretty much any Cyberman who loses the emotional inhibitor, realizes what it's become, and kills itself.
    -   Subverted by the Ice Warriors. In their first story, they are a Noble Demon civilization. In their second, they are a genocidal invasion force that uses Hostile Terraforming as a weapon, and the Doctor fires the entire invasion fleet into the Sun with no remorse at all. In their third appearance, the Doctor holds the Ice Warrior Ambassador as prime suspect in a Ten Little Murder Victims case on the grounds that they're a "savage and warlike race", even though the Ice Warrior insists that he didn't do it. He didn't, and is definitely a good guy.
    -   The Sontarans are a Proud Warrior Race who worship war; they're all clones of one guy, churned out by the trillions to fight an endless war against shapeshifting green blobs. They fit into this trope as being Sometimes Lawful Neutral, since their actions always have a military objective and, unless they involve Earth, are not good or evil at face value.
    -   The Nestene are a Hive Mind species made of plastic who have spent a thousand million years colonising other worlds, apparently wiping out the local populations in the process. However, the short story "Revenge of the Nestene" revealed that they _did_ give up on their war-like ways for a time and made peace with their neighbours, even falling in love with a fellow Hive Mind... right before shrapnel from the Time War (planets that had been used as bullets and waves of time energy) burned off the surface of their homeworld and drove them completely insane. After that, they're right back to trying to wipe out humanity so they can make Earth their new home.
    -   The Weeping Angels are abstract alien entities from the "Dark Age" of the universe when the Time Lords were ascending to prominence, known to be filled with all manner of evil creatures. They are, apparently, the ideas of living things come to life to torture and kill us, which is a pretty scary concept. Their normal way of killing someone is actually rather nice — they send you back in time to a point where you can lead a full and happy life, dying eventually from old age long before you would have normally. They do this because they feed off of your "potential" energy, that you would have used. They can also kill you and feed off your potential energy that way; in "The Time of Angels", they kill people, and rip out at least one spinal cord to use as a communications device.
    -   Oddly enough, the _Time Lords_ are generally portrayed this way by default. While there are a few obvious exceptions — Susan, Romana, K'anpo Rimpoche, and the Doctor himself (on a good day) — the society as a whole is shown to be self-serving, arrogant, and dangerous. The Sixth Doctor called them "corrupt, decadent and rotten to the core". They _executed_ the Second Doctor for the crime of trying to make the universe a better place, and later they themselves made it a worse place by starting the Time War, and then tried to escape the war of their own making by _destroying time itself_. When they finally do escape the war, the entire planet of them have to hide at the furthest end of time because literally everyone in the universe hates them by now. It's also worth noting that about half of the series' most memorable individual villains — the Master, the Rani, Omega, Rassilon, the War Chief, Borusa, etc. — are Time Lords. What muddies the waters here is that it's still unclear whether "Time Lord" is the name of a _species_ — in which case this trope seems to apply — or merely of a _social class_ — in which case they're just an instance of Aristocrats Are Evil instead.
-   The Reavers in _Firefly_. It's never quite explained why they don't kill/rape/eat each other, even though they travel in such massive groups. As revealed in the movie, _Serenity (2005)_, Reavers are infected with a chemical agent that, in .1% of the population, causes uncontrolled aggression.
-   In _Game of Thrones_, the White Walkers are a mysterious supernatural race led by the Night King who's sole purpose is to end all life. The Night King and the White Walkers (know in the books as the Others) were created by the Children of the Forest to help them in their fight against humans, but ultimately they turn on their creators and try to kill everything, starting the Long Night. In the show, they raise humans and other beings from the dead to serve in their undead army. They have no other motive than to end all life and will not stop until they have done so.
-   _Kamen Rider_:
    -   _Kamen Rider Kuuga_: The Grongi are a race consisting entirely of various kinds of serial killers, which they use as a game to determine their social order. Rather than hunting each other, though, their preferred targets are humans.
    -   _Kamen Rider Kabuto_: The Worms are shapeshifters whose only real motivation seems to be to Kill and Replace all other life they encounter. Their brother species, the Natives, are just as bad, but better enough at long-term planning to present themselves outwardly as the Good Counterpart. The only heroic Worm in the series is one who replicates a person with such an enormous ego that their personality consumes the Worm's original personality, while the Natives have a slightly better success rate at members losing interest in the world domination thing.
    -   _Kamen Rider Wizard_: Phantoms are created when people with latent magical talent cross the Despair Event Horizon, causing their magic to consume them and create a monster driven by the worst possible version of their personality. This comes back to bite the heroes twice, the first time when after seeing that he used to be a sweet kid, Rinko convinces Phoenix to give up on following the Big Bad's orders and Be Yourself, and he agrees: he decides he should stop maintaining the masquerade and go on the murderous rampage across town that he's really been wanting. The second time is with Gremlin, who claims he retains his human mind and heart, which is true: he was already a serial killer and couldn't get any worse.
    -   _Kamen Rider Gaim_: The Overlords of the Helheim Forest are evil without exception, aside from their nominal leader Roshuo. Roshuo is in a deep depression specifically because he made them this way when he originally gained the power of a god and, having been a Social Darwinist at the time, gave them powerful bodies: all of the Overlords who weren't brutal or backstabbing enough died off centuries ago.
    -   _Kamen Rider Drive_: The Roidmudes are a legion of shapeshifting killer robots driven primarily by wanting to destroy humanity for no readily apparent reason. It eventually comes out that they're seeking vengeance for their mistreatment at the hands of their creator, and unknowingly doing exactly as he programmed them to do in the process by seeking out the worst of humanity to mimic.
    -   _Kamen Rider Ex-Aid_: Bugsters are video game villains come to life through a supernatural virus, which simply means they continue following their original programming. There _are_ some good Bugsters, but they all come from games like rhythm games where the opponent isn't evil.
-   _The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power_: Deconstructed with how the Orcs came to be an evil race. They were once Elves of Beleriand, twisted and enslaved by Morgoth until they became an entirely different race from Elves, and they had no choice in the matter but to became evil as a result of being subjected to institutionalized abuse and slavery by Morgoth, and later by Sauron. They are seen inherently evil with no right to exist by the other Races, and sadly, rightfully so because of their own depraved actions. The elf Region couldn't even believe that the Orcs that kidnapped and enslaved him are capable of reverence and respect.
    -   Adar brings this ethical and moral problem while being questioned by Galadriel, by pointing out that as evil as they may be, they Orcs have same creator as the other races, and same right to life and a place to call home. In the end, is not their fault they were turned into creatures of darkness, who cannot stand in the sun, and left with the only option of taking other People's homelands by force.
-   As a series with the main theme of Humans Are the Real Monsters like the original novel, in _Lovecraft Country_ 1950s white Americans are portrayed as this (even by Jim Crow era standards). _Every single one_ appears to either go out of their way to be a murderous bigot or be supportive of those that are, and the black main characters simply sitting down at a restaurant was enough to trigger a gun battle and Car Chase with The Klan. The Big Bads are a family of white supremacist sorcerers who literally have the name Braith_white_, and while the original novel has the most prominent member be a pragmatist who Hates Everyone Equally, his show equivalent's Cartoonish Supervillainy is presented as the baseline for his kind.
-   The Men in Black (here reimagined as extradimensional invaders) from _M.A.N.T.I.S._ The are unusually self-aware of this, though, producing Half-Human Hybrids for the express purpose of having them think and feel in ways that are totally alien to them, with the first hybrid being a man named C. Flayton Ruell.
    
    **MIB:** We do not understand your tactics.  
    **Ruell:** It's so sad that your brains do not have right hemispheres.
    
-   In the miniseries _North and South_, anyone who is not on the side of the Mains or the Hazards is chaotic evil:
    -   Justin, the man who marries Madeline beats her and gets her hooked on drugs so she can't think for herself.
    -   Major Bent is nothing but evil.
    -   Similarly, Orry's sister, Ashton, relishes in evil acts and does bad things just to spite others.
    -   The overseer rapes the slaves and tries to kill Charles Main.
    -   A guy who gets in a duel with Charles Main tries to cheat him by loading his weapon wrong to give him an advantage.
-   _The Orville_: Robot Buddy Isaac is introduced as an emissary of the Kaylon, a race of Artificial Intelligences claiming to be evaluating the Planetary Union to see if they want to join. When we finally meet them in "Identity", however, they turn out to have exterminated their creators for trying to control their development, and Isaac's real job was to gather intelligence for a campaign of genocide against the entire galaxy. He ultimately turns on them to foil their surprise attack on Earth, becoming the Token Heroic Orc.
-   The orgs of _Power Rangers Wild Force_, or so it seems at first: The Empath Cole gets nothing from them saying they lack hearts entirely, but the Big Bad is a former human, who _also_ registers as truly heartless. Also, in the end, the three main Duke Orgs reform. There's good in a Merrickless Zen-Aku but not Dr. Adler.
-   _Reaper_, which has a similar premise, has an episode introducing a soul who was fighting to control murderous impulses. He eventually acknowledged that the best thing was for him to go back to Hell until he sorted himself out.
-   Krommagg in _Sliders_ are a parallel Earth evolution of aggressive hominids that go around invading other dimensions. With some very few examples, most are essentially A Nazi by Any Other Name.
-   By the time _Spartacus Vengeance_ rolls around, every single Roman is at best a total Jerkass, and at worst (and more likely) a complete monster. Cold-Blooded Torture is a _pass time_ for them, and their cold hearted execution of prisoners. As well as their manipulations of the idiotic populous. Subverted in _War of the Damned_. Many Romans are introduced who are simply innocent civilians caught up in a war, Crassus comes off as a Noble Demon, and many of the rebels act like psychotic murders and rapists.
-   _Stargate_:
    -   The Goa'uld of _Stargate SG-1_ have a Bizarre Alien Biology that includes genetic memory, meaning that every new Goa'uld born inherits its parents' evil tendencies. The only non-evil ones ever seen are the Tok'ra, an offshoot who are all the children of a single rogue Goa'uld queen. Outside of the Tok'ra there's merely a little variability in _how_ evil an individual Goa'uld is (Sokar and Anubis, for example, are considered monsters even by their fellow Goa'uld), and a few like Yu and Ba'al are just a more pragmatic evil.
    -   In one episode, a Jaffa tried to telepathically influence the symbiote in her body and convert him to good. It didn't work, and the Goa'uld killed her as soon as he found a new host.
    -   However, it is later inverted because the Tok'ra say that some Goa'uld have joined them over time (and vice versa in at least one case). They also use sarcophagi as technology, which over time makes their users more and more malicious.
    -   With the occasional episodic exception (usually in the form of recurring character "Todd"), the Wraith in _Stargate Atlantis_ also fit this trope. While their treatment of humans is explained by the fact that we're essentially tasty cows to them, they're still excessively sadistic about it. Wraith society seems very ruthless and survival-of-the-fittest oriented. I.e. the Klingon Promotion seems widely accepted, and Queens are often shown treating their subordinates like dirt. Not that there weren't historical human cultures that largely shared these values. They seem to have dialed it back _slightly_ in the last couple of seasons of the show, with slightly less Large Ham gloating from some of the Wraith characters. Also, in "The Queen", the Wraith Commander expresses concern over the lives of his men, and the enemy Wraith.
-   _Star Trek_:
    -   The Borg in the later series. Except for individuals like Hugh, and some kind of subconscious resistance on _Voyager_.
    -   The original series played with this trope in regards to Klingons. Most Klingon captains tend to fall into this, but some episodes (notably "Day of the Dove") make a point to show that this is more a perception/stereotype our heroes have of them than an actual truth. Klingons are "the enemy", but not necessarily Always Chaotic Evil. Though episodes like "Day of the Dove" were the exception rather than the rule. The fifth movie based on the series was another exception. With the sixth original series film and _Star Trek: The Next Generation_, portraying Klingons this way was abandoned altogether in favor of retooling them into quirky Proud Warrior Race Guys.
    -   Likewise, Ferengi were portrayed this way on _The Next Generation_, but not _Deep Space Nine_.
    -   Initially played straight with the Jem'Hadar in _Deep Space Nine_, with an infant Jem'Hadar who quickly turns out exactly how everyone warned Odo he would. But eventually averted with a few individuals later, who show some Proud Warrior Race traits (mostly these are immediately killed). The Jem'Hadar and Vorta were both justified as species genetically manipulated by The Founders to fight their wars for them. Both were addicted to a substance only the Founders could provide, and were indoctrinated in the idea that the Founders were gods. Generally, they were Expendable Clones, although the Female Changeling did seem to mourn Weyoun 8's death.
    -   _Spectacularly_ averted with the Romulans. Even though they are The Federation's oldest and most persistent foe, most Romulan characters are depicted as being nuanced, sympathetic, and extremely honourable, even if they are a little arrogant or deceptive. Even the unambiguously villainous ones like Tomalak are depicted more as a Worthy Opponent than anything else. Interestingly, probably the most evil Romulan in canon, Commander Sela, is a Half-Human Hybrid.
    -   Subverted and deconstructed with the Cardassians, who made an early impression when one of their officers tortured Jean-Luc Picard. They are an imperialistic culture with a Kafkaesque legal system, and their former subjects—especially Bajorans and members of the Maquis—tend to see them as inherently evil, with some even believing that killing _any_ Cardassian is fair game. It's gradually revealed that some are benevolent and most major Cardassian characters exhibit shades of gray.
    -   Played completely straight with the Pah-wraiths with no exception. They are consistently treated by characters like they are all evil with no exceptions.
        -   O'Brien felt no remorse after murdering a Pah-wraith which was possessing his wife, Keiko.
        -   Sisko also felt no remorse after imprisoning their entire species with the intent of trapping them for all eternity.
    -   _Star Trek: Voyager_:
        -   Played straight (with one exception) with the Kazon; they were featured almost constantly on the show's first two seasons, and yet never received any significant Character Development or manifested any redeeming features whatsoever (not even in the form of defectors from decadence). The sole exception was the episode "Initiations" which gave the Kazon some motivation, and showed that the possibility of redemption existed in a few of them. Sadly, that was the show's only attempt to give the Kazon some depth.
        -   In the episode "Nemesis", the Kradin are a monstrous race who look like and are referred to as merciless beasts, have threatening voices, and are engaging in a genocidal war against the human Vori and desecrating their graves. Chakotay crash lands on the planet, and after witnessing all their atrocities, joins the Vori Defenders' cause. Subverted, since he had actually been captured and brainwashed by the Vori so they could recruit him as a soldier. The Kradin are in fact the good guys, and helped the Voyager crew to rescue him from the warzone. When Chakotay meets with the friendly Kradin ambassador, he can't shake the hatred that he developed for them.
-   In _Supernatural_, demons are shown to be nearly always sadistic, manipulative monsters. This is justified, because demons are souls tortured in hell until they lose any humanity.

    Mythology and Religion 

-   _The Bible_:
    -   Demons/fallen angels. Justified in that, supposedly, they wouldn't have fallen if they weren't already evil.
    -   Many ethnic groups who opposed the Israelites are portrayed something like this way in _The Bible_ — but the ones who fit the most are the Amalekites, who unlike any other group never have a good person depicted. According to _The Bible_, the Amalekites were so uniformly evil that God Himself commanded a genocide against them. Controversy about this is far from new; the Jewish philosopher Maimonides, for example, claimed that even God's command against the Amalekites was invalid if they practiced the Noachide Laws; perhaps they broke them by eating the testicles of gelded cattle?<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   The **ENTIRE WORLD** was this in the time of Noah, hence why God decided to drown everyone in The Great Flood.
    -   Occasionally, you have a fallen angel who doesn't seem to have gone full-subterranean. In Jewish folklore, Asmodeus is sometimes regarded as _attending synagogue_, and does better than _Solomon_ on some matters of morality (although, given that Solomon apparently lapsed in matters towards the close of his reign...). Some angels, such as Sammael and Zaphkiel, are both good _and_ evil.
    -   The _offspring_ of angels and humans are a different story. They're called "Nephilim" ("fallen" or "ruinous") for a reason. In fact, 1 Enoch posits that the reason for the Flood was that if they weren't drowned out, _the Nephilim would have devoured the world down to the bedrock_. _After_ that, the Nephilim wouldn't be done; they will just persist as evil spirits. In other words, the vast majority of demons were _undead Nephilim_.
    -   And demons aren't even consistently always evil in even Christian traditions (predating the 20th century that is). Many grimoires show them as more animalistically dangerous than malicious.
    -   Often subverted in Islamic folklore. Ifrit are usually malevolent towards humans and live in the underworld, but are sometimes committed Muslims and following orders from Allah. It's just that those orders involve harming humans. Similarly, ghuls take in orphaned humans in some stories and look after them.
    -   While not presented so in the Good Book itself, many a sermon has been preached that the Romans were this, especially once Nero came to power.
-   Jotnar, western dragons, harpies, and many others. But then, in those days, folks often characterized their human enemies the same way. Likewise, but only halfway through, imps are always chaotic little buggers, and are said to be especially adept at pulling some very dark shenanigans on anyone who slights them. That said, they aren't particularly evil in most myths, just a source of minor annoyance, since they love to play ultimately harmless pranks like stealing and hiding some small, virtually worthless items to mess with somebody.
-   In many myths, ghosts only wish to inflict pain on the living even if they were good people in life. Likewise with vampires — at least in the older stories. Today, there is often more variation.
-   This trope goes back to Older Than Dirt Mesopotamian examples: the Allu, Asakku, Gallu, and Rabisu.
-   Just about every monster in Filipino mythology qualifies. With some exceptions (like the Kapre, the Sarimanok and the Alan Bird), all of the Philippines' monsters are either man-eating demons or soul-stealing phantoms.
-   The ogres from Guatuso mythology apply; they don't attack each other but humans on the other hand are fair game for them to do anything.
-   Skin Walkers, or _yee naaldlooshii_, from Navajo mythology. Unlike most fiction where they're just another type of werewolf, mythological Skin Walkers are witches who have willingly become one by committing a horrific crime (normally murdering a close family member) and use their wide variety of powers to kill and harm others. So there's no such thing as a good Skin Walker because the only people who become them were already monsters to begin with.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _The Chronicles of Aeres_, being an homage to old-school Heroic Fantasy, has a few major examples of this trope:
    -   Vulgraks are expies of the Skekses who serve the powers of darkness as its greatest champions.
    -   Goblins and Orcs are created by taking a gnome or halfling and literally wringing out every last drop of goodness from its soul, leaving behind only the basest, most vile impulses and darkest thoughts. Goblins are described as being barely sapient, little more than living bundles of hate and spite.
-   _Critical Role: Tal'Dorei Campaign Setting_: In the setting of Tal'Dorei, goblins are the mutated creations of a god of hatred that are only kept from devolving into wild beasts due to the tyrannical orders of higher goblinoids. They build no cities, breed like animals, and only respect the "kill-boss" who leads them on their deadly raids against men, elves, and dwarves. Just about the only thing all three races can agree on is that goblins are horrid and inhuman.
    
    _"Goblins are like vermin."_
    
-   Carrying on from the H. P. Lovecraft example up in Literature, many, many creatures in _CthulhuTech_ are invariably sociopathic mass-murderers. For example, the Dhohanoids are almost invariably driven violently insane by the Rite of Transfiguration.
-   The trope namer is _Dungeons & Dragons_. The reason for the use of the trope was so players wouldn't feel bad when killing monsters. The whole cosmology of the _D&D_ universe used to be based on alignments; Good versus Evil and Law versus Chaos weren't morally relative terms, they were forces that influenced most creatures — very few races (including the Player Character races) could choose their alignments willingly. Originally, every type of monster or creature would have one alignment or another, without any modifiers; it wasn't even brought up that they could be any other way. In later editions, this was relaxed by inserting "often", "usually" or "always" in front of the alignment descriptor. This also created the phrase "Always Chaotic Evil". Now, the only races who are always one alignment or another are those who are somehow "tied" to good or evil and law or chaos (such as demons, angels, and other spiritual creatures), or those without sufficient Intelligence to recognize alignment, which are always True Neutral (like wild animals, who are focused just on surviving and don't consider morality in their decisions).
    -   In-universe, the "usually evil" nature of some races is justified by their racial deities, such as Lolth for the Drow and Gruumsh for the Orcs, being evil. These gods also work very hard to make sure that their worshippers are just as bad as they are, and any that _aren't_ tend to end up on the god's hit list.
    -   The _Eberron_ campaign setting for _D&D_ 3.5 has gone so far as to explicitly discourage the use of the alignment section of a monster's stats, even for those who are "tied" to a certain alignment. The core book also makes clear that "evil" does not equal "kill on sight" — the tavern owner overcharges for draft and cheats on his wife; are you gonna put the sword to his neck like you would with Lord Dark Von Doompants XIII? Per Word of God, the only entities in _Eberron_ that are virtually always a given alignment are ones of supernatural origin, such as outsiders and lycanthropes — and even then, you occasionally get ones that break out of their set nature, such as the quori who became the origin of the kalashtar, or the Fallen Angels who become radiant idols.
    -   _Book of Vile Darkness_ also listed a few new always evil races. The Vashar are a race of evil humans who are born with a drive to kill the gods, as they are descended from the gods' failed first attempt to create humans. The Jerren are corrupted halflings who started committing worse and worse crimes after using evil magic to survive a war with goblinoids. Kythons are part-reptile, part-insect creations of fiends who live only to kill anything that isn't a kython.
    -   The Drow of the _Forgotten Realms_ setting and the Draconians of the _Dragonlance_ setting are classic examples of "evil races". However, as the plot went on, individuals arose — specifically, scimitar-wielding Drizzt Do'Urden. Initially based on fanboyism, entire counter-cultures have arisen of differing alignment. In the Realms, most "good" Drow are the worshipers of Eilistraee, a goddess of the moon and hunt.
        -   5th edition eventually took steps to Retcon this for the drow by introducing new, non-evil subcultures of the Drow. In this new history, the Lolth-worshipping Underdark drow, or udadrow, are re-defined as a cult, corrupted by Lolth’s teachings. There are other cities of drow that do not worship Lolth: the aevendrow, starlight drow who live in the far, far north, and the lorendrow, greenshadow elves, who hide deep in jungles far to the south. The reason people think the udadrow are the sole examples of their race are because the other two live in massive Hidden Elf Villages, and go out of their way to keep their existences a secret.
    -   _Dragonlance_: The Draconians were initially introduced as somewhat snazzier Orc-equivalents, but later books reveal that the average Draconian is only a few years old and has been force-fed a Religion of Evil from birth to create the perfect fighting race. This generally worked, but after the collapse of the dragon armies, some Draconians began developing more individuality, and the _Kang's Regiment_ series centers on a group of sympathetic Draconian protagonists who just want to be left alone to build up their race in peace.
    -   Interestingly, under 3e/3.5e, demons are Always Chaotic Evil, even when they aren't — sort of. It's possible for a demon to have an alignment other than Chaotic Evil, but chaos and evil are such an integral part of their being that for magical effects, they _still_ count as Chaotic Evil in addition to whatever their actual alignment is. Devils work the same for Lawful Evil, and the various celestials work this way for various flavors of Good. Since these creatures are essentially alignment concepts given life, it is rather hard to change them. This means that, say, the Succubus who was driven by The Power of Love to forsake her evil ways or the penitent Pit Fiend will show up on a Paladin's Detect Evil spell.
    -   Tieflings, mortals who have a fiendish bloodline, are often assumed to be this by prejudiced people, but are actually no more inherently likely to be evil than the average human, though said prejudice may push them towards cynicism. By the same token, it's a common mistake to assume that aasimar (mortals with a celestial bloodline) will be Always Lawful Good.
    -   By their very nature, liches are Evil because the process of becoming one involves mass slaughter and bending the very forces of life and death to your will. Except if you're an archlich or a baelnorn<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> .
    -   Outside of _Spelljammer_, Illithids are a universally evil alien race of psychic slavers. The Elder Brains that rule their civilization are even worse. Not only does their life-cycle demand the sacrifice of sapient humanoids for new illithid to come to be, but they gain nourishment from sentience. In the _Forgotten Realms_, there is _one_ good Illithid, and that one is a very unusual case. Fortunately for everyone else in the setting, Illithid society is a mere shadow of what it used to be thanks to their former slaves, the Githyanki and Githzerai, rising up against them. As a result, the Illithids are pragmatic enough to rein in their desire to eat brains long enough to trade and make deals with other races. That said, your chances of leaving with your brain intact after running into an Illithid in a dark alley are next to none.
    -   Chromatic dragons play this trope straight, to the point that there are more canon examples of demons and devils turning good in _Dungeons & Dragons_ than there are of chromatic dragons turning good. And unlike other always evil creatures, they don't have any issues with a need to feed on brains or racial insanity; chromatic dragons just like being evil and don't want to change.
    -   Gnolls, Heinous Hyenas with close ties to the Demon Lord Yeenoghu, have zig-zagged this trope depending on the edition, though even Good-aligned gnolls tend not to be shining pillars of morality.
-   _Pathfinder_ uses many of the same examples as _Dungeons and Dragons_ with the only significant difference being how much more willing it is to describe the kind of evil they are. For example, any drow who displayed compassion or altruism would get hunted down and killed, or bugbears not simply being another goon-monster but a species of freakishly large yet uncannily sneaky serial killers who thrive on murder.
-   In _Exalted_, we have demons, who may or may not have anything against gods, mortals, and Exalts _personally_, but are completely incapable of disobeying their vengeful progenitors, the Yozis.
    -   Also, anything infected with Gremlin Syndrome.
    -   As with many _Exalted_ tropes, this one is implied to be more complex than at first glance: in the Roll of Glorious Divinity II, it's implied that demons are _afraid of love_, because the Yozis have ground it into them that there is no such thing as love without pain. Besides certain plot hooks, this begs the question: what kind of life must a demon lead?
    -   Mainly averted with the rest of the setting — even the Varatjul and the Dune People have an explanation for what they do (the Varatjul because they don't view other humans as being truly sapient; the Dune People are Crazy Survivalists who, thanks to the Solars, have come to view the world in terms of Us vs. Them, with "them" being "everyone who is not a Dune Person"). Meanwhile, the Abyssal and Infernal Exalted, being the chosen champions of the Neverborn and Yozis, respectively, might be expected to be Always Chaotic Evil, but being human beings with free will are still capable of subverting this, turning against their masters, being Anti-Heroes and Noble Demons, etc.
-   As of the most recent edition, _Gamma World_ has actually turned several monster species that used to be relatively peaceful in earlier editions (like the Menarls, Grens, Sleeths, and Orlens) into this.
-   In Steve Jackson Games' RPG _In Nomine_ players tend to happily gut this trope alive in order to play "Bright" Lilim which are canonically extremely rare (Lilim are a race of demons that was created out of whole cloth rather then coming from Fallen angels). Players just like to be special. Also depending on your group and the preferred style of play actual demons may or may not be particularly evil. Some groups prefer "Bright Low Contrast" in which neither side is really evil and the game is played for shenanigans.
-   Dragons and Infernals in _Iron Kingdoms_ are pretty much without exception massive assholes. The other factions tend to be a bit more sympathetic. In order of sympathy
    -   Cygnar, Llael, Ord, the Trollbloods, Convergence of Cyriss and Cygnar are more or less primarilhy concerned with defending themselves from aggression.
    -   The empires of Khador and Skorne are imperialistic and expansionist but still sane and relatable.
    -   Further down are the Retribution of Scyrah from the elvish kingdom of Ios, the Protectorate of Menoth, the Circle Orboros, and the Grymkin. They are all Knight Templars with the occasional TokenGoodTeammate.
    -   By contrast, the dragon-led factions in the wargame are pretty much without exception evil.
        -   Cryx is a nightmarish pit of undead under a dragon-god who wants to turn the world into his weapons against his offspring.
        -   The Legion of Everblight are twisted, mutated elves in service of one such offspring who would prefer not to be reabsorbed by the dragon-god thank you.
    -   At the bottoom of the list, and the only thing worse than the dragons, are the infernal factions. While the Dragons at least want the world to survive, the Infernals are quite literally demons from the setting's equivalent of hell who fead on mortal souls. Pretty much EVERYONE are against these guys. Even rival deities will set aside their differences and directly intervene in the world to fight the Infernals.
        -   The Infernals of the Nonokrian Order like to find immoral people to make a Deal with the Devil.
        -   Right alongside them are the Orgoth, an entire empire of humans under a separate faction of infernals called the Fellgoeth, that basically are demon-worshipping vikings that like to practice slavery, human sacrifice, trapping souls in weapons, and just being the biggest monsters possible.
-   _Magic: The Gathering_ has a few of such races, given how long the story has gone on and how many planes have been detailed, but the most prominent would be the Phyrexians, bio-technological assimilators native to the "clockwork hell" plane Phyrexia who served as the villains of the core plot for _years_ in real-time (and millennia in-story). Even after Phyrexia was destroyed by heroes from Dominaria in the climax of that original storyarc, they've managed to resurface thanks to remnants of their "glistening oil" creating new Phyrexians.
    -   Even so, Phyrexians in their newest form seem to move away from this trope. Ever since the Phyrexians took over the five-mooned metallic plane of Mirrodin, turning it into New Phyrexia, there have been five different factions corresponding to each of the five colors instead of all being aligned with black mana like the old Phyrexians, and each being led by a praetor, each with their own brand of pitch-dark evil... except the red praetor, Urabrask the Hidden, who, true to his red mana alignment (Red is associated with all emotions, both positive and negative), is a lot more individualistic and merciful than the other praetors, and therefore leads the only Phyrexian faction capable of free will and compassion. Probably due to this, he is the only Phyrexian leader who plots against the other praetors not simply to gain power but to actually work against New Phyrexia as a whole. This is mainly because New Phyrexia's goal to assimilate the multiverse strongly goes against Red's value of self-determination (his faction still "compleats" people, but only takes volunteers).
    -   Ironically, the praetor heading up the charge to compleat the multiverse is Elesh Norn the Grand Cenobite and now self-proclaimed Mother of Machines, the one aligned with white mana. White is usually the most merciful color and strongly associated with Lawful Good, but its values of order and community can also lend themselves to Lawful Evil when combined with Phyrexian zealotry.
    -   Most Black-aligned races fall into this trope in spite of Wizards of the Coast fervently insisting that Dark Is Not Evil. Black is the color where you find most demons, imps, horrors, nightmares, nightstalkers, hags, harpies and zombies. In fact, it's actually notable when they receive any sort of depth, such as Kaladesh's Aetherborn race, who are not evil but rather hedonistic (they have short lives and live them to the fullest). Vampires tend to get hit particularly hard, with even excursions into other colors on some planes (Innistrad's vampire aristocrats are red as well as black and Ixalan's vampire conquistadores are white as well as black, while Ravnica's mind-vampires are blue/black) not really making them any more friendly.
    -   Archons are an interesting case of Always Lawful Evil, since they embody White's more cruel traits like fanaticism.
-   _Rifts_ uses this trope, but also provides the interesting case of the Faustians in the _Phase World_ setting: An Always Chaotic Evil race that got on the wrong side of a war against an Evil Empire even worse than they were, forcing them to run to The Consortium of Civilized Worlds to survive. Being exceptionally smart that day, the CCW put the Faustians on a rather strict probationary membership, leaving the Faustians to harshly police their own bad sides. If even one of them pulls off any large-scale villainy, they _all_ get booted out and right back into the waiting fangs of the Empire.
    -   There is also a possible justification in an NPC's history in _Rifts Mercenaries_: a "renegade" Tauton's story talks about how he was _taught_ to hate and be almost mindlessly aggressive against other races. He didn't like it, and got out as soon as he could.
-   The original _Star Frontiers_ has the Sathar, who were reworked from a playable race into NPC-only xenophobes for the sake of being The Usual Adversaries, but were eventually made playable as the S'sessu.
-   _Tech Infantry_ has the Bugs, created as a living biological weapon by a race of Sufficiently Advanced Aliens to use as a Redshirt Army against a race of alien Body Snatchers who are themselves very much Always Chaotic Evil. And any organization in this universe with "Security" as part of its name is guaranteed to be evil.
-   _Warhammer Fantasy_ is rather dark for a fantasy setting, though not quite to the extent of _Warhammer 40,000_. There are actually a few good guys. Evil races include Daemons, Beastmen, Orcs, Goblins, Undead, Skaven, Dark Elves, and Ogres. Also, one of the few times in which the "chaotic" part of Always Chaotic Evil plays a part, as every evil race can be traced back to mutations caused by Chaos, which is a powerful force in the Warhammer world.
    -   Ogres are on this list for a somewhat different reason than other races. They live in a society that is based only on one rule: might makes right. Their god could easily be a weird mix of Slaanesh and Nugle, with gluttony and avarice being main virtues ogres value. Despite the fact that ogres seemingly follow many rules, one of their special characters had his hands chopped off for the crime of eating his leaders' gnoblars, despite him being shaman for their god. What makes _Warhammer_ ogres chaotic is the fact that while ogres can be negotiated with successfully, unlike orcs and forces of Chaos, ogres don't feel bad for eating you a second after the contract is done. One of their tribes actually value iron more than gold for the simple reason that with gold they can buy a weapon of iron, but with a weapon of iron they can have all of your gold.
        -   They are still the least evil race on this list, even being classified as a "neutral" army in the game. They're just big, strong, generally not too bright, and afflicted by endless hunger. Ogres can and do live among other races peacefully as mercenaries as long as the pay is good and the food is plentiful, even allying with the "good" factions such as the Empire. They are explicitly mentioned as being able to form bonds of friendship with each other (a Tyrant's elite guard are often composed of their close family and "drinking buddies") as well as develop a master/pet relationship with their favored Gnoblars. While they do engage in fighting amongst each other for positions of power, they are perfectly capable of working together and most challenges (challenging a Tyrant being an exception) between Ogres are resolved in non-lethal duels rather than fights to the death or surprise attacks. Their Total War incarnations are introduced in a cinematic which shows them feasting, singing, and watching a sport duel while cheering with each other, giving them more of an impression of rowdy drunkards than anything truly evil.
    -   The Skaven are a race of rat-like humanoids, and they are pretty much all hateful, backstabbing, savage monsters. They worship a God of Evil called the Horned Rat (here's a picture of him<small>◊</small>, remind you of anybody?), they practice We Have Reserves as well as Chaos-based sorcery and magitek, and their ultimate goal is basically to wipe out or enslave "the surface races" (read: everyone) and claim it for themselves.
    -   _Warhammer's_ Undead do not all follow this trope. Most of the "gothic" undead of the Vampire Counts' armies do, but the "ancient world" undead of the Tomb Kings do not. The Tomb Kings are one of _Warhammer's_ two "neutral" armies (the other being Ogre Kingdoms), and while many are given to acts of cruelty, tyranny, despotism and brutality they are really just behaving like the ancient absolute rulers they were in life. Sure, they'll hound you to the ends of the earth and butcher you without mercy to recover their stolen treasures, but any Dwarf worth his beard will do that too, and nobody calls them irrecoverably evil.
        -   That said, some of the Vampire Counts have enough redeeming qualities to avoid this. For example, Vlad von Carstein's quest to take over the Empire was driven by a (rather accurate) belief that it was too weak and beset by petty infighting to oppose Chaos and was reportedly rather fair as a ruler, and he deeply loved his wife Isabella and she loved him back — she even threw herself from the walls of Altdorf and committed suicide when she received news that he had been killed.
    -   Interestingly _not_ the case with the Norscans. The tribes in Norsca's northern reaches are said to be too far gone to be reasoned with at all, but the southern tribes are mellow enough to honestly trade with southlings. They travel often to Kislev and Marienburg to find employment as mercenaries and bodyguards, where they enjoy a lot of popularity, especially with upper-class women.
    -   The Hung are described as so utterly barbaric that even the Norscans and Kurgan think they are savage, stupid bastards. Their entire culture is built around war and slaughter, for as far as they are concerned war and slaughter in the name of the Chaos Gods are the whole point of living. And they are incredibly duplicitous and double-dealing: the Hung might surround and town and offer to spare it if the townsfolk give them their daughters, and then the moment the women are in their arms, they'll burn the town anyway, because they can. "Word of a Hung" is common slang for a worthless promise.
-   For reasons beyond, everyone in _Warhammer 40,000_. Tyranids want to eat everything organic, no exceptions. On the other hand, everything that is sentient gets a chance to be good, misinformed, or at least a justification to how they got there. Still, however, it's only a spark lit in deep space at most.
    -   The Dark Eldar ultimately subvert the trope. They can only stay alive and young by murdering and torturing as many people as possible, so their entire culture is based around killing and butchering people. And if they can't find people of other races to do it to, well... However, they are still considered part of the larger race of Eldar by their kin, who vary wildly in alignment. It is possible for Dark Eldar to get sick of being evil and join some other Eldar faction, ultimately blending in entirely with their new comrades. With that said, any Eldar living in Commorragh is going to be evil... or prey.
    -   The original Necron fluff painted them as universally devoted to the cause of destroying all life in the galaxy (which would starve the Chaos Gods of emotions and thus kill them once and for all). The Retconned fifth edition fluff, on the other hand, allows for a bit more nuance. The rank and file warriors are mindless automatons with only the barest shred of memory of their former lives, while the more privileged Lords and Crypteks maintain a good portion of their original personality, although often flawed due to the Time Abyss they've slept through. While all Necrons still fight against the Imperium of Man, some, like Nemessor Zahndrekh, are more like Noble Demons or Worthy Opponents.
    -   The Orks play this trope as straight as it gets. They have it written into their genetic code to fight, murder, and plunder worlds just for fun, and it takes an incredibly powerful Ork to keep other Orks from fighting amongst each other. When led by powerful Orks called Warbosses, Orks undertake massive invasions called "WAAAGH!s" to conquer and loot worlds. A world that has been the subject of a WAAAGH! will be "infested" by Feral Orks that are incredibly difficult to exterminate. The Feral Orks will always wage nonstop wars against everything on the world. When a WAAAGH! encounters Feral Orks, the Feral Orks will usually join it.
        -   Note that orks _love_ fighting and war, and are a little too stupid to fully understand that other races might not.
        -   This is justified since the Old Ones created the Orks for the sole purpose of being their soldiers/meat shields in the War in Heaven. Their insane love of fighting and war is a hard-wired design feature. This worked fine while the Orks were fighting the Necrons. Too bad that by the time war ended, the Old Ones were already extinct or otherwise missing, leaving the Orks behind to plunder the galaxy. Even worse, the Old Ones died off before they could put on the final modification to the Orks that they put on hold to rush them into battle: the off-switch.
    -   The forces of Chaos play this straight too. If only for the fact that if you consider worshipping daemonic eldritch horrors to be a good idea, being evil is kind of a requirement. Of course, a lot of the people on Chaos' side started out with the best of intentions.
-   The _World of Darkness_ is full of these, though they are usually not the primary antagonists of the players.
    -   Werewolves have the Wyrm, the supernatural force of death and corruption, which used to be the relatively balanced great spirit of destruction, serving a useful and necessary purpose, until it was caught in the Weaver's Webs.
        -   Pretty much played straight with the Black Spiral Dancers. They were once Garou who descended into the Wyrm's very own home in an attempt to destroy it. They lost and were forced to "dance the Black Spiral." This had severe consequences on their psyches. Anyone who enters that monstrosity is doomed to a life of depravity and madness.
    -   The Nephandi from _Mage: The Ascension_ are this after willingly having their souls ripped inside out. Once you become Nephandi there is no going back in any lifetime.
        -   Making things worse, Nephandi reincarnate like normal Mages do and the result is called a Widderslainte. Widderslaintes are living arguments against free will, people who were born evil because of crimes they committed in previous lives. They start as sociopathic bullies and escalate from there, especially if they get magic again. While it's not utterly impossible for Widderslaintes to reject their evil tendencies, and a small number actually do, it's extremely hard because they still have inverted Avatars (the part of a Mage that allows one to use magic) meaning they have an incorporeal Omnicidal Maniac living inside their _soul_ and mentally abusing them throughout their entire lives.
    -   Anything from the Abyss is this in _Mage: The Awakening_. The Banishers also qualify, since they're supernaturally powered by enlightened self-hatred that they're projecting into hatred of everyone else by their very nature. Some powers and effects unique to certain specialties also require blood sacrifice or the use of souls as fuel, making the members of those specialties this.
    -   The true Fae in _Changeling: The Lost_ tend to support themselves by draining human emotion out of the world at their most friendly, and it goes downhill from here. While it could be argued that they are in fact Always Chaotic Neutral, the point is moot considering what they actually do to people.
        -   This gets subverted in 2E: The vast majority of the True Fae bear no ill-will towards humanity, and simply mind their own business and play out their Legends with each other in Arcadia. The Keepers are those Fae whose ruling memes require that they hunt, torment, or possess mortals as changelings.
    -   Reversed painfully in _Promethean: The Created_, where the universe itself regards the player characters as this and continually tries to reject or destroy them, even though they are (mentally) essentially human, even erring on the side of virtuous in most cases.
    -   _Vampire: The Requiem_ has The Strix in its second edition. To an owl they hate both vampires and the living simply because they live (or at least have a corporeal body). They delight in murder in chaos and are one of few things out there that scare vampires.
    -   The fan-made game _Princess: The Hopeful_ has the various minions of the Darkness, with the exception of the Darkened (those who have been tainted by the Darkness but have not yet lost all their Integrity, and who can be cured if they can get their Integrity high enough, or by magical intervention from a Princess). Darkspawn are created when the Darkness devours the last scrap of a Darkened's humanity, creating an inhuman monster (usually with little more mind than an animal). Mnemosynes are those who welcomed the Darkness in without a fight, retaining their human mind and memories but with whatever vestigial conscience they may have had erased. And the Cataphracts are essentially incarnate spirits of Darkness formed in the image of those who committed suicide or gave up on hope. None are the least bit redeemable.
        -   The Dethroned are a borderline example. While they are too consumed by their despair and self-loathing to attain redemption on their own, it is possible for a Dethroned to be redeemed if another Princess is willing to take the Dethroned into her soul and cleanse her Shadows.
    -   The fan-made game _Leviathan: The Tempest_ has the Ophions, which are created when a Leviathan's divine self overcomes its bestial self and its human self (Typhons, created when the bestial self overcomes the divine, are closer to a Non-Malicious Monster). Ophions are the worst sort of sociopaths, having lost the capacity to see others as more than pawns to be manipulated in order to advance the Ophion's schemes and increase its power. Even other Leviathans agree that destroying Ophions is a positive good.
-   In _Worlds Without Number_, this is examined with the Anakim. They are beings Blighted as living bioweapons and cursed with the Hate, which compels them to instinctively hate all other beings and makes most of them psychopathic even toward each other. Most Anakim embrace this and live lives of plunder and slaughter, but individual Anakim are sometimes able to control the Hate and live normal lives (at least if their neighbors let them), and the Anakim of Sarul and of the Aristoi Principalities use strict social controls (religion in the case of Sarul, and a brutal culling of overly-aggressive children in the Principalities) to establish functional societies.

    Toys 

-   BIONICLE:
    -   The Skakdi play with it: they're naturally violent, but are capable of forming civilizations that thrive, unfortunately the Brotherhood of Makuta decided to experiment by giving them superpowers and they devolved into the violent war torn mess they are today.
    -   The Brotherhood of Makuta themselves are a zig-zagged example, and mostly an Informed Attribute: they are the antagonists, several of them are very nasty, and their leader is the Big Bad; but most Makuta who we see are more in vein of Mad Scientists, indifferent to anything but their personal creations, which they dote on; or Just Following Orders. Several Alternate Universe versions of Teridax and other Makuta are good, and even among the prime-Brotherhood there are a few decent members like Krika and Miserix. Justified in that most of the Makuta seen in-story were the ones who rallied behind Teridax, while anyone who didn't (with exception to Miserix and Krika, who were imprisoned and went along resignedly, respectively) were executed. The unborn Makuta spirits within their original Antidermis pool, however, are all on the side of good.
    -   The spider race of the Visorak are treated as an Always Lawful Evil race, being very disciplined soldiers while they often go and conquer other lands on the behalf of their commanders while taking pleasure in killing and mutating any life they come across. No thought is ever given by any of the heroes to somehow turn them towards noble purposes (except Toa Vakama when he was in the middle of Sanity Slippage), and when the horde was leaderless the Order of Mata Nui eventually decided the best option would be to wipe out the entire race.

    Web Animation 

-   This is frequently subverted in _Brotherhood Workshop_'s _Lord of the Rings_ parodies. The orcs tend to be decent guys on the wrong side of the battlefield, and sometimes have a legitimate beef with the heroes. Though said heroes are no more the wiser and slaughter the orcs anyway, assuming them to be chaotic evil. Aragorn especially takes this to extremes, eventually leading his allies to abandon him after they realize he's just a maniac.
-   Birds in _Happy Tree Friends_ are usually hostile...particularly the man-eating ducks. Come to think of it, this extends to most animals, including sharks, puppies, and, in one case, a wild bear. Nature is out to get the HTF gang. _Everything is out to get the HTF gang._
-   Zigzagged with Demons in _Helluva Boss_. Humans and angels certainly _think_ Demons are this, a viewpoint supported by the fact that Demons initially appear to be Made of Evil on account of their black blood, but the longer the series goes on, the more cracks in that viewpoint we start to see. We learn in _C.H.E.R.U.B._ that Angels are not Always Lawful Good. Though the first Demons may have been Made of Evil, they engage in natural reproduction and marry for a lot of the same reasons that humans do. Though many demons _are_ evil, they are evil to varying degrees and some aren't even evil at all, ranging from open reveling in being a heartless monster like Striker and Mammon, to being punch clock villains with many sympathetic qualities like I.M.P. and Stolas, to Affably Evil like Asmodeus and Beelzebub, to Fizzaroli who just wants to sing, dance, and be held by his big, strong, Demon Lord boyfriend.

    Webcomics 

-   Elves in _8-Bit Theater_ are all racist, genocidal narcissists whose history has been described as a lovesong to bloodshed and themselves. Their arrogance is also unjustified, as they prove to be no better than other races (for example, having technology on par with other races despite a 9,000 year head start), something that Black Mage and Red Mage tell Thief, the Elven Prince. Their national anthem begins "We're a race of total bastards." An anthem they _stole_. The other races aren't much better. _8-Bit Theater_ is a Crapsack World, after all.
-   The bleeds from _Agents of the Realm_ are material sprits which "bleed over" from the barrier between dimensions. Their first and, it would seem, only instinct is to attack people, especially Agents.
-   In _Alice and the Nightmare_, the Nightmares/Jabberwocky emerge from the Dream Spring only to kill people. It seems that the only thing they're capable of is violence.
-   Parodied in this comic by Lore Sjöberg.
-   The Shadow Nexus from _The Beast Legion_ are a group of deadly generals each with their own Beast forms, who's sole aim is to create chaos across the land of Lithopia and crush any who oppose the will of their Master, Dragos. In the very second issue, they invade the palace of Lithopia with full force, leaving only destruction in their wake.
-   _The Challenges of Zona_ has the Orc stand-ins, the Urtts, who Word of God assures us are all just plain evil, and we shouldn't give any pity to the ones maimed, charred, and dissected by the Heroes. Yes, even their half-human bastards. And then subverted later on, either by a deliberate intent to Mind Screw the readers from the very start, or from the author reconsidering, when it turns out that the Urtts are the way they are because they were literally made to be the slaves of the Heroes' people and have inherited the culture of evil and cruelty that the Eregonian goddess destroyed their civilization in order to shock the humans out of it. Now the Eregonians have become good guys in order to atone for their evil heritage, and the Urtts combine that evil heritage with a lingering memory that Humans Are Bastards, even if most of them have forgotten why.
-   Demons in _Dan and Mab's Furry Adventures_ are repeatedly stated to be Always Chaotic Evil by seemingly-reliable sources...but the Demonology 101 pages state that this is not actually the case, just the popular perception of them and most other Creatures.
    -   Cubi, on the other hand — which are not actually demons in the setting — are quite explicitly stated _not_ to be this in the comic itself, despite reputation — the evil ones just get all the press, because torturing or seducing people makes for a more exciting story than helping sick children.
    -   The fae, on the other hand, seem to be Always Chaotic Neutral, or probably have a case of Blue-and-Orange Morality.
    -   Conversely, angels are not always good, in fact the Demo 101 pages suggest that most of them are just as bad as the majority of demons, they just know how to manipulate public opinion better.
-   _Dreamkeepers_ has the Nightmares, who exist solely to destroy all the Dreamkeepers and, by extension, humanity.
-   The vampires/aberrations from _El Goonish Shive_ conveniently sidestep any Unfortunate Implications that could be associated with this trope. Every one of them is a former human who willingly chose to become a monster in a bid for eternal life. They have to kill humans to survive, which could potentially be tragic if not for the fact that every one of them chose this, and the process of becoming a vampire destroys all conscience, or capacity for empathy, meaning that even if someone did stupidly decide to become a vampire for good reasons (say to continue pursuing a dangerous enemy past the end of their natural lifetime), they would very quickly lose that good motivation. While the comic's attitude mostly favors mercy, killing a vampire, even in cold blood, is always portrayed as a positive act. Mercy is pointless, as they cannot be redeemed, curing them automatically kills them, and leaving them alive only gives them opportunity to kill again.
-   Rats are Always Evil in _Freaks N Squeeks_. It goes with What Measure Is a Non-Cute? — most of the cast are mice, with the similarly small and cute shrews standing in for Jews.
-   The major theme of the _D&D_\-based webcomic _Goblins_ is pointing out that _usually_ Chaotic Evil really does only mean _usually_...as well as exploring the root causes behind this, and whether it's even true (which, while debatable in real life ethics, is stated to be so in the rulebooks). To this end, the protagonists have run across a surprising number of evil humans and other typically good or neutral races (including Kore and Dellyn), while their typically chaotic or evil compatriots are either neutral, good, or driven to evil. As an expected result of this conflict, a Knight Templar has already appeared.
    -   Discussed and justified in regards to Brassmoon's Elite Guards. When the party discusses how moral it would be to kill people who might just be doing their jobs trying to protect the city, Big Ears (a paladin with the ability to Detect Evil) confirms that the Elite Guards **are** evil, and Thaco explains that, unlike regular city guards, these are personally recruited by Dellyn Goblinslayer himself for their ruthlessness, cruelty and absolute hatred towards nonhumans - being Lawful Evil is basically a job requirement.
-   In _Harkovast_, the Nameless Race cannot speak or think but are described as constantly marching to war. They have yet to do anything other than attack people, and are generally killed without mercy by the story's heroes.
-   _The Order of the Stick_ delves into it as well — one of the author's stated goals is to deconstruct the underlying racism this trope encourages. Unlike _Goblins_, the setting is close to entirely consistent with the _D&D_ source material.
    -   Subverted and parodied simultaneously in a short series of strips in which the Order meets a group of teenaged goblins who are good-aligned — for the explicit reason that it cheeses off their parents, who are Evil. "Listen to me, young man, you will drink the blood of the innocent and you will LIKE IT!"
    -   Redcloak's entire character arc from _Start of Darkness_ can be seen as a deconstruction of this trope: the goblins are formally designated as Evil Cannon Fodder by the gods (or so everyone thinks anyway... Thor claims that the gods never intended any such thing, while admitting that it _did_ sort of happen anyway), which doesn't sit too well with him when his family is slaughtered by crusading paladins. His ultimate goal is to give his race equal standing among the other major species of the world, but he slowly takes more and more horrific actions pursuing his plan to do so — thus becoming the very thing that he objects to being labeled as. The point being that while his intentions of liberating goblins from being just adventurer fodder is noble, it just highlights his evil actions and his own motivations aren't pure as it's made clear a large portion of his adherence to an extreme plan is refusing to admit his mistakes and that he sent many goblins, including his own brother, to death All for Nothing, just so he wouldn't have to own up to his failures.
    -   In the Dragon Magazine strips, the Order run into a goblin group that fall under the category of Harmless Villains, whose evil extends to making a big deal out of extinguishing street lamps, and proceed to leave them alone when they turned out not to be the guys that were sacrificing innocents. Even Belkar walks away, though that may be because they pointed them to the refreshments on the way out.
    -   Doubly subverted when the Order of the Stick first runs into the Linear Guild. Vaarsuvius' counterpart is a dark elf named Zz'dtri who claims that he isn't evil, even though his race is Always Chaotic Evil. Nale explains that once Dark Elves became a player race, they became Chaotic Good and wanted to ward off their former evil reputations (a Take That! towards the many, many Drizzt clones). Ultimately, the Linear Guild (Zz'dtri included, since they needed the OOTS to touch the sigils) turns out to be evil.
    -   The Darth Vaarsuvius arc explores this as well. Vaarsuvius casually killed a black dragon in the Wooden Forest during the sidequest to get Roy's starmetal. No one had any moral qualms about it (not even Miko), because black dragons are Always Chaotic Evil, and it even named a trope! Much later, the dragon's much more powerful mother shows up when Vaarsuvius is alone, and she is _pissed._ She plans to murder V's spouse and soulbind their children as a Fate Worse than Death. However, this along with V's Pride (in their belief in magic) to take on a deal with fiends, empowering them with the power of three epic-level Evil casters. They make short work of the mother black dragon, but pissed at having their family threatened, brings the mother back to cast the homebrew epic spell, Familicide. The spell kills everyone the target is related to and then everyone they are related to. Due to how black dragons mate, V wipes out _25%_ of the world's population of black dragons with a single spell. In the commentary, Burlew discusses the implications of this. The magnitude of this act was to show that if _this_ was wrong, then it's no less wrong to invade a dragon's home and murder it for its treasure, regardless of its moral alignment.
    -   What's more, two later comics show the full unpleasant ramifications of Vaarsuvius' actions. By casting that Familicide spell, V not only killed off 25% of the black dragon population, but also their hybrid offspring, including half-human and _their_ human relatives. This includes the entire Draketooth clan, who spent 60 years propagating itself by seducing strangers and then taking the children. With one word, Vaarsuvius killed not just the black dragons, but many innocents and their blood-related families in the Western Continent. The comics are here and here.
    -   Played straight so far with demons and some intelligent undead, however, though not without nuance.
        -   The Big Bad Xykon is a lich, but Xykon has always been Evil and moreover, a colossal Jerkass. He's not just capital E Evil, but also the undercase evil in that he's an unrepentant dick, something that the Author took great pains to explain and note. In fact, Xykon lords it over Redcloak in a master display of mentally subjugating the goblin. About the only change in behavior was that he's become even more sadistic as undead (and even then, that's because there were only two things he enjoyed in life as a hobby. Drinking coffee and hurting things. When the former was gone because he became undead, well, that just left hurting things, especially since being undead means besides losing the ability to taste, no sleep. As he puts it, he devotes 8 hours a day of making magical items and the other 16 doing whatever to occupy his time.) Xykon's evil comes from the fact that he was always an asshole. He just went from being the sort of kid who fries ants with a magnifying glass and tears wings off of flies for kicks and giggles, to an epic-level century-plus old undead Sorcerer, meaning he just has much more power (and a wider selection of targets) for his dickery.
        -   Wights are presumably Always Lawful Evil as per the book, but what we see of them, they're being controlled by spellcasters and have no free will, so they might as well be True Neutral.
        -   Explored in more detail with vampires; a storyline shows how and why they are always evil. When you become a vampire, you magically become Evil by default. However, a certain vampire character who used to be Good seems to be able to control his bloodlust and remain a reasonable person who can cooperate with Good characters. But that's an act on his part, and what really happens when you become a vampire is that you're taken over by an evil spirit formed from your worst moments, so you're not the same person at all. Besides, at least in this case, the spirit is beholden directly to an evil god. This does vary per person as they infect more characters, with one vampire revealing that her mortal self actually suppressed alot of evil tendencies and embraced the vampiricism to finally indulge in them.
        -   Fiends are still the Anthropomorphic Personifications of their various flavors of Evil, but they still show varying levels of nuance. The Inter-Fiend Cooperation Commission (IFCC for short) wish to bring an end to the rivalry between the Lawful, Neutral and Chaotic Evil fiends and have them cooperate for the greater evil. They still do their best to get along, provide very good service (if for Pragmatic Villainy and they were the ones who gave V their deal) and still deal with the consequences of their actions (Lee, the Lawful Evil got into some _serious_ shit over the thing with Black Dragons with Tiamat). Another example is Sabine, a succubus and Chaotic Evil fiend. However, she still works under Lee all right and is in a happy and stable relationship with the Lawful Evil Nale. She takes his death and disintegration _very poorly_ to say the least and helps out V during their imprisonment with the fiends by revealing the weaknesses of the Vector Legion to give the Order an advantage against them.
    -   Even the Evil Gods have their own loyalties and biases. Loki is still Evil and at odds with Thor, but willing to cooperate together and loves his daughter, ashamed that his inability to be honest with her (gods are dictated by the faith of their believers and it's Loki so...) and that he may have doomed her to being wiped out. Meanwhile, regarding Azure City, Rat may be the Token Evil Teammate of the Twelve Gods of the Pantheon, but he was still pretty furious that his former ally in The Dark One conquered the city in his name.
    -   The central theme to Order of the Stick seems to be change. Characters who have shown to be able and willing to change, such as Belkar, tend toward Good. Those who cannot, such as the Undead, or will not, such as Redcloak, allow themselves to grow are Evil. Durkon probably spells it out the clearest. He muses that Evil people remain that way because they are too afraid to change as that would require them confronting the Evil things they've done. This is best shown when Durkon becomes a vampire. His vampire spirit is essentially what he would be if he never moved on from his worst day; the day he felt the most pain, anger, confusion, betrayal, and grief. They even argue about it, with the vampire telling Durkon that he is who he is "on his worst day" with Durkon eventually arguing that he is who he is on EVERY day and that, when you have a worst day, you can choose to get hung up on it and live with that pain forever, or move on and try to make something good out of it.
-   _Runewriters_ has the aberrants, magical monster attack all living creatures that come anywhere near them.
-   The Dimension of Pain demons from _Sluggy Freelance_ are quite openly evil, even using the phrase "How evil" as the highest form of praise. Their hatred of anything good is taken to comedic extremes, from being unable to stand the smell of flowers, to being called "dysfunctional" if they don't fight enough with their family, to considering a relaxing massage a form of torture. Despite this, many of them still manage to have their own distinct personalities. They may all be evil, but, like with human beings, greed and stupidity usually get in the way.
    -   Many of the named characters among them seem to act evil towards humans, but not to each other. Others are humorously evil (or something) even amongst their own kind, for example, eating each other randomly.
-   In _TwoKinds_, due to separatism and the resulting whirlwind of misconception and propaganda, _everyone_ thinks _everyone else_ is Always Chaotic Evil. The Keidran rarely meet Humans other than slavers. Humans rarely meet Keidran who aren't criminals. All it took was one Woobie, Destroyer of Worlds for the slavers to be supplemented with _death squads._. The only third party is a group of Brown Minion expies known as the Basitin, who don't see _anyone_ else sympathetically due to their cultural Asskicking Leads to Leadership / More than Mind Control; humans are undisciplined rabble, Keidran are _perverse_ undisciplined rabble. And the few Basitin that _don't_ follow that doctrine are hated above all others.
-   In _Villain to Kill_, Villains are people who are descendants of the Child of Night, becoming people beholden to their vices and prone to acts of carnage and devastation. While some are more restrained than others, this is more because of their interests and methodology rather than their morals. This immorality of theirs also gives Psykers the authority to kill most Villains on sight, regardless of whether or not the Villain is actually caught doing something.
-   Some of the early humor of _Yet Another Fantasy Gamer Comic_ depended upon this concept, as the comic has its roots entirely in older editions of _D&D_. For example, when the beholder Bob cheats on his goblin girlfriend Gren, he tries to justify it by pointing out that he's evil. Gren points out that they're both Lawful Evil, and goes on to cheat on Bob extensively, as is her right as the wronged party under goblin law. Most of the monster characters are so Affably Evil, though, that it sometimes feels jarring when they get around to doing some _really_ bad stuff.

    Web Original 

-   _Critical Role_: The Exandria campaign setting is a _Dungeons & Dragons_\-based high-fantasy world with D&D's malevolent goblins, hobgoblins, and bugbears. This is handwaved by them inheriting the Curse of Strife, inflicted by a God of Evil and War to drive them to acts of evil. A few non-evil goblinkin are met who were born in magically protected areas or were otherwise freed from the Curse.
-   _Fire Emblem on Forums_: Generally averted due to the opponents also being humans and some games approaching Grey-and-Gray Morality, but there are a few examples:
    -   _Chains of Horai_: The Shiryo, demonic creatures that live only to eat people and nothing else.
    -   _Solrise Academy_: Fiends, beings corrupted by being exposed to the Calamities that do nothing but wreak havoc and are hostile to anything that isn't itself a Fiend. The Elerian Order was founded to fight Fiends and Calamities alike.
    -   _Wonderful Blessing_: Averted with the Demons of the setting; while the Goddesses have done their best to convince people that this trope applies, the protagonists eventually uncover the very genuine grievances the demons have against the Goddess Dragons, aided by some benevolent Goddess Dragons.
-   In _The Gamer's Alliance_, demons are initially shown as intelligent beings who cause suffering because they enjoy it. They used to be a noble race until their god Mardük went mad, which transformed them into their grotesque forms and twisted their minds into serving the destructive aspect of Chaos. However, eventually the heroes meet a few friendly demons and realize that despite their bloodthirsty nature not all demons are irredeemable monsters.
-   _Hamster's Paradise_: The first sapient species to evolve on the world of HP-02017 are the aptly named Harmsters. They are a naturally sadistic, cannibalistic species that take excitement in the suffering of others and have a might-makes-right based society enforced through fear. However they are something of a Reconstruction as they are given an explanation for this brutal Blue-and-Orange Morality. Their sadism is due to having evolved from a predator designed to rip its prey apart and eat it alive, their callousness towards their own kind is due to their rapid reproductive capabilities which they developed to cope with a high mortality rate and they acquired their survival-of-the-fittest mentality by observing the natural world and noticing how predators kill herbivores, herbivores consume plants and even plants will poison or choke each other and coming to the conclusion that all life exists to destroy all other living things and that they are defined by what they kill.
-   Subverted in _Mortasheen_, where no creatures are inherently evil (well, except for the Dolfury), and they're all as loyal to their trainers as any Pokemon would be. Yes, that includes the scary mind-raping Devilbirds and the horrible, maddening Unknowns.
-   _Orion's Arm:_ worried that the descendants of Earth (humans, artificial intelligences, cyborgs, the genetically engineered, etc) think too much alike due to their creators' inherent bias, a group of AIs created the Bitenic Squids, a highly diverse species with every newborn member being a blank slate. Those that can function in the wider world are all completely selfish and without empathy, and go insane easily.
-   This trope is comprehensively picked to pieces in _The Return_ where it's revealed that Succubus (Succubi? Succubae? Help me out here people) culture is possibly more complex and multidimensional than human culture, and, from their point of view, it is humanity that borders on Always Chaotic Evil.
-   While most races and factions in _Roll To Dodge: Savral_ have varying shades of gray, unicorns are depicted as universally evil. Whenever they show up, they're either trolling the players, working for other antagonists, brainwashing scores of innocent civilians or slaughtering them outright. Over the course of the game, they've laid waste to several cities and transformed one of the world's subregions into a barren wasteland. Given that they're creations of the witch goddess Cathy, the unicorns are a justified example.
-   Averted in _Rusty Quill Gaming_ despite using a _Dungeons & Dragons_ setting. Traditionally evil races such as orcs, goblins, and even chromatic dragons are fully integrated into Meritocratic society, and their stereotyping as evil is the propaganda of the Roman empire, now long-discredited.
    -   This is played with during the Shoin Institute. Kobolds, another traditionally Always Chaotic Evil race, are first encountered there, and act like unintelligent evil minions. The players' Knowledge checks give conflicting information on if kobolds really are intelligent in this setting. This leads to Hamid fireballing a huge group of them without a thought... only to later discover that, just like every other race in the setting, they _are_ intelligent and only appeared otherwise due to the effects of a Mind Control drug. What the Hell, Hero? ensues.
-   Deconstructed in _The Salvation War_. The society in hell actively encouraged Chronic Backstabbing Disorder, You Have Failed Me, We Have Reserves, and Shoot the Messenger. The result was an inefficient and unstable society that collapsed once it came under external pressure. Lampshaded on several occasions by baldrick defectors.
-   The SCP Foundation brings us the Daevites, a brutal and expansionist empire that is using SCP-140 to write itself into history. The Wanderer's Library even considers them a threat.
    -   And then there are the Sarkists, originally started as a revolution against the Daevites by a slave who managed to steal the flesh and power of an ancient supreme being, they are even more brutal and horrific than the Daevites who bore them, nearly wiping out the world with biological warfare in the bronze age. While some isolated groups do teach self sacrifice and honor, modern neo-sarkists are utterly psychotic, caring nothing for anyone else's suffering for their own dark purpose. "Do as you will, to whom you will" being a common proverb among their people.
-   _Tales of MU_, Demons and Ogres, as well as mermaids. though _not_ with some other traditional monster races.
-   The world of Verduria:
    -   The ktuvoks. Their entire society is based on Brainwashing humans who are less advanced than they into obedient slaves, and they are so good at it that if humans are freed from their control, the humans will ally themselves with the ktuvoks willingly. In addition, they attack all free human civilizations, using their slaves as Cannon Fodder, laying everything to waste and committing every war crime in the book. They have no culture or learning to speak of, and merely steal the innovations of other races. (It’s implied that they’re literally incapable of innovation themselves.) And the worst part? The ktuvoks are severely restricted to where on the planet they can live; they cannot survive away from swamps. The only apparently reason that they take over much of the continent and turn humans into loyal slaves is to _get female ktuvoks to mate with them._' However, since their behavior seems to be a biological imperative, they’re really more like a force of nature than true villains.
    -   The ktuvoks brainwashed one particular human race (the Dhekhnami) so thoroughly that they're not so much slaves as symbiotic partners at this point. At least to the Verdurians, they're considered this trope as well. It’s fitting, too, since it’s implied that _they’re_ the ones running the ktuvok empire in the current time, and actually masterminding its atrocities.
    -   The murtani fit the trope best of all. Out-of-universe, they more or less exist to be an Expectation Lowerer for the entire human race. _Even the ktuvoks have more redeeming features than them._ They really do fit the trope name literally, being so absurdly violent that, unlike all the other Thinking Kinds (with the exception of the _Australopithecus_ Expies) they lack even a rudimentary civilization, since they’re too busy fighting each other to team up and learn anything. And that’s not even getting into their ghastly mutilations of their bodies and misogyny so extreme it’s remarked upon even by the other inhabitants of this Renaissance-equivalent Constructed World. The constant war and completely normalized infanticide forces the women to be Baby Factories _just to keep the population stable_. Basically, even though Almean humans have accepted tyrannies, slavery, wars of conquest and sexism, it doesn’t matter how bad they are, they still aren’t as bad as the murtani. Ironically, the murtani are biologically part of the same species as the elcari, whom most human cultures regard as morally superior to themselves. The elcari, for their part, are so ashamed of their relation to the murtani that they straight-up deny being the same species at all. (Though this is actually because the elcari are monotheists and the murtani are not.)

    Western Animation 

-   According to the Flame King in _Adventure Time_, all denizens of the fire kingdom are evil. Including himself, and his daughter Flame Princess. That said, after a brief debate with Finn, the Flame King concedes that by spending time with a "good guy", it would be in theory possible to turn Flame Princess good\] though he notes that she'd take penalties to experience for acting out of alignment. Later revelations in the show seem to suggest that this is a simplification. Flame people don't seem totally evil, though Flame Princess notes that they tend to be "deceitful and Shakespeare." As it turns out, Flame king has no evidence to back up his claims and only calls his people evil because he wants them to be evil, and uses the concept of evil to psychologically abuse his daughter. After being overthrown with Flame Princess in charge, his claims are rendered moot, making the flame people a subversion
-   Several races in _Adventures of the Gummi Bears_: the Ogres, the Trolls, the Carpies (vulture-like creatures) and the Troggles (dog-like creatures). Worth notice that Toady, the smarter of the Ogres, does have a Moral Compass and is capable of questioning the evil actions of Igthorn, but is extremely loyal to him. It’s possible that Ogres are just too dumb and are manipulated by Igthorn.
-   In _Avatar: The Last Airbender_, this is the opinion that many have of Firebenders, due to the Fire Nation being the aggressor nation in a war that has been waging for 100 years. In reality, while the Fire Lord and his daughter are terrible people, this is subverted as numerous Fire Nation citizens are depicted as completely normal people and, at worst, Punch-Clock Villains and the Fire Lord's son is very conflicted about the war as a whole. Firebending itself is also seen as this by many, including Aang, due to its wildly aggressive and unpredictable nature, but this is also subverted when Aang is taught that fire is essentially life and energy and the Fire Nation's modern use of it is a corruption of what it is supposed to be.
-   _Biker Mice from Mars_:
    -   Played straight with the Plutarkians from the original 1993 series. Most of the Plutarkians we see are either the Big Bad (Lawrence Limburger), a recurring villain (Napoleon Brie), one of the invaders responsible for bringing Mars to ruin, their vile leader Lord Camembert, and the occasional Plutarkian agent sent to Earth to aid Limburger or compete against him. Even if a Plutarkian isn't a villain, they are still not a pleasant person at all.
    -   Subverted with the Catatonians in the 2006 revival series. See the entry in Not Always Evil for more information.
-   In _Castlevania (2017)_, Night Creatures are the damned souls of Hell brought into the living world by Devil Forgemasters using human corpses as vessels. They're called on as soldiers and weapons who feast on the blood and meat of their mortal victims. This trope is Discussed in season four between Forgemaster Isaac and the Night Creature FlysEyes. FlysEyes feels like this will always be their nature and that rebuilding a village and burying the dead of those who couldn't be made into Night Creatures goes against what they are. Isaac argues that Night Creatures are bound to the will of their Forgemasters, so they've only ever been given the chance to be destructive until now. He believes that their souls give them the capacity for more in life.
-   _The Fairly OddParents!_:
    -   The anti-fairies are, or at least are believed to be, this. It's been stated that one is born for every fairy, and the newest one born, Foop, came straight out of his mother as a Card-Carrying Villain. It's also been said by Wanda that every genie is a Jackass Genie. So far, nothing has come up to contradict these claims.
    -   The trope is parodied with the Yugopotamians, a race of aliens who are very proud of being ruthless conquerors but they are utterly terrified by anything cute, nice and sweet. To the point they considered Timmy a formidable warrior because he ate a chocolate bar with no ill effect.
-   _Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends_: While most imaginary friends vary in morality, those created by teenagers, known as Extremeasaurs, are almost universally violent, rage-filled, and destructive monsters. As such, they're kept in a giant steel and concrete cage separate from the manor. The only noted exception is Red, who is _technically_ an Extremeasaur, as Bloo is able to rehabilitate him, turning him into a kind and gentle friend, even if he is still dim-witted and had violent tendencies.
-   _Futurama_:
    -   There is a species of evil leeches, the "Dark Ones". All of the species lived at a single puddle, and yet all their evil was useless against a bag of cement, used to prepare the ground to be turned into a parking lot.
-   Both invoked and averted on _Gargoyles_. All races portrayed onscreen (humans, gargoyles, fae, and New Olympians) are shown to have both good and evil members, but Demona views humanity this way, and the Quarrymen portray gargoyles like this in their recruiting campaigns. Demona herself is one of very few evil gargoyles, the race as a whole is supposedly Always Lawful Good, having a near biological drive to protect and safeguard the places that they live and those places' inhabitants. It is, however, up to the individual gargoyle clans how they choose to interpret these drives, ranging anywhere from "Stay the hell away from my caves, filthy human scum" to "Here I come to save the daaaaay!"
-   The Irken race, from which Invader Zim hails, is, as far as we know, entirely bent on conquering vast swaths of space. Zim himself may be an exaggeration of the Irken racial personality, but each Invader introduced seems to enjoy large death machines and lots of destructive fire.
-   On _Jimmy Two-Shoes_, weavils, so far, have been shown to be a race made up of completely jerkass creatures who love to torment the citizens of Miseryville.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_:
    -   The Changelings seem to qualify going by their first appearance in the series, as their queen gloats that ever since she was little, she dreamed of razing Equestria and essentially using ponies as food, but it's averted with their later appearances. One changeling appears in "Slice Of Life" as a _wedding guest_ (Word of God is "Kevin" is a friend of Matilda's and he doesn't do anything even remotely malicious), and the later episode "The Times They Are A-Changeling" introduces Thorax, a reformed changeling who's interested in making friends and learning to share love, befriending Spike and saving his life. When he shows the other changelings later in the season that they can get rid of their Horror Hunger for good by sharing love rather than taking it, the entire hive except for Chrysalis pulls a Heel–Race Turn, suggesting that she's the only truly evil changeling and the rest were misguided because of their hunger and Chrysalis' bad leadership — it's implied that she held this knowledge back from her people on purpose to keep them constantly starving and under her control.
    -   The Wendigos, if they are intelligent beings as opposed to animal-level creatures, are this, due to deliberately causing supernatural winters to force societies to destroy themselves with hatred that the Windigos then eat.
    -   The dragons seem like this in their first appearance. The adults would rather roast ponies than talk to them and one tries to kill a young dragon over some eaten property. The teens react to defiance with violence and attack animals for fun. Spike's feral form is easily the nicest dragon shown, only resorting to force, and non-lethal force at that, after being physically injured, and even then he's a rampaging Godzilla-esque monster. Like the changelings it's later subverted in "Gauntlet Of Fire" where they're shown to have leadership and are civilized and intelligent in their own way, and that if they actually _were_ evil they'd likely have wiped the ponies out by now just for kicks.
        -   The dragons seem to have been intended this way at first but later writers added more nuance. The "Spikezilla" episode described it as just how dragons grow; greed feeds their growth, and growth feeds their greed, making every dragon, by nature, a Kaiju who lives to take what it wants from others, preferably brutally. Spike, raised by ponies, was the one exception ever, and even he has to be careful (simply _enjoying a birthday present_ was all it took to start him down the slope.) That didn't sit well with a lot of fans, and one comic book addresses it briefly (basically, what little ponies know of dragons was written by other ponies and so _might_ be subject to error.) MANY seasons later, we get to visit the dragon lands, and have other recurring dragons like Ember and Smolder, and learn what they're really like.
    -   Starting with Season 8, the show began to imply that certain races always being "evil" was based mostly on the assumptions and beliefs of the ponies caused by Culture Clashes and not helped by how a number of these species seem to have hostility be part of a Villainous Lineage like the changelings or dragons, or tend to just be jerks at heart like the griffons or yaks, and how unlike the ponies they tend to put little if any faith in The Power of Friendship. Twilight Sparkle tries to open a school that teaches friendship and accepts anyone, including members of other races the ponies have recently made peace with, and it's quickly revealed that not only are there ponies who still hold on tight to the belief that non-ponies are evil and can't be trusted, but that the non-ponies in question do little to disprove these beliefs by _immediately_ threatening war over such accusations.
-   The Cassiopeian military from _Once Upon a Time... Space_. Their Glorious Leader, general Pest, causes trouble to anyone if what he plans _could_ somewhat help his ambitions to rule the universe... And his soldiers are even _worse_: his men destroy things and devastate places for no better reason that they can, while Pest can at least appreciate the beauty of nature and won't resort to destructive means without a sound justification. No wonder that, after meeting him, the androids Humanoids felt they had to conquer all sentients for their own good...
-   Hornets and sewer rats in _The Penguins of Madagascar_ seem to be this way. There are no species which can really be described as Always Lawful Good, so it may be a case of Black-and-Gray Morality as applied to whole species.
-   Ghosts in _The Real Ghostbusters_ and its sequel series _Extreme Ghostbusters_ are like this in almost all cases; spirits, demons, goblins and poltergeists (take into account that the term "ghost" is used very broadly in the show and not just for the traditional disembodied soul). Only when they are the spirits of dead people reasoning with them is possible and in most cases the Ghostbusters convince them to move on. Some exceptions do exist like poltergeists Slimer and Buster (they are still chaotic, but not evil).
-   The fable of the Frog and the Scorpion is parodied in _Robot Chicken_, here.
-   The Shadow Clan from _Slugterra_. Subverted, in that they are later revealed to be defenders of Slugterra, but also happen to be Good Is Not Nice. Also, the Dark Bane.
-   The Wartmongers in _The Smurfs_. They appear to be this way at first glance, mostly through the Smurfs coming into conflict with King Bullrush and his hunters. Though certain episodes show that there are Wartmongers who don't wish this sort of treatment on others such as the little Wartmonger Boggy who befriends Sassette. His father, the captain of the Royal guard is revealed to be the Scarlet Croaker, an opposition of the king. Another episode shows an attempted rebellion against Bullrush. So it isn't so much that all Wartmongers are EVIL per se, but more they are complacent in their rule.
-   Sorcerer students of Hexley Hall in _Sofia the First_ have all been shown as ruthless and sadistic bullies with no common sense.
-   _Star vs. the Forces of Evil_: In earlier seasons, the monsters are depicted as an antagonistic race of violent, uncultured barbarians, and the reason for the mewmans' war with them was that they attacked first when settlers were trying to settle down. It's gradually deconstructed; there are indeed truly evil monsters, but their actions end up fueling anti-monster prejudice against the good monsters, who become villainous out of desperation and revenge. Both the mewmans and their Butterfly matriarchs also see themselves as objectively superior to other races; since the monsters don't fit their standards, they're either killed, cruelly oppressed, or "helped" by mewmans in order to keep them under their thumbs. With a lot of suffering like this, it's no wonder the monsters often act so violently towards mewmans. This isn't helped by monsters who flat out refuse to accept any offer of peace, even if it's completely genuine like Comet's attempts.
-   _Transformers_:
    -   The Decepticons in _The Transformers_ have a racial divide rather then a political one with Autobots.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  The Deceptions were built as War machines by the Quintessons, and thus desire both conquest and violence. This leads them into conflict with the peaceful Autobots who were built for domestic tasks. This is explored as early as G1, with Jetfire having been a peaceful Decepticon scientist before the war began, until he was frozen in ice and thawed out on Earth years later. He defects to the Autobots after realizing how evil the Decepticons have become in war, proving that Decepticons aren't inherently evil or at least that there's a few good ones out there.
    -   Zig-zagged in _Beast Wars_, where Predacons are _programmed_ to be evil, with the villains corrupting Maximal protoforms into their own evil Preds by reprogramming them. Despite this, however, Dinobot and Blackarachnia (one of the aforementioned corrupted protoforms) willingly become Maximals on their own with no need for any reprogramming.
    -   Played straight in _Beast Machines_ with the mindless drone vehicons. There's a scene from the last episode would have given Megatron's two space-launched generals a redemption, but it was cut.
    -   The Quintessons are almost always this. When not evil, they're Ax-Crazy. "Innocent! Throw them to the Sharkticons!" Now, _Energon's_ Alpha Quintesson has more to him than meets the eye, but he's... complicated. And definitely not part of a G1-style Quintesson race.
    -   The spawn of Unicron are almost always every bit as evil as their master. The Minicons from _Armada_ were an exception, though they were created for the sole purpose of giving the Autobots and Decepticons something to fight over.
-   Supposedly, the Rhubarbarians from "Duke and the Great Pie War', a _VeggieTales_ episode.
-   Trolls in _The World of David the Gnome_, with not even one lacking sadistic and cruel traits, and most of them (albeit not all) are extremely dumb.
-   Averted in _Young Justice:_ Word of God says that the White Martians are not naturally evil in this continuity, and that other than coloration, their differences with the Green and Red Martians are mostly cultural. He doesn't elaborate, though, so it's possible the average White Martian might still have some undesirable traits. What we get on-screen is a _world_ of difference from their usual genocidal portrayal in other media. They're a disadvantaged minority in this series. In this series, instead of being the Token Heroic Orc, M'Gann hides her White Martian status not because she's afraid of being mistaken for a villain or even because of how monstrous White Martians look to humans, which are her reasons in other versions. No, she's just _that_ afraid of being treated like the other White Martians are back home. If anything, you get the feeling that it's _J'onn_ who is a rare nice _Green_ Martian.

___

## Orcs

In "Fantasy Races", orcs are evil by their very nature.

### **Alternative Title(s):** Always Lawful Evil, Always Neutral Evil, Always Evil

-   All Trolls Are Different
-   Evil Race Tropes
-   Dragons Are Demonic

-   All Trolls Are Different
-   Fantastic Sapient Species Tropes
-   Always Lawful Good

-   Aliens Are Bastards
-   No Sympathy For This Index
-   And Your Little Dog, Too!

-   And That's Terrible
-   Moral Event Horizon
-   Atrocity Montage

-   Alternative Turing Test
-   Otherness Tropes
-   Always Lawful Good

-   Almost Lethal Weapons
-   JustForFun/Television Is Trying to Kill Us
-   Amusing Injuries

-   Alto Villainess
-   Villains
-   Amnesiac Villain Joins the Heroes

-   Aluminum Christmas Trees
-   NoRealLife/Tropes 0 to C
-   Always Someone Better

-   Fictional Culture and Nation Tropes
-   Always Lawful Good

-   Alpha Bitch
-   Characters as Device
-   Always Lawful Good

-   0% Approval Rating
-   Obviously Evil
-   Angry Guard Dog

-   Allergic to Evil
-   Evil Tropes
-   Ambiguous Start of Darkness

-   Unbuilt Trope
-   Older Than Dirt
-   Anatomy of the Soul

-   Aliens Are Bastards
-   Discredited Trope
-   All Gays Are Pedophiles

-   The Alternet
-   Speculative Fiction Tropes
-   Always Lawful Good

-   Alternate Universe Fic
-   TimeImmemorial/Tropes A to G
-   Always Close

-   All Take and No Give
-   Cynicism Tropes
-   Ambition Is Evil

-   Alternate Continuity
-   This Image Is Not an Example
-   Ambulance Cut

-   Alternate Animal Affection
-   ImageSource/Disney Animated Canon
-   Animal Stampede

-   Alien Fair Folk
-   QuoteSource/Other Media
-   Tabletop Games