He's got a chauffeur who's a genuine dinosaur.

_"Many people (including some scientists) are confused about what is or isn't a 'dinosaur'. They think that flying pterodactyls or fin-backed_ Dimetrodon _or seagoing plesiosaurs or woolly mammoths are dinosaurs. THEY ARE WRONG!"_

Dinosaurs are pretty cool, which is why they are frequently seen in fiction. However, creators do not always prioritize historical or scientific accuracy when dealing with these prehistoric creatures in works. As such, dinosaurs often appear in the wrong time period, along with humans (unless appropriate), possess special abilities that they otherwise would never have had, or are treated as pets or friendly characters. They may also be presented with anatomic inaccuracies (such as being the wrong size, having the wrong number or shape of toes, teeth, horns or dorsal fins, having inaccurate proportions, etc.)

In Real Life many of the most commonly-recognized dinosaurs lived in different habitats, continents or time periods.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Some prehistoric creatures, like pterosaurs and plesiosaurs, are technically not even considered dinosaurs. Fortunately, some educational programs attempt to avoid these pitfalls.

A Sub-Trope of Artistic License – Biology, and a Super-Trope to Aquatic Hadrosaurs, Aquatic Sauropods, Snowy Sabertooths, and Toxic Dinosaur. See also Dinosaurs Are Dragons, Slurpasaur, Dumb Dinos, Goofy Feathered Dinosaur, Raptor Attack, Terror-dactyl, Headbutting Pachy, Living Dinosaurs and Hollywood Prehistory. For mistakes pertaining to dinosaurs today, see Artistic License – Ornithology.

Compare Dinosaurs, Stock Dinosaurs (True Dinosaurs), Stock Dinosaurs (Non-Dinosaurs), and Prehistoric Life.

For a list of common inaccuracies of prehistoric creatures in the media, check out the trope's Analysis page.

An extreme and unusually common form of this is when people conflate archaeology with palaeontology.

___

## Example subpages:

-   Documentaries
-   Films — Live-Action
    -   _Jurassic World Dominion_
-   Literature
-   Live-Action TV
-   Toys
-   Video Games
-   Western Animation

## Other examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _After God_: Alula's statement that Human Stronger Than Gods existed 700 million of years ago is odd considering that's long before even Cambrian Explosion.
-   Lampshaded in _Magical Shopping Arcade Abenobashi_, when the characters land in "Scientifically Inaccurate Prehistoric Abenobashi".
-   _Gantz_ is a partial aversion. Its raptors (actually aliens masquerading as raptor models in a museum) are notably covered in feathers (though they lack wing feathers and have pronated hands). On the other hand, the _T. rex_ shoots fireballs... well, they're aliens.
-   _Genesis Climber MOSPEADA_ subverts this trope: Stick and Ray fall into an underground cavern, where they see a mishmash of various kinds of creatures from different periods, including _Dimetrodon_s, apatosauri, and tyrannosaurs. At first, Ray mentions that something "seems odd" about it, but he can't put his finger on it. Later, he realizes that the dinosaurs are a spattering of dinos from different periods, and the 'cavern' is actually a laboratory where the Inbit are trying to determine the form of life best suited to their "new" planet.
-   _Dragon Ball_ features characters who either have the ability to fly or have a flying device with them. Convenient enough, there are some pteranodons or other prehistoric fliers around. Is someone still unable to fly? No problem, just bring in the _T. rex_. To be fair, _Dragon Ball_ has a whole lot of other weird stuff so that the pterosaurs and such fit right in. Given that there are also canon dragons wandering around, it's likely it's just a Rule of Cool alternate Earth. Not featured in the manga, in the anime though? In _Dragon Ball Z_, there are the same dinosaurs...on _Namek_. Which could be intended to imply that Kami brought them with him to Earth. Though given the relatively small size of his spaceship, he could only have brought eggs.
    -   Another error is Toriyama's design of the _Tyrannosaurus_—first off, it has what look like horns on its head—now there MIGHT be tiny brow ridges over its eyes, but the design he used is completely off. Secondly, _Tyrannosaurus_ had tiny arms with two fingers—he seemed to have based the arms on _Allosaurus_. And fourth, it is much too big. _Tyrannosaurus_ would be 12-13 meters long (42-45 feet) and 4 meters high (13 feet), yet are drawn nearly 20-30 meters long and 10 meters tall.
-   _One Piece_ has at least one island with dinosaurs, not that this is out of place given the rest of the world. It's surprisingly more biologically accurate than _Dragon Ball Z_'s dinosaurs.
    -   This is exaggerated with some of the prehistoric Zoan Devil Fruit users in the Beast Pirates crew. Sasaki, who has the power to turn into a _Triceratops_, is able to fly like a helicopter by spinning his bony frill. Queen, who has the power to turn into a _Brachiosaurus_, is able to shoot his head, neck, and tail out of his body to become a giant serpent. King, who has the power to turn into a _Pteranodon_, is able to use his head like a slingshot, pulling his crest back to build up tension and releasing it to launch his beak forward at high speed. They all claim that this behaviour was typical of their species in ancient times. The utter absurdity of these is lampshaded, but everyone who sees these genuinely believe what they're told.
        
        **Franky:** I didn't know dinosaurs could do _that_!
        
-   Averted in the Gaiden chapters of _Saiyuki_; what looks like a rampaging _T. rex_ is proved to be genetically engineered to do just that by the Big Bad.
-   Pickle in _Baki the Grappler_. Holy heavens. Again, Itagaki Keisuke takes his "almost realistic extreme martial arts manga" and reminds us that it's a "freaking Rule of Cool extreme martial übermensch manga", with Pickle, the Jurassic man. Revived after being found frozen kicking a _T. rex_ in the mouth.
-   _You Are Umasou_ has tyrannosauroids that shift from tripod stance to horizontal stance, the now dubious genus "Titanosaurus", a really bendy-necked elasmosaurid, and a mosasaur with a dorsal fringe, as well as a bit of Anachronism Stew and Misplaced Wildlife. On the other hand, it has feathered maniraptors, hadrosaur nesting colonies, migrating herbivores, pack-hunting tyrannosauroids (a questionable speculation), and snow-roaming dinosaurs.
    -   The purple _Chilantaisaurus_ (according to the book and second episode of the animated series) trying to eat Umasou in this scene has a rather interesting case in which it may be hand waved. It is depicted with bull-shaped horns, and yet at the same time no decent skull material of the animal was found yet (although its skull may be no different than other carnosaurs and could have stubby horns). Although because of the horns, some viewers refer to it as a _Carnotaurus_. Never mind that it has huge arms and claws, which _Carnotaurus_ _lacked_ (and _Chilantaisaurus_ did have).
-   _Doraemon: Nobita's Dinosaur_ (and its remake) refers to a plesiosaur as "Nobita's dinosaur". Not that the franchise doesn't have other examples (Science Marches On aside). Thankfully, the 2020 film caught this on and refers to two feathered maniraptorans as "Nobita's Dinosaurs".
-   In _Cage of Eden_, creatures from different points in history, who all lived in very different habitats, live in the island where the characters are marooned at. Justified since it is later revealed that the monsters are but man-made clones.
-   _Beastars_ claims that birds evolved from _Tyrannosaurus_, when they're actually more closely related to dromaeosaurs like _Velociraptor_. Of course, it's worth noting that the evolution of birds from dinosaurs is treated in a religious manner in this world, portrayed as their equivalent of Jesus's resurrection.
-   In _Primitive Boy Ryu_, Tyranno (the Tyrannosaurus Rex) uses his arms like a human.

    Comic Books 

-   Dr. Dinosaur in _Atomic Robo_ claims that "mammal energies" traveled back in time and granted him super-intelligence while wiping out all the rest of the dinosaurs, and then he built a time machine out of rocks, fronds, and crystals to travel to the present and get revenge. His inaccuracies (such as lack of feathers and presence of a larynx) are largely justified however, when Robo points them out and dismisses Dr. D's story as absurd, assuming he's just a genetic experiment based on a _Jurassic Park_ dinosaur rather than a real one. In general, it's a Running Gag that Dr. Dinosaur works his science by Achievements in Ignorance, which means his appearance is more or less in keeping with it.
-   _Batman_:
    -   Subverted. During the _Knightfall_ storyline, Batman and Commissioner Gordon find a dead man inside the skeleton of a dinosaur. Gordon calls the dinosaur a "_Brontosaurus_" before being corrected as _Apatosaurus_ by a curator, who tells them the story of how the skull of one dinosaur matched the head of another and the other way round (giving its "two-head" clue about the culprit: Two-Face). However, Brontosaurus was never one dinosaur with another's head, it was simply two different specimens being described and assigned names by different scientists; when it was decided they were actually the same species the slightly older name took precedence as is standard practice. In fact, no head was known for _either_ dinosaur - the first Apatosaurus skull was found 4 years after the famous American Natural History Museum exhibit had been built, and was not confirmed and generally accepted for another 70 years (the first skull was not attached to a skeleton, so many questioned which dinosaur it actually belonged to). The "wrong" head for Brontosaurus was simply a best guess at reconstructing it, and was thought to be a pretty good fit for either one.
    -   This cover in _Detective Comics_ #255. Though the prehistoric beasts are robots, allowing for some errors, there is one completely unforgivable mistake: they misspell the word "dinosaur"!
-   _Cadillacs and Dinosaurs_... look at the title. If you're _expecting_ accuracy from a series involving dinosaurs coming back several hundred years in the future, _why are you even bothering?_
-   According to one Chick Tract, the dinosaurs escaped the great flood by getting on the Ark with all the other animals. Unfortunately, the flood destroyed much of the plant life, and the reduced oxygen levels made them sluggish and slow. They were ultimately hunted into extinction by human hunters who considered "dragon meat" to be a delicacy.
-   Jack Kirby did a very brief series called _Devil Dinosaur_ that was clearly about having fun more than being accurate. There's a friendly "devil beast" (theropod of some sort; it's probably for the best it isn't identified) fighting against ferocious ceratopsians and a _carnivorous Iguanodon_ (what.), while coexisting with cavemen.
-   The storyline of _Dinowars_ revolves around dinosaurs escaping into space to avoid the ice age, growing into a highly evolved civilization, and then returning to Earth to reclaim what is rightfully theirs.
-   In the MonsterVerse graphic novel _Godzilla: Aftershock_, Emma Russell when expositing on the MUTOs' history and life cycle describes the Late Bronze Age collapse circa 1100 BCE<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , which a past MUTO generation likely caused, as a mass extinction. Although the exact parameters of a mass extinction are subjective, it's _universally_ defined as an **increase in the rate of multiple-species extinction** which leaves a dent in the planet's overall biodiversity<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . In Real Life, the last recorded _mass_ extinction was the one which killed the dinosaurs, at least 62 million years before humans even evolved much less before the Bronze Age, and the last recognized _minor_ global extinction event ended in around 8000 BCE. The Late Bronze Age collapse was just a societal collapse which saw no decline in the planet's biodiversity.
-   _Jurassic League_ makes no attempts at scientific accuracy whatsoever. The main characters are intelligent, anthropomorphic, talking dinosaurs who live alongside cavemen and have superpowers. One of them, Supersaur, is from space.
-   _Marville #4_, oh boy. For starters, it is set on the "Jurassic _Park_", not "Period".
-   In one of Hamilton Comics' _Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers_ early issues, Bulk and Skull are seen being Power Rangers, with Skull as Ranger with a _Brontosaurus_ theme. However, Billy points out that it's incorrect and that it would be more scientifically correct "Apatosaurus". Skull, however, thinks it's a hilarious pun and ends up knocking Bulk over in the process.
-   Horácio from _Monica's Gang_. A vegetarian baby T-Rex. Also, on _Monica's Gang_ we have the Cavern Clan. Just imagine the Flinstones without all the American Sitcom situations to turn into something normal for prehistoric cavemen... like hunting dinosaurs.
-   150,000 years ago, the title character of _Rahan_ (a very well known caveman in France) encounters dinosaurs and sees them as survivors of a very distant past. It's not as outlandish as some of the other examples on this page. Still, Rahan's people are modern-looking Europeans in a time when modern humans had not yet left Africa, Rahan virtually invents every technology from rafts to windmills, and the Misplaced Wildlife includes anything from lemurs to gorillas to _Smilodon_ that look just like Charles R. Knight's art.
-   _Runaways_:
    -   Subverted: Gert has a pet genetically engineered dinosaur named Old Lace. Everyone calls her a "raptor" and she does look _exactly_ like a _Jurassic Park_ raptor (Identified as a _Velociraptor_ in the film, but very similar to the later-discovered _Utahraptor_). However, as soon as Victor joins the team he points out that it is a _Deinonychus_, and raptors as depicted in _Jurassic Park_ do not exist. Old Lace is still incorrectly depicted as featherless, but is nonetheless referred to as a real species with a plausible (for time-traveling, Mad Scientist\-filled comic books) reason for existing. Also,
    -   Played straight: During the _Runaways_/_Young Avengers_ crossover, the young supers find themselves hit by a mini-blizzard. While the humans quickly shrug it off, Old Lace is rendered practically catatonic, and almost dies, because she's "cold-blooded". However, it was John Ostrom's study of _Deinonychus_ which largely brought on the "Dinosaur Renaissance", which drastically altered the scientific and popular conception of dinosaurs. This renaissance has ultimately resulted in, at the very least, a consensus that some dinosaurs (such as _Deinonychus_) were closer to modern, warm-blooded birds than to modern, cold-blooded reptiles, physiologically speaking.
    -   It's also worth mentioning that Old Lace wasn't "born" in any sense, but was genetically engineered in the _83rd century_. Anything odd about her appearance or physiology pales in comparison to her having a telepathic link with Gert.
-   _Spider-Man_: A lesser-known villain is "Stegron the Dinosaur Man", a ripoff of more stalwart villain The Lizard. The rather-too-conveniently-named Dr. Vincent Stegron steals the lizard formula from Curt Connors and (somehow) infuses it with dinosaur DNA, transforming himself into a half-man, half-_Stegosaurus_ creature... which also has a taste for human flesh and is often depicted with sharp, pointy teeth. Stegron's plots have included:
    -   Bringing dinosaurs back to life from their skeletons in museums, despite the fact that dinosaur skeletons in most museums are A) held together with wire, and B) are fibreglass replicas of fossils, which are bone-shaped rocks, or C) even if they're the authentic article, are bone-shaped rocks. Rock contains remarkably little genetic material (_i.e._, none).
    -   Attempting to free the world for dinosaurs by having hundreds of humans in New York conveniently start acting more animalistic and killing each other... using a magic piece of meteorite that he found in a jungle. A particularly glaring error in that story arc (as if the main plot weren't glaring enough) was where a modern lizard is regressed by exposure to the meteor and turns into a _Velociraptor_. Lizards are not descended from dinosaurs, nor are they closely related to them. If it had been a mutated pigeon, it would have been reasonably accurate, relatively speaking, but for a lizard it's on the same scale as showing a human somehow "regressing" into a water buffalo or a dolphin. Given that Stegron himself is weakened by the cold and speaks in Sssssnake Talk, the writers clearly assumed dinosaurs were typical reptiles.
-   In _Tyrannosaurus Rex_, while there's dinosaurs and humans living together, the raptors are coated in feathers.

    Eastern Animation 

-   There is a Soviet cartoon called _Mother For Little Mammoth_. It is about the eponymous woolly mammoth who thawed out in our age searching for his mom. He finds one, an elephant in Africa. A truly happy ending, except one of the traits by which she accepts him is the fact that, like her, he has big ears — and the mammoth is pictured with such. Now, an elephant's big ears are heat sinks — woolly mammoths didn't need nor have them.

    Fan Works 

-   In _Eleutherophobia: Lost World_, Jake discusses this while watching _Jurassic Park_; during the scene where a character says a _T. rex_ can't see them if they're standing still, Jake says that's not true, which he knows from first-hand experience.
-   _Prehistoric Park Reimagined_:
    -   Multiple animals are inaccurately sized - Rocco the teratornis is closer to Aiolornis-sized (his species was only slightly bigger than an Andean condor in real life) and the dromas are larger than the real animals.
    -   "Red In Tooth And Claw" depicts the common fictional trope of large phorusrhacids existing alongside Smilodon populator — Word of God has admitted that this was Rule of Cool.
-   _The World of the Creatures_ plays with the trope throughout. The story takes place in the mind of someone obsessed with paleontology. As such, dinosaurs show up frequently. In many cases both accurate dinosaurs - such as a fully-feathered _Utahraptor_ - and inaccurate ones like the featherless raptors of _Jurassic Park_ appear side by side.

    Films — Animated 

-   The "Rite of Spring" sequence in _Fantasia_ may be one of the Trope Makers here. It shows off a random cross-section of prehistoric life in the space of a few minutes. In part, it's Science Marches On: it is proudly announced that this section is Based on a True Story.
    -   25 years later, the Disney Imagineers created a Primeval World diorama for the 1964-1965 New York World's Fair, with many of the individual scenes apparently inspired by _Fantasia_. This diorama, which is currently installed at Disneyland in California, is a slight improvement on the film — the first scene shows dimetrodons in a Coal Age forest of giant horsetails (and giant dragonflies), and then moves to a Jurassic swamp with some generic sauropods, followed by scenes featuring _Pteranodon_, _Triceratops_, and _Struthiomimus_ (all Late Cretaceous, although the precise ages differ somewhat). So far, so good; the sauropods look ridiculous and should not be munching water weeds in a swamp, but that can be put down to a combination of 1960's paleontological ignorance and artistic license. But then the final scene depicts a _Stegosaurus_ battling some large theropod beside a violent lava flow. If the theropod is supposed to be a _T. rex_, as the narrator usually states, why does it have three fingers per hand, and what is the stego doing in the Cretaceous? You could ignore the narrator and assume that the setting has reverted back to the Jurassic for some reason, and the stego is fighting an _Allosaurus_... but that doesn't explain why stego has _five_ tail spikes on its thagomizer.
        -   Walt Disney stated that the carnivorous dinosaur fighting the _Stegosaurus_ is indeed a _Tyrannosaurus_. Paleontologists told him that _T. rex_ should only have two fingers, but he told animators to draw three because it looked better.
-   Extremely evident in Disney's _Dinosaur_, which had dinosaurs from the Jurassic and the Triassic period interacting with Cretaceous-period dinosaurs. In an effort to show that the writers had done some research, they included a _Carnotaurus_ as the main predator — too bad Carnotaurus lived in South America, while all the other dinosaurs were North American species, and furthermore were several times bigger than in reality. There was a Hand Wave when one character was astounded that the carnotaurs had come "this far North" (which doesn't work, since North and South America was separated by a sea at the time), and the Brachiosaur character was explicitly stated to be the only one of her species left. The main character had also been adopted by lemurs, when most mammals were superficially rat-like then. Also, iguanadons originally had their beaks, but Michael Eisner insisted that the dinos be able to talk, so the beaks were replaced by speech-friendly lips.
-   When consulting paleontologists for _Ice Age_, the writers were reluctant about putting dodos in. They were told "Whatever, just please, no dinosaurs". Though there _was_ a dinosaur in the film, it was frozen in ice, presumably for millions of years. Let's just hope those same paleontologists haven't seen the third installment...
    -   Somebody should have told them that Dodos (and for that matter, all the other birds) are dinosaurs...
-   Speaking of the third film, _Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs_ has some inaccurately designed dinos and two made up pterosaur species (one is a stereotypical "pterodactyl" with a _Pteranodon_ crest and _Rhamphorhynchus_ tail, the other resembles oversized _Pterodactylus_ or toothy _Quetzalcoatlus_, and both are scaly and have only one wing claw), as well as their sizes being way larger than the real counterparts.
-   _The Land Before Time_. Pity the professors of geology and paleontology who have small children at home, because all the errors in these films _will_ indeed make a paleontologist weep. The original movie _can_ be considered relatively accurate for its time (Anachronism Stew aside, and then only for stegosaurs and pelycosaurs), at least as far as dinosaur depictions in popular media are concerned. But the sequels and TV series zig-zag this trope several times, with notable aversions including the anatomically correct (if improbably large) _Liopleurodon_ from "Journey to Big Water" and Ruby the _Oviraptor_ having feathers.
-   Rex from _Toy Story_ is a green plastic _Tyrannosaurus rex_ with three fingers on each hand instead of two like in real life. Justified, since he's a _toy T. rex_, which is often portrayed incorrectly, and a cheap knock-off from a small company that went out of business and was bought by Mattel in a Thanksgiving auction, at that.
-   _We're Back! A Dinosaur's Story_ features _Anatosaurus_, which is indeed a bona fide member of the duckbill group. Sadly, the duckbill is shown with a long bony crest on the back of its head more reminiscent of a _Saurolophus_ or _Parasaurolophus_ than a smooth-headed "_Anatosaurus_"... The _Pteranodon_ is even worse, having a long tail and being bipedal. And she is mistaken for a bat, which is understandable given how ridiculously bat-like her wings are.
-   _Dino Time_ is not meant to be a biologically accurate film, but they did have one redeeming trait: a feathered baby _Tyrannosaurus_.
-   _The Good Dinosaur_ features dinosaurs together (such as _Apatosaurus_ and _Tyrannosaurus_) that lived in different eras. The official explanation is that the movie is an Alternate Timeline of an almost-modern day where dinosaurs did not become extinct after a meteor strike 65 million years ago, but some of the dinosaurs depicted had gone extinct a hundred million years before that event. There are also several anatomical inaccuracies (_Apatosaurus_ being confused for _Brachiosaurus_, _Styracosaurus_ having the horn arrangement of a _Triceratops_, raptors not having enough feathers, pterosaurs walking on their knuckles and one of them resembles a _Nyctosaurus_ with teeth and wingclaws, etc.).
-   The animators of _The Missing Link_ (AKA _B.C. Rock_) evidently chose to completely forgo realism in favor of Rule of Funny. Aside from having humans, dinosaurs and prehistoric mammals coexisting, many of the animals are completely made up. Examples include a single-legged being with a trunk, an underwater elephant that lives in a giant shell and at least two humanoid (but non-human) species: the bottom-heavy "No-Lobes" and a tribe of feral Catgirls.
-   It may come as a surprise that Communism, being scientific and that, would provide an example of the trope. Yet, the short GDR DEFA animation "Steinzeitlegende" ("Stone Age Legend") has a cart-pulling dino.
-   Played for Laughs in _The Mitchells vs. the Machines_ in the scene where the Mitchells go to the "Dino Stop", which takes all sorts of liberties about dinosaurs (one display brontosaurus even has a human _nose_). Aaron (being a dinosaur expert) is naturally pissed about this.

    Music 

-   According to the song "Walking in Your Footsteps" by The Police, the mighty _Brontosaurus_ walked the Earth 50 million years ago. In reality, the most recent _Brontosaurus_ remains are nearly 150 million years old, and the extinction of the dinosaurs occurred 66 million years ago.
-   Iron Maiden's "Quest for Fire" mostly retells the story of the eponymous movie... except for the (hilariously overblown) opening line "In a time when dinosaurs walked the earth..." This was probably the band being funny, as they are history buffs and would know about things like this.
-   Danny Saucedo's song "Dinosaur Bones" from the album _Drawings of Dinosaurs_ includes a line about pterodactyls flying in "the Pleistocene sky." By the time of the Pleistocene epoch, pterosaurs had been extinct for nearly 64 million years.
-   The music video for Fat Boy Slim's _Right here, right now_ obviously has no pretense to be an accurate portrayal of human evolution. For one, it begins 350 billion years ago (much longer than _the universe has existed_), but it shows nothing but multicellular animals, which didn't evolve until about 600 million years ago.
-   "Worlds Within The Margins" by _In Flames_ contains the line "coded within the spinal cord of the trilobite". Trilobites were invertebrates, they did not have spinal cords.

    Newspaper Comics 

-   An early series of _FoxTrot_ comic strips had Jason filming a dinosaur movie, with his pet iguana Quincy as the dinosaur. He called the film "_Iguanadon_ Terror", even though Quincy looked nothing like an actual _Iguanodon_ (Jason was aiming for something like a _Dimetrodon_, though when asking if Quincy could pass for a dinosaur he was told that Quincy only looked like an iguana with a fan taped to its back).
    -   A later strip had Jason doing a claymation movie called "Mesozoic Park"; he pointed out that _Jurassic Park_ was mostly about dinosaurs from the Cretaceous period.
    -   In another strip, he was seen writing a letter explaining the brontosaur/apatosaur controversy to a cookie manufacturer that used the former term in the "Fun Facts" of their dinosaur cookie boxes. He then immediately tries to blackmail them into sending him 12 free boxes of cookies. However, he doesn't suggest advertising an another fascinating fact about dinosaurs, such as "_Heterodontosaurus_, whose fossils were found in early Jurassic rock in South Africa, was one of the smallest plant-eating dinosaurs at about 9 pounds. However, it was unique in having three different kinds of teeth (hence its name, which means 'different-toothed lizard'). It had incisors for nipping, canine teeth for stabbing, and back teeth for chewing; many mammals have such teeth, as well".
    -   Another strip perpetrated the giant _Liopleurodon_ meme started by _Walking with Dinosaurs_.
    -   Played for Laughs in one Sunday strip, where Jason claims _Pachycephalosaurus_ might have hypnotized its predators because its head was so similar to Talosians (despite the fact Talosians have a very large brain whereas pachycephalosaurs are famous for having thick skull roofs which is where they got their name from) and that dinosaurs went extinct because of time-travelling big-game hunters.
    -   In a 2021 Sunday strip, Jason attempts to convince Andy to turn on the air conditioning by claiming the heat will trigger _T. rex_ genes in Quincy. Obviously, it doesn't work, but he should have known dinosaurs are not related to lizards.
-   Bill Watterson, the author of _Calvin and Hobbes_, admits that his earliest strips involving dinosaurs were pretty embarrassing. After doing some research, and getting as excited about dinosaurs as Calvin, his drawings of dinosaurs became more and more accurate and realistic (as an aside, tellingly, most fantasy sequences in _Calvin and Hobbes_ are drawn in a more realistic way than Calvin's day-to-day life). If you have a collection of _Calvin and Hobbes_ anthologies, note that by around 1994, it's obvious that Watterson invested in a Gregory S. Paul book for anatomy and in a set of "Jurassic Park" action figures for posing and staging. One strip involved such realistic dromaeosaurids that they would scare small children. It didn't help that Calvin was _talking_ about them eating small children. The little freak!
    -   Shortly after that strip, _Jurassic Park_ came out, and Watterson stopped putting dinosaurs in the strip for a time so that they wouldn't be negatively compared to the CGI.
    -   Watterson doesn't let accuracy get in the way of Rule of Cool. Say it with me: ''TYRANNOSAURS IN F-14s!''
        
        **Calvin:** "This is _**so**_ cool!"  
        **Hobbes:** "This is _**so**_ stupid."
        
    -   Despite Calvin normally having a callous disregard for scientific accuracy, this trope is amusingly subverted and lampshaded when Calvin and his parents visit a natural history museum. Calvin's mom asks him (in that typical way that moms do when they're trying to encourage their kids to talk about something they like) to tell her about the life-sized _Stegosaurus_ statue outside. Calvin goes into a long (and scientifically accurate) explanation of the most likely habits and characteristics of stegosaurs, until his mom tries to humor him further by asking if the _T. rex_ and the _Stegosaurus_ used to fight each other, leading to this outburst:
    -   An in-universe case of artistic license occurs when Calvin has an Imagine Spot of himself discovering the fossil of a new theropod, the Calvinosaur. It's as big in comparison to a _T. rex_ as a _T. rex_ is to a human being. The sort of monster any kid would love to give his name to.
-   _B.C._, perhaps one of the most egregious examples of a newspaper comic that has both dinosaurs and humans. Incidentally, though the creator, Johnny Hart, was a self-proclaimed Christian fundamentalist, the scientific shortcomings seem to be less because of his beliefs and more for Anachronism Stew Played for Laughs<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> .
    -   After Hart's death in 2007, the strip started to feature dromaeosaurids, which are as usual featherless and no different than the ones in _Jurassic Park_. One strip did, however, point out how birdlike it was in a rather dark way.
-   _Alley Oop_, starting in 1932, with his pet, Dinny. Before Television!
-   _The Far Side_ had many strips that showed or implied dinosaurs and cavemen living at the same time. However, the strip describing the "thagomizer" has been endorsed by actual paleontologists for giving a name to a certain part of stegosaur anatomy, even though it implied that said part posed a danger to primitive hominids. Gary Larson has said that he is well aware of the anachronism and while part of him justifies the cartoons on the Rule of Funny, part of him feels very guilty about using this trope, especially given the high regard in which he is generally held by the scientific community.
-   One _Beetle Bailey_ strip implies that life has existed on land for only five million years.
-   _Dilbert_ features Bob the Dinosaur, and his wife Dawn and son Rex (though Rex and Dawn would eventually disappear from the strip) who interact with modern humans rather than cavemen. Dilbert ran a simulation and found out that dinosaurs weren't extinct, they're just hiding.
-   _Pearls Before Swine_ lampshades this in a strip where Pig writes in his report on paleontology that "Dinosaurs and humans lived together many, many years ago". Goat calls him out on it explaining dinosaurs and humans were separated by millions of years, which led to this exchange.

    Pinball 

-   Invoked to the hilt in Gottlieb's _Caveman_, where the player maneuvers the caveman to hunt brontosaurs and pterodactyls while avoiding the Tyrannosaurus rex.
-   Unsurprisingly, _The Flintstones_ doesn't take "artistic license" with paleontology as much as it recklessly abandons it.

    Radio 

-   Karl Pilkington from _The Ricky Gervais Show_ often makes mistakes when it comes to pre-historic life (as he does with everything else), referring to how they lived with dinosaurs and other "facts" he picked up from fictional works. Ricky repeatedly tells him he's wrong and that he's either picked this up from _The Flintstones_ or _10,000 BC_ and mistaking it as fact.

    Tabletop Games 

-   Prior editions of _Dungeons & Dragons_ handle the various species of dinosaur better than it does mythology, even pointing out the differences between the _Velociraptor_ and the _Deinonychus_. They still list _Pteranodon_ and _Elasmosaurus_ under the same catchall of "dinosaurs", though; in the Fourth Edition, however, they are renamed Behemoths. Plus still allowing the _Quetzalcoatlus_ and _Elasmosaurus_ to swallow humans whole (not only could they probably never do that without dislodging their lower beak, but a _Quetzalcoatlus_ with a human in its gut would probably be too heavy to fly). _Quetzalcoatlus_ is also routinely depicted as being very clumsy on the ground and barely able to move, when in fact it's now believed to have spent most of its time on the ground and capable of running much faster than a human.
    -   They honestly go in a lot of different directions with this, depending on the edition. At one time, dinosaurs were classified as Beasts (a different creature type from Animals, in much the same way that humans are Humanoids and most invertebrates are Vermin).
-   _Genius: The Transgression_ features a Bardo based on discredited theories of the Hollow World, which seems to be filled with every paleontological mistake ever made, such as brontosaurs (no, not apatosaurs, _brontosaurs_), the old Victorian notion of what an iguanodon looked like, and Piltdown Men.
-   There is this very obscure, very low-quality board game sold in Hungary that goes by the name _Küzdelem a dinoszauruszok földjén_ (Battle in the Realm of the Dinosaurs). Has only a handful of pictures, all of which contain horrible depictions of the dinosaurs — one _Brachiosaurus_ with a backwards knee, and one with shorter forelegs than back legs, standing as erect as a human; toothed, bat-winged _Pteranodon_s with the bat fingers sprouting from the _back_ of the wings; and gigantic, scaly _Velociraptor_s with _Therizinosaurus_\-like claws. In short, it is the board game equivalent of "Chinasaurs" (see lower).
-   Yu-Gi-Oh! Trading Card Game has a "Dinosaur" type as one of its monster types: the type is mostly made up of the popular dinosaurs listed above, and unfortunately includes a mammoth. An _undead_ mammoth. Fortunately, later, non-zombie Mammoth monsters (such as Big-Tusked Mammoth) are more correctly listed as Beast-Type. They also thankfully averted the "nekkid Raptor" trope with Black Veloci. A lot of the earlier dinos, though, were the classic "nekkid" version (but see also Dinosaurs Are Dragons). The older cards were victims of Science Marches On as noted above; those cards were first released before the feathers thing had been discovered.
-   While we're on the subject of dinosaurs being given powers and placed on trading cards, _Dinosaur King_.
-   In _Dinosaurs Attack!_, herbivorous dinosaurs like _Parasaurolophus_ and _Stegosaurus_ eat people frequently and messily, plesiosaurs have bendy necks instead of the stiff ones they had in real life, and trilobites are described as "flesh-eating worms" (real trilobites were not worms and the predatory ones could not harm something as large as a human). This is in part intentional parody, though, since the 50's movies the cards spoof made similar mistakes. Given the reveal that all this was organized by what can only be called _Dinosaur Satan_, accuracy was likely never one of their goals.
-   The following is a note under "Brontosaurs" in the Sample Stuff under "Dinosaur" in _Cartoon Action Hour: Season 3:_
    
    Note: **Currently, the correct term for this dinosaur used by real paleontologists is “apatosaurus”, and “brontosaurus” is scientifically outdated due to a fossil being falsely identified. However, the name “brontosaurus” is the word more commonly known and recognized in popular culture, no matter what the actual scientific classification might be. It was certainly the name that would-have been in common use in a cartoon in the 1980s.**
    

    Theme Parks 

-   At Universal Studios:
    -   In _Back to the Future: The Ride_, the size of the _Tyrannosaurus_ is greatly exaggerated. In reality, the DeLorean would be twice the length and width of a _T. rex_'s head.
    -   In _Jurassic Park River Adventure_, _Ultrasauros_ (real name _Supersaurus_ and should be a diplodocid rather than a brachiosaurid) is shown bending its neck in a way that would be impossible for a real life sauropod.
    -   The dinosaur cloning activity at Islands of Adventure’s Discovery Center portrays hadrosaurs as solitary animals and sauropods as herd dwellers (the opposite is true).

    Web Animation 

-   _Homestar Runner_: "The Millionzoic Era" segment in "Summer Short Shorts" shows both cavemen and dinosaurs.

    Webcomics 

-   There's another "Raptor" who looks like he's just walked off the set of _Jurassic Park_ in the Webcomic _The Adventures of Dr. McNinja_. However, given that the story that introduces Yoshi also includes Raptor-riding banditos, a conspiracy involving Ronald McDonald and MySpace, and a man whose incredible abdominal muscles have somehow transformed into a built-in jetpack (and the eponymous character, the only physician in a long line of legendary Irish Ninjas whose office is in the middle of a haunted forest and whose secretary is a gorilla), once again, the MST3K Mantra is in full effect.
    -   The "birdasaurus" in a later plot line, lampshaded with the mouseover "I hope my completely made up out of my mind with no reference whatsoever way of drawing the birdosaurus doesn't upset any of you junior paleontologists."
    -   Apparently the author still gets regular emails complaining about this, as he defensively mentions in a Note from Ed. in this comic.
    -   Taken to absurd extremes with the horrorsaurus, a wingless, flying, tentacled monstrosity with four eyes. That one may have been artificially created by the other dinosaurs though.
-   _Dinosaur Comics_ has a _T. rex_, a Dromiceiomimus, and a Utahraptor, grossly out of scale. The fact that they're talking is a good sign that it's not supposed to be exactly realistic. There's also the house, car, and woman getting stepped on to indicate something's not right with the timing. It often lampshades the concept, as well:
    
    **T-Rex:** Guess what I got last night? A dog! Did you know that dogs and dinosaurs co-existed?
    
    **Dromiceiomimus:** Yes, I accepted it without questioning!
    
-   _xkcd_ has _Jurassic Park_\-style Velociraptors, which the author found traumatizing upon seeing said film.
-   _8-Bit Theater_ does a _brilliant_ Lampshade Hanging in this strip.
-   _Karate Bears_ finds dinosaurs sometimes. like here they also supposedly once coexisted with dinosaurs
-   Played for laughs in _The Order of the Stick_ when Roy is confused by the appearance of a Brontosaurus, when he knows it's a mixup of parts from different animals. His host points out he didn't have a problem with the hippogriffs.
-   _Dawn of Time_ demonstrates that this trope can be also deliberate rather than a result of ignorance as creator Michael Steams as explains in the following quote:
    
    "I generally have stayed away from them \[feathered dinosaurs\] because even though we know that a lot of dinosaurs have feathers, exactly where they go and what they were like still seems very unclear, or at least it's unclear to me. There are a lot of different interpretations, and I want my dinosaurs to read as clearly as possible. \[...\] Alternately, why would anyone even expect feathers in a comic where dinosaurs and humans live at the same time?"
    
    -   It's worth noting the same strip in which Steams' comment comes from featured the comic's first feathered dromaeosaur. Later comics also featured ground-hunting pterosaurs and bird-like dinosauroids.
-   _Too Much Information (2005)_ has Ace meet featherless, humanoid descendents of therapods who were taken by aliens in the Triassic period and uplifted. He somehow correctly guesses that they'd be unable to eat him based on the fact that modern eagles sometimes suffer from iron poisoning from eating too much mammalian meat. Ignoring the fact that this is a very rare occurance to begin with and many eagles are specialist mammal hunters, given how distanly related the dino-aliens are to modern birds it's like trying to make a guess about a modern human's dietary requirements based on knowledge of the dietary habits of the platipus. He also questions why they lack feathers, despite that story arc being set in the early 90s, before it was known that feathers were found on dinosaurs outside the Maniraptors (which didn't appear until the Jurassic period).

    Web Original 

-   _The Tyrannosaur Chronicles_: Mostly averted. Lampshaded by Layla Oviraptor, who mentions that Desdemona Deinonychus and Larry the Tyrannosaur shaved off their feathers so they could star in _Jurassic Park_.
-   Cracked is all over the place with this. Since it's not written by one person, articles about paleontology can range from well-researched to downright ridiculous:
-   Several paleontologists have satirized the sensationalist nature of typical dinosaur documentaries on their blogs as well.
    -   This April Fools' joke on Tetrapod Zoology sets out to "prove" that old-school dinosaurs are correct after all, and contains a number of jabs at some infamous fringe groups.
-   Lampshaded during the loading screen of an older LEGO game, _Dino Quest_, based on the _Dinosaurs_ toy-line, which has Dr. Kilroy commenting on the inaccuracies of the game and spouting well-researched paleontology trivia. But even he gets one thing wrong: flowering plants _were_ around in the Cretaceous.
-   Lampshaded in _Welcome to Night Vale_. Cecil initially refers to _Pteranodon_ as dinosaurs. Later (after being re-identified as pterodactyls) Cecil is informed that _Pteranodon_ and pterodactyls are not in fact dinosaurs.
    -   Doubly subverted in a much later episode. Lauren, like Cecil, refers to _Pteranodon_ as dinosaurs. Kevin immediately informs her that _Pteranodon_ are not dinosaurs. They're arachnids.
-   The _BrainPOP_ minigame "Life Preservers" explicitly states that birds are dinosaurs but are dinosaurs themselves. This makes absolutely no sense; even though birds can fly and are the only dinosaurs alive today, there's no objective reason to consider birds special compared to other dinosaurs in this regard. You'd think an educational website would know better.
-   "Meet the Pseudosaurs" parodies this trope all over. A God-Mode Sue _T. rex_, bendy-necked sea serpent-like _Plesiosaurus_, deadly featherless Raptor, vicious bird-footed "Pterodactyl", Killer Rabbit _Compsognathus_ and "spitting" _Dilophosaurus_ are all included.
-   Parodied in _asdfmovie_, where a sauropod keeps calling itself a Stegosaurus.
-   Palaeo Fail was _made_ in order to mock occurrences of these all over the internet.
-   TV tropes itself is guilty Small Taxonomy Pools which categorizes creatures that are not dinosaurs as well. This also leads to the funny contradiction in the subsection Stock Dinosaurs (Non-Dinosaurs).

___

### **Alternative Title(s):** Artistic License Palaeontology, Artistic Licence Palaeontology, Artistic Licence Paleontology