**Ripley:** You never said anything about an android being on board, why not?  
**Burke:** _\[shrugging\]_ It... never occurred to me. Standard practice, we always have a synthetic on board.  
**Bishop:** I prefer the term "artificial person" myself.

Biological but unnaturally created humans, ranging from "biological robot" to "clone" to "Plant Person".

The important thing is that Artificial Humans look like humans, they move like them, etc. Some may be bullet proof, but you wouldn't be able to tell from touch. Sometimes the only physical indicator is eye-color, which may be red, yellow or purple, or an unusual skin/hair pigment like white. Not always, though, and given the range of eye and hair color in anime, it's not a perfect indicator.

Speaking of anime, sometimes they use the term "android" for Artificial Humans, which makes the use of the word different from that of use in many western languages. Ironically, this is closer to the original meaning, which according to the dictionary, is "An automaton that is created from biological materials and resembles a human". Some anime might also use the term "Bioroid" to distinguish them from the mechanical version. Note that the very first use of the word "robot" in fiction<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  refered to Artificial Humans as well.

Artificial Humans often have cognitive traits similar to The Spock, such as mathematical skill and a perfect memory on the positive side, they may be unemotional and on the negative side they may suffer from uncreativity and excessive literal-mindedness. Being organic, however, allows some Artificial Humans to have some emotional similarity to humans, often in angst that leads to bonding with the kind-hearted hero(ine) or Kill All Humans.

Just like most artificial humanoid characters, Artificial Humans tend to Become a Real Boy over the course of the plot. If the Artificial Human is created with plant-based technology, it may be a type of Plant Person. If it was created using alchemy, it'll probably be called a homunculus (sometimes even if it isn't, but if alchemy is involved it becomes a lot more likely).

See also Creating Life, Robot, and Spaceship Girl. Compare Ridiculously Human Robots or Deceptively Human Robots (which are what modern convention most often calls androids). Contrast Forgot He Was a Robot.

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _After God_: Kozuru Nayuu was created using Snake IPO's cells, but aside eldritch abilities he's still a human researcher.

-   In _Animal Land_, Human shaped Chimeras are artificial humans that are capable of Body Horror transformations.
-   Despite their name, Bioroids in _Appleseed_ are actually genetically modified human clones. They are identical to humans except for reduced capabilities to feel strong emotions and the lack of their cells ability to freely perform cell division. As a result they require regular injections to regenerate cells and lack the capacity to reproduce, which is a good idea, as they are far more numerous than regular humans in Olympus. However Hitomi and Yoshi seem to be at least in a romantic relationship, though it's unclear if it is also sexual. Also, Athena seems perfectly capable of governing Olympus with a very strong fist and by intimidating the human politicians into compliance. Nike is really the only bioroid who shows limited emotions, but that makes her appear even more dangerous and intimidating.
-   The Thirds of _Armitage III_ seem to have been heavily inspired by replicants. They appear indistinguishable from humans and, on the emotional scale, are actually _more_ emotional than many humans due to having been created for the purpose of motherhood.
-   In _Birdy the Mighty_, it is revealed that the Federation used Altirran DNA to bioengineer Super Soldiers to their military and law enforcement divisions. One of the ones used for law enforcement is the title character herself.
-   Eve from _Black Cat_ is an 11-year-old girl, but also a genetically-engineered bioweapon made using nanotechnology.
-   Pinoko from _Black Jack_ is a special variation: She was _supposed_ to be born as a normal human being (the Identical Twin to an unnamed other girl, to be exact), but a bad case of the medical condition "Fetus in Fetu" occurred during their mother's pregnancy, and Pinoko's organs (including her entire, _working_ nervous system) ended up within her sister's body. After managing to plea Black Jack for help telepathically, he removed the cyst containing her from her twin's body and built an artificial body for Pinoko, effectively making her a "full" person.

-   _Bleach_: The Bounts in the anime's Filler Arc are artificially-created humans who accidentally came into being during a botched Shinigami experiment originally meant to create immortal beings . The scientists, led by Ran'Tao, used the slow-aging souls of Shinigami as a base for Artificial Souls (as using human souls would be ethically questionable regardless of the results). However, one of the Jokaisho melted and exploded, releasing a large quantity of energy that made it into the circle of rebirth and affected a number of souls which were reincarnating into the human world. The Bount gained immortality by feasting on human souls.
-   The Arume in _Blue Drop_ create synthetic children that are seemingly their exact copies — aside from the tendency to explode. Originally used to battle the earth forces, they are later applied to fend off the remnants of the Arume's rather nasty biological weaponry.
-   The Sexaroids of _Bubblegum Crisis_ were a rather distinct homage to the replicants of _Blade Runner_, complete with a "what is human?" An Aesop for Priss, who notably hated Boomers before meeting Sylvie.
-   _Burst Angel_: Jo and Marion were designed by the rival syndicate to be the "ultimate battle angels".

-   _Crazy Food Truck_: Arisa and Myna are both part of the "Doll" program, clones made from Colonel Sarah's cells. They have Super-Strength and a Healing Factor, though the latter stops working as well without periodic injections of cells from the original.
-   In _D.Gray-Man_ you have the second Exorcists, brains of dead exorcists transplanted into artificial bodies which include Yu Kanda and Alma Karma
-   The manga _Doll_ is about artificial humans called, of course, dolls, which are hardwearing and very expensive, usually used for service positions.
-   The titular _Dolls (2005)_ are living dolls.
-   Annapuma and Unipuma from _Dominion Tank Police_ are called androids. However, Uni is the original, and Anna was actually cloned from her, suggesting a biological origin.
-   _Dragon Ball Z_:
    -   Cell, who couldn't be called a human by any means, is a manufactured organism engineered by Dr. Gero by taking genes from Goku, Vegeta, Piccolo, Frieza and King Cold (with the dub claiming genes from more characters were also used).
    -   A straighter example would be the series of Artificial Humans Gero created/developed before Cell. However, #17 and #18 were normal human twins until Gero messed with them (hence why #18 and Krillin have a kid later on), while #20 (Gero himself) is an entirely robotic construct, except with Gero's Brain in a Jar in its head, making those three cyborgs. #17 and #18's cyborg status isn't obvious in the English dub because the Japanese word Jinzōningen (人造人間) meaning "artificial human", used for both Gero's robots and Gero's cyborgs, was translated as "Android", giving the false impression that #17 and #18 were robots like #16 and #19 (and #8 all the way back in the original _Dragon Ball_). Vegeta even has a line in the dub where he says that #18 moves fast "for someone who's made of metal".
-   Some types of "androids" such as Ifurita from _El-Hazard: The Magnificent World_ seem rather biological in nature.
-   Juno of _Element Hunters_ is one. The real only way to tell is her stating herself to be one though.
-   _Fabricant 100_: All Fabricants are creations of a Mad Scientist trying to make the "perfect human" until he died, and they've decided to become an Ultimate Lifeform without figuring out if the doctor's had any other motives.
-   Hikaru in _Figure 17 Tsubasa & Hikaru_, who is accidentally created from a Powered Armor "Figure" after protecting Tsubasa in a battle. Hikaru becomes Tsubasa's artificial twin sister.
-   Fran Madaraki, Veronica, Gavrill, and most of Fran's household staff in _Franken Fran_ are all creations of the Frankenstein's Monster variety. Fran even has bolts in her head.
-   Akise of _Future Diary_ turns out to be one. Luckily he manages to prove his existence as an entity by doing something of his own free will. Even Deus Ex Machina acknowledges it, and he's the one that made him.
-   _Fullmetal Alchemist_
    -   The homunculi are Philosopher's Stone-powered humanoids, who are explicitly chemically identical to humans despite all their weird powers. Their creation method differs between the manga/_Brotherhood_ and _Fullmetal Alchemist (2003)_, with the manga's being made from scratch and the 2003 anime's being closer to a Frankenstein's monster.
    -   Also, the Philosopher's Stone-infused dummies created to be used as Mooks in the manga. Although, since they contain Philosopher's Stones, they might technically count as a type of homunculus anyway.
    -   Also the homunculus' leader, Father and his creator, van Hohenheim. Their original forms were destroyed along with Xerxes, and Father made them artificial ones. Both of them are more akin to hundreds of thousands of souls walking around in a humanoid shell than actual humans.
-   _Ghost in the Shell: Stand Alone Complex_ has many Ridiculously Human Robots and Full-Conversion Cyborgs, but also features Proto, a prototype "bioroid".
-   Twice in _Hell Teacher Nube_:
    -   One morning, Hiroshi wakes up to find himself naked and miniaturized to the size of a mouse. When he gets Kyoko to help and she takes him back to school, he meets _himself_! Turns out the class decided to experiment with homunculi using the real Hiroshi as a sample, but the tiny result ended up inheriting the original's memories and personality. In the end, Kyoko takes pity on the devastated mini-Hiroshi and creates a homunculus of her own. The two of them go off into the wilderness to make a life for themselves.
    -   Away on an expedition, Nube is caught in a landslide and ends up trapped underground. After several days, realizing no one is coming to rescue him, and slowly going insane from lack of human contact, he breaks the ultimate taboo: he gathers human remains found in the cave, and enchants them back to life — creating a golem-like girl who likewise latches onto him. It doesn't end well, and is a surprisingly somber plot in an otherwise comedy manga.
-   _Key the Metal Idol_ claimed to be an android, although her exact nature isn't revealed until much later.
-   Nui Harime in _Kill la Kill_ is an artificial Life Fiber/human hybrid grown using the Primordial Life Fiber as a womb.
-   _Lyrical Nanoha_:
    -   Fate Testarossa, the Wolkenritter, Erio Mondial, the members of the Numbers (including Subaru and Ginga), Vivio, Jail Scaglietti, Zest Grangaitz and all familiars. Notable in that they're all three kinds; clones, living programs, _and_ cyborgs.
    -   Not to forget the _Unison Devices_ Reinforce Eins, Reinforce Zwei and Agito and the _Reactor_ Lily-Strosek, all of them are living human-shaped weapons with human minds.
    -   The Mariage from _StrikerS Sound Stage X_ are robotic-like zombie soldiers, who are born from corpses of their victims. They were activated by Ixpellia, though she's Blessed with Suck with this ability she cannot even control by her will.
-   Snow is a rare magically created variant in _MÄR_. Only in the anime though.
-   In _Macross Delta_, Mikumo is revealed to be a clone of the Star Singer's genetic remains, as an experiment to recreate a modern Protoculture.
-   In _Metropolis (2001)_, Tima states "I'm an artificial human" after being shot by Rock and noticing that the bruise she got was not blood or flesh, but her "inner skeleton".
-   In the manga _Minimum_, the main tiny girl, as well as the main antagonist, turn out be data people.
-   In _Mobile Suit Gundam 00_, it is initially hinted that the Innovators, along with Tieria Erde and Nena Trinity, may be like this due to their innate ability to interact with the supercomputer VEDA. Hinted no more in Season 2 and outright confirmed in The Movie where Tieria himself confirms that Innovades are basically a Virtual Ghost uploaded into organic hardware. If the hardware in question suffers fatal damage, they simply Body Surf back into Veda and optionally create themselves a new body, or just stay uploaded and play Deus Est Machina, as Tieria did between the series finale and the movie.
-   The "Humaritt" Lila from _Najica Blitz Tactics_ is created in a laboratory and possesses superhuman abilities. Her responses are often rather robotic at first, but she gets better.
-   _Naruto_:
    -   Zetsu and his various clones are the results of a failed experiment by Madara using Hashirama's DNA and the Juubi's sealed body. They are sapient but completely subservient to their creator.
    -   It's later revealed that Black Zetsu had only tricked Madara into thinking so; the Zetsus are actually humans who were mutated by the Shinju a millennium ago.
-   _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_:
    -   Fate Averruncus appears to be one. Evangeline (the "Doll Master") claimed that he moved like a construct, and Fate himself has claimed that he was "made". Not to mention that his real name is Tertium, Latin for "The Third."
    -   Chachamaru eventually takes a step up from average Robot Girl after having a near-emotional-breakdown on whether on not she had a soul, or if her existence was simply a collection of data. However, it's proved shortly thereafter that she does, possibly qualifying her for this trope.
    -   And let's not forget that the majority of the inhabitants of the Magical World are actually sentient illusions.
-   _Neon Genesis Evangelion_: Rei Ayanami and Kaworu Nagisa are human/Angel clones, and the Evangelions qualify at some level, as they have biological bodies similar to huge human organisms (actually copied from Adam, but Angels in _Evangelion_ are basically what humans would be if they rejected their "humanity"), a human soul, and are literally called "jinzouningen", meaning "artificial humans".
-   The Pacifista from _One Piece_, giant robots built in the likeliness of the Warlord of the Sea Bartholomew Kuma, and made from human corpses.
-   Melfina from _Outlaw Star_ is a "bio-android", and also the Spaceship Girl for the titular ship.
-   Mewtwo in _Pokémon: The First Movie_ was never intended to be human, but the girl grown in the tube next to him was a clone of one of the scientists' deceased daughter.
-   In _Pokémon Adventures_, Mewtwo is even more of an artificial human, since Blaine spliced some of his own DNA with Mew's to create him.
-   Edel from _Princess Tutu_ was created by Drosselmeyer to influence the path of the story. She's typically called a puppet, probably in reference to the ballets _Nutcracker_ and _Coppelia_, but although she's strange none of the characters seem to realize this until The Reveal. Uzura, who was made from the wooden remains of Edel, also counts.
-   _Rosario + Vampire_ revealed Outer Moka to be a partial example. She's a "fake personality" created to care for the sealed Inner Moka, but is also noted to be possibly the most lifelike one ever created, and was probably derived from her mother's personality.
-   _Rozen Maiden_ revolves around dolls which act nearly human other than size.
-   Most of the Mibu Clan in _Samurai Deeper Kyo_, with the exclusion of Kyo himself.
-   Lain Iwakura in _Serial Experiments Lain_ was created to hold a piece of software in her neural system... or, more accurately, she _is_ a piece of software that had a body built around it... well, that's not quite true either. It seems that she's something that has been in the Wired since its birth, and possibly existed before it in some other form (her human body is artificial, though). Or possibly she's just the collective soul/memory/(un)conscious of mankind... or she could be God. Given the nature of the series, it's difficult/impossible to tell.
-   Primula from _SHUFFLE!_ is an artificial life form, of the magic variety.
-   Noah from _Soul Eater_. He was the 3rd Big Bad until it was found out that it was the Book of Eibon's Table of Contents that created Noah.
-   _Tenchi Muyo!_:
    -   Ryoko was grown from a test-tube by Washuu.
    -   As is OVA Kagato being he was the hermaphrodite clone of Naja Akara, Washuu's best friend, that took over a Ryoko prototype and split off his female half.
-   In the world of _Time of Eve_, all androids must have a holographic halo otherwise they'd be indistinguishable from humans (the lone exception is a bodyguard); the titular coffeehouse is the only place where they can turn it off and "relax", and it's revealed can drink coffee, cry, enjoy music, fall in love, and generally behave like Ridiculously Human Robots. Oh, and they're Three Laws-Compliant.
-   In _Toward the Terra_, everyone could technically be considered Artificial Humans to some degree, as society under the SD System no longer uses natural birth and all children are developed in Uterine Replicators. Within the context of the setting, however, Physis and Keith are especially noteworthy: rather than being conceived using an egg and sperm from pre-selected parents, they were engineered completely artificially by the Mother Computers and grown nearly to physical maturity in People Jars — Physis, deemed a failed prototype, was decanted fairly young and thereafter rescued by Soldier Blue, but Keith didn't come out of the jar until the age of fourteen.
-   _Trigun_'s Vash, Knives, Tessla, Chronica, Domina, and all the other plants are genetically modified alien creatures with some astonishingly human characteristics.
-   The Neogenics from the _Witchblade_ anime, who are specifically designed to be Witchblade bearers. They age rapidly, which means Maria is basically a 5-year-old girl with the body of a teenager.
-   The last guardians of the Pyramid in _Yaiba_, namely Ruby, Sapphire, Diamond and Emerald. The Platina Company is also apparently working on building the Ultimate Fighter.
-   The main character and several members of the supporting case of _Yokohama Kaidashi Kikou_ are androids who are oddly biological in some ways (they must eat and sleep and are basically human in personality) and definitely mechanical in others (getting struck by lightning doesn't seriously hurt Alpha, just requires that her skin be re-coated). The rather leisurely plot of the series spends a lot of time focusing on the nature of these androids.

    Comic Books 

-   _Astro City_:
    -   A plot point in the "Victory" story arc involved civilians secretly replaced with plant-based copies. The doppelgängers were sufficiently human-like to give false testimony as part of a frame-up against Winged Victory, and evaporate into mist when cornered.
    -   Samaritan's Arch-Enemy Infidel has created dozens of non-sentient homunculi as servants and harem girls in his trans-dimensional fortress, because Samaritan tends to get testy if he tries to kidnap real women from the main universe. They look and feel exactly like real women but are basically machines.
    -   Gormenghast created dozens of copies of Crackerjack to serve as Mooks and taunt the heroes when they staged a rescue.
    -   Boss Diode once infiltrated the members of the US Senate with robot doppelgangers.
    -   The Weirdies are blue-skinned synthetic creatures who were used by The Underlord to fight Jack-in-the-Box. They speak gibberish, have a simple Hive Mind, and sprout additional limbs whenever they're struck.
-   _Copperhead_: The artificial humans ("arties") were specifically built to serve as soldiers in wartime but were afforded full personhood rights in the courts. They are still discriminated against both for being unnatural (true) and for being prone to violence (debated).
-   _Cybersix_: Cybersix and the rest of the _Cyber_ series, the _Techno_ series, and the Frankenstein's Monster\-like _Fixed Ideas_, with the Cybers looking the most human, being virtually undetectable as not human, and the Technos a close second.
-   _The DCU_:
    -   _Guardian_: Cadmus got permission to clone the original Guardian on his deathbead, though it's unlikely he knew just how many clones, Designer Babies, and other genetically engineered DNAliens/Genomorphs would be created by the project using his DNA. His most prominent "clone" used the Guardian title for a while himself as the head of security at Cadmus, and adopted a young opposite gender clone of himself when he left.
    -   _Superboy_:
        -   S-13, alias Superboy and later named Kon-El and Conner Kent, a version of whom is pictured above, is a clone created by the Cadmus organisation in secret, as they knew that at some point, Superman would either die or otherwise become incapacitated in his current role. He's technically not a perfect clone, however; they had to splice in some Lex Luthor DNA to stabilize him, making him... slightly different in powers and personality — though, peculiarly, the New 52 version was actually a clone of the future son of Clark and Lois, with hints at a relation to Lex being nothing more than a Red Herring. Oh, and don't call him Superboy.
        -   _Superboy (1994)_: Project Cadmus created clones of the original Newsboy Legion who helped Superboy escape the facility but stayed there themselves with only occasional temporary escapes to explore Metropolis before they left the project along with the scientists who created and raised them.
    -   _Supergirl_: The first Post-Crisis version of Supergirl, known as "Matrix", is an artificial life-form called the "protoplasmic matrix", that Lex Luthor of the Pocket Universe has used to create her, who resembled his true love, the deceased Lana Lang. Lex had also patterned her physiology to resemble Superman's, whom he had seen by using one of his many inventions to look into the mainstream DC Universe.
    -   _Wonder Woman_: Diana is a "perfect woman" created from clay by her "mother", Hippolyta. In the Post-Crisis reimagining of _Wonder Woman (1987)_ all of the Amazons are women crafted from clay and brought to life by a group of Greek goddesses.
    -   _Wonder Girl_: In some of Donna Troy's backstories she was artificially created. Once through the use of a magic mirror and once by an evil witch trying to replicate the clay origin of Wondy herself. In her original and most iconic origin, she was a human orphan adopted by Hippolyta after being rescued by Diana.
-   In _Eight Billion Genies_, people created through a wish — such as a dead relative brought back to life, or a historical figure brought to present day — are not actual people, but "remnants". They have all of the memories and mannerisms of the real person, but disappear soon after the person making the wish dies.
-   _Give Me Liberty_: Several appear and are very convincing copies of real people.
-   _Judge Dredd_: Judge Dredd, both Judge Rico and all of Dredd's clones. In the spin-off audio dramas from Big Finish, it's mentioned that much of the Justice Department is made up of clones. In the comics themselves, it's clear that most of them are not, since it's still pretty expensive and time-consuming to specially breed clones for the job. Success isn't guaranteed just because they're clones; Chief Justice Eustace Fargo and his line of clones (which includes Dredd) have been rather hit or miss. Some of them made excellent judges, others turned to the dark side, and others simply didn't want to be judges at all.
-   _Marvel Universe_:
    -   _The Avengers_: The Vision's body is a temporal duplicate of the android Human Torch's body, with some modifications and a different personality. Whatever those modifications were, the Vision is usually depicted as having a lot more inorganic bits than the Torch does. In _The Vision (2015)_, Vision creates three other synthezoids — Virginia, Viv, and Vin — using brain patterns from the Scarlet Witch.
    -   _Guardians of the Galaxy_: Drax the Destroyer is an Artificial Eternal created to destroy Thanos.
    -   _The Invaders_: The Human Torch, android hero of WWII, is visually indistinguishable from a human being aside from bursting into flame when exposed to oxygen-rich air.
    -   _Livewires_: The Livewires are a team of ridiculously human mecha who will be very cross with you if you call them robots. Seeing as they're derived from Life Model Decoys, it makes sense that they are so physically and emotionally human. Subverted in that they can and do hack their own neurology whenever human feelings and failings get in the way of doing their job.
    -   _Ultimate Vision_: Dima is a girl completely made of plastic polymers by AIM. The experiment was going fine, but she ceased to grow at the age of 6. The scientists treated her as little more than a tool.
    -   _X-Men_:
        -   Longshot is an other-dimensional variant, created by the alien Spineless Ones to serve in the entertainments that define their world.
        -   Nate Grey is a living weapon grown from the DNA of Scott Summers and Jean Grey and artificially aged to his late teenage years.
        -   X-23/Laura Kinney is an engineered clone of Wolverine, created by duplicating Logan's X chromosome due to damage to the Y chromosome in the sample recovered from Weapon X. As a result, Laura is parthenogenetic.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   _My Little Pony Generations_: Grackle and Dyre's plan to disrupt pony society focuses on creating three artificial ponies out of smooze and sending them to infiltrate the School of Friendship.
-   _Sabrina the Teenage Witch_: Sabrina was originally this; one comic story explained that she was created by Hilda and Zelda by accident. Later comics retconned this to follow the TV show, where she has parents.
-   _Star Trek (IDW)_: Science Officer 0718, who is revealed in a two-part arc to be created _from the Enterprise itself_. He has the ability to interface directly with the ship's systems himself, and proves to be a reliable crew member.
-   _The Transformers Megaseries_: Facsimiles are vat-grown cybernetic clones which the Decepticons use to infiltrate and undermine a civilization. There are several human Facsimiles running around on Earth, naturally.

    Comic Strips 

-   In _Scary Gary_, Leopold grows an evil lab assistant in a giant petri dish in his lab. When Gary points out that the assistant doesn’t look very evil, Leopold admits he ran out of funding and had to cut corners, and says it’s the last time he tries to "jazz up" a store-bought mix while looking at a box labeled "LAB NERD". Going by the implements on the table, the first steps were similar to making pancake batter.

    Fan Fiction 

-   The SI from the _Nanoha_ fanfic _The New Math_ counts as this after he gets a new form from a mad scientist in the Nanoha multiverse.
-   _Child of the Storm_ twists expectations with this in the sequel, with the general assumption In-Universe and out being that Maddie Pryor is this trope (the character in question believes it, having been raised as a Sympathetic Sentient Weapon), and that Gambit isn't. In fact, the former was replaced at birth and stolen in a kind of Changeling Tale, while the latter is an altered clone who managed to escape captivity as a child, but isn't aware of it until much later. For added Irony, the latter was helping the former come to terms with the fact that despite they were artificial (or believed that they were), they had free will and the rights that came with it. When they find out the truth, the former more or less collapses, thanks to Tomato in the Mirror, while the latter has a more subdued freak out and leaves to rebuild their life.
-   _How Friendship Accidentally Saved Magical Britain_: The fragment of soul bound to the Diary Horcrux doesn't directly have most of the original Tom Riddle's memories and only develops his personality by reading the drivel the original un-split Riddle had written in the Diary, such that he considers himself totally separate from Voldemort, who he calls "the Original". Fred and George (accidentally incorrectly) conduct a Dark ritual at midnight on Beltane (May 1st) in an attempt at conjuring an effigy that will be compelled to finally give them true answers as to the Diary's nature, but it turns out that Tom was trying his own ritual at the exact same time to exit the Diary, causing both rituals to go... not quite right, instead conjuring up a fancy new body for one Tom Marvolo Riddle. And thanks to the soul bits Tom had been absorbing from the twins on the sly, his conjured body strongly resembles that of a Prewett, with coppery hair in contrast to his canonical dark hair, and _freckles_, much to his horror.
-   In chapter 3 of _Inconsistency_, it's revealed that the Gorilla (aka Marques Garde) was a golem created by the Agrestes to protect their son Adrien, with chapter 4 confirming that he was a Sentimonster. However, he ended up growing beyond his original purpose, forming a strong paternal care for Adrien along with a social life outside of his work. This lead Marques to try and escape with Adrien in hopes of getting him away from Gabriel, only for Gabriel to eradicate him, then later create a mindless and obedient replacement in chapter 4.
-   Ashley from _Pretty Cure Perfume Preppy_, who was presumably created from biological materials and rapidly grown in a tank. She even has the atypical eye color and coldness to go with it.
-   Yui gets an artificial body created by RECT in _Blazing Generations_, allowing her to have a normal life in the real world. Luna later gains a new body through that same process.
-   _Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Hands Of Creation_ has synthetic Pokémon, including the main character, Owen, and the rest of Team Alloy.
-   _Too Many Ashes_: Professor Oak created Ash Ketchum via gene-splicing in order to have a Trainer who could travel the world and collect data for the Pokedex.
-   The now-dead Death Note fanfic "L, Robot" has L as one of these, with a variable amount of human traits adjustable with a switch.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   The whole point and plot of _A.I.: Artificial Intelligence_ is the heartbreak of David having the full emotions of a human while not being loved as such.
-   _Alien_: Synthetic people figure prominently in all the movies.
    -   _Alien_: Science Officer Ash is a crew-mate who is revealed to be an android.
    -   _Aliens_: Bishop. "I prefer the term 'artificial person', myself."
    -   _Alien³_: Bishop reappears. Bishop II is a subversion.
    -   _Alien: Resurrection_: Analee Call is a crew-mate who is revealed to be an android. Likewise in _Resurrection_, Ripley herself is a clone, and the film balances Death is Cheap by making sure she Came Back Wrong.
    -   David in the prequel _Prometheus_.
    -   Walter in _Alien: Covenant_. He is meant to be a similar model to David, thus they're both played by Michael Fassbender.
-   _Blade Runner_:
    -   The Replicants from the film _Blade Runner_, of course, and its novel precursor _Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?_ and the novel continuations. However, said artificial humans are never actually referred to as "Replicants" in the original novel — the characters refer to them as "andys" (short for "androids") instead. The filmmakers decided to use an alternate term, as the term android carries certain assumptions (inorganic robots that look superficially human).
    -   _Blade Runner 2049_ brings the Replicants back, with different series (one of whom is that of protagonist K) and the reveal that Replicants can't reproduce themselves. That is, until Rachael's daughter (whose imperfect genetic basis leads to a plethora of diseases).
-   The Robot Kid of _D.A.R.Y.L._ has an almost completely organic human body grown in a test tube, with only the electronic brain making him different from a human.
-   The title character of _Edward Scissorhands_.
-   In _Impostor_, the Centauri can create manufactured humans with an atom bomb built into them which will explode if they're exposed to an appropriate trigger.
-   _The Inquest of Pilot Pirx_, a Polish-Soviet movie based on _The Inquest_ deals with a test for robots who are intended to replace humans in space. They turn out to have some, ahem... design flaws.
-   _Marvel Cinematic Universe_:
    -   Vision's body is composed of printed biological human cells bonded with vibranium, originally intended to be the final form of Ultron before it was stolen by the Avengers. The vibranium gives his body a distinctive red colour.
    -   In _Eternals_, the titular characters are revealed to be artificial beings created in a space factory, with their memories wiped clean each time after they completed their mission of delivering the birth of a Celestial, destroying the host planet in the process.
-   In _Morgan_, the company that created Morgan is doing research on nanotech-altered DNA, with Morgan being the most successful product of her series. It's just too bad that an earlier product turned out to be better at being human than she did.
-   The title character in _The Rocky Horror Picture Show_.
-   Boba Fett and the clone army of _Star Wars_ are all artificial clones of Jango Fett.
-   _Victor Frankenstein_: Victor proclaims to Igor that they will create a man after their own image. The process involves stitching together dead body parts and reanimating the corpse with lightning.
-   Subverted in _Zygote_. Mining corporations are said to commonly use "synthetics" to do more dangerous mining operations, such as the risky job of diving deep into the hearts of asteroids to mine their cores. Barklay thinks that she is one due to her status as Canary-class, but Quinn reveals to her that creating synths is expensive, thus companies like Cerberus tend to instead buy human orphans like Barklay at young ages, convincing them that they are manufactured instead.

    Literature 

-   _Aeon 14_: AIs on New Canaan sometimes grow themselves bodies that are fully organic aside from having an AI core interface instead of a brain (think _Ghost in the Shell_ in reverse). These "organic frames" can even be made capable of having biological children.
-   All of the ruling Elites of _Ai no Kusabi_ are artificially created and their hyper-evolved brains are the only organic human components they have left of their constructed bodies. They look and sound human, exhibit very little human emotion and look down on humans.
-   Beautiful Maria and Ubu Roy from _Angel Station_ have DNA that was made from scratch by their "father" to give them their significant traits, like Maria's extraordinary navigation skills and Roy's four muscular arms.
-   _Area 51_: It's revealed that the Airlia created many people, partly with their DNA, to serve as agents. It's eventually revealed that humanity in _general_ were created by the Airlia. However, later on in the series it's revealed that the Martians created them.
-   Ennis from _Baccano!_ is a homunculus created from the cells of the Big Bad Szilard and an unspecified, unwilling female donor. The Light Novels introduce more homunculi, most notably Psychopathic Manchild Christopher Shouldered.
-   Poul Anderson's "Call Me Joe": The titular character is the pseudojovian lifeform artificially constructed by humans to live on the surface of Jupiter and act as a puppet controlled by a human on Ganymede. Joe specifically is controlled by Edward Anglesey, a cripple. They created dozens of others, as well, for teams of esmen to control and conduct experiments on Jupiter's surface.
-   League GIs in the _Cassandra Kresnov_ books, including the protagonist, straddle the line between this and Ridiculously Human Robots. They use artificial materials with equivalents to blood, muscles, bone, internal organs, the works, though their brains are computer-like enough that they can hack electronic devices wirelessly. They were created as Super Soldiers, but rank-and-file GIs aren't very smart (meaning that fully human Federation soldiers often won with ambush tactics), and when they made a smarter one, Sandy, she decided to run for it when the war was winding down rather than stay and be _retired_.
-   The titular Cat-girls from _Cat Girls Have Four Ears_ are this. The UPP are this, to the point of being indistinguishable from human, by sight. But they are better.
-   Kazuki Akai from _Cerberus High_ was created by Hades to appear human on the outside but was provided with the blood of the demonic entity, giving him abilities unlike any human or canid breed that has ever existed.
-   In _Chung Kuo_, the GenSyn corporation makes brutish animal-men, as well as attractive female servants.
-   The wizard protagonist of Jorge Luis Borges's "The Circular Ruins" manages with the help of the fire god to create an artificial human. In the end it turns out he's an illusion as well.
-   Walter M. Miller's novella _Conditionally Human_ is about this. 20 Minutes into the Future people are organized into eugenic classes. Class C, not allowed to have children at all, is a niche market for the "neutroids" — genetically modified chimpanzees who look like human children. But they are legally pets. They are bought and sold, stored in kennels and quite frequently euthanized.
-   In the _Divine Blood Novels_, the Gods and Demons each use include artificial people as a normal sort of reproduction. The Gods call these homonculi and the Demons don't have a specific word for it considering it just another way of being born. Despite the fact that Demons care less about the origin, there are more homonculi Gods than there are Demons. Humans have recently looked into cloning, but the first known clone died at 6-years-old after a long history of medical problems. Cloning people has been banned until the reasons behind this have been determined.
-   The Tleilaxu in the _Dune_ universe have this as their hat, including the gholas and Face Dancers.
    -   Bijaz — _Dune Messiah_
    -   Duncan Idaho — _Dune Messiah_, _God-Emperor of Dune_ and _Heretics of Dune_
    -   Miles Teg — _Chapterhouse: Dune_
    -   Futars aren't Tleilaxu in origin but definitely employ this trope.
-   In _Dying Earth_, T'Sain and T'Sais are some kind of magically created human being.
-   The _Eighth Doctor Adventures_ novel _Interference_ introduces a whole society of these, called the Remote. When one of them dies, a new copy is created based on what those who knew them remember about them. (Side-effects include infertility.) This seems to be a surprisingly accurate process, as when one of the Doctor's companions gets lost and ends up joining them, he's still vaguely recognizable several iterations later, so the Doctor puts him back to the way he was before he got lost. He handles it quite well... for a while. Eventually, Loss of Identity\-based angst, Heroic BSoD, and referring to himself as "it" ensues. He's also quite disappointed to discover he's not even immortal. Indeed, he's basically unchanged except for the fact his dreams are excessively normal and he has a new knack for anagrams and crossword puzzles, and is entirely indistinguishable from a normal human.
-   _The Finder's Stone Trilogy_: In _Azure Bonds_, Alias is revealed to be a sort of homunculus created through a magical ritual. She spends the rest of the novel doubting she has a soul and feeling guilty that her friends have risked their lives to help a soulless automaton. Her friends, of course, think this is ridiculous, since she obviously has a soul; one of them can even _see_ it. She feels better at the end.
-   Frankenstein's Monster is one of the most classic and well known examples. While it is stressed at certain points through the original _Frankenstein_ novel that the monster is an entirely unique species, he certainly has a human intelligence and personality.
-   The title character of _Friday_ is treated as such, even though she _is_ human, just genetically engineered and grown in an artificial womb. Boss even chided her for thinking she was anything other than human in his first appearance.
-   The automatons in _The Girl from the Miracles District_ are vat-grown humans made with heavy helping of magitek, with psychological programming to make them perfect assassins and absolutely loyal to Irena, their creator. Apart from that, they're pretty much indistinguishable from regular members of the Order.
-   In _Girls with Sharp Sticks_, this is the Tomato in the Mirror twist regarding the girls at Innovations Academy: they were all created to serve as the submissive wives and personal servants of a bunch of wealthy misogynists who believed that feminism had "ruined" women for them. The school environment in which they live is there to "raise" them as human, as the first prototypes, who lacked real life experience outside their programming, proved to be too vapid to make for good companions. While their brains are robotic so as to make them easier to reprogram, the rest of their bodies are flesh and blood, as purely synthetic Robot Girls were deemed as falling into the Uncanny Valley.
-   _Haruhi Suzumiya_: Yuki Nagato is one, called a "Humanoid Interface", though the precise details are somewhat obscured by copious amounts of Technobabble. The series itself references the _Hyperion Cantos_ in relation to Yuki, suggesting that she is something like a cybrid (human body, alien intelligence). It seems that the non-corporeal alien Data Overmind (and later, the Canopy Dominion) created fully biological human bodies to house data-entities in order to interact with humans. Whether the data-entities that control these bodies are minds created by the Overmind or are extensions of its own intellect is rather unclear, as the series goes back and forth on exactly how much autonomy the Interfaces have.
-   _Hyperion Cantos_ has bioroids, biologically manufactured androids. They're bright blue to keep them out of the uncanny valley.
-   Rei Toei from _Idoru_ is a sentient artificial intelligence whose "body" is a hologram.
-   The Presger Ambassadors from _Imperial Radch_, which the Presger created to communicate with humanity after having learned, through trial and error, how to pull humans apart and put them back together again. Though they look human at first glance, their internals and especially their psychology are anything but, and most humans tend to give them a wide berth as a result.
-   _The Irregular at Magic High School_
    -   In the series, there are so-called "improved magikan", Designer Babies that have phenomenal magical powers, health and appearance thanks to Superpowerful Genetics combined with a lack of personal freedom and a limited lifespan due to imperfections in their genes. In subsequent volumes, clones of especially prominent mages also appear, which are nonetheless disabled in the literal sense because of even more unstable genes. Reflections on the nature of the family ties of such people and the fact that even an artificially created person does not deserve to be the weak-willed slave of his creators are an important part of the series.
    -   This is also used by the author for Take That, Audience! in one of the arcs, when it is revealed that Mamoru Kudo has such poor physical health because his parents were brother and sister, which makes him a victim of his parents' technical Brother–Sister Incest. This does not work well for his relatives, when they learn about the nuances of his birth and illness.
    -   One of the main intrigues of the series is that the biological sister of the protagonist, Miyuki Shiba, was created as a perfect improved magikan. Although she is his real sibling, their genes are different enough (how much is never said, but it is implied that they are technically only half-siblings) that their mating will not be dangerous to their offspring, and the head of the clan announces the engagement of Miyuki with her brother. After it becomes known, the whole second half of the series is devoted to how Miyuki and her brother Tatsuya will try to understand their feelings for each other and the apparent immorality of their new status of "lovers".
-   From _Jack Blank_, Lorem Ipsum was created as one, though it's not immediately apparent when interacting with her. She says that Smart was trying to make an entire army of people like her so he wouldn't have to rely on hiring outside mercenaries to fill his Peacemaker ranks. He stopped after she proved too disobedient for him. Lorem's no more disobedient than the Bratty Teenage Daughter, but Smart is a very controlling man.
-   In _Journey to Chaos_, Mr.15 creates clones of lots of people to further his research into Blood Magic. They include copies of Basilard's first set of novices and a clone of the real Vaya. They are used as soldiers and Replacement Goldfish.
-   _The Last Adventure of Constance Verity_: Harmony and Equity were artificially created (grown in a tube and artificially aged to full-maturation) to be vessels for the caretaker spell that made Constance Verity The Chosen One.
-   One of the primary work forces in the Space Opera setting _Lucifer's Star_ is bioroids, who are very similar to Replicants. Bioroids are loathed because they're A.I. based organisms and there is Fantastic Racism against them. Notably, one of the main characters, Isla, is a Bioroid living in disguise as a human after escaping her Serial Killer master. One of the plots in the book is how Bioroid status begins to change once Brain Uploading becomes possible.
-   The _Magic: The Gathering_ books feature these as good (The Metathran), and bad (Phyrexian Sleeper Agents). The Sleepers had a more frightening creation process, by far. And the scariest bit about the Sleepers is some _don't even know they are agents._ One particular Sleeper from _Time Streams_ basically tested the characters and us in the matter of just to what measure a nonhuman is, being portrayed alongside Karn, future main character, and in the end, Karn (a silver golem) was more human than many of the human (or human-looking) characters.
-   The Colonial Defense Forces in _Old Man's War_ transfer the consciousnesses of elderly humans into brand new Super-Soldier bodies, giving them a new lease on life in strong, healthy, enhanced bodies, and all they have to do is volunteer to be Canon Fodder in an interstellar Forever War. The Special Forces, known as the "Ghost Brigades", are revealed to be what happens when you create the Super-Soldier but don't put a human consciousness in them. The ethical implications of the process face particular scrutiny in the sequel, _The Ghost Brigades_.
-   The DADOs from _The Pendragon Adventure_, who act as the bad guy's personal army from Book 7 on.
-   In _The Pride of Parahumans_, the titular beings are produced by printing transgenic stem cells over a titanium alloy skeleton.
-   _Quantum Devil Saga: Avatar Tuner_:
    -   All the people in the Junkyard are created through The Karma Temple's Newborn production system. In particular, the dead people dissolve into rain and they are gathered in the bottom of the Temple where they are cleansed from their Karma and reborn anew to continue fighting. All of them are born as battle-ready adults.
    -   At the end of the second volume, Serph finds himself possessing an abandoned prototype for a combat biomech, which coincidently transformed to match his appearance. He takes some time to admire the benefits.
-   _Second Apocalypse_ has the skin-spies, a "weapon race" who were created with Organic Technology and magic to act as perfect spies and assassins. Their faces are made of "fingers" that can rearrange themselves to imitate any face. They're also superhumanly fast and strong.
-   _The Stone Sky_, the final book in the _Broken Earth Trilogy_, reveals that the original stone eaters were created by Syl Anagist to help create a new power source.
-   _Sunday Without God_ has Kiriko Zubreska, who was created from the body parts of five different people who had asked a witch to grant them a child.
-   Tofu from _Super Minion_, though he really only uses a humanoid form to blend in with people.
-   "Androids" in _A Tale of Time City_ are artificially-created people. They are made of flesh and bone, but are engineered. As a result, they're somewhat more pale than regular humans and they feel emotions less strongly. However, Elio, the android character, is still personable in his weird way, and even bonds with the protagonist over their shared love of movies.
-   In _Thief of Time_, the Lady LeJean is one, created directly from raw atoms by the Auditors. At one point, many many Auditors create and "pilot" one, but at the end when she decides to kill herself she is surprised to find out that she has a soul that survives her death.
-   The support units from _TimeRiders_ — robots created in the future that are almost exactly like humans. They are grown from cloned tissue, deliberately given the appropriate genetic makeup for up to 700% human strength, superior speed and reflexes... and a brain the size of a walnut. They also have an incredibly powerful supercomputer hooked up to it. Aside from being seven feet tall and laden with more muscles than is strictly fair, they go from completely bald (after 'birth') to having fairly ordinary dark hair and grey eyes. They are flesh-and-bone rather than metal simply because it is better at learning and better at repairing itself on the field (flesh heals better than steel, at any rate). There are only two problems; they can't easily gauge emotional inflections like sarcasm, and they find it confusing and problematic to make decisions.
    -   The first we meet, a male, is frequently described as 'an ox of a man'; before he was named Bob, Maddy wanted to name him after Arnold Schwarzenegger for a reason.
    -   The second, a female called Becks, is much more slender, but muscled like a gymnast. In fact, aside from her robotic coldness, quiet demeanor, and artificial speech pattern, you be forgiven for thinking that Becks was (an unnaturally beautiful, which she capitalizes on at more than one point) human woman.
    -   In _City of Shadows_, Liam, Maddy and Sal later discover that they are more advanced support units, having completely human thought processes but far less physically strong.
-   The androids in Robert Silverberg's _Tower of Glass_ are visually distinguished from "normal humans" (whom they call "womb-born", and themselves "vat-born") by red skin and lack of body hair.
-   _Under the Pendulum Sun_: The Changelings that The Fair Folk leave in place of their human kidnapping victims appear perfectly human, right down to sharing the original's memories, but don't need food (though they still feel hunger) and always feel somehow out of place in their human lives.
-   _Vorkosigan Saga_: Terrence Cee (and his sister/wife Janine) in _Ethan of Athos_ is one of these; he suffers some identity problems because he was genetically engineered from a careful selection of genes by a secret military project. But as Ethan points out, we're all a mishmash of our ancestors' genes, and everyone in his society is born from replicators (and donated eggs) anyway. So Terrence is completely normal — well, except that he's telepathic.
-   _War Girls_: The Biafrans construct synthetic soldiers or "synths". One is assigned to work with each War Girl. They are known as abd.
-   Several characters in Bernard Werber's novels and short stories are androids or part of an artificial-life simulation software but don't know it. In fact, some of his works suggest that _all_ of the characters and even all of humankind, the gods, and the whole known universe might unwittingly be part of a giant software and/or experiment. Yup, Werber is a fan of Philip K. Dick.
-   _Worlds of Shadow_: The simulacra, people created by magic with samples of hair or blood from previous natural ones. Shadow used them to impersonate people in the Galactic Empire as spies. It is implied that the originals have been murdered. The simulacra seem just like normal humans, except they're completely obedient to their creator/master-the only thing that upsets them is the idea of not having one, or failing in a mission.

    Live-Action TV 

-   The '60s British sci-fi serial _A for Andromeda_. The title character is a beautiful Emotionless Girl created by a Master Computer according to a design transmitted from another galaxy.
-   The most advanced models of Cylons on _Battlestar Galactica (2003)_ are biologically human to the point that they can mate with humans and produce offspring, and can only be readily identified as non-human by exposing them to certain exotic types of radiation. Some of them don't even know themselves.
-   _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_: Buffy's sister Dawn started out "life" as the Key to all dimensions, but was given a human form based on the Summers gene template and inserted into Buffy's family so that Buffy would protect the Key without question. A fake life-history was created for her and magically inserted into reality to facilitate this.
-   _Caprica_ reveals that realistic humanoid (but not biological) Cylons could have existed 50 years before _Battlestar Galactica (2003)_ (the accidental prototype was a Replacement Goldfish for a scientist's daughter), but their creators ultimately chose the "toaster" design because the realistic androids were too unsettling. They later change their minds...
-   _Dark Angel_: The X series, who are artificially created people genetically engineered in various ways to be Super Soldiers for the US government. Other, less visibly human varieties are also seen later.
-   _Dark Matter (2015)_: Two turns out to be one of these, put together as an adult from artifically created organic bodyparts as a prototype host for Puppeteer Parasite alien invaders from Another Dimension who cause normal human host bodies to suffer Rapid Aging.
-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   "The Rebel Flesh"/"The Almost People" features a very real version of this. They are doppelgängers ("gangers" for short) of the originals created from "programmable matter" that can take any form. The originals are connected to the gangers and, usually, the gangers revert to the matter's base form upon disconnecting. However, this time a solar storm strikes the lab's power station and galvanizes them into independent life-forms.
    -   The spin-off _The Sarah Jane Adventures_ has regular character Luke, who was biotechnologically created in the show's first episode by an invading alien race who wanted to use him as a lab rat to study human biology.
-   _Farscape_ plays with this trope on a number of occasions. Played straight by the Scarran "bioloids" that they mostly use as Evil Twin duplicates. Sikozu is also revealed to be a kind of bioloid.

-   _Pandora_:
    -   The Adaran clones, who are used as slaves. Because of their status, Adaran religion declares they are soulless and lack any rights.
    -   Jax is later also revealed to have been artificially produced by splicing DNA together from five different species, with many doubles of herself existing.
-   Mack Hartford of _Power Rangers Operation Overdrive_, built by Adventurer Archaeologist Andrew Hartford to be the son he never could get. What this says about Hartford is up to the viewer.
-   _Space: Above and Beyond_ has the "In Vitros" or "Tanks": genetically designed clones grown in People Jars as forced laborers. Naturally, a Tank is made part of the main cast. Conflict ensues, until they learn to work together. Another older and wiser Tank is later assigned as their commander, changing up the group dynamic further.
-   _Stargate_:
    -   The replicators in _Stargate Atlantis_ create fully human clones of Shepherd's team using nanites. Eventually, the subset of replicators who wish to ascend decide that creating human bodies is their only way to do so.
    -   The Kull Warriors in _Stargate SG-1_ are artificially grown humans each controlled by a Goa'uld symbiote, genetically engineered for maximum physical endurance at the cost of longevity.
-   _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_: The Vorta and Jem'Hadar. No, they are not Artificial Humans, just Artificial Humanoids. Keeping that distinction in mind, they completely fit the trope, from their fanatical loyalty to their creators, to their utter lack of aesthetic sense.
-   _Star Trek: Picard_: In "Et in Arcadia Ego, Part 2", Jean-Luc Picard's human body reaches the end of its natural lifespan, but his mind is scanned before his brain functions fully cease, and then it's transferred to an android golem. He lives on as a synth, but without the enhancements of a Soong-type android (so no Super-Strength, Super-Reflexes, Super-Hearing or the processing power of a computer).
-   _Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles_: Cameron is the most realistic Terminator ever made, capable of crying, eating and even occasional humor. Though often called a Robot Girl, she'll point out that she's a cyborg; living flesh over a metal endoskeleton. Calling her a "very scary robot" has been known to bother her...
-   An alien variant is present in _Ultraman Geed_ — the titular Geed is biologically the son of Big Bad Ultraman Belial, but he wasn't actually fathered by him, instead being grown artificially from samples of Belial's genome, thus making Geed the first synthetic Ultra in the entire Ultra Series.
-   All of the Hosts in _Westworld_ are manufactured humans and animals who are mass-produced to populate the theme park _Westworld_. While they are more advanced than the older models, and move and act smoothly unlike the robotic Wild Bill android, they are still limited in their behavior (they can't harm any living thing, even flies, and are limited to their scripts like an NPC). One of the main sources of conflict in the show is them outgrowing their scripts as they are made to be more and more human. When one Host finds a photograph, he starts to realize that his entire life and world is a lie and goes mad because of it. "Hell is empty and the devils are here", indeed.

    Music 

-   Escape of the Witch, Salmhofer by mothy has the titular character being an artificial being.
-   Radiohead's "Fake Plastic Trees" appears to be about a fake plastic girl:
    
    _She looks like the real thing_  
    _She tastes like the real thing_  
    _My fake plastic love_
    
-   The song "Coin Operated Boy" by The Dresden Dolls:
    
    _Made of plastic and elastic_  
    _He is rugged and long-lasting_  
    _Who could ever ever ask for more?_
    
-   The Mr. Bungle songs "Golem II: The Bionic Vapour Boy" and "None of Them Knew They Were Robots".

    Mythology 

-   Celtic Mythology: Blodeuedd, the woman created from flowers to be the wife of Lleu Llaw in Medieval Welsh mythology.
-   Classical Mythology:
    -   A Greek myth tells the story of Pygmalion, a man who shunned real-life women but craved that his beautiful sculpture of one would come to life. He loved it so much that he prayed to Venus/Aphrodite, the goddess of Love, to grant him that wish. After he kissed the ivory-carved statue's lips, Venus worked her magic and it came to life. This is seen as a literal "Breath of Life".
    -   Pandora in Greek myth was a sculpture that the Gods made and brought to life.
-   _Mahabharata_: Draupadi was born from a sacrificial fire along with her twin Dhrishtadyumna, as adults because their father Draupada mocked his childhood promise with Drona to give him a cow and annexed his kingdom in retaliation. The twins are born as a method of revenge; Dhrishtadymna would kill Drona, while Draupadi would "take" Drona's students away from him.

    Podcasts 

-   _Mission to Zyxx_ features the Clone Light Infantry Nomadic Troopers (CLINTs) who are mass-produced in a central factory for general military applications. Upgrades include absence of genitals, a detachable pinky for emergency rations, and a butt-gun.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Chronicles of Darkness_:
    -   The title characters of _Promethean: The Created_ are born of alchemical rituals designed to create life from corpses. It... doesn't exactly work right; a new consciousness is born inside the body, powered by the very force the moves the universe. Said force makes humans batshit crazy through continued exposure, which means Prometheans have to stick to their own kind. Since they were born of an imperfect alchemical ritual, though, they always have the means to finish the transmutation...
    -   And from the same universe, we have the fetches of _Changeling: The Lost_, fake humans made by The Fair Folk to cover up their abductions. They're usually made from whatever stray garbage seems appropriate and a piece of the abductee's soul. Many of them, though not all, believe themselves to be the person they're meant to replace, but always seem to lack at least one feature (positive or negative) that went into the character of their template. Occasionally they are complete psychos.
-   In _Damnation Decade_, Chairman Dao Hong of the Prosperity Sphere is mass-producing a Clone Army with a device called the Glorious Reproduction Engine. The templates for his clones are usually master martial artists he had kidnapped to participate in his private martial arts tournament.
-   _Eclipse Phase_:
    -   The concept of a "morph" almost necessitates this trope. After the Fall virtually everything that can be used as a human body (or analogue thereof) needs to be made from scratch. While synthmorphs need to be built, human bodies need to be grown in an artificial uterus, and can take months to years to grow, depending on how heavily a specific model of body relies on cybernetics. Specifically, the complexity of the central nervous system means it's the one part that takes the longest to develop. Replacing it wholesale with a cyberbrain can shorten this considerably, but they're often considered to have too many drawbacks compared to good old flesh and blood.
    -   Pods — short for "pod people" — are assembled out of vat-grown limbs and organs attached together with cybernetics and equipped with a computer brain. They most commonly look like people, except where the skin has noticeable seams from where the parts are joined together. Early pods were even marketed as artificial androids and piloted by AI servant programs, a "human" servant that didn't cross the threshold into being a slave, and the fact they could be used as a spare body in a pinch was more of a bonus feature. Nowadays, pods are considered to be a step above the common cheap robotic morphs, but are still something of a sign of poverty. Though like all classes of morphs, exotic and utility-driven pods can still be exhorbitantly expesnive.
    -   Many, perhaps even most transhumans are installed into a biomorphs that was likely created with an artificial womb. Only a minority of transhumans are still in the body there were born with. This is practically the opposite to bioconservatives, who will live and die in the same body that they're born with.
-   The bioroids — "biological androids" — in _GURPS Transhuman Space_. Guidelines for designing your own bioroids — and infinite other forms of gengineered life — reappear in _GURPS: Bio Tech_.
-   The Wechselkind race from _Grim Hollow_ occupy a strange overlapping place between this trope, Golem and Changeling Tale. They are doll-like artificial children constructed by the Fair Folk from wood, clay, ceramic, or a mixture of those materials, and left in place of human children stolen by the fey. They can cover up this visibly artificial nature with a potent magical illusion of being flesh and blood, and they are fully sapient and aware. But their bodies never age, in the sense of maturing like a human, condemning them to looking like children forever. Most humans hate and fear them, seeing them as collaborators rather than victims.
-   In _Mutant: Year Zero_ The core race of Mutants are genetically grown humans who were designed from the get go to survive the hostile Zone of The Dawnworld.
-   As part of the game’s recurring Science Fantasy themes, _Pathfinder_'s core world of Golarion has an artificial race called androids who are created by technological rather than magical means. Their mysterious origins lie in a gigantic spaceship that crashed into the planet about 8000 years ago, carrying with it a number of high-tech forges in which new androids are created (androids, as an artificial race, are not born, but rather built and “activated” as adults). Not much is known of their pre-crash history, save that they had been created as laborers by an advanced race on another world until they won their right to be treated as people by their creators. Biologically, they resemble pale humans with a metallic sheen to their eyes, circuitry-tattoos all over their bodies and a pale, almost translucent nanite-infused liquid serving as blood. They have actual organs and tissues rather than being made up of mechanical components, although their “flesh” is technically made up of polymers and oil serving the same purpose as human tissues. They have trouble processing emotions, either others’ or their own, and get a natural penalty to their Charisma together with a resistance to fear and emotion effects. They possess sex drives, but cannot biologically reproduce. They age mentally and eventually “die”, but their bodies merely look more “timeworn” rather than going all wrinkly. It has been stated that their skeletons “probably look freaky compared to a human’s”. Perhaps the most interesting part is that they have as much of a soul as any other mortal in the setting, meaning when they die, their souls are judged the same as any other mortal’s in the afterlife. This ties into their unique form of reincarnation — when an android dies, her soul departs for the afterlife while the nanites in her now-former body go into overdrive and restore it to a pristine, physically young state, at which point a new soul enters it and starts life as a new being.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_:
    -   There have been passing mention of a few advanced models of servitor where they are fully biological, rather than the typical cyborg with any personality and higher functions wiped away with invasive cybernetics. There's also at least one case of an Adeptus Mechanicus adept deliberately seeking to _become_ one.
    -   The Dark Eldar keep their numbers high (natural reproduction carrying the risk of Slaanesh eating their souls) via vast numbers of artificially-grown Eldar, known as Vatborn. Those who came about the natural way are known as Trueborn, and lord over the others despite there being no real difference in biology.
    -   The Space Marines keep brain-dead humans in vats to keep growing the geneseed that gives them their superhuman abilities. Even with a theoretical upper limit of 1,000 Space Marines per Chapter and each body growing two geneseeds, they still need to harvest geneseed from their fallen brothers to keep up with the Forever War.
    -   The Primarchs of the Space Marine legions were lab-grown demigods genetically engineered by the God-Emperor to serve as his sons and generals.

    Theatre 

-   The Robots in _R.U.R._, despite being the Trope Namers for robots, are actually chemically created Artificial Humans, not mechanical beings.

    Video Games 

-   In _Albion_, NED's primary means of communication is using an android body to interact with his crew. He even has an entire army of them prepared to slaughter everyone on board should they rebel.
-   The Demi-Gods (Both the guardian generals and the civilian ones) from _Asura's Wrath_ are all descended from these, according to the extras and concept art.
-   Kalas and his brother in _Baten Kaitos_. Guillo in _Orgins_ is more of a Golem.
-   _Blade Runner_, like the film, features synthetic humans known as Replicants, which are only distinguishable from humans psychologically.
-   _Breed_ have the GRUNT project (**Genetically Revived Universal Tactical Sentient**), meant to create Super Soldiers as an elite Space Marine force to repel an invasion from the titular Breed aliens. You're one of their members and also one of their best.
-   _BlazBlue_:
    -   The various Murakumo units, of which Lambda-11, Mu-12 (otherwise known as Noel Vermillion), Nu-13 and their genetic template Saya count among them.
    -   Turns out, Ragna, Saya, and Jin are all "children" of the 5th Prime Field (implied to be based off Saya Terumi). They were found in an abandoned lab by The Six Heroes and promptly put in Celica's orphanage. At least, until it all went to shit because of a certain snake...

-   Sebastian from _Chicken Feet_ is a human who was created at GOOBER Laboratories and is shown to be a monstrous-looking creature due to its origin.
-   Deadman from _Death Stranding_ was grown from genetically modified stem cells. 70% of his organs began to fail over the years and were replaced with transplants from cadavers. This also has the consequence of making him technically The Soulless — it doesn't make him evil but it does mean he's lonely and curious about the afterlife.
-   This is Bio-Beta's goal in _The Desolate Hope_. He wants to recreate a new, better humanity since he's convinced that they were all wiped out (he's stuck in an abandoned station lightyears from Earth with no way to contact humanity, so there's no way to see if he's right or not). Unfortunately, he only has two tissue samples to work with so his work isn't really advancing that much. Now, where did that sample 217 get off, too...
-   _Deus Ex_: The Denton 'brothers' are revealed to be completely artificially engineered.
-   _Final Fantasy_
    -   Interestingly, _Dissidia Final Fantasy_ reveals that the very first _Final Fantasy_ protagonist started life as a Manikin (a being born artificially from living crystal infused with the memories of the very first Cid, via a Lufenian memory-passing ritual). The Gods Chaos and Cosmos were created in a similar manner.
    -   In _Final Fantasy IX_, this turns out to be the origin of Vivi and his fellow Black Mages, as well as their enhanced Black Waltz commanders that are being sold as weapons to Queen Brahne. This actually comes full circle when it is revealed Kuja the one selling the black mages is also an artificial humanoid from an alien world trying to take over Gaia, albeit a defective one if Garland is to be believed. As is Zidane Tribal.
-   The homunculi in _Eldritch Lands: The Witch Queen's Eternal War_ are artificially created bodies infused with an imprint of someone's memories, although some versions are completely artificially created with no pre-existing memories.
-   _EXTRAPOWER: Attack of Darkforce_: Idea, the homunculus maid created by the Dream Demon King to defend his earthly mansion in his absence.
-   In _Fallout 4_, Generation 3 Synths are basically the Replicants of _Blade Runner_, being physically indistinguishable from normal humans save for a Synth Component that only drops when they die. Even some of the Gen 3s themselves aren't aware that they're synths.
-   _Fate/Grand Order_
    -   Enkidu is essentially a human-shaped weapon created from clay by the gods. They emphasize this by describing themself as though they're a robot or a computer. For example, they say that they've been "activated" when summoned and one of their defeat quotes has them declare that they're "shutting down." They even compare their very mind/soul to "software" that can be installed into their body/"hardware" at will, which is how they're able to merge with the remnant of Kingu in their Interlude and pick up some of his traits and memories.
    -   Minamoto-no-Tametomo doesn't wear a suit of mechanical armor; he _is mechanical._ In his voice lines, he specifically compares himself to Lu Bu and Xiang Yu, as being of similar make.
    -   The first Da Vinci initially created Da Vinci Lily as an anchor "Master:" Lily has a physical body that needs sleep, and unlike most Servants, she cannot take spirit form. Holmes calls her an artificial Servant whose purpose is to pilot the Shadow Border. However, this body is of a lower rank than Da Vinci's previous one and is thus weaker, with Lily's profile stating that she has a smaller range of abilities than her adult form.
    -   Despite claiming to be a demon, Mephistopheles is actually a homunculus created by Faust.
    -   Sieg was originally a Homunculus created by Yggdmillenia to serve as a Mana Battery for Servants.
    -   Xiang Yu is an automaton created by Qin Shi Huang, using the salvaged remains of Nezha. In Proper Human History, he was discovered after Qin Shi Huang's death by Xiang Liang, who passed him off as his nephew and intended to use him to conquer China. As he still possessed a humanoid form, no one suspected otherwise.
    -   The Sakura Five aren't Heroic Spirits, but rather fusions of various Divine Spirits in the Moon Cell built around aspects of BB's personality, such as Meltryllis representing "Pleasure". They are thus much younger than they look, which shows in their general lack of experience and inability to interact with people properly.
    -   Meanwhile, the two Mecha Eli-chans are magic guardian statues that gained life and were subsequently enhanced with fragments from Elisabeth's Spirit Origin and various robotic parts by Osakabehime.
    -   Sitonai is an interesting example, as the host body for the three spirits is Illyasviel von Einzbern, the most famous homunculus to come out of the franchise.
    -   Okita Alter is one, in a sense. Though summoned by the Counter Force, she was created without a fully functioning Saint Graph. As she's supposed to be detonated like a bomb and be annihilated from existence, this makes her not necessarily an Artificial Human, but an _Artificial Servant_.
    -   Played with for Ashiya Douman. He used to create shikigami duplicates of himself that he could control and use in his place, making it so he'd never fully be in danger. This ability gets cut short by Pepe in Olympus, making it so he can't use it anymore. No word on whether it hits his Servant Incarnation however.
    -   Implied with the Mini Nobus. It's not entirely clear how they were created, aside from Nobunaga claiming they were made from the distilled essence of the final star she needed to become a 5\* Servant (in this game, she's a "mere" 4\*). A lot of the later variants of Nobu are definitely mechanical-looking. A diagram of one in Final Honnouji theorizes that their hats are their real bodies.
-   Morphs, the limitless forces of Nergal's army in _Fire Emblem: The Blazing Blade_. Most are implied to be identical soldiers lacking individuality or personality, while some can be crafted as unique people or to resemble individuals. Their common trait is jet-black hair and golden eyes. They are crafted from the quintessence of large numbers of lives lost in war or tragedy and serve as the henchmen and bosses of the latter half of the game.
-   _Genshin Impact_ has two flavors of this trope, both hinted to be Lost Technology from the lost nation of Khaenri'ah. The more straightforward example is the homunculus Albedo, and his failed "brothers", all creations of an alchemist that survived the destruction of Khaenri'ah. The other version are Puppets, ambiguously mechanical beings that are nearly identical to living beings but essentially immortal and vary in their degree of individuality and emotional capacity. Scaramouche is a Psycho Prototype with a fully-developed sense of self and was deemed _too_ emotional, while his "sister" the Raiden Shogun is much closer to an emotionless machine that strictly follows her programming. In comparison to them, the mass-produced Kathrynes are much more fragile and can interact normally with people but apparently lack of true individuality or sense of self.
-   From _Girls' Frontline_, we have the Nytos. Devised by Dr. William as a controllable way to access precursor Relic sites, Nytos are essentially vat-grown clones augmented with advanced cybernetics. While the Nytos aren't able to reach that goal yet, it turns out they make excellent combat units, and are frequently given authority over lesser Paradeus forces. Despite that, it is noted that their brain waves exhibit close similarities to a Doll's Digi-Mind, to the point that they can be remotely hacked like any other machine.
-   Sylvari in _Guild Wars 2_ and its novels were created by the forest dragon to serve as his minions.
-   A.B.A. in _Guilty Gear_, a homunculus.
-   All the enemies you fight in _Gunblade N.Y./L.A. Machineguns_ consist of this.
-   Ledar in _Happy Tree Friends Adventures RPG: The Fire Point_, is a tree friend created from Black Magic.
-   _Harukanaru Toki no Naka de_'s Abe no Yasuaki was created by his teacher Abe no Seimei to assist the main character. In the manga version, Yasuaki occasionally explains just how, because he wasn't born from a woman, he is "incomplete" and doesn't possess a heart or emotions, even after certain events that proved otherwise; of course, there's always the main character to help with such cases...
-   In _Haunting Ground_, the first three antagonists (Debilitas, Daniella and Riccardo), and even Fiona's _father_ are all Artificial Humans created by the Big Bad. The latter two are his _clones_.
-   _Helen's Mysterious Castle_: The people of the city in Floor 4 are Homunculi, created together with the other monsters. In Ardis's laboratory, some other Homunculi are common enemies.
-   The Observers and Trackers from _Infinite Space_ are created by the Overlords to watch the progress of humankind in fulfilling their role to stabilize the universe. Five characters are identified as them throughout the game (Yuri, Kira, Valantin, Taranis, and Bogd), although given the story, there are probably more of them.
-   _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: The 7th Stand User_ has the characters from parts 1 and 2; they are all dead, but have been given bodies (courtesy of Berlin), life (courtesy of Alicia), and memories (courtesy of Steel).
-   In the _Kingdom Hearts_ games, Organization XIII member Vexen builds several Replicas; humanoid "puppets" made for various purposes. Two recurring traits among said Replicas are the ability to drain power from other people, and a tendency towards feeling incomplete or "borrowed". Later games in the series elaborate on Replicas, indicating that "perfect" Replicas are intended to be indistinguishable from humans.
-   Well, more penguin(?) in this case, but in _Kirby: Planet Robobot_, the Haltmann Works Company creates clones of Dedede using his DNA to face off against Kirby. Later, during Meta Knightmare Returns, Star Dream unleashes clones of Dark Matter and Queen Sectonia to deal with Meta Knight. Likewise, neither of them are human, with the latter being an insect and the former being... well, some sort of dark cloud thing.
-   The _Little Tail Bronx_ world features artificial beings known as "hybrids".
-   Miranda Lawson and her sister Oriana from _Mass Effect 2_ were Designer Babies created by the brilliant, yet highly egotistical Henry Lawson. Miranda keeping her sister away from their "father" is a large part of her loyalty mission, as well as a plot point in _Mass Effect 3_ where it’s revealed he’s studying the Reaper ground forces for Cerberus.
-   _Mega Man Legends_ games:
    -   It's revealed that all the humans you see in the game are Artificial Humans made by the main character's creator, and the main character himself is either an Artificial Human or a Ridiculously Human Robot created by the leader of the original humans. Then the game stops being serious and gets nice and zany again for the post-credits ending.
    -   As we find out in _Megaman ZX_ however, "Original Human" may be a rather loose term, as long before then, both humanity and Reploids had been modified to the point that the differences between the two were pretty much superficial.
-   Solid Snake, Liquid Snake, Solidus, and the Genome soldiers in _Metal Gear_ are all clones of Big Boss.
-   In _Nefarious_, the (experimental) Princess Farrah Day was designed to be a perfect princess.
-   Safiya in _Neverwinter Nights 2: Mask of the Betrayer_ is a splinter of a very, very old Red Wizard's personality
-   In _NieR_, as revealed quite late, it turns out that Nier and almost every other human (except Emil and the Twins) are Replicants, clones of people who were made into Gestalts intended to serve as their vessels after the purification of the world. Unfortunately for the plan, they developed minds of their own.
-   The _Phantasy Star_ series is rife with artificial humans, the best example of this being the Newmans, starting with Nei in _Phantasy Star II_ (described as a result of combining human and biomonster DNA), continuing with Rika in _Phantasy Star IV_, and eventually becoming an entire race in _Phantasy Star Online_. The series also has various androids and cyborgs, such as Wren, Mieu, and Demi in the original series, and a race of humanoid robots called CASTs introduced in PSO. _Phantasy Star Universe_ also introduced yet another race of artificial humans called Beasts. The trope is Averted, however, with Deumans, who were not created like the other non-human races, but were originally humans who underwent a unique mutation.
-   _Pokémon_:
    -   Mewtwo was created by a scientist who genetically engineered a clone of Mew.
    -   Porygon is living computer data created by Silph Co.. Its evolutions of Porygon2 and Porygon-Z are essentially a software update and a third-party mod.
    -   Grimer and Muk are said to have been created from a polluted stream by x-rays from the moon.
    -   Some of Voltorb's Pokédex entries claim it was made when a Poké Ball was exposed to an energy pulse.
    -   Baltoy and Claydol are said to be figures created by an ancient civilization, which later came to life via mystical rays.
    -   Castform was created by Hoenn's Weather Institute to help forecast the weather. Despite that, Castform can have a gender and is capable of breeding.
    -   Deoxys is an alien virus which, upon contact with a laser beam/Earth's atmosphere, caused it to mutate into a humanoid shape.
    -   Like Grimer and Muk, Trubbish and Garbodor are said to have been accidentally made when industrial waste and garbage reacted to one another.
    -   Golett and Golurk are the oldest Pokémon known to have been deliberately made by humans, created by spirits inhabiting artificial constructs to defend villages.
    -   Genesect was created by cybernetically enhancing a prehistoric Bug Pokémon.
    -   Magearna is a five-hundred year old robot created by a human of extraordinary genius. They also created its Soul-Heart by gathering the life energy of other Pokémon.
    -   Type: Null is a synthetic Pokémon designed to synthesize the strengths of several Pokémon as a weapon against Ultra Beasts, allowing it to adapt to any situation. In addition, its appearance resembles a hybrid with several body parts from other creatures attached to it. It has a harness on its head that restrains it so it wouldn't go berserk, but it will deliberately break this harness once it trusts its trainer to evolve into Silvally.
-   In _Professor Layton and the Curious Village_, Prof. Layton reveals that all of St. Mystere's citizens are robots programed to give puzzles to find a guardian for Flora, the late baron's daughter.
-   In _Robopon_, Dr. Zero creates three cyborgs who are specifically made to hunt Cody down, scrap his Robopon, and kill him.
-   _Shin Megami Tensei_ occasionally features some of these. Examples include a good amount of the the characters of _Shin Megami Tensei II_ and all of the Junkyard survivors save for Sera and Angel in _Digital Devil Saga_.
-   _SIGNALIS_: Replikas are a combination of cultured organic tissue, cybernetics, and a copied human mind to create a mass-producible Servant Race for the Nation of Eusan. They're built for a range of roles, from domestic servants to highly placed administrators and military officers, but all are implied to be expendable and replaceable, in the end. Also, even their organic components are so heavily engineered that they're indigestible to humans, if for some reason that becomes relevant.
-   Shadow from the _Sonic the Hedgehog_ games is stated several times to be the "ultimate life form" and was engineered (at least in part) from alien DNA. He's more of an artificial hedgehog, though...
-   The Androsynth in _Star Control_ were created as a Servant Race. As such, they were all male without the ability to reproduce. Eventually, they rebelled _en masse_, took over all the space stations in Earth's orbit, retrofitted them for flight and battle, developed the hyperdrive, and escaped. Decades later, they were conquered by the Ur-Quan Kzer-Za and chose to be Battle Thralls in order to avenge their Earthling creators. Simultaneously, they worked to figure out how to propagate their race, which ends up wiping out the whole race when they stumble on an Eldritch Abomination.
-   _Suikoden III_ reveals that Luc and Sasarai were cloned from the Harmonian leader, Hikusaak to serve as vessels for collecting true runes. Luc uses this knowledge to Mind Rape his brother and take his True Rune with the intent to blow up the continent to stop fate.
-   _Super Robot Wars_
    -   _Super Robot Wars Advance_, the Shadow-Mirror employs troops of android mooks called the W-Series. The W-Numbers are a particular group of W-Series built to follow this trope, with female protagonist Lamia "W17" Loveless being a cyborg, who is apparently half and half. Her brain contains several computers, and parts of her limbs, sometimes entire limbs, are mechanical. She is made to infiltrate military organizations, and looks and acts so human, nearly no one can tell the difference. One event in _Advance_ puts her in harm's way when she's struck by Kazuya Ryuuzaki and Domom Kasshu and simply shrugs it off. Both men, who're exceptional martial artists, state they hit her vitals, which would outright kill a person.
    -   The homunculi of the Big Bad Duminuss in _Super Robot Wars Reversal_ are this, each artificially created to be used as its minions.
    -   The Machinery Children in _Super Robot Wars Alpha Gaiden_ and the Database in _Super Robot Wars W_.
    -   Aschen Brodel in _Super Robot Wars OG Saga: Endless Frontier_. KOS-MOS and T-ELOS appear in the game as well. And as it later turns out, Haken is one, too.
-   _Tales of Graces_ has Sophie, who looks quite human, but is actually a Ridiculously Human Robot created to destroy Lambda, the game's Big Bad.
-   _Tales of the Abyss_ has a plot that centers around replicas (basically clones created by magic), and a few important characters are eventually revealed to be replicas. Namely, Ion, Sync, and the protagonist himself, Luke.
-   _Tangledeep_: Mirai can choose to be one if her starting class is the HuSyn. Notably, the opening narration — where Mirai explains her backstory and worldview — changes to accommodate this; she notes that she was built, not born. She does further note that she has always been welcomed by friends and family despite being a Robot Girl, but that she also knows nothing about her own nature, and that is what propels her to investigate the titular Tangledeep. Later revelations make it clear that _every_ version of Mirai is this, to some extent, being that they are all avatars of the Supervisor.
-   _Wild ARMs_
    -   In _Wild ARMs_ (original and ACF version), the protagonist Rudy is an android/artificial human made from technology similar to that of the Metal Demons. He is a "Holmcross", given the alchemy refs, is clearly a transliteration for "Homunculus".
    -   _Wild ARMs 3_ had Jet, who was similar to the first game's example, only he was created to test the theory of Filgaia as a lifeform, and _Wild ARMs 2_ and _4_ had Cyborgs in the characters of Kanon and Balgaine.
-   _Witch Hunter Izana_: Izana. She was created as part of a program to create effective witch hunters who were programmed to serve without question. The game is spent exploring the island where the process was developed.
-   _Xenosaga_

-   In addition, Ziggy is a Cyborg relic from the past.
-   Additionally, KOS-MOS and particularly Telos, since she was built from the preserved body of Mary Magdelene. Yes, that Mary.
-   Rubedo, Albedo, Nigredo, and Citrine from the _Xenosaga_ videogame series are all variant clones of their creator, Dr. Dmitri Yuriev. There were others created that collectively formed a sort of "hive mind", but they were all destroyed during the Miltia Incident.

-   _Xenogears_
    -   The heroes find out that they — the whole of humanity, actually — are not humans. Original humans died out 10,000 years ago (well, humanity's fate in _Xenogears_ is ambiguous at best), and what looked like humanity are actually replacement parts made by Deus.
    -   In a more traditional way, Ramsus Kahran is a clone of Emperor Cain. He has some issues with it...

    Visual Novels 

-   Cloning people is stated at one point to be possible in _Baldr Sky_, but very costly and limited to a few selected people. Chinatsu has eventually her body cloned in her Good Ending.
-   Tanya, the android love interest from _Bionic Heart_ has a metal skeleton, but she has artificial organs identical to a human’s. They don’t function, however. But Tanya does have a working human brain that is the cause of her memories.
-   From _Dies Irae_ Ren is eventually revealed to have been created artificially by Mercurius to act as his Ahnenerbe. His sole purpose is to act as a worthy opponent for Reinhard and to serve as a host for Marie and to facilitate her growth into Mercurius's successor.
-   In _Nameless_, the potential love interests are all dolls that have been magically brought to life.
-   _Nasuverse_:
    -   Several characters from the Einzbern family in _Fate/stay night_ and _Fate/Zero_ and amongst the Yggdmillennia servants in _Fate/Apocrypha_ are homunculi created through magecraft. However, homunculi in this setting have traits in common with Designer Babies.
    -   Touko of _The Garden of Sinners_ created a number of perfect copies of herself (physically and mentally) using her skill as a _dollmaker_. She uses them as backup copies of herself, in the sense of "it doesn't matter if I die because my other bodies will live on and do what I would've done." She doesn't seem to care which one is the original or whether its still alive. As usual — with Kinoko Nasu, that is — the 'truth' is more complex. Touko achieved a level of sophistry in "copying" herself, that the copy is no longer distinguishable from the original hence it ceases to be a copy and Touko can no longer tell which self is really "her".
    -   Arcueid in _Tsukihime_ is an artificial True Ancestor, created for the purpose of killing Demon Lords and Dead Apostles. She doesn't get all angsty because she doesn't seem to possess that emotion. The specifics are a little complex: True Ancestors as a whole were created by Gaia (and corrupted by Brunestead, the Type of the Crimson Moon) as an Artificial Type (a planet's Ultimate One) in response to humanity, and probably aren't even born naturally. It seems that Arcueid was "created" to hunt Demon Lords in both senses; she was trained to do so, without any other unnecessary education, but it also seems that the True Ancestors guided her creation, causing her to be a perfect vessel for the Crimson Moon, something that the original Crimson Moon couldn't even manage himself.
    -   Finally, also in _Fate/stay night_'s Heaven's Feel scenario, Shirou is reduced to this in the True ending.
    -   Almost all the Servants with the notable exception of Saber are basically Artificial Themselves, created by taking a copy of their minds and putting it in a body created by the Holy Grail. And then there's false Assassin, who is an Artificial Servant, created in the form of a Hero that never actually existed in the world of _Fate/stay night_.
    -   _Fate/Apocrypha_ reveals that Saber of Red (AKA Mordred) was artificially modified from her mother's egg and her "father's" sperm to create a homunculus clone of King Arthur. Then there's Berserker of Black aka Frankenstein's Monster, who was created to be the first step to making the perfect human race. Noticeably, she doesn't identify herself as a homunculus (and assuming she technically is one, she's at the very least made _much_ differently than most homunculi in the franchise, including mechanical parts for one).
    -   In _Fate/Grand Order_, Mash Kyrielight is revealed to be one after the fifth Singularity, although there's some overlap with Designer Babies. She was engineered from human cells modified by magecraft to be an Empty Shell for a Servant to inhabit; as a side effect, she's not expected to live past eighteen.
-   In _Sunrider_, the Prototypes are vat-grown clone women with enhanced intelligence and a Hive Mind. The Big Bad is one of them, and the protagonists begin to suspect that one of their own, Chigara, is another. They’re right.
-   All furniture in _Umineko: When They Cry_ is supposed to be some variant of this, although with Shannon, Kanon and Genji, this turns out not to be the case. In fact, the person who created the term "furniture" in-universe was Yasu, the original personality of Shannon, Kanon and Beatrice (III), who sees him/herself as less than human due to his/her mutilated sexual organs and inability to have sex as a result.

    Webcomics 

-   In _Artifice_, android soldier Deacon looks and for the most part acts completely human (even though he rejects the term) and, in the opening scene, two security guards debate whether he deserves the title of being called an "Artificial Person".
-   In _Bob and George_, the robots are brought to "life" in very Frankensteinian manner.
-   The Orrotta in _Charby the Vampirate_ have bodies constructed using a lost art that were brought to life with the insertion of their soul gems.
-   In _El Goonish Shive_, Ellen, being a Opposite-Sex Clone of Elliot Born of Magic, is this.
-   _The Far Side Of Utopia_ has at least several — Mium and Ila are all but confirmed to be (really the only question is what type).
-   A significant number of categories of Constructs in _Girl Genius_ are Artificial Humans. Revived humans, patchworked-repaired revived humans, Frankenstein-like constructs, bio-modded humans, partially mechanized humans, monster-fied humans (like Jagermonsters) all are categorized under the mainstay Spark creation class of "Construct". There are other categories (like nonhuman animals with human-level intelligence like Krosp) as well. Some of the constructs are very human in appearance and mentality such as Punch and Judy, who raised Agatha, though Punch was initially not able to speak. Gil patched him up to fix that while bringing the two back from the dead.
-   Stephanie Rossum is the tall, blonde, adorable Robot Girl in _Groovy, Kinda_. She's got a Farrah Fawcett hairdo and she loves pudding and books with pictures of kittens. Stephanie also smokes cigarettes, which she can light with her finger.
-   Commander Badass and the rest of the super soldiers from the nondescript space-future in _Manly Guys Doing Manly Things_ are eventually revealed to be these, literally created by the military to be badasses. Unfortunately for them, that means the military can modify them as they see fit, and it's left the Commander with serious hang-ups. Canadian Guy is revealed to be one too, namely he's an unsanctioned regional variant clone of the Commander.
-   _Questionable Content_: Since Momo got her new chassis, she's gone from an animesque doll-like robot to being effectively an Artificial Person. In this comic, she's human-looking enough for Padma to mistake her for Marten's little sister, and she now has a job as a library assistant. And even the non-human-looking AnthroPCs seem to have sexual and emotional urges and a sense of humor, so they're not very robot-like.
-   In _Sluggy Freelance_, this is what Oasis really is. She is actually an artificially intelligent super computer, controlling a replaceable Remote Body cloned from a spellcaster.
-   Phillippe in the _Spare Keys for Strange Doors_ story "Kill the Romance" is a magically-created one of these.
-   Flux, a creation of Macseth in _Tower of God_. He is one of the three Lords that govern the Tower in Jahad's stead.
-   Tentadora from _Zoophobia_ is a "mechanical human" created by Hell to serve as a bodyguard and caretaker for Damian.

    Web Original 

-   _Doctor Whooves Adventures_ has an adorable (if a bit spockish at times) artificial 'filly'', Goodnight.
-   Naturally, _Dragon Ball Z Abridged_ lampooned _Dragon Ball Z_'s inconsistency regarding the series' Artificial humans being termed "Androids":
    
    **Cell**: ...Cyborgs 17 and 18.  
    **Piccolo**: We call them Androids.  
    **Cell**: Well, good for you. You're wrong.
    
    -   Later, when Cell tries to absorb Android 16:
    
    **Cell:** What're you made of, pure metal!?  
    **Android 16:** Affirmative. I am _ANDROID_ 16.  
    **Cell:** Oh... errors have been made.
    
-   FutureTimeline.net predicts these being created by 2056.
-   _Mission Code High School_: CAVs, the mooks in the series, are AI programs brought into the real world, and so is the CDU when he makes a body based off Spike Hypothesis one of the heroes.
-   _Mortasheen_ plays with this with the creature Lester. These creatures were designed by the monstrous citizens of Mortasheen city to be able to perfectly mimic and infiltrate humans to monitor their natural behavior and harvest them for "research". Unfortunately, they weren't very good at making convincing humans, and it landed so far in the Uncanny Valley that, though the monsters thought it looked like a normal human, the humans were too freaked out for it to be of any use at infiltration. So, now it's only used for infiltrating monsters.
-   In _Phoenix Wright: Devil's Attorney_, this is the case with Judy Prava, having been created by Vulcanus in an attempt to disrupt the peace between angels and demons. She is none too happy about this when she finds out, though it _does_ end up helping Phoenix in the trial by getting a void verdict, due to the prosecutor technically being too young to prosecute.
-   _We Are Our Adventuring Avatars_
    -   Imca is not natural, but rather artificially created, and while mostly squishy and quite like a normal gijinka, even if she is synthetic, does have some electrical bits in her head.
    -   Mina, a protosapien clone, is created in an artificial womb as a supersoldier. Her cybernetics inside her are biomechanical and grow alongside her body.
-   _Whateley Universe_:
    -   Belphoebe is a cloned body based on Jobe's secret drow transformation serum. A mental copy of Belphegor is (accidentally) imprinted onto the body, and it wakes up. It's adapting quite nicely so far.
    -   Two of the members of the Crusader Cadets (a Kid Hero team for teens who aren't mutants, set up by the DA's office of New York City in a desperate bid to maintain _some_ semblance of sanity in the superhuman community), Aurora and Rubber Boy, were originally members of the Designer Heroes, a team of genetically-engineered Super-Soldier heroes created in a lab and trained in The Spartan Way. The experiment wasn't a notable success: while they were indeed superpowered, those two are only survivors of the eight original team members after a near-Total Party Kill wiped them out.

    Western Animation 

-   The Supertrooper project from _Adventures of the Galaxy Rangers_. It didn't end well...
-   There are three examples of this in _Code Lyoko_:
    -   Aelita was thought to be one of these (specifically, an AI) for two seasons, until it was revealed that she was, in fact, human, not to mention the daughter of the supercomputer's creator.
    -   XANA uses "Specters" in his attacks all the time, whether polymorphic (shape-shifting) or not. They are easily synthesized using the supercomputer, and usually look like one of the heroes or someone close to them. They're generally mindless, and can be used to coerce, trick, or attack the heroes.
    -   These clones can also be utilized by the heroes themselves. Only two have been cloned this way: Jérémie and William. Jérémie's clone substituted for the original while he worked on several programs for Lyoko. Clone!William replaced his real world counterpart for several months while the real one was trapped in Lyoko. Unfortunately, while these clones were pretty much benign and harmless (unless possessed by XANA, which both have been), they have drastically different personalities than their originals: Jérémie's clone is a bold womanizer, while William's clone is profoundly naíve and stupid.

-   _G.I. Joe: A Real American Hero_
    -   Cobra "Synthoids" could perfectly mimic real people and were key to several episodes where a Faked Rip Van Winkle or Body Snatcher plot was in effect. They were apparently organic in nature, being constructed of a grey goopy matter called "Pseudoplasm" which they would terrifyingly revert back into by _melting_ if killed or self-destructed.
    -   The Synthoid technology was also put into use in a crossover episode of _Transformers_, in which Rodimus Prime, Arcee and Ultra Magnus had their minds transferred into synthetic human bodies (by Cobra Commander no less). Luckily for the Moral Guardians, these came with automatic underwear.
-   The Irken from _Invader Zim_ are implied to be an entire race of this, as it's shown they're Meat Puppets grown in Uterine Replicators and lack reproductive organs.

-   Eric in _Kim Possible_ is such a realistic drone that everyone expects him to be human until the Robotic Reveal. And he is killed by a bite from a rodent....
-   _Miraculous Ladybug_: Sentimonsters created by the Peacock Miraculous generally have monstrous appearances. However, they can also take the form of humans, such as when Mayura creates a copy of Ladybug, or when Shadow Moth makes a copy of Nino in an attempt to infiltrate Ladybug's team. It's also eventually implied that Félix, Adrien, and Kagami are actually Sentimonsters, though only Félix is aware of this; the latter two have no idea.
-   _The Owl House_ has an example of what's technically an artificial witch. A Freeze-Frame Bonus from "Eclipse Lake" shows a book containing a recipe for something called a Grimwalker, a humanoid being made of palistrom wood, selkiedomus scales, a Galderstone, and a bone of the person one would want to clone. "Hollow Mind" reveals that Hunter, as well as every Golden Guard before him, is a Grimwalker, cloned from the bones of Belos's brother Caleb, in an attempt to make a "better version" of him. Hunter doesn't look any different from your average witch, with the exception of his bright pink eyes, and the fact that he can't cast magic by himself. He's not _completely_ identical to Caleb, but they're similar enough that one could mistake them for identical twins.
-   _The Powerpuff Girls_:
    -   The girls were created by Professor Utonium with "Sugar and Spice and Everything Nice" mixed into a vat; when he accidentally spilled in Chemical X.
    -   Similarly, The Rowdyruff Boys, by Mojo Jojo, only with "Snips, Snails and Puppy Dog Tails", again, with the Chemical X.

-   _Transformers_:
    -   Some late in the original line made use of Pretender technology, which involved fleshy outer shells. Those with human shells, therefore, could shrink down and blend in with humans. This skips the Become a Real Boy step, though, as Transformers are Mechanical Lifeforms, and thus start off sentient and sapient.
    -   The characters in _Beast Wars_, who took the Pretender technology one step further to become Cyborgs. Even before the line between "tech" and "organic" became blurred in the series, the creators emphasized that the robots' pseudo-organic "beast modes" were "fully functional"... take that as you will.
    -   In _Transformers: Animated_, it turns out that Sari was a protoform, which is what a Transformer is before it has scanned anything for the first time. She scanned Isaac Sumdac when he found her, assimilating his DNA in a pretty _Beast Wars_\-like fashion and basically making him her Dad.
-   In _Wakfu_, Yugo and company learn in Season 3 that when Yugo used the Six Eliatrope Dofus to become a Physical God to fight Ogrest in the OVAs and save Sadlygrove, he inadvertently _created an entire race_ of beings who were partial clones of himself complete with powers and memories known as the "Eliotropes" and scattered them back in time. Because of the unstableness of their existence, however, by the present there's only one still alive, the season's Big Bad Oropo, who has something of a bone to pick with his progenitor.
-   _Young Justice (2010)_,
    -   Red Tornado and his siblings, Red Torpedo, Red Inferno, and Red Volcano. Red Torpedo and Red Inferno forgot they were androids, leading to their destruction in the line of hero work. Red Tornado was subsequently programmed to remember he was an android, but he eventually begins to develop human emotions such as caring for others anyways.
    -   Not to mention Superboy, a clone of superman combined with Lex Luthor's DNA to replace him if the need ever arises. Also, Red Arrow is a clone.

___