_"There's always been a god-shaped hole in man's head. Trees were the first to fill it. Mr. Wood was the trees. Mr. Wood was the forest. Well, he was a very old god who saw something very new: he saw a god-fearing society turn towards complete industrialization. So what did he do? He sacrificed his trees. He sacrificed his forest. And he became something else."_

Much like Animalistic Abominations, these foul blights on everything bear a strong resemblance to commonplace life-forms, in this case that of natural flora.

Half the time these creatures are only plant-like superficially, kind of like Proterozoic Era life, blurring the lines between plants, animals, fungi, bacteria and the other things. They may plant their feet (or whatever passes for such) in the ground, attracting vermin like bees and flies, exhaling toxic spores and hypnotic pollen and sucking out the water and nitrogen and fertilizer from its surroundings. You can usually find these abominations in a Garden of Evil.

These creatures often possess a taste for flesh, human or otherwise. In other cases, all they care about is laying down their roots, overgrowing and infesting the land and starving the ecosystem of its own resources. If it grows fruit, it probably imbues those that eat it with supernatural abilities before they explode from the alien parasites that germinated in their intestines.

Combine this with Humanoid Abomination and you get a Plant Person, with an Animalistic Abomination and you get a Planimal, a Mechanical Abomination you get Organic Technology covered in vines and flowers, though for all three of these to apply they would still need to have the same otherworldliness and mind-bending terror you would expect from an Eldritch Abomination of any category. See also Foul Flower and When Trees Attack.

**Note:** Fungi are not plants, and in fact are more closely related to animals, but fiction still treats the two groups as interchangeable often enough for them to fit here.

___

## Examples:

-   Video Games

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _The Big O_: The titular _Daemonseed_ of episode 11 is a genetically engineered giant Christmas tree that nearly destroys Paradigm City and is defeating Big O in battle before it suddenly stops growing, which it had been designed to do after a while. After it stops, it does look kind of pretty, though.
-   _Dragon Ball_: The Tree of Might is a divine tree that drains the life energy out of wherever it's planted, producing mystical fruit that only gods like the Kai and Eternal Dragons are meant to eat. While not malevolent, if planted on an incompatible planet the tree will reduce it to a barren wasteland; and if the fruit is consumed by a mortal it grants an exponential but temporary boost in power. In the _Xenoverse_ series, a Tree of Might planted in the Demon Realm becomes corrupted, with Towa using its fruit to induce the Villainous Mode and Supervillain State.
-   In _Godzilla: Planet of the Monsters_ and its two sequels, Godzilla — identified as "Godzilla Earth" — is not only a Kaiju but a "hyper-evolved plant-based organism," and as such can engage in asexual reproduction, has little to no body heat, and lacks a skeleton. It's taken over the planet's ecosystem and terraformed it, with almost every other organism having "submitted" to it and sharing 97% of its genetic code.
-   After he took in Helena's Nail, Alexander Anderson of _Hellsing_ became capable of manipulating thorns and vines, with even Alucard calling him a "monster of God" who, like himself, has surrendered his humanity.
-   A benevolent version in the Great Witch Jennifer from _Little Witch Academia (2017)_, whose spirit fused with a tree after death, turning her into a still-sapient Plant Person.
-   In _Mushishi_, the eponymous Mushi are essentially this trope mixed with The Fair Folk. The protagonist, Ginko, describes them as being the closest to "the heart" of nature, a.k.a. the Kouki. While the Mushi have dangerous effects on the humans they interact with, they aren't malevolent, and simply want to survive like any other living thing.
-   The God Tree in _Naruto_ is a massive alien tree nourished by draining Natural Energy from the environment and said to absorb the blood of battlefields for a millennium. It is the source of all chakra, which can be imbued to anyone who devours the chakra fruit it bears every subsequent millennium. The Ōtsutsuki Clan travelled the cosmos to harvest the fruit in order to take its divine power for themselves, though Kaguya Ōtsutsuki betrayed the clan after arriving on Earth and merged with its God Tree to become the Planimal Ten-Tailed Beast.
-   Lily Carnation, the secret antagonist of the infamous _One Piece_ movie, _Baron Omatsuri and the Secret Island_, which is one of the franchise's more infamous Outside Genre Foes to boot.. Initially seen in the form of a cute little flower with a primitive face on it, Lily Carnation is actually a shapeshifting giant predatory plant that can control minds, create illusions, produce arrow-like homing projectiles, and spawn near-perfect replicants of the dead. Baron Omatsuri has a Deal with the Devil; he feeds Lily, and in return it creates clones of his dead crewmates so he can live in denial of their passing.
-   Elsa Maria, the fourth major Witch in _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_, at first resembles a young woman, deep in prayer. But when Sayaka attacks her, she suddenly sprouts an enormous tree to encase her enemy.
-   In _Rosario + Vampire_, Lady Oyakata (Ruby in the anime) uses her magic to merge her body with that of her hanabake plant monsters and becomes a giant plant monster with the intent of destroying Tsukune, his Unwanted Harem and every human being within the neighboring town.
-   At the end of _Sonic X_, the Metarex generals Dark Oak, Pale Bayleaf, and Black Narcissus fused with a World Tree to form the Final Mova: a planet-engulfing three-headed draconic plant monster powered by the seven Chaos Emeralds, several stolen Planet Eggs, and an entire planet of water. Once the Final Mova absorbed all of the Chaos Emeralds' power, it then became a giant seed that summoned runaway plant growth all across the galaxy. In the end, Cosmo fused herself with the self-destructing Final Mova to save the world.

    Comic Books 

-   _B.P.R.D._: After being incinerated by Liz Sherman, the Ogdru Hem known as Sadu-Hem regenerates into a tiny speck of fungus, which is preserved in a laboratory and grows to be bigger than a man. It then infects a human host, turning him into — in the artist's words — a "fungus elephant-man".
-   DC Comics:
    -   The Green is an elemental force that connects all forms of plant life on Earth. It is governed by a group of plant elementals known as the Parliament of Trees, and usually selects a specific individual with a connection to the Green as The Champion to maintain balance on their behalf, Swamp Thing being their most famous champion.
    -   The Grey was an elemental force similar to the Green that formed on a far-off grey, alien planet. When said alien planet was destroyed, a fragmented meteor made from the remains of the planet landed on Earth, bringing what would later be known as the Fungal Kingdom with it. The plants and fungi would live in relative peace, until Mantango (a plant elemental and former member of the Parliament of Trees) defected to the Grey and tempted humanity with the Tree of Knowledge and fostered its potential to destroy, leading to hostility between the two forces of nature.
    -   _Batman_: Poison Ivy is a misanthropic Plant Person who lures in victims to feed to her "babies". One particular Man-Eating Plant was overfed so much by her that something went wrong, mutating it into "Harvest", a sentient Mind Hive composed of the souls of all the people it had eaten. It promptly decided that Ivy was pretty appetizing herself.
    -   Golden Age _Superman_ once fought an alien plant that could regenerate from all damage and even return to Earth after being thrown into space. It conveniently turned out that it could be killed by X-rays, just like the kind Superman can emit from his eyes.
-   _Judge Dredd_: The Father Earth storyline ends when Father Earth and his mutants fall under the thrall of an alien man-eating giant plant with a hypnotic call, believing it to be their god. Father Earth himself is a mutant covered in plants who invaded Mega-City One to inflict Gaia's Vengeance on it.
-   Morrigan Lugus from _Supergod_ was the first of the superhumans the series was centered around. He was manifested when three astronauts with minimal radiation shielding were exposed to an unknown, extraterrestrial breed of fungus, fusing them into a massive, three-face being. Mentally it's an entity beyond human comprehension — its entire fungal physiology acting similar to an organic supercomputer — whose mere presence warps the human mind. It eventually succeeds in its revenge against the human race, still spiteful for its own creation due to mankind's willingness to sacrifice its human components, through the use of infecting everyone with its deadly spores.

    Fan Works 

-   _Evergreen Heart_ has the main character, who dies and is reborn as a powerful and eldritch Nature Spirit.
-   While Donnie and April are escorted to the EPF's headquarters in _Sacrifice (Ravenshell)_, they are nearly killed by a monstrous creature that could only be described as being part tree, part t-rex. Mikey later names it "the Tree-Rex."
-   _Temporal Anomaly_: This is the form the Flower takes without a proper host while still being able to cause The End of the World as We Know It along with having a _very_ eerie Voice of the Legion.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _Eden Log_: The gargantuan tree that powers the city. Supposedly its sap is a superfuel, but actually it turns the migrant workers harvesting it into savage mutants, who are then used as the real power source.
-   _Godzilla_:
    -   Biollante from _Godzilla vs. Biollante_ is a Godzilla, rose, and human tribrid created by Genshiro Shiragami. Shiragami originally created a human-and-rose hybrid in 1984 by splicing the DNA of his daughter, Erika Shiragami, who was killed in a Bio-Major-authorized bombing of his lab in Saradia, with that of a rosebush, as roses had been Erika's favorite flower. It was later suggested that as a result of the fusion, the plant developed a level of sentience that could only be detected by those with psychic abilities, like Miki Saegusa. Then, in 1990, Mount Mihara began to erupt, creating an earthquake that killed several roses. Panicking, Shiragami spliced samples of Godzilla's DNA (given to him by the Japanese Self-Defense Force in order for Shiragami to help create the Anti-Nuclear Energy Bacteria) that had been collected in 1984 with a single rose so that it could use Godzilla's advanced healing factor to become invincible. The fusion eventually further increased the plant's sentience and gave it the ability to move on its own, and it continued to mutate into a giant rose with a literal Flower Mouth, dubbed Biollante. After seemingly being destroyed by Godzilla, she reforms as an enormous nightmarish Planimal, and eventually disperses into a cloud of spores and retreated into space.
    -   SpaceGodzilla from _Godzilla vs. SpaceGodzilla_ is theorized to have originated when some of Biollante's spores were sucked into a black hole and merged with a crystalline alien entity — supported by him having tusks like Biollante's and the cores of his shoulder crystals resembling Biollante's stomach.
-   _In the Tall Grass_: The grass field as a whole is implied to be some sort of incomprehensibly alien superorganism that has existed since the dawn of time. It actively messes with both time and space and wants to assimilate human travelers into itself. Also, at different points it manifests itself as humanoid monstrosities made of grass.
-   _Little Shop of Horrors_: Audrey II may look like a giant Venus flytrap\-like plant on the surface, but it's actually a sapient alien entity that grows larger by eating meat, and has a pod-like head that opens into a gaping fleshy maw lined with bony fangs. It and its kind travel the cosmos, devouring all life on planets they come across. After spending only a short time on Earth, it's able to not only talk but sing, and manipulates people into facilitating its plans.
-   _Nightbooks_: The Shredders, which grow from eggs that developed when Yazmin used the wrong type of blood to water a magical plant.
-   _Once Upon a Time (2017)_: Bai Qian stumbles across a tree-like monster that attacks her with its roots and branches. It takes her and Ye Hua a lot of effort to defeat it.
-   _The Ruins_: The man-eating vine growing on the Mayan ruins displays extraordinary intelligence and abilities, while its origins are pretty much unknown. It seems less like an ordinary Man-Eating Plant and more like some demonic or extraterrestrial entity willfully tormenting the humans that go near it.
-   Slender Man from _Slender Man_ is a walking, humanoid tree. He also has power over tree branches and the sounds of tree branches snapping and contorting accompanies him whenever he moves.
-   The threat that appears in _Splinter_ is a strange, parasitic mold that turns those infected by it into Parasite Zombies that can detect other victims through their body temperature. When it manifests, it grows spikes across the infected area as it _breaks the bones of its host_ to increase its mobility. We never find out exactly where it came from and it is very likely that whatever it is, it is still out there, ready to cause a pandemic.
-   Sam, the Physical God of Halloween in _Trick 'r Treat_ is depicted as a Pumpkin Person with a skull-like face under his iconic burlap sack mask.

    Literature 

-   _Uprooted_: The Wood might best be described as a predatory ecosystem encroaching on the valley, incredibly magical by itself whose malign influence is nearly impossible to root out. The Wizard compares it to a long-running campaign because there **is** a dark intelligence there that deliberately strikes at opportune times and employs strategy that may well ruin entire nations. The climax shows that it is a _cultivated_ variation of the clade made up of Heart-trees that are twisted remnants of an otherwise peaceful people. The intelligence is the race's former Queen bent on complete, frankly justified, revenge against an entire people and their descendants that now cover several nations.
-   _Aurora Cycle_: The villain of the series is the Ra'haam, a gestalt entity taking the form of plant life which spreads itself via pollen and wishes to assimilate all other life into itself, intending to spread itself from the 22 planets it's incubating on through the Fold to any world it can get to.
-   "Carnivorine" (1889), by Lucy Hamilton Hooper is an early example in Western literature of the trope. Here, a Mad Scientist manages through some truly dubious biology to modify a naturally occurring carnivorous plant into a multi-tentacled horror the size of a small tree with lightning reflexes and eventually the power of locomotion.
-   _Cthulhu Mythos_:
    -   The Green God from the Ramsey Campbell short story _The Horror Under Warrendown_ is a sentient plant-like entity dwelling within a series of subterranean caverns, where it is always served by mutant rabbit-like worshippers.
    -   The Mi-Go are fungal monsters who have a base on Pluto from which they scout out exceptional minds on Earth. They're masters of Bio-Augmentation and come across as malevolent to humans, but are implied to have a Blue-and-Orange Morality system that doesn't recognize that most people _don't_ want to be abducted as a Brain in a Jar to attend an off-world Fantastic Science symposium.
    -   The Dark Young of Shub-Niggurath are a perverse amalgamation of leafless tree, fungus, and goat the size of a small house (at the least), with Combat Tentacles and sometimes Too Many Mouths.
    -   Clark Ashton Smith's Mars-dwelling Great Old One Vulthoom, from the eponymous short story, may actually be one of these, if the hallucinogenic visions of one character can be trusted.
    -   David Drake's early foray into the Mythos, _Than Curse The Darkness_, has Ahtu, an avatar/Mask of Nyarlathotep that manifests in the African rainforest as an enormous tree stump-like _thing_ with crystaline tendrils that attack everything in a huge "Instant Death" Radius to feed its ravenous maws. And yet, it turns out to probably be the lesser evil when compared to the man-made atrocities of the Congo Free State...
-   The titular creatures from _The Day of the Triffids_ are a classic example of this trope, being carnivorous mobile plants that paralyze and devour any unfortunate prey in their path.
-   The Thread from _Dragonriders of Pern_. An unknown alien fungus from the Red Star, it traverses space to reach Pern and, once it arrives, roots itself and starts draining the life from everything it lands on.
-   Gahan Wilson's short story _(The title is an ink blot)_ stars a rich man who discovers a tiny inkblot on his tablecloth. No matter what the butler tries, he can't clean the inkblot off. Then the inkblot starts moving around when no one is looking. As if that wasn't strange enough, it starts growing larger and forming into a bizarre, plantlike shape. Then it's implied that the inkblot consumes the butler offscreen, and is preparing to eat the rich man next.
-   _The Lord of the Rings_: Old Man Willow in the Old Forest. It's a sapient tree (maybe a very old huorn or, in some earlier drafts, an ancient earth-bound spirit imprisoned in a tree-form), whose influence expands to all trees around, imbued with telepathy, hypnotic powers, and an everlasting hatred for everything walking on two legs.

-   The Three-Eyed Crow, AKA Bloodraven, from _A Song of Ice and Fire_, has merged with the Old Gods by letting a weirwood grow through him.
-   The thing at the center of Area X in _The Southern Reach Trilogy_ seems to be some sort of monstrous alien plant. The Crawler describes it as "the strangling fruit," and many of its extrusions take plant-like forms. It doubles as an Eldritch Abomination and Eldritch Location, and distorts space, time, and living things within its domain. It may also be an alien terraforming engine, though the books remain cagey about its precise nature.
-   _Lumbanico The Cubic Planet_: Downplayed. The _Churinela Purpurata_ is not malicious -as far as it is known, but it is an artificially-engineered vegetal specimen whose vision is unbearable to human eyes. Pirela and Mela feel dizzy and get sick when they see one, to the point they ate very little later when they met her friends for lunch, refusing to talk about what they witnessed.
-   _The Taking_: The protagonists encounter a fast-growing cluster of spotted mushrooms in the local bar's restroom that Molly gets a feeling of malevolence from despite its innocuous (if very strange) appearance. They also encounter walking clusters of pale, pulsing fungi that eat souls around the increasingly empty town.
-   _Wings of Fire_ gives us the Othermind. It's a plant intelligence with mind-control powers. Anyone exposed to it (eating it, breathing in smoke from burning it, injected with it as eggs) becomes subject to its control. It's been there for millennia - in the very oldest legends the dragons of Pantala have, of their ancestors' arrival on the continent, the Othermind was there and using the animals as its weapons. And it still hates everything it doesn't have full control over. Long exposure has made it at least vaguely comprehensible to dragons, but it's still strange and terrifying.

    Live-Action TV 

-   Mr. Wood from _American Gods (2017)_ was originally an Old God worshiped by humanity when it began, having been a god associated with trees. When animistic belief dwindled and industrialization took hold, Mr. Wood foresaw that he would eventually cease to exist when he would be forgotten and, rather than dying, sacrificed his own trees and joined the New Gods. While only seen briefly in "Lemon Scented You", briefly disguised as a wooden desk at the police office with the knot opening to reveal a human eye. It soon comes to life and attacks Shadow, becoming a monstrous tree that implants a growing, parasitic plant into Shadow as a means of tracking him, only for Mr. Wednesday to remove it when they escape.
-   _The Avengers (1960s)_: In "Man-Eater of Surrey Green", a Man-Eating Plant from outer space lands in Middle England and takes several top horticulturists as its prisoners in an effort to germinate and spread across all of the Earth.
-   Vulgyre's One-Winged Angel form in _Chikyuu Sentai Fiveman_ is this. A massive monster covered in thorns, with gigantic petals along the back, masses of roots for legs, and additional root tentacles.
-   _Doctor Who_ has the Krynoids from "The Seeds of Doom", the seeds of which infect humans and transform them into monsters, ones that rapidly grow to the size of houses, with a rabid hunger for flesh. Left unchecked, they will continue to grow and take over all of the plant life on a planet.
-   _Sleepy Hollow_ features the Tree Monster, a humanoid tree/scarecrow demon summoned by Moloch left in a dormant state outside of the Fredricks Estate.
-   The Gargoyle Vine from _Johnny Sokko and his Flying Robot_ is a lava-spewing, space plant that can grow large enough to destroy the Earth with its gigantic growing tendrils. Giant Robo has a very tough time defeating it on the two battles they had, getting ensnared in its crushing vines.

    Music 

-   The music video for "Black Mold" by Jon Spencer Blues Explosion has the titular mold infecting people and turning them into Parasite Zombies in what looks to be the American backwoods.

    Myths & Religion 

-   Scythian Mythology: Some Kurgan goddess figurines are monstrous women with plant feet. Some have suggested that these are depictions of Api, the Scythian earth goddess (equated with Gaia by Herodotus).

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Dungeons & Dragons_:
    -   The Demon Lord Zuggtmoy, Lady of Rot and Decay, manifests as a gigantic fungal humanoid woman. She also rules over a layer of the Abyss that's overgrown with miles-high fungi and tries to spread her corruption to the Material Plane, with And I Must Scream results for anyone who gets interred in her "gardens" or infected with her spores.
    -   Mu Spores (which also appear in _Pathfinder_) are gigantic fungal organisms whose capacity for devastation is about on par with that of the Tarrasque, with a strange and alien intelligence.
    -   In the old Basic/Expert/etc system, an odic is a type of evil spirit that possesses large plants during the hours of darkness. It moves into a new host plant each night, turning it mobile, aggressive, and deadly poisonous, then moves on at dawn, killing the plant as it exits. Like other spirit-type undead, it's _very_ powerful.
    -   The _Forgotten Realms_ setting has two: Moander, an evil god of plants and decay who manifests itself on Toril as a giant blob of rotting vegetation with multiple eyes and mouths; and Araumycos, an utterly titanic fungal colony/organism occupying the entirety of the Underdark between one and three miles deep beneath the High Forest in northwestern Faerun (to give an idea of just how big it is, the High Forest is about the size of Iowa), and is both sapient and psionic as well as virtually inscrutable beyond its desire to mentally dominate other beings to bind them to it in a sort of Hive Mind.
-   _Pathfinder_:
    -   Cyth-V'sug, the demon lord of fungus, parasites, and disease, takes the physical form of a house-sized, animated mass of fungi, vines, tubers, and rot. Depictions of him vary between showing him as a hulking, beast-like quadruped composed of rotting vegetable matter or as a flying mass of wooden claws, fangs, and horns dotted with bulbous fungal "eyes" and gnarled branches, but always shrouded in miasma and swarming vermin. He used to be a qlippoth, an ancient race of fiendish Eldritch Abominations that ruled the Abyss before demons arose, before he became a demon, and thus lacks any resemblance to mortal forms or sanity in his appearance. His realm, Jeharlu, is a planet-sized mass of living fungus that feeds parasitically on any world or plane it is able to contact, corrupting them and absorbing them into itself.
    -   Zygominds are titanic fungal entities with devastating Psychic Powers that wander the depths of space. Upon finding an inhabited planet, a zygomind traps entire communities in a mental Lotus-Eater Machine, transforming their bodies into undead servants as they die of deprivation. Perversely, they're mindless Non-Malicious Monsters who are just instinctively seeking nutrients.
    -   One of Paizo's original contributions to the Cthulhu Mythos, the Great Old One Xhamen-Dor, is a fungoid mass vaguely resembling a rotting reptile corpse. It's also a Planetary Parasite that spreads itself through a world and its inhabitants, and when the infestation is complete, brings the world through to be absorbed by the alien city of Carcosa, the abode of both it and its master, Hastur the Unspeakable.
-   Various plant-type monsters from _Yu-Gi-Oh!_ — like the "Predaplant", "Rose" and "Sylvan" archetypes — fall under the category of "abomination."

    Toys 

-   _BIONICLE_:
    -   The Morbuzakh was a giant plant monster that terrorized the island of Metru Nui with its tendrils until the Toa Metru destroyed its root. It had a predecessor that was named Karzahni.
    -   The Element Lord of Jungle fits into this category, as his mindset is more tied to Nature Is Not Nice than any other train of thought.

    Visual Novels 

-   In the _Nasuverse_, the Forest of Einnashe. It began as a blood-drinking tree who Took a Level in Badass by drinking from Einnashe's body after Arcueid had killed him, back in the middle ages, and now manifests every fifty years to sate its voracious hunger. By the time of the present day, even the monster-slayers of the Church have unofficially given up trying to kill this thing, and not from lack of trying.

    Web Comics 

-   "Captain Botanical" in _Sluggy Freelance_ chapter 66 is a plant demon that creates twisted plant zombies. It appears as a giant humanoid made up of plant stuff, with a flower for a head.

    Web Original 

-   The music video for "MopeMope" by LeaF and Optie starts off with some innocent-looking cartoon flowers...that soon transform into these _things_ that have human hands for petals and human mouths in the center.
-   Many of the plant-based SCPs captured by the _SCP Foundation_ can qualify as this.
-   _The Slender Man Mythos_: Given his strange appearance and his habit of appearing in forests, the Slender Man is sometimes implied to be some kind of plant creature — either a forest that evolved sentience and created an avatar to hunt humans or something born from the ghosts of criminals who were executed by hanging them from trees.
-   _Gemini Home Entertainment:_ Nature's Mockery, one of the recurring otherworldly entities in the setting, is categorized as a plant, anyway, in the _Wilderness Survival Guide_ episode.
-   _THE MONUMENT MYTHOS:_ Special Trees _seem_ to be flora of some kind, even if they're utterly leafless and branchless. They're normally entirely indestructible (blowing one up with dynamite barely even affected it, and a Mineral Macguffin was needed to just scratch them), it took _three years_ to dig up a small one, and they can seemingly "choose" between growing and repairing what meager damages they have. And most of all, they have bizarre spaciotemporal properties: People can disappear in their vicinity, and at ill-understood times they suddenly curve in half, open a gateway in a shower of lightning, and shunt all nearby through it, between time periods or even universes. Whatever triggers this transportation reflex of sorts isn't known, but people have been grabbed from decades prior to be dumped in place, or even ripped out of an alternate universe and swapped out with their counterparts. At least one person passing through said they were briefly in an endless forest of Special Trees during transit. Trying to contain them doesn't stop them; the Special Tree inside the Washington Monument still curved the entire tower in 2003 during an event, seemingly having merged with it. There are Special Trees in the Pyramids, too, which are actually the tips of infinite towers. _Something_ has caused them to start emerging from the sands.

    Western Animation 

-   _Ben 10_: The Mycelium is a massive creature (no doubt of alien origin) that hid beneath Camp Opinicon and had command over a savage race of Mushroom Men. Because fiction likes to portray fungi and plants to be similar, Ben was able to telepathically communicate with it as Wildvine.
-   In _Ben 10: Alien Force_, the Highbreed failsafe is a towering monster composed of a mix of plants, trees, soil, and organic matter. It was created from several Brainwashed and Crazy humans merging in a special cocoon and turned into its components, including 'antibody'-like beings that serve as an immune system, or in Grandpa Max's case the thing's _brain_.
-   _Big City Greens_: The second Halloween Episode, "Squashed!", is about Tilly borrowing an alien chemical from Gwendolyn Zapp to help the family grow their pumpkins. However, it works too well, as the pumpkins then into mind-controlling abominations.
-   Undergrowth from _Danny Phantom_ is a giant ghost plant that ends up covering the entirety of Amity Park in his vines and controlling the minds of the people out of revenge for humanity's destructive attitude towards nature.
-   The _Darkwing Duck_ villain Bushroot is a Plant Person, but his stock in trade is turning ordinary plants into monstrosities.
-   _Josie and the Pussycats_ has the villain Doctor Greenthumb, who has made prototype plant monsters in his lab. The things are about eight feet tall and have grasping tendrils. Greenthumb plans to cultivate and loose an army of these things unless he's paid richly to keep them bottled.
-   _The New Adventures of Superman_: Although starting off as a Plant Person, the eponymous character in "The Tree Man of Arbora" turns into one as it grows to gigantic proportions as it consumes water.
-   In the _Ready Jet Go!_ episode "The Plant From Bortron 7", Jet grows a Bortronian plant under the light of the Earth's sun. However, it becomes a huge, Godzilla-esque plant that rampages the town. And don't even think about getting us started on what happens at the end!
-   When we (briefly) see the Beast's true body in _Over the Garden Wall_, it appears to be an amalgamation of Edelwood trees. And because Edelwood is people, you could in one sense consider him a Flesh Golem.
-   _Samurai Jack_: Though Aku is normally characterized as being a creature of dark alien essence, there's a lot of wood and tree motifs to him. When he was a non-sentient pile of goo he attacked with sharp tree-like spikes. His horns resemble branches, his essence twists and deforms itself into an evil-looking tree when the Emperor seals him away, his joints creak like wood, and during his confrontation with the Scotsman, he even calls Aku a tree-demon. Plus, his standard form is tall. Really, really, tall.
-   _SWAT Kats: The Radical Squadron_ has the recurring villain Doctor Viper, who was an assistant botanist before turning evil. Viper routinely creates giant plant monsters in his quest to overrun Megakat City, plus a corps of smaller plant-mooks to deal with intruders. One such abomination is a Blob Monster that incubates spores, which when loosed, would cause the city to be Reclaimed by Nature, tangled in vines and ivy and moss galore.
-   _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2012)_:
    -   Creepweed from "The Creeping Doom" is a gestalt entity born from the merging of the Creep, a Jason Vorhees/Swamp Thing Plant Person, and the Son of Snakeweed, a clone of the plant mutant Snake Weed. It is a massive entity with the same healing factor as its components, emitting a strong sleeping gas and trapping human beings with the intent of eating them.
    -   Fungus Humungous from the episode of the same name (and not the trope of the same name) was a giant mutant mushroom lurking within New York City's sewers, thriving and spreading itself and its army of Mushroom Men within its dank, dark corridors. It was able to grow stronger and larger by feeding on the fear of others, doing so by using its hallucinogenic spores to cause those exposed to it to experience their greatest fears (Casey with rats, April with bats, Raphael and cockroaches, etc.).
-   In one episode of _VeggieTales_, a massive "rumor weed" (having been bestowed sentience when a potted plant landed on an electrical wire) gradually grows larger until it grows over an entire building.

___

___