_"I can't compete with you physically and you're no match for my brains."_

An all too common contrast made in an array of works is between intelligence and physical strength. Characters will wholly embody one at the expense of the other (Dumb Muscle, Dumb Jock, The Brute, Stereotypical Nerd, Evil Genius) or will be defined by how much they embody one over the other in a group (The Smart Guy or The Big Guy). Oftentimes, such characters will be directly contrasted and used as Foils for one another as in Brains and Brawn or in Beauty, Brains, and Brawn. Creators also tend to impose morality onto the contrast, producing Brains Evil, Brawn Good, building off of Dumb Is Good.

This contrast can even take on gendered forms since women, as "the fairer sex," are considered to be physically weaker than men, giving us the trope Women Are Wiser to compensate. Strong Girl, Smart Guy inverts those associations. Outside of gender, you can see this contrast applied to entire races and civilizations in fantasy settings and science fiction. Many versions of the classic Elves Versus Dwarves dynamic include depictions of elves as a lofty, high-minded, intelligent race and dwarves as physically strong and Book Dumb. Warrior vs. Sorcerer works similarly, with warrior corresponding to brawn and sorcerer corresponding to brains as Magic Is Mental.

Given this portrayal of the two traits as in competition or incompatible with one another, using this trope as the basis for conflict is extremely common to the point that entire genres rely on it. This is the reason _why_ elves and dwarves often don't like each other, the Barbarian Hero's main antagonist is the Evil Sorcerer, why many a Superhero's archenemy is an Evil Genius, and why The Bully of the Stereotypical Nerd is usually a Jerk Jock. The conflict can be within a race or society as well if there are any born unlucky enough to not inherit the desired trait or as part of a Klingon Scientists Get No Respect plot. Girls Vs Boys Plots may use this trope to further emphasize the gender divide.

Since this is a false dichotomy, Taking a Third Option by combining the two traits is very common: see Genius Bruiser, Badass Bookworm, and Academic Athlete.

In fact, this trope has been played with so much since its inception that it's spawned a variant to reconstruct it, in which smart characters are portrayed as being agile and strong characters are portrayed as Street Smart. Reflecting their quick-thinking, smart characters use their speed and nimbleness to stay two-steps ahead of their physically stronger opponents while Book Dumb strong characters use their pragmatism to outwit smarter ones, who may only be able to think in the theoretical and not the practical or are prone to missing obvious solutions due to a preference for convoluted logics and plans. When applied to fighting, this variant tends to overlap with Force and Finesse.

See also: Athens and Sparta, Harmony Versus Discipline, Romanticism Versus Enlightenment, Red Oni, Blue Oni, Scientist vs. Soldier

As a Super-Trope to several different tropes about the depiction of strength and intelligence in media, relegate specific examples to their proper subtrope pages whenever possible.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Bungo Stray Dogs_: Dazai and Chuuya were partnered together as teenagers as part of the duo, Double Black, and have always loathed each other. Chuuya is a massively powerful Gravity Master and an excellent martial artist responsible for carrying out the physical aspect of their missions, usually by killing people. Dazai, on the other hand, is absurdly intelligent and manipulative, able to unfailingly come up with the perfect plans Chuuya executes. However, despite his strength, Chuuya always finds himself under Dazai's thumb and begrudgingly admits his intellect is indispensable.
-   _Digimon Data Squad_: Marcus and Thomas have this dynamic. Marcus is a Hot-Blooded street fighter whose approach to every problem is to hit it harder. Thomas is a Teen Genius tactician who prefers to think things through. Naturally, the two butt heads frequently throughout the series.
-   This is everywhere in _Dr. STONE_. The three main protagonists of the series, Senku, Taiju, and Yuzuriha make up a Beauty, Brains, and Brawn trio. Even before the world effectively ended, Senku and Taiju were a Brains and Brawn duo since they were childhood friends. The main antagonist of the first arc is Tsukasa who decides to oppose Senku's idealized Kingdom of Science by creating and leading the Empire of Might, hoping to keep a low-tech and therefore egalitarian world in order to avoid the creation of weapons of mass destruction and warfare. He is later dethroned by Hyoga (for a while), who is a more straightforward Social Darwinist.
-   _Durarara!!_: Izaya is an intelligent and well-read information broker who has a mutual hatred with Shizuo, a debt collector with inhuman strength who can shake off being hit by a car. In the final arc, the two have an all-out death battle, pitting Izaya's brain against Shizuo's brawn, as the former uses traps and schemes to kill, and the latter simply comes after Izaya with nothing but his fists. The fight culminates in Izaya attempting and failing a Xanatos/Thanatos gambit and neither die.
-   In _Maoyu_, the Hero is a Country Mouse who became a nigh-unstoppable One-Man Army thanks to being The Chosen One and his constant training. Meanwhile, the Demon Queen is a scholar who spent most of her days prior to ascending to the throne reading and performing experiments. When Hero confronts her at the start of the story, she admits that she's probably no match for him in a fight, instead asking for his attention and challenging his worldview with a presentation on the impact of the human-demon war from an economic standpoint.

    Comic Books 

-   _Captain America_:
    -   Captain America is at the peak of human athletic potential and is a master combatant and leader, but typically leaves things like handling technology to his allies. His archenemy _Red Skull_ may or may not have the same or similiar abilities depending on the story, but is usually a Diabolical Mastermind.
    -   Other Captain America villains that fit the trope include Doctor Faustus (a Non-Action Guy Psycho Psychologist who relies on manipulation and has a Compelling Voice), Armin Zola (a Mad Doctor who mainly creates monsters), and Heinrich Zemo (a powerless scientist).
-   _The Incredible Hulk_:
    -   The titular (Savage) Hulk (big, green, Dumb Muscle, The Big Guy) has this relationship with one of his main archnemeses, The Leader, (tiny, green, Evil Genius), as The Leader is a deliberate Evil Counterpart to the Hulk. The Hulk's true identity, Bruce Banner, is a skinny scientist who gains Super-Strength from gamma rays whereas The Leader, Samuel Sterns, was a borderline mentally handicapped janitor who gains Super-Intelligence from gamma rays.
    -   The Hulk as Bruce Banner's Split Personality also qualifies since he is contrasted with Bruce Banner, who is an Insufferable Genius in the running for World's Smartest Man. You could say that all of the different personalities Banner has plays with this trope to some degree. Though all of them are, relative to the average person, far closer to Strength than Intelligence due to their shared Super-Strength and Nigh-Invulnerability, some personalities (Merged Hulk, Grey Hulk) skew closer to the center of the spectrum, inheriting Banner's Book Smarts or developing Street Smarts, and others (Devil Hulk) lean even _further_ into The Hulk's strength.
-   _The Mighty Thor_: Thor and Loki have this dynamic, overlapping with Brains Evil, Brawn Good as Loki is Thor's Arch-Enemy in his comics. The God of Thunder, Thor has Super-Strength and when he's not using his mastery over thunder and lightning to Shock and Awe, he's a Lightning Bruiser whose physical strength rivals that of the Hulk. Loki on the other hand is a Trickster God, who uses his vast intellect to trick anyone and everyone into one of his many gambits and schemes.
-   _Superman_ has this dynamic with his archnemesis Lex Luthor, which as one of the oldest superhero comic book franchises, did a lot to codify this dynamic in the medium. While Superman isn't shown as being particularly dumb, his Flying Brick superpowers definitely focus on strength and durability which help him be a combat powerhouse. Lampshaded in his nickname "The Man of Steel." Lex Luthor on the other hand is a Mad Scientist, Diabolical Mastermind, Evil Genius who uses his vast amount of wealth as a Corrupt Corporate Executive to try to make his usually nefarious plans into reality.

    Comic Strips 

-   _Dennis the Menace (UK)_: Since 2009, Dennis and Walter have been portrayed this way. Dennis, as The Bully, is the Brawn, physically intimidating Walter and all of the other kids, while Walter is the Brains, using social engineering and manipulation in an attempt to one-up Dennis.

    Fan Works 

-   _The Mountain and the Wolf_: Discussed. The Wolf mentions that while there _are_ some individuals who combine brains and brawn, for the most part practitioners of magic are very much Squishy Wizards, and so the person Tyrion is looking for (a man masquerading as Euron strong enough to kill several guards singlehandedly then stuff their bodies into a windlass) is not the one who cast the spell that caused Daenerys to attack King's Landing. And the Wolf certainly should know, seeing as he's the one who masterminded both events via a Champion of Chaos and a sorcerer.

    Films — Animation 

-   In _How to Train Your Dragon_, Hiccup and Toothless defeat the Red Death by fighting smart: while the Red Death is gigantic and monstrously powerful, Toothless is much faster and more agile, so Hiccup puts that to work to their advantage by luring the Red Death into the clouds, where its line of sight is limited, leaving Toothless free to pelt it with plasma blasts. When the Red Death starts breathing fire everywhere in response and Toothless's prosthetic tail fin catches fire, Hiccup baits the Red Death into following them back to solid ground. Just as the Red Death is about to roast them with more dragon fire, Toothless shoots a plasma blast into its mouth before its breath has been ignited, leaving it to explode inside the Red Death's mouth. Just then, the Red Death realizes it was so preoccupied with diving after Hiccup and Toothless that it's about to crash into Dragon Island, at which point it is far too late to slow down as its wings rip apart in the attempt; this leaves the Red Death completely helpless as it crashes into the ground and explodes.
-   _The Lion King_: Cited by Scar when Zazu asks him why he doesn't challenge Mufasa for the throne. While Scar claims to have gotten "the lion's share" when it comes to intellect, a fight for supremacy is a matter of brute strength, where Scar is "at the shallow end of the gene pool." While gauging which brother is smarter would be subjective, it's clear Scar is more devious and guileful, in that he engineers his brother's demise to attain kingship of the pride. However, it's subverted when we see that after Scar takes control, he turns out to be a terrible leader, leading Pride Rock to ruin.
-   In _Megamind_, this dynamic is present between the titular character who is an Evil Genius and his nemesis Metro Man, a Flying Brick, as an Affectionate Parody of the same dynamic Lex Luthor and Superman have. As a deconstruction of that particular relationship this is to be expected. Later on, after the latter fakes his death, Megamind invokes this trope by replacing Metro Man with Titan as his new superhero archnemesis, bestowing him all of Metro Man's Flying Brick powers to do so.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _Marvel Cinematic Universe_
    -   Bruce Banner plays the trope straight for most of his early appearances. When in his normal form he is a brilliant scientist and was initially recruited by S.H.I.E.L.D. for that expertise. When in Hulk form he is pure muscle busting power with little in the way of sophisticated cognition.
        -   Subverted in later appearances. By the time of _Thor: Ragnarok_ he has become more aware/articulate in Hulk form, and in _Avengers: Endgame_ the two have merged completely.
    -   _Captain America: The First Avenger_: Johann Schmidt (Brains) vs. Steve Rogers (Brawn). Both are Super Soldiers created from the same Super Serum, and fight on opposite sides of the war, with Schmidt being a brilliant scientist using advanced technology who works from the shadows, while Rogers fights on the frontlines using a shield.
-   _Revenge of the Nerds_: The entire film is a conflict between the traditional frats run by football players and the Stereotypical Nerd freshmen who have decided to start their own frat after being rejected from all the rest. The two sides eventually compete officially in the Greek Games, in which the nerds upset the athletically superior Jerk Jocks by using their quick thinking.

    Live-Action TV 

-   This is a popular theme for game shows, specifically team-based challenge-type shows:
    -   The 8th season of _Australian Survivor_ is subtitled _Brains V Brawn_, enforcing this trope by splitting the contestants up into two teams based on their supposed intellect and strength.
    -   The sixth episode of Season 6 of the physical challenge show _Wipeout (2008)_, "Brains vs Brawn", pits contestants with "brainy" jobs against professional bodybuilders and other highly athletic people.
-   The _Dad's Army_ episode "Brains Versus Brawn" makes this trope the primary conflict. Jones and Walker get upset when they learn that the Training Major left out their platoon from training a new unit of commandos. Mainwaring backs the division arguing that commandos use brute force rather than cunning and intellect so they don't need training from the likes of them. This leads to Pritchard suggesting they run a training exercise competition in which the different troops have to deliver a fake bomb to the Officer-in-Charge's office. Brains win out in the end, after Walker orders for the delivery of a second fake bomb to the Officer-in-Charge's office.
-   _Key & Peele_: In the "Superbowl 2015" skit Key and Peele play two sportscasters who invites a third white sportscaster to give his analysis on the upcoming Superbowl match up between the New England Patriots and the Seattle Seahawks. It becomes quickly apparent however, that this sportscaster is constantly describing white athletes as hard-working, analytical, cerebral, and intelligent and black athletes as strong, freaks of nature, and potentially magical. When Key and Peele ask him to describe then Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson (who is of mixed ancestry), he says "hybrid."
-   _Leverage_: Hardison is the hacker and Eliot is the hitter. The two regularly fight over a lot of things, but they particularly tend to argue about who has the most important and difficult job. Eliot and Hardison also disparage each other over the other's lack of expertise in their respective fields.
-   _Power Rangers: Dino Thunder_: The Red Ranger Conner McKnight and the Blue Ranger Ethan James have this dynamic in earlier episodes. Conner is a Jerk Jock who doesn't understand Ethan's obsession with information technology and lack of interest in athletics while Black and Nerdy Ethan sees Conner's disinterest in academics to be immature and foolish. In "Leader of the Whack", the two are transformed into the opposite of their default personalities, with the implication that on some level, a part of them wishes to explore the opposite of who they present to the outside world.
-   In the _Squid Game_ episode "Stick to the Team", this is how the second round in the tug-of-war game ends up starting, with Gi-Hun's weaker team relying on tactical knowledge to have a chance against their stronger, all-male opponents. Il-nam tells them all to pull and lean as far back as possible. The opposing team will struggle in the first seconds before losing their footing, allowing Gi-Hun and the others to gain an advantage. However, when the other team gets a second wind and starts to pull back, Sang-woo forms a alternative plan to quickly defeat them.
-   _Prehistoric Planet_: The two male morphs of the pterosaur _Barbaridactylus_. The more "standard" males are large, aggressive, and often scare off or kill rival males whilst showing off to females with flashy shows of strength and stamina. The "sneaky" males instead take advantage of their resemblance to females as a means to avoid competition and covertly court the larger male's quarry behind his back.

    Mythology & Religion 

-   This is often how Athena and Ares are contrasted in Classical Mythology as gods of war. Athena as the goddess of wisdom, represents the strategic thinking and planning that is necessary for engaging in large scale battles, but is also useful from a "fight smarter not harder" standpoint in any context. Ares on the other hand is the god of valor and war, more typically associated with the brutality, carnage, and bloodlust that comes with mass killing. From _The Iliad's_ account of the Trojan War, Ares and Athena found themselves on opposite sides, with Ares backing the Trojans and Athena supporting the Greeks. To lessen the Trojans' battle output, when Ares was fighting Grecian King Diomedes, Athena used an invisibility cloak from Hades to hide herself and caused Ares's spear (which he had thrown at King Diomedes) to miss, opening him up for a counterattack and causing him to be wounded in battle.

    Video Games 

-   In _Dino Crisis_, at numerous points, Rick and Gail will have heated arguments and Regina can choose whose plan to align with. Gail generally prioritizes brawn, and following him will result in the path that is more simple, but involves much more dinosaur fighting; by contrast, following Rick is safer, but involves solving a lot more puzzles.
-   One of the themes in _The Legend of Zelda: Oracle Games_ revolves around gameplay focus. _Seasons_ is more combat-centric and rewards good fighting while _Ages_ features a lot more complex puzzles, meaning a player will hit a wall unless they use their noggin. Fitting, given the Oracle of Seasons is Din, named after the goddess of power, and the Oracle of Ages is Nayru, named after the goddess of wisdom. However, you still need _both_ brains and brawn to get through, just like any other Zelda game.
-   In the _Mass Effect_ franchise, the Krogan are a Proud Warrior Race that prioritizes brute strength, combat prowess, and killing above all else. Might equals right and the weak shall not live long. Thus even the idea of Krogan scientists is enough to make a joke of. You ironically come across one in _Mass Effect 2_ who is working on a cure for the sterilization genetic virus called the "genophage" that plagues all Krogans, but he is the only one across multiple games. While the Krogan have made many enemies and dislike most of the Council Races, the Salarians have a special place of hate for them as the creators of the genophage. Naturally, Salarians are depicted as the most intelligent and scientific minded of all races in the franchise and are also considered the physically weakest. They compensate as a race by specializing in espionage and covert operations. While individual Salarians have differing opinions on the Krogan, their leader Dalatrass Linron would rather risk the entire galaxy being wiped out by the Reapers rather than cure the genophage in order to win over the Krogans as allies against them.
-   _Pokémon_ features several Pokemon types that are advantageous to use against other types, similar to Rock, Paper, Scissors. Psychic type Pokémon have an advantage over Fighting type Pokémon, reflecting the brains beats brawn mindset. Fighting types in turn have an advantage over the Dark type which, contrary to what its name implies focuses on fighting dirty, reflecting the brawn beats brains mindset.
-   This is the central motif of Arbury, the sixth island in _Temtem_. The northern town of Lochburg is similar to working-class Scotireland, and the local Dojo Master specialises in Melee-types, while the upper-class, London-inspired, southern town of Properton has a Mental-focused Dojo.
-   _Yakuza 3_ has a downplayed version that only relies on appearance: Yoshitaka Mine and Goh Hamazaki are both Stronger Than They Look and Smarter Than They Look respectively. The only person that relies on sheer brawn is Tsuyoshi Kanda, who's all brawn (or fat for that matter).

    Webcomics 

-   In _The Petri Dish_, more intellectual characters such as Thaddeus and Kelvin don't really understand sports, and when Thaddeus tries watching sports, he can't make sense of it despite his intellect.

    Western Animation 

-   _Avatar: The Last Airbender_: On Team Avatar, Sokka is The Smart Guy, specifically The Strategist who comes up with many of the team's plans for infiltration and escape. He is also the weakest for the majority of the series in terms of combat capability as the primary sole non-bender of the team. He is contrasted first with Katara, and later with Toph. Toph is rude, crude, Book Dumb, and one of the strongest earth benders in the entire Avatar world. Their friendship is portrayed as Vitriolic Best Buds, with Toph antagonizing Sokka most of the time. Over the course of the series we learn that Toph is much more Street Smart than she initially comes off and Sokka learns swordsmanship to compensate, pushing them closer to the second variant of this trope and to Force and Finesse in terms of combat.
-   _Big City Greens_: Played with in the Season 1 episode "Raccooned" when a horde of raccoons invade the Green house, and Cricket and Bill's plans of capturing them clash with each other. Cricket takes on the role of the brawn who impulsively tries to stop them head-on, while the more intelligent Bill plays the brains and has his traps planned out. Cricket's method ends up ruining Bill's traps, all while Cricket claiming Bill ruined his. This causes the two to argue throughout the episode until Gramma calls them out for their fighting, and they eventually learn to put aside their differences and work as a team to save Tilly and get the raccoons out for good.
-   _Brandy & Mr. Whiskers_: The season 1 episode "Lack of Brains vs. Brawn" plays with this trope when Mr. Whiskers has to deal with The Bully Lester. While Mr. Whiskers is portrayed as being nerd-ish relative to Lester, Mr. Whiskers is a Cloud Cuckoolander and often The Ditz of the show. However, as Characterization Marches On, in later episodes he becomes more of a Genius Ditz.
-   _Mummies Alive!_: In "Paws", Nefer-Tina is Brainwashed by the cat goddess Bastet who makes her abduct Presley. Ja-Kal and Rath clash over how to resolve the situation; Rath wants to use a spell to free Nefer-Tina and save Presley while Ja-Kal thinks they have no choice but to kill Nefer-Tina. Ja-Kal accuses Rath of being weak and indecisive while Rath berates Ja-Kal for relying too much on brute force.
-   A plot point in the _Phineas and Ferb_ special "Where's Perry?" has Baljeet and Buford debating over this, even at one point going into an Argument of Contradictions about it. In the end, they decide that both brains and brawn work together.
-   _The Powerpuff Girls_: Blossom and Buttercup can often fall into this dynamic as The Leader & The Smart Guy versus The Big Guy, respectively. In "Three Girls And A Monster", Blossom and Buttercup keep arguing whether to defeat the monster of the episode with brute force or well-thought plans. They even end up shouting "Brains" and "Brawn" at each other. However, neither strategy works given the sheer size of the monster. What works instead is Bubbles politely asking him to leave the city.
-   The season finale of the second season of _Thunderbirds Are Go_, "Brains vs Brawn'' subverts the trope by having Bollywood Nerd Brains go up against The Dragon only known as "The Mechanic." While he has been causing trouble for the team all season long as The Heavy, The Mechanic is a Gadgeteer Genius and far from dumb, thus making this encounter less of a battle between two Foils as it is between Mirror Characters.
-   The season finale of _Total Drama_: _Revenge of the Island_ is titled "Brain vs. Brawn: The Ultimate Showdown" as the final two contestants are Black and Nerdy Cameron and Jerk Jock Lightning. The season actually has two endings in which one or the other wins, however both win moreso out of luck, than actual skill on either of the brains or brawns side, as the final challenge completely exhausted them. During the actual fight however, Lightning uses a crude weapon and armor and him trying to simply brute force his foe results in several mutant animals getting released into the arena. On the other hand, Cameron designs a high tech suit of armor and outmaneuvers his foe with a lot of quick thinking.
-   _The Transformers_:
    -   The Technobot combiner Computron is extremely intelligent, able to calculate the most efficient path to victory. His Terrorcon counterpart, Abominus, is sheer animalistic brute force. Their battles usually involve Computron using his intelligence to counter Abominus' savage fury.
    -   A friendlier version forms the B-plot of the episode "Microbots", in an amusingly literal fashion. The gruff, macho puncher-of-things Brawn thinks that the bookish and generally non-combative researcher Perceptor is of little use in the fight against the Decepticons, and loudly insults him for it. Optimus' plan to reconcile them involves shrinking them and sending them inside a drunk Megatron. (It Makes Sense in Context, honest.) Brawn eats his words at the end when Perceptor demonstrates that his combination of precision, calculation, and skill means he is a _formidable_ sniper.
    -   Zigzagged with the Autobot and Decepticon Headmasters. Much like the Technobots and Terrorcons, the Autobot Headmasters all transform into high-tech futuristic vehicles while the Decepticons all transform into savage beasts. Three of the Autobot Headmasters are geniuses, while the fourth isn't very smart and is rather obtuse. While the Decepticon Headmasters are often depicted as dumb, snarling beasts, Mindwipe speaks relatively eloquently in the cartoon and Weirdwolf is sometimes portrayed as an unconventionally intelligent Genius Bruiser.

     Real Life 

-   A famous quote from Thucydides, the Athenian general and historian, shows this dichotomy being lampshaded and cautioned against as early as the 5th century BCE:
    
    "The society that separates its scholars from its warriors will have its thinking done by cowards and its fighting by fools."
    

___