**Amber:** I can't believe I'm the only straight person I know!  
**Ethan:** I wish you'd stop shoving your lifestyle in our faces.

The overwhelming majority of fictional works center around heterosexual characters, with anyone else being a token minority or nonexistent. Some gay-themed media, however, does the exact opposite by making most (if not all) of the characters gay or otherwise non-heterosexual. As such, it will generally have a wider variety of Queer as Tropes instead of pigeonholing the characters into one particular stereotype, sometimes making the characters into sort of a gay Five-Token Band. The few token straight characters that appear will usually be fag hags, dyke tykes, token homophobes, or family members of the main characters. Predictably the mortality rate of gay characters tends to drop significantly in cases where most of the cast is gay, while the chance of a Happy Ending increases.

This is a common result of the writers being gay or bisexual themselves, but writing in the Yaoi Genre and Yuri Genre, or the author (and the audience) being a Yaoi Fan or a Yuri Fan, straight writers can create works that fulfill this trope as well.

While some examples center more around bisexual characters, this is distinct from Everyone Is Bi, in which gender and sexual orientation are simply treated as a non-issue.

Despite what you might expect from the oft-referenced 10% statistic, this is reasonably common in Real Life, since people typically build social circles around shared perspectives and experiences, meaning that a gay character with a mostly queer supporting cast is as much to be expected as a soldier character with a mostly military supporting cast. And if the work is set in a Gayborhood it's even more likely.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Wife and Wife_, being about a 'de facto married' lesbian couple, and their lesbian neighbors, is very obviously this.
-   _Sons of Eve_, a manga by _From Eroica with Love_ creator Aoike Yasuko. There is only 1 heterosexual, and maybe 2 bisexual characters in the entire series, and this includes one-shot characters.
-   _Creo the Crimson Crises_ has enough of its cast lesbian to make an all girl Love Dodecahedron.
-   _ICE_; when there are no men anymore, what or rather who are the remaining women to do?
-   _Iono the Fanatics_ and _The Miko's Words and the Witch's Incantations_, both by Miyabi Fujieda. The former has the eponymous queen's lesbian harem number somewhere in the _thousands_.
-   _Kurogane Pukapuka Tai_, an Improbably Female Cast in which only one female character has been shown to have interest in men.
-   _Shojo Sect_ is set at an All Girl School and consists of a series of short stories about different pairings at the school. The protagonist, Momoko, even briefly has an affair with her homeroom teacher, Ms. Hayato. Though the crux of the series centers on Shinobu as she pines after Momoko and her attempts to get Momoko to realize her feelings for her.
-   _Kiniro Mosaic_ has an all-female cast with every girl paired with someone, no exceptions, to the point that the author invented some girls half into the manga so the characters that were alone at the start, aren't anymore after the 2nd half.
-   _Otome Kikan Gretel_ outdoes even _Strawberry Panic!_ as every character shown has to be a girl interested in other girls.
-   The anime _Saki_ has a huge mostly female cast. Within the cast, the girls show a fair bit of romantic interest in each other and absolutely no interest in any guy. (Yuuki forms an exception as she seems to be the token heterosexual girl).
-   _Revolutionary Girl Utena_ has a near-entirely bisexual cast, although one could assume this is just the norm in a setting based entirely on sexual metaphors.
-   _Whispered Words_ centres on a group of highschool lesbians who form a clique together.
-   _Strawberry Shake Sweet_, about an idol at a talent agency. She's gay, her junior's gay by the end of the manga, her hair dresser's gay, her hair dresser's Stalker with a Crush is gay, the person two levels below her manager is gay, and the random photographer who takes Ran's picture is gay, and the random model is gay, and the only band in the entire world is composed of four lesbians. In fact, the only recurring character who _isn't_ gay is her aforementioned manager—and that's Played for Laughs.
-   _Strike Witches_ has almost all of its Improbably Female Cast members showing attraction towards females ranging from subtle to overt.
-   _Vandread_. Justified in that the main cast comes from planets that are all female and all male.
-   _YuruYuri_ has a main cast of eight girls, all but one of whom have romantic connections to at least one of the others.
-   _Chintsubu_ has a cast of four boys, all of whom are either gay or bi.
-   _Miyuki-chan in Wonderland_. All the characters are women... and all want to jump Miyuki's bones.
-   _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_ is the closest you can get without frequent on-screen makeouts. In The Original Series, the manga, the spin-offs, the games (especially _The Battle Pentagram_), the movies, and an endless array of shippy official art, all of the girls show lots of attraction towards and interest in other girls, and the staff themselves ship Homura/Madoka and Kyoko/Sayaka. Even Hitomi, originally the token straight girl, is shown in the PSP game to be attracted to Homura.
-   _Sakura Trick_ has an all-female cast, and, well, Haruka and Yuu are a couple, as are Shizuku and Kotone. Yuzu and Kaede _aren't_, but they are a pair of close friends with no noticeable interest in guys that willingly hang out with a group of lesbians, and they do end up as a couple in the end. The only other major character, Mitsuki, has a crush on Haruka.
-   In _One Piece_ Amazon Lily has only female citizens, and the only way of reproduction is leaving the island with the pirate crew and coming back with newborn daughters. Thanks to Empress Boa Hancock being the World's Most Beautiful Woman, everybody on Amazon Lily is lesbian for her.
-   _Kiss and White Lily for My Dearest Girl_ tells the budding or already formed love stories of several couple of girls in an Elaborate University High. By volume 5, Yurine and her sister love the model student Ayaka, Ayaka struggles very hard to not love Yurine, track team star Mizuki and manager Moe love each other, so do Yukina and Towako from the gardening club, Chiharu loves her senpai Maya, Izumi loves her senpai Chiharu, Kaoru has a heavily implied crush on her classmate Yurine and freshman Itsuki has apparently loved her childhood friend Sawa since before grade school. The only odd one out is Chiharu's friend Ai, who doesn't seem romantically involved with any girl. Yet.
-   _Yuyushiki_ has an all-female cast, with everyone wanting to get in Yui's pants, and there's some crushes between other girls, like Kei towards Aikawa.
-   Almost all the major male characters in _Yuureitou_ have some level of male attraction. Marube is a Depraved Bisexual, Tetsuo says he's straight but falls for Amano, Yamashina is attracted to men (and boys), and Amano originally likes Tetsuo as a woman but accepts him as a man but still likes him.
-   In the Yuri Otome no Teikoku almost all of the main characters tend to be more interested in their own gender than the opposite
-   _Prunus Girl_ has Shion and Kana, a very outward lesbian couple, Non who's a Hopeless Suitor for Shion, two teachers that also turn out to be lesbian, and not-girl Kizuna who has seemingly turned the entire male population of the school gay. The other main character Maki tries his hardest to persuade himself that his attraction toward Kizuna is not romantic. The remaining straight characters are a Yaoi Fangirl and a girl in love with her twin brother.
-   Every named character in _Valkyrie Drive: Mermaid_ is a lesbian.
-   _Legend of the Blue Wolves_: Pretty much every character given screen time is gay-Captain Continental and his subordinates and the more sympathetic Leonard and Jonathan.
-   _Tokyo Ghoul_ has managed to develop a strong following among LGBT fans, thanks to a cast of attractive characters prone to Ho Yay or Les Yay, and several canon LGBT characters. The series includes the bisexual (or possibly pansexual) Tsukiyama, Naki who has complicated feelings towards his old leader Yamori, Shousei who describes Naki with a romantic wording and Miza even says Naki has the love of his male subordinates, Touka who is described as having feelings of love for Kaneki and her friend Yoriko to an extent, homosexual Drag Queen Nico, possibly bisexual Uta, Depraved Bisexual Nutcracker (she goes after guys but also flirts with a woman before killing her) and Eto (is implied to have a homicidal crush on Kaneki and gets ominously intimate with Kanae), and leaves a rather ambiguous situation concerning Juuzou's gender identity and Abara's (Suzuya's male subordinate) implied feelings for him. The sequel has earned considerable praise for revealing Tooru Mutsuki to be a transgender man, portraying him in a respectful and accurate fashion. His feelings of love towards Sasaki as revealed in chapter 114 help. Big Madam is also hinted in the sequel as being a trans woman as she is referred to with male pronouns at her death with incestuous feelings for her adopted son Suzuya. Also, Matsuri is revealed to be gay and in love with Urie. Among the new Quinx, Hsiao is hinted to have a crush on Saiko, Hige is admiring of both male and female coworkers, and Saiko states she's willing to be anyone's bride no matter their gender.
-   _Love Gene XX_ is an interesting example of this. Despite every character being female, they're divided up into Adams (essentially men) and Eves (essentially women), with relationships between two Adams being seen as forbidden. Even considering all of that, there is only one Adam-Eve couple amongst the protagonists by the end of the series, with there being more examples of Adam-Adam couples (and one Eve-Eve couple, although it's not stated whether there's a similar stigma towards that kind of pairing). A major part of the Gay Aesop is for our heroes to convince their society that their setting is one of these, and that they don't need to copy straight people when there's actually no need to.
-   _Murciélago_ stars the lecherous Psycho Lesbian Casanova, Kuroka Koumori. So every time a new cute girl is introduced, Kuroka has a new romantic conquest soon after. Although even side characters she's not involved with tend to be attracted to other women.
-   _Love Me For Who I Am_: The protagonist, Mogumo, is invited to work at a maid cafe by a classmate who thinks it will fulfill Mogumo's wish of finding people who understand them. The cafe is a "girlyboy" cafe and every employee falls somewhere on the LGBTQ+ spectrum. The owner, Satori, and another employee, Mei, are transgender women. Suzu is a gay male and finds the cafe a place where he can openly talk about his boyfriend. Ten seems to prefer wearing cute clothing, regardless of whether they're masculine or feminine. Mogumo is nonbinary and Tetsu, the classmate that invited them to the cafe, develops feelings for them but is otherwise uncertain of his sexuality. Finally there's Kotone, a childhood friend of Mogumo's, who used Mogumo as a means of denial for her own attraction to girls.
-   _Kanojo ni Naritai Kimi to Boku_ is about an Ambiguously Gay girl named Hime with Single-Target Sexuality towards her transgender childhood friend Akira. On top of that, she makes friends with Yukka, who fell in love with a female classmate in the past, and Hime's math teacher is an aromantic asexual.
-   _Bloom Into You_ features at least four lesbians and one aromantic asexual boy.
-   Parodied in a Tabletop RPG in chapter 13 of _Don't Become an Otaku, Shinozaki-san!_, where every single character the players encounter is homosexual. This is hardly surprising, since it's a custom campaign and at least three of the four playing are Yaoi Fangirls. Learning this is also true of the campaign's Big Bad is the key to ending the campaign non-violently.
-   Like _Madoka_, _Sk8 the Infinity_ seems to be the closest a Cast Full of Pretty Boys anime can get without on-screen kissing or explicit confirmation. While the antagonist Adam is the only one who openly equates skating with male characters to dates, weddings and the concept of "love," a majority of the main cast (Langa, Reki, Cherry, Tadashi, and even Shadow in a blink-and-you'll-miss-it moment) seem to be Ambiguously Gay or Ambiguously Bi, and with more heavy intent than typical series with a Cast Full of Pretty Boys, as Langa expresses that Reki is his Implied Love Interest several times, and the two have a Boy Meets Boy storyline throughout the series with a lot of romantic overtones. The English dub even ups the ante by taking the resident Chick Magnet Joe from low-key ambiguous to high-key a la Reki. His English voice actor has said that for Joe's subtle Shipper on Deck scenes with Langa and Reki, he intentionally voiced Joe in a supportive role of someone who wanted to make two closeted characters feel safe, and sees their interactions in that kind of Big Brother Mentor way.
-   _Yuri!!! on Ice_ highkey throws heterosexuality being the norm into the trash. With canon gay couple Victor and Yuuri, fan-favorite ships Otabek/Yuri and Leo/Guang, and almost everyone else showing same-gender attraction in some way, the only character who _hasn't_ been in a gay ship is Georgi. He's considered the token straight. Even Takeshi Nishigori, who's _in a heterosexual marriage_, has shown signs of being bi.

    Comic Books 

-   In most of the comics by the German cartoonist Ralf König, the main characters are all gay men. He has even been accused of being a bit of a sexist, since the supporting female characters that appear in his comics tend not to be shown in a positive light.
-   The message boards of _Pride High_ consist overwhelmingly of gay characters. And since these characters are often given cameos instead of generic extras in the actual comic, Poseidon Prep may be the gayest superhero school in exstance.
-   _Small Favors_, on top of having an all-lesbian cast, there aren't even any men among the background characters or mentioned in dialogue.
-   _Circles_ is a gay Furry comic book series featuring 6 gay men living in one apartment building. Even beyond this, a questionable number of shopkeepers and friends also seem to be gay.
-   Another well-known Furry comic _Associated Student Bodies_ also falls victim to this trope, but as it's gay-themed erotic fiction this was probably to be expected.
-   Nearly every female character in _Tank Vixens_ is either a lesbian or bisexual. And one who was supposedly straight came out of the closet in the second issue.
-   As with most Transformers fiction, the cast of _The Transformers: More than Meets the Eye_ is predominantly male, and the writers have introduced multiple romantic relationships among the cast without adjusting the gender disparity at all. As a matter of fact, although there are female Transformers onboard the _Lost Light_, the vast majority of the relationships have been between male characters; for bonus points, two of those female characters - Anode and Lug - are trans lesbians who are very much in love.
-   Kieron Gillen's run on _Young Avengers_. By the end the team consists of Wiccan and Hulkling (gay couple), Miss America (lesbian, had experimented with a guy but didn't like it), Prodigy (bisexual), Speed (bisexual), Noh-Varr (bisexual), Loki (nonbinary, bisexual, and the literal patron god of queer people), and Kate Bishop, who was the only member who openly identified herself as straight. It's important to mention that, while there's a teasing line from America that points out Kate sometimes look at her in a particular way, Kieron Gillen himself has come out plenty of times to clarify that orientation is a matter of personal choice and that since Kate identified herself as straight, then she was straight, with America letting out the tease for the reaction.
-   Of the thirteen protagonists of _The Wicked + The Divine_, five are bi, one is ace, one is a trans lesbian, and one "prefers guys" but is willing to kiss or sleep with girls on occasion. We have no clue about Tara, and Minerva is only thirteen and is more preoccupied with her impending death than with her sexuality. The Morrigan and Baph are dating and are presumably straight, and Token Evil Teammate Woden is heterosexual.
-   _DC Comics Bombshells_ features several characters who are canonically lesbian or bisexual in the main DC universe (Batwoman, Harley Quinn, Poison Ivy, Catwoman, Wonder Woman) but also gives an explicit lesbian or bisexual Adaptational Sexuality change to other characters who in mainstream continuity are entirely straight or only the subject of Homoerotic Subtext (Mera).
-   The main DC universe itself seems to follow a toned down version of this trope as of _DC Rebirth_, but _only_ as regards female characters with lesbians and bisexual women vastly outnumbering gay and bisexual men as both main characters and supporting cast. Of the five female solo books two focus on bisexual heroines (Harley Quinn - who is in a relationship with the aforementioned Poison Ivy - and Wonder Woman), two on straight heroines (Batgirl and Supergirl) and one on a lesbian heroine (Batwoman). Major supporting lesbian or bisexual characters include Catwoman (who is really an A-lister but as of 2018 not cast in a solo title), Maggie Sawyer, Renee Montoya, Maxima, Traci 13 and Natasha Irons.
-   _The Backstagers_: Out of the main cast, Jory is bi, Hunter is gay, and Sasha is described as "anime," though it has been shown that he is attracted to men in the Valentine's Intermission issue. Aziz is the only cis and straight guy of the cast, since while Beckett is also into girls, he's trans. The supporting cast has the male stage managers Timothy and Jamie as a couple, and faculty advisor Rample is also gay.
-   With _Fence_, it's more of a case of who _isn't_ gay.
-   _Laura Dean Keeps Breaking Up With Me_: Freddy and her on-off girlfriend Laura Dean are both lesbians, and nearly all of Freddy's friends (and thus, nearly all of the name characters) are confirmed to be queer in one way or another. Justified by the setting being the real life gayborhood of Berkeley.
-   Of its seven members, _X-Factor (2020)_ features two bisexual men (Daken and Prodigy), one gay man (Northstar), and one Ambiguously Bi woman (Prestige.) Though not part of the team proper, Northstar's husband is also part of the main cast.

    Comic Strips 

-   _Dykes to Watch Out For_. It's all in the title.
-   Many other queer comics like _Chelsea Boys_, and _Bitchy Butch_.
-   The _Doctor Who Magazine_ _Doctor Who_ comic strip has tended to do this with its original companions since the nineties: they have included Izzy (lesbian, although this was not actually confirmed until her final story, after a lot of Homoerotic Subtext), Fey (Really Gets Around and possibly either a trans man or non-binary), and Majenta (bisexual). The Doctor is, of course, also hella queer.

    Fan Works 

-   The four members of the main ensamble in _Angel of the Bat III: Da Pacem Domine_ are Cassandra Cain (who's preferences are rarely commented upon in canon, but is pansexual in the series), her girlfriend Sadie (lesbian), the Renee Montoya incarnation of the Question (lesbian) and John Constantine (bisexual).
-   Almost everyone in _Ask the Famous 8!_ is in the LGBTQ+ community in some way, shape or form. Out of the Famous 8 themselves, seven of them are not heterosexual, and six fall outside of the gender binary.
-   All of the Cures in _In Which Mistakes Are Made And Nagisa Is Made Fun Of_ are either gay, bi, pan, or ace; a straight Cure hasn't been seen (so far).
-   _Dog-Breath and Birdbrain,_ a _Helluva Boss_ fanfic, has the protagonist, Grace (who is lesbian), note that a lot of her friends came out as different flavors of queer after making a sort of unofficial pact to improve their love lives over the previous summer. For that matter, when asking Octavia about what Hell is like, Via says that about _ninety percent_ of demons are queer, not counting the sinners (although she's convinced Katie Killjoy is straight).
-   _Denounce the Evils_ contains a lot of casually queer characters. This includes Jessie being bisexual, James being bisexual and implied to be genderfluid, Cassidy being bisexual, Harley being an Ambiguously Bi trans woman, Pikachu having Ship Tease with Meowth, and Ash's mother Delia having Ship Tease with Jessie.
-   In the _Mob Psycho 100_ fanfic _Discovery Channel_, all of the male cast members are dating. Reigen and Serizawa, Teru and Mob, and Ritsu and Sho. Tome even mentions this in Chapter 12.
-   _Guys Being Dudes_: All of the team leaders, Arlo, and Cliff (for those who are counting, that's 5 out of 6 of the focal characters) are stated to be some flavor of queer.
-   _Horde Champion_: Sylvanas is in a relationship with the Horde Champion (a female Blood Elf), Jaina is in a relationship with the Alliance Champion (a female Night Elf), and Tess Greymane is revealed to be involved with Lorna Crowley. Additionally, three Horde citizens flirt with Anevay at different points in the series.
-   _My Lesbian Life with Monster Girls: Monster Yurisume_: Main character Yuisu, as well as most of her homestays, are gay or bisexual.
-   _Hetalia: Axis Powers_ fanfic _Gankona, Unnachgiebig, Unità_: Most of the males are either gay or bisexual.
-   _Tangled Up in Indigo_: Most people think Afterschool Tea Time is an all-lesbian rock band. Sawako started the rumors in order to give the band a gimmick. By the end of the fic, only Yui is confirmed as interested in girls, though the others are Ambiguously Gay and Ambiguously Bi. The fanfic writer made the story to subvert fics that portray the entire cast as queer.
-   The only heterosexual couple in _Eyes Wide Open All the Time_ broke up two years before the story starts. The rest of the pairings are between two gay or bisexual men.
-   The _My Hero Academia_ fanfic _Nutricula_ has the entire named cast being at the very least bisexual, to the point that Word of God has stated that the only cishet character in the story is Endeavor.
-   _Kindred_ does this to the Disney princesses and princes. Whether it's Situational Sexuality or not, they tend to pair up together on their princess-only and prince-only retreats.
-   _The Love Club_ is outright tagged "nobody is straight". Pretty much everyone is queer. For example, Elphaba is non-binary and ends up in a relationship with Glinda, while Elphaba's father Frexspar was in a relationship with his wife as well as Turtle Heart (which is canon in the original books).
-   _Horatio Hornblower_:
    
    -   _Harboured & Encompassed_: Every romance and relationship is this fanfic is queer. Archie and Horatio are gay (and later it's Archie plus Horatio plus Will who are in a poly-amorous relationship). Styles and Matthews are gay (they're lower-deck Heterosexual Life-Partners in canon; here they work at the library, are gay and live together). Hannah and Will's sister Victoria hit it off, too, being lesbians or bi. Even Jack Simpson is a gay rapist. The only heterosexual couple are actually Archie's parents.
    -   Tendency to have everyone gay in _Horatio Hornblower_ fanon is spoofed in a Fan Vid appropriately called "Hornblower Spoof". Horatio wants to get it on with Archie, Hunter watches them, Bush, Buckland and Kennedy ogle Hornblower during his naked Shower Scene... and so on. And Kennedy is honestly surprised that straight people make an appearance. But what can you do when this Wooden Ships and Iron Men miniseries has only a handful of female characters, and only one of them is embraced by the fandom as a cool one.
    
    **Bush:** You better have a look at this... _\[hands Kennedy a spyglass\]_  
    **Kenedy:** Um, k... _\[sees man and woman kissing atop of watchtower\]_ Straight people!! _\[laughs and watches some more\]_  
    **Hornblower:** I never knew they existed in this series.  
    **Bush:** Oh stop. We're not that weird.
    
-   _Highlander_ in spades because of all the male characters. There’s probably more Duncan/Methos than other pairings combined. Duncan/Richie has happened as well. Methos and the Horsemen are ripe for it and there are probably Duncan/Connor fics as well.
-   Okay, it's more Everyone Is Bi, but in _Incorrect Smash Bros Quotes_, pretty much everyone is bi or pan, or at least implied to be. Even among the characters who are attracted to only one gender, there are _five_ confirmed gay characters<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  compared to only one confirmed straight character.
-   _Power Chord: High School Musical_: Considering the three female main characters, Luna, Sam, and Carol, are in a Love Triangle, this is to be expected.
-   _RWBY_:
    -   _Roadside Assistance_ is a Yang/Weiss fic that ends on four different same-gender couples. It's also mentioned that Ruby and Yang's father is married to his former teammate Qrow.
    -   Most of the cast of _Ruby and Nora_ are LGBT.
    -   The rewrite _RWBY: Scars_ makes much of the core cast explictly queer: Ruby is an asexual trans girl who is in a relationship with a girl, Weiss is lesbian, Blake dated Adam in the past but begins dating Weiss midway through the fic, and Yang is implied to be bisexual (and is explicitly attracted to a woman, more specifically Weiss). Amongst the extended cast: Jaune is a trans boy, Neptune and Sun are dating, Penny becomes Ruby's girlfriend early on, Velvet and Coco are dating, Weiss' brother Whitley is a trans boy, and it's implied that Raven is a lesbian.
    -   _Silver Rings and Golden Hearts_ is a Qrow/Ironwood Kid Fic that also contains Summer/Raven/Taiyang, Port/Oobleck, Junior/Roman, and Glynda/Willow.
    -   With the exception of the villains, almost every protagonist in _Team LVDR_ is LGBT.
    -   Discussed in _Describing The Series Via References_. On learning that Remnant has this reputation, team RWBY joke about how there are other LGBT orientations.
        
        **Ruby:** Hey now! That's asexual erasure!  
        **Blake:** And bisexual erasure.  
        **Yang:** And _pan_sexual erasure.  
        **Weiss:** What about straight people?  
        **Yang:** I've yet to meet any.
        
-   The _Oversaturated World_: Discussed in Sonnenunterganglied:
    
    **Sunset**: I have to ask; given all the student bodies of all of the versions of Canterlot High, is there a single heterosexual girl among them?
    
    **Derpy** Well, there's me.
    
-   _RainbowDoubleDash's Lunaverse:_ Of the Mane Six, Lyra is out-and-out gay, Cheerilee bi (with one accidental marriage to her college roommate and a date with Rarity), Trixie is asexual but with the occasional hint she and Raindrops have burgeoning feelings for one another, while Raindrops's only canon romance is with a guy, while Carrot Top and Ditzy are strictly het.
-   _The Lord of the Rings_ has a cast of Long Haired Pretty Boys, is almost entirely male, and features much perceived Ho Yay between main characters. Hence it attracted, even from the very beginning, a very large queer Periphery Demographic. Oh, and Tolkien actively invited readers to write fanfiction. So guess what happened. The most common pairings are, naturally, with Legolas: either Legolas/Aragorn or Legolas/Gimli. Sam/Frodo is also common. Some older readers of _The Hobbit_ wrote fics about that too. When _The Silmarillion_ came out guess what happened, with its large cast: again, mostly male and almost entirely Long Haired Pretty Boys. A whole kaleidoscope of ships emerged...some more dubious than others (though it isn't just the gay ships that are dubious). There is also a homophobic backlash within the fandom, with a lot of people claiming this practice is insulting to Tolkien's memory and citing his Catholicism to suggest that he supported their position. However, Tolkien's own letters prove this to be inaccurate: he mentioned liking the works of _Mary Renault_. The discussion of _applicability_ in the introduction to newer editions of The Lord of the Rings is relevant here as well. Much of what Tolkien wrote is applicable to queer people, even if he didn't intend it to be. A lot of the queer fanfiction is a reaction to that applicability.
-   _Fallout: Equestria_ fics have a high propensity towards homosexual characters, perhaps due to their status as Recursive Fanfiction of a fic with a lesbian protagonist. One notable example is _Fallout: Equestria - Project Horizons_, where of the main cast, four are confirmed as non-heterosexual<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , and the other three are a prepubscent filly, an artificially engineered alicorn Hive Mind offshoot, and a clone with a purely animalistic mentality.
-   A large percentage of the characters in _With Pearl and Ruby Glowing_ are LGBTQ+, and many were assaulted because of it.
-   A large number of _RENT_ fanfics tend to make the already Cast Full of Gay even more so by pairing the canonically straight Mark and Roger.
-   Between Herberta/Artificer (who is a lesbian), a few canon gay characters, and various canon characters who have undergone Adaptational Sexuality the Massive Multiplayer Crossover _Worm: Artifice_ has no shortage of LGBTQ+ characters.
-   _One for All and Eight for the Ninth_: Shoto, Yoichi, and Mugen (All for One) are all stated to be asexual. Tiger is a trans man (as per canon). And roughly two dozen different characters are stated to be bisexual, with Word of God stating that unless stated otherwise, it can be assumed any given character is bisexual as well.
-   _Pokémon Crossing_: The story follows three bisexual protagonists (Holly, Kidd and Tank) in a polyamorous relationship, and two gay supporting characters (Frank and Apollo). Tom Nook (an important recurring character) is confirmed bisexual in a past chapter. Holly is also a transgender girl.
-   _Hero Chat_: The students of Miss Bustier's class plus Kagami and Luka have undergone Adaptational Sexuality, with Word of God confirming that only Ivan and Mylene are the "Token Straight Couple." This include bisexual<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , Gay<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , Lesbian<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , and Aromantic Asexual<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . Marc Anciel, Nathaniel's partner, is also nonbinary here.
-   _Sixes and Sevens_ features a heavily queer cast. Michael Carter gets Brian Falsworth's sexuality and relationship with Roger Aubrey. Emily is bisexual, as is her girlfriend Edith. Madelyn Joyce-Frank and husband Robert are both queer and in an open relationship. Later we meet Mark Todd and Pat Mason who are gay and asexual respectively, and Anthea's Hypothetical Casting is Indya Moore so it's very likely she is trans.
-   _Featherfall_: Most of the relationships in the story are lesbian ones, although slightly subverted with the character's Penny & Helden, and references to Vice Principal Luna's relationship. Part of this is the issue of the Improbably Female Cast of Equestria Girls in which the vast majority of the non-background characters (and a high number of the background ones) are female.
-   In _Legends Collide! Alola's House of Champions!_, pretty much all but one of the trainers in said house are somewhere on the queer spectrum. In particular, Brendan, May and Wally are in a polyamorous relationship, Touya and N are bisexual and dating each other, Wallace is Happily Married to Steven Stone, Barry was previously in a relationship with a male Original Character and a bonus chapter reveals that Florian is non-binary. Among the residents of the titular house, only Rosa is heterosexual, according to the tags.
-   Per Word of God, none of the Magical Girls in the Crisis Crossover _Shattered Skies: The Morning Lights_ are straight. Usagi is engaged to Mamoru but is bi based on canon evidence, and Sakura and Shaoran are boyfriend and girlfriend but _both_ of them are bi... as befits characters from a CLAMP series. Also per Word of God: "There's no such thing as a straight magical girl."
-   _Infinity Train: Seeker of Crocus_: Starting at the end of Act 1 and start of Ac 5 2, there are numerous characters from the LGBTA+ community in the Infinity Train half of the story (Pokemon characters who are such are noticeably lower in number, where only Ash and Trip appear to be so.). Ryan Akagi and Min-gi Park are bisexual and gay respectively (Ryan, in canon, is straight for dating three women), Specter is demiromantic, Tres is a transman, Indigo is bisexual, Casimira is lesbian, and November is implied to be Ambiguously Bi. In the side-story _Infinity Train: Orchid Observer_, the author notes reveal that the four main heroes are: asexual Jesse, aromantic and non-binary Lake, gay Spencer, and bi-curious Colette.
-   _Skies of Blue, Red Roses Too_ is a Ranma ½ / Steven Universe story in which Ranma leaves Japan, with Ukyou and Konatsu’s help and eventually arrives at Beach City right in the middle of Pride Week. Much of the story is about Ranma’s growing realization of her transexuality as well as her falling for Lapis Lazuli. Almost the entire cast is somewhere in the spectrum, and Lapis even says “We live in what’s probably the single most sapphic town in the universe.”
-   Very common in _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_ fics, due to the series immense Les Yay and the lack of male characters that aren't fathers, unintentionally or intentionally assholes, or underdeveloped. Memes in the fandom about the lack of straight pairings are common and the above mentioned _Shattered Skies_ also happens to contain Madoka characters. For some specific Madoka stories.
    -   _Resonance Days_ is one of the few stories that actually justifies it in-universe, being set in an afterlife where, due to not having hormones anymore, sexuality is a choice, and with practically no guys around, any Magical Girl who wants to have a relationship simply decides to be so.
    -   _The Soulmate Timeline_ has Homura admit to having never met a magical girl who wasn't at least partially interested in girls, including Hitomi in some timelines, with the one caveat that very young magical girls, like Yuma and Nagisa, are hard to tell for sure. Little has disproven this beyond Homura's bubble

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _But I'm a Cheerleader_, which is set in an ex-gay camp.
-   _Velvet Goldmine_.
-   The short film _Love Is All You Need_ is set in an Alternate Universe were homosexuality is the predominant societal norm and heterosexuals are the frowned upon, ostracized minority.
-   _The Boys in the Band_ is the earliest film example of this trope, right down to the diverse set of characters with little in common besides their homosexuality.
-   _Better Than Chocolate_, which is set in Vancouver, B.C.'s lesbian community. The cast also includes bisexual and transgender characters.
-   _The Broken Hearts Club: A Romantic Comedy_ is set in West Hollywood and revolves around the lives of gay friends.
-   _Bros_ is a gay rom-com where every character, even the straight ones, is played by a LGBT+ actor.
-   The 2004 Slasher Movie _HellBent_, although the mortality drop rule is averted for obvious reasons.
-   There is also its Distaff Counterpart, _Make a Wish_, and _The Gay Bed and Breakfast of Terror_
-   _The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert_ has for its three main characters a transgender woman, a Camp Gay, and a divorced father who might be termed bisexual, although he doesn't embrace the label. Some butch lesbians appear too.
-   Also, _To Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything! Julie Newmar_. Straight cast (most are icons of machismo, actually), gayest characters possible.
-   _Another Gay Movie_, apparently set in a world where straight people don't exist.
-   _The Troublemakers_, _The Yo-Yo Gang_, and _The Lollipop Generation_ - three queercore films by G.B. Jones that are as gay as they come (but she prefers the word "queer").

-   The heroine, her boyfriend, and an anonymous minor ballet dancer are the only straight characters in the 1948 movie _The Red Shoes_. Given the time period, this trope is played more subtextually than is typically the case for works of this nature.

-   _Noah's Arc: Jumping the Broom_ and _The Skinny_, the former being the movie continuation of the Noah's Arc series and the latter by the same creator with different characters in a different locale.
-   The German film _Romeos_ has an interesting relationship with this trope: Not only does it have a Cast Full of Gay (its main character is about the coming-of-age of a gay transgender man, whose best friend is a lesbian), this trope was cited as the reason by the German film committee FSK to rate the movie 16+, calling it "disorienting for youth". After massive backlash - from "the man in the street", LBGT societies and the ex-minister of Bavaria (which you can see as "the Texas of Germany"), the FSK at first tried to just reword their written reasoning, which lead to the Streisand Effect. In the end, they were forced to revise their rating, giving it a 12+ pass. According to their own site, the FSK is composed mostly of members aged 50+. To put that in perspective: Both Hangover movies have gotten 12+ ratings without a hitch in Germany.
-   In _Kill Your Darlings_, the main characters are all gay or bisexual (but probably gay).
-   _The Rocky Horror Picture Show_ only has 8 characters, and nearly all of them are bisexual. Special mention, however, must go to Frank. This trope is also in effect with many shadow casts for the movie.
-   _Twist_, which reimagines Fagin's gang of pickpockets in _Oliver Twist_ as a stable of Church Street rentboys. Insert "attack the rear" joke here.
-   _The Times of Harvey Milk_ is a documentary about the San Francisco politician; most of the interview subjects are LGBT.
-   _Milk_ covers the same territory in fiction. Most of the characters are LGBT.
-   _Bit_: All of the main characters in the film are lesbians (and vampires), while the lead, Laurel, is also transgender.
-   _Adam (2019)_: Most of the main and supporting characters are queer women, nonbinary people, trans men or trans women except for a couple, including Adam.
-   _They/Them (2022)_: Set in a conversion therapy camp, the cast is mostly LGBT+ youth, with a bisexual girl, a lesbian girl, a nonbinary teen, a trans girl and three gay boys. Two of the staff also claim they're "ex" gay, with another also revealed to be LGBT+.
-   _Duck Butter_: Most of the characters are queer women, the two leads Nima and Sergio along with their friends.
-   _The Miseducation of Cameron Post_: As most of the film is set in a gay conversion therapy camp, the cast is mostly gays, lesbians and otherwise LGBT+ kids (some staff members there are supposedly "ex-gay").
-   _Liz In September_: All of the main characters in the film are lesbians (or in Eva's case, bisexual), with these also being the majority overall.
-   _Bros_: Most of the main and supporting characters are gay, bisexual, lesbian or transgender.
-   _Jagged Mind_: There are only seven major characters in the film, with four being lesbians.

    Jokes 

-   A man in the Deep South rushes into a bar, orders a whiskey, and gulps it down. That bartender asks him what's wrong. "My son's GAY!" The next week, the same man rushes in and orders a double whiskey. "My FATHER'S gay!". The week after, the same man barges in and orders an _entire bottle_ of whiskey. The bartender asks:
    
    "Who is it this time?"  
    "My grandfather!"  
    "Well damn, pal! Isn't there anyone in your family who likes women?"  
    "Sure is!" \*gulp\* "My _sister!_".
    

    Literature 

-   Justified in the sci-fi novel/OVA _Ai no Kusabi_ which is set on a planet where there are so few females that all the men have to find some other ways to relieve the stress.
-   In the young adult novel _Almost Flying_ the four main characters are all LGBTQ. Dalia, Rani and Dhruv are gay, Alexa is attracted to both males and females but she's currently dating a girl. A major part of the plot is Dalia trying to figure out how to tell Rani she has a crush on her.
-   _Les Amitiés Particulières_ by Roger Peyreffite is one of the earliest examples of this. It can basically be summarized as _Dangerous Liaisons_ with young Catholic boys. The story takes place is an extremely religious boarding school for boys... Except Peyreffite shows how such an environment actually augments the chances of one embracing homosexuality. Most characters are gay or bi.
-   _The Beebo Brinker Chronicles_, a classic pulp series that explores the intertwining lives of several lesbians (and their Gay Best Friend) in 1950s Greenwich Village.
-   _Boy Meets Boy_ by David Levithan. The only straight characters with more than half a line are the main character's best female friend and her ex-boyfriend. All the others are gay, lesbian, or transgender.
-   Almost all of the important characters in the novels of William S. Burroughs are male homosexuals. Women or heterosexual males are either entirely absent, appear as minor token characters, or are cartoonish antagonists. This is particularly true of his later works, such as _The Wild Boys_ and _The Red Night Trilogy_.
-   _The Chronicles of Dorsa_: Not at first, but in the third book three more queer women join the cast along with Tasia and Joslyn. Akella, Linna and Megs all become viewpoint characters along with them. They are the only viewpoint characters, meaning everything is shown from this quintet's views and they are the main characters, with everyone else supporting.
-   _The Counterfeiters_ by André Gide is an even earlier example of this. Most of the male characters seem to be either gay or bi and (sometimes unacknowledged) homoerotic feelings for each other abound. There is also some Preserve Your Gays, as the only character that dies (by accidental suicide) is absolutely straight but simply too good for this earth.
-   The Thriler/Romance series _Cut and Run_ has a Cast Full of Bi. Zane and at least three members of Sidewinder are bisexual (bi-demisexual in Kelly's case) and Digger is asexual, basically making Owen the token straight friend. Several major supporting characters are also gay, including a crossover with another work of the authors' in which the main couple function as co-leads for much of the book.
-   The _Coral Dawn Trilogy_ is set mostly among female-only settlements, both on Earth and the distant planet Maternas. This is justified: Men are now über-arseholes and the women are super-intelligent Half-Human Hybrid lesbians (with a dash of Kissing Cousins) who can reproduce by using an illegal fertility drug called Estrova. This gets taken to One-Gender Race in the third book.
-   The Mina Davis books _Hungover and Handcuffed_ and _Asshole Yakuza Boyfriend_ feature chiefly queer casts- especially among recurring characters- and no explicitly straight characters (though a few are probably safe to assume), though you have to rely on Word of God for the sexuality of some of the more secondary characters.
-   Three of the four major characters in _The Dogs_ are Straight Gay with the other being bisexual.
-   Most of the characters in the first book of _The Eldest Curses_ are LGBTQ: Alec is gay, Magnus is bi, Aline is lesbian, Helen is bi, Lilly is also bi and Raphael is asexual. The only non-LGBTQ characters are Shinyun and some more minor characters like Isabelle and Catarina. Averted with the second book, which features returning characters from previous series who are mostly straight, though Magnus and Alec still take center stage.

-   At one point during the long span of time covered in _The Forever War_, it's mentioned that homosexuality, or 'homolife', is encouraged as a form of population control.
-   Nearly every major character from _Glory in the Thunder_ is either gay or bi, including the Physical Gods and Artificial Humans. Even the elderly Mad Oracle guy.
-   The cyberpunk novel series _Grydscaen_ has many gay, bisexual and transgender male characters.
-   _Hands Held in the Snow_ has a surprising number of heterosexual side characters for a Yuri Genre story, but the vast majority of the characters in the book are gay or bi.
-   _It's Just A Scratch_: Almost every character in the main cast, bar maybe Marianna and Carmine but not really is some flavor of gay, bi, or trans. Gyasi & Tom are a prominent gay couple. Tracey is trans. Luke, Haley, and Beatrice are all implied to be bi.
-   _Katalepsis_: All the major characters are sapphic. No exceptions.
-   _Less_: A novel written by a gay author, about a gay writer's mid-life crisis after he receives an invitation to his ex-boyfriend's wedding to a younger man. Hey, they say write what you know! Apparently Andrew Sean Greer knows how to make a sappy premise beautiful and impactful.
-   Out of the entire cast of _The Lineage of Tellus_, only the lead female and her eventual lover are arguably 'straight'. The rest of the cast is fairly sexually fluid, except for Tris and Finn, who comfortably slip into the If It's You, It's Okay trope.
-   _Loveless_: Sunil is a homoromantic nonbinary ace who uses he/they pronouns, Pip is a lesbian, Jess is bisexual and aromantic, Rooney comes out as pan and Georgia realizes she's aroace.
-   _Maria Watches Over Us_ contains a lot of Homoerotic Subtext between almost all of the characters and is considered the de facto Yuri Genre series. Despite this, only Sachiko's cousin and fiance per an Arranged Marriage is canonically gay.
-   You'd be hard-pressed to find a female character in Virginia Woolf's novel _Mrs. Dalloway_ who isn't at least ambiguously bi or gay. At least one of the male characters, Septimus, fits the bill as well. (For what it's worth, Woolf herself was bi.)

-   _Presidential_: Not only both the protagonists Emily (a lesbian) and Connie (a bisexual woman) are LGBT+, but most of the supporting characters too. Sutton (Emily's sister) is a lesbian, with a wife, Rebecca. Jill, one of Connie's Secret Service agents, is a Butch Lesbian, and Elliot (among her staff members) is nonbinary. Brooke, Emily's ex-girlfriend, appears too.
-   Set in the world's first gay state, most characters in _Proud Pink Sky_ are LGBTQ+.
-   All of the inhabitants of the fictional Sesqua Valley in the works of W.H. Pugmire, according to Word of God. He's generally subtle about it although there are some strong homoerotic overtones to many of his stories.
-   The main characters in Charles Stross' _Rule 34_ are a lesbian cop, her bisexual old flame, a married man who cheats on his wife with other men and a bisexual sociopath.
-   _Running With Lions_ has main character Sebastian as bisexual. His friends Mason and Willie are bi and gay respectively and teammates Emir (Sebastian's Love Interest) and Hunter are also gay. Justified in that their coach, Coach Patrick has let it known that the team is open for LGBT players. Assistant coach Rivera is also gay and has a husband.
-   _The Steel Remains_ by Richard K. Morgan. Two of the three main characters are canonically gay, plus numerous side-characters, several who act as love interests for the main characters.
-   _Strawberry Panic!_ takes place at three all-girls schools and has no male characters in sight anywhere; as such, almost every character is either in or pursuing a romantic relationship with another girl.
-   _Sukisho_ is notable for having no women depicted at all within the series. All relationships, pornography, and everything is male-oriented homosexual in nature. Raising the question, how were they all born if there are no girls? And why does Sora seem to be so weirded out by homosexuality in the early episodes, given that it seems to be the norm?
-   Plato's _Symposium_ can give the impression of this to many modern readers, since the characters attending the symposium (a kind of ancient dinner party) are all male, as was customary at the time. The host is part of a couple with another man, several others are having relationships (or trying to) and homosexual love in general is a major topic of conversation. However, being Ancient Greece, this is more a case of Everyone Is Bi. It's just that since respectable women did not attend these kinds of events there is no female point of view other than Socrates recounting what he learned from the priestess Diotima. The trope applies since the entire story is really a re-telling of a re-telling of an event that the actual author was not personally present for.
-   When the _Tales of the City_ series first came on the scene, it was serialized in the _San Francisco Chronicle_. Maupin's editor told him that under no circumstances could more than half the cast be gay. Maupin responded by writing a bestiality scene between a socialite and her dog, saying that the dog should be counted as straight. The scene never saw print and Maupin was given leeway to have as many gay characters as served the story.
-   Bu the fifth book in the _Tales From Verania_ series, just about every named character (and most of the unnamed ones) are revealed to be gay or bisexual.
-   In _These Words Are True and Faithful,_ Ernie socializes mainly with other gay police officers and with people in the local gay leather scene.
-   The Sarah Waters novel (and later BBC series) _Tipping the Velvet_. Almost all of the major characters are lesbians, and at one point the Bifauxnen heroine works as a male prostitute... for male clients.
-   The _Warchild Series_. 95% are either confirmed gay or bi.
-   The latter half of _The Well of Loneliness_, which follows the Coming of Age of lesbian Stephen Gordon, is largely set in the gay subculture of early 20th-century Paris, and naturally most of the named and background characters are gay or bi.

    Live-Action TV 

-   Most stuff Russell T Davies has done since 1998:
    -   _Queer as Folk (UK)_ was about the gay scene in Manchester. All three main cast members are gay.
    -   _Bob and Rose_ is about a gay man falling in love with a woman and being ostracized by the gay community.
    -   _Torchwood_, had, according to Word of God, five bisexuals (well, four bisexuals and an omnisexual) in series 1 and 2, one of whom happens to be in a stable straight relationship. All of the main characters are shown with both men and women, although with varying levels of bisexuality. (In order of queerness: Gwen is seen kissing a girl when she's under mind-control; Owen is seen hooking up with a man once; Ianto claims he's only attracted to Jack, not to all men, but dates him romantically; Tosh dates one woman and a man and doesn't elaborate on her overall sexuality; Jack is properly omnisexual.)
    -   _Cucumber Banana Tofu_ is once again about gay men living in Manchester.
    -   _It's a Sin_ about a group of gay men in London in The '80s.
-   _Action_ turns into this by the end. Stuart, exec Bobby G, and action star Cole are all gay. Wendy and Janice turn out to be bisexual. Peter, the main character, is straight ... but that doesn't stop him from enjoying a blow job from Cole.
-   _The Big Leap_ has several gay men in prominent roles (Wayne, Simon, Justin, Travell, Ladon), as well as Monica turning out to be bi or pan later in the series and Justin discovering his mom was a closeted lesbian.
-   _The Bisexual_: Leila, the lead character, is a bisexual woman while most of the supporting characters are lesbians.
-   _Dante's Cove_. Almost every character on the show is either gay or bisexual. Except for the one Token Straight Woman, who is, of course, a villain.
-   _Don't Ever Wipe Tears Without Gloves_, which is about gay men in the eighties when AIDS began to spread.
-   _Equal_: As the series chronicles the early LGBT+ rights movement in the US, naturally it focuses on them. The majority among its characters are LGBT+, with several activists being highlighted.
-   _Everything Now_: More than half the main cast are LGBT+. Protagonist Mia is a bisexual girl, first showing attraction to Theo, then Carli and Alison. Carli and Alison both return her feelings. Will, her friend, is Camp Gay. Theo likes Mia first, but then gets involved with Will.
-   As noted on the Mistaken for Gay page, a literal **Cast** Full of Gay appears in _Frasier_—much of the (male) cast is gay IRL, which resulted in their characters being Mistaken for Gay at least once.
-   _Glee_, as many would expect, has nineteen confirmed queer characters - matched with the nineteen (out) actors on the show. In some cases, the characters and actors don't match up (like Jane Lynch playing Sue), and some where they do are of different sexualities (like Demi Lovato and Alex Newell).
-   _Gotham Knights (2023)_: Harper is bisexual, Cullen's a trans man, Duela's Ambiguously Bi and Stephanie's a lesbian, meaning that about half of the series' main characters are in some way LGBT+.
-   _Interview with the Vampire (2022)_: By the Season 1 finale, only one of the five <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  main characters is obviously heterosexual (Claudia). Louis de Pointe du Lac is gay, Lestat de Lioncourt is bisexual, Armand is queer (his sexual identity isn't spelled out in Season 1, but he and Louis are a same-sex couple) and Daniel Molloy is Ambiguously Bi.
-   Played for Laughs in _The IT Crowd_ episode "The Work Outing," when the gang is taken to see a show called _Gay!: A Gay Musical._ Naturally, everyone and everything about the musical is Camp Gay.
    
    **Roy:** A gay musical, called _Gay_. That's quite gay. Gay musical? Aren't all musicals gay? This must be, like, the gayest musical ever made.  
    **Jen:** "A story of a young man trying to find his sexuality in the uncaring Thatcher years. Warning: Contains scenes of graphic homoeroticism."  
    **Moss:** Oh, no! It's set in the 80s!
    
-   _A League of Their Own (2022)_: The vast majority of the cast is some variety of queer. Carson, Greta, Lupe, Jess, Max, and Jo are all confirmed to be attracted to women, and the only romances in the show are same-sex ones. The only confirmed straight main characters are Shirley, Maybelle, and Clance.
-   _Lip Service_: All of the main and most supporting characters are lesbians (plus bisexuals in a couple cases).
-   Played for laughs in _Little Britain_, in which it seems that pretty much everyone in Daffyd Thomas' village is either gay or bisexual. Considering that Daffyd is a stereotypical Camp Gay who bases his entire identity on smugly asserting that he's "the only gay in the village" (despite the fact that he may not actually be gay at all), this is a source of considerable horror and frustration for him. Also played for laughs in the Prime Minister sketches starring Anthony Head in which the Prime Minister is blithely unaware of his entire staff being composed of flamboyantly gay men who do everything short of making out on his desk.
-   HBO's _Looking_. An all-queer cast with the exception of a token straight woman.
-   _The L Word_, which is _Queer as Folk (UK)_ with lesbians.
-   Also, though it's far less well known, there's _Noah's Arc_. In fact, pretty much any scripted LOGO show will likely feature this trope.
-   Most female characters on _Orange Is the New Black_ are lesbian or bisexual, including the protagonist, Piper Chapman. It could also be a case of Situational Sexuality, since the series takes place in a women's prison.
-   The only character in _Our Flag Means Death_ who could be described as a heterosexual is Karl the seagull. The rest are either explicitly queer or have never shown any attraction towards anyone.
-   In HBO's Jail Thriller _Oz_, most characters are either gay (Gays' Gang) or bisexual (Tobias Beecher and Chris Keller).
-   _Plan V_, an Argentine production full of lesbians.
-   _Pose_ on FX has a majority-queer cast (gay and bi/pan males and trans women) with just three straight series-regular characters.
-   In the US version of _Queer as Folk_, half of the actors in the cast are openly gay. They ended up (either by design or by coincidence) pairing one gay actor (those playing Justin, Ben and Emmett) with one straight actor (those playing Brian, Michael and Ted).
-   Most of the main male characters on _Smash_ are gay or implied to be gay (which makes sense since it centers around the Broadway community).
-   _Tipping the Velvet (2002)_: The main character and most supporting characters are lesbians.
-   _We Are Who We Are_: Of the main cast, around half of them are LGBT. Sarah and Maggie are lesbians married to each other. Jenny is a bi or lesbian woman. Fraser is gay or bi. Caitlin is questioning her gender, perhaps a trans boy or at least not a cis girl, while she also likes both boys and girls.
-   _Wynonna Earp_ is slowly evolving into this. By the end of the 3rd season, the titular heroine is the only character in the main regular cast who has not been established as some variation of LGBQ (no T so far). Unlike with most examples of this trope, the reason isn't the show's theme or a setting in a gayborhood (in fact, it's as far from that as you can get). But rather, it's the result of several character deaths / retirements while at the same time the writers are actively refusing to use the Bury Your Gays trope. Also, by this point, the lesbian/gay sidekicks both have love interests that appear in all/most episodes, and the show finally fully embraced the Ho Yay between the lead's surviving main love interest and her great-great-grandfather back in the day, even if that apparently was an If It's You, It's Okay type situation.

    Music 

-   The queercore genre generally involves bands with homosexual members who discuss LGBT themes. An example would be Shitting Glitter who are currently composed of five lesbians, but had a camp gay as keyboardist and his boyfriend as dancer, and the keyboardist's straight brother as guitarist early on. As would be expected they have N-Word Privileges and often use words like such as 'dyke', 'tranny' and 'fag'.
-   The B-52s. All three male members are gay, and Kate Pierson is bisexual. The exception is Cindy Wilson - Ricky's sister - who has been married since the Seventies. In recent years Fred Schneider has really amped up his camp nature, with his band the Superions...whose other two members are gay. Judging from their mailing list, it would also appear that The B's gay fanbase easily outnumbers their straight one as well.
-   Brazilian MPB has a lot of lesbian singers, to the point it's a widespread joke. If a female singer from another genre comes out, soon some will ask if she'll now do MPB.

    Podcasts 

-   Both main storylines of _The Penumbra Podcast_ feature a main cast of primarily queer characters:
    -   The setting of _Juno Steel_ is more an example of Everyone Is Bi (it's set centuries in the future when societal norms have changed to make gender and sexuality a non-issue), but all of the main characters are _explicitly_ not straight. The main cast as of season 3 consists of a bisexual nonbinary person, a bisexual woman, a gay man, two lesbians (one of whom is transgender), and an aromantic-asexual man.
    -   _Second Citadel_ is a more conventional case of this trope (considering its setting is a medieval fantasy with more narrowminded ideas about gender and sexuality); its main cast includes a lesbian, three bisexual people in a polyamorous relationship, and a genderfluid person.
-   The D&D podcast/radio drama _Dice Funk_ has Rinaldo and Silas in season 1 as well as some facetious teasing of Jayne/Anne, but it's not until season 2 that the show really blooms into this trope, what with Vinnie, her gay kenku dads, the awkward relationship between Joan the Drow and her ex Lita, as well as the half-orc Jem. Effectively the only mention of heterosexuality comes from Alias' parents, one of which hardly shows up, and Violet blushing at Drop, which is never brought up again.
-   The podcast _The Strange Case of Starship Iris_ has a main cast of which at least 4/5 are either not straight, not cisgender, or both.
-   _Hello from the Hallowoods_: The vast majority of the cast is LGBT.
-   _Hi Nay_: Both among the protagonists and antagonists. On the protagonist side, Mari and Laura are both into women (with Mari being bi or pan), and Murphy and Ashvin are dating. For the antagonists, George Langford turns out to have come by the family name through his lover Friedrich pulling a lot of strings to get him recognized as part of the family (though as a brother since this was the 1800s).
-   Every member of the main cast of _Find Us Alive_ is LGBT in some manner; Klein and Love are lesbians, Lancaster is gay, and Harley and Raddagher are bisexual.
-   Almost every one of the main cast in _The Magnus Archives_ is queer in one way or another; Tim and Georgie are bisexual, Jon is a biromantic asexual who later gets in a relationship with Martin, and Martin and Melanie's sexualities aren't explicitly stated but both are in same-sex relationships. The only ones unaccounted for are Sasha, Daisy, Basira and Elias, who haven't been in any explicitly romantic situations.
-   _The Bright Sessions_ has a mostly queer cast. In terms of MLM there are Mark, Adam, Caleb, and Damien. In terms of WLW there are Rose, and Chloe, who is also asexual. Sam also has an arc of questioning her sexuality and starts dating a woman in the sequal podcast, the AM archives.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Thirsty Sword Lesbians_ is a game...about lesbians. By default, all the player characters will be thirsty sword lesbians, and the mechanics and setting assumptions encourage many of the NPCs to be romanceable by the PCs. Appropriately, the settings and adventures published for the game have NPC lists mostly consisting of lesbian or lesbian-adjacent characters.
    -   And, thanks to the wonders of stretch goals, the game has a gay male variant called _Gaylords_, which follows the analogy of _Thirsty Sword Lesbians_:_She-Ra and the Princesses of Power_::_Gaylords_::_He-Man and the Masters of the Universe_.
-   _Visigoths vs. Mall Goths_ proudly uses the tagline, "There are a lot of bisexuals." And there aren't just a lot of bisexuals, but also the majority of NPCs are somewhere on the LGBTQ spectrum, with every pre-made NPC labeled with their orientation or gender (or lack thereof).

    Theater 

-   _RENT_ features eight main characters, including a transgender street drummer, Angel (designated male at birth), an anarchist gay professor, a bisexual who can't seem to stay faithful, an uptight, straight-laced African American lesbian... and the four straight ones. Of course, Angel is the only character who actually dies during the show, though Mimi (straight) won't last long after the show's over.
-   Of the eight main characters in _Angels in America_, all five men "have sex with other men" (only three identify as gay), and there's something to be said about the apparently female Angel and her orgasmic kiss with Hannah.
-   _Oh My Godmother_ (a.k.a _Cinderella_ with a gay twist) is set in San Francisco with the central characters being comprised of nothing but Camp Gay men. The only notable straight characters are the evil, homophobic stepmother and stepsisters.
-   _The Boys in the Band_, as noted in the film section.
-   _The Normal Heart_, by Larry Kramer. Also literally (somewhat) true for the 2011 revival cast (Joe Mantello, John Benjamin Hickey and Luke Macfarlane are all out, at least). Gay actors in the 2014 film version, meanwhile, include Matt Bomer (Felix), Jonathan Groff (Craig), Jim Parsons (Tommy), Joe Mantello (Mickey), B.D. Wong (Buzzy), Stephen Spinella (Sanford), and Denis O'Hare (Hiram) — but _not_ Mark Ruffalo (main character Ned), who initially hesitated to take the role (questioning whether or not a straight man should be playing the part) until director Ryan Murphy told him quite bluntly that he wanted the best actor for the role and Ruffalo was it.
-   _Always Plenty of Light at the Starlight All Night Diner_ features four main characters including Sam, the Starlight's overnight janitor who's a hard butch on the outside but a real softie on the inside. Jessa, a super pregnant waitress who works at the Starlight All Night Diner and is actually totally NOT a lesbian YES SHE IS Danni, a dinosaur nerd, and Dr Moxie, Danni's (straight???) graduate advisor. This super queer time travel adventure WITH DINOSAURS has a bit of a twist, Starlight uses the Preserve Your Gays trope by killing off Moxie the only unconfirmed lesbian.
-   _Head over Heels_ features a lesbian couple, a nonbinary character, and a character who comes out as gender fluid after being Disguised in Drag for most of the show. All of the presumably straight characters either are in relationships or were attracted to the latter two characters, making them Ambiguously Bi.

    Video Games 

-   _Artificial Academy_ games by Illusion. It is the players choice of who (and what) they want in their game and to play as anyone in the class that they have created. You can essentially have a class full of girls only or boys only, as long as the 'homo' or 'bi' option for the character is set in the maker. Although, when initiating 'H scenes' with two guys the game instead fades to black. But with Yuri scenes it's completely normal, albeit without many of the options hetero pairings have. Some understandable, some less so. Without modding the game there isn't any other way to "uncensor" the Yaoi scenes.
-   In _Black Closet_, Elsa and all the other members of the Absurdly Powerful Student Council at the all-girls St. Claudine's Academy are lesbian or at least bisexual with the sole exception of Mallory. Mallory even disbelievingly wonders aloud at one point if she's the _only_ straight girl in the entire school.
-   A fairly accurate assessment of the _Borderlands_ universe (at least starting with the second game when the series started to have more than an Excuse Plot) is that Everyone Is Bi unless confirmed gay. The only exceptions are Maya, who is asexual, and possibly Salvador, whose love for guns eclipses any sexual preferences he may or may not have to the point that he might as well just be called "gunsexual".
-   Out of the four members of the protagonist family in _Dead In Vinland_, three (Moira, Kari, and Eirik) are bisexual, with Gay Option romantic possibilities. Moira is vocally out from early on, Kari is a teenager who's something of a late bloomer and still figuring out her sexuality, and Eirik is much more closeted.
-   While it would be dishonest to say _most_ of the characters in _Dragon Age_ are gay, it probably has the largest number of LGBT characters out of any modern AAA video game franchise, both in the main cast of followers and major NPCs, as well as the supporting casts and even minor characters in each game. Part of the reason for this is because the lead writer and creator of the franchise is gay himself. _Dragon Age II_ in particular took this up by making every romanceable companion (aside from one DLC character) bisexual.
    -   The lore of the series reveals that sexuality is very diverse in the world. In _Dragon Age: Inquisition_, the codex entry "Sexuality in Thedas" states that a person's sexual preferences are considered distinct from matters of procreation, save for among nobles who are concerned with continuing their bloodlines. Specifically, Orlais considers gay attraction little more than a personality quirk, while the people of Ferelden tend not to care as long as what goes on in the bedroom stays in the bedroom. Only the Tevinter Imperium frowns on gay relations, but they have no laws specifically forbidding them either.
-   _Embric of Wulfhammer's Castle_ . Good luck finding ANY female character that isn't into women.
-   _Fire Emblem: Three Houses_ has the Black Eagle and Blue Lion houses:
    -   The Black Eagles have the canonically-bisexual Edelgard, Linhardt, and Dorothea as part of their starting lineup, as as of the 1.10 update, Jeritza after the timeskip. Hubert, Ferdinand, Caspar, and Petra also have Ambiguously Bi endings. (Hubert and Ferdinand with each other, Caspar with Ashe and Linhardt, and Petra with Dorothea)
    -   The Blue Lions has the canonically-bisexual Mercedes, while Sylvain is more or less all but outright stated to be bisexual despite his skirt-chasing ways, and Felix is also implied to be bisexual (or at least for Sylvain). The house is also home to the Ambiguously Bi Dimitri, Dedue, Ashe, and Annette.
-   _Goodbye Volcano High_: Nearly every one of the eight main characters are LGBT to some degree. The player character, Fang, is AFAB nonbinary. Naomi, a cis woman, enters a romantic relationship with Fang. Trish and Rosa are heavily implied to be in a relationship, and Rosa is later revealed to be a trans woman. Sage, a trans man, is implied to be in a relationship with Stella, a cis woman. Reed, a cis male, is shown to be flirting with a boy in text messages in a flashback. The only character suspected of being straight is Nasser, who early in the game is thought to be romancing Naomi, but ultimately remains single.
-   _Horizon Zero Dawn_ and _Horizon Forbidden West_ are both full of same-sex-attracted people. With civilization having ended and very little information about the Old World, taboos against homosexuality are effectively gone. Named female characters in particular seem to be more prone to having relationships with other women, including Elizabet Sobek, the woman Aloy is a clone of. Numerous people people flirt with Aloy across both games, and she's noticeably more comfortable when it's another woman doing the flirting and the only character she can choose to say yes to is another woman.
-   _Ikenfell_: Just out of the main cast alone, half of them (three out of six: Petronella, Rook, and Ima) are non-binary, and one of these three (Nel) is also aro/ace. For the remaining three, two of them (Maritte and Pertisia) are lesbians and end up in a relationship together, and the third (Gilda) is at least gay but probably bi or pan. Then there are the supporting characters, which adds another lesbian couple (Aeldra and Ifig), and a gay couple (Ibn and Bax), and it's implied that Maritte's older sister Safina is non-straight as well.
-   In _Kitty Powers' Matchmaker_, while it's more likely for clients to be straight, gay and bi clients are also very common.
-   Most of the playable characters in _The Last Resurrection_ are bisexual or lesbian, whereas all of the villains are straight. Of course, said villains are associated with fundamental Christianity or Nazism, so that's justified.
-   _Life Is Strange_ is noteworthy for pretty much always featuring a canonically bisexual protagonist with both a male and a female romantic option, with all four main games in the series following this formula to some degree.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Naturally, the supporting cast tends to have plenty of LGBTQ+ characters as well, increasingly openly so as the series goes on. Exaggerated in the the comics, where practically every main and recurring character is either in a same-sex relationship or pining for a crush of the same gender; furthermore, the comics introduced the first (implicitly) trans character into the franchise. Noteworthy LGBTQ+ characters other than the playable protagonists:
    -   Chloe's primary love interest Rachel in _Before the Storm_ doesn't explicitly define her sexuality but is clearly shown to be bisexual, while supporting character Steph is an out lesbian who also has a crush on Rachel and becomes something of a coming-out mentor to Chloe.
    -   Tristan, a comics-exclusive protagonist, develops a mutual romantic interest in supporting character Lawrence. Pixie, the drummer of the High Seas, has a crush on either Max or Chloe (or both) at the start, though she never acts on it and it's quietly dropped later in the series. Dex, the High Seas' keyboardist, is strongly implied to be a trans man.
    -   Sean's male love interest Finn in _LIS2_ self-defines as pansexual. Two other members of their friend group, Jacob and Penny, are both openly gay (and, furthermore, defy narrative expectations by having no apparent romantic interest in each other, Sean, or Finn). In the final episode Sean meets an older married gay couple, Arthur and Stanley, while living in a free-spirited desert community.
    -   Steph from _Before the Storm_ returns in a much bigger role as one of Alex's potential romantic interests (and the playable protagonist of her own DLC) in _True Colors_. The game also subtly hints that Alex's other potential love interest, Ryan, is somewhere on the asexual spectrum. There's also a gay couple who serve as recurring characters encountered several times in events around Haven Springs, and flashbacks to Steph's relationship with her ex-girlfriend Izzie reveal that the latter was transgender. (Making her the first explicitly trans character in the series and the first trans character in the games, not to mention the only trans woman in the franchise so far.) Steph's own DLC chapter _Wavelengths_ introduces several more sapphic women she meets on a dating app, a few of whom can become significant supporting characters in the chapter depending on the player's choices. During this story, Steph ends up dating a character who eventually comes out as a trans man, at which point they part amicably and remain friends.
    -   _Life is Strange: Steph's Story_, which covers Steph's time in Seattle and her relationship with Izzie, also introduces several new characters, including Steph's co-worker Jordi and his friend (later boyfriend) Olly, both of whom are gay trans men; Olly is also on the asexual spectrum.
-   _Luxaren Allure_: Chisa and Merel form a romance, Chisa was pining after Karuna before Merel came along, and Karuna is in love with Aurelie. That connects four out of the five main characters.
-   _Minecraft_, as Notch pointed out, only has one gender for all mobs, which means that any creature in Minecraft is homosexual, because there is only one gender to choose from.
-   _Moonrise_: There's no cis heterosexual interpretation of this sapphic werewolf interactive novel. All the characters are queer.
-   Male androids are relatively recent development in _NieR: Automata_ so it's not too surprising that the YoRHa androids tend to go gay when they seek companionship. This is also due to androids not really viewing gender the same way humans do, favoring compatible personalities over gender. Also, the same does not hold for the Resistance as the male/female ratio among them is more balanced.
-   There are apparently no straight characters in playable characters of _Omega Labyrinth Life_, all of them explicitly showing romantic attraction to other girls, being an Official Couple, or having a Pseudo-Romantic Friendship that is so close and intimate, it's implied to be a secret relationship.
-   Nearly every female character in _Rabi-Ribi_ is attracted to Erina and/or Lilith to some degree. It helps that there are seemingly no men whatsoever on Rabi Rabi Island.
-   In _Read Only Memories_ every major character who is in a known relationship (or, in Lexi's case, was in one) is gay except Dekker, who used to be married to a woman. Additionally, one of the player's major allies, TOMCAT, identifies as nonbinary (as can the player character, if you so choose).
-   _Sakura Dungeon_. Even _with_ the Improbably Female Cast you'd be hard pressed to find anyone who isn't into girls.
-   _Senran Kagura_. While there is the question of availability, and romance is repeatedly mentioned as a luxury Shinobi don't allow themselves, nearly every character who exhibits significant Les Yay has explicitly rejected the idea of a heterosexual romance. A good example (and far from the only) is Asuka, who refuses a date with a guy when she notices she was only tempted for the normalcy not the companionship, and then gets into a rivalry so intense a mutual foe mistakes them for a couple and promptly starts shipping them - many fans interpret this as Asuka being a lesbian who hasn't figured herself out yet.
-   _The Sims_ games allow you to create a situation like this, either in a single house/family or in a entire neighborhood, but all sims have flexible sexualities.
-   _Story of Seasons: Friends of Mineral Town_ has all of the bachelorettes and bachelors as bisexual so that they can be wooed no matter what.
-   _Super Lesbian Animal RPG_: As the title suggests the main characters are four sapphically-inclined anthropomorphic animals, two of whom are also trans. There are also a number of side characters all over the LGBTQ+ spectrum, such as a pair of non-binary bards.

-   The cast of _The Walking Dead: Season Four_ has more LGBT characters than the last three seasons combined, including: Clementine, who's bisexual, James, who's gay, and Violet and Minnie, who are both lesbians. Aasim was also originally planned to be bisexual with a crush on Louis.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Sono Hanabira ni Kuchizuke wo_ (_A Kiss for the Petals_) is a cast full of lesbian with parents and some expanded material characters being the only characters that show any heterosexual feelings.
-   There exists a full genre of yaoi and yuri games, mostly in the visual novel format. Many of them have this trope in action. For example, in _Silver Chaos_ the only female that can be seen is in one of the CGs and very much dead.
    -   _Gakuen Heaven_, justified in that the series takes place at an all-boys school. Which is named BL Academy - just in case you didn't get the memo that this is a yaoi series.
    -   The cast of _her tears were my light_ is small and only includes girls who love girls.
-   Lampshaded in _don't take it personally babe, it just ain't your story_, when Taylor asks if she's the only straight person in the entire class, even though she isn't (only half the cast is).
-   _Minotaur Hotel_: Not as obvious as other furry Visual Novels, but it's still there. Annabelle makes it clear to everyone that he's gay, P outright states it, while you yourself have stated that you've had sex with a man before and that you're attracted to Asterion. Asterion is plainly attracted towards the Master in the main route, while Storm says that he wants to be in a relationship with P if he's been kind enough to him, though there's the possibility that he's still figuring out his sexuality. Everyone else has unclear sexualities.
-   _Morenatsu_ is this. Or it's a Gayborhood at the least.
-   _Heart of the Woods_ has four main characters, all of which are women who love women.
-   _Lovestruck_:
    -   _Havenfall Is for Lovers_: Most of the central and supporting cast are LGBT. The heroine lampshades it after a large group meeting in Mackenzie's season four, saying she's starting to think there's a correlation between that and the supernatural.
    -   _Villainous Nights_: Monarch is bisexual, Renzei and Bat are pansexual, and Andi and Lorelei are lesbians, making Duke the only heterosexual character in the core cast. In addition, several of the antagonists are not straight, Monarch's roommate Robin is nonbinary, and Zeke — the original founder of the Syndicate who is introduced later — is also pansexual.
    -   _Queen of Thieves_: According to a Q&A, Nikolai is pansexual, Vivienne and Zoe are lesbians, and Remy and Jett are bisexual, with Leon as the only straight member of the core cast.
    -   _Sin With Me_: The heroine, Onyx, and Nahara are all bisexual, and Wrath, Yvette, Ripley, and Vinca are all lesbians. In addition, Malakai and Nahara are both demisexual. This leaves Darius and Cal as the only heterosexual major characters.
    -   _Reigning Passions_: The heroine and Xenia are bisexual; Sevastian, Lyris, and Piama are pansexual; Amara and Hazel are lesbians, and Galen is non-binary and queer. Hazel is also trans.
    -   _Ever After Academy_: Almost every member of the main cast is LGBT, as well as some of the supporting characters.
-   _VA-11 HALL-A_: leading lady Jill Stingray is bisexual leaning towards lesbian, who had a relationship with another woman prior to the start of the game and harbors a massive crush on her female manager Dana who may have get together with Jill in the good ending, though it's never explicitly mentioned whether they're going on a date or Dana taking care of Jill like she does over the course of the game. Stella Hoshii is Ambiguously Gay for her best friend Sei Asagiri. Dorothy is a Sexbot who is practically pansexual, as her line of work necessitates. Alma Armas is heterosexual, but has a transgender brother. Beatrice is a lesbian, but also harbors some feelings for a male coworker. Taylor is a Brain in a Jar who doesn't identify as male or female. Mario is a closeted gay biker.
-   _Yearning: A Gay Story_: The player character is gay, befriends Carlos and Jake who both turn out to be gay too, and joins a Queer & Allies club that has lesbian girlfriends Liz B. and Liz G., bisexual actor James, and gay Ethical Slut Dan. There _are_ some other characters who seem to be heterosexual, but they're in the minority and one of them turns out to be not 100% heterosexual after all in one ending.
-   Most of the cast in _Heaven Will Be Mine_ is explicitly some variety of LGBT— specifically, most of them are lesbians, though there's also Mercury and his husband Ganymede. Several characters are explicitly transgender as well. This is actually a plot point: the children who left Earth to become test pilots were already outsiders by nature, and over time, those who fit in better returned to Earth, leaving those who don't fit in to a greater degree stuck in space.
-   Most of the cast of _Kindred Spirits on the Roof_ already is in a lesbian relationship at the start of the game or ends up in one over the course of the game. There are two exceptions— Yuna's friend Fuji Ano and Nena Miyama of the broadcasting trio— but their sexualities are never conclusively determined.
-   In _Cursed Lands_ there are six potential love interests, none of of them hetrosexual. Four are bisexual, one of each gender is gay.
-   _Choices: Stories You Play_:
    -   _The Nanny Affair_ can feature a cast full of lesbian, including the Always Female main character Anna, the gender customizable love interest Sam (if set to female), their adopted sibling Robin (whose gender is the same as Sam's), Sam's fiancee Sofia and their ex-wife Addison, while Book 2 adds Jordan, the replacement nanny (who's also gender customizable) into the mix. Lampshaded in Book 2, Chapter 6 when Anna's publicist tells her that everyone sees her as "the other woman" after Sam left Sofia to be with her, and Anna counters that everyone involved is a woman if Sam is female.
    -   _Wake the Dead_ has plenty of LGBTQIA+ characters, in no small part due to being a Zombie Apocalypse story taking place in the 2040s. The main character, Ash (who can be customized as either male or female) has both male and female love interests<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , all of them can be romanced regardless of Ash's gender. In addition, Ash and their sister were raised by two fathers, Knuckles is in a polyamorous relationship with a man and a woman, Ayliah is married to another woman, and Hatchet is non-binary.
    -   Another story with plenty of LGBTQIA+ characters is _Murder at Homecoming_. The main character, Blake, can be gay or non-binary if the player so chooses. Gabbie is bisexual, and was in a relationship with Joanna, a lesbian with _extremely_ homophobic parents. Also, two of Blake's love interests, Donovan and Stevie, are canonically bisexual, while the third, Tyler, comes off as straight, then he discovers he isn't if a male or nonbinary Blake romances him. There's also the gay Cool Teacher, Mr Lewis, whose parents are also quite homophobic.

    Web Animation 

-   The sister series of _Hazbin Hotel_, _Helluva Boss_ downplays it but is still present, with three of the main cast members being confirmed as LGBT. Stolas being a Camp Gay prince of hell, Blitzo confirmed in his instagram post as pan, and Moxxie was revealed to be bisexual in a tweet by Viv on Bi-Visbility Day and explicitly came out in the episode "Exes and Oohs". Episode 5 also introduced Sallie May, Millie's transgender sister, as confirmed by a tweet from the voice actor. Blitzo's former friend Fizzarolli and Asmodeus, King of Lust, are revealed to be couple in episode "Oops".
-   _hololive_: A majority of idols tend to show lesbian, or at least bisexual tendencies, albeit with some purely straight exceptions, such as Shirogane Noel. This is especially notable with idols such as Sakura Miko, Natsuiro Matsuri, Inugami Korone, and La+ Darknesss, whose lust for girls tend to be defining attributes.
-   As confirmed in two tweets, most of the characters from JoCat's _A Crap Guide to D&D_ are LGBT. Felicia (Bard) is pansexual, Sasha (Paladin) is a lesbian, Hutrax and John (Wizard and Fighter) are gay, Chad (Sorcerer) is transgender, Rogmesh (Ranger) is bisexual, Ricmo (Druid) is non-binary, and Busmic and Yathyra (Warlock and Monk) are asexual.
-   A majority of the _Overly Sarcastic Productions_ cast and crew are asexual. In the podcast series, Red jokingly blames it on LGBTQIA+ people having a strangely accurate ability to find each other without even knowing.
-   In _RWBY_, Blake Belladonna is a bisexual in a sapphic relationship with Yang Xiao Long, who's either a lesbian, bisexual or pansexual, Coco Adel and Ilia Amitoa are both lesbians, Saphron and Terra Cotta-Arc are _married_ lesbians, Scarlet David is gay, and May Marigold is transgender. These are just the confirmed LGBTQIA+ aspects — many side characters and main characters are hinted to be some flavor of bi, pan, homo, or asexual, with a few of them suggested to be in a poly relationship.
-   _If the Emperor Had a Text-to-Speech Device_ drips with homoeroticism, parodying the cis/het male power fantasy of the source material. The vast majority of male characters appear to be either attracted to men in some way or Asexual. On the other hand, very few women appear, mostly Sisters of Battle, who are celibate battle nuns. The only character confirmed to be exclusively heterosexual is the Emperor himself, who is a desiccated corpse.
-   _Chikn Nuggit_: Fwench Fwy and Iscream are both Otherworldly and Sexually Ambiguous and in a relationship, Cheezborger and Slushi are both bisexual, Cofi has been hinted to like women as well, and Chikn Nuggit is pansexual. Fwench Fwy has also admitted to being gay in one short. In fact, all of the characters whose sexualities have been expressly revealed are LGBT.

    Webcomics 

-   _180 Angel_: Chloe/Samael is biromantic demisexual, Lilith is pansexual, Zero is trans and bisexual, and Xavier is gay.
-   _Angel Down_: Ward and Chloe are gay, Bernard is bisexual, Samuel is transgender, and Ariel is asexual, the only named character who hasn't been shown to be LGBT+ is Maria.
-   _Cirque Royale_ has a majority gay cast. The only major characters who aren't some known form of queer (and aren't children, like Red) are Quinn, Penelope, their mother dowager Queen Louise, and Pascal. (His father Manet's sexuality is listed as "unknown".)
-   _Coming To The Lavender_ Aaron the main character and his monster girlfriend Myfawny are bisexual, Myfawny's best friend Mag is a lesbian, and her friend Feather and Carmine are two men in a relationship.
-   _Muted_: Camille herself just admitted out loud she's not attracted to men. She's being courted by both a fiery young woman and another sweet woman who loves growing flowers.
-   _Ayuri_: All characters shown to be in relationships so far are lesbians.
-   _The Green-Eyed Sniper_ has a 100% lesbian main cast (even Assistant, the sentient robot, seems to be in love with her creator, Sekhmet). NO lesbian character dies!
-   _High Class Homos_: Sapphia and Odette are lesbians, August and Percy are gay, Marla is bisexual, and Lucas is a transgender man.
-   _Smoke Fur And Stone_: All the characters seem to be at least bisexual. Chuck is a butch werewolf mourning his lost boyfriend, twinky Whithers becomes his love interest and even the amazonian warrior-woman Valjo checks out a female sea deity on route to a sacrificial island.
-   "Finn and Charlie are Hitched/ Muddlers Beat", centers around a marriage between Charlie and Finn. There are a slew of other LGBT characters like Ken, Corey, and Jake.
-   _My Life In Blue_, which centers around a bunch of young Performance Artists. Marius is transgender, Alex is gay, and the most of the supporting characters are gay or bisexual to at least some degree. Unsurprisingly, one of the few straight characters, Alison, is a Fag Hag.

-   _Khaos Komix_: The only apparent heterosexual of the main eight is Jamie: Nay and Charlie are clearly bi, Murfs is label-averse but seeing Tom, Tom is gay, as Mark and Amber appear to be, as does Steve, although he considers he might be bi.
-   In _Ménage à 3_, for a while, it seemed like every major character who wasn't explicitly gay or bisexual (most were the latter, in fact) was at least very deeply uncertain. This was scaled back somewhat when DiDi stopped identifying as bisexual, Sandra and Gary stopped questioning, and Kiley and Erik became more important as characters — but then things got more complicated with all those characters in different ways. In any case, there's still a substantial majority of non-heterosexual characters. This is mostly Played for Laughs (and a fair bit of Fanservice); a modern Sex Comedy, in which characters actually have sex on a regular basis, has more options for jokes and surprises if almost anybody might end up in bed with anybody else.
-   The main cast of _Boy Meets Boy_ consists of a gay couple, a bisexual guy, a heterosexual guy secretly in love with the bisexual guy, and the couple's landlady.
-   _YU+ME: dream_ , This gets toned down and deconstructed when it is revealed that it is all a dream, of a homosexual teenage girl who as a outcast, wanted friends and ones who could help her come to terms with her sexuality. Final count is two lesbians and two bisexuals.
-   All the trolls in _Homestuck_ are bi, except Kanaya who is gay by Word of God. Meanwhile half of the main human cast has also been confirmed or at least strongly implied to be non-straight (Dirk is gay, Rose is either gay or bi, Jake is probably bi, and Dave is also implied to be bi later on). The artist has joked that the comic will eventually collapse into a "gay singularity".
-   _I Was Kidnapped by Lesbian Pirates from Outer Space!!!_, for obvious reasons.
-   Of the three leads of _Shortpacked!_, Ethan is gay, Amber is (probably) straight, and Robin (after much confusion) identifies as "generally undefinably queer". Also, Leslie, Mike, Drew, and Conquest are clearly not straight (as well as Drop-In Character Thad and his late boyfriend Evan), and Malaya is Robosexual for Ultra Car, who is homoromantic asexual. Rick and Faz are such Cloudcuckoolanders that it's impossible to tell<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , Galasso can't tell genders apart despite having a daughter, and even Ronnie seems to imply he's had affairs with men in one strip, leaving essentially just Roz, Jacob, Ken and Lucy. This is a phenomenon Amber's commented on several times, providing a quote on the Quotes page; it's also lampshaded here.
-   _Penny and Aggie_ didn't start out this way, but it became clear early on that Sara of Penny's Girl Posse was gay, and when she came out halfway through, bit characters Fred and Daphne were seen to be gay and began getting a lot more screen time, forming a second Cast Herd with Sara, Aggie, and Aggie's friend Lisa, who shunned labels throughout. The eponymous pair themselves were questioning throughout, especially later on, coming out in the final arc; Stan, one of the most important supporting characters outside the two cliques, seemed to have a crush on a male friend obvious enough for other characters to comment; and Depraved Bisexual Cyndi was the closest thing to a villain for about a third of the strip's run.
-   The spinoff, _QUILTBAG_ (look at the title), stars Sara and Lisa, with Stan playing a small role, as well as Sara's mother, who's now sleeping with a woman. Of their floor, Alex, Jade, and Bob appear to be bisexual (albeit at least the former two being Contest Winner Cameos), Jules a lesbian, Temperance clearly interested in girls, and their RA Hank gay. There's also a subplot with an all-lesbian sorority, and Chrissy, a trans woman who partners with women, is a supporting character.
-   _El Goonish Shive_: The author has admitted that basically no one in his comic is completely straight, with Sensei Greg, a side character, being the only "token straight guy."
    -   Among the main cast, we have: Justin, an openly gay guy (although not initially by choice); Nanase, a lesbian that spent years in denial before finally meeting her Closet Key; Tedd, who has a fondness for transforming into a woman and eventually discovers that they're genderfluid, Ellen, a bisexual homoromantic girl and Nanase's aforementioned key; Susan, a seeming asexual demiromantic girl who's still trying to figure out her exact sexual identity; Grace, a shapeshifter whose sexuality is hard to pin down exactly (she seems to genuinely have Single-Target Sexuality, although a closer _Earth_ sexuality might be demisexual or sapiosexual); Sarah, who seems to be the most straight but calls herself "Kinsey-2 at most" and has invasive thoughts about girls sometimes; Elliot, who was initially presented as straight but frequent Gender Bending have caused him to realise he might be attracted to men even while not transformed; Ashley, a bisexual girl who is _really_ into transforming; and Diane, who thought she was straight before realising that her secret crush on Nanase was more than "If It's You, It's Okay". Confusing matters more, almost all of these characters have been genderbent at least once (including once _simultaneously_ for one night) and felt attraction towards what normally would be their own gender.
    -   In the secondary cast, there's Sam, a trans guy; Rhoda and Catalina, a bisexual girl and a lesbian that are a couple; Noah, who seems to be asexual (he is dating a girl, but only for "physical warmth and comfort"); Luke, another gay guy and Justin's boyfriend; and any number of cameo characters who are not cis and straight. That's not even getting into genderless aliens, immortals, shapeshifters, alternative universes where characters switch out genders and sexualities like they were shoes, etc.
    -   Played for Laughs in "Identity" with the five guys who saw Elliot and Sarah's breakup on the review show. When they all talk to Sarah afterwards, she suspects that at least some of them are hitting on her. When she actually talks to them about it, it turns out four of them are gay.
    -   In "Squirrel Prophet Part 2", when Justin tells Grace that 90% of people are heterosexual, she does some mental calculations and concludes, based on her own social circle, "That can't ''possibly'' be right."
-   _Band vs. Band_ has a cast mostly made up of lesbian, gay, bisexual or pansexual characters.
-   _Threading_ has an all-lesbian cast.
-   _Fur-Piled_ has, out of ALL the main characters, a single straight character.
-   In _Seiyuu CRUSH!_, all of the main couples are gay, with a few other gay characters alluded to, and the remaining characters' romantic interests not confirmed.
-   All demons in _Heartcore_ are, to varying degrees, pansexual. Of particular note are Amethyst, who is a shameless flirt and sapphic-leaning; and Volaster, who loved Royce and sired Carval with him (demons engage in Bizarre Alien Reproduction that makes it so any demon of any gender or sex can have children). The few outliers among the cast, as a whole, are Syranon (strictly hetero), Ryo (suggested to be asexual), and Teodora (an out lesbian)
-   The main cast of _Skin Horse_: Tip started out as a straight (but crossdressing) Ethical Slut before he met Artie, and now Really Gets Around; Artie says Sweetheart is gay but in denial about it (she seems to have feelings for Unity); Unity herself is probably bi, since she has "funny feelings" about Tigerlily Jones, but also has a sort-of-boyfriend. Nick is straight, Moustachio probably likewise given his relationship with Hitty, and Gavotte is autosexual, since she's a swarm of bees. (And with the exception of Moustachio, Gavotte and possibly Nick if you classify him as a human rather than a helicopter, all of them have been interested in dating outside their species. But especially Tip.)
-   A major Creator Thumbprint of Jocelyn Samara, who is an asexual trans woman herself:
    -   _Rain (2010)_ has a majority queer cast, with its title character being a trans girl.
    -   _My Impossible Soulmate_ is similar, with an almost entirely queer cast. Going into specifics, Chiaki and Nagisa are lesbians (with the former also being demiromantic), Keegan and Belial are bisexual, Redge is gay, Micah is pansexual and uses they/them pronouns, Nara is omnisexual, and Verity is questioning.
-   _The Princess (2009)_ contains characters of various gender and sexual identities, including the protagonist (a trans girl who has crushes on both male and female characters) and her best friend who eventually identifies as nonbinary.
-   In _Mage & Demon Queen_, the only confirmed heterosexual character is Cerik, and he only goes for female lamia. Queen Vel is suggested to be a lesbian and had a prior relationship with another woman, Malori is 100% Vel-sexual, Alto asked if the king was hot in his first line of dialogue, and the princess is a trans girl who's constantly trying to snatch Malori away from Vel. Word of God states that practically everyone in Folstina is pansexual unless stated otherwise.
-   _Ignition Zero_ has its main cast consist of various characters who fit on the lgbt spectrum. Robbie is a homoromantic asexual, Orson is asexual, Neve is pansexual and genderfluid, and Martin is an aromantic heterosexual.
-   _Sister Claire_: It's easier to list who _isn't_ LGBT: literally no one, as per Word of God. As the creators are both LGBT and in an LGBT relationship together, they're explicitly making _Sister Claire_ a paradigm for diversity. This means that any character not explicitly shown to be LGBT is _at minimum_ Ambiguously Bi.
-   _The Night Belongs to Us_: Hank, the main character; Miss Chief, the main antagonist; and Antoine Anton are all gay. Ada, the deuteragonist, is at least bisexual, and Lendfire might be as well.
-   _The Wretched Ones_: The entire main cast is queer, with John as pansexual, Charlie as trans and bisexual, Yayne as bisexual, and Sparkes being genderqueer and asexual. The author has hinted there are even more queer characters to come.
-   Four out of five of _Agents of the Realm_'s main cast are gay, bi, or similar, as well as several side characters.
-   _The Hazards of Love_: At least half the cast so far seems to be LGBTQ in one form or another.
-   Most of the cast in _But I'm a Cat Person_ are gay or bi, and a few are also transgender or identify differently. Beings are _asexual_ by their very nature, though they often take part in such activities anyway at their masters' beck and call.
-   The cast of _Lovebot_ consists of mostly gay characters, two characters who appear to be bisexual, and a transgender man as the protagonist. Straight characters, when they appear at least, are mostly left to bit roles.
-   _Val and Isaac_. The main cast consists of Minnow, a bi cyborg fish girl who's dating a Robot Girl and loves her two dads very much (her girlfriend's new boss, another female DOR15 unit, is dating an octopus girl); Val's dating history is heavy on other women; and female secondary characters Garla and Space Dread appear to be a thing. Isaac is just asexual, and even plays with a sports team that presumably caters exclusively to asexual spellcasters (it's even called the Ace Wizards).
-   _Learning with Manga! FGO_: Gudako and her Servants are either shown to be into girls or solely in F/F relationships if they have any sexual interest at all, while the Male Protagonist likes boys and ambiguous people. Even rarely seen characters like Dr. Roman have at least one scene with the same gender.
-   _Questionable Content_ has a primary cast which, at this point, diverges from heterosexuality in most cases, running the gamut from If It's You, It's Okay to completely asexual to bi, lesbian and gay, all the way to one of the main characters actually striking up a relationship with an AI, which isn't even remarked upon as if there's anything strange going on. Many of the secondary characters and B-plots are still hetero, so to speak, but there's a lot going on in that possible futuristic world. The author has said that every time he gets a complaint about the high number of LGBT characters, he adds one more out of spite.
-   _Dear Children_ centers on Hearthbrook High School's Journalism Club, of whose 5-7 members at _least_ 3 are definitely gay, bi, or otherwise sexually-unusual.
-   _Fairest Cruelest_ Almost every sex scene in the comic is between same sex couples or has one of the partners mention their queer leanings.
-   While none of the four main kids in the Activity Club in _Paranatural_ has a defined sexuality as yet (they're all quite young), the backup cast pick up the slack: among the kids in the school, Cody is gay and RJ is nonbinary; among the adults, Dr Zarei, Agent Day, Mr Spender, Mr Garcia, DJ Mothman, and Professor Bigfoot are or have been in same-sex relationships.
-   _Wapsi Square_ has transitioned into this over the years, as almost every major female character (which is easily 90% of the cast) has switched from straight to surprise lesbian. Many in literal surprises moment that seemingly come out of nowhere, with no prior build up or real explanation after.
-   Most of the cast of _Fillbert_ is asexual. Fillbert is additionally non-binary and aromantic, and Vivi and Willow were in a lesbian relationship until the 2022-W10 comic.
-   _Sleepless Domain_: The main cast alone includes several WLW characters, a trans girl, at least one asexual, and not a single confirmed straight person. Similarly, same-sex relationships in the comic (whether confirmed or only hinted at) vastly outnumber and overshadow opposite-sex ones. The one character _only_ known to be attracted to the opposite sex is Tessa, who has a crush on a boy at her school; as such, the fandom has jokingly dubbed her the comic's "Token Straight".
-   _Transcendent_: Olive is a trans girl, Owen is pansexual, Sid is demisexual, Lyndon is bi and is dating Itsuki, who's gay, Gigi is in love with Olive, and various LGBTA+ supporting and background characters appear sporadically.
-   _Muted_: The comic features several LGBT characters. Camille is a lesbian, Nyra and Avaline are bisexual, Silvia is asexual/aromantic, Jazmin (the woman making flowers for the tourists in Episode 1) and Kalen (Camille's father) are trans, and Sloane and Rowena are non-binary.
-   _The Fantasy Book Club_: Fiona is aromantic, Tristan is asexual, Brie is sapphic, Eremis is lesbian, and Drew is transmasc and pansexual.
-   _Matchmaker_ is about nonbinary Kimmy helping her gay best friend Mason get a boyfriend, as well as the love lives of their LGBT friend circle. The only character explicitly said to be straight and stays that way is Josh, who makes a few short appearances near the end.
-   Most of _Earth, 2068_'s main cast is queer in some way. Every member of ARACHNID is trans.

    Web Original 

-   Nearly everyone in _Compelled Dual_ is transgender, gay/bisexual, or both.
-   The core cast of _Tales of MU_ is predominantly gay or bisexual.
-   Characters in _The Solstice War_ are either gay or bi or awaiting confirmation to be gay or bi.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh! The Abridged Series_. Played for Laughs.
-   _AJCO_ contains the full spectrum - gay, bi, ace, pan _and_ straight, as well as nonbinary, trans and agender characters. No one ever draws attention to it and the sexualities of the characters have little to no impact on the plot - they're simply just aspects of them rather than their main focus.
-   The whole point of Poe Cottage at Whateley Academy in the Whateley Universe. The school administration has put into one safe zone every student who admitted on the entry form that he/she/it is either lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or intersex, because turning into a mutant and starting high school is hard enough. Most of them are closeted to anyone not in Poe, as the "official" cover story is that Poe is for the "emotionally disturbed" mutants, which has all kinds of Unfortunate Implications. Though given the amount of crap most of those kids go through before they even enroll it's honestly kind of true.
-   _Aress In Wonderland_.
-   All but one of the main characters in _Ze Zombie_ are queer in some way.
-   In _The Sydney Scroungers_, there are a fairly small handful of characters who are both straight and cisgender. Given the writers (and the _Pacific Rim_ fandom in general) this isn't terribly surprising.
-   The overwhelming majority of characters in _Where the Bears Are_ are gay men.
-   This _Funny Or Die_ skit parodies _The Bachelor_ and explains why a gay season of the show might not work so well. The contestants, all gay men, are way more interested in hooking up with each other than the designated bachelor (played by Jesse Tyler Ferguson).
-   The four main characters from _Help Not Wanted_ are openly gay and aren't shy about having sex with each other.
-   _Middlemarch: The Series_ adapts _Middlemarch_ by George Eliot, and gender flips three characters to make all of the endgame couples queer. By the end of the series, only two of the ten main characters are straight.
-   In an article by _The Onion_, every celebrity came out as gay.
-   _Pretty Dudes_ took an interesting trajectory to reach this. The original hook involved a gay guy and his army of straight friends, then after cast changes and cast ad-libs, the scripts embraced both explicit and implied queerness of the original characters, leaving only one of the leads actually straight at the end of three seasons and the accompanying novelizations.
-   Both campaigns of _Critical Role_ have shades of this.
    -   Campaign 1 has Vax'ildan and Vex'ahlia (both bisexual), Scanlan (bi or pansexual), and Taryon (gay). Recurring NPC Gilmore is also gay, showing interest in Vax, and Allura and Kima are girlfriends, getting married later in the campaign. While Keyleth is in love with Vax, she's demisexual, and is said to have always had a bit of a fascination with Vex.
    -   Campaign 2 plays into this even more than Campaign 1, with _five out of eight_ of the Mighty Nein being confirmed as some flavor of queer: Beauregard is a lesbian, Caleb is bisexual and was in a poly relationship with a woman and a man, and Mollymauk is bisexual and genderfluid. Yasha is also a lesbian, having had a wife before fleeing her tribe, and Caduceus is aromantic asexual. Guest characters Keg and Reani have also been confirmed as bisexual by their players. As for notable NPCs, Watchmaster Bryce and High Curator Yudala Fon are genderfluid and agender respectively, Dairon is referred to with both feminine and gender-neutral pronouns, and Yussa Errenis is a transgender man. Additionally, both the Gentleman and Marion Lavorre have mentioned having partners of multiple genders, the Bright Queen's partner is currently a woman, and Shadowhand Essek Thelyss is demi and in love with Caleb.
-   The _Little Pickle Town_ animatic series has half of its main characters on the LGBT spectrum. Franklin is gay, Io is asexual, and Monaco is bigender. The only explicitly straight character thus far is Milo, who's in love with Io.
-   Pretty much everyone in the Barney Bunch videos.
    -   "Secret Missing Episodes" made by the bunch basically take an existing television show and apply this trope to it.
-   Almost every character in _Hello from the Hallowoods_ is LGBT.
-   Thomas Sanders:
    -   The _Cartoon Therapy_ series episodes each focus on three sets of clients (either individuals or couples), none of whom are entirely straight:
        -   "What STEVEN UNIVERSE Can Teach Us About Relationships" features a homosexual couple, a nonbinary person, and a heterosexual couple featuring a proud bisexual man.
            
            **Larry:** Pop-pop was always worried I'd grow up to be a gay man. Fortunately for him, I wasn't. _Un_\-fortunately for him, I'M BISEXUAL! _(Evil Laugh)_ Eat it, Pop-pop!
            
        -   "What AVATAR: THE LAST AIRBENDER Can Teach Us About Self-Worth" carries over three of the characters from the previous episode, and adds Kai, who uses he/him pronouns but is played by a female nonbinary actor, suggesting the character is not cisgender.
    -   _Sanders Sides_: By virtue of the entire cast being facets of the same gay man's personality, every main character is gay (though this was initially played as Ambiguously Bi). Fan works sometimes take this further through Adaptational Sexuality and Adaptational Gender Identity by making human versions of the Sides trans, pansexual, asexual, etc.
-   Almost half of the _Dream SMP_ cast (read: major characters) is canonically LGBTQ+, and the only confirmed m/f relationships in the series are Played for Laughs and/or did not end well, e.g. character-Wilbur's past Interspecies Romance with Sally the _salmon_. It also helps that about 30% of the main content creators involved (who play the characters) are LGBTQ+ in real life.
    -   For clarification, other than the above—as the content creators' status of being LGBTQ+ often carry across to their character counterparts... _(deep breath)_... c!George was (previously?) married to c!Ninja, c!Sapnap, c!Quackity and c!Karl are polyamorous MLM, c!Tubbo and c!Ranboo (he/they before his content creator counterpart started using the set themself) were married to each other before c!Ranboo's death, c!Punz "doesn't have a canonical gender" (often interpreted by fans to be agender), uses he/they pronouns and previously flirted with Sam Nook (a presumably male robot), c!Sam, c!Ponk and possibly c!Foolish are all MLM, c!Slimecicle uses he/it pronouns, c!Fundy is trans FTM, and c!Schlatt and c!Wilbur have both shown attraction to men. And that's not counting the Ho Yay moments outside of all of this. Or the spin-off _Tales From the SMP_.
-   Most of _Galactiquest_'s main cast are some flavor of LGBT+.
-   The _Real Time Fan Dub Sonic Real-Time Fan Dubs_, especially _Sonic '06_, are full of LGBT cast members.
    -   Sonic himself is gay, as revealed after the infamous kiss scene with Elise. He's also polyamorous, along with Shadow and Silver, as the three enter a polycule at the end of the '06 dub.
        -   After Sonic comes out, Amy decides she's also gay.
    -   Eggman is bisexual. In the _Sonic Adventure 2_ dubs, he has a wife, however he divorces her by the end of it. In the Riders dub, he says he'll give the new GameCube 2 to his new husband and/or wife.
        
        **Sonic:** Woah, he's bisexual! I didn't know that!  
        _Eggman:_' By the way, I'm bisexual!
        
    -   Memphis Tenessee is a Depraved Homosexual. He is Shadow's ex and at one point turns everyone into his boyfriend. He also has an army of clones to have sex with.
    -   Speaking of Shadow, he is likely bisexual as well as polyamorous. Being in a polycule with Sonic and Silver, as well as being Memphis Tenessee's ex, he clearly has attraction to men. However, he's also in a relationship with Rouge.
    -   As you can guess, Silver is LGBT too. He's attracted to men and in a polycule with Sonic and Shadow.
    -   The Babylonian Rogues are polyamorous and in a polycule, which means Jet and Storm are potentially bisexual.
        -   Rouge is mentioned to have been in the polycule, however since she could only name 2 of The Beatles, she was kicked out.
    -   Omega has a crush on Shadow, who feels like he doesn't deserve his love.

    Western Animation 

-   Though it's ultimately downplayed as most of these characters weren't fully confirmed until Season 3, _Amphibia_ has some LGBT characters: Sasha is bisexual, Mayor Toadstool and his assistant Toadie are a gay couple, General Yunan and Lady Olivia are a lesbian couple, the I.T. Girls are also a couple (Ally is pansexual and Jess is bisexual), Mr. X has a husband, implying he is gay and Terri uses they/them pronouns, meaning they are non-binary.
-   _Craig of the Creek_ has plenty of LGBT characters: Kelsey, Stacks, Witches of the Creek (Tabitha and Courtney), J.P.'s sister Laura and her girlfriend Kat and Craig's older cousin, Jasmine, are lesbians; Bernard's girlfriend Alexis is pansexual; Angel is agender; Merkid and Pullstring, of the Plush Kids, are non-binary and Secret Keeper, George (of the Tea Timers), and the Honeysuckle Rangers (Raj and Shawn) are gay.
-   _Dead End: Paranormal Park_ is easily one of the main LGBT rich cartoons, even compared to the comic. Barney the main character is both gay and trans, the deuteragonist Norma is bisexual, and several side characters are non-binary.
-   In _Hazbin Hotel_, only one of the main cast is straight. Charlie Morningstar, the main character and Princess of Hell, is bisexual. Her girlfriend Vaggie is a lesbian. Angel Dust is a gay Drag Queen. Husk the hotel's bartender is pansexual. Alastor, their Hazbin Hotel's Obviously Evil main investor, is asexual.The latter was confirmed in a tweet by the show's creator on National Coming Out Day. Two of the Overlords, Valentino is pansexual and Vox is bisexual.
-   _Moon Girl and Devil Dinosaur (2023)_ has very mild LGBT characters: Casey also has two dads, Brooklyn is transgender, Tai and LOS-307 are non-binary.
-   _OK K.O.! Let's Be Heroes_ has a very diverse cast of LGBT characters: Enid and Professor Venomous are bisexual, Red Action is a lesbian, Lord Boxman is pansexual, the Hue Troops are all LGBT+, Gregg is non-binary, Bobo is agender, Nick and Joff are a gay couple, Rad is queer, his rival-turned-boyfriend Raymond is gay, and there are a number of Ambiguously Gay or Ambiguously Bi characters (such as Elodie, RMS, Brandon, Pastel, and Koala Princess.)
-   _The Owl House_ downplays this somewhat as most characters have no romantic relationships or crushes mentioned, but those who do are overwhelmingly queer— Luz is bisexual and her girlfriend Amity is a lesbian, Eda is bisexual as shown by a flag on the side of her old lunchbox, and her ex Raine is non-binary. Willow is the daughter of a gay couple and is pansexual, Edric is mentioned as having a date with someone referred to with they/them pronouns, Lilith is aromantic asexual, Hunter is bisexual, Vee is some variety of sapphic, the Collector and Vee's human friend Masha are both non-binary, and Papa Titan is bigender.
-   _Peepoodo & the Super Fuck Friends_: Peepoodo is bisexual, as is Dr. Pussycat, Evelyn, and Tonio.
-   _Rick and Morty_ didn't start out this way; Rick was confirmed by Word of God to be pansexual, but initially seemed to be a case of But Not Too Bi, while Summer and Jerry were Ambiguously Bi, and that was about it. As the series has gone on, though, Rick has seen a wider array of love interests across genders, the ambiguity was dropped for both Jerry and Summer (who've each had same-sex lovers in addition to straight relationships), and the two main versions of Beth (the original and her clone) both fall for and sleep with each other, meaning that, by Season 6, five out of the six main characters are bi/pan/queer (with Morty being the only exception, for now).
-   _Rick & Steve: The Happiest Gay Couple in All the World_: The only straight recurring character is Condie, the world's biggest Fag Hag (and seemingly the universe's Butt-Monkey).
-   _She-Ra and the Princesses of Power_: The series is _extremely_ LGBT friendly. The vast majority of characters get same-sex Ship Tease, with Adora, Catra and Scorpia getting nothing but, the few who get heterosexual Ship Tease generally get it in addition to the same-sex ship tease, and the majority of confirmed, unambiguous romances are same-sex (with the exceptions of Mermista/Seahawk, Angella/Micah, and eventually Glimmer/Bow and Hordak/Entrapta). Catra and Adora eventually confess their feelings for each other and become a couple in season 5.
-   _Steven Universe_: As Gems are a One-Gender Race, most of their romantic relationship are homosexual (even though none of them technically have sexes). There's a significant focus on the loves between Ruby and Sapphire, as well as Pearl and Rose (the latter of whom also loved Greg, Steven's father), plus less explicit romantic tension between several others. Most of the human cast are heterosexual or their orientation is unspecified, but it's eventually shown Sadie is pansexual. Word of Saint Paul also outed Peridot as ace/aro.
-   _Q-Force_: Not all spies (minus Rick Buck) are straight.
-   _Queer Duck_: All of the characters are gay, except Bi Polar Bear... who is bisexual and is a parody of Paul Lynde.

___

### **Alternative Title(s):** Cast Full Of Lesbian, Cast Full Of LGBT, Cast Full Of Queer, Everyone Is Gay