**Moana:** You came back. But your hook? One more hit and —  
**Mau'i:** Te Ka's gotta catch me first. I've got your back, Chosen One. Go save the world.  
**Moana:** Mau'i. Thank you.  
**Mau'i:** You're welcome.

It starts with the hero about to go into a big fight, maybe against the Big Bad or at least one of his most powerful minions. He's gonna need all the help he can get, but one of his allies—likely the one he's had the least amount of trust in anyway through this whole ordeal—just wants to leave when he has the chance. The guy will call it self-preservation or common sense, but even if the hero chides him for being selfish, he can live with that. "Fine, be that way!" the hero shouts, and they part company, likely on a sour note.

Now, with the hero left alone, the fight looks lost. It's clearly his Darkest Hour, and if he remembers what his friend said at all, he may be cursing him, or even worse, start wondering whether the guy had a point.

But no! At the last moment that same untrustworthy ally in question returns to save the protagonist. Why? Changed his mind, for whatever reason. A way of setting up Big Damn Heroes.

Friends can let the hero down for many reasons. Coming back usually entails character growth.

Compare Conscience Makes You Go Back, Achilles in His Tent, 10-Minute Retirement. For the romance/gender-related version after Unsettling Gender-Reveal, see If It's You, It's Okay.

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   Ken Wakashimazu pulls that in _Captain Tsubasa World Youth Cup_, after the conflict with him and coach Mikami boils up to its limits since Ken feels he's The Unfavorite of the team, no matter how hard he trains. He comes back later, though.
-   Aizawa in _Death Note_. True, this was the Lighter and Softer arc, as _Death Note_ goes, but his mad undercover skills and subsequent cavalry charge are no less awesome for that.
-   Early on in _Doraemon: Nobita's Dorabian Nights_, the Robot Buddy tour guide, Mikujin, hired by Doraemon to lead the gang into the world of Arabian Nights, ends up getting in an argument with Gian, Suneo and Nobita for lecturing, prompting the boys to call him a "Third-Rate Guide", causing Mikujin to outright bail on the heroes and leave them on their own. But Mikujin is secretly observing the gang as a Mysterious Protector, despite their earlier misunderstanding; when the gang gets thrown into the ocean during a storm thanks to boarding a ship of slavers, Mikujin is the one who saved them from drowning, and he finally made himself known to the heroes after everyone's captured by the villains and locked in a prison cell.
-   In _Dragon Ball Z_, Cell is on the verge of overwhelming Gohan and destroying the Earth... all his friends are helping him out but to no avail. Just as all hope appears to have been lost, Vegeta (who was previously too busy angsting about not being able to do anything) joins the fray. He fires a massive energy blast at Cell which distracts him, allowing Gohan to turn the tide and save the day.
    -   Which is different from how it went in the manga. In the manga, when Cell and Gohan entered their Beam-O-War, everyone looked on helplessly instead of trying to attack Cell. Then, just as Cell was on the verge of overwhelming Gohan, Vegeta attacked Cell, catching him by surprise and distracting him for a moment, during which time Gohan upped his power and overwhelmed the distracted Cell.
-   Cowardly Sidekick Pop from _Dragon Quest: The Adventure of Dai_ leaves Dai and Maam when they go fight the big bad Crocodin, then shows up in the nick of time to help when they're in trouble. Somewhat unusually, a whole chapter explains exactly why, and the trope is played less for the reveal that he comes back than to show character growth.
-   In _Future Diary_, the reformed Minene parts ways with Yukki, telling him that he has to solve his own problems from then on. Later however, just when it seems he's gotten himself into a hopeless situation, Ninth comes flying in to save the day.
-   Lieutenant Yamamoto of _Irresponsible Captain Tylor_ meets up with the rest of the crew, attempting to rescue Tylor from a firing squad but unable to find him in his cell in order to tell them where the execution would be carried out.
-   At one point in the manga adaptation for _Kingdom Hearts II_, Sora abandons a battle in the Land of Dragons to search for Riku after receiving a Paopu Fruit via Shang from him, forcing his allies to go on without him. He later turns up in a Big Damn Heroes moment to save the Emperor from Shan-Yu, angrily blaming him for not being able to speak with Riku.
    
    **Sora:** Don't underestimate me and my Keyblade!
    
-   Kouji Kabuto from _Mazinger Z_ did this after an Achilles in His Tent in episode 7. Since everybody blamed him for the destruction the Mechanical Beast and Mazinger-Z had caused as they battled (never mind that, had he not fought, the destruction and the death toll would have been worse!), and not even Sayaka was willing to fight anymore, he decided to stay at home. Both his best friend and brother tried to reason with him, but he would not listen. Finally, he listened to reason when the Mechanical Beast struck again, and he fought.
-   _Monster Rancher_: In Tiger of the Wind's introductory episode, he steals the Magic Stone from the Searchers, then has it stolen from him in turn when Captain Dino slaughters his pack. The heroes nurse him back to help, but he parts ways with them after warning about how dangerous it is to challenge Moo's forces. He then shows up just in time to bail out Genki and Mocchi against Captain Dino and get his revenge before officially joining the team.
-   In _The Mysterious Cities of Gold_, Wynacocha and the gang goes to the outlining Mayan villages to unite against the Olmecs. They all turn him down. By the end of the episode, they all changed their mind and sent their warriors to back him up.
-   Shinji from _Neon Genesis Evangelion_ pulls this off when he runs away for the second time. Situation: Rei and Asuka are both defeated, Zeruel breaks into the command center... just in time for Unit 01 to break through the wall and punch the Angel in the face, meters in front of the entire command staff.
    -   The _Rebuild_ version of said battle upped the ante even higher: he came back because he witnessed Zeruel eating Rei and took it personally.
-   In _One Piece_, Eustass Kidd refuses to team up with his fellow Supernovas (having betrayed by a Supernova earlier) in the fight against Kaido, saying that his crew will be the only ones he'll trust from now on. However, on the night that the Straw Hats and their allies are ready to mount their assault, Kidd has joined the alliance, if only so he could be the one to take Kaido's head for himself.
-   During the R season, Ami leaves the Sailor Senshi to study abroad. Without Mercury around to help them, the rest of the team are nearly defeated by the enemy. At the last second however, Ami returns to save them, having realized that her loyalties to her friends are more important.
-   Hiei from _YuYu Hakusho_ leaves the rest of the team during the Chapter Black arc, claiming he has no loyalty to the human world and would like to go home. Yusuke assures everyone else that "he'll come and rescue us in the end when we need him the most", and he does. This makes perfect sense as, while Hiei 'joined the team' because backing up the Spirit Detective was his parole assignment, the reason he actually _joined the team_ and saved their lives back in Maze Castle on the first mission was that Yusuke, against all forms of sanity, trusted him to do so. There's something about that confidence you just don't want to let down.

    Comic Books 

-   _The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past (1992)_: When Link disregards her suggestion not to go into the oasis, Epheremelda flips her wig and complains that Link never worries about her and that all he ever talks about is Zelda, then indignantly leaves. Moments before being eaten by Vitreous, Link is suddenly rescued by Zora, who explains that Epheremelda summoned him to help.
-   When Vima seeks training from ex-Jedi Ulic Qel-Droma in _Tales of the Jedi_, he refuses because he's busy brooding on his crimes and throws her out of the crumbling fortress he's exiled himself in. Then he realizes he threw her out into a _blizzard_ and catches up to help her find shelter before she freezes to death.

     Fan Works 

-   _Better Bones AU_: Gray Wing initially supports Bumble being kicked out of ShadowClan, but Thunder Storm's insistence that it was unjust inspires them to appear just in time to help Thunder Storm save Bumble from Clear Sky.
-   _We Must Be Killers_: In _The District Upside Down: The War_, after the District 2 victors are finally convinced that Snow has betrayed and abused their loyalty too often and that the Renegade Splinter Faction of the rebellion will respect their voices, opinions, and concerns about District 2, all of them besides Callista agree to fight the Capitol. However, Callista shows up for the final battle anyway and says that food has been tasting funnier lately, she has been forced to think about awful things the Capitol has done that she's long ignored, and it will at least be an outlet for her Blood Knight tendencies.

    Films — Animated 

-   Towards the climax of _Aladdin: The Return of Jafar_, after Iago makes amends with the heroes for regretfully turning against them, he leaves before the final confrontation with Jafar, claiming that he's paid his debt and he doesn't owe them anything else, though even as he flies away he's trying to convince himself of this. He comes back just as Jafar has them trapped in a lava pit, and proves instrumental in destroying Jafar once and for all.
-   Mighty Eagle does this in both _The Angry Birds Movie_ and its sequel; first refusing to help stop the pigs from stealing the birds' eggs, only to show up at Piggie Island in time to carry the eggs to safety, and second chickening out from confronting his ex-fiancee Zeta before deciding to beg her not destroy the islands.
-   In _Megamind_, the supposedly retired/dead Metro Man comes back to fight Titan and save the day at the end. Except it turns out that he didn't, and it is just Megamind wearing a disguise and imitating Metro Man's superpowers with gadgets.
-   In _Mickey, Donald, Goofy: The Three Musketeers_, Donald Duck decides Screw This, I'm Outta Here, but changes his mind after the Lemony Narrator convinces him.
-   _Moana_: Maui has a Heroic BSoD after his Hook is damaged and abandons Moana. Later, when it appears Te Ka is about to kill her, he comes swooping back in, distracting Te Ka long enough for Moana to finish returning the Heart of Te Fiti.
-   After Mike and Sulley get exiled to the Himalayas in _Monsters, Inc._, Mike angrily abandons Sulley over the latter essentially ruining his life and constantly ignoring him in favor of Boo. He rejoins Sulley a few minutes later, just in time to save him from Randall.
-   In _Penguins of Madagascar_, Classified has the North Wind "regroup" at their headquarters, leaving the captive Skipper, Rico and Kowalski behind, to Private's dismay. They return in the final battle, providing a little help against Dave's forces.
-   In _Phineas and Ferb The Movie: Across the 2nd Dimension_, Phineas angrily rejects Perry when he and Ferb learn of his identity as a secret agent due to thinking he was using them as a cover. Just as the boys were about to go back to their home dimension, Doofenshmirtz-2 announces that Perry has been captured, having turned himself in to keep them safe, which causes Phineas to realize his folly and declare they go save their platypus, only for Candace-2 to coldly refuse to help them, saying it's "their fight". She later changes her mind and takes them to Doofenshmirtz-2's lair through a mining cart transport system.
-   In _Toy Story 4_, Bo Peep angrily walks away from helping Woody rescue Forky from Gabby-Gabby when he questions her concept of loyalty, utterly convinced that he had been selfishly put his friends in harms way just to please a kid who barely pays attention to him. However, when her partner Giggle McDimples badmouths Woody, she points out that Woody, in spite of his flaws, was unquestionably loyal to his kid, and realizes that's exactly why she cared so much for him in the first place. She decides to go back and help him get Gabby-Gabby to Bonnie, instead changing the plan to give her to a lost little girl.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _Broken Trail_: One of the _villains_ plays with this trope in the climax, running away the instant the Bywaters gang is at a disadvantage but then returning to help his comrades several seconds later, only to make a failed attempt to flee again once all of his companions are dead.
-   In _Clockstoppers_, Dopler at first refuses to accompany Zak and Francesca into Quantum Tech headquarters, claiming he's too frightened of the place after what he went through in there at the hand of Gates. However, just when it looks like the heroes are going to fail, he returns to save the day.
-   _The Dark Knight Rises_ has Selina Kyle only looking out for her own skin for the majority of the film. During the climax, she agrees to help Batman clear an exit path for the civilians of Gotham to evacuate, should the worst come to pass - but that much, and no more. Once she's done that, she swears she's getting the hell out of reach. She has a change of heart, however, and winds up unexpectedly saving Batman from certain death at Bane's hands... by shooting him dead-on with the Batpod's missiles.
-   _District 9_: The whole thing unfolds in seconds: Wikus runs from the captured Christopher in the middle of the climatic battle. As Christopher is about to die he changes his mind. Unstoppable Rage meets Mini-Mecha!
-   _Fright Night (1985)_. After Jerry Dandrige charms and kidnaps Amy, Charlie goes to Peter Vincent for help. Vincent refuses to help him because he's too scared. Later on when Charlie goes to Dandrige's house to rescue Amy, Peter shows up to help him.
-   _Gettysburg_: Col. Chamberlain, by the last three holdouts of the 2nd Maine. They later join the fight and save his brother Tom.
-   _Ghidorah, the Three-Headed Monster_ has Godzilla and Rodan initially reject Mothra's request to help save the Earth from King Ghidorah since they don't see a reason to save the humans that persecute them, but when seeing Mothra going at it alone and be horribly outmatched, the two monsters come to the rescue.
-   Bilbo in _The Hobbit_ attempts to leave the company while they were resting in the mountains after Thorin had harshly claimed that Bilbo had no place with them. But after being captured by the goblins and his adventures with Gollum, Bilbo chose not to leave and continued the journey with the dwarves. His return would later help save Thorin from being beheaded by Azog's mook.
-   _King Kong (2005)_: Snooty actor Bruce Baxter, faced with the perils of Skull Island, gives up on rescuing Ann, only to return later Just in Time for a Big Damn Heroes moment.
-   _Knockaround Guys_: Chris gets nervous before the final shootout and decides to skip town (trying to convinced Marbles to do the same) but in the end he comes back to help, shooting the sheriffs cousin as he gets the drop on Matty and the others.
-   Hoggle comes back to help Sarah in _Labyrinth_. (Unfortunately, he arguably only makes things _worse_.)
-   In _Mad Max: Fury Road_, after preparing to go off on his own, Max decides to rejoin Furiosa's group after they've set off across the salt plains, and with a plan to seize the Citadel to boot.
-   In _The Magnificent Seven_, the eponymous seven are betrayed by a group of villagers and driven out of the town they were hired to protect. One by one, they each decide to go back, except for Harry Luck, who informs them they're all crazy and rides away. When Chris is cornered without cover during the climactic gunfight, however, Harry comes galloping in to save him.
    -   The remake does something similar when Goodnight rides off the night before the Final Battle, due to his PTSD making him unable to face an actual fight. However, in the middle of it, he comes charging back in, guns blazing, and warns the others about the Gatling gun.
-   A rare complete inversion is in _The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance,_ where Tom Doniphon (John Wayne) acts the part of the cavalry in the gunfight with the titular character, but neither audience nor characters know it until much later.
-   _Marvel Cinematic Universe_:
    -   In _The Avengers_, Bruce Banner makes it clear that he's only along for the ride as a scientific consultant, and won't be doing any fighting. After an unexpected attack on the Helicarrier makes him Hulk out, cause considerable damage, and fall probably 10,000 plus feet, _no one_ except for Tony thinks he's coming back. But as the heroes desperately try to regroup in the middle of Manhattan to try and figure out how to defend against the first wave of the invading army while Iron Man frantically battles a massive mechanical whale-like ship, Bruce comes riding in — on a ridiculous-looking, battered, teeny-tiny motorcycle — and shows that he can in fact control the Hulk to some extent by invoking the Hulk on command, downing the enormous ship with one punch, and providing the brute strength necessary to mount a defense.
        -   Made even funnier when subverted in the bloopers by actor Mark Ruffalo. When he comes riding back on the motorcycle, only to see exactly what he's up against, he turns around and sprints away, yelling 'Dudes, you're on your own', jumping over ruined cars while doing so.
    -   In _Thor: Ragnarok_, when Thor, Bruce, and Valkyrie are planning to escape the planet they're trapped on to get back to Asgard—which has been taken over by Thor's evil older sister Hela—Loki, who saw Hela easily shatter Thor's hammer Mjölnir and defeat and almost kill both of them, has no desire to face off with her again. He only helps them because he's fallen out of favor with the planet's ruler and also wants to leave. He even tries to betray Thor yet again in order to get the reward offered for his capture, but Thor plans for this, puts Loki out of commission, and leaves him there after chiding him that he could be more than just The Trickster. These words, combined with an earlier heart-to-heart with Thor, apparently have an effect on him. After the planet's revolting gladiators find Loki, set him free, and agree to make him their leader, he takes their ship to Asgard. He arrives just in time to evacuate the fleeing Asgardians, helps them fight in the final battle and plays a crucial role in defeating Hela, and is still at Thor's side by the end of the movie.
    -   M'Baku in _Black Panther_ refuses to bring the Jabari to help T'Challa's bid to regain kingship of Wakanda, only to show up when all seems lost in the final battle to get the loyalists out of a jam. He does this by picking up W'Kabi _one-handed_ and throwing him into his troops, forcing them to break the shield-wall they'd formed around the loyalist fighters to deal with the threat immediately behind them.
-   In _Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest_, Captain Jack Sparrow abandons ship just before it gets attacked by the Kraken. He then changes his mind and comes back in time to fire the shot that blows up the Kraken's tentacles. Then Sparrow is abandoned himself and the Kraken takes down the _Pearl_ with him along for the ride.
-   In _Pixels_, when his cheating is discovered, Eddie runs off and other characters are confident he's not coming back. However, he shows up just in time to save Ludlow and later aids him and Lady Lisa in the finale.
-   _Prom Wars_: A non-action variant. When the girls bail on the boring Lancaster prom to spend time with the nerdy Selby kids, Jen B., the girl who has been the least sympathetic toward the Selby students throughout the film, initially stays behind, but she does show up outside to get in the bus with her friends a minute later.
-   In _The Rock_, Mason decides to abandon the mission after he breaks himself and Goodspeed out of their cells. He believes rightly as it turns out that Hummel won't really launch the V-X gas missiles though some of his men are willing. He gutpunches Goodspeed when the latter tries to stop him. Mason eventually returns and saves Goodspeed when the latter gets in trouble again. He decided he didn't want Goodspeed's unborn child to grow up without a father.
-   The title character in 2002's _Roger Dodger_, 'saving' his Nephew late in the film.
-   _Silver Streak_ has a comical example. As George Caldwell is about to leave with FBI agents to stop Deveraux aboard the titular train, Grover Muldoone, the small-time crook who'd been helping George, asks to go home. Later, during a gunfight outside the train, George bumps into Grover, asking him why he'd come back. Grover answers "Forgot your wallet?", making George reply "Oh, some thief you are!", before they get back to stopping Deveraux.
-   Harry Osborn in _Spider-Man 3_. First, he refused to help Peter whom he still blames for his father's death in fighting Sandman and Venom. But when he leans how his father actually died, he does a Heel–Face Turn and arrives at the battle just when all hope seemed lost to save Peter.
-   In _Star Trek: Generations_, Picard and Kirk are working together to stop Soran from blowing up a sun. Kirk takes on Soran to give Picard a clear shot at the rocker launcher, but Soran seems to be winning the fight, until suddenly, Picard jumps in, allowing Kirk to gain the upper hand.
    
    **Kirk:** I thought you were heading for the launcher.  
    **Picard**: I changed my mind. Captain's prerogative.
    
-   _Star Wars_:
    -   _A New Hope_: Luke and Han come to odds over the attack on the Death Star. Luke is the young idealist, ready to die for a cause. Han is the old cynic who sees it as suicide. When Han saves Luke from Darth Vader at the last minute he grows as a character, finding his loyalty to his Fire Forged Friend is important enough to risk his life for.
    -   This happens with Luke himself (to Yoda). He walks out on Yoda in _The Empire Strikes Back_ when his friends are in trouble. In _Return of the Jedi_, he comes back to complete his training, where Yoda tells him the fact that he came back _means his training is done_.
    -   _The Force Awakens_: In the beginning, ex-stormtrooper Finn only wishes to escape the First Order rather than fight them while his new friend Rey wishes to help the Resistance. Finn decides to leave the group but when he sees that Rey has been kidnapped, he goes back to Starkiller Base to rescue her.
-   Maverick did this at the end of _Top Gun_: he bugged out during a battle with enemy jets, then returned and shot down several of them, saving his wingman Iceman.
-   Professor Falken in _WarGames_. When he goes to bed he's walking out on humanity. But just when it looks hopeless, he joins the fight.
-   _TheAlamo1960_: In the 1960 version, when they hear that reinforcements will not be coming, Bowie and Crockett decide to gather their troops and leave the fort. As they all approach the gate, Travis, instead of berating them, praises them for the courage they have shown so far, and thanks them for their service. In response, Bowie dismounts and stands with Travis, eventually joined by Crockett and all of the men who were about to leave.

    Literature 

-   The Vampires in _Blade of Fire_.
-   _Cradle Series_: Eithan hires Fisher Gesha to be Lindon's soulsmithing teacher when they're in her homeland. However, when he asks her to continue this when they leave for the Blackflame Empire proper, she flatly refuses. She is absolutely terrified of Eithan, who is powerful enough to kill her with a thought and important enough to get away with it (though he never would). The next day, when Lindon wakes up on the ship as they're leaving, he finds out that Gesha joined them after all. She mutters about how she always wanted to see the Empire.
-   In Taylor Anderson's _Crusade_, the USS _Walker_ and her allies, the Lemurians of the Sea Homes and the Baalkpan Lemurians, arrive to relieve the siege of Aryaal, a city of another group of Lemurians, by the Grik. After obliterating a Grik fleet, Captain Reddy gets Lord Rolak, the High Protector of Aryaal, to commit his forces to Reddy's battle plan. The goal is for the Alliance army to strike the Grik, causing the Grik assaulting the Aryaal walls to move away to attack the army. Rolak's forces must then sally and strike the Grik in the rear. Unfortunately, just as Reddy shoots a flare to signal Rolak, the king of Aryaal overrules Rolak and orders him to stand down, wishing the sea-folk and the "tailless ones" to wear down the Grik, so that the Aryaalans can finish them off. Rolak, whose honor is on the line, decides to sally anyway, with only a third of the force willing to follow him, as well as the queen of a neighboring city and her elite guard. They are late, though, and the Alliance lines break under the Grik onslaught.
-   _Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows_:
    -   Ron pulls one of these. He returns, just in time to save Harry and destroy the locket Horcrux.
    -   There's also Horace Slughorn, who initially flees with the Slytherins and other students, but returns Just in Time alongside _all the villagers of Hogsmeade and everyone related to anyone left in the castle_. Whether that was his intention all along was never revealed.

-   In the third _Skulduggery Pleasant_ book, Fletcher teleports away from the battle when the Faceless Ones attack, but later returns to save Valkyrie
-   _Star Wars Legends_:
    -   In _Dark Force Rising_, a New Republic force is scheduled to head out after the reported location of the Katana Fleet in the morning. Since there's little time and it's headed by Borsk Fey'lya, the heroes send out their own force in the middle of the night; in the morning Fey'lya follows, planning to arrest them for treason. Those plans are cut short when the two New Republic forces are ambushed by an Imperial Star Destroyer. The first force flies a delaying action while Fey'lya's force flees, but Fey'lya is lured into an Engineered Public Confession, turning his allies against him and making them go back. The heroes still needed two more groups of Big Damn Heroes and two cases of Ramming Always Works before they won the battle, although they were too late.
    -   In _Galaxy of Fear: Army of Terror_, the Arrandas and their Uncle Hoole are surrounded by the enraged Kivan wraiths, who blame Hoole for what happened to their world; initially they want to punish the Arrandas too, for being with Hoole, but they back off and let the kids be after hearing that they are from Alderaan. The Arrandas find that Hoole actually _is_ behind it and abandon him - later they hear more of the story and return to save him from the wraiths.
    -   An odd example in _Wraith Squadron_ is narrated from the point of view of the one changing his mind. In the climactic battle over Ession, Kell is struggling with his cowardice-cum-extreme anxiety, and begins flying out of the combat zone, seriously considering just abandoning his squadron. He stops when he realizes he would be abandoning his lover Tyria (particularly after a horrifying mental image of her being the one sent to exact revenge for his desertion), returns to the fight and takes out five TIEs before his own fighter is shot down.
-   _The Way Of Kings_ (first book of _The Stormlight Archive_): Sadeas's army abandons Dalinar's force to get slaughtered by the Parshendi, but then one of his bridge crews arrives just in time and helps them escape. From their perspective, it's this trope, until they learn that Kaladin disobeyed orders to save them.
-   In Matthew Reilly's _Temple_, Bassario decided it was time to leave when Renco planned to do a Heroic Sacrifice. He quickly returned because he didn't want to be known as the guy who bailed on The Chosen One.
-   _Trapped on Draconica_: Rana Initally refused to help Daniar but later came to save her after the Easatern Alliance was slaughtered. Appropriately, this was at the nadir of Team Good's Darkest Hour.

    Live-Action TV 

-   In the fourth season of _Andromeda_, Beka Valentine initially opts out of the final battle with the Magog worldship, only to fly in during that fight and help out.

-   Avon of _Blake's 7_ did this constantly while he was with Blake on the Liberator. But funnily enough, despite professing complete contempt for Blake's ideals and cause, and threatening to leave on many occasions, he never did; in fact, he saved Blake's life on several occasions.
-   In _The Defenders (2017)_, when the four protagonists first come together, Jessica Jones is the one least amenable to the idea of a team-up. She abandons the group and storms off when it becomes clear they're all out of their depth, but at the end of episode four she returns rather dramatically, smashing a car into Elektra just before the fight starts.
-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   Combined with Conscience Makes You Go Back in "The Waters of Mars". The Doctor knows that the staff of Bowie Base One are historically supposed to die by blowing up their own base to destroy the "Flood Monsters". Adelaide even lets him return to the TARDIS, but on the way there he overhears them dying and decides, just this once, to Screw Destiny.
        -   Yet the fixed point in time — the death of the captain and the destruction of the base — is still established.
        -   In fact — just for weirdness points here — it's when he goes back to save everyone that he is established as Jumping Off the Slippery Slope. Alien moralities and the bigger picture, you see.
    -   Defied in "The Doctor Falls". After both the Master and Missy abandon the Doctor to face the Cybermen alone, Missy shows that her Character Development was genuine, and, after forcing her past self to begin regenerating, intended to go back and aid the Doctor. Unfortunately, the Master, unwilling to let his future self turn good, blasts her with his laser screwdriver, while stating regenerating won't help her. Even sadder is that this is the last time the Doctor sees Missy, meaning that as far as he knows, his attempts to reform his old friend were all in vain, something that he takes with him as his 12th incarnation's life ends.
-   In the pilot of the _The Magnificent Seven_ series, Ezra Standish abandons his watch to check out a gold mine nearby; seeing that the bad guys have attacked in force while he was gone, he hurriedly rides away in the opposite direction. ...until he turns around, comes back, and attacks the enemy leader, buying enough time for his captured comrades to free themselves.
-   In _Once Upon a Time_ a rather surprising one happens. Gold/Rumplestiltskin, after making it clear that he had no intention of saving Mary-Margaret/Snow White from Regina's wrath, returns to stop her, knowing that he is the only one who can combat her magic. It is unclear exactly why he did this. His motives aren't always clear, but be it genuine care for Snow and his newfound family in Bae, Emma, and Henry, or just repaying his debt to Snow for saving his life, he came back.
-   In _Power Rangers Super Megaforce_, Orion leaves the team to return to his homeworld, thinking that his duty's done and the Armada's destroyed. However, when he picks up word that Round 2 is starting up, he turns right back around and races back to Earth. A little too late to stop the invasion, but in time to rally everyone back.
-   In the _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_ arc where they try to retake the station, the Klingons refuse to commit any ships...until the precise moment in the battle in "Sacrifice of Angels" when the Federation fleet is heading straight into a trap, whereupon a wing of Klingon battle cruisers come screaming into battle, punch open a hole in the Dominion/Cardassian lines and save the day.
-   _Star Trek: Picard_: In "Absolute Candor", Elnor initially refuses to join Picard out of bitterness towards his father figure for leaving him fourteen years ago, but Elnor changes his mind just as Picard picks a fight with the locals, who threaten to kill him.
-   Happens in the Super Sentai 30th anniversary special: _Boukenger vs. Super Sentai_. Eiji tries to recruit Rangers from previous sentai series when the rest of his team gets captured by previous series' baddies. They've all gone on with their lives, even the ones who are still Rangering, and turn him down, not having the time. He tries to fight the villains from other seasons who've returned alone, and the retro-Rangers return to save his skin at the dramatically appropriate moment.
    -   It seemed to be more of a miscommunication. They fully intended to help him eventually, but had other things to do first. Eiji just got impatient. (and to be fair more or less barged in on them in the first place.) They were however a bit out of practice.
-   _Taken_: In "John", the hunting guide Dewey Clayton abandons Charlie and Lisa as they are preparing to enter the abandoned farm in Benson County, North Dakota where Allie is being held by the Army. After Allie helps her parents to escape, Dewey returns to provide his assistance and is very apologetic about running out on them earlier.

    Myths & Religion 

-   Older Than Print with _Beowulf_, in which the final battle consists of the titular Beowulf fighting a dragon alone because his companions abandoned him, only for his nephew Wiglaf to find his courage and run back to help.

    Video Games 

-   In _Corpse Party_, Ayumi and Yoshiki are returned to the classroom by one of the ghost children as thanks for returning her tongue. Ayumi wants to go back and save their surviving friends. Yoshiki, if you choose to object (or allow Yuka to be caught by Kizami) will do so and Ayumi will return alone after an argument. Yoshiki, however, is reminded of how much his friends mean to him and begs the ghost girl to send him back. When he _is_ sent back, he sends Ayumi a text to let her know he's there. It still leads to a Wrong End, though.
-   In _Dragon Age II_, at the end of second act, depending on your choices, Isabela pulls this, and brings back the MacGuffin whose theft drove the Arishok to start the war in the first place. Problem solved, right? Wrong. In order to solve the problem peacefully, you must turn her over to the Qunari, essentially sending her to her death. For those who aren't Ungrateful Bastards, you can alternatively challenge the Arishok to a duel for her life, or fight the remaining guards and the Arishok together with her.
-   In _Guild Wars 2_ prior to the first battle with Kralkatorrik the dredge Varya states she will not lead her people into the battle as they have already suffered too much. Late in the battle the Commander is blocked off by a cave-in and surrounded by Branded. Varya erupts from the ground with a squad of dredge and clears the way, stating that the Commander is the only hope for the spirit of revolution.
-   The final boss battle in _inFAMOUS_, in which Zeke, having previously betrayed Cole, shows up to try and redeem himself by rushing at Kessler with a pistol. He gets blasted backwards about fifty feet for his troubles without landing so much as a spitball on Kessler, but he did allow Cole the chance to recover and fight back, and it goes a long way toward repairing Cole and Zeke's friendship in the sequel.
-   _Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories_:
    -   Donald Duck and Goofy quarrel with Sora and he winds up abandoning them to go on his own, but they still come back to save him from Larxene a little while afterwards.
    -   There was also the time Sora lost the Keyblade, and they abandoned him to follow Riku, it's new (and technically rightful) owner, because their orders specified the Keyblade, not who was holding it. When Riku attacks Sora, however, Goofy jumps ship to protect Sora and Donald quickly follows.
-   In _Max Payne 3_, Passos flies off with Giovanna without waiting for Max at the end of Chapter 10. Later, Max finds himself at a mercy of Neves, only for Passos to come back and bail him out.
-   In _Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door_, Vivian leaves Mario after she realizes he is her enemy during the fight with Doopliss, but returns when the fight gets intent.
-   At the end of _Quest for Glory III_, the hero's friends arrive to help him fight the demons, all but the thief, Harami, who opts to stay behind. Then, as the hero is fighting a demonic version of himself and the battle looks lost, Harami shows up to stab the demon from behind, giving the hero time to close the gate and send the demons back to their world.
-   In _Ratchet & Clank: Up Your Arsenal_, the titular duo find Captain Qwark after he faked his death so he wouldn't have to actually risk his life, and are unable to convince him to continue fighting. Later on, in the final boss battle, he comes dramatically sailing in on his spaceship, pumping rounds into the boss.
    
    **Dr. Nefarious:** Noooo! I don't believe this!  
    **Captain Qwark:** Believe it, toaster head!
    
-   In _Resident Evil_, Brad "Chickenheart" Vickers, S.T.A.R.S. Alpha Team's helicopter pilot, freaks out and takes off, stranding his team, when he sees one of them get mauled and eaten by zombie dogs. At the end, he shows up to rescue the survivors, and tosses a rocket launcher to the player to finish off the Tyrant. However, in the remake, when the gang is running away from the dogs, Brad passes by them from above... by flying towards the same direction they are, meaning everyone was running **away** from the helicopter. (Chris, instead of realizing this, questions what Brad is doing...) Next thing you know, they all run in the house. In the remake, at the very least, Brad seems to have had a good reason to fly away, and he did stick around in spite of nearly running out of fuel, which means every second he spent trying to get in touch with the other team, he was potentially screwing himself. This still doesn't make his death and zombification at the hands of the Nemesis in _Resident Evil 3: Nemesis_ any less karmic in the eyes of some fans. Though it also makes it more tragic to others.
-   In the _Star Wars: The Old Republic_ expansion _Shadow of Revan_, the Mandalorian clan leader Shae Vizla initially declines the player's request to help them defeat the Came Back Wrong Darth Revan, only to later return for the boss battle against him saying she didn't want to miss a good fight.
-   Zelos in all but one of the endings of _Tales of Symphonia_ — though the 'walking out' was a faked Face–Heel Turn that allowed him to get his hands on a MacGuffin the villain possessed. The "I changed my mind" is even said verbatim, delivered to the enraged villain after he demands to know why Zelos has back-stabbed him.

    Web Animation 

-   The _Ultra Fast Pony_ episode "Hippocratic Oafs" has a rather cynical version of this. Twilight Sparkle has moral objections to Ponyville's behavior, so she declares, "That's it. I'm out. I hope a bear eats you all," as she retreats to her library. Then a giant bear appears and threatens Ponyville. Spike begs Twilight to save the day, but she points out that she _wasn't kidding_ when she said, "I hope a bear eats you all." Twilight eventually does drive the bear away, but not because she changed her mind—only because Princess Celestia ordered her to.
-   _RWBY_: An abbreviated example; during their first assignment at Beacon, Ruby and Weiss are partnered together. Because she doubts Ruby's combat abilities, Weiss turns and walks away...only to find that the next person she could partner with is even more incompetent. This prompts her to walk back and drag Ruby off.
    
    **Weiss:** By _no_ means does this make us friends. _\[drags Ruby by her hood\]_  
    **Ruby:** You came back!
    
-   Inverted in RVB as it is the main characters who pull this off at the end of Season 10. They originally leave because they fee that they have no need to get involved but decide to go and help Church and Carolina kill the director.
-   In _Mario Brothers_, a contingent of Toads are reluctant to take the fight to Koopa and stay behind, but arrive later on to back up their brethren and apologize for refusing to fight before.

    Webcomics 

-   In _Endstone_, Jon had told them he couldn't, but returns in time to save Kyri and Herrik.
-   _Exiern_, the Unicorn changed its mind and rescued Peonie with a Big Damn Heroes moment. Still won't let her ride it though (and we all know what that means).
-   Subverted in _The Order of the Stick_, when party leader and Genius Bruiser Roy abandons Cloudcuckoolander Elan after the latter is captured by bandits, only to see the rest of the party rush off to Elan's rescue. When they are inevitably captured, he comes to his senses and attempts his own dramatic rescue, only to fail at the very last second. The day is actually saved by Durkon, completely accidentally. When all is said and done, Haley invokes this trope to convince Elan that this was Roy's plan all along because the idea that Roy would deliberately abandon him would crush his spirit.
-   Zig-zagged during _Breaker of Infinities_ in _Kill Six Billion Demons_, where Gog-Agog starts out refusing to help the Demiurges against Jagganoth, changes their mind and starts helping once Solomon David asks her to, only to stop helping and leave the whole battle a short moment later when she feels she's not getting enough respect from the others.

    Web Original 

-   In _Worm_, in Extermination 8.5, when Leviathan (a monstrously powerful creature that can sink entire cities) has just left the shelter and knocked Skitter — at that instant the only cape in position to track Leviathan's movements — face-down into the water with a broken back, Bitch turns up with a pack of empowered dogs, rescues Skitter, and keeps Leviathan tied up fighting on the street long enough for Scion to arrive.
-   _The Adventure Zone: Balance_: at the end of _The Suffering Game,_ Cam returns to sacrifice his life in order to heal Merle.

    Western Animation 

-   _Avatar: The Last Airbender_: Inverted in the second season finale; Azula says she needs Zuko's help to make her plan to take control of Ba Sing Se a success. Zuko, having spent the whole season coming to terms with the idea that he could never reclaim his honor (not to mention distrusting Azula), initially refuses, only to ultimately be unable to bring himself to turn down an opportunity to achieve the thing he had been obsessing over for the past three years.
-   _Buzz Lightyear of Star Command_: During an Enemy Mine with Warp Darkmatter, the latter takes the first chance he can get to ditch Buzz but later comes back for him and declares that he couldn't leave without him... because he doesn't know how to drive the stick shift on Buzz's spaceship.
-   _Captain Planet and the Planeteers_: In the episode "Summit to Save Earth, Part 2", the Planeteers ask their old friend, Commander Clash, to help them save Gaia. When their plan fails, Clash walks off with the intention to return to his island, offering the kids to come with him. They refuse, and soon are captured by Zarm and his underlings. However, just when Gaia and the Planeteers seem doomed, Clash swoops in with a mirror, protecting Ma-Ti from Zarm's killer ray, and destroys Zarm's crystal ball, thus reverting Gaia to her younger form. It's unclear, though, whether it was Clash's plan all along or he actually changed his mind.
-   _Chip 'n Dale: Rescue Rangers_ Monterey Jack does this during the Five-Episode Pilot.
-   _DuckTales (1987)_: In the episode "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Duck" Huey, Duey, and Louie try to get help from famed detective and honorary Junior Woodchuck member Shedlock Jones (an obvious parody of Sherlock Holmes) but he turns them away, because he's on a more important case; but he shows up to help them later, saying he _is_ a Junior Woodchuck (and also because he now thinks their problem relates to that other case, which it does.)
    -   Its reboot does this when the triplets angrily disown Uncle Scrooge upon learning he was partially responsible for their mother's disappearance, wrongly assuming he gave up on looking for her (when he in fact did, but was too stubborn to admit it). They're fully prepared to leave Duckburg for Cape Suzette at Donald's suggestion, but Mrs. Beakely guilt trips them by pointing out that Scrooge DID in fact nearly bankrupt himself trying to find Della, and it completely destroyed emotionally in the process. Their love for him eventually leads them to change their minds, and rush back to help Scrooge when Magica deSpell breaks free.
-   _Fairly OddParents_ plays this in the third arc of _Abracatastrophe_ where Cosmo chickens out of fighting Crocker, but suddenly comes back with a massive amount of muscles to help Timmy. Unfortunately, the trope becomes subverted after he is trapped in Crocker's scepter along with Wanda.
-   _Gargoyles_: In "The Gathering", Owen Burnett aka Puck abandons his boss Xanatos rather than face Oberon. Xanato can scarcely believe that the normally unflinchingly loyal Owen is ditching him right when he needs all the help he can get. Owen does leave him some defenses and parting advice to grant him a fighting chance. He ultimately conquers his fear and comes back to aid Xanatos only to justify his earlier fear as even he is no match at all for Oberon.
-   _Kipo and the Age of Wonderbeasts_: Wolf abandons Kipo multiple times in the first few episodes, but always comes back just in time to rescue her.
-   In one Looney Tunes short, "Scaredy Cat", Sylvester, after seeing a group of mice carry off Porky, flees the house in terror. However, his conscience then scolds him for running away, pointing out that Porky raised him since he was a kitten. It then reminds him that he is, in fact, larger than they are. He proceeds to run back inside and deal with the mice once and for all.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_: In the episode "Gauntlet Of Fire", Spike teams up with Princess Ember, but after getting through a few obstacles together she ditches him saying there can only be one winner and so it's "everydragon for themselves." She returns shortly after though and saves Spike from Garble saying she was wrong and she cares about her friendship with Spike.
-   _Phineas and Ferb: Star Wars_ fills in the gap in _A New Hope_ by having Isabella, having left the rebels, meet her rival Han Solo in a bar. After a tense conversation, both decide to return their respective groups.
    
    **Isabella:** I've got friends! I've got plenty of friends!  
    **Han Solo:** Yeah? Where are they now?  
    **Isabella:** ...Well, where are yours?
    
-   _Scooby-Doo! Mystery Incorporated_: Daphne refuses to rejoin the gang in Season 2, after Fred broke off their engagement upon learning his father was really a villain, and his real parents were forced to abandon him, dissolving Mystery Inc. to go find them. It's only after she ends up at the center of yet another investigation and learns her new boyfriend Baylor Hotner was really The Crybaby Clown that she asks to come back, rejoining the team permanently from that point forward.
-   _SpongeBob SquarePants_: In the ending of the episode "All That Glitters", Spat returns from the hospital and immediately forgives SpongeBob for replacing him.
-   _Star Wars Rebels_, "Path of the Jedi": Kanan tells Ezra that the Padawan has to go in alone, only to show up when Ezra tries to use "Eeny-Meeny-Miney-Moe" to pick a direction. When Ezra questions him Kanan gives a "changed my mind" response. Ezra later figures out that it's an illusion and Kanan is actually meditating in the room where they first parted ways like he said he would be.
-   _Steven Universe_: In "Raising the Barn", Lapis, terrified of the Diamonds coming to Earth, steals the barn and leaves the planet with it. Later, in "Can't Go Back", she admits to Steven that she regrets leaving, but still can't bring herself to come back to Earth and ends up fleeing again. Finally, in "Reunited" she returns to Earth during the battle against Blue and Yellow Diamond, deciding once and for all to become a Crystal Gem and fight against Homeworld.
-   _Sweet Sea_: When Sheeba obtains the Royal Necklace, the inhabitants don't want to live under her rule and leave the kingdom, including Sweet Sea's friends. Later, Sweet Sea's friends change their mind about leaving and arrive just in time to save her.
-   _Teen Titans_: Red X in the episode "X".
    
    **Robin:** \[_grins_\] I thought you didn't like to play the hero.  
    **Red X:** Doesn't mean I don't know how.
    
    -   "How Long is Forever?", which had Starfire travel into the future to find that the Teen Titans had long broken up, may have scored some kind of record by having _all four_ of the other Titans initially turn her down, before joining the fight in this fashion.
-   _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles_: In the 2003 cartoon, Raphael does this in the "City at War" storyline.

___