**Jonathan Frakes:** We have an idea for a sitcom, half-hour: The Rikers in space, their wacky Uncle Data, and their little dog Worf, on, like, the _Titan_, probably... We're married, and we're carrying on the Prime Directive. Because Patrick's too, uh—  
**Marina Sirtis:** Old.

Story's over. The Hero and the Love Interest have married, settled down, have no further interest in adventures - and, besides, who would look after the kids while they saved the world? Or maybe he was Put on a Bus or perhaps - gasp - he died and _stayed dead_.

And yet the powers that be still want a sequel. What's a writer to do?

Why, promote the Sidekick of course. Or an ally. Or a brother or child. They haven't married and settled down yet. The Hero and his Love Interest can serve as supporting characters (and prove that they are Happily Married as a sidenote). Or the Heroic Bystander, or the Heroic Wannabe - any character that wasn't the lead can fit, if only they are promoted to lead. A Sequel Hook about their story helps, but is not required. Even new characters who have plausible relationships to the old story, such as the children The Hero and Love Interest could have - or the child the Love Interest is about to have, even if she wants to make sure he doesn't Turn Out Like His Father.

Any story is possible; the **Changing of the Guard** may be invisible to the characters, behind the fourth wall. However, a Changing of the Guard can be noticeable. It could be subtle, such as when a character snarks about the precursor settling down because earlier in the series, when heart-whole and fancy-free, he had mocked lovers. However, it's often a bit more overt. When it is, it usually falls into one of these subtropes:

-   Passing the Torch: The Hero helps decide the succession and hands it off, either _personally_ or by explicit proxy.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   Take Up My Sword: The Hero died, and another character must take their place.

Compare with Legacy Characters. When done for the right reasons, an excellent way to avoid Plot Leveling. Then, it may be dictated by real life, if an actor refuses to return, or even to increase merchandizing opportunities. These are generally less fortunate. Can lead to Generation Xerox, which is usually _not_ done for the right reasons. Contrast Old Hero, New Pals. Not to be confused with Decoy Protagonist, which happens mid-story and does not necessarily need to resolve the previous focus character's story. Compare B-Team Sequel, which is where the _creators_, but not necessarily the characters, change between installments.

See also The Modern Gods, Rotating Protagonist, Demoted to Extra, and Ascended Extra.

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Digimon Adventure 02_ picked up where the first left off by having the two youngest kids team up with a whole new group, while the older heroes served as mentors.
-   _Fate/stay night \[Unlimited Blade Works\]_: Half of the participants in the fifth Holy Grail War are the children of those who battled in the fourth.
-   _Gundam_:
    -   _Mobile Suit Gundam_ focuses on Amuro Ray and Char Aznable as the main protagonist and antagonist, respectively. The sequel, _Mobile Suit Zeta Gundam_, picks up 7 years later, with new protagonist Kamille Bidan taking over as the main character, with Amuro and Char moving to supporting roles. This trend persists with each show in the Universal Century, with a new main character being introduced each series or OVA to pilot a new Gundam and face a different threat. Examples include Judau Ashta in _Mobile Suit Gundam ZZ_, Uso Erwin in _Mobile Suit Victory Gundam_, and so forth. This trend would later extend to alternate universes (such as After Colony, Anno Domini, and Post Disaster), which each introduced a new main character to be the hero in that respective timeline.
    -   Ultimately subverted in the Cosmic Era timeline, featured in _Mobile Suit Gundam SEED_. In the sequel, _Mobile Suit Gundam SEED Destiny_, new character Shinn Asuka was intended to take the main role, with previous protagonist Kira Yamato as a secondary antagonist/supporting character. But flagging ratings led to Kira and a majority of the cast from the original _SEED_ to return to the starring roles, where the new "heroes" conveniently became the main antagonists in the final leg of the series. Due to this subversion, Broken Base reactions have ensued for more than a decade after the end of _Destiny_ due to this breaking of the usual trend.
    -   _Gundam Build Fighters_ focuses on Gunpla builder Sei Iori and Gunpla fighter Reiji Asuna. The sequel, _Gundam Build Fighters Try_, picks up 7 years after the end of _Build Fighters_, with new teenagers Fumina Hoshino, Sekai Kamiki and Yuuma Kousaka taking over the protagonist roles from the now considerably older Sei and Reiji.
-   _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure_ passes the torch to a different Joestar every new series, although they usually wind up in conflict with Dio (even indirectly) at some point. It's also common for supporting characters in one series to show up in another, like Polnareff's involvement in _Golden Wind_.
-   _Lyrical Nanoha_:
    -   _StrikerS Sound Stage X_ has the big heavy-hitters of Riot Force 6 nowhere in sight; they're off on their own missions. A mere planet-wide Zombie Apocalypse is something for Subaru, Teana and the other Forwards to handle.
    -   _Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha ViVid_ has Nanoha actually listening to her doctors' advice for once and temporarily resting her wings, letting her daughter Vivio, whose training she's personally overseeing and who she had proclaimed to be skilled enough to have her own Intelligent Device, take over as main character. The Guard changes back in _Force_, however.
-   After _The Final Problem_ arc off _Moriarty the Patriot_, Louis takes on the role of "M" and head of the supporting cast/crew that worked under William, as Albert is in The Tower and William is presumed dead.
-   _My-Otome_ changes the main character from Mai to Arika in both versions, but the nature of Mai's eventual reappearance is _very_ different between the two adaptations.
-   The _Record of Lodoss War_ OVA switches halfway through from Parn to Spark as the main character. Of course, he's actually just being badass offscreen, and returns just in time for the Final Battle.
-   Similarly, the second season of _Superbook_ had Gizmo team up with a young friend of the main characters of the first season, Joy and Chris. They kept in contact with them through a communication screen in Gizmo's stomach (he's a robot).
-   The first few episodes of _Transformers: ★Headmasters_ moved the main characters from _The Transformers_ out of the spotlight to focus on the Headmasters. Something similar happened between _Masterforce_ and _Victory_.
-   _Dragon Ball_: Akira Toriyama intended to switch the focus from Goku to his son Gohan at the end of the Cell Saga, but switched the main focus back to Goku because he decided that Gohan wasn't fit for the role.
-   In the universe of the franchise, _Love Live! Sunshine!!_ exists as a time skip 5 years after _Love Live!_ takes place, showing the legacy the µ's girls left behind and how they set the standard for the Love Live competition. In the real world, Aqours exists because not only were the µ's voice actresses contracts set to expire in 2016, but also due to Yoshino Nanjo's knee injury that caused her to sit out on a majority of µ's public appearances in 2015. Love Live in general was bringing in too much money merchandising wise to let it die out after µ's went on hiatus, so Aqours was created as a remedy to keep the hype for the brand alive.
-   With every new arc and region of _Pokémon Adventures_ comes new protagonists, with the old ones occasionally providing backup. The best thing about this is that since the focus isn't on one character all the time, nobody suffers from Badass Decay.
-   In _Attack on Titan_, after the destruction of the old Special Operations team led by Levi, a new squad of the remaining 104th Trainees is formed. Eren notes the similarities between the two with visible sadness.
-   Part One of _Tokyo ESP_ focuses on Rinka and Azuma, who go missing so Part Two features new protagonists Jun and Zeusu.
-   _Aikatsu!_ has Ichigo train a fan of hers, Akari, in the idol business, clearing the way for when Akari and new group of friends take over the main character roles in season 3.
-   _PriPara_ shifted focus from Lala Manaka to her temporary roommate Yui Yumekawa in _Idol Time Pripara_.
-   Since _Kemono Friends_ was revealed to be a Shared Universe in its anime, the protagonist position rotates over time. Mirai of the Nexon game gave way to Nana of _Welcome to Japari Park!_, who would give way to Kaban in the anime and Kyururu in season 2.

    Comic Books 

-   In a controversial decision, the folks in charge of _Ultimate Spider-Man_ allowed Peter Parker to be killed off. A successor named Miles Morales took up the mantle, despite being younger, smaller, and afraid of his powers.
-   _Astro City_: Given the long line of legacy heroes in the 'verse, this happens fairly often.
    -   The first Jack-in-the-Box was killed in action, although his family knew only that he vanished without a trace. It wasn't until years later that his son discovered a hidden cache of his costumes and equipment, and decided to become the second Jack-In-The-Box and avenge his father's death.
    -   Jack-In-The-Box II had a two-issue story arc on _his_ succession. Jack is confronted by nightmarish futuristic versions of his son, who blame Jack for their fate — in their Alternate History, Jack died before they were born, and was therefore unable to be a father figure in their lives. When Jack later discovers his wife is pregnant, he has to decide between giving up his super-hero identity or risk leaving behind a twisted offspring. The problem is resolved when Jack passes his super-hero identity to an acrobatic gang member, whom he aids from his home basement with remote-control spy cameras and microphones.
    -   The mantle of The Confessor is passed on when the original Confessor is killed and his sidekick chooses to take over the role.
    -   Played with in the case of Quarrel, a male villain whose daughter inherits his title and equipment, but ends up becoming a hero instead — just as he wanted.
    -   Comes up in the story of Starfighter as well, in a different way. As his powers begin to fade, he wonders what he's done wrong... only for the entity that grants said powers to explain it just wants him to have a peaceful retirement. It then presents him with a list of several worthy candidates to take on the mantle, one of whom is his daughter.
-   In _Fables_, Rose Red is pretty explicitly handed the Designated Heroine role after her sister marries and settles down.
-   In _Superman_ story _The Death of Superman (1961)_, the Man of Steel gets killed off by Lex Luthor permanently, and his younger cousin and pupil Supergirl takes over his duties.
-   _X-Men_: The All-New, All-Different era begins with most of the original X-Men declaring they've grown up and graduated, and no longer want to stay at the Institute. Only Cyclops stays behind because of his Power Incontinence, allowing the new writer to focus on the new team. That said, Jean Grey came back soon enough, as did Havok and Lorna Dane when they caught a bad case of Brainwashed and Crazy.

    Films — Animation 

-   The purpose of _The Transformers: The Movie_ was to kill off the old toys to make room for new ones.
-   Almost happened with _G.I. Joe: The Movie_ as well, which was in production around the same time. The negative reactions from the audiences prompted the executives to rework the plot, allowing Duke to live. Still happened to an extent with Cobra Commander, however.
-   A common Disney sequel tactic:
    -   _The Lion King II: Simba's Pride_ is about Simba's daughter, Kiara, rather than about Simba.
    -   _The Little Mermaid II: Return to the Sea_ is about Ariel's daughter more than Ariel herself.
    -   _Lady and the Tramp II: Scamp's Adventure_ is, as the title indicates, about Lady and Tramp's son Scamp, not them.
    -   _Return To Never Land_ is about Wendy's daughter Jane going to Never Land with Peter Pan.
-   _My Little Pony: Equestria Girls_ has Twilight Sparkle remain as the protagonist in the first film, teaming up with humanized versions of her friends. In the sequels, the reformed Sunset Shimmer takes over as The Hero while Twilight's role is gradually diminished in place of her own human counterpart.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _Short Circuit 2_, sure it's still Johnny Five but now Guttenberg has been replaced with his quirky not-really-Indian sidekick.
-   The _Tremors_ series passes the "hero torch" from Val (gets married) to Earl (opens a theme park) to Burt (stays at it until his heroic sacrifice in movie 7).
-   _Smokey and the Bandit_ Part 3 with Snowman dressed as The Bandit.
-   _Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull_ introduces Indy's son Mutt, who was seemingly being set up to take his father's place. Even so, the film ends with a pointed subversion of passing the torch as Indy's trademark hat is blown off its rack and Mutt picks it up. He's about to try it on when Indy snatches it back. And in 2023, _Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny_ was released, with Harrison Ford still in the lead.
-   _Rocky Balboa_ had a perfectly good opportunity to pass off his Best Boxer EVAR mantle to a young man named Steps (who did not have any other purpose to the story). He doesn't, although _Creed_ shows him training the son of his old rival.
-   A meta-version of this occurs in the beginning of _The Rundown_ when The Rock enters a club and passes Arnold Schwarzenegger, who wishes him a good time as he's leaving the club.
-   An odd example occurs with the _Van Wilder_ series. The first movie focuses around its titular character. The second movie then shifts focus to the sidekick, Taj. The third movie then returns to Van, the main character from the first movie.
-   _Bruce Almighty_ starred Jim Carrey as Bruce... and as a supporting character, Steve Carell as newscaster Evan. Steve's character would then get promoted to the lead role in the sequel, _Evan Almighty_.
-   _James Bond_:
    -   _Skyfall_ does this for the Bond series' supporting cast. By the end of the film Judi Dench's M has died, been replaced by Ralph Fiennes' male M. We are introduced to a quartermaster, or Q (Ben Whishaw), for the first time in a Bond movie with Daniel Craig. At the end we learn that Eve (Naomie Harris) was named "Moneypenny" all along, when she decides to give up being a field agent for a desk job.
    -   At some point, a Spin-Off of _Die Another Day_ was in the works, starring Jinx (Halle Berry) as the main character, and would have had Pierce Brosnan doing a cameo appearance as James Bond. Wai-Lin from _Tomorrow Never Dies_ was also rumored to have her own movie. In the end though, the Bond producers decided it wasn't worth it and stuck to making Bond-centric movies. They reiterated this by the time of the release of _No Time to Die_ about twenty years later.
-   The first four entries of the _X-Men Film Series_ featured Wolverine as the main protagonist, but _X-Men: First Class_ has Magneto and Professor X as the two lead characters.
-   In _Avengers: Age of Ultron_, by the film's end, several of the original Avengers lineup have retired, left to attend to other matters or just plain disappeared. A new team is unveiled in the final moments: Captain America, Black Widow, War Machine, the Falcon, Scarlet Witch and the Vision.

    Literature 

-   Raymond E. Feist's _The Riftwar Cycle_. While most of the powerful magicians are long-lived, supporting characters in the later books are typically descendants of the original protagonists. Famous examples are the descendants of Duke Borric and Jimmy the Hand.
-   J. R. R. Tolkien wrestled with the idea of having Bilbo have more adventures after _The Hobbit_, but quickly decided on having a son or other relative have them instead, although it took him a while to decide on Frodo.
-   Edgar Rice Burroughs played with this in his Mars books. After the third book, he began writing about a larger stable of viewpoint characters, as John Carter's own romance arc had been completed and he needed new princesses to rescue and heroes to rescue them. John Carter remained a central figure and The Hero throughout the series, however
-   Andre Norton:
    -   The _Witch World_ started with two books about Simon Tregarth. Then she wrote them about his children, or about other characters in the same world.
    -   In _Warlock Series_, the hero of _Storm Over Warlock_ is the Love Interest of _Ordeal in Otherwhere_.
    -   In _Forerunner Foray_, the Love Interest is the son of the first two protagonists.
-   Lois McMaster Bujold's Vorkosigan Saga began with _Shards of Honor_ before going on to be mostly about the son of that novel's protagonists.
-   Piers Anthony's works:
    -   Done constantly in the _Xanth_ series. What generation of Bink's family are we on now?
    -   In the _Apprentice Adept_ series, this is played with. The main characters in Book 4 and 5 are from the second generation, but in Book 6, the first-, second- and third-generation heroes all get equal screen time and are equally relevant to the plot.
-   Older Than Steam: Done repeatedly in the sequels to the Chivalric Romance of Amadis of Gaul.
-   _Heralds of Valdemar_ does this, but just as often in reverse, recounting the experience of past generations rather than future ones. And then the children of past generations take the torch, but still in the past. And then their great-great-great-grandchildren show up in the present novels.
-   Terry Brooks' Shannara series does it regularly. The grandchildren of the characters of previous book typically become the protagonists of the next. Suffers from Generation Xerox somewhat.
-   _Redwall_:
    -   There's a new set of characters is almost every book. The only constant is the the Abbey itself.
    -   And there are a few novels that predate the construction of the Abbey, so not even that is entirely constant.
-   _Dragonlance Chronicles_ has Tanis as its lead character but its sequel _Legends_ set shortly after has the twins Caramon and Raistlin take the spotlight. The next book set years later has the children of the heroes from Chronicles as the main cast.
-   The last few _Anne of Green Gables_ books are mostly about her kids.
-   _The Sacketts_ series by Louis L'Amour has this built-in and happening over and over. As the title suggest, the series is meant to be about the Sackett family, not one particular hero.
-   Every new one of _The Chronicles of Narnia_ has a new changing of the guard: First, there were the 4 Pevensie siblings. Then there were two and a cousin. Then the cousin and a friend... The prequel even established a minor character from the first published book as the major character in a previous adventure.
-   In Jacqueline Carey's _Kushiel's Legacy_ books, the first trilogy is narrated by Phedre. The second is by her adopted son, as Phedre is semi-retired from adventuring by the time he's an adult. (The third is by a distant relative of theirs a century or two later.)
-   _The Edge Chronicles_ features a new set of characters across almost every book. The whole series has three trilogies, each with a different central protagonist.
-   The sequel series to Rick Riordan's _Percy Jackson and the Olympians_, _The Heroes of Olympus_ focuses on a new group of kids. Percy and Annabeth are the only old characters who are part of the seven main characters.
-   _X-Wing Series_:
    -   The first four books had Wedge Antilles and Rogue Squadron, but the primary focus was unmistakably Corran Horn. Those four books ended with the Rogues, including Wedge and Corran, deciding to help a planet's defenses build up after "killing" the Big Bad. The next three books were to be written by another author, who wanted to write from the POV of some of Wedge's friends creating a new squadron. Executive Meddling nixed this, so Aaron Allston had Wedge leave the Rogues for a while and create a new squadron himself. Some other characters are in common, but in different or reduced roles.
    -   _Mercy Kill_, the 10th X-Wing novel, happens after a 20 year Time Skip, and a new generation of Wraiths are introduced. Several of them are the children of the original cast.
-   The first series of the _Warrior Cats_ books started off with Firestar as the main character. He was then replaced by Brambleclaw, his former apprentice, in _Warrior Cats: The New Prophecy_, as well as his daughters Squirrelflight and Leafpool. In _Power of Three_, Brambleclaw turns into a background character like Firestar, and is replaced by his adopted children Jayfeather, Lionblaze, and Hollyleaf. _Omen of the Stars_ has Ivypool and Dovewing, two younger cats, as its main focus, with the _Power of Three_ characters still in tow. And then in _A Vision of Shadows_, Bramblestar and Squirrelflight's kit Alderheart is the main focus, with Ivypool and Dovewing as background characters. In _The Broken Code_, the focus is on Ivypool's daughter Bristlefrost and Dovewing's son Shadowsight, with both of them as background characters.
-   Most of the main good guys from the first three _Emberverse_ books have a lot of authority in the new nation-states by the time the second series rolls around. This would put a crimp in their ability to go haring off to find the Sword of Plot Advancement when such a trip would take several years - a fact the resident Tolkien geek deeply laments - and so the task falls to the previously established Chosen One, his childhood friend, and seven more characters who either could be missed by blinking in the first three books or are completely new. While they're away, we do get the occasional glimpse of the old guard struggling to stave off the new Big Bad.
-   _The Legacy of Dhakaan_, set after _The Dragon Below_ with some of the same characters, promotes Geth, Ashi, and Ekhaas to center-stage since Dandra and Singe have their happy ending and the Marcher crowd are too busy at home.
-   _Discworld_
    -   Mort and Ysabell's story ended with them Happily Married. So for the next novel that needed a young clueless human to take on Death's role and mess things up, their daughter Susan was introduced.
    -   _Lords and Ladies_ also ends with Magrat, the Maiden of the Lancre coven, getting married. Luckily, the same novel introduces a coven of young girls messing about, one of whom — Agnes Nitt — actually has some talent and becomes Third Witch (eventually) in the next coven novel. Arguably, the Tiffany Aching novels mark a Changing Of The Guard for the entire witches series, with Tiff becoming the main character while Nanny and Granny fade into support roles.
    -   _Guards! Guards!_ starts off being about Carrot Ironfounderson, the secret heir to the throne of Ankh-Morpork who joins and breathes new life into the night watch and turns his boss Captain Samuel Vimes around from being a burned out alcoholic into a capable watch commander again. Subsequent "watch" stories focus almost entirely on Vimes as the grizzled veteran.
-   After a while, the _Thoroughbred_ series stopped focussing on Ashley and her friends and timeskipped a few years to focus on their kids instead.
-   The first three books of _The Black Company_ series are narrated mainly by Croaker, Annalist of the Black Company, who then passes the duty to his successor Murgen, who ever only gets mentioned once in the third book, and while Croaker stays an important character, we don't get his point of view anymore. Murgen in turn passes the annalist duties on to his understudy Sleepy, who in turn is implied to be succeeded by Shukrat and Arkana, Croaker's adopted daughters. It's worth noting that according to company tradition the annalist tends become the standard bearer and eventually rise to being captain, so each of those follow the previous one in more than one role.
-   The first half of the _Sector General_ series follows the medical adventures and advancement of the young Doctor Conway. At the end of the sixth book, he is promoted to the highest ranks of the hospital staff, which means far less work with individual cases and definitely no missions away from the hospital. Accordingly he is retired as a protagonist, and the next six books all focus on different characters.
-   After Angie Sage's _Septimus Heap_ series, she started _TodHunter Moon_, where the Septimus characters are only minor roles. The heroine fo the first book becomes Septimus's apprentice at the end.
-   In Mavis Doriel Hay's first detective novel _Murder Underground_, two of the viewpoint characters are Betty Watson and her fiancé Basil. The protagonist of the sequel, _Death on the Cherwell_, is Sally Watson, who in due course is revealed to be Betty's younger sister.
-   _The Anderssons_: When the series starts out, Elin is clearly the protagonist. But after two installments, that role is naturally given to her daughter Rebecka instead. And then, it is moved around between different girls in their family.
-   The _Tales of the Magic Land_ cycle is divided into two parts: Ellie–Toto–Fred/Charlie era and Annie–Arto–Tim era. The third book ends with Ramina the Mouse Queen predicting that Ellie would never return to the Magic Land, but it didn't stop the fans from crying for more. The writer then quickly introduced Ellie's little sister Annie and Toto's grandson Arto to throw them into a new adventure.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Inspector Morse's_ sidekick, later the star of _Lewis_.
-   _Power Rangers_ did a lot of this in its early seasons: when old actors left or started getting too old for their roles, they transferred their powers to new ones and went off to do stuff.
-   _War of the Worlds (1988)_ did this when it switched into a Darker and Edgier season, throwing out decayed villains and immediately establishing the threat of the new ones with the death of two of the ensemble. Their mourning was short-lived due to the addition of Adrian Paul as an Anti-Hero.
-   In _M\*A\*S\*H_ this happens to several major cast members: Henry's tour of duty ends, he gets killed on his way home, and is replaced by Sherman Potter. Trapper goes home as well, in comes BJ. Frank breaks down, and is replaced by Charles. When Radar leaves, Klinger takes over his role as the company clerk.
-   Agent John Doggett replaced Fox Mulder as the male lead after the latter was abducted by the aliens in the eighth season of _The X-Files_. In the ninth season, Monica Reyes replaced Dana Scully as the female lead, completing the guard change.
-   Happened frequently in _Law & Order_; probably could have gone on forever if the network hadn't pulled the plug.
-   Happened just as frequently on _ER_; final scene has Carter (once a young intern, now in charge of the shift) saying the exact same thing ("You coming?") to the now near adult daughter of the now deceased doctor who was in charge when Carter was said intern.
-   In the last season of _JAG_ it looked like they were preparing for this—the General replacing the Admiral, and the two younger lawyers being introduced.
-   _Babylon 5_: This was a theme of the fifth season, beginning with Captain Elizabeth Lochley being assigned to replace Captain Susan Ivanova as commander of the station. Through the course of the season, most of the established characters would retire, take on new jobs, deal with the fact that they didn't have their _old_ jobs, and generally pass the torch to a variety of minor or supporting characters from previous seasons who were similarly moving on from their old roles in life. With the penultimate episode, Sheridan and Delenn depart Babylon 5 and the audience is treated to a shot of all of the replacement characters standing at the Command and Control viewport in the style of the first season's intro.
    -   This also happened to a smaller degree in the second and fourth seasons. Commander Sinclair was reassigned to Minbar after the first season (due to the actor suffering from medical problems) and replaced with Captain Sheridan. In the fourth season, Garibaldi goes missing, then takes a leave of absence, then resigns, and throughout all of this, Zack Allen ends up with his job. Sheridan goes on the warpath against Earth and Susan Ivanova takes over as commander of the station for most of the season.
-   _Blake's 7_: Blake is only a regular on the first half of the show's run, with Anti-Hero Lancer Avon being elevated to the role of main character for the second half.
-   After the second season of _GARO_, a movie was released to wrap up the story of the hero Kouga; after this, the third and fifth seasons focused on Ryuuga (a future Garo user) and the fourth on Kouga's son Raiga.
-   Zigzagged in _Tiere bis unters Dach_. The first two seasons center around Greta , her sister Lilie, and her friends. At the beginning of season 3, she realizes that she's gotten too old for adventures, and her younger cousin Nellie moves in and becomes the new main character, while the previous child cast pretty much disappears. In season 4, the now teenaged Greta and Lilie once again become prominent recurring characters, and Greta's old friend Celine also shows up from time to time, though Nellie is still the main character.
-   _House of Anubis_: Nina Martin was the protagonist of the first two seasons. Due to her actress leaving in the third season, she was replaced by Eddie Miller and the new character KT Rush, who led Sibuna in her place.
-   _One Tree Hill_: Protagonist Lucas Scott (and his wife Peyton Sawyer) left the show after Season 6 (though he returned for an episode in the final season). Lucas' half-brother and Deuteragonist Nathan is then promoted to the protagonist role in Seasons 7 and 8. When Nathan's actor only joined the final season as a part time regular, his wife Haley becomes the show's final protagonist.
-   _The Walking Dead_ Season 9 features The Hero Rick Grimes getting Put on a Bus early on. His Lancer Daryl Dixon, resident Action Mom Carol Peletier, and Rick's wife Michonne became a Power Trio to fill the role Rick left in subsequent episodes.
-   _The White Queen_ has Elizabeth Woodville as the main protagonist marrying Edward IV, the head of a rival dynasty. Jacquetta of Luxembourg is the Queen's mother smoothing her ascent to power - and teaching her the use of magic. Cecily Neville is the King's mother, resentful of the newcomer displacing her. Margaret of Anjou is the exiled Queen fighting to put her teenage son on the throne and Margaret Beaufort is a distant relative quietly plotting her own progeny's accession. In The White Princess Elizabeth of York becomes the main protagonist and marries the newly-crowned Henry VII, while Elizabeth Woodville inherits Jacquetta's role. Margaret Beaufort replaces Cecily Neville, who sort of takes up Beaufort's role in scheming to install either Perkin Warbeck<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  or Edward of Warwick<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , aided by _another_ Margaret from her seat in Burgundy. While their political positions are not the same, a similar character arc is shown with Anne Neville and Maggie Pole, who start off shy and submissive but gradually become more assertive, yet still end up losing everything.
-   _Mystery Science Theater 3000_ would periodically write off and replace members of its small cast, which would be reflected by changes to its title sequence. In order: Dr. Eckhardt was Put on a Bus between Seasons 1 and 2 and replaced by TV's Frank; Joel escaped the Satellite of Love midway through Season 5 and was replaced by Mike; Frank died at the end of Season 6 and was replaced by Pearl; Dr. Forrester was Killed Offscreen between Seasons 7 and 8, with Pearl taking over as Big Bad and bringing in Professor Bobo and Brain Guy as her assistants; and as the Bots are the only characters brought back in the Season 11 revival, Mike and Pearl's group are all replaced respectfully by Jonah, Kinga, and Max.
-   _The Fairly OddParents: Fairly Odder_: The trailer depicts an older Timmy Turner (the original series' main character) personally passing Cosmo and Wanda down to his cousin Viv, thereby cementing that she's the new protagonist.

    Music 

-   _Confession Executive Committee's_ _Love Series_ centers around the students of Sakuragaoka High School, but every few years the current cast gets phased out in favor of a newer, fresher group of students. At first it focused on a group of six friends, but after a while focus shifted to the friend group of two of the first generation's younger siblings, and by 2019 focus shifted to _that_ cast's juniors. The previous groups still do get some focus, but it mostly comes in side material and they are nowhere near the focus of the primary series afterwards.

    Video Games 

-   _Star Ocean: The Second Story_, has two selectable protagonists, one of which is the son of one of the protagonists in _Star Ocean_.
-   The ending of _Neverwinter Nights_ was set up for another adventure, but they move on to entirely new groups of heroes in the expansions and the sequel.
-   Most games in the _Castlevania_ series focus on a different Belmont, although sometimes they're not available due to plot purposes, like in _Castlevania: Bloodlines_, _Castlevania: Symphony of the Night_, and _Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin_.
-   Later installments of the _King's Quest_ series focus on the adventures of Graham's (the original protagonist) descendants.
-   _Eternal Darkness_ levels end (which often involves the death, or worse of said character) although it still has a protagonist who's played in the intervals between chapters.
-   _Fire Emblem_:
    -   _Fire Emblem: Genealogy of the Holy War_ skips 17 years after its halfway point, so pretty much your entire army will be replaced by the children of your units.
    -   This works backwards in the Elibe games. _The Blazing Blade_ (or just _Fire Emblem_ outside Japan) was a prequel to _The Binding Blade_, so it naturally starred the parents of several of that game's characters.
-   _Chrono Trigger_ and _Chrono Cross_. The main characters from the former are all out of the picture somehow (dead, in another time, or busy elsewhere), but before they left they set up an unimaginably complex Gambit Roulette to produce the main characters of the latter and get them to be in the right places at the right times.
-   Apollo Justice takes over from Phoenix Wright in the _Ace Attorney_ games. Well, he _technically_ does — the fact that the entire _Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney_ game centres on what happened to Phoenix left some fans unconvinced. Still, Phoenix's pals were absent, to allow for a new cast. Probably as a response to this, later games fleshed out Apollo's personality and backstory to make him more distinct from Phoenix. It actually was supposed to be a whole new set of characters, but Executive Meddling caused it to include Phoenix and the writers had to make it so that Phoenix couldn't just swoop in and save the day.
-   A staple in the _Dragon Age_ series:
    -   _Dragon Age II_ continues the history of Thedas post-Fifth Blight (which was depicted in _Origins_) but with a new lead character and a mostly brand-new supporting cast.
    -   _Dragon Age: Inquisition_ mixes things: Hawke's gang is for the most part dispersed all around Thedas, most party members are new faces and Ascended Extras from supplemental materials but Varric, alongside _Origins_ veterans Leliana and Cullen joins the title organization, with Hawke themselves giving a hand for a while, while other veteran characters including the _Origins_ protagonist, if they survived, are still active off-screen and referenced in the War Table section of the game.
-   In _Valis IV_, Yuko Ahso, who Ascended to a Higher Plane of Existence at the end of _Valis III_, passes the Valis Sword to new heroine Lena Brande. Cham and Valna return as supporting characters.

-   _Final Fantasy_:
    -   The son of the main characters from the previous game is implied to the new hero in _Final Fantasy IV: The After Years_ and the game also focuses a good deal on the other children of the previous heroes as well, but the old heroes are quite active in the story themselves as well.
    -   At the end of _Final Fantasy X_, Tidus ceases to exist due to the fact that Jecht's existance as Sin was the only thing keeping him alive. Obviously, _Square Enix_ couldn't make him the protagonist of the sequel, so the story centers around Yuna instead and her quest to bring him back.
    -   At the end of _Final Fantasy XIII_, Vanille and Fang all die as a result of the plot and Lightning is gone for story reasons, so they're out. Bring in Lightning's sister, Serah. Conveniently, Lightning, while in Valhalla (Heaven if you will), is able to summon Noel to give her some help. Hope, Vanille, Fang, Snow, and Sahz also make appearances, not counting DLC.
-   _The Legend of Heroes - Trails_: It's practically franchise tradition for this to happen after every arc, or sometimes even within arcs. To elaborate; the ending of _Trails in the Sky SC_ outright acknowledges this in its Sequel Hook, with Cassius Bright stating that while the current crisis has been resolved, there will be more battles to come, which will be fought by other people.
-   The main _Pokémon_ series has had 12/24/25 heroes so far (depending on how you count); Red/Leaf, Ethan/Kris/Lyra, Brendan/May, Lucas/Dawn, Hilbert/Hilda, Nate/Rosa, Calem/Serena, Elio/Selene, Chase/Elaine, Victor/Gloria, Rei/Akari, and Florian/Juliana. In the Orre games, there's Wes in _Pokémon Colosseum_ and Michael in _Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness_. Ranger games have 3/6 heroes (Lunick/Solana, Kellyn/Kate, and Ben/Summer). Then there's Mark/Mint from the TCG games, an unnamed hero from _Pokémon Conquest_, Todd Snap from _Pokémon Snap_ and Lucy Fleetfloot from _Pokémon Troizei/Link_. In a series that revolves around "gotta catch 'em all", this was probably the best way to avoid continually invoking Bag of Spilling.
-   _Puyo Puyo Fever_ was supposedly going to take place in a different universe from the previous games...but lo and behold, former protagonist Arle somehow found her way in, along with Carbuncle. Other classic Puyo characters returned in the sequel, putting them in the same continuity.
-   Pretty common in _Soulcalibur V_, Sophitia and her sister Cassandra have been supplanted by Sophitia's children. Xianhua, Taki and Kilik have all been replaced by successors or offspring that use the same weapons and styles. Yoshimitsu is apparently a legacy character, but with the mask you can't tell he's changed. Nightmare got a new identity for story purposes, but he's still the same guy. Maxi and Siegfried are cool old guys, the rest of the returners have been rendered ageless in one way or another or always were.
-   Each new main entry in the _Persona_ series features a new group of heroes; _Persona 2_ is the only main series game where party members from the previous one still play a major role in the plot, though _Persona 4: Arena_ reveals that the cast of _Persona 3_ haven't given up on the hero business just yet. The first _Persona_ plays this almost literally by having the female protagonist of _Shin Megami Tensei if..._ pass down her sword to the Player Character.
-   _inFAMOUS: Second Son_ changes the protagonist from Cole McGrath to Delsin Rowe due to the fact that the game takes place after the good ending of _inFAMOUS 2_, in which Cole sacrifices himself.
-   Season Two of _The Walking Dead (Telltale)_ has Clementine become the hero this time around since Lee ends up succumbing to the zombie plague by the end of the first season.
-   _Yakuza 6_ is the final part of Kazuma Kiryu's story arc. The next game, _Yakuza: Like a Dragon_, follows a new protagonist, Ichiban Kasuga, as he makes shockwaves through the Japanese criminal underworld.
-   _Street Fighter III_ was supposed to be this, with only Ryu and Ken being returning characters among a brand new roster (with new character Alex being the main protagonist.) After the game turned out to be a commercial disaster, the updated _2nd Impact_ and _3rd Strike_ (the latter of which would eventually become Vindicated by History) added Akuma and Chun-li, and Capcom eventually reached a compromise, with future titles being set between _2_ and _3_ (until _Street Fighter 6_, nearly 20 years after _3_ was first released), with both the previous cast and some of the newcomers from _3_.
-   _Fatal Fury_ followed in _Street Fighter III_'s footsteps with _Garou: Mark Of The Wolves_, the final game in the series, which had Terry as the only returning character (while main protagonist duties were passed onto Geese Howard's son Rock.)
-   _Tales Of_:
    -   _Tales of Destiny 2_ has Kyle, the son of Stahn and Rutee from _Tales of Destiny_, taking the role of protagonist after Stahn's death.
    -   _Tales of Xillia 2_ focuses on new character Ludger one year after the events of _Tales of Xillia_ but still brings back the original cast as playable characters while the previous final bosses, Gaius and Muzet, get _Promoted to Playable_.
-   _Bravely Second_, the sequel to _Bravely Default_, brings in new protagonist Yew, due to original protagonist Agnès getting taken hostage, although Tiz and Edea from the first game still return as party members.
-   The _Borderlands_ games do this between each main entry. Each group of vault hunters in one game become key side characters in the next. The first generation that was Roland, Lilith, Mordecai, and Brick couldn't take on the threat of Hyperion in the second game, and the Crimson Raiders were scattered and complacent by the time the Children of the Vault emerged in the third.
-   _The Other: Rosie's Road of Love_: The new protagonist, is a side character from the prequel, Rosie, who has been Promoted to Playable.
-   _Fresh Minty Adventure_: Game 3.5 of the Pony Platforming Project, has changed protagonists by having Promoted to Playable, the Damsel in Distress of Game 3: _Minty Fresh Adventure!_.
-   Awesomely Subverted in _Vermintide II_. The interquel mission of the first game and the opening narration in the second suggests that the Ubersreik Five<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  have been defeated and captured by the forces of Chaos, and new heroes will be required. Cue the prologue, which shows the Ubersreik Five busting out of captivity and escaping to continue the fight.

    Web Animation 

-   _Red vs. Blue_: After the end of the fifth season, the show was brought back with the miniseries _Recovery One_, which featured a new protagonist named Agent Washington in the starring role. None of the original main characters reappeared, and the only returning characters were Delta, featured in the first miniseries _Out of Mind_, and Wyoming, who appears briefly and without any lines. Washington continued as the protagonist into the next season, _Reconstruction_, where the original cast gradually joined him.

    Web Comics 

-   _Scary Go Round_ started with the characters Tessa and Rachel (let's call them the "New Guard") as protagonists, but they were soon complemented with and eventually usurped by characters from John Allison's previous webcomic _Bobbins_. For a while Shelley, Amy, Tim, and Ryan (the "Old Guard") reigned supreme, but then a batch of younger characters, in particular The Boy and Perky Goth Esther (the "Young Guard" along with their friends) gradually took over. In the final chapters of SGR, the younger siblings of the "Young Guard", mainly Lottie and Shauna (the "Kid's Guard") starred (and transitioned into the successor webcomic _Bad Machinery_).
    -   The "Old Guard" remained until the end too: the very last couple of comics show Shelley saying goodbye to Amy and Ryan and leaving town. As Lottie is the sister of Esther's best friend and both of them have met Shelley, it's almost my case of Take Up My Sword in the investigating-local-weirdness game. Ryan and Amy still appear in _Bad Machinery_ as supporting characters - Ryan is now Shauna and Lottie's teacher.
-   _Ruby Nation_ is a continuation of the story in _Ruby's World_, but the perspective has shifted to that of Elise.

    Western Animation 

-   _Batman Beyond_ is about Batman's replacement. The original Batman acts as Mission Control.
-   _Extreme Ghostbusters_ focuses on Egon training a new group. The Real Ghostbusters haven't quite quit, though, and return for one two-parter.
-   _Star Wars: The Bad Batch_: Season 1 shows the gradual replacement of Clone Troopers by natural-born Stormtroopers in the Imperial Army. This causes problems in the third-to-last episode as the Bad Batch's old Clone credentials no longer work as the Empire has switched to Stormtrooper ones.
-   This was sort of the entire point of _Tiny Toon Adventures_ — the old school Looney Tunes ran an academy at which they could teach their skills to the next generation of Suspiciously Similar Substitutes.
-   _The Legend of Korra_: By way of reincarnation, Korra is this to previous series' protagonist Aang, with Katara (another protagonist and the elderly wife of said character) noting this in a Passing the Torch speech in the first episode. While Korra and her group of friends run around as the new leads, Katara remains in the South Pole as a healer, Zuko is retired and ceded the throne to his daughter, and Toph became a hermit after raising her children to adulthood. So, and Sokka was a councilman who died at some unspecified point when Korra was a child.
    
    **Katara:** Aang's time has passed. My brother and many of my friends are gone. It's time for you and your generation to take on the responsibility of keeping peace and balance in the world. But I think you're going to be a great Avatar.
    
    -   It was played with a little bit previously in _ATLA_, with Aang was frequently being compared with previous, highly-regarded incarnations Roku and Kyoshi.

    Real Life 

___