_"Thank you for that 'choice' role where I die in a fiery explosion right off the bat. Truly a character with all the rich complexity of Hamlet or King Lear."_

The Classically Trained Extra is an actor, often on a Show Within a Show, who feels they're stuck in a lowbrow role that's somehow "below" them, agonizes over their talent being wasted, and aspires for greater things. Whether they're a has-been or an overly ambitious newcomer to acting, they tend to come off as an uptight blowhard, especially if they boast that they're a "classically-trained Shakespearean actor".

Particularly reviled roles seem to be a character on a science fiction program, the straight man on a Sitcom (a part many actors admit to hating, since it can be seen as standing there being "normal," while your co-workers get all the good laughs,) or the host of a broadcast TV kids' show. Bonus points for the last one, or any role where the Classically Trained Extra's personality (they're usually The Comically Serious) is cast against type. If they have sufficient contempt for the role, they might Hate The Job Love The Limelight. If they express that contempt to the kids who love their character, it's Nice Character, Mean Actor. For extra measure, add in a Contractual Obligation Project, in which the actor would not only despise the role because they feel it is beneath their talents, but also they were _forced_ to be involved in the project.

Note, while the title is made to amplify the meaning of this trope, it happens whenever someone appears in a role that is really _far, far_ below their ability and range. It may be a very important secondary role, but it is usually a pop culture type of production.

This trope is often Truth in Television, as even great actors can't always be picky about roles, as a side effect of skill not very often translating into popularity. This may even lead into Magnum Opus Dissonance if the work they sign up for outshines the popularity of the classical works they've preferred working on. This trope, however, can be subverted by One for the Money; One for the Art, where the actor (at least verbally) sets aside their personal feelings towards the quality of the project and uses the experience, connections, and money for projects that they would _really_ enjoy doing.

There is often a strong overlap with Theatre is True Acting in the case of actors with a strong stage background thinking that schmaltzy on-camera acting is beneath them. Compare Questionable Casting, All-Star Cast. For _actual_ classically trained actors, see Shakespearian Actors.

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

-   One of the commercials in Sprite's "Obey Your Thirst" campaign is based on this; we're presented with three streetwise, tough-talking street basketball players telling us that they drink (fictitious) Turbo Sport 7 — until the director yells, "Cut!" at which point we find out that all three of them are Classically Trained Extras. Tagline: "Trust your gut, not some actor."

    Film — Animated 

-   Mr. Pricklepants in _Toy Story 3_ takes his "role" as a toy incredibly seriously, even though it involves nothing more than not moving when humans are around, something every other toy can do with ease. The post-credits scenes feature him staging _Romeo and Juliet_ purely for the other toys' benefit.
-   In _Inside Out_, during the Creative Closing Credits we see the emotions of the real-life Jangles the Clown, who laments that he spent six years in drama school to end up working as a struggling party clown.
-   Slim in _A Bug's Life_ laments (dramatically, of course) that despite all his training, P. T. only ever casts him as a prop, a tree, a splinter. P. T. points out that it's funny, damnit.
-   The Animated Outtakes for _Barbie and the Magic of Pegasus_ reveal that Ollie the ogre is one of these, and he laments having to play a stereotypical brute.

    Film — Live-Action 

-   Jenna, one of the two porn actresses, from _Hatchet_. She went to NYU and is a _serious_ actress.
    
    "I was moving to Hollywood next month to be famous, now I'm going to die out here with all of you assholes!"
    
-   Alexander Dane on _Galaxy Quest_. Although Alexander isn't exactly an extra — he's the #2 star of the show — he still seems miffed he's best known as Dr. Lazarus instead of his stage roles. It's understandable given how painfully one-dimensional his character comes off as. He learns of his importance to people when an (alien) fan of his dies, and he finally says his catchphrase (which, until then, he hated) _and means it_. He acts like this even after Gwen rightfully points out that he had a character people genuinely loved, while her only real purpose on the show was to provide fan service and be the captain's love interest.
-   Rob in _Swingers_ mentions having performed Shakespearean roles but finds himself auditioning for Goofy at Disneyland.
-   _Malibu's Most Wanted_ had two well-educated, well-trained black actors who were always typecast as thugs. Ironically, they were both somewhat effeminate.
-   In the 1983 remake of _To Be or Not to Be_, about a Polish theatre company during the war, one of the characters complains about how Mel Brooks' actor-manager "Frederick Bronski" hogs the limelight as Hamlet doing the titular monologue whilst he is relegated to the part of second off-stage Nazi, despite being a classically trained actor.
-   Bob in _The Real Blonde_ lands a lucrative role on a soap opera. Despite the fame and wealth, he hates the role and recites Shakespeare in his dressing room. Ironically, the actor playing Bob was a soap opera actor himself.
-   Parodied in _Wayne's World 2_ when the actor playing the gas station attendant is replaced mid-scene by Charlton Heston. His brief performance brings Wayne to tears.
-   _The American_ features an old man who gets shot dead within seconds of appearing at the start of the movie. That old man happens to be a Swedish actor who is not only a classically trained stage actor (they all are) but also well respected.
-   In _Rubber_, one of the extras wears a baseball cap with the words "CLASSICALLY TRAINED" on it. It's part of the movie's Breaking the Fourth Wall shtick.

    Live Action TV 

-   A _Frasier_ episode revolved around Frasier discovering his favorite Shakespearean actor as a boy was now playing Tobor the android in _Space Patrol_. It transpires he was actually a really _bad_ Shakespearean actor, but Frasier was too young to know. Sir Derek Jacobi, who played the part, really is a classically trained actor and former RSC member. Jacobi won an acting Emmy Award for that role. As often seems to be the case, Sir Derek was clearly having the time of his life.
-   _Beakman's World_: Originally Lester, the guy in the rat-suit, was simply a trained actor with a bad agent, though this got played down for his more disgusting qualities later on.
-   The sitcom _Cybill_ (1990s) was about a actress, Cybill Sheridan (played by Cybill Shepherd) who, not young any longer, only got minor roles (including voicing a singing toilet for an ad, and that was probably not her worst). She remembered her "golden age" as a scream queen, but grew to dislike the quality of her own horror movies, having done it only to pay the bills.
-   _LazyTown_: Stefán Karl was an acclaimed theater actor who performed in stage musicals along with Chekhov and Shakespeare plays. He endeared himself to many fans by stating that he took Robbie Rotten as seriously as his Shakespearean roles, which certainly shows in his performance.
-   In _Slings & Arrows_, Ellen is a veteran Shakespearean actress who sells out by taking a lead role on a ridiculous sci-fi show.
-   Invoked in the "Gallimaufrey" episode of _QI_. Phill Jupitus mimics the "kind of out of work actor they would have on _Call My Bluff_ when defining the word "grog blossom"."
-   Parodied in _The Young Ones_ where a postman who appears for a couple of minutes to deliver a parcel in one episode is apparently played by one of these; he roars his two-or-so lines with the same passion and intensity he would presumably give if he was playing the Dane. Even when he's gone, he can still be heard loudly delivering luvvie-style theatrical anecdotes backstage and generally annoying everyone present.
-   Inverted in Brit Com _Vicious_, where genuinely stellar actors Sir Ian McKellen and Sir Derek Jacobi play two ageing hams looking back on less-than-stellar careers which inevitably involved many roles of this sort. Both knights of the British theatre gleefully play their over-egotistic and under-talented alternate personas for all they are worth.
-   In _Garth Marenghis Darkplace_, one of the in-universe actors, Todd Rivers, is a classically trained actor who ended up in the titular show, a terribly written and Author Tract\-filled horror/sci-fi show. He clearly (and justifiably) views the show as beneath him and as a result all his lines are either cheap and over the top or dubbed over in post. The DVD commentary reveals that he never bothered to watch the show after making it, seeing it only as a paycheck, and when he sees it for the first time years later he's highly unimpressed.
-   Literally in the case of Sebastian in _Shakespeare & Hathaway - Private Investigators_ . He is a RADA trained actor, but his current acting career consists of bit parts in commercials and being an extra in Shakespeare productions.
-   _Reboot (2022)_: As Reed's proud of saying, he went to the Yale School of Drama, but his most famous role is on a family sitcom and he hasn't been able to rise past bit parts after his time on the show. He signs up for the revival because he thinks the script is complex and challenging.
-   When Emma Stone guest hosted _Saturday Night Live_, she did a Digital Short titled "The Actress" where she plays a talented but down-on-her-luck actress who appears as an extra on a gay pornographic film.

    Music 

-   The "Weird Al" Yankovic song "Skipper Dan" is about a former up-and-coming, critically acclaimed actor bound for Broadway... who is stuck giving shows on the "Jungle Cruise" at Disneyland.

    Radio 

-   In the _Cabin Pressure_ episode "Cremona", Hester Macauley is understandably bitter over the fact that her stage work and more serious film roles are overshadowed by her role as the Lady of the Lake in _Quest For Camelot_.
    
    **Arthur:** I'm your biggest fan!  
    **Hester:** Oh really? Enjoy my Clytemnestra, did you? My career-defining Clytemnestra at Stratford? Or perhaps you preferred my Olivier Award-winning performance in _A Doll's House_? No? Maybe you're more of a film buff.  
    **Arthur:** Oh, _yes!_ I really loved—  
    **Hester:** No, don't tell me, I'm keen to guess. _A Light Shines Darkly_? _Tails You Lose_? _Fardle's Bear_? Because I hope you were't about to suggest that you're my "biggest fan" based on two miserable weeks I spent up to my bosom in pondweed filming some ridiculous fantasy dreck I only agreed to because my little cat needed a dialysis machine!
    
-   Edwin Blackgaard in _Adventures in Odyssey_ is a classically trained actor (albeit a somewhat hammy one at times) who is stuck in a small town and decides to bring a little culture to it by opening a dinner theatre. Unfortunately for him, simple small-town folk tend to appreciate popular crowd-pleasers like _Willy Wonka_ and _Life With Father_ far more than listening to his drawn-out soliloquies and one-man shows. In order to make ends meet, he will begrudgingly acquiesce and put on said crowd-pleasers. Doesn't stop him from doing Shakespeare in the Park every now and then, though.
-   In one episode of _John Finnemore's Souvenir Programme_, Carrie Quinlan gets annoyed that her role in the Storyteller skit is two lines in an owl voice. "I played Ophelia!" Eventually, the Storyteller says he shot the owl.

    Theater 

-   In the musical adaptation of _Struwwelpeter_ (or _Shockheaded Peter_), the "host" of the show gets increasingly frustrated as his acting talents are wasted on campy introductions of (gleefully grisly) children's songs. He actually tells the audience he's a classically trained actor and limps out as _Richard III_ for a while before giving up in utter exasperation.
-   In the musical of _Drood_, in the Show Within a Show, Bazzard laments his inability to get a larger part (including having an entire song about it). He is even a suspect in the murder, with his motive being wanting to increase his part.
-   In _A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum_, the opening number, "Comedy Tonight," notes that the actress playing Gymnasia "plays Medea later this week." (_Forum_, of course, is set in Ancient Rome and based on a classical play, but, as the number points out, not of the stuffy or serious kind.)
-   _J.B._ has a variation of this in the Framing Device. Mr. Zuss and Nickles, two veteran actors, are involved with some sort of circus production and complain about being reduced to selling popcorn and balloons outside it.

    Video Games 

-   _Sam And Max: Situation — Comedy_ features Philo Pennyworth, the stuck-up actor who plays the neurotic landlord, Mr. Featherly, on _Midtown Cowboys_. Also, he's a talking chicken. However, far from thinking that his role in a critically-panned sitcom is beneath him, he believes true professionalism lies in taking any role you're given and playing it to the best of your ability. Of course, the professionalism flies out the window once the show becomes a massive hit in Germany and he starts making some serious bank.
-   Used with a series of increasingly unfortunate twists in the first _Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney_ game with Jack Hammer, an actor on the children's sentai show _Steel Samurai_. He was blackmailed out of a successful star career and into playing bad parts for very little pay, after accidentally killing a costar.
-   Claude Maginot in _Grand Theft Auto: Vice City_ is a classically-trained actor who is incredibly peeved about how he is best known as the star of the sitcom _Just the Five of Us_, which he calls "commercial dross." In an interview on K-Chat, he tries to steer the subject toward his interpretive dance show, _In the Future, There Will be Robots_, and breaks down into a rant when Amy keeps trying to push the subject toward his show.
-   In _The Movies_, the radio announcer for early part of the game (1920-1950) is William MacDuff, a snooty, Ambiguously Gay stage-actor-turned-newsreader who insists that moving pictures are just a passing phase.

    Web Comics 

-   _Freefall_ invokes the trope for comedy: a robot is programed with all the works of Shakespeare and has to play Jar Jar Binks from _Star Wars_ for nearly twenty years.
-   _Horse Power_, in "Tears of a Clown", portrays Dupree Constance Kenshire this way. She's best known as Derpy Hooves—a cross-eyed background character from _My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic_—and she's pissed that so many fans depict her as a klutzy simpleton.
    
    **Dupree:** I was my high school's valedictorian! I studied at Juilliard! I've performed Shakespeare at the Globe!  
    **Audience:** Do the line! Yeah, we want the line! Do it!  
    **Dupree:** _\[sigh\]_ I just don't know... _\[sob\]_ what went wrong...
    

    Western Animation 

-   _Sabrina: The Animated Series_: in Harvey's magically created comic book world, Sabrina becomes Calamari Queen, a Cute Monster Girl with the power to shoot squids out of her hands. The first time this is demonstrated, the squid gets up in a huff and grumbles "ten years at the Actors' Studio and I'm _still_ playing squids, sheesh."
-   _South Park_:
    -   In "Terrance and Phillip: Behind the Blow", Phillip quits his role on the show (doing nothing but spout inane fart jokes with Terrance) to do Shakespearean acting in Canada.
    -   In a real life example, Jerry Seinfeld expressed interest in doing a voice for the show and was offered the role of "Turkey #4" in "Helen Keller: The Musical". Seinfeld's agent didn't quite understand the joke and turned it down. This is a common gag on _South Park_: Henry Winkler performed the growlings of a monster, Jay Leno voiced the meows of Cartman's cat, and George Clooney said "bark bark" as Stan's gay dog. Part of the reason is that the show is produced SO fast (one episode can be scripted, animated and aired within a week) that they can't anticipate exactly what character the actor would be playing. This is only possible because all voices in the show are handled by the same five people, and their list of genuine guest actors is quite small.
-   _The Simpsons_:
    -   While not trained as an actor, Sideshow Bob fits the trope perfectly, with his high culture elitism and past as a clown on Krusty's show. His replacement, Sideshow Mel, is even more over the top with his dramatic behavior, and was later upgraded to a full-blown Classically Trained Extra when he revealed to Lisa that he won the Entertainer of the Year award for playing "serious" roles, such as Biff from _Death of a Salesman_. Mel also makes it perfectly clear that he is in fact not satisfied with his current role. In fact, it's suggested that Krusty actively seeks these out because it encourages them to play The Comically Serious: as he put it, "the pie gag's only funny if the sap's got dignity."
    -   Bumblebee Man is actually an intelligent and dignified actor who approaches his absurd slapstick antics with professional gravitas, and moans about his situation to his wife.
    -   In the episode "I Love Lisa" Lisa's Large Ham thespian classmate Rex is outraged when the part of George Washington, in the school Presidents' Day pageant, goes to Ralph Wiggum instead of him. He ends up playing a bit part, with visible resentment, as Washington's verbally-abused servant.
-   In the _Looney Tunes_ short "A Ham in a Role", a canine actor quits Warner Brothers to study William Shakespeare. This is part of Daffy Duck's shtick as well.

-   _The Ren & Stimpy Show_. Any episode portraying the duo as real cartoon actors has Stimpy revealed to be a serious actor doing a silly role while Ren is a glory hound.
-   A recurring character in the British animated sketch show _Monkey Dust_ is a man who can only speak in a calm, clear voice, and so mostly does voiceovers despite being a classically trained actor.

-   _SpongeBob SquarePants_: "Sir Urchin and Snail Fail" revolves around the titular One-Joke Fake Show, which only has Snail Fail angering Sir Urchin by hitting him with random objects as they each say their catchphrases. Snail Fail gets bored of how Strictly Formula the show is and launches into a monologue about the nature of the universe, which Sir Urchin is surprised by. They split up, with Snail Fail attempting an unsuccessful career as a Shakespearean actor. In the end, they reboot the show: it has Snail Fail and Sir Urchin in fancy outfits as Snail Fail gives a dramatic monologue, but then he promptly hits Sir Urchin with the prop he's holding, showing that the comedy is basically still the same.

    Real Life 

-   Robert Reed, who really was a serious actor and had done Shakespeare in the past, reportedly hated playing Mike Brady on _The Brady Bunch_ because he felt the role was "beneath" him. This resulted in numerous disputes with producers over the course of the series, even to the point where Reed's character was written out of the series finale.
-   Similarly, in Sherwood Schwartz's previous show, _Gilligan's Island_, Tina Louise, who had aspirations to do Shakespeare on stage, felt that the Ginger part was beneath her and wasn't shy about sharing that opinion with anyone else on set, severely alienating her castmates.
-   _Star Wars_: Alec Guinness seems to have felt this way about playing Obi-Wan; in a letter to a friend at the time of filming describes the film as "fairy-tale rubbish", the dialogue worse, and his character unclear. He predicted that it would be successful (cannily negotiating a share of the profits), and considered it a well-made film, but he stipulated he wouldn't do any promotion of it and claims to have been in favour of the Obi-Wan Moment at least partially out of a desire not to return for a sequel.
-   While Patrick Stewart was with the RSC he did a production of _Hamlet_ opposite Lalla Ward, who at the time was playing the role of Romana in _Doctor Who_, and reportedly told her he couldn't understand why she would want to do television, and science fiction television at that, when she could be doing proper acting in a theatre. When he accepted a role in _Star Trek: The Next Generation_, he's said he only did it because he was expecting the show to be cancelled after one season so it would be a nice (and well-paid) holiday in California and then he could get back to the proper acting. He's become much more positive about television and science fiction since then, as his subsequent career shows.
-   Frank Kelly, who played Father Jack Hackett in _Father Ted_, was a trained stage actor, whose lines were limited to saying 'Drink' and 'Girls' whereas the two leads were stand-up comedians. Frank Kelly would often mutter "feckin' amateurs" during takes. One trailer purported to show the cast rehearsing their catchphrases, while Dermot Morgan addressed the viewers. At the end, Frank Kelly interrupted him in a plummy "classically-trained actor" voice.
-   Once, while hosting _Saturday Night Live_, Sir Ian McKellen gave an opening about how Dame Maggie Smith had once gotten Laurence Olivier to see a performance of theirs when they were in a minor stage group together, which ended up with both of them being drafted into his Shakespearean troupe, where they met "a talented young actor by the name of Anthony Hopkins." He then went on to talk about the irony that, after playing the classics, Hopkins was now famous for "eating people's faces off", Smith was now "that Harry Potter lady", and "they've made me into an action figure twice!"
-   Dan Lauria, famous as the father on _The Wonder Years_, is a Shakespearean actor who was initially hesitant to audition for the show, or any television show for that matter. He even went as far as to _correct_ one of the writers at his audition, when they commented on what a _great role_ it would be. Then the writers decided to take advantage of this trope hiring Lauria for the character of Wayne and Kevin's father, characterizing him as a distant father, dissatisfied with his choices in life, more interested in his car than in his job, facing a mid life crisis quitting his job and founding his own furniture company.
-   Garret Morris, of _SNL_ and _The Jamie Foxx Show_, is a Juilliard-trained singer. He sang a few times on the former, but felt he was being typecast. (When Walter Matthau hosted, he was aware of Morris's talent, and insisted he get a spot singing an opera aria perfectly straight.)
-   John Laurie, best known for playing The Eeyore Private Frazer on _Dad's Army_ and rather bitter about the fact as his theatrical work (which involved regular appearances alongside the likes of Laurence Olivier, John Gielgud, and Ralph Richardson) was much less well known.
-   Gemma Arterton feels this for _Clash of the Titans_. She refused to sign on to the sequel, and her character, Io, got killed off. However, she rather enjoyed making _Quantum of Solace_ and _Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time_.
-   Jeffrey Jones, a graduate of the London Academy of Music and Dramatic art and trained Shakespearian actor, once lamented that he was far more likely to be remembered for playing Principal Rooney in _Ferris Bueller's Day Off_ than for playing the emperor of Austria in _Amadeus_. And then he was arrested for soliciting a 14 year-old boy.
-   World-renowned and thespian and iconic modern Shakespearean Christopher Plummer spent the good majority of his career from the late 1970s through the 1990s appearing in schlocky B-movies, along with a memorable turn as General Chang in _Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country_. He doesn't seem to mind though. It doesn't hurt that he happens to be a massive Trekkie.
-   Bela Lugosi considered himself to be the Hungarian Barrymore, forced to give up fame on the Budapest stage and flee to Hollywood as a refugee of the Hungarian Revolution, where his thick accent consigned him to be typecast as a villain in B (and C and D) movies. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  But he truly was a critically acclaimed stage actor before he originated his most famous role, playing Dracula in 274 performances on Broadway to rave reviews before heading west to play him in the film. Rumors that he could not act likely stem from his rival Boris Karloff, with whom he was always fighting for top billing.
-   One of the more beloved recurring actors in _Doctor Who_ was Philip Madoc (best remembered in _Who_ for his star performance as Gothic Horror Mad Scientist Mehendri Solon in "The Brain of Morbius"), a classically-trained and quality actor who ended his decades-long association with the programme due to his anger over the tiny, badly-written part he got in Writer Revolt episode "The Power of Kroll".
    -   This was actually the reason why when Christopher Eccleston wouldn't return to play the Ninth, Steven Moffat thought "Go big, or go home" in regards to who should play a one episode missing regeneration of the Doctor. So they got John Hurt. And all was well.
-   Ian McShane, a highly respected actor with a long history of prestigious roles, joined the monster hit fantasy series _Game of Thrones_ at age 73 purely for the chance to work with his old friends Charles Dance and Stephen Dillane. Trouble is, his disdain for the show had kept him from learning that their characters had both been killed off, and upon discovering this he came very close to walking off on the job until he figured it was only going to be one episode anyway. He promptly set about making his hatred for the show and all its fans abundantly clear in all pieces of promotion for it, including the memetic line "Get a fucking life, it's just tits and dragons."
-   Mentioned in the episode commentary of an _Invader Zim_ episode. The commentators joked about the awkwardness of asking classically trained and notable _Star Trek_ actor John de Lancie to play a bit character named "Agent Darkbootie".
-   Averted, with character actor Roddy McDowall who spent the last decade of his career voicing cartoons — notably as the villain Snowball _Pinky and the Brain_. His costars, Maurice LaMarche and Rob Paulsen have said he was the sweetest man and a joy to work with; despite being a Hollywood legend he never condescended to the material and took it just as seriously as any of films, hung out with them and would gladly answer their questions about his impressive film resume.
-   This was deliberately invoked for laughs in _Deadpool 2_, with Brad Pitt playing a bit character who’s invisible, totally silent, and who gets killed off about five minutes after being introduced. Ryan Reynolds has said the idea for the cameo was based entirely around asking “what’s the worst way we could totally squander having a talented, big-name Hollywood actor?”. Pitt only did about a couple minutes of filming and photography for his appearance and only actually appears in his death scene, for about _two seconds_. He was paid with the bare minimum amount he was legally required to ask for and a cup of coffee delivered personally by Ryan Reynolds.
-   Quite a number of the instrumental musicians (particularly strings) on Motown records were members of the Detroit Symphony Orchestra. It worked out well for everybody: The musicians could pick up some extra money with an easy (for them) recording session in the middle of the day, between concerts, and the producers could be sure they were dealing with experienced professionals who wouldn't take a lot of time to get a quality take.
-   John Heard was a successful theater actor, and he was vocally unhappy about working on Home Alone, considering the role beneath him and believing the film would flop. Upon seeing the finished product, he profusely apologized to Chris Columbus, going so far as to do it break character before his first take to apologize on camera during shooting for the sequel.
-   In _Moana_, Alan Tudyk voices a non-anthropomorphic chicken, and his lines consist solely of clucking and other chicken noises. In behind-the-scenes footage from his time in the recording booth, he jokes in between doing chicken noises about the fact that he went to Juilliard.
-   Certain _shows_ themselves can develop a reputation for doing this in one form or another.
    -   _Murder, She Wrote_ was well-known for having various well-known stars from the Golden Age of Hollywood randomly appear in various one-off roles (considering the show only had one lead character and its format required multiple guest stars to be both murder victims and suspects, this meant the show had a **lot** of these one-shot roles to fill). These were often done at the behest of star Angela Lansbury, who would learn of her friends and compatriots being at risk of losing their Screen Actors Guild membership due to lack of work and would arrange roles for them to stay in good standing and retain their union benefits.
    -   The _Law & Order_ franchise, being rather unique in American television for being filmed on location in New York City, utilizes the talent pool of Broadway more extensively than most other shows; alongside some well-known Broadway titans as regulars such as Raul Esparza on _SVU_ and Jerry Orbach on the Mothership, well-known theater stars frequently show up at one-shot victims or suspects, (and like _Murder, She Wrote,_ these roles can frequently be to help theater actors either obtain or renew their SAG membership to work in film and television.) _SVU_ Showrunner Warren Leight stated outright his use of this trope during the COVID-19 Pandemic, stating he planned to hire as many Broadway actors as he could for the show to help sustain them while the theaters were closed during quarantines.

___