Basically, you don't know what you've got till it's gone.

A character has agreed to give up a certain thing, like alcohol, tobacco, other drugs, certain foods (or _a_ certain food), a particular hobby, masturbation/pornography viewing, or sex. Unfortunately, everywhere they look, they're reminded of the item they've given up, sometimes via Meat-O-Vision. As the episode goes on, their resolve is severely tested as their Jerkass<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  friends and (clueless) bystanders will do their best to tempt them. You can expect karma to be a bitch and offer dozens of free "once in a lifetime, sent from heaven" opportunities to indulge in the vice.

If they stick to their guns but later give in, the opportunity is gone for good and they're made a laughing stock. If they _pretend_ to abstain, they will get busted, big time, by everybody. If they're particularly strong-willed and go through the whole episode without giving in, they might even get a particularly awesome reward for their good behavior, which can be something obvious (a promised reward like concert tickets) or something they'll never even notice they got. Like, say, the chocolate they refused to eat was laced with cyanide or laxatives. If it's a Sadist Show, expect this abstinent behavior to leave them worse off than before. Only rarely will the abstinence be its own reward.

Sometimes they aren't abstaining from a certain thing but are trying not to think of something unpleasant or something they know they can't get. Or maybe they are trying to give something up, but only temporarily, such as on a bet. If it's bathroom-related, it's a Potty Emergency. If it's an entirely new vice to the character, it's a Compressed Vice. If they seemed to be coping perfectly well before they tried to quit, they're a Functional Addict.

A case of Truth in Television: the forsaken item/activity isn't any more common, but the person who gave it up is more prone to notice its absence _and_ to be tempted by the Delicious Distraction when it presents itself, and in the case of substance abuse, friends and acquaintances of the people in recovery may offer them said drugs to discourage them from kicking the habit, as addicts feel better with themselves when they are around other people with the same addiction.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 

Easily invoked both intentionally and unintentionally: "diet sabotage" is a serious issue for people trying to lose weight around food-generous friends, and drug dealers' jobs mostly depend on undermining recovering drug addicts' recoveries.

See also Warm Bloodbags Are Everywhere for the horror version. See also Frequently-Broken Unbreakable Vow for general promises rather than abstinence, and The World Mocks Your Loss when it's related to losing a partner. Often seen with We Want Our Jerk Back!, Stupid Sexy Flanders, and the Obsessive Hobby Episode. Compare Going Cold Turkey, when the addiction is broken by a single self-imposed withdrawal phase. Can lead to Radish Cure where the character learns his lesson as a result of consuming too many "cold turkeys". Your Television Hates You and Mocking Music are subtropes, for when the "cold turkeys" are only being broadcast on the TV and radio respectively.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

-   Done rather disturbingly in the Cocoa Puffs commercials. The cuckoo will try to give up the cereal, only to see it everywhere until he breaks down and exclaims "I'M CUCKOO FOR COCOA PUFFS!", going on a rampage until he gets his cocoa fix. If one didn't know better, one might think that they're comparing a cereal to a highly addictive drug...
-   The cybersafety PSA _I Saw Your Willy_ follows a boy named Alex who is reminded of the photo he shared online of his nether regions everywhere he goes. Everyone he runs into shouts, "I saw your willy!" and it appears on the news, then he gets texts related to it.
-   A Weight Watchers commercial has a woman on a diet seeing various pieces of work equipment (a computer keyboard, a telephone, a water cooler) appearing in the form of food. This also applies to furniture, as a booth seat and table at a restaurant appears in the form of pizza and a living room couch appears in the form of potato chips.

    Anime and Manga 

-   Basically the entire plot of _Dragons Rioting_, as protagonist Rintaro has a medical condition which means he can die if he gets sexually aroused. Naturally, he ends up attending a school with a vastly majority-female student body, most of whom are a Ms. Fanservice of one type or another. A decade of intensive martial arts training and meditation to focus his mind on whenever he's presented with something sexy is the only thing keeping him alive.
-   In the _Full Metal Panic! Overload_ manga, Sousuke is prohibited by Kaname to bring guns to school for one day. He actually starts getting _withdrawal symptoms_ from not firing a gun. Everything starts looking like moving targets, he hears gunfire, and everyone starts looking like thug-ish terrorists. He eventually breaks and starts attacking Kaname's classmates, thinking they're trying to kill her. In the end, Kaname takes him outside and lets him have target practice with an empty can. It ends with her seeing the importance of allowing him to shoot guns (lest he start going crazy).
-   _Galaxy Angel_ has an episode where Mint is told that if she continues her obsession with wearing mascot-type animal costumes, she'll die. This diagnosis conveniently coincides with the Angel Brigade's trip to a planet that is celebrating "wear an animal costume day". While on the planet, she is the millionth customer of a local supermarket and is awarded several animal costumes. Then she attends an award ceremony where the mayor of the town awards her another one. Then she throws the animal costume people are trying to make her wear into a lake, and gets offered silver and gold animal costumes by the water spirit in the lake.
-   _Heaven's Lost Property_: Played for Laughs where Sakurai Tomoki is a major pervert, with exceptional love for panties, and he gets a hold of a HUGE amount of panties after a certain event. It makes his Childhood Friend mad, and... It doesn't end pretty. It appears she turned the panties to BOMBS that explode each time he looks at them. He has to try and resist looking at his adored panties until he's out of his home... They are quite literally everywhere. In the end, he gives up and embraces EVERYTHING. He loses his house as a result. Seriously, the sheer hilarity of that cannot be described.
-   _Monster_: Richard Braun has this trouble with drinking.
-   The very premise of _My Balls_. Due to a series of unusual circumstances, protagonist Kohta has the Queen of Hell sealed in his cojones. He must not ejaculate for a month or it will be The End of the World as We Know It. Naturally, Hell itself and everything else in the universe starts tempting him like mad.
-   In _Panty & Stocking with Garterbelt_, Panty is required to give up sex in order to be let back into Heaven, which forced her hymen to grow back, and thus making her lose her powers. After the Humiliation Conga, everywhere she looks, there is fuck.
-   Happened twice in _Squid Girl_. First in Season 1, when Sanae tries to quit her obsession with Ika — quickly descending into full-on Squid-O-Vision as everything suddenly looks like Ika... including a scene straight out of _AKIRA_ as tiny Chibi-Ikas dance around her at night. Later in Season 2, Ika tries to get over her obsession with shrimps and ends up with a classic case of this — including a whole heap of "today only" offers at the supermarket. Then, somewhat atypically, when she GIVES UP, she gets an INVERSE case — now, suddenly, it's impossible to find shrimps ANYWHERE...

    Asian Animation 

-   _Happy Heroes_: In episode 46, Big M. and Little M. are hungry but don't have any food to eat. Little M. suggests that if they don't think about food, their hunger will go away, and the two try to find something to watch on TV to get their minds off the matter. Every show they see on the TV is related to food in some way.
-   In the _Lamput_ episode "Diet Doc", Fat Doc takes a drive through town and tries not to let some nearby fast food restaurants tempt him into ruining his new diet. Lamput, who is in the car with him, abuses this to his advantage by morphing into a chicken drumstick, which is just enough to make Fat Doc go to one of the restaurants to gorge down on some fried chicken anyway.

    Comic Books 

-   _Donald Duck_:
    -   In one comic, Daisy bets Donald that he couldn't go a day without eating anything. Cue a guy handing him a fresh hot dog (he can't take it with him on the bus), Grandma Duck nominating him as a judge in the local bake-off, and a college roommate dragging him into a restaurant as a celebration of their reunion and ordering everything on the menu. In the end, Donald is undone when Daisy catches him eating a chocolate bar, but he cheats by re-adjusting his wristwatch to trick her into thinking that it's already past midnight. The next week, they go on a date at a luxurious mountain hotel known for its all-you-can-eat buffet, but Donald gets into an accident which injures his mouth, rendering him incapable of eating anything besides soup.
    -   Donald's not in it, but a later story had Daisy writing in her diary about being determined to stick to her diet, naturally everything she then sees or hears (or smells) is solely about delicious food. In desperation, she finally locks herself in her room to avoid temptation... then gives up and bites a chunk out of her notebook in frustration.
-   The old kids' comic _L'il Jinx_ had Jinx, after listening to her Shoulder Angels, decide to _not_ filch cookies from the cookie jar. Cue being offered cookies, being tempted by things that just _look_ like cookies... The inevitable punchline comes when she tells her mother how good she was and her mom notes the jar was empty anyway (she was just baking a fresh batch to fill it). Jinx proceeds to stuff the morality imps in the jar and enjoy some cookies (with permission).
-   In "The New Lois Lane" (_Showcase_ #9), the infamously obsessed Lois gives up her obsession with unearthing Superman's secret identity on the advice of a fortune-telling card. This being The Silver Age of Comic Books, Superman has of course gotten himself into a situation where he _needs_ Lois to discover his ID.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Superman deliberately drops hint after hint about his secret ID, only for Lois to force herself to destroy each one.

    Fan Works 

-   _Harry Potter_: In _Hermione's Embarrassing Surprise,_ Madam Pomfrey tells Hermione that her headache and stomachache are probably signs of her first ovulation. Hermione is embarrassed by this and tries to get her mind off it, but then McGonagall yells at Neville for not including "periods" (full stops) on his work. Then, later, an ingredient in a potion recipe is "Hippogriff's menstrual blood" and she misreads "hippogriff" for her own name.
-   _The Loud House_ fanfiction:
    -   _Don't Say, "Dannit"_ has Lynn Sr. hoping Lily won't say the phrase "dang it" (which is treated as profanity), only to say it himself, have Rita almost say it, and find it on the radio.
    -   _Mona Lincoln_ involves Lincoln not wanting to tell his sisters about getting an A+ for his painting lest they go to see it, then tease him for it. Unfortunately, Lynn mentions scoring from "in the paint", Lucy asks for a rhyme for "heart", Lisa gets covered in paint as a result of a lab accident, and Luan squirts him with red paint.
    -   _Burning Secret_, Lincoln accidentally starts a fire at school, then goes home and tries to take his mind off it but can't. He goes online only to find news of the fire and threats to the "arsonist", so he goes to a gaming website only to find games about fire and one about prison. He then logs off and tries to read comics, but finds two about fire and one that's a whodunit.

    Films — Animation 

-   _Winnie the Pooh (2011)_: Pooh runs out of honey and every attempt to get more gets pulled away from him in coincidentally different ways all through the day. In the middle of the film, he gets so hungry that his friends (and the Narrator) start substituting every word with "honey", and he starts seeing things around him transformed into honey pots until it climaxes into a Disney Acid Sequence musical number.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   Basically the whole point of _40 Days and 40 Nights_ Matt Sullivan gives up sex for Lent in an effort to move past a pattern of self-destructive relationships. Of course, every person with two X chromosomes sees this as incredibly sexy, others feel it may hamper the power of their favorite man-control means, and others just want him to lose. This leads to girls flooding him with offers he can barely refuse, until one of the girls out-and-out forces herself on him. See Double Standard Rape: Female on Male. Expect this result only if you are Josh Hartnett.
    -   Not to mention the sequence where he tries to go about his day as usual, only to see every woman he encounters as topless.
-   At the very beginning of _102 Dalmatians_, a reformed Cruella DeVil is freed from prison, only to start imagining the entire London skyline completely covered with spots like a Dalmatian's fur coat, and as a result, she reverts back to the psychotic villain she once was.
-   Played with mercilessly in _Airplane!_ - "Looks like I chose the wrong week to give up drinking/smoking/amphetamines/sniffin' glue..."
-   In _Bedtime Stories (2008)_, a man named Skeeter (the main character) finds out that the bedtime stories that he and two kids he's babysitting tell at night keep coming true. In one story, the six-year-old Patrick makes the main character of the story catch on fire. Skeeter worries that the incinerated character represents him (probably because his name, Skeeto, was similar to his own name) and becomes paranoid that he's going to catch fire. When listening to the car radio, all the songs have fire-related lyrics (Burn Baby Burn, I'm on Fire, etc).
-   _Body Bags_: When Richard is obsessing over his hair loss in "Hair", he leaves the hairdresser and is immediately confronted by women with long beautiful hair, and then men with long beautiful; one of whom is walking an Afghan hound with long beautiful hair. When he gets home, his television is showing ads for shampoo, and one for fertilizer showing rapidly sprouting grass.
-   _Bruce Almighty_: After Grace leaves Bruce, she sees signs everywhere reminding her of how much Bruce loved her. However, with Bruce being God, the signs were created by him as a means of trying to win her back.
-   _Bubble Boy_ has Chloe, the Love Interest, about to marry her high school boyfriend while still pining for Jimmy, the eponymous Bubble Boy. Trying to take her mind off of him, she starts watching TV, seeing ads for "Mr. Bubble", Bubblicious Bubble Gum, and Don Ho performance of "Tiny Bubbles".
-   _Cold Turkey_: A smalltown agrees to give up smoking for a month to win $25mil from a tobacco company. The company tries to get weak-willed townsfolk to fold, and on the last day, they airdrop cigarettes from helicopters in an attempt to Break The Townies.
-   In the first _Diary of a Wimpy Kid_ movie, Greg has to pee but is not allowed because Rodrick is threatening him with death. At first he can put it out of his mind, but then he can't because a sprinkler is going off, a man is watering his lawn, a tap is running, and there is an aquarium in his room.
-   _Monty Python and the Holy Grail_: Sir Galahad has committed himself to celibacy... but then he winds up at Castle Anthrax, which turns out to be full of sex-starved babes. He's about to give in when Sir Lancelot nails him back to the wagon in an Unwanted Rescue.
-   In _Oh, God!_, God wants Jerry Landers to build an Ark for an impending flood. Jerry is resistant, and at one point he sits in his car and all that's on the radio are songs that involve the word "rain."
-   In the original _The Wicker Man (1973)_, Sgt. Howie is engaged and waiting until marriage to have sex. Once he gets to Summerisle, sex is everywhere he looks.

    Literature 

-   In _Andy Griffiths' Just Series_, the story "Busting" in "Just Stupid" has Andy needing to pee at a shopping mall but can't find a toilet. There's a magazine with an ad for "Great Rivers of the World", an indoor fountain, some kids who squirt him in the crotch with squirt guns, and finally fire hoses.
-   _Charlie and the Chocolate Factory_ has a "wanting something you know you can't have" example. Charlie Bucket loves chocolate more than anything, but his family is so poor that he only gets one chocolate bar a year, on his birthday. This makes it painful for him to constantly walk by shop windows full of chocolate bars, and see other kids enjoying chocolate bars... and worst of all, to live near the world's largest chocolate factory.
-   _Jelly Belly_: Ned Robbins is on a strict diet and has to put up with his family chowing down on delicious, high-calorie foods while he's stuck eating nothing but lean, broiled meats and vegetables. Even when he becomes more serious about losing weight and eating healthier, staying away from junk food is still an effort in and of itself.
-   In Jane Austen's _Love and Freindship_, at one point everything Laura says reminds the grief-stricken Sophia of her imprisoned husband, and staying silent only leaves her to her thoughts of him.
-   In _MARiiMO_, Tammy tries to take a week-long break from her work in robotics. She gives up after two days, partly because everything she sees reminds her of robotics.
-   _Night of the Assholes_: Barbara has suffered from a Hair-Trigger Temper that has caused much grief in her life and uses various calming methods — smoking, pills, a life-sized dammit-doll and her favorite smoothie — to keep her from acting out her aggression on other people. Barbara surviving an apocalypse where people are literally trying to provoke her and being low on cigarettes, pills and witnessing your little brother being painfully transformed into one of them makes it harder and harder to keep her from becoming an asshole too.
-   _Shadow of the Conqueror_: Daylen is endlessly frustrated by the attentions of the girls he saves from slavery, especially Sharra, as a bunch of vulnerable teenaged girls throwing themselves at him is practically his ultimate temptation.
-   _A Song of Ice and Fire_ features the "relationship" between the Iron Isles, the Reach, the Riverlands, and the North. Before House Hoare took it upon themselves to try their hand at colonial expansion, conquering and _ruling_ other lands was anathema to the Ironborn ethos (it technically still is). And, doing so wasn't at all popular at the time they ruled the Ironborn and their colonies, for all it has definitely gained the rosy glow of nostalgia by the start of the series. The Ironborn just can't get over their lost holdings and have constantly tried to relive those Glory Days through repeated raids, rebellions and invasion attempts against the Seven Kingdoms since then. They usually don't work at all well (the reprisals often take decades to recover from), but they _still_ keep trying every time they think they spot even a half-chance.
-   Donald Westlake's "The Sound of Murder":
    
    The world conspired against a man who tried to give up smoking. All around \[Levine\] were other people puffing cigarettes casually and unconcernedly, not making any fuss about it at all, making by their very nonchalance his own grim reasons for giving them up seem silly and hypersensitive. If he isolated himself from other smokers with the aid of television or radio, the cigarette commercials with their erotic smoking and their catchy jingles would surely drive him mad. Also, he would find that the most frequent sentence in popular fiction was "He lit another cigarette." Statesmen and entertainers seemed inevitably to be smoking whenever news photographers snapped them for posterity, and even the news items were against him. He had just reread for the third time an announcement to the world that Pope John XXIII was the first Prelate of the Roman Catholic Church to smoke cigarettes in public.
    
-   Danny Wallace's _Yes Man_ tells the story of what happened when he decided to say "Yes" to absolutely everything. Turns out that you give up a _lot_ of freedom when you remove the ability to refuse an offer, and just like the trope, there are friends of his that either take advantage of this or outright plot to make him fail. He fails when he refuses to sleep with someone because he was in love with another woman. However, unlike most British comedy stories, this one has a happy ending: he flies to Australia to be with the woman he loves, something that the friend who he made the bet with in the first place was going to make him do as a "forfeit".

    Live-Action TV 

-   _2point4 Children_: One episode features Ben agreeing to give up a videogame called _Ninja Badger_. At the end of the episode, for perfectly logical reasons, a man dressed as a badger comes to the door and he breaks down.
-   _All in the Family_: Archie & Mike ("Meathead") have a bet as to who can hold out longer: Archie without a cigar or Mike without food. Archie starts to tempt Mike by eating in front of him; Mike counters by smoking cigars in front of Archie. They finally decide to end in a draw, with Mike eating and Archie lighting up on the count of three. On "3", Mike puts food in his mouth but Archie draws the match away from his cigar, with a "Ha!"
    -   Also, when Mike finds several cigars Archie stashed:
        
        **Gloria:** Daddy, you're supposed to play fair! Michael is, and this is no picnic for him, you know!  
        **Mike:** Don't say "picnic", Gloria.  
        **Gloria:** I'm sorry, honey.  
        **Mike:** Don't say "honey", Gloria.
        
-   _Drake & Josh_: Drake bets that he can go a set amount of time without _any_ junk food, and Josh bets the same, but with video games. Megan throws together a contract. Later, Drake gets a bad skin condition caused by a lack of junk food. Josh is also tempted when his grandmother sends him a brand new "game sphere". Later, Megan decides to screw them both over by tricking each brother to tempt the other. Josh covers the boy's bedroom with candy and Drake starts playing the game sphere with a _fancy wireless controller_; in the end, both brothers succumb but are unable to tell who did so first. This winds up being a Gambit Roulette when Megan reveals that the contract didn't say that the person who caved in first would lose, but simply that whoever caved would lose.
-   Nice sendup in _Dream On_. Martin has to give up coffee. Suddenly _every one_ of the little film clips in his head is about...
-   _Father Ted_ had a whole episode dedicated to this, called ''Cigarettes, Alcohol and Rollerblading'', in which the cast must give up the titular vices for Lent. In one hallucination the smoke from a guest resolves itself into the words 'lovely fags' to Ted's nicotine-starved eyes.
    -   There is honestly nothing funnier than a giant anthropomorphic pint of Guinness going 'Blah blah blah blah blah'...
    -   Except for maybe a giant rollerblade going "Blah blah blah blah blah..."
-   _Frasier_ has one episode in which Frasier and his boss, Kate, have resolved they can't have a relationship and declared that they are two adults who can resist their mutual attraction. At the same time, a romance author who lives in Frasier's building is moving out. When Frasier and Kate get in the service elevator, to avoid the press outside the main door, it stalls and the lights go out. Frasier lights some candles then knocks a double mattress propped against a wall, dropping it on the center of the floor. The heat forces them to take off their jackets. Then Frasier accidentally sets off a music box that plays romantic music, knocks over a bottle of musk oil trying to turn it off, and when Kate grabs a sheet to soak up the oil, it turns out to be covering a huge blow-up of a bodice-ripper cover. They resist, but only just.
    -   Deliberately invoked by Daphne in "Hungry Heart". Jane Leeves, who played Daphne, became pregnant during the run, and the producers' attempts to conceal her baby bump failed when the naturally-svelte Leeves gained a good deal of weight. To compensate, the writers added a subplot involving Daphne stress-eating to deal with the frustrations in her life. When she vows to give up the junk food and lose weight, she sets this trope on _herself_ by secretly hiding various sweets and desserts all around Frasier's apartment, allowing her to sneak snacks whenever she likes. Given that the main characters were psychiatrists, though, the show took the trope more seriously than others, noticing that Daphne's inability to stop was serious and prompting a trip to a spa to help her deal with the root of her problem (which in turn allowed Leeves time off to have her baby).
-   Invoked in-universe during an episode of _1st & Ten_. During training camp, hefty defensive lineman Bubba has to lose weight, or be cut from the team; he returns to his room and finds it filled with cakes, cookies, pastries, and other snacks — courtesy of the rookies and second-stringers wanting to take his job. In the end, he manages to hold out long enough to cut the weight.
-   _The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air_:
    -   In the episode "Be My Baby Tonight", Ashley asks Will about sex. Will tries not to think about it, but then he suddenly hears double entendres everywhere. When Ashley's boyfriend comes in for their date, he asks if she's ready ("NO MAN SHE'S ONLY 13!"). Then, on the TV, the game announcer asks "Where is the most unusual place you've made whoopee?" Then, when Will turns on the radio, all that comes on is the song "I Wanna Sex You Up" (which is a real song). Carlton comes in and says he's late for his date with his girlfriend who can "tie a knot with her tongue". Then Hilary walks in asking where all the whipped cream went. Will finally yells "What is it with your preoccupation with sex!"
    -   In "Home is Where the Heart Attack Is", Uncle Phil has to go on a diet and does not particularly like the idea of giving up his favorite foods cold turkey. He even uses that exact phrasing... only to start thinking about actual turkey ("with pillowy mounds of mashed potatoes... Butter-drenched dressing... Tiny onions swimming in a sea of cream sauce...") He eventually can't stay away from unhealthy foods and has a heart attack.
-   _Friends_:
    -   One episode dealt with Phoebe craving meat during her pregnancy, despite being a firmly convicted vegetarian. Joey helped her deal with it by offering to go vegetarian himself so that she would be free to eat meat without upsetting the balance of carnivores vs. vegetarians. Naturally, he then has to battle with his own meat cravings.
    -   In another episode, Joey (again) is having to abstain from sex for a period of time for a well-paid scientific study, but then has a date with a gorgeous girl and ends up in bed. He manages to subvert the problem by following Monica's advice to "be there for her" without giving in himself.
    -   In yet another episode, Joey and Ross bet Chandler 50 bucks he can't keep his New Year's Resolution to not make fun of his friends. Shortly afterward, Ross starts wearing leather pants and dating a girl named Elizabeth Hornswoggle. At the end of the episode he gives them the 50 bucks and lets it all out.
    -   From the same episode with the pants and Miss Hornswoggle, Rachel vows to give up gossip. She immediately finds out that Chandler and Monica are having sex.
-   _Hightower_: Jackie and alcohol in one episode when she's trying to stay sober.
-   _Homicide: Life on the Street_: In "Smoke Gets In Your Eyes", a first season episode, Detective Howard has just quit smoking (though we don't know it yet), and naturally, everyone around her is smoking, which eventually causes her to go ballistic. Detective Bayliss also tries to quit, and they eventually have to work together because their respective partners (Felton and Pembleton) refuse to quit.
-   _iCarly_ has an episode where Sam bets that she can go an entire week without insulting Freddie, or else she has to pay five dollars for each insult (which she would gladly do, but was broke). Freddie tries all sorts of things to make her crack. The end has her receive a large sum of money, then give it up because she just had to insult him.
-   In _The IT Crowd_, Jen takes up smoking again after a day of cigarette cravings, ending with Denholm extolling the pleasures of the "delicious bastards" on the first video played at his funeral. Her craving is so overpowering that she runs outside to smoke a cigarette from the gutter, and soon afterwards she is shown "making up for lost time".
-   Done in a _very_ terrifying fashion in _Kamen Rider Fourze_, where the Monsters of the Week become _addicted_ to the Zodiarts Switches. So far, we've only seen one of the Switchers, Miura, who hallucinates seeing Zodiarts Switches everywhere and is too afraid to go back to school, as he can't control himself. It's done in such a way to be pure horror.
-   _Lost_: Charlie throws the last of his heroin stash into a fire in early season 1. Being stranded on an island might seem an excellent opportunity to kick the habit. Then in the season finale, he comes across a crashed plane... full of heroin. Despite the obvious temptation Charlie never relapses, and eventually tosses the stash into the ocean, but Claire still pushes him away for a while after she learns he was keeping drugs near her baby.
    -   Hurley loses the perfect opportunity to get rid of some of that pork on the island when he runs into the Dharma junk food stash in the hatch. And then later _more food_ literally drops from the sky.
-   _Married... with Children_: In the episode "A Little off the Top", Al was accidentally circumcised and had to abstain from sex for a full month. For most of their marriage, Al had very little interest in sex with his wife. But now that it was forbidden, she suddenly became some sort of irresistible sex goddess whose every casual action seemed to turn him on.
-   In the _M\*A\*S\*H_ episode "No Laughing Matter", Hawkeye makes a bet with B.J. that he can go a full day without joking about anything. Naturally, the episode has him being presented with an unusually large number of openings for wisecracks, all of which he lets loose on the PA system at 12:01 AM the next day.
    -   Another episode had Hawkeye give up drinking for a week once he realized he was dangerously close to alcoholism. After the final day, he goes to the Officer's Club with the others for a drink after a particularly rough OR session, but then puts the drink down and says "I'll come back when I _want_ it, not when I _need_ it."
-   In _My Hero (2000)_, George attempts to go "cold porky" from pork scratchings (Which gives his alien brain super-intelligence, but turns him into a jerk).
-   _The Nanny_:
    -   One episode sees Big Eater Sylvia go on a diet. As she sits in the kitchen with Fran, Val, and Yetta, the other women start gushing about the various sweets they're eating, like "double-chocolate brownies with cheesecake centers" and cannoli. Poor Sylvia does manage to hold out and even offers to put away a cake that none of the others are eating... only to fake-close the fridge door and rush upstairs with the dessert.
    -   In "Shopaholic", Fran discovers that her ex-fiancee Danny is getting married before her, and goes on an uncontrollable buying spree to deal with her feelings. After realizing she has a problem and going to "Shoppers' Anonymous," Maxwell tells everyone that they must avoid anything that might remind her of purchases and sales. Niles then enters with his dinner, and Max promptly tells him it's too much—"take half off." Later, just when it seems things will be OK, Val shows up to host a Tupperware party at the mansion.
    -   Niles, as a master Troll, once invoked this when C.C. tried to quit smoking. He bakes her a cake, ostensibly to congratulate her, but C.C. tells him that she's trying to be careful about overeating, as gaining weight happens frequently when people give up cigarettes. Niles (who is clearly aware of this) promptly produces even more sweets, like fresh eclairs and ice cream, just to get on her nerves.
-   _The Office (US)_: Invoked by Jim when corporate announces that all Double Entendres in the office are to stop including Michael's favorite joke "That's what she said."
    
    **Jim:** Wow, that is really hard. You really think you can go all day long? Well, you always left me satisfied and smiling.  
    **Michael:** (_blurts out_) That's what she said!
    
-   _Parks and Recreation_ has an episode where Jerry, the office Butt-Monkey, is mugged. When Jerry comes back to work, Leslie decides, to the annoyance of everyone else, that it's too soon to make fun of Jerry like normal. Cue Jerry doing a million snark-worthy things.
    
    **Tom:** You went on a vacation and you chose Muncie, Indiana?  
    **Jerry:** My wife and I have a timeshare.  
    **Tom:** In _Muncie_?!  
    **Leslie:** Tom, Muncie is a lovely city.
    
-   _The Partridge Family_: In "Each Dawn I Diet," Reuben is trying to kick his cigarette addiction. He tells the family, "I was doing okay until I saw that movie on television last night." Keith asks, "How could watching _Heidi_ remind you of a cigarette?" Reuben replies, "_Everything_ reminds me of a cigarette."
-   _Radio Enfer_: Maria's father once promises her that he will give her a Mobylette if she stops thinking about guys all the time. She agrees to it, only to have a hard time keeping her eyes off Giroux's nephew, Carol.
-   _Reba_: The wife of Reba's ex-husband goes on a diet in one episode. The fact that she was tempted by a basket of potpourri enough to ask if it was real fruit or if it was "fresh" is proof of her struggle.
-   _Red Dwarf_: A starving Lister in the episode _Marooned_ suffers from this — Rimmer's library consists of the likes of Charles Lamb, Herman Wok, Francis Bacon and Eric Van Lustbader.
    
    **Rimmer:** Eric Van Lustbader? What's he got to do with food?  
    **Lister:** Van. Bread van. Meat van. FOOD!
    
-   In _Reaper_, Alan Townsend escapes from his deal with the devil by winning a poker game. The condition of his release is that he is forbidden to sin again or he goes directly back to Hell. The problem with this is that he's a gambling addict and gambling is a sin. He eventually ends up back in Hell when the devil arranges for his plane to be grounded in Las Vegas.
-   _Roseanne_: In "I'm Hungry", a Diet Episode, Roseanne tries to get her mind off eating by joining the family for some TV. Unfortunately, every single channel she watches is advertising some kind of delicious food, like an overstuffed candy bar or flame-broiled cheeseburger restaurant.
-   _Scrubs_: Happens to J.D. after a break-up — he even points it out himself as he sits in a bar where a girl first offers to buy him a drink and then strikes a rather flexible pose to further entice him. To no avail though.
-   _Seinfeld_: In the episode "The Contest", Jerry, George, Kramer, and Elaine hold a contest to see who can go without masturbation the longest. Each character in this episode encounters someone that really makes them want to lose the contest, whether it be Jerry and his virgin girlfriend or Elaine encountering JFK Jr. at the place she works out at.
-   Done in _Strangers with Candy_ when Jerri tries to give up sex to join a clique of virgin girls. It goes about as well as you'd expect.
-   _Supernatural_: Sam becomes addicted to drinking demon blood and tries to give it up. Well, they hunt demons and have a magical knife to kill them with. This happens about every other fight. In several episodes, demons know that their blood tempts him, and are all but forcing themselves down his throat.
-   _Three's Company_: Janet talks Chrissy and Jack into a bet that Chrissy could go longer without food than Jack could go without girls. What Jack didn't know (because he wouldn't let Janet tell him) was that one of his (many) old flames had just arrived in town, who Janet and Chrissy happily invite over to meet Jack. Chrissy doesn't have it any easier with her own fast — Jack keeps bringing home delicious food to tempt her and Janet keeps using food-related metaphors in their conversations.
-   In the _Torchwood_ episode "Day One", an alien who feeds off orgasmic energy has taken over the body of a young woman. The girl knows that if she doesn't feed the alien, it will kill her, but if she gives in she'll kill anyone she has sex with. As she walks down the street all she can see are suggestive advertisements and people making out.
-   In the first _The Vicar of Dibley_ Easter Special, the Vicar reluctantly agrees to give up chocolate for Lent. She is then secretly appointed the new Dibley Easter Bunny, with the result that the Vicarage is filled with chocolate eggs.

    Puppet Shows 

-   _Donkey Hodie_: In the episode "The Fastest Fetcher", Bob Dog gives up fetching after losing one of Game Show Gator's game shows. When Donkey suggests different activities that he can be good at, he keeps seeing things that remind him of the balls he loves fetching. For instance, he tries to fetch the bowling ball and worries about a ball of yarn that's being used for knitting.
-   _Fraggle Rock_: In "The Preachification of Convincing John", Mokey, believing the Doozers are hurt by the Fraggles eating the constructions Doozers build, makes her friends swear never to eat them again. Remembering their promise isn't easy for Mokey's friends, especially since the Doozers keep building more.
    
    _\[Gobo and Wembley, who have gone three days without Doozer constructions, begin eating a tower.\]_  
    **Mokey:** _\[pulling Wembley off\]_ What are you two _doing_?  
    **Gobo:** Oh... uh, sorry. I forgot.  
    **Wembley:** I forgot with him.
    
-   _Sesame Street_:
    -   When Cookie Monster has to stop himself from eating Big Bird's birthday cake in the special "Big Bird's Birthday or Let Me Eat Cake", he eats literally everything but the cake.
    -   When the Count has a disease that causes Fainting whenever he counts, even in his head, he keeps finding things he wanted to count.
    -   In one episode, Big Bird gets "C is for Cookie" stuck in his head. Unfortunately, there are people singing the alphabet with the letter "C", and an opera that plays the song.
    -   In one episode, Elmo and Abby try to get their minds off waiting for their tricycles to be fixed. However, they see everyone riding tricycles.

    Radio 

-   _Our Miss Brooks_: In "Connie Tries To Forget Mr. Boynton", when Connie tries to forget Mr. Boynton, every stranger she meets looks and sounds like Mr. Boynton. The "Misters Boynton" Miss Brooks meet include — but aren't limited to — the American Ambassador to India, an elderly postman, a matron, a fourteen-year-old boy, and a newborn baby. Fortunately, it's All Just a Dream.

    Video Games 

-   _Enter the Gungeon_ takes this to ridiculous levels with Spice (yes, like in _Dune_). It's a single-use active item that, once used, also dramatically increases the chances of more of them spawning instead of other items. Which is bad because the benefits have diminishing returns _and_ come with increasingly serious downsides. After just two hits, there is _no_ good reason to use any more, but you also can hardly round a corner without tripping over one.
-   Used in _Fallout 4_ as one of the many social experiments conducted by Vault-Tec. Vault 95 was populated by drug addicts on a five-year-long rehabilitation program. After this, a massive stash of every kind of drug was revealed to the population. The Vault broke out into utter insanity as the addicts promptly either grabbed part of the stash and ran off to fatally overdose somewhere, started fighting with the other addicts, or resisting the overwhelming temptation to go and hide as long as they could until despair and loneliness finally drove them out of their minds. Everyone died.

    Web Animation 

-   _Dr. Havoc's Diary_: In Episode 10, the Havocs go on vacation so Dr. Havoc can finally spend some quality time with his family. Cue things like a valuable diamond, the G8 meeting at the hotel, and Nighthook suddenly showing up to tempt him into more evildoings.

    Web Comics 

-   _Bobwhite_: Cleo is infatuated with Ben and doesn't know whether or not to act on it. She starts seeing Ben everywhere... because his picture is on all the college's promotional material.
-   _El Goonish Shive_: Tedd has been obsessing over finding the scientific basis of magic so much that he spends all day talking Technobabble and ignoring Grace's advances. So she forces him on a double date. Too bad they're playing the soundtrack to _Portal 2_ in the car.
    
    _Look at me still talking when there's science to do..._
    
-   In _Nine Planets Without Intelligent Life_, Ben attempts to quit drinking, using the mantra of "(turning over a) new leaf" to deny each booze advertisement he sees. He soon encounters an ad for a drink that's actually _called_ "New Leaf" and is unable to resist. Then he decides to only drink on Tuesdays, and it turns out Tuesday lasts an awfully long time on Jupiter.
-   In _The Petri Dish_, Thaddeus tries to give up _Candy Crush_ after it makes him see things. He is reminded of the game by the presence of candy and his boss, Gordon, exclaiming, "Juicy!"
-   _Shortpacked!_: Jacob is a recovering sex addict... and unwilling Chick Magnet. During the "Ultra Car meets her creator" arc, Jacob stumbles into an eccentric millionaire's Hot Librarian collection and has to fend off their advances. The arc after that, he ends up being propositioned for a threesome by two beautiful women without saying a word himself. And after all that, he ends up sleeping with Amber's mom, causing him to briefly retreat into his apartment out of shame.
    
    "TWO CHICKS WANT TO DO ME AT THE SAME TIME MUST FLEE!"
    

    Western Animation 

-   _Adventure Time_: In "His Hero", Finn and Jake are persuaded by Billy that violence is not the answer and they swear to find non-violent ways to help people. They immediately run into situations where violence would be the perfect solution. They also discover that they suck at non-violent solutions.
-   _Animaniacs_: In the episode that's the Trope Namer for Potty Emergency, Wakko Warner has to pee and when none of the shops offer him a bathroom, he decides not to think about it. As soon as he starts his attempts not to think about it, however, he enters a park, upon which he sees several sprinklers, a man watering the grass, a lemonade stand and a kid with a drinking fountain.
-   _Arthur_:
    -   In one episode, the young aardvark decides he doesn't wish to take any more piano lessons. Naturally, the TV that day features nothing but programs about playing the piano.
    -   In another episode, Jenna watches some television in an attempt to not wet the bed during a sleepover. Not the best idea, as the only things she sees are along the lines of a Scotsman patching a wee leak in his bagpipes and a _Sesame Street_ ersatz doing a segment on the letter P.
    -   A third instance has Francine trying to make it through her first fast on Yom Kippur. When she gets hungry, she turns to TV to get her mind off it, only for all the shows on to be about food. Dissatisfied, she turns to reading, only for all the books she picks out to have titles relating to food.
    -   In "Nerves of Steal", Buster steals a toy from the toy store and tries to take his mind off it. First, the shadow of a fence makes his sweater appear stripy like a prison uniform, then he overhears people talking about "stealing" bases in a baseball game.
    -   In "Show Off", Pal is trying to stay fit so he can enter a dog show. But he spills his bag of dog food, DW offers him bacon, and Buster shows up at the door with roast beef.
-   _Batman: The Brave and the Bold_: In "Aquaman's Outrageous Adventure!", Aquaman promises his wife, Mera, that he will stop crime-fighting and take a family vacation. Cue a montage of him travelling and continually encountering supervillains who are foiled by other heroes.
-   _Beavis and Butt-Head_ have a 'no laughing' vow forced on them (on the threat of being transferred to the school on the tough side of town), just in time for Buzzcut to start up Sex Ed class.
    
    **Buzzcut:** We're gonna be talking about the PENIS! _\[Beavis & Butt-Head laugh\]_ We're gonna be talking about the VAGINA! _\[Beavis and Butt-Head laugh\]_ Do you think that's funny Butt-Head? _\[Butt-Head laugh\]_ Do you find it amusing we're gonna be talking about the TESTICLES! _\[Butt-Head covers his mouth laughing\]_ We're also gonna be talking about venereal disease! _\[Butt-Head laugh\]_ Sexual intercourse! The SCROTUM! THE CLITORIS! And... _\[Buzzcut removes Butt-Head's hand from his mouth, tears are coming out of his eyes\]_ we're also definitely gonna be spending a lot of time... talking about MASTURBATION!
    
-   _Caillou_: In the episode "Caillou is Getting Older", Caillou and his dad find a bird who died of old age. Caillou then fears his own mortality, but keeps seeing and hearing things related to age. First his dad says he's getting old because he needs glasses, then his mum says that Rosie's growing up because she can eat on her own, then Sarah has a birthday, and finally his parents tell him he's growing up at bedtime, causing him to yell at them due to Anger Born of Worry.
-   _Chip 'n Dale: Rescue Rangers_: When Monty tries to give up cheese due to the trouble his cheese attacks cause, it becomes more a case of Cold Turkeys Are The Focus Of The Investigation, as a pseudo-mob-boss of a rat has rerouted cheese supply in order to increase demand and get rich off of desperate rodentia. In the end, his addiction alternately saves him and very nearly keeps him from rescuing fellow Ranger Gadget from a Death Trap.
-   _Classic Disney Shorts_: There are two examples that both involve Goofy.
    -   In "No Smoking," Goofy tries to give up smoking but sees tobacco products everywhere, and people tempt him and offer him cigarettes until he actually wants one.
    -   In "Tomorrow we Diet", a rather plump Goofy decides to go on a diet. Naturally, he starts to go through a neon hell of restaurant signs (and even freaks out while sitting in a chair with a fruit pattern on the upholstery seeing several more food-related objects around the room).
-   _The Crumpets_: In "Marilyn Blues", Caprice and Pfff attempt to forget their friend Marylin, whom they suspect had departed to become a blonde disco singer that has forgotten his Goth rock aesthetic and friends. They keep hearing his apparent disco song on the radio in their house and their neighbor's.
-   _Dennis the Menace (UK)_: One episode features an Eccentric Millionaire who challenges Dennis' town not to watch the telly for a whole month and promises to give the town one million if they win. At the last day, Dennis and his friends convince him to watch TV (which he claimed he never did before during his whole life). The millionaire decides to give the money anyway.
-   _Dexter's Laboratory_: There's the episode where Dexter's Mom bakes some muffins and Dexter and Dee-Dee have to prevent Dad from eating them (apparently, he's a "muffomaniac" that only married her because of her muffins). Dad starts to hallucinate that's he's in a land of muffins and is crowned king. All in all, it's a very bizarre episode.
-   _Dora the Explorer_: The episode "Swiper's Favorite Things" shows just how difficult it is for Swiper to control his desire to swipe. When he is made by Dora to promise not to swipe anything while she and Boots help him get his lost possessions back for a sleepover at his grandmother's house, his instincts inevitably kick in when he sees Dora's friends missing possessions of their own. Fortunately, Dora and Boots are able to remind him of his promise each time, prompting him to instead return the missing possessions to Dora's friends.
-   _Ed, Edd n Eddy_: One episode has the Ed's, Kevin, Rolf, and Johnny make a cold turkey bet, each ponying up 25 cents as the bet. Ed can't have gravy, Double D can't use any big words, Eddy can't be loud, Rolf must give up meat, Johnny can't talk to Plank, and Kevin (the first to lose) can't call the Eds dorks. After Eddy spends most of the episode Invoking the trope towards everyone else, the eventual winner is Ed. After falling into a barrel of gravy, Eddy LOUDLY declares his victory... until he finds out Ed fell into a barrel of butterscotch pudding, which he's allergic to. Ed gets the money and spends it on gravy.
-   _Family Guy_: Quagmire is forced to keep his perversion under control. After his friends take him to the mall to see how well he can contain himself in public, he sees a handful of attractive teenagers, turns away to see a woman breastfeeding, turns away from that to see a trio of cheerleaders who walk past a fountain, accidentally drop a pom-pom inside, decide to retrieve it, together, while shirtless, engage in a splash fight and start making out with each other. When he attempts to escape, he accidentally crashes into a pile of naked mannequins, then ducks into a surveillance room with full view of the women's dressing rooms. Fortunately, he ends up seeing that one of the women inside is having a heart attack, and rushes over to save her by performing what everyone thought was CPR ("What the hell's CPR?").
-   _Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends_:
    -   In "Land of the Flea", Eduardo has a family of imaginary fleas living in his fur, and he's trying not to scratch. But everywhere he looks, there are people using scratch-and-sniff cards, monkeys scratching themselves in an inappropriate manner, etc.
    -   In "Crime After Crime", Mr. Herriman's carrot addiction leads to him punishing every friend in the house except Bloo so no one will suspect it, and when he ends up getting arrested for stealing diamonds (as he had earlier reported a theft of 100 carrots to the police, which they had mistaken for karats), he decides to quit carrots cold turkey. When Wilt gets himself arrested for standing on a rug (as Herriman had earlier punished Clumsy and Sam Burger for doing the same), he is put in the same cell as Herriman. The two are then served supper, and Herriman finds out from Wilt that they're having carrots for supper.
-   _Futurama_:
    -   Parody: After Bender gives up drinking (to his detriment, because robots run on alcohol), he is peppered with flashing neon signs for things like "Boring Geology Lecture" and "Church Revival".
    -   Also, in "Hell is Other Robots" when Bender joins Robotology, Fry and Leela tempt him away because his attitude has become so upbeat it's annoying.
-   _Garfield and Friends_:
    -   In "Video Victim", Jon bets Garfield that if he can go twenty-four hours without watching TV, Jon will stop using the vacuum cleaner. Jon reads entries from the TV Guide to try to tempt Garfield into turning on the TV, and during the night, Garfield is tempted by the TV itself. Later, Jon suffers the same thing from the vacuum cleaner.
    -   In "Five Minute Warning", Jon bets Garfield that he can't go without eating for five minutes. Garfield being Garfield, he's wondering if the five minutes is up within seconds. He leaves the house, but everywhere he goes, he's offered food: a pair of picnickers who brought too much food; the Buddy Bears, who give him "a light snack" as a token of friendship, which he nearly _does_ eat; even restaurant owners, who normally fear his approach lest they be eaten out of business. In the end, he is almost mistaken for having eaten, and indeed, very nearly bites down on a banana when the time runs out.
-   _Hey Arnold!_:
    -   In episode 3, Arnold is depressed that he lost his hat. To take his mind off it, he turns on the TV and sees that it's Hat Day at the local ballpark and everyone in the stadium is wearing one. It doesn't help.
    -   Helga tries to get over her obsession of Arnold that she tries not thinking about him, naturally she sees images of him everywhere across town. She was able to remedy this when she buys an out-of-love potion, and she stops seeing images of him, but it left her bored and empty.
-   _House of Mouse_: The short "Donald's Dinner Date" has Daisy getting fed up with Donald's anger issues, and betting that he couldn't go through their date without flying into a rage. Goofy ends up being their waiter. You can see where this is going... but it's a subversion. Daisy's the one who gets mad. Donald remains perfectly fine during the date. That is, until he gets the bill.
-   _Jimmy Two-Shoes_: As part of a Springtime for Hitler, Beezy can't eat for a minute. Jimmy tells him it's a piece of cake, to which he responds "Cake?" Jimmy quickly amends his statement, saying it's easy as pie, to which he responds "Pie?" Finally, Jimmy tells him he's tough as nails...to which he responds "Nails?"
-   _Looney Tunes_: Sylvester the Cat goes through this while trying to give up eating Tweety in a few shorts.
    -   It's most memorably used in "Birds Anonymous". After Sylvester gets back from the titular meeting, the first thing he sees is a cooking show talking about how to prepare a turkey. He then hears songs from a radio that relate to birds. After struggling to sleep, he finally loses it and attempts to eat Tweety once more before breaking down in tears.
    -   "The Last Hungry Cat" has Sylvester go through similar situations like in the cartoon above, although it mostly revolves around him thinking that he ate Tweety while being tormented by an off-screen narrator. One of the things that he goes through is when he reads a book about a family of birds.
        
        **Sylvester:** Once upon a time, there were three birds. A mama bird, a papa bird, and a... cute, little, blue-eyed... baby bird. _(He then frantically throws the book before running off)_
        
    -   In another cartoon, after various failed attempts to catch Tweety, Sylvester decides to swear off birds. Right after that happens, a flock of birds perches themselves on Sylvester's shoulders.
        
        **Sylvester:** Sufferin' succotash! I picked a fine time to go on a diet!
        
-   _The Looney Tunes Show_: In "Point, Laser Point", Sylvester tries to get his mind off of the red dot from Granny's laser pointer by walking down the street. He comes across a sale on spotted clothes, a circus clown, and a girl with freckles.
-   _The Loud House_:
    -   In "Undie Pressure", the Loud siblings are on a bet which means that Lori isn't allowed to talk to her boyfriend Bobby, Leni isn't allowed to use the word 'like', Luna isn't allowed to talk in a British accent, Luan isn't allowed to tell jokes, Lynn isn't allowed to turn things into sports, Lincoln isn't allowed to read comics in his underwear, Lucy isn't allowed to scare people, Lana isn't allowed to play in the mud, Lola isn't allowed to look at her reflection, Lisa isn't allowed to study, and Lily isn't allowed to cry. They all experience this trope in some way except for Leni, Lucy, and Lily: Bobby comes over, there is a British accent competition, people set up jokes, there are opportunities to turn the laundry into a sport, Lola turns the thermostat up making Lincoln want to strip, it's raining and the pets are playing in the mud, Lincoln polishes the surfaces so Lola will be tempted to look at herself, and Lori goes to poop (and Lisa was studying poop).
    -   In "Deal Me Out", Lincoln and Clyde try to give up things relating to their favorite superhero Ace Savvy, yet they find comics and action figures of him everywhere.
    -   In "No Laughing Matter", Luan retires from comedy after overhearing her siblings criticizing her constant jokes and pranks. Her siblings invoke this trope by trying to set up jokes to get her back in the comedy game, but she isn't tempted.
    -   In "Candy Crushed", Lola goes on a bet to never eat sweets for a week. However, candy is _everywhere_ Lola goes, such as on commercials, the mall, even a candy store.
-   _The Marvelous Misadventures of Flapjack_ has one episode where K'nuckles eats too much candy and suffers from "Candy Rot" where he chows down on any candy he can find. It gets so bad, that the Doctor Barber recommends a rather painful surgery to cure him but agrees to let Flapjack try to help the captain quit cold turkey as an alternative. Also, when K'nuckles wanted to stop hearing stories with happy endings, everybody was telling stories with various different kinds of happy endings.
-   In _Metalocalypse_, this is the reason Leonard Rockstein/Dr. Rockso couldn't stay clean from cocaine. He technically manages to stay clean for about half a year before finding confiscated cocaine behind the stage of a drug-free concert. He eventually gives in once the security guarding the drugs disappear to handle the concert which had gone haywire. Also note that this happened after a whole episode dedicated to his struggle to get clean early on in the same season. This was done mostly because Dr. Rockso happened to be the show's resident Ensemble Dark Horse, and part of his charm was his insufferable cocaine addiction.
-   _Mike, Lu & Og_: In one episode, Mike has Og make hot dogs for everyone, but Og goes nuts from the sloppiness of the food and soon refuses to make any more. This causes Mike to see everyone and everything around her as hot dogs.
-   _Moral Orel_: In one episode, Orel is grounded from church for a month. He starts seeing churches everywhere, thought everyone is saying the word "church", has very weird dreams and even dresses like a church.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_: In the episode "The One Where Pinkie Pie Knows", Pinkie Pie is told that Shining Armour and Princess Cadence are expecting a baby, but not to tell anyone since they want it to be a surprise. First, Twilight decorates a bedroom with things from Shining Armour's childhood and she and others inadvertently make Pinkie Pie want to tell the secret by mentioning surprises and saying that Shining Armour used to carry a toy around "like his baby". Then, Sweetie Belle and Scootaloo ask Pinkie if she's heard any gossip recently, and immediately after that Fluttershy mentions baby carrots. Later, Pinkie Pie is asked to make balloon animals and Featherweight asks for a baby pony but hopes it's not a "royal pain", Mayor Mare says that Pinkie Pie is good at keeping secrets, and finally a pony comes up selling cribs with the slogan "treat your foal like royalty".
-   _Nina Needs to Go!_, a cartoon about a girl who has a Potty Emergency every episode, this is used in two episodes.
    -   In "Water Park", Nina is reminded of peeing because of the water.
        
        **Nina:** So much water. And no bathrooms anywhere.
        
    -   In "D.I.Y.", Nina is at a hardware store and at one point is going through a bathroom display.
        
        **Nina:** Toilets, toilets and more toilets and I can't use any of them!
        
-   _The Penguins of Madagascar_: In "Herring Impaired", the penguins eat aged brined herring that results in them contracting a rare brain disease that turns them all into fish-obsessed psychopaths. Rico, being the only one who didn't actually eat any herring, has to keep them from eating anymore fish for a whole day to keep the effects from becoming permanent. Unfortunately for Rico, there seems to be fish almost everywhere they go. Fortunately, he's able to trick the infected penguins into eating a large wooden sign shaped like a fish until they return to normal.
-   _Phineas and Ferb_: Usually used for Candace, who can't bring herself to hold her busting obsession.
    -   In "Hip Hip Parade", Candace is forced to solemnly promise to Linda to not once think about the boys on their girls' day out, otherwise she will suffer the "Pharaoh's curse". Candace tries as hard as she could to restrain herself when she sees the boys in the Tri-State Area Unification Day parade, but it soon gets the better of her and is forced to bring her mom to see it. When the parade disappeared as usual, a guy in a Pharaoh costume appears and says "Curse you".
        
        **Linda:** I tried to warn you, honey.
        
    -   She does it again in "Robot Rodeo" as she pretends to be more adultlike so Stacy's mom can let her go to a Tiny Cowboy concert with her, but by the time Linda suspects this is just a trick to get her mind off the boys, Candace begins squirming until she finally loses it.
-   _A Pup Named Scooby-Doo_: In one episode, Freddy accepts a bet from the other characters that he can't go one whole case without accusing Red Herring (that's the character's actual name) of anything (it was a long standing Running Gag that Freddy _always_ accuses Red Herring of being the Villain of the Week, even in episodes that he isn't even _in_). So the person who gives them the next case is Red Herring's aunt, and the characters constantly meet with Red Herring. And it turns out Red Herring _really did_ commit the crime that time, albeit for a good cause. Freddy does _not_ take it well when he's unmasked.
-   _Rugrats (1991)_: In "Day of the Potty", the babies and their parents go to a hardware store to buy a new toilet after Chuckie accidentally breaks the old one by flushing a broken toy airplane down it. When the babies come to an aisle filled with toilets, Kimi asks Chuckie if the toilet he broke told the other toilets what he did, causing Chuckie to believe that the toilets are after him for revenge. The babies try to find a place to hide, but everywhere they go, they come across another toilet.
    
    **Chuckie:** Too... many... potties!  
    **Phil:** Maybe you should go back to diapies.
    
-   _The Simpsons_:
    -   In one episode, Homer orders a gun. He has to wait an entire week before getting his gun, but all he can see during the week are targets (a truck bearing the Target logo, a row of ducks, his sisters-in-law, Ned Flanders... Ned Flanders again...).
    -   When Lisa turns vegetarian, everyone seems to force her to eat meat, and events culminate during Homer's barbecue party.
    -   When Homer gives up beer, he cannot escape Duff advertising and cans of beer appear to be everywhere (including literally bombarding him with beer cans).
        
        **Surrender to Duff**
        
    -   Lisa was addicted to the "Cory Hotline" and is forced to never call it from home. She cheats and uses the school's phone. With Marge's help, she resolves to spend a whole day without calling, made incredibly difficult because of withdrawal-like symptoms and Maggie playing with a toy phone. Although it seems that she fell asleep dialing the hotline, Marge finds out she succeeded after all, and only dialed information to know the time and prove she went the whole day.
    -   When Homer agrees to use The Swear Jar, multiple aggravating incidents happen, culminating in a beehive dropping on him from a tree, after which the view cuts to him with stings all over his arm putting an entire handful of change in the jar.
    -   In "The City of New York versus Homer Simpson", town drunk Barney Gumble is declared the evening's designated driver. Of course, that's the night that Duff Beer spokesman "Duffman" shows up to put on the party that Barney won (but obviously can't take part in).
    -   In a comic book, Marge makes Homer agree to eat only one doughnut a day. As he drives to work, he sees a doughnut-shaped cloud. Then more such clouds. And then a cloud shaped like an open box full of doughnuts, with the words "EAT US, HOMER" written on it. Naturally, he does not stick to the plan for long. That was the first issue. He does sort of stick to the plan, but cheats.
        
        **Homer:** Hmm, now which will be my one doughnut of the day \* eats one\* no \* eats another\* not that one (You can see where this is going).
        
    -   In the episode "The Last Temptation of Homer", Homer is attracted to his co-worker, Mindy, and tries to watch television to take his mind off her:
        
        **Kent Brockman:** Tonight, "Eye On Springfield" takes a look at the secret affairs of Kennedy, Eisenhower, Bush, and Clinton. Did fooling around on their wives make them great? We'll find out next when we play "Hail to the Cheat."  
        _(Homer changes channels to a nature documentary)_  
        **Narrator:** The Burmese Melon Fly has over a thousand sex partners, and suffers virtually no guilt-  
        _(Homer changes channels to a bunch of scantily clad women working out on weight machines)_  
        **Woman:** Just do it! _(Homer screams and then runs away)_ Examine your scalp for ringworm.
        
    -   Bart decides to quit the Junior Campers because they don't let you have a knife until you pass an exam and read a book on knife safety. Then he walks past Moe's Tavern, and Moe chases out a customer (Hans Moleman) with a knife. Then Moleman draws a massive Sword Cane knife. Then Martin asks Bart to help him with the ribbon on his box of candies and says he'd be glad to share, at which Jimbo easily cuts off the ribbon with a knife and steals the box. Then he walks past Doctor Hibbert performing surgery with a pocket knife, successfully removing an about-to-burst appendix and saving a man's life. He then announces "Don't thank me, thank the knife!" as the crowd starts cheering.
-   _Sitting Ducks_ takes place in a universe where ducks and alligators live in segregated districts, where there's constant tension between the hungry alligators of Swampwood and duck denizens of Ducktown. The show focuses on a duck named Bill and his relationship with Aldo, an alligator who swears off eating ducks. This often proves hard to resist for poor Aldo, who constantly must fight ostracization from his species and his own predatory instincts, especially in the episode where he hallucinates Bill and his friends as skinned floating ducks.
-   _SpongeBob SquarePants_ used this trope on more than one occasion.
    -   "Idiot Box" and "The Paper" both have Squidward cave in to desiring something he saw as childish after observing SpongeBob having fun with it, playing pretend inside a cardboard box for the former and using a gum wrapper to do all sorts of improbable things in the latter.
    -   "Karate Choppers" has SpongeBob and Sandy try to give up their obsession with karate by going for a picnic in the park. However, they can't stop thinking about karate, first when they mishear a man casting a fishing rod as a karate chop, then when SpongeBob starts slicing meat for their sandwiches... using a karate chop. Eventually, they start karate-chopping up as much as they can for the sandwiches, and eventually chop up most of the park as well.
    -   In "Snooze You Lose", an insomniac Squidward goes for a walk and sees a billboard advertising beds, a homeless man sleeping on a bench, worm puppies sleeping in the window display of a pet shop, and a television showing sheep jumping over a fence.
    -   In "A Day Without Tears", SpongeBob is trying to, well, go a day without tears, due to a bet he made with Squidward. Because SpongeBob's end of the bet is Squidward has to come to a house for a sleepover if he makes it to midnight without crying, Squidward decides to cheat and tempt the sponge into crying in the following, though he miraculously manages to hold in his tears all the way: Seeing a beautiful sunset (he snaps out once it's over), Gary sleeping in a cute way (he immediately controls himself), getting a note from his parents saying they miss him (which is stopped by getting a card saying his subscription was ending), the news showing a snail nearly not getting down from a tree, a manatee having a bad birthday, and a TV show not showing as often (he snaps out after hearing the good outcomes and quickly changing the channels), seeing an emotional bonding scene on TV (which is enough for him to angrily throw his TV out the window for Patrick to take), Squidward playing a sad song (he manages to control himself as before), and finally a story about a sad angler, which makes him struggle to hold in so many tears until he finally cries, but by then it's midnight, meaning SpongeBob won.
-   One _Taz-Mania_ episode has Taz trying not to eat a sea bird that his mother cooking for dinner. Taz turns to TV to keep his mind off — only to find that _every_ channel is showing something that's somehow connected to sea birds.
-   _Thomas & Friends_: In "A Scarf For Percy", Percy wishes that he had a scarf to keep his funnel warm during a cold winter day. As he does his work, he keeps thinking about scarves. It doesn't help that every person on Sodor is wearing a scarf wherever he goes.
-   _The Venture Bros._: One episode has Sergeant Hatred, a recovering pedophile who takes medication to control his urges, running out of his supply on the same day that he attends a screening of the children's fantasy film _Realm of the Rings_ with Hank and Dean. Naturally, the entire theater is filled with young boys, and the film itself features a race of beautiful immortal elves who stop aging when they turn thirteen. Fortunately, he manages to lock himself in a panic room.
-   The _Wander over Yonder_ episode "The Fugitives" has Wander and Sylvia trying to escape a planet ruled by Lord Hater, but Wander keeps blowing her plans by helping people. Finally, she gets fed up and she tells him "no helping". Hater's Watchdogs use this to their advantage and cause various accidents that Wander is desperate to solve, but he's also desperate to hold his word to Sylvia. The scene gets more intense and the lighting gets more dramatic as Wander begins going practically insane with resistance... until he finally caves in. Luckily, all the people he's been helping up to this point come help them escape.
-   In the _We Bare Bears_ episode "Bear Cleanse", the bears go on a diet when they have to give up "human food" and stick to their natural diets. Grizzly is initially gung-ho, but quickly tires of eating nothing but fish and berries, and tries to take his mind off things by watching viral videos. Sure enough, the first thing he sees is pop-up ads for food. Then he hallucinates that the food is talking to him.
-   _What's with Andy?_: In "Busting", Andy has to pee, and, while it's not dragged out through the whole episode, there is one scene like this, where two passersby inadvertently remind him of his Potty Emergency.
    
    **Random Man Walking By:** I'm tellin' ya, water just kept coming and coming, so much rushing water!  
    **Boy:** A,B,C,D,E,F,G. H,I,J,K,L,M,N,O,P. Hmm..."P", what's after "P"? P, P....
    

___