**Haley:** You don't hear or see us.  
**Guard 1:** Huh, must be a trick of the light.  
**Haley:** You don't work here anymore.  
**Guard 2:** Crap, how am I going to pay my mortgage?  
**Haley:** You're actually a yellow-footed rock wallaby.  
**Guard 3:** Screw this guard stuff, then. I'm gonna go find a wizard to polymorph me back. _\[hops away\]_

Some people are persuasive, some people have even more power than that. Whatever they say, you have to do it. No escape clause, their voice instills immediate obedience. They can tell you to stand on one foot and quack like a duck, to betray your loved one, or to kill yourself, or to just _die_. If the speaker is of a sadistic turn of mind, they may come up with a more creative Fate Worse than Death to put you through.

The power is most often tied to the voice of the character, but there are a few variations, such as the Jedi Mind Trick. A frequent cause of Brainwashed, Brainwashed and Crazy and creepy Power Perversion Potential.

Note that this isn't just about voices that are persuasive. This is about orders that one literally _cannot disobey,_ usually for some supernatural reason. A frequent drawback to this power, however, is that it's subject to Literal Mindedness. That is, the listener does what the compeller _says_, not necessarily what they want.

Hopefully the compeller remembers to figure out a little about the person, or Intrinsic Vows may stop this from working...

See also Siren Song, a trope about sirens and other supernatural creatures using their beautiful voices to lure people into danger.

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   Used by Belldandy in Episode 10 of _Ah! My Goddess_ to (a really deserving) Aoshima:
    
    **Belldandy:** It doesn't matter what kind of schemes you try, we will not lose. **NOW WOULD YOU BE SO KIND AS TO LEAVE.**  
    **Aoshima:** _\[full-body shiver\]_ If you'd please excuse me...
    
-   _Arachnid_:
    -   The Army Ant Queen has the ability to control anyone she has exchanged bodily fluids with due to a virulent superpower she has. Her victims are reduced to a zombie-like state unless she assigns roles to them that restore most of their autonomy (which results in them getting mismatched eyes).
    -   The Organization's Boss has a more limited version that's combined with other abilities — on top of being able to read minds she can control a single person she has a close relationship with if they're powerful and consent to being controlled. Because she's also ageless, she used that power to control Japan's government and caused Hideki Tojo to wage war and allow the country to get nuked _on purpose_ at the end of World War II.
-   In _Attack on Titan_, the mysterious Coordinate grants this ability to those that possess it. This allows Eren to take control over a horde of Titans, clumsily sending them after designated targets in a Zerg Rush. The ability can _only_ truly be used by those from the royal bloodline, allowing them to control not only Titans but _any_ member of the Eldian race. The previous owner, Frieda Reiss, would use it to erase her sister's memories of her visits. The First King of the Walls used it to erase the memories of the people, creating false memories of the Titans devouring the rest of humanity. The Beast Titan also demonstrates a similar ability, controlling Titans with its roars or with verbal commands. This is because Zeke has royal blood, and can therefore use his voice to control anyone injected with his spinal fluid.
-   Muramasa, the villain of _Bleach_'s Zanpakuto Unknown Tales Arc, uses this power to control other Shinigami's zanpakuto.
-   While to the public Aoi of _Castle Town Dandelion_ has Photographic Memory as her Royalty Superpower, her actual Royalty Superpower is this, called _Absolute Order_. In this case it is _very_ deconstructed, as the dissonance between her ability to subconsciously control minds and her genuinely sweet nature causes a lot of distress.
-   _Chainsaw Man_ has a Story-Breaker Power level version in the Control Devil also known as Makima, the Devil embodying humanity's fear of oppression. Differing from most examples, Control's only limitation is that it can only take control of a being if it considers itself superior to them, but Control considers itself superior to almost _everyone_.
-   _Code Geass_
    -   Lelouch gains a power called Geass at the start of the story, allowing him to give orders that can't be refused, can be fought by the victim, but after a couple of seconds they will fail and obey the command. His power is a combination of sight-based and voice-based (eye contact allows the ability to work, commands given verbally), and only works once per person. Of course, that "one command" can just be "do what I say from now on..." but Lelouch (initially) has too much Mind over Manners for that.
    -   Rai, the player character from the _Lost Colors_ visual novel, has a slightly more literal version of this power, in that he simply needs to speak a command to control someone (whereas Lelouch needs to make eye contact first).
-   To a lesser extent, this trope is invoked by one of _Doraemon_'s gadget (which is shaped like a microphone). This gadget will make any, meaning ANY, sound turn into a VERY beautiful sound; it has the same effect as a Compelling Voice. Including car's horn & a simple fart.
-   _Fabricant 100_: Roxy's singing voice, or rather, her Fabricant partner's, makes some visitors of her plays commit suicide behind the theater, where their organs can be harvested. It has a low enough hit rate to get only about one victim at a time, but is strong enough that anyone who watches her play in full is a potential target.
-   Kurogiri Satsuki a.k.a. "God's Word" from _The Garden of Sinners_ is, indeed, _the god_ of this trope, though in his case, it's less about his voice and more about the language he speaks, namely, the Unified Language. The Unified Language, a.k.a. Adamic language, was the original language spoken by the entire humanity before the Confusion of Tongues that followed the building of the Tower of Babel. Because of its connection to reality itself, it's impossible to disobey an order given in it and not be Erased From Existence.
-   _Jujutsu Kaisen_ has Toge Inumaki's Innate Technique: "Cursed Speech", which imbues his voice with Cursed Energy that forces anyone who hears it to follow his commands. This power isn't without caveats. the first is that Inumaki _can't turn Cursed Speech off_, so he has to limit his vocabulary (he usually only speaks in rice ball fillings) in order to avoid accidentally compelling someone to do something dangerous. Moreover, the technique needs _a lot_ of Cursed Energy to work properly, so compelling people to act too differently to their usual behaviour or using it on someone with far more Cursed Energy can exhaust him to the point of damaging his vocal chords. So while the ability is considered one of the strongest in terms of potential, in practice it is much more limited in use.
-   Dimitri has this power in _Kurobara Alice_, and he uses it mostly to drive people to kill themselves. At first by accident, then deliberately.
-   _My Hero Academia_:
    -   Hitoshi Shinso has a power fittingly called 'Brainwash'. It allows him to take control of people who verbally reply to his statements, until he either willingly relinquishes that control or they get shocked out of it. Later on, as of the Joint Training Arc, Shinso uses a voice distorter to imitate other people's voices. This causes even more problems for his opponents as now they can't even reply to each other, out of fear they may actually be enabling Shinso to take control. However, he cannot control more than one person and this stops him using his power on Midoriya, as Midoriya was accessing the spirits of past One For All users and therefore wasn’t just one person at the time.
    -   Shin Nemoto, a member of the Shie Hassaikai, inherits a Quirk called Confession. Whenever he asks a question to anyone he's talking to, the person in turn speaks out the truth in full detail, even unconsciously.
-   _Naruto_:
    -   Shisui Uchiha's Mangekyo Sharingan ability is Kotoamatsukami, which turns the person targeted into a puppet completely under his control. However, each eye can only do this once every decade. Shisui is dead in the present, but he managed to give his left eye to Itachi, who put it inside his crow, which he shoved down Naruto's throat (_long_ story), something that comes in handy during the Ninja World arc. Meanwhile, his right eye was collected by Danzo Shimura, who used it to make the samurai Mifune nominate him as leader of the Ninja Alliance. Shortly after, Danzo dies, taking the right eye with him, while Itachi later incinerates the crow after enacting his plan, ensuring that no one can use the ability ever again.
    -   At some point after the war, Shikamaru a ronin named Gengo who has this power. By focusing chakra onto his vocal cords and tongue, Gengo could place anyone under his genjutsu without them realizing it.
-   In _Taboo-Tattoo_, Harasha "the Demon", one of Arya's clone sisters, is able to use her Spell Crest to give herself a compelling voice, manipulating magnetic fields to implant her words into her opponent's brain as absolute truth that compels them to carry out her orders.
-   All Pureblooded vampires have this power in _Vampire Knight_.

    Comic Books 

-   The third installment of _The Adventures of D & A_ features an Exposition Dump of the SWSC's Rogues Gallery. One of these villains is called the Prattler, who can control people's minds with his voice.
-   An _Ant-Man_ supervillain, Jason Cragg, a.k.a. the Voice, originally appeared in the story "The Voice of Doom" from _Tales to Astonish #42_ (April, 1963). He is a man whose dull, droning voice was changed by a beam of radioactive electrons from a nearby research lab. After using his new voice to get whatever he wants, Cragg decides to use it to Take Over the World, and tries to get Ant-Man out of the picture. Ant-Man eventually defeats him by giving him laryngitis, courtesy of microbes implanted on the microphone Cragg was using in a nationwide televised broadcast.
-   One Archie Comics story had this teen who had this ability, and loved to convince people to buy or do random things for the lulz. Even those who knew what he was doing couldn't resist. The day is saved when the jerk is tricked into going after Big Moose. When the lug proves to be Too Dumb to Fool, the teen makes the mistake of calling Moose names out of frustration — at which point Moose's Hair-Trigger Temper kicks in. Turns out the teen's voice isn't so compelling anymore after having lost some of his teeth.
-   Zebediah Killgrave, aka the Purple Man, a _Daredevil_ foe. It was more his presence that bent people to his will, but he still had to order them around verbally. Which he did.
    -   His daughter Kara Killgrave (aka Purple Girl, aka Persuasion, aka Purple Woman) from Marvel's _Alpha Flight_ inherited her father's power. One time she used it to force gay hero Northstar to be her boyfriend.
-   Emmy, from _Demo_, is a slightly different example. She doesn't have any control over it: If she tells you to do something, you do it, no matter what. She doesn't talk much. Especially not after she made her mother brain dead. At the end of the story, she tells some guys who are hassling her to "drop dead," and is forced to go on the run.
-   Two-Edge the half-troll of _ElfQuest_ is somehow able to use his voice to send Rayek and Ekuar the wrong way when they're trying to find an exit from the troll caverns. This doesn't really seem to be a magical ability so much as a kind of vocal hypnosis, and might have something to do with the fact that the elves are already tired and disoriented.
    -   That was more taunting the elves with riddles then any magical compulsion. A better example is what his mother Winnowill pulled on Rayek in the _Siege of Blue Mountain_ arc. Not exactly a compelling _voice_, but a mental equivalent... and he doesn't even realize what's happening till he comes out of it.
-   Mitchell Hundred, star of _Ex Machina_, can use his Compelling Voice to control machines above a certain complexity threshold. Even non-electronic machines like guns and engines (although not, tragically at one point, crossbows). Other characters have since turned up who have the same ability with respect to animals and people.
-   _Justice League of America_: Max Lord was originally given the ability to subtly influence minds by an alien "gene bomb" that activated latent powers. This has since become full-on mind control able to create illusions powerful enough to make Superman kill on command. In _Justice League: Generation Lost_, with mechanical assistance (including blood transfusions, since he has a nosebleed whenever he uses his powers), he mindwipes the entire world into forgetting he even existed.
-   _New Gods_:
    -   In the original Jack Kirby comics, this _was_ the power of the Anti-Life Equation, with a bit of Brown Note on the side.
    -   Glorious Godfrey, one of the minions of Darkseid, has this as his main power. In his original appearances he poses as an evangelist and uses his powers to convince people to follow Darkseid, turning them into mindless Mooks called Justifiers who constantly chant "Anti-Life justifies my hate!". Later, in the Crisis Crossover event _Legends (DC Comics)_, he poses as a psychiatrist and pundit and used his powers to turn a large portion of the United States against superheroes.
    -   Godfrey's sweet sister Amazing Grace has the same powers, but to a lesser degree. More than enough to sucker an amnesiac Superman, though.
-   In The New Universe series _Psi-Force_, Wayne Tucker has something like this; it's a telepathic ability, so strictly speaking he doesn't have to talk, but there does have to be an explicit command. (And the recipient is bound by what he _said_, rather than what he _wants_; occasionally this backfires on him.)
-   In the Crossgen series _The Path_, the lead character Obo-San inherits the power granting Sigil from his dying brother. But where his brother a skilled samurai and warlord was given great combative power Obo-San was a monk and was granted a voice that could not be resisted. It however did not work on supernatural creatures.
-   In _Powers_, the Superman Substitute who casually destroyed Super Heroes with nuclear powers and entire countries after developing a God Complex could only be stopped by his ex-lover who had this power. When she tells him to, he simply ceases to be.
-   Jesse Custer, of _Preacher_, has the Word of God (not to be confused with that other thing). The target has to be able to understand him (meaning that it was useless against agents of the Ancient Conspiracy who only spoke French, or put their hands over their ears, or a cat), but beyond that, its potential is near-limitless. He once killed somebody by ordering him to die.
    -   Before he completely understood the power, he told an antagonist to go screw himself. The result was as hilarious as it was squicky. He can even trigger other phenomena through the Voice. In one issue, he commands several assailants to **"Burn!"**... and they catch fire. While never directly demonstrated, there are several indications that he'd be able to pull off Jesus-style healing like giving cripples the ability to walk. (At the very least, he cured a guy of severe mental trauma and the murderous obsession that accompanied it by telling him to forget about it). Custer's also limited by needing to speak in the first place. Against a hitman fully aware of The Word, that had a gun already drawn and aimed, Custer only has time to say one word: "Miss." Unfortunately for Jesse, he doesn't dare try that stunt against the Saint of Killers.
-   _Robin (1993)_: After she came back wrong Darla Aquista was able to compel people to believe her and do things for her. The strength of this ability is never fully examined and she was unable to compel Tim to run off and start a new life with her though that may be because he'd been turning down her advances for months before she gained the ability.
-   A variant on this trope is Lullaby, an enemy of Sleepwalker, who has the ability to sing songs that cause people to fall into zombielike trances. While they act this way, they'll do whatever Lullaby tells them, up to and including being willing to commit suicide if she says so. Lullaby initially used her powers to force the children she baby-sat to obey her, before she charmed a real estate millionaire and tried to get him to kill himself so she'd get to keep all his money.
-   Harry "The Word" Lovelace, of _Top 10_. In the city of superheroes, he's the police's chief hostage negotiator. His occasionally poor phrasing is played for comedy. When he uses his power, his printed dialogue turns red. He's generally considered a Shout-Out to Jesse Custer, having the same power and having it represented the exact same way.
-   One of _Vampirella_'s powers is a hypnotic voice that makes men do what she wants. It usually only works on humans though, with supernatural foes more likely to No-Sell her if she tries it.
-   _Wonder Woman_:
    -   _Sensation Comics_: Mona Menise gains a low level ability to get people to want to do what she says after purchasing the siren bangle.
    -   _Wonder Woman 600_: Ivo's Cyber-Sirens can get men to blindly follow their orders.
    -   _Wonder Woman (1987)_: Medusa can compel people to look at her by demanding that they do even if they know better, which is bad because it makes her victims vulnerable to her other more infamous power, which only works through eye contact. It only works if she uses a language her target can understand however, which means the first bit of English she requests knowledge of is the phrase _"Look at me"_.
    -   In The New 52 series when Cassandra gave orders with the voice she was born with those who heard her were compelled to obey. After she used this power to order forty people to murder each other Lennox destroyed her voice box.
-   _X-Men_:
    -   This power is one that Siryn has that her father Banshee does not.
    -   Mesmero is a mutant who had the psionic ability to mentally control the minds of others. He could hypnotize people into doing what he wanted them to do, and alter their minds with false personalities and memories. He could also make them see him as a different person.
    -   Hijack in _Uncanny X-Men_ can control machines with verbal commands. He discovered it by accident, which means it's not very clear how he turns his power "on" or "off".
    -   Cable once dealt with an arc villain Randall Shire, an Australian mutant described as a "psychomorph" who could change people's emotions to match what he told them; talking about sad things made them sad and happy things made them happy. This made him an excellent actor and entertainer in his job as a circus clown before possession by an alien entity amplified his powers to totally enslave anyone who heard him directly.
    -   Lorelei could also do this. In the original comics she's a mutate, in _Ultimate X-Men_ she's a mutant.
-   Empress, of The DCU's _Young Justice_ (well, not anymore. Well, again, kind of).

    Fan Works 

-   Most of the driving problems in _Enlightenments_ boil down to the Queen of the Castle in the Mist being able to control Wander with a Compelling Voice. He can resist it to a certain extent if he's far away from her, suffering from debilitating headaches and nausea for his efforts, but the closer he is to her the less able he is to resist. If she's a few feet away, he can't even change his expression in reaction to things he does _not_ want to do.
-   In _A Future of Friendship, a History of Hate_, Megalos Tyrant uses what Twilight calls "Ascendency Magic" that allows him to force his will on others through his words. The Mane Six are only able to defeat him when Rarity manages to seal his mouth shut with crystal, leaving him incapable of talking.
-   Darkseid from _Hellsister Trilogy_. Once he has learned and spoken the Anti-Life Equation, he can compel everyone in the universe to obey and serve him with no doubts, qualms or regrets.
    
    A moment of madness and terror went through Kal-El’s mind, as little as he wanted to acknowledge it. This was a thing against which he had no power, no shield. He was facing Dev, seeing his expression, and knew his ally was going through the same thing.  
    A second after that, he wondered what the problem had been. He felt calm, amazingly so. His muscles went slack. It was all he could do to stand there, looking at Darkseid. Even the Flashes and Joanie were stock-still.  
    All they had to do was wait for the Dark Lord’s first command.  
    All they had to do was love Darkseid. And they did.
    
-   In the _Ben 10_ Fanfiction _Hero High: Sphinx Academy_, it is revealed that the Big Bad Alexander Sovereign has a non-powered version of this. He is just so convincing with his words that he can even make someone that completely hates his guts to go along with his plans. He has had this ability since he was very young to the point he was given the nickname "Voice of a Sovereign".
-   _The Immortal Game_ plays with this trope. Rainbow Dash is corrupted by a force known as "the Insanity," which gradually forces her to its will. However, the effect zig-zags, as when she _does_ obey, its influence backs off until she disobeys it again. This turns her into a fully aware Apologetic Attacker.
-   In _The Keys Stand Alone: The Soft World_, when the four are approaching the White Tower with a white key to let them in, they're ambushed by a trio of sorcerers who cast the equivalent of Dominate Person on them and order the four to stand still and Paul to give them the white key. Unfortunately for the sorcerers, it turns out to be a very convenient time to remind the reader that Paul is immune to mind control, which we found out during the climax of _With Strings Attached_. And George surprises everyone by starting to shake off the effects himself.
-   In _Mega Man: Defender of the Human Race_, Splash Woman's powers let her brainwash almost anyone and tell them what to do, though they weaken the more time they spend away from her.
-   _Sword Art Online Abridged_:
    -   Guild leader Keita possesses a Hat of Charisma +50, which is how he's able to get Kirito to join the Moonlit Black Cats — he equips the thing, asks Kirito to join, and before Kirito knows what he's doing he's accepted an invitation.
    -   Eleven episodes later, Sugou's after that same Charisma-boosting VR technology, which he plans to use to make Asuna accept his marriage proposal.
-   In _This Bites!_, Sovereign's Will is a variation of Conqueror's Haki that Vivi unlocks. Everyone who hears it is forced to follow her orders, no questions asked. The only catch is that it only works on people who respect her on some level.
-   _Children of Remnant_: Jaune is, on paper, the weakest of his sisters; he has impressive Super-Strength and Super-Toughness, but not much better than what plenty of other people have, and he has no training to use it properly. However, the author constantly refers to him as the strongest person in the story, because he can control his _sisters_. Pyrrha is literally the most dangerous fighter in the world, Blake is a master of politics and spycraft, Weiss is the most powerful mage in the world, and Emerald is a preternatural assassin. They all love Jaune and obey him freely, but when he gets serious they are physically incapable of disobeying a direct order. It does have to be spoken, however (unlike how the girls can psychically control Grimm). When Jaune gets his throat cut open by Kali, he has to physically hold the wound shut long enough to order Blake to retreat when she's beating Kali to death.
-   _The Mountain and the Wolf_: The Wolf's voice isn't so much compelling as it is intensely aggravating, to the point where anyone he deliberately insults will try to fight him (including a White Walker). People he doesn't _deliberately_ insult (i.e. anyone talking to him for more than a few seconds) merely feel a very strong urge to fight him, but manage to refrain from getting into a Curb-Stomp Battle.
-   _The Secret Return of Alex Mack_: Shar starts developing this alongside her telepathy, able to give simple commands like 'SLEEP FOR ONE MINUTE'. She uses it to stop Alex and Hanna from interfering with her Heroic Sacrifice.
-   In the _Miraculous Ladybug_ fanfic _Occam's Razor,_ this turns out to be the secret behind Lila's infamous lies: She is an akuma with the power to make anyone believe anything, unless it is something that they have direct and irrefutable knowledge of (ie, claiming to be Ladybug's best friend to Ladybug's civilian identity). The real twist is that Lila was _always_ an akuma. She is the akumatized form of a shy and anxious girl named Vera. When Marinette frees her, she wakes up missing _six months_ of memories and wondering why all these strange people are calling her Lila.
-   Used constantly by the harpies in _Vow of Nudity_.
-   _Sixes and Sevens_: Madeline Joyce-Frank discovers she has this ability during a mission in Latveria.

    Films — Animated 

-   _The Little Mermaid (1989)_: This is ultimately how Ursula managed to cheat in her deal with Ariel when it became apparent that the latter and Eric would break the spell. Ursula, using the voice that she took from Ariel earlier, disguised herself as Vanessa and then used her voice to brainwash Eric.
-   _Wonder Woman: Bloodlines_: Medusa can compel people to look into her eyes. Diana is able to resist long enough to blind herself, making her immune to Medusa's powers. Vanessa nearly submits, in part because she felt she deserved to die after betraying Diana and becoming the Silver Swan.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _The Dark Tower (2017)_. The Man in Black has this as his primary power; killing people just by telling them to stop breathing, ordering two minions who have failed him to kill each other, and compelling a child to hate her mother For the Evulz.
-   _Doctor Sleep_ - Snakebite Andi can make anyone do anything simply by telling them to do it.
-   Played with in _Dracula: Dead and Loving It_. Dracula attempts to give instructions, but has difficulty getting people to do exactly what he wants and controlling multiple people at the same time.
-   _Evilenko_: Evilenko possesses some sort of psychic control over people, which is explained to be the reason why his victims went with him willingly and why he was able to elude the authorities for many years.
-   _Hungerford_: After the bug is expelled from Adam's body, he explains that the bug was telling him to do things, and he couldn't stop himself.
-   _The Lord of the Rings_, as in the book, portrays Saruman this way. It's downplayed compared to the source (as most of it comes through narration of people's silent emotional reactions) but when you cast Christopher Lee in the role, the intent is quite evident. It's just _hard_ to imagine that voice being disobeyed or ignored, and the extended cut of _Return of the King_ restores the scene where he tries to cow the Rohirrim who came to demand redress for his war on them.
    -   In _The Hobbit_, Smaug's voice has a More than Mind Control effect, similar to the book. Aside from hearing Smaug makes Bilbo take off the Ring without realizing it (though the Ring itself might have helped Smaug's words), at more than one point, Bilbo is visibly trying to shake Smaug's words out of his head.
-   In the movie _Love Potion Number Nine_, there was an Applied Phlebotinum (_not_ the no. 9 potion, but the love potion no. _8_) which gave to the one who drank it a similar ability, but in the more _sexual/seductive_ sense (and only over people attracted to their sex, on people attracted to the opposite sex of the user it had an opposite effect). However, the user of the potion lacks control: where the main male lead ends in a scene chased by mob of aroused women, the female lead puts her mark under the assumption she just likes to do the "mute game", using Hand Signals and her boyfriend as a Translator Buddy, well knowing that, if she were to speak in public while under the effect of the potion no. 8, she'd stir a major ruckus with a simple word.
-   In _Parking (1985)_, when Orpheus is reluctant to follow Charon, the latter uses glowing eyes and a hypnotic voice to force him to obey.
-   _Pretty Cool Too_: The Genie emits a noise that makes anyone who hears it obey any command they're given. It also appears that the Genie can place commands in the noise itself.
-   The pushers in _Push_ have this power. Powerful pushers don't even have to say anything. They just look at the person, and their _thoughts_ are obeyed.
-   _The Redwood Massacre_: According to the legend of the Redwood murders, the farmer who committed the murders was compelled to do so by an irresistible little voice.
-   In _Sadko_, the heroes capture a blue phoenix with a human head that has the ability to put whole armies to sleep with its voice. (Joel and the bots refer to it as the "Garrison Keillor effect".)
-   _Star Wars_: Force-users such as Jedi are able to use the Force to compel "weak minded" people to perform certain actions.
    -   Qui-Gon Jinn tries to use the Force to get the Watto to accept Republic currency for hyperdrive parts in _The Phantom Menace_ but finds he can't mind trick the Toydarian.
    -   In _Attack of the Clones_ Obi-Wan uses tells a death stick dealer that he doesn't want to sell death sticks to the Jedi and he wants to go home and rethink his life. The dealer declares he doesn't want to sell Obi-Wan death sticks and that he wants to go home and rethink his life.
    -   An older Obi-Wan uses the ability in _A New Hope_ to get himself, Luke, C-3PO, and R2-D2 past a Stormtrooper checkpoint, telling the Stormtrooper commander that he doesn't want to see their identification, the two droids weren't the ones they were looking for, and they can go about their business. The commander promptly repeats everything Obi-Wan says then waves the Jedi and his friends through.
    -   _Return of the Jedi_: Luke uses this to gain admittance to Jabba the Hutt's palace even though Jabba left orders that Skywalker was not to be admitted. However, when Luke tries to use his ability on Jabba he fails as Jabba is highly resistant to that "old Jedi mind trick."
    -   In _The Force Awakens_ Rey is able to use the ability to tell the Stormtrooper to release her restraints and also gets him to drop his weapon, even though she has had no Jedi training to speak of. In the novelization the confused Stormtrooper is later found in his quarters, having no memory of his encounter with Rey.
    -   Due to training received both from Luke and Leia, Rey is much better at using mind tricks in _The Rise of Skywalker_, convincing a couple Stormtroopers that it was ok that she, Poe, and Finn were on a Star Destroyer. Poe is unnerved seeing Rey use the trick and asks Finn if Rey does that to them.
-   _Tamara_: After resurrecting, Tamara simply has to touch people and afterward they'll do anything she says, even murder others or kill themselves.
-   _Vamps_: Vampires can compel weak-willed people to do as they say when using their hypnotic eyes.
-   Kayla's power in _X-Men Origins: Wolverine_, though it only works with an added touch. At the end of the film she commands Stryker first to put a gun to his chin, but stops short of making him shoot himself, instead saying "Turn around. Now walk until your feet bleed".

    Literature 

-   Alicia Dunne in _Abe's Team_ is the daughter of Big Bad and Wicked Witch Mrs. Dunne who chooses to be good wheras her mother chose to be evil. Despite this, Alicia has the power to make anyone obey her every command using simply her voice.
-   Spider in Neil Gaiman's _Anansi Boys_. To the point where he can actually convince computers, and reality itself, to see things his way. About the only thing it isn't 100% effective against is ornery mothers-in-law.
-   Visser Three from _Animorphs_ once roars "Stop!" in the middle of a huge battle and everyone, including his arch enemies the Animorphs themselves _freeze_. There's no science or supernatural elements involved in this case, he's just that scary.
    -   Another part of it may be that, as an Andalite controller, Visser Three talks entirely in thought speak. Meaning he was screaming directly into everyone's minds.
-   The Chosen Leader in _The Annals of the Chosen_ is given a talisman which grants them this ability. Priests, wizards, and the other Chosen are immune due to the protection of their own _ler_.
-   The fairies' "mesmer" power in the _Artemis Fowl_ series is described as a "layered" and melodious voice, although it also requires eye contact and a spark of magic. With enough magic power behind it, however, it can reach the level of Charm Person even without eye-contact.
-   _Bazil Broketail_: Witches (at least powerful ones such as Lessis) can make people answer them truthfully or obey commands through the "witch voice".
-   This is Devon's power in the _Black Blade_ series.
-   This is a crucial trope in Shannon Hale's _Books of Bayern_ series. In her verse, those possessing this power all called People Speakers and are the Big Bad in three of the four books.
-   A short story in Spider Robinson's _Callahan's Lady_ had a villainess, The Paranoid, who had two devices: a ring that caused any statement that could be taken as a command to be obeyed, (Even something like "I wish you wouldn't..." or "I'd really like it if you would...") and a pair of earrings that made whoever was wearing them immune to the power.
-   The Users from Dan Simmons' _Carrion Comfort_ demonstrate just how frightening mind-control _without any range limits_ can get.
-   In _A Certain Magical Index_, Sigyn can make people obey her suggestions, with the bonus of her victims' strength increasing while under her control.
-   Most of the magically gifted Ilmonish clans in Nina Kiriki Hoffman's _Chapel Hollow_ series have this among a variety of other talents, although the effects are usually temporary. Some of them can use stronger forms of magic to turn ordinary humans into People Puppets.
-   In P.C. Hodgell's _Chronicles of the Kencyrath_, powerful Highborn can compel with words. All Lords can compel their bound followers. Jame compels a powerful Highborn Lord in _Seeker's Mask_, and in _To Ride a Rathorn_ tells an abusive Highborn to "back off" — which he does, straight out of a window. Her twin brother appears to have similar abilities. He's Highlord of the whole Kencyrath and she's his twin, and both are avatars of the godhead to boot, so all their people are their followers in a sense.
-   The Pravus in _The Chronicles of Vladimir Tod_ can make anyone, vampire or human, do anything just by asking. They even make a vampire die by just willing it in the last book.
-   Cordelia Vorkosigan uses her "old Ship Captain's voice" on Kou and Drou to make them quiet and obedient towards the end of _A Civil Campaign_.
-   Edward in _The Company Novels_. Nicholas and Alec as well, seeing as they're clones, but Edward especially uses it. Especially noticeable in _Not Less Than Gods,_ in which he manages to talk his boss into finding maraschino booze (which he hates) really tasty.
-   The spider-priests in _The Dagger and the Coin_ have this power, interestingly paired with Living Lie Detector — they can always tell if someone is telling the truth, and they can make anyone who listens to them believe that their own words are true. In most cases, the effect only lasts as long as the spider-priest is talking, but careful repetition can plant ideas firmly in peoples' heads. One ex-spider-priest discovered that this ability also makes you a _great_ stage actor.
-   _Darkest Powers_ very horrifyingly showcases the power of necromancy, in which spirits are forced back into their rotting corpses. Even worse, they have no choice but to obey whoever it is that called them back unquestioningly. It's a mortal fear of most ghosts to be brought back by an Ax-Crazy necromancer and used as part of an undead army and released only when their usefulness has run out. Luckily, necromancers with that kind of power are implied to be very rare.
-   One of the abilities tied to the Alton Gift in Marion Zimmer Bradley's _Darkover_ series is the Command Voice.
-   In _Date A Live_, the Spirit Miku Izayoi has this power. She's very arrogant and likes to use it to get whatever she wants. It doesn't work on other Spirits (unless their powers have been sealed, like Tohka, Yoshino and the Yamai twins) or people with a Spirit's power, like Shido.
-   In Amber Benson's _Death's Daughter_, the main character Calliope Reaper-Jones at one point is temporarily granted her father's (the Grim Reaper) powers. Once this happens, she can kill someone just by saying "Die."
-   In the _Deverry_ Cycle, the more powerful practitioners of dweomer can do anything from getting soldiers to leave their livestock alone, to commanding an assassination, or prodding a region into or out of war. It depends on whether the user follows the Light or the Dark. Primarily limited by the individual's power and that having too many people influenced or prolonging the influence too long can have nasty effects for caster and the affected person.
-   In _Devils & Thieves_, _Animus_ magic allows the user to control a person's actions just through their words. Darek uses it in an effort to make Jemmie and Crowe kill each other, ordering that they must both stay perfectly still, or the one who moves will be murdered by the other. Despite their desperation and love for each other, they very nearly die, unable to control their own reflexes.
-   _Discworld_:
    -   Gaspode threatened a gang of 'Frothing at the brain' dogs that he will use the Power on them... which turns out to be "Knowing". That is, knowing how to speak Human and commanding them to SIT, which they all do, even in mid-air. He's also able to manipulate humans, since almost no-one will believe they heard a dog talk to them, and they assume it's their own thoughts.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   Death and Susan have this property when they get stern enough. It's explained as a Voice that goes straight to the brain without contacting the ears — people obey, and then wonder why they just did that. It does have limits — in _Thief of Time_ it turns out that getting extra money out of a head teacher is beyond its powers.
    -   Sybil Ramkin has a non-supernatural version — her family is so used to command that people obey them unthinkingly. In _Guards, Guards_ she manages to temporarily control a 30-ton dragon by speaking sternly and maintaining eye contact. Though that also had a lot to do with the fact that the ones Sybil is used to commanding are the small pet Swamp Dragons — she just believed that the same attitude would work on their magical cousins. The dragon was probably too surprised to set her on fire.
    -   Carrot, possibly due to his royal blood, can also order anyone around. Any direct orders or requests by him are almost invariably obeyed, even by his nominal social superiors. Sergeant Colon refers to this as "Krisma", ie "Charisma", which Carrot has in spades; in fact, he's one of the few examples with this skill _and_ Charm Person, normally preferring to use the latter because he's that kind of guy.
-   _Doctor Sleep_ - Snakebite Andi makes targets and witnesses compliant.
-   Dracula's Charm Person abilities are usually manifested in this way. Some actors can pull it off, some just can't. Bela Lugosi, Christopher Lee, and oddly enough _Blacula_'s William Marshall are particularly well known for this.
-   The Bene Gesserit in _Dune_ have the Voice. It can be either used to make people obey a short, to-the-point command immediately, or to subtly manipulate people in more long-term ways. It can even be used to push people in the opposite direction, like when Jessica manipulates two Mooks into killing each other over her by saying "There's no need to **fight over me**." The _Great Schools of Dune_ prequels reveal that the Voice was first developed by Valya Harkonnen after she became a Reverend Mother. She used it to get her rival to kill herself before the rival had a chance to tell her the late Mother Superior's desire for them to cooperate. Then she told the others that the rival killed herself out of grief.
-   In _Ella Enchanted_, the ogres have a unique way of speaking that makes humans believe anything they say, which is why knights wear earplugs when dealing with them. The titular character manages to use her impressive mimicry skills to use it on _them_.
-   The witch Senna Wales of _Everworld_ uses controlling spells as her main power, though they seem to be less effective(i.e. Charm Person) when used against women. Her boyfriend David Levin in particular spends a lot of time under the influence of these.
-   Two of the psychics in the _Fingerprints_ series had this ability: Yana Savari and Melissa Voight. The former is stated to be the most powerful of all the psychics; the later is an Informed Ability attributed to a Posthumous Character.
-   In the _Firebird Trilogy_, sufficiently powerful telepaths are able to use a technique called voice-command to compel anyone who can't block their minds to do as ordered.
-   In Stephen King's _Firestarter_, Andy McGee gains "the Push" after receiving an experimental dose of a Psycho Serum Lot 6. The Push gives him the power to force others to do his will, but each use causes him harm in the form of headaches and brain hemorrhages. Also, while people he pushes do not seem to suffer from Literal-Minded (likely due to the mental nature of the Push), it can occasionally cause what Andy calls a "ricochet", where the subject becomes more and more obsessed with something until they go crazy, usually suicidally. He eventually dies from a stroke caused by a final Push that saves his daughter's life.
-   In _Forced Perspectives_ by Tim Powers, the twins Lexi and Amber can extend their Twin Telepathy to take temporary control of nearby people and make them perform an action. They mostly use it for small indulgences like persuading their babysitter to give them more dessert. Mostly.
-   In Sergey Lukyanenko's novel _Dances on the Snow_ (part of the _Genome_ trilogy), jedi\-like special agents/knights of the planet Avalon called phages are, among other skills, trained to use the so-called "imperative voice", which acts very similar to the Voice in _Dune_, making people obey their every command, although they tend not to abuse this ability. The clones of Ada Snezhinskaya are also trained in the use of this skill. It is not specified whether just anybody can learn this ability or only those who have been genetically-engineered (both the phages and the clones are Artificial Humans). The novel even features a battle of sorts with opposing sides using the "imperative voice" to give conflicting commands to the main character, with the clone forcing him to jump into molten metal and the phage telling him to stay. The result of this "duel" remains unclear as the situation is resolved by a Heroic Sacrifice from another character.
-   _Gone_: In _Villain_, the second novel of the sequel series, Dillon Poe develops a serpentine appearance and the ability to control people using his voice, using it to take over Las Vegas and prompting a disastrous military response.
-   This is a fairly large plot point in Kristin Cashore's _Graceling Realm_, as towards the end of the book it is revealed that Leck has this as a Grace.
-   Near the end of Part 1 of _Grimoire's Soul_, Ceyda figures out that her unique magical ability is getting people to do whatever she asks. It's subtle enough that she doesn't realize she's been using it for quite some time until she's at Rembrandt and the other Mage's mercy, and because she asks, they do things that they otherwise wouldn't. She learns during her time at the Atrium that this is because her unique magic is related to Yore, the Avatar of Protection. As the existence of a second Yore user would be considered problematic by the people of the Atrium and elsewhere, Ceyda is convinced to keep this ability to herself.
-   _The Hallowed Hunt_: This is one benefit of harboring a spirit animal, as Ingrey discovers when he stops a raging ice bear with nothing but a firm verbal command. Horseriver — being a bit more powerful and _a lot_ more experienced — can employ even more complicated tricks, overlapping with Jedi Mind Tricks and Mind Control.
-   _The Heroes of Olympus_: Certain children of Aphrodite have the gift of 'charmspeak', Piper McLean of the Seven being one such example. And an extremely powerful user at that, considering her charmspeak actually managed to knock out _Gaea herself_ in the final book.
-   This power runs in the Sinistre family in the _H.I.V.E. Series_ by Mark Walden.
-   Sophie from _Howl's Moving Castle_ — but only to inanimate objects, like clothing and flowers. Well, and animated inanimate objects, like scarecrows, too.
-   Downplayed in Gordon Korman's _The Hypnotists_. It is stated that hypnosis works through eyes; however, the hypnotists use their voices alongside their sight throughout the whole series, and it does seem to make their victims fall for it easier, so...
-   Using someone's true name in the _Inheritance Cycle_ has this effect.
-   In _The Invisible Library_, the librarians have the Language, which they mainly use to tell locks to open and the like, but also can use on humans. The effect on humans is more comparable to Charm Person, though, as it doesn't work without fail. The Fair Folk, on the other hand, seem to be able to get people to do pretty much everything, no matter how much against their nature it is, by using their version of compelling voice.
-   _Is This A Zombie?_: Yuu never speaks because her voice is so compelling that _reality will distort to obey her words_. The first time she spoke was to say "Die"; everything within several yards died instantly.
-   _Journey to Chaos_: The supernatural ability to make anyone obey spoken orders is part of the standard set of ordercraft abilities. Once in the grasp of a sufficiently mighty one it is impossible to escape without outside aid or chaotic abilities/items.
-   The Thrintun in Larry Niven's _Known Space_ series were small (approximately 1.25 meters tall), highly telepathic but not particularly intelligent (with their mind control, they did not need to be), reptilian, with green scaly skin, pointed teeth, and a single eye. On their own they could control others in the local area but, with technology created by their much smarter slaves, one Thrint could control a planet!
-   _Krabat_ has all the boys at the mill compelled to follow any command the Master gives them because they have sworn loyalty to him. When Krabat wants to confront the Master and learn to not follow every command, he and Juro start working on training Krabat's willpower. With Juro giving Krabat a command, he notices that he's having difficulty defying the comment — it's unclear if it's actual, magical power that causes this effect or mere confidence that forces this willingness upon Krabat.
-   A variant with Saruman of _The Lord of the Rings_; his main use of magic is in his powerful voice, which makes anything he says seem reasonable and utterly foolish to disagree with, and can only be resisted by _maybe_ a dozen people in all of Middle-Earth. So when it was time to make the movies, they fittingly got Christopher Lee to portray him. Played _completely_ straight when Gandalf comes back from the dead as the wizard that Saruman _should_ have been. When a defiant Saruman turns to leave their conversation, Gandalf firmly says "Come back, Saruman," and Saruman is forced to turn around and face Gandalf again.
    -   In _The Book of Unfinished Tales_ Saruman actually manages to compel the Witch-King of Angmar into believing his lies, to the point that he leaves thinking: "What an awesomely loyal servant Sauron has here".
-   In _Magical Girl Raising Project_, Ruler has this ability. It only works on one person at a time, so if she faces multiple people, she's in trouble.
-   _Magic University_: Kyle can make sirens so whatever he orders while touching them after he creates an amulet with power over all mantic creatures.
-   _A Master of Djinn_: The false Al-Jahiz does this, powerful enough even to make a djinn attack other people or shut his mouth, when usually they can't be affected by humans' spells.
-   In the _Mercy Hollings_ series, the eponymous main character has this power. It's Blessed with Suck as she suffers from _serious_ Power Incontinence when not in _complete_ control of her emotions.
-   Patricia Briggs' werewolf Alphas (as seen in the _Mercy Thompson_ series) have this power over their pack subordinates, except for Omegas who are immune. Briggs' vampires are likewise incapable of disobeying the orders of their Makers.
-   In Georgia Byng's _Molly Moon_ series, Molly can hypnotize people "using the voice alone", as said by the book she reads the lessons from. She also has Hypnotic Eyes.
-   The Big Bad of _Moon Over Soho_ has this, and tries to use it to get protagonist Peter Grant to commit Psychic-Assisted Suicide. It doesn't work.
    -   Rich Bitch Tyburn tried to have a go at this in the first book, _Rivers of London_, as well. She just wanted to enslave him though. It's stated the practice he got in to resist Tyburn is what saved him in the second book.
-   In the _Nightside_ series, Walker can speak with the Voice of the Authorities when he so desires. It's said that he once used it to get information out of a _corpse_.
    -   Its derived from God's Voice, hence why a good deal of the beings that happen to be Biblical tales can resist it.
-   In _Nine Goblins_, there is a wizard who can cause an irresistibly fascinating muttering, like a desperately important conversation just out of earshot. It's powerful enough to reach for miles. People will abandon children, crawl on broken legs, and trample each other to follow it. It's pretty horrific.
-   Malka from Delia Marshall Turner's _Of Swords and Spells_ can do this without necessarily having to speak out loud. She and other magic-users refer to it as "bespeaking" and it is implied that some humans with a natural gift for magic discover their abilities by accidentally doing this.
-   In _Once a Witch_ and its sequel _Always a Witch_, Tamsin's sister Rowena can do this.
-   Volume 3 of _Otherside Picnic_ has Runa Urumi, the cult leader obsessed with Satsuki Uruma. Runa has this ability and uses it to gather and brainwash loyal cultists. She also uses it to interrogate Kozakura and forcibly put Sorawo to sleep. When Sorawo views it with her Magical Eye, it manifests as some kind of tentacle that attaches to the target, which Toriko can remove to destroy the voice's hold on the victim.
-   The Phantom of the Opera is often portrayed this way. The strongest examples were in Susan Kay's _Phantom._ Kay was heavily influenced by the musical, which also plays up this aspect of the character. "Come to me, Angel of Music" indeed.
-   This is a power Named in _A Practical Guide to Evil_ can learn, although villains are more likely to use it than heroes. It's applications are broad and strong users can even use it to command two hundred people at once or order somebody to kill themselves. The Dread Empress Malicia is especially feared for her ability, that transcends to every word she says due to her aspect **Rule**.
-   In the _Quarters_ series one of the responsibilities of the bards of the Kingdom of Shkoder is acting as interrogators for law enforcement, since they have the ability to magically compel people to tell the truth regardless of their preference. This becomes a major plot point of _Sing the Four Quarters_ when Pjerin, the Duc of Ohrid, is implicated as a traitor and admits to it under bardic questioning, but otherwise still insists on his innocence. Almost nobody who knows him, up to and including King Theron, believes him capable of treason, and Annice eventually discovers that an operative of the neighboring kingdom Cemandia has managed to subvert bardic questioning in Pjerin with what amounts to a post-hypnotic suggestion.
-   _Raybearer_: Ai Ling's Hallow is this, though she's actually charismatic and silver-tongued enough on her own that she usually doesn't need to use it to convince people to do things. It's also noted in _Redemptor_ that it works better when she says things that the target already believes in some regard to be true.
-   _The Reluctant King_: Malgo, who's a threat to Jorian, is ordered away under a spell which Goania, a nice sorceress, puts on him. It forces him to get on a ship bound for somewhere far away, by which time Jorian is long gone.
-   Piper Cavanaugh of Erin Evans's _Rhine Maiden_ series can do this, being a descendant of sirens. However, the effects wear off after ten minutes.
-   Rick Riordan's books:
    -   In _The Heroes of Olympus_ some children of Aphrodite have this power. One of the main characters was regularly convicted of theft after she just asked for things and were given them, until people would later come to their senses and called the police. Said things include jewelry, a BMW fresh from the showroom floor, and a Lawnmower. The witch Medea can do this too, and it's hinted that children of Hermes have similar powers.
        -   Thanatos in "The Son of Neptune".
    -   In _The Kane Chronicles_ some magicians have this ability, most notably Setne.
    -   In _Magnus Chase and the Gods of Asgard_ Loki and some of his children possess this ability.
        -   Hearthstone is notably unaffected by this power because, well, he's deaf.
-   _Schooled in Magic_: Lady Barb casts a compulsion spell whose effect is through sound, making an angry mob disperse when she finds that the man they accused of child murder was innocent.
-   In _Scrapped Princess_, all the Peacemakers need to do to control people is to look at them. The only person in the world they can't control is the title's princess and Shannon after he becomes a D-Knight.
-   In _The Shamer Chronicles_ only those who drink dragon blood can disobey the Compelling Voice of a shamer.
-   Cynthia Binder, the protagonist of Roland Green's story "She Who Might Be Obeyed," discovers how to use a certain tone of voice to accomplish this and is able to teach it to certain other people. When used with enough intensity, the command to "drop dead" can send someone into cardiac arrest. However, it is implied that people who are completely tone-deaf are immune to this power and cannot learn it themselves either.
-   Tsar Mirnatius in _Spinning Silver_ has this as one of his demon-granted powers. He uses it mostly to keep his advisors from haranging him over how to manage the country, though in his narrative sections he mentions that it's easier to use it on some people than others (he has one formidable great-aunt who needs a _lot_ of magic to compel). Irina can No-Sell it because she has Staryk blood and jewelry. She uses the opportunity to point out that he's been relying on it too much and that he's not exactly safe from a distant arrow or a hidden assassin.
-   In Michael Flynn's _Spiral Arm: The January Dancer_, the Dancer gives this. It's powerful enough to raise Schrödinger's Butterfly questions, since it can make you forgot things and remember what it pleases. Donovan realizes at the end that the Dancer's path stems from its own decisions, and destroys it.
-   In the _Star Darlings_ franchise, the Star Darlings use this power to get around on Earth and to get close to their assigned Wisher.
-   Gothmara, the villain in the Star Trek duology ''The Left Hand of Destiny'', gives both herself and her son Morjod this, thanks to her skills at Bioaugmentation. The effect alone is not powerful enough to compel others; it's combined with rhetoric, seduction or other tactics.
-   _Star Wars Legends_
    -   In _Death Star_, Darth Vader receives a report from an Imperial officer who is absolutely terrified of Vader. While in most cases Vader doesn't mind people trembling in fear at his presence, he finds that at times that fear just gets in the way. Vader tells the officer that he was not afraid, which the officer repeats then relaxes.
    -   _The Courtship of Princess Leia_:
        -   The Gun of Command will make a person subjected to it obey whatever instruction is said to them.
        -   Han is nearly compelled to tell a Nightsister where his ship is, before a Singing Mountain Witch breaks the spell.
        -   Luke uses the Force to make Ta'a Chume admit her crimes publicly at the end.
    -   Luke also does the Force mind push thing to Han in _The Truce at Bakura_ and Han does NOT take it well. He warns Luke to never do it again.
    -   As an instructor at Luke's academy, Kyle Katarn teaches his students how to perform the mind trick but to always bear in mind the ethics of using the mind trick. He tells the students mind tricks might get the students what they want or need in the short term, but that the indivduals they use the tricks on may suffer adverse consequences - such as loss of employment all the way up to getting executed. Kyle asks his students to consider that the individuals they use mind tricks on may have family dependent on them who may suffer.
-   Sa Shunki in _The Story of Saiunkoku_ has this power. Because of the potential for tragedy if her power was used carelessly or by accident, Shunki's grandmother Hyou Eiki made her promise that she would only use her power for the sake of the man she loves, Sa Kokujun. Eiki then sealed Shunki's voice, rendering her a Cute Mute for her initial appearances until the time came to use her power on Kokujun's behalf.
-   Dee from _Sunday Without God_ has a low-level version of this. Being a ghost, she can secretly whisper suggestions to people as a way of manipulating them. This has earned her the names "Whisper" and "Witch of the West".
-   In Robin McKinley's _Sunshine_, the media puts an electronic effect onto vampire voices, just in case it turns out they can do this.
-   _The Sun Sword_ has this power appear as one of several inborn gifts. In the North, those who have it often become bards, though not all bards have the gift. In the South, the power to compel other men is viewed with horror and those with the power are executed. Three protagonists have it, and all are Southern; the two women conceal it carefully, and the third lives in the North as a bard and is celebrated for it.
    -   The bard-born can be so powerful that they can command those not normally capable of obeying. When a woman is struggling with a breach birth Diora orders the baby to turn — _and it does_. This is also a wrenching decision that puts her life in the women's hands, as now they know a secret that can get her killed.
-   Confessors in _The Sword of Truth_ can do this to anyone they have touched with their power. Unfortunately, it's permanent, and they are enthralled to the Confessor for the rest of their lives. Kahlan, one of the main characters, is one of the most powerful, and can command people to voluntarily die. The Confessed will also die of grief if the Confessor who controls them dies (in the TV series however, they return to normal when their Confessor dies.)
-   Symphony of Ages has Naming as a power that works something like this. It can't be used to command, exactly, but when Rhapsody informs some soldiers that a random stranger is her brother, Achmed the Snake, that stranger _is_ Achmed the Snake — and goes by that name for the rest of the series, though there are compelling reasons for that.
-   _Talion: Revenant_: The Call, a Talion ability. It can do things like compel people to answer questions or obey orders. We're not show what limits it has, if any.
-   _Third Time Lucky: And Other Stories of the Most Powerful Wizard in the World_: In "Be It Ever So Humble" Magdelene has only to order that Warlord Herrick die, and he does.
-   In the later _Time Scout_ books, this is the central power of Jack the Ripper.
-   Uzma Abidi from Samit Basu's _Turbulence_ and its sequel _Resistance_. Like all the newly empowered superheroes in the book, her powers grow and evolve over time. Initially she has starts out with a type of Glamour that she is not consciously aware of , which works by physical presence alone and does not need words. Eventually she learns that she can make people obey her every command whether they want to or not when she speaks with a certain emphasis behind the words.
-   This is also seen with the werewolves in _The Twilight Saga_. They cannot disobey a command given in the "Voice of the Alpha".
-   In _Vampire Academy_, Lissa Dragomir's compulsion through eye contact and speech is this. She initially uses it at the Academy to convince students and teachers to let her get way. Gets upgraded to taking full control of a guard at Tarasov prison, and using him to knock out the others.
-   Serena from V.E. Schwab's _Vicious_ — she helps her partner-in-crime Eli nearly take over an entire city before their enemies figure out that like the mythical sirens, her power can be resisted if you find some way to block out the sound of her voice.
-   _Villains by Necessity_: Kaylana is able to use this power in a limited manner. She has to look in the subject's eyes, and it works better on animals than people. In the latter case it hurts her.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_:
    -   In Dan Abnett's _Eisenhorn_ novels, Eisenhorn himself.
    -   Warmaster Varan from Sandy Mitchell's Ciaphas Cain novel _Cain's Last Stand_ is a villainous example. He can force people to do whatever he says, and the effect persists, even after his death. Jurgen's blank abilities can free such a person but only while he is in range; when he leaves, they revert. Although Donal realizes in time to kill himself instead. At one point he tells his shuttle pilot to wait for him, and the pilot starves to death while waiting on his return. Varan's ability even makes Sisters of Battle, who normally are fanatically opposed to anything of Chaos, follow his commands. He has some as his personal bodyguards, but because Jurgen is close by when he's killed, they realize what they've done and immediately kill themselves.
-   Sol, the _Warrior Cats_ series' resident Manipulative Bastard, seems to able to persuade anyone to do anything. The books constantly remind us of how powerful and unnatural his voice sounds, and most converstations with him seem like a struggle not to fall under his influence.
-   All of the Forsaken from _The Wheel of Time_ have this ability as a subpower of Compulsion. Most of them used it in different ways, ranging from a subtle charisma to a befuddling Charm Person. Moghedian used it closest to this trope, at one point befuddling then interrogating three main characters, then leaving them with no memory of it. Some downsides are brought up occasionally, such as vital information not being mentioned because it wasn't specifically asked for.
-   In Damon Knight's _Why Do Birds_, Ed Stone has a ring that makes his voice work this way. It's less powerful than the standard version, as it only really works as a strong suggestion.
-   _The Witchlands_: Wordwitches can enforce their will on people by talking to them, although the target is aware that they're being manipulated, and having some powers (like Truthwitchery) makes it harder for the Wordwitch's control to stick.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _4400_: Noah is able to influence people's behavior with his singing - for instance, he can make someone hungry just by singing a snack jingle.
-   _The 4400_:
    -   In "Becoming", Oliver Knox, a serial killer known as the Friday Harbor Killer who disappeared in 1983, has the ability to persuade people to do anything that he wants using only his voice. As he was already a suspect in the killings before his disappearance, he uses his ability to convince Philip Lopez and Charlie Staley to kill Theresa Baron and Gayle Keating respectively. Both men were totally convinced that they were the Friday Harbor Killer and confessed to the eight murders that Knox committed in 1983, which is what led Tom and Diana to suspect that he had powers. Knox later convinced Aaron Mitchell to kill Felicia but he was stopped before he could do so. The Friday Harbor Sheriff's Department and NTAC had witnessed Knox talking to Mitchell as they started keeping tabs on him after the two confessions. He tries to kill Felicia himself but Tom prevents him from doing so. Knox is then imprisoned in a soundproof cell in NTAC Headquarters so that he can't use his ability on anyone else.
    -   "The Truth and Nothing but the Truth" has Diana's sister April to specifically compel people to tell only the truth to any question she asks. This puts her in danger, since she uses it to blackmail people who reveal compromising things.
    -   In "The Ballad of Kevin and Tess", Tess Doerner has learned to focus her ability to influence people since going off the promicin inhibitor and taking more effective meds to manage her schizophrenia. She can now convince people to do something by simply telling them to do it, either directly or indirectly. The extent of her power is demonstrated in "Fifty-Fifty" when she tells Richard to sit down and is rendered incapable of moving.
    -   In "Daddy's Little Girl", Tess' schizophrenia has become so acute that no combination of drugs is able to relieve her symptoms. She takes over a 1950s themed diner and forces everyone there to dance constantly for more than two days as she believes that it is her Sweet Sixteen party in 1953. Most of them eventually collapse from sheer exhaustion. When Kevin tries to convince her what she is doing is wrong, she makes him place his hand on the burger grill, resulting in a severe burn. However, it soon disappears due to his Healing Factor.
-   In _Alphas_, this is Nina's alpha ability. She used it for personal gain until joining Rosen's team.
-   _Birds of Prey (2002)_: Once a person is hypnotized by Harley in the series finale, they're forced to do whatever she says.
-   Vampires have this power in _Blood Ties (2007)_. Henry uses it frequently, although it doesn't work on Vicky, for some reason. His eyes go black while he's doing it, so maybe the power is related to vision, and Vicky is known for her horrible eyesight (the reason she quit the force). Given that he spends every day with a different girl for both sexual pleasure and blood (they probably figure he's being kinky), he may be using his ability to charm them.
-   As with most incarnations, the _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_ version of Dracula has this ability.
    
    **Xander:** Come on, puffy shirt. Pucker on up, 'cause you can kiss your pale ass good—  
    **Dracula:** Silence.  
    **Xander:** Yes, Master.
    
-   Brother Justin in _Carnivàle_ (played by Clancy Brown, who is himself endowed with a compelling, if not Compelling, voice) calls to his minions via his radio show, speaking to them in a voice only they can hear.
-   In _Dinosaurs_ there was a doctor who convinced a skeptical Earl to buy his medicine by using a booming voice. After falling for the trick twice, Earl asks the doctor to write it down for him instead. He is completely mesmerized by the penmanship.
-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   The Master is notorious for this. In "The Sound of Drums", he artificially magnifies his abilities to the point that he conquers Britain simply by running for Prime Minister and convincing everyone to vote for him.
        
        I am the Master, and you will obey me!
        
    -   The Fourth Doctor had the ability to hypnotize people in a Jedi Mind Trick kind of way.
    -   As does the Seventh in "Battlefield".
    -   The pro-robot terrorist Mad Scientist Taren Capel has inserted code into robots that gives him the ability to command them to do anything, even to go against the Laws — he forcibly surgically reprograms them to remove their lack of desire to Kill All Humans and then gives them spoken commands that they are powerless to disobey. Robots in the setting recognise people by voice print, meaning that his voice acts as the Restraining Bolt keeping the robots from also killing him. The Doctor gets around this by altering Taren's voice.
-   In _Doom Patrol (2019)_, this is the ability of Dr. Harrison, one of the personas of Crazy Jane, who uses it to establish an anti-doomsday cult in the 1970s.
-   Elinor has this ability in _First Kill_. However, despite it being a traditional power of vampires in media, in the show's universe she's explictly the first recorded vampire to weild such a power.
-   Used in _Forever Knight_, a voice with a psychic suggestion planting push behind it. Referred to usually as "the whammy".
-   _Gen V_: Cate Dunlap can compel a person to do what she tells them to do, provided she physically contacts that person with her bare hands. Most of the time, this means she has to remove her gloves before using her powers, gloves she's had to wear since her power manifested itself when she was nine and told her brother Caleb in a moment of anger to go away and never return.
-   The _Haven_ episode "Burned" had a little girl named Ginger with this power. Commands are usually interpreted literally. During a drive, she told her father "Leave me alone!" and he jumped out of the moving van, causing it to crash with her in it. She told a guy "I hate your guts!" and he committed Seppuku.
-   _Hemlock Grove_: Roman has some sort of hypnotic effect on people, where he can order them to do anything if he says so very forcefully. It's dependent on eye contact, so someone who's familiar with his power set warns him at gunpoint not to look in her direction.
-   In _Hercules: The Legendary Journeys_, Aphrodite's son Deon has this ability. It doesn't work on gods or other demigods.
-   Eden from _Heroes_. Parkman learns to do it from Season 2, though being a good guy, he doesn't make a habit of it. Ultimately, however, he begins using it for nefarious ends in _Heroes Reborn_, and even compels characters to _kill themselves_ with it.
-   _Highlander: The Series_: Roland Kantos and Cassandra both have this power. Kronos is unaffected when Cassandra tries to use it on him, so it's not infallible.
-   In _The Librarians_, the Patron Saint of Thieves has this power over his worshippers, with a helping of Evil Sounds Deep.
-   The television series of the MCU have had a few of differing power levels:
    -   The Big Bad of Season 1 of _Agent Carter_, Dr. Johann Fennhoff aka Dr. Faustus, uses a form of this through his skills in hypnosis.
    -   _Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._ has the Asgardian woman Lorelei, whose voice can command nearly any man. If a man has the will to resist her voice, she can still establish control through a physical touch, which no one has been able to resist. Her voice has no effect on women.
    -   _Jessica Jones_: Kilgrave simply has to give an instruction, and his subjects are immediately compelled to obey. Those receiving his orders _cannot_ directly invoke Exact Words, they'll try to obey the command in the spirit it was given — though Jessica finds that she can break someone out of Kilgrave's control by convincing them that they have technically fulfilled his orders.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   The eponymous protagonist of _Lucifer (2016)_ has the ability to make people tell him their deepest desires simply by asking them. The only people that are able to resist are Chloe Decker and one woman in the third season who already had everything she wanted in life. Lucifer's twin brother Michael has a similar ability that compels people to tell him their greatest fear.
-   _Mayfair Witches_: Tessa uses this against Keith when she's captured and imprisoned, which appears to work better while she's looking into his eyes too. The hold is broken however when someone calls to him. Later it turns out Rowan can do this too, compelling Cortland to let her go.
-   _Millennium (1996)_: In "Siren", a Chinese refugee woman has this power. When several men try to kill her, they wear headphones playing music to drown out her voice, but one of the headphones gets knocked off in the struggle so the man concerned turns on the others at her command.
-   Rachel the "Virtue Bitch" from _Misfits_.
-   _Motherland: Fort Salem_: Alder controls the President's mind by magic, saying the words that she wants made in a national address, with the President then repeating them on live TV.
-   _No Ordinary Family_ has two applications of this trope: Daphne develops this to go along with her telepathy, while the Watcher has this along with telekinesis. Daphne has only used it to influence decisions; Watcher forces people to forget things. In both cases, the target repeats what he or she is told, but without a change in tone, leading to, for example, a mugger threatening to put his gun down and walk away, directly before doing so. Later Watcher even compels someone to kill himself.
-   _Nos4a 2_: Hourglass can make people do what he wishes when the sand is falling. Using this, he orders the FBI agents to kill everyone they're guarding except Wayne for Manx and Bing. They attempt to, but fail.
-   In _The Outer Limits (1963)_ episode "The Inheritors", a human who has been taken over by an alien intelligence can control other people by giving them orders, up to and including committing suicide.
-   Recurring character Simone on _Pushing Daisies_ seems to be able to do something similar to this, though it's possible that, apart from dogs, clicking her noise maker and intoning a command may only work on Emerson Cod.
-   In _The Sarah Jane Adventures_ story _The Mark of the Berserker_, the characters come in possession of an alien pendant that grants people this power. Unfortunately, it also tends to take over the user. Fortunately, commands are revoked the instant the pendant is removed.
-   _Smallville_:
    -   "Jinx": Smallville's version of Mxyzptlk. He only needed to see his target; the target didn't even have to hear him. Once he just whispered "trip" and Clark fell over.
    -   "Hypnotic": Simone could do pretty much the same thing, but with a longer-lasting effect. When she orders Lex to shoot Chloe then himself, Chloe struggles with Lex for the gun then shoots her through the hypnotic necklace and into her chest.
    -   "Progency": Moira Sullivan has this as her meteor power.
    -   Persuasion": \[\[spoiler:Clark temporarily gets this. And he unwittingly controls Lois into becoming a traditional Housewife and Chloe into "protecting him at all costs".
-   The Wraith Queens in _Stargate Atlantis_ are able to compel obedience with their voice.
-   Twins Andy and Ansem from _Supernatural_.
    -   Also Jake.
-   _Tidelands (Netflix)_: The sirens' call to human men is apparently irresistible, since they drown while mating right in the sea.
-   Gabe's "hypersuasive" ability in _Tower Prep_.
-   _The Umbrella Academy (2019)_: Allison has the power to "rumor" people. That is, she says "I heard a rumor that you slapped yourself," and you would do so. Allison's control is absolute, no matter how self-destructive or against the person's beliefs her orders are. However, she _has_ to say "I heard a rumor..." for it to work. On one hand this means she can't use her powers by accident (a frequent problem for people with this ability), but an opponent who knows how it works can disable her before she finishes the sentence. While Allison is generally on the side of angels, she spent years using her powers for personal gain to become a famous actress, but her first husband divorced her after watching her rumor their toddler daughter into going to sleep. As a result, she's extremely reluctant to use her powers in the present day due to their addictive nature. It's worth noting that her powers are actually scaled down from the comics, where her rumoring extends to _altering reality_.
-   Anna in _V (2009)_ can do a variant of this with other Vs. Her goal is to make this work on humans as well.
-   _The Wheel of Time (2021)_: Siuan has this power, it turns out. As the Amyrlin, she's the head of the Aes Sedai. Subordinate Aes Sedai have sworn magically unbreakable oaths to obey her. Thus when Moiraine refuses to obey an order Siuan gives her, she invokes her authority formally, with doing so compelling obedience.
-   _The X-Files_:
    -   In the episode "Pusher", Robert Patrick Modell, nicknamed "Pusher", was a hitman whose voice could make people do anything, including kill themselves. He could even control things you normally couldn't even if you wanted to — if he tells you your heart is stopping, it will stop.
    -   In the sequel episode, "Kitsunegari", Modell's sister had the same ability.
-   All vampires in _Young Dracula_ but especially Vlad. His mind-wipe of Renfield was so strong that it was still re-wiping his mind four years later.

    Music 

-   Vision Divine's "New Eden", from _Vision Divine_, deals with a history about a god who created a paradise and the inhabitant destroying it:
    
    _Shall you kneel down to me...  
    I am your reason to be..._
    

    Mythology 

-   The Sirens of Greek mythology, beautiful yet dangerous creatures, who lure nearby sailors with their enchanting music and voices to shipwreck on the rocky coast of their island, then eat them.
    -   Best highlighted in _The Odyssey_. They are Odysseus gets past them by having his men stuff their ears with wax to drown out their voices, while having himself be tied to a mast on his ship, allowing him to be exposed to the Sirens' song, but not be able to go towards them. This caused the Sirens to throw themselves in the sea and drown, having been prophesized to do so the day a mortal could hear their song and live.
    -   Jason and the Argonauts faced the sirens as well, getting around them by the simple expedient of Orpheus singing louder than the sirens.

    Newspaper Comics 

-   In _Safe Havens_ a mermaid's singing voice acts as one of these.
    -   While Jenny thinks that means Remora has a potential career in telemarketing, Remora had sworn never to use her voice on humans. She's horrified when she learns she inadvertently had been using it on her newborn son Marlon as lullabies. (Dave and Luis never said anything cause they were _also_ benefiting from her lullabies, and never slept better.)
    -   At one point, Bambi is turned into a mermaid (by saving Remora's life three times), and is tempted to stay that way to use that compelling voice to boost her singing career, which was in a sophomore slump at the time. She gives up when she finds out the only person who had ever done that before is Michael Jackson.
        
        "Sometimes fame just isn't worth the price."
        

    Radio 

-   In _The Goon Show_ episode "Six Charlies in Search of an Author", whoever has the typewriter can force the other characters to do whatever that person types — but he has to read it aloud because it's radio, so...

    Roleplay 

-   Jessica from _Dawn of a New Age: Oldport Blues_ has the same superpower as The Purple Man from _Daredevil_, forcing others to follow with her commands via the use of mind-control pheromones. Her text when using her power is rendered in purple.

    Tabletop Games 

-   Mega-Manipulation Novas in _Aberrant_ could learn to use "The Voice", among other abilities — as can heroes with Epic Manipulation in _Scion_.
-   Because it appears in the source novels, this ability shows up in the _Discworld Roleplaying Game_ as a character advantage, "Voice of Command".
-   A number of _Dungeons & Dragons_ spells do this to one extent or another.
    -   Command: The caster says a verb, and the victim must immediately drop everything else and carry out the verb. (Except for "Die", though in some variations that causes sleep.)
    -   Suggestion: The caster gives the victim a sentence, and the victim must immediately drop everything else and carry out the sentence, unless the suggestion is unreasonable (and this can even be overcome if the caster asks nicely) or self-destructive.
    -   Dominate Person/Monster: You take command of a creature. For as long as the spell is active, any order to the victim is obeyed to the best of its limits and to the exclusion of almost everything else (unless the order is self-destructive).
    -   Many other spells straddle the line between this and Charm Person, where the compelling voice comes _after_ the victim is entranced.
    -   The various _Power Word_ spells could be considered a highly specialized variant, each spell inducing a different compelled response. Yes, that **does** include the command to "die", via _Power Word Kill_.
-   In _Dungeons & Dragons_ 3rd Edition, there are two skills that, when min-maxed, become this due to poor forethought from the designers.
    -   Bluff: by taking a high penalty to your roll, you can make people believe completely absurd lies. You can enter the throne room, declare yourself to be the real king and accuse the guy on the throne with the crown to be an impostor, and _even he will believe you_. The roll is opposed by the opponent's Sense Motive roll, but nobody min-maxes _that_ (and it's much harder to do so anyway). Much easier to achieve with the help of the _Glibness_ spell (available to level 5 bards), which gives such a massive bonus to a single Bluff roll that you're almost certain to succeed even without Min-Maxing.
    -   Diplomacy: this skill allows you to change the target's attitude towards you. The difficulty depends on how hostile the target is and how friendly you want it to become (but not how powerful the target is), with an extra penalty to do it in a single round. You can turn the strongest man in the world from Hostile (charging you with his axe, screaming that you killed his brother) to Helpful (your good friend, willing to give you any help you desire) _in six seconds, no save_. Break out the _Epic Level Handbook_ (because it's quite easy to min-max Diplomacy to an epic rank even at a low level) and you can make him _Fanatical_ (will die for you, loves you so much he gets combat bonuses for it).
    -   Usual disclaimer: Rule Zero means this won't actually work except for comedy if it becomes a Story-Breaker Power or more generally leaves other characters who invested in actual control spells wondering why they bothered when a simple skill check would have done it. Gigantic, minus 60 penalties to attempted Diplomacy in the middle of combat with hated enemies are probably reasonable enough anyway!
-   In _Hc Svnt Dracones_ the genetically engineered Vectors of post-human Sol have a backdoor built into their brains that causes human singing, mostly from analog recordings, to have a hypnotic effect on them. Usually this just puts them into a fugue state, but there's hints that commands could be inserted into the singing.
-   The _Marvel Super Heroes_ RPG had, in the Ultimate Powers Book, "Hypnotic Voice". If you didn't mind the power drop, this could be _permanently active_. Leaves the question: if you were to exclaim "Bugger me!" in surprise, exactly what would happen?
    -   "How shall we bugger you, o Lord?"
-   In _Shadowrun_ Fourth Edition there's a Commanding Voice power that certain characters can learn. (In fact, that's what it's called.)
    -   You can make them obey a simple command (around five words) that can be undertaken in a turn or two.
-   In _Vampire: The Masquerade_ this was a power specifically given to vampires of clan Toreador, through the Presence discipline. Most players combined it with the "Enchanting Voice" merit to create vampires that no mortal could say no to.
    -   Then there's Dominate, a specialty of the Ventrue in both _Masquerade_ and _Requiem_. Dominate allows a vampire to look someone in the eye and give them an order they can't disobey. At lower levels, it's one-word commands and implanted suggestions; at higher levels, they're able to alter someone's personality and possess them.
    -   _Changeling: The Lost_ has a wealth of these — while not straight-up mind control, they can easily affect a person in similar ways. The Merit Siren Song draws a person's attention whenever the changeling is speaking, imposing a penalty on die rolls. Some Vainglory Contracts also lean in this direction, such as Songs of Distant Arcadia (which gives a bonus to all Expression and Persuasion rolls) and Words of Memories Never Lived (which allows the changeling to tell a story so convincing, the audience believes it's true).
    -   In _Princess: The Hopeful_, this is the Practical Magic of the Court of Tears. By spending a Wisp, a Raven can issue a command of up to four words to anyone other than another Princess, and if the Raven wins the roll and the command is something the other party can consciously choose to do (i.e. "Lie down" or "Jump in the lake" is fine, but "Go to sleep" or "Die" is not), the other party must attempt to carry out the command.
-   _Warhammer Fantasy_: Downplayed with Wulfrik the Wanderer, whose Gift of Tongues makes him able to speak any language. He uses this gift to deliver unrefusable challenges (read:insult them in the crudest terms he can think of) to characters who should really know better than to to to beat the giant hair murderviking in melee, even drawing them out of fortified locations. His gift further supplies devastating insults Wulfrik would have no way of knowing about (such as claiming he's an Imperial baroness' lover to the baron, not knowing the baron is a Crazy Jealous Guy).
-   _Warhammer 40,000_:
    -   Psykers able to influence the behaviour of others have come up a few times in the fluff, although weaker variants fall into Charm Person.
    -   There's also the Tau Ethereals, who control the entire Tau race with a Compelling Voice. They appeared several millennia ago and promptly enslaved their entire species, instituting a rigid caste system / eugenics program _for the greater good_. It is insinuated that this is pheromone based.
        -   The whole thing is rather insinuated and the theory is first proposed by the Imperium (though it would fit very well). Most Tau don't think so, maybe even the Ethereals themselves. A Battle Report in the first _White Dwarf_ after the release of the Tau certainly says otherwise. The fluff mentions an Ethereal saying that "\[The Imperium\] are all wrong \[about it being psychic domination\]. It is simply the nature of the Tau".

    Video Games 

-   Infecting a unit with nanites in _Achron_ is nearly completely undetectable, the only symptom being your opponent having that units vision and giving the worst possible order at the worst possible time (usually friendly fire)
-   The (self-aware) Shroud of Eden has this ability in _Assassin's Creed: Project Legacy._
    
    **The Shroud:** "PAIN IS TEMPORARY. COMPREHENSION IS UNNECESSARY."
    
-   This is the main plot twist in _BioShock_. _You_ are under the effect of Atlas's Compelling Voice. In fact, _anyone_ could boss you around as long as they know your Trigger Phrase: "Would you kindly?". And you really must obey, since it's a linearly-plotted game.
    -   However, you are not under its effects for the entire game. About halfway through the plot, Brigid Tenenbaum disables the "Would you kindly" trigger, at which point Atlas _tries to kill you by ordering your heart to stop beating_ with "Code Yellow". It takes two doses of the anti-Mind Control medication Lot-192 to free the player character's mind from all triggers.
-   The five masks in _Tecmo's Deception_ will forcibly lure invaders towards or away from you with an audible scream if you use one that affects them.
-   Aoba of _DRAMAtical Murder_ has this ability. He initially uses it to persuade people over the phone to buy stuff from the store he works at. Then the plot takes a darker turn...
-   _The Elder Scrolls_
    -   Throughout the series, this is one of the racial traits of the Imperials. They are well known for their talents in diplomacy, which is represented in-game by bonuses to the Speechcraft skill and/or a racial abilities that acts as a temporary Calm or Command spells.
    -   In _Morrowind_, Lord Indoril Nerevar, of whom the Player Character may or may not be a Reincarnation, was said in the Backstory to possess "supernatural powers of persuasion," which were further enhanced by his Azura-blessed ring, Moon-And-Star, which the player can obtain. (It moderately increases the Speechcraft skill and Personality attribute, which raises NPC disposition towards the player.)
    -   _Skyrim_
        -   The Imperial races' Voice of the Emperor power calms nearby opponents. Its not entirely guaranteed, but useful in a pinch — especially at lower levels. It is a skill attributed to Tiber Septim. This ability to pacify people is noticeably similar to the effects of several Dragon Shouts, with it theorized that the technique was originally derived from the Thu'um, modified by Septim to allow those not trained in the Voice to use it.
        -   The "Bend Will" shout introduced in the _Dragonborn_ DLC; it has the ability to turn enemies into allies, and it can even subjugate a dragon and force it to become your steed.
-   The evil deity in _Endeavor_, Malor.
-   _Fate/stay night_: the Command Spells for Servants work this way. Normally a Master and Servant at least try to cooperate, but a Master has three Command Spells that they can use to issue an order the Servant _cannot_ disobey. A Servant can resist the compulsion a bit if they have enormous willpower, but they _will_ give in and perform the task, even if that command is to kill themselves. Command Spells have a more benign use as well: if the Servant does not resist it, the Spell infuses the Servant with extra power, allowing them to perform feats they would not normally be capable of, or even warping reality to allow the servant to obey (at one point Shirou calls Saber to his side while she's all the way at home and he's falling from the third floor of his school building, and she _teleports_ to make it in time to catch him in midair).
-   The Jedi Mind Trick from the _Star Wars_ movies is upgraded to Force Persuade in _Knights of the Old Republic_, where it basically turns into a Compelling Voice if you take both associated perks and opens up hidden Dialogue Tree options that make pretty much anyone do anything for you.
-   Gene, the Big Bad in _Metal Gear Solid: Portable Ops_ has this ability. It's strongly implied, if not outright stated, to be a byproduct of the Successor Project, the CIA project that created him.
    -   It's also implied that this is how Psycho Mantis inflicts mind control over people in _Metal Gear Solid_, specifically via "Mantis' Hymn."
-   _Persona 4_: Very early of the game, the protagonist decided to try a phenomenon called "Midnight Channel", by staying awake at the midnight during foggy rains and staring into the TV. All of the sudden, there's this ominous voice giving him headaches and ordering him to put his hand on the TV. The protagonist does so and finds out that he can get his whole body inside the TV. He ends up nearly getting his head 'eaten' by the TV, and things just get weirder from there.
    -   And of course, parodied in the Hiimdaisy webcomics:
-   The Dnyarri (those little brain-thingies) in _Star Control II: The Ur-Quan Masters_ have this power — fortunately, they're extinct by the time the story starts, so you only meet ONE. But that one's enough. Fortunately, you can acquire a telepathic blocker that prevents it from commanding you around, but even that is imperfect, meaning that you can deflect the more outrageous orders, but still easily gets manipulated if the critter uses his voice smartly. To illustrate how powerful they are, look at what happened when the Umgah find one and undo the genetic tampering that left it a mindless slave. That _one_ Dnyarri _enslaves every Umgah in the system_.
-   The Incognito Princess from _Sunless Skies_is this crossed with Brown Note Being. When she asks people to do things, they do then, even if they’re physically impossible. At one point she suggests a group of poets try their hand at a Starfish Language impossible to achieve with the human tongue, which results in their tongues combusting. They don’t stop trying even as they incinerate.
-   Male Zuul from _Sword of the Stars_ are able to use their Psychic Powers to enforce dominance over people. They don't even need to give verbal commands; the affected simply _know_ what is expected of them by instinct, and do it. And incidentally, if a Zuul is using Compelling Voice on you, it means it's playing _nice_.
-   In _Tears to Tiara 2_ we have Master of Rats. Clearly based on the Piper of Hamelin. His flute can make others freeze and attack each other. Then he summons a bunch of giant rats.
-   _Tyranny_ features Sirin — Archon of Song — who was born with this ability, though it's limited by a Restraining Bolt helmet installed by the local Evil Overlord. She lacked fine control of it as a child and tells the Fatebinder about how she sang to her unborn baby brother, asking him to be born as soon as possible; the results weren't pretty. In gameplay terms, her voice creates various buffs/debuffs centered around her location.
    -   Notably, she got the Restraining Bolt after nearly getting _Kyros itself_ to commit suicide, only failing because she lost her focus. As this had happened in front of the entire court, and Sirin was subtle enough to not request it verbally while also being known as "The Songbird" and nothing more, Kyros couldn't order her execution without losing face.
-   Being based on the Old World of Darkness, _Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines_ gives player characters of the Ventrue clan the ability to use the Dominate discipline in dialogue (but only to mortals; your character is too low generation to affect vampires). Your employer, Prince LaCroix, is a Ventrue, and will use this power on you if you get uppity at him.
-   _The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt_ has the Axii sign, which was absurdly powerful in the previous game, got toned down because Geralt, as a character, realized just how tempting it would be to use its power to demand absurd discounts, among other things.
-   In _World of Warcraft_ some powerful Mantid can use their voice like this. Both Imperial Vizier Zor'lok and Kaz'tik the Manipulator can charm the players during their respective fights in the Heart of Fear and Siege of Orgrimmar.

    Visual Novels 

-   In _Slay the Princess_, the titular Princess has this in "The Tower" ending, achieved if you attempt to slay the princess but don't land a single hit. The Princess has transformed into a towering goddess who floats in midair, has glowing white eyes, and is in a room that's more of a shrine to the Princess than a prison. The princess tells you to descend the stairs to meet with her, and the Voice of the Broken in your head is instantly obedient. After entering, the Princess tell you to drop your pristine blade (if you brought it) and kneel before her, all while her voice echoes when she talks. You can try to resist her commands, but you'll just end up doing what she says anyways due to her overwhelming voice.

    Webcomics 

-   In _A.P.O.C_, this is the power granted by the Horseman of Conquest. It allows its host (the info broker Annabelle) to issue commands to anyone nearby, and they have no choice but to obey despite any objections they might have.
-   While not exactly Mind Control, angels and demons in _Devil May Care_ have a subconscious influence on the humans they are put in charge of. They can influence them in any manner, but they have to actual mean the advice they give and they can only get paid if the advice they give corresponds with their alignment (good advice for angels, bad advice for demons).
-   The "Ultimate Diplomat" in _Dr. McNinja_ has this ability, which he uses to make people and/or dinosaurs stop trying to kill each other. And boy, does it work.
-   _El Goonish Shive_: Diane worries about this when Tedd reveals that she's got a magical charisma effect, but Tedd reassures her that it only allows her to get people to pay attention to her but has no ability to force them to actually do anything they wouldn't already be willing to.
-   In _Endstone_, Cole can do this to the guards.
-   In _Erf World_, Everyone can be said to have this, as any order given by a higher ranking unit _must_ be obeyed. Any order.
-   _Foxy Flavored Cookie_ the royal family of Paw's Den has the ability to control people with their voice as long as they can see their target. Pituka was traumatized as a child when her mother the queen used this ability to force her to kill her own pet. Pituka also has this ability but can't use it when wearing her magical disguise band, and she hates using it anyway due to said trauma. The ability is said to work by controlling the victims' judgment, so it can be resisted by a person whose judgement is impaired.
-   Conan of _Galebound_ has this power over Magicians. Judging by the relief his would-be assassin shows at being commanded to let Conan _escape_, he's not the only one with this power.
-   _Girl Genius_: Sparks unconsciously layer their speech with vocal harmonics, but for most Sparks this is just Charm Person. Agatha's mother, Lucrezia Mongfish, wasn't satisfied with leaving it there. She specifically built her monsters to be unable to resist commands made with her voice. That also includes people infected with her monsters.
-   The fantasy webcomic _Harkovast_ has a character appropriately named "The Speaker". You don't want to anger him...
-   Psycho Mantis of _The Last Days of Foxhound_. It doesn't work on everyone.
-   _Last Res0rt_ has this as a default power of the Celeste, called "Tone" — when they give an order, it's an otherwise innocuous statement / gentle command backed by a hidden message in the Black Speech.
-   Carnation in _L's Empire_ has this, among other forms of mind control. It's also stated that her father can do this due to having power over sound.
-   In _Noblesse_, Rai, the main character, can do this. He doesn't give many commands, but each are followed to the letter, including an order _not to breathe_.
-   _The Order of the Stick_: D&D style Bluff is used successfully in this _Order of the Stick_ webcomic. Haley's accumulated points in Bluff plus a Potion of Glibness that adds +30 to Bluff gives her the ability to not only make people believe _anything_ she says, but _do_ anything she says.
-   _Prequel_ has Sigrid, who was originally an NPC in _The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion_ with a maxed-out Mercantile stat. In-story, this portrayed as her being unnaturally charismatic to the point that she could command anyone to do anything she wanted. Since the comic takes place in The Elder Scrolls setting, this is due to her using alchemy and enchantments to fortify her personality stat to impossible levels, a reference to how game-breaking Alchemy was in Morrowind. Eventually, it turns out that her charisma is so powerful that it has influenced her, turning her into a megalomaniac.
-   Ms. Reed in _Questionable Content_ evidently has one of these. Hey, it's her job.
-   _Shortpacked!_ claims that actor Liam Neeson has this. The characters hope he never uses the power for evil. Cut to a party, where Neeson is explaining to Robin that _The Phantom Menace_ was a great movie that everyone enjoyed, and Robin can't help but agree.
-   In _Sluggy Freelance_ Sam gains this ability after becoming a vampire. It's still not enough to make girls like him, though.
-   Nix Of Nothing: The sirens of lakewood can control peoples minds just by speaking to them, to the point they have to make a special effort not to do it.

    Web Original 

-   An author named Nekollx reveals this in one of his stories, posted on DeviantArt. Anyone who has a 'Greater Beast Spirit' has ability to control someone with a lesser beast spirit. Unfortunately, the bad guys manage to awaken the old hero's Beast Spirits, allowing them to cause a Face Heel Turn in the old guard, meaning that a group of new heroes have to save the day. And one of them, Sonya, gets it FAR worse then the others...
    -   http://nekollx.deviantart.com/art/Beast-Arts-Toku-Summery-116931999
-   _Heroes Save the World_: It appears that Yuka Sato has to speak in order to use her power, though it's possible that this was just for effect.
-   The main character of _The Magnus Archives_ has a limited version of this. His patron, the Ceaseless Watcher, grants him the ability to compel full and truthful answers to any question he asks.
-   _SCP Foundation_
    -   This is the main power of Dr. Clef's SCP-001, the Eden's Gatekeeper. Anyone who hears his voice automatically obeys his command, usually an order to leave at once and forget any sight of it. Disobeying it is absolutely impossible.
    -   Also, SCP-661 has this power. It still doesn't stop personnel from treating him like crap.
    -   SCP-336 used to have this power on men before the mass edit. Now her voice has the effect on men of causing their flesh to form into a Mix-and-Match Critter while they sleep.
-   The Rhetors of _Twisted Cogs_ have a downplayed version of this. They can shift their voices and have supernatural control over the flow of any conversation, but overall they are just very persuasive, not compelling.
-   Whateley Universe. This is a standard superpower in the setting, usually as a part of a larger 'Siren' powerset (as those who have it are almost Always Female) which combines it with other sound or voice related abilities. Different Sirens have differing degrees of each.
    -   Some of the stories featuring Vox (who was Phase's girlfriend in their first year at the school) give more specifics on the power and it's limitations. Biggest one? It quickly wears off, and the victims remember the effect. Also, the Siren can't order them to forget.
-   _Worm_
    -   Canary is a woman whose superpower makes her an exceptional singer whose voice makes people suggestible. She hates this part of her power and prefer it for the amazing singing voice it grants her as a side-effect. She gets into trouble when she angrily tells an ex-boyfriend to go screw himself... and he kills himself in attempting to obey that anatomically impossible order.
    -   Valefor has a similar power, though he needs line-of-sight with his victims to issue orders. His control is also far more in-depth then Canary's — whereas the latter's power primarily manifests as blunt verbal commands, Valefor can go as far as erasing memories and manipulating emotions if he gets the wording right. Taylor gets around it by manipulating maggots to swarm into his eyes and blind him.
    -   Valefor makes a return in the sequel, _Ward_, where it's revealed that his power altered itself in the interim: he no longer needs eye contact, and can command anybody who is able to hear his voice. Victoria gets around his commands by creatively interpreting them so as to be as unhelpful as possible.

    Web Videos 

-   _Oxventure_: In the D&D campaign, Mike is fond of using the spell "Command", which allows him to give a single word as a command. It's used for great comedic effect, such as causing a group of fleeing thieves to vomit, attempting (and failing) to One-Hit Kill the boss by forcing her to surrender, and causing a poisoner to take off his clothes.

    Western Animation 

-   The Lich from _Adventure Time_ uses this to make Finn _commit suicide by jumping into a well full of poison._
    
    **The Lich:** Aren't you cold... _Finn?_ Walk into the well... _Finn_. Aren't you cold?
    
    -   Thankfully, Finn had "A SWEATER OOOON!!!"
    -   Later, he showed that a single word was enough to sap our heroes' will to fight.
-   _Batman: The Brave and the Bold_ has the Music Meister. Everyone just fawns.
    
    **Music Meister:** As I regale you with my story, you'll know you have no choice  
    But to do my evil bidding, when you hear this _booming voiiiiice!_
    
-   _Big City Greens_: In "Sellouts", Tilly uses this combined with Hypnotic Eyes on a customer to try and subconsciously get her to buy the family vegetables,
-   Similarly, Sgt Mike Cosgrove from _Freakazoid!_ is able to tell anyone, "Hey! Cut it out!"
    -   Besides stopping Freakazoid, a worthy achievement in itself, it has also stopped Yakko, Wakko and Dot, who are incarnations of chaos.
    -   The only character this _doesn't_ work on was an expy of _Cthulhu_ named Vorn. Cosgrove just pissed him off.
-   _Generator Rex_: Part of Circe's powerset includes the ability to attract other EVOs with her voice. With her Game Face on, she sings a note, and EVOs come rushing in to investigate, against all common sense. For a long time, Circe was convinced that Rex was attracted to her only because of this.
-   One episode of _Kaeloo_ had Quack Quack develop this as a result of accidentally swallowing a spoon while eating. However, it doesn't work on grown-ups, or people who act like grown-ups.
-   Zick, the protagonist in _Monster Allergy_, has many different powers called Doms. One of these is the Voice Dom, where anything he says to a monster, the monster will do.
-   The _Phineas and Ferb_ episode "Ferb Latin" has a version of this with Dr. Doofenshmirtz's scheme for the episode, making the people of the Tri-State Area obey him using little notes with orders written on them in "a very persuasive font". He demonstrates this on himself using an order reading "punch yourself in the face". Near the end of the episode, he accidentally prints a bunch of notes reading "talk normal", which rain down all over Danville and inadvertently cause Phineas and Ferb's titular language to fizzle out.
-   The _Rated "A" for Awesome_ episode "Voice of Lars" has Lars develop this. His commands always start with the words "In a World…..."
-   Daemon from _ReBoot_ called it "The Word". Once she infected anything they had no choice but to submit to her will. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  She doesn't even need to say anything. She infected all of Mainframe _with her first step into the system_.
-   While he doesn't quite have this ability in Real Life, the _South Park_ version of _Dateline_ reporter Chris Hansen is able to make anyone "have a seat, right over there", his ability not only able to manipulate sex offenders, but Cartman as well.
    
    **Hansen:** Why don't you take a seat?  
    **Cartman:** No, I don't _want_ to take a seat.  
    **Hansen:** Have a seat.  
    **Cartman:** _(starts walking backwards towards the chair)_ No! I'm just going to go—  
    **Hansen:** Take a seat. Right over _there_.  
    _(Cartman sits down on the chair)_  
    **Cartman:** _(under his breath)_ How does he do do that...?
    
-   _The Transformers_ has the hypnotist, Mindwipe.

___

___