This entry is trivia, which is cool and all, but not a trope. On a work, it goes on the Trivia tab.

Follow

_"I'm honoured that people would think of me as a role model. On the other hand, I think it's sort of dangerous to choose a person and lift them so high — because at one point, I'm going to play a role that somebody doesn't like!"_

When a young actor or other performer comes to public prominence in association with clean, wholesome family entertainment roles, the expectation of studios and audiences is that the actor's personal life will reflect the same upright morality of the character they play.

Heaven forbid, then, that said actor should be found engaging in perfectly legal, perfectly normal adult activities like drinking alcohol and/or having sex. And should they take a role in a production where they'll do things like nude scenes, using foul language or engaging in criminal behavior, then Moral Guardians will arise against the actor for betraying their expectations or somehow corrupting their young audience.

As most of the examples on this list will show you, this trope usually (although not _exclusively_) applies more to female celebrities than males. Actors are most often hit by this, but it can also apply to pop stars whose fanbase is largely comprised of teen and tween girls.

Some actors deliberately seek out such roles precisely to shed their image, and seemingly the majority of male ones lately go through a phase of sporting stubble for photoshoots and red-carpet events to remind us they're not boys anymore (even if they are still playing high school students).

There are two sides to what happens with this controversy. First is that Moral Guardians really have no right to get upset that it is "corrupting our youth" because an individual of a certain age is well within their legal rights to smoke, drink, swear, have sex, etc. On the flip side, being a public figure, especially one who is popular and well-known amongst young people, carries a certain degree of responsibility for the influence one may have since they _will_ be treated as a role model. George "Superman" Reeves, for example, took great pains to not smoke or be seen with his lady-friends in front of children. (He was also careful because kids wanted to see if he was as invulnerable as he was on TV.)

This will very often _actually_ be enforced by a morality clause in the contract.

A form of Typecasting. See also Old Shame, Not Allowed to Grow Up, and Porn Creator Going Mainstream. May result in the actor/singer hating the job, but still enjoying the publicity that comes with it. Contrast So My Kids Can Watch, which is when an "adult" actor takes on family-friendly roles, usually so that their children can watch them without being exposed to violence and/or sex. For a specific supernatural version of this trope, see Virgin Power. Subtrope of Slave to PR.

Exactly _what_ counts as "purity" varies wildly from culture to culture — see Values Dissonance. For the polar opposite of this trope see Controversy-Proof Image.

___

## Real Life Examples (in alphabetical order when not Disney):

    open/close all folders 

    Disney Graduates 

-   Britney Spears got a lot of heat for this in her early stardom on account of her very sexual image, especially at a young age, and her fanbase being largely tween and teen girls. Her very first video, "...Baby One More Time", featured her and the backup dancers dancing in skimpy Catholic schoolgirl uniforms, and she posed for a sexually suggestive photo shoot for _Rolling Stone_ magazine — all before she was eighteen years old. She only got racier from there, with songs like her hit single "If U Seek Amy" (say it slowly, then quickly) enraging parents who heard their tween daughters walking around the house singing "F-U-C-K me". All of this took a serious toll on her personally, leading to a notorious Creator Breakdown in 2006-07 that would go down in history as an iconic symbol of how badly the paparazzi press treated young female celebrities in the '00s.
-   Mostly averted by Britney's classic rival and fellow _The Mickey Mouse Club_ alum Christina Aguilera, whose early material was always a little suggestive. And being a year older than Britney, she was legally an adult when her breakout hit "Genie In A Bottle" came out. This made her later, more sexually-mature material easier to accept. She still took heat for it though on account of her being very popular with teen and tween girls. _The Jenny Jones Show_ actually did an episode in 2003 about young girls who were imitating her.
-   Anne Hathaway was the target of an explosion of controversy when she appeared topless in the movie _Havoc (2005)_. Her previous roles: both _Princess Diaries_ movies and _Ella Enchanted_. Since then, she's successfully graduated into doing more adult roles with no further controversy, including playing a recovering heroin addict in _Rachel Getting Married_ and starring in _Love & Other Drugs_, which features several extended nude scenes.
-   Likewise, Lindsay Lohan, who owes her career to her early Disney films even more than Hathaway does. Before Lindsay was cast in _Mean Girls_, it was written to be a racy R-rated affair with (to quote Tina Fey) "wall to wall titties". As she was considered a family-friendly actress, it was changed to PG-13 and much of the racier content was cut. Lindsay also turned down an offer to pose for _Playboy_ as she had a Disney film coming out and tried not to dress too skimpily in public out of fear of upsetting her younger fans. And it's precisely for this reason that her party girl antics and drug abuse was such big news.
-   Miley Cyrus:
    -   Disney's _Hannah Montana_ was at the center of this almost from the start of her career. From "art shots" taken when she was just fifteen years old, to leaked phone pics of her in a wet T-shirt, to a video of her grinding on the (gay) producer of her film _The Last Song_ when she was sixteen, to her scantily-clad performance of her song "Party in the USA" at the 2009 Teen Choice Awards (where she danced on a pole at one point), there was always a clash between her squeaky-clean Disney image and her real personality. She was forced to appear as Hannah Montana, complete with blonde wig and sparkly clothes - a far cry from her real persona.
    -   Eventually, she fully abandoned this trope and embraced her growing "bad girl" image. While her 2010 album _Can't Be Tamed_ was a start, the true turning point was in 2013 when she cut her hair short and released the album _Bangerz_, which was heavily influenced by synthpop and "Dirty South" hip-hop. Her videos for "We Can't Stop" and "Wrecking Ball" created mountains of controversy due to their sexuality and drug references, to the point where Todd in the Shadows all but called for an intervention for her. Meanwhile, her highly sexualized, tongue-wagging performance at the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards earned both outcry and mockery, quickly going memetic due to its Fan Disservice and bizarre imagery — even getting one of her self-professed idols to ask her to stop. There's no doubt that this is exactly what she wanted, as her new image sent her from a washed-up Former Teen Idol in the making<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  to one of the biggest pop stars in the world virtually overnight. She's lampshaded the change a little, saying that, under Disney, she was expected to act like an adult, and now, _as_ an adult, she acts like a child. She also satirized this trope in the _Black Mirror_ episode "Rachel, Jack and Ashley Too", where she played a teen pop singer whose public image is ruthlessly controlled by her aunt.
-   Hilary Duff, Disney's _Lizzie McGuire_, somehow managed to avoid this, despite several close calls. In general, She keeps a low profile in the press, doesn't publicly party, drink, or go out without underwear, and keeps mostly to family-friendly roles like _A Cinderella Story_ and _Raise Your Voice_ (saying she turned down a lot of darker roles that would upset her teen fanbase).
    -   There were some minor controversies involving her relationship with 10-years-her-senior Joel Madden, and her roles on _Gossip Girl_, where her character was involved in a _ménage à trois_ with Dan and Vanessa, and in _War, Inc.._, where she played a spoiled, slutty foreign pop star who gets the main character's attention by _putting a live scorpion down her pants_. Of course, it helped her image that, in the former case, most of the Moral Guardians' ire was aimed at the show's writers and at The CW rather than at Hilary, and in the latter, that her character was a tragic _parody_ of young, oversexed idol singers, complete with a pimp who planned on having her "star" in a porn movie. In any case, all of these blew over very quickly and failed to tarnish her squeaky-clean image, so it's clear she's overall succeeded in averting this.
    -   It also helps that she married a hockey player (generally the least scandal-prone of the major sports leagues) and had her first baby, _within_ wedlock, with him, at the relatively young but perfectly reasonable age of 23, and continued to amicably co-parent with him after they split two years later. She lampshaded it in an interview on _Chelsea Lately_, when they talked about how she got pregnant.
        
        "Everybody thinks I'm a good girl, but I figured it out."
        
    -   Hilary later went up against some light controversy when she posed nude (but covered) on the cover of _Women's Health_ in 2022. However, considering that she was _34_ at the time, any furor that was there fizzled out quickly, and a few media outlets even lauded the photos as quite tasteful.
-   It's rumoured that the reason Lalaine got Put on a Bus from _Lizzie McGuire_ partly because of her drug habit. Lalaine later said that she had wanted to pursue a music career, and the drugs came later.
-   Zac Efron and Vanessa Hudgens of _High School Musical_, who dated in real life, caught a bit of flak for such terrible things as making out on the beach and letting it be known that they were \*gasp\* doing things of a more intimate nature. A camera catching a condom falling out of Efron's pocket as he walked the red carpet led to a short-lived outcry. Seeing as how they were pretty much a perfectly-normal couple in their mid-twenties, it was all a little ridiculous. They have both politely but firmly explained this. Repeatedly. Given the fact they remained a steady couple for over three years despite being barely out of their teens, stayed together right at the height of their media frenzy rather than taking advantage of their new fame, were obviously practicing safe sex (see the alleged condom), guarded their private relationship fiercely and even post-breakup were genuinely amicable and never used the paparazzi to turn on each other, you'd think parents might see them as _good_ example for teens (especially as they came off as more mature than a lot of Hollywood relationships), but apparently they had to be as squeaky clean as their high school counterparts.
    -   Hudgens' multiple nude photo scandals, however, are a far straighter example. On top of the usual outcry about a kid-friendly actress posing naked, there were also concerns about Vanessa's age when she took the pictures — while she's an adult now, she was about 17 or 18 when the first _High School Musical_ film came out, which is also around when some of the photos (at least the first batch of them) are believed to have been made. Of course, the fact that the photos weren't made for public consumption is pretty much lost on the Moral Guardians. In addition, the leaks of said photos probably helped Hudgens break out of her Disney type casting more easily than her _High School Musical_ co-stars — she's since taken roles in films like _Sucker Punch_ and _Spring Breakers_ and the role of Mimi in a Hollywood Bowl production of _RENT_, all of which have her dressed in provocative outfits (and in the case of _Spring Breakers_, doing nude scenes), and she's done several sexy photo shoots for fitness and fashion magazines. However she has declined offers to do nudity in films and says that the response to that is "but you've already done it" (as apparently pictures intended to be private are equivalent to a film that will be seen by the general public).
    -   Efron, too, has had troubles with this. He became known as a party animal after the _High School Musical_ series wrapped up, with multiple short-lived stints in rehab, to the point where Lea Michele (whose boyfriend and _Glee_ co-star Cory Monteith died of a heroin/alcohol overdose) begged him to give it up. Like Hudgens, he too has embraced his "bad boy" image, playing a drunken frat boy villain in _Neighbors_ and none other than **Ted Bundy** in _Extremely Wicked, Shockingly Evil, and Vile_. Although not so much purity, Efron was also asked by Disney to downplay some of his hobbies to the public, like playing World of Warcraft, reading Manga (especially Death Note), and generally being something of a nerd.
-   Alexa (Pena)Vega began her career with the _Spy Kids_ films and light fare like _Sleepover_, but quickly switched to darker roles such as _Repo! The Genetic Opera_ (where her character is fittingly Delicate and Sickly as well as Innocence Lost). She's also gone memetic for her Hotter and Sexier turn in _Machete Kills_ and a cameo as a stripper in _Sin City: A Dame to Kill For_. Ironically both of the latter two projects were by the man that directed her in _Spy Kids_ - Robert Rodriguez. According to Alexa, she had to fight to be considered for those roles. Upon being turned down for being "just a kid", she responded that she was twenty-four and she was given the part.
-   Sara Paxton exploited this when she was cast in the remake of _The Last House on the Left_. Word of God is that they wanted an actress with this, to prevent people from finding the eventual rape scene sexy. Ironically beforehand Paxton had starred in a family-friendly film _Aquamarine_ playing a mermaid _without_ a Seashell Bra - complete with Godiva Hair and two implied nude scenes.
-   Kiely Williams might have harpooned her career with this. Starting out in the Girl Group 3LW (which got their start during the sugary sweet bubblegum pop era of the early 2000s) and then moving on to being in The Cheetah Girls, she was one of Disney's poster children for a while. Then she does a little video called "Spectacular". To sum up the song, the girl goes out, gets really drunk (it's not hard to imagine she was possibly drugged), and has anonymous sex with a random guy. She can't remember his name, but she doesn't really care "because the sex was spectacular." Kiely tried to backpedal on this by saying it was supposed to encourage women to avoid these situations, but when it's really easy to turn the song's lyrics into essentially "I enjoyed getting date-raped," it didn't work.
-   Adrienne Bailon has also been an enjoyable train wreck to watch since the Cheetah Girls group and movies ended. She hung around the Kardashians for a few years, and eventually staged a fake nude photo controversy cooked up by Bailon and a gossip blogger in an attempt to boost her career. Said controversy caused the group to back out of a planned Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade performance (to be replaced with Miranda Cosgrove and Rick Astley), and the breakup of the group not long after.
-   Brenda Song of _The Suite Life of Zack & Cody_ appeared in _The Social Network_, where her character has a quickie with Andrew Garfield's character in a bathroom stall in an early scene (though no nudity is seen — it _is_ a PG-13 movie, even with all the swearing). In other scenes, she is seen drinking and setting a scarf on fire over a Facebook relationship status. However, her role in the film didn't garner any controversy, and she still appeared on _Suite Life On Deck_ up to that show's finale in 2011. Rumors once circulated that she was pregnant with Trace Cyrus' baby. The two got engaged around the same time. Months later, she stated that she had never been pregnant and the engagement was called off. Many speculate that she miscarried. However, since she was no longer on Disney at this point, there wasn't much backlash, to begin with. She's now in a relationship with Macaulay Culkin, they have two children together.
-   _Suite Life_ and _High School Musical_ alum Ashley Tisdale posed nude (no frontal) for _Allure_. The 26-year-old Tisdale is of age (obviously), and even made it a point to say in the article that she's "...not the young girl everyone thinks I am; I'm actually a woman." Disney Channel doesn't seem to care about the shoot, though, since she still has a starring voice role as Candace on _Phineas and Ferb_, and has reprised her role as Sharpay in a Disney Channel spinoff movie. Alongside this she also did voice work on _Family Guy_ and played an escort in _Sons of Anarchy_, and it didn't stop her from doing more work with Disney.
-   This happened back in the sixties to Hayley Mills (star of the 1960 _Pollyanna_ film and _The Parent Trap_) when she was considered for the titular role in the 1962 _Lolita_ and Disney told her to step away from the film. In fact, her first role that attempted to shake her goody-two-shoes image was _The Trouble with Angels_, her first post-Disney role, where she played a mischevious Catholic schoolgirl. However, the only truly daring thing she actually does in _Angels_ is smoking, which goes to show you how concerned Hollywood felt about shaking up Mills' image. It eventually _did_ catch up with her in 1967 when she appeared in the British countercultural movie _The Family Way_ (the same movie scored in part by Paul McCartney as his first venture outside The Beatles). In one scene, she was filmed from the rear naked. She married the middle-aged director of the film, Roy Boulting, in 1971 (though they divorced in 1975). She also appeared topless in the film _The Deadly Strangers_.
-   1960s Disney teen star Tommy Kirk's career reportedly came to an end both due to the star's drug issues, diva-like behavior on set and homosexuality. He's since gotten sober and regrets his on-set behavior.
-   Orlando Brown's repeated legal problems in recent years have been a major reason why Sequel Series _Raven's Home_ has not even referenced Brown's character of Eddie Thomas, and barring a recast it's doubtful the character will appear in the series.
-   Dove Cameron is an interesting case, as before she was on Disney, she was on the _very_ non-Disney show _Shameless (US)_ playing a hyper-sexual "bad girl" (while underage, mind). However, she got cast for _Liv and Maddie_ at 17, and later starred in _Descendants_ and several Marvel productions (playing Spider-Gwen in _Ultimate Spider-Man (2012)_ and _Marvel Rising_), which gave her Disney cred. This didn't effect her career too much, as she's had no trouble starring in racier works like _Barely Lethal_, Playing Against Type as Ruby Hale in _Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._ (which, while Marvel, and as such Disney, was a much more adult-aimed production with considerably darker content), and posing in bikinis on her Instagram page. However, she _has_ gotten quite a bit of harassment from trolls on social media over this. She's bitten back about this, pointing out that she isn't _owned_ by Disney and is free to do whatever roles she wants.
-   Bella Thorne made her debut for the Disney Channel sitcom _Shake it Up_ and later confessed that Disney heavily policed her image to try and sell her as a "good girl", reprimanding her for going out on the beach in a bikini when she was fourteen and telling her to speak in a higher pitched falsetto voice instead of her natural huskier tones. She immediately embraced a far more sexualized public image the moment she left Disney, even directing an X-rated erotic short film that premiered on Pornhub in 2019. When hackers got hold of nude photos of her and threatened to leak them unless she complied with their extortion demands, she responded by _releasing the photos herself_.
-   The Jonas Brothers faced many restrictions from Disney with regards to their infamous purity rings. The lyrics to their songs were constantly being policed, and they'd often be forced to change any lines that were deemed inappropriate. This included lines about being alone in a room with another person. Additionally the brothers were told to respond to potentially risque interview questions (about drugs, alcohol, sex etc) by "playing dumb" and veering off on other topics.
-   Demi Lovato started on _Barney & Friends_ and then worked on many Disney Channel projects - with TV films like _Camp Rock_, _Princess Protection Program_ and the show _Sonny with a Chance_. Wearing a purity ring for public scrutiny eventually led to Creator Breakdown and addictions to cocaine before Demi even turned eighteen. Disney however public supported them for going to rehab, and featured them covering "Let It Go" for the _Frozen (2013)_ end credits. Since then, Demi both came out as non-binary and embraced a more sexual image.
-   Shia LaBeouf got his start on _Even Stevens_ and _Holes_, and recalls having to fight really hard for a part in the gritty drama _A Guide to Recognizing Your Saints_ - as the director dismissed him for being "a Disney kid". His role in _Disturbia_ was another one taken to distance himself from his Disney roots. His role in the _Transformers Film Series_ franchise helped with that immensely.
-   Ginnifer Goodwin, who has worked with Disney as the voice of Judy Hopps in _Zootopia_ and playing Snow White in _Once Upon a Time_ (mentioned below, ironically enough) has refused to do nudity, stating it's "for my boyfriend or my doctor".
-   Annette Funicello was always the first choice to star in _Beach Party_, but because she was under contract to Disney, they had to approve the thirty pages of script that were available at the time. American International Pictures had to assure him there "wouldn't be anything that would offend." Walt Disney did personally ask Annette not to expose her navel on camera. She starred in several more of the 'Beach Party' movies, and wore a bikini in _Bikini Beach_.
-   An Older Than Television example: Adriana Caselotti, the voice of Snow White, was under contract to Disney not to appear in _anything_ else as an actress so she wouldn't spoil the illusion of Snow White. Since _Snow White_, she only had bit parts as a singer in a few films, including the iconic _It's a Wonderful Life._
-   Christy Carlson Romano detailed this in a vlog. Having been famous for the Disney Channel sitcom _Even Stevens_ and voicing the title role in _Kim Possible_, her agent warned her that as soon as her eighteenth birthday was approaching, she would get offers for Hotter and Sexier roles (from filmmakers looking to take advantage of the buzz around 'Disney Channel star appearing nude'). She also struggled with drug addiction and alcoholism during her teens and early twenties, but heartwarmingly got sober and enjoyed a Career Resurrection as a YouTuber.
-   _Two and a Half Men_ often played with this in later seasons, where a running meta-gag was that many of Walden, Jake, and Jenny's girlfriends were played by actresses who used to work on the Disney Channel, such as Hilary Duff, Miley Cyrus, Emily Osment, and Aly Michalka. Inevitably, their characters would be Ms. Fanservice women in revealing clothes who sleep around and act generally trashy, specifically to send up their family-friendly public images. Osment's episode even had Walden referring to her character as "Hannah Montana", in case you didn't know what show her actress was most famous for.
-   Zendaya managed to avoid this. She started her career with the Disney Channel, first on _Shake it Up_ (co-starring the aforementioned Bella Thorne) and then on _K.C. Undercover_, and her breakout in film was in another family-friendly role, MJ in _Spider-Man: Homecoming_. Then she was cast as the lead on _Euphoria_, a dark HBO teen drama that was immediately controversial for its _very_ R-rated content. Whatever shock might have come from seeing Rocky Blue or K.C. Cooper as a teenage drug addict was quickly wiped away when her performance won her two Emmys for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series (making her the youngest person to ever win the award) and established her as one of the most talented actors of her generation. It helps that, while her _roles_ may be edgy, her public persona is clean-cut. She even pushed back in 2015 when Giuliana Rancic critiqued the dreadlocks she wore to the Academy Awards (a hairstyle that's widely stereotyped outside the Black community but has deep roots within it) and claimed that she "smells like patchouli oil or weed," stating in hindsight that the incident made her realize her potential power as a role model for young girls and people of color.

    Actors — Non-Disney 

-   Anime Industry: Averted for the actors who worked for 4Kids Entertainment, which produces anime series that get Bowdlerised for younger audiences. Andrew Rannells is currently starring in _The Book of Mormon_ musical, Jason Griffith did a condom commercial, and most of the others (especially Dan Green) have done Hentai (animated pornography) at some point. Also, most of the actors that work for the company have dubbed earlier titles for older audiences, either for Media Blasters (Veronica Taylor doing _Samurai Deeper Kyo_ comes to mind) or for Central Park Media.
    -   Similarly in the Western Animation world people would be surprised that Frank Welker, Hal Smith, June Foray, and Allan Melvin who worked in many Hanna-Barbera productions together once did voice work in a pornographic animated film entitled _Once Upon A Girl_ in which they can be heard swearing and using sexual slang while some of their characters engage in sexual activity.
-   Tim Allen toned down his stand-up after he noticed more and more families coming after he did _Home Improvement_ and once apologized to for starting out with F-bombs in one act. Now post-_Toy Story_, he asks venues to make concessions for families coming to see him.
    -   Tim also has a criminal record for transporting drugs in the 70's, even serving time in prison (he got a reduced sentence for passing on information about his supplier). Once he got out it was a sign to him he needed to get far away from that life and that's where he got into Stand-Up Comedy. When _Home Improvement_ was primed to air some news articles reported on his criminal history, especially since the show was supposed to be a family comedy, Tim and the producers responded immediately with their own side of the story. Later in the show run, they were contemplating doing an episode on drunk driving (previously doing an episode on marijuana use) but Tim had gotten a DUI during the summer break and the episode was canceled due to feeling it would be hypocritical to do so.
-   Due to scheduling conflicts with _Little House on the Prairie_, Melissa Sue Anderson could not star in _The Blue Lagoon (1980)_.
-   Julie Andrews got famous for playing two quintessential Magical Nanny characters in _Mary Poppins_ and _The Sound of Music_. This gave her a squeaky-clean image that she came to resent. An attempt at getting out of it came in the film _Darling Lili_ where she plays a Femme Fatale Spy - who even does a _striptease_ on stage! But the film flopped and she didn't see much success. She did, however, use her experiences of the Troubled Production in her husband Blake Edwards's _S.O.B._ - where she plays an actress with a goody two-shoe image who is convinced to appear topless in a film. But as of the 2000s, she has returned to working for Disney, albeit in a more Adam Westing manner than her earlier image.
-   Tom Baker kept himself under this, not allowing himself to smoke or drink in public in order to set a good example to his young fans, as well as acting like the Doctor while out and about as much as reasonable. This did help build his mythos as being _the_ Doctor, but doing this for as long as he did and as constantly as he did resulted in serious damage to his mental health and was part of the reason why later Doctors had much shorter tenures.
    -   In public, Tom Baker held to the Doctor's standards, but in private, he was well known for drinking both before and during filming and being a right bloody terror to the production crew. This tendency only got worse in his later seasons, as he (rightly or wrongly) saw himself as the Doctor <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and refused to take direction on how to play the character from anybody, be they directors or even the series producers. His problems were something of an open secret in the British media, so much younger fans could still believe the illusion of Baker being the Doctor, while older viewers more or less knew better.
    -   All in all, the bit of The BBC's adaptation of _The Lives And Loves Of A She Devil_ was well-received, but its sex scenes featuring a naked 'Dr. Who' were considered so shocking at the time that they are what most people remember of the show - the description for it on the BBC's website mentioned 'Tom Baker's thrusting buttocks' and many contemporary comedy shows spoofed it.
-   Drew Barrymore spent much of her late teens in a series of jailbait performances such as _Poison Ivy_, _Gun Crazy_, and TV's _The Amy Fisher Story_. These roles pretty much played into Barrymore's public image and perception at the time, which was a sexy, trashy, and dangerous "Wild Child". Barrymore's 1995 appearance on _The Late Show with David Letterman_ however, served as a major turning point to her transitioning to more wholesome roles. According to Barrymore's 2015 book _Wildflower_, her jumping on Letterman's desk and spontaneously flashing him felt like a "fun thing to do for laughs" at the time but didn't seem as funny when she watched back the tape. Shortly thereafter, she began her journey into having no sex scenes in movies, modesty clauses in her contracts, and a total lack of nudity in any public forum. 1998's _The Wedding Singer_ was the first movie to be built on Barrymore's new "good girl" reinvention. This image was reinforced a year later in _Never Been Kissed_.
-   Ingrid Bergman, anyone? She first tried to get out of her goody-two-shoes image with _Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde_, but it didn't work. Later on, she destroyed the image quite accidentally by leaving her husband for director Roberto Rossellini. The backlash was _massive_. She was even denounced on the floor of the US Senate. How many victims of this trope can say that? That being said, her good girl image was vastly overblown by people who only associated her with playing Joan of Arc or a nun in _The Bells of St. Mary's_; forgetting that her most iconic role was as an adulteress in _Casablanca_, and she'd also played a rape victim in _For Whom the Bell Tolls_ and a disfigured criminal in _A Woman's Face (1938)_. She refuted the narrative that she was blacklisted by Hollywood, as the reason she had the affair with Roberto Rossellini in the first place was that she had moved to Italy to do more European films. She would return to Hollywood to win an Oscar for _Anastasia_.
-   The press had a frenzied field day when Elizabeth Berkley, formerly well-known for playing a straight-laced, vocally feminist high schooler on _Saved by the Bell_, played a nude, bisexual stripper turned showgirl in, well, _Showgirls_. The flop of that killed her career, though that probably had more to do with the quality of the film itself than her playing that sort of role.
-   To get out of her contract on _7th Heaven_, Jessica Biel invoked this trope by posing topless (not frontal) in _Gear_ magazine. When she was just seventeen. This was enough to get her character Put on a Bus for a good while, returning only sparingly and practically evolving into The Ghost with her own entirely off-screen storylines.
-   While some of his earlier, lesser-known roles were not family-friendly — he has played a rentboy and a thief/male prostitute among others — Orlando Bloom gained his recognition from the _Lord of the Rings_ and _Pirates of the Caribbean_ trilogies. The latter made him a teen and tweener idol, so the publicity campaign used with him portrayed him as a safe, non-sexual kind of boy next door that the parents of his 13-year-old fans could feel good about. His attempts to play to a more mature audience while maintaining the tween-friendly image were not very successful. After the third _Pirates of the Caribbean_ movie was released and it was no longer necessary to maintain a Disney-approved image, he pretty much became what he was: a normal single man in his late twenties/early thirties who liked to have fun. To top it off, he began dating Miranda Kerr, a sexy Victoria's Secret model, and couldn't keep his hands off of her (they later got married and had a son, although they're now separated).
    
    His "offenses" were no different from what one would expect from anyone else in his position and were pretty tame, but certain Moral Guardians within the fandom were outraged by his behavior, blowing every incident out of proportion and declaring him ruined because they felt he somehow let them down by not continuing to maintain an unrealistically pure image. Since then, he has moved on to roles more proportionate to his age, aimed at a more mature audience, and has been receiving a decent amount of acclaim for them, so the loss of his contractual purity hasn't hurt him much.
    
-   Lisa Bonet was tossed off _The Cosby Show_ for her role in _Angel Heart_ that included a sex scene, and loudly denounced by Bill Cosby. Years later, after Cosby himself was accused and sued by dozens of women for past sexual assaults and rapes, this moral grandstanding became the height of hypocrisy in hindsight.
-   Child actor Brian Bonsall, best known for his role in _Family Ties_ as sweet little Andy Keaton, was known for playing young innocent boys who were a bit mischievous. In his feature film debut _Mikey_, he broke his usual typecast by portraying a 9-year-old serial killer who was abused by his original parents. In real life, he became a failed rockstar, a drug addict, and eventually a fugitive of justice.
-   Pretty much subverted by Steve Burns of _Blue's Clues_ fame — he has explicitly stated that he has no desire to kill the image of _Blue's Clues_' Steve by doing anything unseemly. He's even said that he has refused requests to have sex in the Blue's Clues 'Thinking Chair' that he was given because it would feel like a bunch of parents was watching him do it. He _has_ more recently pursued a career as an indie rock singer/songwriter and has been photographed drinking, but this was long after he left the show.
    -   This comes up partially because of a role he took on _Homicide: Life on the Street_ during his tenure on _Blue's Clues_. It was because a child saw him in that role that Burns made his public statement that he would not take on roles that might upset fans too young to understand that he wasn't Steve on _Blue's Clues_.
-   There was some controversy when Keisha Castle-Hughes, who played Mary in _The Nativity Story_, got pregnant while unmarried and 16 years old. However, many Christian groups did praise her for going through with the pregnancy and raising the child.
-   The single most famous example is Marilyn Chambers. As a young model, her picture graced boxes of Ivory Snow detergent across the United States. When she became one of porn's most famous stars, Ivory Snow got a very quick repackaging. Also, contrary to popular legend, Marilyn Chambers was not the baby, but the young mother holding the baby.
-   This trope was a big reason why Bill Cosby's sex scandal became as big an issue as it did. Ever since _The Cosby Show_ in the '80s, he'd had a reputation as "America's Dad" and a role model for young people, especially young black men, and was known for his criticism of violence and sexuality in the media (particularly Hip-Hop). The allegations that he had date raped many women throughout his career, combined with his reaction to them, destroyed that image and all but turned him into the American equivalent of Jimmy Savile. Several articles published in the wake of the allegations (especially once it became clear that many of them were true) bemoaned how African Americans had lost one of their best role models in a storm of scandal, and how "if you can't trust Bill Cosby anymore, who _can_ you trust?"
-   One year after _Home Alone 2: Lost in New York_ came out, Macaulay Culkin was seen starring in the R-rated film _The Good Son_ where he plays a 10-year-old psychopath. Among the things Culkin's character does are killing a dog with a homemade nailgun, causing a highway crash by dropping a dummy off a bridge, attempting to kill his mother, and as it's later found out, murdering his younger brother by drowning him in the bathtub. Roger Ebert's review can be found here.
    -   ...and yet, he still was caught in the trope when, a _full decade later_, he played Michael Alig, the controversial founder of Club Kids, in _Party Monster_.
-   Dakota Fanning getting raped in _Hounddog_ caused controversy until the critics came out of the theater stating they were laughing at that part, and the overall effect was pretty minimal.
    -   She might have had more luck playing Joan Jett's former bandmate Cherie Currie in _The Runaways_. However, this movie didn't have a chance to cause much controversy on account of getting screwed by the studio.
    -   Right now, she has several projects (_Mississippi Wild_, _Now is Good_, _Very Good Girls_) where the character she plays ends up losing her virginity.
    -   Surprisingly, Elle Fanning averted this trope with her acting career, not following in her older sister’s footsteps. When the highly controversial _The Neon Demon_ was released, pretty much any discourse about her career (which mostly consisted of relatively family-friendly roles up to that point) was given a backseat to the film’s shocking content itself. That film’s darkly satirical treatment of this trope might have helped.
-   This happened to Sherri Finkbine, the hostess of Phoenix's localized _Romper Room_. She had been taking thalidomide while pregnant and sought an abortion when she was convinced that her baby would be deformed<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . The incident caused her to become linked with the pro-choice movement (this was all the way back in 1962). The incident also inspired a 1992 telefilm.
-   The controversy over the _Glee_ photoshoot for _GQ_ magazine. According to the Parents' Television Council, two 24-year-old women and a 28-year-old man posing for PG-13-rated photos "borders on pedophilia" just because they play teenagers on a TV show that was never intended to be watched by children. Even worse was when the same group of people flipped out, using the same reasoning, when Lea Michele _wore a low-cut top_ on the cover of _Cosmo_.
-   For a long time, Adrian Hall, who played Jeremy Potts in _Chitty Chitty Bang Bang_, would omit the movie on his resume and ask his manager to not mention it because he was afraid it would damage his credibility as an adult actor, i.e. that casting directors would only see him as a "child actor". But as he got successful in his adult acting career, he would put the movie on his resume and speak about it more often.
-   Nicholas Hammond (aka Friedrich von Trapp) remarked in the special features of the _The Sound of Music_ DVD that he had tried to avoid doing anything that would get him in the papers in a bad light because he "didn't want to ruin the image" and the rest of his castmates agreed with him. Slightly subverted in that A) they didn't seem to mind all that much and B) Nicholas is the only one involved with film these days (in Australia).
    -   Heather Menzies (aka Louisa von Trapp) appeared naked in _Playboy_'s August 1973 issue and did nude scenes in a couple of B-Movies.
-   Alyson Hannigan, sweet little Willow Rosenberg from _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_, managed to avoid this when she took on the role of kinky, foul-mouthed Michelle in _American Pie_. Perhaps the fact that Willow herself was allowed to grow up (and come out of the closet) may have had something to do with that.
    -   Or the fact that _Buffy_ was never really aimed at the "corruptible" demographic to begin with.
    -   Michelle is also a subversion of this trope Played for Laughs. Throughout the movie, Jim and the audience are meant to think of Michelle as naive and irritating. Her infamous "band camp" story was meant to be a surprise, but got ruined by the trailers, and now it's what people associate most with the character.
-   The cast of the _Harry Potter_ films have faced this at one point or another.
    -   Daniel Radcliffe invoked a wave of moral outrage when he appeared on London's West End as Alan Strang in a production of _Equus_. It's an incredible (albeit disturbing) role that any actor would be insane to turn down the chance to play. The Moral Guardians, however, only saw Naked!Harry Potter — which is probably what the production company was banking on, anyway.
        -   Radcliffe has managed to avert this in other ways: around the release of the final _Potter_ movie, tabloids started reporting that he liked his liquor a tad too much. However, at this point, Daniel's in his 20s and he openly admitted he had a drinking problem and got help for it, so this story produced sympathy and "attaboy"s rather than parents screaming about "Harry" being a bad influence for their sweet little darlings.
        -   Radcliffe seems to have become one of the defining subversions of this trope. Among those still following his career, he's now known as an Indie character actor at least as much as he's known for being Harry. There was virtually no controversy over his role in _Swiss Army Man_, and he played an outright sociopathic villain in _Now You See Me 2_. Then Radcliffe played "Weird Al" Yankovic in _Weird: The Al Yankovic Story_, earning high praise for his seriously comedic performance.
    -   Similarly, there was some uproar about Clémence Poésy (Fleur Delacour) appearing topless in a French movie, even though it was before she was even cast in the film. (This also led to some counter-uproar along the lines of "you're complaining about a French actress appearing topless in a _French film_? Isn't that SOP for French films?")
    -   Emma Watson caused shockwaves in the fandom for a scene in _Ballet Shoes_ where her character shares a bath with her adoptive sister, and especially for the final movie where apparitions of Harry and Hermione make out naked. After completing the franchise, she went for more mature roles to shake the purity off; _The Perks of Being a Wallflower_ has her playing a character who was molested as a child and performs a raunchy routine from _The Rocky Horror Picture Show_; _The Bling Ring_ she plays a Shameless Fanservice Girl who drinks, smokes and robs celebrities' houses; _Noah_ likewise has her character's fertility as a plot point. None of these stopped Disney from casting her as Belle in _Beauty and the Beast (2017)_.
    -   Jamie Waylett (Vincent Crabbe) got this in 2009 after being arrested for possession of marijuana, being written out of the last two films (when his character was slated to be killed off later — they wound up replacing Crabbe's death with that of Goyle for the movie to compensate), even though Crabbe isn't a particularly "wholesome" character to start with. Waylett later attracted further controversy after being charged with violence during the London riots in August 2011.
    -   On the other side, it seems pretty much no one cares that Rupert Grint acted in _Cherrybomb (2009)_, playing a character who does drugs and steals cars. Then again, he's a bad guy who's supposed to do bad things.
    -   Evanna Lynch, who played Luna Lovegood, admitted to being conflicted when publishing her autobiography _The Opposite of Butterfly Hunting_, about what to detail so as not to traumatize any fans' image of Luna. She's also talked about her responsibility whenever she meets people, as she doesn't want to "ruin _Harry Potter_" for anyone. She also had to insist that the autobiography was not for young fans, given that it details her struggles with an eating disorder. But she hasn't let it stop her from pursuing darker roles, such as a suicidal teen in _My Name Is Emily_ (although the film itself isn't that explicit).
    -   Harry Melling, who plays Dudley Dursley in the films, has lost a huge amount of weight over the years (to the point of having to wear a fat suit for the final movie) and is barely recognizable from his younger self. He's publicly stated he is happy about this so he can avoid Contractual Purity in his adult career as an actor.
-   Melissa Joan Hart:
    
    -   When _Clarissa Explains It All_ finished its run, Melissa was now an adult but her mother didn't want her to pursue Darker and Edgier roles - though this was apparently a business move to capitalize on her kid fan base. Thus her next project was the family sitcom _Sabrina the Teenage Witch_. She has said that once that was over, she found it hard to get cast, because people only saw her as a teenager, even though she was in her late 20s when the show finished<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . Thus people were startled at her playing a mother in _Melissa & Joey_.
    -   During _Sabrina_'s third season, the folks at Archie Comics were sent into a frenzy when she appeared in a racy photo shoot for Maxim - and they are infamously protective of their wholesome brand. According to Word of God, they were annoyed that the shoot advertised Sabrina rather than Melissa, making it look like she was doing it as the character.
    -   This trope is also the reason Melissa kept her partying hidden from the public eye - claiming she spent a year doing drugs and rolling with a bad crowd (the Maxim photo shoot happened while she was on drugs).
    
    "It's not that I wasn't a bad girl. I just didn't get caught."
    
    -   Melissa mentioned in an interview once that when she had her first child (at the perfectly reasonable age of 29 and having been married for three years), she got complaints from people saying she was too young to have a child. Apparently, they didn't realize she wasn't as young as the characters she played.
-   Possibly the most controversial example of all was Anissa Jones of _Family Affair_. She was contractually obligated to make promotional appearances with her breasts bound, her hair in childish pigtails, and clutching the Mrs. Beasley doll even as she grew into her teens. This is often cited as a major factor in her eventual death by drug overdose.
-   David Joyner, the original suit actor for Barney the Dinosaur and the suit actor for the titular character of _Hip Hop Harry_, now works as a tantric sex-based therapist while not acting.
-   Deborah Kerr was usually typecast as the English Rose (except the UK drama _Black Narcissus_) until her appearance as depressed adulteress Karen in _From Here to Eternity_. It's still considered one of her best roles of all time, even though she took the role only to shake up her image.
-   Completely averted when nudes of Jennifer Lawrence leaked online in 2014. The vast majority of public response wasn't directed at her, but at the people who shared the photos. It turns out that hacking into a person's online account, stealing their private pics, and posting them online are far more heinous crimes than a grown woman taking sexy pics intended for her partner's eyes only.
    -   She since appeared nude in _mother! (2017)_ and _Red Sparrow_. She never did nude scenes up until that point in her work (partly because of the leak) but decided to take a chance on both because of how empowered she felt by the female leads owning their sexuality. Despite the polarizing reactions to both films themselves, Lawrence’s performances were highly acclaimed, with some calling her role in _mother!_ a career-best.
-   Katy Manning got some flak for posing naked with a Dalek in a men's magazine sometime after she left _Doctor Who_. Some fans even bring it up while criticizing Jo as being a helpless victim for male characters to kidnap and slaver over, even though the character in the show is generally strong and plucky and not especially sexualized (although by no means a completely unproblematic blow for feminism).
-   Alyssa Milano began her career as a child actress on the family sitcom _Who's the Boss?_, and was a Teen Idol in Japan. As she grew up, she of course wanted to demonstrate that she wasn't a little girl anymore, and specifically went for Hotter and Sexier roles in _Embrace of the Vampire (1995)_ and _Poison Ivy II_, as well as playing serial killer Amy Fisher in a television movie. She then became more known for being Ms. Fanservice than a child star, but true Career Resurrection came in playing Phoebe Halliwell in _Charmed (1998)_. These days she's actually best known for her political activism in the MeToo Movement, and admits that her more sexual roles were what she felt she had to do to continue working.
    
    "I always say that if I had the option of doing _Poison Ivy II_ and _Beetlejuice_, obviously I would have chosen _Beetlejuice_, but those weren't the things that were offered to me."
    
-   Taylor Momsen began her career as a child actor, famously as Cindy Lou in _How the Grinch Stole Christmas!_ and she nearly played _Hannah Montana_ too. Although she got a role on the CW series _Gossip Girl_, her character was the Token Wholesome. But she soon started going for a much racier public image, which ended up being reflected in _Gossip Girl_'s third season. When she formed her band The Pretty Reckless she caused a minor scandal by appearing nude in their video for "Make Me Wanna Die" - when she was only sixteen. She has since quit acting altogether and focused on her music, stating she "doesn't fucking care" about being a good role model.
-   Mostly averted by Frankie Muniz, who stuck to family-friendly roles during his time on _Malcolm in the Middle_ and even went so far as to publicly state his avoidance of drugs and alcohol. Since the show ended, any adult roles have been bit parts and he has turned his attention to other pursuits such as playing drums in bands, running an olive oil business, and most notably, race car driving<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , but he had a close call in 2012 when it was alleged that he pulled out a gun during a fight with his then-girlfriend. No charges were pressed and both parties admit to this being a rumor that spiralled out of control, so this didn't leave a mark of any kind on his career.
-   Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen were child and teen stars thanks to _Full House_, _Two of a Kind_ and _So Little Time_ (as well as all their Direct to Video projects). In their teen years, actor Spencer Pratt sold a photo of Mary-Kate drunk to the media, and Mary Kate was also linked to Heath Ledger's death - nearly being subpoenaed to testify as to how he got his drugs. Their second only theatrical movie _New York Minute_ was a Box Office Bomb and got attacked for being "creepy and lecherous" (Ashley is "nude" under a towel twice in it).
-   This trope dates back to the silent days, at least. Mary Pickford ("America's Sweetheart"), one of the biggest stars of the early cinema, was known for her ingenue roles and her long, flowing ringlets. After she cut off her curls and played an adult role — at the age of _37_ — in _Coquette_, she lost her popularity (despite winning an Academy Award), and retired from films shortly thereafter.
-   Defied by Bette Davis - who Warner Brothers were grooming to become "the next Jean Harlow" in the early 1930s. She hated their attempts to present her as a glamorous Girl Next Door (the low point for her was a film called _Fashions of 1934_, in which she was forced to wear a platinum blonde wig and false eyelashes). She was keen to play a role as an unsympathetic abuser who ends up as a Streetwalker in _Of Human Bondage_ - which many of Hollywood's leading ladies had turned down. The studio tried to persuade her not to do it, terrified it would ruin her image. The film was a critical darling, and Bette got her first Oscar nomination from it.
-   Actress Melanie Martinez (No, not the singer) had a stint as the host of _The Good Night Show_, a block on the preschool network Sprout. However, in 2006, she was fired after the network found out that she starred in two _VERY_ inappropriate short films in 2000 spoofing Scare 'Em Straight public service announcements, contrasting the wholesome, family-friendly image she developed. She was briefly replaced by Leo (Noel "Bear" MacNeal), and then Nina (Michele Lepe) for the rest of the block's history.
-   Billie Piper:
    -   She got some flak for posing in _Arena_ just before her debut as Rose Tyler in _Doctor Who_. She later had to specifically warn her young fans from that show that it would not be a good idea for them to watch _Secret Diary of a Call Girl_. She didn't get much heat from the tabloids for switching to the more risqué role, however.
    -   Also before _Doctor Who_, Piper was also criticized in the press for being photographed partying around the time of her marriage to radio presenter Chris Evans. At the time, she was known not for Rose Tyler, but being a former teen pop star once touted as the British answer to Britney Spears. In fairness, though, this was primarily due to the fact that she was a teenager and Chris Evans was in his mid-thirties, and when they got married, they'd only been dating for six months. Since Piper was in a period of limbo where her pop career had pretty much died (and her acting one was yet to take off) when she started dating Evans, and since he was an extremely wealthy radio and television presenter (worth an estimated £30million), it was as much about the unseemliness of the apparent "golddigger/dirty old man" dynamic as much as Piper being a role model for teenagers. Much was made in the press, for example, of Chris buying her a pricey sports car for her birthday when she hadn't even passed her driving test yet. By the time of their divorce six years later, Piper was in her mid-twenties and the 16 year age gap between them seemed less important. Whatever the case, she seems to get a lot more of the flak from the relationship than he does. Although it's most likely partly down to good old misogyny (she must be a gold-digging whore, he's a man who couldn't be expected to resist a young hottie), it seems like her contractual purity plays a part too.
-   Numerous Power Rangers have surprised the fandom with their career moves following the show:
    -   Jason David Frank (Tommy Oliver from four different seasonal arcs) later became an MMA fighter. This isn't too shocking to the fandom, who knew that "JDF" was probably the most skilled martial artist in the show's history, but a lot of eyebrows were raised about the massive number of tattoos he'd picked up along the way (no wonder he was always wearing sweaters in _Dino Thunder_). Perhaps softening the blow was the fact that he was also a devout Christian, running a Christian MMA clothing line called "Jesus Didn't Tap".
        -   Frank also appeared on MTV's sex drama _Undressed_ after leaving the franchise (but before returning for _Dino Thunder_). Nobody really noticed, though that says more about the show than it does about Jason. Hilariously enough, the majority of his scenes were with actress Alyson Kiperman, who **also** became a Power Ranger (Yellow in _Power Rangers Wild Force_). Ranger fans have been laughing their asses off since.
    -   Cerina Vincent (Maya from _Lost Galaxy_) reappeared after _Power Rangers_ in a Naked People Are Funny role in _Not Another Teen Movie_. She's also shown up, clothes-optional, in some B-grade horror films for the college set. Allegedly, she became concerned about being typecast for nudity and even haggled with a director over how many inches of her derriere would be revealed in a movie (which the director verified with a ruler).
    -   Ricardo Medina Jr. (Cole from _Wild Force_) eventually showed up on the reality competition _Kept_ for VH-1. It was, in a nutshell, a show with a lot of muscular guys being male models and being photographed in their underwear or even in their birthday suits with a Scenery Censor. Ricardo was considered to be quite a Jerkass by both the other contestants and some viewers and was ultimately eliminated from the show for simply being too vain to have around. He has since become an exotic dancer in an all-male revue.
        -   Apparently the Nostalgia Filter is stronger than this trope, as he's returned to _Power Rangers_ as the Worthy Opponent Rival in _Samurai_. This may be helped by the fact that it's been almost ten years since _Wild Force_, Medina (now going by "Rick") looks very different now, and his acting skills having improved considerably.
        -   Also worth pointing out, he was still with the revue _while_ being on _Power Rangers_, though the group is one in the vein of Chippendales, being classier and not getting down to actual nudity on-stage.
        -   His career eventually got put on hold when, in 2017, he pled guilty to voluntary manslaughter in the 2015 killing of his roommate and was sentenced to six years in prison.
-   Paul Reubens, the man who played Pee-Wee Herman, was quite infamously hit with this. _Pee-wee's Playhouse_ was originally an Affectionate Parody of '50's kiddie-show hosts created for a Groundlings comedy sketch, filled with double entendres and subliminal adult humor. However, the character was mistaken for an actual kids' entertainer as he became successful, causing Reubens' act to get more family-friendly and his personal life to be taken over by the character. Thus, his arrest for masturbating in an adult theater, and his subsequent arrest for having pornography in his house (not child pornography, as rumored), came as a shock to those who weren't familiar with his older material. This caused comedian Wanda Sykes to remark, "Just where is Pee Wee allowed to masturbate?"
-   Molly Ringwald appeared nude in the film _Malicious_, going against her "sweet teenage girl" image. However, the film wasn't really memorable, and she hadn't been a teenager for over a decade at that point, so the ripples were minor. Before that, David Lynch offered her the role in _Blue Velvet_ that eventually went to Laura Dern, but her parents refused to let her do it, worried that it would ruin her "sweet teenage girl" image.
-   In 1988, sixteen-year-old Winona Ryder, known at the time for family-friendly roles in films like _Lucas_ and _Beetlejuice_, was begged by her agent not to star in _Heathers_, an R-rated Black Comedy about teen suicide, fearing that her career would be over. The same week Winona received the script, a schoolmate of hers died of suicide, which inspired her to do the film in spite of potential career damage. While the film's theatrical release got screwed (its distributor was in the throes of bankruptcy at the time and could barely spend any money on advertising), it became a hit on home video and basic cable, and Winona had plenty of success in the '90s.
-   Though not beginning as a child, Bob Saget had this happen to him over a sixteen-year stretch divided between _Full House_ and _America's Funniest Home Videos_. He attributed his profanity-overflowing, exceptionally dirty and rather mean-spirited stand-up routine in part to this, claiming, "That show gave me Tourette's." In actuality, he was an exceptionally dirty comic even before _Full House_. At Saget's Comedy Central roast, Jeff Garlin (in the character of one of the producers of _Full House_) mentioned an incredibly tasteless joke that Bob told that warmed the producer up to him. People who knew Saget in college also claimed he did dirty humor even back then. So while he may have attributed it to his family shows, Saget's dirty persona may have deeper roots than he let on. Unlike many cases here, however, Saget actually enjoyed the stigma that followed him, just for the shock that appeared on the faces of audience members who didn't know better.
-   Likewise, Saget's _Full House_ co-star, John Stamos, was best known for his role on the show as Uncle Jesse. He grew tired of being in family-friendly TV shows and movies. So he decided to shed this image by auditioning for the raunchiest part he could: the Made-for-TV Movie _Fatal Vows: The Alexandra O'Hara Story_ in which he portrays Nick Pagan, a seemingly nice man who is actually a serial killer and later tries to burn his five-year-old son to death in the bathtub.
    -   After his tenure on _ER_, however, most of his family-friendly stigma is gone. Since then, he's been in a few commercials and has done a few episodes of _Law & Order: Special Victims Unit_. One particular episode he stars in has him as a pig who exploits a multitude of women for sex in order to have copious amounts of children, and he sweet-talks them out of whatever job they may have.
-   German-Austrian actress Rosemarie Magdalena Albach, aka Romy Schneider, had her career and her private life damaged by playing Rebellious Empress "Sissi" in three blockbuster movies.
-   On the subject of _Sesame Street_ Muppeteers...
    -   Carroll Spinney (Big Bird and Oscar the Grouch) describes a bad encounter in his autobiography. One day, some moron drove onto his lawn, rolled down the window and yelled, "Hey! You the Bird? Do the voice!" Spinney says he wished he could yell "Get the hell off my property!" in Oscar's voice, but instead just silently went inside in case any of his young fans were watching.
    -   Kevin Clash was the Muppeteer of Elmo, Baby Sinclair and numerous others. In 2012, he took a sabbatical from _Sesame Street_ after a young man claimed that the two of them had a sexual relationship when he was 16. Clash did not deny the relationship but claimed it happened after the young man had turned 18. The accuser later withdrew the allegations, but a series of other accusers came forward in its wake. Needless to say, the "sabbatical" has turned into a full-on departure, with Ryan Dillon taking over Muppeteering duties for Elmo since.
-   A big furor was kicked up when Britney Spears' sister Jamie-Lynn got pregnant at age 16. She was the star of Nickelodeon's hit Kid Com _Zoey 101_. It is widely believed that the scandal was responsible for the show not getting a fifth season.
-   Kristen Stewart became a victim of this after photos of her smoking pot outside her house were published. She began as a child actor and then got her big break as Bella Swan in _Twilight_. Knowing how Kristen Stewart and Robert Pattinson feel about their roles as Bella and Edward, it's entirely possible that the reason she didn't take that joint inside is that she was hoping on this trope coming into play. She and Pattinson have admitted that they don't go along with contractual purity because neither would see being dropped from the _Twilight_ series as such a bad thing. She was also probably smart enough to know that she and Pattinson were _the_ faces of the franchise, and could do just about anything except murder or kiddie porn and still be asked back for the next one. Kristen faced similar accusations when rumours came out of an affair between her and the married director of _Snow White & the Huntsman_. Both were dropped from the franchise after the first film, although Kristen herself claims she was still offered scripts and just turned them down. Since then, Kristen has come out as bisexual, embraced a butch lad-ette image, and done mostly independent and foreign films (often with nude scenes), putting her days as the "good girl" Bella firmly behind her. She even got an Oscar nomination for her role in the Princess Diana biopic _Spencer_!
-   _Kamen Rider Blade_ was hit with the news that Tsubaki Takayuki, who played The Hero, had previously appeared in a gay porn film. This was considered quite a black mark and put a question mark over whether he would appear in future nostalgia cash-ins, though he did reappear for _Kamen Rider Decade_ and _Kamen Rider Ex-Aid_'s Gorider special, where he was given a central role in the plot. This can seem odd to outsiders, but Japan has its own Moral Guardians with different but strict standards.
-   A similar incident brewed when it emerged that Hikaru Yamamoto, who plays Akiko in _Kamen Rider Double_, had supposedly posed for scantily-clad pictures. This occurred before the show was broadcast, and the incident died down quickly since it could not be proved that the pictures were of her.
-   Shirley Temple proves this is Older Than Television.
    -   She caused an uproar in the press when was seen drinking, which would've been shocking if not for the fact that she was in her mid 20's at the time. Then again, some states still had alcohol prohibition laws on the books, so this is also a case of Values Dissonance. And speaking of...
    -   At age 17, she escaped what she considered a difficult family by marrying a war hero. That was hardly shocking in 1945. Also not shocking was the fact that the "war hero" tore through her money, beat her black and blue, and used her contacts to land acting jobs, all the while trash-talking her to directors so they wouldn't hire her and she'd have to depend financially on him. Shocking was when she decided she'd had enough and divorced the lout. She was denounced in every pulpit and every fan magazine in America as a filthy homewrecker.
    -   Temple was also a chain smoker into her adulthood, which may have accounted for her death in 2014. She did however hide her smoking habit from the public as that wouldn't set a good example for her fans who might get alienated with the idea of a (former) child actress smoking. Not that there wasn't a scene where she smoked, though.
-   Gabriel Thomson, who plays the uptight and geeky Michael in _My Family_, caused a minor outcry in the UK press when he was arrested for drug possession. He is best known for his role as Sasha in _Enemy at the Gates_ at age 8 and then joining the cast of _My Family_ at 13.
-   Elijah Wood, having played Frodo Baggins, was quick to avoid typecasting by playing a horrible mute cannibal who mounts women's heads on his wall and a listless pothead that tries to manipulate a girl's forgotten feelings because he's that desperate for a date. Oh, and one of the two "Hollywood Phonies" who taze Andy Samberg in the butt in a Lonely Island music video. Of course, he's done films since he was a kid (he played North, for crying out loud), so it's not like typecasting was ever a problem for him.
    -   This may or may not be what Sean Astin (who of course played Sam) was going for when he showed up as CTU Los Angeles' insufferable prick of a new boss.
-   Madeline Zima, best known as the little girl in _The Hand That Rocks the Cradle_ and as youngest child, Grace, on _The Nanny_, later was making out with Hayden Panettiere and punching David Duchovny in the face while fucking him.
-   H.B. Warner and Dorothy Cumming, who played Jesus and the Virgin Mary in the 1927 silent film _The King Of Kings_, were forced by director Cecil B. DeMille to sign agreements stating that they wouldn't take any unsavory film roles during a five year period, in order to protect their "holy" screen images. In addition, DeMille also forbade them from attending ball games, playing cards, going to night clubs, swimming, and riding in convertibles during filming. During filming, DeMille allegedly paid an anonymous woman to leave the country, as she was trying to blackmail Warner over some unknown scandal.
-   Israeli Children Channel presenters are, according to their contract, not allowed to drink in public. This became a bit of a problem (just a bit, as it seems no-one really cared) once when one of them, Dana Frieder, did this a while back.
-   Neal McDonough has a policy that he will not film love scenes of any kind due to his strong Catholic beliefs - he will not kiss any woman who is not his wife. He was even fired from _Scoundrels_ because of it.
-   Christina Ricci began life as a child actress of _Mermaids_, _Addams Family Values_ and _Casper_ fame. As she entered her teen years, she grew sick of doing children's films and starred in three very dark projects to break that image: _The Ice Storm_ (where she has a threesome), _Buffalo '66_ (which has her providing Male Gazey Fanservice) and _The Opposite of Sex_ (where she's an outright Fille Fatale who pulls off The Baby Trap and steals the ashes of her brother's boyfriend). It worked and helped her transition to serious roles.
-   Devon Sawa (who starred alongside Christina Ricci in _Now and Then_ and _Casper_ in the 90s) became a teen heartthrob and said it was hard to transition out of those roles - so he opted to take 'weird' roles just to shake it off. Among those included _Idle Hands_, _Final Destination_ and the Eminem video for "Stan" (where he plays the titular Loony Fan ).
-   According to the documentary _Becoming Bond_, one of the reasons George Lazenby turned down starring in further Bond films was that he would have had to sign what he called a "slave contract" that would essentially dictate his image and behaviour offset during the production of the next _seven_ proposed films.
-   Similarly Sean Connery lobbied for a role in Alfred Hitchcock's _Marnie_ - playing an obsessive borderline stalker who rapes the titular Marnie on their wedding night - to break out of his James Bond good guy typecasting.
-   Julia Roberts ended up as America's wholesome good girl in the 90s (ironically after her Star-Making Role was a prostitute in _Pretty Woman_). In the film _Flatliners_ her character was originally supposed to have had an affair with a college professor and blackmailed him. But people were worried that it would harm Julia's wholesome image, so that plot point was dropped. She did attempt to do a less squeaky-clean role in _Mary Reilly_ - which has repressed Victorian sexuality as a major theme (though is still quite tame when it comes to nudity) - but it wasn't a great success. She did manage to play against type to critical acclaim in _Closer_ and as she became too old to be The Ingenue, this is less of a problem nowadays (she also played a Vain Sorceress in _Mirror, Mirror_).
-   Ariana Grande got her start in Kid Coms, and hated that her first single _Put Your Hearts Up_ because of Executive Meddling aiming it at the tween fans who would have watched her in _Victorious_ - whereas she wanted her music to be aimed at a more mature audience. She's gradually taken her music and image in a Hotter and Sexier direction - as well as starring in the R-rated horror comedy series _Scream Queens (2015)_ - yet maintains a fan base of tweens and teenagers.
-   This is a talking point in _Showbiz Kids_, a documentary about childhood stardom. Evan Rachel Wood and Milla Jovovich talk about how difficult it is to explore your sexuality as a child star because of the public image you have to maintain. Cameron Boyce, who rose to fame under Disney's watchful eye, even hesitates to cuss at first.
-   It's mostly forgotten now, but Kate Beckinsale got her start playing English Roses in period dramas. Taking Action Girl roles in _Underworld (2003)_ and _Van Helsing_ was specifically to get out of that image. Years later, she said it worked a little too well and led to people thinking of her as a generic action star - and she caused lots of surprise in 2016 when she headlined an adaptation of Jane Austen's _Lady Susan_ called _Love & Friendship_.
-   Neve Campbell in the late 90s was typecast as a Girl Next Door thanks to _Party of Five_ and, while she was also known for the _Scream_ franchise, it was as its resident Final Girl. When the script for _Wild Things_ came along, she did it specifically to get away from that wholesome image, despite her agents' apprehension. However, despite the nudity, she used a body double. She would later appear nude in another sexual role (_When Will I Be Loved?_) but it was long after her Teen Idol hype had died down and its arthouse nature meant not many people remember it.
-   Dorothy Malone got fame in the 1940s and 50s for the on-screen person of (to quote the lady herself) "the all-American girl watching the all-American boy do all sorts of things". She opted to shed her good girl image in the middle of the 50s by dyeing her hair platinum blonde and playing a nymphomaniac in _Written on the Wind_. It actually got her a Best Actress win at the Oscars, and led to more substantial parts.
-   This happened twice with actors on _Mister Rogers' Neighborhood_:
    -   This was a reason that Rogers didn't let Betty Aberlin star in _Night of the Living Dead_, a film by his protégé George A. Romero, who had actually directed a segment for the show. Note that his personal protectiveness did not extent to the film itself; when Romero screened it to his mentor, the sweet, harmless Pennsylvania minister was delighted with his protégé's gory, nihilistic horror film and told Romero it was great fun.
    -   Rogers also discouraged François Clemmons from going out to gay bars or being open about his sexuality, although he was personally very affirming of gay people. Clemmons (who's now publicly out) has said in interviews that he doesn't bear any ill will for this or think it diminishes Mr. Rogers' message of acceptance at all; societal attitudes toward homosexuality were very different in The '60s, and being openly gay could have been a serious risk to Clemmons' career or even personal safety. Moreover, it _unquestionably_ would've made the show a target during its more fragile early years (when Fred had to fight for PBS funding to start with!) and might well have put Fred in a position of being forced by pressure to fire Clemmons.

Inversions

There are some notable aversions and inversions, where the actor or actress's first role (or at least breakout role) is in a decidedly adult production, only for them to move onto more family-friendly fare. Compare Bleached Underpants, Rated G for Gangsta.

-   Jean Harlow initially became famous as a Shameless Fanservice Girl in The Pre-Code Era - with a public reputation as a 'floozy'. When the Hays Code cracked down on immoral content in movies, her image was tweaked to become more of a Dumb Blonde. The studio tried to enforce this with images of her doing charity work to seem like a more wholesome All-American type.
-   Tallulah Bankhead ran afoul of this in 1930s Hollywood. She was known for her Hard-Drinking Party Girl persona when she got fame for her stage work in the UK, and caused a minor scandal during her brief film career; in a magazine interview, she declared "I WANT A MAN! I told you, I haven't had an affair in six months". Backlash from the censorship office, the studio and even her own family led to her issuing a retraction (though no one believed it). While she was promoted as a sultry vamp like Greta Garbo or Marlene Dietrich, it was noted that they were able to get away with much more because they were European and Tallulah was American. Disliking the politics of Hollywood and the filmmaking process, she returned to the stage to enjoy more success. She did however appear in a few films in the 1940s, most notably Alfred Hitchcock's _Lifeboat_.
-   The exact opposite of this trope happened when Linda Blair, who played Regan in _The Exorcist_, tried to break into romantic comedies. After scaring the living daylights out of America, people had a hard time taking her seriously in lighter roles. She did manage a recurring role in the S Club 7 TV series as the band's quirky landlady - although it was twenty years after her horror days.
-   Jennifer Connelly's first leading role was in Dario Argento's _Phenomena_ making her roles in movies such as _Requiem for a Dream_ not that drastic a change.
-   Kirsten Dunst is another notable aversion who made her breakout role as a child vampire in the _distinctly_ family-unfriendly _Interview with the Vampire_ at the age of 12. She broke out of the "cute fluffy blonde" image as Lux in _The Virgin Suicides_ (she was 16 during filming) after doing some children's movies and the odd teen flick. In her twenties, she admitted to occasionally smoking weed and drinking too much. This doesn't seem to have caused much outrage except among a few fringe loonies who can't distinguish Dunst from Mary Jane Watson.
-   The trope was played in reverse with Bradley James and Katie McGrath. Both starred in the family-friendly _Merlin_, but their first television roles involved the former having sex in a toilet cubicle and the latter being taken from behind by Henry VIII.
-   Heather Matarazzo, like Connelly, also started acting at thirteen, her breakout role being in the ultra-dark cult classic _Welcome to the Dollhouse_. This made her death by vampire in _Hostel Part II_ not quite as shocking.
-   Chloë Grace Moretz's breakthrough role was playing Hit-Girl in the film adaptation of _Kick-Ass_. Most people's introduction to the then-twelve-year-old actress came through a preview clip in which she says "okay, you cunts, let's see what you can do now" before violently slaughtering a horde of mooks, a clip that provoked outrage from Moral Guardians and the press. As such, she had no problem transitioning into adult roles once she grew up, moving between dark dramas about conversion therapy and animated family comedies without any whiplash. It helps that, in real life, Moretz is extremely straight-laced. At the time, she couldn't even bring herself to say the title of _Kick-Ass_ out loud, instead calling it just "the film" during interviews and "Kick-Butt" in private, and as an adult, she's become known for her outspoken feminist views.
-   Natalie Portman has been playing family-unfriendly roles for most of her career such as an assassin's young apprentice in _The Professional_ and as a stripper in _Closer_ respectively. But because of her stint in the _Star Wars_ Prequel Trilogy as the doomed love interest of Darth Vader, her general avoidance of partying, and her Harvard degree, she is seen as a good role model for young girls. She then parodied this in the _Saturday Night Live_ sketch "Natalie's Rap", in which she reveals through rap that she drinks, does drugs, has promiscuous sex, enjoys killing and beating people (and dogs) for fun, and has a general disdain for her younger fans.
-   This trope was double subverted by Meg Ryan, who played a number of sexy and borderline-dark characters early in her career, like Donna Caldwell in _The Presidio_. However, in The '90s, she became known almost solely for her cute and perky roles in romantic comedies — to the point where there was considerable audience backlash whenever she tried to return to her dramatic roots in films like _City of Angels_ and _In the Cut_.
-   Another inversion is Kathleen Turner, who gained early prominence with steamy roles in films like _Body Heat_, but then shifted almost entirely into lighter, fluffier fare like _Peggy Sue Got Married_ and _Romancing the Stone_.
-   Brazilian model Xuxa (show-name; her real name is Maria da Graça Meneghel) started her career with naked pictorials and softcore porn movies. Then she became that country's biggest children's TV hostess. Unlike most of the people on this list, she's never seemed to make any bones about her pornographic past, even making statements to the effect that "sex symbols and children go hand in hand." That said, she did sue Google and various other sites to block search results for one film in particular, _Amor Estranho Amor_, namely because it has a scene where she _seduces a 12-year-old boy_ while dressed as a teddy bear (said outfit having about the same amount of cloth as one, even). The Google suit has failed.
-   Drew Barrymore zig-zagged through this. She began her career as a child star in films such as _E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial_ and _Firestarter_ but soon became infamous for rampant drug problems before she was even a teenager. She still worked in the industry, however, and the film _Poison Ivy_ was essentially her playing on the public's perception of her. After getting sober in the '90s, she carved out a career as a respected adult actress - in films that were far more squeaky clean like _Never Been Kissed_, _Ever After_, _The Wedding Singer_, etc.
-   A zigzagged case can be found for Former Child Star Mara Wilson. She first gained fame as the younger daughter character in _Mrs. Doubtfire_, but played (mostly) family-friendly roles in films such as _A Simple Wish_, _Matilda_ (as the title character) and _Thomas and the Magic Railroad_, her final movie. She retired from acting at the age of 13 in 2000, graduated from college while studying drama, and is as of 2023 a blogger, playwright, novelist, memoirist, voice actor (most notably in _Welcome to Night Vale_, _BoJack Horseman_, and _Big Hero 6: The Series_), and volunteer social worker in New York City. Despite being in her late twenties, and having not been in any kind of acting role outside of online web project and college stage acting, she often receives (online and in person) negative comments from many fans that their childhoods were ruined regarding how her figure filled out in the years since she left Hollywood, and commentary about her often profane language, liberal outspokenness and more adult humor on her website, Twitter account and writings. She has also expressed some horror that journalists reviewing the Broadway musical version of _Matilda_ recommended fans of the musical see a performance of her play, _Sheeple_, emphasizing that the play is _not_ for kids. In her 2016 autobiography she revealed that her parents had a rule that she could only do family-friendly films while she was still a child<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . She also describes a very straight example from when she and a group of other child actors were part of a charity camping trip - and they got punished for playing Spin The Bottle in their tent. It apparently made the organization look bad to be seen doing such a thing.

-   The actresses of Takarazuka Revue are expected to adhere to the Music School's <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  "pure, proper, beautiful" motto. Beside the standards of this trope (think Disney but stricter), they can't openly be in a relationship or marry while in the troupe. While much of Zuka's bread and butter is homoerotic subtext and LGBT+ characters <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , and young girls having crushes on _seito_ (Zuka actresses, lit. "students") are considered normal, the founder believes that the fans should grow out of said crushes and the actresses should go on to be "good wives and wise mothers" after their graduation from the Revue.
-   Jessica Biel later inverted the trope after playing it straight (see above). In order to break out of Ms. Fanservice or Action Girl typecasting, she drove to an audition for _The Illusionist (2006)_ in full 19th century costume and won the part of an Austrian Proper Lady. She was later able to appear in the period piece _Easy Virtue_.
-   Blake Lively previously was cast as sexy blondes in _Accepted_, _The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants_, and of course _Gossip Girl_. She finally won over critics with a more wholesome turn in _The Age of Adaline_.
-   Paris Hilton got fame for a sex tape scandal, risque roles such as _House of Wax (2005)_ (where she does a sexy strip tease), and her two music videos providing lots of Fanservice. In The New '10s she re-emerged with a slightly more conservative image with entrepreneurial pursuits in fashion, a career as a DJ, and her work lobbying against the "troubled teen" industry. She admits that her earlier persona was a form of Alter-Ego Acting to get fame, and sought to reinvent herself in her 30s.

    Animators 

-   Robert Crumb, one of America's edgiest, most perverted cartoonists, said that drawing cute things became a "curse" that he could never completely shake, not in terms of his audience but as something that has pervaded his own personal artistic style. Considering the spectacular depth and intensity of Crumb's perversity, this revelation was shocking in and of itself and pretty much confirms the truth of this trope.

    Athletes 

In general, sports stars are often forced to act as "role models" to an even greater degree than most celebrities are.

-   Charles Barkley famously used this stigma to great effect in a Nike commercial that began with him saying, "I am not a role model." The Moral Guardians that protested the commercial apparently skipped the second half of the ad, where Barkley expands on this: "_Parents_ should be role models. I get paid to play basketball, _not_ to raise your kids."
    -   To be fair, some versions of the commercial cut the second half, so it looks like he really is abdicating any responsibility without assigning it to the parents.
-   In a book about Joe Namath, the author relates how he and Joe were in an elevator and Joe was drinking from a beer bottle. When the elevator arrived at their floor, Joe saw some kids and had to stash the bottle under his shirt.
-   Olympic swimming hero Michael Phelps had a photo of him partaking of a bong (which technically could have had something like tobacco... oh, who are we kidding?), was plastered all over the Internet. He was banned from national competition for three months and Kellogg's dropped him from their sponsorship list. He _did_ dodge the big Olympic-sized bullet as the rules are only about "performance-**enhancing**" drugs<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  _during competition_.
    -   Also, he was in Ann Arbor, Michigan. You know, the city where the local campus hosts a "Hash Bash" every year on its central quad (the Diag), and where getting caught with marijuana is a civil infraction — no worse than a _parking ticket_.
-   This seemed about to happen (or at least some people seemed to be trying to make it an issue) following the Women's hockey final at the 2010 Winter Olympics when, after the game, the Canadian team were photographed doing such "unladylike" things in celebration after the arena had emptied such as smoking big stogies, enjoying beer and champagne, and goofing off driving the Zamboni around the rink while whooping it up. Members of the International Olympic Committee (who don't really like women's hockey being an event, to begin with) tut-tutted in disapproval and made noises about considering whether Canada should keep the gold medal. Most of the public and the Canadian reps pointed out that had the _male_ hockey players been seen celebrating after what was for some the biggest game of their lives no one would have said anything. The image of IOC president Jacques Rogge being tarred, feathered, and hung from a totem pole in Stanley Park probably had nothing to do with the matter being dropped.
-   Tiger Woods had his career wrecked virtually overnight (although it didn't last that long) when various parties revealed that he had a long and colorful secret love life after years of being presented as a role model for all ages.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   Baseball Hall of Famer Kirby Puckett's long-established "good guy" image was forever ruined when in September 2002, he was arrested for allegedly groping a woman in a restroom in the Redstone American Grill in Eden Prairie, Minnesota. To make matters worse, a 2003 _Sports Illustrated_ article from Frank Deford documented Puckett's alleged indiscretions (such as cheating on his wife and being all-around abusive to her).
-   In an interesting aversion, baseball great Stan "The Man" Musial cultivated Contractual Purity when he started playing for the St. Louis Cardinals in the 1940s and never broke it for the rest of his life. He stated that he _did_ see himself as a role model and strove to be one. He was 92 years old at the time of death and St. Louisans still absolutely adore him — so much that they campaigned for him to receive the Presidential Medal of Freedom and he did receive it in January 2011. While this was wonderful for Stan, it's impossible for any other Cardinal (or any player) to live up to. Of course, it was probably easier to live life as a role model before the invasive modern celebrity culture had developed.
    -   Albert Pujols was also the victim of this trope when he signed with the Los Angeles Angels for a 10-year $250 million contract. Fans had essentially determined that Albert was Stan's successor (and in a lot of ways he is/was: both are/were family men, philanthropists, etc.), and since Stan never left St. Louis, Albert is obviously the worst traitor in the history of traitors ever for doing so. Some Cardinals fans burned their Pujols jerseys and others (mostly older fans) turned the whole thing into a morality play and immediately started going on about Stan and the good ol' days. A few people took the time to understand why the whole things actually happened, though.
    -   As for Pujols' predecessor at first base for the Cardinals, Mark McGwire, he along with a great many baseball players (including Sammy Sosa and Barry Bonds) forever lost their "role model" status when their links to steroids were uncovered. McGwire himself was actually upfront about one steroid he had done, androstenedione, which despite being banned by the World Anti-Doping Agency, was at the time available over-the-counter and _not_ banned by MLB.
-   American track star Suzy Favor Hamilton, back when she was Suzy Favor, was one of the most decorated athletes in NCAA history at the University of Wisconsin, and eventually ran in three Olympic marathons. She had built a career as a motivational speaker, and the Big Ten Conference named its annual award for its top female athlete after her. Then it was discovered that she worked as a call girl, which torpedoed her career, and led the Big Ten to strip her name from the award (pun not intended).
-   This was the reason why Neversoft decided to focus solely on the player character in _Tony Hawk's Underground_ instead of the pro skaters in previous games as some of the criminal acts made by the player character would not bode well with Tony and his contemporaries' public images; this was rendered moot point when Tony's video game persona would be portrayed as participating in Bam Margera's _Jackass_ antics at least to a degree.

    Musicians 

-   The Beatles had something of a (relatively) clean-cut, madcap, teen-friendly "mop-top" image, and were a youthful breath of fresh air in America following the JFK assassination. They were advised to stay away from politics and kept much of the rougher aspects of their personalities and humor (and burgeoning marijuana use) under wraps. Then came John Lennon's "more popular than Jesus" misquote, and later Paul's admission in the British press of trying LSD. Though it took a toll on their "Beatlemania" image, the changing times, their refusal to tour, and their psychedelic, facial hair-wearing period would soon follow with _Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band_. They would be Growing the Beard in more ways than one. By the late '60s, the group would develop a more serious image for the rest of their careers.
    -   It went the other way in their own country. From the moment they emerged into the public consciousness, the Beatles were seen in the media as corrupting the morals of British youth. With their (comparatively) long hair and snarky image, they were quite unlike the clean-cut would-be home-made Elvis clones that came before, like Cliff Richard, Tommy Steele, Marty Wilde, or Billy Fury, whom one could comfortably take home to tea with one's mother despite those rebellious stage names. By the time the Beatles had hit America, however, The Rolling Stones (and, heaven forbid, The Pretty Things) had emerged and one's mother could then accept the Beatles as cuddly.
-   Bone Thugs-n-Harmony after _Tha Crossroads_, much to the chagrin of fans that prefer their darker, harder stuff.
-   Charlotte Church began her career aged 12 as a classical singer with a squeaky-clean image that played on her background from a Catholic family in Wales. As a teenager, she was photographed smoking, drinking and going to clubs; and stated repeatedly that she wanted to shed her "choir girl" image, to criticism from fans and the press. She also made offensive comments about Pope Benedict XVI, frequently swore in interviews and engaged in a public feud with the pop group Scooch. She did eventually release a moderately successful pop/rock album and is now better known as a TV presenter and the ex-girlfriend of rugby player Gavin Henson. Church addressed the problems of this trope herself in her statement to the Leveson Inquiry regarding phone-hacking by journalists.
    -   The thing about this (and a large part of her contribution to the Leveson Inquiry) is that while half the press condemned her for doing anything not sweet and innocent, the other half had a countdown to her 16th birthday.
-   The band Evanescence was originally considered a Christian Rock band, and their albums sold in Christian book and music stores. Early on, they began stressing in interviews they did not want to be considered a Christian band, and their label asked Christian music stores to stop selling their CDs. It was probably a wise strategy since it's unlikely an artist strongly affiliated with the contemporary Christian music scene could have sold 15 million albums worldwide.
-   In general, Christian Rock bands that tour with secular bands that include anything remotely resembling strong language in their lyrics (not just profanity, but lyrics that are "too dark"), drink alcohol (even offstage) or endorse "liberal" (read: not unambiguously right-wing) viewpoints will be accused of betraying the scene/faith by Moral Guardians.
    -   A perfect example of this is the soul-metal band King's X, which, despite always denying that they were a Christian Rock band, picked up a large Christian fanbase in the '90s due to their religious beliefs and their vaguely spiritual lyrics. Then frontman Doug Pinnick came out as being gay, and suddenly their fanbase condemned them as "traitors" to the Christian rock scene.
    -   A less extreme but still notable example is Amy Grant, who garners a lot of flack from the Christian music scene for drinking and occasionally swearing.
    -   The alternative band Adam Again garnered controversy in the Christian music world in the late 1980s, not because of the content of their lyrics, but because singer Riki Michele _danced onstage_ during their concerts. Her dancing wasn't even suggestive, and was comparable to the kind of stage movements that secular alt-rockers like Natalie Merchant and Michael Stipe were doing at the same time, but dancing _at all_ was still considered controversial in some particularly conservative Christian circles.
-   Believe it or not, Elton John got hit with this in 1976, when he identified himself as bisexual in an interview with _Rolling Stone_ magazine and basically sabotaged his status as a Teen Idol at the height of his fame. Everything turned out okay, though.
-   This happened to MC Hammer when he tried to get a tougher image. The irony: earlier in Hammer's career (before the mainstream success), he _was_ a hardcore rapper. He later crossed over with a more dance-oriented sound, which was given note in the Ice Cube diss track "True To The Game".
-   Rapper Nelly arguably damaged his mainstream career by making the "Tip Drill" video. Before it came out, Nelly was being groomed to be like the next Will Smith (but with more street cred), as a rapper who had mass appeal and wasn't like the other hardcore gritty rappers in the mainstream. So now there's this huge backlash and Nelly's career seemed defined by that raunchy vid. It arguably sapped his career's momentum.
-   Jo O'Meara, formerly of the squeaky-clean pop group S Club 7, got this in 2007 when she appeared on _Celebrity Big Brother_ and was accused of racism towards fellow contestant Shilpa Shetty. Also happened to her bandmates Bradley McIntosh, Jon Lee and Paul Cattermole while they were still in the band after they were cautioned for drug possession. Notably averted by Rachel Stevens, who has successfully moved onto her own pop career with a sexier image; and Hannah Spearritt, now better known for TV's _Primeval_.
-   Jessica Simpson started out as a Christian pop singer with a clean and innocent public persona — she even taped down her breasts for performances because her promoters felt that invoking Buxom Beauty Standard would hurt her 'good girl' image. When she became a mainstream pop star, her record company convinced her to adopt a sexier image. Simpson then started wearing more revealing clothes in public, posed for magazines such as _Maxim_, and played Daisy Duke in _The Dukes of Hazzard_ film. The change in image from "squeaky-clean gospel singer" to "mainstream sex symbol" did not sit well with some of her fans, and she was accused by many of being a bad role model.
-   Taylor Swift has openly stated she believes in this trope and that she has a responsibility to her younger fans. Here's a clip from her interview with  with _60 Minutes_ where she discusses it.
    
    **Swift**: It'd be really easy to say, "I'm 21 now. I do what I want. You raise your kid." But that's not the truth of it. The truth of it is that every singer out there with songs on the radio is raising the next generation, so make your words count.
    
-   Linkin Park received some flak from Moral Guardians when they began using profanity on their album _Minutes to Midnight_. Their first two albums, _Hybrid Theory_ and _Meteora_, were notably G-rated in comparison to the band's Nu Metal peers.
-   Subverted with Justin Bieber, whose 2013-14 period of weird tabloid antics had gotten him flak from the Moral Guardians and late night comedians alike. To wit: getting caught leaving a brothel in Rio de Janeiro; being filmed sleeping by a Brazilian prostitute he hired; constantly missing, canceling, or showing up hours late for shows and meet-and-greets with his young fans; getting caught spraying graffiti (graffiti showing his support of convicted felon and girlfriend-beater Chris Brown) in Colombia; abandoning his pet monkey in Germany; desecrating the Argentinian flag onstage (an offense punishable by imprisonment in Argentina); getting into a fight with a British paparazzo; smoking marijuana; reckless driving; public urination (while inexplicably shouting "FUCK BILL CLINTON"); writing that he hoped Anne Frank would have been a fan of his after visiting the Anne Frank House, and showing up in baggy overalls and a baseball cap to meet the Prime Minister of Canada. Between all this and the fact that Bieber is coming of age and a new teen phenomenon from across the pond has already toppled him from his throne, it sounds like his career should be Deader than Dead at this point. But he eventually shook this image off and experienced a Career Resurrection.
-   Speaking of One Direction, Moral Guardians seem to be invoking this almost instantaneously over them following a newspaper's release of two of them smoking marijuana.
-   This applies to most Korean and Japanese pop idol groups and idol singers, mostly as regards to girls but can also apply to guys. The entire point of the "idol" (アイドル, _aidoru_) phenomenon is to present an image of innocence, purity, and _availability_, so as to play to their fans' fantasies. Ironically this means idols are meant to be naive and pure but at the same time are sexualized for these very traits. It also means a great outcry usually follows whenever an idol gets caught doing anything that breaks that ideal, from smoking to even just _dating_. The discovery that an idol has a boyfriend can end their career. This is also why anyone who does a sexy or rebellious concept often gets much flack from both fans and the public. Some idols get to grow out of it without much criticism, others are expected to remain pure their whole careers (even when they are in their _20s or near 30s_).
    -   A particular infamous example is female Korean soloist IU, the "Nation's Little Sister", who received massive backlash after uploading (accidentally or not) and deleting a selfie of herself in pajamas along with a topless Eunhyuk (of Super Junior) at her house, implying not only they dated but that they had sex. She luckily managed to avert it later with her next album, which was quite successful and won back most of the public's respect.
    -   In 2013, AKB48 member Minami Minegishi was caught leaving the house of a member of Japanese boy band EXILE. AKB fans<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  were _pissed_, so much so that she shaved her head (a symbol of remorse in Japan) and made a tearful apology video begging not to be kicked out of the group. She was instead demoted to the Kenkyusei (trainee) unit. The whole thing was fairly controversial, sparking no shortage of moral debates. These days, she's pretty much back to star status.
-   Australian singer/actor Jason Donovan suffered from this trope. He first was a clean-cut actor/singer who was loved by a lot of teenage girls across the world (mostly in the UK) and "Jasonmania" began to rise. He was squeaky clean throughout his career, until 1992, when he realised that he was going too far with his innocence when he actually wanted to be "cool", and he ended up getting into a drug addiction and decided to become a mature singer by making and releasing his fourth album with Polydor called "All Around the World". To make a long story short, fans that were used to his clean image didn't like his new image. It didn't help that he sued a magazine months later for accusing him of lying about his sexuality and being a hypocrite (he was actually right,the accusations were actually untrue), thus making a majority of his fans undeservingly turn their backs at him.Thankfully, the encounter between him and his wife and the birth of his first daughter let him have a chance to clean himself up again and lead a normal and decent life.
-   Similar to her ex-boyfriend Jason Donovan, Kylie Minogue also used to be a clean-cut singer/actress, but then matured and gained a sexual image, much to the dismay of her fans. Although, she has lead a normal and decent life throughout the 90's, unlike Donovan.
-   Billie Eilish gained fame in The New '10s for her modest image, known for baggy clothes and a Tomboyish appearance. Naturally Moral Guardians held her up as a 'better' role model for young girls in comparison to pop stars with more sexual images (never mind that her songs can be quite dark and not necessarily appropriate for children). In 2021, she caused a sensation by appearing on the cover of _Vogue_, wearing a corset and with a Girliness Upgrade. British tabloid _The Daily Mail_ ran a headline about her "selling out", but were swiftly refuted as Billie outlined that she was regaining autonomy of her own body.
    
    "Suddenly, you're a hypocrite if you want to show your skin, and you're easy, and you're a slut."
    
-   Because Amy Grant is a Christian artist, she got in trouble for dressing in low-cut clothing and singing secular love songs, as well as defending her outfit choices by saying "Christians can be sexy." This caused a major uproar in the Christian music community, though since crossing over, she has continued to balance Christian and secular material.
-   In his 2015 autobiography, Ed Sheeran states that if he was caught smoking, it would not be a big deal because of his mature public image, yet if One Direction was caught smoking, it would be world news because of the scrutiny they faced as a boy band. Though Sheeran's music isn't all that kid-friendly anyway because of references to sex, smoking, and drinking, some of his tamer songs, especially "Thinking Out Loud" and "Perfect" played on Radio Disney and he promised to stop swearing on his albums after finding out that he had young children who were fans. He no longer swears on stage because of the wide audience he draws, not even in between-song banter.
-   While laughable to think of now, Eminem had a small following in Detroit for his earthy but upbeat raps about going through the hardships of life with your family, friends and Christianity to keep you going. After realising it was a creative dead end, having a Creator Breakdown, and channelling it into a new Horrorcore image and songs about doing smack and raping women, this small following mostly abandoned him, resulting in a lot of weird and silly diss tracks from Christian rappers in Detroit accusing him of being claimed by Satan. He was, however, able to attract a much, _much_ larger following of people who had thought the old material was overly earnest and wack. As in, "biggest selling recording artist of the 21st Century" larger.
-   Canadian singer Skye Sweetnam first emerged in the 2000s as a Teen Pop singer performing the kind of Pop Punk made for the Disney Channel and teen dramas. After hitting adulthood and outgrowing teen pop, she set out to record a more mature third album, only for her and her writing partner Matt Drake to realize that her lyrics had gotten a lot darker than they expected. As a result, she pivoted hard into a much more hard-edged sound and Hotter and Sexier image, becoming the frontwoman of the metal band Sumo Cyco with the stage name "Sever". She only rarely acknowledges her old solo career, and even recorded a video in which Sever kidnaps Skye.

    Professional Wrestlers 

-   The face of WWE John Cena has stated in the past that this is pretty much the sole reason that it would be difficult for him to become a villain. He enjoys the charity work that he does, and it would be difficult for him and the WWE to give it up without a replacement handy. This trope was also the reason there was such a scandal over him getting divorced from his wife. Because Super Cena isn't supposed to have marriage problems like a normal guy. Notably his former girlfriend and fiancée Nikki Bella had to sign an NDA when entering their relationship, and thus the chapter in her autobiography detailing it is left incredibly vague.
-   Cameron frets over this on an episode of the reality show _Total Divas_. She considered getting a boob job, being unhappy with her current size. She ultimately decided against the surgery because she was afraid it would send a bad message to younger fans.
-   Molly Holly speaks against this trope in her shoot interview. As she was a Christian in real life, many dirtsheets 'reported' that she left WWE because they wanted her to "play the T&A card" - and apparently disliked the Fanservice heavy Diva Search contests. Molly said she wasn't bothered by T&A, describing it as "a part of show business". Fans also seem to forget that she still participated in plenty of bikini shoots during her time in the company. She did, however, tell WWE when they hired her that she wouldn't do risque storylines - so she was portrayed as a Token Wholesome amongst the other sexualised Divas.
-   Lita similarly may have had this trope in mind. She said one of the reasons she refused to pose for _Playboy_ was because she had so many young girls as fans. Indeed many of the next generation WWE Divas cite Lita as their idol when they were younger and she reportedly would receive so many presents from fans at events that she wouldn't be able to take all them with her — so she may have had a point. Of course, she still had no problem with going out on TV with her thong showing and removing her top during matches so it's likely she wasn't that concerned with purity per se. When she turned heel on TV and became Hotter and Sexier (including a live sex celebration on _Raw_) the majority of fans hated her guts in real life so it wouldn't have mattered what she did. The live sex celebration however, was something she was forced into and didn't want to do.
-   Terri Runnels also turned down an offer to pose for _Playboy_ because she didn't want to harm her daughter's reputation. Years later, she had this conversation with her daughter, who assured her she would have loved and respected her anyway.
-   In late 2010 WWE signed 7 ft wrestler Isis The Amazon and advertised her for NXT Season 3. When it was found that she had erotic fetish photos online, she was removed from the competition and later released.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Ironically her replacement Kaitlyn also had erotic photos online and never faced any backlash from it.
-   WWE seems to flip-flop on the issue of racy photos. Some Divas such as Mickie James and Candice Michelle did softcore porn in the past but it never affected their standing on TV. Mickie especially was pushed as a Token Wholesome during the PG Era (though her character did begin as a Psycho Lesbian). Likewise, Gail Kim was rehired during the PG Era, despite having done topless photos for a Korean cell phone company. Eva Marie also worries about it on an episode of _Total Divas_ when racy pictures are found from her past. Some nude selfies of both Paige and Dana Brooke have been discovered online, but neither woman has suffered any known consequences for them. Lana did some nude scenes and photoshoots from her modeling and acting days, but no one at WWE seems to have cared.
-   Serena Deeb was abruptly released from WWE while in the middle of a red-hot storyline. The reason was that the company was annoyed at her being seen drinking and getting rowdy in public - when she was supposed to be playing a Straight Edge character on TV.
-   In their 2012 shoot interview the Bella Twins talked about how scared they were of breaking PG when they first debuted (they were called up right as the PG switch happened). As Nikki put it, "we were like the G-girls" and said they didn't want to alienate their kid fanbase. Nikki accidentally broke PG when she did some sexy gestures coming out with Miz and Morrison (forgetting their entrance was in slow motion) - and was reprimanded by Stephanie. The twins eventually avoided this and became Hotter and Sexier after their Face–Heel Turn. Nikki Bella also got breast implants, though it was after they had left WWE. Brie Bella did have to apologise in 2013 after suffering a Wardrobe Malfunction on Raw.
-   WWE Diva Ashley Massaro caused a bit of a scandal in mid-2008 when she was linked with a high-quality escort service. Although she was released that year, she still appeared on TV twice after the story broke - and claimed that she had asked for her release to care for her sick daughter. Also, the One-Steve Limit may have come into play - as reports surfaced that it could have been a second Ashley Massaro, a Las Vegas-based bikini model.
-   WWE's policy actually doesn't mind a Diva having done racy pictures in the past - as long as said Diva discloses them to the company. However, the company frowns upon women using Amazon Wish Lists<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and grooming of male fans. It's said to be up there with public drunken behaviour and drug use.
-   It was widely speculated before being flat out stated by Triple H himself that the main reason why Chyna was long kept out of the Hall of Fame, and wasn't asked to do one-off appearances, was because of her porn career, rather than her frosty relationship with the McMahons (especially with Stephanie, Hunter's wife). In fact, many HOF inductees don't have the best relationship with them (i.e. Bruno Sammartino), but Chyna was such a train wreck that not even Vince, who is always willing to put aside a grudge for the sake of entertainment, would let her anywhere near the WWE in any capacity. After she passed away, WWE seemed open to letting her into the Hall of Fame, and she would ultimately be inducted in 2019 as part of DX.
-   Kelly Kelly may have invoked this in order to get released by the company. She wanted to take a hiatus from wrestling, but the company would not release her. She took part in a rather racy photoshoot for a calendar and put some of the photos up on her website. The office ordered her to take them down (as WWE is PG) but she refused - and they finally released her.
-   Trish Stratus did some rather risque photos in her fitness modeling days but toned down her shoots as her wrestling career took off. Likewise, her outfits became a little more modest and she repeatedly refused to pose for _Playboy_. She's said this is because she wanted to be remembered for her wrestling rather than being Best Known for the Fanservice. She's also said that she can be sexy with her clothes on.

-   WWE implemented a policy around 2006-2007 stating that no talent under the age of 21 was allowed to be called up to the main roster. This was primarily in response to the antics of both Kelly Kelly and Kenny Dykstra (19 and 20, respectively), both of whom were avid partiers at the time. While this was before the transition to PG, it nonetheless did no favors for the company's image or their characters on TV. Thus, the policy was to ensure that the talent on the road had the general maturity to rein it in and keep these things in mind. About a decade later, WWE amended the policy, stating that no talent under the age of 21 was allowed to be _signed_. No official reasoning was given for the change, but it's speculated that this was in response to several older call-ups who were signed young that displayed immature behavior on the road (such as Paige and Bo Dallas). Any talent that was already signed that technically broke the rule was grandfathered.
-   Seth Rollins was caught in a scandal in early 2015 in which nude photos of both himself and NXT developmental Diva Zahra Schreiber, who was having an affair with Rollins at the time, were leaked online by Rollins' then fiancée, Leighla Schultz. Neither Rollins nor Schreiber were punished for the incident (Rollins even became WWE World Heavyweight Champion shortly after) because it was ultimately a personal matter and they weren't responsible for the photos leaking, though Schreiber was fired a few months later after fans discovered Nazi related images on her Instagram account. She had previously gotten backstage heat for tweeting about texting while driving.
-   Hulk Hogan was considered The All-American Face of the WWF since the mid-1980s, telling children to train hard, eat their vitamins, say their prayers and believe in themselves. In the early 1990s, Hogan was revealed to have taken steroids for at least fifteen years, and was said to have been a Prima Donna who buried other talents that he felt were a threat to his top spot. Then two decades later, he was caught using the N-word multiple times during a sex tape with another man's wife. Even though he got his revenge on the website that released the tape by suing them into bankruptcy, it was a Pyrrhic Victory; his WWE Legends contract was terminated and Hogan himself was unpersoned in the process. Though he would eventually be re-personed three years later<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> .
-   Roman Reigns was all but anointed to succeed to John Cena as the face of the company, much to the despair of the fans. And then he violated the Wellness Policy and got suspended. Obviously, the face of the company cannot have that kind of black mark on his record. He ate three cleans in the space of a month and suffered numerous humiliations — Rollins took numerous shots at him during his suspension while building to the Shield Triple Threat on RAW, his cousins the Usos lifted Dean Ambrose, one of the men who pinned him clean, on their shoulders during Dean's celebration for his win, and Stephanie McMahon verbally eviscerated him live in front of the entire RAW roster for losing the title to SmackDown. It's fairly obvious the company is beginning to de-push him in favor of others, and that Reigns' chances of officially succeeding Cena have gone down immensely. For what it's worth, as of Late 2017, Reigns is well on his way to reclaiming his previous spot.
-   Averted with Asuka. While she has never gone as far to pose nude, she was a well-known Ms. Fanservice in her pre-WWE days, being a Gravure model, releasing a few DVDs and _more than a few_ pictures, portraying a Psycho Lesbian, kissing her fellow female wrestlers, allowing male wrestlers to grope her and even once added a stipulation to a match against Lin Bairon that the loser would have to remove her top and bare their breasts to the audience<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . None of this has stopped her becoming arguably the most dominant female wrestler in WWE history.
-   One of the rumored reasons for Angela Fong getting surprisingly released in 2010 (after being groomed as a future star in FCW) was that WWE didn't like her role in _Ratko: The Dictator’s Son_, even though it was shot before they signed her.
-   Once WWE went PG in 2008, Maria Kanellis was told she wasn't allowed to do the Bronco Buster in the ring (as the move was deemed too suggestive). Maria outlined the hypocrisy in a shoot interview; comparing it to Kim Kardashian still getting to host the Kids' Choice Awards when she had a sex tape online.

    Voice Actors 

-   Lest you think this is purely an American trope, try following any Teen Idol in Japan (even those grown into their twenties!) and you'll see this in spades. If a girl kisses, goes on a date, or heaven forbid, admits to having sex, she is torn apart by rabid fans who are apparently so lonely and hopeless, they can only imagine younger girls as a pristine virginal fantasy and the companies also enforce rules forbidding romantic relationships whatsoever. Anything that shatters that illusion brings on their vicious ire. Yeah, you think America's Moral Guardians are bad, they're still way behind hardcore Japanese Otaku.
    -   An even more extreme example is that when voice actresses were once gravure or porn actresses. The best they could receive is to have no or little future roles. On worst, it would be _outright ban_ from the voice acting industry, like former voice actress Eriko Ishihara (who played Atsuko in _Diamond Daydreams_); she was banned from the voice acting industry in 2004 when news broke that she also was an AV idol while doing voice acting.
    -   Emi Nitta was attacked on the Internet, many netizens accused her of starring in AV which caused many 'fans' to burn merchandise of her and her character Honoka. While the allegations were proven to be un-true, it was said that this scandal took a hit on her career.
    -   Heck, Japanese fans do this to fictional characters too. Probably the most infamous example is _Kannagi: Crazy Shrine Maidens_, where one chapter of the manga hinted that Nagi had a boyfriend once (not that she had sex, just that she was romantic with a guy). Cue angry fans decrying the series and the author, saying "I don't want a second-hand wife", and the author subsequently ending the series for health reasons, which most people believe is the stress she suffered from dealing with said fans. Making it even more bizarre is the fact that Nagi is _hundreds of years old_, and her fans are _still_ outraged that she might have dated a guy at some point during her centuries-long existence.
    -   Although Les Yay and Ho Yay is an exception to the rule. A seiyuu or idol can almost admit they are homosexual or bisexual and no one bats an eye at them. Hitomi Nabatame and Shizuka Itō may be this, though both eventually gotten married outside the industry.
-   Aya Hirano is a magnet for this expectation, yet she's made it clear that she has no intention of living up to it. She was dismissed from her agency when it came out that she'd been sleeping with three of her four bandmates, but she _immediately_ got a new agency and kept her iconic roles. She's taken a fair amount of heat for it from certain fans, but her career is strong enough that she can afford not to care.
-   Tara Strong sometimes tells the story at cons of how she turned down a role in a horror film because it would have required her to be topless for a scene, and she doesn't want her young fans (or perverts) looking up nude photos of her online. Although she doesn't object overmuch to jokes about being a "hot mom" (even by her own kids) and has listened and approved of a song saying she has a "nice badonkadonk", as well as touting vintage dresses from an LA clothier called, appropriately enough, "Stop Staring!" She also says she loved doing voices on _Drawn Together_ because it was different from the family-friendly stuff she was doing at the time.
-   Holly Gauthier-Frankel, best known as the voice of Fern Walters of _Arthur_ and the titular character of _Sagwa, the Chinese Siamese Cat_, was a burlesque performer between 2004 and 2016. Frankel has stated that becoming a burlesque performer actually saved her from depression and an eating disorder.
-   Peter Robbins, the original voice of Charlie Brown, got addicted to drugs and alcohol late in his life.
-   When _SpongeBob SquarePants_ voice actor Rodger Bumpass—who voiced Squidward—was arrested on suspected DUI charges, it was later revealed that the show's cast was under a "morals clause" where they had to set an example of themselves by not doing anything immoral likely so as not to alienate and scar their young fan base; fortunately for Squidward's VA, the DUI incident wasn't considered grounds for termination from the show.

    Other 

-   Walt Disney actually kept himself under this, being quite a chain smoker, to the point where he eventually succumbed to lung cancer, but he made a point of making sure never to be seen smoking in public, as he wanted to project a wholesome personal image.
-   Random House has been trying to enforce this for children's _authors_.
-   Needless to say, most ministers of religion are subject to some very restrictive morality contracts. With Catholic priests and nuns being held to a vow of celibacy; some congregations such as Eastern Catholic churches do allow married clergymen—and are still in full Communion with the Pope. Ministers and Priests of other Christian denominations generally are held to standards of chastity (i.e. no sex before marriage and only having sex with your spouse). However, the more liberal denominations don't judge their clergy's sex life at all.
-   Several of the presenters of UK children's magazine show _Blue Peter_ have fallen afoul of this, with BIG NEWS in the tabloids that some presenters have been caught on camera smoking (_shock!_) or drinking (_**horror!**_).
    -   And Janet Ellis, who was _allegedly_ sacked for being single and pregnant.
    -   Perhaps more reasonably, Richard Bacon was sacked after being caught taking cocaine.
    -   And Peter Duncan was fired for having appeared in a soft porn film. Though in this case, the adult film role in question was one that he did _before_ joining _Blue Peter_; he was fired for not having revealed it to the BBC during his application (although had he done so, he would probably never have been made a presenter in the first place).
    -   Seventies presenter Lesley Judd leapt before she was pushed, knowing it was about to become public knowledge that her lover had left his wife for her. She didn't wait around for the inevitable sacking.
    -   He was brought back for a second stint about a year later, though. His replacement in the meantime was Michael Sundin, whose brevity on the show was _not_ due to having appeared in a gay porn film (he wasn't actually in any of the sex scenes). He wasn't offered a new contract for the simple reason that he wasn't very good at the job.
    -   Right at the very start in the late 1950's, the standards were even stricter: Blue Peter's first presenter Christopher Trace was fired simply because he was getting divorced. This was not seen as desirable _at all_ for a member of a presenting team who were intended to be surrogate parents to the nation's children. This set the tone for Standards: Blue Peter presenters were held to notoriously high expectations for conduct and behaviour ever after.
-   This even happens with _buildings_. Several years ago one blogger posted pictures he'd taken of the house from _A Christmas Story_ and complained about how the owners had made several exterior renovations to the house. The house was auctioned off on eBay in 2004, and the new owners restored the house to the way it looked in the movie and turned it into a museum. In the last few years, the company formed to look after the house allows guests to stay the night, and the interior has been meticulously designed to be a perfect match to its appearance in the film.
-   This is subject to Values Dissonance. Take Argentina, where they have former nude models or actresses hosting children shows, like Laura Franco (AKA Panam), and they don't mind. It helps attract more viewers, like the fathers that watch the show with their children for the Parent Service.
-   This from Not Always Right — as usual, with extra delicious Hypocritical Humor on top.
-   Self-parodied by Ron Howard on both _Saturday Night Live_ and _The Simpsons_. He poked fun at his squeaky-clean image by drinking a beer during his opening _SNL_ monologue and asking Homer to buy him vodka in a _Simpsons_ episode.
    -   SNL flat-out parodied it with a 1982 sketch where Ron is interviewed by Eddie Murphy, who can't see past Ron's past as a child actor, and "just can't picture little Opie Cunningham doin' it."
-   Lauren Conrad of _Laguna Beach_ and _The Hills_. Throughout the "Orange County" franchise, Lauren is characterized as a squeaky-clean aspiring designer who's caught in an innocent and chaste Love Triangle between Jason Wahler (the "bad boy" on the show) and Stephen Colletti (who is the "saint" of the series). In actuality, though, Lauren caught a serious amount of flack from viewers and the media during the third season of _The Hills_ when it was alleged that she made a sex tape with Jason. This happened despite the fact that she was a mid-20's woman at that point, who had grown out of her teenage years. The negative press that spiraled out of this revelation (and the interest by the paparazzi) may have been part of the reason why she eventually left the show.
-   Jim Henson received flak at one point for... dating. Just dating. He was as baffled as you probably are right now, and it got dropped fast.
    -   If it was after he became famous for The Muppets and _Sesame Street_, the flak was probably because he was, you know, married. He and his wife separated for a time but never divorced. So the Moral Guardians may have had a point there. Where he really was frustrated was when he got flak for doing Muppet productions that were not necessarily family-friendly, as, _Sesame Street_ aside, he had created the characters to produce _adult_ shows. The first episode of _The Muppet Show_ is actually titled "Sex and Violence" (though it doesn't really have much of either.)
-   It's not at all unusual to hear about professionals like teachers and newscasters getting fired after posting a sex ad on Craigslist. This becomes Fridge Logic and hypocrisy when you realize that the original accuser would have been _browsing_ the sex ads on Craigslist in order to see it in the first place, barring the occasional case of a Craiglist browser specifically pointing out the ad to Moral Guardians for shits and giggles, not caring that they're ruining someone's career in the process.
-   Often a problem seen on the resumes of female seiyuu, expect to see a lot of fake names for female seiyuu in H-Game works and some like Yuu Asakawa erased her records of working in hentai when she married. Male seiyuus, however, are unabashedly allowed to admit they do Hentai, let it be regular hentai or Boys' Love. But God forbid a popular male seiyuu gets married and have children, as poor Mamoru Miyano found out.
-   Back in the '20s and '30s, the Ford Motor Company enforced this for _factory workers_. Ford had an army of private detectives to spy on employees and ensure that they were living morally clean, upstanding, good Christian lives, free of such sins as adultery, alcoholism, and atheism, under the belief that moral workers were more productive workers. (This is the same reason why big business generally rallied in support of alcohol prohibition at the time.) Failure to follow the Ford morality clause could get workers fired.
    -   This issue was one of the (many) problems that ultimately derailed Fordlândia, Ford's attempt to build a rubber plantation in the Amazon in order to reduce the company's dependence on rubber from British Malaya. The conservative American lifestyle that the company tried to enforce — no women, no alcohol, no tobacco, no football, and American food in the cafeterias — was so alien to the _Brazilian_ workforce that a settlement called the "Island of Innocence", filled with bars, nightclubs, and brothels, developed just five miles up the river to serve the increasingly-frustrated workers (who rioted in 1930).
-   In 1983, Vanessa L. Williams was crowned as Miss America. 10 months after winning the crown, several nude photos of her (which had been taken before she became Miss America) were sold to _Penthouse_ magazine, who then published them. The resulting scandal was huge and Williams herself became the target of death threats and hate mail. Eventually, she was convinced to resign as Miss America and title instead went to the runner-up. This was finally averted in 2015 when the Miss America organization apologized to Williams for caving in to outside pressure and making her resign her title. The scandal did not stop Williams from following a successful career as a singer and actress and she is one of the few Miss Americas to remain in the public eye after her victory.
-   Zig-zagged on _RuPaul's Drag Race_. While it doesn't matter if a contestant acted in porn _before_ appearing on the show, contestants are forbidden from doing so afterwards for as long as they're under the _Drag Race_ contract (usually a period of five years since their last appearance on the show). Canada Season 1 contestant Ilona Varley spoke candidely about becoming homeless during the Covid pandemic when she couldn't perform onstage yet wasn't allowed to run an OnlyFans page for income.
-   A non-adult version with Soichiro Hoshi and Tōru Furuya: when Tōru was chosen to voice Ribbons Almark in _Mobile Suit Gundam 00_, he decided to go by an alias. Soichiro Hoshi also had an alias when he voiced a Monster of the Week in _Samurai Sentai Shinkenger_.
-   Bob Jones University in Greenville, South Carolina is one of several Christian colleges known for having overly complex rules for its students and teachers, based on its interpretation of the Bible. Students are forbidden from listening to rock music, forbidden from having unmarried sex, forbidden from watching virtually any form of non-Christian entertainment (except for PG movies with a chaperone), and female students are required to have chaperones when leaving campus. Students have actually been expelled for criticizing the university, which has also received criticism from Christians and non-Christians alike. Similarly, Brigham Young University requires students and faculty to conform to a Mormon-influenced "Honor Code", including no drinking alcohol or caffeinated beverages<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , no beards for men, and a vow of chastity (including a rule specifically forbidding "homosexual behavior").
-   A really disgusting example occurred in Scotland in 2009, when the _Sunday Express_ newspaper printed a front-page attack piece on some survivors of the Dunblane school massacre, which had happened thirteen years before, for allegedly insulting the memory of their dead schoolmates by talking about drinking, fighting and sex on social networking sites. It was suspected that the story was inspired purely by the fact that they had reached 18 and were no longer protected by Press Complaints Commission rules about intrusion into their private lives.
-   2015 Miss Great Britain winner Zara Holland had her title revoked by the committee after she had sex with another contestant on the reality show _Love Island_. Pageant organizers stated "we cannot promote Zara as a positive role model moving forward… We wholly understand that everyone makes mistakes, but Zara, as an ambassador for Miss Great Britain, simply did not uphold the responsibility expected of the title."
-   Military officers in most countries. Get caught doing scandalous things while still holding a commission and you can get Court-martialed for "Conduct Unbecoming an Officer and a Gentleman" - and can even earn you _prison time_. A CUBO conviction is also considered grounds for **moral turpitude** which can lead to a complete revocation of all retirement benefits, so even retired officers must watch out <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   There is a very good reason for this. Notwithstanding the moral implications of trusting your life to an officer who might be sleeping with your partner behind your back or looking to pull a Uriah Gambit to get you out of the way, there are strategic consequences of such behavior. An officer who sleeps around willy-nilly may either leak important military secrets or become blackmail fodder.
-   Women applying for police-officer positions in Indonesia, as well as teaching positions in Brazil, have been subjected to humiliating "virginity tests." (Not that those tests would have proven anything anyway.) Men applying for such positions were subjected to no such testing or inquiry about their sexual history/lack thereof. Needless to say, this has drawn much outrage, both in those countries and internationally.
-   For many jobs in general, you're always told that you're the face of the company that you work for, even when you're not at work. Getting into trouble with the law, doing unsavory acts, developing a substance abuse problem or even going behind the company's back to bad mouth them on social media is a quick way of getting fired.
-   James Gunn, before he made the _Guardians of the Galaxy_ films, was a notoriously R-rated horror-comedy filmmaker who cut his teeth working for Troma before moving on to films like _Slither_ and _Super_, as well as writing the script for _Dawn of the Dead (2004)_. This has followed him in two ways.
    -   First, in the midst of his edgy indie days, he also wrote both _Scooby-Doo_ movies, which are widely considered a Creator's Oddball compared to his overall body of work at the time.
    -   Second, in the late '00s his Twitter account was filled with the sort of offensive Black Comedy one might expect from him given his background (jokes about AIDS and pedophilia, for example). He cleaned up his act and apologized for his older tweets once he was hired by Disney to work on the _Guardians_ films, but in 2018, these tweets were dug up once more in a campaign to get him fired. Disney obliged, removing him from any future Disney projects such as _Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3_. The backlash against Disney was swift, largely because many people saw the campaign to get Gunn fired as a hit job driven by people with questionable political motives. It was driven mainly by far-right activists led by the infamous troll Mike Cernovich, motivated largely by Gunn's criticism of Donald Trump and a belief that Disney was being hypocritical in firing Roseanne Barr from her eponymous show for similar tweets (though Roseanne's were made as her show was on the air rather than years ago, they were part of a long, recent trend of controversial statements that didn't seem like just edgy trolling, and her apology came off to many as insincere) as well as using it to promote conspiracy theories tying Democrats to pedophilia. It wasn't until several months later did Disney and Gunn began patching things up. In the end, the campaign backfired; not only did Disney rehire Gunn (a decision that was actually made months before they officially announced it), but in the meantime, Gunn was also hired to write the second _Suicide Squad_ movie, largely on the strength of his fanbase pushing for other studios to hire him. Everything seems to have worked out for him in the long run, thanks to Gunn's handling of the controversy in a mature and professional fashion (swiftly apologizing and accepting full responsibility for the consequences of his past tweets, and not criticizing either his former employers or the trolls who attacked him), all Cernovich and company ultimately achieved was making Gunn look like the victim of a malicious slander campaign (and exposed Cernovich as the _real_ hypocrite since he also tweeted rape jokes in the past, and was actually charged with sexual assault, while no one came forward to accuse Gunn of the same things after the tweets resurfaced, especially since the #MeToo movement made it easier for victims to come forward with their stories) and actually _doubling_ the number of big-budget superhero productions he was working on.
-   Girls in Tanzania are subjected to routine pregnancy testing in school. If any of the girls are found to be pregnant, they are _automatically_ expelled, on the grounds that a pregnant teenager is a "bad example" for the other students. This has drawn ire both in Tanzania and abroad, because kicking a student out of school jeopardizes their future by keeping them in poverty, and because it can be seen as a violation of privacy, or a policing of girls' sex lives (boys who father children out of wedlock are not kicked out of school for it). Nor does it make any exception for girls who become pregnant as a result of rape or incest, or early and forced marriage; they are all kicked out of school and blamed for becoming pregnant.
-   In July of 2007, Sajani Shakaya lost her title as Kumari of Bhaktapur, when she visited the US to attend the movie release of _Living Goddess_ (a documentary about the Kumari), because the elders claimed that her trip had "tainted her purity." (How and why was never explained.) She was, however, reinstated a few weeks later, because she was willing to undergo a purification ceremony to cleanse her of any sins she might have committed while traveling.

-   There was a minor kerfuffle on Twitter when Sasha Obama, the younger daughter of former US president Barack Obama, was photographed at a party wearing makeup and a skimpy outfit...at 19 years old. What made this shocking for so many was that Sasha was seven when her father took office and wasn't in the spotlight as much as older sister Malia, so most Americans still pictured her as a little girl, then suddenly they were faced with a photo of her as a grown woman. While this doesn't justify the less savory comments made against her, the shock is understandable.
-   This led to the downfall of the talk show host Ellen DeGeneres. Her persona was built on an "aw-shucks" Middle American niceness, so when reports came out in 2020 that she was a Bad Boss behind the scenes, her fanbase revolted and the ratings for her show crashed. DeGeneres herself admitted as much in a televised apology.
    
    **DeGeneres:** "Being known as the 'be kind' lady is a tricky position to be in. So let me give you some advice out there. If anybody is thinking of changing their title or giving yourself a nickname, do not go with the 'be kind' lady. Don’t do it."
    
-   Liana K said in one of her videos that she knows she would never be able to run for congress because she has skimpy cosplay pictures online.

## Fictional Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   _Perfect Blue_ has an Idol Singer moving into more risque activities. Some people aren't happy.
-   _Macross_:
    -   _Macross: Do You Remember Love?_: Hikaru is chastised by his superior officer, Misa Hayase, for having been found kissing Idol Singer Lynn Minmay, never mind it was _her_ idea, because the press had a field day with it, splashing the incident all over the tabloids. Later, after Hikaru "borrows" a training Valkyrie fighter to take Minmay on a joyride, her manager/cousin claims that it would be the end of her career if the press got hold of it.
    -   In _Macross Frontier_, Ranka is suspended from her school after partaking in a "Miss Macross" contest... which is completely official and government-approved.
-   An interesting case in _Pokémon Adventures_. White freaks at the idea of one member of her star Tepig couple evolving, thinking that they would no longer be as marketable if it happens. As such, she _forces_ Tep to stop evolving by _shaking_ him real hard. Eventually, Tep evolves anyway, after which White adapts and figures out she can pitch the duo as a Bodyguard Crush.
-   In the "Fallen Angel Rina" episode of the Hentai series _Cool Devices_, a pink-haired Idol Singer called Rina is lauded for her Girl Next Door image... and her manager basically starts pimping her until she reaches the point where she masturbates on stage with the microphone at a concert.
-   In _AKB49 – Renai Kinshi Jourei_, members of the idol group AKB48 are forbidden from entering into any love relationships. This particular rule is even directly referenced by the sub-title.
-   One story in _Black Jack_ centers around a fifteen-year-old idol who is going through an ectopic pregnancy. Because she was marketed on the appeal of being a wholesome girl, her manager is desperate that this all be kept under wraps. The story gets out anyway, and Black Jack is disgusted that the manager is more upset that the idol has lost her appeal, rather than being glad that she survived.
-   _Idol no Akahon_ has the titular group of idols getting told that they shouldn't date (or be caught in anything resembling anything remotely scandalous) by the CEO of their talent agency to avoid alienating their fanbase.
-   _Bakuman。_ starts with then-middle-schoolers Mashiro "Saiko" Moritaka and Miho Azuki promising to marry each other when she becomes a seiyuu and he a mangaka (as part of the duo Ashirogi Muto), and she voices the female MC of their manga's anime. Since then, they've had as squeaky-clean a relationship as you can think of, never even kissing, and having a long-distance relationship in which they barely saw each other. Still, when the public got hold of their relationship, both Azuki and the Ashirogi Muto caught a lot of flak, as did Fukuda when he called out those behind the backlash while giving a radio interview.
-   This is part of the reason why Fuuta and Kirari have to keep their marriage a secret in _Love Lucky_, and also why Fuuta is hesitant to consummate their marriage since it would destroy her pure image.
-   The implication of this plays a big role in _Heroine Voice_. Suzu Ayase was a popular Idol Singer who got egged on by websites that accused her of dating an anime producer and going home with a fan of her work. Though these charges aren't real, they did play a part in her quitting idol work and relocating to a different voice acting agency. For that matter, being only _seventeen years old_ meant she had no idea how to handle any of it.
-   A chapter of _Not Your Idol_ goes into the "dating bans" many real idols in Japan are contractually obligated to follow: one flashback shows Pure Club reacting to the news of a fellow idol leaving her group after being caught kissing her boyfriend, and another shows Nina and her friends talking casually about how Nina won't be allowed to date anyone once she becomes an idol, leading one girl to muse that idols are basically "everyone's toy."
-   The plot of _Oshi no Ko_ is kicked off when Ai Hoshino, a popular teenage idol, gets pregnant with twins and has to give birth and raise her children in secret, because if the truth gets out her career would be done and the production studio itself would also collapse. They take every measure they can for secrecy's sake, but one mistake costs them dearly, as a fan of hers discovers the truth and murders not only Ai's doctor but Ai herself as well.
-   The Natadeko Girls in _Why the Hell Are You Here, Teacher!?_ are contractually forbidden from dating, to preserve their "pure and innocent" idol image. This makes all three of them have _a lot_ of pent-up sexual urges that they're dying to act on.
-   Parodied in _The 100 Girlfriends Who Really, Really, Really, Really, Really Love You_. Rentarou's girlfriends (all 13 of them at the time) put on an amateur idol performance at their school. They get scouted by a big-name producer, and even the narration says that the "Idol Road Arc" is about to begin... until the producer says that this trope will be in effect. Since the girls are already all in a happy, if unorthodox, relationship, the _very next page_ has them all walk out the door with the narration declaring the end of the Idol Road Arc.

    Comic Strips 

-   In _Pearls Before Swine_, Pastis' licensable character Bippy lost his licensable status when Rat got him drunk.

    Comic Books 

-   In _Brat Pack_, the whole reason the Brat Pack exists is that the so-called heroes' merchandising contracts require them to keep teenage sidekicks. The idea was that having minors around would force the "heroes" to control their personal vices, but the vigilantes have simply turned their sidekicks into monsters like them.

    Fan Works 

-   In _One Year_, Rise realizes that her being forbidden to date as an Idol Singer is one reason why a relationship with Yu wouldn't work out. Despite that, she still has the hardest time coming to terms with the fact that Yu ended up with Yukiko.
-   Happens in _The Pokémon Squad_. After _KaBlam!_ was cancelled, June (who was fourteen at the time) was so upset, that she started smoking and drinking. At her age of twenty-five in the fanfic series, she is a full-blown alcoholic, smokes constantly, and in the episode "The Future is Evil", she starts pole-dancing at nightclubs.
    -   As for Henry, he tries not to get himself into trouble. He just has the occasional drink at a party.
    -   Doug Funnie, on the other hand, subverts this. While he's still as sweet as sweet can be (and even more so), he's also an alcoholic, due to various problems in his life (which usually have to do with Barney, Roger never leaving him alone, the stress of being owned by two companies, and his job at McDonald's which is dressing up as children's characters for birthday parties)
    -   The main six from _Recess_ caused a scandalous incident when they went to a restaurant and ordered alcoholic beverages (and they were able to get them because T.J. explained to the waiter at the restaurant that they were nine in 1997 so they were born in 1988 and could legally drink; however, those characters in the fanfic are under Comic-Book Time and are still nine), and a little kid found them, noticed that they're the ones he saw on Disney XD and told his mom as they watched them drunkenly sing the Texas song.
-   In _POP Culture_, teen pop star Cassie being arrested for drug possession and later coming open about her sexually abusive managers negatively affected her career. After a lot of public shaming and Slut-Shaming online, she was Driven to Suicide.
-   In _Snapshots_, hosts of Inkopolis News are not allowed to enter romantic relationships because of the potential for messy drama. When Marie tells Pearl and Marina this right before the contract is signed, Marina is indifferent (mainly because she's half-convinced she's in a Lotus-Eater Machine that wouldn't allow _that_ much happiness anyway) but Pearl is absolutely crushed that taking this opportunity means holding off confessing her feelings to her best friend.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   A large amount of _Death to Smoochy_ dealt with hosts of children shows living less-than-exemplary lives off-screen.
-   In _Ernest Saves Christmas_, a famous children's show host wanted to break out of the kid scene and have a more serious role, but backed out of it when his role required him to swear. It's played with in that the character (who's a send-up to Mr. Rogers) clearly doesn't _want_ to make the switch and still prefers working with children but his career as an actor had taken a big hit and he felt this was the only way to start getting roles again.
-   _Inside Daisy Clover_: Producer Raymond Swan (Christopher Plummer) wants Daisy Clover (Natalie Wood) to be "America's Little Valentine" and thus becomes a Control Freak over her life, forbidding her to smoke, wanting her to never see her mother again and chastising her over her romance with Wade Lewis (Robert Redford).
-   The _Scream_ series:
    -   In _Scream 3_, Angelina, the seemingly-sweet ingenue actress playing Sidney in the Film Within a Film _Stab 3_ (loosely based on the events of the past films), turns out to be a prima donna who exploited the Casting Couch in order to get the part. Unsurprisingly for a series that runs on mocking the cliches of slasher movies, Sex Signals Death kicks in almost immediately after this is revealed. In the original version of the script, meanwhile, she was supposed to have been one of the killers.
    -   The ending of _Scream 4_, meanwhile, has Jill positioning herself as a mediagenic, wholesome Final Girl who the news media will fall in love with... except that she actually orchestrated the entire killing spree for expressly this purpose.
-   This is Carla Naples' problem in the 1958 Jerry Lewis film _Rock A Bye Baby_. She's maintained a clean, wholesome image (the word "virgin" is used a lot), never having affairs, drinking, smoking or attending wild parties. On an impulse, she secretly marries her friend, a Mexican bullfighter, but he is killed the next day, leaving her pregnant — and she's so upset she tears up her marriage license. She and her manager employ a number of screwball-comedy schemes to avoid a career-ending scandal, and thereby hangs the tale.
-   In _The Idolmaker_, Tommy and Guido aren't allowed to be seen smoking or drinking, and when Guido has an image-threatening affair with a reporter, Vinny gets her fired. Tommy grumbles that he's lucky he's allowed to jerk off.

    Literature 

-   In the novel _Second Coming Attractions_ by David Prill, Ricky Bible is an actor who becomes famous for portraying _Jesus_. Needless to say, he's ambivalent about telling anyone that he and his (unmarried) girlfriend are expecting a child.
-   Spoofed in Ben Elton's _High Society_. A drug-addled rock star who became famous through a reality TV show lifts the lid on one of his fellow contestants, who tried to win over the public with a sweet and squeaky-clean image but was secretly a coke-snorting porn queen.
-   There's a short story in which a jaded ex-child star's pregnancy must be accounted for without destroying her Contractual Purity, so her studio arranges a hasty marriage to an actor whose manly public image also needs shoring up. (The groom is secretly into gay child porn, though he's never acted on his urges.) For added publicity, they're cast in a live-broadcast production of a play about the search for a unicorn. At the climax of the show, right when the surgically-crafted goat "unicorn" is supposed to walk up to the actress in a Sickeningly Sweet finale, the animal suddenly forgets its training, goes into a trance, and — live on global television — lays its head in the mother-to-be's _husband's_ lap.
-   In W.E.B Griffin's _Men At War_ series, there is Monica Carlisle, an actress who specializes in playing sweet young ingenues and mother of major character Eric Fulton. The studio that employs her goes to considerable effort to make her public think she really is like that, including things like covering up the fact that she has a son in his twenties (Who is only legitimate because she quietly married the father _after_ she got pregnant to maintain her public image, and divorced him a year later), who would have been born when she was seven if one believes the birth date listed in her studio-produced biography. She's also The Prima Donna, who is despised by many of the lesser studio people who have to interact with her on a regular basis.
-   _The Asterisk War_: In volumes 7 and 8, Girl Group Rusalka plots to ruin rival Idol Singer Sylvia Lynneheym's career by starting a scandalous rumor that she has a boyfriend. This seems to be a case of Creator's Culture Carryover at work here; while Japanese otaku can get downright weird about idols' virginity, those in most other countries probably wouldn't care. (It's possible Rusalka's Empathic Weapon Lyre-Poros is messing with their heads, as Mahulena, the least compatible with it, is the only member to voice any objections to the plan.)
-   _Rascal Does Not Dream of Bunny Girl Senpai_: Female lead Mai Sakurajima is a child actress who, following the events of volume 1, has come back from a break in her career and is transitioning to adult roles, and she and her boyfriend, male lead Sakuta Azusagawa, have to spend a fair amount of effort navigating the purity standards of Japanese celebrity culture. After Mai accidentally lets slip to her manager that they're in a relationship in volume 3, they're told to hold off on dating to avoid endangering her Career Resurrection (which might cause her Adolescence Syndrome to relapse). However, after they're photographed together by a paparazzi in volume 5, she and said manager quickly move to get in front of it by holding a press conference to announce that, yes, she has a boyfriend, and (paraphrased) he's a civilian so would you all please behave like reasonable human beings and leave him the hell alone. Surprisingly, this works, and they have no further problems.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Game of Thrones_: Invoked in-universe, where unmarried women are expected to be chaste and refined. This is referenced most concerning Margaery Tyrell, who is "officially" a virgin and behaves like a Princess Classic in public but more like The Vamp in private.
-   Dealt with in an episode of _Shark_, in which such an actress had been murdered.
-   An episode of _Diagnosis: Murder_ had the murder victim (the Executive Head of a PAX\-style Christian TV network) given a fatal heart attack by video clips sliced into a show she's reviewing that had images of a lookalike practicing Satanism (which she did in college), something that would ruin anyone's career, let alone hers.
-   _Entourage_:
    -   After making the _Aquaman_ movie, Vincent is "branded" by the studio as being family franchise only — which means that, until he completes all three movies in his _Aquaman_ contract, the studio is unwilling to let him make his dream film _Medellin_ (about drug lord Pablo Escobar) for fear of hurting the franchise. Of course, since admitting this to Vincent would naturally make him quite angry, the studio tries to deflect the issue by setting up a series of seemingly impossible conditions before they'll let him make the movie. Which backfires even worse, because while Vincent may have accepted the problem if they had told him about it outright, the fact that they lied to him and sent him on a wild goose chase causes him to make an unreasonable demand of his own — thirty million dollars or he's not putting on the tights again.
    -   There is another story arc where Vince becomes romantically involved with actress/singer Mandy Moore when the two of them are cast in the _Aquaman_ film together. When Mandy's handlers find out about the relationship, they attempt to force an end to it because they fear that Mandy's squeaky-clean, good girl image will be damaged if the public learns that she's involved with Vincent Chase, who has a reputation as a womanizing party animal.
-   _Married... with Children_: Bud, in his capacity as Kelly's acting agent, manages to finagle his sister the role as the spokeswoman for Extra-EXTRA-Virgin Olive Oil. Unfortunately the oil is made by nuns, who insist that anyone representing their product be as pure as the driven snow, which presents a problem for the normally promiscuous Kelly. While she does try her hardest, ultimately Kelly breaks her how of chastity, but fortunately Bud does have someone else in mind who has been going decades without sex: his mother Peggy.
-   An entire episode of _Monk_, "Mr. Monk's Favorite Show", revolves around this concept.
-   Parodied in one episode of _Chappelle's Show_. One episode has a sketch in which comedian Paul Mooney plays "Negrodamus", a black prophet, who is asked why "White people love Wayne Brady so much." Negrodamus replies it is because "he makes Bryant Gumbel look like Malcolm X". A later episode has a sketch where Dave reminisces about spending time with Wayne, in which Wayne reveals himself to be so vile that Dave is _afraid_ to hang out with him again. He's a pimp, murderer, and in one instance, actually says a line that he felt _uncomfortable saying for comedy_, "Is Wayne Brady gonna have to choke a bitch?"
-   An interesting example happened in the 12th season of the Spanish series _Cuéntame Cómo Pasó_. Back in the first season, six-year-old Ricardo Gomez was cast as 8-year-old Carlitos, and since the series has been on air for over 10 years, the now 16-year-old actor is playing an 18-year-old character who had to become sexually active as it was necessary for the series to reflect the Spanish "destape" age. A few people in Spain thought it scandalous when Carlitos and his girlfriend had sex. The scene was filmed overhead, so the nudity was minimal, but some people admitted to being uncomfortable watching the children they had seen grow up on TV having sex. However, the controversy in Spain was still relatively small compared to what one can imagine would have been the Moral Guardians outrage if something like this had happened in the US.
-   In the British drama, _Drop Dead Gorgeous_, a high school student is employed by a modelling agency, only to cause an uproar when scantily clad photos of her are plastered about town.
-   Lampshaded on _Once Upon a Time_. When Emma runs into Mary Margaret late at night and asks what she's doing, Mary Margaret replies a little annoyed, "I'm a teacher, not a nun. I was on a date."
-   In _The L.A. Complex_, Alan Thicke plays the creator and executive producer of a _7th Heaven_\-type show one actress auditions for. He expects everyone involved in the production to live as the Bible teaches. (This may be a Take That! to Thicke's _Growing Pains_ co-star and current evangelical poster-boy Kirk Cameron.)
    -   could also be Take That! or ironic Actor Allusion to Thicke himself as he has a reputation as a Ladies' Man and is one of the first to joke that his work on Pageants is all about access to the contestants.
-   In _30 Rock_, Jenna Maroney at one point contracts to be the spokeswoman for the wool trade group, which includes a morality clause because of wool's wholesome image. This poses something of a problem for Jenna since she does have a habit of getting into shenanigans and freaky sex, but then, she reasons, she can always do that in private. Her problem is that her boyfriend Paul is a "gender-dysmorphic bigenitalian pansexualle" who, long story short, dresses up as Jenna for a living (and beat her in a Jenna Maroney lookalike contest). Hilarity Ensues when the president of the wool trade group and his wife come to dinner, and Jenna and Paul are trying to act normal...
-   In an episode of _The Drew Carey Show_, Drew wins a functional Batmobile in a contest, and is forced to give it back once he has sex in it, violating the morals clause.
    
    **Lewis:** Batman's car has a _morals clause_? He kept a young boy in a cave!
    
-   In a second season episode of _Elementary_, a man's latex-clad body is found by a dominatrix. As it turns out the man is not at all into S&M - he was an important executive and upon retirement or death, his company owed him over 100 million dollars. The man who first found him was one of his coworkers. He dressed the body in the latex costume and called the dominatrix in order to later invoke the morals clause of his contract and void the payout. Ironically, the victim absolutely was violating the clause, just not because of any taste in S&M - he was sexually abusing his own son, who killed him when it seemed like his tastes might wander to his younger brother.

    Music 

-   "Centerfold" by the J. Geils Band. The speaker fondly remembers a young blue-eyed, sweater-clad girl from school that he had a crush on way back when, and sees her again as an adult later...in a porn magazine. He is initially shocked as it clashed with her squeaky-clean image, but eventually, he not only accepts it but embraces it.

    Theatre 

-   In Ayn Rand's unproduced play _Think Twice_, a stage actress known for playing noble, innocent, Too Good for This Sinful Earth characters is desperate to play in a "cheap, vulgar commercial" comedy the part of a conniving social climber who drinks, swears and sleeps around. She declares she's done enough saccharine simpering, her producer be damned.

    Video Games 

-   Paz in _Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walker_ is something of a parody of this treatment towards Japanese pop idols. She has blond hair, is The Pollyanna and is voiced (in the Japanese version) by a Japanese pop star, who even contributes an Image Song for her for the soundtrack. But Paz herself is a Bitch in Sheep's Clothing, who is a lot older than she says she is and hates her false identity more than anything else on Earth.
-   Brought up in the SNK Dating Sims _Days of Memories_, if the girl you-as-the-player want to romance is the pop idol Athena Asamiya. She will often be worried about how her career will be "tainted" if she begins dating the MC, which _will_ happen in more than one game: in _Boku no Ichiban Taisetsu na Kimi_ her manager threatens to resign if Athena's image is harmed, and in _Boku to Kanojo to Koto no Koi_ a scandal breaks out when some pictures of her and the MC are leaked to the I-net.
    -   Also alluded to in _The King of Fighters XIII_: if Athena wins against Benimaru she'll say "As an idol, scandals are taboo, so I can't go on a date with you! ♪", and in Story Mode Yuri will directly ask Athena if it's true that she can't "hang out with friends in public or date and stuff", which Athena will confirm.
-   In _Shining Song Starnova_, Mr. Producer discusses this trope during one of his internal monologues. He notes that talent agencies have morality clauses which allow them to terminate an idol's employment if she's caught dating someone, a fact which forces idols to keep their relationships (and other vices) secret for fear of being fired. Mr. Producer himself nearly fires Julie after discovering that she engages in Compensated Dating, only for her to talk him out of it.
-   Discussed in _Ensemble Stars!_: as all of the main characters are idols, they will be expected to remain single to appease their fans as long as they are performing. Kaoru, being The Slacker, mostly tries to ignore this and flirts with girls a lot anyway, but _Love Comedy_ finally brings up the Elephant in the Room with Rei confronting him about the matter and forcing him to choose between his current carefree lifestyle and the serious requirements of being an idol. Kaoru ultimately decides to put his womanising on hold and wait for the day he and Anzu can be together if she will have him. (On a lighter note, in the same story Tomoya expresses a bit of envy that Kaoru even could be associated with such a scandal - he'd _like_ to be considered cool and mature boyfriend material, but fans of his unit only ever seem to find them all cute...)
-   _Persona 4_, which prominently features the Idol Singer Rise, brings this up from time to time. In an attempt to convince her manager Inoue that she's through with being an idol, Rise claims that she's going to marry the Player Character once she graduates, although Inoue doesn't seem to believe her. If the player does get into a relationship with Rise, she still keeps it under wraps, despite being fairly openly flirtatious toward him, possibly because of this trope. She also discusses this trope if you talk to her while wearing your Featherman costume, saying that the stars of the show have to lead decent private lives, so as not to ruin the image kids have of them.
-   In _Persona 5_, this comes up in Hifumi's Confidant. Her mother, hoping to use Hifumi's shogi career to make her into a gravure idol, tells her that she's not allowed to date, since when she becomes successful, she can get any guy she wants. In Rank 9 of the Confidant, after Hifumi's reputation is ruined as a result of her mother's crimes to further Hifumi's career being exposed, you can enter into a relationship with Hifumi.
-   _Yakuza 5_: This trope ripples through the entire plot. Mirei's idol career was strangled in the cradle by the fact that she was married and pregnant, and the fact that she had a divorce and an abortion she didn't quite managed to keep secret in an attempt to salvage her career only made things worse. Meanwhile, Haruka, whose foster-father is an ex-con and retired yakuza, has to keep everything about her family secret, or the scandal would destroy her career. Of course, that very few producers are above suggesting the Casting Couch, and that literally everyone Haruka works with has even stronger ties to the yakuza is overlooked.
-   _Idol Manager_: The game puts the player in charge of an Idol Singer agency and lets them choose how to run it. Shuch choices include the agency's official stance about the idols dating and what to actually do if one of the idols starts dating.

    Webcomics 

-   In _MegaTokyo_, Erika reveals that she once had a pregnancy scare that could have ruined her Idol Singer career, and her boyfriend broke up with her so that it couldn't happen again and she would be safe. This only made her hate her job for destroying her relationship, disappear from the public eye and become the snarky Broken Bird we know and love. _Then_ she discovered that boyfriend was a big fat liar.
-   When Safari Sam was outed, _all hell broke loose_, beginning the comic's endgame.
-   The major characters of _Love Me Nice_ all need to maintain squeaky clean public personas to protect the image of the popular children's' show they work for, to the point where one of them getting a boob job is cause for a minor crisis because it might make her look too mature and sexual for the part she plays on the show.
-   _Sleepless Domain_: The magical girls that protect the city are treated like celebrities or idols by the non-magic population, leading to some pressure along these lines. As a result, the official bodies governing them keep it secret that pregnant magical girls lose their magic upon giving birth to daughters, who in turn inherit unsually strong magical potential. Heartful Punch, a child from such circumstances, believes it's covered up because a pregnant teenager would not only tarnish the reputation of the warriors, but _humanize_ them and show they have lives outside of fighting (and dying) for others.

    Web Original 

-   Subverted in an xkcd strip with a video of Mister Rogers fighting his wife. Despite the buildup, it's actually just him talking to her about how much he loves her in spite of their differences of opinion.

    Western Animation 

-   _South Park_:
    -   In the episode "Taming Strange", Foofa from _Yo Gabba Gabba!_ decides to adopt a more adult-oriented image. Her castmates and Sinead O'Connor try to talk her out of it, but they are unsuccessful, and Foofa gives a raunchy performance.
    -   The show deconstructed this with "Britney's New Look", painting this as a deliberate invocation in the style of _The Lottery_, where young starlets going into adulthood were routinely sacrificed to guarantee a good harvest. After they were done with Britney, they then turned to Miley Cyrus, saying: "Next year will be a _good_ harvest."
    -   The episode "The Ring" similarly riffed on how Disney treated its _male_ teen stars, specifically how The Jonas Brothers promoted sexual abstinence even as the company made them into sex symbols. At one point, Mickey Mouse shows up to beat the brothers into submission when they voice a desire to live like normal teenagers.
-   _BoJack Horseman_ gives us Sarah Lynn, former child star of the titular character's old sitcom who, after getting some very bad advice from BoJack, spent the next twenty years from an adorable, catchphrase-spewing child to a sexed-up pop diva (and later tabloid-foddering train wreck) in an attempt to prove that she was an adult.
-   Cheyenne Cinnamon appears to be a parody of this; she projects the image of a wholesome Teen Idol, surrounds herself with anthropomorphic candy who act as her bodyguards and managers, sings about "magic and love", believes in abstinence until marriage, literally has magical powers, lives in the Candyland-esque Sugar Town Fudge and spends the first (and only) episode trying to help a disadvantaged pregnant teen. However, this is all a mask; she's really a Hard-Drinking Party Girl whose Candyland-esque wonderland includes a cocaine volcano, which she partakes in often. While she believes in abstinence until marriage, her song on the subject heavily implies Technical Virgin and her interest in the aforementioned pregnant teen does the poor girl more harm than good and eventually gets her arrested.

___

### **Alternative Title(s):** Prisoners Of Polly Anna, Mouseketeer Syndrome

-   Condemned by History
-   Creativity Leash
-   Cosmic Deadline

-   Will Smith
-   Pop Rap
-   Doja Cat

-   Contractual Obligation Project
-   Trivia
-   Copiously Credited Creator

-   Consummate Liar
-   RenamedTropes/A to E
-   Convenient Replacement Character

-   Bury Your Gays
-   Sex Is Evil
-   Corrupting Pornography

-   College Widow
-   Women Are Delicate
-   Compete for the Maiden's Hand

-   Anika Noni Rose
-   QuoteSource/Creators
-   Accidentally Correct Zoology

-   Britney Spears
-   ImageSource/Music
-   Three Minutes of Writhing

-   MBC
-   Korean Pop Music
-   Cool Car

-   Continuing is Painful
-   TruthInTelevision/A to C
-   Convenience Store Gift Shopping

-   Contractual Obligation Project
-   Show Business
-   Controversy-Proof Image

-   Intangible Theft
-   ImageSource/Magazines
-   Retroactive Recognition