_"I recommend sealing off this branch."_

Some Video Games (from adventure games to dating sims) like to feature Multiple Endings as a way to increase replay value, by changing various elements and branches of the plot to reflect whatever choices the player made during the game.

This creates a problem when attempting to make a sequel (or adaptation) based on such a game: Which branch (and ending) of the plot gets to form the Canon backstory of the new work? The production team must make a decision, and make one fast, declaring one to be the Canon Ending and cutting the other ones off. They're still canon in their original game, but not with regard to the new work. Sometimes they don't even bother waiting until the sequel, instead labeling one particular ending as the True Ending.

In short, cutting off the branches is when one of the multiple possible endings in a game is considered the canon one in a future adaptation.

Related to Story Branch Favoritism, Game-Favored Gender, and Developers' Desired Date. Contrast with Third-Option Adaptation, which ignores all the various plotlines and picks an outside choice. When the next work is also a video game instead of an extended universe entry, this can sometimes be averted with Old Save Bonus or Schrödinger's Question. If the branches were selected immediately from character selection, you're using Schrödinger's Player Character. See also Canon Name, where a character who didn't have a given name at _all_ in the first game, is given one in the next. Merging the Branches is a specific form of this where events from several mutually exclusive story branches are declared canon, rather than a single specific branch. See also No Canon for the Wicked, where the hero path is exclusively canon in a franchise with a morality system.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Action-Adventure 

-   At the end of _Blood Omen: Legacy of Kain_, the player has the option of making a Heroic Sacrifice for peace, or to rule over a broken land. Alas, peace doesn't make for good sequels... His choice turns the world into a blasted wasteland. And it was the better choice for the world in the long run. It's complicated.
-   In _Deus Ex_, you had three endings: you destroy all communication, you join the Illuminati or you merge with the AI Helios to become a benevolent god. In the sequel, _Deus Ex: Invisible War_, _all three_ happened: JC merges with Helios and destroys Area 51, destroying the world's communications and leaving a void for the Illuminati to rise to power. Additionally, it was possible for the protagonist's brother to die in the first game, but in the sequel he canonically lives.
-   _Deus Ex: Mankind Divided_ effectively turned the tree into one big trunk, because _none_ of the endings from _Human Revolution_ are canon to it.
-   _The Legend of Zelda_:
    -   While you can get Epona in _The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time_, you aren't required to get her to beat the game. _The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask_ has Link riding Epona in the intro cutscene and rescues her later, thus making the horse from the previous game a canon character. Of course, the same game also ended up inverting the trope with regards to the major plot points, as its single full ending (Link defeats Ganon in the future, then goes back to the past and warns the kingdom of what will happen) and its implicit Bad Ending from dying during the final boss were turned into three equally-canon divergent timelines: one where Ganondorf was sealed away before he could cause any harm (the "Child Link" timeline, leading to _Majora's Mask_, _Twilight Princess_ and _Four Swords Adventures_), one where Ganon's return after being thwarted forced the gods to flood Hyrule (the "Adult Link" timeline, leading to _The Wind Waker_, _Phantom Hourglass_ and _Spirit Tracks_), and one where Link's death let Ganon ravage Hyrule (the "Fallen Hero" timeline, leading to the original two games, _Link to the Past_, _Link's Awakening,_ etc.).
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_ is a very open-ended game, to the point that the player could skip everything after the tutorial and head straight for the final boss if they wanted to. _Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity_ however, confirms that Link at the very least freed all four of the Divine Beasts, due to the fact that the New Champions from the future all recognize him. It's also the first game where, with the addition of voice acting, you cannot customize the protagonist's name, thus making "Link" his canon name. By then the series had been moving away from making him an audience-insert, and since _Twilight Princess_ "Link" had been given as the default name.
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom_, as a direct sequel to _Breath of the Wild_, also assumes that the player went for 100% Completion, as Link starts off with the maximum possible number of hearts and stamina, wields the Master Sword, all the Sheikah Shrines are gone, the Koroks are hiding in different locations, and the four New Champions from the previous game are already well acquainted with him.
-   Zig-Zagged with _Luigi's Mansion_ due to the historic loose continuity of the series. Luigi gets a new non-haunted mansion at the end of the game. The new mansion's look depends on how much money Luigi has earned throughout the game, the rank A being a huge one and the rank H being a tent. The rank A mansion appears in _Mario Kart: Double Dash!!_ but in _Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon_, Luigi lives in the rank D mansion. And all the RPG games have Luigi living in the same house as Mario (who himself downgraded to a smaller house in the past).
-   While left somewhat unclear, _Overlord II_ suggests that the previous Evil Overlord was something of a Noble Demon who at the very least saved the Elves from extinction. The game also goes on to say that Rose was the canonical choice for Mistress. Though the debris from the Tower are in Velvet's style.
-   _Prince of Persia: Warrior Within_ has two possible endings - one where Kaileena is defeated, and the other where The Prince manages to kill the Dahaka, saving himself and Kaileena. The latter is acknowledged as canon in the opening narration for the _Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones_.
-   Examples from the _Blaster Master_ series...
    -   _Blaster Master Zero_ can end with Eve simply saying goodbye to Jason before leaving to fight the Mutant Core alone, but the sequel assumes you've collected every upgrade, in which case Eve knocked Jason out instead, resulting in Jason following her to Area 9 in another Metal Attacker and defeating the Mutant Core himself.
    -   _Blaster Master Zero II_ ends in default with the Party Scattering after Area G, with Eve wishing they should have spent more time interacting with the other MA pilots and strengthening the bond between her and Jason before resigning herself to her imminent corruption. Meanwhile, Leibniz recieves a distress signal from Earth meant for Jason and reacts by mockingly laughing over Jason's apparent failure as a hero. _Blaster Master Zero III_ follows the ending you get when you collect all the trinkets from the other MA pilots, in which case Eve had enough resolve to explore Area Ω, save Jason, cure her condition, and make it to the planet Sophia the 3rd (the setting of not just _Blaster Master Zero 3_, but the original _Metafight_ as well). As for Leibniz, he instead decides that if Jason isn't around to save his own homeworld, then he'll do it himself (at least for Jason's reaction).
-   _Super Metroid_: During the final escape sequence, you can take some time to go down a side path and rescue the Dachora and Etecoons, nonviolent creatures that teach you how to Shinespark and wall jump earlier in the game, or you can skip them entirely to save some time. Rescuing them is the canon ending, as they reappear in _Metroid Fusion_.

    Action Games 

-   _Star Fox_:
    -   Averted with _Star Fox Command_. Despite the game having 9 different endings, including two good ones (one where the status quo is more or less restored with some newcomers to the team, and one where Fox and Krystal have a son named Marcus who creates a new, younger team), Miyamoto and Nintendo decided to "plant a new tree" and reboot the franchise once again with _Star Fox Zero_, leaving the end of the old timeline undefined.
    -   And even then, an interview with the developers state that should a game that considers _Command_ canon gets made, they'd rather use the middle as the starting point.
    -   Played straight with the original _Star Fox_ and _Star Fox 64_, where the Golden Endings are unsurprisingly the ones used in the sequels.

    Action RPGs 

-   _Dark Souls_:
    -   Averted in _Dark Souls II_, where any of the first game's endings or other events _could_ be canon, it does not matter. Such a long time has passed since then that it has faded into obscurity, and the ages shift in a neverending cycle. If the player chose the "Link the Fire" ending, eventually, they would have died and another undead would have replaced them or left the bonfire to die, starting an Age of Dark. If the player chose the "Dark Lord" ending, another undead would eventually throw his soul on the fire, starting a new Age of Fire anyway. The cycle will keep rolling.
    -   _Dark Souls III_ does much the same with the events of _II_, but canonizes one major decision from _I_. The Chosen Undead did _not_ kill Gwyndolin, who lives on and continues ruling Anor Londo until he's overthrown by Aldrich and Sulyvahn...although the nature of Lothric as both a "transitory land, where the lands of the Lords of Cinder converge" and a Timey-Wimey Ball leaves some ambiguity as to which events are actually part of the original timeline of Lordran and which are related to the rebirth of the Lords of Cinder. In the DLC, it also does to _its own ending_ the same thing it had done to _II_, showing the utter end of time where it no longer matters what you did or why, everything has been ground down to dust anyway by the passage of uncounted aeons. _Dark Souls_ is not a particularly optimistic franchise.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_:
    -   Averted in _Morrowind_, which reveals that all but one of _Daggerfall_'s Multiple Endings took place simultaneously due to a rare cosmic event/Time Crash (however, none of the endings take place to the same extent they would have individually).
    -   _Skyrim_:
        -   Downplayed when the hero of _Oblivion_ decides to show up after having become the Daedric Prince Sheogorath in the _Shivering Isles_ expansion. Some of the things he says imply that he joined the Thieves' Guild and the Dark Brotherhood. Note that we still don't know what the Champion of Cyrodiil looks like, as it's likely that they became able to shapeshift after becoming Sheogorath. Additionally, it doesn't preclude the Champion from having completed other questlines; they just aren't mentioned, downplaying the trope (the branches aren't necessarily "cut off" - they just aren't acknowledged one way or another).
        -   _Skyrim_ reveals that the Champion of Cyrodiil ignored Barbas' warnings in _Oblivion_ and gave Umbra to Clavicus Vile during the latter's Daedric quest.
-   _Fable II_ dodges this by occurring centuries after the original _Fable_ and, during the rare moments when the _Fable II_ hero's predecessor is mentioned, having contradictory accounts as to what specifically occurred. Theresa's survival is about as close to canon as they get about it, and even then it's never specifically stated that the old blind seer of the second and third games is actually the Hero of Oakvale's sister from _Fable_ either. _Fable III_ occurs mere decades after _Fable II_, makes use of the Old Save Bonus method but only uses that to mention the Hero of Bowerstone's gender, and like _II_ also rarely mentions the Hero of Bowerstone and is very vague as to what kind of person they were, other than buying up all the real estate in the game and becoming the monarch.
-   _Fallout_:
    -   _Fallout 2_ avoids many specifics by taking place in the area just north of the one where _Fallout_ did, and the Vault Dweller's diary that serves as the intro story to the _Fallout 2_ manual is somewhat vague at certain key plot points (i.e. whether you sided with Killian or Gizmo, saved Necropolis,<sup>*&nbsp;</sup>  or shot the overseer), but from what you do learn it seems that canonically the Vault Dweller was a generally heroic figure (e.g. wiping out the Khan raiders and saving Tandi and Shady Sands, which would eventually become the New California Republic). The diary also mentions that party members Dogmeat and Ian died during the course of the adventure, although this is quite likely Lampshade Hanging of first game's sub-par companion A.I. - Dogmeat specifically is mentioned to have been incinerated by a force field in the Mariposa military base, which is guaranteed to happen assuming you have him in the party by then and can't pass numerous skill checks to disable the fields for good. For the final confrontation, the Vault Dweller took out the Master and the Cathedral (though the diary doesn't say how they did it) _before_ confronting the Lieutenant at the Marisopa military base (and it is mentioned how he did that: going in guns-blazing). Finally, from the appearance of the massive statue of the Vault Dweller in the NCR square, as well as the pronouns in the _Book of Elders_ item in _Fallout 2_, it shows that the vault dweller was male. The narrator also explicitly refers to the Vault Dweller with male pronouns in the opening movie.
    -   Similarly, _Fallout: New Vegas_ avoids references to _Fallout 3_ by setting it on the other side of the country. _New Vegas_ does have a few references to events in _Fallout 2_, however: the Chosen One helped Vault 15 integrate with the New California Republic (hence why they're expanding into Arizona), helped wiped out the second incarnation of the Khans (hence why their remnants are in the Mojave), made Vault City join the NCR, and left Tandi alive. The Chosen One also recruited at least Marcus, and brought him with the party when they stormed the Oil Rig, seemingly decanonizing the Pacifist Run and Stealth Run methods of finishing the game (as the Enclave soldiers on the Rig shoot your party on sight if you don't come alone). References to a very wasteland-accustomed "Mr. Bishop" also indicates that the Chosen One was male and slept with one of the Bishops, but the ending that usually comes from that scenario is averted since the Wright family is apparently in control of New Reno, having out-competed the Mordinos and Salvatores, which they could only do with the Chosen One's intervention. The game also establishes that the Followers of the Apocalypse expanded from their base of operations in the Los Angeles Boneyard, seemingly making their good ending from the first game canon even though it cannot be obtained since the quest required to get it is Dummied Out (the game's ending always says the Super Mutants wiped out the Followers). One thing that is confirmed about _Fallout 3_'s story is that Moira Brown completed the "Wasteland Survival Guide" with a fair amount of success, since it's available as an item that boosts the Survival skill in _New Vegas_.
    -   In _Fallout 4_, several terminal logs in the _Prydwen_ note that Sarah Lyons was killed in battle sometime in the ten years between _3_ and _4_, meaning that she didn't activate the Purifier at the end of _3_. Additionally, the Brotherhood of Steel is in control of the Capital Wasteland and has purged the remnants of the Enclave and the Super Mutants; this means the Lone Wanderer helped them out and didn't take any of the Omnicidal Maniac endings (nuking the Citadel in _Broken Steel_ or poisoning the region's water supply in the base game).
-   _God of War Ragnarök_ treats it as canon that Kratos defeated Sigrun, the Queen of the Valkyries, which was an optional boss fight in the first game.
-   _Marvel Ultimate Alliance 2_ does this to some of the optional missions in the first game. While Jean Grey being present and the X-Men still being together leaves it ambiguous as to whether Nightcrawler was supposed to be the canonical sacrifice or if Jean was talked down after coming back as the Dark Phoenix, the paths of other missions seems to be canon, including rescuing Lilandra and Senator Kelly as the West Coast of the United States of America appears to still be intact and the latter isn't among those who support registration.
-   _Mass Effect_:
    -   _Mass Effect 2_ goes with the Old Save Bonus approach. Unfortunately, if you don't have a save to import, the game gives you default choices that are not only mostly Renegade such as killing the Rachni and the Council, but also some of the worst ones that very few players ever choose, such as killing Wrex on Virmire and electing Udina to the council. Some fans speculate this is a sneaky way of encouraging players to play the first game instead of jumping into the sequel blind. The first game wasn't initially released for the Play Station 3, so that system includes an interactive comic book that allows the players to make decisions about major events. This feature was later released as DLC for the Xbox 360 and PC versions. And even if you did use the interactive comic, it still automatically assumed that you either killed or didn't meet with most NPCs who weren't part of the main plot, like Conrad Verner and the various NPCs you had the choice of killing or freeing as part of the story. This had the unfortunate effect of preventing Playstation 3 players from getting a lot of side missions until the first game was finally ported over two years later.
    -   _Mass Effect 3_ requires that Shepard survived the suicide mission of _Mass Effect 2_ (you can't import a save game where Shepard died). This should be fairly obvious, as BioWare said when the second game was released that the trilogy is less about the universe and more about Shepard's story and how it affects the galaxy. The Stinger of the third game drives the point home.
    -   The Council in _3_ is always either the original one from _Mass Effect 1_, or a new, but still mixed-species one. There is no all-human Council, even for playthroughs in which Udina proposed making one at the end of the first game. Udina is also always the human councilperson - Anderson always resigns before the events of the third game.
    -   The _Mass Effect: Homeworlds_ comic has Tali at Rannoch in a flashforward at the end of her issue, showing she survived until that point. Meanwhile, at the end of his issue, Garrus clearly recognizes Shepard and refers to them as a friend, meaning he was recruited in the first game.
    -   The presence of quarians and geth in multiplayer regardless of any installed DLC or player choices implies the ending where Shepard brokers peace, which requires Legion survive to this point and Tali to both survive to the ending of _3 and_ to not have been exiled in her companion quest in _2_, is the canon outcome. The presence of Awakened Collector Adepts also show the optional Leviathan DLC was completed. The use of In-Universe blurbs (on both Bioware's websites and the MP character descriptions) confirms this isn't Gameplay and Story Segregation either.
    -   The _Genesis_ comic shows that Tali and Garrus were Shepard's squad during the Battle of the Citadel, the final level of the first game.
    -   Averted with _Mass Effect: Andromeda_: the game takes place 600 years in the future in an entirely different galaxy, with all of the refugees only referring to general events up until _Mass Effect 2_, which is when they left. The only acknowledgement of player choices is a binary decision at character creation of which set of pronouns to use in rare references to Commander Shepard. Any references to the events of _Mass Effect 3_ and the galaxy-wide ramifications of the decision made at the end of that game are treated incredibly vaguely, where it's broadly stated that "communication with the Milky Way has been lost" and nothing more.
-   _Tales of Symphonia_ brought Relationship Values to the series. It also made it into the Massive Multiplayer Crossover tactical-RPG _Tales of the World: Narikiri Dungeon 3_, which lets the player set up custom parties of _Tales_ characters and awards parties bonus titles for certain team-ups. One of these titles is "Love-Love?", which goes to canon couples, such as Cless/Mint and Chester/Arche from _Tales of Phantasia_, Reid/Farah and Keele/Meredy from _Tales of Eternia_, and Lloyd/Colette from _Tales of Symphonia_. Ironically, the sequel actually allows you to _avert_ this particular cone, with an optional cutscene that the player can choose to follow whichever relationship choice they want.
    -   The sequel to _Symphonia_ also averts this by letting the player choose which relationship was "canon" in the previous game, in a bonus cutscene — with one exception playing the trope straight: the Kratos alternate storyline for _Symphonia_ cannot be made canon in _Dawn of the New World_ since Zelos is alive in the sequel and choosing Kratos in _Symphonia_ required you to kill him.
        -   Generally, the cone related to who Lloyd’s closest ally was gets avoided wherever possible nowadays, but Colette’s ending was used as the basis for everything in some earlier side material involving the game, and she still gets some special treatment now. For example, if one of the girls is picked for the aforementioned scenes in Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World, all of their respective scenes are very shippy, but Colette is the only one that Lloyd explicitly says “I love you” to. Additionally, prior to the confession in Colette’s scene, Emil pretty much goes full Shipper on Deck for the two, outright telling him that Colette likes him and rooting for them to get together.

    Adventure Games 

-   _AI: The Somnium Files_ has two endings where everything gets resolved — the ending of Mizuki's route and the Golden Ending. In the sequel, _AI: The Somnium Files - nirvanA Initiative_, it quickly becomes apparent that the latter is canon, even in spite of Date's physical appearance indicating it could be the former. This is explained early on as Latex Perfection — Date received a facial prosthesis that allowed him to keep Saito's face, as it is what most people recognize him as.
-   In _Another Code: Two Memories_, it was possible to end the game without having succeeded in helping D get his memories back and move on to the afterlife. In the second game, _Journey into Lost Memories_, Ashley has a late-game conversation with Matt where she talks about D, making it clear that she did help him move on.
-   _Henry Stickmin_: _Mission_ allows the player to determine which endings from _Airship_ and _Complex_ the game should treat as canon. However, some combinations are not compatible; Henry is unable to be rescued by Charles if he didn't help the government, and cannot pick "The Betrayed" as an ending unless he has become the leader of the Toppat Clan.
-   _Life Is Strange 2_ notably averts this. Upon starting a new game, it'll ask the player if they played the original _Life Is Strange_, and if they did, it'll ask which ending they chose, and alter certain aspects of the story to fit that choice. If they did not play the original game, it will randomize one of the two endings.
    -   _Life Is Strange: True Colors_ both averts this trope and plays it straight in a minor example. Upon starting the "Wavelengths" DLC bonus chapter, you'll be presented with the same choice from _Life Is Strange 2_ mentioned above, and Steph's memories will be different depending on which ending you got in Season 1. However, the chapter notably treats Chloe and Rachel as an Official Couple, while in _Life Is Strange: Before the Storm_, the romantic aspect to their relationship was optional. It's a minor case, however, since it's always been heavily implied that the two were dating at some point between the prequel and first game no matter what the player chose (though exact details were fuzzy Depending on the Writer); this just marks the first canon confirmation.
-   The second season of _The Walking Dead_ has four very different endings for Clementine (she's either with Kenny, with Jane, at Wellington, or on her own). The next season not only simplifies things by switching to a new protagonist, but also provides a short flashback for Clementine that reveals how things quickly went south for whichever character she was stuck with, explaining why she is always alone when she runs into the new cast.
    -   _The Walking Dead: Season Four_ simplifies it further. In the "build your Clementine" segment that opens the game, you are given only three choices about your season two ending, not four. The Wellington ending got cut and became merged with the go with Kenny ending. If the player uploads a previous season file with the Wellington ending picked, it defaults to going with Kenny. The only major difference is that Clem won't have the bullet-graze scar on her cheek like in season three, and instead will sport a scar on her forehead. It likely got cut due to season four having a Troubled Production and being made on a much smaller budget and by a much smaller team, and the Wellington ending was by far the least popular one.

    Beat 'em Up 

-   In the original _Final Fight_, any of the three heroes (Guy, Cody, or Haggar) could throw Belger off his building at the end of the game. In _Final Fight 2_, it is Cody who is shown delivering the finishing blow to Belger in the opening intro and this actually becomes an important plot point in _Final Fight: Streetwise_ (in which Father Bella is seeking revenge on Cody for killing Belger).

    Fighting Game 

-   Any fighting game series with multiple character endings will fit this. Examples include _Mortal Kombat_ and _Guilty Gear_.
    -   On the other hand, there has been a recent trend to avert this. Examples include the recent equivalents of both games listed above (the new _Mortal Kombat_ has a "story mode" that tells a single, unified version of events through the eyes of a series of protagonists, while _BlazBlue_ builds its entire premise around deconstructing this).
    -   _Mortal Kombat_ actually deserves special mention via the main villain of _Mortal Kombat 11_, Kronika. While cutting the branches is to be expected, the game outright points out that she's holding the shears and we get to see her in the act of pruning them. Kronika's desire for a balanced universe has seen many iterations via the various Arcade stories; when those particular iterations fail to live up to her expectations, she erases that timeline and starts anew. This is particularly true of the rebooted timeline, but given how she was behind **everything** in the series, it could arguably extend to the pre-reboot timeline as well. The trailer for the next installment, _Mortal Kombat 1_, also confirms that Fire God Liu Kang defeated Shang Tsung at the end of the _Aftermath_ storyline in _11_, rendering the latter's ending non-canon...at first, only to reveal that the real Big Bad is the Titan Shang Tsung from his own _Aftermath_ ending where he beat his Fire God Liu Kang, who now seeks to become a Multiversal Conqueror.
-   In _Dragon Ball Xenoverse_, your character avatar is Future Trunks' partner in the Time Patrol. When you begin _Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2_, you have the option to transfer that character over as Trunks' continuing partner while you play a new hero. However, if you don't have a _Xenoverse_ save file or you don't want to transfer your character over, they are replaced with Ace, the Saiyan character used in promotional material.
-   Downplayed in the case of _Eternal Champions_; the cast are Dead to Begin With, and are fighting amongst themselves to see just who will receive the honor of a second chance at life. The existence of the spin-offs _X-Perts_ and _Chicago Syndicate_ suggest that the canonical victor was either Shadow or Larcen.
-   _Soul Series_: Every character's ending inevitably has them doing something with Soul Edge and/or Soul Calibur.
    -   The setup for _Soulcalibur_ (and by extension _Soulcalibur VI_) assumes multiple elements from characters' endings. Li Long tried to challenge Cervantes and lost, staggering away with grave wounds which saw him leave the series. Sophitia fought Cervantes afterwards and managed to destroy one of the swords, though Taki needed to step in to finish Cervantes off and carry the wounded Sophitia away. After the fight, Siegfried appeared and took the remaining sword, becoming Nightmare. Also, Mitsurugi lost his duel against the Tanegashima rifleman, leaving him a renewed desire to find Soul Edge.
    -   _II_ assumes elements of Xianghua's, Kilik's and Siegfried's endings. Xianghua and Kilik confront Nightmare, Kilik's mirror breaks, and Siegfried regains his sanity and control of his body after facing his dad in a dream and making peace with his spirit.
    -   _III_ takes the basic setup from Nightmare's ending (Siegfried recovers his mind and seals Soul Edge using Soul Calibur instead of throwing it into a chasm) and also includes elements of Raphael's ending (Raphael fought and defeated Nightmare by piercing Soul Edge's eye with his rapier).
    -   _Soulcalibur VI_ has two story modes. One, Libra of Soul, has you with a custom character traveling around Eurasia. At the end of the story, it has you choose between killing newcomer Grøh after he's been completely malfested, or spare him and have him regain control of himself. The other story mode, Soul Chronicle, is a retelling of the events of _Soulcalibur_ with some changes. Hwang's chapter reveals that the Aval Organization is looking for a cure for Grøh's malfestation, making the good ending where he is spared the canon ending.
-   _Tekken_ is a very notable example, with each of its mainline games allowing you to clear the arcade/story mode with anyone on the playable roster, but a canonical winner for each tournament being established in the sequel, at least as far as the first five games are concerned:
    -   _Tekken_: Kazuya wins the tournament and throws his father Heihachi off the same cliff he was thrown from as a child, exacting revenge and claiming the Mishima Zaibatsu for himself.
    -   _Tekken 2_: Heihachi wins and wrests control of the Zaibatsu back from his son, throwing him into an active volcano afterwards.
    -   _Tekken 3_: Jin wins the tournament, but he is killed by his grandfather. His Devil Gene awakens and attacks Heihachi before flying off into the night, keeping the status quo but setting up an important plot point for the future games.
    -   _Tekken 4_: Jin again wins the tournament and ends up confronting both a revived Kazuya and Heihachi. Once again, his Devil Gene awakens, but either a hallucination or spiritual intervention from his mother prevents him from killing either of them before he flies away. The next game begins moments later.
    -   _Tekken 5_: Jin wins the tournament for a _third time_, at last taking control of the Zaibatsu and setting the stage for the more linear story modes of the following games.

    First-Person Shooter 

-   _Arma 2: Private Military Company_ could end with the player character either honoring the original contract with the UN weapons inspectors or gunning them down under the guise of a guerrilla ambush, with the circumstances of _Take On Helicopters_ with the former player character now a minor NPC antagonist to the new player characters strongly suggesting the latter.
-   Subverted in _Atomic Heart_. The first DLC expansion, _Annihilation Instinct_, continues the story from one of the two endings in which P-3 flees from Facility 3826 and allows Sechenov to proceed with the launch of Kollectiv 2.0 unheeded. The subsequent DLC, however, is instead set in the aftermath of the ending where P-3 confronts Sechenov, purporting that neither ending is definitively canon.
-   _BioShock 2_: Because Dr. Tenembaum appears in this game and has an audio diary talking about how the Little Sisters rescued in the first game are doing well, it's safe to say that _BioShock_'s Bad Ending where Jack becomes a Splicer, murders all the Little Sisters, and declares war on the surface didn't happen.
-   In _Borderlands 2_, it is stated that Mordecai was the canonical champion of the Mad Moxxi's Underdome Riot DLC of the first game.
    -   The Clan Wars quest line in _Borderlands 2_ has the Vault Hunters help one of two families, the Hodunks and the Zafords, in their path to becoming the stronger family. In _Tales from the Borderlands_, both Tector and Jimbo Hodunk are shown on-screen, making it clear that they're the family that "wins" the clan wars. One hopes the Vault Hunters weren't kicking themselves _too_ much when they attempted Ultimate Vault Hunter Mode without a Slagga.
-   _Call of Duty: Black Ops II_ had several endings based on certain characters living or dying, with the fates of Chloe and Menendez influencing events the most. Menendez's death becomes the canon basis for _Call of Duty: Black Ops III_. Amusingly, it has elements of Take a Third Option as well - as presented in _Black Ops II_, an ending where Menendez died resulted in Cordis Die rising up in worldwide rebellion, but as it happened in _Black Ops III_, Cordis Die instead looked at the circumstances of his death - disguised as the enemy in an attempt to evade capture, and only giving in when that failed - and, now viewing him as a Dirty Coward, instead broke apart entirely arguing over whether his ideals were still worth following.
-   _Condemned: Criminal Origins_ has a Last-Second Ending Choice, with Serial Killer X tied up in the trunk of a car and Ethan holding a gun to him. Both choices are more or less the same — either Ethan shoots SKX, or he decides not to, at which point SKX breaks free from his restraints, pulls his own gun, then shoots himself. Ethan himself is coy about it in _Condemned 2: Bloodshot_, only noting that "half his face lined the inside of a trunk" rather than _how_ that happened when the subject comes up. When SKX returns late in the game, he makes comments indicating that, at the very least, he blames Ethan for what happened to him, but going by the specifics of how he does so - bringing up Ethan's missing finger, which SKX himself cut off during the last level, and asking if Ethan thinks of him every time he looks at it before saying he thinks of Ethan every time he looks in the mirror - it's likely that Ethan did indeed shoot him.
-   Both parts of _Doom Eternal_'s _The Ancient Gods_ DLC duology both assume that the Slayer completed the main campaign having obtained all weapons (including the optional Unmakyr) and weapon mods, in addition to all mod upgrades (including those locked behind Mastery Challenges), Praetor Suit upgrades and Sentinel Crystal upgrades. The only weapon that isn't available in the DLC is the Crucible, since the Slayer broke its blade off inside the Icon of Sin at the end of the main game.
-   _Far Cry: New Dawn_ confirmed that the Resist ending from _Far Cry 5_ is the canonical one, by being set 17 years After the End of the previous title in the same region with some recurring characters that survived the nuclear holocaust. Even the main villain, the priest Joseph Seed, is still around to oppose the new protagonist.
    -   This gets inverted in _Far Cry 6_, where several factors reveal that the Resist ending never happened at all, chief among them the survival of Boomer the dog and the secret ending revealing that America is still perfectly fine. It’s therefore assumed that the real ending was somehow different, with Joseph instead being arrested without any nuclear bombs going off or the National Guard arresting him and his Heralds at the start of the game after the Deputy called off the initial arrest. For what it's worth, the DLC where you play as Joseph suggests that the Resist ending was just hallucinations he was having after being arrested, though it's contradicted by another DLC.
-   _Half-Life_ ends with Gordon Freeman being allowed to choose between rejecting the G-Man's offer for "employment" and accepting it. Since choosing the former option results in near-certain death, _Half-Life 2_ continues from the latter.
-   _Left 4 Dead_ has the campaign "The Sacrifice", which ends with one of the original Survivors dying in a Heroic Sacrifice to allow the others to get to safety. In the game, any of the four characters can make the sacrifice, but the tie-in comic, the _Left 4 Dead 2_ campaign "The Passing" that this one is a prequel to, and the fact that there is an achievement specifically for Bill sacrificing himself, shows that Bill is officially the one.
    -   Notably, "The Passing" came out a full year before "The Sacrifice", making Bill's death a foregone conclusion. Interestingly, the reason why he's dead in the former was just due to his voice actor being unavailable during its production.
-   _Metro: Last Light_ follows from the "bad" ending of _Metro 2033_, as this was the version of the ending that occurred in the original novel. From background dialogue, it's suggested that Arytom went Renegade rather than Paragon at least a few times (i.e. One-Man Army killing his way through the Reds and Nazis soldiers on the Bridge rather than sneaking his way past on a Pacifist Run), though there's no indication he was purely a bloodthirsty asshole either, and his thoughtful and introspective narrative throughout the game tends to suggest against it.
-   _Postal 4: No Regerts_ follows the "Escape" ending in _Postal 2: Paradise Lost_<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , where the Postal Dude evacuated Paradise almost immediately after rescuing Champ and nuked the Arizonan town a second time (the first time was in the ending of _Apocalypse Weekend_).
    -   Before that, _Paradise Lost_ (curiously enough) assumes that the Postal Dude (and the player, by extension) didn't kill most of Paradise's inhabitants in the vanilla game. However, given that there were characters that were confirmed dead in _Postal 2_, _Apocalypse Weekend_, and even earlier on in _Paradise Lost_ - in some cases, like Gary Coleman, being able to die _at least_ once per game/expansion - that come back without rhyme or reason, it's just as likely that the previously dead characters made an Unexplained Recovery.
-   _S.T.A.L.K.E.R.: Shadow of Chernobyl_ has not one, not two, but _five_ possible endings. Two of them are secret, only one ending is good to any real degree, and it still leaves things ambiguous as to whether you did the right thing. The "good" ending is the one that is picked up in Call of Pripyat, at which point you find out that, yeah, things got worse somehow.
-   _Unreal Tournament_ generally allows you to play the single-player mode as whatever character you want to, but for sequels they obviously had to decide on one winner - Malcolm won 2293's tournament in the original game, and remained Champion for the next eight years until Gorge dethroned him in 2302's Tournament in _UT2003_. Strangely, no winner has been explicitly declared for the 2303 tournament from _UT2004_, despite _Unreal Championship 2: The Liandri Conflict_ taking place in the next Tournament and _Unreal Tournament III_ taking place in the off-season between them, both featuring characters who competed in it. The free-to-play _Unreal Tournament 4_ also takes place an indeterminate amount of time later but made no definitive statements on who won in 2303 (or 2304, for that matter), and with its dev team shifted to focus on _Fortnite_ it's unlikely we'll get learn.
-   _Vermintide II_: While not outright confirmed, in-game dialogue and lore tidbits from Lohner suggest that the DLC Careers represent the "canonical" vocations of the Ubersreik Five after the events of the _Drachenfels_ and _Chaos Wastes_ DLCs. However the trailers and Lohner's Chronicle posts on social media released chronologically after the Premium Careers dropped sometimes depict the heroes as different classes - for example the Warrior Priest trailer shows Kerillian back as a Waystalker. Then again, there's a Lohner post that offhand notes Kruber is a "mercenary, poacher and occasonal knight" - it's quite possible that the career system operates like _Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay_ and the tabletop strategy game, where characters go through all the careers at different points and can return back by selecting different equipment. And it could possibly be that Olesya and/or the Chaos God Tzeentch is screwing around with reality every week, letting them canonically be _all_ of their classes all at once. There's also keep dialogue between Kruber and Bardin where the latter claims to have been an Ironbreaker and a Ranger at different points of his life, giving an excuse as to how he could easily change careers and be both.
-   In-universe, the _Hypnospace Outlaw_ spinoff _Slayers X: Terminal Aftermath: Vengance of the Slayer_ is supposed to be made by Zane a couple decades after the events of _Hypnospace_. This would require Zane to have survived the Mindcrash.

    Hack and Slash 

-   The _Diablo_ series contains a variation of this despite not really having Multiple Endings, since the very choice of character(s) at the beginning determines who wins the game and therefore who drives the story in the end.
    -   _Diablo (1997)_ allows you to choose one of three characters to play: a male Warrior, a female Rogue, and a male Sorcerer. After defeating Diablo, this character \- aka Prince Aidan, Moreina, or Jazreth, respectively - embeds Diablo's soulstone into his or her forehead in an attempt to contain Diablo forever. It doesn't work, and in the sequel the hero is possessed by Diablo, becoming the game's villain. The introductory cinematic of _Diablo II_ makes it pretty clear that the Warrior is canonically the one who did so, as the character is male (unlike the rogue), white (unlike the sorcerer), and carries a sword. The Act II cinematic confirms "he was once a great warrior". If you look very carefully you can find hints about what happened to the Rogue and Sorcerer, but they clearly didn't do as "well" as their meat shield buddy... It is implied that the rogue and sorcerer go on to become minor bosses - Blood Raven and The Summoner respectively - for earlier quests in the sequel.
    -   _Diablo II_ cinematics do not feature the Player Character, and thus _Diablo III_ only mentions the role of unspecified "heroes" in the events of the second game. _The Book of Cain_ specifies that all five of the original character classes were involved in defeating Diablo the second time. However, this means the Assassin and Druid from the expansion are not canon.
    -   _Diablo III_ once again features the individual player character in cinematics and story developments. It remains to be seen if _Diablo IV_ will repeat this trope and simply "pick one" as with the first game, or follow a different path.
-   The entire _Drakengard_ franchise is one huge subversion of this trope:
    -   It was pretty obvious which ending of _Drakengard_ was going to be used for the sequel: Ending A, the only one that could be remotely considered good. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Interestingly, however, Ending E (where Caim and Angelus teleport to a monochrome version of modern-day Tokyo, have a rhythm-based battle with the Final Boss, and then get shot down by a fighter jet immediately after killing it) leads to the spinoff/alternate sequel, _NieR_. Then it's played with as it turns out that the ending that lead to _NieR_ was actually the future of the _Drakengard_ universe rather than an Alternate Universe, so technically both of those endings happen... eventually.
    -   Despite ostensibly being a prequel, _none_ of the four endings to _Drakengard 3_ leads to the original _Drakengard_; instead, the _novelization_ does, which combines elements of all four and is considered a sort of "Ending E". However, Ending A starts its own timeline which eventually leads to _Drakengard 1.3_, another novel detailing how the events of _Drakengard_ play out in a timeline where the pact system was never invented.
    -   _NieR_ itself joins in the fun as well. Technically, most of the endings are simply continuations of the previous one, showing more events immediately afterwards, along with one short story, _Around the World in 80 Days_, following on from Ending B where Emile survives his Heroic Sacrifice, albeit reduced to just his head, crash-landing in a far off desert and immediately starting the trek to make it back to Nier and Kainé. One particular oddity, though, is that the chain of events which leads to _NieR: Automata_ don't actually come from any endings in the original release: rather, they follow from an "Ending E", which is Ending D from the game (where Nier sacrifices his existence to save Kainé) combined with the short story _The Lost World_ (where Kainé starts to remember that Nier existed three years later and fights to bring him back), which wouldn't be playable until the 2021 Updated Re-release.
-   _Hotline Miami 2: Wrong Number_ reveals the few examples of choosing to kill someone in the first game ended with them being allowed to live. Richter is a playable character and his final level sees him escape from prison, revealing Jacket did not strangle him to death. Also, he is visited in jail by the two Janitors from the final level of the first game, confirming that Biker did not kill them. Whether Biker discovered the Janitors' plans via hacking their computer is never revealed.

    MMORPGs 

-   _RuneScape_:
    -   The quest "Temple of Ikov" quest has you choose whether to protect the Staff of Armadyl or steal it and give it to the bad guy. When the developers made the sequel quest, "While Guthix Sleeps", they realized the plot sort of hinged on the bad guy having the staff, so everyone who chose to protect it received a note from the guardians that it had been stolen by somebody else.
    -   In the quest "Hazeel Cult" the player may chose to help the cult revive Hazeel. Hazeel does appear in later quests if he is revived, but he has no impact on the events of those quests and barely any dialogue. If the player didn't revive Hazeel, he eventually is revived by Zamorak.

    Party Games 

-   _Mario Party_: In every game, any playable character(s) can become the Superstar in the end by winning the game, and it's heavily implied that _everyone_ became the Superstar in the first game. The introduction to the second game, however, has the six playable characters debating who deserves to have a theme park named for them, and Wario tries to earn that privilege; some interpret his wording as him reminding the others that he specifically was the Superstar at the end of the first game. We're never told if this is true or not.

    Platform Games 

-   _Crash Bandicoot (1996)_ has the standard ending where Crash defeats Dr. Cortex, and the 100% Completion ending where Crash and Tawna escape the castle, but _Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back_ makes it apparent that the former is canon by having the game start immediately after Crash caused Cortex's hoverboard to malfunction and send him plummeting to the island below. Meanwhile, _Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped_, _Crash Twinsanity_, and _Crash Bandicoot 4: It's About Time_ do the opposite and assume that you got the secret endings in _Crash 2_, _Crash Bandicoot: The Wrath of Cortex_, and _Warped_, respectively.
-   _Fresh Minty Adventure_ cuts off all endings of _Minty Fresh Adventure!_ that don't involve the rescue of Minty, as otherwise, she can't be Promoted to Playable and the series can't have its Changing of the Guard.
-   _Mega Man X4_ has similar but irreconcilable plots for X and Zero. _Mega Man X5_ can easily blend elements from both plotlines since players can choose either character before a stage, causing confusion. X can use with the previous game's armor and weapons if he's the penultimate boss fight, and is confirmed as the one who fought General by one of the bosses, which means that X killed General. Zero can be confirmed by the same boss as the one who fought Colonel, but not General, and he remembers Iris, who he killed in self-defense after she tried to avenge Colonel's death at _Zero's_ hands.
    -   Similarly, _X5_'s intro video has some brief images of the enemies X and Zero faced in the previous games. There's one showing Zero fighting a copy of himself with Sigma looming behind, which confirms that in _Mega Man X2_, X retrieved all of Zero's parts and they did _not_ fight each other.
-   The _Mega Man ZX_ series may be digging itself a hole of this sort. The first game has two possible player characters, Vent and Aile, whose stories are similar but irreconcilable. The second has two new player characters, Grey and Ashe — Ashe coexists with Vent, and Grey with Aile. There is a manga based on _Mega Man ZX_, and the main character they chose to follow is Vent. However, the _ZX Advent_ manga takes the Merging the Branches approach with Grey and Ashe appearing though Grey is the one with Model A and Aile appears in a bonus chapter, and issue #55 of the Archie Comics series rather blatantly indicates that Ian Flynn intended to take the same approach with the entire _ZX_ storyline.
-   The opening of _Skullmonkeys_ picks up where the good ending of _The Neverhood_ left off, showing Klogg finally landing on a planet after getting stuck in space.
-   _Sonic the Hedgehog_:
    -   This seems to be happening concerning the Metal Sonic race on Stardust Speedway in _Sonic the Hedgehog CD_. Originally, the race could have taken place in either the Good Future or Bad Future, but _Sonic Generations_ and _Sonic the Hedgehog 4_ make it clear that the race canonically took place in the Bad Future.
    -   _Shadow the Hedgehog_ has many different endings, three of which even involve Shadow's implied breaking of Dr. Eggman's neck and thus ending his Joker Immunity. Nearly all endings in the game are subject to this trope, as only the full Hero ending and Last Story are considered canon by Sega.
    -   In _Sonic the Hedgehog 2_, the good ending is only achieved if Sonic collected all the Chaos Emeralds. As he begins _Sonic 3 & Knuckles_ as Super Sonic, this means that the good ending of _Sonic 2_ is the canon one.
-   The original _Wario Land_ ended with Wario asking a genie for a castle. Depending on how many coins the player collected, he ends up with anything from a birdhouse to an entire planet. Despite the insistence of the game to try again, he apparently got the castle (the penultimate reward) according to _Wario Land II_.

    Point-and-Click Games 

-   _Day of the Tentacle_ is a sequel to the point-and-click _Maniac Mansion_. It confirms certain events to be canon.
    -   The original game had you choose two out of five party members to rescue Dave's girlfriend, Sandy. _Day of the Tentacle_ confirms that Bernard was one of the party members chosen to rescue Sandy.
    -   The "hamster in a microwave" incident is revealed to be canon... and it took years for Weird Ed to get over the trauma.
-   _Gabriel Knight: Sins of the Fathers_ has two possible endings: one where Gabriel lives, one where he dies. The game gives equal weight to both, with Mosley taking Gabriel's place in the final cut-scene if he died. However, the two sequels (naturally) follow on from the ending where the titular protagonist is alive.
-   _Henry Stickmin Series_:
    -   Played with in _Infiltrating the Airship_, in which Captain Galeforce lists Henry's past crimes from the previous games: Sneaking into a bank, breaking out of prison, and stealing the Tunisian Diamond. However, the actual files shown can differ depending on the endings that are possible. Rather than being arrested, the _Breaking the Bank_ file can show Henry Tele Fragged in a wall. The _Escaping the Prison_ file can show the bars Henry files through, his lawyer's business card, or the hole he drilled in his cell floor, which all reflect possible escape avenues. And the _Stealing the Diamond_ file can be a blurred photo of Henry busting in, a business card from the Center for Chaos Containment, or a penny used to slip past a guard. In _The Henry Stickmin Collection_, which remasters the previous five games into one title, which file seen can be affected by which ending you played through most recently.
    -   _Completing the Mission_, the sixth game in the series, doesn't cut off any more branches than it absolutely has to. Instead, it offers sixteen different ending paths, which are achieved by combining the four endings of _Infiltrating the Airship_ and the five of _Fleeing the Complex_. Each combination can drastically affect the plot, sending Henry on a run to rob the Toppat Clan of all its riches, helping the Government take the Clan down, or helping the Clan ward off the Government. Only endings between the two games that are mutually exclusive do not have a path; _Airsip's_ "Rapidly Promoted Executive" ending, where Henry takes over the Toppats, is the only ending that can be combined with "The Betrayed" finale of _Complex_, where the Toppat Clan's former leader betrays Henry to reclaim his title, and only the "Government Supported Private Investigator" or "Relentless Bounty Hunter" endings of _Airship_ (where you directly helped out the government) can be combined with _Complex_'s "International Rescue Operative" ending (where you call in Charles, who rescues you from the Wall).
-   _Pico's School:_
    -   You as Pico decide whether or not to gun Nene down upon her request. She reappears in _Pico vs. Uberkids_, confirming that Pico canonically spared her life.
    -   Spritework for a zombified Cyclops for the unreleased _Pico's School 2_ confirms Pico chose to kill Cyclops rather than letting him run away.
-   Though the adventures in the 5 installments of _Quest for Glory_ take place in different lands, and hardly any characters travel with the protagonist between settings, the fourth game assumes that you've gotten the Golden Ending in the first one, and drove Baba Yaga from the land. Because she is _not_ happy to see you.
-   Originally, _The Secret of Monkey Island_ had two slightly different end paths, neither of which had a practical effect on the actual endgame: Either you sail back home from Monkey Island with your ship and crew, or you "accidentally" sink their ship and ride home with Herman Toothrot, the local hermit. Even though sinking your ship was an obscure action to begin with, that ending was made canon in _Escape from Monkey Island_, where Guybrush's former crewmates, now back home on Mêlée island, go out of their way to avoid him because he left them stranded on Monkey Island.
    -   More subtly, dialogue choices in the first and second game make it possible to play Guybrush as either a Deadpan Snarker or a lovable Genius Ditz, but _The Curse of Monkey Island_ prefers the latter characterization.
    -   The second game assumes the Voodoo Lady helped you in the first game, when it's possible to complete the first game without ever talking to her.

    Real-Time Strategy 

-   Most sequels in the oldest _Command & Conquer_ games assume the good guys won the previous installment. But starting with the _Firestorm_ expansion for _Command & Conquer: Tiberian Sun_, Westwood started writing stories with more tightly-woven, complementary campaigns so that, while the good guys still usually end up winning, there are no non-canon storylines.
    -   In earlier games, while there are few direct contradictions between early- to mid-game missions from either faction, there are next to no direct references to them happening if you're not playing as that faction either, such as the original game having nothing the GDI player does in Europe affecting the Nod player in Africa or vice-versa; _Tiberian Sun_ went on to hit several of the same plot beats regardless of side, with your choice only affecting how they played out, e.g. whether Hammerfest Base is reclaimed after Nod invades it, and in _Firestorm_, they went as far as to have both factions have the same ending mission, just from different sides of the same larger map as whichever faction you're playing as handles one part of a joint operation.
    -   _Uprising_ has the Allies established as the victors of _Command & Conquer: Red Alert 3_, and its mini-campaigns happen independently of each other (the Soviets fight against FutureTech rather than the Allies as a whole, the Empire is fighting back against the Soviets, the Allies are fighting rebels in the Empire). However, some characters reference events that only happened in their (non-canon) campaign, specifically Moskvin having a panic attack at the sight of the Shogun Executioner (which ravaged Odessa in the Empire's campaign).
-   Relic does this to _Dawn of War_ a lot, given the series' penchant for Sequelitis. _Dawn of War_ and _Dawn of War 3_ have linear, preset endings, but as for the rest:
    -   _Winter Assault_ presumably ended in an Eldar victory, given how _Dark Crusade_ mentions that the Eldar betrayed the Imperial Guard, that Taldeer survived and kept her command position, and that Gorgutz both survived and killed Crull. FFG's _Only War_ outright confirms \[\[spoiler:an Eldar victory on Lorn V.
    -   _Dark Crusade_'s endings were pruned by _Dawn of War II_ (and its novelizations) mentioning that the Blood Ravens beat, at the very least, the Necrons, the Chaos Marines, the Imperial Guard, and as of _Retribution_, definitely the Eldar.
    -   _Dawn of War II_, likely due to how unpopular Soulstorm was, confirmed that the Blood Ravens lost horribly, and _III_ stated that the true victory went to Gorgutz.
        -   Surprisingly, after _Winter Assault_, Gorgutz managed to avert this with most of his appearances, with a cutscene showing him deliberately escaping the conflict if he's defeated. This opens him up to appearing in any sequel should he be needed, and he's fairly popular.
    -   The traitor in _Chaos Rising_ was confirmed by _Retribution_ through process of elimination: the traitor had to have fought on Kronus (rules out Thaddeus and the Force Commander), while Tarkus, Cyrus and Martellus appear as playable characters, which means it must have been Avitus.
    -   An odd case is the return of Eliphas the Inheritor. His side lost in _Dark Crusade_ and the character is _quite_ messily killed in his faction's defeat cutscene, but he's back for _Dawn of War II_, and working for a different side. Apparently his new patron got the gods to resurrect him for the job.
    -   _Retribution_ ended, predictably enough, with a Blood Ravens victory, which is confirmed in _Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine_ when Titus encounters a handful of Blood Ravens marines who reference the "Aurelia Campaign". However, _Dawn of War III_ implies it's actually a composite ending of a Blood Raven and Eldar victory, as Farseer Taldeer returns as a Wraithknight piloted by her twin brother Rohann, and her soulstone was only retrieved by him in the Eldar ending.
-   A variation in a simulation game's multiple endings are clarified in a later, mostly unrelated real-time tactical game's sequel. The _BattleTech_ based real-time-tactical/RPG game _The Crescent Hawk's Inception_ received a more true-to-the-tabletop sequel, _The Crescent Hawk's Revenge._ _Revenge_ reveals how the original _MechWarrior_ game ended: Gideon Braver Vanderburg successfully defeated the Dark Wing to reclaim his family's heritage as rulers of Ander's Moon (had he failed, he would have become a wandering vagabond warrior for the rest of his life). However, he also continued on as a mercenary, and his unit, the Blazing Aces, lasted until at least 3051 where they were destroyed to a man during the Clan invasion. It also clarifies that he was canonically a _Phoenix Hawk_ pilot, out of the 8 available 'Mechs in the first game.
-   Another variation for _MechCommander._ This is a game where permanent pilot death is a possibility and that Anyone Can Die. It also presumes that you trained up some of your pilots as well as having most of them survive, as your rookie Southern-Fried Private of all people becomes an elite pilot who survives to return to the Inner Sphere in the true 3D sequel.
-   _Supreme Commander_'s expansion _Forged Alliance_ doesn't explain which ending is actually canon, but simply, after a little expositionary cut scene, dumps the player directly into "1 year later", as the Big Bad overruns the galaxy. It can be deduced it's the Aeon one, because the other sides were wiped out in the UEF ending and space travel was prevented for years in the Cybran one. However, it is implied that whichever side you choose you are the same commander as you would have been in the first game for that faction.
-   Blizzard's early _Warcraft_ games were like this. In order to have a sequel worth mentioning, they decided that the Humans (the "good guys" of the first game) had been defeated and sent packing, as refugees, to nations on the northern half of the continent. Then, five years later, the Orcs (the "bad guys") decide to follow them, lusting for more conquest. In _WarCraft II_, the Alliance victory is considered canonical, as is their "successful" campaign in its expansion, _Beyond the Dark Portal_. However, it should be noted that missions in _both_ campaigns are considered canon, and the only missions that aren't are the ones that end the campaign and don't allow for the canonical ending of the story.
    -   Blizzard mostly abandoned this method with _StarCraft_ and all following Real-Time Strategy games, instead constructing the story so that one campaign flowed into the next... but _StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty_ does have two missions where a player must make a decision about which ally to help. Since two of these characters can potentially die if not allied with, its sequels, _StarCraft II: Heart of the Swarm_ and _StarCraft II: Legacy of the Void_, do not feature either Ariel Hanson or Gabriel Tosh. However, the epilogue missions feature armies from all three games, and Raynor's Terran forces include Spectres, a unit which was only available as a reward for allying with Tosh, implying that Raynor canonically sided with Tosh rather than Nova.

    Role-Playing Games 

-   In The _Avadon_ series, each game follows from the ending of the previous where the character remained loyal to the titular organization, rather than rebelling.
-   _Baldur's Gate_:
    -   Done to a depressing extreme in _Baldur's Gate II_. The game dialogue and set-up tells you _exactly_ who you travelled with by the end of the first game (Khalid, Jaheira, Minsc, Dynaheir and Imoen) and tells you exactly how you behaved (heroically). Needless to say, rationalizing what you are shown and told in the intro level was very difficult if you're getting the Old Save Bonus from a Chaotic Evil Priest of Talos.
    -   More than a decade later, an Interquel expansion, _Siege of Dragonspear_, goes into further details about just how you ended up in the situation that the second game says you did. It doesn't change the outcome, but it does provide an explanations for what happened to a different party (they left on various tasks) and how the player, regardless of alignment, ended up imprisoned with those five members.
    -   In supplementary material it's established that Gorion's Ward was canonically the preset Fighter Abdel Adrian. _Baldur's Gate III_ never refers to him by name in conversation out of respect to the players' headcanons, but the in-game novel _The Mortal View: Eyewitness Accounts of the Bhaalspawn Crisis_ alludes to his death in _Murder In Baldur's Gate_ and you can obtain "Abdel's Trusted Shield" in Act 3.
    -   _Baldur's Gate III_ also establishes some canon outcomes for the tie-in module, _Baldur's Gate: Descent into Avernus_, namely that the city of Elturel was rescued from Avernus and Zariel was neither killed nor redeemed as she still rules that layer of the Nine Hells. It also establishes that one of the origin characters, Wyll, was among the heroes of _Tyranny of Dragons_ as presumably one of the player characters.
-   Konami's PC-playable adaptation of _Batman Returns_ is an inversion: a case of grafting on _new_ branches. In addition to featuring a subplot that wasn't in the movie (an attempt to blackmail Mayor Jenkins with a phony, incriminating videotape), there are four possible endings. The first is the same as that of the movie: The Penguin and Max Shreck both die, and Catwoman mysteriously vanishes. Two other possible endings are downer ones: either the Penguin defeats Jenkins in the recall election and Batman sits forlornly in the Batcave, hanging his head; or the Penguin succeeds in blowing up Gotham City with his army of missile-launching penguins, and Batman likewise sits forlornly in the Batcave and hangs his head. The fourth possible ending is the same as the movie ending, but with a twist: as the game is structured around Random Encounters, Catwoman will disappear at the game's conclusion _unless_ you never meet up with her in your travels around the city. If you _don't_ manage to encounter her, then you finally meet her at the end of the game, she gets a saucy grin on her face, you take her home with you to Wayne Manor, and... well, you can probably guess the rest.
-   _Caravaneer 2_ establishes that Martin Milloshi is the main character of Caravaneer 1 <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , and sided with Desert Patrol.
-   _Case 02: Paranormal Evil_: This game continues from the second ending of _Loser Reborn_, where Marty wakes up from his coma, only to find himself in a zombie apocalypse.
-   _Chrono Trigger_ has over twelve endings, some of them quite silly. _Chrono Cross_ presumably follows one of the standard good endings (since there's no mention of everyone in Guardia being part-frog), but the most it says about its predecessor is that Guardia fell to an invasion by Porre five years after _Trigger_, the Masamune became tainted by evil, and the Power Trio from _Trigger_ "no longer exist in this timeline." Interestingly, the _Chrono Trigger_ endings that set all this up come from an animated cutscene in its Updated Re-release for the Play Station, which came out after _Chrono Cross_. And then a later _Chrono Trigger_ rerelease for the Nintendo DS added an epilogue that confirmed Dalton was the one who made all this possible.
-   The _Code Geass_ RPG for the Nintendo DS is an interesting example; the "One True Path" is the anime canon, which you're forced to follow on your first playthrough. The New Game Plus allows one to explore better (or worse) paths, all of which involve Original Generation villains Castor and Pollux. Interestingly, from the fourth playthrough onward, you can force yourself back onto the plot railroad by performing a certain action during a sequence where you control Castor that gets him killed and reasserts the anime plotline.
-   _Dragon Age_:
    -   If you don't import your Warden from _Dragon Age: Origins_ to _Awakening_, you have to play as an original Orlesian Warden-Commander and the expansion automatically sets certain story flags, such as Alistair being King of Ferelden. Rather bizarrely, you still play as your Warden even if they sacrifice themselves to kill the Archdemon.
    -   _Dragon Age II_ offers not one but three possible pre-built histories comprising of both _Origins_ and _Awakening_ story flags if you don't import an older save file. If you import just the _Origins_ save without _Awakening_ flags, those will be preset for you.
    -   _Dragon Age: Inquisition_ has replaced importing old saves with the _Dragon Age Keep_, a website where players are able to determine decisions made in the previous games as they see fit. Approximately 300 different choices can be made in the _Keep_. This adds replay value as it allows to start a new playthrough with a completely different world state. There is also a default world state, for players who did not play the previous games or do not wish to bother with the _Keep_. The default world state assumes a female Dalish Elf warrior Warden who died killing the Archdemon in _Origins_ and a male mage Hawke who sided with the mages in _Dragon Age II_.
    -   Then, there is the matter of the so-called "BioWare canon", a unified timeline where all official non-interactive installments set after _Origins_ take place. According to the Word of God, these are meant to be read with a disclaimer that "If these events contradict your game canon, then they never happened in it (or maybe something similar happened)":
        -   _Asunder_, a novel bridging parts two and three, establishes that First Enchanter Irving is alive in BW canon, Shale was canonically freed and has discovered her origins, and both Wynne and Shale were taken to fight the Archdemon. This, in turn, implies that the Warden did not defile the Sacred Ashes, otherwise s/he would have to kill Wynne.
        -   According to _The Silent Grove_ miniseries and its sequels, Alistair is King, though it's unclear if he's married to the Warden, married to Anora, or ruling alone. Isabela made it to the end of _II_, instead of leaving or coming back only to be sold out to the Arishok. Speaking of whom, he's dead and Sten (alive and returned home) has taken his position.
        -   In _Knight Errant_, Sebastian and Varric are shown to still be in communication and on good terms. This pretty much confirms that Anders is dead, as Sebastian would otherwise be on his vengeance-driven warpath against Kirkwall.
        -   In _Blue Wraith_ and _Dark Fortress_, Fenris is killing slavers and freeing slaves in Tevinter. This confirms that not only did Hawke not kill him, but they didn't sell him back to Danarius either.
        -   _Dragon Age: Absolution_ confirms that the Inquisition disbanded after the events of Trespasser and that Leliana is _not_ a Fade spirit (as mentioned under Inquisition).
    -   _Inquisition_ has an odd case of branch-cutting _during_ the game. If Morrigan performed the Dark Ritual in _Origins_, she has a young son with the untainted soul of the Old God Urthemiel, which has major implications for the future of the world... or would if Flemeth didn't show up and summarily extract it. Morrigan could alternately have a human son born conceived without magic, but Flemeth's intervention now means that that particular branch has been closed.
    -   Leliana can die in _Origins_. However, after becoming a key character in _Inquisition_, this is unceremoniously undone, with a vague Unexplained Recovery offered as the only explanation. The post-game _Trespasser_ DLC finally addresses this in its epilogue, which, if your world state involved Leliana's death and she does _not_ become Divine over the course of Inquisition, implies that the Leliana you knew in _Inquisition_ was really just a Fade spirit who imitated her form and personality.
    -   Anders can die in _Awakening_. However, he becomes a main companion in _II_ and his potential death is hand waved away as a case of mistaken identity despite the fact that the credits of _Awakening_ clearly state Anders died.
-   Played partially straight in the _EXA\_PICO_ series. The first game has seven endings and two possible route splits which depend on the Reyvateil the players choose during Phase 2: Aurica or Misha. According to a light novel that was published after the first game was released, to Flash-based visual novels made by the developers, and dialogue present in the second game, the canon route is Aurica's. However, the "partially" is because it has never been stated if either her ending or the third heroine's one is canon.
    -   Averted for the other two games in the series: they and their additional material go out of their way to not establish any canon endings or routes.
-   The _Final Fantasy VII_ sequels (most strikingly _Dirge of Cerberus_, due to its Character Focus) all assume Vincent and Yuffie joined the party, even though they don't have to in order to beat the game.
    -   Teased in _Lateral Biography TURKS: The Kids Are Alright_. Evan, discovering Tifa had been to the Gold Saucer, asks her if she's ever been on a date there. Instead of answering, Tifa is offended and tells him that asking her things like that at work is inappropriate. Tifa was one of Cloud's Romance Sidequest options to date in the Gold Saucer in the original game, but not the game's first preference for a partner.
-   _Finding Light_: Although the previous game, _Mari and the Black Tower_, allowed multiple outcomes for story and gameplay choices, this game canonizes certain outcomes.
    -   Abbie's chosen gender is female and she's a heavily armored fighter, indicating that Scitech canonically picked the knight class for her.
    -   Vera survives the events of the previous game, even though doing so required an optional sidequest as well as the player to choose to spare her.
    -   Ruth's party is confirmed to have fought the Superboss Lilith in _Knight Bewitched_.
-   In _Geneforge_, no ending is ever _quite_ canonical and there's a bit of Merging the Branches, but there's usually a Broad Strokes canonical ending.
    -   _1_ and _2_ end in Shaper victories, but events afterward make the victories hollow and set up the conflict for the next game.
    -   _3_ ends in a rebel victory.
    -   _4_ ends in a stalemate, with the Unbound ravaging the Shapers but the machinery that created them being destroyed.
-   _Gothic_ handles the choices of the previous game by having almost everyone that would care dead (or outside the area in _Gothic 3_'s case), or only talking about events common to all three paths. There are, however, a few dialogues that reference specific minor choices. One early conversation in _Gothic 2_ establishes that The Nameless Hero did not pay Bloodwyn protection money (as he will reference the consequence of not doing so). One interesting bit in the expansion for _2_ suggests he killed Bloodwyn (never required or recommended, but deserved), which is mentioned _during a conversation with Bloodwyn_ (he notes he survived).
-   In _I Miss the Sunrise_ there are two possible endings, but only the optimist ending allows the events of _The Reconstruction_ to happen, meaning that the pessimist ending cannot be canon.
-   _Knights of the Old Republic_:
    -   _Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords_:
        -   The game allows the player to choose the gender and alignment of Revan from the first game during dialogue with Atton Rand. In either event, the changes are largely cosmetic, gender pretty much only affecting the pronouns used to refer to Revan (with several mistakes in the script referring to him as a male regardless of your choice) and alignment affecting whether the Republic admiral appearing in certain cutscenes and aiding you in a near-end-game event is Carth or a generic NPC. However, according to _KOTOR2_, Bastila Shan canonically survived the first game regardless of these choices, whereas in _KOTOR1's_ actual gameplay, Revan may end up killing her in The Very Definitely Final Dungeon.
        -   According to _Star Wars Legends_ canon (expressed in _Star Wars: The Old Republic_ and its Tie-In Novel _Revan_), Revan was a light-side male (and married and had a child with Bastila), while the Jedi Exile played as in _The Sith Lords_ was a light-side female named Meetra Surik. However, the second game has hints of Take a Third Option, as the canon scenario also includes Handmaiden, who is only an option for a male Exile, as one of Surik's companions. If the game had been finished, Handmaiden was supposed to have joined you if you were on the light side (then Visas Marr if you were on the dark side, who in the finished game joins you no matter what; presumably too the Disciple, who only joins with a female Exile in the finished game, would have joined regardless of gender or alignment).
    -   _Star Wars: The Old Republic_:
        -   Generally averted externally: the character classes are only ever vaguely referred to in outside material in such a way that you can imagine they were whatever gender or alignment you'd like. There are a few exceptions, though—the Consular is stated to have been canonically male, as it's his tomb that the protagonist of _Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy_ (fittingly, another game where you can choose your character's gender and race) enters and seals off.
        -   Internally, when beginning the _Knights of the Fallen Empire_ and later major expansions to _SWTOR_, the player gets a rather blunt warning that any unfinished story content up to that point will be completed using default choices. This mostly concerns which companions you've recruited and which NPCs have died. Republic characters default to light side choices and Sith characters default to dark side choices, though Sith Inquisitors inexplicably default to the light-side title Darth Imperius if the player rolls a new level 60 character to jump straight to _Knights of the Fallen Empire_: dark side Inquisitors who played the class story are normally named Darth Nox, and neutral Inquisitors are named Darth Occlus. The minimum content to complete to avoid default settings in _KOTFE_ and _Knights of the Eternal Throne_ are the class story, _Forged Alliances_, _Shadow of Revan_, and _Rise of the Emperor_.
-   The second _Mana Khemia_ game hints that the canon ending from the first game was Flay becoming a criminal mastermind and Vayne playing hero. Strangely, it _also_ implies that the canon ending was Pamela being freed from the school and traveling with Vayne, as she does not appear or get referenced to in the entire sequel, and she would still be at Al Revis under any other ending.
-   _Mega Man Battle Network 6: Cybeast Gregar and Cybeast Falzar_ cuts off the branch for the _Team ProtoMan_ side of _Mega Man Battle Network 5: Team Colonel and Team ProtoMan_, with the majority of events in _6_ tracing back to _Team Colonel_.
-   _Neverwinter Nights 2_ and its two expansion packs allow for quite a few possibilities between them, but ultimately hints towards one set of events for the Knight-Captain. The main character canonically has to have gotten the good ending for the original campaign in order for references Ammon Jerro made in _Mask of the Betrayer_ to make any sense. _Storms of Zehir_ muddles what happened, though: the presence of One of Many would imply that the Knight-Captain then succumbed to evil and rampaged across Faerun, _if_ Khelgar didn't talk about how they had returned to Crossroad Keep, which only happens if they were good. The best guess is that they got far enough on the evil route to recruit One of Many, then backed out, causing it to abandon them.
-   _Pathfinder: Wrath of the Righteous_ takes place in the same continuity as Owlcat's previous CRPG _Pathfinder: Kingmaker_. Though its events are only addressed in vague terms and there's no Old Save Bonus, it's made reasonably clear that the Baron(ess) was successful in settling the Stolen Lands. Furthermore, _Kingmaker_ companion Jubilost Narthropple has a cameo appearance in Chapter 5, meaning the Baron(ess) canonically didn't murder him (a Stupid Evil option at his first appearance) and that he survived the endgame.
-   _Pokémon_:
    -   _Pokémon Gold and Silver_:
        -   In an aversion, Red has all three starters (four if you include _Yellow_'s Pikachu) and Blue doesn't use his (having Arcanine, Gyarados, and Exeggutor on his team all at once, where in _Red_ and _Blue_ his starter would replace whichever one shared the same type), implying that neither one has a canon starter. However, _HeartGold and SoulSilver_ still features Red as the one that took down Team Rocket, while the female Player Character from _Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen_ is never seen or mentioned. The almost-universally-agreed-upon Fanon is that the characters chose the starters matching their names - Red chose Charmander, causing Blue to choose Squirtle, with Leaf/Green receiving the leftover Bulbasaur at some unknown point.
        -   The Gen II games also have a number details implying that _Red, Green and Blue_ (which have the same story) are the canon predecessors, rather than _Yellow_, such as Blue's team being based on his team from those games (minus his starter), the absence any NPCs and locations exclusive to _Yellow_ (such as the Summer Beach House), and the inclusion of _RGB_\-exclusive NPCs. The issue of what Pokémon Red caught regardless of version was avoided by rounding out his team with a Snorlax (a forced encounter, as two of them were blocking the routes to Fuchsia City — also confirming he caught one of them instead of simply defeating them) and either an Espeon (evolved from the Eevee found at Celadon City — although this does confirm Red never used an evolutionary stone on that Eevee) in the original games or a Lapras (a gift from one of the Silph Co. employees during Team Rocket's takeover) in the remakes and in later appearances.
    -   Played straight in _Pokémon Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!_ which marks the first time Red is fought with only one starter, that being Venusaur. Subsequently, this results in Blue and Green, the latter of whom makes her first official NPC appearance in this game, also being given their own starters, those being Charizard and Blastoise, respectively.
    -   _Pokémon Ranger_ cuts off the branch for Kate in the third game.
    -   Cynthia's dialogue in _Pokémon Black and White_ confirms _Platinum_'s version of events to be the canon plotline for Generation IV, as she mentions the incident with Giratina and the Distortion World.
    -   Subverted with the protagonist of _GSC/HGSS_. The ending to _Pokémon Stadium 2_ shows Kris versus Silver, which implies the female protagonist is canon. However, the _Stadium_ games haven't been deemed canon and thus it's unknown if the canonical Johto protagonist is Ethan or Lyra (who replaced Kris in the remakes).
    -   Many Legendary Pokémon make reappearances in games set after their debut games, which would (assuming they're Single Specimen Species) either infer they don't really happen, or they weren't originally caught in their original appearances/the player doesn't canonically keep them.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
        -   Mewtwo appears in Cerulean Cave in Gen I and its remakes, remains there in _HeartGold and SoulSilver_, then appears in Kalos in _X and Y_, suggesting it has never canonically been caught. This is particularly notable since Mewtwo, as a manmade creation, is _unquestionably_ one of a kind.
        -   In _Pokémon Black and White_ you can catch Kyurem, but the plot of the sequels hinges on Team Plasma getting to it first. Since the Musketeer Trio are still around in the sequels, catching them in the first game is also non-canon. In an inversion, Liberty Garden is only accessible in the first games by event, and it serves as the place where you catch Victini. In the sequels, you can visit the island without the event, and Victini is missing (the implication is that the event is canon, and the previous protagonist caught Victini before the events of the sequel).
        -   Zygarde appears in _Pokémon X and Y_ as an Optional Boss, much like Kyurem did. However, it not only appears in _Pokémon Sun and Moon_ (and their Ultra versions), but Dexio outright confirms it's the same Zygarde from Kalos, having traveled all the way to Alola. Naturally, it'd be hard to do so from the confines of a Poké Ball, so it's likely the encounter with it in _X and Y_ either didn't end with the player capturing it or simply never happened in the first place.
    -   In _Pokémon Scarlet and Violet_, depending on which game you choose, the player character goes to either Naranja Academy or Uva Academy. _Pokémon Horizons: The Series_ ends up using the former school, with Uva Academy nowhere to be seen.
-   The _Quest for Glory_ series generally assumes the player got the Golden Ending for every past game. _Quest for Glory IV_ has Baba Yaga mad at the player for turning her into a frog, while _Quest for Glory V_ reveals that Barnard von Spielberg became the Baron; defeating Baba Yaga and rescuing Barnard were optional objectives in the original game. However, it doesn't make assumptions about the player's Character Class or most of their moral choices.
-   The anime based on _Star Ocean: The Second Story_, _Star Ocean EX_, merged pretty much all the story of the first part of the game, changing it to make it all possible to happen together. For instance, they just encounter and recruit Ashton, instead of having to backtrack or miss him. Later, they meet Opera and Ernest, which doesn't happen if you recruit Ashton. The gaiden sequel, plus the third main game's manual, confirm that every possible party member was canonically recruited.
-   _Shin Megami Tensei_:
    -   _Shin Megami Tensei I_ had three endings. The sequel takes place under the premise of the Neutral ending having occurred.
    -   _Shin Megami Tensei II_ handled this weirdly — all three paths had similar endings, and regardless of events everyone turns against God. However, there are hints in _Devil Survivor_ that the Neutral ending was canon (because _that_ ending featured eternal reincarnation and suffering for Aleph).
    -   According to some fans and the fanbook for _Raidou Kuzunoha vs. The Soulless Army_, there are three different main timelines to the _Shin Megami Tensei_ multiverse, and each branch assumes you got a different ending in _Raidou Kuzunoha vs. King Abaddon_.
    -   _Shin Megami Tensei IV: Apocalypse_ establishes that the hero of _Shin Megami Tensei IV_ was named Flynn, sided with Jonathan in the initial route split, ended up Neutral-aligned, and wasn't dumb enough to fall for Medusa's I Surrender, Suckers.
    -   _Persona_:
        -   All sequels assume that the good ending was achieved in their predecessors, seeing as how there wouldn't be a game if the world had been destroyed.
        -   The protagonists in _Persona 3_ onward are able to date a number of different girls (or for the _Persona 3 Portable_ female protagonist, boys) over the course of the game. _Persona 4_ implies that the _Persona 3_ protagonist romanced Chihiro, and _Persona 4: Arena_ hints at the _Persona 4_ protagonist going through Naoto's Social Link.
        -   _Persona 3_ allows the male protagonist to choose, among other things, which Culture Club he joins - art, music, or photography. Keisuke Hiraga, the Fortune Social Link, is portrayed as a member of whichever club he chooses. In _Persona 3 Portable_, when he makes a brief appearance in the female protagonist's Magician Social Link, he's a member of the photography club.
        -   _Arena_ refers to the _Persona 3_ protagonist as male, and _Persona Q: Shadow of the Labyrinth_ has only the male protagonist as a playable character, rendering the _Persona 3 Portable_ female protagonist non-canonical to the main timeline. She does show up in _Persona Q2: New Cinema Labyrinth_, but is quickly revealed to be from an alternate timeline.
        -   _Persona 4: Arena Ultimax_ canonizes the existence of Theodore, the Velvet Room attendant exclusive to _Portable_ who could replace his sister Elizabeth in the female protagonist's route. _Persona Q2_ would clarify that Theodore was indeed the female protagonist's attendant.
        -   _Ultimax_ also canonizes the Golden Ending of _Persona 4 Golden_ <sup>*&nbsp;</sup>  by showing Marie to be alive. The individual character endings lead the Investigation Team to their characterizations during the above mentioned ending.
        -   Though the player was never forced to go at that point, _Persona Q2: New Cinema Labyrinth_ assumes the Phantom Thieves visited Mementos at least once during the 6th Palace arc in _Persona 5_, since it's the Framing Device that leads them into the game's world and is the only time they could've had Akechi with them before his reveal as the traitor.
        -   Averted in _Persona 5 Strikers_, which neither confirms nor denies that the _Persona 5 Royal_ third semester occurred, and no _Royal_\-exclusive characters appear. _Strikers_ and _Royal_ were developed simultaneously.
-   _Theia - The Crimson Eclipse_: On the developer's Discord server, he states that Endings A and X are both canon, which means Nadia is the canon love interest and Nimrod is doomed to become Halcon's vessel. However, he also states that the _Another Withered Future_ epilogue occurs in all the other endings too, possibly due to ending X being concurrent with all other endings except for E.
-   In _Wasteland 3_, it's established that Team Echo, the party in _Wasteland 2_, mostly got the best endings for almost every faction, but the final battle was a bloodbath that killed them and a lot of others. Specifically, at least one person in Team Echo was a cyborg, and thus taken over by the Cochise AI, at least, according to Na CI and some side evidence you can find. The biggest decision point in Wasteland 2, whether Highpool or Ag Center was destroyed, is the only one that's never explicitly said, though the focus on the necessity of _food_ supplies for Arizona indicates pretty strongly that it was Ag Center that was destroyed.
-   The third _Yo-kai Watch_ game doesn't include the female playable character of the previous game, Katie, as a playable character. This cements Nate as the canon protagonist of the series. Instead of Katie, Hailey Anne is playable alongside Nate. The third version _Yo-Kai Watch 3: Sukiyaki_ made Katie playable again, and even gave her a youkai form like Nate, but only in a select portion of the game. Otherwise, Nate is still the protagonist in _Sukiyaki_.

    Shoot 'em Up 

-   _Colony Wars_ was a Space Sim that had five possible endings, the best being one where The Empire was thoroughly defeated by La Résistance and peace was made throughout the 5 systems, too bad that doesn't make for a good sequel. So instead, the canonical ending was the ending where La Résistance beat The Empire back to the solar system but were unable to take Earth and instead had to settle on destroying the only star gate our of the system so that the Empire was trapped in the Solar System with scarce resources until they could build a new star gate generations later.
-   Downplayed in _Mystic Warriors_: the game begins with one of the Five-Man Band becoming a kidnapping victim. The intro has two gameplay segments: one in which Brad is absent and the other in which Yuri is absent, suggesting that one of them was the "canoncial" victim.
-   _Touhou Project_:
    -   Generally speaking, the series works on the principle that all story routes are true to _some_ extent at least, but as events are recounted by Unreliable Narrators, Unreliable Expositors, Slaves to PR trying to uphold The Masquerade and Aya, it's almost impossible to figure out the full truth.
    -   Later events have confirmed that the heroine of _Embodiment of Scarlet Devil_ was Reimu, as well as strongly implying that the Scarlet Team went through _Imperishable Night_. _Symposium of Post-Mysticism_ heavily implies if not outright states that Marisa was the heroine of _Subterranean Animism_ (no mention on which partner she had, though), and it's implied in _Gouyoku Ibun_ that Reimu and Marisa both went through the events of _Wily Beast and Weakest Creature_ alongside the Eagle Spirit. Additionally, there are certain endings that obviously _didn't_ happen, what with Kanako not being the god of the Hakurei Shrine, and the Palanquin Ship not touring Gensoukyou.
    -   The fourth episode of _Fantasy Kaleidoscope_ lampshades this when Aya credits only Reimu for thwarting the Scarlet sisters even though Marisa not only was a part of the battle, but got to the Scarlet Devil Mansion well before Reimu. Then again, Aya's always been notorious for not letting the truth get in the way of a good story.
    -   _100th Black Market_ is a rare case of a game explicitly declaring a certain route canon. In this case, Marisa defeated Chimata at the end of _Unconnected Marketeers_, and this game features her cleaning up some of the mess left behind by that incident.

    Simulation Games 

-   In one mission of _Mechwarrior 4_, you (as Ian Dresari) can either save your sister Joanna or secure a cache of weapons for the war effort. The game ends with either Joanna or Ian ascending the throne as Duchess or Duke. The _Black Knight_ expansion pack assumes that not only did Ian fail to save his sister, but he is now ruling as a tyrannical despot. Later material then ended up clarifying that this ending was Steiner propaganda to justify Steiner-backed intervention to overthrow him (as Ian canonically survived to see the end of the Fed-Com Civil War, this ends up making the ending of the Mission-Pack Sequel non-canon).
-   _The Sims 2_ takes place twenty-five years after _The Sims_, and establishes canon futures for a number of the pre-made characters introduced in the first game (e.g. Johnny Burb and Jennifer Pleasant get married when they grow up, Bob and Betty Newbie have a daughter sometime after the first game, etc.).
    -   _The Sims 3_ is presented as a Prequel to the first two games; so - while the player is free to dictate the characters' fates as they choose - long-time fans of the series know whether their choices are canonical or not.
-   _Story of Seasons_:
    -   _Harvest Moon DS_ and its Distaff Counterpart _Harvest Moon DS Cute_ take place 100 years after _Harvest Moon: A Wonderful Life_. The protagonists tombstone, by default, is Mark's, the male protagonist. This also means the male protagonist of _Harvest Moon: Friends of Mineral Town_ is the Mineral Town protagonist, as the two games connect to each other.
    -   Ellen in _Harvest Moon 64_ doesn't acknowledge the protagonist as her grandson, meaning that Ellen is not the canon bachelorette in the original game (which also means Elli isn't Pete's cousin).

    Sports Games 

-   _Inazuma Eleven 2_'s One Game for the Price of Two gimmick only had the typical differences between the two versions (different rival teams, optional sidequests, Optional Party Members, etc.), so this was pretty easy for the anime adaptation to deal with. Then _Inazuma Eleven 3_ had actual story differences between its versions, although they were still mostly reconcilable, so the anime had the events of both versions occur with a bit of effort<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . However, the fourth game, _Inazuma Eleven GO_, had two versions with _gigantic_ differences in the story, even different Official Couples.
-   _Numan Athletics_ has four participants competing against each other, with the game ending with one of them becoming the champion. The sequel has Sharon be the Final Boss who your new playable character has to win the title from, confirming that she was the canonical victor.

    Stealth Game 

-   The _Dishonored_ franchise is well-known for this:
    -   The first game's two story DLCs star Daud as the playable character. It's initially a case of Another Side, Another Story, until he crosses paths with Corvo midway through the second episode. Obviously he survives, meaning that if the player chose to kill Daud when Corvo had the chance to during the "other side" of this scene in the main game, this is rendered non-canon.
        -   Daud also turns up again, very much still alive fifteen years later in _Dishonored: Death of the Outsider_.
    -   _Dishonored 2_ assumes that Corvo was for the most part Low-Chaos, though the intro shows that Corvo canonically killed a few guards. Meanwhile, Daud is all but stated to have sealed Delilah away in her ritual while also sparing Billie, who shows up as Meagan Foster.
    -   The standalone _Dishonored: Death of the Outsider_, which is a sequel to _2_, assumes that players spared Meagan after she reveals herself as Billie Lurk to Corvo/Emily and admits to being complicit in Jessamine Kaldwin's death, and stopped Aramis Stilton from attending the seance, as she's shown with her right arm and eye restored at the start of the game. It also establishes that Emily was the canonical player character of _2_ and ended the game on Low Chaos.
-   _Metal Gear_:
    -   The original _Metal Gear Solid_ has two endings: a "good" one where Meryl lives and a "bad" one where Snake finds her dead. _Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty_ doesn't directly mention Meryl, but Snake is wearing his bandanna of unlimited ammo, a gift he got from Meryl in the "good" ending. The book _In The Darkness of Shadow Moses_ (Nastasha's account of the events in the previous game from her perspective) confirms Meryl survived, and she appears in _Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots_.
    -   _Metal Gear Solid_ also allows you to kill Johnny, who has a few cameos in the sequel and a fairly major role in _4_. _The Twin Snakes_ doesn't allow you to kill him, instead forcing Snake to drop him after he falls unconscious.
    -   _Metal Gear Solid: Portable Ops_ assumes the player left Raikov alive in the previous game. He was a character who was named, but not a boss character; yet you notably did _not_ get a Time Paradox for murdering him.
-   In _Splinter Cell: Double Agent_, Fisher goes undercover with a terrorist group and is faced with the choice between committing several murderous actions to maintain his cover or not do them at the risk of increasing suspicion. One of said choices, at the beginning of the final level, is killing his boss, Colonel Irving Lambert, who was captured by the terrorists. _Splinter Cell: Conviction_ confirmed that Sam Fisher did in fact kill him.
    -   _Conviction_'s co-op campaign, set before the singleplayer, ends with a quick-draw duel between Archer and Kestrel when Archer is ordered to kill Kestrel over his headset and Kestrel reads those orders on his OpSat; whoever survives is then promptly killed by Andriy Kobin. Singleplayer confirms Kestrel as the "winner", as Kobin put him in a coma by shooting him in the back of the head.
-   In 1980s mode, the Prequel mode of _Yandere Simulator_, it's possible to eliminate the 10 rivals for Senpai's affections any way the player likes, but only one elimination method per rival is considered the 'canon' one. Getting all ten 'canon' eliminations in one playthrough is the way to get the S+ rank and the secret ending. The monologues that introduce the rival of the week hint at what those methods are: causing Senpai to reject Kaguya's confession, burning Moeko alive, crushing Honami to death under a bookcase, poisoning Sumiko's food, drowning Ritsuko, electrocuting Ai, getting Teiko expelled, bullying Komako until she withdraws from school, getting Chigusa together with someone else, and befriending Sonoko and getting her to leave Senpai alone. (Along with this, Ryoba must not leave the corpse of anyone except Ritsuko, she cannot get Teiko arrested by planting narcotics, and she must be careful not to bully Komako enough to drive her to suicide.) Likewise, despite the fact that it is possible to get a bad ending where Ryoba is convicted of murder because she just acted too suspicious, the canon ending is that she gets away with murdering Sumire and succeeds in kidnapping her Senpai.

    Survival Horror 

-   _Clock Tower_ uses this between the first and second games; during the S Ending, it was possible to have Ann or Laura survive, but the sequel confirms that Jennifer was the Sole Survivor - meaning they join Lotte in the Doomed by Canon club. The ending of the sequel confirms that Ending C was the canon ending, as there is a scene where Jennifer shrinks back at the mere mention of Dan's name, which she only learned in Ending C.
-   The first two _Fatal Frame_ games both have multiple endings, but the third game follows from the bad ending for both of them where Mafuyu (in 1) and Mayu (in 2) die. By extension, the _fifth_ game, canonically following the third game, also presumes that the bad ending in the first game happened.
-   _Five Nights at Freddy's_:
    -   The Good Ending of _Five Nights at Freddy's 3_ was heavily implied to be the true ending of the game multiple times.
    -   The Completion Ending of _Freddy Fazbear's Pizzeria Simulator_ is officially confirmed to be the ending.
-   _Resident Evil_:
    -   Averted in the original _Resident Evil_. Depending on which character the player uses (Chris Redfield or Jill Valentine), only three S.T.A.R.S. members escape from the mansion together in the best possible ending. While Barry disappears after the opening intro in Chris's storyline and Rebecca is nowhere to be seen in Jill's, the sequels assume that all four characters survived the events of the Mansion Incident.
    -   _Resident Evil 2_ has two story paths depending on the order in which the player plays through both protagonists' storylines. _Resident Evil 6_ follows the storyline from the Claire A/Leon B scenario, since it establishes that Sherry Birkin was injected with the G-virus vaccine, which never occurs in the Leon A/Claire B storyline. The remake timeline reverses this, as _Resident Evil 4 (Remake)_ makes it clear that Leon met Marvin Branagh and got a knife from him, something which only happens to the 1st Run protagonist. As Sherry is infected with the G-virus on both of Claire's runs in the remake, this would not contradict Sherry in _6_ (the remake amalgamates Leon and Claire's scenarios so that any of the stuff that impacts future stories now takes place in _all_ possible outcomes).
    -   _Resident Evil 7: Biohazard_ has two endings depending on whether Ethan chooses to use the cure on Mia or Zoe. The _End of Zoe_ DLC and _Resident Evil Village_ take place after the ending in which Ethan cures Mia.
-   _The Sakabashira Game_ ends with a Last-Second Ending Choice on whether Alex decides to save himself by returning back to the real world, or strands himself by letting somebody else do so instead. _A House For Alesa 3_, another game in Axel Vejar Dossow's Shared Universe, has Alex make a return in which he recounts his experience, confirming that he concluded that everyone else was too far gone, and therefore used the opportunity of escape on himself.
-   _Silent Hill_:
    -   The events of _Silent Hill 3_ establish that the original _Silent Hill_ ended canonically with the "good" ending, which consists of Harry surviving and leaving with the newborn, innocent reincarnation of Cheryl. Word of God vacillates back and forth as to whether the "+" ending (where Cybil also survives) is part of that, but since her survival has no bearing on future plot points, it's more or less up to the player's personal headcanon.
        -   Meanwhile, Wii exclusive _Silent Hill: Shattered Memories_ is non-canon to the main series, but takes place in an alternate universe where the first game's "bad" ending was canon, where Harry died in the car crash at the very start, and everything else was just his dying dream.
    -   The only ending of _Silent Hill 3_ that is canon is the Good Ending, since a newspaper article in _Silent Hill: Homecoming_ revealed that Douglas Cartland exposed the Order.
    -   The only ending of _Silent Hill: Origins_ that is canon is the Good Ending, a necessity since it's a prequel.
    -   Played with in _Silent Hill 4_, wherein Superintendent Sunderland is overheard mentioning that he hasn't heard from his son (_Silent Hill 2_ protagonist James) since the latter went to Silent Hill...which narrows down precisely zero of the options James could've taken since being there.
    -   The canon ending of _Silent Hill: Downpour_ is confirmed to be Ending B - "Truth & Justice" - through the tie-in comic _Anne's Story_.

    Tactical RPGs 

-   Nippon Ichi has a history of throwing their game leads as cameos and Optional Bosses of later works, which inevitably cuts off certain outcomes for several of their works. _Disgaea: Hour of Darkness_ carries on from the good ending, as does its sequel, _Disgaea 2: Cursed Memories_. _Soul Nomad & the World Eaters_ uses its normal ending with a female Revya although Revya's appearance in _Disgaea 3_ has a nod to the Demon Path in her description. _La Pucelle_ uses the Non Standard Game Over, however. For the most part these choices are understandable, as the less good endings tend to involve character deaths, depression and Eldritch Abominations all around, which would make for poor cameos — with the exception apparently being made for Prier, who was apparently deemed better as an Overlord.
    -   An exception, as far as _Disgaea: Hour of Darkness_ goes: _Prinny: Can I Really Be the Hero?_ uses the normal ending of Disgaea in which Laharl is dead. You later see him reincarnated as a Prinny, which also happened in that ending.
    -   Asagi has canonically been an Optional Boss in every game since _Makai Kingdom_. And she always loses.
-   _Fire Emblem_ has Permadeath as a gameplay mechanic. Outside of certain modes or specific plot-relevant characters, any member of your army in any game will be Killed Off for Real if they fall in battle. However, whenever a game in the series gets a direct sequel (that is, a game set in the same universe, as the series usually operates on the Non-Linear Sequel principle), the new entry generally assumes all of its predecessor's characters survived (and were recruited in the first place), so any character death in gameplay is treated as non-canon.
    -   The Archanea games feature several examples:
        -   In _Shadow Dragon and the Blade of Light_, the player could recruit either the paladin Arran or the hero Samson, but not both. In _Mystery of the Emblem_, Arran is with Marth's knights from the start and Samson isn't seen until much later in the game, where he doesn't seem to know Marth personally and doesn't hesitate to attack him, which means recruiting Arran was likely canon.
        -   It was possible to complete Chapter 20 without defeating Camus, which results in alternative dialogue. Seeing as _Gaiden_ features Camus as an amnesiac who washed up on the shore of another continent after a brutal beatdown, fighting him is canon.
        -   In _Shadow Dragon_, the Nintendo DS remake of the first game, one character has to sacrifice themselves in the prologue to lure away the enemy, and this character never returns. If the prologue is skipped Frey isn't present, which seems to imply he was the canonical sacrifice. In _New Mystery of the Emblem_, all characters who could have been the sacrifice are alive and well, but Frey's Support conversations specifically mention that he was indeed the canonical sacrifice, but was merely wounded and left for dead rather than killed.
        -   How _New Mystery_ dealt with the sidequest characters is described in Merging the Branches. The only exception is Nagi, who Marth doesn't recognise in _New Mystery_, implying her sidequest was non-canon. (Which makes sense, seeing as it only occurs if the player misses out on getting the Falchion).
    -   _Thracia 776_, the midquel to _Genealogy of the Holy War_ canonizes Lewyn/Erinys, whereas in _Genealogy of the Holy War_ you could choose between her and six other girls.
        -   On the other hand, they averted this with Lachesis by implying _both_ her predestined pairings were canon: Nanna's father is Finn and Diarmuid's father is Beowolf.
    -   _Fire Emblem: Awakening_ strongly implies that the entire franchise is set in an interconnected multiverse accessible through the Outrealm gates where each individual "universe" has _multiple_ versions of it all existing at once; in fact, the time-traveling in the main plot is implied to actually be just a case of dimension hopping. Basically, while all playthroughs/universes may be equally canon, the direct sequels are only set in the ones where all of the characters dying _wasn't_ invoked.
        -   The DLC battles involving the characters from the Archanea games make vague references to _New Mystery's_ player-created character, and canonise their name as Kris, but what pronoun is used to refer to them depends on the gender of _Awakening's_ Avatar, meaning male and female Kris are both equally canon.
        -   The "Future Past" arc gives all of the children characters canon promotions; Lucina is a Great Lord, Laurent is a Sage, Gerome is a Wyvern Lord, Severa and Inigo are Heroes, Owain is a Swordmaster, Brady is a War Monk, Yarne is a Taguel, Cynthia is a Falcon Knight, Noire is a Sniper, Nah is a Manakete and Kjelle is a General. Interestingly, the two Morgans aren't in their default class' promoted class (Grandmaster). Instead they're a Wyvern Lord (female Morgan) and Sorcerer (male Morgan).
    -   _Fire Emblem Fates_ implies that Severa, Inigo, and Owain canonically went unpaired at the end of _Awakening_, as their unpaired endings state that they went to other lands, with all three appearing in _Fates_ under the Paper-Thin Disguises of Selena, Laslow and Odin. They're all even able to marry the other _Fates_ characters! However, the existence of the Outrealms indicates that while _Fates_'s Severa, Inigo, and Owain came from an _Awakening_ playthrough where they remained single, the playthroughs where they ended up married are all still technically canon. **Plus**, some of their dialogues imply that in their particular universes, the DLC Scramble stages **are** canon as well.
        -   _Fates_ also implicitly sinks several ships from _Awakening_ during the "Before Awakening" DLC. None of the _Awakening_ trio indicate that Chrom or Frederick are their fathers, implicitly sinking Chrom/Olivia, Frederick/Lissa, Frederick/Cordelia, and Frederick/Olivia. In addition, the amiibo fight against Robin implicitly sinks his ships with Lissa, Cordelia, and Olivia since none of the three treat him like their father either.
        -   _Awakening_ and _Fates_ have a combined example that is both an aversion and played straight at the same time. One of the amiibo characters is Robin, the player-created character of _Awakening_. He only appears as a male, using the default model and voice, unlike in _Awakening_ proper where he can be either male or female, and he gets unique battle quotes if he faces Selena, Laslow, and Odin. However, those three characters imply that he is not the Robin they knew, which averts it for _Awakening_. So how is this played straight? Because this Robin is heavily implied to be the Robin who partook in _Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U_ where one could select between Male and Female Robin, meaning the male version of Robin is the one considered to have fought in _Smash_ rather than the one from _Awakening_. Then again, _Smash_ did allow multiple versions of the same character to fight all at once...
        -   Not only are the Outrealms still in _Fates_, but the concept is explored again in another DLC set known as _Heirs of Fate_: The player gets to control the Second Generation children, each coming from _Birthright_ or _Conquest_ universes where Anankos not only _did_ manage to destroy both realms and the world, but dumps them in a _Revelation_\-gone-wrong sort-of world where Shigure and Lilith are the sole survivors. The kids must stop fighting between them, straighten up their differences and, under Shigure and Azura's soul's lead, defeat this Anankos so they can leave.
        -   Nearly all unpromoted characters have two potential promotions they can choose. Picking the route that leads you to fight them as enemies or playing a couple of DLC maps canonizes one of their two promotion choices. Putting off certain paralogues also gives a few captureable bosses canon promotions. Silas, Sophie, and Siegbert are Paladins; Kaze, Saizo, Kagero, and Asugi are Master Ninjas; Laslow, Arthur, Soleil, and Zhara are Heroes; Peri is a Great Knight; Hinoka, Subaki, Shigure, and Caeldori are Falcon Knights; Azama is a Great Master; Selena is a Bow Knight; Beruka and Percy are Wyvern Lords; Setsuna, Takumi, and Kiragi are Snipers; Hinata, Hana, Shiro<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , and Hisame are Swordmasters; Oboro is a Spear Master; Niles, Nina, and Anna are Adventurers; Odin and Ophelia are Sorcerers; Sakura and Mitama are Priestesses; Elise and Forrest are Strategists; Effie, Benny, and Ignatius are Generals; Orochi, Hayato, and Rhajat are Onmyojis; Gazak is a Berserker; Male Kana is a Nohr Noble; Female Kana is a Hoshido Noble; Midori and Senno are Merchants; Dwyer is a Butler. Mozu, Nyx, Rinkah, and Charlotte share the distinct honor of being the only characters never to appear promoted.
        -   In spinoff material such as _Cipher_ and _Warriors_, Male Corrin is generally associated with Hoshido and the _Birthright_ route while Female Corrin is generally associated with Nohr and the _Conquest_ route.
    -   In _Fire Emblem: Three Houses_, you can customize which class paths each playable character goes through when they are in your class. If you're a bit late in recruiting them in Part I or don't recruit them and then fight them in Part II, they have predetermined canonical classes. In addition, the _Cindered Shadows_ DLC gives Byleth and the three lords canonical classes for Part I.
    -   _Three Houses_ additionally allows you to decide upon the gender of your protagonist avatar Byleth. While the initial marketing for the original game mainly focused on Male Byleth, the trailers for the _Dynasty Warriors_\-esque spin-off _Fire Emblem Warriors: Three Hopes_ exclusively depicts Byleth as female and the new protagonist Shez as male. Despite this, _Three Hopes_ allows players to freely choose both avatar characters' genders for the game's story, unlike the previous _Warriors_ game.
    -   _Fire Emblem Engage_:
        -   The main mechanic is summoning and fighting alongside manifestations of previous playable characters called Emblems. The Emblem versions of Corrin and Byleth depict them as female and male respectively. Robin, who appears as a DLC Emblem alongside Chrom, is also depicted as male.
        -   While the Emblems are stated to not be the same people as the protagonists of past games, rather being spirits with their memories, there are still a few cases of this. Emblem Marth makes it clear that he recruited Tiki in both _Shadow Dragon_ and _Mystery of the Emblem_, despite their being optional, while Emblem Celica mentions visiting the Seabound Shrine (and her Paralogue's map is based on the location) and fighting a Necrodragon there, which was optional in _Gaiden/Echoes_. Emblem Roy is familiar with Idunn, which makes the True Ending path of _Binding Blade_ canon. Emblem Corrin is familiar with Anankos, despite him being a Man Behind the Man who only physically appears on Fates' _Revelation_ route. (She even mentions how he's somehow always at the end of her path) Emblem Byleth is consistently referred to as a "professor", cutting off the Alternate Timeline of _Fire Emblem Warriors: Three Hopes_.
        -   As for its own protagonist avatar, you once again can select whether Alear is male or female. _Engage_'s manga adaptation depicts Alear as male.
        -   The Fell Xenologue DLC story automatically raises levels and promotes your army to predetermined classes between chapters.
    -   In _Fire Emblem Warriors_, this is actually subverted with the _Fates_ Corrin that shows up to aid Rowan and Lianna. She only appears as a female, but it is to balance out the gender ratio of the main heroes and because female Corrin is more popular than her male counterpart. She also comes from before the route split in order to preserve the importance of the player's choice in _Fates_, making this _Fates_ universe yet another extraneous path to the main games, with her bio hinting that Male Corrin is off somewhere else in _Fates_'s Outrealm multiverse. Similiarly, the _Awakening_ Robin that helps them out is not only the male one appearing to wield a unique tome that lets him cast various elemental spells this time around, but he still prefers Thunder Magic and carries a Levin Sword around, not to wield it, but to use it for its thunder magic, suggesting he is more of a mage than the Magic Knight he is in the series proper. The fact that the Lucina running around is still wearing her Masked Marth disguise also suggests that Robin and the other _Awakening_ characters helping them out come from the beginning of _Awakening_, or even before that.
-   _Super Robot Wars_:
    -   While most _Super Robot Wars_ games are standalone titles, those that have sequels need to do some branch-cutting. _Super Robot Wars Alpha_, the first game with sequels, deals with its branches in a number of ways:
        -   The first game lets the player customize their characters, choosing their name, personality, appearance, partner-slash-Love Interest's appearance and name<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , and whether they use Super Robots or Real Robots. The Gaiden Game _Alpha Gaiden_ deliberately avoids making any mention of these characters, while _Alpha 2_ creates canon versions of the _Alpha 1_ heroes by giving them established names (Kusuha Mizuha and Brooklyn "Bullet" Luckfield), personalities (Shrinking Violet and Hot-Blooded respectively), and putting them in the Super Robot RyuKoOh.
        -   _Alpha_ also features new incarnations of several older protagonists, including the choice of male or female protagonist from _Super Hero Sakusen_. Both are made canon by making them each other's Opposite-Sex Clone.
        -   _Alpha 3_ has each of its four story modes follow up on one of the story modes from _Alpha 2_. Since Sanger is actually from the Gaiden Game rather than having made his debut in _2_, however, he gets to appear on all four routes of _3_.
        -   All of the games generally assume a minimal-effort playthrough of the one before, where no secret characters were unlocked. In many cases, this means the death of the character in question is what's made canon.
    -   The _Super Robot Wars Z_ series has fewer branches than _Alpha_, but still needs some pruning:
        -   _Z_ offers a choice between two protagonists, Setsuko or Rand. Each exists in the other's route, but only the player character joins ZEUTH. In the sequels, the branches are merged so that both joined ZEUTH on opposite sides of its civil war.
        -   _Z2_ is split into two games, the first offering a choice between main character Crowe's robot emphasizing melee or ranged combat, with some stat differences and a different finishing move depending on the choice. The second half merges the branches so that Crowe gets the best of both choices, shortly before making him choose _again_ between the Librasta B or R. The next game that Crowe appears in is evasive about answering which one he actually used, and instead gives him a brand-new upgrade combining some traits of both.
        -   The _Z_ games are generally more forgiving about assuming the player unlocked some of the secrets in the previous games than the _Alpha_ games were. Most notably, the branch of _Aquarion Evol_'s plot that's cut off is the original canon where two of its pilots died, and the player is instead assumed to have saved both of them.
    -   _Super Robot Wars V_ and _Super Robot Wars X_ were originally standalone games that each offer the choice of a male or female protagonist, but their original characters reappear in _Super Robot Wars T_'s Expansion Pack DLC that serves as a Post-Script Season to all three games (as well as cameos in two secret stages in the base game that set up the DLC's plot). Very unusually, the player is actually allowed to _pick_ what _V_ and _X_ branches to cut, being asked questions shortly before the returning characters reappear that determine who was the chosen protagonist of each game.
        -   _V_ offers a choice between a super robot or a real robot for the main character's Mid-Season Upgrade. _T_ establishes that Soji chose the real robot and Chitose the super robot.
    -   _Super Robot Wars: Original Generation_, being a combined retelling of the various original stories from all of the mainline games, tends to have to establish canon selections for the games that offer player choices. That said, this hasn't stopped them from doing so creatively:
        -   As mentioned earlier, _Alpha_ let the player customize their character using a list of eight preset appearances, four personalities, and the choice of Super or Real Robots. _Original Generation_ made canon versions of the characters by giving them established names, personalities, pairings and robot preferences and established Kusuha and Bullet as the _Alpha_ heroes (which was subsequently carried over to _Alpha 2_, which came after), while the remaining pairs (Tasuku and Leona, Rio and Ryoto, and Yuuki and Carla) were slotted into other parts of the game world, Rio and Ryoto in particular being handed _Alpha_'s Real Robot option.
        -   The first game also follows through with the same method of handling Ingram and Viletta that _Alpha_ did: both are canon as Opposite Sex Clones.
        -   The second game considers only the first half of Kyosuke's storyline from the first game canon, as the first half of each story follows the same war on different fronts. Everything after the match between the ATX and SRX teams follows Ryusei's story.
        -   The second game establishes the canon hero of _Advance_ as Lamia Loveless with the Angelg as her robot, and Axel Almer with the Soulgain as her rival. The other three robot options from _Advance_ are unlockable as secrets or given to other characters, while later games have Axel survive his apparent death and pull a Heel–Face Turn.
        -   The Playstation 2 remake of the first two games and its Gaiden Game continuation establishes that both protagonists of _Super Robot Wars Reversal_ are canon as Half-Identical Twins, and they simply built two of their shared robot instead of one.
        -   The fourth game establishes that the _Destiny_ real robots were the canon selection, with the super robot as an unlockable unit. The other story branches from _Destiny_ are merged so that the player gets all four playable characters instead of having to pick two. The _MX_ characters, who originally had a choice between a super and a real, instead get both.
        -   The fifth game, _Moon Dwellers_, makes the super robot from _GC_ the canon option<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , and makes the male and female character options a pair of Half-Identical Twins.
        -   _Moon Dwellers_ also canonically establishes Touya as the pilot of the Granteed and Calvina as the pilot of the Bellzelute, but doesn't establish canon subpilots for either one. The third robot from _Judgment_, the Coustwell, is given to the Ax-Crazy villain, but can be taken for yourself and used by either protagonist.
        -   Unlike the main-series games with secrets, the OG games often assume a _maximum_\-effort playthrough where all secrets were unlocked in the game before.

    Third-Person Shooter 

-   A minor example in _The Last of Us_. At the end of the game, you can kill the two unarmed surgeons trying to scoop out Ellie's brains at your discretion. When the scene is revisited in _The Last of Us Part II_, only Jerry's corpse is present at the scene, indicating that Joel canonically spared the other two in favor of getting Ellie out of their ASAP.
-   In _Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne_, there are two endings: the first one in which Mona Sax is fatally shot by Vladimir Lem and dies in Max's arms, and the other one that can only be obtained in "Dead on Arrival" mode, in which Mona survives being shot. The former one turns out to be canon and carries over to _Max Payne 3_.
-   The _Splatoon_ series downplays this in regards to the Player Characters. Most promotional material has the canonical versions of them be female, with the developers also referring to them as such in interviews. As an extension of this, they all have definitive appearences: the original Agent 3 is an Inkling with long, green tentacles; Agent 4 is an Inkling with short, yellow tentacles; Agent 8 is an Octoling with short pink tentacles framing her face, etc. However, all have customizable in-game appearances, up to and including gender, even when they aren't playable (such as Agent 3's Previous Player-Character Cameo in _Octo Expansion_ and _Splatoon 3_).

    Turn-Based Strategy 

-   The _Langrisser_ series, starting from _Der Langrisser_, utilizes Faction-Specific Endings. However, the Kalxath territory is a reoccurring element, meaning that routes in which the current heir is slain and the territory is conquered (mainly the Demon Tribe and Independent endings) will inevitably be cut off. Additionally, the protagonist of _Langrisser IV_ is allied with the Kingdom of Caconsis in _V_.
-   _XCOM 2_ essentially canonized _XCOM: Enemy Unknown_'s "_Game Over_" ending, as it begins with the aliens having conquered Earth and the titular organization being reduced to a smaller resistance group. In fact, according to this timeline, XCOM apparently lost pretty quickly, without even being able to get their hands on the coolest alien toys (e.g. plasma weapons, Meld, elerium). Amusingly, it also acknowledges the player's successful runs in _Enemy Unknown_ by implying that they were the result of the aliens experimenting with the comatose Commander's mind to gain intel on Earth's military capabilities.

    Visual Novel 

-   When _Akatsuki no Goei_ got a sequel, they decided to go with one of the original game endings instead of just pretending the first game somehow didn't happen. That said, they went with the _Kaoru_ ending, which is nothing more than a plot hook for the first half of the sequel and had no real resolution.
-   With three very different storylines that diverge early on, the _Fate/stay night_ anime and manga both had to choose somebody. The default storyline (Fate) was the logical choice; fans of Archer and Sakura were inevitably going to be disappointed. Nonetheless, anime the producers gave those fans what they could, such as a Matou Zouken cameo, a magical outfit meant to suggest Dark Sakura, and Bait-and-Switch Credits where Shirou fights Archer. The manga also features elements from "Unlimited Blade Works" (such as Caster taking an earlier front seat as antagonist and Archer's open attempts to kill Shirou). In the end, though, fans of the "Unlimited Blade Works" scenario get the movie and second anime, and fans of "Heaven's Feel" get a movie trilogy.
    -   An In-Universe example: Nasu's tendency for writing Multiple Endings and his claims that all routes are canon led to the concepts of "the Kaleidoscope" and "Quantum Time Locks". The Kaleidoscope causes human history to branch out freely like a tree, but the finite amount of 'water' (read: energy) to maintain the tree can't possibly sustain it all. Time Locks are created when the universe judges whether or not a branch still has a close-enough history as the trunk/majority of other branches. If not, then the branch would be pruned as the result of natural phenomena of the universe, and would have no future beyond the Time Lock. In _Fate/Grand Order_'s Lostbelt saga, seven branches that should be pruned survived the Time Lock thanks to an outside interference, and they seek out to replace the main trunk as the true human history.
-   _Coffee Talk: Episode 2_ takes place after the first game's Golden Ending since the Barista reveals that Freya is traveling the world to write her new book, whose draft was accepted by her publisher.
-   The manga based on the _Galaxy Angel_ video games not only rules out the ending for Forte, Vanilla and eventually Mint, it also throws out much of the Milfeulle, Ranpha, Chitose and Shiva stories, as well as the overarching story. New scenes were invented in their place, giving Shiva a bigger role, having a Love Triangle emerge between Milfeulle, Tact and one of the other girls (Ranpha in the first series, Chitose in the second) and turning Eonia into Schrödinger's Cat to facilitate a Gecko Ending.
    -   The romance events in the game were fairly secondary plot-wise and did not change the main story much. Also, the sidequest in the first game where Tact finds out that Prince Shiva is actually a girl disguised as a boy, as well that Lady Shatyarn is her biological mother is rendered non-canon in the second game, as Shiva assumes the throne of the Traansbal Empire and reveals publically that she's a girl and in private to Tact her parentage.
-   The sequel to _Juuzaengi_ continues on from Ryuubi's route only.
    -   Discussed in the Otomate Party 2013 event, after the sequel game announcement, where Sousou, Chouryou and Chouun promise the heroine that even if their relationship resets, they'll find a way to be together again and Kakouen states wistfully if he gets a second chance, he'd spend it better with Kakouton and Kan'u.
-   _Kaleidoscope Dating Sim 2_ is a rare example in which the _joke_ ending of the original game is made canon. You see, the joke ending of _Kaleidoscope Dating Sim 1_ featured the male protagonist Cero turning into a mushroom from eating too many mushrooms in the forest, and in the second game the female protagonist Soffie has a chance of finding a talking mushroom while gathering mushrooms in the same forest...
-   The original animation of _Kanon_ leaves out large chunks of the Mai, Shiori and Makoto arcs, leaving them feeling rushed, contrived and confusing. The remake largely fixed this problem, even addressing the jilted haremettes' romantic advances toward the main character and having them get over it believably.
-   For _Kira☆Kira_, it's made clear in _Deardrops_ that Kirari's good route is the canon route.
-   The _Muv-Luv_ games not only have multiple story paths for _Extra_ and _Unlimited_, but multiple universes and Groundhog Day loops too. The final game, _Alternative_, has a linear plot that explicitly references _multiple_ paths from the previous games.
-   The second installment of the _Hetalia: Axis Powers_ fan game _Project NA_ gives four possible endings (True, Bad, Blah, and Treasure). While the third and final installment has not yet been released, Word of God says that the True ending where Matthew remembers his name as Canada and figures out how to use his powers with Alfred is naturally the ending the sequel will follow.
-   _Sampaguita_, the third game of the Visual Novel series _Yarudora_, boasts three Good Endings, five Normal Endings, and twenty Bad Endings; so, when a Trading Card Collection set was made and released, Good End 2 was chosen as the main storyline, while Good End 3, Normal End 2, Bad End 1, and Bad End 9 became Parallel Stories (and the remaining Endings not used at all).
-   _School Days_. The original game allows for Makoto to end up with one (or more) of several very different girls. Both the anime and manga adaptation, however, focus on the love triangle between Makoto, Kotonoha and Sekai, though they ultimately play out rather differently. The anime is an interesting case study — it's what happens when you're determined to avoid ruling out as many endings as you can. Makoto hooks up with _every_ girl he can end up with in the game and more besides. Trouble is, this by definition makes him an utter jerkass, and more or less demands his eventual death at the hands of Sekai, followed by Kotonoha killing Sekai and taking off Makoto's head. Also of note is that All There in the Manual materials indicate that Makoto canonically impregnates both Sekai and Setsuna.
-   _SHUFFLE!_ has an interesting aversion to this trope. Nerine got the first canon ending with the sequel _Tick! Tack!_. Then Asa got the canon ending in the anime. Lisianthus got the canon ending in the manga. And finally Kaede got the canon ending in _Really? Really!_ which ignores the events in _Tick! Tack!_ Poor Primula has so far been left out as have all the other sub-heroines that get full routes in later games.
-   _Hatoful Boyfriend_ dodges the issue completely. The sequel _Holiday Star_ specifically takes place on another timeline from any of the original game's routes, so no one is confirmed or denied as the heroine's boyfriend. Ryouta breaks the fourth wall to explain this directly to the audience.
-   _Nine Hours, Nine Persons, Nine Doors_ has 6 endings, but only one of them is considered to be the "true" one. The sequel, _Virtue's Last Reward_, takes place following said true ending, as if the other five didn't happen. The trope is played in an unorthodox way, though, because the true ending of 999 is possible thanks to a certain event in the Safe ending. All of this is largely because the inevitable VN Save Scumming is actually Akane in the past viewing possible alternate futures in an effort to save her own life.
-   Played with in _Monster Prom_: Word of God states that there _are_ four canonical couples (presumably made up of player characters Amira, Oz, Vicky, and Brian each taking one of the six main love interests to prom), but the creators have said that they will never reveal this information unless a sequel makes it necessary to do so.
-   The TV anime and movie adaptations of _Hakuouki_ follow Hijikata's route. The anime grafts in some scenes from other routes to help fill in various character arcs, and both adaptations adapt in different resolutions for characters who died offscreen or otherwise disappeared during Hijikata's route of the original VN.
-   _Corpse Party D2: Depths of Despair_ has two endings; _Treasured Memory_ in which Ayumi performs a Heroic Sacrifice to revive her dead friends and _Mended Soul_ in which Ayumi allows her dead friends to pass on to the afterlife. Both sequels, _Corpse Party D2: Fatal Operation_ and _Corpse Party D2: Zero Hope_ follow up from _Mended Soul_.
-   The second and third _Purrfect Apawcalypse_ games treat the Everyone Lives endings from the previous game(s) as canon.

    Web Game 

-   The flash game _Imaginary Realm_ has multiple endings which depend on how well you do in the cooking mini-game. The canon ending is the worst possible one you can get, which you "earn" by cooking any of Rosey's recipes.
-   _Lucky Tower_: the second game has three endings; in the first one Von Wanst becomes king, in the second one he dies and becomes a ghost, and in the third one he ends up in the tower from the first game. But since this game is a prequel to the first one, only the third ending can be considered canon.

    Wide-Open Sandbox 

-   In the ending of _Mercenaries_, the Song regime is toppled and North Korea loses its nationhood. Depending on which faction you have the highest affinity with, it either gets reunited with South Korea, annexed into the People's Republic of China, or becomes a lawless backwater dominated by the Russian Mafiya. The sequel asserts that the second scenario is canonically what happened.
-   _Saints Row_:
    -   _Saints Row IV_ uses the Save Shaundi ending of _Saints Row: The Third_.
    -   _Saints Row: Gat Out of Hell_ has five different endings in total, with _Agents of Mayhem_ following on from the one in which God resets the world and brings back everyone who died over the course of the series, though with all of their lives playing out slightly differently. Interestingly, however, the developers have stated that this doesn't necessarily mean that's the canon ending for the _Saints Row_ franchise itself, and in the event of an actual sequel it'll likely follow on from one of the other endings.
-   Occurs in _inFAMOUS: Second Son_, where it continues specifically off of the Hero ending of _inFAMOUS 2_. Developer Sucker Punch reached this conclusion by looking at the trophy data of _2_ to find that the overwhelming majority of people played as the Hero and got that ending.
-   _Grand Theft Auto_:
    -   In _Grand Theft Auto IV_, there are two endings: "Revenge", where Niko murders Dimitri Rascalov and causes an enraged Jimmy Pegorino to kill Kate McReary at Roman's wedding, and "Deal", where Niko collaborates with Dimitri on a lucrative heroin deal only for Dimitri to send an assassin to kill Niko at the wedding who ends up accidentally killing Roman instead after deeming Niko a loose end. In _Grand Theft Auto V_, Niko's Lifeinvader page has him wish a happy birthday to Roman, indicating that "Revenge" is canonical.
    -   In _Grand Theft Auto V_, there are three endings: "Something Sensible", where Franklin murders Trevor, "The Time's Come", where Franklin murders Michael, and "The Third Way", where Franklin, Michael, and Trevor murder the entire Big Bad Ensemble (Steve Haines, Harold "Stretch" Joseph, Wei Cheng, and Devin Weston). Buying the Hangar in _Grand Theft Auto Online_ reveals that Trevor has apparently "gone Vinewood", indicating that "Something Sensible" never took place. Later in the _Diamond Casino & Resort_ DLC in _Online_, Tao Cheng explicitly reappears, refusing to enter the Pacific Bluffs Country Club, as he almost died at the hands of Franklin and watched his father and their security team blow up there, confirming "The Third Way" as canon.
-   _Dead Rising_ games usually take their respective Golden Ending as canon, supported by the following game.
    -   _Dead Rising 2_ makes it clear that Frank West escaped Willamette with Isabela Keyes, and the zombification-suppressing drug "Zombrex" is the formula Isabela used to delay Frank's infection. Speaking of Frank and Isabela, the former meets and teams up with this game's protagonist, Chuck Greene, and reunites with the latter, who is being forced to pump out more Zombrex instead of making a permanent cure.
        -   _Dead Rising 2_'s canon ending is a curious case. The _Case West_ epilogue DLC picks up directly after Ending A, which is achieved by refusing to give TK Zombrex after he gets bitten. However, in 2013, Capcom Vancouver has stated that Ending S, the Golden Ending achieved by giving TK Zombrex and has Chuck personally kill him in the True Final Boss, is canon. The only explanation that can be given is that Ending A/Case West is supposed to take place directly after Ending S, which notably cuts to the credits as Chuck, Katey, and Stacey leave the arena to catch their chopper, and that TK reanimated after his death.
    -   _Dead Rising 3_ marks the return of Chuck Greene and his daughter, Katey known as "Annie" (as in "Katey Ann Greene") to the player up to that point. Katey became estranged from her father after the latter turned to a life of crime to make consistent money for her Zombrex, driving away Stacey, of whom he ended up in a romantic relationship with sometime after the events of _2_.
    -   _Dead Rising 4_ makes it apparent on numerous occasions that the current outbreak in Willamette makes no sense, as everyone in the United States has been required by law to take a vaccine created from Nick Ramos' blood.

___

## Non-Video Game Examples

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Advanced Dungeons & Dragons_: Early the First Edition adventure _I6: Ravenloft_ (inspiration for the _Ravenloft_ setting), there's a fortune-telling scene which DMs and players are encouraged to act out with real cards. Depending on the results, the Big Bad may have any of four different evil schemes, and the MacGuffin and information which the heroes are looking for may be in any of four different places. A similar gimmick based on a prophetic hypnosis session was incorporated into the sequel, _Ravenloft 2: House on Gryphon Hill_. When _Ravenloft_ was reinvented as a full-fledged game setting, its designers Cut Off Branches that would have left the Big Bad destroyed or banished from his castle, while averting this trope in other respects by never stating precisely what the heroes of those adventures had encountered.
-   _Pathfinder_ regularly releases Adventure Paths, long and complex adventures that often take place thousands of miles apart, so the effects the events of one have on another is minimal (necessary since no two playthroughs will be exactly the same). However, since a couple of them could potentially result in The End of the World as We Know It and most result in at least major political shakeups, it can generally be assumed that the adventurers won in the end. For example, if the world isn't frozen solid after _Reign of Winter_.
    -   One of the biggest early examples of this trope is the _Jade Regent_ path, which is based around a minor character from the beginning of _Rise of the Runelords_, and thus makes several assumptions about how that turned out; Ameiko is alive, her brother and father are dead, Shalelu survived, and Sandpoint has been rebuilt. If, for example, Ameiko _isn't_ alive, the GM is encouraged to Hand Wave it by introducing her newly arrived half-sister Amaya (who is in turn assumed to have survived the events of _Council of Thieves_). Likewise, the presence of Shalelu in _Rise of the Runelords_, _Second Darkness_ and _Jade Regent_ comes with the assumption that she survives the events of both of the earlier Paths. Ameiko's father and brother, Lonjiku and Tsuto, are further assumed to have died early in _Rise of the Runelords_.
    -   _Shattered Star_ and _Return of the Runelords_ form a trilogy of adventures starting with _Rise of the Runelords_ and including a few minor scenarios from other publications, and thus each assumes that its predecessors' events came to specific conclusions. Thus, Karzoug is assumed to have been defeated with minimal side effects; the Runelords Krune and Zutha to have already arisen and been defeated; and the events of _Shattered Star_ to have ended with the Sihedron being assembled, Xin rising from the sea, and the First King being defeated. The heroes of _Shattered Star_ are also assumed to have gone on to confront Alaznist and become trapped in Crystillian.
    -   _Iron Gods_ potentially ends with one of your NPC allies ascending to godhood in place of the Big Bad. Said NPC returns as major divine player an unknown number of centuries later in _Starfinder_.
    -   Paizo's policy of not advancing the timeline beyond the setting's established present kept this from being a significant issue beyond a certain point, as most Adventure Paths after the first few were assumed to take place more or less concurrently, but the jumps ahead in the timeline that came with the releases of _Return of the Runelords_ and _Tyrant's Grasp_, together with the release of Second Edition and the official moving of the setting's present ahead by a number of years, required most of the major Paths' adventures to receive canonical endings. These are generally the ones taken to be the "default" ones, and are described in broad strokes in the aforementioned Adventure Paths and in the _Lost Omens World Guide_.
        -   _Legacy of Fire_ ends with the heroes stopping the mad genie Jhavhul's plans to reincarnate himself as the monster Xotani, but they are only able to stop him mid-ritual and Xotani slowly begins to resurrect beneath the Pale Mountain.
        -   The events of _Jade Regent_ concluded with Ameiko reaching Tian Xia safely, ousting the Jade Regent and being crowned Empress of Minkai.
        -   For _Skull & Shackles_, the Chelish armada is successfully routed, Kerdak Bonefist is dethroned and Tessa Fairwind claims his crown and becomes the new Hurricane Queen.
        -   The events of _Reign of Winter_ end with Queen Elvanna being defeated and Baba Yaga being freed and convinced to enthrone her granddaughter Anastasia as the new Queen of Irrisen.
        -   The heroes of _Wrath of the Righteous_ successfully close the Worldwound and kill Deskari, although Baphomet survives.
        -   Kevoth-Kul, the Black Sovereign of Numeria, survives the events of _Iron Gods_ and begins shaking off his drug addictions and his self-serving counselors.
        -   For _Hell's Rebels_ and _Hell's Vengeance_, Cheliax crushes the Glorious Reclamation but the Silver Ravens are successful in their own revolt, and Ravounel secedes from Cheliax. The sea elves of the Dismal Nitch and the strix of Ravounel Forest are persuaded to join the new nation, although Vyre chooses to go its own way as an independent city-state, and Kintargo's Lord-Mayor Jilia Bainilus is cured of her vampirism and becomes the nation's first ruler.
        -   The heroes of _Ironfang Invasion_ defeat General Azaersi and her forces, preventing their conquest of the lands around Lake Encarthan, but spare Azaersi and convince her that war will only bring ruin to her people. Azaersi proceeds to fund the nation of Oprak in the Mindspin Mountains as a haven for hobgoblins and other "monster" races. In addition, the heroes defeat the corrupted dryad Arlantia and restore the fey queen Gendowyn to a precarious rule over the Fangwood.
        -   Taldor's succession crisis in _War for the Crown_ ends with Princess Eutropia succeeding her father, Grand Prince Stavian III, as Taldor's first female monarch.
        -   Sorshen and Belimarius survive the events of _Return of the Runelords_, while Alaznist's plots are foiled, and Sorshen becomes queen of New Thassilon.

    Other 

-   _Blade Runner_: The original movie (to various degrees, depending on which version you watch) left the question of whether Deckard was human or replicant rather open ended. The sequel _Blade Runner 2049_, while still not explicitely answering the question, definitely strongly suggests one possibility is more likely than the other- the story takes place 30 years after the original, and Deckard is still alive.
-   _Clue_: The movie is a rare example of this being done for an adaptation of a board game. They don't cover all the possible killers — and, in fact, one of the endings is utterly impossible to achieve within the game — but the multiple endings get the basic point across. The home video/televised version takes it a step further by declaring one of _those_ three endings "what really happened" and the other two "one way it could have happened".
-   _Red vs. Blue : The Bloodgulch Chronicles_: Being an online series, _Red vs. Blue_ was able to be a rare non-video game example of this trope. The final episode had three different endings (four more were added in the DVD). When the series continued into Reconstruction, one of them was deemed canon. However, it was obvious which one was the real ending, because none of the other six endings would work in a sequel. In four of them, everybody dies, and the other two reveal the series to have been All Just a Dream (while also killing off either Grif or the entire Blue team respectively).
-   _Community_ has "Remedial Chaos Theory" covering six different timelines progressing through a dinner party. The last one, which thematically wraps up all the others when Abed talks about the overabundance of chaos in our lives, is canonical. The Tag on the episode does take place in "the darkest timeline" instead, but that can be chalked up to Rule of Funny...for the most part. There was some debate among fans about certain other timelines and inconsistencies with adjacent episodes, but Word of God confirmed that the final one was indeed the real one, and any ambiguity likely came from the episode airing slightly Out of Order. It should also be noted that the value of showing other timelines is to reveal truths about the characters, so it makes sense that themes and developments mentioned in the non-canon threads would still come into play later, even after cutting off the spare branches.
-   _My Next Life as a Villainess: All Routes Lead to Doom!_ has an In-Universe example, with _Fortune Lover 2_ following off the "Friendship" route of the first game, specifically because it's the only route that doesn't conclude with Maria either hooking up with any or all of the suitors or experiencing heartbreak from losing them due to the rivals, leaving the door open for more chances at romance, both with the original suitors and whatever new ones might get introduced. It's also the only route where Catarina stays around without being ignored completely, allowing for her continued presence in the story in order to please the game fans that enjoyed having such a vile rival to hate.
-   _Not the intended use (Zantetsuken Reverse)_: Being a post-canon multi-crossover of many games with multiple endings, the fanfic had to clarify what happened in each one. Soma got the Golden Endings in _Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow_, Kazuya follows the canonical neutral ending of _Shin Megami Tensei I_, and Naoki chose the Freedom ending of _Shin Megami Tensei III: Nocturne_. This last one is also the reason why time itself got screwed up on a multiversal level within the fic, which has a number of interesting side effects like astronomical phenomena being timed wrong and people being displaced in time.
-   _Total Drama_: Each season finale had alternate endings aired in different countries where a different finalist won, but only the ending aired in Canada is treated as canon. Then the 2023 reboot did away with this and only had the one ending, with the second season of the reboot later confirming who the canonical winner of the original season was.

___