And it was just starting to get good too!  
Original comic by K009 Comics on Tumblr.

_"Love this story, it's brilliant! But why is it that all the brilliant stories that are wrote are never ever finished? From Sonic stories to DBZ stories. It is getting very very VERY ANNOYING!"_

An online fanfic whose chapters are spaced with wider updates each time. While this may be the result of a writer working for an overall better product, there is a higher chance of the writer getting derailed by work or personal life. Eventually the fanfic stops updating, and the reader is left forever wanting. The death knell comes when, rather than simply coming out with a new chapter, the author just reassures the audience they haven't given up. This is typically the last that anyone hears from the author. Although the fanfic in question may update again - sometimes just so the author states outright that it's a Dead Fic or on Permanent Hiatus. Other times, they may give a general synopsis of what the planned ending was.

Granted, this happens _all the time_, and fanfiction.net is littered with the dead, many of which only have _one_ chapter, even though they clearly weren't intended as one-shots.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  After all, writing fanfictions is usually a hobby, and when it's not a living, authors have any reason to drop the fanfic - they may lose interest in the fandom concerned, Real Life may take over, they may have even Died During Production or an incident that leaves them unable to write anymore that is not made public can happen, _et cetera_. But the pain implied in "Dead Fic" is a fanfiction that's superbly well-written, that enhances the canon it was based on, that was _clearly_ the work of love and devotion, that is left to dwindle and die alone despite reviews.

Some fans also regard these as Dead WIPs (Works in Progress) or WIPs of Doom since readers are left _forever_ hanging without any closure to the story.

Compare Orphaned Series, Cut Short and Left Hanging. Not to be confused with a Death Fic, though they can overlap, of course. If this happens because the author is literally dead, then it's also Died During Production. Can lead to The Firefly Effect when readers steer clear of any fic that has not been given the status "complete" out of fear it may end up dead. Contrasted with Completed Fic.

**Examples Are Not Recent.** When adding an example, please write the specific date of last update such as "since 2013" instead of "six months/one year ago" - because in six months, the latter choice of words will be outdated.

___

## Examples — but be warned, your love is doomed to be unrequited...

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Ah! My Goddess_:
-   _Styx and Stones_, a fanfiction for _The Big O_ that announces its enthusiastic update from October 10th 2005 at Chapter Four.
-   A Spanish-language _Candy Candy_ fic titled _Love is a simple thing_ is a story that got to **254** chapters and over **2 million** words... only to stop updating in February 2014, with the last published chapter including an author's note saying that she would not leave it unfinished. It would be until 8 years later when the author, now using a new account, left a comment saying the story was left unfinished because she and her sister (who co-wrote the fic) have since transitioned to professional writing, and expect to publish a new version of the story (minus the _Candy Candy_ elements, obviously) on Amazon at a later date.
-   A Darker and Edgier _Cardcaptor Sakura_ fic, _Shadow of the Dragon_ by Lord Archive, deconstructs virtually all the "weird" romance aspects such as Teacher/Student Romance, May–December Romance, and Teen Pregnancy in addition to a plot of a Big Bad who is secretly plotting against them in which they are almost about to explore his motives. Unfortunately, the fic is last updated in December 2014 and it's the last update we have seen from Lord Archive, who has not been heard from since.
-   _Death Note_: _Morning Star_ is a fanfic about Mello and Matt, set during the events of the series, which explored the relationship between the two characters. It started suffering from schedule slip about 11 chapters in, and hasn't been updated since 2008.
-   _Digimon_:
    -   A _Digimon_ fan fic "Digimon Tribute" is a AU Crossover fic of the first four seasons of Digimon in the Tamers storyline. The last time it was updated was in 2006. The author also said that he lost the patience to continue it.
    -   _The Fantasmic Saga_, written by Twilight Arcangel, started out in 2006 and was announced to be discontinued early in 2009, due to the author's lack of time, to the distress of many readers. It got through the prologue and Book I, before posting a plot summary of the last two.
    -   "Max Acorn" has done a series called 'D3' from 2001 to 2004, where its about OCs that are the children of the Digidestined having adventures with Dragonball Z references. The latest fic from 2004 has not receive updates, in which the series are eventually canceled.
    -   Although the original fan fiction _Zero 2: A Revision_ has already been completed, the Zero 2 compilations following that is abandoned during the middle of _Crisis on Infinite Digiworlds_ and _Side Stories_. This means that the stories where the Hierachs and humans declare war on each other, the Zero 2 version of Digimon Tamers, the moment where Dragomon makes another move on Kari, Shaun's past journeys, and the chronicles of the original Digidestined will never be released up to this day.
    -   _A Girl and Her Bat_ is a rewrite of Digimon Adventure, where Demidevimon is Kari's partner instead of Gatomon, and Puppetmon plays Wizardmon's role (including the Heroic Sacrifice) after developing a conscience and getting kicked out of the Dark Masters. The author wrote three chapters, then abandoned the story in 2009.
    -   _Devil's Advocate_ is a crossover between _Digimon Adventure 02_ and _Digimon Tamers_ that features Lucemon as the Big Bad of the story. It basically deconstructs the entire concept of cruelty in RPG games where the main character Takato gets manipulated by Lucemon into believing that the entire experience with the Digital World is just a Video Game. Unfortunately, the author didn't even manage to reach far into the story because as soon as 12 chapters are up, it is quickly abandoned in October 2011 and hasn't been updated since.
    -   _Digimon Slayers_ is an Alternate Universe Fic based on _Slayers_, with the cast of _Digimon Tamers_ playing the roles of the Slayers gang. It hasn't updated since Oct 19, 2004.
-   _Dragon Ball_:
-   _Girls und Panzer_:
    -   _Boys Do Tankary_ has not been updated since May 2013, leaving off with a Wham Episode that results in the start of a war.
    -   _Boys und Sensha-do!_ has not been updated since October 2014, midway through the match with Continuance. None of the author's other fanfics have been updated since March 2015.
    -   _In Strange Waters_ has not been updated since October 2013.
-   _Guilty Crown_:
-   _Gundam_:
    -   _In Vain Doth Valor Bleed_ fell to this sometime in 2005, when the last chapter of 21 was posted. Nothing has been heard from it since.
    -   _Mobile Suit Gundam Gran Tomino_, a Crack Fic adaptation of the original _Mobile Suit Gundam_, hasn't seen an update since July 2013, ending on a Cliffhanger of the White Base crashing after an attack by Char Aznable. Presumably an Old Shame of the author, as he took the fic down from Fanfiction.net and the Spacebattles forums in early 2020, leaving a simple "no" in his posts on the latter.
-   _Haruhi Suzumiya_:
    -   The Aging of Haruhi Suzumiya is actually one of the better _Haruhi Suzumiya_ fanfics out there, with quite a bit of character development. It last updated in 2009.
    -   _You Got HaruhiRolled!_ was at one time the most influential Crack Fic (and one of the most influential fanfics _period_) in the _Haruhi Suzumiya_ section of fanfiction.net. The last update was on July 7, 2012, and even though the fic is 86 chapters long, only five of them were written after July 25, 2010.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  What's worse is that the author seems to have completely disappeared from fanfiction.net — his profile now opens with a long, apologetic note explaining that he had been unable to update for a year, but should be able to again because school is over, only, as it turns out, that he wrote that back in 2012 and has not written anything else since. Fortunately, it's a lot less disappointing than most examples on this page, because _You Got HaruhiRolled!_ does not have a whole plot: it isn't a single story so much as an anthology of different crack fics all by the same author, who had the decency not to leave the readers hanging in the middle of an arc. The only evidence that the fic has not reached its natural end is the aforementioned note on the author's profile. Unfortunately, none of his other fics have been updated since that time either, and most of those actually _did_ have some sort of plot.
    -   The case of 7MukuroRealm7, who also went by John Smith (which may or may not actually be his real name), is a cautionary tale that this is not always caused by the author getting bored. In 2009, he wrote a story called _The Battle of Haruhi Suzumiya_, which updated pretty consistently for a few months, until he got into a car accident. Died During Production was thankfully averted, but John had injured his hands and so was unable to type anything for about a month. Meanwhile, he let his brother, Brian, use his account, and Brian published a few fics of his own, but didn't touch the one that was forced on hiatus. Eventually, John recovered, but so much time had passed by then that he lost all interest in continuing the story— he only ever uploaded two more chapters, neither of which brought the story even close to completion. The last update was on November 29. Though the two brothers wrote some more in other fandoms, the only other _Haruhi_ fanfics they ever wrote after that were short holiday specials.
-   _Hetalia: Axis Powers_:
-   The Primordial AU Fanfiction of _Kill la Kill_, _Transfer Student: Satsuki Matoi_, has gone dead silent despite the author focusing on other works. The last known activity of the Sufficient Velocity version was November of 2014, where Satsuki mustered enough strength and willpower to help herself out of Life Fiber bound captivity; there has not been any confirmed news of updates or anything from Moiderah in regards to this Fiction alone since then. At some point, after 2017, it was removed from ao3 and FF.Net.
-   _Love Hina_:
-   One of the only fics for the _Lucky Star_ pairing Misao/Ayano, and possibly the only dark one for it, the fanfic _Máscara Sonreindo_ hasn't been updated since 2009.
-   A bit of preamble. When the anime based on _Monster Musume_ aired in Summer 2015, some folks on /a/ invented an AU harem featuring the Ensemble Dark Horse character of the cop on a bicycle and girls from the most dangerous subspecies available. The fic _Daily Life with Bicycle Cop_ is a very well-written and engaging story on how Bike Cop managed to meet these girls... Unfortunately he only manages to meet one, because the fic stops at Chapter 2, having not been updated since September 2015, and the author only posted again in October and then never. To add insult to injury, the Bike Cop AU is going the way of the dodo as well, with fewer and fewer fanarts and concepts being posted.
-   _MIGHT+ U_, a _My Hero Academia_ fanfic featuring a quirkless Izuku becoming a hero under the training of Sir Nighteye, would be cancelled in September 2023. The author admitted to have fallen out of interest in _My Hero_ as a whole far before this date, and while they did continue the fanfiction for a time in spite of that, they would ultimately lose joy in writing the story and ended it prematurely.
-   _Naruto_:
    -   _A Different Perspective_ is a hilarious _Naruto_ AU, with crossovers of characters from Eyeshield 21 and technology from Ghost In The Shell and The Matrix. This story is told from the perspective of Kakashi, and has a much smarter, more rude (ie: lots of foul language) and snarkier Naruto. This story was last updated years ago, but the original author abandoned it. It has been rescued from oblivion (2008), but not continued, since the person who reposted it is not an author.
    -   _Foxhound_ was, in the author's own words, 'Discontinued. Planned to be an epic.'
    -   _The Hyuuga Way_ is a well written, humerous Naruto AU by Edric Loto about Hyuuga Hinata's arranged marriage to Uzumaki Naruto. The author promised in 2007 that another chapter was coming, but as you can see, the story has been long abandoned.
    -   _Kokuten_: Sasuke goes back to the past to save the Uchiha Clan and unwittingly triggers the coup d'état. Last updated on January 10, 2014.
    -   The web comic _Konoha High School_ isn't finished as of 2014. The original artist quit and a new artist picked it up, but they haven't finished it. Likewise, the animated version was cancelled after two episodes.
    -   _Medicinal Lullaby_ was put on hiatus because of a combination of major events in the author's life and, in her own words, "the manga's WTFness" sapping her motivation. It hasn't been updated since April 2010 (although author Shivakashi did release an update to one of her earlier one-shot fics in 2016) so it's as good as dead.
    -   Despite being popular, _Naruto: The Abridged Series_ fell into this rut, like many abridged series. It eventually made it to 31 episodes but stopped after that. Plans to reboot it were announced, but nothing has come from that either.
    -   Naruto Reborn Sasuke Uchiha is a very original Fix Fic where Naruto takes Sasuke's body in a different world and gets a second chance to make things right. It's full of humorous characters, Naruto makes Sasuke into a likable, interesting character while still being refreshingly in character and the author explores relationships between neglected characters in the series (such as Kin, the Sound Ninja Three, Hinata, Temari, Tenten) and even the in canon deceased Yugito Nii. It's interesting to experience a world without Naruto and see what the differences and similarities between the worlds are, and Danfiction pulls it off for 48 amazing chapters, while still letting Naruto have a link to Kyuubi as Sasuke.....and then promptly stops. The last update date was Jan 3, 2011, and when you look at the author's profile, it's completely blank, followed by a story list. He last updated a fanfiction a little while after discontinuing this one, and then he just vanished for nearly three years. Such a shame, too, as it's a great read and we'll never see the end.
    -   The pure W.A.F.F. _Naruto_ NaruHina fic _One Small Step_ was originally supposed to be part of a 30-chapter project, but the last chapter was released in March 2008. Even the author's protestations that it is _not_ dead haven't been heard in over half a year. This is a particularly painful example as the series (which began as a prequel, starting from a single change 5 years before the start of the series) had _finally_ caught up to the events of the first chapter, leaving the series stopped on a massive cliffhanger.
    -   _Team 8_ remains to this day _the_ single most popular _Naruto_ fanfic on fanfiction.net, so it's too bad that the last chapter was released in 2015. The author was revealed to be struggling with health issues in 2018 and hasn't even updated their blog (which was more concerned with one of their other fics, _Harry Potter and the Nightmares of Futures Past_) since early 2019, so only the most blindly optimistic fans believe chapter 25 (let alone the rest of the story) will ever be completed.
    -   While _Time and Again_ was completed, it was never a standalone story from the start (ending on a huge cliffhanger) and the follow-up story _Here and Now_, while getting a long way into the plot (14 chapters) was last updated in April 2010, leaving the overall story completely up in the air.
-   _Neon Genesis Evangelion_: The fic _Nobody Dies_ has not been updated since February 22nd, 2012. This seems to be due to a combination of the author viewing (at least parts of) the increasingly wacky story to be Old Shame, as well as due to fan backlash from a particular Wham Episode in the final updates. The author has continued to work on other stories instead, notably _The Rebuild of Nobody Dies_, a reimagining of the story. He has occasionally hinted that there remain some plans for the original fic, but news has been sparse.
-   The _Ojamajo Doremi_ fanfic _Ojamajo Doremi: Witches at World's End_ is an unfinished sequel to _Ojamajo Doremi: Rise of the Shadows_ that was published on April 23, 2012. It is in-progress, but no updates for it whatsoever have been made.
-   _Pokémon: The Series_:
    -   The Pikachu/Meowth comic _Rocket Member_ took 5 years to reach 50 pages. It hasn't been updated since 2012 (and on a page lampshading the slowness of the comic, at that).
    -   _The Story of Silver Ketchum_ hasn't been updated since chapter 11 in September 1999.
    -   _Essence_ is an Alternate Universe Fic where Ash has a Growlithe starter. It hasn't updated since April 2016.
    -   _The Road to be a Pokemon Master_ was a beloved Alt Fic that focused on Ash Ketchum actually working towards his goal of being a Pokémon Master. It had been running since 2014 and even managed to cover the Kanto, Orange Islands, and Johto arcs. However, halfway through the Hoenn arc, on November 17, 2020, the author chose to end the series due to his interests changing, an increased work load at his job, and life in general. As of now, he's currently posting outlines of how the future arcs would've played out.
-   _Pretty Cure_:
    -   The "retelling" fic _Precure Meet The Dream Traveler_ was last updated on May 9th, 2016 on Deviantart, and its fanfiction.net version was deleted when the author was permanently banned from the site. No updates have happened since.
    -   Though listed as "complete", _Twilight Pretty Cure_ qualifies because several of the revised chapters (the result of a backlash over the story's handling of issues such as rape, victim blaming and disability) have never been reposted. And given that the author has, in light of what happened, vowed never to write for the _Pretty Cure_ fandom again, it's highly unlikely they ever will be. What's more, as of July 3 2017, the author has deleted all but the first chapter.
-   _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_:
    -   ZipCode is a very curious example. Over the course of just over a month, between March 6 and April 12, 2011, he launched four _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_ stories, some of the first ever posted, the _least_\-favorited of which is the eighteenth most-favorited _Madoka_ story on the site. After doing so, he's been completely silent, with many writers wondering if he's even alive. Only one of his stories, the oneshot _All The Time in the World,_ was ever completed.
    -   _Magica Madoka Veneficus Puella_'s summary now reads only "This story is dead and buried."
    -   Continuation story _Puella Magi Homura Magica_, one of the longest fics in its fandom, last updated on June 19, 2012. No news has showed up as to why.
-   _Ranma ½_:
    -   _Girl Days_. One of the absolute funniest fanfics out there, starting back in 1999 or so, collected on Sofaspud's Couch... then stopped updating back in 2003 with a half-finished teaser for the latest chapter. Kenko's page hasn't had anything added since July 2004, and seems to have vanished from the Internet since 2005, when his Livejournal was last updated.
    -   _Ranma the Second time Around_ is a Peggy Sue in which Ranma is given a chance to go back in time, and fix the problems with his life. Last update - Nov 29, 2009.
    -   _After the Fall of Giants_ revolves around Ranma's adopted brother travelling back in time to prevent the war that wiped out the Amazons in his timeline. Last update - July 24th, 2009.
    -   _Hidden Identity_ is about Akane being sent to an all-boys school and having to keep her real gender a secret, especially from her roommate Ranma. Last update - Dec 14, 2012.
    -   _Akane in Chains_ is about Akane being sent to a woman's prison after she accidentally injures a child during a fight with Ranma. Last update - August 17th, 2014.
-   _Sailor Moon_:
-   One of the best _Tsubasa -RESERVoir CHRoNiCLE-_ fics out there, _Freefall_, ended with a Sequel Hook. There was no sequel. Ever.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh!_:
    -   The fantastic _Yu-Gi-Oh!_ fanfic _Continue? Gold Edition_ finished its 27th chapter on a mild cliffhanger: the beginning of Noah's Arc. The story had been updated sluggishly for a while, and now hasn't been updated since 2007. Not only that, but the author has moved on to various other projects, and has himself stated that it most likely won't be finished.
    -   LittleKuriboh's FANTASTIC fic _Spirit_ on fanfiction.net. There have been hundreds of reviews clamouring for it to continue, having left off at an awesome moment, but it was last updated years ago, and LK's probably too busy by now...he says he's not a good writer. HE LIES. It's fantastic.
    -   The _Yu-Gi-Oh_ fanfic _What Doesn't Kill You_ is far and away not only one of the best-written Azureshipping (Seto Kaiba / Anzu Mazaki) fics out there, but one of the best Yu-Gi-Oh! fics, period. Beginning in October 2003, the author prefaces the first chapter by saying that the story is slated to be 36 chapters long. However, five and a half years since the first post, only 26 have been posted, the last being in April _2009_. Regardless, it is an absolute Doorstopper of **515 thousand** words, but you probably won't complain, as every last one is very compelling. The author, Azurite, said in a profile update from May 2011, that a trip abroad might rekindle her muse. She eventually returned to do some sporadic profile updates, announcing in July 2013 that she was writing chapter 27 and that an editor was helping her with it and future chapters, but it wouldn't be until August 2016 when chapter 27 was finally published, with her including a Take That! towards this very page at the end. And _then_ it has not been updated since.
    -   _Yu-Gi-Oh! Eternal_, the immediate sequel to _Forever_, was written with the intention of incorporating the then-newly-introduced deck strategies of the real-life Yu-Gi-Oh Trading Card Game, promoting Janus Yuki to main-character status in the process, and according to the author, would have gone in-depth about the students who disappeared at Duel Academy's infamous Abandoned Dorm during the canon time-line of _Yu-Gi-Oh! GX_. Around the time the story was midway through the Phoenix Herald Crown arc, the author started rediscovering his religious beliefs, which speak very strongly on the use of magic, and as a result the story was prematurely ended; fortunately, Neon provides information on how the story would have ended on his site profile and in G-mail messages to whoever asks, plus that information is also present on _Forever's_ trope page on this wiki.
    -   _Fallen King_ was intended to be multiple chapters, but ultimately only one was posted.
    -   Known Puzzleshipping (Yugi/Yami Yugi) author Lucidscreamer has an unfortunate habit of this. Some of her most popular and Doorstopper-length fics, _Chariots of the Gods_ (a Humongous Mecha Alternate Universe where the Duel Monsters are mecha and Yami is an Ace Pilot), _1001 Domino Nights_ (a modern fic where Yami is a genie), and _At Stake_ (a fic where Yami is a vampire and Yugi is on the run from a Stalker with a Crush), are unfinished to this day and (in the second one's case) trapped on cliffhangers. Although she continues writing fics on Archive of Our Own, the originals are still left hanging and _Chariots_ is under a rewrite, with still no progress on the actual plot.
    -   _Heavenly Hell_ is a sweet modern day Alternate Universe Yugi/Yami fic based around them being in the titular band, and develops the romance and characters well enough to avoid being a Transplanted Character Fic. The last update? 2015.

    Comic Books 

-   It may not be the best written fic in the world, but the Batman story _Pay Attention_, was at 40 chapters and going strong at levels of pure awesome when the author pulled a Houdini in 2008.
-   _X-Men: Eternity_, an AU _House of M_ series by "rjb" was constantly on the brink of this. When the first storyline finally wrapped up, it seemed we were safe. Nope. The second storyline started, the updates petered out, and finally, over a year later, the author admitted the stories would not complete and started a new story, which seems to have almost immediately suffered the same fate. Sigh.
-   _Spider-Man Crawl Space_, an AU and one of the earliest examples of Fix Fic for the post-OMD Spider-Man era, restoring things like the popular Spider-Marriage and undoing the deal with Mephisto. There were attempts to get it noticed on such places as the forums on Comicbook Resources. It was named after the website which was co-run at the time by its writer Kevin Cushing. The project was abandoned in 2010 when Cushing sought to break into the comic book profession full time. The series ended by resurrecting Ben Reilly, six years before the official revival of the character in _Clone Conspiracy_. The website eventually launched a second unrelated AU title, _Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man_, in late 2016. Unlike its predecessor, the writers remained committed to the project and FNSM went on to be Completed Fic, wrapping up in 2018.
-   _Go West_ is an extremely good Marvel Universe fanfic by Jeremy Bottroff that resurrects Doug and Warlock and mixes in assorted members of The New Mutants and makes them into a family. It ends 26 chapters in. There's a canon story set later in continuity featuring a battle against Cable and his X-Force, but the main story halts on several cliffhangers. Also heartbreaking because it's one of the few stories that really fleshes out The Hellions.

    Crossovers 

-   _Avenger Goddess_: A Wonder Woman in the Marvel Cinematic Universe story, with taking her journey to man's world as part of ww2. She has hands in bringing Natasha into the fold, and there's several mythological and WW comic specific villains included in the story. Unfortunately, they were in the middle of Thor's journey when the story stopped updating in 2021.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh! Secret of Nimh_, a crossover fanfiction by a user known as Isaac2 (or ErinIsaac2). At the end of a chapter, in the middle of the final duel, the last post by the author read: "Damn. In writer's block. I still don't know what to write!". Eventually, the fic was wiped off the Internet.
-   The New Students, a _Harry Potter_ and _Yu-Gi-Oh!_ crossover fic in which Yugi, Ryou, and Marik are invited to Hogwarts. It's hosted on Kokorononaka.net, which hasn't been updated since 2007.
    -   2008 if you found it on fanfiction.net. The author handed over the script to someone else, who posted a few more chapters over the course of a year before it died in her hands as well.
-   _Through Broken Glass_. Perhaps the best crossover between _Naruto_ and _Final Fantasy VII_. Porn Without Plot and Plot Hole free! Also, it hasn't been updated since 2009.
-   _A World of Adventure and Collision_ is a large, fun crossover with Digimon, Sonic, Pokémon, and Yu-Gi-Oh! back in 2003. It hasn't been updated after Chapter 89 in 2010.
-   _Titan XLR_ is a crossover with _Teen Titans_ and _Megas XLR_ about Terra being revived and used by the Glorft, so it's up to two unlikely heroes to team up in stopping them, but it was canceled since 2005.
-   _A Year With the Q_, a _Harry Potter_ / _Star Trek_ fic which has Q losing a bet with his son and having to spend a year as a student at Hogwarts during Harry's fifth year (started before _Order of the Phoenix_ came out). Naturally, Hilarity Ensues. The writer presents a convincing Q, posing as a student, while subtly lording over his classmates and messing with them as well (he's in Slytherin, by the way) especially the Golden Trio, who he has convinced he's from a powerful family of dark wizards. Well-balanced between humor and drama, but hasn't been updated since 2007, and just as Q and Voldemort are meeting.
-   _Final Fantasy 9: One ED of a story_ is about Ed, Edd n Eddy involved in the story of Final Fantasy IX, but stopped around January 2006.
-   _The Last Spartan_ was confirmed dead by its author.
-   _Organization 13 vs Akatsuki_ by reix centers around the epic confrontation between the two eponymous named organizations from _Kingdom Hearts_ and _Naruto_ with two sides suffering casualties along with the other allies joining them. Unfortunately, the story is last updated in April 2014 and hasn't been updated, leaving the winner of the confrontations a forever mystery.
-   _Nana's New Life_ is a Fix Fic for the extremely heartbreaking webcomic _Nana's Everyday Life_, where Nana is found by the Red Heavy and Medic, nursed back to full health, and adopted by the Red Team, who proceed to go on the run and hunt down the company responsible for what she had to go through. Last update...Mar 27, 2011.
-   _Take the Green and Go_ is a _Ranma ½_ and _Kim Possible_ crossover where Shego is sent back in time and drowns at Jusenkyo, only for Ranma to fall into the very same spring she drowned in many years later. Last update - Jan 21, 2008.
-   _Solar Winds_ is a Fusion Fic between _Glee_ and _Avatar: The Last Airbender_, where Kurt is the new Avatar, a Waterbender who has studied Earthbending and is just beginning to learn Firebending from Blaine, the prince of the Fire Nation. It's been dead since February 2013.
-   _Ice on the Rhine_ hasn't been updated since April 14, 2015.
-   _Death Note Equestria_ was officially announced as dead in October 2018, after not being updated in over four years.
-   Here is a list of fanfics scheduled to be published on Poké Town. _The Pokémon Squad_ (which has been running continuously since January 18, 2010 and is now a Long Runner) is the only one that actually materialized, with the rest remaining totally unproduced (except _The Ketchums Movie_, which was retooled into the 100th episode of _The Pokémon Squad_). Furthermore, several early episodes of _Pokémon Squad_ are parodies of _SpongeBob SquarePants_ episodes, and since those tend to have Ash as the protagonist, it's possible that they were originally meant for _SpongeAsh SquareKetchum_.
-   Also on Poké Town, we have _The Looney Scientists Show_. It was very reminiscent of _The Pokémon Squad_, but while that series is still running today, _Looney Scientists_ hasn't updated at all since September 25, 2013, ending with 29 episodes, with the author, Lancelot Niccals, last active on the site on January 20, 2014 (and that was only to confirm that the series was dead).
-   _A New Divide_ revolves around Harry Potter hearing a strange wailing during his trip to King's Cross in the afterlife, then finding a small orb of blue light and being reborn as a previously stillborn Seekerlet upon touching it. Last update - December 17th, 2012.
-   _Irken Ninja_ is a fic set in a world where _Invader Zim_ crash-landed on Earth as a smeet and was taken in by the _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles_, being renamed "Koji" and learning how to fight with tonfa. Last update - December 31, 2012.
-   _Tangled Adventures in Arendelle_: An early crossover between Tangled and Frozen, it ran for a decent 20+ chapters, focusing on relationships, repairing wounds, and not indulging in the fanon around the 2 series (yet). However, the last update was back in 2016 when they did a gag chapter, and hasn't given any updates since.
-   _Viper, Spider, Phoenix_ is an _Elementary_ fanfic where Joan Watson is actually an amnesiac O-Ren Ishii of _Kill Bill_. It lasted updated in 2014.
-   _Wonderful (Mazinja)_ is a _Worm_ / _The Wonderful 101_ crossover with Taylor gaining tinker powers to create tech based on The Wonderful 101. The final full chapter was posted October 30, 2018, and the Author declared the fic dead on February 6, 2020.
-   _Invader Franny_ was a crossover between _Invader Zim_ and _Franny K. Stein_, which hasn't been updated since January 16, 2007. The fic has Franny K. Stein and Dib time-travel to the future and end up having to help Franny's future self defeat Dib's evil future self Dark.
-   _Seth in the Pokécity_ was last updated in December 2019, and was officially announced dead in March 2020, with a new series revolving around Tim Tim originally slated to take its place (though the spin-off never materialized). This is due to the author losing interest in both the series and its protagonist.
-   _A Spark of Genius_: crossover between _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_, _Girl Genius_ and _Justice League_, without updating from 2013.
-   _Knight of the Wizardmon_, where Wizardmon is transported to the world of Forever Knight following his Heroic Sacrifice, and befriends Nick. Last update - April 21, 2004.
-   _Water Aerobics for the Aquaphobic_ is a crossover between _Harry Potter_ and _Ranma ½_, where a poorly-planned trip to Jusenkyo results in most of the students of Hogwarts, a few of the teachers and several Death Eaters being cursed into various forms. It hasn't updated since December 17, 2012.
-   _The Wizard of Gotham_ is a crossover between _Harry Potter_ and _Batman_, where Harry is abandoned in Gotham and becomes Poison Ivy's sidekick. Last update - September 11, 2007.
-   _Kingdom Hearts: Mutants of Twilight_ is a massive crossover that is epic in scope, and was planned to have 85 chapters. It was updated weekly, but then the time between chapters increased more and more. Finally, the author ended the story on a cliffhanger at chapter 42 in 2013, citing it was on "indefinite hiatus".
-   _Soul Gem is Unbreakable_ by "beefskellington" is a crossover between _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure_ and _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_ that was Cut Short because the author disliked the way the characters in the story ended up becoming. The author then started a rewrite project named _Soul Gem is Not Crash_ in 2016, promising to make a better story. Eventually, _Soul Gem is Not Crash_ died as well after the author removed both stories from Fanfiction.net around 2019 - 2020 for unknown reasons.
-   _Silly but Killy_ is a Fusion Fic between _Warhammer 40,000_ and _Mass Effect_ where the Orks take the place of humanity in the _Mass Effect_ universe. It hasn't been updated since April 23, 2016.
-   _Kage_, a crossover between _Jackie Chan Adventures_ and _W.I.T.C.H._, hasn't been updated since March 21, 2017.
-   _Magical Orders and Thieving Angels_, a crossover in which Zidane Tribal is transported to London during the events of _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_ and is recruited by Dumbledore to go undercover as a Hogwarts student and watch over Harry for him. The story updated semi-regularly between February 2014 and May 2015, went on hiatus for about eighteen months before releasing two final chapters in November 2016, the latter ending on a cliffhanger in the middle of the climactic battle at the Department of Mysteries. Somewhat fortunately, the final chapter did at least offer some resolution to the plot thread involving Zidane keeping his true identity secret from Harry and their other friends.
-   _Ultimate Avatar_, a Troll Fic crossover between Avatar: The Last Airbender and Maximum Ride, hasn't been updated since 2011.
-   _Fanfic/Universe Falls_, a Steven Universe and Gravity Falls crossover retelling was 102 chapters in, and halfway through what they called "Arc 9" of a planned 11 arc story. There were even preliminary plans to do a sequel series once they finished. They even had the titles for the remaining episodes posted online for what the general flow/themes of the remaining parts of the story would be. But then, in mid 2022, the author announced that he was putting the fic on "indefinite hiatus". In part because of sheer exhaustion for having worked on it for 7 years and no longer considering it fun. In part because they had other stories they were now more invested in. And in part because of a psychosomatic association it now has with the death of their father. While apologetic, they just don't have the flow anymore to finish it out.
-   _Citadel of the Heart_ has been dormant for a very long time, but has officially been declared dead on New Year's of 2024, with any surviving stories now being entirely standalone. Whatever crossover elements were to be had originally have become Aborted Arcs, but MF 217 has not yet thrown in the towel on making stories more standalone in nature overall.

    Film — Animation 

-   _How to Train Your Dragon_:
    -   _The Dragon Journals_ has not been updated since December 2011, and the author stated on her DeviantArt page that she will not be finishing it.
-   _The Land Before Time_:
-   _Lilo & Stitch_:
    -   _Simon's Experiments II_ by Allius 111 left its 28th chapter on a cliffhanger, and hasn't been updated since January 2010. The worst part is the author noted in the previous chapter that he was buckling down on the story, planning to release a chapter once every two weeks. On April 2, 2014, the author posted a "chapter", in which he basically hit the final nail in the story's coffin, saying that he was repulsed by the idea of jumping back into a story he had written as a "very immature young man with little life experience." However, he did thank all of his readers for supporting the story and posted what notes he still had on his intentions for the rest of it, which is much more than what most dead fics get.
    -   _The Fire of Futures Past_ by Euphonemes is a post-_Leroy & Stitch_ fic where the Pelekai _ʻohana_ tell stories around a campfire for a family fun night under a "What If?" premise of Stitch never having crash-landed on Earth, with the author taking suggestions from readers for stories the _ʻohana_ could tell. Only nine chapters were published, the last one in April 2016 ending on a cliffhanger where Jumba has a idea for Stitch to keep Leroy with them instead of giving him back to the Grand Councilwoman, who is only permitting the prison escapee to be with the _ʻohana_ for the night for the time being. The author would seemingly abandon it in favor of writing _Zootopia_ fics since, but he last updated one of his stories on FanFiction.Net in May 2018.
-   _The Lion King_:
-   _Inside Out_:
    -   _Intercom_ was a brilliant and loving Continuation Fic where an accident in HQ has Riley and her emotions now able to interact with each other. Perhaps the first fic of this time, it was lovingly curated for about a year, growing more dramatic and uncertain as the story went. Unfortunately, the last entry was in 2016 with a promise the next chapter will be out "in about a week or two." And it hasn't returned since, ending on a Cliffhanger where Joy finds out about Riley's hidden plan to never wake up and stay inside her mind forever.
-   _Frozen_:
    -   _Til We Meet Again_ is a well-written Anna/Kristoff fic set in The '40s America, where Anna is a rich girl engaged to her father's business associate Hans and Kristoff is a barbershop quartet singer who gets shipped off to fight in World War II. The last update was in 2020 after a four year hiatus and left on a cliffhanger, with no word since, where Kristoff is captured and his army tags are sent home, and Anna decides to join the nursing corps under the belief he's likely dead.

    Film — Live Action 

-   The _Dawn of the Dead (1978)_ fanfic _Through These fields of Destruction_ appears to have joined the category, having not received an update since 2007. It is possible this is an orphaned fic as the author was mentioned as joining a form of Armed Forces (believed to be the USA's). The characters appearing have presently unknown fates.
-   _The Black Prince_, a _Kingsman: The Secret Service_ fanfic, has not been updated since 2018. The chapter count on Archive of Our Own says there are still two chapters missing.
-   _Crystal Maze_ is a _Labyrinth_ crossover with the titular game show which ran in the United Kingdom, with Sarah as one of the contestants on an episode of _The Crystal Maze_, but the host is someone from her time in the Labyrinth: specifically, the Goblin King himself, and the Maze is actually the Labyrinth! Sadly, the last chapter currently up, posted March 2014, ends with Sarah about to take on the thirteenth and last game before the Crystal Dome, and since then neither it, nor any of the author's stories, have been updated, which is a shame.
-   _Independence Day_ have a fanfic titled Independence Day: UK, with the film's events seen from a British perspective. Updates stopped before 1997 for reasons unknown.
-   Nysa, an AU KidFic for _The Matrix_ was last updated in August 2005, long before any of its plot threads could be resolved.
-   _Star Wars_:
-   _Brothers_, a fanfic for _Superbad_.
-   _Lori's Nightmare_ an alternate take on the last act of _Freddy vs. Jason_ where Freddy actually raped Lori in her nightmare, then impregnates her after a second attack, turning the poor girl into his devoted ally as he prepares revenge on Jason. It started in 2008, and ended in 2010. The author even stated there would be three more chapters. That was the last time the author updated anything on the site.
-   _(Un)Natural_ is a NSFW _The Children's Hour_ fic where Karen breaks down the door a few seconds earlier than she did in canon and ends up saving Martha. It deals with their relationship afterwards. Everything takes a sudden turn for the worst when, in a last ditch effort to get Martha to move away with her, Karen ends up having sex with Martha, which just confuses them both and amplifies their shame. It, however, stopped updated while the two were still having tense Silent Treatment. It hasn't updated since 2015. It's the writer's only fic too.

    Literature 

-   _72 Hours Uprising_: The follow-up to the most well-known _Battle Royale_ fanfiction, _72 Hours_, has stopped. It seems that the author could come up with a better sequel, so he gave up. However, he did actually get into publishing, so it's all good.
-   _Harry Potter_:
    -   _Fortunate Son_. A great piece of work which really dives into Dudley's head and does a superb job of exploring his relationship with Harry. Last updated in 2011.
    -   The devastatingly HORRIBLY-written _My Immortal_ has become — well, immortal, despite never being finished.
    -   The highly intelligent and thoughtful "Back Again, Harry," though lately a couple more chapters have been added, leading to hope that it might eventually be finished. It's been updated as of December 2013. Word of God that the story hasn't been abandoned, but it's at the bottom of his priorities.
    -   _Harry Potter and the Nightmares of Futures Past_ was started in the 2010's, chronicling a Peggy Sue fic where after an even more devastating 2nd wizarding war, Harry goes back in time to try and make things better and save the ones he loves. It was pretty consistent up until 2015, slowed down, and then finally began puttering out around 2019, with only posts about the author's poor health saying what happened to the pace.
    -   The interesting _Harry Potter_ sequel trilogy _Paradigm of Uncertainty_ was feared to have fallen victim to this until the author released a Gainax Ending consisting of a summary of what was to happen subsequently. Mindful of this trope, the fandom appreciated it as more closure than they had expected.
    -   This _Harry Potter_ fanfic, Pig in a Wig: nine chapters with Dudley characterization, and abandoned just when the plot starts to pick up. Active 2002-2003.
    -   A.L. de Sauveterre's _Harry Potter and the Society of Orpheus and Bacchus_ accomplishes the impossible: playing all the cliches and fanon of _Harry Potter_ fandom during the Three-Year Summer into a glorious, hilarious, compelling, and exceedingly well-written (if rather verbose) fanfiction. It never takes itself too seriously, yet is still dramatic and a wonderful continuation of the style of the earlier books. Then, at _twenty-seven chapters_ it stops, still unfinished. Later chapters were even incorporating characters from _The Order of the Phoenix_ <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . It was last updated January 21st, 2004.
    -   Fans of the marvelously snarky Marcus Flint/Katie Bell shipper fanfic _Detained_ got excited when it was uploaded to a new journal of the author in 2009, as it had been on hiatus for several years by then. Sadly, she still hasn't been able to update it. We live in hope!
    -   The Harry/Snape slashfic _Marriage Stone_ by Josephine Darcy built up to some interesting plots in 77 chapters, and then she just disappeared off the face of the planet. The last update was in March 30, 2008 and there are still people desperately hoping she will return. In 2016, she posted an explanation for why she hadn't updated and hopes to be able to finish it.
    -   The _Harry Potter_ and _Bleach_ crossover Frozen Emerald Eyes by Prelude-to-Heartbreak is a AU fanfiction, with Hitsugaya being Harry. Hitsugaya is in character, though a few characters are OOC and the plot moves fast. The last time it was updated was April 15, 2011, and the author's profile states they're giving their stories to someone else. But when you search up the adoptee's name, you find that they don't have the fics, so way to drop out of sight of the online world, author.
    -   A lot of works by Luan Mao are just oneshots and are abandoned.
    -   _A Peccatis_ has not been updated since 9th of October 2012, and the author has moved on through at least two or three more fandoms. All his work was deleted from Fanfiction.net in December 2017.
    -   _Realizations_, by Wishweaver, is a 36 chapter story of what happens to Harry when he comes home to the Dursleys, after his fourth year only to find out that they moved without a forwarding address. What follows is Harry learning to stand on his own without any sudden magical gifts or unrealized guardians to give him help. First chapter published on March 6, 2003, and last updated on November 16, 2010, the author has said that the release of further books in the series, along with her child's health issues, has removed her desire to continue on with it.
    -   _Investigations of the Heart_ revolves around Harry being attacked, and Ron and Hermione deciding to investigate, falling in love with each other along the way. Last update - Mar 4, 2010.
    -   _Torn Apart World_ is an angst fic about a physically abused Harry staying at Snape's family home over the summer. It was last updated Feb 21, 2011.
    -   _The Boy in the Book_, the sequel to _The Child of Azkaban_, has seen no updates since September of 2019.
-   _The Lonely Traveler_, easily the best _His Dark Materials_ fanfiction (a series, that oddly, has very little relative to its popularity), was permanently and prematurely ended in 2004.
-   _Shield and Sword_ is a Alternate Universe Fic for _The Hobbit_, where Bilbo is struck down at the Battle of Five Armies, forcing Thorin to make a deal with the Necromancer in order to save him. Last update - July 27, 2013.
-   _The Lord of the Rings_:
    -   _The Steward's Tale_, the sequel to plasticChevy's _The Lord of the Rings_ AU _The Captain and the King_, has not been updated since 2009. To make matters worse, it ended on an emotional cliffhanger.
    -   The brilliant _The Lord of the Rings_ fic _Brothers in Arms_ by the Nightrunners (a group of Canadian girls). Part one of the fic, which featured the original Fellowship as reincarnated post-apocalyptic humans (mostly...), was a fantastically written 39 chapters. Part two got 28 chapters and then left us on a cliffhanger.
    -   _legolas by laura_ ends in _mid-sentence_. Possibly it doesn't quite qualify as a Dead Fic, though, because what there was of it was posted in one big chunk and there was no author's note promising to finish.
    -   _Treasures_ was a _very_ wonderful story revolving around Frodo being kidnapped and Bilbo having to pay the ransom. It also differed from other "Frodo comes to live with Bilbo" stories by presenting things in a more realistic way (as much as Bilbo loves Frodo, he's still an elderly bachelor who has to get used to living with another hobbit, so there's some friction between the two of them). It last updated in 2004. At least it ended on a semi-happy note, with Frodo making amends with everyone who had upset him.
-   _Scary Godmother The Truth about Hannah_ is a _Scary Godmother_ fic about Hannah having Abusive Parents. It only has 1 chapter and hasn't updated since 2011.
-   FourLeggedFish authored some very-well written, heartwrenching and **NC-17** Sherlock Holmes fics, and then disappeared of the face of the Earth in July 2010, leaving such fics as Dictractions, Sensory Overload unfinished.
-   Wild\_Magelet's _Spirits Cry_, a simply marvelous _Tamora Pierce_ fanfic, has not been updated in over two years... and counting (last update 2006).
    -   Tamora Pierce fandom in general contains these in good quantity, maybe because the novels are generally aimed at young adults, and so fans are prone to growing out of them before they finish their magnum opus. Or maybe they just go to college and then suddenly don't have time for anything.
-   A Song of Ice and Fire
    -   The Many Sons of Winter: Despite its interesting premise (a north with the population of The Reach thanks to winter cows), this story hasn't been updated since 2018.
-   There is a hilariously funny _Temeraire_ band AU out on the internet. The writing is fairly solid and everyone is in character. Sadly the last update was in 2009 and it looks like an update will not be coming. But the 3 extant parts are visible below.
-   _Warrior Cats_:
    -   _Warriors: The Days The Clans Died_ was a fanfic about a concept rarely done in the fandom: A rabies outbreak occuring amongst the Clans. However, the writer got bored of the story and ended it only four chapters in (one chapter before the rabies outbreak was meant to be introduced).
    -   _Little Fires_ is a fanfic starring a transgender OC named Emberpaw. It hasn't updated since September 2013.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Fell in Love with a Girl_, the third in a series of amazingly well written _Firefly_ Maliver fics, hasn't been updated since 2009.
-   _Dalton_ is considered to be one of the most popular and well-written fanfics in the Klaine fandom, but unfortunately, it hasn't been updated since April 2014, spanning a total of twenty-eight chapters before updates abruptly stopped. Nothing has been heard from the author since.
    -   The fandom (including Coulter) has migrated over to Plurk, where occasional status updates and snippets can be found if you follow cpcoulter. Yes, she is still writing.
-   There are few fics in the _iCarly_ fandom that are extremely good in comparison to the quality of the fandom itself. It's also rare to find fics with unique romance themes that have not died. Several of the stores on the fanfic rec page subsequently became dead after being put there: _iGo to the Hospital_, the longest Gen Fic, had 107 chapters updated in the space of roughly a year (last update 2010). Then the next chapter took ages to be uploaded, the one after that even longer, and was last updated in 2011). _iDiscover I Have Superpowers_ updated 13 chapters in about 6 months, then stopped right at a heartbreaking moment of angst between two of the main characters.
-   _...And Other Science Facts_, a _Mystery Science Theater 3000_ fanfic that works as Joel's origin story, will probably never be updated again (especially since the site it was on no longer exists in a non-archived form). Sadly, that means we won't see the introductions of either Crow or Tom Servo.
-   The Crossover story between _NUMB3RS_ and _Foyle's War_ _Breaking the Code_ hasn't been updated since 2010.
-   The So Bad, It's Good _Super Sentai_ fic _Eiga Sentai Scanranger_. It was written by a fanboy angry at Saban for the formula used to create _Power Rangers_, and 40 episodes and a crossover "movie" with _Choujin Sentai Jetman_ were cranked out from 1997-2007. Work ended right when the story was poised to begin its apocalyptic final arc.
-   _The Adventures of Dark Falcon_ revolves around Skull becoming a Henshin Hero named Dark Falcon, and fighting the forces of evil. It hasn't updated since April 25, 2001.
-   The Fourth Annual Pro-Fun Hoedown Round Robin (_Whoniverse_, _This Time Round_ and _Doctor Who_ fandom, plus anything else that looks interesting) was launched in January 2006 (on Livejournal rather than Usenet like the previous ones) and stopped pretty much dead that August.

    Miscellaneous 

-   The epic Massive Multiplayer Crossover Fighting Game votefic trilogy known as the _Ultimate Video Rumble_ teetered on the edge of this several times, a few times going nearly a year without an update. Twice this forced one or more new writers to take over the majority of the writing duties: the first time this happened (midway through _UVR 2_), it was actually a definite improvement; the second time (midway through _UVR 3_), not so much, but it got the story ended (in a "mere" eight years). It is perhaps for the best that the planned _UVR 4_ was never started.
-   Touhou-Project, being a site dedicated to open-ended votefics, is littered with these by nature.
-   Even multi-author efforts aren't immune to this, as exemplified by the round-robin writing website ImproFanfic and its various Spin-Off sites (such as Indie Madnesse). The website remained fairly active for a few years before reader and writer interest dwindled down. The series that managed to gain endings are the exceptions rather than the rule.
    -   Funnily enough, when Improfanfic and other sites were still popular, there was an Impro Archive specifically dedicated to Dead Fic.
-   Walfas hasn't been updated since 2015 (which was when _Urban Legend in Limbo_ debuted) and the flashes themselves have stopped around 2010.
-   Many stories at the hand of this author, namely his work for _Glee_, as well as a few of _Teen Wolf_, have fallen into obscurity, with his most recent update (excluding rewrites) being November 2018. The author also halted production on a Marvel Cinematic Universe story after the plot veered from a quirky romantic comedy into a depressing, overdramatic NSFW Rape as Backstory downer. Having seen this, he ended it on an ambiguous (possible) prison rape/beating and rewrote the entire story minus the darker content. Both versions seem to have been unfinished, as he wiped his profile and deleted all his fics in 2021.
    -   There are also references to a _13 Reasons Why_ fic (the story itself is nowhere to be seen) in that story's author's notes but it's a topic that the author refuses to address.
-   The _War of Drekis_ began in early 2003 as a rather ambitious fanfic set in the IC universe of the Fantasy Powers League known as Khazan, with (as of its last update on 6th October 2010) 27 chapters spanning over 300 pages. It hasn't been updated since then, and with 27 more chapters to go, the story will most likely never be resolved.

    Music 

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Tale of the Wayfarer_ is a _Spelljammer_ fanfic with a deep, complex plot and very memorable characters which lasted 30 chapters and then just stopped (in 2001) without any resolution. The author apparently hasn't been heard from in _Spelljammer_ circles since that time.

    Theater 

-   A _The Phantom of the Opera_ fanfiction called _An Eternity of This_ by Mandy the O was, in its original form, an epic fic of approximately 61 chapters, whose romance was intertwined with a plot suspenseful enough to spawn fanfiction of its own. However, Mandy took the story down in 2005 to re-work it (before the original edition had even ended) and only re-posted 17 chapters. It's been dead since 2006, along with the other two fics on the author's profile.
    -   Ultimately subverted: Mandy returned to the story in 2013 and finally finished it in 2018. The other two fics remain dead, however.

    Toys 

-   _My Little Pony_:
    -   _Scars of War_ is a story about the ponies recovering from a three-year war with another kingdom. It, however, only has two chapters and hasn't updated since February 2003.
    -   _Wishing Well_, a story about Ponyville in early G3, hasn't been updated since March 2004.
    -   _Chasing the Rainbow_ is an origin story on how Dream Valley was discovered. It's unfinished and hasn't been updated since May 2003.

    Video Games 

-   One of the better written _Baldur's Gate_ fanfics, _At Soul's Edge_ went through a month-long gap before the author resumed, and its sequel, _Malleus Animorum_, has been on a long hiatus as well. Perhaps justified, however-both gaps occurred at around the same time in each year.
-   _Earthbound 199X_ was a charmingly well-done _EarthBound (1994)_ fanfic that didn't get an update for over a year. And, check, the last chapter includes an Author's Note intended to assure readers that he hadn't given up yet. That was written in _2009_.
-   _Final Fantasy_:
    -   There was an excellent _Final Fantasy VII_ fic written by author Solar Solethi called _Children of Jenova_ set some 10 years after the events of the game. It did right by practically all the characters, and even their children (such as Tifa and Cloud's son, Zack) were well-written and compelling. Solethi stopped updating somewhere around Chapter 27, then, all her archives disappeared when RocketTownOnline went under, and now, the superb story is nowhere to be found at all.
    -   _Darth Howie's Creek_ was a _Final Fantasy VII_ fic, thoroughgoing Parody Sue paradise, backhanded sendup of several posters at the hosting board and their board culture, and an intriguing look into the lives of the little people who made Shinra atrocities possible, all at once. Then board drama happened _twice_, one author lost interest in the fandom while the other took months between updates, then major drama happened _between the two authors,_ and those who were still reading packed up their hope and hit the road, leaving the hosting forum a ghost town.
    -   Before it was removed from fanfiction.net and thus the whole internet, _Final Fantasy VII: The Cheesy American Soap Opera Version_, loosely formatted as a TV show, was a complete guilty pleasure, filled with over-the-top out-of-characterizations, ludicrous soap opera plots, and many delightful jabs at the source material. One "season" ended with a tearful, honestly moving goodbye between Cloud and OC love interest (and non-Sue, funnily enough) Mary, in which she left in a cab and he went back into the coffee shop with the rest of the gang, only for the coffee shop to explode. It's that kind of fic.
    -   _Tease Me, Tease Me Not_ is a _Final Fantasy X_ High School AU from 2005, written by spades7717. A few certain liberties are taken with characterization, especially with Paine from _X-2_ here as a Cloud Cuckoolander with a peculiar catchphrase, and a big Author Appeal in the form of _DanceDanceRevolution_ provides the plot's forward progress in one of the chapters. Given all of the above, however, it's actually quite enjoyable and competently written for its time, and the main plot of Tidus and Yuna going from hostile enemies in the beginning to a loving couple is believeable enough. Unfortunately, the fic ends on a dark cliffhanger at the end of chapter 22, which was posted in October 2005. What's worse, the author had promised one more chapter to be the Grand Finale in the footer notes, but it never materialized. She went on to make another AU _FFX_ fic around the same time, but that didn't last past the following month either, and she herself has been completely AWOL since her last profile update in October 2008.
    -   _Final Fighting Fantasy_: It's been 4 years since the last installment came out, and the prognosis for the final installment doesn't look good.
-   The _Fire Emblem Fates_ fanfic _A Brighter Dark_ was cancelled on March 11, 2021 after 43 chapters (not counting a non-canon joke chapter), halting at the relative midpoint of the "Conquest" story route it had adapted.
-   It looks like the _Ghost Trick_ fan sequel, _Twisted Fates_ has fallen under this trope. There have been no updates since 2011 and the author admits to no current plans to continue. Still, the fans remain hopeful!
-   _Hitman Miami_, an Affectionate Parody of _Hitman 2: Silent Assassin_, ended abruptly after eight chapters. Three years later (2006), the author claimed that he actually had a "pretty deep plot and a twist ending" conceived for the fic, and hoped to finish it one day. A very belated death-knell assurance.
-   _Kingdom Hearts_:
    -   _Soaring On Broken Wings_, the sequel to _Kingdom Hearts_ fanfic _You Don't Miss It Till It's Gone_, appears to have become this.
    -   _Birthday\_Massacre_ by Skitts is a great _Kingdom Hearts_ horror fic, with interesting characterization and a plot that starts off disjointed, but weaves together subplots and the main plot into something great. It isn't even very gory, but it's unsettling in a good way, a way that compels you to read on. Unfortunately, it was last updated in 2008 after its 16th chapter was uploaded. A few months after that last update, the author wrote "I really can't be bothered with this site anymore XD" on their profile. And, sadly, it was just when the story was all coming together too.
    -   Kingdom Hearts 3: Brotherhood of The Dark holds an impressive 136 chapters in its writing time, with the author trying to capture the feel of playing a video game while also telling a serious story as well. Written Pre- ''Birth by Sleep', its updates came slower and slower, and its last one was in 2013 with no notice of whether he'd be getting into more. Just that "I only write when I feel inspired". Which is a shame, because he was just getting into the finale arc.
    -   _Kingdom Hearts III: Trials of the Keyblade_. A _Kingdom Hearts_ sequel, again conceived before _Birth by Sleep_, but surprisingly predicting several of its elements such as the different parts of Xehanort coming together to make him stronger again. Due to the lengths of each chapter, updates are highly sporatic and without explanation between them. Thus, the last one was June 2014, with no word since.
    -   There was a fanfic around 2007 called _Kingdom Hearts: The World Tournament_ that was supposed to take place after _Kingdom Hearts 2_. It's about an 'author sign up' tournament taking place with many crossover characters coming to fight, and that the primary antagonist is SIN from _Final Fantasy X_. Upon looking back, the reasons back then is that the whole setting feels amateurish, there are lots of characters that the author couldn't control, arguments from certain members, cyberbullying and other real life issues. An attempt revision is made alongside a deviantart group, but they are inactive.
        -   Apparently, there is a supposed third remake around April 2013 called _Ethereal War Tournament_ with three parts planned and a compacted story taking place between Dream Drop Distance and Kingdom Hearts 3. Part 1 is based on SeeD Academy from _Final Fantasy VIII_, Part 2 is mainly about the tournament, and Part 3 is the final battle against SIN. But history merely repeats itself with life and doubts of the author can pull it off. Had the story continued, it shows that Yeul from _Final Fantasy XIII-2_ became a heartless in Caius' past, and a friend of an OC is a container of SIN. The antagonist in Part 1 is Douglas Hein from _Final Fantasy: The Spirit Within_. Fragments based on side stories (and the 'fragments' from _FFXIII-2_) about certain characters could have been considered. It would have had concept art and character designs. The worlds that could have appear are: Radiant Garden, _Atlantis: The Lost Empire_, _Aladdin_, _Codename: Kids Next Door_, _The Princess and the Frog_, _Tangled_, _The Emperor's New Groove_, _Pulse_, _Fullmetal Alchemist_, _Yu-Gi-Oh!_, _Digimon_, _My Little Pony_, _The Legend of Korra_, Marvel, and the world where that tournament take place.
    -   _Kingdom Hearts: Link to Life_ is an AU fanfic of meant to make fun of the games and formula with some twist in adventures with Sora and company (alongside Original Characters), but the author found it hard to continue. So he attempted to do a rewrite called _Link to Life_, but that was also discontinued.
    -   _Kingdom Hearts: The Short and Honest Version_ posted several chapters of its sequel before both fan fics disappeared into the ether.
-   _Super Mario Bros._:
-   _Pokémon_:
    -   Ri2's epic-sized story _Brave New World_ has been without an update since 2014, which was itself an incomplete chapter. The author gave assurances that the story was only on hiatus, and planned to resume it after the completion of another story he had started, _Sonic Origins (Ri2)_, but with several years having gone past since that story saw completion in 2018, and several new stories having been started instead by the author, it truly seems the odds of work resuming on Brave New World at this point are slim to none.
    -   A _Pokémon_ fanfic that seems to have died after a long run is _Guardians of Pokémon_. The fanfic had been in hiatus for over a year, and its last update was the "Obligatory Christmas Special"... for 2007. The author _claimed_ to only be able to update regularly during the summer (when school is out)...but nothing came of it since then, and the author has probably long since graduated.
    -   The _Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team_ fan fic _Rescue Team Freedom: Ravages of War_ is a dark but _extremely_ good fan fic. The last update was in 2008 and it is extremely unlikely that updates will come any time soon.
    -   _The Mewtwo Project_, a _Pokémon_ thriller about how Team Rocket launches an invasion against a Silph Co. island research complex has been canceled as the author claims his inspiration dried up.
    -   _Pokémon Revolution_ is supposed to have at _least_ 29 chapters. The last update was Chapter 17... all the way back on _January 17, 2009_. Sadly, the writers appear to have lost interest in it and it ends on a rather painful cliffhanger. The same fic is also posted on a different website, with more chapters, but isn't finished there either.
        -   One of the authors also wrote _Inheritors_, which is set up as an Ontological Mystery for the readers to solve. However, the story comes to an abrupt end with no resolution in sight, making it so that the ontological mystery is never solved and causing the readers to wonder just what was the point to it all.
    -   A comedic Pokémon story called _Rotten Luck_ featured a Born Unlucky teenager who gets killed in a car accident on the day of his with his best friend/girlfriend and becomes reborn as a Ralts. The author seemed to have planned a lot for this story (especially a story arc regarding a Pokémon Contest), but after the release of its thirty-fifth chapter in September 2008 it was never updated again.
    -   The oldest _Pokémon_ fanfic on Fanfiction Dot Net is _The ghost of Team Rocket-Part 1_. It's a short 400 word fic from 1999 that ends with "More coming soon in the next volume." There was never a second volume.
-   _Grand Vendetta_ is the _Dynasty Warriors_ version of the "Liu Bei/Sun Shang Xiang" marriage story from _Romance of the Three Kingdoms_, albeit with Sun Jian in charge and Lu Xun as the messenger, which hasn't updated since July 2008.
-   _Dawn of the Noobs_, a _Runescape_ fic by Werelizard, complete with Blatant Lies on his profile.
-   _Eternal Arcadia_ is a novelization of the video game _Skies of Arcadia_ that partially suffers from this. The author has such a busy life that the fic ended up falling silent after chapter 22 and an obligatory "I haven't given up" message. A year later, she came back to it and steamrolled through 14 more chapters, but after that point she hasn't updated since May of 2009. In terms of game chronology, she has all of three or four more chapters to go, though her tendency to expand on sideplots would probably add another chapter or two to that count.
-   There is _Unconditional Love_, a _Tales of Symphonia_ fic, that probably will never be finished.
-   The _The Legend of Dragoon_ fic _Rebirth of a Legend_ was four chapters from the end according to the author. He never came back to finish it.
-   _The Legend of Zelda_:
    -   Likewise for what's probably the best novelization of _The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time_ around. The last update was November 2006, and the previous one was nearly a year before. The first four and a half years, he averaged once a month. And long, apologetic author's note? Check.
    -   _Ganny the Daddy_ is a very clever fancomic that has Ganondorf ruling Hyrule as a good leader and being father to the newest Zelda, while actually cooperating with the newest version of Link (who is a girl this time around). Unfortunately, the comic was left hanging in June 2014 in the midst of its third arc. The author later said that there were too many other things going on in their life for the comic to continue.
    -   _In Sotto Voce_ is Zelda/Impa fanfic that uses the _Hyrule Warriors_ designs but has its own lore and story. It hasn't been updated since August 2016. It ended on a cliffhanger right before a war.
    -   _Exoria_, a modern AU of the series, stopped with Link on the equivalent of finding his way into the second dungeon<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . It's been dead since October 2012. The author made an update to his profile on September 4, 2019 confirming he was done with fanfiction and would be putting all his writing efforts into original fiction.
    -   _Feel Good Hit of the Summer_ has died...after posting a very well-done Mood Whiplash terrifying scene revealing some serious Break the Cutie in a flashback. (In fairness, it's a sequel to a decent-length complete fic, but still.)
-   _Fire Emblem: The Blazing Blade_: _Person's Unknown_ \[sic\], a Darker and Edgier retelling of _The Blazing Blade_. Notable because the author came out and put the tale down himself, and put out an epilogue to provide some closure.
-   _Broken_ is an expertly written _Team Fortress 2_ game focusing on the Red Heavy and Medic as they slowly learn more about each other, and start to fall in love with each other. It hasn't updated since Jan 20, 2011.
-   _Persona 4_: _All He Sees Is Red_ had its last update on September 15, 2015. A little over two years later, on October 6, 2017, the author updated his profile, announcing that the fic would be discontinued and explaining why- with the release of the anime, Golden and the spinoffs, the protagonist became less of a blank slate, and thus less fun to write.
-   _Story of Seasons_:
    -   _Darkness_ is a _Harvest Moon DS_ Dark Fic where Claire gets stuck in the mines. It only received one prologue chapter and hasn't updated since 2012.
    -   _Tithing Love_ hasn't updated since 2009. It ended right before Carter and Claire's wedding.
-   _Sonic the Hedgehog_: _Sonic and Donna_ is an adaptation of the first game but with a revised, younger version of Madonna (Sonic's girlfriend in development) tagging along. Its last update was in April 2011.
-   _Queen of Hearts_, a retelling of _Persona 5_ with Makoto being the leader of the Phantom Thieves and the Wild Card user, was cancelled in late August 2019, roughly a year after the last update. The author explained in the comments to the fic that this was due to gradually losing interest in _Persona 5_, and more importantly, the existence of _Persona 5 Royal_, what with all its story expansions, extra party member, and redesigned dungeons, had killed any motivation to keep the story going since it made the original game seem incomplete.
-   _The Delinquent and His Lover_, an early _Persona 5_ fic by a now orphaned account, abruptly died in 2017 after just a few weeks, but it was popular enough to inspire a Continuation Fic by another author, who concluded the story in 2022.
-   The _Tales of Graces_ fanfic _Full Circle_ was last updated in July 2014. This is not as bad as some examples, as the last posted chapter does resolve the story's plot; by the author's statement, all the story is missing is a single chapter of denoument.
-   Pokémon Bold Bronze and Strong Steel ends on a cliffhanger and hasn't been updated since _2013_.
-   _Hard Choices_, the sequel to _The Portal_, was last updated in December of 2015, and the author seems to have become uncontactable.
-   _Super Smash Bros._
    -   _Attached_, a Zelda/Samus femslash fic, hasn't been updated since April 2010, and before then the gap between the last two posted chapters was a year.
    -   _The Subspace Emissary's Worlds Conquest_ has not been updated since June of 2018, leaving it incomplete.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Katawa Shoujo_:
    -   _Katawa Shoujo: Rumbling Hearts_ is an AU fic set ten years post-game. Lilly and Hisao are in an on-again-off-again relationship due to career issues, while neither have heard from Hanako since she mysteriously ran off a decade ago. One day they finally meet the now-homeless Hanako again by chance. The fic is one of the few Lilly/Hisao/Hanako fanfics out there, however it hasn't been updated since its 6th chapter in 2015.
    -   _Mean Time to Breakdown_ is an Alternate Universe Fic where Iwanako is the one with the heart defect. It hasn't updated since 2015.
-   The fanmade motion graphic novels of _Umineko: When They Cry_ remained in a limbo with the last one released on 2010 at Comiket 79 and it's about Episode 7. Many fans were expecting Volume 9 to be released on the Comiket 80 since it would be about Episode 8 and probably followed up by volume 10 in the next Comiket which would be a compilation of Episode 5-8. However prior to Comiket 80, there was no promotion or news about Volume 9 and after several Comikets had passed, no one has clue on the status of the project. As of 2017, the creators' website hasn't been updated since 2010 and no one knows about their whereabouts.

    Web Animation 

-   _RWBY_:
    -   The author of _Emergence_ has stated that there was originally going to be another installment that served as the finale before deciding to cancel it.
    -   _Arc of the Revolution_ has not been updated since December 23, 2016 and the author seems to have vanished.
    -   _RWBY Puppy!_ has been on hiatus since March 16, 2016 and the author appears to have moved on to writing other fics on SpaceBattles.
    -   _Vale's Underground_'s author announced that they were canceling the fic due to many conflicting story elements as the show continued. They decided that canceling it would be the best option. However, they also planned on remaking it. So, the idea of _Vale's Underground_ is not dead even though that specific version of the story is. And the author kept to their word as _Vale's Underground (rewrite)_ was released in February of 2020.

    Webcomics 

-   The authors of the _Hanna Is Not a Boy's Name_ fanfiction _Lightwaves_ have confirmed that its sequel, _Father of Death_, will remain unfinished after five chapters, since they felt that the planned story was weak and creatively stagnant. They did post several sketches of what would have come, along with a synopsis of how the story would have gone, thus giving the fans closure.
-   In 2011, author of _Dead of Night_ confirmed that the fortieth chapter (posted only at her DeviantArt account) was as far as she was going before pulling the plug.
-   The collaborative _Homestuck_ blog/fanfiction/fancomic _Brainbent_ slowed to a snail's pace in 2014, with the last post in 2016. The project's status remains in unknown — one expressed interest in resuming as recently as 2019, but no new content has been made.

    Western Animation 

-   _Adventure Time_:
-   The _Arthur_ fanfic _How to Break a Family_ began in 2007 but hasn't been updated since 2012. The last chapter update involved Arthur being sent to jail for murder.
-   _Operation: REBIRTH_ is about the legendary Numbuh 0 rebuilding the Kids Next Door Organization since defeating Grandfather, but it last updated in April 12th, 2009. The author now pursues his professional art career and has quit writing fanfics.
-   _Kim Possible_:
    -   _Torn Between Two_ is a crossover between _Danny Phantom_ and _Kim Possible_ that hasn't been updated since its 7th chapter, in April 2015, four months after it began. Unlike most crossovers between the two, it starts with the two main characters having a Meet Cute, where they knock into each other and Danny experiences Love at First Sight with Kim. Kim has her in-canon romance with Ron, but the author stated she'd start to have feelings for Danny. How it would happen and what would become of it is unknown.
    -   _The Worst Possible Sitch_ is a Kim/Shego fanfic where Kim becomes a fugitive after unlocking the Murder Fist. Despite the author saying that chapter 15 would come out soon, it hasn't been updated since 2010.
-   In the _Daria_ fandom, Greystar's _The Longest Year_ is considered a legendary deadfic. It hasn't been updated in years, despite near constant begging from the author's fans.
-   _Nightmares_ was an extremely well-written fanfiction for _The Dreamstone_, revolving around a girl who was trapped in the Land of Nightmares. The last update was in 2007, after she had successfully stolen the Dreamstone and given it to Zordrak. A sad loss - particularly as there aren't many fanfics (well-written or otherwise) for the Dreamstone.
-   _Ed, Edd n Eddy_:
    -   The third _Ed Abuse_ is sadly a dead fic, which is sad giving the success of the previous two fics. The author has since started a remake of the first fic that is starting to become a dead fic as well.
    -   In 2005, SpiritLeTitan began a comic that started with Eddy's fifteenth birthday. The comic only got six pages in before it was discontinued. The final page wasn't even colored in.
-   _Gargoyles_ Fan Verse _The Gargoyles Saga_ released its last update in 2006, with a three-year gap from the last one.
-   _Symphony of Angels_ is a _Gargoyles_ fanfic where Demona DIDN'T betray Macbeth in 1057 A.D, but things went south anyway. Last update - Dec 21, 2009.
-   _Mine_ is a fanfic set after the events of _The Great Mouse Detective_, in which Ratigan survived his Disney Villain Death and is now out to reclaim his place as crime-lord of London. Last update - Aug 24, 2006.
-   The fanfic _Jade Dragon_, part of _Project Dark Jade_, is a subversion. While it has only been updated sporadically (five chapters posted over the course of a six year period), the author has stated that he has no intention of abandoning it; it's just very low on his priority list.
-   Presenting _Magical Girl Pretty Helga_, an expertly written story where Helga Pataki becomes a Magical Girl Warrior (a conventional one, surprisingly, not a Dark Magical Girl). Last update... May 24, 2006. "Sniff".
-   _Justice League_
    -   _Velocity_, a _Justice League_ fanfic that was written around the same time as _Eternal_, was set several years after the animated series' final episode and introduced Zoom, the Evil Counterpart to the Flash. For the same reason as listed above, this story ended after 33 chapters, right when a number of the Flash's Rogues Gallery were set to clash with the speedster and the rest of the Justice League, and also left a crucial plot point hanging where Blacksmith, the Corrupt Corporate Executive working behind the scenes, was readying herself to take over Central City. Fortunately, a final chapter has been released that outlines what the outcome would have been (Superman fighting Girder, Blacksmith going One-Winged Angel with her own office building, Flash and Zoom having a final confrontation, Wally and Linda becoming the Official Couple and Zoom getting sucked into the Speed Force, only to escape sometime later).
    -   _The Flash 2055_, inspired by _Ultimate Spider-Woman_ and set one year after the _Justice League Unlimited_ episode "Epilogue," focused on the rise of a Beyond-era Flash in Central City, due to the author not having heard anything of the character or his successor at this point in the DCAU time-line. While the story introduced several villains (none of whom had previously been shown in the DCAU proper) to make up a reasonable Rogues Gallery for the titular character, it ended after 26 chapters due to the author coming to a personal conviction regarding comic-book superheroes being influenced by gods of ancient cultures. Fortunately, a final chapter was published outlining how the story would have ended.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_
    -   _Assumptions_ has unfortunately gone this way, since the author hasn't even logged into their FIMFiction account for years, with the last update having been published in 2012. We'll never know if Rainbow Dash and Caramel will ever get together.
    -   The original story to spawn the _Conversion Bureau_ subgenre is a Dead Fic, having been left unfinished after just a prologue and four chapters. When asked about this in an interview with the Pony Fiction Vault, author Blaze explained that a combination of the intense backlash he received over the story's misanthropic and genocidal implications (much of which he insists he never intended to convey) and personal belief that the fan-written spin-offs executed the concept better made him decide to discontinue what he deemed "a mediocre, first-try fan fiction."
    -   The fanfic _Kindness in Dancing_ is an extremely rare Fluttershy/Fleur de Lis shipping fic (as of this writing there are _two_ on Fimfiction.net, and this is the older one), that, despite its short chapters, manages to be a very good read, doing a great job of demonstrating the pairing, but it died with one chapter to go, with the last update being mid-April 2012. The author said, in late February 2013, that he may finish it someday.
    -   The immensely popular The Ballad of Twilight Sparkle had its last real update in October 2011 followed by minor edits to the already posted story up until February 2012. Naturally, the fic comes complete with a blog update from May 2013 assuring everyone the fic isn’t dead.
    -   The MLP fanfic entitled _When Harmony Dies..._ is an alternate take on "A Canterlot Wedding", where Queen Chrysalis decides not to imprison Twilight Sparkle and instead, manipulates her into turning against her friends for abandoning her at the wedding rehearsal. Unfortunately, the story hasn't been updated since 2012.
    -   The MLP fic _Night of the Shy_ became this due to the author's death. Even worse, said passing occurred barely a week after posting the final update to the story.
    -   The cyberpunk AU fic _Starworks_ was last updated in July 2012. The author was last seen in January 2014.
    -   As DGD Davidson more or less left the fandom to focus on other pursuits, all his fanfics which weren't yet finished at that time can be considered dead. He also discontinued a couple of fanfics before that.
    -   _A Mighty Demon Slayer Grooms Some Ponies_ was a somewhat unusual example—it _was_ originally finished, but the final chapter was so disliked by the readers that the author took it down and intended to write a better one. He never completed it, but thankfully, after over a year he published what would be its final scenes.
    -   In July 2016, the author of _What Hath Joined Together_ abruptly announced its cancellation as well as an apparent retirement from writing.
    -   _The Powers of Harmony_ is a double subversion. It was put on hiatus in 2013, with the author just barely deciding not to outright cancel it, in order to focus on college. Two years of no updates later, a new chapter was posted... at which point, it was definitely canceled. Turns out, the author had lost interest by this point, but felt obligated to complete and post that last chapter due to it already being partially written. With that out of the way, he walked away.
    -   _Bad Future Crusaders_ has also gone this way, with Tonic Plotter's final blog post about the story reassuring it hadn't been canceled or abandoned... in 2015.
    -   _The Dear Sweetie Belle Continuity_ was declared dead midway through it's planned penultimate story _On Swift Wings_ due to the author losing interest in the series and no longer having the time to work on it, announcing _On Swift Wings_ last two chapters would be outlines for the rest of the series.
    -   _Equestria Total War_ was last updated on January 30th, 2012, and the author has not logged into Fimfiction.net or otherwise been heard from since, with even his Reddit account apparently abandoned.
        -   Before starting the fic, the author left a comment containing a series of four speeches. While three of those speeches had already been incorporated into the story by the time it stopped updating, the fourth, which was almost certainly meant to be in the epilogue, wasn't. Although this last speech does not explain everything and leaves many, many open threads, it gives us more or less an idea of how the story was supposed to end and provides us with some closure.
    -   _Zenith_ has never progressed beyond Book 1, and it cuts out just as Spike heads out on his big adventure. The author has not been active in the fandom since about 2016.
    -   _My Little Investigations_, a fangame with gameplay based on _Ace Attorney Investigations_, had one case released and then went without any development updates starting from February 2017 until April 2019, when the creator, GabuEx, announced the project's cancellation.
    -   _Sunshine and Fire_, an Alternate Universe Fic wherein the Big Good Princess Celestia went bad and successfully ushered in an Endless Daytime that has rendered Equestria into a big Crapsack World, has not been updated since 2015 and the author has not even logged into their Fimfiction account since 2016.
-   _Samurai Jack The Movie_ is a fic movie which attempts to conclude the series since 2007, but it hasn't been updated. Though there's a recollection of sources of a full summary about this, it has been lost to this day.
-   _Cat-Ra_ by Monokub is a Role Swap AU of _She-Ra and the Princesses of Power_ that explores the idea of what could have happened if Catra had become She-Ra and Adora had stayed a member of The Horde. Monokub kept it going for two years with 133 chapters with nearly 1.5 million words that cover the first three seasons and the first three episodes of season 4 with another author even making a companion fic for it. Unfortunately, despite leaving off on a massive story changing cliff-hanger, the fic hasn't been updated since May 28th, 2021, and Monokub's online presence has dried up, meaning the remaining episodes will likely go unadapted.
-   _Street Sharks Redux_ by DarkLightShades was a retelling of the TV series _Street Sharks_ in a much... less goofy manner. Unfortunately, it has not been updated since 2008, since the author has lost interest in the fandom. Her writing partner is still around though, so it's vaguely possible it could be finished through her.
-   Subverted in _Life After Lies_, an In Name Only story set in the _Total Drama_ universe. It was originally meant to span 19 or 20 chapters plus an epilogue. After two years of increasingly infrequent albeit more detailed updates, the author pulled the plug after chapter 18, leaving the protagonist and her sort-of love interest out of immediate danger but facing an uncertain future. In the author's farewell address, she apologized for the lack of closure and invited her readers to imagine their own endings. One of the author's beta readers eventually did just that, and wrote a closure chapter that the original author liked well enough to bless as the official ending.
-   _Big Brother is Watching_ is a _Totally Spies!_ fanfic in which the spies are assigned to help Robert Lumiere, a record producer and the younger brother of Marco Lumiere, save his company from being sabotaged. Last update - Sep 1, 2007.
-   _Transformers_
    -   _Seekerella_ is pretty much Exactly What It Says on the Tin - a retelling of Cinderella with Starscream as Cinderella and Soundwave as the prince. It had a few interesting twists on the story (for one thing, Megatron was Starscream's "master" instead of stepfather), but hasn't updated since Feb 14, 2012.
    -   _The Tyrant's Heir_ is a Transformers: Prime fanfic where Starscream becomes pregnant with Megatron's sparkling, and this (alongside Knockout getting pregnant) leads to the end of the war. Last update - Jul 1, 2012.
    -   _The Seeker and the Medic_ is a fanfic where Starscream and Hook start a romantic relationship. The author got four chapters in, then abandoned the story.
    -   _Crosswinds_ takes place after The Transformers: The Movie, and involves Starscream's ghost taking up residence in an air base on Earth, and falling in love with Alexis (who happens to be an air force captain in this story). It hasn't updated since Dec 14, 2010.
    -   _Ghost Ship_ is a fanfic in which the Decepticons receive a distress signal, and end up lured onto the titular ghost ship. Last update - Oct 27, 2010.
    -   _Stereo Hearts_ is a fanfic where Jazz is the mistreated servant of Prowl, and falls in love with club DJ Blaster. It's been dead since Nov 29, 2012.
    -   _Acid Rain_ is a fanfic where Megatron finally goes too far in punishing Starscream, realizes it, and sets about trying to repair their relationship. Last update - Jan 7, 2013.
    -   _Insatiable_ revolves around Starscream falling in love with Megatron and slowly but surely dragging all of the previously-isolated Vos into the Autobot/Decepticon war. Last update - July 25, 2014.
    -   _The Young and the Gullible_ is about Skywarp giving Thrust bad advice on courting as a prank, only for said prank to backfire when Thrust decides to use the advice on Starscream. Last update - May 21, 2013.
    -   _Mentality's Hold_ is a fic where Starscream becomes insane, and has to be sent to an asylum. Last update - May 18, 2009.
    -   _An Itch You Can't Ratch_ is a Transformers: Prime fanfic where June is made Ratchet's ward. Last update - July 15, 2013.
    -   _Starscream for the Defense_ involves Starscream having to defend Soundwave in a Decepticon court of law when the telepath is accused of murdering Megatron. Three chapters were published, then the author quit.
-   The _X-Men: Evolution_ fic, Nightcrawler's Burden has been dead for **over a decade.** The last time the author updated the fic (2004), YouTube didn't even exist yet, and this very site was just 4 months old.
-   Among _The Powerpuff Girls_ we have _Lycanthrope II: Insurgere Imperium_, a sequel to the well written story _Lycanthrope_ has not been updated since 2006.
-   _Jem_:
    -   The sequel fic _Lasting Fame_ was supposed to be novel-length, however only 19 chapters were written. The writer lost interest in writing but decided to post the fanfic anyway.
    -   The oneshot _How Stormer Got Her Groove Back_ was given a sequel called _Painted Blind_. It hasn't been updated since its cliffhanger 9th chapter in 2009. It was a Wham Episode where Pizzazz feels betrayed over Stormer and Riot's relationship and Rapture is kicked out of The Stingers for attempting to sabotage Riot's relationship.
    -   _Bad Influence_ was a Kimber/Stormer Slash Fic based around the episode "The Bands Break Up". It only has two chapters and hasn't updated since 2004.
-   _Avatar: The Last Airbender_:
    -   _Alternate History_ is a comic where Aang is revived 20 years later than in canon. It was nearing its end but wasn't finished. It hasn't been updated since 2007.
    -   _Avatar: The Abridged Series_ ended at only eleven episodes.
    -   The Azulaang fic "Lanterns" has also gone over two and a half years without an update.
-   _The Loud House_:
    -   _Soil & Trouble_ was a fanfic where Lana ends up comatose after hitting her head against a tree while playing on a mudslide. The author discontinued the fic after writing 18 chapters, leaving the story on a cliffhanger, and put it up for adoption, but there were no takers. In 2022, the fic was deleted.
    -   SpartanXHunterX, the author of _No Such Luck, No Such Love_ and _Moving In_, confirmed on May 28, 2020 that he is discontinuing both of these stories due to not having the time or motivation to work on them anymore.
    -   _The Loud Awakening_ Is a Loud House Alternate Universe Fic set during "No Such Luck" where Lord Tetherby captures the Louds after they kick Lincoln out of the house and subjects them to cruel experiments leading them to gaining superpowers. The last chapter ended on a cliffhanger where the Louds escaped and were about to find out a lot of burning questions regarding their superpowers, the EVO program and what Tetherby had in store for them, before getting caught and having to do battle with a bunch of monsters Tetherby released. Last update - June 30th, 2019
    -   _Lincoln's Adoption_ is a Loud House Alternate Universe Fic written by Videogame 518 about Lincoln becoming adopted by his family instead of being born into them, and has PSTD at the orphanage due to the other kids making fun of his white hair. He grows more confordance after starting a relationship with Ronnie Anne and until then, he got his ribs broken by Chandler and his goons. The last chapter which was published in March 2019 was about Lincoln's family visiting Pop-Pop in the residential home and Lincoln getting PSTD flashbacks due to his sisters bickering. The chapter ends with the sisters discussing what they could do to make it up to him and Lynn Jr suggesting that they should take Lincoln to a convention, with the others agreeing on the idea. Unfortunately, that was the last chapter published and the next one would have most likely be about this universe's Lincoln meeting Clyde for the first time at the convention.
-   _Wrong Number_ is a _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles_ fanfic revolving around Shredder repeatedly calling Channel 6 News by accident, leading Irma to think that he's romantically interested in her. Last update - August 17, 2015.
-   _Shaping the Future_ is an _Invader Zim_ where Tallest Miyuki is rescued from the Infinite Energy Absorbing Blob by the Resisty, and falls in love with Lard Nar. Last update - March 26, 2015
-   _Total Drama_:
    -   _Total Drama Battleground_, the sequel to _Total Drama Comeback_, hasn't been updated since October 2015. Fortunately, _Comeback_ works perfectly as a standalone story, despite the Sequel Hook at the end.
    -   The _World Tour_ Fix Fic _TDWT Reducks Redux_ was permanently shelved in 2013 after 8 chapters so that the author could work on a new version of it. However, said remake never came into fruition and the original story remains the only version.
    -   _Total Drama Alphabet_, the sequel to _Total Drama Chris_, hasn't been updated since September 2011. _Chris_ also works as a standalone story.
    -   Total Drama 52, a story featuring all 52 contestants competing, which hasn't been updated since 2014 after just eight chapters.
-   In 2003, author "Attic Man" wrote a _The Weekenders_ fic titled _The Feeling_, which deals with Tino and Lor becoming a couple and ending with Lor dying on New Years' Eve after being hit by a car. However, one year later, he grew to dislike the story, so he began rewriting it as _The Feeling: Rebirth_ and promised to delete the original fic when he finished the new version. _Rebirth_ was abandoned after 7 chapters in February 2005, and the author was last active on Fanfiction.net in January 2006. Thus, the original cut of _The Feeling_ remains.
-   _Teen Titans_ fanfic Titan Legends last updated in 2014, with no indication of any updates since. Of particular note is “The Epic of Gauntlet”, a fanfic in the same universe whose last update occurred in _2005_.

_Winx Club_:

-   After taking it down in 2021 along with the rest of her works, Lila Gaela's _Amaranthine Shadows_ has become permanently stuck at the beginning of Musa's betrayal arc, when she goes to a secret meeting with Darcy for the first time. Galatea's mental state after her mid-training breakdown is also left uncertain; not to mention Bloom's chances at living post-Water Stars attack.

-   _Young Justice_
    -   Young Justice Next Step is the 5th fic in his Continuation Fic series that started with Young Justice Darkness Falls, continued with Young Justice Titans and had some smaller stories along the way. It was a story where the heroes of old have retired or moved to a slower pace thanks to the seeming downfall of The Light. The story then focused on the many children they have now wanting to claim that legacy. Unfortunately, after Nightstar, the Clone project of Lex Luthor was finally integrated on the team, the fic stopped updating, and has remained inactive since 2019.

___