Even the Batman knows how to fight dirty.

**Suzuka:** Give that back!  
**Gene:** Which one? _\[her sword or her sash\]_  
**Suzuka:** Both of them!  
**Gene:** Hmmmmmmm. _\[sniffs the sash\]_

A character incapacitates their opponent by stealing or damaging their clothes in a way that threatens to expose them if they continue to fight. This trope has many more female examples than male for some reason.

Sometimes used by the Martial Pacifist as a way to end the fight without harming anyone, or the Guile Hero being sneaky, or a Chivalrous Pervert (covert or otherwise) who wants to enjoy the Clothing Damage while taking down a villainess or female mook.

It's related to the Standard Female Grab Area in that both are used to quickly incapacitate a female character and could be used by those that Wouldn't Hit a Girl. The Action Girl may defy it by continuing to fight while naked and waiting until _after_ the enemy is a bloody pulp to cover herself back up. It can also happen to a guy if they don't feel it's right to show their little selves in public.

The polar opposite would be a woman using her body (usually with a Stripperiffic outfit) as a distraction to beat a guy to a pulp. If baring all is done in order to escape rather than to keep fighting, it's Giving Them the Strip.

Compare Break Them by Talking (in which a character uses emotional shame to defeat an enemy), Shameful Strip (in which a character ends up naked as punishment or humiliation), Wardrobe Malfunction (in which a character _accidentally_ ends up naked), and Naked Freak-Out (Exactly What It Says on the Tin; this trope is often used hand-in-hand with Defeat By Modesty)

Contrast Sexy Coat Flashing (in which a \[usually female\] character clad in an overcoat — or some kind of coat — willingly flashes someone). Possibly a Sub-Trope to Beat It by Compulsion.

Unrelated to the Sukhomlinov Effect (where comparatively _plain_ clothing indicates _success_ in battle).

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   Invoked in _20th Century Boys_: Manbo and Yanbo convince their opponent that "clothing holds" are unfair and try to make the one kid willing to stand up to them, a girl, take off her shirt.
-   _Aesthetica of a Rogue Hero_: Student Council member Haruka Nanase attempts to put protagonist Akatsuki Ousawa in his place by finishing him off with her Super-Swift Wind technique. Not only is Akatsuki unfazed by the attack, but he promptly holds up her bra having stripped her during her attack in front of several other students. This naturally causes Haruka to collapse to the floor before fleeing the scene in embarrassment while swearing to punish him for her humiliation someday.
-   _Ayakashi Triangle_:
    -   Soga's introduction ends with him about to start a fight with Matsuri, but suddenly getting a good look up Matsuri's skirt sends Soga running away in fear. Matsuri is far from embarrassed, and barely understands what happened.
    -   A later chapter has Soga fainting at the sight of a naked woman who turns out to be an enemy, and it's implied she stayed undressed to keep him away. However, that time Soga musters the Heroic Resolve to fight anyway.
-   In _City Hunter_, Ryo Saeba often does this when challenging women. Special mention goes to an episode where Ryo trains Nalio, a Royal Brat, and they proceed to dispose of an all-female group of assassins sent by Nalio's uncle by groping and stripping them.
-   In _Code Geass_, Lelouch is able to win an argument against Kallen by pointing out the fact she is only wearing a Bunny suit (the Playboy version, we mean). You may think the Ms. Fanservice who performed a Full-Frontal Assault on Suzaku would be immune to that, but apparently it's different when Lelouch is the one looking.
-   _The Demon Girl Next Door_ has a self-inflicted example. Yuko, after learning how to completely control her transformation power, when Yuko tries to change her Crisis Management outfit to something more normal. First she tries to make it a ski outfit that fully covers her, and collapses because she's not revealing any skin and this made her too weak to stand. Then she tries to make her transformation into a track outfit, and in this form, she can't control her movements. Lilith finally explains that Yuko's Crisis Management form isn't just a "half-naked cosplay outfit;" a transformation isn't a change of clothes, it's a layer of magic that reinforces her existence and reflects her idea of herself at her strongest, so trying to transform into something that doesn't "match her soul" won't work right without changing her self-image along with it. In the end, Yuko just stuck with what worked and resigned herself to being a Reluctant Fanservice Girl.
-   Lord Demon's first assassin in _Digimon V-Tamer 01_ doesn't actually kill people so much as destroy their reputations by posting disgusting pictures of them on the Internet.
-   In _Dog Days_, since you can't kill your opponents during the war games, destroying their clothes to force them to surrender is a valid tactic. Notably, when Nanami gets stripped to her underwear by an attack, she keeps fighting, saying she doesn't mind being seen in her underwear. A second attack destroys her underwear, causing her to finally freak out and cover herself.
-   _Don't Meddle with My Daughter!_: In chapter 9, Artemis challenges her older sister Athena to a duel. They were evenly matched, until Athena suddenly makes out with her to gain the upper hand, then has sex with her until Artemis concedes the match out of shame. Afterwards, she calls her sister out for using such a shameful tactic.
-   In _Dragon Ball_, Goku demonstrated his improved speed by stealing Tien's belt, making his pants fall. He got really embarrassed, so Goku returned the belt so they could finish the fight.
-   _Dragon Half_, where breaking Mink's platemail bikini top turns out to be a _big_ mistake for Dug Fin, when she immediately punches him out of the ring while covering herself with one arm. In the OVA it's played with further, when Mink gets a little overexcited at the sight of her friends cheering at the victory, causing her to throw her arms into the air and show her assets to the crowd.
-   In _Fairy Tail_, DiMaria Yesta likes to slash apart female opponent's clothes, leaving them mortified and giving her a nice view.
-   _Fist of the North Star_: After Mamiya claims she abandoned her feminity to be a warrior, Rei's method of proving her wrong is to use his Razor Sharp Hands to slash her clothes off: she predictably covers herself, dropping her guard entirely.
-   In _Grenadier_,
    -   Rushuna is prevented from doing her trademark evasive acrobatics after a stray bullet rips her panties off. She still wins. In the manga she doesn't even mind, which leads to Censor Shadow later in the fight.
    -   The manga also has a story where Rushuna participates in a swimming competition, with her opponent sabotaging her by giving her a water-soluble bikini. She defies this trope with a little quick thinking, tying her Godiva Hair into an impromptu sling bikini and finishing the race.
-   In her ploy to get the inheritance stone of the Sanzenin in _Hayate the Combat Butler_, Sonia begins to strip. When Hayate reveals that that ploy won't work on him, she threatens to call for his female companion and claim that he had tried to rape her. She does get the stone with that, but he returns later to get it back, with Nishizawa in tow, so that she can't try that tactic again.
-   _High School D×D_: Used in hilariously exaggerated fashion by Issei Hyodou, where he invents a special move called "Dress Break" that is designed and intended to cause this effect. As with most of his perverted techniques, it inevitably comes in quite handy: say, the opponent has armor he needs to bypass, or if they have some manner of magical effect on them that he can strip away.
-   The girls of _Ikki Tousen_ usually avert this trope. Hakufu, one of the protagonists, will be mostly or entirely topless in her average fight against a challenging opponent. There are examples of those who play the trope straight as well.
-   _Kantai Collection_ has an rather unorthodox (and self-inflicted) example. During the curry cooking contest in Episode 6, Zuikaku notices that some curry got on her sister Shoukaku's skirt. When she attempts to clean up the curry, she ends up pulling down Shoukaku's skirt by accident. In the process, Shoukaku (who is Born Unlucky) begins running around and bemoaning her misfortune as Zuikaku chases her down while holding up her skirt for everyone to see. This mistake ends up costing them the competition as they are so caught up by the incident they are unable to resume cooking.
-   In spite of being famous for the title character covering her face but showing everything else, _Kekko Kamen_ has a few instances:
    -   Kekko Kamen uses her nudity to distract her opponents, and her mask, giving her anonymity, helps her dealing with that... But one of the punishment teachers once guessed that if she ended up in a room full of mirrors it would be too much even for her, pushing her to grab some pants that he had previously hid poisoned sting into. He was right, except the pants were so ugly she powered through embarrassment, marched through the mirror room into his lair and killed him, and _then_ broke down into embarrassment.
    -   Mako Makimura is a jungle woman that goes around topless, but when an almost defeated Kekko Kamen strips her of her loincloth she covers herself up and gets knocked out. She later comes back completely naked but wearing a mask like Kekko Kamen, but wore a _wooden_ mask and when that gets hit hard enough it breaks and she's once again too embarrassed to fight.
    -   Ai Sapphire creates for herself a secret identity similar to Kekko Kamen but wears a ribbon over her crotch because she's too embarrassed. This leads to her defeat in her first outing, as when she tries to distract the punishment teachers by jumping at them with open legs they are _not_ distracted, so they manage to pin her down and embarrass her into surrender when they remove the ribbon. She later gets over it.
    -   Satan's Toenail's niece Akemi goes around with her prosperous breast exposed, so she seems impossible to defeat this way — then an almost defeated Kekko Kamen has her uncle trip and take off her entire dress and hits her while she's too embarrassed to react.
    -   In one _glorious_ occasion, professor Tachibana came close to beat Kekko Kamen by dropping _his_ pants and showing his erect penis, thoroughly embarrassing Kekko Kamen until Keiko nunchako'd him right there, immediately followed by Kekko Kamen hitting hard enough to _break it_.
-   _Kenichi: The Mightiest Disciple_
    -   Too many women just don't care. Rachel Castor openly subverts the trope.
    -   Subverted with Miu who, in spite of being the very embodiment of girlish modesty (and traditional Japanese politeness) in this manga, never gets upset about Clothing Damage until _after_ the fight is over.
        -   Does work on occasion though. Miu nearly loses a poolside fight when she almost loses her top (Kenichi ends up stepping in for her), and Renka unintentionally ends up turning it against Rachel (of all people) in their fight, getting away from her at a few points by accidentally removing her top and shorts.
    -   Defied by one of the combatants, Dou Koukyouku from the Nanken team, whose shirt is torn to shreds by Rachel, leaving her absolutely topless. Her response is to shout at her, "Hmph! I gave up my identity as a woman long ago!" and holds her stance.
-   _Kill la Kill_:
    -   Ryuko Matoi is sort of an odd example. Although nobody actively strips her, she has to wear the Embarrassing but Empowering Outfit Senketsu in order to match her opponents, and her embarrassment at doing so causes her to reject the outfit, significantly reducing its power. When she accepts it and becomes a Shameless Fanservice Girl, she becomes much stronger.
    -   Subverted with characters who are defeated by Clothing Damage (or rather, "stripped of the will to fight"), in that while they're stripped naked, their modesty is _not_ why they lose; rather, characters wear power-providing school uniforms in battle, and the destruction of uniform results in the loss of the wearer's abilities.
-   _King of Bandit Jing_: Jing defeats his first-round opponent in "The Masquerade Ball of Zaza" by stealing his butt-plate, exposing his bare behind and causing him to flee.
-   Variation in _Kochikame_: Kaipan has no trouble fighting with his bits exposed, in fact, he insists on it, but when he loses his necktie, he suddenly freaks out about being exposed.
-   _KonoSuba_ has the protagonist Kazuma lead an adventuring party. One of the first skills he learns is "Steal," which lets him magically abscond any one item from an adversary. Kazuma tends to encounter female acolytes and defeats them by using Steal to attain their lingerie. Being girls, this feat greatly unnerves them. Two such acolytes, knowing what Kazuma can do, flee in dread from him while Kazuma merely wiggles his fingers. A sampling of this talent in action is viewable here.
-   Turned on its head in both the manga and live-action version of _Lone Wolf and Cub_. A female swordsman, after being defeated and raped by a swordsman who used a form of hypnotism and mind tricks, came up with a method that would allow her to revenge herself against him in a future match. It essentially involved having two incredibly realistic (and honestly disturbing) tattoos etched on her breasts and back. Whenever she was attacked, she'd rip off her clothes and expose the tattoos before rushing and killing her attackers, who were usually too taken back to defend themselves effectively. It can also be seen as a very twisted version of Show Some Leg.
-   This is a favorite tactic of Goemon from _Lupin III_. In his fights against (usually male) Mooks, he often dispatches them by cutting off all their clothes with his Ludicrous Mêlée Accuracy.
    -   In _Return of the Magician_, Lupin steals the outfits from three women at once. Without anyone seeing him. Not to defeat them in combat, however; he's just announcing his presence at the party. Hundreds of Lupin calling cards are left flying around.
-   The titular heroine of _Maboroshi Panty_ often ends up fleeing in embarrassment when circumstances result in her losing her second pair of panties (the ones she's wearing like normal panties rather than as a mask), though there are occasions where she instead bucks up and continues fighting the criminals as she is or even willingly sacrificed her panties to get away.
-   Kenta's favorite move while wrestling women (two are school matches and one is a professional event) in _Miss Machiko_. He does it to Machiko once. Later, he wrestles a blonde wrestler who doesn't seem to care much, averting this trope. In another episode, an American foreign student comes to school. He tries it on her and while it makes her angry, she takes the time to beat him up before covering herself.
-   _Medaka Box_: A deliberate rule in the Election Battle match between Naze Youka and Shibushi Shibuki. The two girls are made to fight in a freezing room, and the object of the match is for one to strip the other, if not physically defeat them. Naze does the latter by "remodeling" herself midfight to gain the power to control body temperature in an illogical way... but, in order to keep the Election Battles going so that Medaka could find a way to reach Kumagawa, admits to the fact that she needed to strip herself naked to modify herself, and thus had already lost the match.
-   In _Miyuki-chan in Wonderland_, this happens to captured pieces in an erotic chess game.
-   In _My Hero Academia_'s Tournament Arc, Mina Ashido ends up fighting Yuga Aoyama. Minoru Mineta extols Aoyama to, quote, "beat her like in those fighting games where their clothes get ripped off". Unfortunately for Mineta, the trope ends up inverted - when Ashido uses her acid to disable the belt Aoyama used to control his navel laser, it turns out the same belt was also holding up his pants. She knocks him out with one uppercut while he's trying to cover himself.
    
    **Mineta:** _\[practically sobbing\]_ "If only Aoyama and Ashido's Quirks were switched...!"
    
-   _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_:
    -   Jack Rakan defeats two female mages by stealing their panties, then flipping their skirts whenever they tried to attack or cast a spell. He later begins a repeat performance when he's taking on all of Fate's Minstra Magi at once and it works for a while before they start taking on different physical forms that render the fact they're going commando a moot point. It's made even funnier when you remember Fate, the one they revere so much, is watching this fight and goes so far as to ask them what they're doing.
    -   Negi uses it (through _extremely conveniently timed sneezes_) to win several arguments with Asuna early on and against the evil older students in a dodge ball game.
    -   The Robot Army in the Mahorafest arc. Their primary weapons: Stripper rays.
    -   Inverted by Takane D. Goodman who upon defeat is stripped due to her clothes being produced by magic. Takane tries to get revenge on Negi stripping her with magic by picking multiple fights with him, where every one ends with her once again naked. At one point, she uses her shadow magic to magically generate her clothes. Naturally, Negi KO'ed her, and the clothes disappeared as she loses consciousness. Then after that, she ends up fighting Asuna. Then, trying to defend the campus against the robot hordes, she gets hit with their "nakey beams" at that point again. Her friend tells her to just give up being a Reluctant Fanservice Girl, and resign herself to her fate.
        -   Later in the manga, Takane challenges Negi to a fight, in which if she wins he has to date her. At that point, Negi is so strong that he KO'd her without effort. After that, Takane angrily asks why he hasn't got her naked, taking it as a sign of pity due to her lower magic level.
    -   Tsukuyomi does this Setsuna, by straddling her and cutting off her sarashi with her sword. The fact that it partially _works_ makes Setsuna angry with herself, given that in earlier battles she had fought a previous opponent (Negi) while completely naked without being affected at all. She takes it as a sign that she's getting rusty.
    -   Fate accidentally did this to Asuna; he was attempting to petrify her, but her Anti-Magic made her immune. Her clothes are not.
    -   Negi does this to the group of Ariadne guards when they attempt to arrest him, by combining a disarming spell with his Black Magic. In his defense, it was really the only way of ending the fight without hurting anyone.
    -   Kurt Godel tries to defeat Asuna, Yue, and Emily by getting their clothes blasted off. It works with the last two, but Asuna (actually Fate's minion Shiori disguised as Asuna) this time shouts "Oh, like I care anymore!" and continues to attack anyway until another enemy slashes her In the Back.
    -   Near the end of the series, Paio II defeats Yue Ayase by using her super-speed to strip her completely naked. Paio II comments that Jack Rakan taught her that tactic and that Yue should try to overcome her modesty to become a better fighter.
-   Of all the people to fall to this in _One Piece_, it's Sanji. He challenges the "Substitute Queen" (or Regent if you like) of Kamabaka Kingdom to a duel, receiving passage off the island if he wins. He's forced to wear the island's traditional battle outfit (a dress), and gets embarrassed when he realizes the "queen" is peeping at his underwear while the dress flares up as he kicks.
    -   There's also the Tontatta Tribe who out of a desire to keep up the Masquerade defeat interlopers by stealing all their valuables, which includes their clothes. They threatened to do this to Robin before they realized she was friendly.
-   In _Outlaw Star_, Gene defeats Suzuka by stealing her obi (belt), leaving her unable to attack him without her kimono falling open. The superior position and the hostage is then used for negotiation, to great effect.
-   In _Psychic Academy_, Ai once did this by accident. He made his first Jump (Teleportation), lost his balance on landing, and accidentally groped his opponent's breasts while regaining his balance. The woman he was fighting burst into tears and ran away.
-   In _Queen's Blade_, Melona can squirt acidic breast milk that only destroys inorganic materials while leaving flesh unharmed. She likes to taunt inexperienced fighters who get flustered and try to cover themselves, like Leina at the start of the series.
-   Serial Gender Bender Ranma Saotome from _Ranma ½_ constantly inverts this trope. A Combat Pragmatist who canonically lacks any feminine modesty, Ranma is not distracted by Clothing Damage and is willing to flash an opponent to gain a momentary advantage if necessary. The one time Ranma was nearly defeated through clothing damage was not due to modesty: he was pretending to be disguised as a girl at the time and did not want to reveal that he actually was a girl underneath the disguise.
-   Flat-out defied in _Rave Master_. Action Girl Julia faces off with an especially perverted member of the Six Guard who enjoys using his powers to blow apart her clothing. Julia refuses to submit, and even _rips off the remains of her own bra_ to prove the point that modesty will not defeat her. She eventually beats him down with no regard to her nudity, and in fact fully intends to tell her lover Let about all the onlookers who saw her to see what'll happen.
-   Done in Lee Kang Woo's Korean manhwa _Rebirth_, to prove a point. Shy priestess Millenear is sparring with vampire anti-hero love interest Deshwitat to prove to him that she is strong enough to help him save the world. Desh tears her clothes apart, making her drop to her knees to cover herself and yell at him for being a brute — whereupon he calmly puts his hand to her throat and tells her "you're dead".
-   _Rise Of The Outlaw Tamer_ has the incredibly powerful Baron Dragon Slayer who once killed a kaiju sized dragon in two hits. Remove her armor and she's too busy trying to cover herself to fight properly.
-   In the first episode of _Slayers_, Gourry introduces his swordplay skills by slashing all clothing off a (male) bandit, who immediately runs away.
-   _Soul Eater_: While she's miniaturized, Medusa unintentionally has a few panty shots when Death lifts her up by her hood. She's very embarrassed by this and is concerned about her exposed bloomers. This trope comes into play when she initially refuses to tell Spirit and Death the conditions about her deal.
-   The lighthearted fanservice interlude that is Chapter 7 of _Stravaganza Isai No Hime_ involves Queen Vivian being pickpocketed (while in disguise) and pursuing the thief, which turns out to be a Dirty Old Man who escapes by ripping off her shorts (forcing her to spend the first half of the chapter Going Commando). She later encounters him spending the stolen money in a strip club, and during the ensuing confrontation, he tries to use the same trick again on every woman in sight. He ultimately falls victim to the same trick when Vivian cuts his clothes to ribbons and finishes him off with a well-placed kick.
-   In the Masaomi Kanzaki _Street Fighter II_ manga, Chun Li is in danger of losing her match with Vega <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  because the Spanish ninja exposed her right breast, forcing her to fight one-handed. The story treats this as a turning point for her; at the brink of defeat, she stops trying to cover herself and creates her Kikouken Ki Manipulation in time to claim victory.
-   In _Time Bokan_ series, _Yattodetaman_, the main hero does this regularly to villains. Obviously the female leader, Mirenjo, is his favorite victim (it happened so often, that Mirenjo decides to undress herself during one episode to avoid seeing her dress getting destroyed yet again).
-   _Time Stop Hero_:
    -   Kuzuno Sekai can freeze time and often uses this ability to strip enemies naked and embarrass them into surrendering.
    -   Swordmaster Leafa Colby slashed the shirt off a man who was harassing her with her sword to embarrass him into retreating.
-   In _Toradora!_, Taiga gets the edge on the much better swimmer Ami in a pool race by claiming she's showing down below, knocking her into the pool with a bunch of flotation devices, and then stealing her bikini top while she's still disoriented.
-   Inverted in _Ultimate Girls_. The girls' clothing begins a disintegrating process from the moment they enter battle, and their shame and embarrassment at their pending nudity _enhances_ their powers.
-   The start of _Urusei Yatsura_; Ataru catches Lum by stealing her Fur Bikini, so she has to cover her breasts with her hands and can't fly as fast. He does it to get her to come to him, rather than him having to chase her around. In the anime, he uses a suction cup on a string; in the 2022 remake, he manages to rip it off while she flies past him; while in the movie _Beautiful Dreamer_ he takes it up a notch and just reaches into his pants and pulls it out, saying, "Hey! Look what I got!"
-   _Violinist of Hameln_: In the manga, Vocal rips off Ocarina's bra when she's about to unload her most powerful attack on him, which forces her to stop and cover herself. Though it wasn't necessary since Vocal's power level is leagues above hers anyway.
-   The bad guys try to use this on Loretta in _Wild ARMs: Twilight Venom_, but they get distracted long enough for her to cast "Corset", which shreds _their_ clothes into strips.
-   In _W Juliet_, Ito is wearing her school's female uniform and is roughing up some other school's students, only for one of them to yell "I can see your underwear!" and she quickly freezes up, too embarrassed to continue fighting properly.

    Comic Books 

-   In the DC comic, _The Fury of Firestorm_, this is how the title character defeats the female terrorist Plastique, who has started the detonation function for the bombs on her costume which she intends to use to either kill her hostages or make herself a martyr for her cause. Firestorm thwarts both aims with one movement when he turns her costume to vapor. The bombs instantly drop off her, allowing Firestorm to collect them so that they can be disposed of elsewhere, while she is reduced to a naked laughing stock.
-   X-Men:
    -   Back when Genosha was a country where mutants were enslaved, the New Mutants were teleported there by a character whose powers didn't affect clothing, then had their powers neutralized. Most of them were a little embarrassed, but Wolfsbane (a devout Presbyterian) was paralyzed with shame.
    -   During the _New X-Men: Academy X_ era, when the New Mutants and the Hellions were rival squads, Wind Dancer of the New Mutants dispatched Dust of the Hellions during a melee by using wind to scatter her sand form, leaving the devoutly-Muslim Dust unable to reconstitute her clothing. She was too modest to fight in the nude. She ended up hiding in a bush until her _burqa_ reformed on its own. Interestingly, it's Surge who ends up returning it, raising a bit of a conversation about their contrasting views of decency; Surge notes she wouldn't mind being a Shameless Fanservice Girl if the occasion arose.
-   Thanks to inept swordsmanship, this happened to _both_ Mickey Mouse and Pete in the same fight in one of the older comics. Both rushed off... to find some empty barrels, using them for purposes of modesty but continuing the fight.
-   During their back-up series in Keith Giffen's _Doom Patrol_ run, the Metal Men defeated Giganta by (accidentally) ripping her clothes off and agreeing to act as a makeshift bikini in exchange for her turning herself in.
-   In _Avengers: The Initiative_ #25, Tigra pulled this on Moonstone (when she was "Ms Marvel" in the Dark Avengers) by slashing the front of her costume, therefore leaving her, ahem, open for a crowd of paparazzi photographers.
-   This is literally Empowered's weakness. Her costume is the source of her powers, but it loses all of its mojo when it gets damaged, and it has the resilience of tissue paper. Most of Emp's battles end up with her mostly stripped down and powerless, and she's the laughing stock of the hero community because of it.
-   When being pursued by Batgirl, Catwoman flees into a party being hosted by the Gotham City Hedonist Society. Partly it's because there's a mobster in there she needs to meet... but the party also happens to be a strictly clothing-free zone. The mortified Batgirl considers giving up the chase, but reluctantly strips down and enters wearing nothing but her mask (Scenery Censor is taken to extremes in the entire sequence), subsequently engaging in a wrestling match with the similarly naked Catwoman. It's... not exactly subtle.
-   _Spider-Man_: In _Avenging Spider-Man_, Spider-Man defeats a subterranean warlord in combat for leadership of his people who was handily beating him after finishing off the Red Hulk by swinging a shard on a webline and cutting off his loincloth. Turns out shaming someone in battle also counts as besting them.
-   Defied in _The Powerpuff Girls_ unpublished comic book story "Powerbuff Girl (illustrated by Christopher Cook), where Bubbles goes through a nudist phase and her sisters Blossom and Buttercup are forced to take on the Mean Streaks naked because of moths eating the clothes of everyone in Townsville. Before confronting the Mean Streaks, Buttercup covers herself using Blossom's bow and Blossom covers up using her long hair. The Mean Streaks manage to use Buttercup and Blossom's modesty against them when Les Playdoctor uses a knife to slash off Blossom's bow and Buffy the Wardrobe Slayer forcibly ties Blossom's hair up with chains, but the two end up deciding that stopping the criminals is more important than covering up their nudity after seeing Bubbles fight the crooks nude without any concern of being uncovered and proceed to stop hiding and start fighting back against the Mean Streaks.

    Fan Works 

-   In _Absolute Power Sucks Absolutely_, Maxime, Captain Marvel, and Wonder Woman are being stared down by the entirety of Kahndaq's fanatically loyal military. Rather than do any real harm, Maxime uses his Reality Warper powers to simply make all of their weapons and clothes vanish into thin air before having a breeze blow in to force them to cover themselves. He regrets it when he remembers there's a ten-year-old in an adult's body standing next to him.
-   _Cursed Blood_: Played with during Ashido and Kirishima's match. Mina's acid eats through both of their costumes, and the match effectively ends when he accidentally rips off part of her clothes. Though she flees the ring, the horrified Eijiro immediately screams that he forfeits; this is accepted, and Mina moves on to the next round.
-   _My Hero School Adventure Is All Wrong As Expected_: Hikigaya wins a spar by soaking Yukinoshita's costume, which is then frozen by her ice powers — becoming brittle and threatening to fall apart if she moves. It was actually accidental, but he has a hard time convincing her of that.
-   In _Naruto: the Secret Songs of the Ninja_, Naruto gets into a fight with Tsunade where she gives him the handicap that she'll fight with one hand behind her back and he'll be the winner if he can force her to take it out and use it before she beats him. After she thrashes him around for a while, he eventually defeats her by hitting her with an incomplete rasengan while she's holding him off the ground, which only has enough force to destroy the belt that holds her top shut, forcing her to reflexively use her other hand to keep her boobs from spilling out and prompting a massive round of disappointed groans from the male spectators.
-   _White Sheep (RWBY)_: Accidental example. When Qrow fights Sapphire, who he believes to be a mindless Grimm with programming to make her act human, he gropes her, as he was curious how her programming would react (and if her clothes were hiding something inhuman). He's rather confused when she is as mortified as any other girl her age would be and she simply runs off. Of course, before she leaves, she explains to Qrow that she is actually the eldest daughter of Salem, Queen of the Grimm... and Salem is not going to be happy with him. Ozpin dismisses it as a trick because obviously Salem could never love any children, but Qrow quickly decides to get the hell out of there before every Grimm in a thousand miles tries to kill him.
-   In _Zero Context: Taking Out the Trash_, Ellen takes advantage of the fact that she's still technically a minor to score a victory by this trope, using her cards to take out twenty-six attackers at once. Neither the reader nor Ellen herself sees the end result, and her attackers flee the scene immediately, but it's clear from Callista and Amber's furious dialogue that the guests' clothes had been thoroughly shredded.

    Films — Animation 

-   _The Animatrix_ episode "The Final Flight of the Osiris" opens with a fight where this is threatening to happen, with two combatants gradually cutting off more and more of their opponents' clothes... It isn't "combat" so much as "foreplay"...
-   Disney's short _The Prince and the Pauper_, starring Mickey Mouse, has the titular hero defeat Pete simply by slicing at Pete's pants so they fall down, revealing a pair of very frilly heart-print bloomers. Cue howls of laughter from everyone present, instant loss of respect, and abject humiliation.
-   Somewhat averted and played straight in _Popeye the Sailor Meets Ali Baba's Forty Thieves_ when Popeye takes off Ali's undergarments while joking about it. While Ali isn't exactly defeated, he is temporarily shocked but quickly goes back to antagonizing Popeye.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   The kung-fu film _Bloody Parrot_ has the protagonist, a Master Swordsman, fighting an enemy who is a rich, arrogant punk dressed in fine robes. The protagonist promptly uses his sword to remove most of his opponent's clothing in the subsequent fight, leaving barely enough to cover his butt.
-   Inverted (more like Defeat by _Im_modesty) in _Elvira: Mistress of the Dark (1988)_. Elvira grabs the bodice of the dress of a woman who has been taunting her and punches her in the face, causing her to fall backward and the bodice to rip off — and she isn't wearing a bra. Even worse — she's exposed as being flat-chested to the entire town.
-   A minor example in _Happy Gilmore_: Happy deals with a heckler by ripping off his shirt just long enough to distract him as he punches him out.
-   In _Little Shop of Horrors_, Audrey II grabs Seymour's pants and pulls them down while Seymour attempts to swing his ax.
-   In the kids' film _Magic Island_, the Action Girl slices a pirate's belt. While he's trying to pull up his pants (and giving the audience a good look at his silly boxers), she says "Don't be droppin' yer drawers in the presence of a lady!" and quite _literally_ kicks his ass.
-   _Pursuit Of Vengeance_ have the hero and his rival intending to perform a Duel to the Death, before they're interrupted by the main villain and forced into an Enemy Mine situation. After the battle, they decide that instead of killing each other, they will compete to remove each other's _pants_ instead. With their _swords_.
-   Inversion in _RoboCop (1987)_: When Murphy's partner Anne Lewis gets the drop on one of Boddicker's thugs, he's in the middle of relieving himself. He asks for a few seconds to keep his modesty back in his pants — and then gets the advantage when this distracts the officer.
-   Alejandro Murrieta (Antonio Banderas) does this to Elena (Catherine Zeta-Jones) during their Sword Fight in _The Mask of Zorro_. It was pretty much the entirety of the film's ad campaign.
-   _M\*A\*S\*H_: How Hawkeye and Trapper get Hot Lips off their back; they lift the tent flap of the camp shower while she's in it, and whistle and applaud as she freaks out. She's so upset she goes to Colonel Blake and tries to resign her commission.
-   Inverted in _Deadpool_. During Colossus and Angel Dust's fight, her top comes undone so Colossus pauses the battle to let her put it back on. She thanks him for being so polite and then punches him in the groin.
-   Inverted in the kung fu film _Duel to the Death_, where a female ninja attacking a Shaolin monk suddenly tears off her clothes, and the monk looks away. She immediately takes him prisoner with an Inescapable Net.
-   In _Ace Ventura: When Nature Calls_, Ace had to undergo various tribal challenges from the Wachootoo tribe, during his search for the missing sacred bat. One of the trials was to knock his opponent from a log floating in the water the two were balancing on. He won by stripping him of his skirt and using it to slap him into the water, as he was defenselessly trying to cover himself.
-   _Kung Pow! Enter the Fist_: One of the assassins that attack The Chosen One at the beginning of the movie is defeated this way, with The Chosen One attacking the assassin's clothing and tearing it until it looks like a bikini. Embarrassed, the assassin runs off covering himself and yelling "Don't look at me!"
-   In _I'll Be Home for Christmas_, Jake attempts this when he thinks his girlfriend Allie slept with his rival Eddie, who at the moment is only wearing a towel. When Eddie eggs him on by saying that all that happened (a kiss under the mistletoe) was good, Jake angrily pulls his towel off.
-   In _Bloody Mama_, the Barkers abduct three old women during a bank robbery, drive them out into the country, and force them to remove most of their clothing to prevent them from going for help.
-   Inverted by Oyuki in _Baby Cart In Peril_ from the _Lone Wolf and Cub_ series, who stuns her opponents by flashing her breasts - and more importantly, the shocking tattoos thereon - at them.
-   Early on in _Rurouni Kenshin: The Beginning_, a young Kenshin seeking to enlist in the revolutionary army is asked to prove his sword skills in a duel with live steel. Kenshin uses a battoujutsu technique to slice his opponent's hakama (trousers equivalent) off.

    Literature 

-   Tamora Pierce _Tortall Universe_:
    -   _Song of the Lioness_ quartet. Alanna is a Sweet Polly Oliver and her companion has no idea that she's a girl. That changes abruptly when she and Jon challenge the Ysandir, who make her clothes disappear to reveal what she really is. She beats the crap out of the Ysandir anyway (though covering up with Jon's tunic first). It happens again in her duel with Duke Roger: he gets in a slash that cuts open her tunic and incidentally slices through the thing she was wearing to bind her chest. He had no idea that would happen. After everyone is suitably shocked, Alanna gets back to work.
    -   _The Immortals_: Daine fights her final battle with the big bad naked of both magic (because of exhaustion) and clothes (because there's no Magic Pants aspect to her shapeshifting ability) — naked except for the badger god's claw, which she wears as a pendant, and turns out to make a handy knife.
-   Sandry manages this in _Will of the Empress_ for a non-violent victory over her would-be kidnappers: A stitch witch, she unstitches their armor, weaponry, and much of their clothing.
-   Averted in _Shatterpoint_: Mace Windu is cornered by a pair of militia in a public shower and beats the crap out of them. As if you'd expect less of him.
-   Variation in the Redwall book _Lord Brocktree_. The (mostly male) vermin foraging gangs captured by the Bark Crew are forced to remove their clothes and walk back to the fortress naked. May not have the same impact as with human characters, though.
-   _On a Pale Horse_ features a women's football game where magic is allowed as long as it doesn't physically harm anybody. One player uses a spell to make the opposing quarterback's clothes invisible. As the crowd goes wild, the quarterback beats the crap out of the person who did that, then leaves the field until her clothes are made visible again.
-   Most of the Mr. Men don't wear any clothes, but in Little Miss Naughty's book, Mr. Bump turns red from embarrassment when Miss Naughty swipes his bandages. (She then uses them to bandage up Mr. Small!)
-   Averted in _The Drawing of the Three_. After the shootout at Balazar's, Roland notes that Eddie fought well despite being naked. That's one of the first signs that Eddie is gunslinger material.
-   The _Dreamblood Duology_: Defied by Wana when he's attacked in his bath. The assassin expects him to be humiliated by being naked in front of an enemy because their tribe has a major nudity taboo; since Wana was raised in the much less inhibited Gujaareh, he has no problem doling out a vicious Full-Frontal Assault.
-   _The Wheel of Time_: When The Chosen One Rand is recovering from a serious injury, his female advisors and Amazon Brigade hide all of his clothes and loiter in his sickroom in an attempt to keep him in bed. Ever one to tempt a Heroic RRoD, Rand hides his embarrassment and gets out of bed naked anyway.

    Live-Action TV 

-   Averted by Jon in Season 4 of _The Amazing Race_, when he did the final Roadblock naked.
-   In _Chinese Paladin_, Xiaoyao wins his first fight against Yue'Ru by (accidentally) groping her. She's startled into dropping her guard; but when he turns his back, she retaliates by running him through. (He gets better).
-   In _Emmerdale_, everyone knows that hunky mechanic Ross Barton doesn’t wear anything underneath his overalls. Debbie Dingle uses this against him when, for some light-hearted revenge, she deliberately traps the material in the bonnet of a car he’s working on. After Debbie leaves him stranded, Ross then subverts the trope by wriggling free anyway and making his way through the village with nothing on, to everyone's shock and most people's delight.
-   Subverted in _Firefly_; Mal initially acts awkwardly indignant at being forced to strip and left in the desert, but when The Plan comes to fruition, he swaggers around with self-satisfied confidence before his crew, in no hurry to dress. Even more hilariously, Kaylee is the only one who's not only not embarrassed by his nudity, she doesn't even seem to notice it.
-   _Frasier_. In "Junior Agent", waifish Portia Sanders gets Frasier and Kenny to shut up and listen to her by stealing their pants while they're dressed only in a towel.
    
    **Kenny:** Again, _naked_.
    
-   In a rare male example, season 2 episode 14 of _The Good Wife_ where Kalinda performed a rib strike, knocking arrogant investigator Blake Calimar unconscious in a humiliating pose where he's bent over on all fours, with his face down, butt shoved up, and wearing only his briefs. Also, doubles as Circle of Shame and Shameful Strip as during an interview with Scott Porter, Blake's actor, mentioned this scene was added last minute to promote feminism. Scene is a confrontation in a private hotel suite, where Kalinda seduces and manipulates Blake to strip down to only his underwear and defending off his sexual advances. Given that this scene was added last minute, they had to re-shoot many times. Scott Porter expresses how he was utterly humiliated having his ass on display for a few hours in front of the cast, crew, and visitors, including his girlfriend at the time.
-   _Jack of All Trades_; Jack tries this on Emilia, draining the tub to get her to confess where she's hidden an idol they're competing over. She tells him it's under her bed... which is where she left a bunch of mouse traps, and she was bathing _with_ the idol.
-   Jamie, in _Mad About You_, uses a threat to drain a man's bubble bath as a negotiating ploy.
-   Happened several times on _M\*A\*S\*H_ with people stealing other people's clothes while they were in the shower; Hawkeye and Winchester pulling this on BJ, with the whole camp as an audience, after finding out that BJ had been behind a rather vicious string of practical jokes they'd endured.

-   _Sherlock_:
    -   In Buckingham Palace, wearing only a sheet, Sherlock refuses to take a case and starts striding out of the room. Mycroft Holmes steps on his sheet.
        
        **Sherlock:** Get off my sheet.  
        **Mycroft:** Or what?  
        **Sherlock:** Or I'll just walk away.  
        **Mycroft:** I'll let you.
        
    -   Played with in "A Scandal in Belgravia", where Irene Adler strips nude to cancel out his deductive ability, a sort of mental Full-Frontal Assault.
-   A variation in _Skirts_, a 1990's Australian cop show. Constable Quin arrests a woman who declares that if he doesn't let her go she'll take off her clothes in public, "...and you'll be so embarrassed you won't know what to do." Gilligan Cut to Quin bringing her into the police station clad only in lingerie.
-   In _Star Trek: The Next Generation_, Data is captured by a collector who wants Data to stop wearing his uniform and wear another garment, but Data refuses so the collector splashes Data with a fast-acting acid that won't harm his "skin", but will dissolve his clothes. Data's modesty subroutines won't allow him to go around naked, so he's forced to wear what the collector provided. His modesty subroutines are an example as well, as his 'mother' explained: when first constructed, he viewed clothing as a nuisance since he didn't need it for protection from the environment and, lacking modesty, he wasn't concerned about taboos that would prohibit a fully-equipped android from roaming around in the buff. The subroutines were installed to win the argument and make him get dressed.
-   _Survivor_:
    -   During the final immunity challenge of the fourth season, Kathy lost her balance while attempting to stop a breast from slipping out of her shirt.
    -   Sandy was able to neutralize Erinn in a challenge in Tocantins by pulling Erinn's bikini top strap backwards.
    -   In the Heroes vs. Villains season, villain Sandra tried to do this to hero Sugar by pulling her top off during a challenge. Sugar, not the least fazed, won the round and flipped Sandra off with both hands, causing a rare triple-blur of both her breasts and fingers.
        -   Fridge Brilliance in that Sugar was a pinup model and probably not remotely fazed by showing her breasts.
-   _Xena: Warrior Princess_ once showed the title character humiliated by this trope when the Amazon Queen Cyane (Victoria Pratt) tore Xena's clothes off her and then dressed herself in them, leaving Xena wearing nothing but a barely-there loincloth, forcing Xena to flee in anger and shame.

    Music 

-   Averted in the sea song _William Taylor_. The female protagonist (not the title character), joins a ship as a Sweet Polly Oliver looking for her fiancé. During a battle, her buttons are cut off, revealing her assets. It doesn't stop her fighting, but after the battle, the captain throws her out.

    Myths & Religion 

-   In most versions of the Hindu goddess Kali's origin story, she gets drunk on demon blood and starts dancing the universe to destruction. The god Shiva counters this by essentially challenging her to a dance-off. In some versions of the story, Shiva wins by putting one foot on top of his head and spinning in place. Kali can't imitate the move without flashing the entire pantheon, and so yields the contest. In most versions of the story, Kali couldn't give less of a f\*ck about that if she tried, and tramples Shiva into the ground, only relenting when she realizes he is her destined husband.
-   Inverted in one Irish folktale. A knight tricks a girl into running away with him. He takes her to a shore, reveals that he drowned seven girls, and plans to make her the eighth. She begs him, for modesty's sake, to not look as she disrobes. When he's not looking, she either pushes him in or takes his sword and kills him.

    Podcasts 

-   The cast of _Plumbing the Death Star_ reasons that Johnny Cage, an actor, could manage to defeat Goro, the four-armed demon monster from _Mortal Kombat_, by removing Goro's loincloth and embarrassing him.

    Pro Wrestling 

-   This is the entire purpose of Bra and Panties, Evening Gown, and Tuxedo matches. The winner is the first to strip her/his opponent to her/his underwear (the former starts with the — usually female — competitors in street clothes, while the latter two begin with the competitors in the titular garments). A slight variation in that the entire match is designed around this rather than the stripping being a way out.
-   Given how taboo it is for masked Mexican wrestlers to lose their masks, this trope can be used in wrestling without any conventional nudity. In the case of Chris Jericho vs. Rey Mysterio at Extreme Rules 2009, Jericho stole a win by removing Mysterio's mask and quickly pinning him while he was desperately covering his face. Alberto Del Rio did the same thing in the middle of a Money in the Bank match. Both of them were on ladders trying to reach the briefcase, so Del Rio removed Mysterio's mask who immediately covered his face. Del Rio then kicked him off the ladder before winning the match.
-   Some wrestlers will pull down the other's pants to distract them, thus using conventional nudity. The most common form is during the maneuver called the Sunset Flip: The wrestler somersaults over his opponent and grabs his legs to try and pull him down with him. If the opponent is too stable to be pulled down, yanking down the back of their tights and exposing their backside is a pretty effective way to get them off balance.
-   Japanese Depraved Bisexual wrestler Otoko Sakari often loses when his opponent manages to expose his privates (which is not difficult given that he wears a thong) and the ring crew has to throw a towel.

    Video Games 

-   In a rare male example, one section of _Final Fantasy VI_ requires you to steal the uniforms from guards and merchants while trying to sneak into a town occupied by The Empire. Right off their backs, leaving them only in their underwear, causing them to flee from battle.
-   _Kirby_: In a very rare non-sexual example, Meta Knight will flee any fight in which his intimidating mask is destroyed or otherwise removed. Why? Presumably because he doesn't want the world to know he looks like a blue Kirby with a cape.
-   In the PC fighting game _Bikini Karate Babes_, Venus, one of the boss characters, has a grab move that swipes the bikini top off certain fighters. This sends the opponent running off-screen while covering her breasts in embarrassment, thus ending the round.
-   In _Conker's Bad Fur Day_, to beat Buga the Knut, you must tear chunks out of his buttocks until he can no longer hold up his loincloth, revealing his "very small willy". This is really more Defeat By Shame.
-   In a rare heroic example, getting hit by a scimitar in _Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped_ will cut Crash's pants off, causing him to shamefully slink away while attempting to cover his pink boxers with red hearts.
-   _Yoshi's Island_:
    -   Burt the Bashful, the first boss in the original game falls prey to this trope. His pants descend slightly each time he's hit until he's left naked; as a result, he grows red with embarrassment, bounces around the arena, and explodes.
    -   The Burt Bros. in _Yoshi's Island DS_ are defeated in the same way.
    -   Burt the Bashful (noticing a theme here?) in _Yoshi's Woolly World_ is defeated by stunning him, then unraveling his pants. Once his pants are gone, so is he.
    -   Burt the Ball, from _Yoshi's Crafted World_, has his pants lower as he's damaged, and as per usual, is defeated once his pants have left him.
-   In _Rabbids Go Home_, **BAH**ing at people scares them so much they jump out of their clothes, causing them to cower in fear.
-   The female wrestling game _Rumble Roses_ has a Humiliation bar. When your enemy's h-bar is full, you can do an h-move, which is a very powerful submission. If you win, it is an H-KO. (Which isn't any different from a normal win, unless you set "H-KO only" from the options.) While there isn't any stripping, most of the H-moves and the moves use to fill the bar in the first place, would turn most people red. (However, some moves would make you scratch your head trying to find the humiliation in them.)
-   Almost everyone who's played _Punch-Out!!_ knows how to defeat King Hippo; hit him in his big mouth to get him to drop his pants, then pummel his fat belly. This strategy has been kept untouched in the new Wii game though in the rematch, he's taped a manhole cover to his stomach, which you need to punch off first.
-   In _Link: The Faces of Evil_, one of the major enemies is Militron, who for all intents and purposes looks like a big honking suit of armor. After beating him, his armor blows up, revealing a frail old man in his boxers. He shouts "Oh my goodness, this is awful!" and runs away.
-   In _Musashi Samurai Legend_, Malbec fights alongside his assistants. Since cutting female lab assistants in half isn't very heroic, _guess what happens when you attack them?_
-   In _The Revenge of Shinobi_ among your enemies are women whose dresses are shredded when hit by enough shuriken, leaving them sitting on the ground holding up what remains of their clothes rather than dying.
-   When a knight performs a checkmate in _Battle Chess_, the unfortunate king is stripped of his robes from a couple of well-aimed sword strikes, covering himself in shame while the knight just laughs.
-   Two male (and one female) examples are found in _Rampage_. If any of the three giant monsters runs out of life points, they revert to human form, cover themselves in shame, and slowly walk away.
-   H-Game _Lightning Warrior Raidy_ has this whenever you completely drain out an enemy's HP.
-   Nearly every foot soldier in _Rocket Knight Adventures_ and its sequels is defeated this way.
-   During the good ending of _The Neverhood_, Klaymen distracts Klogg by pulling his skirt down.
-   In _Time Gal_, one death scene involves a dinosaur ripping off Time Gal's shorts, causing her to quickly cover herself by entering the fetal position. In one that was cut out of the American release, a future biker also slices through her top.
-   Inverted in _Fate/EXTRA_ when Gilgamesh fights Elizabeth. He uses an "ability" that instantly strips himself nude aside from his jewelry and a glowing censor light. His nude form leaves Elizabeth babbling and unable to fight, and when Gilgamesh strikes a pose she's outright defeated by him.
    
    **Gilgamesh**: I see you are speechless. It is no surprise; the splendor of my naked form surpasses all the diamonds in the world! It should be even more glorious for a virgin...
    
-   In _Wild Gunman_, you defeat the second outlaw by shooting his pants down (and the third one by shooting his hat off, revealing that he's bald). Also applies to the Wild Gunmen's appearance in _Super Smash Bros. 4_, but _only_ if you hit them in the right places (near the bottom for the pants and near the top for the hat). Otherwise, they'll just get knocked down like the other outlaws, using new sprites created for this game.
-   In the Quick Draw microgame in _WarioWare: Smooth Moves_, you and your opponent are competing to shoot the other's pants down.
-   The whole combat system in _Akiba's Trip_ is based around using high and low attacks to weaken the opponent's shirt and pants, then tearing their clothes off to defeat them. While you're supposed to be using this to kill the game's variation on vampires that are only vulnerable to the sun from the shoulders-down, you can do this to just about anyone you find on the streets, vampire or not.
-   Invoked and inverted in _Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony_, when Miu strips to her underwear, knowing that Gonta Gokuhara is too chivalrous to look at, let alone grab a half-naked woman, causing him to stop chasing her.

    Web Animation 

-   _Homestar Runner_:
    -   Inverted at the end of the _Cheat Commandos Adventures_ episode played right before the music video "An Important Rap Song" by Crack Stuntman where the Blue Laser Commander's evil plan for that episode for some reason involved him taking off his pants in public. He is foiled by the Cheat Commandos who force him to put his pants back on while in the middle of his evil plan.
        
        **Blue Laser Commander:** How could you ever possibly refer to these to as _pants_?
        
    -   Strong Bad tries to invoke the trope when he crashes the senior prom and pushes a button to make everyone's pants disappear... only to realize that he's the only one wearing pants.
-   In one of the _Bad Days_ shorts, Green Lantern helps Superman defeat General Zod by pulling down Zod's pants, revealing that he stole Superman's Underwear of Power. Supes becomes so mad that he overcomes Zod in only two punches.

    Web Comics 

-   The current page image comes from _Batman and Sons_, specifically from page 2 of the "Don't Mess with Bats" mini-storyline.

-   Accidentally in _Dan and Mab's Furry Adventures_, but still probably a good thing.
-   _Erika and the Princes in Distress_ :
    -   Early in the comic, Kaylane gets into a fight with another woman, and immediately takes her out with a single slice that makes her entire outfit fall down in pieces.
    -   Kaylane also defeats Benoit this way, first tearing up the back of his pants, which he desperately tries to cover up, then ripping open his clothes to reveal a full view of his chest and crotch. This being Kaylane, she absolutely revels in the sight.
-   _Exiern_:
-   A justified example is given in an early chapter of _Flipside_. Maytag's confidence is tied to her jester outfit, so having it destroyed by Voulger's sword leaves her unable to fight back. Later, when her jester outfit is purposely destroyed just as she is stepping on a stage, she coolly wraps around a curtain and explains to everyone how her double personality (and differences between them) are fully under her control and is kept because she likes it this way.
-   _Girl Genius_:
    
    -   Defied. The clothing disintegration is entirely accidental, but Zeetha is unfazed because, despite a misleading segue, the character is wearing disintegration-proof undergarments for just such an occasion, implied to happen often in this area. Given that Zeetha is an Action Girl from a culture with much less of a modesty taboo than the primary setting, it probably wouldn't have stopped her if she had been nude. As it was, she has no problem whatsoever standing in front of a large crowd in her underwear.
    
    **Zeetha:** What were you thinking, using **Bunbury**'s trash?... **He's** why every smart actress from here to Paris wears **special underwear**!
    
-   _Homestuck_: During the Troll session, the Black Queen willingly disadvantages herself by not wearing the Ring of Orbs Twelvefold, which bestows the power - and visages - of all the twelve kernelsprite prototypings. Why? Because she cannot stomach looking like a frog. She was okay with everything else, though, including fairy wings, crab claws, a huge moustache and an udder.
-   _Magellan_ has a character with the ability to turn himself but not his clothes into gas, rendering him unable to affect anything until he reforms... which he refuses to do without his clothes, so throwing them away during a fight is a smart move.
-   In the middle of a trial by combat with a female vampire in _Sorcery 101_, Seth slides his hand under her skirt and gropes her. She's so furious that she immediately summons a black fireball and slams him out of the ring, seemingly leaving her the victor. Unfortunately, someone was too upset to remember magic was prohibited.
-   Inverted in supplemental material for _TwoKinds_. The Eastern General (who is from a puritanical country) is almost, but not quite, defeated when one of the two heroines realizes he reacted poorly to the other's _bare feet_ — so she ripped the other one's _entire outfit_ off. (Luckily, she's an Innocent Fanservice Girl.)
-   Similarly in _Megatokyo_, Seraphim defeats Asmodeus via Sexy Coat Flashing.
-   On Piti Yindee's Wuffle Comic's Easter episodes, Wuffle and Puipui dress up (Wuffle as the Easter Bunny and Puipui as an Easter Egg). Wuffle carries a bunch of eggs in a basket and calls the kids over. Cue the kids accidentally ripping off part of Wuffle's costume leaving only the egg basket protecting his dignity.
-   Male example in _Yet Another Fantasy Gamer Comic_: Eric Wouldn't Hit a Girl, so he attempts to impress his skill with a sword on Giovanna by removing her hat and corset. She responds by cutting his pants off, then clonks him on the head when he tries to cover himself.
-   _Grrl Power_:
    -   Inverted when during Math's fight with Jabberwokky, he rips open her jacket and is immediately Distracted by the Sexy as she is only wearing a fishnet top underneath. Jabberwokky drops him with a knee to the face and an embarrassed, "I can't believe I beat you with booby style."
    -   In a later arc, a villain uses grenades on the Nigh-Invulnerable Maxima's clothes, but she uses her Super-Speed to grab new clothes.

    Web Original 

-   Downplayed in _Chaos Fighters II-Cyberion Strike_. Etliz was suffering from Clothing Damage when Etlis used a pyro attack on her, but the final blow that defeated her is a hydro attack on her which put out the flames just in time.
-   _Whateley Universe_: Phase ends a shouting match in the middle of the cafeteria by using his intangibility to grab the lingerie off two of the three cheerleaders who were confronting him.
-   The If I Ever Become an Anime Villain... list recommends averting Transformation Is a Free Action in order to invoke this trope.

    Western Animation 

-   In an episode of _Around the World in Eighty Days_, Fogg foils Mr. Fix by swiping his pants, causing Fix to run and hide, because being seen in his underwear is "undignified".
-   In an episode of _Avatar: The Last Airbender_, Aang's dreams anticipating his fight with the Fire Lord involve him being defeated by the Fire Lord pointing out that he's not wearing pants, at which point he gets too embarrassed to fight and flees. Until he finally turns the tables:
    
    **Aang:** No, Firelord Ozai, _you're_ not wearing pants!  
    **Ozai:** Oh no! My royal parts are showing!
    
-   _Batman: The Animated Series_: In "Make 'Em Laugh", The Joker falls out of the sky. Batman catches him with his grappling hook, but Joker ends up with his pants around his ankles, making all the bystanders laugh at him as he's dragged away by the police. Humiliated, he puts the trophy he stole over his head.
-   Classic Disney Shorts: In _Casey Bats Again_, Casey gets his second strike after Patsy accidentally pulls down his shorts.
-   In the _Codename: Kids Next Door_ episode "Operation: B.U.T.T.", the Delightful Children try to use that tactic to get Nigel to surrender himself by having a robot crab steal his swim trunks and take a picture of his exposed butt. Ironically, the rest of Sector V in the same episode defeated the Delightfuls by ripping their pants and skirts off them.
-   The _Dexter's Laboratory_ episode "Go, Dexter Family! Go!" had Dexter's Mom defeat a giant alien by unraveling his robe, resulting in his minions pointing and laughing at his nude body.
-   In an episode of _Dudley Do-Right_, Snidely Whiplash stole Do-Right's clothes while he was bathing in a stream, leaving Do-Right too humiliated to go back to the camp, _not_ because he was naked, but because he was _out of uniform_, something he considered the most shameful thing of all. Still, Do-Right got even with the villain at the end; he stole _Whiplash's_ clothes.
-   _Kim Possible_: Averted, at least in one case. Ron Stoppable suffered this **constantly.** It happened so often that it stopped bothering him. Although, the only time he will take the time to pull his pants up is when he has been completely denuded (except for his boxers), and there's a break in the action, or his pants get wrapped around his ankles, which would be an actual hindrance.
-   Male (mostly) example: in _Kung Fu Panda: The Secrets of Furious Five_, we learn that the Monkey's preferred tactic was to take the opponents' pants. "But \[Master\] Oogway wore no pants…"
-   _Kung Fu Panda: Legends of Awesomeness_:
    -   In the episode "The Way of the Prawn", Po fights a samurai prawn named Yijiro. Yijiro swings his sword at Po several times and appears to miss, but then Po's pants fall down. Po then covers up his privates and backs out of the room in embarrassment.
    -   Additionally in the KFP fandom, there was a commercial by Target for a sewing machine that involved a scene from Kung Fu Panda 2. In the commercial, Po does a split kick on two wolves and splits his pants causing a bunny behind him to gag. Po says "Never speak of this," and walks off covering his behind. The commercial can be found on YouTube.
    -   At the 2011 Kids Choice Awards, Po was imitating Willow Smith by singing "I whip my fur back and forth." While he was shaking his butt, we hear a loud ripping sound. Jack Black asks Po if he's okay and Po responds by saying "Fine, just a little...wardrobe malfunction. I feel a breeze!" Po walks off covering up. A second later, Po comes back and shouts "KCA's rule!" forgetting that his behind is exposed. He then realizes and runs back in embarrassment.
-   The infamous "Flight as a Feather" episode of _The Mask_ animated series features a brief but quite memorable appearance by the Mayor's ex-girlfriend Cookie BaBoom, an Ambiguously Brown, green-eyed, Stripperiffic Yandere who opens her trench coat to reveal strategically-placed dynamite and threatening to blow herself up in front of City Hall after the Mayor dumped her. The Mask appears, interrupting his A-plot long enough to destroy the dynamite by throwing it in a blender and drinking the results, leaving Cookie both defeated and completely naked.
-   _The Powerpuff Girls_:
    -   Near the end of "The Boys Are Back In Town", Blossom manages to defeat her Spear Counterpart, Brick, by pulling his pants down. This results in him literally shrinking in size. Before that, she deduced that the Puffs' counterparts' new weakness was that "whenever their masculinity is threatened, they shrink in size." Masculinity threatened, indeed.
    -   In "Nano of the North", the Powerpuff Girls try to fight a swarm of nanobots devouring all the inanimate matter in Townsville. Unfortunately, the robots are too small to hit, and the Girls are sent into ignoble retreat after the nanobots eat their clothes.
-   _Robot Chicken_ acknowledged how the kinkiness of _Sailor Moon_ can lead to an easy victory: "Sailor Moon Confronted"
-   _Samurai Jack_: Jack just keeps fighting even after he's been stripped of his ghi and is clad in only his fundoshi (which, to the delight of fangirls everywhere, _has_ happened. Suspiciously often...mostly in its 2nd and 3rd seasons). However, the episode "Jack's Sandals" had this trope played straight (even though no Clothing Damage was involved). Jack has to find a replacement for his geta sandals that were broken by some motorcycle robots. He at one point tries out a pair of Combat Stilettos with spikes for heels. With these spike heels, he performs such feats as running up walls and slicing a parking meter into pieces. Indeed, they seem even better than his geta sandals! He leaps in to confront the motorcycle robots — and immediately starts receiving catcalls from the robots and bystanders. Jack slinks off to try a new pair of shoes.
-   _The Simpsons_: In "The Falcon and the D'ohman", Wayne has a flashback where he is training against a huge range of opponents. One of them is a 19th-century muscle man whom he defeats by ripping off his Old-Timey Bathing Suit.
-   _SpongeBob SquarePants_:
    -   In the "Hooky" episode, SpongeBob is finally convinced to not play with hooks anymore after he gets one stuck in his pants, at which time he has to take them off. Then he has to take his _underwear_ off, which he almost doesn't do, but then they're just ripped off anyway.
    -   Inverted in the episode "The Algae's Always Greener": With Plankton in charge of the Krusty Krab, it's now _Mr. Krabs_ trying to steal the formula, and not only do they switch roles, they also switch attire, meaning Mr. Krabs is naked. SpongeBob must defeat Krabs by dressing him.
    -   This happens to SpongeBob at the end of the episode "Ripped Pants" as Laser-Guided Karma. After spending the whole episode making silly "ripped pants" jokes, annoying everyone, and making them think he drowned, his underwear rips and falls off.
    -   In addition, there are a couple of video games based on the franchise in which underwear is the representative of SpongeBob's health. There's even one where you see them come off and he covers himself.
-   In the first season finale of _The Superhero Squad Show_, Fin Fang Foom shows up to fight Galactus, but flees in embarrassment after losing his pants.
-   _Teen Titans_: In "Mother Mae Eye" while See-More is fighting Starfire, See-More reveals he had "see-through" vision and then gazes intently at Starfire, which prompts her to cover herself up while blushing. This allows her to be an easy target from See-More's next attack.
-   Happens to Zeke The Big Bad Wolf at the end of _The Three Little Pigs_, which also caused him to devolve back into a non-anthro wolf.
-   An odd variant occurs in _Total Drama_. Heather essentially does this herself while attempting to sabotage Harold's water-skiing. A low-hanging branch rips off her bikini top forcing her to abandon her sabotage in order to preserve her modesty. However, Harold is sufficiently distracted by his brief glimpse of Heather's boobs to wipe himself out of the competition.
    -   A similar thing occurs in a later episode. Heather attempts to cause Gwen to lose a climbing challenge by ripping off the back of her shorts, revealing her purple skull panties, but she ends up winning anyway on account of all her competitors being too busy staring at her panty-clad behind to continue climbing. Once she reaches the summit and realizes she's still exposed, the modesty kicks in and she covers herself.
-   A rather... uncommon example can be seen in _Turtles Forever_, where during a fight with assorted mutant beasties (including mutant bowling balls, leprechauns, and slices of pizza), 1987 Michelangelo defeats a mutant banana by... um... peeling it.
-   _Xiaolin Showdown_: In the first showdown, Omi defeats Jack Spicer by pulling off his pants.

    Real Life 

-   An extremely rare form of victory in sumo can come from a _hansoku_ (disqualification) if a wrestler's mawashi (the belt/groin covering that constitutes the wrestler's only garb during a match) comes undone and his genitals are exposed (if the mawashi comes undone, but is caught before any exposure, the match will simply be stopped so the mawashi can be refastened). Despite this rule being established in 1917, it didn't come into play until May of 2000, when wrestler Asanokiri was disqualified in his match against Chiyohakuho when his mawashi came undone. To date, Asanokiri is the only wrestler on record to ever lose this way.
-   In a German subway, a man makes an aggressive move towards a woman, driving his leg forcefully into the chair next to her. A fellow traveler defuses things by yanking his pants down.
-   Katharine Hepburn managed to exploit this trope due to her _im_modesty. Her favourite outfit off-camera was dungarees and whatever top seemed appropriate, but she was "encouraged" by the studio to wear the elegant costumes from her first film, _A Bill of Divorcement_ off the set, to look good in public. She refused. They said they'd hide her dungarees. She told Dick Cavett that her response was "Oh, I _really_ wouldn't do that." But they did. Cavett, of course, asked what she did. "I walked across the lot to the car waiting for me by the gate in my underpants." Her dungarees were returned the next day.

___