_"Remember when we used to do stuff? You know, be out there with them and help?"_

When a main character or prominent member of the supporting cast all but disappears for a sequel, new season, adaptation, or The Movie. While not completely written out, they are stripped of any plot importance in favor of a new role as background filler, at most giving a Mandatory Line or two before fading back into irrelevancy. The character's existing fanbase will complain, while everyone else may just accept it as the new status quo.

Opposite of the Ascended Extra; instead of a background or one-off character becoming a key member of the supporting cast, a key member of the supporting cast becomes a background or one-off character. And of Adaptational Protagonist, when either minor or major characters acquire the main lead role in an adaptation. Also contrast Spotlight-Stealing Squad, which can also cause this to happen; that said, there may not be anyone in particular that takes these characters' screentime, and the presence of a Spotlight Stealing Squad doesn't mean no one else is plot-important anymore. In works where Anyone Can Die, supporting characters fated to die may end up demoted to extra before their deaths.

This trope is for characters who become unimportant to the story, but are still seen or mentioned occasionally; for characters who disappear _completely_ from the story as if they had never existed, see Chuck Cunningham Syndrome for when they disappear from the original work and Adapted Out for when they never appear in the adaptation. For when a character has (or multiple characters have) extended periods of irrelevancy within the _same_ work to give others the spotlight, see Rotating Arcs.

Super-Trope to Demoted to Comic Relief and Demoted to Satellite Love Interest. Compare Shoo Out the Clowns, Sir Not-Appearing-in-This-Trailer, Not as You Know Them, The Artifact, Out of Focus, What Happened to the Mouse?, Chuck Cunningham Syndrome, and Commuting on a Bus. Contrast Ascended Extra, Breakout Character, and Ensemble Dark Horse.

___

## Examples:

-   Anime & Manga
-   Comic Books
    -   _The DCU_
    -   _Marvel Universe_
-   Fan Works
-   Film — Live-Action
-   Literature
-   Live-Action TV
    -   _Game of Thrones_
    -   _Power Rangers_
-   Pro Wrestling
-   Video Games
-   Webcomics
-   Western Animation

    open/close all folders 

    Asian Animation 

-   In _Happy Heroes_, all five Supermen are the series' protagonists for the most part, but in the mini-season _Happy Heroes and the City of Mystery_, only Careful S. is a main character. The other four, Happy S., Sweet S., Smart S., and Careless S., are reduced to making brief appearances when they are summoned by the Skill Balls, which were invented by Doctor H. to help Careful S. out during his journey on Planet Earth.
-   _Pleasant Goat and Big Big Wolf_: Wolnie still appears in _Pleasant Goat Fun Class_, but she has less screen time than she does in the original show. Instead, Wolffy spends more time with the goats.

    Comic Strips 

-   This eventually happened to Cutter John in _Bloom County_. Though he didn't disappear like the scores of other characters who were dropped from the comic, his role was dramatically reduced by the strip's end (Word of God being that wheelchairs are difficult to draw within the confines of a comic strip panel).
-   After the 9/11 attacks, _The Boondocks_ became less of a slice-of-life comedy strip and commented more on world news. It takes few to commentate, so the strip neglected everyone except Huey, Riley, Granddad, Caesar, and Tom. Eventually a few characters were brought back, though Jazmine was mad that Huey wasn't worried about her while she was gone.
    
    **Jazmine:** I guess you were too busy sitting here and making mean-spirited comments about the world to realize we hadn't **seen each other for two years!!**  
    **Huey:** By the way, did you hear that "Meth And Red" got canc-  
    **Jazmine:** **AARRRGH!!**
    
-   The London _Evening Standard_ used to run a cartoon called _Clive_ about a boy of 17-18 and his various escapades. However, the strip began focusing less on him and more on his ten-year-old sister Augusta, until he was such a minor character that the strip was renamed _Augusta_. It was recognisably the same strip, especially since it still had all the Running Gags of its previous incarnation.
-   Tommy from _Dennis the Menace (US)_ started out as a prominent character, but as Joey became more popular, Tommy's appearances became fewer and further between, until he eventually disappeared from the strip, only making occasional appearances in the _Dennis the Menace Pocket Full of Fun_ books. Ironically enough in the 1959 live-action series, when Joey left after the first season, he remained on for the rest of the series.
-   _Dilbert_ 's transition from slice of life absurdism to office satire meant the more fantastical characters were marginalized (Ratbert, Bob the Dinosaur, Phil the Prince of Insufficient Light) if not eliminated altogether (Zimbu the Monkey, Dawn and Rex). There's also Mordac the Preventer of Information Services, who went from a regular recurring villain to appearing infrequently.
-   _On the Fastrack_ used to star Bob Shirt, but compared to the other characters, he was boring. For many years now, he has appeared almost exclusively in ensembles — the only exception being him complaining about his reduced role at Fastrack. Another Bill Holbrook comic, _Safe Havens_, used to star Matt Havens. He hasn't appeared _at all_ in the last decade.
-   _Luann_ was initially a comic largely about the titular character and her classmates and family. Once Brad, her brother, started becoming more and more important to the strip, gaining his _own_ storylines, most of the teenage cast was downgraded significantly. Even Luann's best friends Bernice and Delta rarely appeared, to say nothing of poor Knute and Crystal, themselves Satellite Characters of others.
    -   Things moved to a pattern: Brad and Luann would alternate focus each week. Luann's storylines tended to alternate between using her parents and using her friends. Every other month we usually get a week focusing on Gunther and Knute.
    -   The transition to college has oddly seen Brad and Toni move to the background (often barely appearing at all), with Luann, Gunther, Bernice, Quill and Tiffany being the major characters. Crystal and Knute now almost never appear, and Delta has moved away and disappeared. Then after breaking up with Luann, Quill disappeared altogether as well. The storylines now alternate between Luann (with Bernice), Gunther, and Tiffany.
-   This happens all the time in Newspaper Comics — the long-running American strip _Nancy_ was initially based around the title character's aunt Fritzi (the original title was _Fritzi Ritz_).
-   Harry the Head was originally a major character in _Oink!_, with his strip occupying a full page each issue, and having a number of multi-part adventures. In later editions, his strip had been reduced to an occasional three-frame gag.
-   This happened to a number of early _Peanuts_ characters including Shermy, Patty, Violet, Frieda, Pig-Pen (of these only Pig-Pen stuck it out until the end). For example, in the 1980's and 1990's, Patty (not to be confused with the more prominent _Peppermint_ Patty) appeared in _eighteen_ strips, in comparison in the first year of the comic she was in 249. Word of God said Patty and Violet got the shaft because Lucy worked better as a female bully character, so it would be too redundant to have all three of them featured prominently.
-   _Retail_ had a shake up in 2012 where Stuart, the store manager, was promoted to district manager, with his assistant Marla taking over his old spot. While Stuart still shows up, he doesn't appear as frequently these days. Since 2015, however, Stuart began making more frequent appearances, either by talking to Marla by phone, or through his store visits.
-   Once upon a time, back in 1919, there was a comic called "Take Barney Google f'rinstance". The titular character was a diminutive gambler with a gigantic angry wife. The wife was written out, and Barney got himself a horse named Spark plug, and the strip was renamed "Barney Google and Spark Plug". In 1934, Barney found himself deep in the Appalachians, where he met a hill-billy named "Snuffy Smith". And the strip was renamed, again, "Barney Google and Snuffy Smith". Here Barney would live for 20 years, until he left in 1954... But the comic stayed with Snuffy, and Barney became a rare guest in the comic carrying his name, usually several years going by without the originating character appearing in the strip.
-   The comic strip originally called _Robotman_ shifted focus to the original titular character's creator, Monty, and was eventually renamed for him. Robotman himself was written out entirely in favor of a diminutive alien named Mr. Pi, who himself was demoted to extra when Monty's time traveling distant descendent showed up with his own robot sidekick, Dave, who is a Suspiciously Similar Substitute for the strip's original title character.
-   And what is probably the most famous example in comic strips, the strip _Thimble Theatre_ began in 1919 as a strip about the character Harold "Ham" Gravy and his girlfriend playing characters in slice of life stories. The theatrical aspect was dropped, and the girlfriend's diminutive brother became an Ascended Extra as the strip shifted into an adventure comedy series, rendering Ham Gravy into a sidekick role. And then in 1929, they needed to hire a sailor. And thus Popeye was born. Not only was he a Breakout Character that became the lead and soon got the girl (Olive Oyl), he became a cultural icon with a hugely popular series of theatrical shorts, TV series and even a movie. Olive's brother, Castor Oyl, was demoted back to supporting player (and literally makes only one unvoiced cameo appearance in the shorts), while Ham Gravy was exiled from the strip entirely, disappearing for about **80 years**. And when he finally did return, he became a total Butt-Monkey villain.

    Films — Animation 

-   _The Adventures of Tintin (2011)_, Omar Ben Salaad — a drug-running strongman from _The Crab with the Golden Claws_ — is reduced to a mere plot-advancer, as proprietor of the third _Unicorn_ model.
-   Most of the cast of _Aladdin_, including the titular character, suffered this fate as the later merchandise based on the film now focus on Jasmine.
-   Tony Toponi and Bridget get demoted to background characters with a couple of blink-and-you-miss-it cameos in _An American Tail: Fievel Goes West_ after having played a pretty large role in the first film.
-   In _Balto II: Wolf Quest_, Balto is the only character from the first movie to get any significant screen time. All of the other characters from the first movie who appear at all only do so for a few scenes at the beginning, including Boris and Jenna.
-   Faline's role in _Bambi_ was decreased compared to in the original book. Faline is Bambi's cousin in the book and has a twin brother named Gobo who was Adapted Out. In the books, Bambi and his cousins meet often as fawns and spend a lot of time together (especially after their mothers start distancing themselves from their children after being weaned). In the film, Faline and Bambi meet once and don't meet again until they're adults. Faline and Bambi's courtship is also given more depth in the books, as is the process of Bambi distancing himself from Faline which was left out of the film.
-   Combined with Decomposite Character, _Batman: Gotham by Gaslight_ sees Jacob Packer, Bruce's Honorary Uncle in _Gotham by Gaslight_, reduced to a mere cameo as Bruce's lawyer and Commissioner Gordon take his role as Jack the Ripper.
-   In the original comic version of _Batman: Hush_, a reformed Harvey Dent/Two-Face was a key player in the arc. The animated version sees Two-Face in a montage of Batman and Catwoman working together and that's it.
-   _Beauty and the Beast: Belle's Magical World_ gives Chip this treatment. He's one of the main characters in the original movie and is still prominent in _The Enchanted Christmas_. In this Compilation Movie, Chip is almost reduced to a literal Living Prop. It doesn't help that his busiest segment, "Mrs. Potts's Party", is cut from Disney+.
-   _Cars_ franchise:
    -   Almost the whole cast, including the first movie's protagonist Lightning McQueen, gets smaller roles in _Cars 2_ while Mater takes over as the main character.
    -   And in _Cars 3_, Mater has only a few scenes after being the protagonist of _Cars 2_.
-   _Chip 'n Dale: Rescue Rangers (2022)_: The original Rangers sans Chip and Dale themselves don't have much screentime. Monty is a Small Role, Big Impact whose kidnapping kicks off the main plot, while Gadget and Zipper only appear at the beginning and near the end when they help Dale rescue Chip from Sweet Pete.
-   The girls in _Despicable Me 2_. After being the main characters along with Gru in the first film, they essentially serve as living props in favor of giving the Minions more sequences. The Minions even get a role in the villain plot while Margo, Edith and Agnes sit on the sidelines.

-   _Finding Dory_:
    -   Crush and Squirt have even less screentime than in the first movie, and the Tank Gang, who had prominent roles in the first movie, only appear in The Stinger.
    -   Any of Mr. Ray's students who had speaking roles in the first film are silent, aside from Kathy the Chicken Fish<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> .
-   Todd in _The Fox and the Hound 2_, where he ends up doing chores, neglected by Copper, and becomes The Woobie just because he wanted to play with his friend. Justified, since he was the protagonist of the first film, where it focused on his life before and after his abandonment.

-   _The Ice Age Adventures of Buck Wild_: Manny, Sid, Diego, and Ellie have severely reduced roles with Buck, Crash, and Eddie being thrust in the spotlight.
-   _In Search of the Titanic_:
    -   Maltravers was the main villain of the first movie but here only appears in three scenes, never interacts with the main characters, and has little purpose in the movie.
    -   Elizabeth herself counts too. She mainly just appears in the background, has maybe 5 lines, and is only really featured in the beginning and at the end. And she was practically the main character in the first movie!

-   _The Jungle Book_:
    -   The wolves, despite their prominent role raising Mowgli in the original book, only appear at the beginning of the original film and do not appear at all in the sequel or spin offs. Akela in particular: easily one of the most important characters in the book, here he appears for only a single scene and winds up being incredibly forgettable (he also gets a key appearance in an episode of _Jungle Cubs_ however).
    -   Bagheera in the sequel. Though he's one of the most important characters in both Kipling's book and in the original movie, in the sequel he's barely involved in the plot and only shows up to get beat up a lot.

-   _Justice League: The New Frontier_, the animated film adaptation of _DC: The New Frontier_, reduces the roles of several characters from the original comic to brief cameos or mentions, the most notable examples being the Justice Society (who are only briefly shown in the title sequence and mentioned by Superman), the Losers (who have their story from the beginning of the first issue omitted and are only shown briefly in a montage of imagery later in the film) and Thomas Kalmaku (who appears for a split-second as opposed to calling out Hal Jordan for calling him "Pieface").
-   Kuzco, who had been the protagonist of the _The Emperor's New Groove_, in the sequel _Kronk's New Groove_, when Kronk takes the lead.
-   Master Shifu, who had a major role in the first movie, in _Kung Fu Panda 2_. He gets a couple of brief scenes at the start, then sends Po and the Five on their way while he remains in the Valley of Peace until the very end when he does a Big Damn Heroes bit. Justified in that his character arc was mostly done with by the end of the first movie and _someone_ had to watch the Jade Palace. Thankfully averted with the Furious Five, who appear much more this time around, and all of them actively help Po out throughout the film.
-   Several characters in _The LEGO Movie 2: The Second Part_. Unikitty, Benny and Metalbeard are now tertiary characters at best, President Business appears just at the beginning and end (though it's kind of justified by him being based on Finn's father, who doesn't physically appear at all this time), but Vitruvius and Bad Cop have it even worse: both have been reduced to silent cameos that last a couple of seconds.
-   Lilo Pelekai in any material outside the _Lilo & Stitch_ movies and _Lilo & Stitch: The Series_. Stitch is the regular moneymaker, while Lilo hardly, barely, or never gets a mention. Even _Kingdom Hearts: Birth by Sleep_ omitted her from their movie-themed level (though to be fair, that was a prequel), she only gets a cameo in the _Stitch!_ anime showing that she now has a similar-looking daughter of her own, and is only shown in flashbacks in the Chinese animated series _Stitch & Ai_. Even worse, the men behind _Lilo & Stitch: The Series_ do not wish for the franchise to continue with Lilo because "\[her\] story is done",<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  that they do not want to "ruin" fans' memories of the now-adult Daveigh Chase as the voice of Lilo, and that they find the idea of a series set in the older life of a once-young character (akin to shows like _Fuller House_, _Girl Meets World_, and _Raven's Home_) to be "cliché". Nevertheless, Lilo was finally brought back as a lead in the children's book series _Agent Stitch_, which began in 2022, although her presence in contemporary marketing remains woefully limited.
-   _The Lion King_:
    -   Zazu, who had been a major character in the first movie, becomes a minor character in _The Lion King II: Simba's Pride_ and has a few cameo appearances in the film. He also has two brief speaking cameo appearances in _The Lion King 1 ½_ and has a brief non-speaking background appearance at the end.
    -   Several _Lion King_ spin-offs have Simba, the protagonist of the first movie, undergoing this, in favor of Timon and Pumbaa, such as in the animated series, in which Simba only appeared a couple of times, and the third Lion King movie which is all about Timon and Pumbaa stealing scenes from the first movie. This was eventually lampshaded in an episode of _House of Mouse_, when Timon and Pumbaa are introduced by Mickey Mouse, Simba moans "Those guys always get all the attention!"
-   _The Little Mermaid_:
    -   Prince Eric has a recurring role in the TV series, is a supporting character in the second film, and makes no appearance in the prequel.
    -   In contrast to the first movie, Flounder and King Triton barely appear in the sequel, with the former now also portrayed as a father to several baby fish.
    -   Max the Sheepdog has minor roles in the sequel and TV series. He makes no appearance in the prequel.
    -   The little mermaid's sisters in original _The Little Mermaid_ story appear several times and even help her. In the Disney film, they only briefly appear (though they're given more screen time in the prequel film, cartoon series, books, and comics).

-   _The Magic Roundabout (2005)_: Florence's role in the film was greatly reduced from a Deuteragonist in the series to a supporting character in the film. This was justified due to her being trapped in the frozen roundabout throughout the whole film. The same case occurs with Mr. Rusty, who was reduced from a main/supporting character to a minor character in the film as he was one of the victims trapped on the roundabout.
-   Bamm-Bamm has no dialogue in _The Man Called Flintstone_. Pebbles is largely unimportant, but gets two musical numbers (one of them helping to motivate Fred to continue his espionage job). Dino and Hoppy meanwhile only appear in an early scene, though it is fairly important as it helps kick off the plot.
-   _My Little Pony: Equestria Girls – Friendship Games_:
    -   The _original_ Twilight Sparkle — her native human world version (who was alluded to in the original movie and made a cameo in The Stinger of the first sequel) gets a major role in the film, and causes the portal between both worlds to be sealed. After the entire plot plays out and things go back to normal, the original Twilight only crosses over to the human world in the film's last moments.
    -   Flash Sentry has been pushed further into the background as the movies have progressed, most likely due to the backlash he garnered as a Satellite Love Interest.
    -   Snips and Snails, who had a major role in the first film and a comedy role in the second, and Trixie, who had a notable cameo in the first film and a major role in the second, have no lines in Friendship Games and only briefly appear in the background.
-   In _My Little Pony: The Movie (2017)_, The Cutie Mark Crusaders, who had speaking roles in the TV series, were silent. Although, Apple Bloom was credited as she could briefly be heard in the pony choir during the song "We Got This Together". Sweetie Belle and Scootaloo were not credited at all.
-   In _The Peanuts Movie,_ Linus' role as Charlie Brown's best friend and confidant is largely taken over by Snoopy, who's more supportive than in most adaptations.
-   The Blue Fairy, while still an important character, has a smaller role in _Pinocchio_ than she does in the original book. Many of her actions and dialogue are given to Jiminy Cricket instead.
-   _Pocahontas_:
    -   In the sequel, former Deuteragonist John Smith of all people suffers from this. He appears in the first scene of the movie, then doesn't get any more real screen time until very late. Justified in that he was presumed dead for most of the movie as a plot point, is revealed to be a cloaked figure in the middle of the film, and resumed an important role towards the end.
    -   A few other previously major characters suffered this worse, namely Chief Powhattan, Nakoma, and Grandmother Willow, as they only appeared in the beginning before Pocahontas left for England. In fact, Grandmother Willow only appears in one scene in the entire movie for about a minute.
-   In _The Clever Princess_, the witch raises Arete and is entrusted, along with Mrs Ample, by Arete with ruling her new realm after the deaths of Boax and Grovel. _Princess Arete_ reduces her role to merely giving Arete a magic ring when Boax curses Arete.
-   Aaron, Moses's compatriot and aide in the Exodus, becomes less relevant to the story in _The Prince of Egypt_ and does not personally support Moses until after the plagues have been unleashed; conversely, Tzipporah becomes an Ascended Extra. She instead of Aaron is with Moses in the staffs-to-snakes scene.
-   _Queer Duck: The Movie_ gives this treatment to the original web series' recurring antagonist, a fictional representation of real-life homophobe Dr. Laura Schlessinger. Her only appearance in the movie is a cameo where her photograph is one of the ingredients used in the serum the movie's villain Reverend Vandergelding concocts in his plan to make Queer Duck straight.
-   _Ralph Breaks the Internet_: Felix and Calhoun are only present for a few scenes towards the beginning and end of the movie. Felix ends up coming off only slightly better than Calhoun does, as he has an additional scene with Ralph in Tapper's.
-   In the Rankin/Bass animated version of _The Return of the King_, Legolas and Gimli are reduced to background characters who have a few non speaking cameos, while Saruman doesn't appear at all. Faramir also crops up at the end. In a non-speaking moment with no explanation as to who he is. In order to give Éowyn a happy ending. The perils of Adaptation Distillation.
-   One notorious example is Ms. Brisby in _The Secret of NIMH 2: Timmy to the Rescue_. While Brisby was the main protagonist of the first film, not only does the sequel avoid giving any mention of what she accomplished, let alone any role in the plot, she is on-screen for a grand total of 25 seconds, and only has two or three lines of dialogue.
-   Talia al Ghul is the Big Bad of _Batman and Son_ in the comics, but her movie role in _Son of Batman_ is quite smaller. Much of her original role is given to Deathstroke in the film.
-   In _Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse_, Ganke Lee, Miles Morales's roommate and Secret-Keeper in the comics is still his roommate, but spends most of the film ignoring Miles via Headphones Equal Isolation, and doesn't have a voice actor even when he _does_ react to the plot.
-   _Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse_: Peter B. Parker was the Deuteragonist of the first movie and played a key role as Miles' mentor. In the sequel, he doesn't show up until the start of the third act. Though for what it's worth there are a _lot_ of characters in this one, and Peter still does have an impactful conversation with Miles in the climax.
-   Any major character from the show who isn't SpongeBob, Patrick and Plankton in _The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie_. Squidward and Sandy only show up a few times, and Mr. Krabs spends the movie frozen. Fortunately, the characters' appearances in the second movie are much more prominent.

-   In the _Donkey Kong Country_ games, Diddy Kong is Donkey Kong's friend and has a major role. In _The Super Mario Bros. Movie_, he makes a cameo as a spectator, but doesn't get a major role like in the games.
-   While not big players in the opening arc of _Superman/Batman_ _Public Enemies_, Lois Lane, Starfire, and Katana did have lines. In its animated adaptation _Superman/Batman: Public Enemies_, they do appear, but don't speak, with Lois Lane only appearing in the end. It's especially notable in Katana's case since in the comic, she was allied with Superman, Batman, and Power Girl.
-   The Finale Movie of _Teacher's Pet_ reduces the roles of all of Spot/Scott and Leonard's classmates with the exception of Ian Wazselewski (who turns out later to be the nephew of the film's villain Dr. Ivan Krank), to the extent that they only have one or two lines of dialogue and vanish from the plot after the school year ends.

-   _Toy Story_:
    -   Slinky's role in _Toy Story 3_ is much smaller compared to his part in the first two films; he is a background character for most of the movie and his only real standout scenes are helping Woody defeat the Cymbal-Banging Monkey, as well as briefly jumping across the trash chute to the dumpster before being thwarted by Lotso. This is possibly due to him being The Other Darrin after his original voice actor Jim Varney's death.
    -   Woody becomes the main protagonist in _Toy Story 4_ while former Deuteragonist Buzz becomes a supporting character in the "B" story. Andy and Bonnie’s toys are minor characters in this movie.

-   Dogmatix (Idefix), while one of the main characters in the books, only makes a few brief appearances in _The Twelve Tasks of Asterix_.

-   Christopher Robin was originally the star of the _Winnie-the-Pooh_ books; in the poetry books he appears often and has several poems dedicated to him (as opposed to Pooh, who only appears in one poem in _When We Were Very Young_ and only appears occasionally in _Now We Are Six_), and while he was moved Out of Focus for the Pooh stories he remained a central character. In the first Disney featurettes he was also a major character, but in later productions he got smaller and smaller roles, quite often being left out entirely. The out-of-universe reason is that Christopher Robin was a real person, and he had never been fond of the way he was portrayed in his father's books, even when he was a child. Up until his death, the real Christopher Robin was very picky about his portrayal in Disney's animated works.

    Music 

-   Malin Berggren used to be the lead vocalist of Ace of Base for the first two studio albums, then got more and more into the background <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and her sister Jenny had to fill the void, and eventually quit the band (and her sister a few years later as well).
-   After the _Smile_ sessions ground to a halt, Brian Wilson's role in _The Beach Boys_ diminished significantly, though he did manage to pitch in a few great songs on each album (many of them leftover _Smile_ songs, in fact). His mental illness certainly didn't help.
-   Alan Myers was the drummer for Devo up until the mid-eighties, after they recorded _Shout_. By that point Devo had made him somewhat obsolete on record, relying increasingly on drum machines rather than acoustic drums, so Myers left essentially out of creative boredom.
-   On The Megas album _Megatainment_, Cut Man and Guts Man, despite being two of the more well known Robot Masters, don't show up at all. There's been talk of making a _Megatainment Pt. 2_, but The Megas have expressed a desire to finish the _Mega Man 3_ album before they get to work on that, and there's the issue of how they're going to fill it with more than just the songs for those two.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   Mercury Rev:
    -   Flautist Suzanne Thorpe was credited as part of the guest orchestra from _All Is Dream_ onwards. It was generous to credit her as a band member to begin with considering that she didn't play on every song and didn't appear with the band in interviews and photo shoots.
    -   David Fridmann gradually phased himself out of the band, first declining to tour with them from 1995 onwards and then quitting as bass player before 2005's _The Secret Migration_ while continuing to produce the band's albums. This was the result of his growing profile as a Record Producer, particularly for fellow studio perfectionists The Flaming Lips, which as a result forced him to put his participation in Mercury Rev on the backburner. However, he remained credited as the band's bass player while still a studio player, making this case an aversion.
-   Roger Waters\-I mean Pink Floyd:
    -   They did this to Richard Wright, as he was no longer a member of the band during The Wall but still played on that album. Their next album, _The Final Cut_, lacked him altogether. David Gilmour brought him back, but still as an extra on the first Waters-less album _A Momentary Lapse of Reason_. Then _The Division Bell_ (the final album of the band) credited Wright as a band member again.
    -   Before that, the band did this to Syd Barrett, due to his drug use causing increasingly erratic behavior. He only appears on a few tracks on their second album.
-   The Pixies bassist Kim Deal was highly prominent on the debut album as a vocalist. On the following ones, not so much, as Black Francis started to develop an I Am the Band attitude. When Francis broke the band up in 1993, he didn't even bother telling Deal personally, instead breaking the news to her through a fax.
-   The Rolling Stones:
    -   Keyboardist Ian Stewart was an original member, but when they began recording in 1963 their manager, Andrew "Loog" Oldham, had him officially demoted to road manager, mainly because his straitlaced, short-haired look didn't fit the image Oldham was trying to cultivate for the band. Because the band still liked him, Stewart did continue to appear on the Stones' recordings, though, and occasionally performed with them on stage until his death and was inducted with the rest of the band into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1989. He - by any meaningful measure - was still a full member of the band, so his demotion really only was relevant in promotional material.
    -   Less dramatically, this is more or less what happened to Brian Jones as the '60s progressed. Originally the Stones' leader, Jones was relegated to an increasingly secondary role in the group, due to the emergence of the Jagger-Richards partnership (Jones didn't write any songs and wasn't a big creative force in the band) and his own personal problems. His last album, _Let It Bleed_, features him on just two tracks (congas on Midnight Rambler and autoharp on You Got the Silver).
-   This happened more and more to Alex Lifeson of Rush as the 80s progressed, his guitars taking a back seat to Geddy Lee's synths. Starting around _Roll the Bones_, he's come back to the forefront.
-   _SKE48_:
    -   Sato Sumire used to be a solid member of the Undergirls in the elections, but her rank has dropped each year, and now she ranks in Future Girls.
    -   Watanabe Miyuki ended up dropping out of the senbatsu in the 2014 elections, ranking in the Under Girls.
-   _Kimono My House_\-era Sparks bassist Martin Gordon was annoyed when he saw the final album pressing, as on the back the planned band photo had been replaced with a large colour photo of the Mael brothers, with him, guitarist Adrian Fisher and drummer Norman "Dinky" Diamond being relegated to smaller, black-and-white portraits.
-   David Palmer, Steely Dan's "original" lead singer (he only sang on three tracks on the first album, as well as in concerts) was bumped down to one of several backing vocalists for _Countdown to Ecstasy_. No surprise that he's gone by _Pretzel Logic_, since the band had abandoned touring and particularly because band leader Donald Fagen had grown dissatisfied with the way Palmer sang his songs.

-   Tears for Fears: In the "I Believe (A Soulful Re-Recording)" music video, Curt Smith only appears thrice for a few seconds; he hits a triangle the first two times, and in the third, he's dressed to the nines in a tuxedo while he taps his champagne glass with a knife. It's an early sign that he's gradually being pushed aside by Roland Orzabal from the band's creative process.
-   In spite of their popularity and influence, Uriah Heep is less well remembered than other early metal groups, though they probably have more recognition in prog rock circles.
-   LE♂N and L♀LA where one of the first ever VOCALOID's, and yet they get the _least_ amount of recognition (and fanart).
-   A factor in guitarist/keyboadist David Gregory's departure from XTC. Andy Partridge bought a synthesizer that allowed him to create string arrangements, something Gregory had done in the past.
-   This happened to Dusty and Frank of ZZ Top on _Eliminator_: despite them being credited on the album sleeve, Dusty's bass being replaced by keyboards<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and Frank by drum machines. For all intents and purposes, _Eliminator_ is a Billy solo album (excepting Dusty's lead vocals on "I Got The Six" and "Bad Girl") with contributions by pre-production engineer Linden Hudson, who contributed drum machine programming and keyboard sequencing, and was alleged to have co-written most of the material, to the point that the band got into a legal conflict that was settled with him being granted the copyright to "Thug". Hudson had also showed Billy some research he'd done previously that most popular rock songs used the tempo of 120 beats per minute, which influenced Billy to write most of the album's songs at that tempo. And when the combination of blues guitar and incongruously synthesised backing tracks sent the album to diamond status, the formula was repeated on _Afterburner_ and _Recycler_, and even led to the infamous rereleases of the band's past albums that replaced Frank's drums with drum machines. While the band continued using electronic loops and synth elements, Dusty's bass and Frank's actual drums returned to prominence starting with _Antenna_ and _Rhythmeen_.
-   Blues helped to create Rock & Roll and yet never sees much in the way of thanks or tribute from any of the sub-genres that sprouted from its existence. Blues, being characteristically not particularly glory-seeking is probably okay with this. A lot of early Rock & Roll and classic rock hits, especially from the British Invasion, were covers of old Blues songs. The similarities are so close, Sam Phillips famously said "Rock & Roll is just the Blues sped up."
-   Hip-Hop DJs; while still prominent on tours and the mix-tape circuit they have all but disappeared from mainstream media. In fact a cynic could say the same thing about all of the other "pillars of hip-hop".
-   A common occurrence when a music group has a breakout star who leaves the group for a solo career. The other members of the group usually fade into the background, until the star decides to feature them during a special segment on tour, or record a song with them, just to remind the fans of the star's origins. For example: Beyoncé of Destiny's Child fame, sometimes reunites with some of her old group members to do songs while on tour. Michael Jackson was also known for reuniting with his brothers to reform the Jackson 5 at times.

    Pinball 

-   Gottlieb's _Rocky_ pinball, based on _Rocky III_, reduces Clubber Lang to a small figure on the backglass with his face covered.
-   During development of _Terminator 2: Judgment Day_, pre-release secrecy and fears the pinball could be released before the film resulted in the near-total removal of Robert Patrick and the T-1000 from the playfield or the backglass<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . When the dot-matrix display programming was nearly completed, the "liquid metal" T-1000 was public knowledge, which allowed him to be included in the display animations.

    Puppet Shows 

-   After the untimely deaths of Jim Henson and Richard Hunt, most of The Muppets they once played were handed down to new performers, starting with _The Muppet Christmas Carol_. However, Henson's Rowlf and Dr. Teeth and Hunt's Janice and Scooter, all formerly major characters with sizable roles in previous Muppet productions, would be reduced to non-speaking background appearances or not appear at all. _The Muppets (2011)_ reversed this, as all four characters were as prominent as ever in the various trailers and the film itself. Since the departure of Mupppet performer Steve Whitmire in 2016, Rizzo the Rat has suffered a similar fate to what Henson's and Hunt's character previously went through.
-   _The Muppets (2011)_: Rizzo the Rat and Kermit's nephew Robin only appear in crowd shots. Their reduced roles were acknowledged in _Muppets Most Wanted._

-   _Sesame Street_:
    -   Susan (Loretta Long) was part of the series' original human cast and remained a major character for almost 30 years, until around the late 90s when she was gradually phased out. By the 2010s, she only appeared in one episode per season; she made no new appearances in season 43, and in the 44th and 45th seasons she was reduced to just a background extra.
    -   Jim Henson and Richard Hunt's deaths also resulted in most of their minor characters being phased out from _Sesame Street_. In recent years, a handful such as Henson's Guy Smiley have been recast to new performers and make sporadic new appearances.
    -   This also often happens to human characters to gradually phase them out of the show so that viewers don't notice their absence too much when the actors eventually leave. Other times characters are demoted because the actors may only be available to film a few episodes in each season.
    -   For those of you who haven't noticed, the only puppet characters remaining from as early as the first season are Grover, Cookie Monster, Big Bird, Bert, Ernie, Oscar and Kermit. In fact, even Kermit's role have been reduced incredibly compared to the early days, almost to where they don't appear much at all. (This is at least partly now because Disney Owns This Frog; they can use old Kermit scenes but new ones are more complicated.) Interestingly, back in the second season, there were plans to phase Kermit out, as a commercial character, in favour of Sesame-exclusive characters like Herbert Birdsfoot. (Who? Exactly.)
    -   In recent years, a decision to downsize the number of principal characters has led to other Muppets, including Baby Bear, Bert and Ernie, Count von Count, Prairie Dawn, Snuffy, and Telly Monster, taking a noticeable backseat.

-   _The Wubbulous World of Dr. Seuss_: The Cat in the Hat appeared in each episode as a Framing Device for the Seuss stories in the second season, but other pre-existing Dr. Seuss characters like Horton the Elephant, Yertle the Turtle and the Grinch only appeared in said stories. Sam-I-Am, Mr. Knox and Fox In Socks did appear, but were relegated to the Cat in the Hat's visitors.

    Radio 

-   After taking a new job with TMZ, previous co-host Ben Mankiewicz lost a lot of his old prominence on _The Young Turks_. He's been relegated to guest host and Power Panel member.

    Roleplay 

-   _Trick_: Chutlo. He was originally going to be the hero and would defeat Jackoren, but he was later replaced by Daniel Duck and made a cameo appearance in Act 3. Subverted, though, now that he stars in the sequel.
-   _Dino Attack RPG_:
    -   Atton Rand introduced a number of NPCs during the Adventurers' Island story arc, resulting in his own primary character being taken out of focus in favor of stories focusing on the various medics and Kate's efforts to fit in with the team.
    -   While technically they do have a significant part in the story, the four official members of the Dino Attack Team have barely appeared in the RPG.
    -   Libo, who once appeared frequently in the _Dino Attack RPG_, has barely been seen or mentioned, especially following the idealist-realist debate. He was finally revealed to have had a Bridge Dropped on Him (literally).

-   Ithilrandir fell prey to this for a while in _The Massive Multi-Fandom RPG_ —only appearing once in a blue moon, apparently eternally lagging kilometers behind the group and only popping up to remind that he exists, then going Out of Focus again (his player was having problems finding time to RP). He since recovered.
-   In _The Sky Tides_, Kefka, after being dropped, became a mod-controlled NPC due to his importance to the plot. Ocelot, too, near the end. Other dropped characters, like Chrome, have had cameos after leaving, though they are turned into Lawyer Friendly Cameos with their names no longer mentioned in case somebody else wishes to app the character.
-   In _Smile For The Camera Monster Mashers_, after Frankie was put into the hospital after the Lady War incident, we haven't seen much of him.

-   _We Are Our Avatars_:
    -   Dee. Shortly after 3Dee's introduction, she would usually only say anything whenever Cupid was involved or during introductions and would tend to sleep the rest of the time. And then Rachel Elizabeth Dare appeared, which pushed Dee's speaking appearances back down into "pretty much nil" territory. You just can't win, can you?
    -   Osaka's Other falls into this territory; she was a pretty major character in her first appearance _very_ early on, but lost most of her screentime to Dee and 3Dee in her subsequent appearances, due to her writer's preference for the desdroids.

-   As of early 2013, Catherine made sporadic appearances in _We Are Our Adventuring Avatars_, since her roleplayer wasn't appearing as often in the game due to her schedule, and she wanted to try someone new.

    Tabletop Games 

-   Whenever Games Workshop, creators of _Warhammer_ and _Warhammer 40,000_, stop producing rules, models, armies or settings for one of their games they will often continue to reference them in the background material and other media such as the novels produced by Black Library.
    -   Of particular note are the Squats who were once a mildly popular army for the _Warhammer 40,000_ but are now reduced to being briefly mentioned in the background section of the rulebook.
    -   This can even happen to some subfactions depending on the Edition. Up until 6th Edition, for example, the Black Legion were the poster child for the Chaos Space Marines, with the Chaos Space Marine line displaying their paint scheme, but when 6th came around the Black Legion was replaced by the Crimson Slaughter, a renegade warband that was the focus of the 6th Edition starter set. The Crimson Slaughter began receiving all sorts of support, such as a mini-codex with relics and warlord traits and extensive background information that even some Chaos Space Marine legions that had been around since day one didn't even get. 8th Edition turned this around, as the Crimson Slaughter were demoted back to another generic Renegade faction while the Black Legion color scheme was reintroduced for new miniature kits.

-   In _Starfinder_, many of the Core Races from _Pathfinder_ (and Fantasy RPGs in general) are no longer Core, although they did get into the main rulebook (just pushed to the back). Except for Humans, of course.
-   _Apocalypse World_ and most RPGs Powered by the Apocalypse allow for Player Characters to be retired at the end of their story arcs by turning them into Non-Player Characters with the benefit of Plot Armor.
-   _Blades in the Dark_ and most other Forged in the Dark RPGs allow players to retire their characters to NPCs with Plot Armor, as well as forcing them into retirement if they accumulate too much trauma.
-   _Advanced Dungeons & Dragons 2nd Edition_: Player characters who reach the level cap are encouraged to retire to "semi-NPC" status where they leave active play and devote their time to non-adventuring duties, yet remain present in the game world.

    Theater 

-   In the original film _The Little Shop of Horrors_, the first customer is a recurring character who appears throughout. In the stage musical _Little Shop of Horrors_, however, he only appears in two scenes, one of which is a background cameo.
-   The priest who plays a minor part in _The Most Happy Fella_ played a considerably larger role in _They Knew What They Wanted_. Whereas in _The Most Happy Fella_ he silently approves of Tony's resolution to have "plenty bambini" by his wife-to-be, in _They Knew What They Wanted_ he objects strenuously to Tony taking a non-Catholic wife, in return to which Tony accuses the Church of coveting his inheritance.
-   In _The Wiz_, an all-African-American musical of _The Wonderful Wizard of Oz_, Toto doesn't accompany Dorothy to Oz, instead only appearing during scenes set in Kansas. This was likely due to difficulties with training a dog. This doesn't apply to the 1978 movie loosely adapted from the musical: Dorothy gets whisked to Oz after completing her search for a runaway Toto, resulting in both of them going to the place together.

-   In _Monty Python and the Holy Grail_, Belvedere was the only knight to make it to the end with King Arthur and led the witch trial. In _Spamalot_, he doesn't even get his own recruitment scene, and his iconic helmet is missing until Act II.
-   In _Toy Story: The Musical_, R.C. Car, who played an important role, even later in the film, only makes an appearance in one scene, unlike the film. Of course, before Woody can use R.C., Buzz notices the remote control to R.C. that Woody has, and then, Woody accidentally makes the lamp fall, which causes Buzz to fall out of the window. After this scene, R.C. is not seen again, thus causing a plot change later on, where instead of Woody going back to get R.C. and Woody failing to use the match, but directs the sun's light to the fuse of the rocket that Buzz is attached to, Buzz tells Woody to grab onto him and prepare for liftoff, while one of the mutant toys uses the match to light the fuse, and both Woody and Buzz sing "To infinity and beyond!" and then fly off into the sky.
-   _Les Misérables_ (the book) versus _Les Misérables_ (the show):
    -   In the book, Combferre and Courfeyrac are the Enjolras's second and third in command of Les Amis de'l ABC. In the show, they're shunted off to the side in favor of Marius and Grantaire, who receive much more attention.
    -   In the book, the Bishop of Digne is given at least a dozen chapters to explain his life in Digne and establish what kind of person he is, and presumably keeps in contact with Valjean, as the latter receives a letter when he dies. In the show, he is introduced in "Prologue/The Bishop", not even given a name beyond "The Bishop", and never seen again. Justified, in that spending that much time on a character whose effect on the work can be summed up in under ten minutes would completely wreck narrative flow (not that that ever stopped Victor Hugo).
-   _Westeros: An American Musical_: This happens to some of the Wildlings from _A Song of Ice and Fire_. "Sword in the Darkness" is the only song featuring Wildlings at all, and Mance is the only one named on-stage. However, three of the actors are credited as playing Wun-Wun, Tormund and Val, all three of whom can be picked out among the handful of actors standing in for Mance's army.

    Theme Parks 

-   At the Universal Studios parks:
    -   Mary Jane and Aunt May are usually pretty important characters in _Spider-Man_ stories, but their only appearance in _The Amazing Adventures of Spider-Man_ is over a voice mail message that can be heard in Peter's office, which you can only walk through if you're going through the Universal Express queue line.
    -   Dr. Nefario, a supporting character in _Despicable Me_, is limited to just a couple of non-speaking cameos in _Despicable Me: Minion Mayhem_.
    -   After the _Ghostbusters Spooktacular_ show closed down, the presence of _Ghostbusters_ in the park was limited to just a simple street show, and nowadays it's merely limited to some third-party merchandise.

-   In _Pirates of the Caribbean_, Barbossa - the main villain of the first movie and a recurring character through the following four - is given a single appearance, where he leads the _Wicked Wench_ on an attack against Puerto Dorado. Likewise, Davy Jones, villain of the second and third movies, is given a single mist screen that he eventually has to share with Blackbeard, villain of the fourth movie. Somewhat justified in that it's focusing on a new adventure and not one of Jack Sparrow's previous ones.

    Toys 

-   _BIONICLE_ has many examples, even after its Merchandise-Driven nature has faded. Most characters were only relevant when their toys were on shelves.
    -   The Turaga: major side characters initially with a great story-importance, then got two full years devoted to their early lives, but from 2006 onwards, they barely appeared in any scenes unless it was absolutely necessary. Outside of the six primary ones, Turaga in general were phased out of the franchise for unclear reasons (perhaps elderly tribe leaders who stayed out of the action were just not a marketable concept to kids), with the last Turaga toy coming out in 2004.
    -   Most of the early Matoran completely vanished after the original 2001-03 Mata Nui arc, with the exception of the six who would go on to become the Toa Inika and then Toa Mahri team in 2006-07. Onepu was probably the worst sufferer, because it's pretty clear looking at early intent that he was supposed to be the "main" Onu-Matoran — he shares his Toa's mask, he's one of the original "McToran" (promo toys sold at American McDonalds), and he is the most highly-ranked. Unfortunately for him, Nuparu ended up being the actual Breakout Character of the earth element tribe. There were pragmatic reasons for Onepu's fade into obscurity too. His distinguishing color was purple, a shade that _LEGO_ famously had trouble getting right for years.
    -   Kapura likewise, if the scrapped _Legend of Mata Nui_ video game tie-in is anything to go by, which featured him as its "main" recurring Matoran character who showed up in most levels and interacted the most with the player. As this game was not released, Kapura's only shining role was in online content from 2001, after which he barely ever appeared. He got overshadowed by the newly invented Breakout Character Takua, who also inherited Kapura's wandering tendencies and was far more amiable, while Kapura's aloof weirdness only worked in small doses. Another reason for Kapura's diminishment was the writers simply not understanding how his Offscreen Teleportation power worked after his creator Bob Thompson left LEGO. Unlike Takua, Kapura was never released as a toy.
    -   Macku, similar to Onepu, was among the franchise's first releases and had important roles in early side-media like a promo comic and online content. After the introduction of her sport teammate Hahli in 2002, Macku got one more chance as a toy and a story side character, then was all but forgotten after 2003, only getting an odd nod here and there. Macku's original player partner Kotu had it worse, as she was seemingly set up to be a potential recurring character and her village's highest-ranking citizen, only for her role to be given to Hahli. In fact, Kotu's first significant appearance was her being told to shut up and let Hahli speak, and it was downhill from there.
    -   Ahkmou the traitor and secret insider of the Makuta. Introduced in 2001 as a mysterious secondary villain with a plot to foil, reduced to a seemingly innocuous shopkeeper in 2003, then given a significant side role in a 2004 flashback when he first got a toy. He was set to make a major comeback as a primary villain for the 2008 toy and story line, but plans changed and he went back to being a meaningless side story character.
-   In the _Transformers Generations_ "Combiner Wars" line, Groove, who previously formed one of Defensor's limbs is now an accessory to him as a Legends-class figure. About a year later, Hasbro released a Deluxe Class Groove figure for people who wanted to have their Defensor figure be more G1 accurate.

    Visual Novels 

-   Kano and Minagi in _AIR_. Everything from merchandise to posters to, well, the backstory of the game makes it clear that this is Misuzu's story. Therefore, their routes are just there so the game can't be accused of having no variety — and when you think about it, if either of them wins, then the incarnations of Kanna will live and die in loneliness and pain for all eternity (especially with Kano's "good" ending). They were completely removed from the movie adaptation, and their arcs were shrunk to three episodes each in the Kyoto Animation version. They do each have one good figure, though. One.
-   From the original _CLANNAD After Story_, anyone whose last name isn't Okazaki or Furukawa gets shafted in terms of the spotlight halfway.

-   Assassin, Shinji and Zouken in _Fate/hollow ataraxia_ get much smaller roles than they did in _Fate/stay night._ Well, Assassin had a small role anyway. The latter two probably get smaller roles because the game as a whole is lighter in tone and they were two of the darkest characters.
-   Good luck finding a decent Shiori figure from _Kanon_. At least Kyoto Animation did her arc justice, and her falling out of the public eye might be because she doesn't have a "seven years ago" connection and is just a normal ill girl. In the 2002 anime, she, Makoto and Mai all fell victim to this, having their arcs squished into one episode each with key portions removed.
-   In _To Heart 2_ with the exception of Konomi and Tamaki in their special route, the _Another Days_ game sequel swaps the roles of the winnable characters and the supporting cast.
-   While in the first game Reiichi Himuro and Ikkaku Amanohashi were capturable, in _Tokimeki Memorial Girl's Side 3_ they're only supporting characters.
-   Satsuki Yumizuka a.k.a. "Sacchin" from _Tsukihime_. She quickly disappears on each route of the game despite being set up as another possible heroine, and in some branches she is quickly and cruelly dispatched by Shiki Tohno after becoming a vampire and declaring her admiration for him in a truly Tear Jerker moment. The anime lets her survive unvampirized, but other than that it didn't treat her much better; the manga, more of the same.
    
    In _Melty Blood_ she re-appears, but as an enemy, in her vampire form. She is quite real (and dangerous) in the game, but in its manga adaptation she is the form that Tatari took after discovering Shiki's guilt for having had to kill her, and then he has to dispatch her _again_.
    
    She is more famous for how she _doesn't_ appear that much on the other semi-official games, and the unreleased "Satsuki route" (which was supposedly planned and written but cut out, and is allegedly the one where the events of _Melty Blood_ happen) is one of the running jokes of the franchise and the fandom. Within some fandoms (including this very wiki; see Meta below) she became _the_ poster girl of the phenomenon (and former Trope Namer for this very trope) due to a meme based on the phrase "Isn't it sad, Satsuki."
    

-   The two main heroines of _School Days_ are fairly minor supporting characters in _Shiny Days_. While Kotonoha remains a fairly important and sympathetic supporting character Sekai's role is both minimized and more villainous in order to give Setsuna more freedom of action.
-   _A Little Lily Princess_: The Large Family (real last name Carmichael), who are only briefly seen their carriage, when carefully observing their daily life from a distance becomes one of the ways Sara copes with her Riches to Rags in the source material. The only confirmations that it was indeed them are the number of siblings involved and that they are later mentioned getting a letter from their father who is currently in Moscow right when Mr. Carmichael is known to be there.

    Web Animation 

-   In _The Ballad of Mike Haggar_, Cody and Guy (key players in the actual game, Cody being the one who _punches_ Belger out of the window of his complex in the finale) get a small, demeaning mention toward the tale's end. In this case, not a sour note for this ballad. This IS Haggar's story, after all.
    
    "This is not the ballad of Guy or Cody, / Saviours weak and frail and bony, / If you'll think back, and not too far, / Recall that I speak of Mike Haggar!"
    
-   _Gaming All-Stars Remastered_: The Colossus Monk (Or in this case, the entire race of monks) ends up staying behind rather than tagging along with Tails like he did in _The Ultimate Crossover_.
-   Thanks to having a large cast, this happens frequently in the _Homestar Runner_ world. Inexplicably, Pom Pom (one of the original main characters) did not appear in the season finale of Strong Bad's game, despite Pom Pom being in every other episode up to that point. In fact, Pom Pom used to be one of the three main characters along with Homestar and Strong Bad, although now, his appearances are rare, and the annual Christmas/Halloween cartoons are the only times he'll be seen consistently.
    -   The Poopsmith's demotion is, if possible, even more evident than Pom Pom's, as the Halloween cartoons just might be the only time he's seen _at all_ anymore (evidently a result of the two characters being silent and bubbly-voiced). Still, he didn't do too bad considering he was an Ascended Extra to begin with.
    -   Like Pom Pom, Homsar also didn't appear in the finale for Strong Bad's game—but he, like the Poopsmith, started out as an Ascended Extra (from a Strong Bad E-mail, no less!) and even then he was often relegated to clickable Easter Eggs.
-   _The Most Popular Girls in School_:
    -   The Van Buren sisters are pretty much put aside for most of the second season to focus on the feud between the cheer squads.
    -   Invoked in-universe when Ashley Katchadourian asks to be left out of the current conflict after all she's gone through. However, she has a pretty prominent role in episode 58.
-   _Red vs. Blue_:
    -   Sister. She brought the ship to Blood Gulch, and her arrival leads to the Reds discovering the underground caves. After that, she gets shuffled around from the Red team to the Blue team and finally to just bumming around with Doc, by which time she's barely seen. She appeared once or twice in season 6 and disappeared until the last two episodes of Season 13, playing a minor role in Seasons 14 and 15 until she joined the main cast again in Season 16.
    -   Wyoming also suffered this. In the Blood Gulch episodes, he was one of the primary villains, alongside O'Malley; oftentimes accomplishing his objectives. But despite his role in those episodes, he is rather unimportant in the prequel portions of Seasons 9 and 10. Word of God is that this is due to his goofier personality clashing with the more serious tone the Freelancer bits have.
-   _Spill_:
    -   Carlyle has stopped appearing in reviews, the last one with him being _Clash of the Titans_, only showing up to do ACOCO until eventually leaving that as well. This is actually because he has two other jobs reviewing movies and was burning out, so it was his own choice.
    -   A good chunk of the LEOG went from regulars to Support League status on their own volition.

-   Howard Parks from the first film; in _Star Trek Redemption_ he's seen exactly twice when we're in 2378, and unlike the scenes in _Specter_ isn't present during the briefing scene in the observation lounge.
-   _SMG4_ has many of them:
    -   After the text font changed (starting with "The Warrior and the Hobo"), X started only making a few appearances in later bloopers, with Starman3 taking his original place.
    -   Mejiacantillogustavo had a fairly major role early on, but in later episodes he only appears as a background character.
    -   In-Universe example: Bowser was demoted to co-villain in "Two Evil Friends" because his evil plans constantly failed, and SMG3 was made the main villain.
    -   After Meggy took the spot of the main female character in the main cast, Princess Peach became less and less prominent.
    -   Around 2019, Toad become a tertiary character, as he was displaced by later characters who often left him Out of Focus or with little or nothing to do in his appearances.
    -   Many classic characters have been phased out as the series went on. Steve and Sonic have been limitated to their occasional Day In The Limelight videos and cameos, the Teletubbies only make brief and infrequent appearances nowadays, but Old Man Hobo, the Toast Fairy and Wizard Rock have it even worse, as they only appear when SMG4 videos make Call-Backs to the classic era.
    -   Subverted with SMG3. Around 2017, he seemed to lose relevance in the series as he began to make very infrequent appearances, but then, he came back as the Arc Villain in The YouTube Arc.

-   Due to the large cast of _Video Game Championship Wrestling_, there are some characters that basically only show up in Royal Rumbles or Tag Team matches. A good example is Bowser, who went from being the one who finally overthrew Ganondorf's "1000 Years of Darkness" reign as champion to being an afterthought for a while. Other aren't even that lucky and get Put on a Bus.
-   _Zap Dramatic_:
    -   Ted is the main character in the first few episodes. Later, he gradually becomes less important as focus shifts to the mystery of Angie's murder.
    -   Jim is a main character in Episode 1, and then all but disappears (save for a few cameos) until Episode 10. Even then, he is still only a supporting character.
    -   Frank doesn't really show up much after Episode 6, save for game over scenarios and cameos. Even what dialogue he does get in Episode 8 seems to have all been recycled from Episode 6 to save the bother of bringing back the voice actor.
    -   Dave the Brave's a pretty major character in the boy's plot on Monday, but after that he becomes a background character. The one other time he speaks, it's via recycled audio.

    Web Original 

-   Cornox Vullosh from _Help Not Wanted: Remixed Phallic Memories in HD_ was a major character who helped the goblins during their contract and had an arc where he went from being a prejudiced orc to a Noble Bigot. _Help Not Wanted 2: Frigid Fornication_ reduces his screentime to a mere two scenes, neither of which are plot-relevant. It's jusfied though, since the four goblins head out of Glordale to do their contract and Vullosh had to stay behind to look after his shop.

-   Feral in _Whateley Universe_. Made a few appearances before her author vanished, leaving the Canon Cabal uncertain what to do with her. She has only appeared in one liners since.
-   Grue gradually fades in importance in the later arcs of _Worm_, and leaves the story entirely by the Cockroaches arc, due to his death in the first battle with Scion.

    Web Videos 

-   _Kickassia_:
    -   LordKat, one of the more well known and prolific contributors to That Guy With the Glasses fell into this in the second anniversary special _Kickassia_, due to Reality Subtext: he sprained both ankles during filming.
    -   Handsome Tom also had this happen to him, relegated mostly to posing as Kickassia's flagpole. This was lampshaded in one of the "making of" videos, where Doug passes out the script and apologizes to Tom for having him be "an object". Tom takes it pretty well, pointing out that objects are useful. The other contributors have also said that Tom's okay being in the background because he doesn't think he's an especially good actor and is there mostly to have fun.
-   _To Boldly Flee_:
    -   Handsome Tom had three lines, one spoken three times, in six episodes. In the commentary, other cast members said he was to have gotten a slightly bigger role, but he begged off, saying "I'm just here to have fun" and doesn't think he's an especially good actor.
    -   Benzaie and Suede are also reduced to off-site cameos, probably because they live outside the US and couldn't make the shoot that year.
    -   Spoony, compared to his roles in _Kickassia_ and _Suburban Knights_, had this happen to him, serving a much more passive role as a semi-comatose Distressed Dude instead. Justified in this instance as his actor, Noah Antwiler, put most of his acting chops into The Dragon Terl.
    -   Similarly, Linkara is MIA for most of the story, but the actor is prominent as Linkara's villainous robot double.
-   In _The Lizzie Bennet Diaries_, Kitty Bennet, who was the fourth Bennet sister, has been adapted into an actual cat named Kitty, while Mary has been turned into a cousin seen mainly in Lydia's spin-off videos (although she has appeared in Lizzie's videos).
-   _Noob_:
    -   Relic Hunter guild is quite essential to the franchise-wide Wham Episode, but their purpose of being the Noob guild's Griefer is the only reason they are ever seen after that.
    -   Arthéon gets a gradually diminishing role, first by being kidnapped in Season 2 of the webseries, then due to Real Life Writes the Plot. This has resulted in his character being treated as a secondary role in the upcoming movie material.
-   In-Universe. _The Nostalgia Critic_ complains about Mrs. Brisby getting this treatment in _The Secret of NIMH 2: Timmy to the Rescue_, including a caption at the end that asks where is a statue of her.
    
    **Narrator:** But Jonathan Brisby's widow and her family stayed behind.  
    **Critic:** Oh, nice. Mrs. Brisby, after all the shit she’s been through, gets the incredible honor of widow credit. Oh, she also did a few other things, but fuck it, they weren't important!
    
-   Andy had this happen to him in Season 2 of _Omega Guardians_ having gone from a character with a huge role in Season 1's plot to sitting on the sidelines with random appearances here and there.

-   In _Spearbreakers_, the Spawn were originally intended to be the main threat to the fortress, but were soon superseded by the fort's own hospital and necromancers.
-   _SuperMarioLogan_:
    -   Tony the Tiger was originally a major character, but his appearances got fewer and fewer as time went on.
    -   Princess Peach was Mario's original girlfriend, but broke up with him because she found out he was bald. Things went From Bad to Worse for Mario as time went on, as Peach saw him as an annoying Stalker with a Crush and sent him a five-mile restraining order. Since Mario started dating Princess Rosalina, Peach's appearances became fewer and fewer, one of them being "Mario's Valentine's Day Problem!", wherein Mario has to choose between dating her or Rosalina.
    -   Before Brooklyn T. Guy got back from the bus and became a recurring character, Officer Goodman was the guy who would often be seen working different jobs. Since Brooklyn started making more appearances as of "Bowser Junior's Summer School Part 5", Goodman doesn't appear as often nowadays, demoted to only being a news anchor.
    -   Shrek and Black Yoshi were also originally main characters, but their appearances became fewer and further between since Jeffy, a handicapped child, was dropped off at Mario's apartment.
    -   Even Mario himself isn't immune to being this, as he was originally the main star of the show before Bowser Junior became an Ascended Extra. As of "Mario the Babysitter!", most episodes involving him are about Jeffy.
-   Blast the Hedgehog, who's rarely seen, much less talks, since the 4th episode of _Taco-Man_ The Game Master.
-   Alex has largely stayed off the grid since the breakup of _Tipping Forties_, only appearing on Ryan's stream once in a while.
-   In _Twitch Plays Pokémon Platinum_, Togepi, the hatchling given by Cynthia, was sent to the daycare to learn some attacking moves, but she was sent to the PC and forgotten. Subverted due to fan-art portraying this as her life going through school while Napoleon is in his adventure.

    Real Life 

-   Pluto used to be included pretty much every time the planets of the solar system came up. It got its own spin off, _Solar System: The Dwarf Planets Saga_. Much earlier, Ceres became the newest member of _the Solar System_, but, an influx of other similar characters (Pallas, Juno, Vesta) led for them all to be dropped. Ceres, luckily, got a role in _the Dwarf Planets Saga_ alongside Pluto, and holds a special honour of being the only Dwarf Planet in the Solar System that isn't beyond the orbit of Neptune.
-   After a company merger with AOL, Ted Turner was given a figurehead desk job with no real power in the company's decision making.
-   _Almost_ every U.S. president after they leave office. In office, they're the most well known person in America but once their term is up, they sink to the background except for a few public appearances like presidential library dedications and golf tournaments. The biggest exception was William Howard Taft, who after leaving office was appointed Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, an extremely powerful position in its own right. Jimmy Carter never had another major government post after leaving office, but he did do a lot of humanitarian work which is often considered to be more important and beneficial for the world than his mediocre presidency; he even won a Nobel Peace Prize for it. Barack Obama also seems to be avoiding this route, as he's active on social media and has started producing various projects for Netflix, including a well-received nature documentary.
    -   Bill Clinton is probably the prime example. After leaving office with high ratings and a booming economy, Bill would stay in the spotlight as a humanitarian and kingmaker in the Democratic Party, with standouts including his lauded Hurricane Katrina relief efforts and his acclaimed 50-minute speech at the 2012 DNC that greatly helped Barack Obama get re-elected. However, his credibility as a political operator was damaged after his wife Hillary Clinton lost the 2016 presidential election.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Then the #MeToo movement lead to a resurfacing of his sexual scandals like the Lewinsky affair and his friendship with sex offender and human trafficker Jeffrey Epstein. Subsequently, Bill didn't make a single appearance during the 2018 midterm elections, as many Democrats conceded that he's too controversial to be used in public campaigns anymore. By 2020, he was barely featured in that year's election and his diminishment was crystallized by the 2020 DNC where he spoke for only 5 minutes before fading away while other politicians like Obama and Bernie Sanders had the limelight to give longer speeches.
    -   The same could be said for any nation's leaders. They're the most important person while they're in power, but then disappear into the background after they lose power. It's pretty rare for a former leader to zig-zag between this and Ascended Extra, though for nations that lack strict term limits the possibility always exists. (Australia is probably one of the few countries where examples of this exist, with three Prime Ministers having done this during their lives in parliament.)
    -   Cabinet-level positions occasionally avert this. Usually a party will be in power for a given period, be replaced by their rivals, then come back to power a decade or so later. When that happens, ministers / secretaries who served in government the first time sometimes come back when their party returns to office.
-   Kaiser Wilhelm II was the most important political leader in the Continent between the 1890s to 1918. He loomed large as a villainous figure in World War I propaganda. Then 1917-1918 comes around, Red October unleashes a revolution in Germany, the Kaiser abdicates and almost overnight, the Kaiser goes from center stage to minor footnote, passing the rest of his life in anonymity with hints of his later life known only to specialists interested in tying up loose ends.
-   Happened to dinosaurs: For over 167 million years, they were the dominant animals on land. Now that mammals and humans in particular have taken over, what remains of them? Birds... Although it hasn't been too bad for them since there are about 10,000 bird species compared to only about 4,000 species of mammals.
    -   Reptiles, as a whole, exemplify this trope even if they still play a big role in our ecosystem. Long ago, they ruled the Earth for more than 185 million years during the Mesozoic Era (compare the Cenozoic Era, which is barely a third in length) and were _very_ diverse in their respective area. Some scientists believe that if the K-T extinction event never happened, the smaller theropods might have achieved an intelligence similar to _humans_.
    -   The same might be said about synapsids (or "mammal like" reptiles that preceded dinosaurs as dominant terrestrial vertebrates. After Permian-Triassic mass extinctions, the only traces left of their descendants were tiny rat-like creatures that slithered in the shadows, while the ancestral archosaurs (ancestors of dinosaurs, among other things) became dominant.
-   This happens pretty frequently with pro athletes. As a player's skill declines due to age or injuries his playing time will be reduced. This can take on different forms depending on the sport, a baseball player might be moved to designated hitter or used as a substitute, hockey players will get demoted to the third/fourth line or even the dreaded "healthy scratch", basketball players might be moved into a "sixth man" role<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . The NFL mostly averts this because unlike the other three of the "big 4" sports NFL players don't have guaranteed contracts and can simply be cut if needed.
-   In a manner of speaking, when a company, government entity or school district purchases new vehicles, the new vehicles are the ones used on the primary routes and/or long trips. The older vehicles are demoted to shorter routes, while the oldest vehicles in the fleet are parked in the yard and used as spare vehicles (such as when one of the newer vehicles is unavailable or in the shop for repairs). Eventually, it is the oldest vehicles that are sold off and replaced by the new vehicles, and the cycle continues.
    -   An illustration: A school district in a rural school district covering 200 square miles purchases five new buses. The new buses are placed on the high-mileage routes and used for athletic trips. The buses they replace are then put on shorter routes, perhaps in-town. The oldest buses still on regular routes are then parked at the bus garage, used only when one of the newer buses is being repaired or otherwise unavailable. To mean – as a bus gets older, they begin fitting the trope more and more as the newer buses fit the spotlight.
    -   The same thing happens on the railways, especially with passenger engines. The railway gets a new passenger engine, the fastest thing on the rails, and it pulls the big expresses for about ten or fifteen years. Then it gets an even newer engine, and the original one gets put on the second-string trains. Finally, after thirty or forty years in service, the former "star" engine is clanking around on branch lines or commuter routes, or being relegated to switching duty in a rail yard before it gets scrapped or donated to a museum. Ditto for airlines.
    -   And also for cruise ships — the newest ships get the most prominent (often longer) routes, while the older ones run less popular or shorter routes, and the oldest ships doing 3-day runs to the Bahamas<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  until they are sold off or scrapped.
-   In the West, advances in agriculture that made meat more widely available did this to vegetables. In Western cuisine, meat is considered the "main dish" with vegetables as "sides". Due to the health problems excessive meat consumption can cause, many experts are recommending that meat should be Demoted To Extra.
-   Mergers in general. As the big boys get bigger and bigger, even the moderately-sized regional companies in the same market are either shunted aside or gobbled up by the bigs. Wal-Mart and Target v. K-Mart is a good example.
-   Most of the world's remaining monarchies are now constitutional monarchies within a parliamentary system. In such cases, the real power resides in the Parliament (and in the person of the Prime Minister.) The monarch's position becomes largely ceremonial. Even in cases where the constitutional monarch has considerable residual or theoretical power (e.g., Great Britain), the power is seldom _exercised_.
-   Speaking of Parliament, the institution itself was originally a threefold system with the 'King-in-Parliament', the House of Lords to represent the aristocracy, and the House of Commons to represent the wealthy middle classes (the idea that poor people might actually have a right to representation didn't have any traction at this point). From the Civil War onwards, the monarch was gradually removed from this arrangement, leaving the Lords as the main centre of power. However, from the early 19th century onwards they too began to lose power, and its aristocratic nature was also reduced. Now the Commons holds supreme power and the House of Lords is just a technocratic advisory body.
-   This even happens to some countries in the course of history.
    -   Mesopotamia and the Fertile Crescent, once known as the "Cradle of Civilization" for being home to some of the world's oldest cities. Its early inhabitants were on the cutting edge of technology in their day, being among the first to adopt such significant milestones in human development as irrigation, writing, and mathematics. Even after losing its political preeminence, the region remained a premier center for culture, science, and religion for centuries. The region is now largely divided up among the modern states of Israel, Lebanon, Syria, and Iraq, which in the modern era have been secondary players on the global stage at best and utterly marginal clusterfucks at worst.
    -   Italy was a global hegemon back when Rome had an empire. After the end of the Empire, the Peninsula became isolated city states that never had any real political unity until the 19th Century. Local Feuding Families as well as The Pope had major Continental and global influence but the center of power shifted away from Italy, from the Mediterranean to the Atlantic. Post-Empire, it's had a far bigger role in art, philosophy, music, culture, science, cuisine, fashion and business than in military and political affairs, and the notable exceptions of its exterior military and political influence, Mussolini, Fascism and The Mafia, is not something Italians look upon with pride. For this reason, Italy's subtle and overt soft power has it dubbed "the least of the great powers".
    -   Iran (known in the West as Persia) was regarded as the first global empire (under the Achaemenid Dynasty), when it conquered most of what was then called the "civilized world". It remained a major power even after the Arab conquest until declining as a regional hegemon in favor of the Ottomans, and a puppet monarch. Today it's a theocratic regime that survives by playing off rival geopolitical enemies to its advantage rather than set any agenda.
    -   Greece was the cradle of democracy, science, drama, poetry, philosophy and architecture and under Alexander the Great, it expanded its domain eastward forming one of the greatest empires. Upon Alexander's defeat, it fell to a Succession Crisis that eventually led it to becoming subsumed in The Roman Empire and then as the Eastern Roman Byzantine Empire, which was a major player in global politics in the Middle Ages. Then after a few sacks of Constantinople (first by the Crusaders, then by the Turks who kept the city), a bloody war of independence in the 19th Century and hard struggle in the 20th Century against various dictatorships and Those Wacky Nazis, Greece is a small nation with unstable economy and political struggles, bullied by the more powerful European Union. Even Orthodox Christianity which was native to the Byzantine Empire has more practitioners and influence in Russia and other nations than in the land of its origin.
    -   On a related note, various city-states which were powerful in Ancient Greece, like Sparta, Corinth and Thebes, are now middle-sized towns, with little to no influence in the country. The only exceptions being Athens, which managed to become capital and the largest city in Greece and Thessaloniki, which is the second largest city and "co-capital".
    -   The Age of Discovery and Exploration began in Portugal, and then Spain. The former were the first European powers to participate in the Atlantic Slave Trade, and the latter were the first European colonizers and settlers of the New World and with far greater territorial expansion than the English, French and the Dutch. Their naval prowess were surpassed by the English and the French, Spain went from being the richest and most influential continental monarchy to becoming second fiddle to France, and the late 18th and early 19th Century saw their Empires fade as ex-colonies liberated themselves. Today there are more Spanish and Portuguese speakers outside Spain and Portugal in their former colonies than there are in the metropoles.
    -   The Dutch used to be a world power, an early investor in the financial and banking revolutions and the cradle of the European Middle Class and a major player in the Atlantic Slave Trade until surpassed by England. Then a tulip crisis, military setbacks, and the rise of England as a commercial and naval power, as well as the more numerous foreign powers surrounded Holland, led to its power and influence fading in the 18th Century. Even in the arts, Holland was once the center of painting in the Dutch Golden Age, but modern art has seen the center move to France and America. The most famous Dutch painter of modern times is Vincent van Gogh who painted most of his works, and lived most of his life in France.
    -   Ottoman Empire; it seized half of the middle east and some eastern European countries but after WWI, Ottoman Empire fell and modern Turkey was born. With Turkey's desperate attempts in becoming an EU member, it's obviously lost its relevancy.
    -   Germany and Japan used to be major world military powers in the first half of the 20th century. America used to think that they would conquer the world by buying it. Later they just follow their much more powerful allies. This has also happened to Japan culturally and economically during the "Lost Decade" since its neighbors, China and South Korea, took over in electronics production. K-Pop has also garnered a worldwide following while J-pop languishes, though Anime still has a cult following. On the other hand Germany remains the most powerful economy of Europe, with the biggest population of any Western European nation and these days a model for a liberal constitutional Europe. In general, the division of Germany and new constitution of Japan that denounced militarism after World War II was an attempt by the allies to invoke this trope on purpose as the USSR and USA became the undisputed hegemons. A reunified Germany was met with some resistance from French and British leaders who feared becoming this trope in Europe after decades of trying to overshadow Germany.
    -   In the 19th Century, the sun never set on the British Empire. From World War I to World War II, the U.K. lost nearly all of its colonies. It became second fiddle to the United States of America as a naval and economic power (formerly their backyard). Even the English Language is no longer their sole property since some of the best poets, novelists and dramatists of the 20th Century Anglophone were American and Irish (T. S. Eliot, W. B. Yeats, Hart Crane, James Joyce, Samuel Beckett, G. B. Shaw), and one of England's biggest cultural contributions came from British musicians influenced by _American rock and roll_. England also became more and more marginal in the Continent and with Brexit, it looks like the U.K. will be demoted even further on the world stage.
    -   Next to the British Empire, the largest empire ever was the Mongol Empire. Genghis Khan conquered more land than anyone in history. The last of it dissolved in 1687. Nowadays, Mongolia is nowhere near a world power, and even set a record for the least densely populated country on Earth.
-   Your colleagues from school/high school/college or university/work/volunteering. While it's likely a few of them will remain lifelong friends, the others will, at best, be reduced to an occasional chat when you meet them by accident on the street. Even with the advent of social networking sites it's unlikely you'll spend any significant amount of time talking to most of them.
    -   Your parents. When you're a kid, they are the most important people in your life. However, as you get older and have a spouse, children, friends, co-workers, employers, and the like, your parents eventually become secondary or even tertiary people in your life. This varies by culture; there are some where even after the child grows up and gets married, his or her parents remain very much a big part of their lives (and are culturally expected to remain so), _especially_ when they live close by.
    -   Also your ex-girlfriends/boyfriends/husbands/wives/friends. Even if you remain on friendly terms, chances are you won't see them nearly as often after the break-up. There are a few cases where former lovers become best friends, but they are rare.
    -   With the advent of Social Media, unfriending, unfollowing and, the biggest demotion, blocking. Definitely counts as a "demotion".
        -   You also "grow out of" forums/other social media services and go from spending an entire weekend on somewhere to forgetting it exists or simply, only posting rarely...Both going from extremes of frequency to infrequent or nothing.
        -   Back in the days when MySpace was the dominant social media site, the choices for your Top 8 Friends (prior to the expansion into however many you wished to list) showed just who had been demoted (in their own minds, at least).
    -   Also happens when you have a fight/fall out with a friend or just stop getting messages/calls from someone. Moving away is another example...
-   Many works that either discuss or depict The Vietnam War largely ignore the South Vietnamese forces commonly referred to as the ARVN in favor of the American and Australian historical accounts of the war. The ARVN are considered to be the war's forgotten army. The films _The Green Berets_ and _Heaven & Earth_ are the two exceptions.
-   The (re)introduction of television after World War II largely did this to radio in the developed world, where it had been the biggest entertainment medium, as scripted programming moved from radio to TV. Radio remains as a background medium in cars and while people are working as audio demands less attention than TV, leaving people free to concentrate on other tasks.

-   Mining companies do this once they purchase a new piece of equipment, they put the old one into a graveyard or boneyard to use for parts or a spare machine if business is extremely busy or a machine is down for repairs, or leave it set somewhere to be forgotten about as mother nature reclaims it.
-   Trucking companies do this as well with their old tractors and old trailers. When the company purchases new equipment or acquires equipment from an auction or merger, the old equipment will either be demoted to spotting duty at a terminal, become a tractor used in the city, used for parts in other tractors, or sold/scrapped. Trailers will be either used in the city, scrapped, sold, used for storage, or in some weird cases, turned into extra space for a loading dock.

    Meta 

-   TV Tropes started out as a _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_ fan forum. The show still gets significant attention, but has become far from the focus of the site.
-   Satsuki from _Tsukihime_ is the center of the meme "Isn't it Sad, Sacchin". What makes Satsuki's lucklessness worth a section here, is that it even extends _here,_ on TV Tropes. This trope was originally named "Isn't It Sad", after the meme in question. With the wiki's shift to less esoteric titles, Sacchin was—you guessed it—demoted in importance once again. She has since been demoted _again_; for a while, she was still the page's image, but she's since been replaced. Really, the only reason this page isn't a Self-Demonstrating Article is because putting it on the appropriate index would be a Promotion FROM Extra.
-   When a character-named trope has its name changed here on This Very Wiki, it can end up demoting that character from star to being just another example. For instance, Spike is now just one more instance of Badass Decay instead of being the defining instance of "Spikeification". Also Wesley Crusher, former Trope Namer for Creator's Pet.

___