**Red:** The Sisters have taken quite a likin' to you. Especially Bogs.  
**Andy Dufresne:** I don't suppose it would help if I told them that I'm not homosexual?  
**Red:** Neither are they. You have to be human first. They don't qualify.

The Spear Counterpart of the Psycho Lesbian, and the monosexual counterpart to the Depraved Bisexual. Usually a villainous take on the Camp Gay or, on the other end of the spectrum, a Manly Gay sexual predator whose preferred "quarry" are straight men or young, naive Twinks. His motive is usually either his depraved sexuality or an unrequited love, like his Psycho Lesbian sister. If he's not explicitly gay, but it wouldn't be surprising, he's a Sissy Villain.

Please note that a villain simply _being_ gay is not enough for this trope to be in effect. His brand of evil must involve a sexual nature and/or some uncomfortable flirting. Or even better, outright threats of rape/molestation. Before adding an example, think of whether he'd be any different if he wasn't gay.

On the other hand, for some people, it _is_ enough. For decades, this was the only role gays could play in mainstream media, and it still crops up uncomfortably often. This was due to negative attitudes towards gay people and due to the Moral Guardians' Hays Code, which did not allow gay people to be shown on screen unless it was part of a plot line that showed that they were wicked. Frequently, the villain will be the only homosexual in the story. Now there will often be a Freudian Excuse or they be played sympathetically — a kind of Author's Saving Throw against criticism.

Unsurprisingly, this kind of character is a staple of jail settings, where his predatory ways are often enough to make anyone uneasy around him.

See also Sissy Villain, which is closely connected to this trope, and Double Standard: Rape, Male on Male, which is at best only a threat, at worst the outright goal and M.O. of the predatory Manly Gay variation of this trope.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Betrayal Knows My Name_:
    -   Kanata pretends to be a sweet and kind-hearted friend to Yuki, but is actually a Big Bad who has strong feelings towards Yuri, to the point of kidnapping him.
    -   Elegy is said to be a male by Luka in the manga. Elegy takes on both male and female forms and he has a huge yandere crush on Luka, which leads him to try to seduce Luka away from Yuki and tries to kill Luka when that doesn't work.
-   _Peacemaker Kurogane_ has Suzu become this after being raped at the hands of an old man. He becomes murderous and attacks/threatens men while also hitting on them and develops an obsession with Tetsu while also pining for his deceased master Yoshida and affectionately carrying his skull around after he was decapitated. Yoshida, Suzu's master, is also one as it's implied he was jealous of Suzu's close friendship with Tetsu and many times tried to have Tetsu killed because he had feelings for his charge Suzu. He did this by trying to manipulate Suzu into doing so and then trying to do so himself out of frustration when that failed. He refused to give up in this endeavor even after having his arm cut off and held a sword in his mouth to Tetsu's throat. Only being decapitated stopped him. Anime-only characters Kichisaburo and Maro are both shown to be homosexual, and both are depicted as being depraved psychos. Ito, who is shown to be explicitly homosexual, is also very much depraved. Also, the old man that raped Suzu is one, too. In fact, almost every character that is shown overtly to be homosexual is depraved and psychotic.
-   _Vassalord_ has an explicit case in Barry who is a terrifying yandere for Rayflo and will not take no for an answer. Rayflo gets violently assaulted and dismembered by his old master. Moreover, there is heavy implication that for hundreds of years beforehand, their relationship consisted of Barry chasing after Rayflo and repeatedly violating, dismembering, and torturing him when he caught him while laughing creepily. It runs very close to And I Must Scream territory.
-   _YuYu Hakusho_: Team Toguro's Karasu from the Dark Tournament practically _embodies_ this trope. He wants to _own_ Kurama and considers killing him slowly and painfully to be the very best and most intimate way to do so. His depravity and overall creepiness is given more focus than the fact that he's homosexual, though.

-   Zig-Zagged in _One Piece_ with Mr. 2 Bon Clay. He does start off as a villain, but it's also pretty clear that he's a Nice Guy who just happened to be on the wrong side. After the criminal organization he was part of was broken up, he becomes an ally of the Straw Hats, and does so many things helping them. Also he expresses attraction to Vivi. However, upon his reintroduction, a whole community of transgender and crossdressing people is introduced along with a "queen" of gays with the power to change the gender of himself and others. He could be considered pretty bad on his own, but later Sanji crash lands on the island he used to rule and the residents continually try to chase him and force him into crossdressing, and succeed a few times. Whether the author believes "crossdresser" and "transgender" to be interchangeable with "gay" is not made clear enough, though.
-   _Inuyasha_:
    -   Jakotsu is a steadfast misogynist and a vicious sadist whose idea of "romancing" Inuyasha is synonymous with "beat him until he can't fight back, and then torture & rape him to death", but he's also intensely loyal and gets on fairly well with his best friend and leader Bankotsu.
    -   In the anime, another Depraved Homosexual villain threatened to cut off Akitoki Hojo's face, make it into a wall hanging, and kiss it every day, right before licking said face.
-   _Code Geass_:
    -   A popular fan theory speculates that Rolo Haliburton/Lamperouge, Lelouch's "fake brother", is a Depraved Homosexual who killed Lelouch's prospect girlfriend, Shirley Fenette _solely_ out of pure jealousy.
    -   A similar and perhaps stronger case could be made concerning V.V., who very canonically and unambiguously killed Marianne entirely out of jealousy and resentment concerning all the attention she was getting from his brother Charles. Making this a case of Twincest as well as Depraved Homosexual.
-   One of the teachers in the _Revolutionary Girl Utena_ anime is strongly hinted to be a Depraved Homosexual, one who's aiming to have his way with Miki. When his twin sister Kozue takes note of this, things go very badly for the teacher very quickly.
-   _MW_ looks like it's setting up for this early on with the relationship and Backstory between the two lead characters, Michio and Garai — Michio is a psychopathic, mass-murdering Depraved Bisexual, and Garai raped Michio when the latter was a child (before finding God and reforming his ways). However, it's later subverted when the better part of a chapter is used to deliver an aesop about how the world is becoming more accepting of homosexuality and there's nothing wrong with it, and the Villain Protagonist's gay relationship comes off as one of his few humanizing characteristics by the end. In fact, it's implied that Michio would have grown up to become a well-adjusted bisexual man if he hadn't been exposed to the titular psychopathy-inducing chemical weapon as a child. This is particularly notable for a series written in 1976.
-   _Deadman Wonderland_:
    -   Genkaku, after getting repeatedly raped and beaten by a group of bullies (who were monk trainees like him) at the temple during his childhood, "became" gay and insane. He seems to express disgust and contempt towards women and is shown to have a strong attraction to Nagi. In fact, he confesses to Nagi that he "loved him".
    -   Later in the series, after the aforementioned Genkaku dies, the series gains a replacement Depraved Homosexual in the form of Mockingbird, who is Misogynistic, and has a similar sort of Blood Lust and kinky way of flirting and fighting. His interactions with Ganta and Senji certainly are... interesting.
-   _Black Butler_:
    -   Lord Trancy from episode 8 was looking for young boys to be his sex slaves and raped and beat Alois (he beat him because he thought Alois had a dirty look to his eyes). He also seemed to favor Alois and fawned over him when he expertly seduced Trancy while wearing nothing but a red kimono until he was kissing Alois's feet. He also refers to his sex slaves as "dolls" (because to him they are mere objects he gets pleasure from) and treats them as livestock, getting pissed when they get infected and die as this means he can't have sex with them anymore.
    -   In episode 20, Sebastian is shackled to a wall while a guy tears his shirt deliberately and fawns over him, saying "He's lovely!" Said villain also is ordered to torture Sebastian, comments on his pretty eyes (which he wants to destroy), and says "Let's hear a nice scream from you, you pretty thing!", all while drooling.
    -   Undertaker is hinted to be into dead bodies and directs much subtext towards Ciel. He states that he wants to kill Sebastian because he is making Ciel miserable. He also has affection towards Vincent (Ciel's father) and has several intimate scenes with the real Ciel, who he helped keep alive with unscrupulous and disturbed means when the latter was on death's door.
    -   Claude has a twisted affection towards Ciel and Alois, loving both boys for how passionate, unstable, and jaded they are. He seeks to arrange things so that the two remain dark-hearted and unstable enough for his liking, something which infuriates Hannah as she is jealous of the hold he has on Alois. His affection towards Alois and Ciel seems to be sexual with him licking his lips while having an Imagine Spot about Alois sexily wearing a kimono (when he was seducing Lord Trancy) and sensually putting his hand in hot bath water while saying he requires more heat to satisfy his cravings before we see Alois screaming out of nowhere and practically having an orgasm when having any interaction with Ciel such as when he licks his blood from his face, brushes his teeth, and undressed/dresses him. He also kills Alois and is a manipulative Jerkass who tries to simultaneously kill Sebastian while hitting on him and mind rapes Ciel. He's indifferent to women and acts quite horrible towards Hannah in particular, especially in "Spider's Intentions", in which he slut-shamed her as just being another hole for men to get pleasure from and they compete for Alois. He later lives on in the afterlife with Alois, implying that he felt more genuine feelings towards Alois than originally thought.
    -   Ash in the first season. He's the male half of the hermaphrodite angel Ash/Angela. Like Angela, Ash has a psychotic crush on Sebastian and is pissed when Sebastian pays more attention to Ciel. It's implied he meant to rape Ciel when he had him alone in a church and called him "divine" when he was dressed in a cute altar boy outfit.
-   _Reborn! (2004)_ has Lussuria, who not only hits on jailbait but is also a necrophiliac. See also Camp Gay. Also implied with Mukuro as he is quite insane to the point of harming himself and others because he looks at them as his personal toys. He also is implied to have feelings for Tsuna or at the least, has a homoerotic obsession with him to the point of what looks like dry humping Tsuna while whispering in his ear and getting the drop on him.
-   Professor Aizawa from _Sukisho_. He's a yandere for one of the main male characters and raped Sunao with his men in the game during his time in the lab. He also psychologically tortured and starved both Sora and Sunao while putting them through inhumane experiments. Both Sora and Sunao develop PTSD from this.
-   _Sakura Gari_:
    -   Some of the men who Souma sleeps with in are depraved homosexuals.
    -   Sakurako Saiki, who is actually Souma's younger brother Youya. He stole his mother's name and dressed in her clothing after she died and he witnessed her murder (at the hands of Katsuragi and a reluctant Souma), which made him lose his mind completely. Soon after his gender was discovered by Masataka, he tried to kill both him and Masataka, and later committed suicide. He also was very much a Yandere towards Souma, and playfully flirted with Masataka on occasion, though he might've done so because he was jealous of Masataka because Souma was in love with him and wanted to get him away from Souma; this is confirmed when he cooks for Masataka and sneaks glass pieces into said food, and later ties him up and force-feeds him.
-   Captain Continental and his subordinates from the Bara series _Legend of the Blue Wolves_. The Continental is a twisted sadist and Serial Rapist, who has his way with Jonathan with one of his men who forces Jonathan to give him oral at one point while the Continental raped him from behind before getting a dose of Laser-Guided Karma at the hands of Jonathan's lover Leonard, who castrates the bastard for the crime.
-   _Paprika_: Possibly the Chairman, though his attachment to Osanai seems more a master/slave thing than a sexual or romantic relationship. Also possibly Himuro, who seems to have fetishized Osanai, since we briefly see dirty magazines in his apartment with a younger Osanai on the cover, and his dreamscape features a towering statue of Osanai as a Greek god. It's the _Depraved_ part that's up for debate with Himuro; the gay Porn Stash, cross-dressing, and "idolization" of Osanai are more than enough evidence of his sexuality. It's possible Osanai tricked Himuro, or that Himuro was just thinking with his other head when Osanai offered himself.
-   _Karate Shoukoushi Kohinata Minoru_: It turns out that Pedro, the Brazilian martial artist and transfer student, was the masked rapist that went around raping a bunch of male martial arts students, and he ends up setting his sights on Minoru, the pretty boy protagonist. His depraved rapist tendencies are played for comedy, and eventually the main characters forgive him and have him join their karate club. And even make Minoru room with him. Which results in him trying several times to rape Minoru (including an instance where Pedro went pantless with his junk out, in the middle of the night, to rape Minoru while Minoru was unconscious and drunk). Aside from the aforementioned insanity, he's the only homosexual character in the series.
-   _Trigun_: The manga contains a few creepy examples among secondary characters; Legato is implied to fit into this role too, but the guy who raped him was even creepier (at least as a depraved gay guy). Manga Knives might fit too depending on what subtext you follow and what level of Fan Wank you adhere to. The anime also has Sodom, a Camp Gay secondary character.
-   _Berserk_:
    -   Lord Gennon is homosexual and a notorious pedophile, and he developed an attraction for Griffith, which culminated when Griffith agreed to sleep with him in exchange for funds to support the growing Band of the Hawk. He is often seen to be attended by many very young male servants, no older than their teens.
    -   Donovan (one of the men under the command of Gambino, Guts' adoptive father) liked little boys in all the wrong ways, and he raped Guts when he was still a vulnerable child after Gambino sold the kid to him for the night for three silver coins.

-   Government official Hidehiko Otoya from _Akikan!_. He's a self-proclaimed gay who loves pretty boys and he goes undercover at the school as the school doctor. He's often having contact with Kakeru harassing him sexually, only to be hurt severely by Kakeru every time.
-   Sho Tsukioka from _Battle Royale_ is effeminate in manner but humorously masculine in appearance and uses his skills as a Stalker with a Crush to tail Kiriyama. He's also a borderline alcoholic drag queen with an irrational crush on Kiriyama and overall thinks like a total lunatic.

-   Fisheye in _Sailor Moon SuperS_ certainly plays with this trope. Depicted as a feminine man who explictly targets men he has a crush on, then pokes his head into their Dream Mirrors in a rapey overtone. He also, with a single exception, disguises himself as a woman to entrap otherwise straight men into getting close to him. However, he's a member of the all-male Amazon Trio and while the other two members are heterosexual, they _also_ only pursue women they're trying to make into sexual conquests and the Dream Mirrors are treated with the same rapey overtones towards women. The depravity element comes from Fish Eye's implications that even _men_ are not safe from being attacked and that Fish Eye bends his gender to lure "innocent" men. Notably, the single exception was used as a joke, where Fish Eye being revealed as using his natural male form during his pursuit also outs the victim to the viewer as a gay man (who openly disdains him for his behavior.) Unlike more straightforward examples of this trope however, Fish Eye actually has the first Heel–Face Turn in his villain group and actually ends up leading the other members of the Amazon Trio to change sides with him. Also pushing him further away from playing this trope completely straight is the presence of other gay men and women on the show who are _not_ using elements of this trope, making him more a unique individual rather than the sole example of homosexuality.
-   _Air Gear_:
    -   Both Arthur and Shalott. Arthur is a masochist who pelvic thrusts against his male opponent Agito and nibbles on his ear while fighting him. He also has flamboyant mannerisms, speaks in a polite manner, and frequently releases heart marks whenever he's reveling in the feeling of pain. Shalott is a young girl who wears a frilly looking dress and reveals to Agito that he's actually a girly-looking guy who is in a sexual BDSM type relationship with Arthur. The end of chapter 279 has him pin Agito to the ground and straddle him, saying after he tortures him by pulling out his teeth then Agito can "lick it" if he wants. It's presumed that he means he wants him to lick his (Shallot's) penis.
    -   Aeon Clock has feelings for Ikki and subtext with another male, to the point of making Ikki fall asleep with incense and trying to be intimate with him while he's sleeping as he takes his pants and underwear off with Ikki not knowing.
    -   Agito/Akito counts as he offers himself to Aeon in Ikki's place by undressing and is quite affectionate towards Ikki in general which he shows by kissing, sleeping next to him, cuddling him, and getting in the bath with him. He also shows homicidal jealousy when a girl flirts with Ikki.
-   In _Rurouni Kenshin_, we have a subverted example: Kanryu Takeda. The _historical_, Real Life Kanryusai Takeda (on whom he is heavily based) _was_ a well-known homosexual (and all-around bad guy), but Nobuhiro Watsuki didn't see how that fit into his fictional story, and so it is not mentioned in-story. Though he did wonder how it would have been different if he had managed to work it in. (Which he mentions in his notes.)

-   A half-human, half-spider hybrid appears in the first OVA of _Angel's Feather_. He wraps Shou up in his web, caresses him, gets close to his face, sticks his finger in his mouth, and licks him before trying to murder him.

-   Garterbelt from _Panty & Stocking with Garterbelt_ — unfortunately for Brief, who is usually the object of bondage-obsessed Garterbelt's affections. Or _is_ he? The revelation that Brief's penis is Hellsmonkey gives his seemingly lecherous actions a whole new meaning. Flashbacks also show him with female prostitutes, so it's entirely possible that he invoked this trope to conceal his true agenda. Then again, he is shown visiting numerous gay clubs for his own pleasure, so his interest in young boys is genuine.
-   Naoe of _Mirage of Blaze_ is a Straight Gay, but he's also quite the Yandere in regard to Kagetora whom he nearly rapes and was tempted to kill himself and Kagetora so that Kagetora will never belong to anyone else. He also tries to Murder the Hypotenuse and says he wants to keep Kagetora for himself and tries to plant Forceful Kisses on Kagetora. In the novels, it's hinted that he's a rapist.
-   Krad of _D.N.Angel_ has tons of obsessive Ho Yay towards his host Satoshi (though he doesn't mind it if he hurts Satoshi) and towards Dark (whom he tries to kill numerous times). He's also violent towards girls, particularly when Risa tries to interfere in a fight between him and Dark.
-   _No. 6_:
    -   In chapter 6, a greasy old corpse collector hits on Shion and tries to force him to have some food and drink with him, and clearly has bad intentions. Shion initiates the Groin Attack on him to escape from him.
    -   Two mooks call Nezumi a "fine jewel" and demand that he "play" with them as payment for him kissing and not paying a prostitute and because they find him attractive. They have bad intentions and ominously approach and make a grab for Nezumi who has to escape from them with Shion.
-   _Devil May Cry: The Animated Series_ features the Prison Warden who hits on Dante in one scene. It's also hinted that he gets up to Prison Rape with the inmates.
-   Tomoe's boyfriend (and later husband) Kurokawa from _Challengers_ and _The Tyrant Falls in Love_ is really a perfectly nice guy. However, his homophobic Knight Templar Big Brother, Souichi, doesn't see it that way and a lot of the comedy of the series is derived from him trying to murder Kurokawa at every opportunity for "corrupting" his brother.
-   Muraku Matsumoto from _Gamaran_. His routine is the following: falling in love with a very powerful opponent, maim him to death to "show him his love" and then scalp him and add his hair to his special hair-woven chainmail.
-   Angelo Sauper from _Mobile Suit Gundam Unicorn_, one of the few canonically gay characters in the _Gundam_ series, isn't especially perverted but he is very, _very_ angry and won't hesitate to slaughter anybody who stands in the way of his commander and love interest Full Frontal in the most vicious ways available to him.
-   Takuma Fudou of _Get Backers_ has a one-sided homoerotic obsession towards Ban. After Ban ripped his arm off, Fudou became totally obsessed with him. He actually kept his own rotting, maggot-infested arm with him just so he can remind himself of Ban - which made him feel "incredible chills rising up throughout his body." It gets worse: His passionate dialogue towards Ban includes how he has a "throbbing desire" to kill him, as well as screaming for Ban to "give his body to him," "meet his desires," "quench his thirst and let him enjoy himself." And when Ban starts worrying about his Heterosexual Life-Partner Ginji, Fudou gets pissed. "What are you looking at?! Look at me, Takuma Fudou!!" In the Birth Arc, Fudou reveals his dislike for Ginji, even coming straight out and saying that it's because "when you're around, Midou doesn't even notice me. Midou's eyes are not on me... because you're around!" He then proceeds to try to kill Ginji so that Ban will pay more attention to him. And then there's how he tells Ban that his mind goes blank whenever he sees him, and he can't remember anything other than trying to make Ban give his body to him and meet his desires. It's probably worth noting that he also got majorly pissed at both Hevyn and Shido for interfering with his fight with Ban, and for Hevyn gently putting a shirt on the half-naked Ban (an act which seemed to piss him off to the point where he went berserk). Another noteworthy scene is during the Birth Arc, where Fudou gets very restless and excited, and feels a great "desire," wondering what it is about this day that he senses is so exciting. It then cuts to Ban sneezing and exclaiming happily that a big breasted babe must be thinking about or talking about him. As well as an instance where, when Ban wasn't putting up enough of a fight, Fudou started cutting himself up on the chest, screaming at Ban to "make him bleed" and "push him to the edge."
-   Isla Yura of _PandoraHearts_ spends much of his screen time fawning intensely over Oz/Jack while releasing heart marks and blushing and Oz clearly is disgusted by this. He also wants to cause a second Tragedy of Sabrie for kicks, is clearly messed up in the head, is a Death Seeker, and manipulated people into joining a cult that worships the Abyss.
-   Touyama's father in _Texhnolyze_ comes on to Ichise and regularly extorts sexual favors from Touyama.
-   Chihiro in _Love, Chunibyo & Other Delusions!_ is heavily implied to have raped Isshiki in episode 12 of season 2.
-   There's a guy in _Nononono_ that tried to rape Nono because he thinks she's a boy.
-   _Adekan_:
    -   Matsukichi spends time with a young boy because of the boy's interest in drawing out his depraved gory fantasies. He states he was fascinated by the sight of a corpse getting picked at by vultures when he was young. He fantasies about killing and "having fun with" young boys with his father having kicked him out of the house because he liked men. He primarily targets young boys for a sexual interest in wanting to bite and eat their meat.
    -   Sakura seems to have a Yandere obsession with being the only one who is close to his brother Shinonome and says he is just perfect enough for him to destroy. He also tries to cut off Shiro's arm in one scene and occasionally flirts with other men like Kojiro before showing his psychotic side.
    -   When Shinonome, the Southern Troupe's leader, sees his men begging for forgiveness while dangling over a cliff for their execution, he just callously listens to their pleas and dismisses them, sending them over the edge (keep in mind that the group of men he executed for failing him is enough to fill a large fish net). When another one of his blood brothers protests about the excessive nature of the executions, he squishes that man's head with one arm, then orders the execution of that man's entire family line straight afterwards. In regard to his sexuality, he had a thing with Shiro in the past, who he forcefully made his Sex Slave, and Shiro had to cut his hair to be free of his grip. Shinonome is then obsessed with finding and laying claim to Shiro.
-   Tamura from _Bokura no Hentai_ becomes this way over the manga. The awkward implications of this trope are lessened as there are sympathetic bisexual characters in the series. Tamura remembering he was sexually abused caused him to have a hypersexual, depressed personality as a teenager. He's not a villainous character, just a deeply troubled one.
-   _Tokyo Ghoul_:
    -   Nico is an incredibly flamboyant ghoul and is into very twisted things. He describes an exposed spinal cord as "beautiful" and enjoys ruining people's lives for fun. He also flirts with Ayato, Rio, Yomo, Nishiki, Naki, Banjou, Seidou, and Kaneki — all of whom are men. He also definitely has a taste for deranged men, noting that his favorites are Yamori and Tatara — both ruthless and sadistic. He considers Yamori punching a hole in his side to be like flirting and says while holding his hand that they should save the rest for when they get home.
    -   Matsuri Washuu is revealed as being this. When his father Yoshitoki dies, he suddenly slips into a speech pattern heavily coded with gay men and loses it while hysterically screaming that he'll kill Marude. Considering the context, this has disturbing implications. He also doesn't give a damn about the lives of other people (except Urie) and has a Lack of Empathy when it comes to his subordinates' deaths. Chapter 100 of _re_ takes this even further where he shreds his own clothes until he's naked in a moment of passion and exclaims that he loves Urie. Then there's his death scene, in which he goes out fighting naked and thinking that his love for Urie will sustain him. In volume 10's make, he is thinking longingly of Urie, gets naked, and heads into Urie's bed where he is sleeping to cuddle with him or possibly more. He describes it as a "late-night rendezvous". Another omake has him calling Urie "cute" and "adorable".
    -   Mutsuki is a transgender male suffering from Sanity Slippage (exacerbated by rape and abuse at the hands of his own father and Serial Killer stalker Torso) with romance/sexual feelings for Sasaki/Kaneki, which leads him into full-blown Yandere mode as he sexually assaults and stabs Uta when he takes on Sasaki's face while demanding him to never leave him again. He also tries to Murder the Hypotenuse when he realizes Sasaki/Kaneki loves Touka and even tries to kill Kaneki himself when Kaneki escapes re with Touka while burning down re in a fit of psychotic rage and before that swiftly attacked Kaneki and Touka with rc suppressant laced knives. And in a bid to get at Touka he has her friend Yoriko arrested and set to be executed purely to punish Touka for having Sasaki/Kaneki's love.
    -   Ishida Sui has another comic called "The Penisman" featuring a character even more blatant than Nico and Matsuri: Carnivoreman. He's a monster with a goth Bishonen appearance. While some monsters in the comic have a thing for female victims, Carnivoreman has a thing for male victims. In particular to those men, he takes a liking to he has a fetish for eating them and the narrative describes his cannibalism as being equivalent to sex for him. He's not the only depraved homosexual in the story either.
-   Invoked in _Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann_. Leeron Littner is in fact one of the nicer characters, but he has faked being the trope twice to scare Gimmy, once to keep him away from some vital computer controls and once to chasten him for mouthing off.
-   Puri Puri Prisoner from _One-Punch Man_ may be a registered hero, but he's also residing in prison because he figures it's okay to molest men if they're criminals. Played for Laughs, and possibly Obliviously Evil, but very depraved and even more homosexual.

    Comic Books 

-   _A Walk Through Hell_: Patrick Nathan, the classmate who used McGregor and faked his suicide attempt to make sure that no one would believe him. When McGregor confronts him years later, it's revealed that he's never repented what he did. If anything, he became _worse_, actively partaking in constant sex and drug parties where he very likely keeps raping people.
-   Subverted by the Pied Piper in _The Flash_. His orientation isn't revealed until he's been established as an Anti-Villain who helps the homeless and has become on fairly good terms with Wally West. Further defied when Wally speculates that the Joker is one of these; Piper is highly skeptical.
-   "The pope" from _Give Me Liberty_, a gang boss inside the Cabrini-Green ghetto/prison. His henchmen originally kidnapped Martha Washington for rape because she was disguised as a boy.
-   _The Sandman (1989)_: The Corinthian likes guys. Also, he likes guys' eyes. Whether these two are connected is uncertain. Either way. He's not particularly camp and the only suggestion (outside of the continuation of stories in _The Dreaming_) that he's homosexual usually center around his choice of victims (it helps that he takes a distinct relish in despoiling innocence that implies eye-taking is at _least_ as good as sex for him). Word of God says that he is in fact gay.
-   The infamous "Hulk rape" from _Rampaging Hulk_. Bruce Banner checks into a YMCA and while showering is accosted by Dewey and Luellen, a gay rape team. Banner bluffs his way past them but once in the clear his delayed reaction causes him to transform. Jim Shooter, the writer of the issue in question, supposedly issued an edict while serving as Marvel's editor-in-chief that there were no homosexuals in the Marvel Universe, which makes this story even more problematic. Weirdly subverted when the _Rampaging Hulk_ stories were retconned into being entertainments produced by the alien director Bereet, so it didn't "really" happen.
-   _The Punisher MAX_ has Nicky Cavella, gay mafioso, whose homosexuality is portrayed as the result of being raped by his aunt (he still freaks out if a woman touches him) and is manipulated into self-destructive actions by his male lover, Agent Rawlins. Cavella's mental instability, homosexuality, evil, and need to dominate other people are all tied together in his portrayal, to the point where separating them from one another becomes impossible.
-   _Irredeemable_: Modeus, the Plutonian's nemesis who it turns out is in love with him. He expresses this initially by trying to murder any rivals for the Plutonian, along with building sexbots modeled on him. He is the only gay character in the comic to boot.

    Fan Works 

-   L is this in _All You Need Is Love_ (mocking his usual fanfic-characterization.) Forget detective work or solving the Kira case-L's true motivation is to get Light in the sack!
-   In the famous _Hunger Games_ fanfic, _The Capitol Games_, Antony, the District 1 mentor for Liotta and Jason, is kind of somewhat very obsessed with Jason. Not in a good way.
-   Rowgat from _What Lies Beyond the Walls_, a sadistic lizard who's rather keen on flirting with male beasts and keeping certain ones as sex slaves. He even goes as far as almost raping Darktail just for the fun of it.
-   Mukuro in the _Reborn! (2004)_ Slash Fic "Homecoming" when we see him try to sexually assault Tsuna.
-   Knuckles of _Sonic the Hedgehog_ in the fanfic Prison Island Break. And it's not just to fulfill the Prison Rape trope. It's stated very firmly that he's in prison because he raped _men._
-   Sasuke of _Naruto_ sometimes gets this characterization in Slash Fic with Naruto which is best expressed with him sometimes attempting to rape or harassing Naruto. In the Slash Fic "Purple" by kodak-85 for example he attacks and rapes Naruto.

    Films — Animated 

-   Forte from _Beauty and the Beast: The Enchanted Christmas_. His obsession with Beast and desire to drive off any competition comes across more and more like a jilted lover as the movie goes on.
    
    **The Nostalgia Chick**: "He has this bizarre co-dependent crush on the Beast and just _loves_ him getting emo."
    

    Films — Live-Action 

-   In _Nymphomaniac_, the only male homosexual in the movie is also a pedophile, while the film's only same-sex relationship is female and quickly turns into a potentially homicidal flavor of Psycho Lesbian.
-   _Skyfall_ features an oddly lisping and bleach blonde Silva menacingly rubbing James Bond's thighs. The most spectacular part of this scene, however, is Bond's reaction. With typical unruffled Bond demeanour, he says, "What makes you think this is my first time?"
-   _Cruising_ is about cop Steve Burns chasing a gay serial killer through the New York City Leatherman community circa 1980. It's implied that being around S&M turns Steve gay, and possibly murderous as well. (However, the film hints during the entire opening that he's an Armoured Closet Gay and being in the S&M scene merely liberated him from hiding those feelings.) The film did have a disclaimer at the start that the movie was not in any way representative of all gay men, to try to calm the protests that arose after its premiere (and even while it was being filmed).
-   Zed and Maynard from _Pulp Fiction_, the duo of rapists who rape Marsellus (and try to rape Butch) and keep a male Sex Slave in their dungeon.
-   Andy Warhol is portrayed in this manner (by Guy Pearce!) in _Factory Girl_ — so much so that one reviewer referred to the character as "Andy Warhol, or, as this film wants you to know him, Darth Warhol."
-   The 1961 short film _Boys Beware_, produced by Sid Davis, was intended to be shown in high schools to warn teenage boys about the dangers of gay men. This film has become famous on the internet for lines such as "What Jimmy didn't know was that Ralph was sick. A sickness that was not visible like smallpox, but no less dangerous and contagious — a sickness of the mind. You see, Ralph was a homosexual." Naturally, All Gays Are Pedophiles is in full effect. Another fun element: the violent contrast between the hysterical condemnation of homosexuality and the unconditional endorsement it gives the practice of hitchhiking. Even more dissonant is that the way that Ralph acts (very touchy) is not the problem, even though today someone who gave young boys a ride and pats on the back would certainly be assumed to be a pedophile or at least creepy instantly.
-   _The X-Files: I Want to Believe_: Dacyshyn and Tomczeszyn are male lovers who murder women for their body parts, which they graft to Tomczeszyn's body in an effort to prolong his life. One has to hope that Tomczeszyn is actually Transgender and that Dacyshyn is actually _bisexual_ because otherwise... well... slight _problems_ might arise in the relationship. Add that to the plot of the evil psychic gay Pedophile Priest in the movie and it probably should have been called _The X-Files: I Want to Believe Gay People Are Evil_. At least the pedophile priest seems to be genuinely repentant of his crimes — he does admit to cutting his own balls off, after all.
-   The Flanderization of the eponymous character of _Brüno (2009)_. He's ostensibly not a villain, but Bruno became so horny to all other men that it would make _anyone_ want to get away from him. As a result, the "undercurrent of homophobia" in American society that Sacha Baron Cohen was trying to expose mostly comes off as sane people reacting normally to an unbelievably offensive living stereotype. The film really did more harm than good for the gay community.
-   Parodied and subverted in _Cecil B. Demented_ — sadistic hairdresser Rodney takes his frustration over being _heterosexual_ out on other people by abusing them physically.
-   Any film of the Easter story portrays King Herod thus. As a matter of fact, all records that mention his sexuality present Herod as a raging heterosexual hedonist with several wives and concubines, with the idea of him being gay a slander started by his enemies.
-   _Irréversible_ has the Rectum, a whole club full of these, one of which is a nasty piece of work called le Tenia ('the Tapeworm') who tries to rape Marcus — other gay men are heard cheering while Pierre beats the guy's face into pulp with a fire extinguisher. Despite his orientation, le Tenia's the one who rapes and beats Alex, who is female. Comments he makes during his attack coupled with the extreme level of violence after he's raped her suggest that degradation and sadism played more of a part than sexual attraction, and thus that he simply wanted to harm Alex in the most horrific way he could.
-   _Guardians of the Galaxy (2014)_: One of the Kyln's inmates threatens and taunts Peter by rather lustfully stroking his face and talking about "slathering him in Gunavian jelly". It's a good thing Groot was close by to teach him a lesson.
-   In _Diamonds Are Forever_, Blofeld's two chief assassins, Mr. Wint and Mr. Kidd, are heavily implied to be in a homosexual relationship.
-   Vandamm's henchman Leonard in _North By Northwest_ is subtly this (according to Martin Landau, the actor who played him). He's jealous of Eve Kendall's relationship with his boss and says things like "Call it my woman's intuition, if you will".
-   Wez from _The Road Warrior_, Lord Humungous' no. 2 who goes into an Unstoppable Rage when his twink-ish riding companion and implicit lover is accidentally killed. Something of a Downplayed Trope, however, since Wez's relationship isn't really used to vilify him, but instead serves as his only real humanizing trait.
-   Bruno Antony, the villain from _Strangers on a Train_, has overtones of this trope, what with his unusual relationship to his mother and his obsessive attitude toward hero Guy Haines.
-   _The Watcher_: David Allen Griffin kills only women and is heavily attracted to Joel.
-   The villain of the Walter Matthau film _The Laughing Policeman_ is revealed to have committed a series of murders, including spraying dozens of innocent people on a bus with machine gun fire, in order to keep from being outed.
-   _Mastizaade_: Das is portrayed as very lustful, and consistently tries to forces himself on Sunny despite his constant rejections. He even tries to molest him in his sleep. This is Played for Laughs as an offensive gay stereotype.
-   Sebastian in _Meet the Feebles_ isn't exactly a villain and is definitely more sympathetic than a lot of the other characters, but he bullies the cast members, forces Robert to replace the assistant the drugged-up knife-thrower accidentally killed and thinks nothing of singing an elaborate ode to sodomy, complete with appropriate props and ostentatious pelvic thrusts, on a family-oriented variety show.
-   In _Jeepers Creepers_, the Creeper is popularly described as this, since it really only seems interested in male victims, which it has a penchant for acting lewd towards (gestures, winking, licking windows, etc.). At least one review of the second film described it as "a demonic Jeffrey Dahmer".
-   Crazy Larry from _Layer Cake_, who only appears in a flashback set during The '70s, had a penchant for raping and murdering other men. This directly led to his death, as Gene killed him on Jimmy's orders, both men being too disgusted with Crazy Larry's behavior.
    
    **Crazy Larry:** Fucking females is for poofs.
    
-   Charles Laughton (who was bisexual) as Emperor Nero in _The Sign Of The Cross_. Amusingly, he enjoyed playing the role and stated that it was better for him than a month of therapy.
-   _Swashbuckler_ has Lord Durant, the evil homosexual governor tyrannizing Jamaica. His effeminate boy lover dies by falling into his ridiculously impractical weapon during the finale when he tries to attack Captain Lynch from behind.
-   _No Way Out (1987)_: Brice's aide, Pritchard, helps Brice cover up his involvement in the death of his mistress. As the situation devolves, Pritchard becomes increasingly psychopathic until, at the end, it is revealed that he's been harboring an Unrequited Love for Brice. He commits suicide upon being rejected.
-   In _Deathtrap_, Sidney and Clifford turn out to be lovers who conspire to murder Myra, Sidney's wife.
-   Coach Schneider in _A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2: Freddy's Revenge_ is a sexually predatory gay man working as a gym coach at a high school. He abducts Jesse when he sees him in a gay bar, and it is implied that he was about to rape him before Freddy intervened and killed Schneider.
-   Inverted in _Clue_. Mr. Green says he is being blackmailed for being gay but is also the only one of the main characters who was never involved in any illegal activity. While the others were being blackmailed for things like war profiteering, rape, and murder, his only "crime" was being homosexual. Even in the third ending, wherein _everyone_ killed someone, his only victim was the villain, Wadsworth... and then he says he's not really gay.
-   _Scary Movie_:
    -   Ray is so gay it hurts, even though he tries to deny it. He shows his depraved side when he rapes a Monster Clown puppet who _really_ chose the wrong victim. It's played for laughs.
    -   Bobby from the first film is an odd example in that his crimes _aren't_ sexual in nature, but he only becomes a serial killer after Cindy denies him sex and he realizes that he and Ray (his partner in the killing spree) are gay soulmates. Ray denies the accusation, however — with increasing implausibility, as Bobby notes all the things they do together, up to and including going down on each other.
-   InfoMania discusses the problematic message of this trope in its _That's Gay_ segment, as seen here, with specific examples throughout film history.
    
    _"We're here, we're queer, we're homo-cidal maniacs!"_
    
-   _Warlock (1989)_: The eponymous Warlock is a sadistic Satan-worshiping sorcerer, "the rudest of them all", and the first thing he does upon being transported to our time and given shelter by a gay dude is murder his hapless host by _biting off his tongue_ in what looks like a sensual kiss and then (implicitly) raping him to death.
-   Michel, in _Stranger by the Lake_, drowns his lover in the lake for no apparent reason. He later kills again.
-   In _Lawrence of Arabia_, the title character is arrested by a Turkish general who picks him from a line-up of other young men. He immediately starts pawing Lawrence and remarking on his attractive face, skin, and eyes. Lawrence realizes what's going on and kicks the general in the groin, after which Lawrence is brutally beaten as the Bey watches. This scene corresponds to a chapter of the real Lawrence's memoir _Seven Pillars of Wisdom_, in which he explicitly recounts being gang-raped.
-   _Naked Lunch_: Yves Cloquet is initially impressed by the young men William Lee manages to attract. Later, he arranges a sexual tryst with Kiki before Lee walks in on Cloquet having turned into a giant centipede and raping Kiki to death. It's equally likely that Lee is having one of his more deranged hallucinations and is projecting his own homophobia (presumably including that of his own homosexuality) into something ghastly.
-   _Road House (1989)_: Unlike the rest of Wesley's goons, Jimmy never seems to show any particular interest in the numerous attractive women he's surrounded by, but his famous quote says all.
    
    **Jimmy:** _I used to fuck guys like you in prison!_
    
-   In _Endgame_, while lead character Tom is presented sympathetically, the world of homosexuality is presented as depraved on multiple levels. Tom is the "kept man" of a Gayngster and kills him to stave off a rape attempt. Gangsters, while searching for him in a gay bar, sodomize a customer with a pool cue. Tom, meanwhile, finds happiness in the bed of a supportive woman, with their first time presented as beauty compared to the ugliness around them. At the movie's end, she is killed and Tom returns to being kept by men, his silent suffering intercut with flashbacks of his sexual abuse as a child.
-   _Amphetamine_: Kafka, suffering from the aftermath of religious repression and a past sexual assault, is presented as tragic, but also deeply destructive. After out and proud Daniel encourages him to accept his sexuality and falls in love with him, Kafka introduces him to drugs, gets him into legal trouble (nearly ruining his career), and rapes Daniel's best friend/ex-girlfriend (Kafka seemingly not remembering or having much reaction to his actions; Daniel has the reaction scenes, and his having sex with her afterward, presented as healing or apologetic, is shown at length). Rather than having a chance to pay for his actions or take agency over his life, Kafka soon dies in a drug-induced drowning, while Daniel is left to mourn and move on with his life.
-   _Wrecked_: In another good gay/bad gay morality play, sweet and kind Ryan lets Daniel, an ex-boyfriend, back into his life. Daniel is awash in drugs and promiscuity, soon dragging Ryan into his wicked ways and ruining his acting aspirations. In a ludicrously rushed conclusion, Ryan immediately seduces and discards his friend as Daniel did to him, then dives headlong into drugs and mindless sex until he dies seconds before the closing credits.
-   _Night of the Living Dorks_: Konrad discovers that the gym teacher is this when he discovers gay porno magazines in his office. When the teacher enters and finds out Konrad knows, he asks Konrad to join him in a BDSM session. Konrad's response is to eat him.
-   _The Eiger Sanction_ has the flamboyantly dressed and openly homosexual Miles Mellough, who has a muscular bodyguard implied to be his lover and a little dog named Faggot. He is a Double Agent who betrayed the protagonist Jon Hemlock to the enemy, and offers to sell out one of his own side if Hemlock agrees to call off his revenge.
-   Tony in _The Escapist_ is particularly nasty example, possibly with a side of ephebophilia. His obsession with New Meat Lacey sets in motion a deadly chain of events.
-   _The Celluloid Closet_: A number of gay murderers (serial killers included) are showcased, with the view that gays shifted from being victims to victimizers as explicit portrayals were increased.
-   The case of real-life thrill-killers Nathan Leopold, Jr. and Richard Loeb has been depicted a couple of times on film.
    -   Alfred Hitchcock's adaptation of _Rope_ is a fictionalized version; Brandon and Philip being gay is a lot clearer in the original play but is reduced to subtext in the film (due to the censorship at the time), and Brandon is implied to be bisexual. Hitchcock claimed that Rupert was written as being gay, too, and had even had an affair with Brandon.
    -   _Swoon_ is more explicit and adheres more literally to the real-life case, containing in-universe examples as well. In the trial scenes, Leopold and Loeb are played as this by the prosecution, to the point that they're accused of raping Bobby Franks (when in reality they "merely" murdered him). Also, before they're caught the newspapers are sure that the killers were "perverts" or "dope fiends" or something else "abnormal" by the standards of the time, which also plays into this stereotype.
-   _Legend (2015)_: Ron was known to rape pretty boys (both in and out of prison) and also keep a cabal of male concubines as part of his criminal entourage. The former aspect is downplayed, but the latter is clearly in play. He even has scandalous affairs with politicians of the day, and it's partly this which helps prevent him and his brother Reg from being prosecuted at first (because an election is coming and the government have to do damage limitation). Also, of course, he's a violent, crazy bastard. Likewise his boyfriend "Mad" Teddy.
-   _Europa Europa_: Downplayed, but Robert tries to grope Solly in the bath, then runs after him when he takes off in a panic to escape. However, after Robert discovers he's Jewish he keeps Solly's secret while Solly also then keeps his (as the Nazis persecuted gay men as well) and doesn't attempt to do anything else.

    Literature 

-   This trope probably has its origins in _The Green Carnation_, a truly libelous Roman à Clef written in the 1890s and featuring villains based on Oscar Wilde and his lover Alfred "Bosie" Douglas who plot to defraud a young widow of her fortune. They are assisted by a kind of Yaoi Fangirl based on Wilde's real-life Fag Hag Ada "Sphinx" Leverson.
-   _Hurog_: In _Dragon Bones_, high king Jakoven is this. He keeps a male lover who was a minor when the king initiated the "relationship", and _detests_ him, but plays along in the hope to get at least a bit influence that he can use to protect his loved ones, and it is hinted that he likes boys. He also kills his wife's lovers to punish her, or out of paranoid fear that they might plot against him. It is clear that he'd be a horrible person regardless of sexual orientation, but his depravity clearly includes his sex life. The novel manages to come off as pretty nuanced with regard to homosexuality in spite of this, partly because the protagonist, Ward, mentions that he is rather fond of Garranon, the king's "favourite", and doesn't hold the homosexuality against him. The fact that there is so much Ho Yay between Ward and another heroic male character that more or less all fanfics ship the two also helps.
-   Kavinsky of _The Raven Cycle_ certainly qualifies. Subverted with Ronan Lynch.
-   Djuna Barnes's Rule-Abiding Rebel book _Nightwood_ portrays all gay men as being like this. The women are Psycho Lesbians.
-   Bernard Cornwell portrays precisely three gay characters in the Sharpe series. One, Lord Pumphrey, is a ruthless, Camp Gay secret agent who has Sharpe's ex-lover and unborn child murdered to protect "information that might...embarrass His Majesty's Government." A favourite habit of his is to draw his finger across his throat slowly when giving instructions. The other two are a pair of Spanish officers in Chile—the cowardly and deceitful Captain Martinez and the psychotic Captain-General Baptista. Their relationship (and Baptista) does not survive Richard Sharpe.

-   Baron Vladimir Harkonnen in _Dune_, aside from his Chessmaster qualities, enjoys raping young male slaves. In particular ones who resemble the protagonist Paul Atreides.
-   In _The Elenium_:
    -   Baron Harparin is homosexual and an infamous pederast. When he gets beheaded toward the end of the series, one character comments that a whole generation of little boys will probably remember the knight who killed him in their prayers every night.
    -   Averted in the sequel trilogy _The Tamuli_ by Gelan, an occasional Wholesome Crossdresser who was a kind and attentive master to Mirtai before he and his boyfriend fell victim to Bury Your Gays. That the devout Magic Knight Bevier thinks the trope applies to Gelan paints him briefly as a Troubled Sympathetic Bigot.
-   James Ellroy's _The Big Nowhere_ is chock-full of these. One uses the gay escort service he runs to out and blackmail his clients; another, a closeted actor, sexually abuses his own son; and the son himself goes on to become a Serial Killer. The only sympathetic gay man in the entire book, Danny Upshaw, kills himself to avoid being outed.
-   Terry Goodkind's _The Sword of Truth_: Darken Rahl's flunky is a pederast who cannot remember how many boys he has molested. Rahl, who knows this, nevertheless uses him to acquire boys to be killed in a special kind of Cold-Blooded Torture that requires that the victim be a virgin.
-   Deconstructed in Armistead Maupin's novel _Maybe the Moon_ (set in 1990), in which a Straight Gay actor plays a cop chasing a Stereotype Gay killer in a movie. His boyfriend is pissed.

-   A monk named Ambrose, in Candace Robb's medieval mystery _The Apothecary Rose_ (the next book, however, contains a sympathetic character (Martin Werther) who is gay. Secretly).
-   Leslie Marmon Silko's _Almanac of the Dead_ received some criticism for this as several of the main villains are gay.
-   _Anno Dracula_ has Vardalek, a diseased, murderously sadistic member of the Carpathian Guard.
-   Miles Mellough, a Psycho for Hire and the main character's longtime nemesis in the satiric _The Eiger Sanction_. He comes complete with a home base in San Francisco and a poodle named "Faggot." Apparently, quite a few people have assumed he was just as soft as he acted, to their peril.
-   Averted in _Outlander_ by Diana Gabaldon: there is seemingly a textbook example of this in the form of moustache-twirling villain Captain "Black Jack" Randall, who lusts after, pursues, and then tortures and repeatedly rapes the novel's hero, Jamie Frasier. However, there is also a heroic character who is gay in subsequent novels. In any case, Randall isn't evil because he's gay (bisexual, to be more precise), he's evil because he's a sadistic rapist. Gabaldon has plenty of sleazy gay characters, but they're no worse and no better than the straight ones.
-   The fact that some readers read this trope (amongst others) into Katharine Kerr's _Deverry_ series is one of the reasons that she released a revised edition of the second book _Darkspell_. In the original version, the evil mage Alastyr rapes his apprentice Sarcyn and his younger brother. When Sarcyn has grown to adulthood, the two are shown abducting a man and raping him repeatedly. (They draw magical powers from this act.) This led some readers to conclude that Alastyr was intended to be an evil gay pedophile rapist wizard. One of the revisions Kerr made was to change Sarcyn's brother into a sister, to drive home the point that no, Alastyr's crime is not homosexuality, it's that he's a child molester. Likewise, Sarcyn is shown to be sexually interested in both men and women - it's not that he's straight or gay or even bisexual but that his sexuality is, in Kerr's own words, "a mess". Growing up in a brothel and then getting molested as a child has left him unable to develop a healthy attitude towards sex.
-   The boy killer in _Apt Pupil_ from Stephen King's _Different Seasons_ anthology is implied to have latent homosexual feelings. The 1998 movie adaptation hints at the possibility but makes it more ambiguous. (Additionally, the movie presents the boy as a much more sympathetic character than in the book, more a confused kid who's sucked into a situation he can't handle than an unrepentant sociopath.)
-   All homosexuals in Marquis de Sade's books fit the trope, although this is probably meant to be an ironic nod at the values of his time, as good Marquis was himself bisexual, and all characters who aren't innocent victims are depraved monsters regardless of their sexual preference anyway in his stories. There is a social message in there if you squint hard enough.
-   Bone and Chair, the stand-ins for The Mad Hatter and the March Hare in Patrick Senecal's take on _Alice in Wonderland,_ _Aliss._ At one point, Aliss watches the two of them having passionate sex in the midst of the blood and guts of the man they've just horrifically tortured not-quite-to-death.
-   In _Doctrine of Labyrinths_, antihero protagonist Felix Harrowgate temporarily becomes this while under the influence of evil rubies, nearly murdering an anonymous sex partner during a rage blackout. Somewhat undercut as an example by the fact that it takes place in a Crapsack World where half the people of any orientation are depraved.
-   Played Straight in the Romance Novel, _Rose of Rapture_ where an effeminate count attempts to seduce the heroine's saintly brother.
-   Jannings, John Tell's boss in _Sneakers_ who killed the ghost in the bathroom stall in _Sneakers_ in Stephen King's _Nightmares & Dreamscapes_.
-   In _The Wheel of Time_, Balthamel was always a creep, but once he gets reincarnated as Aran'gar/Halima, he becomes more omnisexual, or a Psycho Lesbian depending on how the reincarnation is perceived, and his/her relationship with Delana is implied to be not consensual. It's also implied that Halima's massages of Egwene might be giving Halima more enjoyment than usual.
-   In _What Happened At Cambridge IV_, the second (chronologically first) of David Langford's _BLIT_ stories, the narrator is a selfish, callous man who commits acts of sabotage in an ill-conceived plan to keep a man he has a crush on from being reassigned that ultimately gets somebody killed (he never meant for anybody to die but doesn't seem particularly aggrieved about it), and is ultimately responsible for the deaths of countless others by releasing the BLIT into the world, which he justifies as revenge for the world's callousness towards the gay community during the early days of AIDS. Also a shining example of the older British Effeminate Misogynistic Guy gay stereotype.
-   In _Another Note_, Beyond Birthday is implied to be this, with his insanity, sadism, and complete obsession with L, another man. He also describes himself as "an aggressive top", which indicates that he is either this or a Depraved Bisexual. It is often taken by fans to mean that he's a rapist, though this is not confirmed, and none of his victims were raped or sexually assaulted.
-   _Ellery Queen_: The murderer in _The Last Woman in His Life_. Also a Villainous Crossdresser. Disturbingly for many modern readers, the novel (and the solution to the mystery) hinges heavily on now-discredited ideas regarding the nature and causes of homosexuality.
-   _Zombie_ has Quentin P., who repeatedly kidnaps, rapes, and murders multiple male civilians in hopes of creating his own lobotomized Sex Slave.
-   _The Reluctant King_: Book three has Malgo the jailer: back when he was in the same army as Jorian, he bullied a younger soldier and eventually got beaten to a pulp by Jorian when he tried to force the soldier to have sex with him. Later we learn that he was fired from his job when he was caught raping a prisoner in his cell.
-   _The Machineries of Empire_: Hexarch Nirai Kujen is almost exclusively interested in men and insists on having plenty of attractive staff around. He's also a sociopathic Mad Scientist who tinkers with humans as readily as with technology and who uses some of those staff for Body Surfing. One Kel general was horrified to realize Kujen's stable of beautiful courtesans were produced by his experiments on political prisoners.
-   Played with in _The First Law,_ as most tropes in the series are. King Jappo of Styria deliberately cultivates this image as a way to set others off balance. While he's very homosexual, he's nowhere near the top of the series' list for depravity.
-   Scaum-Durna in _The Arts of Dark and Light_ is a liar, murderer, Manipulative Bastard and sadistic monster generally. He is also into men, and doesn't mind presenting as a woman to get in bed with them.
-   Buffalo Bill in _The Silence of the Lambs_ straddles this and Creepy Crossdresser.
-   _Full Metal Panic!_:
    -   Gauron, depending on whether one chooses to follow the original novels (where he managed to successfully execute his Wife Husbandry plan with _male_ twins) or the anime adaptation (where the twins were female, making him a Depraved Bisexual). But no matter which version, one thing is for sure: he is a complete and total pervert for Sousuke. Seriously? Getting stiffies over fantasizing that he would rape the poor 16-year-old's dead body after he slowly kills him? The poor boy was completely horrified and traumatized when Gauron took the opportunity to let him know what his plans for him were.
    -   In the manga adaptation, the gay substitute teacher for Sousuke's high school's men's swim team has some hints of this as shown in the above picture. The guy keeps a _whip_ in his swim trunks and drools and blushes while thinking about Sousuke.
-   _Reign of the Seven Spellblades_: Leoncio Echevalria is a Social Darwinist Arch-Enemy of the current student council prone to making thinly veiled threats to sexually dominate male students who defy him. He's a sharp contrast to the previously established queer characters in the series: Tim Linton is a mildly Camp Gay Wholesome Crossdresser who hates Echevalria's guts, Pete Reston is a Badass Bookworm who as a third-year quickly steps up to the role of policing unruly underclassmen, and Carlos Whitrow is a kindly fun-loving person who founded the closest thing on campus to an LGBTQ+ students' club.
-   _A Song of Ice and Fire_: Lyn Corbray. Littlefinger buys his loyalty with boys. One shudders to think of why he needs to keep being given more.

    Live-Action TV 

-   Averted in _'Allo 'Allo!_, where the gay and bisexual German officers tend to be the most genial and harmless of the lot.
-   _Blake's 7_ has two notoriously stereotypical examples (both, oddly, written by the widely-beloved Robert Holmes):
    -   Krantor in "Gambit" is the corrupt, decadent leader of an Outlaw Town, who is blatantly implied to be keeping his Camp Gay sidekick Toise as a catamite.
    -   Egrorian in "Orbit" is a venal, backstabbing, murderous Mad Scientist (with rather more desire for money than the usual stereotype), who abuses his boyfriend Pinder so badly that Pinder eventually kills him as a The Dog Bites Back. (Egrorian also crudely hits on Servalan, however, so he might be a Depraved Bisexual instead.)
-   Ambrosius from _Dante's Cove_.
-   _Criminal Minds_:
    -   The UnSub in "In Heat" was filled with _so much_ gayngst that it drove him insane and made him kill other gay men, so he could steal their identities and live their lives to escape his own. His anger was mainly due to his father's behavior, beating him and berating him because he was gay, rather than him being gay. In fact, once the BAU learns everything, they are clearly more disgusted with the father than the UnSub.
    -   The UnSub in "Identity" had a meek, gay accomplice who helped the killer because he was obsessively in love with him (the team notes that, in the videos the accomplice made of the killer torturing his victims, he seemed more focused on the killer's chest and abs than the victims). When the killer commits suicide, the accomplice goes insane and tries to become him.
    -   The UnSub in "Broken" was forced into a gay conversion camp and forced to have sex with a prostitute by his father. When he has sex with women does not enjoy it, but when he has sex with men he feels guilty. Both of these feelings lead to him lashing out and killing his partners and then setting their watches to a time referencing a bible verse decrying homosexuality.
-   _Dahmer – Monster: The Jeffrey Dahmer Story_: Jeffrey Dahmer was a gay man, and a Serial Killer who was responsible for the murder of at least 16 men.
-   Parodied in _Monty Python's Flying Circus_ with the "mollusk" sketch:
    
    **Live Documentary**: The whelk is nothing but a homosexual of the worst kind. This gay boy of the gastropods, this queer crustacean, this mincing mollusk, this screaming, prancing, limp-wristed queen of the deep MAKES ME SICK!!!
    
-   Generally screwed around with - arguably averted or played straight, though the conditions of neither are met entirely - in _Sherlock_ with Jim, introduced as a camp gay with a high-pitched voice whose underwear sticks out of his trousers and who gives Sherlock his phone number. Later, Jim is revealed to be James Moriarty. He claims that he has been playing gay for Sherlock, but since he continues to act in much the same fashion as he did before and continues to flirt with Sherlock, it's difficult to say whether or not he qualifies as a Depraved Homosexual.
-   _Picket Fences_ - In the episode Be My Valentine, it turns out that The serial killer known as "Cupid" turns out to be both Barry and Ben. In one version, they are raping their female victims with a dildo because they would never use their own penises (though it's not in the Hulu version, so they're not Depraved Bisexuals). Bonus points for when Max says "What the hell? That's sick!" when she sees the two men kiss.
-   _Glee_:
    -   Karofsky is a somewhat unusual example since his target is also gay.
    -   Sandy Ryerson, of the second (at the moment) page quote, is a much less unusual example.
-   Subverted with Barca, from _Spartacus: Blood and Sand_. Although he is a villain, in a sense, he's just a Punch-Clock Villain who wants to buy freedom for himself and his boyfriend. Gnaeus, on the other hand, is a bonafide example whose primary role in the series is to rape and beat Pietros until he commits suicide.
-   Jack's nemesis Devon Banks from _30 Rock_ is a greedy corporate raider and also a deeply perverted gay man. Ironically, while he is implied to commit untold deviancy offscreen, his villainy is mostly derived from his cold-hearted capitalism than his sexuality.
-   Subverted in a _Las Vegas_ episode by a gay couple when they have Danny and Mike over for some food. They say that the four of them can have _each other_ for lunch and then dinner, weirding out Danny and Mike, but then admit that they were just messing with them.
-   _Banshee_ has a flashback to Lucas's time in prison where he was abused by an inmate. The albino is described by another inmate as "as queer as they come" to indicate that he is not just "prison gay". The albino then offers to go easy on Lucas if Lucas willingly has sex with him. Otherwise, the albino will beat up and torture Lucas for the entirety of Lucas's 15-year sentence. Lucas chooses to Take a Third Option and brutally kills the albino in front of the other prisoners.
-   In the _Red Dwarf_ episode "Demons and Angels": Evil Rimmer, dressed like a punk version of Dr. Frank N Furter, tells Lister in his most intimidating voice:
    
    "First, I'm going to whip you within an inch of your life. Then... I'm going to have you."
    
-   _Murdoch Mysteries_: James Gillies, a Big Bad on the series, is strongly hinted to be this trope. In "Midnight Train to Kingston", he kisses Detective William Murdoch on the mouth for a full three seconds. Moreover, when the detective is physically aggressive towards him in "Murdoch in Toyland," Gillies' enthusiastic response is, "Ha ha! This is fun!" Even when Murdoch is about to punch him, the young man still has a big grin. His joy at being "manhandled" is reserved _solely_ for Murdoch, however, as James becomes fearful the instant Inspector Brackenreid takes over the violent interrogation. Gillies' glee at being subjected to Murdoch's rough treatment in this episode suggests that he is attracted to the detective because he doesn't enjoy being beaten up by anyone else.
-   Todd in _Coronation Street_, who took great delight in breaking up a straight relationship by seducing the husband - just before the wife walked in, accompanied by an estate agent on a house-viewing.
-   _Misfits_: Greg the probation worker. He's creepy in general but starts attempting to seduce Finn after he sees Alex having sex with him (long story). At one point he also mentions having beaten up a young man who rejected his advances.
-   _Rectify_: Wendell. In the original pilot, Wendall is causing a ruckus and he’s got everybody on Death Row screaming and hollering and somebody yelled “Shut up, you cho-mo punk,” which is prison slang for child molester. Also, in a flashback, Wendall reveals to Daniel, while masturbating, that he had participated in gang-raping Daniel in the shower with the other men.
-   In _Notorious (2016)_, Levi is in love with his best friend Oscar, to the point that he tried to destroy Oscar's marriage in the vain hope of getting Oscar all to himself. It backfires terribly when Oscar's wife turns up dead, causing Oscar to believe that Levi was responsible.
-   _Orange Is the New Black_: Piscatella is a Manly Gay who can be needlessly cruel to the female inmates. Season 5 takes this further with a flashback showing Piscatella burning an inmate to death with scalding hot water in the shower. The entire episode "The Tightening" is an homage to slasher films and Piscatella is especially extra frightening in this episode, as he captures Piper, Alex (whose arm he goes on to break), Nicki, Flores, and Boo, ties Red to a chair and shaves her head off with a large knife, all to break Red down and make the others see her fear.
-   _Oz_:
    -   Jason Cramer is a witty gay inmate incarcerated for killing and chopping up his boyfriend. Partakes in the fighting tournament in Season 3 and is one of the few gay inmates taken seriously by the other prisoners.
    -   It's played with by the other gay inmates, who are prisoners for a reason, but are generally no more evil than the rest of the cast and portrayed sympathetically.
-   In _Frontier (2016)_ gay characters Samuel Grant and Cobbs Pond go from wealthy fur traders to raging murderers.
-   In one episode of _The New Statesman_ Alan tries to work out a business deal with an older guy who turns out to be one of these: part of his agreeing to the deal is a demand that he has sex with Alan's flunky Piers.
-   In TV-movie _Senior Trip,_ sensitive artist Jon takes a class trip to New York City. An older man soon befriends him, his nefarious intentions made clear by evil zoom closeups as Jon, tormented by thoughts of homosexuality, cowers.
-   _Tiger King_: Possibly Joe, depending on who you ask. Some characters theorize that neither John nor Trevor were gay and that Joe took advantage of their respective drug addictions to manipulate them into relationships. Joe himself admits that he fell in love with straight guys, and tells a story about how Trevor claimed to be straight when he first arrived in Oklahoma.
-   _Liar (2017)_: Oliver, a serial rapist who targets men (he's basically Andrew's gay counterpart, and even _tutored_ him in the art of rape).
-   _A French Village_: Corrupt, highly antisemitic Louis turns out to be gay. Jérôme, his lover, shares his view.
-   Fanny Button's husband, George, in _Ghosts (UK)_. He clearly regarded Fanny as little more than The Beard. On the day of Fanny's death, she caught him cheating on her with the butler and the groundskeeper (both male). He didn't trust her with his dirty secret, which makes sense because in The Edwardian Era, his homosexuality would almost certainly have been frowned upon, but that doesn't excuse him pushing her out the window to her death! What makes him stand out is that most of the other LGBTQ characters in this show are portrayed in a positive light.
-   _The Practice_: Joey Heric, a gay man and diagnosed narcissist who kills two different lovers, the second just to see if he can get away with doing it. Later he murders another man and frames his lover, then defends the poor guy as a lawyer, all for the fun of it (explicitly saying earlier he gets off defending fellow murderers).
-   _Sense8_ does not use this for any of its characters but references it. After actor Lito is Forced Out of the Closet the only roles he gets offered are Bury Your Gays stories or the stereotypical depraved gay villain...who also dies at the end of the story.
    
    **Hernando:** It's still a notch up from "serial killer who talks with a lisp and wears mascara".  
    **Lito:** You think that's bad? Listen to this: "The Hispanic coke dealer is about to give another kind of _blow job_ when he finally gets the bullet he deserves."
    
-   Played for Laughs in an episode of _Married... with Children_. When Marcy's car breaks down at a car garage on the way to Fort Lauderdale, the attendant agrees to lend one of his vehicles to Marcy... in exchange for one of Bud's pals, who immediately closes his legs tightly together with an Oh, Crap! expression upon realizing the car garage attendant wants _him_. After Marcy fills the propane tank she has with her, refills her car gas tank using said propane tank, and gets said friend of Bud's away from the car garage, he expresses immense relief at being taken away while he was forced to walk down the isle with a wedding veil on himself.
-   _The Tunnel_: The Chemist is a Mad Scientist who conducts experiments on people to create viruses. He also turns out to be a Serial Rapist who's assaulted many good-looking young Brazilian men (he Has a Type).

    Music 

-   The title character of Nick Cave's "Stagger Lee" (although not in the traditional version).
-   Timo Maas's "Pictures" is about a homosexual child pornographer.
-   Frank Zappa's "Valley Girl" has the titular character mocking that her teacher is "Lord God King Bu-Fu"<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and flirts with all the teen boys in class. Of course, Unreliable Narrator at play, since the valley girl is shown to be a vapid airhead.

    Mythology and Religion 

-   _The Bible_:
    -   In the Book of Genesis, Sodom is an entire city of these according to the literalist (from the text of the story alone) interpretation.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  When two angels visit to warn Lot of the city's destruction, _every single man_ in town comes to his door, demanding to rape them For the Evulz. An alternate interpretation, however, is that the men of the city raped outsiders as an act of domination and humiliation and only refused the daughters because the daughters were residents and the townsmen would then have to take them as wives, in a combination of _extreme_ xenophobic hatred and Pragmatic Villainy. In fact, they may have had no interest in consensual sex with them at all, which would have made it a case of Situational Sexuality. Furthermore, when the town is mentioned in other books of the Bible, nothing sexual listed among the reasons for its destruction. Quite the opposite in fact, when referred to later in the Bible, the "sin of Sodom" is described as a violation of Sacred Hospitality, not sexual deviance; in other words, they sought to attack outsiders who might be a threat to them (such as maybe being the scouts of an invading army) rather than for gratification.
    -   Daniel 11:37, which is commonly attributed to The Antichrist by some Christian Bible students, is sometimes interpreted as the person it's talking about being this due to how some translations handle the verse. However, other (and older) commentators view this as meaning the Antichrist is lacking in romantic attraction.
        
        _He shall regard neither the gods of his fathers, nor the desire of women, nor regard any god; for he shall magnify himself above them all._
        
    -   In the Book of Romans, Paul the apostle describes the person who is given over to having a "reprobate mind, to do those things which are not convenient" as one who has been given over to ungodly passions: that the women have traded natural affections for unnatural ones, and that the men have left "the natural use of the woman" to burn in lust for one another, "working that which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves the recompense that is meet for their error."
    -   In Leviticus 18:22, God tells Moses "You shall not lie with a man as with a woman; such is an abomination." Many Bible scholars in favor for same-sex relationships refer to this as a mistranslation — however, when looking at the original Hebrew, it's almost a word-for-word translation.

    Professional Wrestling 

-   The Christopher Street Connection, mainly members Mace Mendoza, Buff E, Japanese Pool Boy, Jail Bait, and Allison Danger. However, they were baby faces in Ring of Honor and continued to get cheered even when they harassed ROH's other baby faces, making them more like exoticos there. Also, Danger was otherwise straight or at least bi when she wasn't associated with the group.
-   Effy Gibbes, the wrestling ho dedicated to killing the wrestling business. Though the latter part is just sarcasm, he likes wrestling more than whoring, just not enough to stop.

    Tabletop Games 

-   The _Vampire: The Requiem_ clanbook _Ventrue: Lords Over The Damned_ introduces the Ventrue Prince Sylvain Vioget, who uses the Dominate discipline to turn a heterosexual vampire who mocks him into a submissive BDSM slave. Like much of the content in the clanbooks, it's unclear whether this is meant to be disturbing, titillating, or both.

    Theater 

-   Herbert von Krolock from _Tanz Der Vampire_. He flirts really awkwardly with Alfred and grabs his buttocks. And grins. In most performances, Herbert would have probably raped our poor hero if Professor Abronsius hadn't shown up to scare the vampire off.
-   Roy Cohn from _Angels in America_. Probably falls more under Truth in Television though, since he's one of two characters based off of real people, and also a Straw Hypocrite who believes his "clout" puts him above oppression and social stigma most gay men in the play have to deal with. Joe is also painted as a "bad guy" of sorts because he agreed to work for Cohn, but he really is more insecure than depraved.
-   Some critics believe that Iago is one of these in the Shakespeare play _Othello_, driven to destroy Othello because of his unrequited homosexual love for the Moorish general.
    -   A similar interpretation has been applied to Hermia's father in _A Midsummer Night's Dream_, who is unusually...determined to see her married off to the guy _he_ wants. A lot of people believe that he was actually in love with Demetrius himself and forcing Hermia to marry him (with threats of imprisonment in a convent and death) was as close as he could get.
        -   Well, Shakespeare opened that door himself. _You have her father's love, Demetrius; let me have Hermia's; do you marry him._ Especially the way Dick Powell delivers that line.
-   _Suddenly, Last Summer_: Sebastian Venable's annual summer trips are not just for writing poetry. He uses his mother, later Catherine, as bait to attract local boys and young men so that they will have sex with him.

    Video Games 

-   Leon Powalski of _Star Fox_ is known to be depraved: Word of God has it that he's a cold-blooded killer with no conscience who enjoys torturing his victims. While there's no confirmation about his sexuality, there's a conversation he has with Panther from _Super Smash Bros._ that implies this. Thanks to his depraved sense of pleasure, Leon has taken a very intense interest in Wolf's anatomy — more specifically, how it can be used to messily kill people.
-   Played with. _The Halloween Hack_ establishes either Dr. Andonuts's homosexuality or his repressed denial about it as contributing to his eventual psychotic breakdown.
-   Nanda Ryūō from _Namu Amida Butsu! -UTENA-_ is masochistically attracted to three other male Buddhas, not infrequently puts off everyone around him by starting to fantasize and _moan_ out in the open when they're mentioned or around, and is a Stalker with a Crush for one of them.
-   A minor but highly-determined villain, the jailer Mohosa, casts lecherous glances and none-too-vague innuendo at the boy-faced heroes of _Vandal Hearts 2_. This is only after he shows what's Beneath the Mask, sometime after you find out he has the catatonic prince-apparently locked in his private quarters.
-   Lieutenant Yaha, the guardian of the District of Precious Light in _Drakengard 2_. He made a pact with the gnomes, giving him the ability to beguile and charm anyone who looked him in the eyes, but the price he paid was that he lost the ability to feel pleasure. He makes very "interesting" comments during his boss battle, and it's heavily implied that he had a romantic relationship with one of your allies, Urick.
-   According to the companion book _Grimoire Nier_, the "brother" version of _NieR_'s eponymous protagonist met an Ephebophile man in Seafront over a year before the start of the game. The man was able to coerce Nier into a sexual relationship with him by promising him plenty of money (which he needed to pay for his sister's medicine). Later, the man states he's "interested in seeing \[Nier\] cry in fear" when the two end up taking the same job (killing Shades). The man is dead by the time of the actual game, because Nier killed him during the aforementioned Shade-slaying job.
-   Sander Cohen in _BioShock_, is implied to be both homosexual _and_ depraved prior to arriving in Rapture, with rumors of young men disappearing around him and his 'project' of undressed proteges 'performing' scenes from _Caligula's_ life. He's _definitely_ depraved (and still homosexual) once Rapture starts falling apart, since the 2K Games-approved novel _BioShock: Rapture_ mentions him forcing a teenage boy to fuck an octopus at a 'wild party.'
-   Done tragically with Abu'l Nuquod in _Assassin's Creed_. His sexuality _does_ drive him to commit mass-murder and join a conspiracy to take over the Holy Land, but specifically because the culture he lives in and Islam in general call him an "abomination" and cause him to be the object of shame and scorn, despite his generosity and lavish parties.
-   _Metal Gear_:
    -   Revolver Ocelot starts off as this, a creepy, flirtatious torturer and Combat Sadomasochist. He does keep a lot of his uncomfortable, predatory gay behaviour as the series goes on, but later his romantic attachment to the Snakes, and a lot more of his personality traits, are portrayed as sympathetic.
    -   What little we learn about Major Raikov in _Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater_ is that he's gay and beats up his men for fun, and will molest Big Boss if you stand him in front of him. He gets a little more characterisation in _Portable Ops_, but not much (Oddly, he's become a kind of Ensemble Dark Horse, and his relationship with Colonel Volgin is kind of sweet).
-   Somewhat implied in _Fire Emblem: The Binding Blade_, with a highly effeminate duo of bandits (with equally effeminate names—Maggie and Rose) that attacks the party in the desert in one chapter. Completely irrelevant to the plot, however, so it's just for uncomfortable humor.
-   One possible interpretation of Jin Kisaragi's obsession for his brother Ragna in _BlazBlue_.
-   Thomas in _Deadly Premonition_ seems like a nice guy at first, but turns out to be in league with the killer, and ends up trying to kill Emily because he believes her to be a romantic rival. Adding to the problematic image is the fact that his effeminacy seems to increase in direct proportion to his craziness.
-   In _The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings_, one of the main characters during chapter 2 is sorcerer Dethmold. During most of his arc, he's rather badass, dabbling in necromancy and showing ability to one-shot wraiths by shooting lightning out of his staff, which ends in a cockerel, and generally proves to be a formidable opponent, even if he's somewhat prejudiced against women. In chapter 3, we learn why. He's gay. When he becomes a villain, all of a sudden, he turns out to be gay, with a sex slave, and terribly incompetent. Upon getting his arm broken, instead of releasing a barrage of magic, he just cries out how precious his arm is.
-   Captain Vicente De Santa in _Red Dead Redemption_ is a yellow-eyed bastard in the Mexican Army under the command of Col. Augustin Allende, who regularly shoots unarmed civilians, declares the oppressed peasantry to be stupid and backwards, back-stabs his allies in the name of his own ambition and eventually betrays and tries to kill John Marston. He is also _heavily_ hinted to be a homosexual, in an implied affair with his boss's butler. His fanatical devotion to Col. Allende could also be seen as a form of unrequited love. He gets executed either by Mexican Rebels or John himself.
-   _Asura's Wrath_: Averted with Sergei. Gay? Check. Evil? Double check. Finds beauty in carnage? _Very_ check. Gets cuddly with his male enemies? Nope. Squicky sexual interest in Asura? None whatsoever.
-   _Far Cry 3_ gives us Buck, the Australian Boisterous Bruiser Manly Gay who is also a Psycho Knife Nut rapist. He buys your friend Keith to use as a Sex Slave (and Keith's obvious trauma afterwards totally averts any Double Standard: Rape, Male on Male), and also enjoys dominating Jason whenever he can. His fight with Jason includes the lines "I'll take you bloody if you like. I like my meat rare" and "This is some fucked-up foreplay, eh?"
-   _Call of Duty: Zombies_: Richtofen 1.0 embodies this. Not only does he often attempt to flirt with Nikolai throughout _Black Ops_'s arc, he's also a necrophile. Also, his accent doesn't help but make his typical bad-guy dialogue sound just that bit gayer. Even his younger self can't escape that last one.
-   _Persona 5_: When going to Shinjuku for the first time, the protagonist and Ryuji meet a pair of effeminate and overly affectionate men named "Beefy Trendsetter" and "Scruffy Romantic", who surround Ryuji and comment on how attractive they find him before kidnapping him to go partying. It doesn't help that the only dialogue options are to humorously dismiss the situation while he begs you to help him.
-   The principal of H Elementary School in _Death Mark_. Though he's never physically seen in-game, his journal is found, wherein it details him torturing and raping his adopted son to death, all while blaming the child's feminine appearance and interests for driving him to do it.
-   Monsieur Scarlet from _Bug Fables_ is a flamboyant, cross-dressing, serial-killing ant who poses as a helpless traveler to lure in explorers so he can drain the life out of them. When Levi and Celia set up a sting operation with the help of Team Snakemouth, Scarlet gets _very_ touchy-feely with Levi before going in for the kill. Also, the backer who designed him had confirmed that Scarlet is married and has a husband.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Lamento - beyond the void_: Froud, the Devil of Joy. His bad ending includes strange use of tentacles.
-   Tohru from _Liar Liar 2_ slowly cuts off Tanaka's feet in a Bad End, when he almost allowed Tohru to be killed by Miho. He doesn't like the idea of Tanaka being with a girl. Tohru's behavior is downplayed by the fact almost _every_ character is an Ax-Crazy yandere.
-   Arbitro in _Togainu no Chi_, to a horrifying degree. He modifies Kau to make him his "dog", blinding him, sewing iron rings into his torso, forcing him to hold a bit in his mouth, and keeping him in leather BDSM gear at all times. By the time the story begins, Kau has been under Arbitro's control for so long he acts like an actual dog under his master.

    Web Animation 

-   It is strongly implied that Benjamin Palmer of _Broken Saints_ has a thing for little boys. Word of God practically confirms it.
-   The Death Stalker Jaune and Pyrrha run into in _RWBY: The Abridged Series_ speaks in an effeminate gay guy voice and uses stereotypical gay slang. The Grimm molests Jaune without hesitation and has no problem with tossing him deeper into a forest as part of Catfight with Pyrrha over who gets to keep him.
-   Lunch Lady Belinda from _The Most Popular Girls in School_. And Jonathan Getslinhaumer.

    Webcomics 

-   The waiter who harasses Hunter in _Suicide for Hire_. Hunter does make it clear that he understands most gay people are not like this ("I don't hate you for what you are, I hate you for who you are"), and the problem issues are probably reduced by the fact that a lot of the _straight_ characters, including Hunter himself, are either equally depraved or utterly stupid, so gay people couldn't really expect to be portrayed any differently.
-   The main character's evil gay twin Reldnahc Notsew Naitsirhc from _Sonichu_. He seems to be evil precisely because he is gay (when he's injected with a homosexuality cure, he instantly becomes a good guy) and the hero is repulsed and unnerved by his very presence. To say that the creator has issues is a massive understatement.
-   Lord CJ from _Lizzy_. His deeds range from ordering henchmen into sucking him off and breaking the sheriff by kissing him to his love for flesh-tearing hooks and rain-licking.
-   In-story, a TV personality in this strip of _Loserz_.
-   Averted in _Our Little Adventure_. The main villains Angelo and Brian are a homosexual married couple. They are both gay and evil, but they are not Depraved Homosexuals. Their relationship is actually far more caring then one would expect from any evil relationship, and does not have any overtly sexual tones to it. In fact Angelo could be made female without any other change to the comic and the comic would work perfectly well. This is one of the rare examples where the character's being evil appears to be completely independent of the fact that they are homosexual.
-   Similarly averted by Turas in _Unsounded_. Not only is his homosexuality unrelated to his villainy, he is actually one of the more reasonable and pragmatic members of the Red Berry Boys.

    Web Original 

-   _Alexander Avila_: Discussed in his "How Comedies are Changing LGBTQ+ Representation'' video. Alex notes how a lot of 20th century films would imply a character is gay in order to play said character as predatory or creepy.
-   Appears as #5 on _Cracked_'s list of "Hollywood's 6 Favorite Offensive Stereotypes".
-   Zabuza from _Naruto: The Abridged Comedy Fandub Spoof Series Show_.
-   Melvin, Florence, and Marik on _Yu-Gi-Oh! The Abridged Series_.
-   Mr. Bucket
-   _The Onion_ had a (satirical, obviously) story about how some people, who were initially tolerant of homosexuals, started to believe this trope after seeing a gay pride parade (link).
-   In _Dragon Ball Z Abridged_, Vegeta and the other henchmen get this impression from Zarbon, even though Zarbon is actually Camp Straight. On the other hand, Zarbon himself points out that his transformed self is completely different from his normal self in every way. With that taken into consideration, transformed Zarbon is this trope.
-   _Tails Series_:
    -   _Tails of Fame_ has Rast Racklyn, a homosexual Serial Rapist and Serial Killer.
    -   _Tails of the Bounty Hunter_ has Gobor Grizzer, a Dirty Cop who raped his entire football team as a teenager and as an adult, goes around raping anyone he takes a fancy to because of his position as a law enforcement officer.
-   _Internet Story_, a short suspense film on youtube by Adam Butcher possibly has this as its conclusion, but it's deliberately left ambiguous as to whether between a gay guy and a possibly homophobic guy which one was the murderer and which was the victim.
-   The _Barney Bunch_ videos. Most if not all of them depict \[\[Western Animation/Rugrats Drew Pickles\]\] as a Villain Protagonist who uses his mastadonic 300 mile long cock to either rape any man unfortunate enough to be in the same video as him or beat any woman he sees to death. Some of them often have other characters as members of The Barney Bunch, a group of homosexuals who enjoy having gay sex, regardless if the other person is willing or not.
-   Light in _Death Note: The Abridged Series (kpts4tv)_.
-   George Ridgemont from Where the Bears Are. One of Wood's admirers, George has cash flow problems because he molested 26 of his male patients while they were under anesthesia, and they are now suing him. And then he does it to Wood after bailing him out of jail.
-   _Legatum_:
    -   _Smirvlak's Stone_ has Lorko Maeliss, who only tends to rape male victims but doesn't bother showing any interest in females.
    -   _The Road to Hell..._ has Gurchun, one of the orc soldiers in Kosslivo who isn't shy about letting others know that he only rapes the male slaves in the kingdom.
-   _Pinot Noir_ has Jerrel, a backstabbing member of Big D's gang who is revealed to have raped several of his men in chapter 2.
-   On Newgrounds there's a silly adult flash game called "Fuck Mr. Hatcher", in which the main character, Dan, discovers his homosexuality and decides to explore it. Said exploration includes sneaking into his older brother's bedroom and molesting him while his brother is in a drunken stupor, and getting his friend's father (the titular Mr. Hatcher) drunk enough to make a move on him. Crudely drawn and formally obscure, the game got a Colbert Bump in 2017 when the Game Grumps decided to Let's Play it on their channel.

    Western Animation 

-   The Booty Warrior from _The Boondocks_. While it's made clear that most of the prisoners present rape each other out of sheer loneliness, The Booty Warrior was already raping men and was happy to go to prison where he could rape inmates.
-   _Family Guy_:
    -   Herbert is a creepy elderly ephebophile who resides just down the street from the Griffin family and lusts after Chris (to the point of being a Stalker with a Crush). Other episodes show him lusting after other adolescent male characters, and in one episode, the one-year-old Stewie.
    -   Stewie, despite being a massive jerkass, has his most depraved moment (burning alive two toddlers) was when he was heterosexual, and in fact was his reaction to discovering unfaithfulness in his heterosexual relationship. So his depravity seems to be independent of his sexuality.
-   _South Park_:
    
    -   Mr. Garrison goes through multiple sexualities and identities, always being some depraved version of that: Depraved Closeted Gay, Bestiality Is Depraved, Depraved Homosexual, gets a sex change and becomes Depraved Transgender, decides he/she hates men and becomes a Psycho Lesbian, etc. And then back again.
    
    **Chef:** Chil'ren, there's a big difference between gay people, and Mr. Garrison. Do you understand that?
    
    -   Mr. Slave is a subversion, at least when it comes to humans. He looks the part as he dresses in buttless leather biker wear and has extremely messed up sexual fetishes, but he's actually a nice guy who understands that his twisted perversions (namely his extreme BDSM and jamming living things up his ass) are not things to be emulated by the general populace. He's probably one of, if not _the_, most qualified and nicest teachers at the school (admittedly though that's not saying much).
    -   Played straight with Saddam Hussein. Interestingly, while Satan is gay in the show and is still the lord of evil, he is _not_ portrayed as this trope, and was actually on _the receiving end_ of domestic abuse when dating Saddam.
    -   Big Gay Al is a total aversion. Despite being an unbelievably fabulous Camp Gay stereotype he also manages to be one of the nicest characters on the show. Even among the good guy characters, he's one of the very few who never Kicks The Dog.
    -   Cartman. Jimmy put it best in "Imaginationland".
        -   And put on display in "Cartman Finds Love".
        -   Cartman also didn't mind being kissed by Michael Jackson...
-   _Total Drama_: Subverted by Bowie. He's a manipulative strategist who's willing to do a lot of shady tactics to win the game, but his attraction to men and more specifically Raj is portrayed in a positive light. The "depraved" part is downplayed too as despite his conniving ways, he's not really malicious and is very affable.
-   Aversion: Mirage from _Transformers: Energon_, who is madly in love with Big Bad Galvatron. As tfwiki.net so subtly puts it: "He transforms from a boat into a ferry''. But while Mirage is technically on the bad guy side he's part of the Quirky Miniboss Squad and isn't all that depraved or intimidating.
-   Aversion: Knock Out from _Transformers: Prime_ is incredibly gay, and even quite sadistic if his science experiments are anything to go by. He's also on the side of the Decepticons. However, it's never shown that he's evil because of his sexuality, and in the movie he defects to the Autobots and is one of the few major Decepticons to survive the series. He's even sad to see Optimus make a heroic sacrifice and seems flattered when Optimus includes him in a group-wide compliment.
    -   Word of God from the BotCon 2011 Transformers Prime Writers Panel as decreed that he is not; such designations and distinctions do not exist on Cybertron where there is no such thing as sexuality or orientation, being that they are all created from the AllSpark, not through reproduction. He just has a unique way and eccentricities about him.
-   Via Word of God for _El Tigre_, Rodolfo's ex-side kick the Titanium Titan is this as one of the reasons he wants to murder Manny is because the kid is the living embodiment of the fact that Rodolfo did not and will not return his romantic inclinations.
-   Subversion in _Moral Orel_: at first glance, Stephanie looks like she'd fit the trope perfectly. She's a lesbian, runs the only porn shop in Moralton, later hires the 11-year-old Orel to work at said porn shop, and has a piercing fetish (and possibly more). However, she's also one of the few sane ones in the entire town, probably the only one (until her father Rev. Putty starts stepping up) to give Orel _good_ advice, and deeply cares about everyone she knows, even at her detriment. (And just to be clear, Orel's only job at the porn shop was to sweep so he could earn enough money for a first aid kit.)

___