**Mr. Randall:** Sally, do you want to go back to my apartment?  
**Sally:** Ohhh, I know what's gonna happen there, uh-huh! We'll continue to kiss and touch, and kiss and touch, just like the movies — then all of a sudden the scene ends and we're in the park, eating hot dogs and laughing.

Bob and Alice are presumed to have Done The Deed <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  ...except we (the viewer) don't really know for sure if they did. This is usually portrayed in one of these ways.

1.  Alice wakes up to find herself disrobed. Freak out occurs. Bob walks in and starts gushing about what a great night they had. Bob may or may not be yanking Alice's chain (bonus points if Alice woke up next to Bob).
2.  Similar to the above, but Alice and Bob simultaneously wake up and freak. Kissing Under the Influence is usually involved.
3.  The show/book simply slathers on the innuendo and double meanings whenever a particular two characters are on screen, regardless of on-screen interaction or otherwise.
4.  There's a scene of heavily implied intimacy (often of the Intimate Healing variety) — but nothing is spoken about what "really" went on, leaving it up to the viewers if (or how much) hanky-panky transpired.
5.  Bob and Alice all of a sudden start acting oddly relaxed and casual around each other, even in intimate situations, where they would normally have gotten flustered and embarrassed before. Their friends and family may, or may not comment on it.
6.  Everyone simply assumes the couple in question did, and said couple never confirms or denies it.

A favored trope of Sit Coms — especially those that follow the _Three's Company_ template. Often exacerbated by a Shrug of God. Compare Innocent Innuendo — where the answer is a short, but sweet "They didn't". Contrast Fake-Out Make-Out — where they did (sort of), but didn't really "mean it".

See also What Did I Do Last Night? and Bedmate Reveal. Usually follows Will They or Won't They?. Can be a set-up for a Secret Relationship reveal.

Not to be confused with Did You Just Have Sex?.

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _7 Seeds_:
    -   Team Summer A keeps wondering if Ryo and Nijiko are a couple, and if they've slept with each other. Ryo eventually tells Ango they tried to have sex, but it apparently caused Nijiko so much pain, she stopped him with a punch, and they didn't try again.
    -   Lampshaded and mentioned in-universe in Mark's diary when Maria confesses her love to him. He writes that he's not gonna tell anyone reading if they did or did not sleep with each other at that moment.
-   _Aesthetica of a Rogue Hero:_ Episode ten pushes this trope to its limit. Myuu tries to share her body heat with a seemingly unconscious Akatsuki. He is apparently naked (though the shadows are specifically drawn in a way that he might still be wearing underwear). She strips down to her panties and presses herself against him. He then starts grabbing her butt, still appearing unconscious. His hand starts to pull her underwear aside, and then she arches her back and cries out in pleasure. He thanks her and says now they are both cured. Did they actually do it, or did he just manipulate her energy again?
-   The infamous "arm repair" scene from the _Android Kikaider: The Animation_ episode "The Machine That Dreams". Mitsuko probably was _just_ fixing Jiro's arm. But damn if it didn't look like she was working on something else.
-   At least twice in the _Bakemonogatari_:
    -   After confronting Kaiki in the _Nisemonogatari_ story Senjougahara pulls Araragi against her and asks him to "be gentle" with her.
    -   Near the end of _Tsukimonogatari_ on Valentine's Day, Araragi goes to visit Senjougahara to recount the events and discuss the future. After hearing that he planned to go seek Hanekawa's help she pushes him to the floor and tells him to wait until tomorrow. In both cases, it seems to be hinted that they did but left unclear.
-   _Beast Complex_: Chapter 13 has an alpaca wrestling a tigress into a position under her on a massage table, the entire thing is framed as if they're about to have sex, but the story cuts right after it, with the tigress simply stating that she can't remember what happened after it, no matter how hard she tries, only that the alpaca's fur felt impossibly fluffy.
-   _Black Lagoon_. After their return from Japan, Revy is asked, by Eda, whether she and Rock "did it" or not. Her answer is "Ain't tellin'," which might mean a lot or nothing. The clues in the story could be read in several different ways…
-   Takes place between Sato and Takagi in _Case Closed_, becoming somewhat of a Running Gag between manga chapters 806 and 867. Since Takagi (mistakenly) believes Sato might be pregnant in chapter 869… yes, they did it.
-   There are various indications that Hiro and Zero Two from _DARLING in the FRANXX_ had sex during the month-long time-skip. Canonically, however, it was never confirmed.
    -   Hiro and Zero Two share a single room, which only has a single bed. At least one scene shows them lying under a blanket together (even if they were clothed at the time).
    -   Even before the time skip, Zero Two said to Hiro that she would like to show him _what comes after the kiss_.
    -   Both are more tactile and more frequent in each other's personal space, and have less inhibitions about showing open body contact than before.
    -   Zorome accidentally enters a room when Kokoro and Mitsuru are about to get intimate with each other. He asks if it is a new trend for two people to "put their bodies together". That implies that he may have seen a similar situation with Hiro and Zero Two.
-   _Darker than Black_. In the second episode a vulnerable Chiaki is shown clinging to Li and crying, "Please… don't go," after arriving at her ransacked apartment. The next scene cuts to them lying side by side at Li's flat, where Li suggests that they run away together.
-   In _Four Knights of the Apocalypse_, a fan of Guila mentions that she's rumored to have had a brief relationship with Howzer, but that he doesn't know how true those rumors are. Guila herself is too distracted by battle to comment.
-   The "Frequency" strip<small>◊</small> from _Hetalia: Axis Powers_ has Japan find out that Greece is number one in the world when it comes to frequency of sex. Japan comments that he envies Greece's vigor as he considers himself rather lacking in that department, and Greece responds that it's best if he learns how to enjoy it more. Cut to a shot of Japan's house from the outside, with Japan screaming so loudly that another country, China, yells at him to be quiet. Cut to Japan in bed, yelling about how relieved he was that it was all a dream... and Greece sleeping right next to him. And they're both naked. Needless to say, a _lot_ of fans don't believe Japan's denial there.
-   The Major may or may not have slept with Batou near the end of the first season of _Ghost in the Shell: Stand Alone Complex_. It's another shot you might miss if you look away, as the two of them (wearing their undershirts and having had the prerequisite discussion of mnemonic devices as related to personal identity) enter the Major's room and the door closes behind them.
-   _Glass Fleet_ puts a more disturbing angle on the "wake up naked and freak out" variant. Vetti's intentions when he drugs Michel are pretty obvious, and she is appropriately traumatized when she wakes up naked in his bed, but Vetti's disgust at finding out that Michel is a woman casts some doubt on exactly what happened.
-   _Highschool of the Dead_:
    -   In episode 9 Takashi and Saeko lean towards each other just as the scene Fades to Black. The next morning, they're seen exiting the temple, fully clothed. But if you look behind Takashi, Saeko appears to be either adjusting her skirt, or her panties<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> .
    -   Saya has Bedmate Reveal with Ms. Shizuka, near the end of the _"Drifters of the Dead"_. They'd both been hallucinating that the other was someone else but, by morning, the effects had worn off. Saya wakes up to find she's lying stark naked on top of Shizuka, who's also naked. It's never said whether they actually had sex, but they agree to pretend it didn't happen, regardless.
    -   In the same episode, Saeko and Rei Miyamoto wake up embracing each other in the nude and passionately kissing, each having hallucinated that the other was Takashi. It's never explicitly stated whether they had sex either, but they also decide to pretend it didn't happen.
-   A chapter in the ero-manga _Hoshigari_ plays with this: a man wakes up in his (female) boss's bed after a night of drinking, with no memory of what had happened the previous night. Her dialogue implies that they practiced their multiplication tables. Our hero, frustrated that he got to learn how to multiply yet not remember a thing decides to go two-for-two. It later turns out that he had done nothing worse than nuzzle against his boss's bosom, but his boss had a thing for him, so she didn't mind the impromptu math lesson.
-   In chapter 48 of _Kaguya-sama: Love Is War_, Kashiwagi and her boyfriend see the Student Council for some more love advice, and because of their demeanor around each other and how they talk about their vacation together, it sounds like they've gotten more _intimate_. By the end of the chapter, neither one of them gives a straight answer, even though they both tricked the Council into thinking they were going to be a couple of Makeout Kids when they got alone time in the Student Council room. Most of the rest of the cast assumes in later chapters they have an active sex life, but the reader isn't given any confirmation one way or the other until chapter 138 answers quite plainly that they did.
-   _Macross Frontier_ Sheryl Nome and Alto Saotome in the series, complete with a bit of a Sexy Discretion Shot. This was debated heavily in some circles, but the light novel series makes it quite clear they did go for it, making it generally accepted that it did happen in the series. Though now that the movies have introduced the possibility of Alternate Continuity, there remains some room to argue.
-   _Maken-ki!_: In episode 13, Haruko is revealed to have a habit of groping other girls in her sleep, but Takaki says she went further than that _with her_. The accompanying flashback shows Takaki waking up to find Haruko asleep beneath her covers, nude from the shoulders up. Which, along with the following dialog, implies they may have had sex, though it's unconfirmed (seen at 8:06-8:23):
    
    **Takaki: (at Ms. Aki)** "She's not the only girl who was feeling energetic, this morning."  
    **Haruko: ('oh shit' expression)** "Oh, please don't..."  
    **Takaki: (naughty face)** "I woke up to an interesting surprise, myself. She did _**WAY more**_ than just grope."
    
-   _Mobile Suit Gundam Wing_ In the Radio Drama\-turned-manga _Blind Target_, as Relena is about to leave, Heero catches her arm and pulls her close; in the audio version he starts to say something before the sound of a jet engine drowns him out, while the manga makes it look like he's leaning in to kiss her. Naturally there's a debate on what exactly happened, and it shouldn't be too hard to guess which group was loudly insisting that nothing happened.
-   The last episode of the anime version of _My Wife is a High School Girl_ implies that the protagonist couple either finally did it or were rudely interrupted, but the fact is that after that scene, the kitten crawls from under Asami with her panties on its head...
-   In the _Neon Genesis Evangelion_ movie _End of Evangelion_, one of Asuka's scenes during Instrumentality shows her getting on top of Shinji. Whether or not this is just a case of various memories from other people blending in with the two of them in the midst of their conversation, or they actually did sleep together, is never made clear.
-   _Outlaw Star_:
    -   In the third episode, Hilda invites Gene up to her hotel room after a brief ruckus at Blue Heaven. After a brief cutaway scene, they're shown lounging on the couch together, with Gene being shirtless and Hilda stripped down to a sports bra and biker shorts. The question of whether, or not, they did anything is left unanswered until the flashback in episode 25. They did.
    -   This is a stark contrast to the manga version, where Gene and Hilda are explicitly shown having sex for nearly half of the third chapter. The couch scene also differs in that he's shown stripped down to his boxers (whereas the anime version shows him still wearing his pants and boots). Likewise, Hilda was in her bra and panties (not biker shorts). When she asked what their next order of business was, Gene said he wanted another round.
-   _Project Ako_: At the end of _Uncivil Wars_, A-ko slyly asks B-ko just "how far" Gail managed to get with her. B-ko quickly replies nothing happened, then smiles vaguely over her shoulder and adds, "nothing at all".
-   _Resident Evil: Damnation_: The way Ada asks Leon about when they might "carry on from where \[they\] left off that night" leaves it ambiguous as to how far they got, but it clearly hasn't resolved anything between them.
-   _Shaman King_, of all series, has one. This is how some fans interpreted Yoh and Anna spending the night at the Asakura household the night before Yoh and his friends left Tokyo to continue the Shaman Fight. Evidence from the distant future manga featuring their son, Hana and a bit of Word of God confirms that _they did_. What's more, that means Anna spent the later half of the tournament as a _**Pregnant Badass**_.
-   _The Sky Crawlers_: There are two scenes where Yûichi and Kusanagi are together that may or may not have ended in sex, but the camera always fades to black before any kind of confirmation, let alone acknowledgment afterwards.
-   _Sword Art Online_: Kirito and Asuna get a Relationship Upgrade and decide to spend the night together. Asuna starts getting undressed, but Kirito protests that he didn't mean it _that_ way, to her irritation. Next scene, Asuna is seemingly nude under the blanket, and having a conversation with a fully-clothed Kirito sitting on the bed. Something else worth noting is that in the manga version, Kirito and Asuna are naked (or at least topless/braless) in bed together. The _Sugary Days_ side-story set during their honeymoon confirms that they did indeed have sex. If that wasn't convincing enough, the first chapter and first half of the second chapter are completely dedicated to their _second_ time, during which Their First Time is explicitly referenced just to hammer it home.
-   Momo from _To Love Ru_ loves doing this to Rito, which he does not make a big deal of in any way.
-   The last time Yusei Fudo and Aki Izayoi (who has a crush on him) appeared on-screen together in _Yu-Gi-Oh! 5Ds_ before she goes to Germany to study medical school ends with the two gazing into each other eyes, Yusei said that he loves Aki's smile and the screen transition right after Aki closes her eyes and gets close to him... This is particularly frustrated for fangirls as they are Fan-Preferred Couple.

    Comic Books 

-   There is an eyebrow-raising _Spider-Man_ example from the 70's. Peter's old flame Betty Brant has had a fight with her husband, she comes to Peter for comfort. They end up kissing. Cut, next panel is "several hours later" and Peter is feeling really guilty...
-   _ElfQuest_
    -   In _Siege at Blue Mountain_ there's a scene where Leetah and Nightfall (both female) dance naked in the woods by night. It's never explicitly stated that they go any further, but given the elves' liberal attitude to sex it's far from unlikely.
    -   A later _Elf Quest_ story has a variation. One of Skywise's three girlfriends(!) wants commitment and not just meaningless sex. At the end of the story she's considering whether to join in with the other three anyway, but the ending doesn't tell us what she decides.
-   Despite Word of God proclamation saying "They Didn't" — and Rogue canonically losing her virginity to Gambit years later<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , the _X-Men_ fandom remains convinced Magneto and Rogue got together during the time they were stranded and powerless in the Savage Land. The "They didn't" side isn't helped by the fact that that storyline was followed soon after by _Age of Apocalypse_ — Where Rogue and Magneto had a child together. And _that_ was followed up by one of the first characters introduced in _Exiles_ being Magnus, another son of theirs.
    -   One of Marvel's Berkley paperback novels (which, needless to say, are not part of regular continuity) added fuel to the fire. At the end of the _Gamma Quest Trilogy_ (2000) by Greg Cox, Rogue reflects on her adventure with the Scarlet Witch, thinking how glad she is
        
        \[....\] that she could finally bury the hatchet with one of Carol Danvers' closest friends. _Still_, she thought cautiously, _now is probably not the time to mention that fling I had with Wanda's daddy down in the Savage Land...!_ (Italics in the original).
        
    -   Poor Rogue got this in an earlier issue as well — while depowered during the original Genosha storyline, there is a panel showing her at the mercy of several Genoshan guards. Even though Chris Claremont has loudly mentioned that nothing major happened, and even had Ms. Marvel explicitly say this in the next issue, many readers were still left with the impression that she was sexually assaulted or worse during her prison stay. Certainly, the genuine moral outrage of the Punch-Clock Villain who ran the Genoshan mutate program at her treatment, outright shouting at the guards, suggested that _something_ happened.
-   Don Rosa can neither confirm nor deny "what happened that night" in "The Prisoner of White Agony Creek" (Chapter 8B of _The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck_), asserting it's "for each of us duck fans to imagine in our own minds. I have my own idea, but after all, this is a Disney comic!" (It should be noted that this scene is also listed under Destructo-Nookie.)
-   _Superman_:
    -   In the Bronze Age comics, Clark's first date with Lois Lane apparently ends with them talking on the couch, having enjoyed a meal of beef bourguignon. Fanon is that "beef bourguignon" is their codeword for sex from then on. (In Post-Crisis comics, it's still Clark's favourite food, and is used as a codeword that he's fine, not a shape-shifting alien monster, and so on...)
    -   The story in question was _Who Took the Super out of Superman?_. In the original script, Elliot S! Maggin wrote the next panel after the lights went out as Lois at work the next day, singing happily to herself, wearing the same outfit she had worn the night before. A coworker pointed this out, clearly implying that Lois had gotten lucky the night before. The editor, Julius Schwartz, made Maggin change it in the published edition, so that the line instead refers to Lois wearing a different outfit, even though it's clear from the drawing that it's the same outfit.
    -   Another _Superman_ example, this time from the Iron Age. It is at the very least subtext that Clark Kent and Cat Grant were sleeping together.
-   _Runaways_ is usually pretty vague about just how far the various teenage couples are going physically. At one point Gert alludes to the fact that she and Chase share a bed, but they are never shown doing more than kissing. Another time Nico and Victor are shown sitting in bed together—fully clothed. The dialogue makes it clear that _something_ just happened between them without giving away any details. On the other hand, there was the time Chase joked that Gert's new codename should be "Power Vacuum".
-   _Zot!_: Zot and Jenny spend an entire issue discussing whether they're gonna. They apparently come to the answer "not yet", but then again the issue ends with her following Zot into his interdimensional suitcase (it's that kind of book). What they did in there is up to the reader.
-   In _All-New X-Men_ #30, X-23 wakes up at one of the Worthington family's estates the morning after a date with Teen!Warren, who returns shirtless from a morning flight. Laura is in a similar state of undress, their clothes are scattered across the room, and some of the furniture is upended. Laura remembers very little of the night before, with Warren left to fill her in. However all the reader is shown is the pair getting into a fight with some punks while dancing at a club, and Warren telling her that was only the beginning as he flies away with her. Whether or not they slept together is never even discussed, as the conversation is focused mainly on Laura asking Warren why he likes her, and touching on how badly she needed a night away from the insanity of being an X-Man. The end of the issue leaves it ambiguous whether they did indeed have sex.
    -   Issue #7 of _Wolverines_ confirms they did.
-   During the Secret Wars (2015) series "Star-Lord & Kitty Pryde", there's an implication that the Kitty Pryde in that series (from the Age of Apocalypse region) had a one night stand with Gambit the Collector, as Gambit keeps trying to get Kitty to talk about "the night they spent together in New Avalon". At one point Kitty even refers to it as "one night and a mistake", however by the end of the story Kitty reveals that the event of that night was actually Gambit stealing a sword that Kitty was keeping safe. It's never confirmed whether this happened as a regular burglary or if he stole it after they had sex.
-   In _Drowntown_, anything that might have happened between Leo and Grace occurred well before the start of the story, but when Grace is trying to kill Leo, she's none too pleased at the suggestion that they once hooked up without her remembering it.
    
    **Leo:** Guess this means it's too late to kiss and make up...  
    **Grace:** Kiss and make up? What do you mean...? Did we...? We didn't...? Jesus! That just makes me want to kill you even more!
    
-   In _Alan Ford_: issue 531 _The Baroness Von Strascen_, ends with Minuette who temporarly divorce Alan to marry the titular Baroness so that she can inherit a billion Euro and save her country (the contract neve mentioned the sex of the partner), but as her scheming cousin points out, the wedding will be considered valid only if it is consumated and if both spends two days in their hotel suite without leaving, with the Baroness' loyal secretary tasked with making sure the first condition has been respected. While the two are only shown chatting and playing chess to pass the time, no mention is made of the consumation itself, and Minuette seems to imply that it was merely business for both sides with no actual love involved. In-Universe, both Alan, Clodoveo and the ministers of the Von Strascen Barony seems to genuinely believe that they did, especially after Isolde names Minuette her heiress.

    Comic Strips 

-   For a while, Word of God from Scott Adams was that whether _Dilbert_ and Liz had done it depended entirely on whether the individual reader wanted them to have. Current Word of God is that Dilbert's still a virgin. It should be mentioned, however, that Adams once told his readers he'd draw Dilbert's tie straight after he got lucky. The tie has, in fact, been drawn straight.
-   _Luann_:
    -   TJ leaves Brad and Toni on the couch while he shops for dinner ingredients. TJ returns to find Brad emerging from the hallway, claiming to have shown Toni where the bathroom was. During dinner, we get this Freudian conversation:
        
        **TJ:** You two look all happy and grinny this evening.  
        **Brad:** That's 'cuz the risotto's so good.  
        **Toni:** Yeah, and the Brad is yummy.  
        **TJ:** The what?!  
        **Brad:** I think she meant "bread".  
        **Toni:** Wha'd I say?
        
    -   In May 2015, _something_ happened between Gunther and Tiffany between the May 13 strip and the May 14. Given the strip's history and the characters in question, nothing more than a make-out session is within the realm of possibility. But whatever it was, they couldn't even spit out how far they went to each other, in private, a couple of months later.

    Fan Works 

-   From the _My Youth Romantic Comedy Is Wrong, as I Expected_ fanfic _The End of the Affair_. Pretty much all of chapter 4 implies that Hachiman and Yukino slept together despite Yukino already being married with lines from Hachiman such as how he admires her legs, how much he enjoys her scent and how cold she was when she touched him. At the end it's revealed they only slept in the same bed and the closest they came to physical intimacy was holding hands.
-   There's a scene in _Fire and Shadow_ where Firefang comforts Mistyfoot. Firefang insists to Yellowfang that they didn't do anything, but the fact Mistyfoot later had his son shows that they _did_ do it eventually. It's just a question of if it was that scene or not.
-   _Guys Being Dudes_: It's never stated whether Spark and Arlo had sex during the first night they spent together in Team GO Rocket HQ. They discuss it and then the scene cuts to Sierra and Cliff's annoyance at the Loud of War Sierra technically okayed them using to obscure any sounds they made.
-   _Sanctuary (The Legend of Zelda)_ has an ambiguous scene where Malon offers for Sheik to sleep in her bed.

    Films — Animation 

-   _Lady and the Tramp_: Lady and Tramp have a date which ends in the two cuddling. Lady is later shown with Tramp's puppies at the end of the film. The ambiguous part is whether Lady became pregnant after their night out or after Tramp moved into her owners' house. Values Dissonance and dog biology (if Disney is following it) muddles things up.
-   In _The Lion King (1994)_, it's implied that Simba and Nala may have conceived their child off-screen during the "Can You Feel the Love Tonight" scene. _The Lion Guard_ pretty much confirms they did, as does Word of God calling it Disney's "steamiest sex scene."

    Films — Live-Action 

-   In _Back to the Future Part III_, Doc takes Clara to the dance and then takes her home. All is shown is a kiss but later Clara claims he "took advantage of her". Although, given the era the kiss might qualify as "taking advantage".
-   _Before Sunrise_, but the sequel _Before Sunset_ gave a definitive answer. They did.
-   In _A Bigger Splash_, a vacationing couple is joined at their Italian villa by the female half's ex-lover and his daughter. One day, the woman and her ex-lover venture into town to go grocery shopping, leaving the other two at the home. The boyfriend takes the daughter on a hike. When they arrive at a lake, she strips nude to sunbathe, clearly intending to entice him ... and the scene ends there. Later, her father demands to know "Did you fuck her?", but the man never gives him an answer.
-   In _Brick_, it's left to the individual viewer whether Brendan and Laura ever had sex in the final 20 minutes of the movie. Word Of God has been very confusing on this matter: the movie was written and shot to imply they do, but then edited to imply they don't.
-   In _G.B.F._, Brent and Tanner share a drunken kiss and wake up the next morning in the same bed, in their underwear, but neither of them remembers if they actually had sex or if they just passed out. The audience never finds out either.
-   _Ghostbusters (1984)_: It's never been spelled out whether or not the possessed Dana (The Gatekeeper) and Lewis (The Keymaster) actually did the deed. A DVD extra scene has Louis asking Dana if they did. She denies it just a _little_ too strongly.
    -   Considering the names "Keymaster" and "Gatekeeper," how Gozer couldn't be summoned until they met, and how they wake up lying next to one another in a bed before the final battle, one can't be faulted for assuming they did.
-   _I Confess_: It's never made clear just what happened between Michael and Ruth in that gazebo during the storm, although just the fact that it looked suggestive sets the whole plot in motion. Presumably, they couldn't say anything more because the censors at the time were already offended enough by the idea of a married woman and a priest being in love.
-   _In a World…_: Dani and the Irishman. She admits that they made out for twenty minutes, then says that she refused to "let him put the tip in." How far they _did_ get is left to viewer interpretation, but considering that she has a vested interest in downplaying what happened....
-   A common situation with Daniel Craig's James Bond:
    -   _Skyfall_. Bond Girl Eve gives the towel-clad Bond a sexy shave ... and the scene cuts right there. Not even a kiss. Yet a few minutes later, they're roaming about a lavish casino, complimenting each other on how good they look and flirtatiously commenting that "it's amazing what you can do with an extra pair of hands". It's hard to believe that Bond wouldn't have bedded this beautiful woman, but given that Eve turned out to be Moneypenny, it's obvious why it was left ambiguous.
    -   Happens again in _Spectre_. When Moneypenny arrives at Bond's apartment, he's fully dressed. After she leaves, we see that he's now wearing a robe.
-   In _Let Me In_. After Owen accepts that Abby is a vampire and still loves her, he sneaks out of his mother's apartment one night to spend the night at Abby's apartment. It is never explained what they did that night. Given that the romance between the two is portrayed as Puppy Love, it is not very likely that it has come to sexual intercourse. On the other hand, many fans are convinced that it is only a matter of time before the two take this step in their love. Especially since the film shows clearly enough that both are on the verge of sexual awakening.
-   _The Perks of Being a Wallflower_: Sam and Charlie in the book come close to having sex, but buried flashbacks to Charlie being molested stop him. In the movie, the flashbacks occur, but Charlie brushes them off, and the scene closes with them passionately kissing, leaving it ambiguous if they had sex or not.
-   In _The Phantom of the Opera (2004)_, Christine is wearing her stockings when she's put to bed at the end of "The Music of the Night", but they are noticeably missing when she wakes up. Continuity error or something more? And it's more like "Did _He_ or Didn't He?" here. Given Christine's unconscious/entranced state, this could only be considered rape. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   A major point of confusion for Tracy & Mike's drunken evening from Tracy's point of view (she remembers little) in _The Philadelphia Story_. Mike is the only one completely privy to events — all we see is a kiss, then they run to the pool hand in hand and later return wearing robes, Mike singing with Tracy in his arms. Mike confirms the innocence of the swim later (and satisfies the censors).
-   This argument in _Raiders of the Lost Ark_ implies it, but by _Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull_, they must _have_ at some point.
    
    **Indy:** I never meant to hurt you.  
    **Marion:** I was a child. I was in love. It was wrong and you knew it!  
    **Indy:** You knew what you were doing.  
    **Marion:** _Now I_ do!
    
-   In a hotel scene in _Spider-Man: Far From Home_, Peter passes Ned, who is wearing a bathrobe, and they stop to talk. Then Ned's new girlfriend, Betty, calls to him from another room, and he says, "Coming, sweetie!" and leaves to join her. He isn't seen for several scenes after this.
-   Of all things, the _two male leads_ in _Superbad_, after they fall asleep drunk together on the floor. The commentary actually brings it up, citing a review where they were criticized for not taking the scene to its obvious conclusion.
-   In _Weird Science_, Lisa offers herself sexually to Gary after a night out at a blues bar. The next morning, Gary wakes up wearing Lisa's panties and she complains to him that he passed out before she could finish her "gymnastics routine." It's left deliberately unclear what happened between the two of them.
-   In _The Whole Ten Yards_, Bruce Willis and Matthew Perry wake up in motel bed together. Bruce is nonchalantly naked and Matthew says his butt hurts. Bruce says he "fell down the stairs", but when Matthew looks outside, there are no stairs anywhere!
-   _Wonder Woman_: It is heavily implied that Steve and Diana did it after the Veld liberation party, but nothing is shown nor do they comment on it in the following scenes.
-   In _X-Men: First Class_ Mystique attempts to seduce Magneto, but is rejected until she turns into her true mutant form and they share an intimate moment and a kiss. The scene cuts to Mystique later appearing before Xavier in the kitchen, naked and without her robe, making it unclear if anything happened between them or not.

    Literature 

-   In _A Brother's Price_, Eldest Whistler is visibly pregnant at the end of the novel, and it is speculated upon how long she has been, as if the child is born early, this could be proof of the relatives of her new husband not having been very good at chaperoning him. The premarital "dalliance" is mentioned by someone in the novel, though how far it went is left to the reader's imagination.
-   Katniss uses this trope to her advantage in Catching Fire. Peeta sleeps in her bed to help her cope with her nightmares but it's platonic (at least on the physical level). When Effie Trinket hints to Katniss that it's inappropriate she hopes President Snow will hear about it and think they're doing more than just sleeping.
    -   People are still debating whether or not Katniss and Peeta have sex at the end of "Mockingjay". The text mentions them kissing, Katniss being overcome with passion for him and then skips to a conversation happening "after". Can be interpreted as "after we finished kissing" or "after we had sex". It has by some become known as _the sex scene that's so discreet it left many wondering if they had sex at all_.
-   In _City of Ashes_, Alec has a key to Magnus's apartment, but given his inexperience and secretive nature, it's left open as to just what happens between them. But by _City of Lost Souls_, it's made clear that they do.
-   In _Distortionverse Chapter 5 — Rumori di Fondo_, after Michelle enters François's room in tears and the two of them embrace, he throws a die to decide whether to exploit the situation or not (Michelle being his own Love Interest). The result of the die is not shown and the scene fades out, leaving the reader unaware if they actually had sex or not.
    
    **François:** She's embracing me tightly, pain is flowing free from her beautiful blue eyes. Oh my God, she's so frail right now, it would be so easy for me... I take the die, throw it, take it back before it falls.  
    Ah, is this so? Is _this_ the result?
    
-   _Doctor Who_ Expanded Universe:
    -   Subverted in the novel _Death and Diplomacy_. Benny and Jason get drunk and go to bed together; the narrator talks about how things are usually affable and casual the morning after a drunken hook-up because both parties subliminally know they fell asleep before anything serious could happen. In this case, however, those subliminals are featured using words like "repeated," "volcanic," and "multiple," so breakfast is tense and miserable.
    -   An example of the first variety occurs in the Eighth Doctor novel _The Taint_, although the reader knows exactly what went on — Sam got a little drunk and a whole lot concussed, and Fitz put her to bed, undressed her down to her underwear, and got in bed with her naked, and in the morning claimed they had wild, amazing sex and is very hurt that she doesn't even remember. Somehow, she eventually forgives him.
    -   In the epilogue of _The Dying Days_, Benny told the Eighth Doctor (whom she'd only just met) that before he left there was something she needed to do. Before he could ask what, she "grabbed the lapels of his frock coat, kissed him square on the mouth and pushed him down hard onto the bed" and...? There's a Shrug of God in the author's notes, and that's probably as close as it's going to get with the Doctor.
        -   In the Big Finish audio _The Company of Friends: Benny's Story_ (technically a sequel to this), Benny narrates that "At the end of that \[The Dying Days\] he dropped me off back at my native time zone, and we..._ahem_ shook hands, and said goodbye".
    -   Yet another example: in _The Gallifrey Chronicles_, Fitz and Trix have an intimate moment, after which they're both naked and he feels the need to have a smoke. Yet Trix says later on that they haven't had sex.
-   _The Great Gatsby_ has an odd scene early on where after getting drunk at a party, Nick wakes up in the bedroom of one of the guests and the guy is in his underwear. The scene then cuts to Nick at the train station. The whole thing reads like a Sexy Discretion Shot, especially because Nick come across as Ambiguously Gay.
-   _His Dark Materials_: It probably didn't go as far as actual sex, but Phillip Pullman has been very, very vague about what Will and Lyra actually _did_ at the end of _The Amber Spyglass_. Maybe because they're _twelve years old_.
    -   This one has a lot more problems than just the text itself. No other interpretation seems to make sense. Add to that the massive amounts of phallic and vaginal imagery throughout the books, the fact that now Will is an adult the only thing that breaks the knife is an image of Lyra instead of his mother... Likely the only reason Pullman won't confirm this is because he knows he would be crucified for their age (which is arguably closer to 14, but that's digressing).
        -   In _The Secret Commonwealth_, however, Lyra says that she and Will didn't have sex.
-   _So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish_ points out three previous occasions in _The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy_ saga on which Arthur Dent may have had sex (with Trillian<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , with a Krikkiter woman, and with Mella the Golgofrinchan) before telling us to mind our own business. He does definitely do it with Fenchurch, though.
    
    "Does he not, to put it in a nutshell, fuck?"
    
-   In _Everworld,_ David is in a terribly dysfunctional relationship with Senna, a Hot Witch and master of More than Mind Control. In the third book the other characters find that the two shared a room overnight, with David answering the door shirtless. Later David admits that _he_ isn't even sure if they slept together—he thought they were going to, but...
-   In the novel _Gone with the Wind_, after Bonnie Blue is killed, Rhett goes into a suicidal tailspin of grief... until Melanie manages to get him to let her in where he's sitting with the body, and then nothing is heard from them for hours...until Melanie comes out and says that Rhett's OK with the funeral taking place. Margaret Mitchell was asked about what they did, and her response was "Oh, dear, even the most virtuous women must be careful..." but did not directly deny or confirm the fans' speculation.
    -   And even though the Wilkeses were supposed to have a Sexless Marriage because another pregnancy would probably kill Melanie, she turned up pregnant later in the book...
-   Harry and Ginny were said to take a lot of trips to "secluded areas of the grounds" during _Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince_. Justified in that even if they had done it, which is pretty likely since they're both hormonal teenagers and Ginny jokingly spreads rumors about Harry's secret tattoos, Rowling couldn't have written about it because of Moral Guardians.
    -   Possibly ruled out by sequel _The Deathly Hallows_, which suggests her birthday kiss to him is as intense as it's ever got between them. (And Word of God suggests Harry is "inexperienced".) Of course, by the Distant Epilogue they have three kids.
    -   The Movie Harry practically jumps out of his skin when Ron asks if he and Ginny "did it". (All they did was hide a book... apparently.) There might even be one between Harry and Hermione: After they've spent a considerable time alone together, aware they could die any day and probably won't get many opportunities, Ron asks Hermione if she knows Harry talks in his sleep and she replies "No" a _bit_ too forcefully. (JK Rowling admits they shared some "charged moments" and "it could have gone that way" but seems to largely come down on the side of "They didn't.")
-   In _The Heroes of Olympus_, Percy and Annabeth are snuggling in the lower decks of a ship as a chapter ends. The next morning, the rest of the crew finds them asleep there. The series is too close to its child-friendly _Percy Jackson and the Olympians_ roots to confirm if anything happened, but every member of the crew certainly seems to think they did.
-   There's a scene late in _Spellbinder_ where Eric and Thea end up falling into each other arms in a secluded spot near the desert after declaring their love for each other. It's mentioned that "some time" passes before the action picks up again and they're lying in each other's arms by this point; although it's never made explicitly clear that anything sexual happened, it's quite easy to interpret it this way.
-   In _The Sweet Far Thing_, with Kartik and Gemma. When asked if it happened, the author said it's up to interpretation.
-   In the _Tales of Dunk and Egg_ story _The Sworn Sword_, Dunk has Belligerent Sexual Tension with Lady Rohanne Webber. Dunk doesn't get the girl, as she ends up having to marry Dunk's employer in order to seal a peace agreement. At the end of the story, Dunk parts ways with Lady Webber, taking a kiss and cutting a lock of her hair. In the next scene, Dunk is on the road again, and there's some debate among fans as to whether the hair cutting is just a metaphor for sex or a Sexy Discretion Shot, although for what it's worth, Martin is not known for Discretion Shots.
-   In the _Temeraire_ novel, _Crucible of Gold_, Laurence assumes Emily Roland and Demane snuck off together, coming back just in time to get caught up in a mutiny attempt. Roland said that she and Demane were actually exploring the island and came across a wrecked pirate ship that ended up saving their bacon. She never specifically denies that she and Demane actually did anything _else_, and bluntly admits she wouldn't have minded - much to the dismay of officer and gentleman Laurence, who still hadn't gotten used to the far more sexually liberal ways of the Aviator Corps.

    Live-Action TV 

-   The fourth season of _Arrested Development_ has a variation with Tony Wonder and Gob. The series makes it clear that _something_ happened, but once you realize that it's next to impossible for two men to have sex with each other while believing the other to be a woman, it raises the question of how far they went.
-   Played with in series two of _Ashes to Ashes (2008)_. Alex and Gene declare they are "going home" at exactly the same time then slipping off and becoming conspicuous by their absence, causing an awkward silence and much exchanging of looks between CID. Cut to them walking separate ways to a pre-determined meeting point looking rather distracted. Add to that some Accidental Innuendo and most of the fandom groaned in frustration when it turned out they were only bugging The Dragon's office. They do, however fall asleep together on Gene's desk and have a scene the next morning in front of the rest of the team who don't know this is what they were doing.
-   _Babylon 5_
    -   Ivanova and Talia might have hooked up in Talia's last episode; the writers spent the whole episode ratcheting up the Unresolved Sexual Tension, the two definitely shared a bed that night, and Talia casually reached across the bed at one point in the middle of the night (only to find that Ivanova wasn't there any more). And Ivanova admitted in a later episode that she probably loved Talia. But with Talia's sudden departure, it was never clearly resolved exactly how far things had gone.
    -   Several of Sheridan and Delenn's off-screen encounters, particularly the 'problem solver' scene, fit into this category.
-   Viewers never do find out whether _Battlestar Galactica (2003)_'s Roslin and Adama actually did it on New Caprica or not. Fanfic, of course, says they did. And then describes how. In graphic detail.
-   In the _Blake's 7_ episode "Sand", Del Tarrant and Servalan are trapped by the monster of the week and apparently doomed. There is a heavy hint that they spent some time sweetening each other's final hour before stumbling upon a way of escape.
-   The second-to-last _Bones_ episode of season 6 does this for Booth and Brennan. They did.
-   _The Brady Bunch_: Twice, with Greg:
    -   In Season 4's "Greg's Triangle", where he is clearly starry-eyed and gaga over Jennifer Nichols. It fits Example 4 — heavily implied intimacy, and it is never stated outright whether they did it. But the clues are there: Greg getting very close to Jennifer at the beach; Greg asking to bring Jennifer over to meet his folks; and Mike having a candid talk with Greg, cautioning him on whether she really is "the one."
    -   Season 5's "Getting Greg's Goat": All sorts of misunderstandings happen, and at one point several of the Bradys — at least Mike, and later Peter and Bobby — conclude that the fracas going on was Greg sleeping with a girl. Viewers were in the know all along: Greg was keeping the rival high school's goat in his room and was trying to keep it under wraps.
-   _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_:
    -   Giles and Joyce Summers are implied to have sex in "Band Candy". It is confirmed in "Earshot".
    -   In the final episode of Season 7, on the night before the big showdown with the First Evil, Buffy and Spike spend the night together in Spike's corner of the basement, and they are seen cuddling in bed. However, the scene echoes an episode not long before in which they were cuddling in bed and it was explicitly stated that nothing else happened, so it's never clear whether they had sex or not. When asked, Joss Whedon refused to confirm or deny.
    -   In a very late episode, a freshly introduced character is trying to get her head wrapped around the team's past relationships, and blurts out, "Have any of you _not_ slept together?!" Xander and Spike (two male characters who nearly never interact except to bicker and snipe, but also spent several months living in a one-room basement apartment) look at each other... and the camera cuts away before they have a chance to speak up. The fandom goes crazy speculating. Joss does this a lot.
    -   For some time, due to Executive Meddling, Willow and Tara's relationship could not be portrayed openly, but it's implied that Willow and Tara shared either their First Kiss or Their First Time in "The I in Team". Buffy returns to her dorm the morning after she's slept with Riley for the first time, to find the dorm empty and the bed still made. Willow then enters, having spent the night "casting spells" with Tara. Willow is holding a crystal which she'd earlier rejected as a gift from Tara because it was a rare family heirloom, implying that she's now accepted it as a lover's token. The following episode has one of the more famous spellcasting = lesbian love conversations in reference to what happened the previous night.
    -   Faith got this a couple of times. When she tries to seduce Angel in "Enemies", Buffy fears they did do the deed, though it's later revealed in the _Angel_ spin-off that they didn't. Likewise in Season 7 there's a scene where Buffy catches Faith sharing a smoke with a shirtless Spike making audiences wonder if they slept together. This is Jossed in the comics when Faith gripes that she's meant to be a slut when everyone but her has slept with Spike.
    -   In "Him", Buffy, under a love spell, ends up making out with the student R.J. in an empty classroom and when Xander catch them, she's on top of him but they are both still dressed. Fans debate whether they were interrupted before the act or if they were caught mid-coitus.
-   In the "Toni's Boys" episode of _Charlie's Angels_, it's implied that Kris Munroe and male Angle Bob Sorenson have been sleeping together when they spend a weekend together. Later, when Bob has his shirt off in this scene it is implied that Kris had seen him completely naked, based on the look on her face.
-   _Cheers_ subverted the trope when with Sam and Rebecca. When they finally did it, they kept it between the two of them. When Sam tried to stand up for Rebecca later, by stating how good she was in bed (this _is_ Sam we're talking about), none of the regulars bought it... because they had kept it to themselves (something totally counter to Sam's The Casanova nature and, to be fair, prior actions).
-   _Darkly_ subverted with Peter and Darcy on _Degrassi: The Next Generation_... Unless sex is a part of the character's immediate plot, two characters in a relationship are rarely confirmed to have sex. Often it's only confirmed much later if they did or didn't by a throwaway piece of dialog when sex is a part of the plot. Spinner having sex with Manny is only confirmed in Season 5 (when Spinner becomes a virgin again as part of Friendship Club), and Ellie's not having sex with Sean is confirmed in Season 6 (when she tells Ashley she's a virgin afraid to be seen as a kid with her older more experienced boyfriend).
-   _CSI_ fans have speculated for years over whether Grissom and Lady Heather did anything in "Lady Heather's Box". He did spend the night at her place, but whether or not they "did" anything was left ambiguous.
-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   Ian and Barbara in "The Romans" — the Doctor's gone off with Vicki, they've got the villa to themselves, and they're clearly very comfortable around each other.
    -   Steven and Anne in "The Massacre". They have a little romance and then spend the night together in Preslin's shop over the gap between episodes. When Steven is forced to abandon Anne, he has a small breakdown and storms out of the TARDIS to live the rest of his life wherever the Doctor landed, although he changes his mind soon after. When (in the 20th Century) Steven meets a girl with the same surname as Anne (Dodo Chaplet, who becomes the Doctor's new travelling companion) he immediately assumes she's Anne's descendant even though, as a woman in the Renaissance, Anne wouldn't have given her surname to her child unless the child was born out of wedlock — something rare enough that Steven would have to have a pretty good reason to assume it was the case.
    -   Jamie and Victoria in "Fury From the Deep". In addition to the slow burn Ship Tease they've had from the start, Victoria makes up her mind to leave the crew. Jamie seems hurt by this, but they agree to spend one more night together in safety before Jamie and the Doctor leave.
    -   The Doctor and Romana have a ton of UST, flirt obviously and are travelling together for a very long time. In "Logopolis", the Doctor's particularly distraught about jettisoning Romana's bedroom — a site of happy memories?
    -   The Tenth Doctor and Rose Tyler, particularly in "New Earth". When Cassandra possesses the Doctor's body temporarily, she remarks that there are many "parts" that are "hardly used". HARDLY used, not NEVER. And considering Rose is the only person who's really spent time with Ten so far....
    -   In "The Girl in the Fireplace", Madame de Pompadour, who's flirting with Ten, invites the latter to "dance". The scene cuts to Mickey and Rose and when the Doctor comes back, his outfit is completely wasted.
    -   River Song and the Doctor. On her first appearance, she's met the Doctor before, but he hadn't met her (that's time travel for you); she has her own sonic screwdriver, knows how to pilot the TARDIS (possibly better than the Doctor, taught by the TARDIS itself), can write Ancient High Gallifreyan, and calls the Doctor "sweetie". Whether or not they're married (they are) becomes a running joke. On one hand, the two kiss several times on screen, he refers to himself as "married" and to her as "my wife" several times throughout, and their Unresolved Sexual Tension is _massive_ — but they seem to start properly dating after their marriage and how far they went is left up to the viewers. Also, there's this (Steven Moffat is firmly on the "they did" camp):
        
        **Dorium:** And Doctor Song? In prison all her days?  
        **The Doctor:** Her days, yes. Her nights... well, that's between her and me, eh?
        
-   In an episode of _Due South_, Fraser and Frannie (RayV's sister) are implied to have had a one-night stand. Whether they've done it or not is never clarified, and after that episode, it was never referenced again.
-   The ending of an _ER_ episode has Neela and Ray (who had considerable Unresolved Sexual Tension at this point) going out for drinks. In the next episode, she is clearly trying to avoid him and they're both very uncomfortable when they do run into each other, leaving viewers to speculate that they'd slept together and now couldn't handle it. It turns out they hadn't.
-   Suchi and Arvin in the Indian series _The Family Man_ - to the point that the question "What happened at Lonavala" has become memetic. As of the end of Season 2 the viewers still don't have an answer.
-   Occurs in the _Farscape_ episode "A Human Reaction". John and Aeryn kiss and the scene cuts to them both awake and dressed the next day, never directly acknowledging what happened. In the extended cut of the episode included in the DVD (and aired on TV in Europe and Australia), there is a morning after scene with Aeryn wearing Crichton's clothes and Crichton wearing nothing but the bedsheets strongly implying that they did. A conversation between John and Aeryn in Season 2 confirms that they did for the viewers who saw the edited version of "A Human Reaction".
-   Subverted in _General Hospital_, in which a hungover Dillon woke up in bed with Sage, who insisted that they had slept together. He didn't believe it for a second.
-   In _Green Wing_ there's Boyce and Alan who wake up together, naked in bed and the former had to borrow the latter's underwear. As the latter doesn't want to talk about the situation as a whole it's ambiguous if they had sex or if he simply doesn't want to talk about the fact they got drunk and ended up naked together non-sexually.
-   _Gunsmoke:_ For 20 seasons they left the question of whether or not Marshal Dillon was doing Miss Kitty entirely unresolved.
-   In _Home Improvement_, Tim finds out that Heidi stayed overnight at Al's place and he spends the episode being obsessed with finding out whether they did it or not. Turns out Heidi was just crashing at Al's place due to marital issues with her husband.
-   _House_:
    -   Once in "Top Secret", Cameron openly admits to Foreman that she and Chase snuck away to have sex when they were supposed to be working, but he doesn't believe her, laughingly stating that "House would do Wilson before you'd do Chase".
    -   Second is after the kiss between House and Cuddy he makes his usual crude remarks to his team, nicely throwing them off the trail, but when he says just about the same thing to Wilson, Wilson believes him.
    -   In another instance, for a long time it was heavily implied that House and Cuddy had a one-night-stand years before the start of the series. That wasn't confirmed until later seasons.
-   In one episode of _How I Met Your Mother_, Ted leaves it ambiguous to everyone (and especially to Barney) if he just has had a threesome or not.
-   In one _Inspector Morse_ episode, it's hinted that Morse may have spent the night with Emma Pickford when he arrives at the police station the next morning in an unnaturally good mood... and his leitmotif is played in a major key, for the first time in five years.
-   Happens in the end of the first season of _The IT Crowd_ after a party. First Jen gets a with Moss, Roy with Moss's psychiatrist, who looks like his mother... and then Reynholm and Richmond with each other.
-   _It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia_:
    -   In the first episode, Dennis gets blackout drunk and wakes up in bed with a guy. Then another guy comes out of the bathroom and asks him if his ass hurts. We don't _know_, but we can guess.
    -   In a season 10 episode, Charlie and Dee start making out, and the scene ends. Cue them acting awkward around each other the next morning.
-   Half the plot of one episode of _Jack of All Trades_ revolves around the audience and two main characters wondering, after waking up naked together. They didn't. They were served mind-controlling wine by Napoleon, who simply told them strip, run through the streets, and go straight to sleep in bed.
-   _Law & Order_:
    -   Olivet and Logan. She treated him after Sgt. Greevey's death and the two became friends, but whether or not their relationship went further was left ambiguous. Fast-forward about sixteen years, to Season 18, and Cutter (using knowledge gained from McCoy) attempts to discredit Olivet on the stand by bringing up that she slept with a detective after the loss of his partner. Olivet confirms the affair took place but adds that she stopped treating him once the romantic relationship began.
    -   It was infamously heavily implied that Jack McCoy and Claire Kincaid were sleeping together — even Lampshading it in McCoy's first episode (Jack confesses that he's slept with three of his female assistants, marrying two of them. Claire discovers that he's only had the three female assistants). Their relationship was eventually confirmed years after Jill Hennessey, Claire's actress, left the show; the circumstances an attorney is basically using Claire's relationship with Jack to discredit both him and Briscoe by bringing up the car accident that Claire died in make Jack less than pleased about it being brought up. The show seemed to be trying to pull the same trick with Mike Cutter and Connie Rubirosa, but the relationship never got past the UST stage before the show was cancelled.
-   Subverted in _Married... with Children_. A hungover Marcy wakes up next to BUD, of all people, sees him covered with her lipstick, and they both assume the worst. Little do they know that they've been set up by Kelly, who's playing a trick on Bud. It's understandable that Marcy might not remember what happened, given that she was drunk, but Bud was sober — what's HIS excuse?
    -   Probably that he didn't want it to look like he couldn't even hook up with a drunk woman, but he also wouldn't want to admit that the _best_ he could get was Marcy.
-   _M\*A\*S\*H_: Hawkeye and Margaret in the episode "Comrades In Arms". Lampshaded in an earlier episode where Hawkeye, Margaret and Klinger go to an aid station in the middle of artillery fire. Trapper and Frank each suspect that Hawkeye and Margaret did. They both assure that they didn't.
    
    **Hawkeye:** (_covering Margaret with the same blanket he's in_) I just want you to know that chivalry isn't dead. It's just been replaced by exhaustion.
    
-   _The Nanny_:
    -   In "Strange Bedfellows", Fran Fine comes home from a party drunk and stumbles into Maxwell Sheffield's room without realising it. He is doped up on cold meds, so in the morning, neither can recall what happened. In the end, it's implied that they did, since Maxwell had previously stated that he always sings 'Georgie Girl' afterwards and Fran had said that her ears always itch. They each realize this at the same moment.
    -   In "Honeymoon's Overboard", the night after Fran and Maxwell's wedding, Niles comes downstairs hungover, saying to Sylvia "I had the strangest nightmare that Santa Claus was trying to have his way with me.". Then, C.C. Babcock comes downstairs wearing a red robe. Horrified by the possibility that they had, they agree to not speak of it again.
-   _NCIS_:
    -   The episode "Under Covers" toys with this; McGee is clearly left wondering about Tony and Ziva after a pair of FBI agents suggest the two really had sex with each other to maintain their cover during the episode's operation. (Various bits of dialogue between Tony and Ziva later in the series make it clear that they didn't.)
    -   Season 7's "Jetlag" did it again, with the same characters.
    -   The season 16 Christmas episode "What Child is This?" featured Gibbs and Jack Sloane getting _very_ cosy, complete with Gibbs kissing her hair at the end. From that point on the two become significantly more relaxed around each other, acting more like a romantic couple than anything else — the soft touches, confidential chats, the way they confide in each other, and understated-but-still-present displays of physical affection all hint at some sort of offscreen relationship upgrade, but nothing is ever stated outright. In Maria Bello's final episode as a regular, "True Believer", Jack decides to stay in Afghanistan to do humanitarian work, and Gibbs sweetly kisses her goodbye mid-sentence with a kiss that _very_ much reads as if it isn't the first time they'd done it — but there is _still_ no clarification as to whether they'd very quietly been in a romantic relationship for some time, or if the two were just finally acknowledging the UST between them that had been there from the start. Even Maria lampshaded and name-dropped the trope in her farewell post on Instagram. Fortunately, as it wasn't the end of the series, it's still _possible_ the two could reunite at some point and finally clear things up for the audience.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   _The Office (US)_ has had a few of these. In the episode "Business Trip", Michael and a concierge have a good time at a bar together and later on, we see him leaving what appears to be her hotel room as she hands him his shoes. Michael is visibly disappointed by whatever happened, which suggests that it was either a make-out session that didn't go all the way or sex without cuddling. The Word of God on this is something along the lines of "we wrote it as if they had sex, but we still kept it ambiguous."
-   Played for Laughs in the third season of _Primeval_. Connor is in love with Abby, and has lived with her for a while without them being a real couple. In one episode, Abby receives a visit from a handsome, well-trained young man who is dressed only with a towel over his waist. Connor wonders if Abby is in love with this man and they both had sex before. As it turns out, they clearly didn't have it. This man is Abby's younger brother. You can literally look at Connor's friends and relief when he learns how they both relate to each other.
-   There's actually a whole forum debating whether Kara slept with Lex in _Smallville_.
-   In the _Star Trek: The Next Generation_ episode "First Contact", the authorities on Malcor III have Riker (who is disguised as a Malcorian) confined to his hospital room upon suspicion that he's an alien. A Malcorian nurse named Lanel offers to help him escape if he'll do the deed with her: "I've always wanted to make love with an alien," she says. The very next scene has Riker and Lanel creeping down a corridor, leading more than a few viewers to ask DTODT? (Well, he got out somehow!)
-   _Star Trek: Voyager_: The Emergency Medical Hologram boasts of having had sexual relations in "Message in a Bottle". Was it with Denara Pel in "Lifesigns", or the holodeck wife he created in "Real Life"? We never find out.
-   _Three's Company_: After a night of drinking, Mr. Roper wakes up in bed with Jack. Despite Jack's assurances that nothing happened, Roper acts like he's committed some sort of mortal sin. Jack jumps on the grenade and confesses that he's not gay to try and snap him out of it. Roper still doesn't buy it, but respects the fact that Jack was willing to risk getting thrown out of the apartment just to spare his feelings.
-   _The White Lotus_:
    -   It's intentionally left ambiguous whether or not Harper slept with Cameron in the penultimate episode. She claims all they did was kiss and Word of God agrees with her, but there's a window of time that's unaccounted for.
    -   In turn, it's also ambiguous if Harper's husband Ethan slept with Cameron's wife Daphne in retaliation in the season finale. We see the two of them walking up to a deserted area of the resort together and her giving him suggestive looks, but that's it.
-   _Wings_: In one episode the entire airport — Alex included — wants to know if Joe slept with Alex after he drove her home one night. In the end he finally tells Alex that nothing happened.
-   _The X-Files_ episode teaser "all things" does this; the scene opens to find Scully dressing in Mulder's bathroom and pulls back to find Mulder seemingly naked in his bed. Debate still rages among fans over whether or not anything happened.
-   _The Young and the Restless_
    -   Used when Brittany climbs into bed with a drunken Billy. When he wakes up, he thinks that they had sex (they hadn't) and breaks up with his girlfriend Mac out of guilt. He later reconciles with Brittany and sleeps with her for real, still believing that they had already had sex.
    -   Also happens more recently, when Chloe tries to make Cane think that her baby is his by telling him they had sex when he was drunk. This lie leads to all kinds of things coming out, since the real father is Cane's half-brother, except... he isn't.
    -   Happens to poor Cane again when he has drinks with a co-worker after work. He wakes up naked in his bed and finds her earring wrapped up in the sheets. When he queries her about it, she claims it came off as she was putting him to bed, but he is clearly worried about the possibility that they had sex, as he's Happily Married. Given the impression that she deliberately got him drunk as well as that she's intentionally being vague about what happened, this might be approaching Double Standard Rape: Female on Male territory.
-   In _The Young Ones_ episode "Time", Rick wakes up next to a girl and immediately assumes that he and she must have "done it", even though he can't remember. He's such a repulsive character that it's not a huge surprise when she reveals that she just crashed out in his bed.

    Music 

-   Harry Chapin's "Sequel": "Don't ask me if I made love to her / Or which one of us started to cry / Don't ask me why she wouldn't take the money that I left / If I answered at all, I'd lie."

    Theatre 

-   In _Dear Evan Hansen_, at one point Zoe and Evan are home alone and the scene ends with them passionately kissing on his bed. It's not clear if anything escalates past kissing.
-   Ophelia's speech in _Hamlet_ after her Sanity Slippage strongly implies that Hamlet had previously had sex with her and promised to marry her. The 1996 film adaptation makes this explicit, showing a flashback to them in bed together during the scene.
-   Many productions of _Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat_ handle the end of Joseph's encounter with Mrs. Potiphar this way, even though the source material makes it clear that they didn't. This includes the 1999 filmed version, where the seduction scene ends with Mrs. Potiphar pinning Joseph onto his back on her couch with her foot, and when we return to them, she's sitting on the couch, while Joseph sits up from having apparently been lying with his head in her lap.
-   The lights go out at the end of "The Music of the Night" number in _The Phantom of the Opera_, leading to endless fan speculation about whether or not Christine and the Phantom had sex (or more accurately, given her entranced/unconscious state, he raped her). The 2004 film speculation is even more rampant, given that Christine's stockings are noticeably missing when she wakes up. Continuity error or something more?
    -   The original script of the movie leaves no doubt, as the Phantom is seen _getting into bed_ with the unconscious Christine and the scene fading out as the song ends.

    Video Games 

-   _Blaze Union_ plays on the fourth variation. Route A is divided down the middle by a Time Skip, and at the end of the revolution, Gulcasa and Nessiah are suddenly inseparable and very affectionate with each other with no explanation given as to how this happened. At the end of the penultimate battlefield, there's an intense scene between them with very strong Mate or Die undertones. A teammate spying on them takes it up with Gulcasa later, at which point the narrative starts dovetailing with the archetypal Coming-Out Story. The actual debated issue is Gulcasa's demonhood rather than his sexuality, probably because this is after all a same-sex couple, but it's implied that he and Nessiah started sleeping together sometime during the timeskip. According to _Yggdra Unison_, which takes place three years after _Blaze Union_, Gulcasa is no longer a virgin. The incidents that _Blaze Union_ depicts point to Nessiah as the likeliest culprit, although Word of God is mum on the issue so far.
-   Of the available romances available to the player in _Dragon Age: Inquisition_ (not counting Harding), Solas and Josephine Montilyet are the only two that don't feature a sex scene. According to Word of God, it's up to the player to decide how physical their character's relationship with Josephine is (though an available dialogue in What Pride Had Wrought suggests they are indeed intimate offscreen). Solas, on the other hand, confirms in _Trespasser_ that he didn't want to lay with the Inquisitor while he was still withholding his true identity.
-   _Final Fantasy VII_:
    -   Shortly before entering the Final Dungeon, the party disbands so that its members can spend the last days before the apocalypse with their families before returning (or simply stay home entirely). Cloud and Tifa remain behind, having no families of their own to go home to, and spend the night huddled together in the shadow of their airship. When the two of them board the ship the next morning, they find that all of the departed party members have returned, and have been aboard for some time. Tifa promptly freaks out and actually falls to her knees, demanding to know if they "were watching" her and Cloud the night before; the severity of her reaction strongly suggests that the two of them became intimate, but nothing is explicitly stated. A few years after _Final Fantasy VII's_ release, the game's creator confirmed that yes: Cloud and Tifa did have sex. The originally scripted version of this scene would have had the party return and be unable to find Tifa and Cloud, before they both emerged from the Chocobo Stable dishevelled, and Cloud would have shrugged at the others when asked to explain. It was cut for being too obvious.
    -   In a much less romantic scenario, both Honeybee Inn sequences end with an ambiguous transaction between Cloud and Mukki. When Cloud's in a hot tub with a bunch of burly men, is he saying 'it hurts' because it's too cramped, or because...?
-   And then there's the scene in the hot spring between Tidus and Yuna in _Final Fantasy X_...
-   In _Fire Emblem: Three Houses_, the A-support between Caspar and Hilda has the latter inviting the former to her room for what's likely to be casual sex, though Caspar is _very_ oblivious about what's going on. It's not made clear if they did the deed, but their paired ending explicitly states they had children, so they probably did.
-   The culminating scenes of the romances in _Jade Empire_ show the player and his/her significant other kissing, but only Dawn Star's dialogue gives any indication that anything else happened afterwards.
-   Female Shepard and Garrus if his romance arc is pursued in _Mass Effect 2_. The romance starts with Shepard suggesting blowing off some steam between old friends and battlemates, but as the romance progresses it becomes more than clear to both of them that it's not just about sex. During the culmination cutscene they have a talk about how far they've traveled together and have become more or less soulmates. However, since the cutscene fades to black in an Almost Kiss position, fans debate whether or not they did the deed. The matter is definitively settled once and for all in _Mass Effect 3_. They make a few references to having slept together in the previous game. If you choose to continue the romance, later on Shepard will playfully joke with him about having woken up next to a turian. They can also have sex again before the raid on Cerberus HQ, and this time Shepard wakes up in her underwear to really make it obvious.
-   _Nights of Azure_ has a scene where Arnice and Lilysse reconcile with each other with Arnice giving Lilysse a Cooldown Hug, followed by the two sharing a Dance of Romance that ends with an apparent Kissing Discretion Shot. When the scene returns to them the next morning, they wake up in bed together, holding hands while wearing less clothes than they did the previous night.
-   _Persona_:
    -   In _Persona 3_ onward, the optional romantic scenes can end _quite_ suggestively. Usually, completing a romantic Social Link/Confidant results in a Fade to Black and some variation of the message that you "spent a long time (/spent a tender moment/etc.) with" the love interest in question. Exactly how suggestive this is varies depending on the character and occasionally on the player's dialogue choices during the scene. A standout example in _Persona 4 Golden_ is Naoto's Valentine's Day event, which ends with her telling the protagonist "It's not fair, stealing just my heart... If you're going to take part of me... Take all of me."
    -   _Persona 5_ gets in on the fun too, particularly with the adult love interests. Tae's Rank 10 scene even borders on being explicit about it; if the player pursues a romance with her, she'll ask if he'd like a "thorough examination" from her, and promises to take her time in a very sultry voice. She even leans in and gives him a kiss as the screen fades to black.
-   In _Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time_, the Prince and princess Farah find a secret bathroom. They share a bath and the screen fades to black as they kiss. But it's possible that sequence is just a dream. The Prince wakes up outside the bathroom and discovers that Farah stole his weapons.
-   At the end of _Sonic Rush_, as Sonic and Blaze are bidding farewell, there's a subtle implication that the two share a kiss. We never see it happen, but the dialogue certainly implies that _something_ did:
    
    **Sonic**: Wait!  
    **Blaze**: ...!  
    **Sonic**: This is from me.
    
-   _Star Wars Legends_:
    -   In _Knights of the Old Republic_, if the player uses a light-side male character, he can experience a romantic subplot with Bastila that culminates with the two of them expressing their feelings in private and sharing a kiss. Whether or not they share anything _more_ than a kiss is debatable; the screen fades out when they embrace, and when it fades back in, Bastila acts disproportionately embarrassed over what was ostensibly nothing more than a smooch. No other hints are given which point one way or the other, as none of the other characters ever comment on your relationship with her. Word of God says "did".
    -   An in-universe example occurs in _Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords_, where if you have enough light-side points Mira will comment that she thought you had sex with whichever possible love interest you have more Influence with at that point. We, as the viewer, however, know that nothing of the kind is programmed to be possible to take place in the game.
-   _Sword of Paladin_:
    -   Although it's not officially stated, it's implied that Lena's events in the inn involve having sex with an NPC.
    -   During the first visit to Costa Port's inn, the dialogue box states that Nade and Chris had a "hot night."
    -   When the party visits the rebuilt Bokka Village, Nade and Sophie have a conversation where their face portraits show they're naked.

    Webcomics 

-   Played straight and then averted in this _Flipside_ strip (from the Book 0 archive), where Regina and Lucient are implied to have done something more than kissing, but we later find out that was all that happened.
-   _Homestuck_:
    -   Terezi tells Karkat about their "little moment" where she got close enough to him to smell the colour of his unexposed blood. No more details are given about what exactly happened.
    -   Karkat finds a pants-less Terezi on the meteor completely drunk, and surrounded by horns and faygo, implying to fans of the comic that _something_ happened between her and Gamzee.
-   In one _Jack_ comic, the hero of the story wakes up naked in bed in the house of his female partner. He asks if they had sex, and she teases him with a joking question about whether it really matters, to which he replies:
    
    "If happened, Richek kind of want to remember!" (they did)
    
-   Mark and Steve (NSFW) in _Khaos Komix_ woke up naked in a bed together after getting drunk and making out the night before. Steve doesn't remember a thing; Mark says that they did have sex but also claims not to remember. Mark limps around for the next two days, giving strong evidence for _they did_. Mark's story reveals more: they tried, but failed because they didn't know what they were doing — Mark remembers, but lied about it the morning after because Steve freaked out before Mark could say anything.
-   In _Namir Deiter_, everyone assumed Blue and her boss, Ian were sleeping together. Everyone, up to and including Ian's wife, who uses that as a rationale to file for divorce. They weren't. (They hadn't even entertained the idea until Ian's wife blew things up). And it turned out they didn't go much further after the fact. It also turned out that Ian was lying about his wife's motivation: He used Blue as a scapegoat for his multiple affairs after his wife caught him smelling of (someone else's) perfume.
-   In _Nip and Tuck_, one of Nip's fellow stuntmen finds herself with a hole in her memory and missing underwear after a wrap party. And the local Alpha Jerkass is showing off said panties like a 10-point buck. (Turns out, the Jerkass came across the woman passed out on the toilet, and swiped her panties as a prank.)
-   _Out There_ Word of God explicitly states that it's up to the readers whether _any_ two characters who've been seen making out ever did anything more than that, although sometimes it's clearly demonstrated that they _didn't_ (aside from Rebecca and Wally, who are married, and have been seen naked under the sheets, obviously post-coital). On the first night they meet, Miriam and John end up spending the night in a hotel together after she ties one on (nothing happens, except a REALLY good dream). Later, Miriam and Clayton end up in bed together, and Miriam needs a recap the next day to find out what happened. Still later, Miriam wakes up on Araceli's couch and has trouble remembering what they did the night before, but she figures it out on her own, confirming (in her own mind) that she doesn't have a drinking problem, after all.
-   A retroactive version pops up in _Sequential Art_: It appeared that Pip and Hilary (Kat's Alpha Bitch rival) ended up in bed together and subsequently forming a real bond. Until later, when we find out that Hilary has been slipping Pip "roofies", and staging the "morning afters" to get Pip to cover for her at work, while she looks for better employment. Thus calling into question whether or not the first time was real or not.
-   _Yet Another Fantasy Gamer Comic_: It's never spelled out how far Wolf and Glon go between their capture by gnolls and the day after, but it is enough that A) it satisfies their captor (who liked to watch), and B) Glon is still ticked about it.
-   _Yumi's Cells_: After a few chapters of teasing whether Yumi will stay at Woong's place, it skips to the morning after. The narrator says they fell asleep holding hands, but another voice asks if it's leaving out a big chunk of the story.

    Web Original 

-   _Critical Role_:
    -   In Episodes 42 and 64 Vax and Keyleth respectively call at the other's door at night saying they don't want to spend the night alone, and are let in. That's all we ever see. It's certainly implied they had sex, but we may never know for sure. And as of Episode 65 when Keyleth tells Vax that she's finally ready to love him, it doesn't really matter anyway.
    -   Before the show started there wasn an encounter between Grog and a water nymph called Nahla. Of the cast only Travis Willingham (who played Grog) and DM Matthew Mercer knew whether or not something happened between them. It wasn't until the post-campaign wrap-up that we learn that they did _not_ have sex.
-   In a "they did" example, Doug and Lindsay confirmed two years later that the fans were right when they thought The Nostalgia Critic and The Nostalgia Chick had sex twice (the hand-holding pregnancy-inducing scene and their fighting cut off by static and turning into happy dancing with different clothes) in their crossover review of _FernGully: The Last Rainforest_.
-   _Demo Reel_:
    -   In "Lost in Translation: Bromance Version", Donnie goes to an anime con and meets Uncle Yo. The two of them hit it off and go back up to Donnie's apartment and we get several scenes of them both drinking and steadily losing outer items of clothing. Later on, Donnie goes back out to the con and meets Egoraptor, and something similar happens, followed by Uncle Yo discovering them and acting basically like a jilted lover.
    -   In "The Blair Witch Hangover", Rebecca and Tacoma wake up after a night of heavy drinking, Rebecca looking rumpled and flopped on top of Tacoma and Tacoma in a princess dress. They spend the rest of the episode trying to figure out what happened, and while the question is coyly stepped around, the two had plenty of Ship Tease before and after.

    Western Animation 

-   _Adventure Time_: In "Breezy", Finn is desperately looking for a girlfriend and ends up hooking up with Lumpy Space Princess. He goes in for a kiss, but she say she wants to take Finn into "the deep end". It quickly cuts to the two of them lying in separate sleeping bags by LSP's campfire. Finn is still in his clothes, but whatever happened between him and LSP, he decides to file his memories of the event in his mental "vault".
-   _Avatar: The Last Airbender_:
    -   Sokka & Suki and Zuko & Mai both get "Morning After" scenes that, along with the lead-up the night before, were just vague enough to slip past the watchdogs.
    -   In the "Cave of Lovers" episode, Aang and Katara lean in to kiss just as their torches are about to go out... it's left up to the audience to decide whether or not they actually did kiss before the cave's secret was revealed.
-   In _Batman Beyond_, Melanie/Ten goes to Terry in the morning, then the two of then are passionately kissing on his bed. Cue to the evening where they are talking before she leaves.
-   In _Batman: The Animated Series_, Poison Ivy and Harley Quinn work together when Harley is thrown out by The Joker. The first time this happened it cuts from them driving away to them wearing only their shirts and maybe panties talking about how much they hate men. Whenever they are seen hiding together, they only ever seem to have one bed. It was confirmed by Word of Gay.
-   Duckman and Bernice mutually wake up and freak out — complete with a pair of boxers with lipstick on them. Given that that scene came in the final seconds of the episode, and that the pair were right back to their normal dynamic by the start of the next episode, we'll probably never know.
-   _Garfield's Babes and Bullets_: It's heavily implied that Spayed got laid. Twice. _By human women_. It starts when in typical Film Noir style, the sexy female client invites Sam Spayed to "have a little milk with her", and he reacts much as if she'd invited him in for coffee. At the end, his secretary picks up a pair of glasses and a bottle of milk, sashaying into Sam's office while throwing a few Fanservice poses, inducing an "oh wow" reaction from Sam.
-   In the final episode of _Undergrads_, Nitz and his crush Kimmie kiss and the screen fades to black... Nitz wakes up the next morning with Kimmie next to him, however both are still fully clothed, leaving it ambiguous as to how far they went.

___