_"Obviously if you're watching a scene with a woman tied to a bed while a man forces sex on her, the final act of that movie will involve said man getting shot in the face by Bruce Willis. If, on the other hand, it's a man being tied down and forced into sex by a pretty lady, well, you're watching a wacky romantic comedy."_

A Sub-Trope of Double Standard.

Rape Is a Special Kind of Evil, beyond kicking the dog or any of the other acts of villainy in media. But there seems to be one exception: when the victim is a man and the attacker is a woman. Men are stereotyped as constantly wanting sex and of being stronger in general than women. Therefore, the idea that the man could have either not consented to sex with a woman or been incapable of fighting off a female aggressor if he did refuse sex is simply not taken seriously. Another commonly-held notion that the idea of female-on-male rape challenges is the false idea that since men have erections, they enjoy the sex, and hence is not rape or not as traumatic as any other kind of rape.

The consequence of this line of thought is this trope. A man raped by an attractive woman is considered a lucky man, and a man being raped by an unattractive woman is comedy gold.

For a trope that suffers a similar attitude, see Hot for Student. Some forms of Gender Rarity Value could be considered a sub-trope. Often involves the Bed Trick, Love Potion or other fantastical means of sex.

Compare The Unfair Sex, Double Standard: Rape, Sci-Fi, Double Standard: Rape, Female on Female, Double Standard: Rape, Male on Male, Black Comedy Rape, Double Standard: Rape, Divine on Mortal, and All Women Are Lustful.

See also All Abusers Are Male and Double Standard: Abuse, Female on Male.

Sadly, people thinking this way is Truth in Television. For instance, some countries don't penalize sexual acts done by females as "rape", and this even extends to Sexual Harassment, too.

If a man is saved from sexual assault and immediately displays sexual or romantic interest afterwards, he Got Over Rape Instantly.

This trope is _not_ just females raping males, but females raping males and that being somehow more okay _in-universe_ than males raping females, males raping males, and so forth.

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

-   This Chocolate flavored Axe (Lynx in the UK) ad is Played for Laughs, sure, and the chocolate guy seems to like it, but can you imagine an ad showing a woman getting literal bites taken out of her, possibly against her will, by strangers on the street _ever_ being passed for broadcast? Thought not.
-   _Muscle Milk_ is supposed to make one more attractive. Ads show men visibly upset talking about how they are being sexually harassed by women, The announcer then tells them that attractive men _must_ submit to unwanted sexual advances.
-   In the seventies, Hai Karate cologne stopped just short of rape, with its ads featuring a man being mobbed by women (usually between four and six women) after he uses the cologne, to the point that his clothes are torn and he's generally dishevelled and has to physically fight them off. Again, consider whether an ad for a women's scent would _ever_ be marketed that way.
-   In, of all things, a commercial for chocolate candies: tennis player Roger Federer is stopped in the airport by two attractive female transportation-security officials, who confiscate his candy and threaten him with a strip search. It's played for comedy, although one can't imagine a version starring (say) Maria Sharapova or Serena Williams and two _male_ security people.

    Anime and Manga 

-   _Kanokon_'s huge-breasted and foxy Chizuru Minamoto, who lusts toward a cute young boy named Kouta. She has no hesitation to strip herself naked in public and rape him at any possible moment. As if this is not enough, there's a female wolf Nozumu, who's as bad as the former. Together, they form a downright weird Love Triangle. In the manga it eventually makes the kid become submissive and a permanent Chivalrous Pervert.
-   In the final arc of the _Ranma ½_ manga, a mind-controled Shampoo takes advantage of the fact that Akane is helpless and in her control to force Ranma to sleep with her (as their "last memory together", since she was ordered to kill him afterwards). Surprisingly, since the series had played the reverse for laughs (involving female Ranma's mishaps) this was played seriously... until the people in the next room started eavesdropping and completely misunderstood what was going on.
-   In _Girls Saurus_, Shingo, who is deeply afraid of women after various bad encounters with them, is eventually cornered by a porn movie director who had been looking at his sister for a part. In order to save his sister, Shingo would have to star in a movie where he gets raped by many women. While the idea is treated with horror and revulsion by him at first, it's mostly Played for Laughs, and when he reluctantly accepts, his friends, all of them girls, all volunteer to do the scene with him.
-   _Good Luck! Ninomiya-kun_'s main character, Shungo Ninomiya, is more or less completely uninterested in girls, and unwilling to fight them off, so the girls in his class love to tease him, including kidnapping and tying him down so he can't get away. Crosses the line when Reika, the girl whom the main character is oblivious about, snaps, causing her alternate, more assertive and less moral personality to take command, who promptly lures Shungo to a secluded spot, wherein she ties him down and attempts to rape him for real.
-   _Kurogane Pukapuka Tai_'s seemingly sole heterosexual woman, gunnery officer Obama Mifuyu, seems to have this attitude to "seduction", and a taste verging on paedophilia besides.
-   In _Onihime VS_, the closest thing to an actual love interest the main character has is the bully who sexually assaults him on a daily basis, culminating in attempting straight-up rape after cornering him in the athletic supply closet. We're supposed to be rooting for her to end up with him, though to be fair, the other girls competing to win his heart are literally competing for his heart, the blood pumping organ in his chest, so that they can eat it.
-   Inverted in _Parallel Paradise_. The girls of Sandrio Town are introduced gang-raping Yota because they know doing so will free them from the Jealous God's curse, which is rightly regarded as horrible. On the other hand, the series takes a _long_ time to address the broad Questionable Consent issue that, due to the curse, the girls of the world will literally die around age 20 unless they have sex with Yota (technically any male would work but he's the only one available): even those who don't like him beforehand are usually desperate enough to swallow their pride. To say nothing of what happened with General Nakta: Yota uses his Living Aphrodisiac ability to subdue her in combat, then uses the fact the arousal won't go away until she orgasms to badger her into having sex with him, insisting that he won't do it until she explicitly asks for it. It's presented somewhat as Karmic Rape since she had previously summarily executed three civilians for having slept with him and planned to purge Sandrio Town entirely.
-   Done in the anime _Speed Grapher_, where the hero Saiga is run over by Inspector Ginza. This leaves Saiga unconscious, allowing Ginza to take him to her apartment and invoke this trope.
-   The original manga of _Ah! My Goddess_ actually introduces Urd, who has this sentiment. Upon her arrival, she is more than a little baffled at Keiichi and Belldandy's lack of... physical drive. Her attempts to "remedy" this culminate in trying to make Keiichi have sex with _her_ through a combination of straightforward seduction, lies, and _psychically pressuring his mind_ to give in.
-   Hinted at in _Angel Sanctuary_ as at least part of the reason Raphael's reputation was so utterly destroyed after his then-subordinate Belial raped him while in his own office. Public opinion was that he was nothing more than a lech that had wanted or even been a willing participant. Rather than denying it, he instead refashions himself into the very Kavorka Man people perceived him as.
-   _Tenchi Forever_. Tenchi is brainwashed by Haruna, a woman from Yosho's past, and made to live with her as her lover. The fact that this is rape is ignored by the story — so that she can later tell Ayeka and Ryoko that they're not so different from her.
-   _Princess Lucia_ repeatedly tries to rape Kouta due to the fact that if she has a child with him he will be able to destroy the world. Lucia is a devil.
-   Lampshaded in _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_ when Evangeline tells Chachamaru "You can just force yourself on him. Don't be so dull. Just jump him" after she finds Chachamaru "recharging her mana" while saying Negi's name.
-   In the first episode of _Maburaho_, Kuriko attempts to get into Kazuki's pants for his genes- genes that can give birth to a powerful magician. Kazuki tries to fight her off and shouts that he would scream for help if she doesn't stop. Kuriko just responds, "Isn't that what girls usually say?"
-   In _Yu-Gi-Oh! GX_, Tania is Easily Forgiven very quickly (about five minutes into part 2 of the episode) for capturing Misawa after forcibly holding him to a Scarpia Ultimatum via wager, and even afterwards, Tania is considered, in-universe and out, to be the Token Good Teammate of the Seven Stars, becoming an _ally_ of the heroes later. In fact, this is one case where the dub version actually made it _worse_; in the original version, the rest of the cast don't hear _anything_ when they camp outside the arena, while in the dub, Misawa's screams are clearly audible. (Asuka claims they're dueling again, a case of the writers assuming Viewers Are Morons.) Misawa even has feelings for her later that extend into the third season when she appears again.
-   _Ōkami-san_: Whatever Otohime does to "extract Urashima's essence" is left to the imagination, but you can get an idea from how she forcibly drags him away from everyone, how terrified he always is of what she's about to do and how worn out he looks afterwards. In the manga, he outright screams "rape" whenever she does this. This is always Played for Laughs. By contrast, the male Shiro’s rape of the female Ryoko in the past is treated with full seriousness, serving to cement his status as both the Big Bad and an irredeemable bastard.

    Comic Books 

-   Dick Grayson, the first Robin, Nightwing and now Batman seems especially prone to this:
    -   In an issue of _Teen Titans_, Mirage shape shifts into the form of Starfire and sleeps with Nightwing, who doesn't realize she isn't his girlfriend until after the fact. This is used as a device to put stress on his relationship with Starfire, but the team largely under-reacts to Mirage's actions, and even mock him after they learn about it.
    -   _Nightwing_ issues 93-100 are often accused of this due to the fact that Tarantula and Nightwing appear to run away together after Tarantula rapes Nightwing. These issues were actually meant to depict Nightwing as being too deeply traumatized to assert himself as Tarantula bullies him from motel room to motel room, not minding that her "querido" is nearly catatonic.
-   In a rather infamous example, Green Arrow was raped by the assassin Shado while badly injured and under medication. Other writers treated this as an affair, which resulted in Arrow—who was steadfastly loyal to Black Canary at the time of the incident—gaining a reputation as sleeping around constantly behind the back of the long-suffering Canary. And Shado? Nobody so much as bats an eyelash at her actions. When she was discussing marrying him with Oracle, Oracle brought up Shado, and she angrily rejects the notion that he was to blame.
-   Another DC example: Bruce Wayne, upon finding out from Talia al Ghul that they have a son, notes to her that she drugged him during a ceremony wherein Ra's himself united Batman with Talia, during a short period where Bats and the Demon's Head had to work together. Bruce was fairly lucid when he slept with her (in _Batman: Son of the Demon_) and doesn't use the word "rape" or even "assault", but it's clear he didn't find it amusing after the fact but still takes the son (Damian Wayne) who is now the fifth Robin. Of course, this example is derived from the work of one writer (Mike W. Barr) being added upon by another (Grant Morrison), with a 19 year gap.
-   DC also had a case of reverse Dude, She's Like in a Coma between two of the founding members of the Legion of Super-Heroes. Saturn Girl tried to use her telepathic powers to bring Cosmic Boy out of a coma. It appeared that she'd succeeded, but instead she was subconsciously animating and controlling his comatose body; during this period they began dating, and Cos woke up at their wedding. This admittedly was not treated as "okay" so much as it was forgiven because Saturn Girl did it _subconsciously_, not on purpose.
-   Horatio from _Nexus_ was also drugged and raped, which resulted in the birth of his twin daughters. He later moved in with the girls and their rapist mother.
-   Played with in _Fables_ when Snow White and Bigby are both enchanted and wake up in a tent in the woods, discovering later that they slept together. While it's uncertain if it's rape (as both of them were under a spell and couldn't remember the action), Bigby is rather offended that Snow blames him and points out that for all they know, _she_ seduced him.
-   Foggy Nelson, the law partner and friend of Matt Murdock, AKA Daredevil, was drugged and raped by a client of theirs named Lydia Mckenzie, who was secretly working for Mysterio. She then committed suicide by jumping out the window and made it appear that Nelson had pushed her. As a result, Foggy's girlfriend, Liz Allen (the original love interest of Spider-Man and widow of Green Goblin Harry Osborn), leaves him for cheating on her. He was also fired from his job because of the negative publicity it might bring the firm by his new law partner who is also his, until recently, Missing Mom.
-   In an issue of _Thunderbolts_, sex maniac Skein rapes SHIELD Super Agent Silicon, and it's played entirely for comedy.
-   A really horrific Marvel example: In _Avengers West Coast_ #56, Wanda, the Scarlet Witch, had Agatha Harkness, USAgent, The Wasp, and Wonder Man under a spell that kept them immobilized. Wanda, who was suffering a mental breakdown at the time, ripped the shirt off of Wonder Man and forced herself on him while he screamed "No! NO!!!" Later, US Agent asked Wanda "How could you hurt him like that?" and Wasp asked "Simon (Wonder Man)...are you...? To which the clearly traumatised Wonder Man replied "Don't ask, Janet. Just don't ask!" Not only was the rape never mentioned again, but Wonder Man and Scarlet Witch briefly dated.
-   _Tarot: Witch of the Black Rose_: Jon is raped and otherwise molested on a regular basis.... it's played for laughs.
-   In _The Savage Dragon_, the main character wakes up one night to find a female character named Horridus having oral sex with him. Horridus was a young lizard woman who had severe social problems and had decided to become Dragon's girlfriend. The scene is played for laughs.
-   Captain Britain has been raped by female villains at least three times. None of the encounters were treated as "okay", but they are brushed off as more an occupational hazard than a violation, and were never brought up much afterward:
    -   Once, in his own series, he's captured by an elderly female crime lord who called herself Vixen and is next seen suspended naked in a device clearly intended to facilitate her using him for sex. It's dismissed it as a dishonorable way to treat a Worthy Opponent, but no mainstream comic would dare depict a female heroine in a similar state back in the heyday of the Comics Code Authority (they might dare today, but it would be treated as a major, possibly life-altering trauma, and the writers would be roundly castigated as crossing a line in a cheap attempt to be edgy).
    -   In his own series again, when his inter-dimensional counterpart Kaptain Briton switched places with Brian and he ended up in villainess Sat-Yr-9's chamber, Sat-Yr-9 gave him a sedative to knock him out, after which he awoke naked and in bed with her gone. The scene is juxtaposed with Kaptain Briton's extremely nightmarish Attempted Rape of his AU-sister, Betsy (Psylocke), who was forced to kill him thinking she was being assaulted by her own brother, played as deadly serious and traumatic as one would expect.
    -   The other time was an issue of _Excalibur_ - the team is captured by Sat-Yr-9, who hands all of them over to another villain except for Cap, whom she keeps as a mind-controlled sex slave. She makes him walk around in a Chippendale's dancer-inspired version of what her henchmen wear, and he's seen passed out naked in her bed. It's treated as significantly less severe a fate than whatever was happening to the other members of the team, and the possibility that it could have any greater psychological effect on Brian than any other random defeat by a villain isn't even paid lip service.
-   Once, _Deadpool_ tried to convert the Daredevil villain Typhoid Mary to be good. At one point, she disguised herself as Siryn, whom he loved back then, and slept with him, only to reveal herself afterwards and mock his gullibility. Deadpool was distraught after the ordeal and Mary is presented as a villain, but the incident is rarely mentioned as rape, and whenever Typhoid Mary and Deadpool's relationship is referred to, it's referred to as consensual.
-   _Catwoman #1_ (of the 2011 DC Relaunch) featured an example of this, given that during Catwoman and Batman's encounter he seems very reluctant at first. In the words of Linkara, "Because it's not rape if he consents eventually, right?"
-   In the _X-Men_ comics, the infamous Cyclops/Emma Frost affair essentially started as this. Long story short: Cyke wasn't mentally in the best of health, Emma offered him therapy, then she uses this as an excuse to telepathically bang him. Seriously. Now flip their genders; what would happen to a male therapist if they convinced their female patient to have sex with them to deal with their issues? What makes this example even worse, Emma is treated like the victim in the resulting love triangle with all her seriously out-of-order behavior being ignored because 'she was in love with him', and _Cyclops_ is _still_ getting crap, in-universe and out, for cheating on his wife. It might not help that he got together with Emma immediately after his wife's death, but that was literally because Jean made him get together with her to avoid the X-Men falling apart.

    Fan Fiction 

-   In _CONSEQUENCES (Miraculous Ladybug)_, this is discussed in a couple of stories and ultimately defied. It's noted that it's typically very difficult for victims of female-on-male sexual harassment to receive help or justice, a fact that Lila attempts to exploit to force herself on Adrien. When she is inevitably caught, the ensuing trouble she lands herself in is considered karmic justice, and one story also describes it as a landmark ruling for prosecuting sexual assault of men.
-   _You Got HaruhiRolled!_ from the _Haruhi Suzumiya_ universe has a Running Gag where Kuyou constantly tries to get in Fujiwara's pants. It's Played for Laughs, but imagine what people's reaction would be were the genders reversed—_especially_ because Kuyou is a Starfish Alien.
-   Invoked in one of Cori Falls's Rocketshipping fics. In few words, Cori assumes that men _always_ want sex and _never_ are too tired/not in mood for it/able to change their mind/etc., and it's fine for their female partners to believe a lack of male sexual desire is a personal offense to them.
-   In _Empath: The Luckiest Smurf_ story "The Other Smurfette", Hogatha as a female Smurf named Wonderette takes Empath out on a moonlit walk where they go to a private place and just kiss, but Empath realizes that Wonderette wants to have sex with him and refuses to go along with it. Wonderette uses her magic powers to strip Empath of his clothes and have him lie naked and spread-eagled on the ground so that she can mount him and rape him. Later, to cover her tracks, Wonderette has Empath accused of raping her instead so that he would be vilified. This was played for drama.
-   The _Vorkosigan Saga_ fanfic _Forward Momentum_ runs headlong into this in "The Two Ivans", though without actual rape. Ivan explicitly does not want to marry two woman who he has been seeing and sleeping with who have both proposed to him and are perfectly okay with polygamy. He does, however, want to secretly marry another woman and run away before the first two find out. He is forced to marry _all three_. And not in the P. G. Wodehouse hilarious misunderstanding fashion either; the first two find out, show up, and negotiate their positions in the marriage with the third, without any input from Ivan, _right in front of him_. He is literally given no choice in the matter, nor is the possibility of any refusal even mentioned. This is because they are backed by Imperial pressure. From _both_ Barryar's and Cetaganda's Emperors. The two most powerful men in the known universe effectively _force_ him to get married.
-   Fun With Potions a _Harry Potter_ fanfiction by Dusk-03 depicts Daphne Greengrass raping Harry by drugging him with a love potion in Chapter One. Bizarrely, all the characters, including Harry himself, blame Harry for this and the author attempts to garner sympathy for Daphne, the rapist, even though she had violated Harry in order to curry favour with Voldemort.
-   Bliss a _The Hunger Games_ fanfiction depicts Katniss raping Peeta in Chapter One, but by the end of the fanfiction, this is all forgotten and they are depicted as being happily married. This story arc would have caused a considerable backlash if it had involved a male character raping Peeta.
-   The _Emergency!_ fic "A Woman Scorned" doesn't have actual physical rape, but the attack is sexual in nature: Gage is attacked by a psycho woman who hits him with a tire iron, then steals his clothes, leaving him stranded naked in the woods. In one scene, Dixie catches some young nurses watching the story on the news on a TV at the hospital, giggling about it. She promptly admonishes them for making fun of the incident, as no one would be laughing if a woman were attacked and left somewhere naked.
-   Averted as much as possible in _Faith_ by sbmcneil. It turns out Bellatrix has raped (or oversaw the rape of) a number of men with the use of drugs, as practice for bearing a child of Harry's to serve as Voldemort's heir. At least one of the men commits suicide in the aftermath, and Harry _almost_ does once she carries the plan through. Upon returning home from his sixth year, he finds a basket on his doorstep as it turns out once the baby turned out to be a girl, Bellatrix lost all interest in her. Harry takes the girl in. However, there is a straight example in-universe, since when Ron hears about a number of men being raped by female Death Eaters, he actually laughs at the idea.
-   _Child of the Storm_ averts this in the sequel when depicting Yelena Belova's a.k.a. the Red Room's Black Widow repeated sexual harassment and assault of the Red Son a.k.a. Harry Thorson's Blank Slate body (though he gets all the memories when he reclaims it) as part of her twisted view of the Black Widow/Winter Soldier dynamic. The narrative depicts it as sickening, then full on Nightmare Fuel when a flashback in chapter 60 reveals the full extent of it, and its effects on Harry, who responds... badly.
-   In _Integrity_ by P\_Artsypants, after Adrien accuses Lila of sexual harassment, Kim keeps saying that it's impossible for a guy to be molested, and can't understand how Adrien can be unhappy about all the girls surrounding him. He reviews his position and apologises at once right after Alix pinches his butt to demonstrate.
-   _In the Bleak Midwinter (TheLoud)_: When Hermione refers to Merope's actions as rape, Tom struggles to reconcile that in his head, since the idea of a woman being able to rape a man is foreign to his thinking (especially living in the 1920s). After considering it, however, he realises that Hermione is correct, that's exactly what it was.

    Film 

-   _Wedding Crashers_, as noted in the page quote. She literally ties him up while he's asleep and when he wakes up tapes his mouth shut to stop his protests, and the next day he calls it a "midnight rape". Yet he falls in love with her and marries her by the end of the movie, and this is a comedy. They would never, never dare film this with the genders reversed.
-   In the _M\*A\*S\*H_ film, there's an implied rape as a character is given a sleeping pill disguised as an assisted-suicide drug, and a female character has sex with him—albeit to prevent him from committing suicide for real. In any case, it's played for dark humor.
-   It doesn't actually happen, but there are hints of it in _Moulin Rouge!_. It's more like clothed rape, and is more the result of a mistaken identity than any intentional sexual assault, but the man's reactions are still Played for Laughs.
-   Done painfully straight in the "comedy" _Norbit_, where Norbit is constantly physically, emotionally, and sexually assaulted by the over-sized "female" lead, due to him being trapped in a relationship with this woman merely because he is too weak willed to stand up for himself. If the genders were reversed, this wouldn't be the least bit funny.
-   This trope is carried out in the Clint Eastwood film _The Rookie (1990)_ as a punishment to the tied up relentless tough cop by his captor woman. His sole reaction was insisting "she did not sit on my face" after his partner ridiculed him about it.
-   In _40 Days and 40 Nights_ the protagonist vows not to have sex or masturbate during Lent. During said period, he meets and falls in love with a girl. Just to be sure, he spends the last night of Lent chained to his bed, falls asleep and awakens being raped by his EX-girlfriend. His girlfriend walks in and quite naturally assumes he's being lying to her the whole time. To top it off he later has to _apologize_ to his girlfriend for this, and the ex both wins a bet and gets off scot-free. The protagonist's best friend even says, "This doesn't seem like one of those 'truth shall set you free' situations", when, actually, it seems like precisely that type of situation. When asked, the writer defended it, and mocked someone who tried to talk about male rape.
-   In _Reefer Madness_, either on stage or the Showtime adaptation, a male character tries to use marijuana to seduce an ingenue. Things go drastically, hilariously, sadomasochistically wrong for him. The audience doesn't really have much sympathy for him, even as he cries out, "Help, this crazy tomato is raping me!" Definitely a case of Laser-Guided Karma, but, presumably, would have been less acceptable had the genders been reversed.
-   In the Jim Carrey film _Yes-Man_, the protagonist promises to say yes to everything. He is propositioned by an old woman who lives in his building, and when he tries to say no, he is karmically punished. Think for a second about how this would be treated if the protagonist was a woman.
-   This trope is played for laughs in _Hamburger The Movie_. A woman pulls a machine gun on the main character while wearing nothing but a pair of panties. She forces him on the bed and demands to have sex with him. He gets out of the situation by pretending to be a homosexual, making her leave. Oddly enough, neither character mentions this throughout the rest of the film.
-   _Disclosure_ with Michael Douglas and Demi Moore is a detailed examination of this trope. It's a film based on a Michael Crichton book about a man sexually harassed by his female boss, and the MAJOR uphill battle he has to perform to convince everyone that he wasn't the aggressor.
-   Played for laughs in _Dr Alien_. A teenage boy is implanted (without his knowledge, initially) with an alien organ meant to stimulate females with sonics, resulting in him getting assaulted by a girl he was taking to a movie, the girlfriend of a bully, and a locker room full of women (and their coach).
-   In _Get Him to the Greek_ Aaron Green, played by Jonah Hill, is at a party and goes into a room with a woman. After he protests vocally against sexual entanglements of sorts with the woman, she ignores it and does so anyway. It's especially bad in that afterwards, he staggers back to Aldous Snow, played by Russell Brand, clearly traumatised and terrified, stammers out "I think I've just been raped", and Aldous gives him a Jeffery and tells him he'll be fine in a minute. It's in character for the totally emotionally numb Aldous, but the movie itself seems to care about as much as he does.
-   _Swordfish_ has Gabriel force Hollywood Hacker Stan at gunpoint to comply with the parameters of a Secret Test of Character: as a female escort gives him the oral part of the exam, he has to hack into the DoD mainframe in 60 seconds or die. Stan is quite upset (about being fooled by The Dragon's empty gun) but he gets over it pretty quickly.
-   _Transformers: Revenge of The Fallen_ has a Decepticon disguised as a human female track down Sam in college, force him to the bed, and into a very compromising position. When Sam's girlfriend finds them, she is furious at him, and the situation is played for laughs.
-   _Almost Famous_ has a scene where a flock of 18-to-20-year-old girls have sex with a 15-year-old boy, shouting "deflower the kid!" Consider how that would be treated if the genders were reversed.
-   _Pee-wee's Big Adventure_ - as an angry biker gang discuss what they're going to do with Pee-Wee before they kill him, a big Amazon biker babe grabs him by the lapel and growls "_I_ say you let _me_ have him first!" - the other bikers find this hilarious.
-   A lesser sexual offense than rape, but same Double Standard: In _An American Werewolf in London_, another nurse remarks to the Love Interest that she'd "had a look" at the unconscious David's genitals. If a male nurse had admitted to peeking under female patients' gowns, he'd get canned on the spot, but in this case the voyeuse is merely chided that it's improper behavior.
-   _Horrible Bosses_ doesn't so much play this straight as avert it while playing it for laughs anyways. Dentist Julia (Jennifer Aniston) drugs Dale her assistant and molests him while he's unconscious. She later shows him photos she took of this that look like them having sex and threatens to show them to his fiance if he does not have sex with her. Dale is very upset and angry by this and calls it rape and Julia is portrayed as a horrible person though it is still played for comedy more than rape usually is when the victim is female.
-   Played straight in the 1949 film _Neptune's Daughter_. Betty Garrett sings ''Baby It's Cold Outside'' to Red Skelton while fondling and groping him as he tries to get her out of his apartment. It's an over the top parody of an earlier scene with Ricardo Montalbán and Esther Williams, with the roles being reversed.
-   _Tabloid_ tells the true story of a beautiful woman who kidnapped a homely male missionary, tied him to a bed, and allegedly raped him for several days. The whole thing is mostly told from her perspective and played for laughs. It's hard to imagine that a movie about a homely man kidnapping and raping a beautiful young nun for several days would be quite as lighthearted.
-   In _Pleasantville_, Jennifer goes on a date with the town jock, who she quickly manipulates into having sex with her. This is Played for Laughs, though at the time, the boy had no idea what sex was (or for that matter, STD's or even pregnancy), was visibly freaked out, and even mistook his erection for an "illness." Had the sexes been reversed, the boy would have been villified.
-   Played straight in _Super_, wherein Elliot Page's ingénue, superhero-horny character overpowers Rainn Wilson's character and forcibly has sex with him. He fights her and angrily throws her off, but subsequently acts as if it never happened, and they continue to fight crime together.
-   Towards the end of _Sex and Death 101_, the protagonist learns that the last name on the list of all the women he has and ever will sleep with is that of an infamous misandrist vigilante who drugs men into permanent comas and not wishing to be a victim attempts not to have sex for a while, and is trying to burn off the excess energy through bicycling. He ends up having an accident, and while he's lying injured, a busload of Catholic Schoolgirls find him and decide to lose their virginity to him. This is followed up by the bus driver also deciding to get a piece and her plus the schoolgirls equal all the names before the aforementioned vigilante. This is all played for laughs.
-   In the film _Spring 1941_, a Jewish family, the Plancks, is hiding from the Nazis in the attic of a Polish farmer, Emilia. Emilia falls in love with Artur Planck (who can pass for a gentile and thus spends his days helping her with her farmwork), and pursues him, although he's married and obviously devoted to his wife and daughter. Artur begins sleeping with her, while Emilia starts restricting the number of times a day he can go up to see his family, eventually bringing the number down to once a week. She makes it plain that she will kick them out if he gives her reason to be jealous. Artur is not happy with any of this. His wife views it as cheating, which is justified given both the time period and the character's overall emotional state, but the film itself seems to treat the whole situation as a love triangle rather than repeated rape via blackmail.
-   In _Step Brothers_, Dale's stepsister-in-law Alice falls madly in love with him after he gives her abusive asshole husband what for. How does she show her appreciation? By cornering him in the men's room, undoing his pants without even waiting for an answer, and having her way with him via rapid but satisfying sex with him up against the wall. How does he respond after it's said and done? He says he likes her and thinks she's incredible. In the Unrated Edition, they have another quickie during Christmas dinner - but it seems more mutually consensual.
-   _Age of Consent_: Miss Marley Black Comedy Rapes Bradley's annoying acquaintance Nat after apparently losing patience with him towards the end of their dinner date. A disheveled Nat arrives at Bradley's cabin the next morning and complains, "I've been raped". Cora is later sexually assaulted by the ferryman on his motorboat, which is _not_ played for laughs—although her kneeing him in the groin, shoving him overboard in mid-ocean, and then forcing him to cling to a rope behind the boat for the rest of the trip to the island is.

    Literature 

-   _Inferno (Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle)_: Discussed. When the characters visit the first bolgia of Hell's Seventh Circle, where seducers are sent, Benito explains that the word that Dante used was closer to what English means by "rape". Allen, seeing women in the crowd, wonders aloud how a girl could be a rapist. Benito replies that there are other ways to force oneself onto another outside of direct violence.
-   The version with the character waking up with the wrong woman sort of happens in one of the _Flashman_ books, because the villain uses this trope to coerce the title character into doing his bidding; by having the woman cry rape and having the authority to get Flashman off.
-   In _Fangs Of Kaath_, characters of both genders are vilified both by the narrative and the heroes when they rape females. However, Fatima's attempt to rape Raschid <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  is considered, in-universe, a minor annoyance. At the end, Raschid asks her to stay in the palace and "remain \[his\] friend", even giving her a lavish promotion! Fatima feels guilty for all of two pages, and then she is totally forgiven and gets her happy ending. Compare this to the rapists Maru and Abbas, who are hated by everyone and unambiguously portrayed as villains.
-   _She Is The One_: Our narrator and protagonist is Jack, in his sophomore year of high school at the start of the story, and his siblings Alan and Amanda (triplets the same age as him, a year behind him in school due to childhood illness, and looking more like each other than him.) Amanda has some disturbing, but somewhat understandable as a sixteen-year-old, confusions about the nature of love, lust, sexuality, and non-sexual intimacy and bonding. She and Alan have been having sex for a time at the start of the story, and she soon discovers Jack has discovered this and starts trying to seduce him, too. When he turns her down, he wakes up one night to find himself handcuffed to the bed with her on top of him. He can't stop her from giving him oral sex, but does stop her from going any further by stating he wants to lose his virginity to someone he actually cares about. Between this unintendedly harsh barb and her assault, their relationship is heavily strained for years afterward, with Jack exhibiting classic victim behaviors, afraid to be alone with Amanda and constantly questioning her motives. They do make repairs and ultimately end up closer than they were before, before Amanda again brings up this incident and admits that what she did was rape by any definition you care to name. Jack refuses the term, seemingly because he can't allow the sentence "my sister raped me" to exist in his brain without his head exploding.
-   In _The World According to Garp,_ the title character is conceived when his mother, Jenny, rapes a wounded, dying man in her care—an act made creepier because the man was mentally devolving into an infantile state and seemed to regard Jenny as a mother figure. While male-on-female rape is a constant theme in the remainder of the book, Jenny's female-on-male rape is presented (by the other characters, if not necessarily the author) as a revolutionary act, and is never referred to as rape. In The Film of the Book, however, someone calls it out as rape.
-   Forms the primary plot motivator in the novel and later film _Disclosure_. An employee eventually storms away from his former lover and current Straw Feminist boss after she starts giving him fellatio. As revenge, she sues \*him\* for sexual harassment and the inherent Double Standard of this trope is what really vexes the male main character. Fortunately, the employee, with anonymous email tips, manages to find a sexual harassment attorney who specializes in dealing with men as victims. With her help and a helpful audio recording where the employee is heard refusing the woman's advances at least fifty times, he is fully vindicated. It's only after he finds out that the _company president_ has succumbed to the woman's wiles that things get worse for him.
-   In _The Wheel of Time_ books, Mat encounters the widowed Queen of Ebou Dar, a nation in which men are second-class citizens. Mat is repeatedly raped by the Queen, frequently tied down at knife-point and forced to be her sexual servant against his will. This is all treated as comedy because Mat is normally a consumate flirt. The fact that he is sexually victimized is treated as his come-uppance for his previous behavior. When finally freed of the Queen's subjugation, he reflects that he will miss her. If the sexes were reversed, this would be seen as a creepy example of Stockholm Syndrome, but due to the prevailing theme of dominant, aggressive women in the series, it's more likely a case of Author Appeal.
-   In the book _Conrad's Time Machine_, the main character is raped by three women; he says he doesn't think they should be prosecuted like male rapists should, and in fact we later discover this was part of his bachelor party that his best friend set up for him.
-   In Peter David's _The Woad to Wuin_ (sequel to _Sir Apropos of Nothing_), the first chapter is a parody of _The Lord of the Rings_ in which the eponymous character finds "the One Thing to Rule Them All", an artifact which makes him irresistible to women (as well as perpetually virile), including his antagonist love interest. He spends quite a few days tied down in an inn being raped by women before being rescued by a mock-Fellowship, and going off (unwillingly) to rid himself of the Thing. When he finally succeeds and returns, he of course is blamed for "forcing" himself on the woman, and she storms off.
-   Justified in _The Occupation Saga: Between Worlds_. Protagonist Jason is sexually assaulted in a bar bathroom by a pair of Interior officers and Freyxh helps fight them off. She's far more pissed about it than he is: largely as a byproduct of his Earth upbringing where things usually worked the other way, Jason has trouble internalizing that that it even _was_ an Attempted Rape and therefore feels more weirded out by the experience than violated.
-   In the _Red Dwarf_ novel _Last Human_, Lister is forced to marry a hideously ugly Gelf (Genetically Engineered Life Form). The situation is played mostly for laughs, but his emotions during the sex are touched on in a curiously realistic way:
    
    Oh, my God, he was close to climax. She really knew what she was doing. Oh, he was so disgusted. Did he have no self-control? She was descended from hippos, for God's sake.
    
-   A similar scenario occurs in the TV series Episode "Polymorph II", though in this case Lister manages to escape before his "wife" can get his clothes off.
-   In the _Harry Potter_ books there are several mentions of love potions. All of them have a girl slipping a boy the potion, and in most cases it's played for laughs. Note that love potions make the drinker temporarily obsessed with whoever gave them the potion, so they can be compared to date rape drugs. Fred and George's shop have an entire display of them with a special owl order service that disguises them as cough potions to get them past the Aurors screening all the mail coming into Hogwarts.
    -   In _Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince_ one of Harry's fangirls accidentally gives Ron a love potion. Harry and Hermione are worried by the situation, but their main concern is that the potion was expired and Ron's reaction was outside normal parameters; the scene is still treated as comical.
    -   And then deconstructed when Dumbledore says Merope Gaunt's use of love potions to elope with Tom Riddle was no different than using the Imperius Curse (an illegal mind-control spell) since Merope kept Tom Riddle drugged for _months_, forcing him to leave his family and live with her against his will, which is a bit worse than snogging someone who wouldn't have snogged you under normal circumstances. It's possible the Double Standard is supposed to be in-universe, and the Merope thing is to highlight what the reader thought was harmless. And Voldemort actually _admires_ his mother for drugging and raping his father and detesting him for naturally getting the fuck out when the potion she used wore off. This is mentioned by Dumbledore as another sign of his utter insanity.
-   Played straight in Ken Follett's _World Without End_. Merthin is raped by Griselda, the daughter of the man of whom he is an apprentice. It turns out it was all a plot by Elfric so he would not have to give Merthin a free set of tools and a full guild membership, however.
-   The _Star Wars Expanded Universe_ does this with Dathomir. Luke even moralizes about everything wrong with this trope. Then later Luke and Ben go back to Dathomir, and Ben asks "What kind of woman could I find here anyway?"
-   In Graham McNeill's _Warhammer 40,000_ Horus Heresy novel _False Gods_, one of the many indignities Maggard suffers as a bodyguard is being his mistress's Sex Slave. She thinks it's this trope, and in fact some recompense for his fighting ability winning him more respect from the Astartes than she gets.
-   In _Fallen Angels_ (by Niven/Pournelle/Flynn), Captain Lee Arteria (female) announces that she will be taking Bob Needleton's seed with her when she leaves. They've only just met, and when he hesitates, she explicitly says: "I didn't ask." There are several other people watching, and only one person asks "Shouldn't we be trying to rescue him?" However, he doesn't bear a grudge.
-   In _A Working Of Stars_ by Debra Doyle and D. James Macdonald, a spy, Iulan Vai takes advantage of a convalescing Arekhon's semi-consciousness to have sex with him even though his semi-conscious state means he cannot truly consent. Arekhon believes she is his lover, Elaeli. Even more creepy—this act becomes the start of a relationship.
-   In the _The Riftwar Cycle_ series, while on the Dasati homeworld, rebel leader Naureen, who's sheltering hero Pug and co, conscripts Pug's son Magnus as her boy toy. Magnus clearly isn't okay with this, but neither Pug nor Magnus really objects, and the whole thing is treated as not a big deal. The incident isn't mentioned again.
-   In _Absolute Power 1996_ by David Baldacci, the President is having an affair with the wife of a wealthy supporter. Unfortunately, he is abusive, and his lover attacks him with a letter opener, causing the Secret Service to shoot her dead. His chief of staff goes into full spin mode, and has them leave her with the President, who's passed out on the bed from the shock. She then _has sex with him while he's unconscious_. Why? Because she has a thing for him, and feels sorry the unfortunate fact that the Secret Service had to kill his lover kept him from getting laid. "Technically, she had committed rape. Realistically she was confident she had fulfilled many a male's dream," the character rationalizes. Yeah...more than just "technically" rape. Things go downhill from there...
-   In _Heart In Hand_, The protagonist Darryl mentions to his friend Ethan that he "isn't sure" about whether his first time sleeping with a girl (actually his male love interest) was consensual. Ethan immediately assumes that Darryl raped her and remains suspicious even after Darryl clarifies that the consent was dubious on his part because he was under the influence of alcohol.
-   In _Marked_, Zoey accidentally comes upon Erik and Aphrodite in the hallway. Erik is very uncomfortable and repeatedly says he does not want Aphrodite to give him a blow job, while Aphrodite insists that he does in fact want her and then slashes his thigh and drinks from it—a very sexual act for vampires. However, not once is this ever even thought of as sexual assault—Zoey's problem with Aphrodite isn't that she's ignoring Erik's wishes, it's that giving blowjobs is "skanky" and "letting a guy use you".
-   In _The Mahabharata_, Ulupi drags Arjuna underwater and propositions him, threatening to commit suicide after his initial refusal. Even though she's a total stranger, Arjuna considers this romantic and sexy. Compare this to the scene where Durodhyana threatens to rape Draupadi, a show of cruelty so enraging that several other Kshatriya (including Krishna, who is _literally_ virtue incarnate) declare war on him.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Bridgerton_: A couple episodes in, Daphne Bridgerton punches out Nigel Berbrooke, one of her suitors, for kissing her without her consent (troublesome to Daphne's reputation at the time, but narratively approved of). After Daphne's maid properly educates her on the birds and the bees and she learns that her now-husband Simon Basset pulling out is the real reason she hasn't become pregnant,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  she forces him to come inside her, explicitly against his will. The narrative focuses on Daphne's feelings of betrayal by her husband. This is arguably Deliberate Values Dissonance, in that an aristocratic husband of the time who didn't provide his wife with children was liable to have his masculinity called into question—but then by the standards of the time, a black man would never have been an English aristocrat in the first place. It's still Lighter and Softer than the original novel's version of the scene, where Simon was too drunk to consent.
-   _Law & Order: Special Victims Unit_:
    -   In the episode "Ridicule", the unit tries to disprove this after bachlorette party ends with a male stripper being handcuffed to the bed and gang-raped by three women. This trope was both played straight _and_ averted, in that the reactions of the male detectives, were outright skepticism that a man having an erection could not consent and questioning the victim's occupation and the costume he wears (veering vary close to the Gender Flip of the "If she's dressed slutty, she's asking for it" argument), with Tutuola suggesting that some would call 3 women on 1 man lucky, while Olivia's and the Chief's were both of how an erection is a physical response, not a psychological one (and even friction from clothing can cause one, as any teenage boy who's had the "blackboard incident" can tell you) and "Hey, a rape victim is a rape victim, and a rapist is a rapist! Now shut up, we've got work to do."
    -   Another had a woman slipping talented men roofies so she could get their genetic material. They all take this one seriously though.
-   _True Blood_: Jason Stackhouse was gang-raped by the female population of an entire town. Word of God implies that this was his "comeuppance" for his life as a lady's man.
-   In _Picket Fences_, a man is raped by a woman "Sharon Stone" style, but she thought he was "saying no when he really means yes." During the trial, the Amoral Attorney makes a big joke out of the male victim's experience.
-   In the 70's TV-movie _It Couldn't Happen to a Nicer Guy_, a stripper orders a family man to strip at gunpoint "for kicks"; needless to say, the film is a comedy, but centers on the fact of how no one sympathizes with him.
-   In _Peep Show_ Mark, the perpetual Butt-Monkey, is raped by a woman. However, this is a subversion as when he tells his friends, an addict and a Casanova, they attempt to convince him that he was raped and didn't merely have an awkward moment. He uncomfortably maintains that it wasn't a rape because nothing went into his anus. Like everything else on the show, however, they simultaneously play it for laughs.
    
    **Jez:** Do you have feelings of guilt and shame and self-loathing?  
    **Mark:** You know I do, don't load the question.
    
-   In _Farscape_, Grayza seems to be a believer in this trope: when about to rape Crichton, she boasts that her interrogations are _so_ much better than those of Scorpius. Crichton doesn't agree in the slightest, and takes the time to remind her during Grayza's Villainous Breakdown.
-   70s soap opera parody _Soap_ has a plotline in which Danny Dallas breaks into the house of Mafia boss Charles Lefkowitz only to be caught by his daughter, who demands sex from him at gunpoint. This is played for comedy, naturally.
-   _That '70s Show_, Kelso is essentially cornered in his van by Laurie and she forces herself on him while he protests, but gradually the nos turn to yeses. The entire incident is Played for Laughs; Hyde listens outside casually, even pulling up a chair, and later on Kelso is laughing happily that he got to have sex with her.
-   _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_:
    -   Xander in the second season where, with Amy's help, he tries to cast a love spell on Cordelia, his ex. Unfortunately, it backfires, and every woman in Sunnydale BUT Cordy is now madly in love with him. None of them succeed, and it was his fault, but it's still a little unnerving.
    -   Faith: having sex with Riley while she was in Buffy's body. Curiously, the show focused much more on how Buffy was upset about this and had trouble trusting Riley afterwards, and very little regarding Riley's reaction.
    -   Another example: Buffy, while invisible, throws Spike against the wall and strips him before he figures out who she is and she performs oral sex on him after he tells her to leave. We cut away before we can really figure it out. Note that, later that same season, Spike attempts to violently rape Buffy and is treated as a complete monster for it. Of course, this _is_ Spike and Buffy we're talking about...
-   _Friends_:
    -   Not rape, but sexual harassment: Joey is offered a role in a soap opera— in exchange for sleeping with the female casting director. In the end he refuses, only for her to offer him a bigger role on the same terms, and he does end up sleeping with her. The entire scenario is played for laughs, as the other five place bets on whether or not he would do it, and his only qualms about the situation are about his pride being hurt that he wouldn't have truly "earned" the role. Never once does it come up that _it's completely illegal and morally reprehensible_ for employers to solicit sex from employees (or potential employees) as a criterion for hiring or promotion.
    -   There is another example when Phoebe starts a relationship with Ursula's (her identical twin sister) ex-boyfriend, Eric. Phoebe shows up at Eric's house, expecting to "pick up where they'd left off" earlier in the episode, only to have Eric mention how he's still quite tired from the sex they had earlier in the day. Only, Phoebe and Eric never slept together, and they soon realise that Ursula had come over, and believing she was Phoebe, Eric slept with her. If this had been twin brothers and a girlfriend, it would have turned into a completely different sort of show all together.
-   _Desperate Housewives_ - Orson's ex-wife drugs him, rapes him, and tries to get pregnant to force them back into marriage. Though Bree does call it rape, it's mostly played straight/for laughs (no trauma, no shock, no nothing). One can only imagine the internet backdraft if Orson was the rapist. At the very least when Bree finds out she is so disgusted and furious that she punches the bitch to the floor on the spot.
-   In _Stargate SG-1_:
    -   The Goa'uld queen Hathor puts Daniel Jackson under heavy-duty mind control and has her way with him in order to create more Goa'uld larvae. When the all-female task force find him afterwards, he is catatonic and surrounded by obvious signs of a struggle. At the end of the episode, when he admits that a lot of the larval DNA is going to be his, Jack O'Neill reacts in disgust. It never comes up again until Hathor's next (and last) appearance, which amounts solely to Daniel refusing to look at her and saying that he "tries not to" think about their last encounter.
    -   In the episode "Brief Candle", Jack is drugged by the woman who proceeds to 'have sex' with him. No one—not the characters, not even the writers—seem to realize that this is rape, and Jack and this woman then proceed to develop a true friendship not based on sex. Or something.
-   A version of "Sexual Harassment Is treated OK If It's Female On Male" in _Stargate Atlantis_: In the episode "Duet", a female marine ends up sharing McKay's body by accident. After they argue a bit about who's in charge, she simply takes over his body. Later she wrests control from him to force him to kiss his girlfriend (which he'd been too shy to do), and then to kiss Dr. Beckett against the man's will. She did all this without ever asking McKay's permission, and while ignoring his protests. It's a comedy episode and we're supposed to side with the woman during all of this. There are no consequences for her, except starting a brief relationship with Dr. Beckett, which he later ends offscreen, because he can't stop remembering that first kiss she planted on him while using McKay's body, which may have been a lame attempt of Author's Saving Throw.
-   Jim Profit in _Profit_ was sexually abused by his stepmother, who blackmails him back into the sexual relationship upon discovering that he has become wealthy and powerful. Despite the fact that he is clearly unhappy whenever he's forced to engage in this behavior, and her repeated demands that he allow her to tie him up and beat him bloody, the writers and some of the fans seem to view it as a kinky relationship, not a series of sexual assaults. Fans often excuse the relationship because Jim is so wicked, ignoring that his stepmother is actually one of his Freudian Excuses for being the Sociopathic Hero and that if their genders were reversed she'd be one of the most vilified characters of all time.
-   In the Swedish miniseries _Glappet_, one of the female protagonists has sex with Odin who's half passed out at a party. He wakes up knowing that it happened, but not who the girl was. When he tries to talk to the school nurse about it she assumes it was male on male, when he tells her it was a girl or possibly multiple girls she just laughs at him and tell him that female on male is physically impossible. As for the protagonist, she treats it as a regular one-night-stand, but eventually comes to realize that the guy feels differently, and apologizes.
-   Addressed in _Misfits_: Alisha has the ability to overwhelm people with lust just by touching them; once she got over the initial shock, she begins using it to draw in sexual partners. Apparently, she doesn't consider anything wrong with this—up until she tries it out on Curtis, who knows about her power; he reacts with disgust and anger (not shying away from calling the experience rape in later episodes). Intially petulant, claiming that Curtis is "the one with the problem", Alisha begins to lose confidence when she realises that her supposed "boyfriends" can't even remember what happened; eventually, she gives up on Power Perversion Potential once and for all when she almost ends up getting raped while using her power.
-   An episode of _The Inside_ called "The Perfect Couple" had the FBI trying to find a serial killer that raped women and then shot them in the genitalia. It turned out a Former Child Star was having his wife pick up gay and bisexual women for him to rape while she watched, and afterwards she could not stand that they had been with him so she shot them in the vagina. After he found out that she had murdered them (he thought she was just dropping them off back at their homes), he offered to make it up to her by having them abduct a man for her to rape and him to kill. The man they abducted was the bartender who had been hitting on the main character for the entire show and once had an affair with the wife. He is tied up and raped by the wife but before they have a chance to shoot him the FBI arrived and the evil couple decides to use him as a hostage. They then trade him for the leader of the FBI team and the husband is shot by the wife when he said the murders were all her idea. The bartender showed up again in the next episode, hitting on the main character, no worse for wear and even joking about the experience. The episode after that begins with the two of them in bed together.
-   Played for laughs in _Eastwick_, where Joanna has the power to make men do what she wants. In one episode she used it to prove to her love interest that she wasn't interested in him by flirting with a guy at a party. When the guy started to back off from her, she used her mindpowers to get him to have sex with her. And then we find out that not only is the guy she slept with gay, he's in a committed relationship. It's made 100% clear that the guy would never have slept voluntarily with Joanna, and yet it's played as another 'oh, that silly Joanna, she has such bad luck with men!' moment and she's the one who feels embarrassed and humiliated.
-   Happens in _Dollhouse_ once. Senator Daniel Perrin is drugged and then implied to have been raped by Echo's current imprint for a video that would ruin his reputation. He suffers no emotional trauma, he just wants her as evidence for the existence of the Dollhouse. Of course, since he's also a doll and has been programmed to only think about bringing down the Dollhouse, this ends up making sense.
-   Played straight in _Glee_. The principal wakes up in bed after Sue spikes his drink. She threatens to tell his wife unless she gets her job back. She takes a picture but otherwise reveals she's actually fully clothed. This is _Played for Laughs_.
-   An especially twisty version on _The Young and the Restless_. Not only does the drunken man make advances to his wife's friend on his own, rather than her seducing him (it was dark and his inebriation plus their resemblance led him to genuinely mistake her for his wife), when he realizes his mistake and confronts the woman, asking why she didn't tell him who she really was, she claims that _he's_ the one who forced himself on her and that she didn't protest because she was too frightened to do anything.
-   On a second season episode of _CSI_, called "Overload" Nick revealed to Catherine that he was raped by a last minute replacement baby sitter when he was 9 years old. While it was obviously a traumatic experience he has not made any references to it since then, presumably because of this trope, not even in the tenth season episode "Death and the Maiden" when he is deeply affected by the case of a young teen who was sexually assaulted (albeit by a man). When Nick goes to a rape counselor for the boy, she accused him of not really caring about the victims and said that most male victims would not admit being raped. Instead of proving her wrong on both accounts, he simply said that she did not care about him because he had a badge and left.
-   The episode "Flesh and Stone" of _Doctor Who_ has a scene with companion Amy throwing herself at the Doctor, kissing him forcefully and trying to take his clothes off, with the Doctor trying to push her away and put his clothes back to rights. It's played mostly for laughs, but if it had been a _male_ character trying to undress a physically and vocally unwilling _female_ character, it would look like a set-up for a Date Rape Averted plotline. She does promptly come back to her senses, though.
-   In the Japanese drama series _Jotei Kaoruko_, based on the manga of the same name, a male character is raped by a woman he is sharing an apartment with. She ignores him when he tells her to stop, and he appears to be distressed; but later in the same episode is still living with her and while he is briefly upset, seems to get over it as soon as she tells him she has feelings for him. The incident isn't mentioned again.
-   In _Engine Sentai Go-onger_ , when the team first meets the Stripperiffic villainess Kegareshia, she responds to Hanto by lashing him with her whip, standing on his back and then taunting him with seductive "baby talk." He is visibly scared and upset but is able to throw her off him. It's played for laughs and possibly mild Ship Tease but had it been a male villain and Saki, the only girl on the team, it would have come across as creepy and at least an implied threat of rape.
-   An even worse example occurs in _Ninja Sentai Kakuranger_ where a female Monster of the Week has her Mooks tear Saizou's clothes off while she takes a photo of him. Also played for laughs even though he's actually crying and shaking.
-   _Sunao ni Narenakute_ has "Linda's" boss blackmailing him into sex. He is devastated at this, mostly because he's in love with Nakaji but the show does imply that what the boss does is made worse because she's overweight, ugly and middle-aged, as if having an attractive woman force herself on you is somehow less wrong.
-   _30 Rock_: Double Subverted. While the _TGS_ writers are watching TV, they see that Lynn Onkman, a teacher convicted of statutory rape about 20 years earlier for her relationship with her eighth-grade student, has been released from prison. They eventually figure out that the kid was _Frank_, the writing team's self-described resident dirtbag. (Frank goes on to reconnect and _resume his relationship_ with Lynn).
    
    **Pete**: Guys, a teacher going after a student is wrong _(Beat)_ when the student is female and the teacher is male. What happened to Frank was awesome.
    
-   _Legend of the Seeker_:
    -   The Confessors father offspring by men who are "confessed", i.e. turned into the confessor's lifelong love slave. No one cares since sleeping with any man would automatically confess them anyway and the confessed were usually enemy soldiers in their former lives.
    -   Deconstructed by Kahlan's father, who became an abusive parents to make up for the years he lost confessed to her mother. When Kahlan tries to justify her mother confessing him with the maxim that confessors don't take honorable men as mates, he relates his backstory of how his father drafted him into the D'Haran army to keep him from becoming a carpenter and his confession came right before he was due to leave from his tour of duty.
-   On _General Hospital_, Jasper "Jax" Jacks is kidnapped by his brother's Psycho Ex-Girlfriend Irina. He is beaten over several days and then handcuffed to a bed, gagged and raped more then once. When he is finally rescued, everyone says that the situation was simply him cheating on his wife. In fact, when the writers were asked about it, they outright stated that men cannot get raped. They eventually refused to acknowledge the plot entirely, despite the amount of controversy it brought. However, a few years later Jax's stepson Michael was raped as well. Another plot line the writers, so far, have refused to acknowledge.
-   In the _Mutant X_ episode "Deadly Desire", an evil mutant puts Brennan under her pheromonal control and then has sex with him. No one treats this as rape. A bad thing that he's working with her, but not rape. In fact, they criticize him for "acting like a jerk" after he's cured.
-   _Degrassi: The Next Generation_: A male student meets an older woman through an online video game. He only wants to play the game, and is disturbed and repulsed when she attempts to make a move on him. Of course, it's noteworthy that said woman is rather homely and unattractive—of course any male teenager would be out of his mind to not want to be statutory-raped by a "hot" older woman.
-   In an early episode of _ER_, Carter is accidentally knocked out by a classmate. When he comes to, he's surprised to find himself in a hospital gown and in a bed. The nurse proceeds to gleefully tell him that since he was unconscious, since they were already checking him for injuries, and since the medical student was new and needed to practice performing a physical exam, she allowed her to perform a full exam on Carter, _including his genitalia and a rectal exam_, despite the fact that Carter was unconscious and therefore unable to give or deny consent. The entire scene is of course, played for laughs, despite the fact that Carter is genuinely freaked out and upset—though his main concern seems to be that his genitalia were classified as "average", rather than "normal", as Carter insists. When Carter asks if they're just joking with him, they respond by laughing even more and refusing to answer him, thus leaving the matter up in the air, leaving him even more freaked out and for the rest of the day, subjected to relentless teasing from his other colleagues. A male doctor pulling a similar stunt would have been arrested in two seconds, and even if he were merely joking and hadn't really done anything, he'd still likely face a severe reprimand.
-   In "The Ghost of Ohatsu Tenjin", part of a series of short ghost stories, the (very young) male protagonist seems afraid of the advances of the succubus-like ghost. His father walks in on her molesting him and just goes "good for you, son, carry on." It's Played for Laughs.
-   At least once on the _Dr. Phil_ show, a man tried to counter his wife's claim of Domestic Abuse by saying that he was raped by his wife. Dr. Phil did not even _consider_ the possibility that he might be telling the truth.
-   Happened in the BET Sitcom _The Game_ where a character blackmailed Malik into sleeping with her by saying she would tell everyone he raped her if he didn't. Malik is a football player, and this would likely destroy his life completely, especially since he has done many questionable things already. Anyway, after they slept together (the show never acknowledges that this is rape, even with the look of despair on his face) she hits him in the back of the head and makes him go another round. Cue Laugh Track... She never got called out on this, got a Freudian Excuse, and even walked out of it relatively cleanly, much cleaner than Malik himself did.
-   Series two of _Psychoville_ introduces the character of Hattie, a Fag Hag who is asked to marry her gay friend's boyfriend in order for him to remain in the UK. She becomes instantly infatuated with him, convinces herself that their marriage is real, and eventually blackmails him into sex—he is Iranian and could be executed for homosexuality if he is sent back to his own country. All of this is largely played for laughs, though with the obvious overtone that Hattie is not in the best of mental health.
-   Examined in _The George Lopez Show_. When George and Angie find out a sex offender is living in their neighborhood, George gathers a mob of neighbors to harass the person at their house. When it turns out to be a woman, everyone leaves. However, Angie still thinks the person is a threat. Later in the episode, Max ends up at the woman's house, and they all think she was trying to rape him, but it turns out _he_ showed up at her house and wanted to have sex with her.
-   One infamous episode of _Too Close for Comfort_ has Monroe kidnapped and raped by two women. Oddly enough, only Mr. Rush sees Monroe as the victim of a crime while his wife and two daughters think Monroe somehow "cooperated" with his rapists.
-   Pretty much the entire premise of _Lost Girl_. The main character, a succubus, routinely uses her magical roofies to get what she wants (usually from men). It's stated outright that this is what she brings to her and Kenzi's PI business. She also spent years draining the life out of everyone she had sex with. In the penultimate episode of Season 1, Dyson, a wolf shifter, is attacked by the succubus Aife and forced to have sex with her just as the main character, his girlfriend Bo, also a succubus, walks in on them. He was not coerced with "magical succubus roofie" but simply overpowered by her and is definitely depicted as him struggling and unwilling. It is later referred to as a seduction by Bo and no one ever talks about the fact he was unwilling. Nor do they seem sympathetic to him when he returns after a 3 week absence, seemingly completely mystified why he would have taken off for so long. However, his character behaves like a man that has been violated, by putting himself in a similar situation of vulnerablity with the Norn, then later goes on a spree of getting into bar brawls up and down the East coast, and cuts himself off from Bo. (It's written however that all of his behavior is due to what the Norn did and not anything to do with his rape at the hands of Aife.)
-   _Star Trek_:
    -   _Star Trek: The Next Generation_:
        -   Played for laughs, at least to some degree, in the episode "First Contact". Disguised as an alien, Commander Riker is trying to escape when a female alien confronts him. She agrees to help him, but only if he has sex with her first. It is hard to imagine Troi agreeing to have sex with a male alien to escape. Which is made even worse when you consider that he was seriously injured at the time.
        -   Makes another appearance in the episode "Liaisons". Picard is marooned on an alien world with a woman intent on making him love her. After trying to let her down easy, she becomes more aggressive and forces him onto the ground. Sex does not actually occur as Picard is able to wrestle free, but nonetheless, he emerges visibly upset. Picard cracks a joke about how what just went down could be considered a crime, but otherwise seems none the worse for wear.
    -   In an early episode of _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_, Odo comes to Sisko, openly distraught, and asks him to stop Lwaxana Troi from sexually harrassing him—her status as an ambassador means he feels he can't say anything himself for fear of insulting her. Sisko finds the whole thing hilarious and suggests that it would do Odo good to take her up on the offer. _In the same episode_ Sisko tells Dr Bashir about an incident a few years before when he punched a male ambassador in the face for making advances to a female member of his crew.
    -   _Star Trek: Voyager_: In "Prophecy", Harry Kim is "chosen" as a mate by a burly Klingon female who's significantly larger and stronger than he is. Kim makes it clear he has no interest in a relationship, expresses extreme fear of the woman, and even winds up being stalked, but nobody seems to take the matter with any degree of seriousness. Things reach a particularly uncomfortable point when Harry goes to sick bay with bite-marks, indicating abuse, and is given a grossly inappropriate response the audience is meant to find amusing.
        
        **Harry:** One of the Klingons attacked me.  
        **Doctor:** _(concerned)_ Did you do something to provoke him?  
        **Harry:** Not him, her. And she wasn't provoked, she was... aroused.  
        **Doctor:** _(amused)_ Ahhh. I'm not surprised. I've studied the section on Klingon mating rituals in the cultural database.  
        **Harry:** Then maybe you can tell me how to convince a female twice my size that I'm not interested?  
        **Doctor:** You probably can't. As I understand it, you have two options: kill her or mate with her. Since the first option is unacceptable... _(hands Kim a form)_  
        **Harry:** What's this?  
        **Doctor:** Authorization for you to engage in intimate relations with an alien species.
        
    -   _Star Trek: Enterprise_: in the season 4 episode 'Bound' three Orion women use their pheromones to manipulate all the male members of the crew. At least one crewmember, Lt. Kelby has sex with one of the women while under the influence of her pheromones. It is implied that Archer also does. Whilst the Orions' actions are treated as wrong, there seems to be no indication that anyone notices that they raped two people. Similarly, in the season 3 episode 'Rajiin' a woman mind rapes Archer (along with T'Pol and Hoshi.) The scenes are clearly set up to resemble a sexual attack, but again no one really acknowledges the implications.
    -   Zig-Zagged in _Star Trek: Discovery_. Ash Tyler accepted the sexual advances of L'Rell, his jailor after he was taken prisoner at the Battle of the Binary Stars, in order to survive his stay on her prison ship. This is treated very seriously with Tyler suffering significant PTSD from it. However, "Ash Tyler" later turns out to a Manchurian Agent, L'Rell's comrade-in-arms Voq having undergone Magic Plastic Surgery and Laser-Guided Amnesia, which raises a question of whether "Tyler" was actually flashing back to having _consensual_ sex with L'Rell.
-   In an episode of _Harry's Law_ one of Tommy's clients claimed he was raped by a woman. One of the other lawyers believed since he organized it wasn't rape, and Tommy even suggested to drop the case. The man keeps Tommy going by asking if he would be saying the same thing if he was a woman rapped by a man.
-   _Firefly_: In "Our Mrs. Reynolds", Saffron goes into Mal's room and starts trying to get him to sleep with her, even though he repeatedly says he won't. It's zigzagged back and forth—Mal does want to sleep with Saffron, but refuses to do so until she convinces him that she's doing it because she wants to, and not because she believes he has the right to do so regardless of her consent. And when it's revealed that she just did the whole thing for fun and screwed over and tried to kill Mal and his crew, he was disgusted.
-   An episode of _Flight of the Conchords_ has Bret dating a woman who becomes increasingy pushy and aggressive in demanding sex from him, finally outright lying to and manipulating him to get him to capitulate. It's a little shaky on how it's portrayed; Bret is clearly traumatised afterwards and the woman is shown to be deeply unpleasant, but some of Bret's comments about the experience (such as how it only lasted a few minutes and she fell asleep right after) and Jermaine pretending to be him to another woman hoping for the same appear to be playing it partially for laughs.
-   Adam and Yvonne in _Being Human (UK)_. Although Adam is actually a 47 year old vampire so no statutory rape actually occurred, Yvonne, a middle aged woman, entered into a sexual relationship with him believing he was a 14 year old. Yet she is portrayed sympathetically and their relationship as ultimately a good thing. There's also the fact that as a succubus, Yvonne brainwashes any man that she touches into being madly in love with her, regardless of how he would feel otherwise. Granted she has no control over it and breaks down when she realizes that the guy she thought was her soulmate was just brainwashed into loving her, but it's initially Played for Laughs and it's kind of glossed over that the men who fall for her and eventually sleep with her _die_.
-   _Shameless_:
    -   In the 2nd episode, Sheila handcuffs a naked Frank to the bed without even asking if he's comfortable with it. Frank is shown as being extremely uncomfortable throughout the whole scene and asks that "stop" be their safeword. When he sees her pull out a GIANT dildo, he sees "stop" immediately but it's implied that she anally penetrates him with the dildo anyways as he screams out "stop" again. This is played for laughs and Frank gets over it pretty quickly. Imagine if the genders were reversed.
    -   Mickey in seasons 3 and 4, whose violently homophobic father Terry catches him having sex with his boyfriend Ian. He brutally beats them both and then holds them at gunpoint while he calls in a prostitute to "Fuck the queer out of" him as Ian is forced to watch. The prostitute, Svetlana, becomes pregnant, supposedly by Mickey, and he is compelled to marry her by Terry. This causes him and Ian to break up and leaves Mickey trapped in a marriage with a woman he is not attracted to and despises. Nobody really treats this as rape however, and even Mickey's sister Mandy is angry with him when he refuses to go to the hospital to be with Svetlana when she gives birth, especially when he says it's not his fault she got pregnant in the first place. Svetlana is also furious that Mickey refuses to be a devoted husband and father, and that he resumes his relationship with Ian instead of focusing on her and the baby.
-   In the _Mystery Science Theater 3000_ episode mocking the the Ed Wood written film _The Violent Years_ the rape scene is treated as being okay by Crow, while the original film does not.
    
    **Crow:** Rape victim says "Thank you! Thank you!"
    
-   In one episode of _Married... with Children_, Bud spends most of the episode trying to get past a hotel doorman to see an old high-school flame, who's now a celebrity. On one attempt, a fat, middle-aged woman from another room sees and grabs him. It played for laughs, but then Crosses the Line Twice when Bud gets rid of the doorman later by luring him next to the same woman's room using a table with a hamburger, making sure that she grabs _him_.
-   _Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._: in the episode "Yes Men", escaped Asgardian villainess Lorelei compels Ward to have sex with her while he's under her control. _Ward_ is treated as the guilty party and even guilted into _apologizing_ to May, who treats him like crap in return. …The reveal of Ward’s true loyalties retroactively make him an Asshole Victim, but still.
-   _It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia_:
    -   Funnily enough averted _and_ played straight when we find out Dennis was raped by his high school librarian at the age of fourteen. When confronted about this he dismisses it with how it wasn't rape since "you can't rape a guy", but when pushed he seems to show some distress over the memory. The implication is that Dennis is playing into this trope to enforce Men Are Tough stereotypes but was deeply traumatized, and this event is part of his Freudian Excuse that explains (among other things) his predatory attitude toward sex.
    -   In a later episode where the Gang is forced to attend a sexual harassment seminar, and Dee laughs at the others sweating profusely when realizing their previous misconduct. Later on, Charlie confesses that when Dee slept with him previously she forced him to continue when he was having second thoughts. Dee asserts that men can't be raped by women only for the hosts to correct her, and _her_ turn to start sweating begins.
-   Played oddly in the _Andromeda_ episode "The Devil Take the Hindmost". Magog like Rev Bem normally reproduce by parasitizing humanoids with their larvae, which characters in the series consider rape. However, Rev is drugged and forced by a local woman, Tiana, to parasitize her; she hopes to pass her Genetic Memory to the Magog larvae so they can defend her people. When Dylan finds the two of them, Rev's first words to him are to forgive her.
-   In an episode of _Will & Grace_, Grace's friend Ellen learns that Grace slept with her fiance when they were briefly broken up. To get back at them, she tries to seduce Will, and when he refuses, she throws him on a bed, pins him down and climbs on top of him. The whole incident is Played for Laughs, even though Will is visibly terrified and calling for help, and eventually stumbles out of the room shaken with his pants pulled down. Also, as Will is gay, Ellen's actions are disturbingly evocative of corrective rape. Imagine a scene where a straight man forces himself on a lesbian who is struggling to fight him off, and then is shown traumatised with torn clothes, and ask yourself if that would be considered light comedy.
-   _Legion (2017)_: In the season 2 finale, David uses his telepathy to make Syd forget that the so-far Big Bad the Shadow King convinced her David was the real threat and that she tried to shoot him. Later, he proceeds to have sex with her. This is presented as one of several arguments that David is out of control and needs to be contained. However when she was a teenager, Syd used _her_ powers to essentially pull a Bed Trick on her mother's boyfriend.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Not only did this constitute a rape by deception, but she reverted back to her own body _in the middle of the act_, making it appear for all intents and purposes that the boyfriend was having sex with a minor. He was subsequently arrested, and very likely had his life destroyed as a result. While what David did was certainly _not_ ok, Syd's actions are presented far more sympathetically and she is never shown facing consequences for what she did.
-   In an episode of _You Rang, M'Lord?_ Teddy hits on a plan to get out of marrying a woman he doesn't love: when she's spending the night at his house he'll creep into her bedroom and then do nothing. She'll assume he's impotent and call the wedding off. He doesn't count on how enthusiastically she'll react to finding him getting into bed with her, and although the character is quite unhappy about what's happened, it's played for laughs.
-   _The Mindy Project_: Christina has sex with Dr. Leotard when he's too drunk to stand or talk coherently. He's the one treated as a jerk for this, even though he was in no state to give consent.

    Music 

-   Somewhat of a subversion in P!nk's music video for "Please Don't Leave Me", where the singer holds her boyfriend captive after he attempts to leave her. Although rape isn't explicitly shown, it's strongly implied. She's portrayed as a total madwoman, but at least gets her comeuppance at the end.
-   INXS' video for "Taste It." It's either this or some particularly bizarre BDSM. It does not help when Hutchance is screaming "Never! Never! Never!" as his clothes are being cut off.
-   In Britney Spears's "Womanizer", the singer seduces her husband using several disguises, possible to test his fidelity. Nothing too bad at first. But her advances gain force as the video progresses, till she's violently taking him against his will. At the end of the video, she beats him into submission, and all three of her personas rape him.
-   In Pretty Ricky's "My Body", the first verse begins _"I don't know why, but the ladies call ol' baby blue the sticker/They take me and rape me and make me they victim—"_ Word of God is that lyric wasn't supposed to be taken literally, but it's hard not to.
-   In Katy Perry's "Last Friday Night", her alter ego Kathy Beth Terry is seen stroking the abdomen of an unconscious jock and then later peeking into his underwear to check out his package. Technically, this is considered sexual assault as sleep negates consent.
-   In the Filk Song "Banned from Argo" by Leslie Fish, in which the crew of the Enterprise get, well, banned from Argo, Nurse Chapel uses an "odd green potion guaranteed to cause Pon Farr" to take advantage of Spock. This is Played for Laughs and treated no more seriously than Scotty and Chekov's drunken parking violation.

    Mythology and Religion 

-   Somewhat common in Greek Mythology where the prevailing feeling seemed to be "rape is ok when it is the strong on the weak." Perhaps the best know example of this was The Amazons which as a Gender Flipped version of a typical warrior race would regularly rape prisoners of both genders just like their male counterparts. This was a major part of Greco-Roman culture. Any kind of sex was fine, including rape, as long as it involved domination of a social subordinate (usually a slave or wife; or in some cases, such as Spartan society, a younger male protege). To submit, sexually, to someone weaker or socially inferior was considered highly shameful, and grounds for anything from exploitative humour to outright ostracism.
-   In Arthurian Legend, Sir Galahad was conceived when his father, Sir Lancelot, was drugged and raped twice. While the person who drugged him (Morgan Le Fay) is typically seen as a villain, both the rapes' mastermind (the Fisher King who wanted the perfect grandson) and the rapist herself (Princess Elaine) were not shown to be bad people.
-   When Asmodeus of _Tobit_ stalks a woman and prevents her from consummating any marriages he is declared "The Worst Of Demons". Other Jewish mythology figures, the four demon queens Lilith, Naamah, Eisheth Zenunim and Agrat, want sex without care for consent but if they happen to rape an unwilling man, even if it takes more than one of them to subdue him, it is still his fault and any resulting abominations they may birth are the man's responsibility. Asmodeus may in fact be one of their sons. Thankfully the whole of this material is not canon to any modern religion.

    Theater 

-   Aristophanes's _The Assemblywomen_ (or _Ecclesiazusae_) has a couple old hags dragging a young man away from his young and presumably beautiful lover to force him to obey the new laws governing sex.
-   _A Midsummer Night's Dream_: The man, Bottom is is the victim of a supernatural practical joke, and has the head of a donkey. Titania, the fairy queen, is the victim of another practical joke, dosed with a love potion, and forced to fall desperately in love with the next thing she sees. That would be the aforementioned Bottom. As soon as love-mad Titania casts eyes on Bottom, she wants him. Bottom, (who's having a rough day) decides to head home, not realizing that she's a fairy queen, and fairy queens aren't used to hearing the word "No". The scene of her capturing Bottom is never played as anything but hilarity, not say, kidnapping and sex slavery.
    
    **Titania:** Out of this wood do not desire to go:  
    Thou shalt remain here, whether thou wilt or no.  
    I am a spirit of no common rate;  
    The summer still doth tend upon my state.
    
-   In _Moulin Rouge!_, scenes where women push sex on men who are not interested are seen as awkward at worst, but scenes where men attempt to push sex on women are seen as violent and horrifying.
-   In an example blending slightly with Double Standard: Rape, Divine on Mortal, Prior of _Angels in America_ seems strangely blasé, especially given he's in love with someone and gay, about how an angel fucked him with her eight vaginas when recounting the tale to his friend Belize. But, after the hell of a time he had in the entire first act leading up to the angel's arrival, maybe he was just too jaded to care by then.

    Video Games 

-   _Bully_: The protagonist helps the cafeteria lady slip sedatives to a male teacher; it is strongly implied that she aims to take him home and rape him. Imagine the reaction if the sexes were reversed.
-   _Fallout 3_ has one quest—_A Nice Day for a Right Wedding_—where you help a young woman drug the man she has a crush on with an aphrodisiac so she can effectively force him into wanting her. And it is treated as a good thing, netting you a boost to your karma! The only NPC who even knows about the drug is the one who wanted to marry the victim. The victim actually blames himself, since as far as he knows he lost control of himself and _raped her_. He marries her thinking it's the only right thing he can do at this point, but is obviously traumatised by the whole thing. The cherry on the whole sundae is that the victim is an acolyte who has chosen a life of celibacy and service and made it abundantly clear that is what he wants from his life!
    -   It's implied in dialogue that Diego is attracted to Angela in the first place, and is keeping himself under control. While that doesn't make it alright by itself, then there's the thing about those ant queen pheromones: They have the effect of raising charisma quite severely see here. In other words, she used them on herself, to appear more attractive to Diego. The effect being what the Axe deodorant claims to be able to do on men.
-   In _Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas_ C.J. is tied up and raped by Cesar’s Ax-Crazy cousin Catalina during a Cutscene. She thinks C.J is her boyfriend but he is only working with her because she helps him get money by robbing place. C.J. begs her to stop and Catalina is depicted as being crazier than a shithouse rat, and it plays Black Comedy Rape as much as anything. Afterwards C.J. is visibly disturbed but keeps working with her, and she ends up being a Karma Houdini and runs away in the end with some poor mute named Claude (the guy from GTA 3). Of course, considering she is the Big Bad in another game, this was a Foregone Conclusion.
-   In the _Capcom vs._ series of games, Morrigan has a new super move named Eternal Slumber. Succubus nature aside, she's the protagonist of _Darkstalkers_ and frequently portrayed as a hero.
-   This is one of the many, many possible ways to die in _Leisure Suit Larry 2: Looking for Love (In Several Wrong Places)_, where Larry wins a pleasure cruise for two, but has to share a cabin with an elderly woman who will instantly rape Larry the first chance she gets.
-   Subverted in _Dragon Age: Origins_. There are rumors about Morrigan's mother Flemeth and that she kidnaps men to have her way with them. It's only mentioned in passing at first and not enough detail is given to determine whether or not it was definitely rape, but later on it's hinted that it was a rather horrible experience and that she kills them afterwards.
-   _Star Control II_ has a part where a Syreen captain (a Green-Skinned Space Babe, essentially) turns off the lights and proposes to have some 'fun' with you. Even if you outright refuse, she'll still have her 'fun' whether you want it or not.
    
    _Oh, Captain... I would never think of doing something unpleasant to you... quite the opposite in fact._
    
-   _Star Wars: The Old Republic_: In the Sith Warrior story, Vette's sister Tivva is a Sex Slave whom the Warrior has the opportunity to buy free during a companion quest. Vette calls the male Warrior on it if he tries to have Tivva service him as a condition of freeing her. It's also not possible for male Warriors to romance Vette herself unless the Warrior removes her shock collar to free her. In contrast, the romances for female Smugglers and Warriors have issues: the Smuggler's first opportunity to sleep with her Love Interest Corso Riggs is when he propositions her while drunk, and the female Warrior's romance with Malavai Quinn consists basically of her declaring him her Chosen Conception Partner and him going along with it out of a combination of discipline to superior orders and fear of her power. Completely defied by the female Sith Inquisitor's Love Interest Andronikos Revel, however: if she starts flirting with him, he makes a point of going to her and setting clear ground rules about his freedom to walk away. If she agrees to his conditions, they start a Friends with Benefits relationship that becomes more serious.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Tsukihime_: Shiki's dreams of Arcueid. Actually a subversion as not only is it seen as a dumb (and humiliating/very inappropriate) move on Arcueid's part, he calls her on it and explains very pointedly that that is _not_ the way to thank someone. Also played with in that Arcueid didn't intend for the dream to take the form of a sexual assault and just wanted him to have a pleasant sex dream with whoever he subconsciously wanted...not realizing that not only are Len's dreams rather _too_ realistic (meaning Shiki reacted in a completely normal fashion to X girl showing up in his room), but she's also not one to give up just because a dream is turning out badly.
-   Karura in _Utawarerumono_. First, she gets Hakuoro to agree to help her country out. That's nice. But then as 'paying' him, she drugs him into having sex with her, and later when confronting Suwonkas she starts groping and kissing him in an attempt to piss Suwonkas off. And also because she just wanted to. Now imagine if these roles had been reversed.
-   _Sharin no Kuni_: Ririko's playing with Kenichi is treated as a mere quirk of hers instead of as the borderline pedophilliac action it is. It's borderline not because he isn't a little kid, but because her own age is rather hard to determine. But this is treated as one of her many quirks and she's even one of his romance options. The portrayal is quite different from the abuse that Natsumi went through.

    Webcomics 

-   In _Bizarre Uprising_, when a male character is raped, and the logic that because he is aroused means he wants it is used explicitly.
-   _Dominic Deegan_ reveals that this happened on his first date with Rachel Hart. Not only does he not get any sympathy, but his friendship with her doesn't seem in any way tarnished.
-   _Sexy Losers_ plays it straight with the "Kenta's Horny Mom" strips, where the mother lusts after her son... but is then lampshaded with a Gender Swap, to point out just how wrong it really is... and appropriately titled "Gender Incrimination".
    
    **Touro Maebshi:** _(post-beating)_ I don't understand... it was funny when it was a _mom_ and her _son_. It's the same fucking joke.
    
-   _Ménage à 3_:
    -   Gary is tricked into giving oral sex to his favorite porn star when she makes him think she's his male roommate in drag (It Makes Sense in Context). When the deception is revealed nobody cares that this is a sex crime, not even Gary (though the porn star feels _somewhat_ guilty).
        
        **Gary**: _I am totally OK with this situation!_
        
    -   Earlier, we see Gary nervously unable to say no to having sex with two women. Despite being very, _very_ clearly uncomfortable with the whole situation, the two women essentially force him into a threesome without ever asking for his consent. Moments later, he's nearly catatonic and despairing at the very notion, and says he didn't have a choice in the matter. He seems to accept it eventually, and is later seen "preparing" for it (with all the enthusiasm of a man on death row), but little, if any, time is spent on considering his consent—it's just assumed, despite his attempted protests, that he'll be into it.
-   This _Arthur, King of Time and Space_ strip shows how this trope has changed through the setting's history. In the fairytale arc it's in full effect, in the modern arc Lancelot believes in it but Guenevere sets him straight, and in the future arc it is entirely averted.
-   _Fans!_: While in Marc's body, Baxter encounters their mutual coworker, Di, who feels like letting off steam with some casual elevator sex (and isn't aware of the swap). Baxter quickly realizes that this amounts to a Bed Trick rape and tries to turn her down, but Di continues the foreplay insistently until Baxter comes up with a (semi-accurate) excuse to stop. The narrative places all the burden on Baxter to stop the encounter, and it's never addressed that, whether it had been Baxter or Marc, someone told Di "no" and she didn't take it for an answer.
-   Subverted in one _Nodwick_ story, where the party had to gain an all-female cult's respect by one of them spending five hours alone with a Priestess Erastica, "Reverend Sister of the Venundite Inner Sanctum". (Erastica herself added "_and_ six-year limbo champion!") Nodwick "volunteered" (actually, it was due to Artax using ventriloquism, and for a tense five hours after she dragged him away, it _looked_ like this may have happed to him. However, when the high-priestess opened the door, he walked out and cheerfully waved goodbye to Erastica, at which point she rushed out in tears, saying he actually _listened_ to everything she told him. (In short, it was implied that Erastica was a temptress who did this to men regularly, but Nodwick _cured_ her of it.)

    Web Original 

-   _Whateley Universe_: Sara simultaneously rapes and mind rapes Jobe, while transforming him into a female against his wishes. This is played for laughs despite the fact that his survival chance and that he is able to keep his mind/Memories intact were pretty low. She is also emotionally devastated and disgusted with what she did after the act. The creatures he creates to kill her before and after that Act are also one of the very few ways to grow strong enough to even have a any chance against her "relatives" when they arrive. This kind of crosses over into Double Standard: Rape, Divine on Mortal / Omniscient Morality License territory, as in "it's OK because I'm a demon-goddess in training and my alien inhuman super-intelligence assures me that it's all for a good cause".
-   Zig-zagged in _Chakona Space_ when Malena uses an overdose of mating pheromones to make Garrek impregnate her. In foxtaur society males are the protected gender so her actions are recognized as abhorrent and she is forced to leave their village, but she didn't know that Garrek would completely lose his will (they were already mated, she thought it would just "put him in the mood") and her Chakat co-mates are quick to forgive her.
-   In _Tales of MU_ when it's revealed that Steff (a pre-op male-to-female transgender) was raped by Leda the standard response is "Is that even possible?" Though after much debate they come to recognize how traumatic it was.
-   Game mod reviewer _AlChestBreach_ plays a consensual sex scene with a custom NPC follower as though she forced herself on him. As with the tone of all his reviews, the scene is clearly intended to be comedic.
-   In The Cinema Snob's review of _I Spit On Your Grave_, this trope, as well as the Male On Male trope, gets discussed as Craig, Neil, Nancy, and Candy come to the conclusion that the only way to bring some levity into a very dark movie with a very dark rape scene was to reenact/spoof it with Craig as the 'victim' and Candy, Nancy, and Neil as the 'rapists'. Set to "Pleasant Valley Sunday".

    Western Animation 

-   While more along the lines of "double standard _statutory_ rape: female on male," _South Park_ features a Deconstructive Parody of this particular Double Standard in "Miss Teacher Bangs a Boy", in which the toddler Ike's adult female teacher has regular sex with him. Although the adult men in series are saying "nice" regarding Ike's sexual conquest in spite of Kyle's outraged outcry, the show itself presents this as sick. The kicker is that when Kyle first told the police that Ike was with an older person, they immediately went to the conclusion that Ike must have been raped by an older guy. When Kyle corrected them, all they had to say was "nice" and were only willing to arrest her when they thought she was ugly.
-   _Family Guy_:
    -   Surprisingly subverted in "Lethal Weapons", in which Lois rapes Peter. It's played out for comedic effect and other characters (save Brian) think Peter is totally pathetic for it, but he is notably disturbed by the whole thing.
    -   In "Prick Up Your Ears", Lois rapes Peter after he takes up abstinence, and is portrayed as being completely right in doing so. Earlier in the episode, they made fun of Christian groups who advocate abstinence, and Lois even goes "Abstinence is _wrong_! Just...wrong!" <sup>Context&nbsp;</sup>  Part of the satirization was the fallacious reasoning the group gave, including the one that convinced Peter, but it still uses this trope in a way that's rather tasteless.
    -   In "Peter-assment", Peter is being sexually harassed by his female boss and Lois utterly refuses to give him any sympathy, insisting that a man _can't_ be sexually harassed because they like sexual behavior. He also catches flak from his friends (Quagmire saying that he can't not sleep with his boss or else he's gay) and the patrons at the local bar. Later on the boss admits that she's harassing Peter because she hasn't had sex in a long time, and the audience is expected to see this as acceptable and the boss as sympathetic. It also did not help that Peter's boss threatened to kill herself because she fears being alone any longer and feels having sex will make her life have some meaning again.
-   _The Simpsons_: In the episode "Strong Arms of the Ma", after bulking up, Marge rapes Homer (who is clearly scared and doesn't want to) violently enough that it hurts to walk the next morning. It's played for laughs, with Marge never apologizing or repenting, and getting away with it.
-   Parodied in _Metalocalypse_ when a group of female villains want to harvest lead-singer Nathan Explosion's "seed" in order to father a race of super-babies and kill him afterword. He is saved by Toki, but later laments in a way that invokes this trope
    
    **Nathan:** Such a shame, she was so hot. But so f\*RIFF\*kin' crazy.  
    **Toki:** You just figures it out? All the hots ones is crazy!  
    **Nathan:** Yeah, I guess you're right.  
    **Toki:** And the ugly ones, too.
    
-   In the fifth episode of _Men in Black: The Series_, a heavyset green female alien falls for Agent J and pins him to the ground to mate with him against his protests. K just chuckles and walks off, saying "Have a good time, kid."
-   _Futurama_: "Amazon Women in the Mood" plays with this. Kif, Zapp, and Fry are sentenced to Death By Snu-Snu, where the Amazon women have their way with the men until the men are crushed. While Kif is reasonably terrified and escapes having "snu-snu" with the women, Zapp and Fry try and fail to hide their glee, with Zapp calling Kif gay for not being into the idea. Their "snu-snu" with the women is a mix of screams of terror and ecstasy, and even after their pelvises are broken, they consider it all worth it. Of course, Fry and Zapp's roles in the episode are a parody of toxic masculinity, so their fetishization of this affair is meant to look stupid.
    
    **Fry**: I never thought I'd die this way, but I'd always hoped.
    

___