"I summon WTF-Eyes Eldritch Dragon!"

_"And the dragon stood on the shore of the sea. And I saw a beast coming out of the sea. He had ten horns and seven heads, with ten crowns on his horns, and on each head a blasphemous name."_

Dragons are one of the oldest and most-ubiquitous mythological creatures, being featured in cultures around the world and generally being portrayed as enormous reptilian monsters and even as gods. On their own, dragons — particularly in Western folklore — are already unnatural and horrific: no natural vertebrate possesses six (if not more) limbs, and that's leaving out the ability to fly, breathe fire, and venomous breath and blood — though in some cases exposure to a dragon's blood bestows invulnerability and other mystical powers.

In modern fantasy, depictions of dragons often vary from them being powerful but otherwise mundane monsters capable of being slain by mere mortals such as knights and dragonslayers, to being benevolent and helpful beings, to being just another type of animal - even giving scientific explanations for their powers. Some depictions, however, cross over into Cosmic Horror Story and Lovecraft Lite territory and portray dragons as not just a mere species of animal or a generic (albeit powerful) type of monster able to be slain by mortal adventurers, but as calamitous and otherworldly abominations — or on the flip-side depict calamitous otherworldly abominations that choose to appear draconic.

This trope is Older Than Dirt and has its roots in "Chaoskampf" myths from cultures around the world — particularly Indo-European — where primordial chaos is generally deified as reptilian abominations that terrified even the gods.

A subtrope of Eldritch Abomination and Our Dragons Are Different. May co-exist with Animalistic Abomination, which is about otherworldly abominations in the shape of animals. Most likely to overlap with Dragons Are Demonic, which emphasises dragons that are evil and/or infernal. Deific dragons aren't as likely to be considered abominable, though deities of chaos and destruction are often an exception. _This_ is for dragons that are otherworldly horrors with features that "normal" dragons don't possess — i.e. multiple eyes, multiple mouths, multiple heads, multiple wings, multiple tails, tentacles, regenerative abilities that make them virtually or completely immortal, etc — and otherworldly horrors that appear as dragons because that's the closest puny mortals — and sometimes even gods — can come to perceiving them.

They can be considered as the embodiments of dragons due to being an Eldritch Being.

Compare Dracolich for undead dragons.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _3×3 Eyes_ has Benares, the Dragon Emperor and Wu of Kaiyanwang, the God of Destruction. In his true form, Benares resembles a colossal, serpent-like dragon with a single horn and giant jaws lined with humongous teeth, made entirely of raw energy and costantly sending out the "Dragon Life Waves", ki pulsations that inevitably fry the minds of others in proximity. As for the rest, we never learn Benares' exact origins: all that his former disciple says is that over 5000 ago he rampaged in the Sacred Land (the dimension where supernatural creatures live) where he attacked the Triclopes and devoured them until he became sapient and self-aware. At that point he took on a human form, created sorcery and became the Dragon Emperor, feared and respected by the other inhabitants of the Sacred Land.
-   _Bakugan_:
    -   Naga is a colossal white dragon with a body that looks like a skeleton and tattered wings. When Naga fully absorbed the Silent Core, he became much larger and had purple veins around his body, his wings were no longer attached to his hands. They resembled a cape and he had a sphere on his chest, in which the Silent Core is located. He has two large horns on his head and red eyes.
    -   Dharak, who later evolved into Phantom Dharak from the third season, started out as a traditional western dragon, but season 4 has him mutated into a demonic dragon-spider hybrid called Razenoid, but later subverted after he becomes whole he evolves into Evolved Razenoid, making him more powerful.

-   _BURN THE WITCH_: The Dragons that Wing Bind deals with are supernatural entities seen as homologous to the Hollows found in Japan. If infected by negative emotions, a dragon will mutate into a Dark Dragon — with special mention going to Selvie, a nightmarish abomination with multiple arms, tentacles for legs, and the ability to unravel its face even up to its eye into a corkscrew-shaped mouth lined with teeth.
-   _Cardfight!! Vanguard_: Gyze was an ancient draconic god of destruction who sought to conquer and/or destroy the planet Cray, but was vanquished by his nemesis, the benevolent god Harmonics Messiah. In _Cardfight!! Vanguard G: Z_, an Apocalypse Cult called the Apostles seek to revive Gyre by unleashing the Zeroth Dragons — Gyze's minions. The Apostles' machinations enabled Gyze to Diffride Kazuma Shouji, whereupon the dark dragon-god began seeking to regain his full power and destroy both Cray and Earth. Gyze was ultimately vanquished, but out of fear that he would one day return a new draconic deity called Chakrabarthi Divine Dragon, Nirvana was born 3000 years later to oppose him should the need arise.
-   _A Certain Magical Index_: Protagonist Kamijou Touma's mysterious Imagine Breaker ability — which is able to negate almost anything supernatural that comes into contact with his right hand — is revealed to somehow be connected to the "Dragon Strike", a draconic entity or entities that emerge when his right arm is lopped off. In the spinoff _A Certain Scientific Railgun_, a total of eight dragon heads emerge when his arm is blown off by Mikasa Mikoto, who had lost control of her powers and begun to undergo apotheosis. The eight heads proceed to devour Mikasa's city-obliterating attack, negate her apotheosis, and return to Kamijou's body while restoring his arm.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Furthermore, illustrator Kiya Shii and editor Ogino Kentarou have revealed the existance of additional dragon-heads yet to make an appearance in the series proper.
-   _Chaosic Rune_: Most of the Dragon-type entities only vaguely resemble dragons and often possess nightmarish physics-breaking abilities, but Death Rex stands out as a literally all-devouring abomination that was so powerful that when it was sealed its body was split into five parts that — should they be summoned by someone with a weak will and assimilate them — have minds of their own, are capable of harnessing the powers of any monster they devour, and seek to become the dominant part of their recombined form by assimilating the others.
    -   Death Rex Head is owned by Ryouga Minamoto and has a colossal skull-like face at the end of an enormous set of jaws, with a humanoid torso and arms, comparatively tiny wings, no legs, and a thin segmented tail. Anything and anyone consumed by it is erased from existence, with only the card-bearer remembering them.
    -   Death Rex Arms manifested as a two-headed dragon with tripartite jaws and bladed legs, embodying the original body's arms and legs. Initially owned by Sawaki Akane, it assimilated her — becoming self-aware in the process — before being taken by Ryouga.
    -   Death Rex Body is an eternally ravenous massive blob of flesh with stumpy legs and a Lamprey Mouth — having grown obese from gorging itself — though it is capable of manifesting additional mouths anywhere on its body and can manipulate gravity to incapacitate prey. It was formerly owned by Yamada Magatorō before assimilating him, and was taken by Ryouga.
    -   Death Rex Wings is an eyeless, legless blue-and-black bat-like dragon capable of manipulating darkness — devouring anything swallowed up by its shadow — and attacking with ultrasonic waves. It is owned by Makoto Kuga, Ryouga's long-lost twin sister.
    -   Death Rex Tail — who debuts in the sequel _Chaosic Rune ES_ — is a colossal armored sea-serpent with multiple eyes and a massive horn on its forehead. With the power to conjure and control an ocean's worth of water, it is worshipped by the Dragon Clan as the Water Dragon King. Initially owned by Genichiro Kuga, the chief of the Dragon Clan and Ryouga and Makoto's father, after he's killed it grants its power to Guran Douma, manifesting as a sword with a blade of pressurized water.
-   _Claymore_: Towards the end of the manga, it's revealed that the Organization is at war against a mysterious species called the Asarakam, who resemble Gigeresque humanoids but can Awaken to transform into colossal draconic monsters — earning them the nickname "Dragon's Kin" or "Descendants of Dragons". Experimenting with tissue samples from two captured Asarakam, the Organization created a variety of bioweapons with Lovecraftian abilities — the Yoma, the Claymores, and the Awakened Beings, to name a few — in order to combat the Asarakam.
-   _Digimon_:
    -   Millenniummon is a Digital Abomination formed of a fusion between Machinedramon and Kimeramon, and is the Greater-Scope Villain behind the _Digimon_ multiverse — jumping from continuity to continuity. Its sealed form and revived form, Moon=Millenniummon and ZeedMillenniummon, resemble a spectral two-headed dragon made of darkness; and it seeks to destroy everything it comes across, up to and including the multiverse itself.
    -   Megidramon is a Mega-level Digimon in the shape of a colossal armored crimson dragon with two mouths. While lore-wise it's one of the Four Great Dragons, it is completely berserk and so powerful that its very existence destabilizes and threatens to destroy the Digital World.
    -   _Digimon Adventure: (2020)_ features Eyesmon, a "Demon Dragon" Digimon made of living darkness, covered in countless eyes, and having a massive fang-lined maw resembling the Beast of Darkness' from _Berserk_. Its Mega-level form, Nidhoggmon, really hammers this trope home — being a city-sized,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  serpentine monstrosity that has nine red eyes on its head and hundreds more all along its body and even on its tongue. Its Breath Weapon is just a Beam Spam from the eyes on its tongue focused into a directed blast. Nidhoggmon's only goal is to consume more data to get stronger and the stronger it gets, the more heat it gives off. If it had been able to punch through into the human world as it'd intended, the resulting explosion would have leveled all of Tokyo.
    -   _Digimon Ghost Game_:
        -   Eyesmon and ZeedMillenniumon return as troublemakers of the week and are some of the scariest pieces of work amongst a series already filled with terrifying Digimon. The former is a Puppeteer Parasite who feeds on data by possessing/influencing humans to obsessively snoop on other people and causes numerous blood-red eyes to grow all over his host's body. The latter killed a woman as soon as it entered the human world as a Moon=Millenniumon through a lab accident, then took over its victim's body to trick a man into thinking his fiancee resurrected and fed on his soul for 10 days, in addition to attracting evil Digimon to haunt his house. ZeedMillenniumon is also treated as seriously as the catastrophic threat it is despite being a Monster of the Week.
        -   Regulusmon, aka the Black Dragon of Destruction, is the digivolution of GulusGammamon and final antagonist of the series. While he resembles a dark version of Canoweissmon with a mouth-like Arm Cannon that doubles as a shield for a left arm Regulusmon is an apocalyptic Digimon whose Gran TrES attack conjures dark flames capable of burning anything — even light itself — and who wields a Digital Hazard known as "Gulus Realm Burst", which can devastate the Digital World and turn its inhabitants into insane monsters. He is also a vicious Sadist and Social Darwinist who believes that Digimon are heartless savages and seeks to turn the Digital World into a Death World where his invincible army of corrupted Digimon will devour everything. He might be "just" a Perfect/Ultimate Digimon, but he can effortlessly slaughter standard Ultimates and seriously injure even the incredibly powerful BloomLordmon, while the latter only breaks one of his horns with his strongest attack.
-   _Fairy Tail_:
    -   Acnologia was once a human Mage, but his overuse of Dragon Slayer Magic caused him to transform into an immensely powerful black dragon capable of annihilating entire islands with a single blast of his Dragon's Roar. In addition, Acnologia — already said to be the most-powerful Dragon in existence — is able to consume magic itself to grow even more powerful. At the end of the series, he is pushed into a Space Between Time in a last-ditch attempt to seal him away, but consumes it to obtain dominion over space and time, splitting him into two separate-yet-connected entities — a draconic physical body that tears a hole in space to rampage in the physical world, and a humanoid spiritual body within the Rift in Space and Time. In this transcendent state, Acnologia possesses limitless magical energy, requiring the combined power of every Mage in the world and the Fairy Sphere — one of the most-powerful spells in the series — to barely restrain his physical body long enough for his spiritual body to be destroyed by Natsu combining the power of the other Dragon Slayers into a single attack.
    -   Aldoron — like the other Dragon Gods — was once a normal dragon who fled Acnologia's genocide and began cultivating enough magical power to be worshiped as a god. By lying dormant for 400 years while absorbing nutrients and magical energy from the Earth, Aldoron — a turtle-like Wood Dragon with a giant tree sprouting from his back — grew to be the size of a small continent, permitting humans to build cities on his body while secretly draining their life-force to empower himself and heal the injuries he'd sustained fighting Acnologia; intending to eventually awaken and lay waste to the continent of Guiltina. Aldoron can create entire forests, turn humans into trees, and spawned five offshoot God Seeds embodying aspects of his consciousness to protect him while he slumbered. Despite Aldoron being made of wood, his power is so immeasurable that Natsu's Fire Dragon King's Destruction Fist — an attack capable of shattering the war-deity Ikusa-Tsunagi — barely scratched him.
-   _Ga-Rei_: The Nine-Tailed Demon-Fox — ostensibly a powerful and malevolent kitsune that served the evil onmyōji exorcist Lady Tamamo — is actually a skyscraper-dwarfing supernatural monster that is composed of tens of thousands of years' worth of spiritual corruption, and has only the vaguest resemblance to a fox. It's covered in scales and screaming faces rather than fur, and its tails are more akin to Combat Tentacles — with six coming out of its back. It's so powerful and metaphysically _wrong_ that it can be seen by people without True Sight and vaporizes almost everything it comes into contact with, laying waste to much of Tokyo before being defeated. In the finale, the Nine-Tailed Fox is reborn with three heads and six arms on top of the above when Kirin — a scaley black wolf-monster manifested from the remnants of its miasma — assimilates the Asura, a god of destruction summoned to take part in the annihilation of humanity.
-   _Godzilla_ anime trilogy:
    -   Godzilla Earth — introduced in _Godzilla: Planet of the Monsters_ — blends this with Botanical Abomination, being a 300 meter-tall Planimal with metallic flesh, an impenetrable bioelectric forcefield, a healing factor that lets it recover from severe injuries in minutes, and the ability to fire energy beams powerful enough to level mountains. After appearing it drives all the other monsters to extinction; wipes out human civilization; and spends the next 20 000 years growing, terraforming the Earth, and reshaping life via its "Monster Factor". Only the lepidopteran goddess Mothra in _Godzilla: Monster Apocalypse_, the nascent Mechanical Abomination MechaGodzilla in _Godzilla: City on the Edge of Battle_, and the world-eating interdimensional stellar dragon Ghidorah in _Godzilla: The Planet Eater_ pose a serious threat to it, such that the human characters "win" simply by managing to survive.
    -   The series' iteration of King Ghidorah, known as "Ōtaru Ghidorah", is an interdimensional planet-eating energy being in the shape of a 20 kilometer-long three-headed dragon. When he manifests on Earth at first, just his shadow coming across the shadows of other people causes them to lose parts of their bodies as if they are bitten off and die as a result. He actually warps time and space around him and is invincible as a result, but since he is from another universe he can't normally sustain himself in other dimensions. He needs a vessel to summon and direct him, and without one he becomes vulnerable and weak, making this his sole major weakness.
-   _Godzilla: Singular Point_: Godzilla is an extradimensional entity that was worshipped in feudal times as a draconic god of destruction, and is connected to the mysterious reality-warping substance called Archetype, which it radiates from its body in the form of red dust. It possesses a form of Born-Again Immortality, having manifested at least three times to attack Japan and growing stronger with each new incarnation. Initially appearing in an aquatic form, it metamorphoses into a quadrupedal terrestrial form while devouring another monster, and then into a bipedal form after being attacked by the JSDF. In each form, it displays unnatural abilities like exhaling a freezing cold but highly flammable vapor (Amphibia), shaping its blood into tentacles to attack and defend itself when wounded, and elongating its forearms (Terrestris). In its final form — Ultima — its mere presence starts warping reality to the extent that if not stopped it would bring about an event called The Catastrophe.
-   _Inuyasha_: The ancient composite _Yōkai_ whose soul formed the dark half of the Shikon Jewel was primarily draconic in shape, but sported numerous spider-legs, Extra Eyes, a Lamprey Mouth, a scythe-armed oni's head and torso sticking out of its chest, and Combat Tentacles. It's revealed to be the Greater-Scope Villain of the series, manipulating Naraku from within the Shikon Jewel.
-   _Naruto_: In the "Power" filler arc, Kabuto infects Naruto with miniature snakes capable of merging into a clone of a person by draining their chakra. These snakes merge into a copy of Naruto with scales and a serpentine tail; but as a result of also absorbing Kurama the Nine-Tailed Demon-Fox's chakra, the clone spends most of its screentime in a darker version of Naruto's four-tailed Version Two form and seeking to drain the rest of Kurama's power out of Naruto. When it falls into the Ama no Hoko superweapon and absorbs its power, the "Nine-Tails Naruto Clone" mutates into a colossal, grotesque reptilian fox-monster with eight tails tipped by draconic heads; and it's only put down after Naruto taps into Kurama's Nine-Tails Chakra Mode.
-   _Rage of Bahamut: Genesis_: The titular Bahamut may look more or less like an archetypical dragon, but it's mountainous in size and so powerful and destructive that it forced the gods and demons into an Enemy Mine to seal it away. It's also impossible to kill, as its existence transcends time and space, and if it _is_ slain it will simply be reborn. The original CCG reveals that Bahamut predates the creation of the world and that its original incarnation — "Origin Bahamut" — was a six-winged monstrosity.
-   _Shadow Star_: The "dragons" in this superficially cutesy series are actually eldritch horrors — baby "planets" that bond to a host and bring calamity and misfortune to those that encounter them.
-   _That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime_:
    -   Charybdis, an entity that can be described as a flying one-eyed draconic shark, was manifested from the leftover spiritual energy of the True Dragon Veldora Tempest. Mindlessly bloodthirsty, it is capable of laying waste to entire nations and had to be sealed away by a Hero in the distant past. As a pure spiritual being, it needs a host to influence the world. Phobio of Demon Lord Carrion's Three Beastketeers is tricked into unsealing and becoming its host by the Moderate Clown Troupe to lay waste to Tempest by exploiting his desire to get revenge on Milim Nava, though while he's able to engage all of Tempest in a prolonged hours-long fight, once Milim enters the picture she ends it with one attack and frees the barely-alive Phobio from the possession, while Rimuru took possession of Charybdis' damaged spiritual core. Later still, Clayman forced his defeated subordinate Yamza to eat a recovered core fragment to create another Charbydis in an attempt to wipe out Tempest and their allies during their short-lived war. The result, however, is unstable and significantly inferior to the true Charybdis due to its incomplete core, and is once again swiftly destroyed by Benimaru, whose strength had grown by leaps and bounds thanks to Rimuru's ascension to True Demon Lord status.
    -   The half-dragon demigoddess Milim Nava herself once possessed a pet dragon that was slain on the orders of a king who sought to use Milim's powers for his own purposes. In her grief and rage, Milim wiped out the king's entire nation and became a Demon Lord, which resurrected her pet dragon... as the soulless Chaos Dragon, which was so powerful and destructive (Rimuru notes that Charybdis might as well be an _insect_ before this thing, such is the gap between a monster born from leftover True Dragon energy and a corrupted-possible-to-evolve-into True Dragon) that Milim was forced to seal it away, though she could have killed it if she didn't have lingering attachments to it. In the web novel, its spiritual energy corrupted the surrounding environment, enabling Yuuki Kagurazaka to locate and unseal it. When the Chaos Dragon proved too powerful and dangerous for even him to control, Yuuki stole its spiritual core for himself, while Rimuru reincarnated it as the Earth Dragon Gaia. Something similar happens in the light novel, though there the Chaos Dragon is instead released as a distraction to fight and possibly kill Milim while Maribel forces a Not Brainwashed Yuuki to follow her plan to assassinate Rimuru, but Rimuru manages to save its core to eventually become Gaia while also absorbing its corrupted and rapidly unstable magical energy via his Ultimate Skill \[Beezlebub\] and Milim destroys its physical body at last.
    -   In the web-novel, after becoming a Seraphim, Zero obtains the Ultimate Skill "Evil Dragon Lord" Azi Dahaka previously held by Vega. After Zero absorbed the power of Ramiris' Labyrinth, Azi Dahaka evolves into the "Berserk Evil Dragon" and transforms Zero into a malevolent artificial True Dragon. To prevent the World from incarnating a new Berserk Evil Dragon after the destruction of Zero's physical body (a feat that took the combined efforts of _four_ True Demon Lords: Dino, Zegion, Diablo, and Benimaru, to do), his spiritual core is fed to the Earth Dragon Gaia, causing him to apotheosize into the True Dragon Velgaia.
    -   In the light novel, there exists the World-Destroying Dragon Ivarage, a primordial dragon of unknown origin whose power is on par with that of a True Dragon despite lacking any intellect and functioning solely on destructive instinct. When the angels proved unable to stop Ivarage and the risk of him destroying the world too great, Veldanava intervened and imprisoned him in the Otherworld, giving the angels the task of watching over him but _not_ killing him, as Veldanava believed that one day Ivarage would gain an ego and thus deserved a chance. Ivarage's magicules would permeate the Otherworld so thickly that he birthed the Cryptid race and indirectly created the Insectars (when the insect Cryptid Zelanus gained sapience and took control of his similar kind) and the Phantoms (when the angels led by Feldway and tasked with guarding Ivarage and destroying the Cryptids evolved from prolonged exposure to his magicules). In the present day, during the war between Tempest and its allies versus the angels and Insectars, Ivarage would indeed finally develop an ego from absorbing the souls of the fallen Phantoms who rebelled against the angels' leader Michael, opening a path back to the world.
-   _Yaiba_ uses this as a depiction of the Yamata no Orochi: before it's debut, it was ominously described as an incredibly destructive and terrifying monster of unknown origin that rampaged across Japan before being defeated by Susano'o and sealed deep inside the earth, pinned there by several magic swords. However, the monster kept absorbing negativity and grow larger during its sealed phase, so that when it's finally released the Yamata no Orochi turns into a colossal monstrous dragon the size of Japan,.... by _enveloping the entire Japanese archipelago in its flesh_. In his released form he eventually splits his heand into eight monstrous heads, each different and monstrously-shaped, while its powers allow it to burn the entire North America to ashes in _minutes_.

    Card Games 

-   _Cardfight!! Vanguard_: Gyze the Deity Dragon of Destruction — as his name suggests — was a draconic god of destruction implied to be an incarnation of the Void. In the ancient past, Gyze and his minions, the Zeroth Dragons, warred with the benevolent deity Harmonics Messiah over the fate of the Planet Cray, but Gyze was slain and the Zeroth Dragons sealed away in Vanguard cards that were hidden on Earth.
-   _Colossal Kaiju Combat!_: Prior to its cancellation, _CKC_ had a Collectible Card Game spin-off that was used to vote in "Progenitor" monsters that could appear in prospective future games; and several of the monsters submitted were draconic eldritch entities:
    -   Asura was a bloodthirsty "Void-Born" Bioweapon Beast resembling a bipedal wingless dragon with six arms, six eyes, and a black Gigeresque exoskeleton; growing stronger through combat and seeking to become the Ultimate Life Form. It appeared in the SPN-5 card set, got a Light Is Not Good EVO form in the SPN-6 card set, and was voted into the fifth round of Progenitor monsters, but never got an official art collaboration as the game's cancellation followed shortly after.
    -   Kaiotaita — originally named Kyotita — was once a benevolent guardian deity, before the environmental destruction caused by the proliferation of human civilization drove him insane. Kaiotaita mutated into a six-eyed black-and-red draconic entity covered in purple spikes, and rampaged in an attempt to destroy humanity before being slain by a priestess named Atsuka. However, the fallen dragon-god was incapable of being permanently killed, fostering a cycle where he would return every few centuries only to be vanquished by Atsuka's reincarnations. Kyotita's EVO form gives the corrupted draconic god an Adaptive Ability to go with his Resurrective Immortality, with him becoming larger and more powerful with each resurrection.
    -   Valok's EVO form is described as a draconic Undead Abomination embodying death itself, appears as a dragon-shaped mass of darkness, and is capable of infecting his opponents' minds and driving them insane with rage.
-   _Magic: The Gathering_:
    -   The Moltensteel Dragon card depicts a black dragon with a glowing red throat, wings, and claws; its flavor text calls it an "apocalypse in dragon form". If that wasn't enough, being a Phyrexian puts it into the "abomination" category by default, considering that Phyrexia is rightfully known as the "Machine Hell" and everything affiliated with it is a wildly unnatural and horrific amalgamation of steel, flesh and evil.

-   The Worldgorger Dragon isn't typed as Nightmare Dragon for nothing, being a spindly creature with creepily elongated claws, an oddly-shaped head, and a long, thin tail with a Lamprey Mouth on the end. Added to that, when you play this card all other permanents<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  you own go into (temporary) exile, meaning that it devours absolutely everything on your side of the battlefield upon coming into play. Creatures, items, entire mountains, even enchantments, **everything**. It all comes spilling out of the thing's gargantuan guts if it's slain.
-   The Ur-Dragon, the Progenitor of Fire, is a truly _massive_ dragon avatar that wanders the Blind Eternities, home to other Abominations like the Eldrazi Titans, and appears in planes to spawn dragons. Which it does by raining down stones from its wings which hatch into dragons. It's described as a huge and blind shadow that exists everywhere and nowhere at once. Every other dragon, including the ones mentioned above? This thing is their progenitor.
-   Progenitus. Just look at this damn thing.<small>◊</small> Technically a hydra and not a true dragon, but close enough in the absence of a Hydra Abomination trope. Given that it's supposedly a creator deity, it could also qualify for Dragons Are Divine, unfortunately, at this point, it wants nothing more than to wipe out all of its own creation. It's also the only card with the dread-inspiring keywords "Protection from everything". (And yet, despite being a deity's avatar, it cannot survive a Wrath Of God.)
-   O-Kagachi was the Top God of Kamigawa, a nigh unstoppable Asian dragon with countless serpent heads (this being based off Japanese Mythology no doubt a nod to Orochi) that nearly tore the mortal world asunder. Its fragment-turned-replacement, Kyodai, is more benevolent but endlessly more freaky looking, being entirely composed of porcelain masks and human arms, still in the shape of a dragon.

-   _Yu-Gi-Oh!_: Several of the more-powerful dragon-type monsters are eldritch in appearance:

    Comic Books 

-   _Bone_: Mim, the Queen of the Dragons, was a massive dragon who benevolently ruled over the physical world and the Dreaming until she was possessed by an ancient malevolent entity called the Lord of the Locusts.
-   _DC Comics_:
    -   _Dark Nights: Metal_: Barbatos the Bat-God was created by Alpheus the World Forger as a draconic multiversal entity that devoured the universes that grew stagnant and corrupted. However, Barbatos decided to conquer them instead and killed Alpheus to turn the World Forge into the Dark Multiverse; attempting to drag the Multiverse into it so that he could corrupt and conquer it as well.
    -   _JLA: A League of One_: Drakul Karfang — a dragon powerful enough to take on and potentially kill the Justice League — has consumed so much wicked gold over her long lifespan that she's stated to have essentially become an embodiment of hatred and lies. Her post-DC Rebirth incarnation from _Justice League Dark_ Vol. 2 is also effectively immortal as she can be resurrected if her corpse comes into contact with a piece of her former hoard.
-   _Ghostbusters (IDW Comics)_: Tiamat — the sister of Gozer — mainly appears as a Medusa-like humanoid reptilian entity with six snakes extending from her head, but while fighting with Gozer she transforms into her five-headed dragon form and Necksa from _The Real Ghostbusters_.
-   _Hellboy_: The Ogdru Jahad are seven primordial god-monsters possessing combined draconic, cephalopod, and crustacean traits; and are collectively called the Dragon of Revelation, destined to bring about the end of the world.
-   Marvel Comics:
    -   _Defenders_ Vol. 6 introduces Anti-All, a possibly star-sized draconic entity made of living darkness that purportedly emerged from the Below-Place and attempted to destroy the Third Cosmos — itself an Eldritch Location where the laws of time and space are meaningless. Embodying primordial chaos, darkness, and destruction, Anti-All tried to devour Lifebringer One — the primordial avatar of order, light, and creation — and when it was slain its essence was scattered across the nascent Multiverse, with Dr. Strange speculating it's the progenitor of all other primordial dark entities.
    -   The Dragon of the Moon is an offspring of the Elder God/Great Old One Set, and usually takes the form of a massive black dragon. It was imprisoned on Titan and claims to have been behind Thanos' corruption. It selected Heather Douglas as its avatar, hence her codename Moondragon, and seeks to corrupt her into a force of evil.
    -   _Venom_: The Grendel and its ilk are massive wyverns formed from the "living abyss" by the primordial dark god Knull billions of years in the past. They are capable of interstellar flight at speeds rivalling the Silver Surfer's, are powerful enough to fight and kill gods, and if defeated can disperse into countless symbiotes that then seek out hosts. Just one of them was able to lay waste to Spartax, killing billions in the span of a few hours.

    Fan Works 

-   _Abraxas (Hrodvitnon)_: King Ghidorah is even more eldritch than it is in the _MonsterVerse_ canon, being capable of assimilating other Titans into itself and infecting other beings with its biomass to mutate them into hybrid monstrosities. Even after being immolated by Godzilla, its Hive Mind remains active and resurrects Dr. Vivienne Graham as a Monstrous Humanoid amalgam of herself and San (Ghidorah's left head)'s severed head that eventually metamorphoses into Monster X. Alan Johan's experiments splicing tissue samples from the severed head with corpses give rise to an Undead Abomination horde called the Many. Ni (Ghidorah's right head) is severed and regenerates using the Many into a nightmarish gestalt monster called MaNi; and Ghidorah creates a Humanoid Abomination servitor species called the Zmeyevich by impregnating human women with its mutagenic DNA.
-   _Ah! Archfall!_:
    -   Lind's true form (at least the visible bits) resembles a huge, white, thousand-headed dragon covered in eyes and spines.
    -   Gandamak is vaguely based a Western dragon but is nearly one hundred feet long, has four fifty-foot wings, ten legs, tusks and a single eye on the end of a stalk. Further, if you chop off one head two will grow from the stump.
-   _Child of the Storm_:
    -   Jormungandr is mentioned, and he and Thor have apparently fought in the past, a fight that ended in Thor barely winning by throwing him into a neutron star. Being one Surtur's Great Captains, empowered by Dark Phoenix Fire he survived, despite being at a comparatively low ebb in his strength.
    -   The Elder Wyrm a.k.a. 'Dave' in the sequel, is one of the spawn of Jormungandr. It's also the size of a mountain, capable of destroying planets via insanely strong earth-magic (which it does proudly as part of its service to its creator), capable of surviving and flying in space, killing and reanimating trespassers as guards in its sleep, and carrying on a conversation.
-   In the unofficial _Astrohanasia_ _Dungeons & Dragons_ setting, a draconic Leviathan called Selbbub was spawned from the nightmares of sleeping dragons, feeding on their fear to grow more powerful.
-   In _We Are All Pokémon Trainers_, Dialga and Palkia's true forms as glimpsed in their home dimensions are a vaguely draconic shaped mass covered in diamonds and a swarm of bubbles in the vague shape of a dragon respectively.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _Alice in Wonderland (2010)_: The Jabberwocky, the Red Queen's monstrous pet, by which she controls the populace of Underland. Apart from being a massive black dragon with red eyes, it appears in the final battle emerging from the ground like a zombie, it has a short, barbeled face that makes it appear like a Fiendish Fish, and it makes some creepy vocalizations that no reptile should be able to do, in addition to shooting purple lightning from its mouth instead of fire like a normal dragon. It also is sapient, and speaks with the nightmarish Basso Profundo voice of Christopher Lee for the three lines it actually gets to speak. Clearly, the Jabberwocky is **not** a normal dragon.
-   _Godzilla_:
    -   King Ghidorah was inspired by the Orochi, Zmey, and the Lernaean Hydra, and his backstory seems to draw from the Cthulhu Mythos as most incarnations of him are usually depicted as being ancient three-headed alien dragons that can spit bolts of golden lightning, survive and fly freely in space, are occasionally able to manipulate gravity and the weather, and can sometimes drain their opponents' life force. Some iterations that stand out are:
        -   The Showa incarnation of King Ghidorah, especially in his debut in _Ghidorah, the Three-Headed Monster_, is a draconic alien kaiju that travels through space in the form of a meteor and laid waste to an ancient civilization on Venus (Mars in the American version) for no apparent reason, seeking to do the same to Earth. It is only by working together with Rodan and Mothra that Godzilla is able to drive him off, and he became a recurring adversary.
        -   Death Ghidorah, aka "DesGhidorah", from _Rebirth of Mothra_ is a four-legged black-and-red demonic version of Ghidorah that breaths hellfire and drains the life-force out of planets. Arriving on Earth in ancient times, it slaughtered Mothra's species and their "Elias" guardians before being sealed away. Unsealed by an evil Elias named Belvera, DesGhidorah kills Mothra and attempts to drain Earth's biosphere of its life energy, but is vanquished and sealed away once again by Mothra's apotheosized offspring Leo.
        -   King Ghidorah from _Rebirth of Mothra 3_ arrived on Earth 130 million years ago as "Cretaceous King Ghidorah", attempting to wipe out all life on the planet before retreating into space. Returning in the late 20th century as the exponentially more-powerful "Modern-Type King Ghidorah", it attacked Japan and began abducting children to feed on their life-force. Leo — transformed into Rainbow Mothra — travelled back in time to vanquish Ghidorah when it was weaker, but was almost killed in the process. A surviving piece of one of Cretaceous King Ghidorah's tails regenerated into a new Modern-Type King Ghidorah, though it was slain by Leo's Armor Mothra form.
        -   _Godzilla: King of the Monsters (2019)_: Ghidorah is an ancient extraterrestrial draconic entity with powers beyond those of Earth-born Titans — being able to cause and manipulate continent-sized hurricanes and regenerate from severe injuries by absorbing Hollow Earth energy and other forms of radiation. It arrived on Earth tens — if not hundreds — of thousands of years in the past and caused chaos until it was defeated and trapped in a glacier by Godzilla. Freed by ecoterrorists in 2019, Ghidorah usurped Alpha Titan status from Godzilla and commanded the Titans to lay waste to the planet. When confronted by a revived Godzilla, Ghidorah attempted to drain his vital energy to further empower itself, and even after its body was immolated its consciousness remained etched into its very bones, hijacking control of Mechagodzilla in _Godzilla vs. Kong_.
    -   Godzilla himself — particularly antagonistic incarnations more geared towards horror — blends this trope with Dinosaurs Are Dragons and Nuclear Mutant. Originally a blunt metaphor for the devastation wrought by nuclear weapons, Godzilla is a colossal city-leveling behemoth (typically between 50 and 100 meters tall) that is impervious to mundane weaponry, breathes torrents of radioactive plasma, spreads lethal radiation in his wake, absorbs radiation to sustain himself rather than — or in addition to — eating meat, has a healing factor that lets him recover from severe injuries, is capable of fighting gods and Eldritch Abominations to the death and _winning_, and in several incarnations is named after and seen as the incarnation of a destructive oceanic storm-god by the inhabitants of Odo Island. Some iterations that stand out include:
        -   In _Godzilla, Mothra, King Ghidorah: Giant Monsters All-Out Attack!_, Godzilla is an explicitly supernatural entity reanimated by the vengeful souls of those who died in World War II. He is powerful enough to easily defeat the benevolent Guardian Monsters — Baragon, Mothra, and King Ghidorah — and absorbs their souls to become even more powerful; and even when his body is almost-completely destroyed his disembodied heart continues to beat, indicating he'll just regenerate.
        -   The MonsterVerse incarnation of Godzilla — while ostensibly a species of prehistoric reptile from the Permian period — is million years old,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  feeds off radiation either passively or by eating other Titans, was worshipped as a storm-god by ancient civilizations, lives in an active volcano adjacent to a sunken Cyclopean city (one of a number of shout-outs to the _Cthulhu Mythos_), emits a form of radiation that terraforms the Earth, and a deceased member of his species was worshipped by the Canaanites as the sea-god Dagon (another _Cthulhu Mythos_ shout-out).<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
        -   In IDW Publishing's _Godzilla in Hell_, Godzilla — who has been fighting demonic versions of his enemies on his way through Hell a la Dante's Inferno — is devoured down to the bones by a swarm of tiny bat-like demons. Eating Godzilla's flesh mutates the demons, which he assimilates to reform his devoured body — becoming capable of forming eyes and mouths all over his body, and making him powerful enough to kill the Eldritch Abomination guarding the top of Purgatory Mountain.
        -   In IDW's _Godzilla: Rage Across Time_, Godzilla predates nuclear weaponry by millions of years, making the source of his powers a mystery. However, he is powerful enough to easily kill the Yamata-no-Orochi, the Lernaean Hydra, and the entire Greek pantheon; and survives having his soul vaporized by Zeus' Thunderbolt — causing the destruction of Pompeii when he re-manifests.
        -   In _Shin Godzilla_, Godzilla is a marine reptile transformed by consuming radioactive waste into a hideously malformed and constantly-mutating living nuclear reactor, and is capable of rapidly adapting to anything that opposes him in ways that the team of genius scientists studying him struggle to comprehend and admit should be biologically impossible. In the _Godzilla vs. Evangelion_ crossover pachinko machine, Evangelion Unit-01 and Unit-02 are infused with Godzilla tissue samples, eventually causing them to mutate into Evangelion/Godzilla hybrids called "Eva-01 Godzilla Awakening Form" and "Eva-02 Beast Godzilla Mode". A deleted scene meant to be used at the end of _Shin Godzilla_ would've established this incarnation of Gojira as even more eldritch in nature, with pieces of him that were blown off during the fight growing eyes and teeth and implicitly regenerating into more smaller Godzillas that will continue threatening humanity.
-   _Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings_: The film's Greater-Scope Villain, the Dweller-in-Darkness, is a soul-eating eldritch entity that takes the form of a four-armed tentacled monster somewhat resembling a Western dragon, and is opposed by the Eastern dragon known as the Great Protector.
-   _Yamato Takeru_: The Yamata no Orochi is an eight-headed dragon-god and the ultimate form of the dark god Tsukuyomi. It is capable of swimming through space and spitting bolts of red lightning as well as fire, and was so powerful that the warrior storm-god Susano-o was only able to seal it away in the ancient past.

    Gamebooks 

-   _Night Dragon_ has the titular monster, a Sealed Evil in a Can Cosmic Entity predating the world and time itself, described as being as uncanny and unnatural as possible, alien to all dragon kinds, where its mere presence twists its lair into something similar to it and plagues the Dreamtime with awful nightmares. It is such an otherworldly monstrosity that after it's killed, it's head detaches itself, grows skeletal legs, and continues fighting!

    Literature 

-   _Animorphs_: In the climax of the first book, Visser Three morphs into a creature with eight legs, eight arms, and eight heads on serpentine necks, each of which can spit fireballs. Aside from setting up Visser Three as a (literally) monstrous threat, this particular morph owes a lot to the Beast from _Book of Revelation_.
-   _Cthulhu Mythos_:
    -   While more commonly associated with cephalopods, Cthulhu himself is described as resembling a humanoid dragon with an octopoid head, and is a godlike extraterrestrial — and possibly extradimensional — entity whose mere existence tends to warp reality and break people's minds.
    -   The Mappo no Ryujin from Chaosium's _Secrets of Japan_ add-on to _Call of Cthulhu_ is stated to be the mother of the serpentine Great Old One Yig, and resembles a dragon more than anything else.
    -   The Lloigor, whose natural forms are invisible Energy Beings, can manifest reptilian-looking physical bodies that may be the source of legends about dragons the world over.
-   _The Dresden Files_: Ferrovax has only been seen in his human form, but it is said that if he were to assume his true form in the mortal world his very presence would be enough to level Chicago. Just a glimpse of his power is enough to lay Harry flat.
-   The _Inheritance Cycle_ has Shruikan, Galbatorix's dragon who has grown to unnaturally immense size and power through dark magic. When he flies overhead before the final battle, he blots out a large portion of the sky. And he's an Omnicidal Maniac and a Woobie, Destroyer of Worlds.
-   _Godzilla and Godzilla Raids Again_: Godzilla is a fifty-meter-tall dinosaur-like beast worshipped by the people of Ōdo Island as a draconic god of destruction that ravages their island unless appeased. Professor Yamane notes that Godzilla defies scientific explanation—being over 2 million years old, capable of surviving at the bottom of the ocean, and being powerful enough to withstand the annihilating heat of a nuclear bomb—and for that reason advocates studying him rather than killing him.
-   _The Laundry Files_: The dragons that appear in _The Nightmare Stacks_ have tentacular faces and spit corrosive chemicals.
-   _Nasuverse_:
    -   _Fate/Apocrypha_: Bašmu, one of the eleven offspring of the primordial dragon-goddess Tiamat, is a Divine Beast that appears as a green-and-black draconic creature with six eyes, a cobra-like hood, two arms, and centipede-like legs. The Assassin of Red — aka the Mesopotamian demigoddess Semiramis — is able to partially summon it using her Noble Phantasm, but it's so powerful that she can only manifest its upper half.
    -   _Garden of Avalon_ reveals that Artoria Pendragon's uncle Vortigern drank the blood of the legendary White Dragon and became a Humanoid Abomination embodying Britain's ruin, necessitating Artoria being made into the incarnation of the Red Dragon to oppose him.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  In their climactic final battle, Vortigern transformed into a massive draconic beast made of living darkness — an insectoid version of which is depicted in _Fate/Grand Order_ — that drowned out the holy light of both Excalibur and Galatine, and was only able to be slain by the divine lance Rhongomyniad.
-   _The One Who Eats Monsters_: In order to fight Ryn on even footing, the evil spirit Mr. Saxby uses his flesh-stitching to create a dragon-shaped body. While it can fly and breathe fire like a normal dragon, it also has a bevy of Lovecraftian Superpowers at its disposal — such as sprouting venomous quills from any part of its body, shapeshifting, and dispersing into a horde of vermin to escape and reassemble itself elsewhere. By consuming Ryn's flesh, Saxby uses this body to develop a venom he claims is potent enough to kill Ryn and at the very least severely weaken her in her next life, but never gets an opportunity to use it on her.
-   The ancient monster Python gets this treatment in _The Trials of Apollo_, being the bane of the titular god Apollo. It's a shapeshifting serpent-dragon that can grow and lose limbs in an instant, all the while serving as the Greater-Scope Villain for the series.

    Myths & Religion 

-   Christianity:
    -   _The Bible_:
        -   The Leviathan is an enormous sea-dragon so powerful that even the mightiest of mortal warriors are driven to despair by the sight of it, and only God Himself can slay it.
        -   Satan takes the form of a seven-headed red dragon in the _Book of Revelation_, fights the Archangel Michael, and throws down one-third of the stars — sometimes interpreted as the Angels who were banished from Heaven — to Earth with a swipe of his tail.
        -   Seraphim are typically described as dragon-like (for example, see the description of chalkydri in the Second Book of Enoch), though in the Bible proper their description is very vague aside from having six (and in some cases twelve) wings (though given the fact that "seraph" is also used for snakes and seraph imagery is likely based on the goddess Wadjet it seems reasonable to assume they're supposed to be snake-like to some degree). Like all angels, they are immensely alien beings who inspire terror in mortals and can set you on fire just for seeing them.
    -   In medieval European art, dragons were often hideous and monstrous things, as they were typically interpreted as living manifestations of Hell and the Devil's influence, with no place in the natural order ordained by God. They typically melded traits of every animal considered wrong or evil in the Middle Ages, such as rodents, wolves, and snakes, and some examples — such as Hendrick Goltzius's three-headed avatar of hunger<small>◊</small>, or a horde of two-headed dragons absolutely covered in eyes<small>◊</small> — were horrors by any metric. By comparison, the oldest known archetypical depiction of a European dragon as a strictly reptilian creature with four legs and bat-like wings — codified as a standard appearance by at least the 15th century — is in the 1260 _MS Harley 3244_ bestiary, though it was also a common motif in heraldry.
-   Canaanite Mythology: Lotan — the direct precursor to the Biblical Leviathan, and itself prefigured by the Syrian Têmtum — was a multi-headed dragon-god of chaos sometimes interpreted as a pet or avatar of the malevolent sea-god Yam, and was so powerful that only the storm-god Hadad-Baʿal could vanquish it.
-   Classical Mythology: As one of the cultures with a strong tradition of Chaoskampf myths, many of the dragons and draconic monsters in Greek mythology are the divine or Semi-Divine offspring or creations of primordial gods like Gaia, Phorcys, Ceto, and Typhon; and have been depicted or described as horrifically monstrous in appearance and nature:
    -   Typhon is the offspring of Gaia and Tartarus, sired to avenge the Titans — and sometimes the Giants as well — by killing the Olympians. He is often described as a mountainous monster with wings, serpentine coils for legs, and anywhere from a hundred to a thousand draconic heads constantly spewing volcanic flames and calamitous noise. In some versions, Typhon was so powerful and horrifying that the gods themselves fled in terror to Egypt, and he was able to subdue and mutilate Zeus by ripping out his sinews. However, Typhon was ultimately defeated by Zeus and either vaporized by his thunderbolts, cast into Tartarus, and/or crushed underneath Mt. Etna — depending on the version.
    -   The Lernaean Hydra, an offspring of Typhon and the _drakaina_ Echidna — herself a daughter of Phorcys and Ceto, was a water-monster with virulently poisonous blood and breath, and most-famously the ability to grow back at least one head — most often two — each time it's decapitated. While it was ultimately slain by Herakles/Hercules, one of its heads was immortal and had to be buried alive. Originally depicted as a multi-headed snake, in medieval artwork it came to be depicted as a multi-headed dragon, with modern depictions tending to blend the two and greatly increasing its size.
-   Egyptian Mythology: While usually depicted as a monstrous snake, some iterations of Apep — a primordial god of chaos, evil, and destruction who seeks to devour Ra — depict him as a dragon, and one of his epithets is the "Evil Dragon". He also possesses Resurrective Immortality, being slain each day but reviving to try again the next night.
-   Hittite Mythology: In the Hittite and Hurrian cultures' Chaoskampf myth — thought to be the inspiration for the Greek Typhonomachy myth — the serpentine dragon-god Illuynka fights the storm-god Tarḫunz/Tarḫunna and defeats him. In one version, Tarḫunz/Tarḫunna beseeches the aid of his daughter, the goddess Inara. Inara hosts a feast and gets Illuynka drunk, whereupon Tarḫunz/Tarḫunna takes his revenge. In another version, Illuynka rips out Tarḫunz/Tarḫunna's eyes and heart, instigating a complex revenge plot where Tarḫunz/Tarḫunna manipulates his son into marrying Illuynka's daughter and requesting his stolen body parts as a wedding gift. Once made whole, Tarḫunz/Tarḫunna defeats Illuynka in a rematch; but his horrified son attempts to stop him from killing the dragon-god by demanding that he be killed too, Tarḫunz/Tarḫunna obliging and killing them both.
-   Japanese Mythology: The Yamata-no-Orochi was a malevolent mountain-sized dragon-god with eight heads and eight tails, and was so powerful that it terrified the lesser earth-bound kami into subservience. The (exiled) celestial kami Susanoo had to get it drunk on eight vats of divine sake (one for each head) in order to kill it, and discovered a mystical sword in one of its tails that became one of the three divine treasures of Japan. Some accounts of the legend of Shuten-dōji — an oni warlord who was one of the legendary Great Three Evil Yōkai — name the Yamata-no-Orochi as his father, having survived its apparent death at Susanoo's hands or being the _aramitama_ of the patron deity of Mount Ibuki.
-   Mesopotamian Mythology:
    -   Tiamat, the primordial goddess of the abyssal ocean of creation, transformed into a dragon-god of chaos in order to seek revenge when the first generation of gods - her own children - killed her lover, the primordial god of freshwater Abzû. Despite giving birth to eleven divine monsters and begetting an army of demons, Tiamat was slain by the storm-god Marduk, who used her corpse to shape the heavens and earth.
    -   Bašmu, one of Tiamat's eleven monster-god progeny, was a 120-mile-long serpentine dragon with two forelegs, wings, six mouths, and seven tongues. It ravenously devoured everything it came across until it was slain by a deity — variously stated to be Nergal, Ninurta, or Palil.
    -   Mušmaḫḫū, another of Tiamat's eleven monster-god progeny, was sometimes described as a hybrid of lion, dragon, and bird or as a seven-headed serpent-dragon similar (and perhaps connected) to the Lernaean Hydra from Greek mythology.
-   Norse Mythology:
    -   Jomungandr, the World Serpent, is a child of Loki and the jotunn Angrboda. Unlike his humanoid parents and sister Hel, or his lupine brother Fenrir, Jormungandr took the form of a sea-dragon and grew so utterly massive he encircled the Earth. He developed an enmity with the storm-god Thor, and the two were fated to kill each other during Ragnarok.
    -   Nidhoggr is a massive dragon of unknown origin that exists outside the Nine Realms and gnaws on the roots of Yggdrasill — technically making it an interdimensional being — while occasionally ravaging the corpses of oathbreakers, murderers, adulterers, and other criminals damned to the afterlife of Nastrond. It is also one of the few beings that will survive Ragnarok.
-   Russian Mythology and Tales: The Zmey Gorynych is a shapeshifting draconic beast with iron claws and anywhere from three to twelve heads — which it can regrow if severed. One specimen — Chudo-Yudo — is sometimes said to the brother of Koschei the Deathless and the son of Baba Yaga, who in some legends is a Humanoid Abomination herself. Another example, Tugarin Zmeyevich, is described as being a personification of malice and gluttony, is covered in flaming snakes, and sometimes has wings made of paper.
-   Zoroastrianism: Zahhāk — also known as Azhi Dahāka, Dahāg, and Bēvar Asp — is a malevolent three-headed dragon-god spawned by the dark spirit Angra Mainyu/Ahriman, though in some versions he was originally a human corrupted by Ahriman.

    Roleplays 

-   _The Chaos Zone_ portrays the Glitch Entity 'M FF as such: it still has the outward appearance of a Charizard, but not only does its face have a discolored glow, it communicates with static hissing (or occasionally quacking), and attacks that had game-breaking effects originally have similarly dangerous reality-bending powers in the roleplay.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Dungeons & Dragons_:
    -   The malevolent dragon-goddess Tiamat, firstborn of the primordial dragon-god Asgorath, is a lesser deity who appears as a massive five-headed dragon — with each head being a different type of chromatic dragon — and the long stinger-tipped tail of a wyvern; contrasting her brother Bahamut, who just looks like a generic dragon. Tiamat possesses all of the powers of the different types of chromatic dragons as well as her own otherworldly divine abilities, and is worshiped by both chromatic dragons and various mortal cults seeking to facilitate her conquest of the world. Even when she's temporarily stripped of her divinity, which brings her down to three heads, she's still an otherworldly entity in dragon form.
    -   Null, Tiamat's other brother, is the draconic god of death and is said to manifest as a dragon-shaped mass of living darkness. While not as well-known as his siblings, he is said to be capable of killing anything with a touch, and can turn his followers into dracoliches.
    -   Squamous Things, a type of monster from the 4th Edition _Draconomicon_, are the result of dragon eggs hatching in areas tainted by the Far Realm. The resulting creatures are essentially draconic Shoggoths (or to use _D&D_'s parlance, Gibbering Mouthers), emerging from their eggs as chaotic, gibbering masses of scales, claws, wings, eyes, fangs, and draconic flesh; any trace of their kind's splendor lost to the Far Realm's insane influence.
    -   The Third Edition _Epic Level Handbook_ has the Force Dragon, which is essentially living kinetic energy that takes the form of an invisible dragon the size of a jumbo jet.
    -   Chole dragons are native to the Abyss, the Lower Plane that embodies the Chaotic Evil alignment. Rather than looking demonic, chole dragons are twisted horrors with writhing tentacles instead of wings and a Breath Weapon that causes insanity. Though just as intelligent as other dragons, they never make any attempt to communicate and attack everything they encounter.
    -   The Tarrasque — named after a draconic beast from French folklore — is a colossal monster resembling a cross between a theropod dinosaur and a wingless dragon, with a spiny shell on its back and massive horns on its head. It has a Multiple-Choice Past ranging from having been created by dark magicians experimenting with forbidden magics to being an abomination created by the Primordials to devour the gods and even the world itself. It is one of the most powerful monsters in the game — though how powerful it is varies depending on the version of _D&D_ being played.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  A ritual to summon it requires the heads of five adult dragons to perform, implying it is somehow connected to them as well.
    -   _The Immortals Handbook: Epic Bestiary 3rd-Party rulebook_, designed to make the best of the Absurdly High Level Cap features the "Nehaschimic Dragons", beings who are described as "nightmarish interdimensional creatures extraneous to the universe itself... transdimensional tapeworms writhing within the body of the \[universe\], a surreal symbiosis of reality and unreality". In the rules, all Nehaschimic Dragons have the 'Alter Reality' power, extremely high Damage Reduction, immunity to all but a few specific types of magic and elemental damage, can travel at the speed of light (or faster), see all the way to the edge of their current universe, grow to become bigger than the universe (at least from your perspective) and their very presence causes permanent insanity for everything within miles. They also far exceed most other monsters in sheer size; the largest are well over a quarter mile long, at least as far as their stats are concerned. Unfortunately, or perhaps fortunately, there was only one Nehaschimic Dragon ever published, the Nexus or Wormhole Dragon. It has a Breath Weapon with a flat 50% chance (or higher) to shunt you into an Alternate Universe, power over probability, and an aura of "Unknowing" which can even cause the universe to forget you if you're weak enough. A few others have been unofficially published online, and are just as weird, if not more so, than the Nexus Dragon. On the forum which discusses possible ideas for these books, one person suggested an adventure where a planet needs to be evacuated because it's a dragon egg about to hatch. The poster eventually made the idea into dragons<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  which are the nerves of the Akashic Records (the one power above God, basically). Their flavor text is about a Multiversal Conqueror who has just crushed the God of another universe... and then he sees one of these dragons. It ends with him realizing that the almighty artifact around which he built his empire is merely a scale said dragon lost.
    -   The _Eberron_ setting dubs its creator figures the Progenitor Dragons. Per the standard creation myth, Eberron, Khyber and Siberys created reality and the planes and were going to create something in the material plane when Khyber betrayed and murdered Siberys, then was bound within Eberron, who became the world. Assuming that they 1) existed and 2) had any kind of physical similarity to dragons, neither of which is a given, Khyber would be the most "abominable", to the point where his bound body within Eberron is a sprawling complex of different malign demiplanes, full of both the horrible fiends that were spawned from them and newer, more unpleasant additions such as the flesh-warping daelkyr.
    -   _Dark Sun_: Dragons are not a natural species on Athas, but rather the final ascended form of defiler mages, who do so by committing full-blown _omnicide_ to absorb the life energy of everyone and everything they murdered. Most if not all of the Sorcerer Kings that rule what's left of Athas are dragons and _boy howdy_ are they ugly.
-   _Iron Kingdoms_: All dragons are at least on the edge of this, with Toruk the Dragonfather diving right in. Toruk was the first dragon, and divided his athanc (basically a dragon's magical heart) to create the others; his current goal is to eradicate the others and reassemble his athanc. Toruk's breath once transformed a ship into a Ghost Ship, exposure to his blood mutated the Satyxis into satyr-like creatures, his mere presence corrupts the land around him; even the other dragons have a pact that when their father stirs, they set aside their differences and unite against him just for the sake of _survival_. His "child" Everblight, who is vastly less powerful and very accurately named, has divided his athanc and presence between the Nyss elves; as a result, the Legion of Everblight consists largely of creatures that are developing into part-dragon mutants.
-   _Pathfinder_ carries a lot of _Dungeons & Dragons_' examples over, but makes its own contributions as well:
    -   The Tarrasque deserves further mention, as its nature in the campaign setting of Golarion is well-known, but such that it's hardly comforting: rather than a mindlessly aggressive and hungry but ultimately non-malicious beast, here it is both the divine herald and mightiest of the Spawn of Rovagug, an omnicidal Eldritch Abomination god imprisoned inside the planet. Which means is is both actively malicious in its bouts of destruction and is one of the most powerful versions of the creature. It's even known by the charming sobriquet of _The Armageddon Engine_.
    -   There's a critter called a Woundwyrm, a dragon mutated by demonic energies. It looks distinctly _wrong_, with too many legs (six) and a mouth that opens up all the way into its neck.
    -   Void dragons are space-dwelling dragons that encountered something in the outermost reaches which drove them mad, now existing only to devour others.
    -   The planar dragons born of the nastier dimensions fall into this, while those from celestial planes exhibit Dragons Are Divine. Their presence impedes good magic and strengthens evil, and each has their own individual horrors. The infernal dragon breathes Hellfire that crushes the spirit of anyone it burns and sends anyone it kills straight to Hell. The apocalypse dragon breathes disease and appears to literally crush souls when it constricts people to death.
    -   A great wyrm nightmare dragon is basically Freddy Krueger if he was also a giant dragon, capable of killing people within dreams it has complete control over.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_: The Void Dragon Mag'ladroth is the most powerful of the C'tan, primordial star-eating eldritch entities that manifested physical forms using the organic metal technology of the Necrontyr, with Mag'ladroth taking the shape of a biomechanical dragon-like entity. What became of it following the Necrons' rebellion is unknown, but a shard of it is believed to have battled the Emperor of Mankind and been sealed away on Mars, where it is worshiped as the Machine God or Omnissiah by the Cult of the Dragon sect of the Adeptus Mechanicus.

    Video Games 

-   _Ancient Domains of Mystery_ has two: the Ancient Chaos Wyrm, a demonic fire dragon found at the top of the Tower of Eternal Flames, and Keriax, the multi-headed chaos dragon who drops the Crown of Chaos.
-   _ANNO: Mutationem_: In the final fight, C's incarnation of his own evil is forced out of his body, causing him to transform into Nidhogg, an enormous black dragon formed out of malice that can disperse powerful forces of energy.
-   _Asura's Wrath_: The Gohma Vlitra — based on the draconic asura from Hindu mythology — appears as a planet-sized eight-headed lava-dragon for the final battle, growing a massive demonic face in the center mass of rock and magma. At least at first. When Asura and Yasha fight their way to the core of the beast, it takes on a much smaller humanoid form with a conspicuous resemblance to Asura's berserk state for the final clash.
-   _Bayonetta_:
    -   Gomorrah, Devourer of the Divine, crosses this with Dragons Are Demonic. It is an Infernal Demon that takes the form of a massive purple-and-black wingless dragon with a crown of spikes on its head, two small arms, four legs, and eyes lining its sides. Its profile notes that it devours everything it comes across, and in the first game it's used by Bayonetta to dispose of large angels. In _Bayonetta 3_, Bayonetta uses her own heart to cause Gomorrah to undergo a One-Winged Angel into Sin Gomorrah, a skyscraper-sized four-armed draconic kaiju with a Belly Mouth.
    -   Fortitudo, the Cardinal Virtue of Fortitude, crosses this with Angelic Abomination. He is a powerful angel that resembles an upside-down marble head with avian wings, armored talons, a segmented tail, and a pair of draconic heads. He's capable of breathing divine flames from all three of his mouths, and played a major role in instigating the Witch Hunts that cost Bayonetta her memories.

-   _Breath of Fire: Dragon Quarter_: The game's hidden lore establishes that the surface world was devastated and rendered uninhabitable by draconic monsters of unknown origin, which the Genic bioweapons called D-Constructs were created in emulation of. The D-Constructs themselves are draconic monsters so powerful they are invulnerable to anything except other D-Constructs, can bond with a human host to give them a Draconic Humanoid super-form at the cost of Possession Burnout\-induced Power Degeneration, and even if their physical body is slain they can reconstitute themselves by taking over their host's body.
-   _Daikaiju Daikessen: Versus/Rogue_: Ascha'Vovina — an updated iteration of Asura from _Colossal Kaiju Combat!_ — is one of the many playable kaiju, and its backstory describes it as an eldritch Bioweapon Beast resembling a six-armed, six-eyed bipedal dragon; created by a God of Evil to slaughter the other gods and purge the mortal world. Kept as a pet by the War God, it was used as a weapon of conquest and destruction but eventually grew too powerful and attempted to devour its master. Execrated beyond space and time, it wanders the multiverse seeking to devour anything it comes across.
-   _Dark Souls_:
    -   _Dark Souls_:
        -   Unlike the other Archdragons — who had stone scales and four wings — Seath the Scaleless has no eyes, slimy-looking pale skin, tentacles instead of legs, eight flexible dragonfly-like wings, and rather than breathing fire he fires beams of energy that create cursed crystals. Obsessed with immortality, Seath obtained a piece of Gwyn's Lord Soul and a mystical crystal that made him into a unique undead. Even after death, his soul persisted to the time of _Dark Souls II_, with Sweet Shalquoir indicating that he was reincarnated as the arachnid Animalistic Abomination Freja (which his soul is obtained from) and Manscorpion Tark commenting that his master cannot truly be killed and will simply be reborn so he can "seethe" for all eternity. By the time of _Dark Souls III_ a secret cult worshipping Seath had formed in Lothric's Grand Archives, with King Oceiros going so far as to mutate himself into a Draconic Humanoid strongly resembling the Old Paledrake himself.
        -   The Gaping Dragon was originally a normal Archdragon before the emergence of life corrupted it with a ravenous gluttony, mutating it into a horrendous acid-spewing abomination with a massive, grotesque Belly Mouth running from the base of its throat to its pelvis.
        -   The Black Dragon Kalameet is indicated by its black flame-breath and proximity to the lost city of Oolacile to have been corrupted by the Abyss. Unlike all the other dragons shown in the game, he only has two wings, and has a glowing red Third Eye he can use to cast curses. The Black Dragon Set in _Dark Souls II_ is said to have been crafted from his scales, and the Black Dragon weapons from his severed tail.
    -   _Dark Souls III_: Darkeater Midir was originally an Archdragon raised by the gods, but millennia of being fed monsters of the Abyss (hence the name) led to him being corrupted. He can conjure a Magic Missile Storm of Dark projectiles, and can focus his Dark-tinged flame-breath into a purple beam of Dark energy.
-   _Dawn of the Dragons_:
    -   The Draconic Dreams raid boss starts off as a white dragon with a fang-mouthed tumorous mass on its neck and a twisted arm; and mutates into a three-headed monstrosity with each head and limb being completely different, four wings, and a body comprised of bloated tumorous masses. Its victory Flavor Text describes it as a constantly mutating literally-living nightmare formed from the all-consuming hatred of dragons slain by your ancestor, the Dragon Rider.
    -   Recurring Boss Erebus the Black keeps coming back in more horrific and warped forms, often through a Merger of Souls with other spectral or corrupted drakes through sheer hate of the Dragon Rider. Fittingly he makes up part of the Draconic Dreams boss.
    -   The Grotesque Hybrid and Makeshift Drake are an Artificial Hybrid and Flesh Golem respectively, and collectively are shambling abominations that need to be slain.
-   _Destiny_: The extinct Ahamkara are described as wish-granting dragons, but it soon becomes clear that they something _far_ more eldritch in nature; they were high-level Reality Warpers and Emotion Eaters who changed form based on what people thought they looked like, or to fulfill wishes. The reason they looked like dragons (in the vaguest sense) is because one of them picked up on Lord Saladin's desire to fight a real dragon and interpreted that as a wish, changing itself and it's kin into towering wyrms. The only Ahamkara you see in-game is best described as looking like Cthulhu mixed with a dinosaur.
-   _Dragalia Lost_: One of the recruitable Shadow Dragons is an otherworldly and grotesque eyeless black, purple, and gold beast named after the Outer God Nyarlathotep, who reaps the souls of those he corrupts as sacrifices for a dark god called the Ancient One.
-   _Dragon Age: Origins_: The Archdemon looks like some kind of rotten, twisted, almost undead take on a dragon, but the truth is it's something else entirely. It holds supreme dominion over all Darkspawn, capable of controlling them _en masse_ with a single thought. Worse, should it ever be killed, it will merely Body Surf to the closest Darkspawn, who will then take its shape. Most tellingly, runes that do more damage to Darkspawn or Dragons have no effect on the Archdemon.
-   _Dragon: Marked for Death_: The Astral Dragon Atruum only vaguely resembles a dragon, being a continent-sized Eldritch Abomination with Combat Tentacles tipped by draconic heads and lined with Extra Eyes. He is the patron god of the Dragonblood Clan, whose ancestors formed a pact with him after he was not-quite killed by his nemesis, the monkey-god Primatus; and his flesh and blood have mutated many of the planet's native plants and animals into predatory monsters.
-   _Dragon Project_: The Dark Oracle Spear Behemoth, Vile Mezarenda, is a winged, serpentine dragon with a sinister eye for its face, and another eye at the end of its tail. This dragon, along with its light counterpart, Ruthless Illugion, serve as guardians for an abandoned dragon sanctuary that's also an archive. When enough damage is dealt, Mezarenda _rips its eye out_, leaving behind an empty eye socket that bleeds damaging black puddles and can turn into a small black hole that sucks Hunters into it before slamming its head on the ground to severely damage them.
-   _Dragon's Dogma_: The Great Dragon is a draconic entity that periodically emerges from a portal to the Rift, and whose coming brings calamity to the Duchy of Gransys. Accompanied by a horde of monsters and worshiped as a god of destruction by the Salvation cult, the Dragon rips out and eats the hearts of people brave enough to face it in combat — branding them as Arisen. When confronted by an Arisen, the Dragon gives them the choice of facing it in combat or sacrificing a loved one in exchange for a wish being granted, making the Arisen its thrall if they choose the latter. If faced in combat, the Dragon has twenty hearts harvested from Arisen who failed its test or perished in combat against it. It's revealed that the Dragon itself was a former Arisen who faced the Seneschal in combat and lost, and the purpose of its existence is to seek out those worthy of succeeding the Seneschal's post — those who succeed become a god, and those who fail become a new incarnation of the Great Dragon. At the time of the game there have been at least three incarnations of the Great Dragon, one of which reduced the country to the west of Gransys — as well as much of Western Gransys — to monster-infested ruins.
-   _Dra+Koi_: In a world that runs on Meta Fiction, Ether Dragons like the unnamed female protagonist are city-destroying physics-breaking monsters that are impervious to modern weaponry and can only be defeated by equally fantastical beings and weapons like the Dragonslayer; and exist to fulfill a cyclical Chivalric Romance narrative wherein the Dragons fight and are ultimately slain by the Heroes — in this case the unnamed male protagonist, who the Dragon falls madly in love with.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_:
    -   Peryite is one of the Daedric Princes, Jerkass Gods who are often judged to be demonic, but in truth have goals and ideals completely beyond mortal comprehension. Peryite is said to enjoy taking the form of a dragon, in mockery of Akatosh, the primordial Aedric Dragon-God of Time.
    -   Alduin the World-Eater is a primordial draconic entity worshipped as a god of death and destruction by the ancient Nords, with the priests of the Dragon Cult still serving him even in undeath. While he appears as a large, spiny jet-black dragon, he is distinctly more powerful and otherworldly than the other dragons, being the self-proclaimed "Firstborn of Akatosh".<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  He is said to predate the existence of the world itself and to have destroyed its previous incarnation; to have fought the creator-god Lorkhan/Shor at the beginning of time and come out no worse for wear; and to be able to eat literally anything, in one myth devouring the lifespan of the entire Nord population down to age six. He's prophesied to devour the world at the end of time — though he seeks to conquer it instead. He can pop in and out of the afterlife of Sovngarde to devour souls and replenish his power; and unlike other dragons he can only be injured if the Dragonrend Shout is used on him. Even after Alduin's physical form is slain his soul cannot be absorbed by the Dragonborn, with it being speculated that he'll eventually reconstitute himself to fulfill his destiny. Furthermore, his title of "the World-Eater" is implied to not be a hyperbole — which indicates that the full extent of his power and/or his true form have never been revealed. Ingame, Alduin normally appears not too different from other dragons, but reveals his nature upon defeat. His armored coating cracks and falls apart, revealing beneath a vaguely dragon-shaped mass of gooey darkness before dissipating.
    -   Even Akatosh/Alkosh/AKHAT, Alduin's Good Counterpart (or similar, as mentioned above), is not exempt from this. Despite having been rendered effectively comatose by the events of Creation, he still remains the personification of time itself, causing a Time Crash whenever mortals try to change or manipulate him. The most severe of these lasted a whopping one thousand and eight years of "objective" time, and shook reality so badly that even basic universal knowledge like _the number of suns in the sky_ became subjective. Moreover, due to Akatosh possibly at once being himself, Alduin, Auri-El, and even Lorkhan, it may well be that he is at once comatose in the present, alive and well in the infinitely distant future, disappeared in the infinitely distant past, and dead\-ish, and at least half of these selves have both the power of Time Travel and _many_ incarnations.
-   _Fate/Grand Order_:
    -   Beast II, aka Tiamat, is a primordial deity of chaos who appears in the 7th Singularity Babylonia, and initially appears as a scantily-clad woman with massive gnarled horns — her Cerebral Corpus — but eventually transforms into her true "Draconic Corpus" form — a colossal sphynx-like draconic entity so powerful that Servants and even other deities are all-but powerless against her. She emits an ocean of black ooze called the Sea of Life or Chaos Tide,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  which completely reformats living and supernatural beings alike on a spiritual level into monstrous creatures called the Children of Tiamat.
    -   In the 6th Lostbelt Avalon le Fae, the last Great Calamity is the Abyssal Worm, a monstrous swarm of dragonflies flying in the form of an insectoid dragon made of darkness and curses that can basically be described as a _living black hole_, and is capable of devouring the entire world, which it does by shifting gravity so everything falls into its maw. Once inside it, there's nothing but an infinite void where its victims fall endlessly until they're Mind Raped into oblivion. Its true identity is Oberon Vortigern, who assumes this form to finish off the already destroyed Faerie Britain and threatens to break loose from the Lostbelt and devour the planet and Proper Human History. The Final Battle of the chapter involves Chaldea being _swallowed_ by the monster and having to fight him to the death to keep him from escaping.
    -   In the 6th Lostbelt Avalon le Fae, it's elaborated on that the red dragon whose essence Altria Pendragon was imbued with and the white dragon whose blood Vortigern consumed to become a Humanoid Abomination were the same entity, Albion — a mountain-sized 4.6 billion year-old biomechanical "pure-blooded" dragon whose not-quite-dead corpse forms a labyrinth beneath the foundations of the Clock Tower in London, and is to "modern" dragons what Grand Servants are to even the most powerful of regular Servants. Melusine, the strongest of the Faerie Knights and bearing the name of Lancelot, is in fact a fragment of the Lostbelt's dead Albion that gained sentience and is destined to someday become a lesser version of her original self as one of the Calamities destined to destroy Faerie Britain.
    -   The Rebloomed form (aka, the result of Draco's Demon Beast Incarnadines becoming the main basis for the creature rather than Draco herself) of Beast VI/S — aka Sodom's Beast — is a multi-headed demonic dragon, with each head being different (for example, one of them has Monstrous Mandibles resembling a Flower Mouth) and a Belly Mouth. Said to represent the biblical Beast of the Apocalypse, it's even stronger than fellow Beasts Tiamat and Goetia.
-   _Final Fantasy_:
    -   Recurring superboss Shinryu is a draconic entity with white-and-gold crystalline scales and deific levels of power, residing in the Void and using the Interdimensional Rift to traverse the _Final Fantasy_ multiverse. In the _Dissidia_ subseries, it orchestrates a cyclical war between the deities Cosmos and Chaos in order to grow stronger by absorbing the memories of their summoned warriors. In _Dissidia Final Fantasy NT_, it manifests offshoots called planesgorgers to devour the patchwork dimension of World B and its nightmarish true form is fought as the final boss, but it is seemingly vanquished for good by Materia and Spiritus (the reincarnations of Cosmos and Chaos), and their assembled warriors.
    -   _Final Fantasy VII_: Ultima Weapon is a centaur-like draconic entity and one of the Weapons — colossal monsters created by the Will of the Planet in order to kill all living things in the event of a threat to Gaia itself, so that Omega Weapon could extract the Lifestream and transfuse it into another celestial body.
    -   _Final Fantasy VIII_: Ultima Weapon appears in as a superboss in an updated version of its centaur-like draconic form from _VII_, with a face on its lower body and wielding the Ultima Weapon from _Final Fantasy VII_. It is said within the game's lore to be the ultimate Guardian Force entity and be impossible to defeat, and possesses numerous attacks that can one-shot entire parties.
    -   _Final Fantasy X_ and _Final Fantasy X-2_:
        -   Ultima Weapon appears as a centaur-like draconic entity said to be a legendary fiend possessing limitless power. Differentiating this version from prior incarnations, it has six eyes and a Gigeresque black-and-red exoskeleton.
        -   Omega Weapon, the nemesis of Ultima Weapon, also appears as a centaur-like draconic entity with a black-and-silver Gigeresque exoskeleton — mostly a palette swap of Ultima Weapon's — and formerly held the title of the strongest of fiends.
    -   _Final Fantasy XII_: The superboss Yiazmat is a draconic god driven to madness by its own immense power, and is hands-down one of the most difficult fights in the game, possessing Death\-infused attacks and over 50 million HP. Its bone-white Gigeresque appearance with Extra Eyes all over its body makes it especially disturbing. It's also much stronger than the Hell Wyrm, another powerful draconic horror that had to be sealed away by the ancient Archadians for its power and violence.
    -   _Lightning Returns: Final Fantasy XIII_: Ereshkigal, a six-winged draconic Cie'th-like Superboss, is fought at the end of the Ultimate Lair and is Bhunivelze's most-powerful creation.
    -   _Final Fantasy Type-0_: Shinryu Celestia is the l'Cie form of Lady Celestia and takes the form of a three-headed wyvern-like monster whose bestiary entry emphasizes that her power is so overwhelming that she is more than a match for even the most-powerful of Eidolons. Canonically, the protagonists lose against her and have to be saved by Bahamut ZERO.
    -   _Final Fantasy XIV_: Bahamut the Dreadwyrm is a draconic Primal and one of the First Brood of Midgardsormr, but was slain, resurrected, and then sealed inside an artificial moon to be used as a power source by the Allagan Empire. When Bahamut finally breaks free after untold millennia, in an event called the Calamity, it effortlessly lays waste to the whole world before being stopped by Louisoix, who apotheosized into the Phoenix and wounded Bahamut badly enough that its physical body was torn to shreds and it needed to retreat and heal before it could resume its assault.
-   _Fire Emblem_:
    -   _Fire Emblem: Awakening_: Grima the Fell Dragon is a colossal (as in, his body is bigger than the royal castle of Ylisstol while his wingspan dwarfs the capital city itself) draconic entity that is worshipped as a god of destruction by the nation of Plegia, and is responsible for the Bad Future that Lucina seeks to avert. In _Fire Emblem Echoes: Shadows of Valentia_ it's revealed that Grima was created by the mad alchemist Forneus using — among various ingredients — human flesh, special herbs, nectar, and the blood of a divine dragon in order to create the Ultimate Life Form; but quickly grew too powerful and malevolent for even his creator to control.
    -   _Fire Emblem Fates_: Anankos was once a benevolent dragon-god of water, light, and dark — among countless other powers — but excised his soul and the last of his sanity, succumbed to madness, and devolved into an omnicidal colossal eyeless beast holding a terrifying eye-covered orb in its jaws.
    -   _Fire Emblem: Three Houses_:
        -   The Demonic Beasts and their Wild, Experimental, Altered, Flying, and Giant variants; the Black Beast, the Wandering Beast, and the White Beast were all originally humans that were transformed into grotesque draconic horrors through being imbued with incompatible or damaged Crest Stones, which were formed from the blood of the Nabataens — a race of dragons created by the progenitor-goddess Sothis.
        -   The goddess Sothis is regarded as such by the members of "those who slither in the dark" due to her role in the destruction of their homeland, Argatha, and being an ancient entity from beyond the stars. While her draconic form is never shown, a report relating to the destruction of Agartha describes it as being capable of annihilating entire countries with ease; and the Sword of the Creator — forged from her bones — still possesses devastating power.
        -   The Umbral Beast from the Cindered Shadows DLC is the result of Aelfric being transformed into a skinless dragon with a human skull for a face through a botched attempt to resurrect Sitri, an artificial Nabataen created by Rhea in an attempt to resurrect Sothis.
-   _God of War Ragnarök_: Nidhogg and her spawn are extradimensional lindwyrms that can rip portals in space with their talons, and exist to maintain Yggdrasil's roots. When fought as a boss, Nidhogg displays the ability to open up her torso into a black hole-like vortex, which sucks in debris and compacts it into projectiles she can then spit out.
-   _Guild Wars 2_: The great Elder Dragons are closer to primordial forces of nature rather than traditional dragons, being incomprehensibly large forces of destruction and chaos. They can render land uninhabitable just by flying over it, control the very essence of their respective magic element, reshape the very planet itself, and mutate other living creatures into vassals. And to make matters worse, they are completely linked to the world's balance of magic. Killing one will set that element out of control, causing even more problems.
-   _Hungry Dragon_: Amidst the game's wide variety of dragons, a few stand out as being particularly eldritch.
    -   Anomalyis is an XXL-sized Gigeresque wyvern described as an extradimensional entity accidentally summoned by some witches, and possesses an insatiable appetite — being capable of devouring almost anything it comes across.
    -   Kahl'mari is a blatant expy of Cthulhu outright called an "eldritch dragon" in its description, and is said to be capable of driving onlookers insane with its mere presence.
-   The _Kingdom Hearts_ series has quite a few draconic creatures made of darkness.
    -   _Kingdom Hearts II_: Storm Rider is a powerful dragon-like Heartless that Sora and the gang face in their second visit to the Land of Dragons. The Emperor implies that it used to be an _actual_ dragon sleeping dormant within the mountain before Organization XIII found it and turned it into a lightning-slinging Heartless-mockery of a dragon. There's also the giant Nobody dragon from Xemnas's Sequential Boss fight, which doubles as a Mechanical Abomination.
    -   _Kingdom Hearts 3D \[Dream Drop Distance\]_: The Ryu Dragon is a large, vaguely bird-like and very colorful dragon made of darkness that inhabits several of the Sleeping Worlds. Like with most Dream Eaters, there are two varieties: the hostile Nightmares that devour good dreams and the friendly Spirits that eat Nightmares.
-   _Last Cloudia_: El'dravahna the Imperator is a grotesque abomination that has a dragon's head, torso, arms, and wings jutting from a twisted mass of eyeball-studded flesh and machinery. Making it look even more horrifying, its wings aren't attached to the draconic torso, but to the Body of Bodies jutting from its back.
-   _Mega Man Star Force_: The Crimson Dragon fought at the end of _Mega Man Star Force 3_ is a red-and-black draconic Electromagnetic Being made of Crimson,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  that serves as the core of Meteor G — a red-and-black asteroid-like Eldritch Location made of Noise. It is created when King merges with Meteor G's core to destroy the world, though it breaks free from his control through Mega Man's intervention and rampages, nearly one-shotting Mega Man with a single attack and coming close to destroying the Earth. It can dematerialize parts of its body, split its head into two — though this leaves its core vulnerable, regenerate destroyed heads, fire Crimson missiles shaped like its head, and was so powerful that Mega Man had to use his Finalized Noise form to defeat it.
-   _Metroid_: Ridley, the sadistic commander of the Space Pirates, is a Gigeresque alien dragon that seems to be the only member of his species, leaving his origin entirely unknown. What _is_ known about him is that _he just doesn't die_ and is able to survive numerous violent defeats, to the point that it takes a _planet-leveling bomb_ to fully kill him, and that still leaves enough left to clone him. His biology is compatible with the eldritch mutagen Phazon, turning his cyborg Meta Ridley form into Omega Ridley; and the corpse of his clone is infected by the Lovecraftian X-Parasite to become Omega Ridley. The _Metroid_ manga explains that he survives each defeat via eating lower lifeforms to regenerate his own cells, and this Healing Factor was strong enough to restore him to his normal state by the time of _Super Metroid_. In his various depictions, he is also shown to be capable of flying unaided through the vacuum of space at speeds rivaling Samus' spaceship, be durable enough to withstand Samus' Arm Cannon anywhere except the inside of his mouth, able to alter the pigmentation and hardness of his body to enhance himself, and breathe plasma hot enough to melt space ships.
-   _Miku Monogatari ~Yume to Taisetsu na Mono~_ : the boss of stage 4 - 5 is a one-eyed dragon with long neck, but its full body was never shown. Same like the other bosses, the boss is an embodiment of nightmare that threatening the picture book world which the game takes place. It can breathe fire and shoots homing fireballs at the player's character
-   _Monster Hunter_: The title "Elder Dragon" is used in-universe as an umbrella term for extremely powerful monsters with unnatural abilities, although a monster doesn't even technically have to be a dragon to be categorized as an Elder Dragon. The Chief Ecologist in _Monster Hunter: World_ sums them up best by saying they're less like naturally-evolved animals and more like living natural disasters.
    -   Fatalis, introduced in the original game, looks like a fairly standard Western dragon, but this serves to make it stand out from the non-Elder Dragon monsters in the series, most of which are wyverns — especially in the first game, where it was the only six-limbed dragon specifically to make it feel unnatural. The lore surrounding Fatalis, its variants,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and the weapons created from its body parts is obfuscated in-universe and only conveyed through item descriptions and apocryphal legends, but depict it as an unnatural malevolent entity with otherworldly abilities that effectively make it nigh-invincible and incapable of being permanently — if at all — killed. _Monster Hunter: Stories_ gives Fatalis even greater eldritch connotations by implying that it is responsible for the Black Blight, an otherworldly black miasma capable of infecting even other Elder Dragons, mutating them into blackened corrupted forms and causing them to go berserk.
    -   Alatreon, introduced in _Monster Hunter 3 (Tri)_, is an Elder Dragon with control over all four (five as of Iceborne) elements at once. However, it's also unable to _control_ the elements, so everything around it gets frozen solid or burnt to ashes, which is why it seeks out the most unreachable, inhospitable places known to man and monster alike. As with Fatalis, the descriptions of weapons and materials that come from it imply that its very presence also causes creatures' minds to erode, making them go insane or yearn for dragonhood.
    -   Gore Magala and Shagaru Magala from _Monster Hunter 4_. Gore Magala is a jet-black wyvern that looks intimidating enough, but what really pushes it into this territory is that it constantly spreads dust from its scales, which helps the nearly blind monster sense its surroundings but also infects other monsters exposed to it with a "Frenzy Virus" that drives them into mindless, savage aggression until they eventually perish a few days later (or survive and gain new strength and abilities as Apex monsters. Fortunately, it's temporary and nonfatal to humans, though still debilitating as it suppresses natural healing. Gore Magala is called the "Black Eclipse Wyvern" because over the course of a fight with it, it eventually spreads enough of the stuff around to darken the area around it, even in broad daylight. Shagaru Magala is the adult form of Gore Magala, whose appearance faintly resembles an angel or a deity with its glimmering scales, but that doesn't make it any less dangerous, as its Frenzy Virus is even deadlier and more potent compared to that of its juvenile form. Special mention to Chaotic Gore Magala in _Monster Hunter 4 Ultimate_, which molted improperly and is permanently stuck in transition between Gore and Shagaru Magala. It's not a comfortable state, to say the least.
    -   Nergigante, the flagship Elder Dragon of _Monster Hunter: World_, can best be described as huge, draconic hedgehogs with quickly regenerating and hardening spikes; and lack a Breath Weapon, elemental affinities, and other supernatural abilities — relying on brute strength and ferocity alone. However, what makes them terrifying is that they prey on other Elder Dragons — including ones as powerful as the Shara Ishvalda, a subterranean monstrosity capable of making other monsters go berserk — and pretty much everything else they come across, and their habit of devastating whole ecosystems has led to them being given the nickname Extinction Dragon. Strangely, they reproduce asexually by infusing the life energy they absorb from its prey into their spikes, causing some of them to grow into new Nergigante when broken off.
    -   The Xeno'jiiva introduced in _Monster Hunter: World_ is a bizarre otherworldly Elder Dragon whose true origins are a mystery, but which feeds off the life energy of dying Elder Dragons, is disrupting the natural ecosystem of the world to obtain more of it, and is indicated to possesses Resurrective Immortality. Conversely, its adult form — the Safi'jiiva — is more along the lines of Dragons Are Demonic: it lacks its larval form's otherworldly appearance and is a traditional-looking western dragon with blood-red scales and glowing red eyes; though it retains the ability to drain life energy, can breathe torrents of spectral blue flames that it can focus into devastating energy beams, and is said to rival the Fatalis.
    -   _Monster Hunter: Rise_ has Ibushi and Narwa, respectively the male and female of a species of Elder Dragon that cause the Rampage, a horde of monsters in a panicked frenzy from the two vibrating on a special frequency to communicate with each other from across the land. Said vibrations can also be picked up by certain Wyverians through a process called Resonance, and is shown to be an unpleasant experience for the unprepared. Both dragons are also incredibly powerful and destructive, capable of summoning massive storms to wipe out any potential threats to their nest.
    -   _Monster Hunter Stories 2: Wings of Ruin_ introduces Oltura, an Elder Dragon revealed to be the true bearer of the titular Wings of Ruin. It spends most of the game sealed away on Hakolo Island, but as the seal weakens over time and it consumes the life energy of Rathalos, it unleashes an eerie red light that causes other monsters to go berserk. In its immature form it manifests as a colossal three-headed draconic beast with Flower Mouths, and after being fully unleashed its true form is a six-winged dragon with eyes on its wings and multiple tentacles extending from its hips. It is capable of using every elemental type to devastating effect, conjuring a hurricane of miasma, and potentially destroying the world; and even when weakened by Ena’s pendant it’s still powerful enough to require Razewing Ratha to almost pull a Heroic Sacrifice to vanquish it.
-   _Minecraft_: The Ender Dragon, who looks to have a fairly normal draconic body shape but has a glowing purple throat and eyes, and she can phase through blocks or destroy anything not native to the End by touching it.
-   _Pokémon_:
    -   Dialga and Palkia from _Pokémon Diamond and Pearl_ are a pair of Dragon-type Legendary Pokemon with powers over time and space, respectively. Palkia vaguely resembles a theropod dinosaur, and it has Reality Warper powers strong enough to _tear holes in the fabric of space-time_ as its Signature Move. Dialga looks more like a long-necked sauropod, but it's no less eldritch: its birth at the beginning of the universe is what caused _time itself_, which now flows to the rhythm of its heartbeat, to exist. The _Rise of Darkrai_ movie depicts a battle between these two abominations, and it threatens to have world-ending consequences.
    -   Giratina, also introduced in _Pokémon Diamond and Pearl_, is a Ghost/Dragon-type Legendary Pokémon that was so violent and destructive that it was banished to the Distortion World. It appears as a cross between a skeletal dragon and a centipede with shadowy wings in its Altered Forme, and in its Origin Forme it loses its legs and its wings become Combat Tentacles.
    -   Kyurem, Reshiram, and Zekrom — introduced in _Pokémon Black and White_ — are offshoots of a powerful extraterrestrial Dragon-type Legendary Pokémon that fell to Earth in a meteor and split into three separate entities representing the Taoist concepts of Wuji, Yin, and Yang respectively. Reshiram and Zekrom devastated the ancient Unova region with their fire and lightning powers during a war over whether truth or ideals were more important, while Kyurem remained hidden in the meteor's impact crater. In _Pokémon Black 2 and White 2_, Kyurem can assimilate Reshiram to become "White Kyurem" or Zekrom to become "Black Kyurem" through the process known as "Absofusion", but what the original draconic entity looked like is unknown.
    -   Guzzlord from _Pokémon Sun and Moon_ is a Dark/Dragon-type Ultra Beast that is constantly ravenous, has a massive Belly Mouth, two pincer-tipped tongues, and a conveyer belt inside its throat, and is capable of eating anything without needing to defecate.
    -   Necrozma is a black crystalline _thing_ that originates from Ultra Space and absorbs light — devastating entire dimensions — in order to restore itself; with the Sparkling Stones harnessed to perform Alola's Z-Moves being theorized to be shards of Necrozma's incomplete body. In its complete Ultra Necrozma form, it becomes a Psychic/Dragon-type entity composed of radiant golden light, and it is only surpassed in terms of power by Mega Rayquaza.
    -   In _Pokémon Sword and Shield_, Eternatus is a Poison/Dragon-type Legendary Pokémon resembling a purplish-black and red skeletal dragon with segmented tentacles for wings, a glowing red core, and what amounts to a plasma cannon for a rib cage. In its unique "Eternamax" form, it coils its body into a giant spiral with a massive hand — actually its heads — extending from it, and manifests a hurricane of Dynamax Energy around itself. Like Necrozma, it is an alien entity whose power is said to be responsible for its region's unique transformation mechanic, with the Wishing Stones used to activate Dynamax and Eternamax transformations being shards of its body that were broken off; and it being unleashed threatens the entire Galar region. It also has the power to nullify Dynamax transformations and even other Pokémons' ability to attack.
-   _Remnant: From the Ashes_: Singe is a Root\-spawned boss monster resembling a dragon with multiple glowing orange eyes. It is capable of breathing fire despite being made of wood, can fly without its wings having membranes, and its Blazing Heart never stops beating even after it's killed.
-   _Resident Evil Village_: After Ethan stabs Lady Dimitrescu with a poisoned dagger, she mutates into her Molded form, a gigantic dragon-looking monster with a face that opens up to reveal More Teeth than the Osmond Family.
-   _Skullgirls_: In Beowulf's story mode, the shapeshifting eldritch abomination Double assumes a draconic form to swallow Beowulf whole, later attempting to do so again when he's pinned by Marie.
-   _Sly 3: Honor Among Thieves_: General Tsao summons his family's mystical Stone Dragon as a last resort to keeping the Cooper Gang from dishonoring his family name and rescuing the daughter of a local crime lord that Tsao intends to marry against her will. The Stone Dragon goes right for Penelope as a side-affect of Tsao's misogyny, forcing Sly to use rockets to battle the dragon head on and save her. It greatly resembles Mushu, but is about 20m long, capable of flight, and has a tongue made of fire. Its origins are that of a Guardian Entity for the Tsao family, and works on the current generation's morality.
-   _Smite_:
    -   Cerberus only bears a cursory resemblance to a three-headed canine, being covered in scales and ridged scutes, having a serpent for a tail, and having fang-lined jaws with an eerie blue Throat Light — and his Oblivion Hound, Brimstone, and Crimson Keeper skins give him even more blatant draconic appearances. The offspring of Typhon and Echidna, he guards the gates of the Underworld and devours those who attempt to trespass, but has escaped and developed a taste for the flesh and souls of gods.
    -   Jormungandr is a colossal serpentine dragon-god powerful enough to kill gods and large enough to encircle the whole Earth, and whose awakening heralds the end of the world. In his reveal trailer he calls himself the apocalypse incarnate, boasts of having purged countless epochs, and states that he will not rest until creation is rendered pure. According to the lore, he was the one who vanquished Cthulhu and imprisoned it at the bottom of the ocean.
    -   Tiamat, the Babylonian dragon-goddess, was one of the first gods to come into existence, making her more-than-powerful enough to casually curb-stomp Cthulhu in her reveal trailer. She is also the progenitor of a number of monsters, including a living storm.
-   _Spellstone_, a free-to-start Kongregate game, has the resident Satanic Archetype of Arcantica — an enormous, many-eyed dragon called Bluefire. He is an immensely powerful being who rules over the Void Plane and is described as being "Void Incarnate". He's also capable of surviving without his heart, an artifact which grants the player a tremendous amount of in-game energy and takes the bulk of the game's first story arc to finally obtain.
-   _Warcraft_:
    -   Deathwing, the Big Bad of _World of Warcraft: Cataclysm_, was originally Neltharion the Earth-Warder — one of the five Dragon Aspects — before he was corrupted by the Old Gods. His insanity and incredible power slowly torn his body apart from the inside, to the point where he had to be reconstructed and held together by Elementium metal plates. Once you tear those plates off in his climatic Boss Battle — no easy task due to his sentient blood forming tendrils to reattach them, and manifesting monsters to defend him — he crashes into the ocean and emerges as a writhing mass of tentacles and magma with a draconic torso.
    -   Galakrond, the progenitor of dragons, was also this. He was unfathomably huge - just the exposed tip of his spine was large enough to be an entire subzone in WoW. In life, once he had run out of food in his hunting grounds, he turned to cannibalizing his fellow proto-drakes. His amorality and greed corrupted his very being, twisting him into something between life and death and causing anything he killed to return as a mindless undead servant. Essentially, he was so powerful he accidentally created necromancy through sheer evil.

    Web Animation 

-   _Dingo Doodles_ has the Soulprowler. It is a horrifying dragon-shaped monster made out of liquid metal and is an insane Mind Hive of all the souls who have made deals with it.
-   From _RWBY_, the Wyvern Grimm that shows up at the end of Volume 3 has a skeletal appearance, several extra eyes, and a mouth that extends way too far back along its face and neck. Its body also leaks some kind of tarry substance, which gives rise to smaller Grimm. The fans promptly nicknamed it "Kevin."

    Web Comics 

-   _Aurora (2019)_: The Void Dragon is a primordial manifestation of raw destruction who tried to consume the entire universe, and was imprisoned in the heart of the world that was formed by the six Elemental Primordials' dead bodies as a Heroic Sacrifice.
-   _Gurral the Smasher_: Two guest monsters — Valok (aka "Deathbreath") and Ascha'Vovina — are eldritch draconic kaiju who make cameo appearances in the comic. Valok shows up out of nowhere and almost kills Gurral before leaving to another dimension, while Ascha'Vovina is recruited into Project Prometheus to help take down Powerball and lasts the longest against it out of the guest kaiju.

    Web Original 

-   In _Demesne_, Dragons refer to slow moving semi-aware magical storms that rove the land. If a demesne is prepared and paying attention they're about as dangerous as a hurricane - assuming your hurricanes involve rains of zombie beasts, lightning that turns whatever it strikes into random metals, and an impression that far too many eyes are looking at you, anyway.
-   _SCP Foundation_: "Dust and Blood" and "Summer's Exile" describe SCP-682 as an eldritch vaguely-draconic entity, the former making it one of several such offspring of the Scarlet King and his fourth daughter/bride A’zieb; and the latter being the Serpent's Hand's speculation on SCP-682's nature and origins — such as it being a deity exiled to Earth or having been created wholly or in-part by the SCP Foundation — and noting it to possibly be the inspiration for the legend of the Tarasque.

    Western Animation 

-   _Ben 10_: Dagon is an Old One resembling a colossal green octopus-monster, but can also manifest as a black dragon with a green underbelly.
-   _Dragon Booster_: The Muhorta is a vampiric dragon that's been alive since the original Dragon-Human War. While the creature's body is never seen in full, its visible parts show it to be very different from any other dragon in the series, having four eyes, Nested Mouths, and multiple energy-draining, cephalopod-like tentacles.
-   _The Dragon Prince_: According to the _Tales of Xadia_ handbook, Star Dragons — which are dragons associated with the Primal Source of the stars — live in the depths of space and come in two known varieties:
    -   Void Dragons live in the abyss of space between the stars, but beyond that little is known about them beyond a legend that a bone from one was used to grant wishes... albeit in a twisted manner.
    -   Star Devourer Dragons are depicted as jet-black dragons with ten eyes — though their true appearance is unknown due to the mere sight of them causing delirium — and as their name suggests eat stars, or at least the magic stored within their cores. The Sunfire Elves are especially terrified of them due to drawing their power from Xadia's Sun, and have an ancient ritual to ward Star Devourer Dragons away from it.
-   _Jackie Chan Adventures_: In the show's finale, Drago — the time-displaced future son of the draconic demon Shendu — absorbs the chi of the other seven Demon Sorcerers (his aunts and uncles) and undergoes a transformation into a towering Cthulhu-esque monster with command over the eight elements of Fire, Mountain, Wind, Thunder, Earth, Moon, Sky, and Water. His very existence throws the world into a state of chaos, spawning a blood-red hurricane and unleashing a horde of extradimensional monsters. The heroes end up having to unleash and fully restore Shendu to stop him, and because Drago still has the personality and temperament of a hot-headed teenage punk the two of them fight over who will get to rule the world and are sealed away together.
-   _The Owl House_: In "Watching and Dreaming", Belos infects the Titan's heart in an attempt to assimilate the country-sized corpse and claim its godlike power for himself. One of the first things he does after doing so is manifesting a draconic avatar out of his necrotic green Meat Moss that's capable of breathing blue flames from its jaws.
-   _The Real Ghostbusters_: Tiamat, a Class 7 supernatural entity worshipped as a goddess of chaos by the Sumerians (and the sister of Gozer), appears as a five-headed dragon in a reference to her depiction in _Dungeons and Dragons_.
-   Maleficent's dragon form at the end of _Sleeping Beauty_.

___