_"Well, as Megatron has – how shall we say? – 'departed,' I nominate myself as the new leader!"_

The heroes have defeated the Big Bad, and as they step out of the ashes and rubble, they congratulate themselves on a job well done. Now that the day is saved, they can relax and have a nice evening at home, knowing that the world is once again a safer place.

But wait! The Dragons rise from the rubble, filled with determination to take over their master's position. Maybe the Dragons were loyal to their former master and are Avenging the Villain. Or maybe they're free to fulfill their own ambitions without a pesky overlord in the way. They might even turn out to be worse than their predecessors. And this is assuming they were not the real villains all along, with you just having destroyed their puppets.

This is often a Sequel Hook.

Compare and contrast Dragon Their Feet, Dragon with an Agenda, The Starscream, and Bastard Understudy. Take Up My Sword is the heroic equivalent. Sometimes overlaps with As Long as There Is Evil. While they are very similar, there's a crucial difference between this trope and being The Starscream: the Dragon was not directly involved with the Big Bad's downfall. There are many a Starscream who will become this if they outlive the Big Bad, but most examples of this trope were not obsessed with becoming the Big Bad in the first place, they merely are opportunistically took the role because it was offered to them by fortune on a silver platter. They just get as much as they can so to say. There is a grey area with this, as sometimes the Dragon "drags his feet" or has his own agenda, but so long as he displays at least nominal allegiance to the core leadership, he's not the Starscream. The opposite of this trope is Demoted to Dragon, where characters who were previously Big Bads in their own right become The Dragons to a new Big Bad.

**There will be spoilers ahead.**

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Bleach_: Muramasa spends most of the Zanpakutou Unknown Tales Arc orchestrating the Zanpakuto Rebellion before it's revealed to be a distraction that allows Muramasa to achieve his real goal: freeing his master, Kouga. Kouga, however, betrays Muramasa before being defeated by his own nemesis, leaving Muramasa as the main villain to be defeated by Ichigo.
-   Schneizel has aspects of this in _Code Geass_: after Lelouch erases Charles, Marianne and their Thought Elevator from existence, his scheming, plotting brother becomes the biggest threat to his plans to establish a peaceful world - and, in fact, the entire world itself, thanks to the stockpile of FLEIJA warheads he's installed aboard his flying fortress. Not _entirely_ played straight, though, as Schneizel is arguably a far greater direct threat to Lelouch's plans than Charles is even _before_ their confrontation. Especially considering that Schneizel was planning to have the Emperor assassinated and Lelouch just got to him first. Considering the old man had nothing going for him other than his bizarre Assimilation Plot, it's no wonder that both Schneizel and Lelouch saw offing the old man as a big step forward.
-   _Fairy Tail_: In the Key to the Starry Skies Arc, the main antagonists manipulating the Zentopia Church are revealed to be a reborn Oracion Seis led by Midnight, formerly The Dragon to the Seis' leader Brain in the canon Nirvana Arc.
-   _In Another World with My Smartphone_: While the Wicked Devout's Generals Indigo, Scarlet, Hazel, Tangerine and Orchid are only acting as Co-Dragons to the Wicked God in technicality, they all serve as the deity's lieutenants who have clear-cut loyalties to the Wicked God. After becoming a deity by consuming a dust from the remains of the evil deity, they later continue the Wicked God's Evil Plan by planning to revive their master with a worthy vessel after Touya defeated him, making themselves the newest threat that Touya and his allies have to face.
-   _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure_: Enrico Pucci worked closely under Dio Brando in _Stardust Crusaders_, even though he's not seen there. In _Stone Ocean_, roughly twenty years after Dio's death, he steps out of hiding to carry out Dio's Evil Plan to create Heaven.
-   _Lyrical Nanoha_:
    -   Toredia Graze in _StrikerS Sound Stage X_ is revealed to have died four years ago. The person behind the events of this mini-arc is his loyal subordinate Runessa, who plans to finish the work he started.
    -   After Mad Scientist Jail Scaglietti is captued by Fate, Quattro steps up to take his place. For a double whammy she, like all the other cyborgs, carried a clone of Scaglietti in her womb, and was in command of the Cradle, so leaving her unaccounted for would have made all the other triumphs the heroes had garnered in the final battle meaningless.
-   Char Aznable is The Dragon to the Zabi Family in _Mobile Suit Gundam_ but, after spending time as an Anti-Hero, he becomes the Big Bad in _Mobile Suit Gundam: Char's Counterattack_.
-   After William's apparent death in _Moriarty the Patriot_, Louis takes over control of the mooks and MI6.
-   Kabuto in _Naruto_ fused some of Orochimaru's remains into his own body following the latter's death, and this act seems to have given him access to Orochimaru’s 'Impure World Resurrection' jutsu. He did not waste time in vain, showing that in a matter of months at most he's surpassed both Orochimaru and the creator of the technique in his mastery of it, and immediately used to revive and place under his control _dozens_ of extremely powerful deceased ninja (including most of the previous villains, the tailed-beast hosts, at least 3 Standard Evil Organization Squads, a number of Kages, any dead Main Characters.. making him one of the most powerful people on the planet. However, he is almost instantly dropped to Big Bad Duumvirate status when Tobi gets the Rinnegan back. Both of them have the means to completely screw the other over, with Tobi's Rinnegan being fully capable of wiping out the army of undead ninja and Kabuto being able to wipe out the army of Zetsu. Kabuto expressly states that he wants to avoid making an enemy out of Tobi at all costs, at least for the time being.... Most of the war, the two of them have a mutually profitable alliance, but neither one trusts the other at all. It's a fairly interesting dynamic. Kabuto's new Sage Mode transformation makes the "dragon" part of this trope rather literal. It's not enough to save him from a Sasuke and Itachi team up.
-   In _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_, Fate and Dynamis both qualify for this, though it's unclear who of them is currently the Big Bad and who is The Dragon.
-   After Beld is killed by Karla in _Record of Lodoss War_, his Dragon Ashram takes over and continues the original plan the same way as before.
-   Gotou of _Parasyte_ was always the most person threat to Shinichi and Migi but answered to Hirokawa. When the police raid the parasite's headquarters, they are able to kill everyone, including Hirokawa, with only Gotou escaping because of how powerful he is. After this, he spends the rest of the series pursuing Shinichi and Migi on his own and becomes the final obstacle before they can rest.
-   _Pretty Cure_:
    -   In the Grand Finale, Baldez from _Futari wa Pretty Cure MaX Heart_ is revealed to be Jaaku King himself. He's one of the seperated parts of Jaaku King and transforms back to his old self.
    -   _Tropical-Rouge! Pretty Cure_ has Butler, who takes the place of the Final Boss of the season after the Big Bad, the Witch of Delays, is taken care of peacefully.
-   In the _Saber Marionette J_ saga, specifically in J to X, we have Dr. Hess, who once was the right hand of Faust in J. When he was defeated, we saw how Hess dissapeared within the shadow. An then, in J to X he became the man behind all the evil plans, just to take revenge on the Earth.
-   _Slayers_:
    -   Valgaav of _Slayers Try_. _Literally_ a dragon. Although so was his boss.
    -   The five demon lords of the setting are actually the former Co-Dragons of the dead Dark Lord, Shabranigdo, and are planning to resurrect him in preparation for destroying the world.
-   In _Super Dimension Fortress Macross_, Quamzin/Kamjin (aka Khyron) embodies this trope when he shows up (late in the series) after a long absence. The last of the baddies and seemingly more un-hinged than ever before, he plans to end the post-war peace by finally destroying the Macross.
-   In _Transformers: ★Headmasters_, Scorponok becomes Decepticon Emperor of Destruction after Galvatron dies. Twice.
-   In the post-script season of _Monster Rancher_, Mu's lead Dragon/Starscream tries to pick up where he left off.
-   _Voltes V_: After Zambajil deserts and the nobles surrender one by one in the Grand Finale, Heinel takes charge, becoming the sole (and very legitimate) threat to the Voltes Team and Boazanian rebels. Condemning the cowardice of his fellow nobles, he declares that he will fight for Boazania to the very end and goes One-Winged Angel through Godol.
-   Prince Lotor from _Voltron_.

    Comic Books 

-   In _Dark Crisis_, after Pariah is destroyed by his own Anti-Matter device, the heroes realize the hold the Great Darkness has on the villains are still there. Then, Deathstroke reappears, transformed, vowing to finish his contract on killing all superheroes, making him the final villain.
-   _Green Lantern_:
    -   After Sinestro Heel Face Turned and rejoined the Green Lanterns, his Dragon Arkillo took control of the Sinestro Corps.
    -   Sinestro himself was Demoted to Dragon by the Anti Monitor when he formed the Sinestro Corps, only to then take over the Sinestro Corps himself after the Anti Monitor was killed.
-   _The Legend of Korra: Ruins of the Empire_: After the Big Bad Kuvira is defeated during the main series, Commander Guan, a former Dragon, never surrendered when the rest of his ruler's army did. He instead attempts to become a ruler in his own right and do what Kuvira failed at.
-   MonsterVerse: The _Kingdom Kong_ graphic novel introduces Camazotz, who was only referenced by name beforehand. When Camazotz irst emerged during the time frame of _Godzilla: King of the Monsters (2019)_, he was doing King Ghidorah's bidding alongside the other Titans. When he reemerges two years later, he's looking to usurp Kong's kingdom for himself.
-   _Sonic the Hedgehog_:
    -   _Sonic the Hedgehog (Archie Comics)_:
        -   The Bride of Conquering Storm — she was the closest thing the Iron Queen had to a Dragon, and following the Queen's recent defeat and imprisonment by the Freedom Fighters, Conquering Storm's taken over as the main villain in the Dragon Kingdom. This is a downplayed example, as Conquering Storm is still subservient to Eggman.
        -   Another example is Snively after he succeeded in killing the original Robotnik and taking over his empire, or the period after Eggman's Villainous Breakdown when he allied with the Iron Queen; however, both these times, Eggman eventually showed up/recovered and put him back in his place.
    -   _Sonic the Hedgehog (IDW)_: During Year One of the series, the Big Bad is Neo Metal Sonic, who took control of the Eggman Empire's resources following Eggman's disappearance and seeks to finish what he started. At the end of the arc, Eggman returns, and Metal voluntarily goes back to serving him.
    -   Grimer from _Sonic the Comic_ is loyal to his master until the very end, but when he realises that Robotnik is insane and unfit to serve, he quits and retreats to the shadows.
-   _Star Wars_
    -   The _Legacy_ comic series has Darth Krayt killed by his Dragon Darth Wyyrlok (who actually _is_ loyal up to that moment, but that's another story); Wyyrlok places his dead master in stasis to hide the truth and decides to fulfill Krayt's "united under the Sith" goal in a rather more literal way — _everyone in the entire galaxy will be Sith_.
-   In _Superman Smashes the Klan_, Matt Riggs murders his boss when the man makes clear that he doesn't believe in the Klan's ideals and only uses it to make money and fund his war on Superman, becoming the Final Boss of the comic.
-   _X-Men_
    -   Exodus of Magneto's Acolytes succeeds his master in the _Blood Ties (Marvel Comics)_ story.
    -   Stryfe started out as Apocalypse's intended successor in the future, but after his "father" was killed in the future he decided he wanted revenge on him and so traveled into the past to assassinate a younger version of Big Blue. It was ultimate unsuccessful, but he did put Apocalypse out of commission for a few years, as well as taking control of his Quirky Miniboss Squad the Dark Riders.
    -   Following the Sinister Minister William Stryker's death, his right-hand man Matthew Risman succeeded him as the leader of the Purifiers.

    Fan Works 

-   _The Bridge_: It's eventually revealed that Discord, Lord Tirek, Queen Chrysalis, and King Sombra were disciples of Grogar, the Shadow King, and became Big Bad threats in their own right after his was sealed away by Harmony.
-   _Child of the Storm_:
    -   Lucius Malfoy goes from being one of Voldemort's former chief lieutenants to the mastermind of an alliance between the remaining Death Eaters, HYDRA, and Gravemoss, setting him up as the Big Bad of the first book, a position eventually solidified by killing Von Strucker and taking over HYDRA.
    -   Yelena Belova has vague ambitions towards becoming this. If anything, she's more of a Mook Lieutenant, however.
-   _A Diplomatic Visit_: In the fourth story, _The Diplomat's Life_, the Umbrum named Rabia, having been sealed in Limbo, emerges long after Umbrea (who turns out to have been The Dragon to Grogar) and her own intended The Dragon, King Sombra, were both killed off. With them gone, he's the most powerful of the Umbrum Forces and thus becomes the new Big Bad.
-   Any _Ice Age_ fic that takes place after the fourth film and features the pirates will show Squint leading them after Gutt's death.
-   _The Oops Cycle_: The Wordbound demon Leviathan ascends to become Prince of Storms after the death of Belial and the majority of his other high-ranking servants. He's granted most of Belial's Orphans and his principality (which is promptly flooded).
-   _The Parselmouth of Gryffindor_: Voldemort is permanently incapacitated in First Year with no casualties… but by the Third Year, Barty Crouch Junior has taken up the mantle of fear, and what he lacks in raw magical power he makes up for in stealth, intelligence, and unpredictability.
-   _Pony POV Series_: Near the climax of the Dark World arc, Discord is mortally wounded by Rancor and transfers his remaining power to Fluttercruel, allowing her to become a full Draconequus.

    Films — Animation 

-   _The Incredibles_: Big Bad Syndrome's plan is using the Omnidroid, a battle robot with Adaptive Ability A.I. that learns from any tactics used against it, as a villain so that he can swoop in and play the hero. However, he programmed it a little too well, and it managed to defeat him and become the final boss.
-   Zira from _The Lion King II: Simba's Pride_. Although we do not see her in the first film, it's heavily implied that she was Scar's second in command and possibly his former mate. When the hyenas kill Scar at the end of the film, Zira actually put the blame on Scar's nephew and arch-nemesis, Simba, and since then, vows to destroy not only him, but also his pride as revenge.
-   Nigel from _Rio_ takes the position of main villain in the second film (as part of a Big Bad Ensemble with the newly-introduced Big Boss) after his owner Marcel was arrested. Granted, since he was already a Dragon-in-Chief.
-   Prince Charming in _Shrek the Third_ takes over the Kingdom of Far Far Away, carrying out the plans and the wishes of his dear, departed mother, the Fairy Godmother, who was destroyed at the end of the second film.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _American Renegades_: Petrovic, the loyal chief-of-staff of war criminal General Milic, takes over their army after Milic's capture in the first act, seeking revenge on his captors.
-   Arnim Zola in _Captain America: The Winter Soldier_. After HYDRA fell with the defeat of the Red Skull, Zola was recruited to SHIELD as a part of Operation Paperclip, along with other HYDRA agents. Zola used this opportunity to reform HYDRA from within SHIELD without anyone being the wiser and orchestrated several conflicts in order to increase SHIELD's influence. While he is _technically_ dead by the beginning of the movie, it's Zola's actions that resulted in the main conflict of the story.
-   In _The Dark Knight Rises_, the big bad is actually Talia Al-Ghul, who's out to avenge the death of her father, Ra's Al-Ghul's, death in the first movie and continue his plans.
-   In _District 13_, when Taha is killed by his own men, his Dragon K2 takes over and does a much better job running things.
-   In _GI Joe The Rise Of Cobra_, after Destro is badly burned, The Doctor takes over and takes the name Cobra Commander. Also, Zartan has infiltrated the White House by impersonating the U.S. President.
-   _Godzilla: Final Wars_: Monster X Keeps fighting long after the Xillians are defeated (in fact he doesn't turn into Keizer Ghidorah until they have been) and serves as the True Final Boss of the film. It happens again in the IDW comics after Godzilla kills SpaceGodzilla.
-   The Big Bad of _The Long Kiss Goodnight_, Daedalus, is unseen until about halfway through the film — up until then, The Dragon (Timothy) was the main onscreen villain. Daedalus is killed about ten minutes after first appearing, after which Timothy becomes the new Big Bad.
-   _Rio Lobo_: Sheriff Hendricks guns down Ketchum after finding out that he signed over the property deeds they'd stolen while a prisoner (in an effort to save his own neck), and takes over trying to kill the heroes himself.
-   _RocknRolla_: It's heavily implied that Archy took over things for Lenny after his untimely demise. (Having Lenny's old driver, Johnny calling him a real rock n' rolla, the bit with The Russian and so forth.) Kind of a subversion as Archy was the one to kill Lenny. Not out of a Heel–Face Turn so much as really not appreciating being lied to or sent to jail.
-   In _Spy Kids_, Floop appears to be the main Big Bad. Then The Dragon Minion deposes him and starts calling himself Mr. Minion<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . Floop quickly makes a Heel–Face Turn. By the second film, so does Minion.
-   _Star Wars_
    -   Subverted by _Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith_, where everyone believes Grievous to be the new leader of the Droid Army after the death of Count Dooku. The viewers are aware, however, that the true mastermind is the Sith Lord Darth Sidious and both men were merely Dragons.
    -   While Darth Vader was definitely Tarkin's subordinate in _A New Hope_, _The Empire Strikes Back_ has him as the Big Bad who initiates the attack on Hoth and the trap in Cloud City, and is the one fought at the end of the movie. While the Emperor is in this film, he's the Greater-Scope Villain and wouldn't take an active role in the plot until _Return of the Jedi_, which sees Vader Demoted to Dragon again.
    -   _The Last Jedi_ has Kylo Ren do this after killing Snoke and refusing to let go of the dark side. _The Rise of Skywalker_ first continues to play this straight, as Kylo only pretends to serve Palpatine to further his own goals, but then subverts it when he _does_ return to the light.
-   In _The Suicide Squad_, General Suarez is introduced as the Dragon to the ruthless Presidente Silvio Luna, but Harley Quinn quickly murders Luna, leaving Suarez to take the presidency.
-   Subverted in _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II: The Secret of the Ooze_. After the apparent death of Shredder in the first movie, his right-hand man Tatsu steps up to lead the Foot Clan, seconds before Shredder busts through the door to take his old position back.
-   In _To Kill a Dragon_ , when the Titular Dragon has been slain, the Burgomaster takes over the city, becoming a new ruler and ontinuing the oppression.
-   While he served as The Fallen's lackey throught the film _Transformers: Revenge of The Fallen_, Megatron actually went back to being the leader of the Decepticons in _Transformers: Dark of the Moon_. Only for as long as it took Sentinel Prime to reveal his true colors, at which point he becomes Sentinel's bitch. At the end, he decides to take back the position of leadership, which gives Optimus the opening to kill both villains. Megatron returns as Galvatron in _Transformers: Age of Extinction_.

    Literature 

-   In _Animorphs_, Visser Three ascends to the role of Visser One when the previous Visser One is killed and its host freed from Yeerk control.
-   Opal Koboi in _Artemis Fowl._ In _The Artic Incident,_ she acts as the Dragon with an Agenda to Briar Cudgeon, providing him with the money, weapons, and resources needed to carry out his plans for a goblin uprising. When she finds out that Cudgeon intends to murder her once he's achieved his goals, she attacks him in a fit of rage, killing him and putting herself in a coma. When she returns as the main villain in _The Opal Deception,_ she proves to be a far more dangerous adversary to Artemis and the LEP than Cudgeon ever was.
-   Trent in Ursula Vernon's _Black Dogs_ is a love-interest-turned-Dragon. The story's Big Bad is killed by the demon he summons due to the Dragon's Evil Plan, and the protagonist is left to face him instead.
-   Very literally in _Guards! Guards!_. For the first half of the book, the plot is driven by a secret society summoning a dragon to terrorize the city, with the leader's goal being to install a puppet king under his control. Except that then when he thinks he's pulled his plan off without a hitch, the dragon comes back on its own, kills the new king, and sets _itself_ up as the ruler of the city.
-   Subverted in _Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban_. Sirius was introduced as Voldemort's former Dragon who was out to avenge his boss, but this turned out to be completely untrue. The real villain responsible for the crimes he'd been accused of was not The Dragon, being very low-ranked in Voldemort's organization, and he explicitly didn't have the guts to try things on his own. Later we find out that the real Dragon, Bellatrix Lestrange, tried to be the Avenging the Villain flavor of this, but was caught within days of Voldemort's downfall (though not before she had the chance to cross the Moral Event Horizon, unfortunately).
-   _The Dragon Business_: The head of the orc mercenaries in the second book ends up taking over as the main antagonistic force after his boss belatedly discovers his fatal Plot Allergy to peanut butter during a feast celebrating the successful storming of Longjohn's castle.
-   _Honor Harrington_: Oscar St-Just, Rob S. Pierre's loyal lieutenant and friend, takes over Haven after the death of Pierre in an attempted coup. His ascendency doesn't last all that long, ending the second time he meets Thomas Theisman in person.
-   _Tolkien's Legendarium_:
    -   Sauron, the Big Bad of _The Lord of the Rings_, was actually the Dragon with an Agenda to Morgoth in the First Age. Morgoth was defeated and locked away in the void, but Sauron was AWOL for that battle, and took up the mantle himself afterwards. He actually pretended that he had a Heel–Face Turn after the battle, and that he wanted to help rebuild. It's stated that he honestly did decide to give up... though only out of fear of being punished. When he was told that he wouldn't be given a blanket-amnesty but would have to stand trial to be forgiven, Sauron feared (probably correctly) that he would lose, so he ran.
    -   Sauron's fundamental loyalty always seems to lie with himself, with a healthy dose of self-preservation — he's more than willing to work with whoever the most powerful being currently around is while always advancing his own goals in the process. It seems to be the realization that after the armies of the Valar depart _he's_ the most powerful entity active in Middle-Earth that sets him on the path towards the throne of Big Bad and Evil Overlord.
    -   After Sauron fell at the end of the Second Age, the Witch-king, Lord of the Nazgûl and Sauron's most powerful and loyal servant, basically became the interim Dark Lord and launched a brutal (and centuries-long) campaign against the northern kingdom of Arnor, which had played such a large part in Sauron's downfall. Afterward, he gathered the other Nazgûl, captured the city of Minas Ithil (along with its Palantír), ended the line of Gondor's kings, and participated in the rebuilding of Mordor in preparation for Sauron’s return.
-   Subverted in the _Mistborn_ trilogy. After the Lord Ruler dies, it appears that his Co-Dragons, the Steel Inquisitors, have taken over as the Big Bads. They've actually just transferred their allegiance- or rather, had it forcibly transferred- to Ruin, who was actually the ultimate Big Bad all along.
-   John Buchan's Richard Hannay thrillers:
    -   The series begins with _The Thirty-Nine Steps_, in which Hannay uncovers a spy ring and its leaders are arrested. The second-in-command of the spy ring returns as the main villain in the third book, _Mr. Standfast_.
    -   The Dragon of _The Courts of the Morning_ doesn't survive the denouement, but the most senior surviving henchman becomes the Big Bad of _The Island of Sheep_.
-   In _The Sundering_, Ushahin takes Godslayer and runs off after Sartoris dies and his forces are broken. Several characters muse that he might be even more dangerous than Sartoris, as while he lacks raw power, he is not limited by Sartoris's sense of honor.
-   In _Tales of the Magic Land_ Urfin Jus begins as a tax collector of sorts for Gingema the Wicked Witch. He would still have been not much of a threat after her death had he not accidentally discovered the Powder of Life. Later, upon conquering the Munchkins, he lampshades the trope telling them that while Gingema has perished, her magic powers went to him, her loyal servant.
-   In the Dale Brown novel _The Tin Man_, Gregory Townsend, who was The Dragon to Henri Cazaux from the previously non-continuity title _Storming Heaven_, is the new Big Bad. Also, Sun Ji Guoming from _Sky Masters_ who becomes Big Bad by _Fatal Terrain_.
-   In _Transformers: Ghosts of Yesterday_, a prequel to _Transformers (2007)', Starscream takes over as the leader of the Decepticons after Megatron's disappearance. After the Cybertronians encounter the_ Ghost-1 _in 1969, Starscream rightly determines that the technology of the primitive human spacecraft is too similar to Cybertronian tech to be a coincidence (even though, to his subordinates, he insists that it's a natural evolution of all technology in the universe), which must indicate that Megatron is on Earth. Unwilling to relinquish his position, he does everything possible to delay the discovery of Earth by his kin, including destroying the_ Ghost-1'' and her crew in order to deny the same opportunity to the Autobots. While he obviously fails in the long term, it does take another four decades for them to find Earth. Note that the sequel films pretty much render this storyline non-canon.
-   In _Victoria_, the heroes' No-Nonsense Nemesis General Wesley plays this role, beginning as the corrupt President Warner's military hatchet man. Promoted to Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, he then seizes power after an improbably successful lone-wolf terrorist strike (that may or may not have been what it looked like) kills Warner and most of the Cabinet and senior legislators, proclaiming an outright military dictatorship for the duration of the emergency.

    Live-Action TV 

-   On _Alias_, Breakout Villain Mr. Sark moved up the ranks from Mouth of Sauron in Season 1 to Dragon in Season 2 to finally becoming part of the Big Bad Duumvirate in Season 3. Unusually for this trope, he eventually went back to being the Dragon again in Season 5 when his original boss completed her circuit of the Heel–Face Revolving Door and decided to be a villain after all.
-   _Babylon 5_ season five, and its spin-off _Crusade_, has the Drakh, former servants of the Shadows who were abandoned when their masters agreed to stop interfering with the younger races and decided to take over as Big Bad. Their name even resembles many Romance languages' words for "dragon".
-   In Season 2 of _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_, The Anointed One is this after the defeat of season 1 Big Bad the Master, until Spike kills him, of course. Then Spike is seriously injured and Drusilla appears to take on this trope, rising from the ashes fully healed. However it's actually a Red Herring as the real Big Bad turns out to be one of the heroes.
-   _The Company You Keep_: The opening con has Charlie accusing gangster Patrick Maguire's aide of "being the one in charge," which the man denies. By the end of the episode, Maguire has been busted and the woman, Daphne, has now become the boss. It turns out though she'll only run things on the outside when he's in prison, and she's loyal to him (it's revealed that he's her father).
-   A mild example in _Doctor Who_ with the Cybermen of Cybus Industries. When the Cyberleader is killed, another Cyberman immediately upgrades himself to Cyberleader. It's not made clear if there is any hierarchy in place to determine succession.
-   _Elementary_: In the second season Devon Gaspar, Moriarty's former Number Two, attempts to take over after she is arrested at the end of the first season. Gaspar doesn't last long as Sherlock Holmes and Moriarty unravel his plans (which included kidnapping and ransoming Moriarty's daughter) in the space of a single episode.
-   _Game of Thrones_: Cersei Lannister after Joffrey and Tywin are killed.
-   Santana Lopez in _Glee_ seemed to be en route to this, taking over Quinn's role as the Alpha Bitch when Quinn's status as a Fallen Princess (she suddenly became unpopular when her pregnancy was revealed) made her do a Heel–Face Turn. After Quinn had her kid, though, she first regained her status in the Cheerios and then half a season later both of them ended up quitting.
-   _Kamen Rider Stronger_: When his desire to fight Stronger interferes with Black Satan's objectives, General Shadow splits off from them and founds his own organisation to go after Stronger after Black Satan's downfall.
-   _The Mandalorian_: The very end of Season 2 reveals that Bib Fortuna took over Jabba's palace (and presumably his criminal empire) following his death in _Return of the Jedi_. About two minutes after we learn this, Boba Fett storms in, kills Fortuna, and takes his former master's throne for himself.
-   In the final season of _The Musketeers_, Lucien Grimaud is initially The Dragon to the apparent season Big Bad the Marquis de Feron, but when Feron finds himself unable to murder his own brother Grimaud kills Feron in rage and takes over the conspiracy.
-   _Once Upon a Time_: Regina becomes this in season 2 when she is manipulated into helping Snow kill Cora and wants revenge.
-   _The Outpost_: In the last episodes of Season 2, when Talon mortally wounds One, he passes his kinj and position as one of the Three to Sana, who takes command of his army.
-   _Power Rangers_:
    -   Subverted in _Power Rangers RPM_. After Venjix is seemingly destroyed in battle, his Co-Dragons decide to fight over who gets to assume the role of Big Bad. Tanaya 7 wins, but Venjix comes back online directly after that. He isn't too mad though.
    -   In _Power Rangers Megaforce_, when the Rangers simultaneously defeat both Admiral Malkor and Vrak by hurling Malkor into his flagship while Vrak is piloting it, Malkor doesn't survive the resulting explosion but Vrak does and is subsquently rebuilt as a cyborg, becoming the Big Bad for the last stretch of the season. Similarly, in _Super Megaforce_ the Rangers defeat Prince Vekar and Argus, leaving Vekar's other Dragons Damaras and Levira to avenge him, though in Damaras's case Emperor Mavro has him arrested for failing to protect Vekar, then he gets defeated by the Rangers when he attempts to redeem himself.
    -   In _Power Rangers Ninja Steel,_ the _exact_ scene described in the first two paragraphs on this page takes place as Madame Odius prepares to succeed her boss Galvanax. (As for which version, "preparing to fulfill her own ambitions without an overlord in the way, and is much more dangerous than her predecessor" is the one. Uh-oh!)
-   The final episode of _The Shadow Line_ has Dragon-in-Chief Gatehouse killing his bosses and becoming the Big Bad proper.
-   _Smallville_'s tenth season features the Vigilante Registration Agency (VRA) led by General Slade Wilson. Slade and his group provide a great deal of the conflict in the early half of the season, with Slade himself finally going down in the eleventh episode. That isn't the end however, as episode twelve's Villain of the Week is Lieutenant Trotter, Slade's aide de camp, who has taken over the VRA and directed it towards her mentor's agenda of taking down all the heroes. Only her defeat ensures the end of the persecution.
-   _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_: After Gul Dukat is captured, Gul Damar steps into this role for a while though ultimately pulls a Heel–Face Turn and becomes the hero of a Cardassian resistance against the Dominion.
-   _Supergirl (2015)_: After Astra is killed by Alex to save J'onn halfway through the first season, her husband and second-in-command, Non, takes control of their forces and continues the progress of their Evil Plan with an even more aggressive stance.
-   _Super Sentai_ does this sometimes.
    -   In _Chouriki Sentai Ohranger_, following the death of Emperor Bacchushund, his son Buldont rose up to both avenge him and finish what he started, becoming Baranoia's new emperor after transforming into Kaiser Buldont.
    -   In _Tensou Sentai Goseiger_, Buredoran is this seemingly. He is the Dragon for all three villain groups but he's simply just using them for what he wants. Once they are out of the way, he becomes the True Final Boss.
    -   In _Tokumei Sentai Go-Busters_, after Messiah is dispatched by the Go-Busters halfway through, Enter takes over as the new Big Bad and quickly proves a much more formidable foe than his old boss. Messiah does eventually make a return later on and seemingly kills Enter, but after he's destroyed Enter returns and becomes the Final Boss.
    -   In _Choujin Sentai Jetman_, the four Vyram Co-Dragons are competing to become this, especially after the death of Empress Juuza. Tranza officially seizes control for a while, but in the end Radiguet is the last Vyram standing.
-   _The Thundermans_: Destructo spent years as Dark Mayhem's evil sidekick, and then several more years as a decapitated robot head. He ends up as a lackey to Phoebe when she's turned evil, explaining Dark Mayhem's powers and plans to her in hopes that she'll reattach his body. She refuses, so Destructo takes matters into his own hands as Evil Phoebe is taken down by the rest of the family. With his head and body reattached, he becomes the final boss of The Movie, and proves strong enough to nearly defeat Hank one-on-one.
-   Alaric Saltzman of _The Vampire Diaries_ becomes this to Big Bad Esther in season 3 after his Face–Heel Turn. Ester's plan to commit Vampire genocide by killing her children, The Original Vampires, and all vampires sired by them rested on her possessing Bonnie after she's killed to complete Alaric's transformation into an "Enhanced" Original Vampire armed with an indestructible White Oak Stake that she intended to have defeat The Originals.
-   _The Walking Dead (2010)_
    -   After Alpha is killed by Negan, Beta embarks on a quest to wipe out the united communities for good.
    -   Leah takes over the Reapers after killing her boss Pope in the Season 11A finale.
-   At the end of Season 1 of _The Wire_, Big Bad Avon Barksdale is convicted of drug trafficking and sent to prison, but his right-hand man, Stringer Bell, who managed to avoid being caught on tape doing anything illegal, is left out on the street. Since Stringer is a lot smarter than Avon was, he proves to be even tougher to catch.
-   Cigarette Smoking Man after the destruction of the first Syndicate in _The X-Files_.

    Mythology and Legend 

-   According the Icelandic Sagas, Eirik Bloodaxe started out as the The Dragon to his father Harald Hairfair, going as far as to kill his own brother at his father's command. However, Harald could hold back Eirik. Once Harald died and left Norway to Eirik he became such a tyrant that even his Viking subjects found him to be too much.

    Professional Wrestling 

-   After dealing with Abismo Negro's constant efforts to takeover Los Vipers, Cibernético actually relented and gave ownership of the group to him, leaving to form a larger group called Lucha Libre Latina, who would then use Los Vipers to help him takeover AAA.
-   The Rock ousted Faarooq from The Nation of Domination when Faarooq grew jealous with the Rock's success after winning the Intercontinental Championship and disrespect. The Rock still acknowledged Faarooq as leader, but where The Rock gifted every other member of the nation a Rolex watch, he gave Faarooq a big blown up picture of said championship belt. After the Rock took over, he moved the nation in a completely different direction and brought in Owen Hart. He had already gone behind Faarooq's back and brought back Mark Henry.
-   Muerte Cibernética usurped control of Cibernético's Secta while the latter was benched with an injury by blaming him for their collective failure against La Parka Jr. Muerte becoming Mesias of La Secta, he would in turn be ousted by his own dragon, Ozz. When Cibernético would reform La Secta to defend AAA against Los Perros Del Mal, he mistakenly allied himself with Ozz's group, which had now become the Black Family, leading to Ozz once again taking over La Secta after the dogs were defeated.
-   Act Yasukawa quickly advanced through the ranks of Kimura Monster Gun after betraying Trouble2Maker to them in World Wonder Ring STARDOM, eventually getting Kyoko Kimura herself to voluntarily submit to her takeover.
-   Allysin Kay took Valkyrie by the horns in SHINE Wrestling, determined to undo its Villain Decay after previous leader Radiant Rain was forced into retirement by stable oddball Ivelisse Vélez and Rain's replacement, Serena Deeb, was injured while taking a detour on Valkyrie's path of revenge against Ivelisse for betraying them(read:refusing to participate in a Finger Poke of Doom match).

    Tabletop Games 

-   In _Sentinels of the Multiverse_, Grand Warlord Voss ends up Reforged into a Minion for OblivAeon, but the process doesn't quite work as well as it did for the other Scions. As a result, if Rainek Kel'Voss is out and OblivAeon is defeated - a process that probably took an hour - Voss can step up and usurp his position, adding another stage to an already lengthy fight. Fortunately, this denies him the faintly ridiculous amount of damage resistance he can get on his Scion side, but at the same time, it denies you the option of replacing fallen heroes like a regular OblivAeon battle; if Voss kills everyone, you lose. In the Challenge Mode of OblivAeon, Rainek Kel'Voss is on the table from the start and cannot be damaged while OblivAeon is in play, ensuring this happens (and likely confirming that, in the meta-story of the setting, Voss taking over is canonically how the fight ended).
-   Abaddon of _Warhammer 40,000_ was the trusted second in command of the Arch-Traitor, Horus Lupercal. Following Horus' defeat during the Horus Heresy, Abaddon took command of the broken Sons Of Horus, reforging them into the Black Legion with himself at the head.

    Video Games 

-   In _Assassin's Creed III_, when Connor kills Haytham, Charles Lee, his second-in-command, takes over the Colonial Templars.
-   _Call of Duty : Modern Warfare_ franchise. Vladmir Makarov was an underling of the Big Bad of Modern Warfare 1, Imran Zakhaev. He was the main villain in Modern Warfare 3.
-   _Capella's Promise_ has Felcira, the strongest Hute created by Mother. After the Mother is destroyed, the party learns that her previous restoration also caused Felcira to break its seal, allowing it to attempt to kill all life on Mother's order.
-   Often in _Castlevania_ games, Dracula isn't always revived for most of the time the castle is around. This leaves Death to try and figure out how to revive him and set some of the plots in motion, such as in _Harmony of Dissonance_ and _Portrait of Ruin_. Inevitably, he succeeds (or fails but Drac comes back anyway) and Dracula is once again the final boss.
    -   The plot of _Castlevania: Symphony of the Night_ turns out to be an attempt by Shaft, Dracula's magician from _Castlevania: Rondo of Blood_, to corrupt Richter Belmont as revenge for killing his master... and him... twice. Once Alucard and Maria expose his involvement, he switches to Plan B and revives Dracula again.
-   _Clock Tower_: In the original game, Dan Barrows was little more than an endgame enemy, and not even a major one at that, as his brother Bobby and mother Mary were much more crucial. Come the sequel, after both of their deaths, he becomes the Big Bad in his own right.
-   Dalton from _Chrono Trigger_ wasn't present at the climactic scene in the Ocean Palace (to be specific, he ran for it one battle earlier). Accordingly, after Zeal's destruction, he's the highest-ranking Enlightened One left, and remains in full control of his powers, so it's no surprise that he asserts his authority over the survivors of 12,000BC.
-   The main villain of _Die Hard: Vendetta_, Piet Gruber, was betrayed and left for dead by his dragon, Jack Frontier, and subsequently killed by John and Lucy in a cutscene. The following last stage have John fighting Piet's dragon, Jack, the actual final boss.
-   Kyle Katarn killed the Dark Jedi Desann after defeating his apprentice Tavion in _Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast_ when she begged for her life. Tavion then proceeded to become the Big Bad in _Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy_ seeking revenge for her humiliation, among other things.
-   At the end of _EarthBound_, after you defeat Giygas Porky/Pokey, the bratty little kid from earlier in the game escapes to another time - specifically, Nowhere Islands, where the events of _Mother 3_ take place.
-   _Evil Genius_ initially has Red Ivan. But in _Evil Genius 2_, he's the new Evil Genius. A Brute Ascendant, perhaps?
-   _Fallout: New Vegas_: if Caesar dies before the battle of Hoover Dam, Lanius will become the new leader of the Legion. He will be your Final Boss regardless, as he is the commander of the Legion army - unless you side with the Legion, then he'll be the one who congratulates you after the battle.
-   _Final Fantasy_ likes to play with its Sorting Algorithm of Evil in a way that often invokes this trope.
    -   Subverted in _Final Fantasy II_: after the heroes kill the Emperor, the Dark Knight tries to take his place...but then the Emperor returns from hell to take back his throne.
    -   _Final Fantasy VII_: After President Shinra is killed by Sephiroth, his son, Rufus, the Vice President of Shinra Inc. assumes his position. However, this isn't an entirely straight example: though Rufus isn't a good guy, he's more a pragmatist than his father, and actually attempts to fight against Sephiroth, the real Big Bad.
        -   Later, as a result of Rufus' apparent death and Professor Hojo's defection to Sephiroth's faction, Shinra board members Scarlet and Heidegger attempt to do this, staging a hostile takeover of the company, placing Reeve, the sole honest member of the board, under arrest, and taking the field personally in a giant robot with the intent to wipe out all the opposing factions. They don't even get out of the city before they're offhandedly killed by the heroes, because the robot wasn't nearly as strong as they thought it was.
    -   _Final Fantasy Adventure_: Dark Lord is defeated, and the mana pendant recovered from his body. Except it's a fake. Dark Lord's archmage Julius has the real one, and has brainwashed the heroine who can unlock it's powers.
-   _The Godfather_:
    -   Played with. Once Sollozzo's taken down, Bruno Tattaglia seems to be the one pulling the Tattaglias' strings during the mid-point of the war against the Corleones, but he's killed fairly quickly. After _that_, Johnny Tattaglia (Bruno's brother) tries to form up his own army to take down the Corleones from Brooklyn in one of Tessio's contract hits. Key words: Contract hits, so he's whacked shortly after his existence becomes known.
    -   Played straight in the sequel if you take the Villain Protagonist angle - You as Dominic were Aldo's underboss and become the new Don after Aldo gets killed.
-   Jimmy Pegorino becomes this in _Grand Theft Auto IV_'s Revenge ending.
-   _Kirby_: While _Kirby: Triple Deluxe_ is a self-contained plot during the main story, in the extra mode, this is revealed to be the case. The Dragon in question is Dark Meta Knight from _The Amazing Mirror_. The boss descriptions and multiple Word of God statements, taken together, reveal that while Kirby killed Dark Mind, Dark Meta Knight somehow survived his final battle, took control of the Dimension Mirror, and had been plotting revenge since. He corrupted Sectonia, the Big Bad of the main story, and turned her into a beauty-obsessed tyrant out to conquer Pop Star, not having to lift a finger while she went crazy. While gets away with it in the main story, he later confronts King Dedede during his attempted conquest of Sectonia's lands, revealing himself after Dedede defeats everyone else.
-   _Knight Bewitched 2_: In the previous game, Lissandra fled the Lair of Typhus the Younger because she's next in line to take over the Drakon Cult if Hydrax dies. Since Hydrax is dead by the time of this game, she's now in charge of the cult. She seeks the two halves of the Vulcan Stone so that she can revive Typhus.
-   In _Knights of the Old Republic_, Big Bad Darth Malak was originally apprentice and subordinate to Darth Revan. After Revan's defeat, Malak took control of the Sith forces. Unfortunately where Revan was pragmatic about his war efforts, thus limiting collateral damage, Malak savored the opportunity to cause mass destruction.
-   Fawful, The Dragon of Big Bad Cackletta, was the fan favorite villain of _Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga_, thanks to Nintendo's localization efforts. His popularity (and the fact that he wasn't seen dead) played a major part in his transformation to a major Big Bad in the third game _Bowser's Inside Story_.
    -   At the beginning of _Partners in Time_, the elder Princess Shroob was sealed into the Cobalt Star by Princess Peach. Her younger sister proceeded to capture Peach and lead the invasion in her stead.
-   _Mass Effect: Andromeda:_ At the end of the game, the Big Bad suffers a bad case of Death by Pathfinder, leaving his immediate underling, the Primus, in charge of their forces. Depending on what quests the player took, it's possible to learn her plan of action: Step 1: Kill all the boss' loyalists, Step 2: Call home for back-up.
-   At the end of _Mega Man Zero 1_, the tyrannical ruler of Neo Arcadia was defeated by Zero. In _Zero 2_, Harpuia, de facto leader of Copy-X's 4 Guardians, assumes leadership, while keeping it a secret from the Neo Arcadian citizens that Copy-X was dead.
-   Revolver Ocelot from the _Metal Gear_ serves as the henchman to not one, not two, but _three_ main antagonists <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . He manages to outlive them all due to his Chronic Backstabbing Disorder, and ultimately becomes the Final Boss in _Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots_.
-   _Mortal Kombat X_:
    -   In the _Mortal Kombat X_ comic, Mileena takes over Outworld after Shao Kahn's death, but she proved to be an incompetent ruler (due to her Ax-Crazy homicidal nature) and pushed it to the brink of ruin. She is later dethroned by Kotal Kahn, but she then starts a civil war, further plunging Outworld into chaos. She is finally Killed Off for Real at the hands of D'Vorah, thus bringing the civil war to an end.
    -   After Shinnok is reduced to a mere living head by Raiden at the end of the game, Liu Kang and Kitana become the new rulers of the Netherrealm.
-   In _Myth 2_, Soulblighter returns to try and finish the job that his boss, The Leveler started. Too bad the job is wiping out all human civilization and ushering in a thousand years of darkness.
-   In _Onimusha 3: Demon Siege_, the game ends with Nobunaga's final defeat. The game ends with sequel bait showing that his right hand man, Hideyoshi, is ready to make his move. The hell he plays a hand in unleashing in _Dawn of Dreams_ is way worse than anything Nobunaga ever accomplished.
-   In _Piggy_, the secondary antagonist of the first half of Book 2, Tigry, becomes the main antagonist after Willow’s Heel–Face Turn.
-   In _\[PROTOTYPE\]_, the Supreme Hunter/Hybrid is the final boss; you kill its "Mother" Elizabeth Greene (who was the source and driving intelligence behind the infection) several levels earlier. The Hybrid may have actually _facilitated_ Greene's death. At the end of the game, the Hybrid reveals that it had consumed and assumed the form of Specialist Cross. Cross had been secretly advising you; his advice led to Greene's death. It's unclear as to whether the Hybrid consumed Cross before or after this. The hybrid wants to eat Alex in order to grow powerful to survive a nuke and live to spread the infection elsewhere. It's actually implied that the Supreme Hunter consumes and impersonates Cross in the cutscene immediately following Greene's death, so it's unlikely that it directly facilitated her demise.
-   In the _Ratchet & Clank_ series, after acting as The Dragon to Drek in the first game, Captain Qwark becomes the Big Bad of _Ratchet & Clank: Going Commando_.
-   The Big Bad in _Runescape_'s Dorgeshuun quest line is Bandos, who wants to re-enslave the titular goblin tribe. However, you defeat him in the penultimate quest, _The Chosen Commander_, and then Armadyl kills him off during a world event. The last quest in the line, _The Mighty Fall_, is about choosing who will replace Bandos as leader, and the Final Boss is General Graardor, Bandos's God Wars Dungeon general.
-   _Red Faction_ has the first half of the game hunting down Capek, after that it's fight against the mercenaries he hired and their leader Colonel Masako.
-   _Saints Row_:
    -   In the first, the protagonist is "Playa", a new recruit into the Third Street Saints street gang, who eventually rises to become second-in-command to its founder, Julius Little. In the second game, Playa awakens from a years-long coma to find Julius missing and the Saints disbanded. Becoming "the Boss", they reform the Saints under their own control and go about conquering the city.
    -   In _Saints Row: The Third_, Killbane takes over the Syndicate after Phillipe Loren is killed off surprisingly early on.
-   In _Shin Megami Tensei: Strange Journey_, Mastema serves as the yes-man for the Three Wise Men, the Law authorities of the setting. They intend to use the Schwarzwelt's powers to rewrite reality so the Law of the Lord will forever be in Humanity's heart. Problem is, Mastema really doesn't give a shit about the Wise Men's motives. He doesn't believe in human cooperation, bonding or any human activity aside from their blind faith and devotion. What he believes in? Power. For himself. All he ever does is for the possibility of ascending to a higher form. Even after the Wise Men's armies have been mostly junked in the Chaos Path, he tries going himself against the protagonist and is _thoroughly_ humiliated and forced to own up to his own silly pretenses.
-   Ramirez in _Skies of Arcadia_. His boss, Lord Galcian, wanted to Take Over the World, but Ramirez really doesn't take his death well and attempts to go a teensy bit further with the ancient superweapon they awakened together.
-   _Sonic Heroes_: Metal Sonic, The Dragon to Dr. Eggman, locks his creator in a room and takes control of the Eggman Empire to conquer the world for himself and finally prove himself once and for all that he is the real Sonic, becoming the game's true Big Bad and Final Boss. He even upgraded himself into his Neo from copying a bunch of DNA to become Metal Overlord. By the end, though, he's defeated and is Demoted to Dragon while Eggman goes off to reprogram him.
-   _Sonic 3 & Knuckles_:
    -   The Stinger for Sonic's or Tails's ending with all Chaos Emeralds, but not all Super Emeralds, shows an Eggrobo (presumed to be the one Knuckles fights in his story) rising out of a pile of wreckage.
    -   The Stinger for Knuckles's ending without all Chaos Emeralds shows Mecha Sonic waking up and jumping onto the Master Emerald. This being the bad ending, what happens next is uncertain (and non-canonical).
-   _StarCraft_: Immediately after Tassadar destroys the Zerg Overmind, Kerrigan ascends to rule the swarm, although Daggoth initially takes control of half the swarm as well, starting the so-called Brood War.
-   At the end of _A2XT_, once Science is defeated, Pandamona destroys the Super Leek machine in order to remake the universe on her own image.
-   An example happens in _Tales of Vesperia_, where the Fallen Hero Duke picks up where Pharoh left off; trying to save the world through questionable means. Unfortunately, nobody realizes until it's too late that being Necessarily Evil includes genocide. Oh, and the name of one of his attacks? Dragon Ascendant. It's from a certain point of view because, with a few exceptions, the game runs on White-and-Grey Morality.
-   _Warcraft_:
    -   Cho'gall was the lieutenant of Gul'dan, mastermind of the conflicts in the first two games. After Gul'dan's death Cho'gall went into hiding with the remaining members of the Twilight Hammer Clan. By the time of _World of Warcraft_ he is head of the rebuilt Twilight Hammer Cult and leads them in a quest to unleash the Old Gods on Azeroth. In _Cataclysm_ he lost his leading role when Deathwing returned.
    -   Judging by his lines in the Sunwell Plateau raid, Kil'jaeden has taken full command of the demonic army known as the Burning Legion now that Sargeras is just a spirit. Kil'jaeden was perfectly happy serving Sargeras, even easily forgiving minions who failed to carry out his plans, but he definitely took advantage of the absence of Sargeras. His title in Sunwell is even "Lord of the Burning Legion", and fel (demonic) creatures even refer to HIM SPECIFICALLY rather than Sargeras when referencing the Legion.
    -   Deathwing is the (no pun intended, as he is also a real dragon) Dragon to N'zoth and Yogg'Saron, who both had a hand in his corruption. N'zoth is currently the one "signing his paychecks", but Yogg admitted that he helped corrupt Deathwing in the past. This leads to an awesome You Have Out Lived Your Usefulness when those guys get tired of Deathwing and impale him on his own Temple in the Bad Future, thus ending his reign as Dragon.

    Web Comics 

-   Ansem was The Dragon to the FOX director of the first season of _Ansem Retort_, but has ascended to become his own Big Bad, made all too apparent in the newest season.
-   Malack of _The Order of the Stick_ planned to be this to Tarquin. His plan was to take over the entire Western Continent after Tarquin and their other companions die from old age. Malack would outlive them all because he's a vampire. Tarquin was actually perfectly fine with this, as long as he got a bigger statue. But Malack's dead so that can't happen.

    Web Original 

-   In _The Gamer's Alliance_, Yurius becomes the next Big Bad when his master and father figure Sydney is killed in the First Age. Richelieu ends up as the lord of Alent when Jemuel is frozen in stasis inside the Beam of Alent in the Third Age.
-   In the _Protectors of the Plot Continuum_, the Venomous Tentacula replaces the previous leader of the League of Mary-Sue Factories when they are killed during an invasion of PPC Headquarters, though not before having to win an Enemy Civil War.
-   In _Red vs. Blue_, while the Meta is technically Agent Maine, the actual one calling the shots was the A.I. Sigma. But Maine survived the EMP that killed Sigma, and Sigma had broken his mind to the point where he still tried to follow Sigma's plan even when the goal (metastability) was entirely impossible.

    Western Animation 

-   _Avatar_:
    -   At first, it seems as if Princess Azula from _Avatar: The Last Airbender_ will be ascended when her father crowns her Fire Lord. Subverted in that, two seconds later, he crowns himself Phoenix King, removes all power from her position, and makes her stay home instead of fighting in the final showdown.
    -   Played straight in _Avatar: The Last Airbender - The Search_ and _Avatar: The Last Airbender - Smoke and Shadow_, when her father is imprisoned and depowered and she becomes the main antagonist of the story. She explicitly states that she doesn't care about Ozai anymore, she's got her own plans now.
    -   _The Legend of Korra_: Since Zolt lost his bending; Viper has taken over, or leads a section of the Triple-Threats.
-   The final episode of _Captain Simian and the Space Monkeys_ used this as a cliffhanger.
-   _Castlevania (2017)_: Dracula's death made a couple of his former minions and generals become this, namely Isaac and Carmilla. The Styrian Council's goal in the third season is to carry on Dracula's original plan of walling and herding off a large enough number of humans to serve as their eternal food supply, before his Villainous Breakdown led to his "Kill All Humans" vendetta.
-   In the Five-Episode Pilot of _Chip 'n Dale: Rescue Rangers_, the Rangers defeat ruthless mob boss Alden Klordane. He's never seen again, but his Right-Hand Cat became a frequently recurring villain, as did the Mad Scientist he was employing. Though Fat Cat's status is questionable, since he already had a criminal empire and plans of his own when he was a pet.
-   The finale of _Cyber Six_ has Von Richter die, but ends with Jose grinning evilly at the camera.
-   Zemerik from _Hot Wheels: Battle Force 5_ was this to Krytus. He used to be Krytus' Dragon but gained free will, betrayed Krytus, and sealed him away. He proceeded to take over Krytus' role of Big Bad over the Sark. Unfortunately for him, Krytus eventually returns and takes said role back.
-   The season 1 finale of _OK K.O.! Let's Be Heroes_ sees Darrell become the new president of Box More after he rats out Lord Boxman to his investors, and actually runs the company far better than Boxman ever did before he even thinks about antagonizing the Plaza. However, Boxman eventually comes back with Professor Venomous in tow, so Darrell hands the company back to him with no issues.
-   _Rainbow Brite_: The pilot had a dark, sinister, magical villain simply called "The Evil One". It wasn't established whether he was a demon or simply a Sorcerous Overlord, but either way, he had a bumbling minion named, we kid you not, _Murky Dismal_. The pilot ended with The Evil One killed, so Murky filled the Big Bad slot for the remainder of the series.
-   Snively at the end of _Sonic the Hedgehog (SatAM)_ was shown stepping up to this role in the final episode after Robotnik fled, but the series was canceled before he got to do anything.
-   When Order 66 finally commences in _Star Wars: The Clone Wars_, Rex and Jesse task the troopers to find and execute Ahsoka. However, Ahsoka and the droids that took her side manage to capture Rex and remove his inhibitor chip, bringing him back to Ahsoka's side. The climax of the final episode showcases Ahsoka and Rex's battle against Jesse, who has taken the role as the Final Boss, marking Rex as a traitor and taking command of the rest of the clone troopers.
-   _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2003)_:
    -   The Shredder's adopted daughter Karai takes up her father's mantle and attempts to avenge him after his defeat.
    -   Hun also gets this treatment, going from being Shredder's bodyguard to a competent leader of a more black-ops incarnation of the Purple Dragons. While only appearing as the main villain in only a small handful of episodes, he had a tendency to get away scott free at the end of the episode, as opposed to appearances in earlier seasons when it was standard procedure for him to get his ass kicked by the end of every story arc.
-   Galvatron, formerly Unicron's minion, reestablishes himself as the Big Bad in the third season of the original _Transformers_ cartoon, due to Unicron's body being destroyed at the end of _Transformers: The Movie_.
-   At the end of the Five-Episode Pilot for _Transformers: Prime_, Starscream appoints himself Decepticon leader roughly a minute after Megatron disappears in a space bridge explosion. This goes here rather than under the trope he named because, for once, he didn't have anything to do with what happened to the Big Bad, though he's not above worsening the damage once he finds what's left of his former master in the next episode. Though when Starscream does take command, you can tell by his voice and the look on his face that he is absolutely _loving_ his chance at ascension. So rather than his usual trope, this seems to make him more of a Bastard Understudy.
-   _Young Justice_
    -   Black Manta ascends as a main member of The Light after his former boss, Ocean Master, becomes "disgraced" after an unspecified incident during the Time Skip.
    -   In "Summit" it becomes clear how much the Ambassador has been Out-Gambitted by the Light, and immediately after _both_ of them are Out-Gambitted by the Team. The Ambassador is captured, but Black Beetle opts not to help him escape, citing Reach code to prove that he's incompetent enough for him to take over the invasion.

___