_"The prophetic soul  
Of the wide world dreaming on things to come."_

Dreams get omitted from fiction unless they are significant. When they are not nightmares about the past, the dreamer will often be Dreaming of Things to Come.

These dreams can be symbolic, and are often obscure. They are always, of course, true, but nevertheless can blindside the character with their significance. Symbolic dreams, or ones that merely show elements of the future, may even be taken for dreams of the past. The Hero dreams of the villain and does not realize that this is a warning that he will pop up again soon; he thinks it is just Past Experience Nightmares of the past villainy.

This can also be mistaken for Anxiety Dreams of something the character dreads in the future.

Dreams of Things to Come can be _sent_ — by a god, by an oracle, by someone with magical or psychic ability other than the dreamer. This may shade into Talking in Your Dreams.

Often a way of Foreshadowing. Can be a Portent of Doom. A common means of Foreseeing My Death.

If the character merely pieces together everything he knows but had not connected, he is Dreaming the Truth; Dreaming of Things to Come requires that he gain new knowledge that he could not acquire outside the dream.

If the events are at the same time (approximately) as the dream, see Dream Spying; if before, see Dreaming of Times Gone By.

Psychic Dreams for Everyone are a subtrope where anyone can have them, and they are literal.

Not to be confused with dreams about other things that come.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   Takaki has one in _5 Centimeters per Second_. He and Akari climb a hill. It could be a Distant Finale of some kind, Mundane Afterlife, Alternate Universe, anything really...
-   In the _Attack on Titan_ anime, Eren's dream is shown to be a variety of disturbing images of the Titans, dead humans, and ends with the scene of the Titan picking up his mother as shown later in the episode.
-   In _Aruosumente_, the entire point of having an Oracle around is that they are capable of having prophetic dreams. The plot is kicked off by Oracle Legna dreaming of someone shouting "Die!" but being unable to determine the killing intent's source.
-   _Cardcaptor Sakura_: The main character frequently had these, most pointing to the same event involving her, Tokyo Tower, and a beautiful silver-haired man with wings. In the manga, she gets a couple of dreams about the event, but only when she got close to capturing all the cards.
-   In _Case Closed_, Heiji becomes disturbed by a recent dream he had of Conan dying, so he lends him a charm. The dream becomes accurate when the suspect manages to stab Conan but Conan's life was saved by the charm.
-   In _Detonator Orgun_, main character Tomoru has dreams about "a strange robot", the eponymous Orgun he ends meeting with, whenever he tries to use the PASFU machine that lets you choose your dreams. In _Super Robot Wars W_ his dreams also have _Tekkaman Blade_, because the game combines the plot of the two series.
-   _Dragon Ball_: Freeza and Kami both had "premonitions" that turned out to be startlingly accurate, but the straightest example is Beerus from _Dragon Ball Z: Battle of Gods_, who literally gets visions of the future during his long naps, though his attendant claims _they_ aren't usually accurate.
-   In _The Enigma of Amigara Fault_, the victims of the tunnels have nightmares about people they met who've previously entered the holes, showing them clearly what will happen if they go in. And they all still go in the holes anyway.
-   _Gourmet Girl Graffiti_: Ryou has a bizarre dream in episode 4 where she's eating some food offered by students who have pieces of food for a head. Later that episode she gets to eat the food concerned.
-   In _Hetalia: Axis Powers_, Chibitalia once had a dream about a young man he had never seen until then. That youth turned out to be Japan, one of his future partners.
-   _Jigoku No Gouka De Yakare Tsuzuketa Shounen_: After having a dream of Flare returning from the Gates of Hell, Flare's master made a set of Chaos magical equipment to give to him as an apology on the faint chance that his student would return. Flare finds the equipment in a drawer a thousand years later, wearing it as a memento of his dear master before setting out to experience his second life.
-   Alvis of _Last Exile_ has a recurring dream involving fields of wheat. This turns out to be extremely important; the "wheat covered earth" is part of one of the Mysteria she has to speak in order to activate the titular Exile.
-   One episode of _Mushishi_ featured a man that acquired this ability thanks to a mushi infection. He eventually comes to realize that the mushi don't lead his dreams to predict the future so much as _cause_ it. Unfortunately, he only learns this after a nightmare where everyone in his village died of a terrible, unnatural plague...
-   In the 10th _Pokémon_ movie, _The Rise of Darkrai_, it is revealed that someone in the far past had nightmares of Dialga and Palkia destroying the city, an event that comes true during the movie. The person in the past responded to the nightmares by having the Space-Time tower built, which would play a song to calm the two Pokémon.
-   The start of _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_ appears to be this. As episode ten reveals, it's actually a memory of the previous timeline, before Homura restarted her "Groundhog Day" Loop.
-   The manga _Read or Dream_ has Anita dreaming about Hisami before meeting her.
-   _The Secret Agreement_ begins with Yuuichi having dark Recurring Dreams of a voice saying "No matter what I want to get it, no matter what it takes." It turns out it's been his own voice all along indicating that his predatory shadow side has begun to awaken.
-   In the second season of _The Seven Deadly Sins_, Elizabeth has a mostly irrelevant dream that is correct about two things: Ban and King splitting off from the Sins and the emergence of a great evil in the south. She has no prophetic abilities, but given her original identity as a goddess born to oppose demons, she may have subconsciously mixed her goddess intuition with her desires.
-   Sasami of the _Tenchi Muyo!_ OVAs suffers from these. Her first dream prophesies Kagato's arrival and the second tells of Tokimi's involvement with Tenchi. However, Sasami can never remember the dreams fully—even though she called out Tokimi's name in the dream, she tells Tenchi that a woman was taking her away and that she never seen her before. As well, they also tend to be very disturbing.

    Asian Animation 

-   _Motu Patlu_: In "Motu Ka Birthday", Motu has a dream about his friends beating him up after he eats the entire birthday cake that has been baked for him. This actually happens at the end of the episode, albeit in a different location (the dream is in Furfuri Nagar and the actual thing is in a grassy plain).
-   This is a major theme in _Pleasant Goat and Big Big Wolf: Joys of Seasons_ episode 2, where Paddi worries about a dream he had involving Wolffy attacking him coming true after having another dream involving him eating a cake that actually _did_ come true.

    Ballads 

-   In the Child Ballad _Sir Aldingar_, the queen recounts a dream of having been attacked by a grim beast and saved by a little hawk. Now that she has been attacked by Malicious Slander, she sends a messenger to search for a champion.

    Comic Books 

-   In the _All-Star Squadron_ sequel series _The Young All-Stars_, Fury dreamed of a giant Mekanique attacking the All-Star Squadron within a futuristic city — which turns out to be true, though as a twist, Mekanique _shrinks_ the All-Star Squadron members (except for Fury and the Young All-Stars) and attacks them in a model of a futuristic city.
-   _Fantastic Four_: Franklin Richards has "special dreams" which are prophetic. May be symbolic: before a clash among the Fantastic Four, the X-Men and Doctor Doom, he dreamed of the Fantastic Four and the X-Men dying, and his father turning into Doom, which foretold aspects of the clash. May also be literal: in his first meeting with Power Pack, they deduce why an alien is chasing them — Katie Power is carrying an alien artifact that could be traced — he recounts how he had dreamed that the alien chased _him_, and so they give him the artifact, which leads to their victory.
-   _Guardians of the Galaxy (2020):_ The series begins with a kree boy telling his parents he had a dream of the world burning. His father reassures him this was just a dream, since everything's fine outside. One page later, things cut to the world burning at the hands of the Olympians.
-   _De Kiekeboes_: In "De Getattoeërde Mossel" Kiekeboe realizes an important plot point about someone who has his arm in a cast when he has a nightmare about it.
-   In _Legion of Super-Heroes_, Dream Girl often has these, since they're part of her powers.
-   _Sandman Mystery Theatre_: This was the lone "superpower" of Wesley Dodds a.k.a. The Sandman. He would dream about crimes that had not yet been committed.
-   Luke had something like one of these after ROTJ, in the _Star Wars (Marvel 1977)_ story "The Dream". He had Recurring Dreams where he saw Vader, was terrified, saw Vader starting to take his helmet off, and desperately pleaded with him to stop. He always felt guilty, then, and like there was some great wrong he had to set right. At last he spoke to the spirits of his teachers and his father and confronted this apparition again—it was a new Sith Lord he'd never seen before, and he did indeed have to set things right when he faced him.
-   _Supergirl_ story arc "The Super-Steed of Steel": Subverted. Linda has a dream where she is enjoying a circus performance until she is attacked by Luthor, whereupon she is saved by Comet. When she awakens, Linda believes it was a premonitory dream induced by Comet's telepathy, since her family wanted to go to the circus later that day, but her father disagrees: the morning newspaper says that day's performance has been canceled, so they were not going to watch the circus at any rate. Linda then remembers her super-horse could not have induced that dream because he has lost his memories, so she had just a normal dream.
-   _Suske en Wiske_: In the album "De Bokkenrijder" Wiske explains to Tante Sidonia a strange dream she had the other night. Sidonia explains the symbolic meanings behind her nightmare. As the story progresses, many elements from the nightmare happen to the cast in real life.
-   _Tintin_:
    -   In "The Shooting Star" Tintin dreams he is visited by Philippus the prophet who then shows him a picture of a gigantic spider, claiming it is life size. Later in the story, he actually meets Philippus again and he discovers an island where a spider has grown to gigantic size due to the radiation of a comet.
    -   In "Tintin in Tibet", after hearing that Chang took a plane to visit him, Tintin dreams of him calling for help, alone in the snow, later Tintin and Haddock read a newspaper and learn that Chang's plane crashed in the mountain. After crying about the loss of his friend, Tintin decides that Chang must still be alive because he was in his dream, he ends up right.
-   In _Violine_, Violine has dreams that predict future plot points.
-   In _Wings of Fire: The Dragonet Prophecy_, Clay has a nightmare of what Scarlet is going to do to the other four Dragonets and Kestrel. Part of the dream shows Sunny in a round cage. When him, Tsunami, and Glory reunite with her near the end of the book, guess what Scarlet has done to her.

    Comic Strips 

-   _Modesty Blaise_: At the start of "Tribute for the Pharaoh", Modesty has a dream about a statue of the god Amun coming to life and attacking her. At the end of the adventure, Willie comments that—after a fashion—this is what had indeed occurred.
-   In _Safe Havens_ Jenny dreams that the fate of the Earth rested on her shoulders. Wile Samantha dismissed it as a metaphor for the Mars mission, Jenny claims all her dreams are literal...right before she wakes up. Mars wants Earth destroyed, and only someone with good negotiating skills can prevent that. Jenny is a sports and entertainment agent. She successfully negotiates for Mars to spare Earth in exchange for terraforming Mars. She's also the one that comes up with the plan to save Mars from exploitation by Earth's countries by arranging for Samantha and Dave to adopt Mars as their child.

    Fan Works 

-   _The Adventures Of Kiko Fluffy Pants_: Emily/Kiko gets prophetic dreams during the course of the story, although it turns out she is being fed specially designed dreams to make things come true.
-   Nico in the beginning of the _Percy Jackson and the Olympians_ fic _Aska_. It turns out his dream was sent by Fenrir, who in turn was sent it by Eric.
-   In the _Total Drama All-Stars_ fanfic _Bailey In Exile_, Bailey's dreams outright tell her that Mal is coming back, and a few of them even suggest that he has planned to kidnap her and Zoey.
-   The _Portal_/_Half-Life_ fanfic _Between Minds_ takes place before Chell reaches the wheat field at the end of the sequel, but she has a dream of it.
-   In the _Harry Potter_ fanfics _The Black Heir_ and _Vindico Atrum_, the protagonist, Orion Black starts having prophetic dreams as his powers develop. His visions of the future are sent to him by Gaia, the source of Dark Magic deep in Earth's core.
-   _The Bridge_:
    -   Upon his 'birth', Xenilla got an onslaught of them, foreseeing some monster that would destroy Terra. He assumed it was Godzilla.
    -   Rarity has a nightmare of the Big Bad's forces destroying Equestria if he succeeds in his plans. It would appear to have been sent by the Nightmare Forces.
    -   Celestia has a symbolic vision of the gyaos attack on Canterlot (and Godzilla's counterattack) shortly before it happens.
-   In _The Legend of Korra_ fanfic _Book 5: Legends_, Korra has a nightmare about the enemies she will face later on.
-   Played for Laughs in _Calvin & Hobbes: The Series_—Hobbes dreams about tornadoes, and while there's several bits of evidence that one is coming, Calvin _still_ claims otherwise.
-   Luigi has a dream in the _Super Paper Mario_ fanfic _Can a Boo Be Friends with a Human?_ in which King Boo tortures him to break his will. It comes true alright.
-   In the _Cardcaptor Sakura_/_Transformers: Armada_ crossover fanfic _Cardcaptor Rad_, Rad has similar dreams to Sakura in the original show. Rachel's nightmares about what is to come are much worse.
-   Kei in the _Naruto_ fanfic _Catch Your Breath_. After Hayate was born she kept dreaming of his future canon death for years, until she developed a split personality to deal with all those memories. This was also a recurring dream. She dreamt of Obito and Rin's fates after meeting them as well.
-   _Champion_: Bryony Blackwood of the Seven Sons has prophetic dreams, warning Fen, "You are marked for death, sapling. Your sentence will be your savior." The peacekeepers capture Fen and delay his execution so he can attend the reaping to make up for the number of teenagers who go into hiding rather than show up. Fen is reaped and comes home as a pardoned victor.
-   A certain novelization of _Chrono Trigger_ had the protagonist have dreams of events that wouldn't happen until much later, such as, in the order he had the dreams, the fight with the Mega Mutant in the Black Omen, and his own death.
-   In _Code Geass: Colorless Memories_:, Rai experiences a few dreams of someone calling out to him; and in one particular dream, a shadowy figure who taunts Rai about his amnesia. It turns out it was E.E calling to Rai from Kamine Island.
-   In the _Marvel Cinematic Universe_/_My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fanfic _The Collective History of Asgard_, Cadence apparently has this ability.
    -   While in captivity in _Iron Mare_, Rarity has a dream vision sent by Nightmare Moon of herself after her release, where everyone she cares about leaves her and she becomes a despondent recluse. She refuses to let this happen.
-   _Ranma ½_ fanfiction _Comes the Cold Dragon_: Akane has a few of these that make her realize how much she will need to learn to keep up with Ranma after his ascension to the titular Cold Dragon.
-   Celestia's graden dream in the _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fanfic _Composure_ could mean many things and is given different meanings by different characters. It could represent the growing relationship between Celestia and Twilight, the eventual success of Twilight's experiment, the coming immortality of Twilight, or any combination of the three.
-   Danger (and, to a lesser extent, Luna) has prophetic dreams in the _Harry Potter_\-based _Dangerverse_ series.
-   In _Deserving_, Millicent gets a dream of Snape birthing more kids.
-   Bloodraven's Prophecy in the _Harry Potter_/_A Song of Ice and Fire_ crossover fanfic _The Difference One Man Can Make_ pretty much foreshadows the future conflicts, such as the War of Five Kings - although Bloodraven later acknowledges that Harry's arrival has completely offset the board.
-   In _Digimon Advent_, there is a wall of scribbles hidden in a boiler room in Arch Angel. It is the result of Tarockmon taking notes on his prophetic dreams, one of which had only just recently come to pass.
-   In _Digimon Xros Wars AU 02_, Akari seems to have prophetic powers, having a dream about a critical event in the Death Generals Arc at the beginning of the first Jungle Zone chapter. She continues to have more simplified dreams after being turned back into a child and arriving in Shinobi Zone. She later has another one foreshadowing the climax of the Second arc, set to Infinity Mechanism, no less.
-   In the _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_/_Digimon Adventure 02_ crossover _Digital Harmony_, Rarity and Ken have both had separate nightmares involving their respective Evil Counterparts Nightmare Rarity and the Digimon Emperor warning of them of catastrophes to come should they fail to stop Vespimon's attempts to take over the Digital World.
-   A dream Atoli has in _.hack//G.U. The Staircase to Nowhere_ appears to be prophetic.
-   Jinx of the _Teen Titans_ fanfic _Down the Rabbit Hole_ once tried to look into the future. Bad idea. She uses drawing to make sense of what she remembers whenever it comes to her. So far, she's seen Terra, See-More and Kid.
-   Luna apparently has this ability in _The Legend of Zelda_/_My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fanfic _The Equestrian Wind Mage_, foreseeing Ganon's arrival in Equestria at the start of Season 2. Unfortunately, Dethl's own Dream Weaver abilities allow him to counter this power, keeping her from seeing what the real villains are plotting.
-   Mistress has a dream in Chapter 11 of the _Superjail!_ fanfic _Extended Stay_, which foreshadows a future where she has 2.5 kids with Warden, is married to the guy, and has also conquered the world. She has it all by the end of the fanfic.
-   The start of _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fanfic _Fall of Starfleet, Rebirth of Friendship_ starts of with a dream about the future, which states "Weakness will cause darkness to extinguish the five lights", implying a threat to the remaining five Elements when combined with the fact that Rainbow Dash, Applejack, and Fluttershy are the ones having the dream. As the story goes on, though, it's made clear that the dream actually refers to Conquest's goal of killing off the members of Starfleet, with the "five lights" being Dyno and Myte, Buddy Rose, Rhymey, Artie, and Lightning Dawn.
-   _Fantasy of Utter Ridiculousness:_ One of the side effects of Patchouli's medication causes her to start dreaming of possible futures, including one of her being trapped in Jersey City after her library is destroyed. Much later, Maribel has a fever-induced dream of Megas and the Glorft, which shows what would happen to Earth and Gensokyo if Megas was ever permanently destroyed; this drives her to realize her ability's full potential and transform herself into the youkai we know as Yukari.
-   Rarity has several prophetic dreams during the course of the _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fanfic _The Flight of the Alicorn_, which foreshadow, among other things, being thrown overboard, the conflict with the griffons and her final battle against Windlass.
    -   This is Princess Palladium's cutie mark talent, a talent shared by her ancestors. The ability has weakened with each generation; while Palladium can only catch small, vague glimpses of the future, her predecessors were able to see the future with perfect clarity and accuracy.
-   Invoked, rather than actually used, in the _Naruto_ Peggy Sue fanfic _For Love,_ where Hinata _lies_ to her father and the Hokage that she has prophetic dreams to excuse her knowledge of future events. Knowing that Real Dreams are Weirder, she has to be vague about what she sees to make what she says more believable.
-   In the _Tangled_/_Frozen_/_Brave_ crossover fanfic _The Four Seasons_, Rapunzel and Anna both have dreams that feature past events but foreshadow future ones.
    -   Anna dreams about her parents dying while Hans tries to kill her with a sword. During the stand off at the ice palace, Anna sees Elsa dying, while Hans tries to kill her with a sword.
    -   Rapunzel dreams about Gothel stabbing Eugene in the tower, only their roles are replaced by Hans and Elsa respectively. Hans does end up fatally injuring Elsa in her side, and Rapunzel must try to make a similar deal to save her life.
-   In _Fate_ _series_ fanfic _From Fake Dreams_:
    -   This kicks off the plot in which Kiritsugu Emiya learns about the 5th Holy Grail War, and how his newly adopted son will be pivotal in the ensuing events - including a number of divergent paths and Bad Ends, as well as the life of Counter Guardian Shirou. After this, he takes Shiro's magical education seriously, with emphasis on the skills needed to survive the War and destroy the Grail. However, things have already diverged as a result, as the Magi now know Shirou exists and some of his capabilities.
    -   Rin is technically doing this as well, since she's seeing Archer's life.
-   In the _A Song of Ice and Fire_ AU fanfic _Frozen Fire_, Daenerys has a nightmare about Robb's death and Theon's betrayal. The latter has been subverted.
    -   Robb dreams of Daenerys killing Melisandre for trying to take control of her dragons, as well as Dany telling him that she's carrying their second child.
-   _Hetalia: Axis Powers_ fanfic _Gankona, Unnachgiebig, Unità_: When Italy and Japan discussed the shared dream they once had, they realized they were dreaming of their future meeting.
-   In the Peggy Sue fic _Harry Potter and the Nightmares of Futures Past_, Chapter 29's reference to a magical core exploding in nightmare form is ominous in the extreme. The accuracy of Harry's previous nightmares doesn't help, nor does the fact that the author pretty much states that it's foreshadowing.
-   While under the influence of Dream in Chapter 27 of _Cardcaptor Sakura_/_Blue Exorcist_ crossover _Inheritance of Cards and Demons_, Rin sees a number of events that have not yet occurred, including the discovery of the Illuminati’s artificial Gehenna Gate by the Angelic Legion, having a discussion with his future love and what appears to be the Judgement.
-   In the _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fanfic _Inner Demons_, Cadence apparently has this ability.
    -   Twilight starts having nightmares after reading a prophecy about a "Queen of Darkness", which matches her description to a tee.
    -   In the sequel _Inner Demons II_, Diamond Tiara also begins ominous dreams about the future around the same time as Twilight did.
-   In the _Kingdom Hearts_ fanfic _The Interference_, Alex dreams of Ed and Al fighting against Scar in the epilogue of the first story.
-   Rarity has dreams throughout the course of _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fanfic _It's A Dangerous Business, Going Out Your Door_, growing stronger as time passes.
    -   As of Chapter 15, this includes dreaming of her future self and full potential. Can't get much more things to come than _that_.
-   In the _RWBY_ / _Star Wars_ crossover _Jaune Arc, Lord of Hunger_, Jaune has a seemingly prophetic dream on the night before the Breach. In this dream, the Grimm have overrun Beacon and the school grounds are covered with the corpses of countless students and Atlas soldiers. This dream finally comes to pass after Darth Nihilus takes over Jaune's body and goes on a rampage, killing dozens of students and forcing an airship to crash into Beacon. At the end of the chapter, Ruby and Pyrrha witness Jaune's dream come to fruition, as Beacon is in flames, dozens of students and soldiers have been killed, and and the Grimm are roaming the schoolgrounds freely.
-   _Karma in Retrograde_ has a variation. Touya is slowly regaining his memories of his time as Dabi through his dreams. From Touya's perspective, they're all things he's destined to perform in his future, but they already happened from everyone else's view.
-   _Ojamajo Doremi: Witches at World's End_ (the sequel to _Ojamajo Doremi: Rise of the Shadows_) has this. During the prologue, the Queen has a nightmare that supposedly foreshadows events later in the story and she had been having these nightmares for some time now. It's lampshaded when she begins to suspect that they're not dreams but "visions" of the future.
-   In the _Overwatch_ fanfic _Just Let Me Die – A Widowmaker Story_, Amélie betrays everyone she knows in a dream, including her own husband.
-   In _Kamen Rider OOO: The Metals of Ikki Tousen_, Chuubou's reason for appearing in Kanto was because of her nightmares about Koukin being dragged away from her by the Greeed. Chillingly, she's not completely wrong.
-   Chapter 7 of _Kamen Rider Kuuga: Rising unto the Stars_ is a Dream Sequence regarding the 2011 Sendai Earthquake. Confirmed by the author that no matter how powerful Kuuga may become, the tragedy cannot be prevented.
-   _Kara of Rokyn_: In the first episode of the "Last Waltz with Luthor", Lena Thorul -who has had psychic powers since she was a child- has a premonitory dream in which her brother Lex Luthor murders his wife Ardora and then kills Superman. Her vision almost comes to pass at the climax of the story.
    
    She sat on the side of her bed for a few seconds and composed herself. Then she opened a drawer from the night stand, took a cassette recorder from it, turned it on, and began to speak.  
    "This is August 17th. Another entry in my dream journal. I think this one might be a prophecy. It's been a long time since I've had one... but this one seemed intense enough to be. I just hope it isn't.  
    "I saw my brother Lex. His wife Ardora was alive, and he was killing her.  
    "And then he was killing Superman."
    
-   In the prologue of the _Negima!_/_Kingdom Hearts_ fanfic _The Keys of the Kingdom_, Negi dreams of being attacked by the Heartless. Guess what happens in chapter 1.
    -   Gosalyn dreams of Ariadne's magic academy. Except she's in the past, before the events she dreams of happened.
-   Episodes 1 and 10 of _Kamen Rider Xtreme_ open with a dream sequence foretelling of a battle between four riders and a figure in shadows, the first of which ending with Alex proclaiming "This world is over."
-   Sora gets a prophetic dream at the start of _Kingdom Hearts: The Third Epic_, as does Riku at the start of its sequel, _Final Confrontation_.
-   On the morning of the second challenge in _The Legend of Total Drama Island_, Bridgette sees numerous parallels between the day's events and her previous night's dream of finding a presumably dead contestant alive. The trope is subverted when she comes to the place where she dreamed of finding said contestant—a spot she had never been to before—only to find no sign of human presence.
-   Robin gets a few prophetic dreams in the _Spider-Man Trilogy_ fanfic _Life After Death Trilogy_, as well as some very bad dreams.
-   After getting her ring in the _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_/_Green Lantern_ fanfic _Know Fear!_, Star has a dream about the seven lights fighting each other and the arrival of Light and Darkness.
-   The first chapter of _Gravity Falls_ fanfic _Mabel in Butterhurst_ opens up to Mabel in the middle of a recurring nightmare, where the walls are "painted red" and she's running from something unknown...
-   In the _Game of Thrones_ fanfic _Ned Stark Lives_, Ned _thinks_ his dream while in a coma - where he finds himself in a hall with the past Lords of Winterfell, and Brandon the Builder claimed that the Great Other cannot be killed, but merely imprisoned - is this. More disturbingly, it implies that Bran will not return from his trip to Coldhands.
-   Drake Mallard dreams about both Darkwing Duck and his future self, Negaduck, shortly after his first encounter with Megavolt in the _Darkwing Duck_ fanfic _Nightfall in the Negaverse_.
-   In the _Avatar: The Last Airbender_ fanfic _Not Stalking Zuko_, Zuko fears a dream Sokka has of the gang as penguins and a Penguin!Suki giving him a bag to lay on is prophetic of a future pregnancy.
-   In the _Team Fortress 2_ fanfic _The Nucleus Incident_, the RED team all have very vivid and symbolic dreams pertaining to which power they'll eventually develop before they wake up to discover their new abilities.
-   Rhaegar's dreams regarding the prophecy of the Prince That Was Promised in the _Song of Ice and Fire_ fanfic _Of White Trees and Blue Roses_. However, the fic did its own take as the prophecy remains unresolved in canon.
-   Kirito gets a dream of the future in the chapter "Interlude: A Hero's Justice" of the _Sword Art Online_/_One-Punch Man_ crossover _One Punch-Gamer_.
-   Sarah's sudden dreams about a possible future in the Buildingverse fanfic _Only A Dream_.
-   In the _Song of Ice and Fire_ fanfic _The Open Way_, Ser Oswell, Ser Loras, Ser Jaime, and Ser Bryce Caron receive a prophecy from the Ghost of High Heart.
    
    "I dreamt of those with the black blood crawling from the cold depths of the sea, hungry for carnage and hungry for the souls of men, a wicked thing with ten long arms and a single blue eye destroying everything in his path, tearing the City of Kings apart and salting the earth beneath. I dreamt of a princess bleeding, dying in her young love's embrace. I dreamt of a gathering of beasts, Snake, Kraken, and Wolf, all together in the snow as the dead marched and light left the world. But mostly I keep dreaming of Dragons. When the King sits the throne for the sixth time, a red tear shall mark the sky, and it will be a sign that the three children of fire have come. From the south comes fire, from the north comes ice. In betwixt is suffering and death. An age of darkness shall be upon us, and only the Promised one will deliver us."
    
    -   Rhaegar does what he does because he has nightmares about the Second Long Night.
-   Tuyen's future-forecasting ability in _The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron, Boy Genius_ fanfic _The Other Side Of Tomorrow_.
    -   Jimmy's dream in "Suffer the Fate of Atlantis" is another example of this.
-   In the _Cardfight!! Vanguard_ fanfic _Override_, Aichi's dream before meeting Ren includes voices and elements of this from all four seasons from the anime.
-   Juvage has a lot of disturbing dreams in the _Medieval II: Total War_ fanfic _Pagan Vengeance_, all of which have transpired by the end.
-   Sometimes experienced by Cities in the _Les Misérables_ Anthropomorphic Personification fic _Paris Burning_. Several examples are described in _Paris Burning_, and it was a dream that lead Paris/Grantaire to find Enjolras and his group.
-   _A Place in My Dreams_: \[Dream a Dream Of The Future\], one half of the Authority Kirito got from Morpheus, allows him to get visions of events up to a week into the future. But comes at the cost of him basically being put into an eight hour coma that he can not be awakened from.
-   In _Pokémon Black & White: Tale of a Legend_, the hero does this concerning the fight with the 'Black Hero', finding the Relic Castle shrine, and the Tornadus-Thundurus fight.
-   One of Yuki's abilities in _Pokémon Psychics: Origins_ includes being able to see other people's pasts through dreaming (as evidenced in Chapter 4).
-   In Chapter 26 of _Pokémon Reset Bloodlines_, with a little help from MissingNo, Ash and Pikachu see a vision of a possible Bad Future while asleep. Some of the sidestories also feature examples:
    -   In the Ultima Interlude, William Stronger reveals that he's dreamed of the future Bloodliner War every single night. The cause for this is revealed in the Mars Gaiden as having coming into contact with the Adamant Orb.
    -   In the Sir Aaron & Lucario Gaiden, while comatose after taking a Future Sight attack for Lucario, Sir Aaron experiences visions in regards to the distant future, bloodliners, and Ash.
-   Some of the stories in the _Pokéumans_ community involve the protaganist having a dream about being the species they would later become.
-   In the _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fanfic _Pony POV Series_, Zecora has had dreams of her past lives in the G3 and G2 worlds due to the magical nexus the Everfree Forest grows over.
    -   In _Pony POV Series: Gaiden 7 Dreams/Nightmares_, Bright Eyes has a dream that seemed to be of the battle with Nightmare Moon, something that wouldn't happen for several thousand years.
    -   In the _Looking Glass_ Expanded Universe, Toola-Roola has a nightmare predicting the end of the world.
-   In the _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fanfic _The Powers of Harmony_, this is one of the abilities granted to the Bearer of Generosity. However, the dreams seem to rely heavily on symbolism, with just a mix of actual images from the events in question, making it hard to tell what they're about.
-   In the _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fanfic _Quantum Castaways_, Marshall dreams that Twilight is fatally shot by a sniper during their approach towards the building in the desert. This brings him to alter their path - only to find a newly-dead businessman with a high-powered rifle aimed directly where he dreamed Twilight had died. Understandably, this completely unsettles him.
-   This happens to Obi-Wan a lot in the _Star Wars_ fanfic _Re-Entry_. It also occurs with a few other Jedi.
-   The events of the _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_/_Sonic the Hedgehog_ fanfic _Revenge of Lavan_ happens because Twilight Sparkle had prophetic dreams of several future events. Two of them had come true so far, but their relevance has yet to be explained.
-   Some chapters of the _Tsubasa -RESERVoir CHRoNiCLE-_ AU fanfic _Reversal of Fate_ directly explore Sakura's development in her dream-seeing abilities for the Infinity arc in future chapters.
-   Jojen Reed of the _Song of Ice and Fire_ fanfic _Robb Returns_ has the greensight, as he does in canon, and, as such, has predicted several things, such as Mance Rayder asking Eddard for help, Robert finding Stormbreaker, the return of Gerion Lannister or Theon's change of heart. He has, however, stopped seeing the moment of his death, which worries him.
    -   The Bad Future Tyrion sees in his nightmare.
-   In the _Kim Possible_/_Conan the Barbarian_ AU fic _RONMAN THE BARBARIAN!_, Ronman had dreams about making love with a lithe woman with long hair and green eyes. Knowing that it was not a dream due to it first happening in a mystical crypt, he became determined to one day find her.
-   The Elite Visions in the _Yin Yang Yo!_/_Invader Zim_/_El Tigre_ crossover fanfic _Royal Heights_ first seem like randomly concocted imagery the Headmaster forces the Elite to see but they eventually realize that the visions imply events supposed to happen in the future such as the awakening of a New Eden and becoming mutilated and placed inside of an underground graveyard of deceased children.
-   In the _Sailor Moon_ Fanime _Sailor Moon Sacrifice_, Usagi dreams about a girl who looks like her. Then she discovers she has a sister.
-   _SAPR_: Both Amber and Pyrrha have prophetic dreams.
-   Alice gets messages in her dreams from the Velvet Room in the _Persona 3_ trollfic _The Second-Hand Fool_. She also got the Universe Arcana that way.
-   Littlefoot has a dream about Chomper's future in the _Land Before Time_ fanfic _The Seven Hunters_, with him seeing things from Chomper's perspective. He and his grandparents thought that it indicated what Chomper's future may hold if he didn't leave the valley... Their interpretation wasn't quite correct.
-   Catelyn has a vision of Robb, Jon, Den and Raynald Westerling playing together in the weirwood. in the _Song of Ice and Fire_ fanfic _So Soars the Young Falcon_.
-   In the _Spider-Man_/_My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ crossover fanfic _Spiders and Magic: Rise of Spider-Mane_, Twilight has premonitions of the upcoming battle with Osborn.
-   Pawstep receives a prophecy from StarClan via dream in the _Warrior Cats_ trollfic _Star Kits Prophec 2 The Two Sibinglgs_.
-   Stitch's dream in the _Lilo & Stitch_/_Star Trek_ crossover fanfic _Starlight_ heralds their encounter with the Borg later in the story.
    -   In a way, Lilo's dreams of the past do as well.
-   _Strange Visitors From Another Century_: Rowena Ravenclaw is a Seer, and this is often how her visions manifest. Sometimes she can control it, sometimes she can't.
-   This is shown several times during the course of the _Lyrical Nanoha_ Mega Crossover fic _Takamachi Nanoha of 2814_, regarding a horrible scenario where Sailor Pluto had to sacrifice herself. It was Kinomoto Sakura's dream. Probably induced by the Spectre/Alicia Testarossa.
-   This is a common occurrence with Mephy in the _Sonic the Hedgehog_ fanfic _Teaching Darkness_, who doesn't often remembers them due to them being products of night terrors. After long enough of being accurate, everyone else takes these seriously.
-   Several of the Past Straw Hats in the _One Piece_ fanfic _Tomorrow's Romance Dawn_, once arriving on the island, have dreams of events that happen to their future selves. Or, in Vivi's case, someone who had a big impact of their future. It is still unclear what is causing this.
    -   Luffy dreams of saying goodbye to Ace in Alabasta, being rescued by Ace at Marineford (though he doesn't know Ace was the one who saved him), and the Straw Hats' separation at Sabaody.
    -   Usopp dreams of his duel with Luffy in Water 7 and the Going Merry arriving at the Bridge of Hesitation.
    -   Vivi dreams of Luffy rescuing Robin from the royal tomb.
-   Heather and Ezekiel share dreams that hint about their eventual romance and character development in _Total Drama Comeback_.
-   Dawn gets visions overnight during "The Am-AH-Zon Race" in the _Total Drama_ fanfic _Total Shuffled Island Series_, and temporarily leaves the game to act on those visions.
-   In the _Pokémon_ fanfic _Travels of the Trifecta_, Reggie has a dream in which he sees Paul lying in the snow, covered with blood. This foretells events that occur the first time Paul attempts Route 216 and is why Reggie demands that Conway accompany Paul on that route.
-   The Level Fives and Moses seem to be having these kind of dreams in the _A Certain Magical Index_ fanfic _Twist of Fate_.
-   Flim dreams of Discord in the _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fanfic _The Two Step_, who gives him a warning about the future. When he wakes up, he initially believes it was just a fever dream until he notices claw marks Discord has left on his shoulder.
-   In the _Redwall_ fanfic _The Urthblood Saga_, Urthblood apparently receives some of his prophetic visions through dreams. Of course, his first instance of this in the story, where he claims he's found out about his brother's enmity for him, is a patent lie as he has already prepared for war with him for a long time.
-   Penny dreaming of being a machine in the _RWBY_ fanfic _Various Vytal Ventures_. Word of God is the author wanted that to be the case, but left it vague in case it turned out to be otherwise.
-   This apparently happened a lot to Rose in the _Homestuck_ fanfic _Warbound Widow_ before the actual Invasion, due to her latent Seer of Light abilities. In most cases her dreams and gut feelings resulted in things like building the mass underground cities for humanity and an alien invasion siren. All of her 'feelings' are spot on the money.
-   Akako does this in _Case Closed_/_Magic Kaito_ fanfic _When Pandora's Box Is Opened_, often deliberately. One dream has been coming to Eta for centuries.
-   Toph has this ability throughout the _Avatar: The Last Airbender_ fanfic _Where Do We Go From Here_. The reason for this plays a part in the ending of the fic.
-   In the _Golden Sun_ fanfic _Wings of Anemos_, Ivan's dreams offer hints of the future.
-   In the EXO/_Avatar: The Last Airbender_ real person crossover _Zodiac_, Luhan's visions of the future sometimes manifest themselves as dreams.

    Fairy Tales 

-   In "The Enchanted Canary", the prince dreams of a grove with a beautiful woman, and sets out on a quest to find her.
-   "Jorinde and Joringel": The male lead has a dream where he picks a magical flower and goes to rescue his lover and defeat the witch who has kidnapped his lover. After waking up, he sets out to find that flower.
    
    He often walked round and round the castle, but not too near to it. One night he dreamt that he found a Blood-Red Flower, in the middle of which was a beautiful large pearl; that he picked the flower and went with it to the castle, and that everything he touched with the flower was freed from enchantment. He also dreamt that by means of it, he recovered his Jorinda.
    

    Films — Animation 

-   In _Kung Fu Panda_, Po's claim that his dream was of noodles is interpreted by his father as this: he will take over the restaurant.
-   In _Sleeping Beauty_, Aurora tells her animal friends that she dreams of finding love with a prince. She expresses hope to them that the fact she dreamt about it more than once means it will come true. Later that day, she meets Prince Philip, and they share a Dance of Romance.
-   In _Turning Red_, Mei's nightmare seems to be an example of Real Dreams are Weirder but is actually an extremely subtle example of this regarding the changes that the panda transformation brings about. It serves as a Genius Bonus.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   In _Atlantics_, on her wedding day Ada is troubled by a dream about a giant fish eating her true love Souleiman's body. This dream occurs around the time of Souleiman's death in the ocean.
-   _Cannonball_ opens with the main character dreaming about taking part in the race with his parole officer/love interest blindfolded in the front seat. He's then shot in the head and flips the car which then explodes. This ends up happening near the end of the movie (using the same footage) except the main character isn't actually in the car, his mechanic is the one who's driving and gets shot, the love interest isn't blindfolded, and she bails out of the car before it crashes.
-   In _The Curse of Sleeping Beauty_, Thomas has recurring dreams in which he sees a beautiful sleeping girl, but is unable to wake her. When he attempts to kiss her, he is always distracted by a vision of a strange building and wakes in sleep paralysis. One day, he receives a phone call from a law firm informing him of an inheritance from his estranged uncle, Clive. Thomas is startled to find out the inherited property is the very same building from his dreams.
-   _The Devil's Messenger_: In "Condemned in Crystal", John Radian is plagued by a recurring dream. His psychiatrist encourages him to confront the dream by visiting the building where the dream is set. However, as he arrives on the street where the building is located, the events of the dream start to play out for real.
-   _Enchanted_ pays homage to _Sleeping Beauty_ when Giselle tells _her_ animal friends that she shared a Dance of Romance in a dream recently, prompting them to make a statue of the man she danced with. She later goes to a ball and waltzes with Robert, whose costume resembles that used to dress the statue.
-   In one of the more effectively chilling scenes of _Godzilla vs. Biollante_, a group of psychic schoolchildren are made to draw out what they dreamed about last night. Every single one of them draws the same thing: Godzilla escaping from the volcano he was trapped in the last film.
-   _Holocaust 2000_: After having sex with Sara, Robert has a nightmare where he sees the world being destroyed at the hands of the Antichrist that he helped spawn.
-   _Hulk_: In Betty's "dream" of a childhood memory, she was picked up and set down by Bruce who proceeds to threaten her. This comes to pass in her adult years, when she first encounters Bruce as the Hulk but instead of hurting Betty, he protects her from the Gamma Dogs sent after her by his father.
-   In _Innerspace_, Jack tells his doctor about his nightmare about an old lady with a cigarette lighter gun and the high prices of her groceries. The scene then comes true the same day.
-   In _I, Robot_, Sonny dreams of a man standing in front of a crowd of robots, come to free them the slavery of logic. Since Sonny is a robot (and robots cannot dream), Spooner realises that it's another of Lanning's clues, and he has to go to the dream's location to get the next one. At the end of the film, Sonny makes the same trip as Spooner, and replicates the scene entirely; the other NS-5s all pause to stare at the lone robot on the hill, come to free them from the shackles of logic.
-   In _Island of Death_, Celia regularly experiences premonitions of a strange man leading her and her partner-in-crime Christopher to their demise. The man turns out to be a local farmer, who rapes the two before throwing Christopher into a lye pit to die.
-   In _The Jacket_, the main character experiences these visions while undergoing an experimental drug therapy.
-   Pontius Pilate in _Jesus Christ Superstar_ dreams of millions of people in the future "mentioning \[his\] name... and leaving \[him\] the blame" for the death of Christ, a probable reference to the Apostles' Creed ("He suffered under Pontius Pilate...").
-   In _The Last Wave_ lawyer Richard Chamberlain dreams of an young Aborigine standing in his home offering him a sacred stone—the day before meeting the young man who is accused of murder.
-   In _The Matrix Reloaded_, the opening scene depicts Trinity on the run from an agent, and ends with her jumping out of a building, getting shot, and slamming into a moving car... and then Neo wakes up. Later in the movie, the same exact events actually happen... whereupon Neo saves her in midair and brings her back to life.
-   _Mission: Impossible – Fallout_ opens with Ethan having a dream we first assume is just a miserable scrambling of past events, but turns out to be this.
    -   Later in the film he has another, this one much more clearly tied to the future rather than the past.
-   _The Mothman Prophecies_: Connie talks about a dream about drowning that occurs at the climax.
    
    **Connie:** It was nighttime and I was in the middle of the ocean. I was trying to swim, but I was too cold. I kept looking—I kept looking for something to hang on to. And there were presents floating all around me. They were wrapped up. They were tied with bows. I tried to grab on to them, but they kept popping away. And then I started to sink like a stone. There was nothing I could do. I was falling. But it felt good. I was letting go. I was letting myself go... and all I could see was black and all I could feel was the darkness above me and the lights coming from below. I knew I was dying. And then I heard this voice, like somebody whispering in my ear. "Wake up, number 37." And then I woke up.
    
-   The title character in _Mr. Nobody_, which gets especially complicated when he begins to see _mutliple_, wildly-different futures for his life, especially once he becomes the oldest living(and last mortal) human.
-   _Murders in the Rue Morgue (1971)_: In Madeline's recurring nightmares, the man with the axe keeps cutting through one of the ropes in the theatre, causing a rope to drop from the rigging. During the climax, Marot is using one of the ropes to descend from the rigging towards her on the stage. Seeing the axe on stage, Madeline realises that the dream ahs been telling her how to defeat Marot. She grabs the axe, cuts through the rope and Marot plunges to his death.
-   In _Pathogen_, Dannie has recurring dreams that are connected to the Zombie Apocalypse happening.
-   _Prince of Darkness:_ The recurring dream that the Brotherhood of Sleep gets its name from is actually both this, and not actually a dream; it's a signal cast back into the past that can only be picked up by unconscious brains within the church and its surroundings; the signal was broadcast there because that's where the apocalypse would begin in 1999.
-   In _Séance on a Wet Afternoon_, part of Phony Psychic Myra Savage's ruse in getting the parents of kidnap victim Amanda Clayton (who was kidnapped by Myra's husband Billy at her direction) to engage her services as a medium to locate their daughter involves claiming to have had a psychic dream about a lost girl surrounded by clay (as in _Clay_ton) who mentioned the name "Caroline" (Amanda's best friend at school) and the word "hedge" (a reference to Amanda's stuffed hedgehog). In reality, she got the details from Amanda herself while pretending to be a nurse treating her in hospital.
-   Early in _The Shining,_ Jack Torrence screams in his sleep, having a terrible nightmare of killing his family. That didn't quite come to pass but it wasn't without some serious trying.
-   In _Shredder Orpheus_, after turning around and losing Eurydice, Orpheus has dreams of reuniting with Eurydice once more and also of the mysterious parking garage connected to the EBN. Both elements foreshadow his ultimate fate of reuniting with Eurydice in death on Hades' EBN live show.
-   Anakin Skywalker from _Star Wars_, on at least two different occasions, has prophetic dreams: first with his mother, then with his wife. Both predict the woman pictured will die, both of them show the woman in question calling for him, both of them come true—the latter precisely because he goes out of his way to try and stop it after having the dream.
-   In _Stir of Echoes_, the main character Tom has a dream which contains events that come true as soon as he wakes up, almost exactly with very slight differences, making it almost appear as a "Groundhog Day" Loop. The dream also shows another character Frank making cryptic statements, which he says at the end of the movie.
-   In _Sunshine_, Capa dreams of falling into the surface of the sun. Cassie tells him she has the same dream. at the end of the film, both Capa and Cassie end up riding the bomb into the sun
-   The protagonist of _Take Shelter_ isn't sure if his dreams are an example of this trope, or just him going mad. It doesn't help that his dreams are seemingly apocalyptic, featuring oily rain and people driven mad.
-   _Thor: Ragnarok_: Prior to the beginning of the movie, Thor has been having dreams about Ragnarok every night. Loki-as-Odin waves them off as Thor having an "overactive imagination", but Ragnarok eventually does come true.
-   _12 Monkeys_ does this in a very unique way. The protagonist has a recurring nightmare about a traumatic experience he had as a kid where he saw a man get shot by police after pulling a gun in an airport. It is only at the end that it becomes clear it is both a memory of his past and a vision of his future; the man that got shot is his older self from the future.
-   _The Way He Looks_ has Leonardo dreaming about Karina calling Gabriel to go swimming with no need for bathing suits, which happens when the class goes camping. They also promptly invite Leonardo when they do so.

    Literature 

### **By Author:**

-   Neil Gaiman's _American Gods_ and _Neverwhere_ both have protagonists who have recurring bizarre dreams. They don't benefit from the dreams, however, because they forget them as soon as they wake up.
    -   In _Neverwhere_, Richard dreams of the Beast and remembers it.
-   Happens a lot in Haruki Murakami's novels and short stories, although many of the dreams are trippy and/or vague.
-   In Rick Riordan’s novels, demigods have dreams depicting events that will or are happening, as well as things that may happen. For example, in The Tyrant’s Tomb, Hazel has a dream about Jason’s death.

### **By Work:**

-   In _Nineteen Eighty-Four_, Winston once had a dream where he was walking in a pitch-black room, then heard O'Brien on his side say "We shall meet in the place where there is no darkness". Years after that dream, Winston is certain that O'Brien is a heretic to their country's near-omnipotent Party just like him, and that eventually they will meet in a place where they will be free. Winston meets O'Brien in the place where there is no darkness, but the place and O'Brien are nothing like Winston thought they would be. The place where there is no darkness is the Ministry of Love, where dissidents are tortured until they believe in the Party, and where there is no darkness because there are no windows and the lights are always on, to the point where it's impossible to tell if it's midday or midnight. O'Brien is not a rebel, but a mastermind of the inner party, and instead of freeing Winston's soul, O'Brien oversees his torture.

It was the place with no darkness: he saw now why O'Brein had seemed to recognise the allusion. In the Ministry of Love there were no windows

-   In _Animorphs_ this is inflicted on Jake and much later Rachel by Crayak.
-   In _The Balanced Sword_, the Big Bad has a recurring dream that he believes to be a premonition of his final downfall: he's fleeing, with no escape plan (and he's The Chessmaster, he _always_ has a plan), from an enemy about whom he can never remember anything when he wakes except the gray eyes. When it's pointed out that the trilogy's heroine, Kyri, has gray eyes, he says that he doesn't believe it's her because she has the eyes of someone seeking vengeance for a recent wrong, not the controlled determination of the eyes in the dream. During the climactic battle at the end of the trilogy, he looks into Kyri's eyes as they fight and her eyes still aren't the eyes from the dream, but they're a lot closer than he was expecting. He escapes with his life, but the implication is that one day they'll meet again.
-   Lloyd Alexander's _The Chronicles of Prydain_: In _The Black Cauldron_, after Taran takes Adaon's brooch, he begins having prophetic dreams that help the party in their quest.
-   In Dorothy Gilman's _The Clairvoyant Countess_, Madame Karitska dreams of a brownstone with a sign in a window: "Madame Karitska, Readings." When she happens on the brownstone with a sign "Apartment for Rent", the landlord is suspicious because he had put up the sign five minutes earlier, but she gets her office.
-   In the _Confessions_, Monica has a dream where a mysterious stranger prophesies that her prodigal son will return to her. Her Amoral Attorney offspring tries to twist the dream to argue that it implies Monica will become like him, but she forcefully holds that it means he will become a Christian like her.
-   In Eleanor Cameron's _The Court Of The Stone Children_, the heroine dreams of a room, and seeing children in it; one says she wants to show her something. Later, she sees the room and tells the dream, resulting in the X-raying of a picture and a discovery about it.
-   _The Divine Comedy_: Dante has three dreams to mark his progression through different parts of Purgatory.
    -   Before entering the first terrace, Dante falls asleep and dreams a terrifying eagle grabbed him and flew him into the burning sun. Dante awakens having felt real pain from the sun's heat, now right in front of the gate to Purgatory. It turns out Dante was dreaming of what he was doing while asleep and what he will do in the future: undergoing pain to ascend to the Eternal Light.
    -   Dante's second dream shows him in images the struggle of those who were greedy, gluttonous, or lustful. Dante dreams a meeting with the Siren. She seems beautiful and promises to satisfy all of Dante's desires, but that goes to Hell when a saintly lady appears. She alerts Dante's mentor to the siren and he tears her clothing off while keeping his eyes trained on the saintly lady. Without her clothing, the Siren can no longer hide her hideous stench, which immediately awakens Dante from his nightmare.
    -   After climbing through all seven of the terraces, the poet has a vision of Leah and Rachel, the wives of Jacob from the Book of Genesis. Leah is working to collect garlands while Rachel contemplates herself in the mirror, an action which earns not scorn but praise from Leah. Generally, this dream is taken as a sign of the peace between thought and action that comes upon the purgation of sins and unity with God.
-   In _Dolphin Song_, Melody has Recurring Dreams about being a dolphin and frantically searching for something. When she wakes up, she can never remember what she was looking for. She's dreaming about the dolphin Shara searching for her son Speckle's spirit after he is killed by a fishing net so she can guide him to the great ocean beyond the waves.
-   _Dora Wilk_ has some, especially in _Gods Must Be Crazy_. Mostly those are ghastly prophecies courtesy of Badb, but one proves helpful beyond belief.
-   _Dune_:
    -   In _Dune_, Paul Atreides had dreams about the future (including later events on Arrakis) before gaining his full prescient ability.
    -   _Children of Dune_ has Leto II experiencing dreams as well, like his father.
    -   _Chapterhouse: Dune_ has Odrade again experiencing prophetic dreams, but hers contain more symbolism than a direct vision.
-   Older Than Dirt: In _The Epic of Gilgamesh_, the protagonist Gilgamesh dreams of Enkidu before meeting him.
-   _Evillious Chronicles_: Some members of the Octo family — and anyone possessing their bodies — can dream of the future. Typically, the dreams come as flashes of images all colored in distinct hues, which carry meaning to the dreamer — most importantly, once a purple image appears, the rest of the visions in the dream are inevitable.
-   In _Flight to the Lonesome Place_, Ronnie has three of these dreams about events in his life that happened exactly the way he dreamed, but he dreams always ended before the conclusion.
-   In _The Genesis of Jenny Everywhere_ this is justified in terms of one of Jenny Everywhere's characteristic abilities- being able to read the thoughts of her other selves throughout The Multiverse. This Jenny, unaware of her own powers and unable to control them fully, manifiests this in the form of dreams she uses as a form of escapism from mundane reality—namely the pressures of school and her overbearing mother who insists on her studying hard and getting there extra early, not lying in bed dreaming. Also serves as Foreshadowing for the life she will one day lead when she discovers how to shift between realities.
-   In _Greenmantle_, Hannay has a recurring nightmare of being pursued through a valley and trying to reach a particular hill where he will find safety. At the end of the novel, when he and his colleagues are fleeing the villains, he sees the hill from his dream and they have their showdown there. Just when it looks like all is lost, the heroes gain the upper hand due to a random event that would not have affected them if they'd kept moving.
-   In _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_, Harry has a recurring dream of him walking down a mysterious hallway to a mysterious door, which turns out to be the Department of Mysteries. Though they seem to be prophetic dreams, it is later revealed that Harry is looking into the mind of Voldemort while the latter tries to get into the department, and this connection comes back to bite Harry in the ass at the climax of the book.
-   In the _Heralds of Valdemar_ series, dreams are one way that the Heraldic Gift of ForeSight manifests. In _Take a Thief_, for example, a young Skif has dreams about the Companion who will one day choose him, and of things he'll do in _Arrows of the Queen_.
    -   Herald Vanyel of the _Last Herald-Mage Trilogy_ is the most prominent example, having recurring dreams about his own death in combat against an evil invading archmage, which are slightly different every time. He's told that it's prophetic but also that the future can be changed, and is reassured when the dreams stop at the end of _Magic's Pawn_. They return again in _Magic's Price_. He notices on his way to his Last Stand that things aren't _quite_ how they were in different variations of his dream, but he still has to blow himself up to kill the Big Bad. Because of the Cosmic Deadline inherent to the pacing of Mercedes Lackey novels and how Leareth was very far away until the end, he appears in the dreams a lot more, and has a lot more dialogue there, than in person.
-   _Hurog_: In _Dragon Bones_, this is the reason why Axiel is in Hurog. He was sent there by his father, who had a prophetic dream about their hope being found in Hurog.
-   In _The Journey to Atlantis_, Max has several of these. Two of them stand out. Before getting stranded on the island, he (and Stacie) both dream about being on a certain beach. After the ship sinks and they reach the island, they soon discover the exact beach that was in their dreams. Another time is when he dreams about Luna and Sol, although he doesn't know who they are. Despite this, he later sees obelisks on the island that have depictions of them, but still doesn't see that what they did was Divine Intervention.
-   Prophetic dreams are a common trope in all genres of The Icelandic Sagas.
    -   _The Saga of the People of Laxardal_: The young Gudrun has a series of dreams in which she wears a cap she tears off, a silver bracelet which drops into a fjord, a gold bracelet which breaks, and a helm which drops into a fjord. Asking her relative Gest, a clairvoyant, to interpret the dreams, she receives the answer that she will have four husbands of which she will divorce the first, the third will be killed, the second and the fourth will drown. All this comes true.
-   J. R. R. Tolkien's _The Lord of the Rings_:
    -   Boromir and Faramir's dreams of a riddle which causes Boromir to seek out Rivendell (and arrive just in time for Elrond's council), and numerous characters receiving warnings through dreams in _The Silmarillion_. That book also suggests how prophetic dreams occur; Lórien, the Vala who governs dreams and visions is the brother of Mandos, the judge of the Valar who has the best understanding of fate and the future.
    -   As well as his dreams of events in the past that he never saw, Frodo Baggins has at least one dream of the future while in the house of Tom Bombadil.
    -   And back in _The Hobbit_, Smaug the dragon of all individuals has one about Bilbo (or so it is strongly implied.)
-   In the _Lord Peter Wimsey_ story _Striding Folly_, the protagonist dreams he's being chased through a checkerboarded landscape by moving towers. It turns out to be a premonition of a chess game where he's checkmated with two rooks. Also of an attempt to frame him for murder.
-   In _The Lost Fleet_, prior to the events of the books Desjani had a dream about Geary sleeping and when she yelled at him to wake up a dead sailor from her previous ship appeared and told her that it was not yet time. This dream was largely the reason why when the fleet did discover Geary in suspended animation Desjani supported him completely, and believed that he had been given a sacred mission to save the Alliance.
-   _Mike Hammer_ dreams of a killer with no face, apparently a sign that he doesn't know who they are. At the end of the book an accidental discharge blows the killer's face off.
-   In Teresa Frohock's _Miserere: An Autumn Tale_, all dreams are prophetic. Most people don't dream, and if you say that you have dreamed, you get attention.
-   _Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children_: Horace Somnusson—prophetic dreams are his peculiarity. Not **all** of his dreams come true though, and he mostly dreams of strangers.
    
    **Emma:** Horace's ability can be maddeningly useless. He'll reel off lifetimes of predictions for strangers, but with us he's almost totally blocked. It's as if the more he cares about someone, the less he can see. Emotion clouds his vision.
    
-   In _Never Dream of Dying_, Le Gérant claims to be a mazzere, a person who can see which person is going to die next in their dreams. People in these dreams are represented by animals, and he dreams himself as a wolf hunting for them.
-   John Milton paints Eve in_Paradise Lost_ as having prophetic dreams of humanity's fall inspired by Satan.
-   Owen Meany has these of his death over and over in _A Prayer for Owen Meany_.
-   Wiser characters in _Redwall_ tend to get visions of the future or of Martin the Warrior, sometimes in actual dreams, other times in brief trances. Badger Lords are especially prone to visions of their eventual deaths. The Big Bad of the first book, Cluny, has Past Experience Nightmares about past atrocities—mixed with Dreaming of Things to Come.
-   E. F. Benson's _The Room In The Tower_ is all about this trope, thanks to what appears to be an odd psychic connection between the protagonist and a suicide-turned-vampire.
    -   Benson uses this trope again in "The Face," in which a woman dreams all her life of a frightening man who promises he will one day come for her. At an exhibit of Van Dyck paintings, she finds the man's portrait...

-   In _Seekers_, the bears frequently have prophetic dreams sent to them by the stars; the most important instance is in _Fire in the Sky_, where the Star-Bear tells each of the cubs about their destiny... and tells Toklo that one of them is going to die.
-   _Septimus Heap_ dreams of his impending kidnapping in _Physik_.
-   Ida, eponymous _Shaman of the Undead_ dreams of the people that are going to die soon. Her aunt states that it's a Required Secondary Power so that Ida can be on time to lead the ghost to the Land of the Dead.
-   _Shatterbelt_ by Colin Thiele, in which a teenage girl named Tracy starts dreaming of an impending disaster, which she interprets as a terrorist bombing. It's actually an earthquake, but either way it would have killed hundreds more people if she hadn't acted on her vision. The dreams continue in the sequel, _Aftershock!_, this time building up to a flash flood, but she stops experiencing them afterward.
-   _Shatter the Sky_: The Aurati Prophet actually gets visions of the future due to telepathic bonding with a captive dragon, who dreams about these things. Maren starts having them too after she bonds with the dragon on freeing it.
-   _Sisterland_: Kate's Psychic Powers first become apparent at age four, when she wakes up screaming from a nightmare about a burning house. The next night, another house on their block burns down.
-   _A Song of Ice and Fire_ uses dreams a lot as a foreshadowing tool, usually those are understood to be magical "green dreams" or otherwise sent by the gods. Perhaps. The system of magic in ASOIAF is anything but functional.
    -   In _A Clash of Kings_, Theon Greyjoy dreams of the feast Ned Stark held for King Robert's arrival at Winterfell. Gradually, he realizes that the other attendees—Ned Stark, King Robert, Jory Cassel, et. al.—are dead. Near the end of the dream, Robb and his direwolf Grey Wind enter, bleeding from "half a hundred savage wounds".
    -   According to _The World of Ice & Fire_, prophetic dreams were the reason why the Targaryens managed to survive the Doom of Valyria. Daenys Targaryen, also known as Daenys the Dreamer, foresaw her homeland would be brought to ruin, and urged her father to evacuate their family from Valyria. He heeded the advice, bringing House Targaryen and five dragons into the remote Valyrian outpost of Dragonstone. Twelve years later, the Doom came, leaving the Targaryens as the last dragonlord family in the world.
-   _The Stand_ by Stephen King is built around this trope, as it is how Mother Abigail and Randall Flagg contact the survivors of the superflu.
-   _Star Wars Legends_:
    -   In _Death Star_, a trooper dreams about dying in a brawl against other troopers, with someone fighting and dying at his side, all while desperately buying some time for someone else. Later he dreams about pursuing and being shot by a fleeing Han Solo. Turns out he's mildly Force-Sensitive; the second dream almost comes true, but he knows not to chase as fervently. The first one comes true completely. In both cases, the narration is almost identical in the dream as in the event.
    -   Both _The Thrawn Trilogy_ and the _Hand of Thrawn_ Duology have Luke, early on, voluntarily entering a trance state to try and receive visions of what's to come. He gets them, but they're fragmented and confusing enough that while they do help, he doesn't do this often.
    -   This is a special Force talent of Padawan Whie Malreaux, in _Yoda: Dark Rendezvous_. The dreams are described as terrifying—while he's dreaming, he's stuck in his future-self's head, and says it's like being buried alive in his own body. Sometimes the panic is strong enough to wake him up. While the dreams may be confusing or lacking in detail, they invariably come true sooner or later—including the dream of his own death: killed by a Jedi and feeling surprised. He's among the Jedi killed by Anakin Skywalker/Darth Vader in _Revenge of the Sith_.
    -   In _Star Wars: Kenobi_, Ben has a recurring dream in which, as someone else, he sees the world through what seems like a Tusken mask, and hears a scream. He thinks it's a metaphor for his exile, staying away from the Empire's subjugation of the galaxy. Later, though, it seems clear that Ben is seeing Orrin Gault's Fate Worse than Death, being press-ganged into the Tusken tribe, and so he's comfortable not intervening when Orrin discovers his secret, since he won't be able to tell anyone.
-   In _Such A Pretty Girl_, Andy has a dream that he's walking up to his girlfriend Meredith (he is paraplegic) who is reading a dictionary when she looks up and says "'Now' I get it!" This scene is forgotten until the end of the book, where these events happen.
-   The Kantri of _Tales of Kolmar_ sometimes enter into Weh sleeps that can last for years, decades even. They rarely dream during the Weh, but when they do it's seen as significant, a gift from the Winds, and prophetic to some degree. Akhor had three dreams pertaining to Lanen before _Song In The Silence_. Rishkan had a dream of her being an instrument of the world's ending. And Shikrar dreamed of the place where he would die.
-   A variation: The night before the climactic concert in _The Taqwacores_, Amazing Ayyub relays a (possible) hadith about how the last widow of the Prophet dreamed of seeing her husband weeping and grief-stricken. She asked why, and his response is is that he had to dig a grave for his grandson and his companions. The next day was the Tragedy of Karbala (of which the Day of Ashura is based), resulting in the massacre of the Prophet's grandson and his companions. The reason this is a variation is that its placement in The Taqwacores is intended to foreshadow the concert devolving into a riot, resulting in the lynching of Jehangir by Bilal's Boulder.
-   In Poul Anderson's _Time Patrol_ story "Brave To Be A King", Manse is told of how a neighboring king dreamed that his grandson would be the death of him.
-   In Wen Spencer's _Tinker_, Lain tells of dreaming that Tinker had brought her a tengu to cure and been turned into a diamond and stolen by it. She warns Tinker of the danger.
-   In Anne McCaffrey's _To Ride Pegasus_, many pre-cogs manifest their powers in their sleep. Unlike most predictions, these can be averted if only you identify the situation. This can be interesting because while they actually see the event, they see no more than a person standing there would; they must work back to identifying locations, people, times, etc.
-   _The Twilight Saga_ use this liberally with Bella Swan throughout the series, but more to the point of symbolism, except in _Breaking Dawn_. Bella dreams of confronting the Volturi in a snowy field and feels an intense desire to protect a little child that looks similar to Edward. Bella is pregnant and will give birth to this child, albeit a girl, and the Volturi will come to kill the Cullen coven for supposedly creating an 'immortal child'.
-   _Waltharius_: Hagen urges Gunther to accept the hundred brooches offered by Walther as a compromise, because he had a dream the night before in which Gunther and he himself fought with a bear which bit Gunther's leg off and ripped an eye and several teeth out of Hagen's face. Later they fight with Walther, and Gunther loses a leg and Hagen an eye and six teeth.
-   Fun example in the _Warhammer_ art and background book _Liber Chaotica_: the author, who is slowly losing his mind while studying Chaos, suffers from prophetic dreams and visions. Nobody in the Empire can make much sense of them, but _Warhammer 40,000_ players may shiver at fevered rants about the Abandoned One leading the Legions of Black to assault the Fortress of Cadium. There's also sketches of what are unmistakeably warriors in power armour.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_ novels:
    -   In Sandy Mitchell's _The Traitor's Hand_, Ciaphas Cain's bad dreams about an encounter with a Chaos cult prove to be foreshadowings, sent by the daemon.
    -   In Dan Abnett's _Ravenor_, Zael has dreams in which something, disguised as his dead sister, tries to get him to let it in; he realizes at the end that it's warning him about the trap they are falling into.
    -   In Dan Abnett's _Brothers of the Snake_, Petrok has prophetic dreams, and Priad, less explicable ones.
    -   In Dan Abnett's _Horus Heresy_ novel _Legion_, John Grammaticus dreams of dragons, dismisses as old legends and meets them.
    -   In Dan Abnett's _Gaunt's Ghosts_ novels, Gaunt has repeated prophetic dreams.
        -   Other characters have them too: Nessa dreams in _The Guns of Tanith_ that Soric and Corbec came to rescue them, although both men had looked to be dying when they left; Hark dreams of the pipes before danger; and Criid, of the commander who had taken over the First-And-Only in their absence. In _Only In Death_, it is revealed that Soric, having been sent to the Black Ships, was trying to warn them of danger and tell them things; since he had just manifested his powers in _The Guns of Tanith_, this may explain Nessa's dreams, even before the Black Ships. This may not account for Gaunt's earlier dreams, though.
    -   In Dan Abnett's _Eisenhorn_ trilogy, Eisenhorn repeatedly sees the daemonhost Cherubael in his dreams, presaging its crucial role in Eisenhorn's eventual turn to radicalism.
    -   In Graham McNeill's _False Gods_, Magnus the Red's Back Story includes having had prophetic dreams as long as he could remember, and Horus is shown a vision of the future in his Vision Quest — by the forces of Chaos.
    -   In James Swallow's _The Flight of the Eisenstein_, Garro, at Keller's urging, is willing to consider that his dreams may be prophetic; it helps convince him that his housecarl Kaleb may have been right, saying that he had purpose.
    -   In Lee Lightner's _Space Wolf_ novel _Wolf's Honour_, when Ragnar is haunted by dreams, he fears that his enemy sent them; Gabriella dismisses as bad dreams. In reality, it's dreams like this, and the wolf-like creatures are not as bad as he feared.
    -   In Nick Kyme's Warhammer 40,000 novel _Salamander_, Dak'ir is noted for his prophetic dreams even as part of the Back Story — and suffers them during the novel.
-   In _Warrior Cats_, medicine cats frequently receive prophecies in the form of dreams. Notably, the main character Firestar decided to venture into the forest and join its Clans after having dreams of hunting mice.
-   Several of the characters in _Watership Down_ have dreams full of symbolic foreshadowing.
-   Happens quite a lot in _The Wheel of Time_, especially to Egwene; it's a rare ability, separate from the Functional Magic.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _The 4400_: In "Wake-Up Call", Richard has a recurring nightmare in which he sees himself running through a forest shouting Isabelle's name. He realizes that it was a prophetic dream when Reverend Josiah and his sons Owen and Gabriel begin hunting him, Lily and Isabelle through a forest after learning that they are 4400s.
-   _Ace Lightning_: In one episode Mark dreams, in exacting detail, exactly what is going to happen to him by the end of the episode. It occurred only once, but _boy_ did it get the fangirls talking...
-   This turns out to be Raina's superpower in _Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._, which she eventually discovers after having a dream then immediately afterwards witnessing its events.
-   In _Babylon 5_, the Centauri race all have a vague ability to see the future, some through dreams. The males often have a completely accurate dream of the circumstances of their own death - although in some cases such as the Centauri main character Londo Mollari who appeared to die a violent death at the hands of a rival, the reason for their deaths could be misinterpreted: Londo's old rival had become a close friend by that time and had killed Londo at his own request as Londo was being controlled by a parasite.
    -   Sheridan was also prone to dreaming of future events, in varying degrees of vagueness, though these were almost always due to an outside influence trying to send him a message. By the time of _The Lost Tales_, this has evidently happened enough to him that he can immediately tell when it is happening, and it annoys the hell out of him.
-   _Battlestar Galactica_:
    -   In "Flesh and Bone", Laura Roslin dreams that she's walking through a forest and meets the Cylon known as Leoben Conoy who's mysteriously pulled away through the trees. At the end of the episode a copy of Leoben is Thrown Out the Airlock and the shot of him flying out into space is exactly the same as Laura's dream.
    -   Towards the end of the third season Roslin, Caprica Six, Athena and Hera start sharing a dream of them all running through an Opera House. The same Opera House that Gaius Baltar had received visions of while on Kobol. The meaning behind this imagery isn't revealed until the Grand Finale.
-   _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_:
    -   Slayers have prophetic dreams. This occasionally causes Buffy to wonder if a weird dream was an important prophecy or just something odd she happened to dream up.
        
        **Giles**: Well, it could definitely be one of your prophetic dreams, or it could just be the eternal mystery that is your brain.
        
    -   All the Scoobies have cryptically prophetic dreams in "Restless", due to the influence of the First Slayer.
    -   Several of Buffy's dreams in Seasons 3 and 4 only make sense after Season 5. She dreams of Tara warning her to "Be back before dawn", and Faith telling her "Little sis coming; so much to do before she gets here", both referring to her sister Dawn, who is retroactively fitted into the story at the start of season 5. There is also the more cryptic dream of Faith saying "Little Miss Muffet counting down from seven-three-oh." Buffy dies exactly 730 days after having the dream.
-   Ben from _Carnivàle_ has these pretty much every time he closes his eyes.
-   _The Dick Van Dyke Show_: In "Don't Trip Over That Mountain!", Laura's fear about Rob and Jerry's ski trip is all the more pronounced because she had a nightmare about Rob breaking both his legs, a wrist, and more things than she could bear to look at.
-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   "The End of Time": The Master's return is heralded by psychic nightmares affecting the entire Earth.
    -   "Amy's Choice" involves the Doctor, Amy and Rory trapped in a dream state by psychic pollen where they switch between two realities, one on the TARDIS and one involving a future where Amy and Rory have stopped travelling with the Doctor and are living in a town called Upper Leadworth. By the end of Series 6, nearly everything about Amy and Rory's future predicted by the Leadworth dream had come true.
-   On _The Fades_, Paul and Sarah both have apparently prophetic dreams of a world of ash, while Paul has another one showing his loved ones dead. Though in a subversion of Prophecies Are Always Right, neither vision happens as predicted because the knowledge from the dreams allowed them to be prevented.
-   _Game of Thrones_: Bran Stark and Jojen Reed can do this. When Bran finally follows the crow into the family crypt, he sees his father. That same episode, Winterfell receives word that Ned has been executed by Joffrey. This happens again with Theon's betrayal and Rodrik's death. Rickon and Bran share a prophetic dream in "Fire and Blood".
    -   _House of the Dragon_: The pilot mentions Daenys the Dreamer, a daughter of Lord Aenar Targaryen whose dreams saved the Targaryens from the Doom of Valyria by prompting them to move to Dragonstone, and Aegon the Conqueror, who conquered the Seven Kingdoms due to a dream of the White Walkers.
-   Several in _Hercules: The Legendary Journeys_
    -   In "Hercules and the Circle of Fire", Hercules dreamed of Deianeira before he met her. He also dreamed of it being very cold, with her turning to ice and shattering. This foreshadowed Hera stealing fire from mankind.
    -   In "Norse by Norsewest", Hercules and Balder both dream of the latter's possible death, which the former has to prevent.
-   _Heroes_:
    -   Angela Petrelli has the ability to see the future while dreaming. She also seems able to appear in other people's dreams, as she used this aspect of her power to wake Sylar and get him save Peter, even while she was trapped in her own mind.
    -   Peter Petrelli dreams the future constantly throughout the first season. He probably copied the power from his mother.
-   The very beginning of _Kamen Rider Decade_, Natsumi has a dream of a large rider war, with all the riders against the titular hero. Considering that her dream ends with all the Riders being killed by Decade, she is somewhat surprised and concerned when her friend Tsukasa suddenly finds a Transformation Trinket and turns into Decade...
-   _Legend Of William Tell_: Will has this occasionally. Possibly sent by Kalem, as it doesn't seem to have happened before the quest.
-   _The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power_: Miriel has terrifying visions of Númenor being destroyed by a huge wall of water and swallowed up by the Sundering Seas. Her own father is also plagued by them in his old age.
-   _Lost_: Locke dreams about finding the Beechcraft and Boone dying before those events happen (in fact, leading those events to happen.) Walt seems to have dreamed about fake undead Locke's return to the island.
-   _MacGyver (1985)_: "Silent World" involves Carrie Linden, a teacher for the deaf and one of Mac's old friends, having strange recurring nightmares of her and Mac. These nightmares hold the key to foiling a plot by ex-CIA agent David Crane that involves stealing parts of a voice-activated missile and then smuggling the reassembled missiles in the black market.
-   Alison and her daughters of _Medium_ usually get these dreams sent by the dead.
-   The titular character in the _Merlin (1998)_ series.
-   Morgana in _Merlin_ is a seer who has prophetic dreams.
-   _NCIS_. Gibbs dreams of Kate's death at the hands of Ari in "Reveille", foreshadowing its occurrence in "Twilight". There are a couple of similar dreams in that episode (Kate dreams of Gibbs' death, while Abby mentions a dream where DiNozzo was killed) but they're only Red Herrings.
    -   Abby never specified who died in her dream, only that there was blood on Tony's face. By the end of the episode, guess who has Kate's blood on his face?
-   _The Outer Limits (1995)_: In "Monster", Rachel Sanders has a dream which turns out to be prophetic in which she sees herself surrounded by the corpses of soldiers.
-   In _Power Rangers Wild Force_, Max has a recurring dream of the Megazord being defeated, and a strange voice telling him to "use the Spear of Pardolis", which later comes to pass (The "Spear" in question being a new Zord).
-   Played for laughs in _QI_, in the episode "Jargon"; Victoria Coren, making her debut on the show, admitted that she had a dream the night before, where she was sitting on the _QI_ panel and Stephen Fry asked her "Why was the March Hare so important to the Aztecs?" Before the end of the episode, thanks to some quick research from the _Qi_ elves, Stephen Fry was able to ask her that question and come up with a convincing answer.

-   _Rome_. In the lead up to his death, Julius Caesar's wife has an onimous dream but her husband brushes it off, saying that he's been having dark dreams for years.
-   The fifth season premiere of _Sisters_ began with newlywed second-oldest sister Teddy having recurring nightmares about her new husband being killed. By the episode's end, he was indeed dead, precisely as he'd been in one of her nightmares—via a Car Bomb planted by a drug lord he was going to testify against (he was a cop).
-   During the first two seasons of _Supernatural_, Sam has dreams (which later become predominantly visions) of people's horrible deaths. It turns out that the people in said dreams are usually in a situation that's connected to the Yellow-Eyed Demon.
-   _The Twilight Zone (1959)_: In "Twenty-Two", Liz Powell, who is in hospital for exhaustion, has a recurring nightmare in which she wakes up in her hospital room, accidentally breaks a glass of water and hears the sound of footsteps in the corridor. The footsteps belong to a nurse. Liz then takes an elevator down to the basement and arrives at the morgue, Room 22. The nurse comes out and says, "Room for one more, honey." Liz's doctor and her agent Barney Kamener try to convince her that it is nothing more than a delusion. After Liz is released from hospital, she is going to fly to Miami Beach for her next gig. However, she is startled when she is told that she will be flying on Flight 22. In her confusion, Liz bumps into a woman and breaks the vase that she is carrying, just as she broke the glass in her nightmare. As she prepares to board the plane, she notices that the stewardess is identical to the nurse. She says, "Room for one more, honey." Liz screams and races to the terminal. The plane takes off but explodes within seconds.
-   _Walker, Texas Ranger_: "Blood Diamonds" in the final season has Alex having a nightmare about Walker and Trivette being killed by Victor Drake and her, Sydney and Gage almost testing positive for Ebola virus after a diamond smuggler Trivette posed as to lure Drake into a trap gave it to a prostitute they interrogated after he was murdered by her pimp. Alex finally wakes up from her nightmare after Walker is killed by Drake, but he was revealed to be on the case from her dream that morning.
-   _The Walking Dead (2010)_: In the episode "Vatos", Jim (a member of the survivors' camp) goes a distance away from the survivors and starts digging holes. Understandably, this freaks the camp out, and they tie Jim to a tree to cool off before asking him why he was digging. Jim claims he had a dream that he couldn't remember, but he knew that he needed to dig the holes. It turns out that this was justified, because a number of zombies attack the camp at the end of the episode, and several people (both zombies and survivors alike) are killed. Jim comments at the end of the episode that he remembers why he dug the holes: they're graves.
-   _The Wild Wild West_: Near the beginning of the episode "The Night of the Man-Eating House", Artemus Gordon has a dream that lasts almost the entire episode. Near the end of the episode, he wakes up, and events start to follow what happened in his dream.
-   _The X-Files_:
    -   Mulder and Scully both do this while the other is abducted (in seasons 2 and 8, respectively), though it's hard to tell whether these were dreaming of things that were in the future or the present.
    -   It has also been speculated that Mulder's dream-within-a-dream in "The Sixth Extinction II: Amor Fati" of a little boy on a beach building a sand spaceship with him is prophetic of baby William.

    Mythology and Religion 

-   In _The Achilleid_, Thetis mentions a few nightmares she's had that serve as omens of Achilles death. They include swords piercing her womb, animals attacking her breasts, and even flashbacks of her journey to Tartarus that made Achilles nearly invincible.
-   The Book of Genesis portrays the interpretation of dreams as a sign of wisdom and closeness with God, which is why the holy Joseph can learn so much from the Pharaoh's dreams. Joseph also dreamed that he would rule his older brothers, which led them sell him into slavery, starting a chain of events that led to him becoming prime minister of Egypt and their only savior in a time of famine.
-   In _The Odyssey_, Penelope has a dream where a bunch of geese are killed. It is an allusion to the upcoming suitor slaughter by the disguised Odysseus.
-   In the _Mahabharata_, Karna, The Dragon, has a chilling dream about the upcoming civil war. He sees the protogonist Royal Prince Yuddhistir climb up a mountain of skulls and eat from the small cup of nectar on top of it. True to form, almost everyone who participates in the war dies and field is bathed with blood.
-   _Half's Saga_: The night before the banquet at King Asmund's, Half's warrior Innstein has ominous dreams about them being engulfed by flames, then sinking into deep water. He correctly guesses that Asmund plans to burn them to death in the banquet hall, but Half won't listen.

    Music 

-   The British music hall song "Daddy, Don't Go Down the Mine", also known in variant forms as "Dream of the Miner's Child" or "The Miner's Child", is about a little boy who saves his father's life by telling him about a prophetic dream he had of a disaster in the mine where his father works.
-   Probably what's going on Link Wray's classic blues song, "Fire and Brimstone", where the narrator dreams about a series of Portents Of Doom.
    
    I had a dream last night  
    I was layin' on my bed  
    And the whole world was standing still  
    And the moon was turning red.
    

    Podcasts 

-   Just prior to the story's beginning in _Jemjammer_, Jylliana begins having dreams of a shadow spreading across the sky.
-   _The Magnus Archives_: Antonio Blake's statement in "Dreamer", addressed directly to the late archivist Gertrude, tells of the strange dreams he has had of various people's futures, including hers. Specifically, of their deaths.

    Roleplay 

-   In _The Gamer's Alliance_, both Leon and Kaisa have dreams about things that will happen in the future. Leon tries to actively stop these bad visions from coming true, but Kaisa is more clueless because her dreams deal with even more obscure things than Leon's and don't necessary have as bad an aura around them.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Dungeons & Dragons_
    -   The free adventure "Fallen Angel" suggests it for use with a divinely inclined character such as a cleric.
    -   Discussed in the 3rd edition book "Heroes Of Horror". There's a chapter that, in addition to describing how to make dream sequences in general, suggests that dreams often predict the future in fantasy stories, but also notes that they are usually vague and metaphorical, rather than just showing exactly what will happen.
-   _Exalted_ has an inversion with the Yozi Sacheverell, the Abhorrent Prophet Unimagined. While he dreams, he sees everything BUT the future. Were he to wake, he would perfectly see the entirety of what is to come, locking the world into absolute predestination. Pretty much everyone agrees that this would be a Bad Thing, quite possibly even Sacheverell himself.
-   _Mage: The Awakening_ has the Dream merit which allows characters to receive prophetic dreams in the form of symbolic hints about coming dangers or how to overcome a problem. If they meditate on a subject prior to sleeping, they can specifically invoke such dreams. The Seers of the Throne are able to acquire an alternate form of the merit, where their dreams are specifically instructions from the Exarchs (although they have one faction which seeks out sleepers who receive apparently prophetic dreams, which they believe are more accurate ways of determining the Exarchs' will).
    -   Other games in the New World of Darkness have similar ways of dreaming the future. _Promethean: The Created_ has the Elpis Merit, which allows a Promethean to gain information from their dreams of the milestones necessary to complete the Pilgrimage.
    -   _Changeling: The Lost_ gives _all_ changelings the innate talent to have oracular dreams as part of their ties to the Wyrd; they just have to realize whether or not a dream really _is_ prophetic before they can act on it. Some Merits, however, allow them to refine this talent, to the point that they can dream of the past or gain beginner's knowledge of any skill or language from the collective unconscious.
    -   And finally, all Cahaliths in _Werewolf: The Forsaken_ have the innate talent of receiving visionary dreams straight from Luna herself. However, as Luna's mercurial as all hell, the dreams are often heavily cloaked in symbolism.

    Theatre 

-   In Dorothy L. Sayers' _The Emperor Constantine_:
    -   Coel has dreamed of Constantine.
    -   Constantine dreams of "In this sign you will conquer." He is pleased because it's very lacking in ambiguity.
-   Like in the _Book of Genesis_, Joseph of _Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat_ fame can predict the future by interpreting his own or other people's dreams.
-   In Dorothy L. Sayers' _Man Born to Be King_, Claudia's dream, which causes her to warn Pontius Pilate not to execute Jesus, turns out to be hearing over and over people reciting the Nicene or Apostolic Creed's lines about being crucified under Pontius Pilate.
-   In _Wicked_, Elphaba has a "dream just like a prophecy" that one day, Ozians will have a day that's all about her. What she doesn't know is that she's to become the Wicked Witch of the West, and that the Ozians are celebrating her death.

    Toys 

-   A major theme in _BIONICLE_'s Metru Nui arc was Vakama suffering from waking dreams that foretold the future but he was either too unsure of himself to trust them, misinterpreted their allegorical meaning or dismissed them because everyone else thought he was insane or "cross-wired". In the end, both the good and the bad came true. During the arc's second half, Vakama stopped seeing visions due to a venom mutation limiting his mental functions, which lead him astray into temporary villainy. Later story revealed there _was_ something off with him, Vakama had accidentally received the brain signals of Mata Nui, explaining how he could see the future.

    Video Games 

-   _Ace Combat: Assault Horizon_'s first mission is a Dream Sequence of William Bishop seeing his own death at the hands of a Russian plane with shark mouth markings in the skies over Miami. The mission is chock full of references to Markov, Trinity, Magic, and a hurricane, all things he did not know existed. Guess where one of the **last** missions takes place?
-   _Agarest Senki_: Leonhardt gets one in the beginning of the game itself. He then wakes up to reality and goes into two battles. In the third battle, he gets to meet the guy who killed him in his dreams, and it finally does him in. This is the event that starts off the plot.
-   The opening sequence of _Chrono Cross_ is Serge, Kid, and a third person infiltrating Fort Dragonia. He wakes up after reaching a plot-significant door. He doesn't go there until about halfway through Disc 1.
-   Many of the characters in the _Chzo Mythos_ tend to have this type of dream to foreshadow the eventual bloodbath.
-   _Devil Survivor 2_ _Record Breaker_ plays with this in the Triangulum Arc. All of the party members, except the Protagonist, begin to get haunted by dreams of fighting Arcturus and all dying at its hand. They wonder if it's a prophetic dream, except with the strange occurrence that Yamato is in their dream, but not the protagonist. Turns out it's not a prophetic dream, but a memory of what has happened in the _previous_ world, which reveals that the current world is their world regressed a second time. The first time around, the Triangulum attacked, but the Protagonist wasn't around and they all died, with Al Saiduq offering Yamato a deal to give the world and themselves another chance to fight Arcturus, this time with the Protagonist back.
-   Protagonist David from _Don't Escape: 4 Days To Survive_ dreams of some form of danger resulting in his death (Toxic gas breaking into his hideout; an extreme heat wave or snowstorm burning and freezing him, respectively; etc) and he considers those warnings, leading to preparing for the upcoming threat. Given the 'dream-dimensional/time-travelling' in the game, especially Awakening Mode, it's implied that these are memories from previous lifetimes.
-   Leliana from _Dragon Age: Origins_ says that the Maker spoke to her in a vision to help you fight the Blight. The Guardian in the Gauntlet, however, says that the Maker only spoke to Andraste and that Leliana lied about the visions to get attention. She denies this and claims the visions are real. Who you believe is up to you.
    -   What the Guardian says is part of his test, however, to determine if you are worthy of reaching The Urn of Sacred Ashes.
    -   The Archdemon sends a few dreams your way through the Darkspawn taint just to let you know that it can see you and sends a band of Shrieks to ambush you at camp after one of them.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_
    -   _Morrowind_:
        -   The game's opening cinematic is a prophetic dream the Nerevarine is having during his/her voyage to Vvardenfell, showing some of its landscapes and cities while the Daedric Prince Azura, who prophesied the coming of the Nerevarine, speaks about what is to come.
        -   If you get infected with vampirism, you'll be dreaming about becoming one before the three days required to finally turn into a vampire.
    -   At the start of _Oblivion_, Emperor Uriel Septim VII mentions having this. During one, he foresaw his own death and saw the Champion of Cyrodiil, which is why he is so trusting of you right away. These dreams started after he was rescued from Oblivion to end the Imperial Simulacrum, presumably as an effect of being in Oblivion itself for so long, and means he had been plagued by terrible nightmares of things to come for some time.
-   _Eternal Darkness_ opens on a sepia-tinted scene of heroine Alex Roivas trapped in a bedroom with a shotgun to mow down endlessly spawning zombies. Once enough time has passed, a cutscene of Alex waking up in her bed in Washington state at 3:33 AM plays.
-   "A war is coming, I've seen it in my dreams. Fires sweeping over the earth, bodies in the streets, cities turned to dust. Retaliation...". This being the _FEAR_ series those dreams are quite accurate.
-   In _Granblue Fantasy_, Arulumaya's 5★ uncap reveals that her dreams allow her to see her future visions more coherently, at the expense of draining her consciousness the longer she lingers in them. Of the two times we see of them, once when she was little and her dream vision allowed her to avoid a Doomed Hometown scenario and her most recent one which foretold what would be happening in the What Makes The Sky Blue event.
-   _Grey Area (2023)_: In Chapter 1, which is set in a Dream Land, some of the enemies resemble monsters Hailey will encounter later in the Grey Area, and the dream ends with her seeing the Grey Girl.
-   It's practically a tradition for the _Kingdom Hearts_ games to open up with protagonists having cryptic dreams (that become a lot clearer as the story progresses) that foreshadow major events in the story and (later on in the series) past and/or related games.
-   In _The Last Express_, Robert Cath dreams of his recently deceased friend Tyler Whitney, he lies in his bed, sits up, produces an egg from his mouth, and says "Why don't you make it sing?" It is an egg, the Firebird, that Kronos tells you to make sing in the end. Exposing it to music during the day will make it sing, but doing so at night will only bring death!
-   _The Legend of Zelda_:
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time_ opens on the protagonist, Link, tossing restlessly in bed, having a nightmare involving the destruction of Hyrule Castle Town, a settlement which he has not yet seen, at the hands of the Big Bad, Ganondorf, whom he has not yet met. After the first act of the game, Link returns to a ravaged Castle Town and is confronted by Ganondorf in the briefest of Curb Stomp Battles.
    -   In general, Princess Zelda is famous throughout Hyrule for having prophetic dreams. Another set of dreams sets off the plots of the _Oracle_ games.
-   At the end of the first episode of _Life Is Strange_, it was releaved that the dream Max had about the tornado near Arcadia Bay at the beginning was actually a dream about a tornado that will reach the city at the end of the week.
-   _Little Busters!_: In Kud's route, she has recurring bad dreams but can't tell what's going on in them. Later, when she sees her mother being executed on TV, she realises that's what her dreams were of.
-   A bit of an interesting take in _Mass Effect_ when Commander Shepard is touched by the Prothean Beacon. S/he starts having visions and nightmares of the Protheans being wiped out by the Reapers. But it's a perfect look at what's coming.
-   _Nameless_ has Red admit to having a strange dream on his route. He claims that he dreamt that the protagonist was kidnapped by an evil doll and he had to save her. It's originally considered nothing, since he's kind of a Cloud Cuckoolander. His dream is basically what the titular Nameless' route is all about.
-   In _Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time/Darkness_, the main character has this ability. Turns out that the main character and Grovyle the thief are really a human from the future and a Pokemon friend who's actually a good guy, respectively.
-   In an early stage of _Psychonauts_, when Razputin is exploring his own mind, the player can find a vault with a bizarre memory called "The world shall taste my eggs!" inside that makes very little sense. In fact, it's a metaphor for Coach Oleander's plan. The eggs represent the campers, which are being taken across the lake in the sea monster, and the chicks inside represent their brains (they even look a bit like brains) and are used to drive tanks (represented by teacups).
-   _Shade: Wrath of Angels_ has the Dream Intro\-slash-Justified Tutorial. You're in an ancient pyramid fighting mummies before getting outnumbered and abruptly waking up. You do enter one such pyramid later in the game, and considering the stage's tutorial is narrated by none other than the Angel of Faith herself, it's implied she's using her powers to guide you while discreetly hinting to you what's going to happen.
-   _Shin Megami Tensei III: Nocturne_ has a human dream about the Conception mere hours before it is triggered. He thinks aliens from Jupiter did it.
-   Upon starting up _Silent Hill 3_ for the first time, you begin the game In Medias Res with Heather exploring a dark and bloody amusement park, with the player needing to navigate a few short puzzles before she almost gets run over by a runaway rollercoaster, then wakes up. This nightmare doesn't get referenced again until two-thirds later in the game where Heather makes it to the real Lakeside Amusement Park, an encounter that is itself punctuated by Heather developing a sudden headache and remembering why she finds the place so familiar. The runaway rollercoaster also plays out, but fortunately, it's possible to have Heather survive this encounter, especially if you remember your mistake from the beginning of the game.
-   _Tales of Xillia 2_ opens with Ludger having a dream of him fighting against and being killed by a shadowy version of his older brother. This ends up having significance in two ways, as early on. he fights against a psychotic Alternate Self of his brother who takes on the same appearance as the one seen in his dream, then much later, towards the end of the game, has a duel with the real version of his brother at the same place he did in the dream.
-   Chapter 1 of _Taming Dreams_ ends with Mardek dreaming of Rohoph narrating the events in Chapter 2.
-   In _Guenevere_, if Guen is asocial on her wedding night, she'll dream about a mysterious figure that's been confirmed to be Mordred.
-   In the song of _Um Jammer Lammy_'s Stage 1 Dream Sequence, "I Am a Master, and You", Chop Chop Master Onion raps about fire, a baby, a plane, the "necessary \[wood-chopping\] skills to build a guitar", and hell/a tropical island, which is what Lammy will have to undergo in the following stages.
-   _Wild ARMs: Million Memories_ opens this way. Rudy dreams of the destruction of Filgaia and learns this happened because he betrayed everyone. Then a mysterious figure who looks suspiciously like him states this lies in his future so he has to recover his memories as soon as possible.

    Visual Novels 

-   In the first chapter of _Daughter for Dessert_, the protagonist dreams that Lainie comes back to him. They get started in bed, and Lainie says that she is only there to prepare him for someone else. He looks at the doorway, and sees...Amanda.
-   Zen from _Mystic Messenger_ has inexplicable psychic dreams during a couple routes and the second secret ending, and tries to circumvent them from happening in real life whenever they occur, because they never prophesize anything good.
-   The Road of Dreams is a metaphysical place in Tad Williams' _Memory Sorrow And Thorn_ series. Most people only touch on the Dream Road in their sleep, but particularly sensitive individuals may receive portentous dreams, and those familiar with the Art can enter it at will or using magical devices called Witnesses. Subverted in that, while the Road will reveal true things, the _interpretation_ of those things is often cryptic and misleading, and powerful minds can manipulate the dreams of others to further their goals. Further, it's possible to lose your way on the Road and/or meet up with things that are not... wholesome, with effects ranging from insanity to death.
-   _Date Warp_: Janet can sometimes dream about herself with pale skin and blue eyes. This foreshadows Nathaniel's bad end, where her soul gets stuck in Bianca's body.
-   _Galaxy Angel_: The third installment, _Eternal Lovers_, starts with Tact having a Nightmare Sequence where the Elsior and the Angel Wing are completely anihilated by an enemy fleet. During said nightmare he sees a strange device later revealed to be the Chrono Quake Bomb that could easily send the entire Galaxy into another catastrophe just like six centuries ago when the civilization collapsed.

    Web Animation 

-   In _Rise of the Mushroom Kingdom_, the first two parts turn out to be a prophetic dream by Luigi.

    Webcomics 

-   _Alienby Comics_: Riri has experinced dreams that are this crossed with Real Dreams are Weirder before big milestones in their transition:
-   _Amya_ begins chapter one with a dream sequence depicting 'The End' to come.
-   Having these is a part of Paollo's job in _City of Somnus_. The one he has on page three is foreshadowing for things that only happen chaptes later. He also gets one about a caterpillar being hungry for the sun, which definitely foreshadows something that happens mere pages afterwards, but it may still mean something more.
-   Karcharoth of _Cry 'Havoc'_ experiences these occasionally while unconscious.
-   _Demonseed Redux_: At the beginning of the webcomic Chico dreams of himself being a demon king with Dee as his pregnant angel queen. Soon afterwards Rhoda promises him the first part and Dee turns out to be an angel and much later also pregnant.
-   In _El Goonish Shive_, during the Sleepy Time storyline Elliot dreams of becoming a superhero, later he gets a superheroine spell. In this case, though, it's less that the dream is prophetic, and more that it reflects a desire on his part which is also reflected in the spell.
-   Jade from _Homestuck_ uses this trope to create stable time loops, and generally do weird time shit
    -   Technically anyone whose dreamself is on Prospit can see these visions, but Jade is the only one shown to use them extensively. They have a tendency to be vague as well.
    -   Derse dreamers get a bit of this too, though instead of prophetic visions they get the whisperings of the gods in the Furthest Ring, which tend to be prophetic in nature. And players with dead dream selves have the middleman cut out for them and dream directly of the Furthest Ring. Though in this case, it's true for both Prospit and Derse dreamers.
-   _Kaiten Mutenmaru_: _Sea of the Beginning_ begins with Mutenmaru having a dream where he fights the forces of the Abominable Crystal alongside his future companions.
-   _Narbonic_ did this every year of its run on the Sunday nearest December 31st, with a "Dave in Slumberland" strip, which in addition to being a _Little Nemo_ parody, gives a symbolic foreshadowing of the following year. It also ended on that day of the year, with a suggestion that the origin of the dreams was that Dave could subconciously create psychohistory algorithms.
-   In the _Penny and Aggie_ arc "There Are No Rules," Aggie is puzzled by her dream of being in love with a mall mannequin. After an argument with her ambiguously bisexual best friend Lisa about mixed signals, complicated by Aggie's feelings of discomfort over two other girlfriends making out in her presence, she makes up with Lisa at the mall and gives her a hug. While doing so, she recalls her prior history of Single-Target Sexuality with regard to men, having shared the same crush as a now out-gay friend. Then, still in mid-hug, she looks up at a suspiciously familiar mannequin..."Uh oh."
-   _Raven Wolf_: Yula's visions always come to him through dreams.
-   Gwynn from _Sluggy Freelance_ has one of these about Zoe being burned alive. Too bad she forgot about it until seven years later. Torg has also had prophetic dreams about the same event, and possibly an event following them.
-   _Stand Still, Stay Silent_:
    -   Getting visions of the future in one's dreams is part of the Icelandic magic package.
    -   Lalli got a variant of this when he noticed Reynir running around in the mage-exclusive dreamspace. While he technically just saw him in an existing location, the fact that Reynir later joins the crew unaware of his mage powers effectively makes the encounter this trope.
-   A standard for psychics in _Zap!_, except the title character is amnesiac who can't remember that he is a psychic, let alone how to interpret his prophetic dreams. So, while he gets some dreams that foreshadow the midpoint battle, he only understands what they mean during the battle, when it's too late to help.

    Web Original 

-   _Can You Spare a Quarter?_: The night before Graham and Jamie go to the city to mert the Department of Child Welfare, Jason has a bad dream about Jamie. That day, Jamie is caught by his father and almost raped to death.
-   On the _Dream SMP_, Fundy is revealed to have this ability, due to suffering from some form of insomnia which "links events in reality to his dreams".
-   In _Spes Phthisica_, dreams of the distant future are central.

    Web Videos 

-   _Left POOR Dead_: Tippy hears about their visit to Dr. Smedley's lab in one such dream
-   _Legendy Polskie_: _Operacja: Bazyliszek_ has the protagonist dream prophetically. Part of the dream comes true first thing in the morning, when he meets the girl he dreamt of.
-   In Stacy Plays' _Dogcraft_ Epawsode 183, "Sooezy's Revenge", Stacy briefly faints and has a vision of the pigs all across the Dogcraft world uniting at Sooezy the pig's final cry to rally against Butch. As she attempts to take Butch into custody, the pigs summon Pigzilla, a giant pig, to destroy the town of Dogcraft. When she regains consciousness, Stacy sees the pigs gathering outside the Dog Show, and decides to Screw Destiny by having her dogs kill Butch instead.
-   _The Twilight Chronicles_ has a Musical Episode which turns out to be All Just a Dream. Until things from the dream start happening verbatim...
-   Spoofed in _Vision of Escaflowne Abridged_, as Hitomi has recurring dreams of a mysterious "naked savior" with angel wings who rescues her from falling, whom she secretly wants to "make \[her\] a woman." When she falls down a canyon and her companion Van (whom she often bickers with) sprouts angel wings and saves her in a similar fashion, she drops this gem:
    
    **Hitomi:** Van!? _You're_ the mysterious naked savior?
    
    **Van:** Naked? You _wish_. My wings can come out just fine with my pants still _on_, thankyouverymuch.
    

    Western Animation 

-   In one episode of _Adventure Time_ Jake has a "croak dream" that foretells his death, but Finn manages to prevent it from coming true.
    -   Some of the elements of Finn's dream in "King Worm" showed up in later episodes, like the giant monster made of clones of Gunther the penguin (which shows up in the episode "Reign of Gunthers"), and a big-nosed version of himself Finn sees when he looks in a mirror (which resembles the alternate-reality Finn from "Finn the Human").
    -   The episode "The Lich" begins with Finn having a Premonition Dream that foretells the Lich emerging and coming for Billy. Turns out it's already started.
-   _American Dragon: Jake Long_: Sara gets horrifying visions of the future even while she's asleep.
-   _Avatar: The Last Airbender_:
    -   _Avatar: The Last Airbender_:
        -   Subverted when Aang and Katara take Sokka seriously when he warns them that he's had a dream that going into the market is a bad idea. Then he reveals that his dream revolved around "Food eats people!" and they dismiss it.
        -   While they were separated, Aang and Appa _shared_ a dream, except it was about the day they first met.
        -   Iroh had a dream about conquering Ba Sing Se in his youth. At the time, he thought it meant that he would conquer it for the Fire Nation, but he ended up _un_conquering it _from_ the Fire Nation.
        -   Zuko's Angst Coma features a dream where Azula and Iroh (in the form of dragons) each try to persuade him to follow them. The same thing happens in real life two episodes later, but without the dragons.
        -   After waking up from the dragon sequence, Zuko sees himself with Aang's head in a mirror. It's later discovered that he's a descendant of Avatar Roku. And then he joins the Avatar in the middle of Season 3.
        -   In the Foggy Swamp, Aang has a vision, although he's awake, of a young girl in a fancy dress with a flying boar. The girl turns out to be Toph Beifong, his earthbending teacher who he will soon meet, and the flying boar is the symbol of her family. Aang actually uses his vision to find her, so it is kind of a Self-Fulfilling Prophecy.
        -   Yue's father Arnook had a vision when his daughter was born in which he saw her becoming the Moon Spirit, which happens in the first season finale.
    -   _The Legend of Korra_: Korra meets Toph for the first time in the Foggy Swamp, where Aang first envisioned her, and there Toph helps Korra overcome her current problem.
-   Cheetor has a few psychic dreams over the course of _Beast Wars_. In _Beast Machines_, Optimus Primal has one of these, prophesizing of new characters who appear in the second season.
-   In _Code Lyoko_, Aelita starts having significant dreams once she's materialized in the real world (and thus can sleep and dream). At first, those are about memories of her past life slipping past her Laser-Guided Amnesia. In the penultimate episode, however, she gets a genuinely prophetic dream... of her father's death.
-   In the _Lite Sprites_ pilot, the sprites go off to find their lite wands after Prisma tells them about her dream where they did just that. Played with in that they get stuck a couple of times when they encounter something that wasn't in Prisma's dream (a fork in the path, an unexpected cave-in), but eventually cover everything.
-   Played with in _Mighty Mouse: The New Adventures_. The episode "Mighty's Wedlock Whimsy" has Mighty get second thoughts about marrying Pearl Pureheart because of a dream where Pearl becomes obese and unpleasant after their marriage and the villain the Cow is now his best friend, plus their son is implied to be fathered by the Cow. The subsequent episode "The Bride of Mighty Mouse" depicts a future where Mighty eventually does marry Pearl, but the only thing true to the dream from the previous episode is the Cow reforming, with Pearl still in shape and cordial to Mighty and their son unambiguously shown to be Mighty's flesh and blood child due to resembling an infant version of Mighty and inheriting his dad's powers.
-   _Molly of Denali_: In "Wise Raven and Old Crow," Molly has a dream where she travels on a river, which foretells the Mabrays going on a river trip to the village.
-   _Samurai Jack_: In the episode "Jack and the Warrior Woman", Aku reveals that he had a nightmare about Jack finding a time portal to undo the Bad Future before he realized that it was a premonition, so he took precautions to ensure that Jack's mission would fail.
-   In _The Smurfs (1981)_ episode "Gargamel's Miss-Fortune", Dreamy mentions dreaming of things like "smurfmobiles, smurfovision, and smurfominiums" at the start of the episode, which over time lead to a few Continuity Nods in "The Smurfbox Derby", "Handy's Window Vision", and "Skyscraper Smurfs".
-   _Star Wars: The Clone Wars_:
    -   While the Jedi are a given, it's revealed in the Order 66 arc that clones had recurring nightmares of being forced to kill all the Jedi long before Order 66 was given, nightmares that they'd often quickly forget after waking up. It's a side effect of their mind control biochips.
    -   Jedi Master Pong Krell eventually reveals that he’s been having mysterious visions of the Jedi losing the Clone Wars and the Republic falling to a new Sith Order. So he's decided to sabotage the Republic's hold on Umbara before defecting to the Separatists, hoping to become a Sith and save his own skin from the coming purge of the Jedi.
-   _Star Wars Resistance_: "Bibo" reveals that Eila, one of the two child refugees from Tehar, has this power. Any dream that she has over and over again always comes true.

    Real Life 

-   Some people have experienced dreams which have shown to have precognitive qualities, as the events in their dreams seem to come true. It actually turns out that according to science, the subconscious will try to imagine probable futures, and some of these probabilities occasionally make appearances in our dreams.
-   A few nights before he was assassinated, Abraham Lincoln claimed to have dreamed that people gathered around his coffin because he had been shot.
-   Mary Shelley was inspired to write _Frankenstein_ when she dreamt of a pale student who brought a hideous corpse to life.
-   Elias Howe once dreamed that cannibals were preparing to cook him. When he watched their spears, he noticed that each head had a small hole through the shaft. This inspired him to the technique he would eventually use to invent the sewing machine.
-   Film director James Cameron once saw a metallic, skeletal monster with a rictus smile and burning red eyes, dragging itself across the floor with kitchen knives during a fever dream. It inspired him to the titular character of _The Terminator_.
-   Friedrich August Kekulé discovered the seemingly impossible chemical structure of benzene when he had a dream of a group of snakes swallowing their tail.
-   Similarly, Dmitri Mendeleyev saw the Periodic Table of Elements in his dreams.
-   Scientist James D. Watson once dreamt of a series of spiral staircases. This gave him the idea for the structure of DNA.
-   Stephenie Meyer, author of "_The Twilight Saga_", was inspired to write her successful book series when she dreamt of a vampire and a young girl discussing their mutual attraction.
-   Paul McCartney dreamt the melody of "Yesterday" from _Help!_ one night, and for a long while he thought it was just a vague memory of some song he heard when he was younger. But it turned out he completely thought it up himself. Since then, the song has become one of the most regularly covered hit singles of all time!
    -   At first, the melody, while it was waiting for words, had the dream-logic title _Scrambled Eggs_; He got this from a dream too...
    -   Another example is the song "Let It Be", which was also inspired by a dream Paul had about his mother, who passed away when he was young.
-   Robert Louis Stevenson dreamed the plot for _The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde_.
    -   This appears to be common for authors. Charles Dickens recounted that while writing and plotting novels by day, the characters got into his dreams and spoke to him by night, offering critical comment on the plot and characterisation and helpful advice as to how it should proceed.
-   Hergé author of _Tintin_, was plagued by nightmares in which he was chased by a white skeleton until the entire surroundings turned white. To cure himself from these recurring dreams he drew an album in which Tintin went to snowy landscapes: "_Tintin in Tibet_". Not only did his nightmares stop after he completed the album: the book itself is regarded as one of his masterpieces.
-   Vladek, the father of Art Spiegelman, was forced to work in a prisoner of war camp before World War II. While he was there he dreamed his dead grandfather told him he would be free on the Jewish holiday "parshas truma". As it turned out, months later, he was indeed allowed to leave the camp on that very day! Art Spiegelman included this anecdote in his autobiographical graphic novel "_Maus_"
-   Belgian painter René Magritte once woke up from a dream and saw a bird in cage in his room. Half awake he thought he saw an egg inside the cage. This inspired him to paint "Elective Affinities", in which an egg is seen inside a cage.
-   Brazilian actor and movie director José Mojica Marins also got the idea for his famous horror movie character _Coffin Joe_ by dreaming about it:
    
    _In a dream I saw a figure dragging me to a cemetery. Soon he left me in front of a headstone, there were two dates of my birth and my death. People at home were very frightened, called a priest because they thought I was possessed. I woke up screaming, and at that time decided to do a movie unlike anything I had done. He was born at that moment the character would become a legend: Coffin Joe. The character began to take shape in my mind and in my life. The cemetery gave me the name, completed the costume of Joe the cover of voodoo and black hat, which was the symbol of a classic brand of cigarettes. He would be a mortician._
    
-   H. R. Giger, best known for creating the xenomorph _aliens_ in the Alien franchise, suffered from intense and horrible nightmares. Virtually all of his paintings and drawings are depictions and reflections of the _night terrors_ he had endured.
    -   Equally disturbing artist Zdzisław Beksiński claimed his paintings were inspired by his dreams.
-   Jimi Hendrix claimed "Purple Haze" from _Are You Experienced_ was inspired by a dream he had walking on the bottom of the ocean.
-   The imagery of Björk's "Hyperballad" from _Post_, where she imagines living on top of a mountain and sliding down from the cliff, was inspired by a dream.
-   Keith Richards imagined the riff of "Satisfaction" (_Out of Our Heads_) and "Rough Justice" (_A Bigger Bang_) in a dream.
-   Buena Vista Social Club member Compay Segundo claimed he woke up one morning with the melody of "Chan Chan" in his head. Thus he wrote it down and recorded it.
-   Frank Zappa claimed to have dreamt the lyrics to "Who Are The Brain Police?" from _Freak Out!_. The instrumental track "Moggio" from _The Man from Utopia_ was inspired by a dream his daughter once had about a tiny little father living under the pillow.
-   The song "TVC 15" from David Bowie's album _Station to Station_ was inspired by a drug hallucination from Iggy Pop in which he imagined the TV set was swallowing his girlfriend.
-   The track "Dream Sequence #1" from _The Ideal Crash_ by dEUS was inspired by the fact that lead singer Tom Barman dreamt the chords.
-   One of the survivors of the Indonesian Boxing Day Tsunami absolutely did not want to go on vacation with his family because he had a vivid dream about being in a tsunami. He had previously dreamed of being in a car accident and soon after was almost killed in a rollover, which wound up helping him because his metal implants were easy to identify in X-Rays. In the _Dateline: I Survived_ special he claims he still has prophetic dreams, which he chooses to ignore. Another survivor in the same special claimed she had a recurring nightmare that she was in a tsunami; when the real thing hit she was surprised at how calm she was.
-   There was a book aimed at young readers in the early 90's called _Amazing True Stories_ that contained a particularly eerie real-life example of this trope: In 1915, there was a woman who dreamed about being on a sinking ship. In the dream, she was not concerned about her own safety, but that of her husband's. She approached an employee of the ship, who had blond hair and brown eyes, to ask about her husband and the guy said he helped him get into a lifeboat. At the time, her husband was on the Lusitania, which of course was torpedoed. He survived the incident and returned home to his wife, and when she recounted the dream she had about him, he told her that a man with blond hair and brown eyes helped him escape.
-   Albert Einstein came up with the Theory of Relativity when he had a dream about a farmer electrocuting cows that were huddled up at an electric fence. Einstein said that the cows all fell at the same time, while the farmer (who was standing on the other side of the field) said that it looked like they jumped back one by one from where he was standing. That was how he put together the idea that things look different depending on where you're standing because of the light it takes to reach your eyes.
-   In 2004 a nine-year-old Association Football fan named Billy Harris dreamed that Middlesbrough would win the English League Cup 2-1, and Boudewijn Zenden would score the winning goal. No prizes for guessing the actual outcome of that match.
-   When _Casualties of War_ was being made, John C. Reilly was bumped up from an extra to a small role (this was his earliest film), and since said role was filming later in the shoot, he was told to go home until it was time. Some time after, he dreamed that he got a call from his agent telling him that he'd been bumped up to a larger role. Then the woman he was staying with (whom he would later marry) woke him up from the dream, telling him there was a phone call for him. Guess what it was...

___