_"Many might go to heaven with half the labor they go to hell."_

Many video games have Multiple Endings, and among those endings is often at least one where things go... less than favorably compared to the others. The general rule, though, is that these bad endings are a sign that the player screwed up somewhere down the line. Maybe they picked the wrong dialogue option at a crucial moment, or got to the end of the game without collecting enough MacGuffins. Either way, the game usually lets you know right then and there that you did it all wrong and it's time to try again.

Then there's the bad endings that you have to put an extra amount of effort into getting, often separate from what you have to do to avoid it. In the most extreme cases, they can actually be _harder_ to get than any of the good endings. It might involve beating a boss that you're not supposed to beat, or making counter-intuitive decisions. Whatever the case is, many of these types of endings won't be found by the average player unless they're actively _trying_ to get them.

Sometimes it's a Deconstruction or Subversion of Earn Your Happy Ending, in that the developers may intend to show that just because you worked hard and killed the Super Boss, does not mean that you've actually made things better; in fact, you might have actually made things WORSE. If the game has a Karma Meter, then the effort needed to get the worst ending(s) may be the game actively trying to stop you from doing horrible things. This can also be done so that most players will earn the better or best endings by default, preventing the hair-pulling scenario of a player getting a bad ending and either wondering why or regretting not picking up an important key item about 15 hours ago in a non-revisitable dungeon.

Compare Do Well, But Not Perfect and Unintentionally Unwinnable. See also Earn Your Fun, Non Standard Game Over, It's a Wonderful Failure, and Sudden Downer Ending. This is the exact opposite of the Golden Ending. Getting one of these by _accident_ generally qualifies as an Epic Fail. This trope is often an inversion of Path of Most Resistance.

If there is an achievement for doing this, that can overlap with Achievement Mockery.

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

    Action Games 

-   In _Mafia III_, it is possible to achieve an I Can Rule Alone ending by having the protagonist Lincoln Clay finish the game with all of his underbosses dead by his hand and seize their power for himself, allowing him to become the uncontested king of the underworld in New Bordeaux. But ultimately it all comes to nothing, as his adoptive uncle, Father James, comes to see Lincoln's slaying of his underbosses as a sign that he is every bit as bad as the antagonist, Sal Marcano, and so he arranges to assassinate him with a car bomb. In order to get this ending, the player needs to actively have Lincoln make business decisions that piss off all of his underbosses, as he needs a legitimate reason to pick a fight with them, and then complete an extra mission where Lincoln actually kills them off for each of them.
-   The endings in _Necrovision_ get progressively darker as you play on higher difficulties. On easy difficulty, Simon actually escapes back to the real world. On medium difficulty, he allows himself to be turned into a demon general in exchange for 100 years of peace to give mankind time to prepare for the apocalypse<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . On hard difficulty, he kills the Big Bad and becomes the new King of Hell, ultimately deciding he no longer has anything in common with mere mortals and looking forward to taking over the world.
-   _Savant: Ascent_ added one in the void update. After beating the new Samurai boss, he would simply laugh at you, grab the Alchemist, and throw him into the tower, crashing him into the basement and presumably killing him.
-   While none of the endings in _Spec Ops: The Line_ could be considered good, three of them come from the game's epilogue. The best ending happens if you surrender to the rescue squad, while the other two happen if you try to kill them instead. One happens if you die, and the worst of them happens if you manage to kill them all.
-   _WizOrb_ has the worst ending, obtained by purchasing the Crown, a _10,000_ gold item (when other items are only in the triple digits at the most). Buying the crown causes Cyrus to become overcome with greed and abandon his quest to form his own kingdom.
-   _Zone of the Enders_ has a hidden ending that requires the player to completely fail every SOS mission in the game (no survivors and all buildings destroyed), something that players typically have to go out of their way to accomplish. Once the condition has been fulfilled, when you approach the endgame, a plot-critical character will abruptly die as a result of the space colony's failing infrastructure. ADA will waste few words saying that said plot-critical character died because of your actions.

    Action-Adventure Games 

-   Collect all the hidden memories in _Aquaria_, and you get to see Naija taken away from her happy family life by her mother, who comes out of absolutely nowhere to Mind Rape and kidnap her daughter.
-   Though the bad ending of _Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow_ is pretty easy to get, it unlocks Julius Mode, which is basically an extension of the bad ending revolving around Julius, Yoko, and Alucard teaming up to kill Soma after he becomes Dracula. Julius Mode is _tough as nuts_ to complete.
-   In _Castlevania 64_ and its Updated Re-release _Castlevania: Legacy of Darkness_, it's possible to get a bad ending in Reinhardt and Carrie's scenarios if you take too many days and nights to reach Dracula's Keep (basically if you use more than twelve Sun or Moon cards). You'll have to fight a vampirized Vincent, won't unlock the true final boss, and Malus will plot to marry Carrie and get revenge. Thing is, once you know what you're doing, getting this bad ending is harder than it sounds and it actually takes more effort than just getting the standard good ending. You also fight Renon if you spend more than 30,000 gold pieces, but even this is difficult to do and doesn't affect the ending.
-   The worst ending of _Castlevania: Harmony of Dissonance_ (where both the Love Interest and Rival Turned Evil die) takes a lot more effort to get than the "normal" ending, since it requires entering the final boss room in Castle B, which only opens if you have all of Dracula's body parts. (However, the same room is also the key to obtaining the Golden Ending.) The final boss room in Castle A, which leads to the Normal Ending, can be entered the moment you reach it.
-   In _Deus Ex: Invisible War_, all four endings have various shades of grey, but it's pretty clear that the Denton and Illuminati endings are on the lighter side, while the Templar and Omar endings are _very_ dark indeed. The Dentons just ask for a Fetch Quest — the fastest one to obtain and the only one that can be done on a 100% Pacifist Run. The Illuminati and the Templars, however, demand that you kill both the Denton brothers — and JC Denton turns out to be _the single most powerful enemy in the game._ And the Omar want you to go _Gotta Kill 'Em All_ — and the Templars and Illuminati brought a _lot_ of Elite Mooks to the party. The Illuminati create a global surveillance state, the Templars re-enact The Spanish Inquisition, and the Omar basically let all life on Earth besides themselves die.
-   In _Luigi's Mansion_, the mansion Luigi obtains at the end depends on how much money you obtained during the game; the more money you have, the better the mansion. The worst possible one is a mere tent, but it is even harder to obtain than the best mansion, as you deliberately have to avoid collecting _any_ kind of money other than the one treasure Luigi automatically collects to get it. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   A literal example in _MediEvil 2_, in which collecting all of the chalices results in the bleak Cliffhanger ending where Sir Dan and his love interest go back in time, only to arrive in the exact place and time that the Big Bad of the first game reached his final form. Cue giant clown dragon attempting to eat them both.
-   _Metroid_: Getting the two No Frills endings requires you to beat the game in over five hours. In a normal playthrough, Samus raises her fist in victory, but the armor stays put. Doing this with Armorless Samus will have her back toward you and her arm thrown over her face in shame.
-   In the _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fangame _Super Filly Adventure_, getting the worst ending requires you to see all possible dialogues for every character and have your computer clock set to a time between 11 pm and 6 am when you play the game.
-   There's one ending in _Way of the Samurai 3_ where everyone dies. To get it, you have to… kill everyone. This is a lot harder than it sounds because killing certain people before others will trigger other endings, so you have to kill everyone in a specific order to get this one.
-   Of _Hollow Knight_'s five endings, the worst two are _especially_ hard or counterintuitive to get.
    -   "Sealed Siblings" is triggered by getting all the criteria for the "Dream No More" ending, but not Dream Nailing the Hollow Knight once Hornet pins it down. If you wait long enough or attack the Hollow Knight with your regular nail, it shakes Hornet off, knocks her out, and continues attacking you, until you defeat it and absorb the Infection. The ending is almost identical to the regular ending... except now Hornet is trapped inside the Black Egg with you, serving as the Dreamer keeping the Egg sealed.
    -   "Embrace the Void" is triggered by beating the Pantheon of Hallownest, a Boss Rush of _every single boss in the game_ at their hardest difficulty, that you have to beat without dying _once_. After beating Absolute Radiance, the Knight becomes one with the Void and transforms into the Shade Lord, who proceeds to rip Absolute Radiance's face open and _tear her to pieces_ until she explodes into Essence. It then starts infesting Godhome, inky black goop leaking out of the clouds as the Shade Lord falls down from the clouds and grabs the Godseeker. Cut to the Godseeker's physical body in the Junk Pit, and that same black substance is pouring out of every orifice, before it takes over the Godseeker's entire body and _explodes_ in a mass of writhing black tendrils as it starts to spread throughout Hallownest. Hornet is then seen watching, stunned, as the Radiance's infection shrivels up and dies, before she's suddenly interrupted by the Hollow Knight crawling out of the Black Egg. It's not clear what happens after this, but whatever it's going to be, it _cannot_ be good.
    -   Averted with the fact that completing an additional hidden sidequest gets you the Delicate Flower ending instead, where the Shade doesn't infest Hallownest but Hornet and the Hollow Knight still survive.

    Adventure Games 

-   Getting the absolute worst ending in _Conquests of the Longbow_, where King Richard finds Robin guilty of all his crimes and has him hanged, requires a _lot_ of effort, as getting every Character Witness to hate you enough without outright getting yourself killed is tricky, seeing as this is a Sierra game. This also involves going out of your way to avoid getting any treasure or other points, and letting Marian die at the _one_ point where the game doesn't immediately kill you for it.
-   In _Crypt Worlds_, you can awaken an Eldritch Abomination called The Chaos God that destroys the world and everybody inside it. Awakening him requires you to pay an archaeologist, wait a few days for the archaeologist to finish the dig, enter the archaeological ruins, and collect just one Tear of God. Repeat 3 times; there are 3 Tears of God. Then you have to go to Hell itself and meet the cultists.
-   _Detroit: Become Human_: The worst possible ending (excluding the one where the city is rendered uninhabitable by a dirty bomb) requires all three Player Characters to be killed off before "Battle of Detroit", which is especially hard to do in Connor's case given his repeated use of a Body Backup Drive throughout the game; Connor essentially has to fail at finding Jericho so thoroughly that he's decommissioned by Cyberlife. This causes a Non Standard Game Over where the android uprising collapses, androids are reprogrammed with fail-safes to prevent any future deviants, and Elijah Kamski gives an interview about the dangers of his creation.
-   In _The Dig_, near the end, if you go grab a life crystal (after losing all that were on you) before proceeding with the natural course of events, you can use it at a certain point to eventually get the game's somewhat secret bad ending.
-   In _Heavy Rain_, you get the ultimate Achievement "Perfect Crime" for bringing about the situation where the good guys all perish and The Bad Guy Wins — which is accordingly hard (although the worst possible ending is even worse than the ending that gives you an achievement). To achieve the worst possible ending, you must let a robber murder an innocent man as early as Chapter 3, remove all of Manfred’s fingerprints from his store, let Lauren die in the lake, kill all of Kramer’s men as well as Kramer himself (Kramer’s son is a copycat Origami Killer that he was protecting), Ethan must be arrested and not freed, and Shaun, Madison, and Norman must die. In the end, Ethan is successfully framed for the murders of the Origami Killer (including that of his own son) and hangs himself in prison, Norman is either completely dead or has had his consciousness uploaded to his ARI glasses to torment Lt. Blake, and Madison has news reporters complaining about having to be at her grave. The Origami Killer, meanwhile, becomes a complete Karma Houdini and is free to continue his work.
-   The original _Leisure Suit Larry_ has a time limit of six real-world hours; if Larry hasn't gotten laid by the end of the night, he pulls out a gun and shoots himself. However, due to Anti-Frustration Features, getting this ending is harder than it sounds. The timer doesn't tick down while a menu is open, and if the player doesn't interact with the game for a few minutes, it displays a popup menu asking if they're still there. This means that to get the suicide ending, the player has to sit at the game manually clicking Continue every few minutes but doing little else.
-   _Police Quest 2: The Vengeance_ concludes in a climactic shootout between Sonny Bonds and his arch-nemesis Jessie Bains, in which Sonny shoots Jessie dead. Afterwards, Sonny is temporarily suspended until the police review board rules his shooting justified as self-defense… _unless_ you fire on Bains first, which you have a window of less than two seconds to do before Bains start shooting. In this case, Sonny shooting Bains dead is ruled as unjustified, and Sonny is arrested for murder.
-   The evil ending of _A Tale of Two Kingdoms_ is rather obvious if you think about it: rather than confront the princess with the murder evidence, confront the murderer and offer to join forces. However, he won't _believe_ you unless your Honor score is zero, and doing _that_ is rather difficult, requiring you to kill an NPC in a small timeframe in a hard-to-reach optional sidequest.
-   _Trail of Anguish_ has only one way to die (in contrast with almost every other Adventure Games Live game, which has dozens). It is sufficiently well-hidden that the game congratulates the player for finding it.
-   The darkest ending in the online game _Where We Remain_ can only be achieved on the highest difficulty setting, and you need to continue to explore the caves even after you've found the girl you're looking for to get the power you need for it.
-   _the white chamber_: Getting the worst ending requires your Karma Meter to be at zero when you complete the game. Since you start the game with one free karma point and there's only _one_ specific action that will take that point away from you and five other actions that give you more karma points instead (including one that can be gained at the _starting questionnaire!_), this is trickier than it might sound. The good news is that you can always look at the chalkboard to check if you're on the right track.
    -   Slightly less tricky is the joke ending that ends with everyone that Sarah killed revealing that they were just playing a prank on her — and then everyone dies anyway, which requires a maxed-out Karma Meter.
-   In _Zork: Grand Inquisitor_, there is a game of Strip Rock-Paper-Scissors and a way to see the opponent's hand. To win takes around 3 turns. If you intentionally try to lose, it turns out that you have around 20 pieces of clothing to lose. You then get a bad ending where your character becomes a fish merchant.

    Beat 'em Ups 

-   _Action Doom 2: Urban Brawl_ has in total five regular endings, two good and three bad, with the two good endings split between two routes the player can take. One leads to the Big Bad at the Phylex corporation, who reveals that the protagonist's daughter is actually his own, conceived from an affair, but nevertheless ending with the protagonist rescuing his daughter and killing the Big Bad. The other has the protagonist get sidetracked after he's nearly killed in the subway, getting rescued by a woman whose son has also gone missing, taking on that case and confronting a pedophile cannibal, ending with the protagonist never finding his daughter and left to assume his savior's son is dead, but starting a new family with her. However, there's one ending you get by going through _both_ paths, starting with the kidnapper, rescuing a police officer during the search, and getting a tip leading to Phylex… and it's a bad one. With just how much carnage the protagonist has wrought across the entirety of the game, his daughter doesn't see her father — she sees a violent sociopath, and she shoots him to protect her real father. The protagonist promptly commits suicide in the hospital by overdosing on painkillers, knowing that the one thing he had left in his life doesn't want him as a part of hers anymore.
-   _Armored Warriors_: After beating the final boss, the invasion against Raia stops and the four heroes decide to work together in order to help rebuild the planet. If you manage to beat the game without using any continues (something _pretty dang hard_ in a Beat'em Up) the characters find out that the invasion was actually planned by the Earth military to leave Raia vulnerable and taking over. The main characters are disgusted by this and quit the military (in Justice's case, he is discharged from the Raian army) and each of them goes their own way. While each character has a fairly happy individual ending where they pursue a new life, the fact remains that Raia is basically in terrible state and now under control of Earth.
-   _Streets of Rage_:
    -   The bad ending of the first game could only be achieved through 2-player mode, and requires both of them to follow an esoteric list of steps.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  The surviving player will then take control of Mr. X's criminal enterprise, going against everything they fought for, while the game sarcastically congratulates them for it. This ending comes back in the fan-game _Streets of Rage Remake_ on the SOR1 route, but is even trickier as you _can't_ get it with a CPU ally<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> .
    -   Failing to save the real chief in _Streets of Rage 3_ has the player deviate from the main storyline to stop the imposter chief, culminating in an extra boss fight against Shiva, who is _even harder_ than the final boss fight for the good ending, after which the main characters arrive at a dead end as to Mr. X's whereabouts.

    Fighting Games 

-   In the story mode of _BlazBlue_, several of the "Bad Endings" (not that the canon endings, or even the gag reels, are always full of rainbows and sunshine) require the player to do some very specific or unintuitive things (for example, to get Tsubaki's, you have to finish off Carl, Jin, _and_ Noel with either her Limit Break or her Finishing Move, causing her to go blind from overusing her weapon).

-   In _Rival Schools_'s sequel _Project Justice_, the team of Edge, Akira, and Gan must fight the Brainwashed and Crazy Daigo. By finishing said match with certain moves, you get an ending where Daigo _collapses dead_ and the last scene has Edge and Gan swearing revenge as, beside the body, Akira cries. Note that unlike most examples here, getting this ending is a _requirement_ to unlock Demon Hyo (unlocking him requires completing all scenarios in story mode).
-   The absolute worst _X-Men: Next Dimension_ Story mode sees Jean Grey turning into the dreaded Dark Phoenix after Bastion callously murders her beloved Cyclops. Dark Phoenix is commonly considered one of the Marvel Universe's most dire threats and more than capable of wiping out all life as we know it, so obviously the universe is plain screwed. How do you get this ending? By beating Bastion as Jean without taking any damage. Additionally, you also need to have lost in the prior fight as Magneto in order to have Jean challenge Bastion.

    First-Person Shooters 

-   In _Call of Duty: Black Ops II_, to get either of the bad endings, you must either kill Menendez at the final level, or fail to rescue and protect Chloe. You must also have fallen for Menendez's trick in "Suffer with Me" by shooting the hostage (ie Alex Mason) in the head. Failing to protect Chloe and stopping Menendez's virus can be accomplished in various ways, to simply not rescuing Chloe when she gets kidnapped, to getting Farid killed in one level which prevents him from protecting Chloe in the next, to not completing the Strike Force missions needed to get the Chinese to aid the protagonists in their time of need and having Menendez kill Briggs outright. For good measure you can sacrifice Harper which is necessary in getting the good ending but render his sacrifice moot by not rescuing Chloe and getting Farid killed for nothing.
-   In _Call of Juarez: The Cartel_, the good ending is the default ending. To even have the option to pick the bad ending where you choose to kill your partners, thinking it's a necessary Shoot the Dog sacrifice but which turns out to be playing into the hands of the main villains, you need to score a certain level of character points by completing optional sub-objectives. Each playable character has a separate bad ending, and you need to unlock each one separately.

    Hack and Slash 

-   The first ending of _Drakengard_ is bittersweet, but all the rest go from depressing to horrifying to worse-than-the-end-of-the-world. Each is progressively more difficult to unlock, too, with the final one requiring the player to collect all 65 weapons (many of which have Guide Dang It!\-level requirements) and then beat an exceedingly hard Unexpected Gameplay Change Final Boss battle. And while initially it is about as close to a Joke Ending as you can expect from _Drakengard_ (with the player characters being on the ass end of the joke), it spawns _Nier_'s canon, which has its own series of bad endings that get progressively worse.

    Platform Games 

-   _Ancient Powers_ plays this trope unusually. What may be the best ending of the game is the easiest to get; just leave after talking to Kalish, avoiding the first boss battle and accepting her death. The next ending is a bit ambiguous, as you get the soul key so you can sacrifice yourself to bring back the girl, but in the process, you unleashed the evil demon Harold. If you defeat Harold, it is too late to bring the girl back, so you might as well not have done anything at all.
-   In _Braid_, if you take the time to collect the eight secret stars, which are extremely difficult to get <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , you get to see the ending where instead of merely having the princess run away from you, you make her _explode_. Given that the most common theory about the princess is that she's a metaphor for the atomic bomb, this is likely intended to show how pursuing something obsessively is not necessarily a good thing.
-   _Clarence's Big Chance_'s worst ending requires Clarence to go out of his way to ruin his date in every possible way, some of which requires figuring out what your date likes so you don't risk getting the answer right by accident during the final quiz segment. His date is then repulsed by Clarence and leaves him. Clarence is Driven to Suicide and jumps in a lake, but his Super Not-Drowning Skills kick in. He meets a group of people like him at the bottom of the lake and decides to spend the rest of his days with them.
-   The reward for finishing _Deadlight_ on Nightmare difficulty is the alternative Downer Ending instead of the normal Bittersweet Ending.
-   _Do It For Me_: The "Blind Love" ending, where the protagonist is fully in love with the girlfriend and happily joins her in killing their classmates, requires you to collect all hearts and kill all Wooffles. Because getting certain hearts or Wooffles will cause certain platforms to disappear, this route is the most puzzle-oriented and takes the most effort to complete. By contrast, the Golden Ending "Awake" just requires you to avoid all hearts and Wooffles, which is significantly easier.
-   In _DuckTales_, there's a bad ending that you will see by having _exactly_ zero dollars' worth of treasure at the end of the game, which requires you to spend everything you get just by playing, and there are only so many ways to spend it (and obviously you can't spend money if you don't have enough, so you have to collect _exactly_ the right amount). <sup>So how do you get it?&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   In _DuckTales 2_, the bad ending is again accomplished by having no money at the end of the game, but because you can purchase items, it's a bit more manageable. Still requires you to spend every last dime, though. Flintheart Glomgold ends up finding the treasure of McDuck that Scrooge was looking for.
-   _Grey Area (2023)_: The bad ending is obtained by getting all of the secret items and completing a Brutal Bonus Level after Hailey accidentally destroys the anchor holding reality together. It starts off identical to the normal ending, but gets interrupted by a Jump Scare when Hailey's mom suddenly gains a Nightmare Face, leaving you with no real plot resolution (though it does prove that the game is not all a dream, like the normal ending implies, as it shows that her actions in the other worlds have an impact on reality)..
-   In the Famicom version of _Kid Icarus_, you can have the end where Palutena turns Pit into a monster if you defeat Medusa without any life or arrow upgrades, no special weapons, and with a minimalist score. This, however, has been cut in the NES version.
-   _Mega Man X3_ has two endings, one slightly worse than the other: either Zero steps in to save X from Virus Sigma after Kaiser Sigma is defeated and stands with him in the ending shot, or the reformed Dr. Doppler sacrifices himself to destroy Virus Sigma, with X being alone in the ending. Which ending you get depends on whether or not Zero lost all of his health while playing as him throughout the game, which isn't hard to affect. However, if you follow the secret path to get the Z-Saber for X (requiring you kill Vile Mk. II with his weakness by finding him early via one of the game's hidden teleporters, then swap to Zero in the second Doppler stage to kill a new mid-boss that appears, even though Zero normally can't fight bosses), then you're unavoidably locked into the bad ending, since Zero will end up being injured after this point and hands the Z-Saber to X.
-   Collecting all the secret items in _Pause Ahead_ unlocks a Brutal Bonus Level you can access instead of fighting the final boss. Completing this area gives an ending that's far more depressing than the regular one, as it leads to a computerized screen where you learn that you've done exactly what you were supposed to do and were terminated, as opposed to escaping when you beat the final boss.
-   _Pinobee_'s worst ending, where the Fairy disassembles Pinobee, is among the most difficult to get, as it requires you to be a jerk in _every_ level.
-   _Pizza Tower_ ranks you based on your completion percentage after beating the Final Boss and getting to the credits. Finishing the game with under 50% completion has Peppino cheerily say "YOU SUCK!" with both thumbs up. It's actually pretty tough to get under 50% accidentally; you basically have to skip playing some levels, get a D grade on every level you do play, not find any secret rooms, and actively avoid collecting pick-ups beyond the bare minimum needed to unlock the boss fights (for the record, the absolute lowest percentage you could complete the game with is 37%). On top of this, you also have to intentionally take longer than two hours to do this, or the ending will be overridden by the "YOU ARE QUICK AS HELL!" ending regardless of managing to score below 50%.
-   _SpongeBob SquarePants Featuring Nicktoons: Globs of Doom_ has a secret ending only accessible through a rather oblique method: a second controller must be connected during the first phase of the final boss fight against Globulous Maximus, which will allow a second player to control the Evil Syndicate's robot in the subsequent battle between the heroes and the Evil Syndicate. The player-controlled Evil Syndicate (losing to the CPU-controlled Syndicate merely results in the battle restarting, and the first player will always play as the heroes) must then win the battle to get an alternate ending where they succeed in capturing Globulous in a glass jar, and are implied to use him in their evil schemes. In addition, the ending can only be achieved on a save file that hasn't already been completed, as completing the battle again will not play the ending a second time.
-   Downplayed example in the _Super Mario Galaxy_ games. In some purple coin missions, Gearmo appears at the end of the level to award the player with a star if they succeeded in collecting 100 purple coins, and he has different dialogue depending on how many purple coins were collected. If you don't collect any purple coins, Gearmo will be impressed, noting that you must have done it on purpose, but you still lose a life.
-   _Tadpole Treble_ grades you on each level based on your score, ranging from F to S. Actually getting an F-rank can often be more difficult than getting the S-rank. Not only do you have to avoid all the bubbles, sparkles, and cymbals that give you points, but you have to intentionally get hit every so often to disrupt your score streak (increased by avoiding harmful obstacles), balancing taking hits with getting food so you stay alive long enough to survive through the end of the level. Your reward for getting the F-rank in any given level is the developer commentary for that level and a unique version of the end-of-level jingle, poorly sung by the developers.
-   In _Wandersong_, it's possible to sing the first three Overseer songs at their respective Spirit World entrances before the Bard is supposed to learn them, skipping the first three acts of the game entirely. However, there's a catch if you do so: Skipping the chapters means that the Bard never helps anybody in the first three acts, nor do they really get to know Miriam. The result is a slightly different story wherein the story grinds to a halt after Audrey Redheart slays the Nightmare King, and without enough people to help them, the game ends on a Downer Ending wherein the Bard and Miriam can do nothing but sit there helplessly as the universe ends before the game smash-cuts to silent credits. It's worth pointing out that there is no in-game indication that this ending is even possible to get in the first place, meaning the only way to achieve it is to know about its existence ahead of time and then get it on purpose.
-   _Wario Land: Super Mario Land 3_ has an ending that varies depending on how many coins you end up with. You need to avoid collecting coins and treasures at all costs to get the worst possible house for Wario, the birdhouse.

    Puzzle Games 

-   The normal ending in _a pet shop after dark_ has you successfully free Dark/Dream from her imprisonment by the pet shop's Owner. But there's a secret ending which requires you to be persistent in re-opening the game and bothering her, doing a Waiting Puzzle several times, and finally deleting the "END" file and saying you want to reset the game. Doing so and getting to the end again will unlock a second ending where Dark, freed again, berates you for taking away her freedom just so you could play the game again and leaves with a message of hatred towards you.
-   In _Disease hidden object_, the endings are sequential, and the good ending is a prerequisite for the worst one. The good ending requires finding hidden dolls in each of the areas and solving an extremely simple puzzle. The worst ending however requires doing that, and also finding a different hidden object in each area and solving a significantly harder final puzzle. Your reward for doing this is that the person you went to all the trouble to save sneaks away while you are asleep and goes on a murder rampage, killing anyone who is even remotely related to the people who imprisoned him, and then thanks you, the player for giving him the opportunity to do so.
-   Some _Grow_ games have a secret "wrong" ending only available by doing everything in an unintuitive manner.
    -   _Galves Adventure_, made by the same _Grow_ creator, has a "devil" ending so obscure that many players don't even realize it exists. To get this ending, you have to notice that one inconspicuous pebble is clickable and deliberately pick two specific "wrong" choice sequences for the red ball in a row to be able to hit the lion with it. If you do all of this right, you can then make a choice near the end of the game that would otherwise kill you.
-   In _Haunt the House_, getting the worst ending where you frighten the guests so badly that all of them commit suicide is almost as difficult as getting the best ending where they all just run out of the house, because even if you get the mood up to maximum terrifying levels and scare the living bejeezus out of everyone you see, the guests can easily choose to safely dash out of the front door instead of jumping out of the nearest window if you scare them in the wrong locations, depriving you of the "Everybody Dies" Ending.
-   In _Meteos_, the only way to get the worst ending in Multi-Path is to allow an incredibly easy opponent to survive for a certain amount of time before defeat. This is complicated by several factors. Firstly, like all story mode battles, it's a Timed Mission, so your actual window in which you can defeat the enemy for this ending is a mere 30 seconds. Secondly, the game mechanics allow a hopelessly overwhelmed player to stick around for a _very_ long time before finally succumbing. And finally, the enemy you face here might just plain die without you doing anything to it.
-   _Puyo Puyo 2_ features a bad ending where Arle is unceremoniously booted out of the tower she's trying to climb. To do so, you must beat all opponents in any floor except the last one, and at the same time not gain enough EXP (points) to move to the next floor. That being said, the game gives you an extra, secret opponent in each floor as a last chance to get the required EXP points, and if you still don't have enough EXP after beating the secret opponent, you get the aforementioned bad ending. Getting this ending is significantly harder in the earlier floors such as the first one, where you only need 30000 points and you have 8 opponents; if you somehow manage to not get 30000 points when even the simple act of manually dropping Puyos gives you points and the rounds where you lose give you EXP, the game "rewards" you with the True Final Boss!
-   _Puzzle Quest_: You have to release the necromancer at the beginning of the game, then at the end, follow the path the sword directs. At every turn in the path, you'll lose one of your good-aligned allies if you choose to go forward<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . The ending implies that you (the player) will eventually become just as much of a threat as Lord Bane.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   _Riven_ has nine possible endings. Eight of them are bad to some degree or another, and each of them requires doing something you've been specifically warned not to do, to the point that they're nearly impossible to get by accident. To whit:
    -   Three of them involve opening the Star Fissure and signalling Atrus early. At the beginning of the game, you are given the two explicit goals of capturing Gehn and rescuing Catherine before you open the Star Fissure. One of those endings requires reloading an earlier save to access (since you have to figure out the password to the Star Fissure cover _before_ you officially learn it).
    -   Four of them involve trapping yourself in the prison book, which you are explicitly told is a prison book. Two of these endings require doing so after you have already successfully tricked Gehn into trapping himself in it.
    -   The eighth bad ending involves _not_ trapping yourself in the prison book at the one time the game prompts you to do so. Even then, you have to do so three times before Gehn gets fed up and shoots you. The second time, he warns you that while he's letting you go, he won't be so forgiving in the future if you don't cooperate.
-   _The Talos Principle_ has earn your moderate ending. There are 3 endings, from easiest to most difficult, they are _Eternal Life_, _Free Will_, and _Blessed Messenger_. Narratively, _Eternal Life_ is the worst ending, and _Free Will_ is the best. However, these endings do not depend on previous choices, but finding the right trigger for them, so you can just reload the last save and find all endings in a single playthrough.
-   _There Was the Moon_ has a sidequest that involves collecting colored cubes scattered throughout the game, significantly more difficult than the puzzles themselves due to how well-hidden some of them are and the otherwise lax difficulty of the game. Collecting them all allows you to visit a dying woman and have her reforge them into a ceremonial dagger, unlocking the option to refuse the pact offered by the alien butterfly at the end of the game. This results in a Downer Ending where (after fruitlessly throwing the dagger) the player is subjected to a Fate Worse than Death, and is informed that their action has resulted in the impending extinction of humanity.

    Racing Games 

-   In _Super Mario Kart_, _Mario Kart 64_ and _Mario Kart: Super Circuit_, finishing a Grand Prix in 4th or worse and not ending up on the podium is surprisingly difficult, as you cannot progress to the next race unless you finish 4th or better. To ensure you don't end up on the podium, you need to finish in exactly 4th place as much as possible; which can be tricky since the margin for error is slim on higher difficulties, and you might fail to qualify for the next race. In the first and last-mentioned games in particular, failing to qualify results in the loss of a life, and if you fail to qualify too many times? That's it, you're toast.

    Rail Shooters 

-   This is a requirement in order to get Rank 10: _Gangster_ in _Virtua Cop 2_. Unlike with all the above ranks, in order to achieve rank 10, you need to just shoot as many civilians as possible until you reach an amount that will override the rank you would normally get from all the points you gain from shooting criminals. Taking the Hostage Spirit-Link into account, This technique requires you to make at least one or more continues until you reach a part in the selected scenario where many civilians appear at once. In _Big Chase!_ this is the first car chase sequence.
-   _House of the Dead_:
    -   In the first game, getting the bad ending where Sophie returns as a zombie is even harder than getting the good ending where she's miraculously alive. This is doubly true on the PC version. The bad ending only occurs if your number of continues used ends in a 0 (for most people, this means they _can't die at all_ to get the bad ending), while you get the good ending for scoring more than 62,000 points by the end of the game (which is fairly easy to do). What _really_ makes the bad ending fall into this is that the good ending overrides the bad ending; thus, to see the bad ending, you need less than 62,000 points _and_ to have a number of continues ending in 0.
    -   In the third game, the bad ending in which Daniel is zombified requires both a specific path through the game and for you to use less than 3 credits during your playthrough. Fail to accomplish both of these criteria and you get any of the other three endings, in which he survives.
-   _Star Fox_ has a bad ending of sorts that requires you to unlock the Out of This Dimension area. Once unlocked, you then have to complete the stage and fight a slot machine boss at the end that can take anywhere from 30 seconds to several minutes depending on your luck.

    Roguelike Games 

-   Playing as a Chaos Knight in _Ancient Domains of Mystery_ is a trial in and of itself, since most of the Non Player Characters will be unfriendly or hostile to your character and not committing enough atrocities to stay Chaotic will strip your character of all their powers and constantly damage them. The "reward" for completing the main quest and closing the Chaos Gate? Since it was the source of your very essence, you immediately wink out of existence. The ending in question is dubbed "Most stupid follower of ChAoS". Getting any other ending as the Chaos Knight also requires temporarily becoming Neutral or Lawful to gather the needed artifacts, and ends with you replacing the Big Bad.
-   _The Binding of Isaac_'s standard ending isn't particularly happy (or at least it is at first, until it's revealed that it was All Just a Dream, and Mom is still hunting down Isaac), but some of the endings you get for progressing even further in the game get even worse. Some of the items you obtain after beating The Womb come with cutscenes like finding a rope in a chest and hanging yourself with it, transforming into a demon, and having Mom's hand bursting out of the chest and dragging Isaac into it. Beating Sheol, the Cathedral, or The Chest each comes with their own unique bad endings. _Rebirth_ ups the number of bad things that happens to Isaac when he obtains an item from the chest in The Womb, and adds two more unique bad endings (both requiring the clearing of even more Bonus Dungeons and Optional Bosses than the previous endings). Its expansion, _Afterbirth_, adds two more. The expansion to _that_, _Afterbirth+_, adds another two — including the Final Ending revealing that nothing in the game actually happened — it was all Isaac's Dying Dream. _Repentance_ finally, **finally** averts this, with the true final ending where it's heavily implied that Isaac sheds his guilt and sins and ascends into Heaven, making it a Bittersweet Ending at _worst_.
    -   _Repentance_ also has one of the most glaring examples in the fight against Mother. To get to this ending, you must go through all the alternate routes, collecting the first knife piece in Downpour/Dross, which requires using a particular flame that turns you into a ghost so you can go get it inside a mirror, and the second in Mines/Ashpit which requires pressing three switches in the level, taking you to a special place where you are stripped of all your equipment and have to go through a chase sequence. All of this to enter the secret boss fight with Mom's Heart at the end of Mausoleum/Gehena, which opens the door to The Corpse, where you get to finally reach Mother. Your prize is to watch an ending that doesn't involve the death of Isaac, yet manages to be one of the most depressing endings in the game.
-   Getting the bad ending in _One Step From Eden_ requires you to kill every boss you've encountered. While sparing bosses rewards you with healing and has them help out in various ways (including a one-time revive), killing them only gives one artifact. But merely killing all the bosses causes you to loop the game after clearing one extra world and the final boss. The ending requires you to also kill the Shopkeeper, one of the hardest enemies in the game and makes money worthless if you do. Going for the genocide route puts you at an inherent disadvantage if you're not good at avoiding most attacks, and in the end you are rewarded with Eden's destruction.

    Role-Playing Games 

-   In _The Age of Decadence_, in order to get the worst ending, you have to kill all 3 lords, destroy Maadoran, and awaken Agatoth.
-   Getting the "Nobody" title (which is essentially the closest thing the game has to a bad ending) in _Book of Mages: The Dark Times_ requires you to finish the game while never earning any other title along the way. This is harder than it sounds, as titles are awarded for extremely trivial achievements, including _picking dialogue options_ at some points. It's basically impossible to stumble onto by chance; you basically have to be deliberately trying to earn it. <sup>To earn the title…&nbsp;</sup> 
-   _BoxxyQuest: The Gathering Storm_ has a secret ending that, in addition to being Guide Dang It!, requires you to go extremely far out of your way. First, you have to get practically right up to the True Final Boss’ doorstep, then _turn around_ and leave the dungeon, and backtrack all the way to Bell Cave. (The only hint that something new might be there is that it previously held one of the final dungeon's "memory weeds".) Where the weed was, there’s now a pathway leading to a door, which only opens if Catie is at Level 70 or higher. (For reference, you can easily reach this point by Level 60.) Inside, you're subjected to a trivia quiz about the game, with questions about things that no player can be expected to memorize without replaying the game (for instance, one question asks how many Overtaken you can fight in the game), and _then_ you have to fight a brutally hard, deliberately unfair Superboss. After going through _all of that_, what is your reward? A Gainax Ending and Downer Ending that leaves the main party stranded on a lifeless, greyscale version of Earth.

-   Zig-Zagged in _Cyberpunk 2077_, as the Downer Ending is the only one available by default while the good ones are unlocked by performing certain questlines which you're likely to complete just by playing the game normally. However, you have to actively _try_ to lock yourself into a situation where failure is the only option.
    -   Locking yourself out of the Golden Ending with Panam requires you to either abandon one of her quests or rat her out to Saul. Bonus points for abandoning "Riders on the Storm", which leaves Saul dead and the fate of their clan uncertain.
    -   Locking yourself out of Rogue's ending requires you to either fail "Chippin' In" (which is again only possible through deliberate action on the player's part or glitches), or be a jerk to Johnny at the end of it and cause him to not ask for help reconciling with her.
    -   Later patches added in failure conditions for By-the-Book Cop River Ward's storyline. If V declines to help him rescue his nephew from the Serial Killer's hideout, he ends up getting shredded by the automated defenses, with both his sister and potentially Johnny giving you a What the Hell, Hero?. If V doesn't put in enough effort to find clues, it's possible for the two to go to the wrong farm entirely and arrive too late to save Randy as a result. River's embittered by the whole situation and ends up getting arrested after a bar fight, begging V to bail him out during the end credits.
-   _Deltarune_ has a secret equivalent of _Undertale_'s Genocide Route in Chapter 2, but it's much more difficult to undertake than the one in _Undertale_, requiring specific character interactions, significant backtracking, buying and equipping a special (very expensive) item, and only using one attack repeatedly in every battle, on top of being a tedious grind and causing the otherwise mostly whimsical and goofy story to do a 180 into Nightmare Fuel territory and end on a very sour note wherein the day is saved but one major character is heavily implied to be dead and another major character (the one who killed them at the player's insistence) is irreparably scarred for life by the whole experience.
-   _Divinity: Original Sin II_: Most endings are a mixed bag, as they hinge on what you do with the power of Divinity in the middle of an apocalyptic crisis. If you refuse to do _anything_ with it, the Greater-Scope Villain shows up, takes it for himself, and uses it to complete his conquest, cackling in glee at your foolishness.
-   The "Wicked Eyes and Wicked Hearts" quest of _Dragon Age: Inquisition_ requires you to find a resolution to the conflict between Orlesian Empress Celene, her cousin Gaspard who is warring against her for the throne, and her elven spymaster Briala who is trying to win some power for the oppressed elves of Orlais. Forcing all three to reconcile their differences instead of choosing one side or the other is the most difficult ending to obtain, because it requires you to collect implicating evidence against all three of them _and_ have sufficient approval with the court. However, the epilogue to the game implies that once you have beaten the Big Bad, they just go right back to feuding, so you have solved nothing.
    -   Conversely in a Non Standard Game Over, getting yourself kicked out of the ball during "Wicked Eyes and Wicked Hearts" requires you to obtain enough disapproval through wrong dialogue choices and actions that your approval reaches 0. Depending on your character's race and/or class, this is easier than others by virtue of certain Inquisitors starting off with less approval than others.
-   _Dyztopia: Post-Human RPG_: The Evil Runi route is the most depressing outcome, since Gemini will convince Runi to mind wipe herself. As a result, Gemini becomes the Final Boss and kills all party members except Akira. Then Zazz turns out to have survived, and he kills Akira by flinging them from the top floor of Zetacorp, allowing him to enact his human supremacist dystopia and take over the world. This ending also has very strict requirements, since it requires the player to never use activity points and to reject Runi's friendship. Additionally, not using activity points means most characters will have a very low link level, making them slightly weaker than on a normal playthrough. Finally, Gemini is a much tougher boss than Zazz/Aquarius and her own Faceless counterpart due to her ability to gain more actions the more she's hit.
-   The default ending of _Elden Ring_ is relatively upbeat, with a few other endings being considered even better for the world. The two endings which are completely bad requires one to actively go out of their way to achieve them. Their checklists both include following specific NPC questlines, going through a Brutal Bonus Level, and either completing an extensive scavenger hunt comprising all of the Lands Between, or beating a weaker version of a Super Boss along with solving a puzzle with some lateral thinking all within an optional room in said level. The quest-givers in both cases are also completely honest about what their endings mean, and in the case of one, your companion Melina will outright beg you to stop and argue that the world is half-full and doesn't deserve what you're going to do to it. If you talk to Shabriri or the Dung Eater and are unaware that they want very bad things for the Lands Between, you're either not paying attention to anything or your game has both the sound _and_ subtitles turned off.
-   The Seeking Mr. Eaten's Name quest in _Fallen London_ requires the player to spend a ludicrous amount of resources for no reward at all, while utterly destroying and ruining their character repeatedly, even as the game itself repeatedly tells them to stop. The final step of the quest even requires the player to make their character account unusable. Forever. Oh, and the quest has Multiple Endings, so if you want to see all of them, you'll need to either compare notes with another Seeker or create a new character.
    -   When Seeking Mr. Eaten's Name, at the nightmare version of Mrs. Plenty's Carnival, you have the option to spend 50 Fate<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  for a ride ABOVE THE NEATH. The game warns (in very plain terms) that there's no interesting flavour text for you to read, your character will die, and you'll spend the Fate for nothing. And people have done it. In an aversion, it does not actually make your character unusable, but anyone doing this will be rewarded with the unique quality Scorched by the Sun.
    -   _Sunless Sea_, set in the same universe, has the Carnelian Exile's unlockable Ambition, which involves running all over the Neath in order to unlock a special way East. Doing so doesn't render the game unplayable or delete your save file, but it _does_ drop all your stats except Hearts to 1 at the moment of victory, take away all your money, destroy your Will, get rid of your mansion and heirlooms, and remove your Scion quality, significantly worsening your next captain's starting position to being only marginally better than that of a completely new save file. Subverted as the actual ending turns out to be not all that bad — as mentioned, it _does_ gimp your following character terribly, but your Captain gets to meet Salt as an equal.
    -   There may also have been plans for an even more self-destructive Ambition, known simply as "NORTH" and requiring at least one point of Unaccountably Peckish (implying a possible connection with Seeking Mr. Eaten's Name, or at least Mr. Eaten), but only placeholders for it appear to exist in the game's current design.
-   _Fallout: New Vegas_'s _Dead Money_ DLC has a well-hidden Non Standard Game Over ending where the Courier helps Elijah take over the Mojave with the Cloud and Holograms. This requires you to be Vilified with the NCR, to have thoroughly questioned Veronica about Elijah while traveling with her, and to pick a specific set of dialogue options with Elijah in the final conversation.
    -   Also getting Dog's ending counts. You have to complete the DLC while interacting with the Super Mutant in ways that bond the "Dog" personality to the player, then resolve its internal conflict in Dog's favor. For this, you are _rewarded_ with the story of a rampaging Super Mutant who kills and eats innocent people, because it's in his nature.
    -   Dean Domino's survival, which requires a player submits to his massive and unreasonable ego throughout the DLC. Downplayed in that he's little more than a devious, arrogant Jerkass. But his ending makes it clear that he doesn't stop being that. He'll probably kill someone on occasion, but that's not particularly outrageous for the _Fallout_ universe.
    -   Even without going the Omnicidal Maniac route, making the Mojave the worst possible place to live requires some effort: sabotaging rockets to irradiate an area, dump some more radioactive materials on a Caesar's Legion base, leave your brain behind in _Old World Blues_, finish _Lonesome Road_ by nuking everyone, kill everyone in the Zion Valley (including Memetic Badass Joshua Graham), kill everyone in _Dead Money_ (meaning no one will assist you in the end fight), raze a town full of friendly Super Mutants to the ground, get a pardon from the Legion, do their questline killing Caesar on the operating board pretending that it's not your fault so that Lanius gets promoted, and generally kill many minor factions. Many of these are legitimately impressive feats.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   _Final Fantasy_:
    -   Minor example in the Festival of the Hunt in _Final Fantasy IX_. Zidane, Freya, Vivi, and a number of irrelevant NPCs compete in a monster hunt, with points scored for each victory. Zidane (who the player controls) winning nets you a decent pile of money for that point in the game, Freya winning nets you a nice equippable accessory, and Vivi winning nets you a nearly-worthless Tetra Master card. The only way for Vivi to win is if you get into a fight with Zaghnol (which sees Freya join the fight) and both Zidane and Freya are KO'd (Freya cannot be KO'd otherwise, and she is the default victor if Zidane doesn't score enough points or is KO'd anywhere else).
    -   In _Final Fantasy X-2_, it is possible to get the horrible ending of Shuyin winning and destroying Spira — you just have to wait half an hour to let Vegnagun fire.
        -   The Mi'ihen mystery in itself has Multiple Endings which hinges on which character is blamed for the various incidents. Rin is the hardest culprit to pin, necessitating a contrived process. This is treated as a bad ending because this doesn't give the player an Episode Complete (for 100% Completion) and Rin becomes a Karma Houdini anyway.
    -   _Final Fantasy XIII-2_ already has a pretty depressing ending, but the unlockable "paradox endings" are even worse, ranging from Noel and Serah dying in an impossible battle against an army of Atlases, to inadvertently causing a Time Crash even worse than the one Caius was trying to pull off. And to top it off? Collecting all 160 fragments (which includes completing all 12 of the paradox endings) unlocks a bonus scene where Caius Ballad reveals that you've played right into his hands and that your actions have brought an end to all possible timelines. Oops.
-   In _Fuga: Melodies of Steel_, achieving the worst ending where every child dies is arguably even more difficult than getting the Golden Ending where Everybody Lives. The Soul Cannon lets you win boss fights in one shot, but using it actually weakens you in the long run, as it gradually deprives you of people to man your turrets as well as their special skills — so while you can still beat bosses, actually _getting to them_ becomes much more difficult, with the last few chapters leaving you with not enough people to even use all of your turrets.
-   The Conquest ending of _Hyperdimension Neptunia mk2_ requires going out of your way to trigger<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , but involves brutally difficult boss fights against nearly all of your party members as Nepgear kills them to power up the Magic Sword. None of the death scenes are pleasant, either. After all this heartache, you face down the Big Bad, but don't actually fight them, as Nepgear has just achieved their goals for them and irreparably damaged the world in the process; see Cruel Twist Ending. While considered painful to play through on every level, getting this ending does reward you with a Game-Breaker weapon for the main character on New Game Plus.
-   In _Legend of Mana_, there are 3 main story arcs you can follow, and completing one opens up the final plotline leading to the ending. There is the Jumi storyline, the Dragon storyline, and the Fairies storyline. The Jumi storyline begins when you enter the very first town. The Dragon storyline begins when you enter a certain level for the first time. The Fairy storyline requires you to beat the initial quest in one level, then go back in and do more stuff, and the same is required for subsequent quests in the line, and a few of them can be lost forever on a run. And in order of how happy the endings are, the Jumi plotline is easily the happiest ending, the Dragon storyline is bittersweet, and the Fairy storyline is mostly bitter, which can even be an "Everybody Dies" Ending if you make the right (wrong?) choices.
-   _Mass Effect_:
    -   Due to the series' heavy reliance on the gimmick of an Old Save Bonus, this is mostly averted in the first game. However, you can plant seeds for a worse _Mass Effect 2_ by failing to get Urdnot Wrex to stand down at Virmir and weaken the galaxy's chances against the Reapers in _Mass Effect 3_ by destroying the last rachni queen.
    -   In _Mass Effect 2_, you have to put at least as much effort into getting Shepard and the rest of the crew killed during the Suicide Mission as into getting the Golden Ending where Everybody Lives. As long as you bring two loyal squadmates with you to the final battle, they and Shepard will survive even if _every other_ squadmate dies in action.
        -   In the same game, the Non Standard Game Over where Morinth melds with and kills you requires going quite a bit out of your way. First, you'll need a very high Paragon or Renegade score for the Last-Second Ending Choice that makes Morinth available, and _then_ you have to choose to kill her mother Samara, who's done nothing but help you, in favor of the Serial Killer who just tried to mind-control and kill you. Then, after she survives the Suicide Mission, she'll offer sex to Shepard. Accept, despite knowing full well that Morinth is an Ardat-Yakshi and so kills her melding partners, and you will be treated to a brief cutscene of the inevitable result.
    -   _Mass Effect 3_ escalates in this regard. Getting the lowest possible War Asset score requires planning and precision to make sure there are no loose ends. And then there's the "N7 Special Ops Team" asset, obtained through promoting characters in multiplayer (75 per promotion). Unless you're on the PC version of the game, there is no way to remove the asset, giving you a permanent boost in the war effort for better or worse.
        -   There's a specific bad ending that requires work: rendering the krogan race extinct, leaving Tuchanka inhabited by _rachni_.
    -   The trilogy as a whole requires a very specific sequence of game choices to arrive at the worst possible Pyrrhic Victory over the Reapers (where Joker is pretty much the only major character to survive), as outlined here.
-   In _Monster Girl Quest_, if you don't complete the quest for a particular area, that area will be destroyed during The War Sequence in the third chapter. Most quests are optional, so it's possible to complete the game with most of the major settlements destroyed and many characters dead. This is extremely difficult because the game has a finite number of battles, so skipping sidequests means being underlevelled.
-   _Mother: Cognitive Dissonance_:
    -   There is a joke ending that isn't considered canon (relative to the rest of the series) by its creator. In the original version, the player had to find an out-of-place secret doorway and then fight an extremely hard Superboss. In newer versions, this was changed; now the player must either win the Hopeless Boss Fight in Chapter 3 (believed to be impossible) or defeat the Final Boss with brute strength (which actually is impossible within canon, but is possible, although brutally difficult, in this fangame).
    -   Another ending can be unlocked by using the secret Sing command during the Final Boss, which leads to a True Final Boss. Defeating this True Final Boss results in the Paradox ending, which apparently causes a Time Crash, leaving the fate of the universe and the protagonists ambiguous (every other available ending, including the joke ending, at least says that the world was definitely saved; here, you don't even get that).
-   A good chunk of the Non Standard Game Over endings of _NieR: Automata_ require you to go out of your way to do the exact opposite of the very obvious thing you're supposed to be doing, like killing Adam to save 9S, only to turn around and walk away from the dying 9S who you came all the way down to the Copied City to rescue in the first place.
-   The Ascended version of the Swarm that Walks path in _Pathfinder: Wrath of the Righteous_. Unlocking the swarm path alone not only requires to take several actions that multiple NP Cs beg you not to do (unleashing Vescavors on Drezen, interrogating Xanthir and deciding to preserve his notes), but for a good part of the game pursuing it only serves to cripple your progression for most of the game, since it requires sacrificing chunks of your army, conducting horrifying experiments that turn most of your party against you, and weakening you personally as you carry your first attempts at becoming a swarm on yourself. To also pursue the Ascended version of the ending you have to pursue all the needed research and acquire the needed components before completing Iz, as that is the point where your path becomes locked and every friendly NPC abandons you. Your "reward" is an ending where your Swarm, infused with godly power, extinguishes all life on Golarion and starts devouring away at reality itself with nobody able to stop it.
-   The Accomplice Ending in _Persona 4: Golden_ requires you to not only rise Adachi's Social Link to as high as possible before a specific date(specifically Rank 6 by November 5; the remaining ranks are done in story scenes if you get that far), but also choose Adachi as the culprit, which is the correct choice for all the good endings... and then choose to turn around and _protect him_, which even Adachi can't believe how stupid you are for doing that.
-   Possible in _Pillars of Eternity_. What's unusual is that _Pillars of Eternity II: Deadfire_ will let you select this as your backstory in lieu of an Old Save Bonus. The description sums it up as having made every wrong decision you could that wouldn't prevent you from finishing the first game (and recommends that this scenario isn't for beginners).
-   _Planescape: Torment_ handles death in an... unusual fashion; every time your player character dies, he comes back to life (both in-story and in terms of gameplay). There are, however, a few ways to get a Game Over, but most require doing something **stupid**. Some _Torment_ fans make a point of finding everyone. Some of the possible ways to lose the game for real:
    -   Anger the Lady of Pain twice. (The first time, she just sends you to an extradimensional maze.) This one can also cause an Unintentionally Unwinnable situation, depending on playstyle — when the main character angers her, she will execute retribution only when he leaves the current map, making it entirely possible to create a doomed savefile where you can't exit the zone you're in.
    -   Agree to become king of the Dead Nations, which is extraordinarily unwise as the appointment is, well, for life. It is implied that the binding is magical as well. This route in particular requires getting enough favor from the Dead Nations' denizens to convince a certain NPC to lead you to the throne.
    -   Threaten Lothar, a magical priest of godlike power.
    -   Get Marissa the medusa to remove the veil that prevents her from petrifying you. And piss her off to the point she will actually _want_ to do so.
    -   Get Coaxmetal the iron golem to build you a weapon that will kill even an immortal, then use it on yourself in the final dungeon. (It won't work anywhere else.)
    -   Fail to prevent one of your other incarnations from forcing you to merge with it.
    -   Kill someone who has information that is essential to your quest (there are several such characters).
    -   Get a specific memory from a past life where you proved that someone didn't exist, then confront the final boss in the last dungeon and will yourself out of existence.
-   In _Puella Magi Madoka Magica Portable_, there are ways of turning the main characters into witches in certain routes. Most notable is Homura's witch Homulilly, as you have to lose against Walpurgisnacht in order to see a screenshot of her. Also serves as a little foreshadowing for a redesigned Homulilly's proper debut in _The Rebellion Story_. It's also worth doing it on Mami and Kyoko's routes to see what their witches look like.
-   _Shin Megami Tensei III: Nocturne_ has this in the True Demon Ending for the Maniax/International version. Your reward for finishing a Brutal Bonus Dungeon, killing off every Fiend, and beating the True Final Boss? A Class Z Apocalypse How. The designers made this even more clear when in the sequel, _Shin Megami Tensei IV_, they made an ending that was pretty much the exact same thing and canonically called it the **bad** ending.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   The only way to get the bad ending in _Superdimension Neptune VS Sega Hard Girls_ is to defeat the Time Eater the first time it shows up, which results in the time getting reset again, but this time IF didn't go back to the Library, thus the After the End world she lives in never gets fixed. This is practically impossible to do on your first run due to limited grinding spots and sheer power difference, so it's limited to a New Game Plus run.
-   In _Sweet Home (1989)_, the hardest ending to get is the 'Sole Survivor' ending. While it's easy to lose team members due to the game using permadeath rules, you cannot beat the game without at least two team members, as you need multiple items for the Final Boss. In order to get the worst ending, you need to use the required items during the Final Boss, then have the one member holding the used items die during the battle, hopefully after the boss changes form and you don't need their items anymore.
-   The _Tales Series_ has a couple of these for particularly unkind completionists.
    -   In _Tales of Zestiria_, if you manage to defeat Heldalf before Zaveid is recruited, then the party never finds out about the infected Maotelus until he becomes too powerful to be stopped, and the world is destroyed. However, to do that on your first run, you have to go through a miasma-infected area where your party is crippled, and every enemy becomes a Beef Gate. Then, you have to beat the Final Boss while still in this crippled state. It requires far more effort than just following the plotted line. However, the New Game Plus run makes him available to battle for a short while after the miasma disappears.
    -   The bad ending of _Tales of Xillia 2_ requires you to defeat the rest of the party in a battle using only Ludger. Anyone who knows how much of a pain fighting just one party member can be from playing the previous _Tales_ series games will likely be horrified.
        -   This is made even worse than in other _Tales_ games because _Xillia_'s token battle mechanic is based on linking your character with one of the other party members to unleash your more powerful artes. So while your opponents (four at a time, from a pool of eight) are linked up to do extra damage against you, you're stuck flying solo with only basic attacks, no Overlimit, no Linked Artes, and no Mystic Artes. Even your Chromatus is of little use because the time it takes for it to charge is more than enough to get yourself killed, and it doesn't charge while you're trying to free-run your way to safety.
    -   _Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World_, similar to _Xillia 2_, requires you to take on a Hopeless Boss Fight with a single character and win to claim your bad ending. In this case, Marta and Lloyd at the gates of Nibelheim, using Emil with none of the monsters you've spent the whole game befriending. The "Earn" part comes if you've levelled Emil up sufficiently. A power-levelled Emil is gonna have to wait a while for Marta and Lloyd to take him down.
-   Getting the worst ending in _Trillion: God of Destruction_ requires the exact same steps as getting the best ending. The hook is that one requirement of getting either ending is getting everyone's Relationship Values to 100%, but having more than 1.5 billion aggregate Affection Points gets the True Ending, and building Relationship Values gets you Affection Points, and AP are vital in actually defeating Trillion. Which ending you get the first time (assuming you stumble through the other requirements without a guide in the first place) is more or less a coin flip, getting the worst ending intentionally will probably take more planning and a tougher time with Trillion than getting the True Ending.
-   _Undertale_:
    -   The Genocide Ending. It requires the player to kill every monster — not just bosses, but all random encounters until each area runs out because everyone's either dead or actively running away from you. This takes more effort than simply moving through each area and killing whatever's in your path; you are Level Grinding the area into exhaustion. For doing this, the game will punish you in a way only a game can: by not being fun. Instead of an exciting adventure, this path is a tedious chore. The combat is either trivially easy or frustratingly hard with no in-between, and culminates in a fight with a Superboss who breaks the game's rules. All the while, you are reminded that you don't _have_ to do this and encouraged to stop. The game's use of this trope serves to deconstruct 100% Completion; by performing every single possible action, even the most heinous, you make the game world worse. And if you go all the way with it, irreversibly worse<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . Of course, it's the only way to play two of the most challenging boss fights. The criticism of the player is hard to miss, as you will hear an extensive "Reason You Suck" Speech from those bosses as they kick your ass.
        
        **Sans:** i know your type. you're, uh, very determined, aren't you? you'll never give up, even if there's, uh, absolutely NO benefit to persevering whatsoever... no matter what, you'll just keep going. not out of any desire for good or evil, but just because you think you can. and because you "can"... you "have to".
        
    -   Among the regular endings, the "Dirty Hacker" ending plays when the game somehow can't load the correct ending for a given combination of which bosses have been killed or spared. It amounts to Sans accusing the player of either breaking the game or outright cheating.
    -   To a lesser extent, there are multiple ways to peacefully deal with almost every non-boss encounter in the game. This comes into play during the "Where Are They Now?" Epilogue, where the description of each one's life on the surface will be one of two things depending on which way you dealt with them, and the better one will also mark their name in yellow (making an all-yellow run a literal Golden Ending). You might expect the yellow one to require a harder or less obvious technique, but it's more often the other way around. For example, keeping Doggo's name white requires hanging onto an item most players probably ditched in the first box they came across, and then using it during the battle.
-   In _Valkyrie Profile_, getting the worst ending isn't very difficult, but it specifically requires ignoring _all_ of Asgard's requests — keep all of the treasure that's found when a boss is beaten (when most of it is useless to the player, and most of the useful stuff will be given back if Odin's happy with Lenneth), refuse to send any units to help with Ragnarok (when many units are pretty much useless for anything other than sending off to Asgard), and generally wasting time rather than get ready for the prophesied end of the world. Even intending to aim for that ending, it takes about 4 chapters (out of 8) of seriously grinding away at the Karma Meter for that ending to get it. While the actions to get it are very counter-intuitive, unlocking the Golden Ending is much easier.
-   The Bad Ending in _Ys VIII: Lacrimosa of Dana_ can only be feasibly attained if you go out of you way to be a dick to everyone by treating them poorly, refusing their side quests, refusing to defend the village during monster attacks, etc., and given how the rewards for doing all of this range from handy to downright crucial, it's almost impossible to get the Bad Ending unless you're actively hunting for it.

    Shoot 'em Ups 

-   _Chimera Beast_'s bad ending is gained by winning against the brutally hard Final Boss, and has the Eaters unite to destroy numerous planets, including Earth. If you lose instead, you get the good ending in which the Eaters kill each other, saving the cosmos.
-   The worst possible ending to _Devil Engine_ is achieved by clearing the game on Expert. The Devil Engine sets the Earth ablaze and wipes out all of humanity.
-   _In the Hunt_ rewards a well-done one-credit playthrough with such an ending — your submarine fails to escape the exploding base and perishes along with it. Finishing the game in multiplayer also results in disaster. The good ending is achieved if you saw the continue screen at least once before you get to the final form of the Final Boss _and_ end the game on single player.

    Simulation Games 

-   In the Dynamix/Sierra game _Alien Legacy_, there are multiple bad endings present in the game, from getting assassinated to everyone dying from the plague to the entire solar system blowing up. The earliest bad ending can be had by simply doing nothing for a long enough period of time at the very beginning of the game. The easiest way to do this is to send the CALYPSO to Cronus on a Probe mission and set game speed to max… and wait for your Science Officer to call you incompetent and take over.
-   _Freddy Fazbear's Pizzeria Simulator_ has the Blacklisted Ending, which requires you to finish Saturday with a risk of at least 50, and manages to not only be one of the worst but _the_ hardest ending to get. The only way to get this much risk is to constantly buy marked-down items, which requires a good amount of luck since what gets marked down, and how much risk it has, is largely random. It also means you need to grind for money, and buying marked down items runs the risk of bad animatronics getting into the restaurant, so nights get progressively harder much faster than during any other night.
-   _Harvest Moon_:
    -   In the original SNES game, you could get kicked off the farm at the one-year mark if you haven't developed it to a satisfactory degree. You pretty much have to do absolutely nothing on the farm for (in-game) weeks to let things deteriorate to that degree; basically waking up in the morning and either running around and wasting time or going right back to bed.
    -   In _Harvest Moon DS_, marrying the Witch Princess can fall under this (depending on what you call an "ending", given the game's Playable Epilogue nature), since you pretty much have to have Took a Level in Jerkass, In-Universe, to woo her: You have to litter, let animals sicken, let crops wilt, work yourself into a faint — all multiple times — to raise her Heart Level. Doing so will pretty much lower the affection levels of every other character in the game outside of the Witch Princess down to zero.
    -   Also in HMDS, there's dropping a level 100 poison mushroom into the stew at the Harvest Festival. The Non Standard Game Over implies you poisoned the entire town. Growing a level 100 ANYTHING takes a concentrated effort, combined here with the farm expansions needed to get the mushroom grow set-up.
    -   The "Divorce" endings from _A Wonderful Life_ takes the same "effort" as the above examples, with the addition of being mean to your wife. She'll eventually leave and take your child with her. It was initially thought that Celia wouldn't divorce you, but determined players have found out it just takes a doubled effort — including shipping or buying NOTHING and plying her with gifts she despises.
-   The _Princess Maker_ series:
    -   _Princess Maker_: Obtaining the endings that require Reputation to be between 0 and 49, as well as 50 to 99, simply because it's difficult to _not_ accumulate any Reputation. Maria gains some simply by doing well at jobs or completing entrance exams for higher-tiered classes.
    -   _Princess Maker 2 (Refine)_: Many of the Sin-based endings, particularly the Queen of the Underworld one, require the player to balance Olive's parameters immensely, while keeping her Sin high.
    -   _Princess Maker 3_: Getting the Fairy ending of the game requires the player to _do absolutely nothing_ for the majority of the game.
    -   _Princess Maker 4_: Getting the Return to Darkness ending of the game requires the player to _do absolutely nothing_ for the majority of the game, yet unlocking access to the Demon World.

    Stealth-Based Games 

-   If you opt for open combat rather than stealth in _Dishonored_, then the High Chaos ending will be this, as there will be significant more enemies and a more hostile environment along the way. High Chaos stealth, however, is the opposite, as cutting a guard's throat is much faster than knocking him out, and there are a ton of very useful weapons and powers (guns, grenades, incendiary missiles, springwire traps, Devouring Swarm, Shadow Kill, etcetera) that are invariably lethal to your enemies.
-   In _Oddworld_ games where saving creatures is part of the gameplay (Mudokon slaves in _Abe's Oddysee_ and _Exoddus_, Fuzzles in _Munch's Oddysee_), there is a 'Black' ending in addition to the regular bad ending, which requires you to kill every creature except those whose survival is necessary to completing a puzzle. _Oddysee_ actually gives you the _best_ reward for earning the worst ending: infinite grenades along with a liberal dose of What the Hell, Player?.
    
    **WHACKING ALL THOSE MUDOKONS WAS NO ACCIDENT. YOU TWISTED CREEP. MULLOCK COMMENDS YOU. ENJOY YOUR BONUS... INFINITE GRENADES!**
    
    —_**COMPLIMENTS OF MULLOCK, CEO OF RUPTUREFARMS.**_
    

    Strategy Games 

-   In _Black Closet_, the achievement "Minimalism" requires you to beat the game with only two of the five council members you started out with. Not only can this be done only under very specific circumstances (e.g. the traitor must be Althea or Thais, you must expel her, and you must also make Vonne your Queen), but you also need to drive Vonne mad enough with jealousy that she becomes a Yandere who expels Mallory and Rowan on her own and then win an extremely tough fight against the final boss with just two members on your side.
-   The first Soviet mission in _Command & Conquer: Red Alert_ is actually impossible to lose under normal circumstances (your objective is to massacre a town of civilians and token resistance), as the bridge that connects your base with the rest of the map gets destroyed at the start of the mission. Seeing as how this is before the usual mission failure condition is losing all the buildings in your base and is instead the extermination of _all_ your units, this becomes a problem when selling your structures nets you infantry as compensation (in addition to a cash refund). However, it _is_ possible to lose this mission through careful planning, as shown in this video. All missions in this era of the franchise have an opening, victory, and defeat cutscene, including this one. You'd have to be _crazy_ prepared to see the failure cutscene of _this_ mission.
-   _Dawn Of War II: Chaos Rising_ has different endings depending on how much corruption you rank up during game-play, with the worst (or best, depending on your point of view, since you join the Black Legion) being awarded for achieving full corruption. While some corruption is easy to get though, achieving full corruption requires you to do many dangerous side objectives, most of which serve no purpose other than ranking up corruption and cause squad members to eventually start leaving you out of disgust, making them unavailable for the later parts of the game.
-   Nippon Ichi games like the _Disgaea_ series _love_ to reward the player for winning Hopeless Boss Fights, though sometimes the reward comes in the form of a bad ending.
    -   _Disgaea 2_ is the most extreme in this regard: to see the worst possible ending, you need to have at least 99 felonies on your main character, he needs to have at least 99 ally kills, and one of them needs to be the main heroine. You also need to defeat a level 2000 boss (the normal final boss is below level 100, by comparison). Unlock at your own risk, You Have Been Warned. Adell kills Rozalin (as Zenon), gets possessed, then brutally kills and devours Taro and Hanako.
    -   In _Disgaea 3_, one of the endings involves Mao and Almaz being trapped in their hero and demon roles respectively. They're unhappy and have the sense that something is very wrong, on top of which the real bad guy gets to continue operating behind the scenes. Getting it requires replaying a stage early in the game which spawns a boss monster with levels in the hundreds, making it practically impossible except in New Game Plus.
    -   The main storyline of _Makai Kingdom_ won't throw anything higher than level 100 at you, assuming you head for the Good Ending. There are, however, three bad endings (defeat Salome in the past, resulting in death by paradox; let Salome die in her fight against Alex; and kill 60+ of your allies, resulting in Pram and Trenia deciding that you don't deserve to regain your true form). Either of these necessitate a significantly tougher than normal boss fight and gives you a New Game Plus. On the upside, the boss joins your army in the new game.
    -   _Zettai Hero Project: Unlosing Ranger Vs. DarkDeath EvilMan_: After each chapter, the protagonist faces off against DarkDeath EvilMan in a one-on-one battle and gets his butt kicked. Beating him before getting the Eleventh Hour Super Power (something that can only be done through ridiculous grinding or New Game Plus abuse) will cause a character from _Disgaea_ to appear and destroy the Earth themselves in a cutscene. A different one appears for each chapter.
    -   _Soul Nomad & the World Eaters_ has the Demon Path, a full alternate Villain Protagonist storyline available on a New Game Plus that pits you against much stronger enemies as you use Gig's powers to terrorise the world, and should you win the final battle, ends with you causing the apocalypse for your own amusement. However, it has an even more apt example in the Median ending, accessible only through buying a ludicrously expensive item on at least your third playthrough. This allows you to travel back in time to fight the legendary king Median and his armies at the peak of their power, all of whom are easily thousands of levels above any enemy found in either storyline, including the Hopeless Boss Fights. If you do manage to come out on top, you'll learn that you're now trapped in the past with no way of returning to your own time, and to twist the knife further, both you and Gig die of illness shortly after.
-   _Fire Emblem: The Blazing Blade_ gives you an ending for the blank-slate Player Character based on how good your ranking is. Getting the lowest possible rank is almost as hard as getting the best, as the Combat score is so lenient you're likely to 5-Star it without even trying, and keeping Experience and Funds (total value of all weapons and items) low while still being strong enough to actually beat the game is tricky. Manage to pull this off, and you'll get this epilogue: "To this day, historians look back and question how these incomprehensible strategies ever led to victory."
-   In _The New Order Last Days Of Europe_, the most morally evil factions have a much harder time succeeding in their goals than those who are merely bad, morally gray, or mostly good.
    -   Before the Cutting Room Floor patch changed things around, Reinhard Heydrich's SS had the hardest time of the four German Civil War factions and was deliberately designed to lose when AI-controlled. Not only did they start with the smallest forces, they were also surrounded by three hostile and well-equipped armies. If Heydrich somehow won the four-way fight, he then had to deal with Hans Speidel's Wehrmacht forces in Berlin, who decide they will not let Heydrich rule over Germany. Only after this can Heydrich claim victory. All of this was because pre-CRF, a Heydrich victory was a one-way track to a Non-Standard Game Over. In three months, he would hand over Germany's nuclear arsenal to Heinrich Himmler in Ordenstaat-Burgund, who then used it to trigger thermonuclear war and The End of the World as We Know It. Post-CRF, this is still attainable if you're playing as Burgund and Heydrich wins the German Civil War, but it is extremely difficult without cheating.
    -   Albert Speer's Fascist ending requires him to politically outmaneuver both the Gang of Four and Oberländer's hardliners, lest he wind up as the Puppet King for both cliques. It takes considerable effort, but it is possible for him to emerge as the unquestioned ruler of Nazi Germany, free to conduct his greatest engineering "project" of all, and ensure that fascism stays a viable ideology.
    -   The Aryan Brotherhood in West Russia start out with no armor or air tech, are often disastrously short of manpower depending on the path taken, and require a very long time to core states. If they do actually reunify Russia, however, they create a horrific dystopian regime and commit genocide on non-"Aryan" Russians. The Hyperborea path is even worse, as Velimir's insane Slavo-pagan theocracy of Hyperborea has plans of world conquest that put the world down the path of nuclear conflict.
    -   Dmitry Yazov's apocalyptic quest for vengeance is usually stomped into the earth before it gets anywhere. While the Black League of Omsk is well-armed, their political power gain rate is poor and Yazov has to simultaneously fight on two fronts: on the regional level, he has to contend with disgruntled officers wanting to assassinate him and the other two warlord states; while at super-regionals he has to fend off Pavel Batov's insurgency and the other unified regions.
    -   Sergey Taboritsky has an uphill battle to unify Russia. He first has to gain power in the Komi Republic's Passionaryy party and have it outmaneuver every other faction in the Republic, then fend off the other unifiers while contending with the _horrific_ debuffs his focus tree imposes on him. If Taboritsky succeeds, his regime is the failstate of Russia as a whole: the Esoteric Nazi theocratic monarchy he creates shatters upon his death and leads to the end of Russia as a unified country.
    -   Reaching the USA's fail-states — Yockey's National Socialist presidency and Gus Hall imploding the nation in an attempt to purge it of reactionaries — is an ordeal that requires deliberately screwing up, as either of them can only come to power if the American electoral base is desperate enough. Amusingly, one of the steps to bring the first about can be getting George Wallace elected President, then _not_ implementing any racist initiatives. While this is the right thing to do in its own right, it also alienates the racist portions of the American right wing and causes them to side with the Yockeys. Talk about Nice Job Breaking It, Hero...
-   Although many of the endings in the _Ogre Battle_ series can hardly be said to be "good" endings, it's safe to say that some bad endings are much harder to find than others. _Tactics Ogre: The Knight of Lodis_ is particularly infamous, as it takes a speed run to receive the secret ending, revealing the game is a prequel and you are bestowed the name of Lans Tartare, revealing that you were the one who set Golyat ablaze in the opening of the original _Tactics Ogre_.
    -   In the first game, getting your Karma Meter and Reputation low enough to make the Deal with the Devil needed for the Devil Ending requires a lot of effort.
-   _Super Robot Wars_:
    -   _Super Robot Wars Alpha 3_ has a hidden ending that can only be accessed on a New Game Plus. Said hidden ending was the "Everybody Dies" Ending scene from Space Runaway Ideon and involved the Big Bad eventually corrupting Messiah. It's worth seeing at least once, but you have to go out of your way to get it.
    -   _Super Robot Wars F Final_ has a hidden ending with some very specific requirements, such as failing to recruit any of the _Mobile Suit Gundam Wing_ cast, and letting a certain unit be destroyed multiple times before taking a particular route split. If you're successful in messing things up badly enough, you get to play through episodes 23 and 24 of _Neon Genesis Evangelion_. After this, Shinji is trapped in Terminal Dogma, falls into a deep despair, and declares that the world isn't worth saving if everybody considers him to be worthless; and SEELE declares that Instrumentality is about to occur.
-   _Yggdra Union_ is an example. The good ending: On the final stage, agree to the angels' request and seal the sword. The bad ending: fight and kill the angel in a rather difficult battle. The gods were wrong for being lazy and must be punished! (This gives you the same goal as the mass-man-slaughtering war criminal you just beat with a somehow even shallower motive, by the way.) This is expanded upon in the PSP Updated Re-release, where you fight and kill a _Grim Angel_ and quite possibly prevent entire games from happening by killing the antagonist before he starts.

    Survival Horror 

-   _Bevel's Painting_ has "And I'm Gone" and "Dead Inside." In order to have access to those endings, you must drop the mirror shard into the toy box, but you would likely have wasted it by then. After that comes several choices that can make the difference between a bad ending and a "Shaggy Dog" Story. "Revenge" is even harder to get, since it is on the same branch as the good endings.
-   Most of the bad endings in _Clock Tower (1995)_ can be earned through honest mistakes, while the two worst endings are achieved by finding a car and getting the hell out of Dodge as soon as you are able. In these cases, you'll be treated to either a pair of giant scissor blades rising menacingly from the backseat, or an epilogue that explains how you were found dead a few days after escaping.
-   _Corpse Party Zero_ has an unlockable scenario which is called 'the final nightmare'. In order to access it, the player must first see all the other Bad Endings. Once that's done, you discover that this last scenario involves Shiho teaming up with Kaori and actually fighting the evil spirit responsible for all the horror, followed by a desperate race to escape in time. Unusual in that not only does it require far more effort, but it looks like a Golden Ending up until the final shot reveals none of it was real.
    -   _Corpse Party: Blood Covered_ has the "Extra End" in Chapter 4, where Ms. Shishido dies slowly, crushed by rubble, while dreaming of her life as a teacher, implying the entire game is a Dying Dream. It's basically a Wrong End that requires you to do exactly the right things in the right order.
-   If the player completes _FAITH: The Unholy Trinity_'s second chapter without completing any optional objectives, they get _Ending I: Go Forth With Faith_, which sets up a Sequel Hook regarding the summoning of a powerful demon that the protagonist must stop. If the player does at most two of creating a pentagram of blood in the woods where you start the game, sacrificing a child to a demon in the confessional booth in the abandoned church, or killing the couple on the bridge near "Candy Tunnel" while turned into a demon, they get _Ending II: Road to Redemption_, which is similar to Ending I but with the implication that the protagonist has been partly corrupted by the Satanic cult and that the cult is stalking him to finish the job. If the player does _all three_ of the above, they get _Ending III: Initiation_, in which the cult successfully corrupts the protagonist and gets a demon to possess him. Note that the first two prerequisites to Ending III require the player to fight two optional bosses, and the third prerequisite to Ending III is rather counter-intuitive. <sup>Explanation&nbsp;</sup> 
-   _Fatal Frame_
    -   _Fatal Frame II: Deep Crimson Butterfly_ has its _Frozen Butterfly_ ending require the player to observe all four events in Chapter 8, manage to get to Sae and defeat her without having her enter Dark Return. Problems are that nothing in the game indicates that there are events to watch in that chapter, since they occur in out-of-the-way places where the player has no reason to go to, and avoiding Dark Return means Sae has to be defeated rather fast. If all of that is achieved, though, the player is treated to Mayu killing Mio and remaining in Minakami village with her sister's corpse.
    -   _Fatal Frame: Maiden of Black Water_ has the _In the Reliquary_ ending for Ren. The player has to do the complete opposite of what battling ghosts usually entails, and let Shiragiku drag or push Ren into the Black Box in the room. Without knowledge, no player would ever let this happen, leading many to not know that this ending exists.
-   _Fear & Hunger_:
    -   To get Ending A, the player must escort The Girl (a very weak character) all the way to the end of the game, including through several difficult boss fights and a punishing gauntlet full of traps and enemies. Should they succeed in this, The Girl will transform into the God of Fear and Hunger, one of the hardest bosses in the game. Winning the fight results in a special ending where the player's party dies anyway, having created and released a malevolent force rivaling the Old Gods into the rest of the world.
    -   One version of Ending C results in the player choosing to fight the ascended Le'garde rather than submitting to him. They will need to defeat the Yellow King, a boss which can do massive damage each turn and has a chance to instantly kill the player every three turns. Succeeding in this, the player characters will escape the dungeon, but will be haunted with dreams so terrible they're eventually unable to differentiate them with reality.
-   _Haunting Ground_ has one bad ending (Fiona is captured and kept in the castle indefinitely by Riccardo). To trigger it, one must have the worst possible relationship level with Hewie (i.e. he utterly hates Fiona and attacks her on sight) immediately before you enter Chaos Forest. However, because Hewie is required for the area's main puzzle (the start of it anyway), you have to finish the puzzle with at least a neutral relationship with him (so he'll actually _do_ the puzzle for you); then you have to halt your progress and attack or poison Hewie until his relationship hits rock bottom. Video Game Cruelty Potential indeed.
-   _Ib_ has "Welcome to the World of Guertena" and "A Painting's Demise", the two bad endings added with update 1.04, which are probably the hardest to get. To get either one of them, you have to raise Garry's doom counter by damaging artworks in the gallery, have a low friendship count with Garry, and fail the doll room event. Doing this alone gets you "A Painting's Demise", which features Mary trying to escape the gallery on her own and getting killed by the other paintings. To get "Welcome to the World of Guertena", you have to do all of the previous things and also have a high friendship count with Mary. For all this work, you get Mary deciding to stay with Ib, the first friend she's ever had, and throwing a party to celebrate Ib and Garry staying with her. Oh yeah, and Ib and Garry both look kind of insane and/or dead.
-   _Peret em Heru: For the Prisoners_:
    -   Getting the absolutely worst ending in which only Ayuto and Kyosuke survive involves you having to fight the Final Boss alone (which is exactly as difficult as it sounds, especially if you're under-leveled), subsequently followed by a seven-man strong Boss Bonanza with no way to revive either of your remaining party members if all of their health is depleted.
    -   Saving Mizumi, the vilest of the potential companions due to being an unapologetic Immoral Journalist and Serial Rapist, and thus letting him escape punishment, requires you to find a specific spot that is hard to figure out even with the photograph you are given as a hint and then looking up, followed by an additional boss battle. Letting him die for his crimes, on the other hand, can be done as easily as simply ignoring him and going on your merry way.
-   _Resident Evil_ has multiple endings, ranging from the best ending, an OK ending, and a bad ending.
    -   Getting the bad ending is more tricky than it sounds, since you have to beat the game without any of your partners surviving. It's quite easy to not rescue the other Player Character (they are captured and are in a jail cell in the laboratory), since you can just ignore them and continue as normal, but your tag-along partner can't be killed by you directly; you have to cause their death indirectly. In Jill's scenario, when she meets Barry in the underground passage, you have to answer Barry's questions in a certain way in order to set up his death later on where he succumbs to his wounds from off-screen injuries. In Chris' scenario, Rebecca can be killed by a Hunter, but you have to go to a specific room in the return trip to the mansion in order to trigger the scene and then let the Hunter kill her. Getting the bad ending shows that only you survived the ordeal and Umbrella's mansion still stands while the Tyrant's shadow is seen on the ground.
    -   The remake keeps Chris' situation with Rebecca the same, but getting Barry killed in order to set up for the bad ending is easier. When Jill steals Barry's gun and questions his motives, Lisa appears and Barry will demand his gun back. Answer no and you get to watch Lisa smack Barry off the edge and into the abyss below. Barry can still get smacked off the edge during the boss fight, even if you give him the gun back. (The same can happen to Wesker if you're playing as Chris, but he shrugs it off and still shows up in the finale.) In addition, either Barry and Rebecca can die against the Tyrant.
-   It's easy to kill at least a few characters in _The Quarry_, but it takes a lot to disable every playable character before Chapter 10. You can achieve this by killing Jacob, letting Emma get bit on the island, letting Abi get decapitated by wolf!Nick in the poolhouse, letting Dylan get mauled by wolf!Emma at the van in Chapter 8, letting Kaitlyn die in the scrapyard, and refusing to shoot Chris, resulting in Laura being stabbed and Ryan being bludgeoned to death. Nick is unplayable whether he gets shot by Laura or not, and Max is unplayable if Chris lives. Eliza, the Horror Host, goes as far as to comment that you had your chance and she can't help you any more, and the ending sequence plays early, with no music.
-   The _Silent Hill_ games are famous for this. You have to go through a lot of trouble to get the extra endings, which vary from Downer Endings to the outright bizarre.
-   The normal ending of _Slender: The Arrival_ is abrupt and ambiguous. Finishing the game on hardcore adds an extra scene which seems to make it very clear your character does not survive. The Steam version of the game has an altogether different extended ending, although it's equally as dark.
-   If the player follows the Narrator to a T in _The Stanley Parable_, he/she receives the best ending — at least, in the Narrator's eyes. The purpose of the game is for the player to screw around with the Narrator's instructions and get alternate endings that are anathema to him but are otherwise amusing, if only to hear his reactions.
-   If you complete _Wick_ normally, you get the "good ending" where Sam is rescued by the police and his friends get arrested. If you find all the Tragic Keepsakes of the Weaver children and survive 5 AM, you discover Sam was Dead All Along and is now trapped as the Weaver kids' playmate.
-   _The Witch's House_ is unusual in that the major events remain the same no matter which ending you get. The difference is that the player becomes more aware of what is actually going on in the harder-to-get ending that reveals the events to be a _lot_ more depressing than they appeared to be in the normal ending.
    -   The newest version (1.07) includes a hidden third ending. To get it, you have to avoid entering the titular witch's house and instead wait for a real-life hour on the opening screen until the roses blocking your path disappear. So how can this be considered a 'bad' ending? Because if you read Ellen's diary after getting the true ending, you'll realize that this particular ending is basically Ellen biding her sweet time until Viola dies inside the house from the severe injuries Ellen inflicted on her swapped body and can no longer prevent Ellen from taking her place forever… although at least she doesn't get shot by her own father in this ending.
    -   The remake made in RPG Maker MV adds a Hard Mode which, while shifting some puzzles around to make their solutions more cryptic and making chase sequences harder, "rewards" you with snippets of Ellen's life before and after she became a Witch, up to and including exactly what she planned to do with Viola all along.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Ace Attorney_ has the occasional Bad Endings that are essentially elaborations on a standard Game Over achieved in very specific circumstances, and are usually easily avoided unless you are actively trying to see them.
    -   The first, in _Justice for All_, is achieved if the player fails to convince Shelly de Killer that Matt Engarde has betrayed him (if he is convinced, he'll release Maya, whom he's holding hostage on Phoenix defending Matt), which results in the innocent Adrian Andrews being convicted in place of the real killer, and Phoenix giving up lawyering in despair. It also requires ignoring some fairly obvious hints that the evidence you need is the videotape, because it contains the blackmail recording Matt made, and/or presenting it to anyone _other_ than the obvious obstacle in the way of the correct ending.
    -   In _Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney_, the final case hinges on a player choice as a juror. If they decide that Vera Misham is guilty despite the trial making it insanely obvious that she's actually another victim of the true killer, then the trial is postponed because of a hung jury-the others voted for the obvious 'not guilty', but Vera dies from the Big Bad's poison and the case is declared a mistrial, with the true killer getting away.
    -   The final case of _Dual Destinies_ has _three_ separate bad endings for failing different parts of the trial; fail the initial trial and Simon is falsely convicted for the Big Bad's crimes, fail the second part after his innocence is proven and Aura will kidnap Athena and disappear, fail the final part and the heroes are fine but the Big Bad gets away. The game is easy enough that you're unlikely to come across even one in the normal course of playing, and seeing all three requires trying for it.
    -   The final case in _Spirit of Justice_ tops that with four. Fail the civil trial portion and you'll lose access to the MacGuffin. Fail the initial trial and while no one is convicted, Dhurke isn't exonerated for the murder that caused Khura'in's prejudice against lawyers, fail after other suspects appear and the wrong person will be convicted, and fail to prove Ga'ran is The Usurper with no claim to the throne after they've been (correctly) implicated and resorted to abusing royal authority against you, and nobody will be convicted and Apollo will have to escape to join the Defiant Dragons to have a hope of ending Ga'ran's reign of terror. Again, seeing those (especially more than one) means screwing up _really_ badly and ignoring some serious foreshadowing regarding the correct choices.
-   In _AI: The Somnium Files_, the Annihilation route can be accessed on your first try, but you won't be allowed to complete it until you've gone through every other possible ending, and once you've gone through all _those_, you'll finally be able to access the Golden Ending which Annihilation directly ties into. If you're confused, keep in mind this series shares a creator with _Zero Escape_.
-   In _Aoi Shiro_, the bad endings aren't particularly difficult to get — in fact, due to Trial-and-Error Gameplay, you're almost certain to get a few before you reach a good end by finishing a route — but it fits here simply because there are so _many_ bad endings. In all, there are _fifty-six_ possible endings, of which only a handful are actually good endings. Combined with the fact that the endings are often rather long and plotty, and that some even contain information you wouldn't learn just from playing the good endings, and it shouldn't be surprising that there are walkthroughs that show how to get certain bad ends.
-   In the original release of _Chaos;Head_, for the main route, none of the choices you make in the game, except those at the very end, actually affect the outcome of the game. The exception to this is Route B, the hardest route to achieve. It requires you to make 11 specific choices during the game to reach and isn't even available on your first playthrough, and it is a completely horrible Downer Ending, worse than any of the other endings.
-   To get the "Grim Fate" ending of _Cinders_, you need to make such a huge number of bad choices that you'll most likely only get this ending by screwing up deliberately. <sup>To be precise...&nbsp;</sup> 
-   In _CLANNAD_, one particular bad joke end where you end up with Sunohara can only be achieved by getting to know and then eventually rejecting every one of the main girls, as it ends with Tomoyo angrily claiming that you must be gay to have treated all these beautiful girls like that. This, naturally, takes _way_ more effort than just not getting to know any of the girls or romancing just one.
-   _Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony_ includes a nearly impossible platforming challenge aptly named the Death Road of Despair. If you manage to complete it, you are treated to a short scene where Kaede and the others see that the outside world is in ruins, and even if they were to leave the academy, they would have nowhere to return to.
-   _DRAMAtical Murder_ requires you to choose certain wrong answers to get the bad endings. Some of the answers are fairly vague in which ending they'll lead to, but there's a couple that you very obviously have to _try_ and get wrong. Particularly Ren's<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> .
-   The "Brute End" of ClockUp's _Euphoria_ first requires you to unlock the Secret Final Campaign (which acts as a Mind Screwdriver to the rest of the routes), and then going out of your way to be as thoroughly unpleasant as possible. Be warned though: Protagonist Journey to Villain doesn't even _begin_ to describe it...
-   The Sole Survivor ending of _Fading Hearts_ takes a great many steps to take in order to acquire it that it's practically a Guide Dang It! route in and of itself, since the smallest misstep in major choice/possibility can result in not getting this elusive ending and instead getting either the Glitch, Death, or an ending in which Alex, Claire, and Ryou get free vacation tickets, and whilst enroute to their vacation destination they receive word via cell phone that their home city they were recently in a few hours ago was annihilated in a massive explosion. And getting it makes you wonder if it was really worth it, since after Ryou escapes, he immediately feels a massive degree of survivor's guilt with Claire dead, Alex being found dead clutching a mobile game device in his hand, and the obvious hint that Mystica is also most likely gone… or worse possibly, especially given the prior events of Ryou refusing her letter earlier to meet with her as she needed vital assistance only he could provide. The aftermath concludes with Mimi and Alice, Mimi hit especially hard by it, and they even reach the deduction that the External Gazer (You) **wanted** this to happen, which is pretty accurate when you think about it, especially those that enjoy such circumstances.
-   In _Fantasia: Realm of Thanos_, you need to do very careful manipulation of the boys' Relationship Values to get the worst ending in which the protagonist completely fails to make any boy interested in her. To get into specifics, the game is coded so that you get the worst ending only if exactly three boys have the same number of relationship points (the game prompts you to choose between them if it's just two of them and gives you the harem ending if it's all four of them, no matter how high/low their relationship values actually are), which means that you can keep Leon and Ian's affection for you at the absolute minimum and still fail to get the worst ending because you caused Gil and Oswald's affection to become even _lower_ than theirs and triggered the "choose between two boys" scenario instead. Hell, you probably won't realize that there even _is_ a "Worst Ending" unless you cheat and look at the game code.
-   One of the bad endings of _Fate/stay night_ requires you to make a number of deliberate bad choices. Lampshaded in the Tiger Dojo for that ending, where it's pointed out that you must have been looking for this ending. <sup>If You're Wondering…&nbsp;</sup> 
-   The Divorce and Walking in Darkness endings from _Magical Diary_. Walking in Darkness requires you to complete almost all of Damien's route and then make two specific choices near the end. Divorce requires you to marry Grabiner (which can be hard enough on its own), make him angry at you, and then get detentions on two specific days.
-   While the Sub Ending in _Nine Hours, Nine Persons, Nine Doors_ (where after leaving Room 2, the remaining survivors are all stabbed to death by a mysterious assailant) can be reached during the final 3-way fork, the player can get stuck on the fast track to said ending during the previous fork by insisting on going in Room 3 even when Santa tells you it's not possible without leaving more people than Ace behind, meaning Junpei suddenly betrays nearly half the party to do so. After this, there's no way to go anywhere but the Sub Ending, as Junpei never learns about the way back to the main stairwell, and thus thinks he's being railroaded into Room 2.
    -   The iOS version of the game instead has that choice lead to the otherwise unattainable Syringe ending, where said betrayal plus the fact his actions led to the rest of the group not discovering Snake's corpse until they come back, Clover concludes he committed the murder and tried to cover it up, jabs him with a sleeping drug, and throws him in the flooded stairwell to drown.
-   In the third game in the _Purrfect Apawcalypse_ series, you get a special epilogue where Patches is trapped in Inferno for eternity if you complete the game's worst ending with the lowest possible affection levels for all characters. As the game is littered with Non-Standard Game Overs that result from you being too nasty to others and you can get the worst ending only if you survive all the way to the end of the game, getting everyone to hate your guts but not quite enough to decide to kill you requires you to be very careful with your choices in every scene.
-   _RE: Prince of Nigeria_ is a visual novel based around the 419 Scam and a teenage girl who is more interested in purusing a romance with the supposed Nigerian prince than getting any money. Ultimately, as Prince Apara seems completely uninterested in these attempts at romance, the player is given a choice to either provide all account numbers to him as requested in the scam e-mails. Providing the account numbers results in the good ending. However, the novel gives the player three chances to give in and give all account numbers to Prince Apara before proceeding with the bad ending.
-   _School Days_ is so infamous for its bloody, over-the-top Bad Ends that the Anime of the Game based its ending on one. However, you won't see them unless you go out of your way to make the protagonist act like a two-timing jerk to both of his main Love Interests.
-   To get the Bad Ending in _Spirit Hunter: NG_, every one of the spirits must be destroyed rather than pacified, leading to the deaths of all of the protagonist's companions. This is about as difficult to accomplish naturally as the Golden Ending, and odds are you'll be deliberately aiming to get the Bad Ending rather than stumbling upon it.
-   In _Syrup and the Ultimate Sweet_, every Downer Ending qualifies, as in order to get any of them, Syrup has to ruin her relationship with at least one person, but the Worst Ending takes the cake. In order to get it, Syrup has to tell Butterscotch she hates her so Butterscotch is unable to free them from the ice cave. Then when they're rescued by Pastille and Treat, and Syrup has to tell Butterscotch she hates her still. Then the coldness from her own heart will freeze Syrup to death.
-   _Tsukihime_ has a Dead End that's less "triggered" and more "the game falls back on it when you evade the triggers for everything else". Even the devs who put it there needed a flowchart to figure out how to actually get it to happen.

    Other 

-   _Chrysalis (RinoZ)_: Invoked by Anthony when pointing out that the Golgari leadership had lots of chances to do literally anything other than force an all-out confrontation (which they then lost).
    
    **Anthony:** \[You had so many opportunities to prevent this outcome. You could have left me alone in the Dungeon, but no. You could have treated me with dignity, but no. You could have taken my bargain when it was offered, but no. You're going to get the bad ending that you worked so hard to achieve.\]
    
-   _Driver 1_ has an alternate bad ending if you follow the story branch where you meet Ali, then fail to save her during the penultimate mission "The Ali Situation", but you more or less have to intentionally play to lose.
-   In _Homestuck_, God Tier players cannot permanently die unless their death is either "Heroic" or "Just". The former is a Heroic Sacrifice. The latter? You have to die in the middle of doing something with horrific consequences which only your death will prevent, generally by unleashing something terrible on your co-players which your own divine power cannot stop. You also have to actually reach God Tier, a major feat in and of itself since it requires dying in a very specific location. You pretty much have to be trying to be a game-ending asshole to earn a Just death. Or, of course, Brainwashed and Crazy.
-   The _Lone Wolf_ book _The Caverns of Kalte_ has a bad ending where Lone Wolf fails the mission due to the whole castle they are infiltrating becoming aware of their presence and has to flee. It is the only ending in all 30+ books in the series where you can fail without dying.
-   In the Gamebook _My Lady's Choosing: An Interactive Romance Novel_, there is only one ending where you don't live happily ever after with the man (or woman) of your dreams and you basically need to burn your bridges with as many suitors as possible to get it by abandoning the man you initially pursued and then turning down at least two other perfectly decent suitors so that your only remaining marriage option is the slimy old man you very much _didn't_ want to marry at the start of the book.
-   In _Seed Ship_, it's quite easy to get a mediocre result when colonizing a planet. However, getting a very terrible score for colonizing a planet and scoring the lowest of the low record (except 0 when the ship is destroyed) is as a challenge as reaching the highest possible result, since random features might be both negative, neutral or positive by chance. You need to be (un)lucky to get all the possible negative features on a planet, while most times you will get a lot of negative traits but also a few neutral ones (or even one or two good), so that your score will be bad, but not so bad. If you try to skip planets in order to increase chances of taking damage on vital components of the ship and decrease the ultimate score, you also risk destroying the ship, preventing getting a low-score colony (meanwhile, random events might be deleterious but some give benefits, as the frequent free upgrades for your sensors so that subsequent planets will have better traits on some of their features).
-   In the Fighting Fantasy book _Legend of the Shadow Warriors_, defeating the Big Bad in combat is far more difficult than purifying him. It is also utterly futile and will lead to an ending where the book mocks your efforts and the forces of death win.

___