You sure you want this cover _now_, Sonic?

_'Cause greedy human beings will always lend a hand  
With the destruction of this worthless jungle land  
And what a beautiful machine they have provided  
To slice a path of doom, with my foul breath to guide it!_

Want to make your Green Aesop easier for younger audiences to understand? One of the simplest ways to go about this is to make the person responsible for the destruction a truly diabolical villain. If there isn't a Polluted Wasteland in the setting, this type of character is setting out to create one.

Exactly how this villain is styled can vary from one story to the next, but this behavior is commonly seen from the Corrupt Corporate Executive, particularly if he's part of an industry that naturally takes a toll on the environment. Sometimes, an executive or director's willingness to damage and pollute the environment is enough to turn their usually more redeemable subordinates or close ones against their boss, due to having better standards or guilt for their contributions. In fantasy settings, he may represent unchecked industrialization or may even take the form of a Muck Monster or another Elemental Embodiment of poison or decay.

This can also provide a realistic justification for Fisher King and Villainous Badland, Heroic Arcadia. An evil ruler's lands are ravaged badlands specifically because the pollution created by their industries made the country that way.

In real life, there are much more complicated reasons why an individual person might destroy a forest or pollute a body of water, and it's rarely a black-and-white issue. As such, No Real Life Examples, Please!

Supertrope to Evil Poacher. See also Toxic, Inc., for a company that doesn't seem to do anything except create pollution, Wicked Wastefulness if for villains who are wasteful with resources, and Cruella to Animals, for somebody who eats or wears animal products, or uses animals for scientific research, purely because they enjoy hurting them. Compare to Greenwashed Villainy for when these kinds of villains attempt to _appear_ eco-friendly for pragmatic reasons, even if their ulterior motives show otherwise. Compare with Bad People Abuse Animals, which often overlaps with this trope. Contrast with the Nature Lover, as well as the antithesis of this character type, the Eco-Terrorist, who is pro-environment but also takes it to similarly harmful extremes. The Last Fertile Region is frequently in danger from these types.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Franken Fran_: An interesting variation happens; the story arcs about the masked crime fighter Sentinel introduce the evil organization Black Lotus, who want to destroy the world and humanity. However, they do this by being _humanitarians_, because they believe that causing humanity to prosper will give them their intended results anyway via overpopulation and pollution.
-   _One Piece_: Kaido, one of the Four Emperors and the Big Bad of the Wano arc, is generally a nasty villain all around, but the narrative emphasizes his negative impact on Wano Country through how it's been polluted through his weapon factories, making the rivers poisonous, and by extension the animals that drink from them, which also hurts the people of smaller villages and settlements in Wano as much as the environment.
-   _Pokémon: Secrets of the Jungle_: Dr. Zed is the Big Bad of the film, who intends on stealing healing energy from a tree with no regard for the ecosystem or the Pokémon living there. The scientists who advise him against it are killed for their criticism, and Dr. Zed is also a Not-So-Well-Intentioned Extremist who claims to want the healing energy to help people, but the movie shows that his main concerns are for his own pride and ego.

    Asian Animation 

-   _BoBoiBoy_: The 3-episode special "Saving Planet Earth" has two examples:
    -   Probe watches a Show Within a Show called "Awasman!" where the titular yellow hero stops a sentient villainous trash can from dumping the contents of a dump truck into the river.
    -   Downplayed with the Shield Monster. His main objective is to eliminate BoBoiBoy, but he makes use of Rintis Island's pollution to form a shield of armor around himself, utilising garbage to attack. It is by getting the citizens to sort their rubbish and recyclables that the hero and his friends defeat the Shield Monster.

    Comic Books 

-   _Disney Ducks Comic Universe_: Ravage DeFlora from Don Rosa's "War of the Wendigo" is the manager of Scrooge's logging operations in Northern Ontario. He's not too bad at first, but when his timber plant is attacked by the animals in an effort to stop him, he switches from anti-environmentalist into straight-up ecocidal. Ravage retaliates by stoking the furnaces with dioxin and pumping acid into the drain pipes to kill the animals clogging them (and destroying the forest as collateral). Even this is not enough, and he ultimately becomes a raving lunatic trying to burn down every tree and animal in sight with a flamethrower.
-   _Marvel Comics_: Dario Agger, CEO of Roxxon Corp, is firmly of the belief that he can do whatever he wants—primarily turning as much of the Earth as possible into a polluted wasteland and murdering anyone who tries to stand up to him—and get away with it because he's rich, earning him the enmity of Thor and the Hulk. He also joins Malekith the Accursed's Dark Council when promised the opportunity to do the same to the Ten Realms.
-   _Sonic the Hedgehog (Archie Comics)_: Dr. Robotnik of the original timeline loved ruining the environment in any way possible, considering it his idea of a perfect world. The cover of one comic has him wearing a pin promoting pollution while standing in an industrial area.
-   _Sonic the Hedgehog (IDW)_: To say that Eggman is anti-environmentalist would be an understatement. The second arc of the comic has him developing the Metal Virus, which turns all organic matter to machines and spreads via contact, to the point that in a Bad Future the only thing that's left on the planet is ruined cities and metallic plants, with not even a hint of life around. After _that_ is defeated, he makes a self-rebuilding and ever-expanding city that hollows out the ground below it for resources. And that's not getting to the other villains in the comic; Surge and Kitsunami introduce themselves by starting a massive forest fire.
-   _Tandy Computer Whiz Kids_: In _Safeguarding the Environment_, the Whiz Kids are tasked with trying to clean up a polluted creek and teach others about being green. The villains are a group who not only happily spread pollution everywhere, but who are also intentionally trying to re-pollute the creek in order to have an illegal dumping ground.

    Film — Animated 

-   _FernGully: The Last Rainforest_: Hexxus is a Muck Monster who acts as an embodiment of pollution, spreading oil and sludge and causing severe destruction to the titular rainforest. Interestingly enough, however, his Villain Song "Toxic Love" still implies that humans are partially responsible for his ability to wreak havoc.
-   _The Lorax (2012)_: Zig-zagged with the Once-ler. While he's portrayed sympathetically and is not as overtly evil as the film's main villain, Mr. O'Hare, it's during his Villain Song, "How Bad Can I Be?", that he more or less embraced this trope in his past, and made it clear that he cares more about profits than the well-being of the forest, though he ends up living to regret his actions. As for O'Hare, he does business by making everyone pay for artificial air instead of getting air from the trees for free, and attempts to stop Ted from planting a seed that would restore the trees and environment to prevent him from ruining his main source of profit.
    
    **The Once-ler:** Who cares if a few trees are dying?!
    
-   _Norm of the North_: The Big Bad is Mr. Greene, an unethical real estate developer whose plots are to drive out the Arctic wildlife in order to build more housing for clients, and is not above bribery. He also has captured Norm the polar bear's grandfather, who Norm eventually saves in the film. Additionally, Greene sabotages Norm's initial attempts to convince Greene's company to not build houses in the Arctic through a Recorded Spliced Conversation that manipulates his recorded words to make it sound like he endorses Greene's plots.
-   _Rio 2_: Besides Nigel's gang of animals who are targeting Blu, illegal loggers are the movie's human antagonists. They cause mass deforestation of the Amazon Rainforest, advancing closer to where Jewel's family lives. When they encounter Linda and Tulio and realise that they're a threat to their operation, they tie them up to a tree and leave them there. The worst of them is Big Boss, their leader, an all-around Jerkass who treats his workers terribly and gets his comeuppance by the hand of nature itself as he gets Eaten Alive by an anaconda.

    Film — Live-Action 

-   _Avatar_: The villains are the RDA MegaCorp and its Private Military Contractors, who plan to strip-mine Pandora for Unobtanium, and destroy countless acres of forest in the process. _Avatar: The Way of Water_, RDA is back and more destructive than ever, though this time they're focused on harvesting amrita, a substance that can stop human aging, from the brains of the whale-like tulkum. The whalers don't even use the rest of the carcass, leaving it to rot.
-   _Godzilla vs. Hedorah_: The titular antagonist is an alien organism that came to Earth to feed off mankind's excessive pollution. As it grows in size, the monster develops numerous superpowers, such as an extremely acidic body (strong enough to melt humans and even Godzilla to the bone), flight, eye lasers, and the power to exhale fumes deadly enough to kill thousands of people, all while leaving toxic spills and deadly gas wherever it goes. It ends up causing so much destruction, death, and ecological devastation that Godzilla and the military have to work directly together in order to kill the smog monster, portraying Hedorah as that much of a threatening, monstrous, and despicable creature that needs to be destroyed, even in comparison to other kaiju in the franchise.
-   _Meg 2: The Trench_: The Big Bad of the film is a Corrupt Corporate Executive who is mining the Lost World beneath the Marianas Trench for rare-earth minerals and gleefully tells Jonas and his team that as long as nobody exposes the mining operation, she can keep it going for years due to how inhospitable the trench is until there is literally nothing left. Jonas' Batman Cold Open in this film shows he has spent the years in between films chasing after these kind of criminals to expose them, with him obtaining evidence of people planning to dump nuclear waste on international waters. One of the goons to the executive is also quite eager to kill Jonas because he spent time in jail as a result of one of Jonas' operations.
-   _On Deadly Ground_: Michael Jennings, CEO of Aegis Oil. His only goal is to bring the company's new refinery online and he doesn't care who gets killed or how much environmental damage is done in the process. While this _could_ be chalked up to pure greed, he shows intense hate for nature itself; his Establishing Character Moment has Jennings filming a propaganda commercial and screaming about the live animals he's forced to work with.
-   _Rolli – Amazing Tales_: The main villains are the Trashers, a cult that worships trash and aims to destroy the forest by polluting it.
-   _Spaceballs_: The titular Spaceballs, having squandered their planet's oxygen supply, seek to steal the oxygen from the planet Druidia. To do this, they plan to kidnap Princess Vespa for ransom to gain access to the shield covering the entire planet and use Mega Maid to vacuum up its oxygen, also stealing a mountain's snow and several trees in the process.

    Literature 

-   _Always Coming Home_: This trope is how the Kesh view the people of our times, represented in their culture by Head Turned Backwards bogeymen. They can understand that all the ecological damage to Earth was caused by human action, but cannot understand it as a lack of foresight. For them, these were the deliberate actions of madmen.
-   _Juniper Sawfeather_: Affron Oil, which has ad campaigns that insist that the corporation cares about protecting the environment, but the narrative shows that they have no interest in spending money on anything that would actually contribute to helping the environment. In fact, their ships have polluted beaches along the west coast and were responsible for the oil spill that killed two mermaids at the beginning of the first book. Furthermore, they are contributing to the masquerade regarding mermaid life and similar, because the public discovery of such sentient life would prevent Affron Oil from getting away with their polluting acts.
-   _The Lord of the Rings_: The wizard Saruman the White was originally on the side of good, being a trusted friend and confidant of Gandalf and the other Istari (wizards) but ultimately chose to follow the Dark Lord Sauron. After his fall into villainy, he begins tearing down the nearby Fangorn Forest to make way for his new wave of industrialization, which earns him the ire of the Ents.
-   _Race to the Sun_: Mr. Charles is a Corrupt Corporate Executive whose oil and gas company destroys the environment and is a target of many protests. In addition, he turns out to be a literal man-eating monster who kidnaps gifted children to work for him.
-   _The Lorax_: The Once-Ler is an Anti-Villain example. He ignores the Lorax's repeated pleas for him to stop cutting down Truffula Trees, and it is only once it is too late when the last of the trees is destroyed that he regrets his actions.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Saved by the Bell_: In the episode "Pipe Dreams" oil is discovered on school property. When a representative from the oil company makes a presentation to the PTA showing the nice new campus Bayside will have if they allow the company to drill, Zack places multiple oil derricks in the campus model and announces to the committee that an oil spill already occurred and killed all of the animals his science class released into the wild. The man from the company brushes it aside, noting that "accidents happen". Zack then "accidentally" spills oil on his suit.
-   _Star Trek: Voyager_ introduced the Malon. Malon Prime is supposedly the jewel of the Delta Quadrant. It's kept that way because they have an entire industry dedicated to dumping their waste output in other star systems. Their waste is so bad that it makes for a Dangerous Workplace full of No OSHA Compliance. They are forced to look for places to dump their waste because it's just as dangerous to other species as it is to the Malon. To solidify the Malon's actions as very selfish, the Voyager offered clean warp technology to help out the Malon, but they outright refused because they claim that doing so would completely destroy the entire race's biggest economy, demonstrating their greedy priorities.
-   _Super Sentai_:
    -   _Engine Sentai Go-onger_: The villains of the season are the Gaiark, a clan of machine-monsters that thrive on pollution and seek to pollute the Earth to make it habitable for their kind. It's also their thematic hat, the higher-ups of the organization literally being called "Pollution Ministers." Justified in the sense that they _need pollution to survive_; meaning they have to oppose environmentalism by principle. Ironically, the three Pollution Ministers all pull Heel–Face Turns by the end of the season and later post-series content; having long-found their ideal "Junk World."
    -   _Tensou Sentai Goseiger_: The second villainous organization that attacks the Earth in _Goseiger_ is the "Earth Condemnation Group Yumajuu," led by Makuin and Kingguon. Much like the Gaiark, these two seek to pollute Earth and make it habitable for monsters like them.

    Pinball 

-   _Popeye Saves the Earth_: Before the events of this story, Bluto founds four Toxic, Inc. front companies, all of them threatening to drive various animals into extinction (one company threatening two ecosystems), with Popeye going from one company to the next to shut them down. It's hinted that Bluto is inflicting this damage on purpose as a form of display of power.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Werewolf: The Apocalypse_: The game's primary villainous force is the Wyrm, the embodiment of decay, entropy, and destruction, and its many servants. The modern Wyrm is quite insane, and what was once a natural force of renewal now manifests as the defilement and destruction of everything good about the natural world. Areas of Wyrm influence are typically filthy, polluted hellholes, and its active servants are for the most part actively invested in ruining everything else — most notably the MegaCorp Pentex, which uses its appearance as a legitimate corporation as a front for its mission to pollute both nature and the bodies of humanity and hasten the final collapse of civilization.

    Toys 

-   _Action Man_: Most toy commercials involve Dr. X and Professor Gangrene causing harm to the environment like polluting the oceans, spreading a forest fire, and using a volcano that produces purple smog. The 2000 series in particular expanded this into Dr. X's status as an Evilutionary Biologist; by making the environment more toxic and hostile, the more he can push humanity into the next evolutionary step.
-   _G.I. Joe_: The 1991 Eco-Warriors subline (released to compete with _Captain Planet_) featured COBRA characters who were deliberately spreading pollution and causing environmental disasters as part of COBRA's main goal of world domination. The action figures came with small water guns that were described as shooting various types of toxic waste.

    Video Games 

-   _Awesome Possum... Kicks Dr. Machino's Butt_: Dr. Machino is the main Big Bad who actively seeks to destroy the environment, and is the ruler of the polluting robots.
-   _Banjo-Kazooie_: Throughout the series, Gruntilda enjoys polluting several worlds to show her appreciation for the gross and ugly.
    -   In the first game, Clanker's Cavern is a dirty sewer with an area filled with toxic waste and Rusty Bucket Bay is a grubby harbor with water so polluted that it drains Banjo and Kazooie's air twice as fast, and Snorkel the dolphin is trapped beneath the ship's anchor.
    -   _Banjo-Tooie_: Grunty Industries actively pollutes the waters of Jolly Roger's Lagoon and Banjo and Kazooie must stop the pollution to obtain a Jiggy.
    -   _Banjo-Kazooie: Grunty's Revenge_: Spiller's Harbor is facing a decline in tourism due to oil spills caused by Gruntilda.
-   _Chibi-Robo!: Park Patrol_: The villains Chibi-Robo faces in the game are the smoglings, who dance around flowers in the park to turn them black (which causes them to wilt overnight). They're mainly the Mooks for Sergeant Smogglor, who summons them daily to undo all of Chibi-Robo's work in the park. Sergeant Smogglor is also actually General Greenthumb, a hero who was brainwashed by Miasmo, the true Big Bad of the game.
-   _Crash Bandicoot (1996)_: Dr. Cortex has claimed one of the three islands of the Wumpa Archipelago as his own, dubbing it Cortex Island, and beneath his castle lies his toxic waste industry, Cortex Power, which has made most of the island a polluted mess. Aku Aku has teamed up with Crash to take down Cortex, because he doesn't want the rest of the islands to become polluted. However, this aspect of Cortex gets dropped after the first game, with the focus shifting to him being an Evilutionary Biologist.
-   _Dave the Diver_: Sea Blue initially presents itself as an overzealous Animal Wrongs Group, that goes after small-time fishers for the sake of protecting the ocean, but as people notice the hypocrisy behind their actions, and ignore the destructive actions of big fishing corporations, it eventually gets revealed to not actually care about the environment, and their creed being a front for eliminating competition for a bigger, unethical fishery that desires to fish as much as they want in spite of ethics, and Sea Blue's leader, John Watson, is notably destructive in his boss battle where he blows up part of the environment nearby trying to kill Dave, and of course, John blames Dave for the destruction.
-   _Final Fantasy_:
    -   _Final Fantasy VII_: Before the main conflict shifts to Sephiroth as antagonist, the central villains for the bulk of the game are the Shinra Corporation — a MegaCorp whose business model is built upon pumping the Materia (magical life blood of the planet's biosphere) out of the environment, converting it into electricity, and selling it to the desperate masses populating the industrial hellscape of Midgard. Accordingly, the protagonists are a plucky band of eco-terrorists doing their utmost to sabotage Shinra's businesses. When they leave Midgard for a while, the full ramifications of Shinra's actions are shown on the overworld map in the giant polluted wasteland that surrounds Midgard — an ugly blot on an otherwise relatively verdant continent.
    -   _Final Fantasy XIV_:
        -   In the Conjurer questline, the conjurers of Stillglade Fane regularly battle the corruptive influence of voidsent on the Twelveswood. Conjurers wield the powers of nature to purge voidsent corruption of the earth, water, and air, clearing pollution that would render the land infertile, the rivers murky, and the air poisonous.
        -   Subverted in the White Mage questline. Alaqa is a Xaela thaumaturge who raise the body of a fallen dragon to spread taint, corruption, and disease in Coerthas, bringing her into conflict with the white mages of Gridania when that taint reaches into the Twelveswood. While she's initially depicted as a wicked witch-like figure, the heroes discover that she's a refugee from Othard who fled Garlean occupation of her land, only to watch her loved ones be slaughtered by Ishgardians who mistook her kind for Dravanians. Her actions, while destructive, are framed as the sympathetic Roaring Rampage of Revenge born of a senseless massacre, with the damage to the Twelveswood being an unintended side effect. She later atones for her actions by becoming a conjurer, protecting the land she once harmed.
        -   In the Blue Mage questline, Whastrach coerces the Whalaqee leaders into signing over their sacred, ceruleum-rich lands in exchange for the treatment of a plague ravaging their people. This infuriates the Warrior and Martyn, who wager everything to put a halt to Whastrach's environmentally destructive plans.
-   _Oddworld_:
    -   The Glukkons are an industrial-focused species that prioritize satisfying their greed and materialistic desires above all else, turning the world around them into a polluted, barren wasteland, and using their Slig troops to hunt several species to near-extinction. The Meeches were a species already rendered extinct by the start of the game, and you play as a rebelling Mudokon worker, Abe, to throw a wrench into their malicious businesses.
    -   _Stranger's Wrath_, taking place in a different part of Oddworld, features Sekto as the Big Bad Corrupt Corporate Executive of a different financial empire, factories and over-hunting of several species (including the Steef, the species of the protagonist, Stranger) included.
-   _Ratchet & Clank_: Chairman Drek is a Corrupt Corporate Executive who is responsible for deliberately industrialising and overpolluting his home planet and rendering it uninhabitable, forcing his people, the Blarg, to pay him a fortune to construct a brand new planet for them to live on, and overseeing an army of Planet Looters who steal the best bits from other planets in the galaxy for him to use in his creation. He's also secretly planning to repeat the cycle all over again once the Blarg have settled on their new planet.
-   _The Simpsons Game_: In the level that introduces Lisa's capabilities, the villain of said level is Mr. Burns, who's using large buzz saw blade-wielding machines to cut down massive trees... so he can make each one into a single toothpick.
-   _Sonic the Hedgehog_: Since Sonic is a free spirit and lover of nature, his Arch-Enemy Dr. Eggman (formerly Dr. Ivo Robotnik) is a tyrannical industrialist, a representation of all the ways humanity harms the environment. He runs pollution-spewing factories to manufacture his armies of robots and other weapons, and he kidnaps wild animals to imprison them inside his robots as power sources (or in some continuities, he transforms them into robots outright). That said, this aspect of Dr. Eggman has been de-emphasized in games since the mid-2000s, as he (mostly) stopped imprisoning animals inside his robots, and the games started glossing over how he makes all his machines.
    -   _Sonic the Hedgehog_: The final level is Scrap Brain Zone, the gigantic factory that serves as Eggman's base. In Act 1, smokestacks are visible in the background, spewing smoke into the sky. And in Act 3, you're dumped into the polluted waters below the factory.
    -   _Sonic the Hedgehog CD_ uses the game's Time Travel gimmick to show the results of Eggman's actions. Under normal circumstances, if you travel to the future in any level, you wind up in a wasteland of pollution and broken machinery. But if you thwart Eggman's scheme (either by destroying his roboticizers in the past version of each stage, or by collecting all seven Time Stones), then traveling to the future reveals a utopian version of each level where nature and technology coexist in harmony.
    -   _Sonic 3 & Knuckles_: Eggman firebombs the lush jungle of Angel Island, either in an over-the-top attempt to kill Sonic or purely For the Evulz.
    -   _Sonic Colors_: Eggman exploits the alien Wisps in much the same way he formerly exploited terrestrial animals. The stages on Planet Wisp contrast the planet's natural beauty with the ugliness of Eggman's invasive industrialization.
    -   _Sonic Frontiers_ lampshades this in an easy-to-miss bit of incidental dialogue. Sonic notices that Eggman is drawing geothermal power from the volcano on Chaos Island, then quips, "Ha! Never thought he'd go green."
-   _Terror of Hemasaurus_: Richie Hoarderson, the CEO of PollutaCorp, wants to make as much money off exploiting the environment as possible without having to kowtow to regulations... to the point of starting an ecoterrorist Apocalypse Cult worshipping a bioengineered kaiju in order to sow chaos and discredit environmentalists.
-   _Warframe_:
    -   The warmongering Grineer are known to strip-mine entire celestial bodies in order to fuel their expansion across the Origin System. On Earth, they use toxin injectors to poison entire forests in order to clear land. Ceres and Sedna, meanwhile, have been entirely converted into factories that spew toxic sludge.
    -   The Corpus are a faction defined by their limitless greed, which extends to unrestrained exploitation of natural resources. Nef Anyo, one high-ranking Corpus plutocrat with little regard for human rights, has jeopardized all of Venus on multiple occasions in his haste to maximize profit.
        -   During the "Vox Solaris" quest, Nef orders the activation of an Orokin coolant tower that will terraform more of Venus' surface but orders it to be activated before it's ready, which risks causing a catastrophic heat cascade that would destroy the Fortuna colony.
        -   A recurring event has Nef pump dangerous amount of coolant into the ground in order to harvest Thermia (basically Venusian magma), causing fiery Thermia fractures to erupt all over the Orb Vallis.

    Web Animation 

-   _Cheat Commandos:_ In the first Cheat Commandos short, the villainous Blue Lasers are plotting to "blow up the ocean!" (But chalk this up as Early-Installment Weirdness. In every subsequent episode, Blue Laser's schemes are either hilariously minor or target the Cheat Commandos specifically.)

    Web Original 

-   _LOLNEIN_: Their "Mother Nature" song portrays the Earth itself as an anti-environmentalist who enjoys being polluted and tormented, while casually unleashing natural disasters to show gratitude. If that sounds like a very uncomfortable song, that's the point; If you keep polluting, that means giving this creep the satisfaction it craves.

    Western Animation 

-   _Animaniacs (2020)_: Josh Polar from the episode "Global Warnering". A polar bear realtor who, while not actively harming the environment, is betting on climate change worsening so his arctic real estate becomes valuable, tropical, and necessary.
    
    **Josh Polar:** _Here comes the sea-ea-ea / It fills me with glee-ee-ee,_
    
    _When glaciers are dying / everyone's buying / new beach property!_
    
    _Location is the golden rule / and we've got the world's most spacious pool!_
    
    ''Did I mention it's heated? / No credit needed! / Here's your new key!'
    
-   _Avatar: The Last Airbender_:
    -   The Fire Nation broadly operates on an anti-environmentalist agenda, most exemplified by their willingness to burn down and destroy large forested areas for unexplained reasons, and create factories that pollute even their own localized waterways and towns. They are also responsible for multiple beneficial species going extinct, and their final plan's goal is the mass destruction of habitable land across the earth kingdom.
    -   _Legend of Korra_: Kuvira is a downplayed example, who orders her troops to harvest the spirit vines until there's nothing left (in a clear deforestation analog). But her actions are ultimately temporary damages in pursuit of a short-term goal, and she doesn't seek any environmental destruction outside utilizing the spirit vines. The spirit vines are also framed as a renewable energy source by Varrick, further complicating the analogy.
-   _Captain Planet and the Planeteers_: The Eco-Villains generally seemed to just pollute For the Evulz. They generally acted as representations of destructive behaviours. To whit:
    -   Hoggish Greedly represented toxic emissions and by-products, along with unrestricted industry. He eventually underwent a Heel–Face Turn when his son befriended the Planeteers and convinced him that it was possible to be environmentally friendly _and_ still produce things.
    -   Sly Sludge represented short-term thinking and improper disposal. Like Greedly, he also underwent a Heel–Face Turn when the Planeteers convinced him that there was actually good money to be made from recycling and proper disposal (e.g. precious materials could be harvested from discarded electronics for only a fraction of the price of mining raw ore).
    -   Looten Plunder was an Evil Poacher (among other things). Like Greedly and Sludge, his main aim was money, but he was far worse than the other two in that he also represented unchecked, short-sighted capitalism that sought maximum short-term profit, long-term consequences be damned.
    -   Duke Nukem and Verminous Skumm differed from the others in that pollution was their actual objective: Nukem sought to create an irradiated wasteland to create others like him while Skumm sought to pollute the body and mind via methods such as drugs and self-destructive behaviour.
    -   Dr. Blight represented scientific advancement at the cost of the biosphere and environment, but also indulged in "pollution for its own sake" in some episodes. At the start of one, her reaction to learning that the local air quality is great is "Yuk, let's try and fix that."
    -   Zarm may be an Earth spirit like Gaia, but he easily embraces destruction, war, and hatred, and is a cruel god who had driven a different planet he visited to oblivion via nuclear war, and intends to bring Earth into World War III, caring little about the environmental collateral damage, and has even led the other Eco-Villains against the Planeteers on occasion.
-   _Frosty Returns_: Mr. Twitchell is a businessman who sells Summer Wheeze, a product that can instantly remove snow. He doesn't really care about the consequences of the environment, he's only in it for the money.
-   _Futurama_: The fourth movie, _Into The Wild Green Yonder_, has Leo Wong set the movie's events in action, as his plan to destroy the Violet Dwarf Star to build a giant golf course poses a serious threat to alien life (especially since, unbeknownst to everyone, the star is half of the genetic material required to recreate the Encyclopod and preserve the DNA of every endangered or extinct animal species that ever lived). This spurns Leela to join (and eventually lead) an ecofeminist group to stop him.
-   The _Goof Troop_ episode "A Goof of the People" had Mr. Sludge who's appearance alone was a Dog Face mixed with the look of a walking bio-hazard and actively had his company Sludge Co. polluting everything around them.
-   _OK K.O.! Let's Be Heroes_: Discussed. In "The Power Is Yours!", Dr. Blight comes to Boxmore to pollute the area around Lakewood Plaza Turbo. She notes that her ultimate end goal is simply to pollute the planet until it dies. Boxman points out that, since THEY live on Earth, her plan will lead to their own deaths as well. Dr. Blight just states she doesn't care and continues on.
-   _The Raccoons_: In the show's earlier years, plenty of Cyril Sneer's plots involved harming the Evergreen Forest in some capacity, such as chopping down trees for lumber profit in "The Christmas Raccoons". However, as he went through Character Development, his plots usually strayed away from environmental damage. In fact, in "The One That Got Away!", he's outraged to see a favorite childhood lake of his polluted with toxic waste and has minor antagonist Milton Midas arrested for encouraging its pollution.
-   _Rocko's Modern Life_: In "Zanzibar!", Mr. Bighead hates the environment and is content with dumping his garbage wherever he pleases, even to the point of singing a song about it. Captain Compost Heap encourages the citizens of O-Town to recycle through The Recycle Song, then gets Rocko to lead them to get the Conglom-O corporation to clean up their act. Mr. Dupette, the CEO of Conglom-O is more negligent than genuinely malevolent and is happy to comply. He gets Mr. Bighead, who has been put in charge of handling Conglom-O's waste and did so very carelessly, to clean up his act. The citizens of O-Town thank Mr. Bighead, who unfortunately hasn't learned his lesson. He tells them off for making him clean up when he could have just relaxed and continued to dump his garbage wherever he pleases. He ends up getting roasted by the Sun for this.
-   _The Simpsons_: Homer's evil boss Mr. Burns sometimes dumps toxic waste into water for kicks. In fact, that's why his pet fish Blinky has three eyes.
-   _The Smoggies_ are treasure hunters with no regard for the environment. While some of the environmental effects are exaggerated even if plausible, an artistic license creates giant bugs due to chemical pesticides.
-   _Sonic the Hedgehog (SatAM)_: Dr. Robotnik, of course. In the "Blast To The Past" two-parter, when he's beginning his coup, one thing he does is take a whiff of the smog his machines are creating, and enjoying it.
-   _South Park: The Streaming Wars Part 2_: Pi Pi secretly works with ManBearPig (the show's personification of climate change) to cause a drought that will allow him to sell urine as a water substitute.
-   _Tiny Toon Adventures_: Montana Max owns a number of environmentally unfriendly factories that produce frivolous things such as ice cream spoons and donut holes, which Plucky Duck, as his superhero alter-ego, the Toxic Revenger, tries to shut down.
-   _Tommy Zoom_: The villain is literally named Polluto and his shtick is to pollute on purpose for no apparent reason, such as by littering or by driving a car that spews more exhaust fumes than most cars.
-   _Winx Club_: The fifth season's Big Bad, Tritannus, starts out as a regular merman. An oil spill causes him to mutate and acquire new powers, which gives him the opportunity to acquire more political power and get revenge. As a result, he actively seeks to cause environmental disasters —such as oil spills and waste dumping on the ocean— to strengthen his pollution magic. He always does it with malicious glee and the utmost uncaring for the living beings that get impacted by his actions.
-   _Yogi's Gang_ has a few anti-environmental villains, such as Mr. Smog, who has a smog factory and tries to convince everyone that smog is good for them, and Lotta Litter, who litters at Jellystone Park.

___