**Kirito**: Who do you think you are?! You can't take advantage of Asuna like this!  
**Sugou**: Take advantage? Oh, _please_. If anything, I have a right to her.

Bob is part of a community, a nationality, a religion, a subculture, or whatever social group. As such Bob feels Alice is obligated to be with him, one way or another. Perhaps, given that they're part of the same social group, she will be a "traitor to their kind" if she does not date or marry within it. Or maybe he just feels that by belonging to the category he "deserves" her more than someone outside it. The former justification often goes hand-in-hand with the latter. If Alice complies, she might even discover that Bob is willing to take his sense of entitlement further still.

There are several basic ways in which Bob can justify his sense of entitlement (all of which can also apply the other way around):

-   **Who they are**: For example, "She must sleep with me because I'm part of Clan X and a woman of Clan X must always choose X over Y."
-   **What they do**: For example, "She must sleep with me because I repair her television and listen to her drama, therefore she must give me something in return, and this can only mean one thing."
-   **What they don't do**: For example, "She must sleep with me because I wouldn't rape her," or "She must sleep with me because I normally abstain from sleeping around."
-   **Extreme circumstances**: The world is ending, someone is dying, Only You Can Repopulate My Race, or similar. This part is often the mildest version of the trope since both parties usually have little choice either way, especially in an Adam and Eve Plot.

The _who they are_ type is usually more aggressive, and often the (implicit if not explicit) attitude of The Native Rival to the Mighty Whitey for the hand of The Chief's Daughter and/or Nubile Savage, or any other man prone to accuse people of being a Category Traitor. The mindset can in some cases lead to Honor-Related Abuse, especially when based on race/ethnicity/religion. This is a primary source of much of the unfortunate negative attitudes towards mixed couples, such as black man/white woman and Asian woman/white man pairs (see Where da White Women At? and Mighty Whitey and Mellow Yellow, respectively). It's also the most gender-neutral of all instances since you will also find female characters who do the exact same things with men from their own clan, especially towards women whom they feel are "stealing their man".

The _what they do_ type is usually more passive-aggressive, and one of the big reasons why being a self-defined "Nice Guy" might mean something entirely different from actually being good or even nice. (See also Nice Guys Finish Last; contrast Dogged Nice Guy and All Girls Want Bad Boys, where the nice guy actually _is_ nice, or at least expected to be seen as such according to the narrative.) However, this behavior is not limited to guys who consider themselves nice. A straight-up Jerkass character might buy a woman a drink... without informing her that he considers her a very cheap hooker whom he has now bought and is entitled to use.

The _what they don't do_ type can easily come across as Insane Troll Logic but is actually quite reasonable from a certain point of view: a guy who believes that regular male sexuality is mostly about Sex Is Evil, and I Am Horny and that women owe him a debt of gratitude for not being a rapist like those other guys. (Of course, he might even _be_ a rapist — making the whole thing even more ironic.) Or, the view of a female who firmly believes and enforces the My Girl Is Not a Slut trope.

Since this trope in general is based on a traditional male gender role, it's mostly male. However, female examples do exist, especially with the _who they are_ type. For example, a White woman might invoke the Asian Hooker Stereotype when a white man dates an Asian woman. The Maligned Mixed Marriage is the primary trope used to display this kind of behavior, from both males and females alike.

See also Sour Prudes and Sex Is Evil, and I Am Horny, as well as Lie Back and Think of England and My Girl Is Not a Slut. Polar opposite of Ethical Slut, where characters of any gender have fun together—and encourage potential partners to want to have sex with them, rather than trying to squeeze favors out of someone who just isn't interested.

Compare Entitled Bastard, It's All About Me, Aren't You Going to Ravish Me? and Prince Charming Wannabe. Overlaps with Attempted Homewrecker if a character feels entitled to someone else's partner. Contrast Sexual Extortion, where threats/"offers" replace moralizing and guilt-tripping. Compare and contrast Wants a Prize for Basic Decency, where Bob/Alice expects a reward for acting like a decent person. Marital Rape License is when the person feels s/he is entitled to sex with his/her spouse simply because of that person's status as his/her spouse. If the entitlement reaches extremes in that it can cause the person to commit huge mortal sins/atrocities for the sake of that entitled love, see Yandere, Murder the Hypotenuse, and If I Can't Have You…

Don't confuse with the trope Nice Guy, which is a guy who is genuinely nice. There _is_ the slang term "nice guy" (preferably with quotation marks, for Sarcasm Mode) for the kind of person who acts like this, but a true Nice Guy is about as far from this trope as possible. Dogged Nice Guy, however, is closely related to this trope.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Berserk_:
    -   Griffith, the main antagonist has strong feelings for both Casca and Guts to the point where he puts their own lives above all the rest of his men and makes their safety his personal top priority. Griffith even throws away all rational thinking and plans to keep Guts especially safe. So when Guts desires to leave Griffith's shadow, he cannot take it, dueling Guts and losing, sending Griffith down a spiraling path. Griffith, immediately after Guts' departure, goes and sleeps with the princess of Midland, desperate to fill the void in his life and thinking of nothing but Guts during sex. Unsurprisingly, Griffith is captured and tortured for a year, during which from his imprisonment, his "love" for Guts and Casca becomes Yandere-level violent, and Griffith himself is _silently furious_ upon seeing Guts and Casca's newly formed romance. This is why, when he sacrifices the Band to ascend to the God Hand during the Eclipse, the _very first thing he does_ with this new power is rape Casca in front of a trapped Guts, all the while staring Guts dead in the eyes the whole time.
    -   It's Gender-Inverted later on as Griffith recruits Sonia, a young blonde girl born with several Psychic Powers and who acts as his New Band of The Hawk's Mission Control. Given that Griffith is betrothed to Princess Charlotte and mostly spends his quality time with her, Sonia seethes with jealousy at the sight of them being together since she felt an instant, yet one-sided, connection with the newly reincarnated Griffith/Femto due to the otherworldly powers they share, and thus considers herself much more worthy of being his consort than Charlotte. She even makes a sonnet about it, comparing herself to a kite while Griffith is a hawk and Charlotte is an awkward duck with no legitimate claim to Griffith's hand. But since she can't act against Charlotte without falling from favor, she limits herself to childishly interrupting their meetings and otherwise sending a vicious Death Glare at Charlotte, who remains completely oblivious to Sonia's hostility.
-   _Black Clover_: Dante Zogratis is this in spades. Any time a woman catches his fancy he is quick to approach her and tell her to "be his woman". He is just as quick to show that this isn't a request; it's an _order_. While attacking the Black Bulls base, he is impressed by Vanessa's Thread of Fate and Grey's Transmutation Magic, and declares that they are to be his women from now on. They are naturally repulsed by this, and it's only thanks to Asta and Yami defeating him that he doesn't outright kidnap them. Dante's entitlement doesn't solely extend to them as people, either: when Vanessa tries to use her Thread of Fate to protect Asta, Dante is incensed that she is using her magic for someone other than him, and crushes it using his Gravity magic while reproaching her.
-   In _Daltanious_, Catine is a Gold Digger who wants to marry the Half-Human Hybrid Kento Tate so she can have the Heliosian throne. When Kento doesn't recriprocate (due to her being obnoxious and forcing herself on him), she throws a tantrum and blames Sanae, Kento's female friend for "getting in the way", even though she did nothing of the sort.
-   In the dub version of _Digimon Adventure 02_, Davis outright declares Kari as "his girl" and he acts hostile to TK (By calling him TS, TJ, etc) because he thinks that he is stealing his own girl. In the original, Daisuke simply had a crush on Hikari and he wanted to impress her. Unfortunately, he never achieved this, and neither did Takeru.
-   _Food Wars!_: Asahi Saiba is a twofold example:
    -   In trying to follow his mentor's advice of "The secret to become a great chef is to find a special woman you can cook for", he thinks this means he has to marry the ultimate gourmet, who is Erina Nakiri. So he infiltrates her school and tries to court her, and when that fails, kidnaps her and appeals to her pride to get her to agree to a challenge that, should he win in the BLUE competition, she'll marry him. Not only it's clear from the beginning that Erina finds his behaviour creepy and abhorrent, but the epilogue reveals they're actually half-siblings, which would have lead to serious consequences down the road had he succeeded in his plans.
    -   With his aforementioned mentor, Joichiro Saiba. Given that he grew in an orphanage and had an abusive alcoholic for a mother, he really appreciated that Joichiro took him under his wing and taught him how to cook. However, when Joichiro's wife died, he had to go back to Japan to raise his son, and couldn't visit Asahi as much as before. This caused Asahi to develop a resentment for Soma, thinking that he "stole" Joichiro from him (and it's even worse in the anime, where Joichiro actually asks Asahi directly if he'd like to come along to Japan, but Asahi refuses, the implication being that he doesn't want to share his father figure with anyone else).
-   A running theme in _Fruits Basket_ is examining how wrong this trope is. Kagura, Akito, and Yuki's fan club (Motoko in particular) all feel that they deserve to be in a relationship with the objects of their affections, and all of them eventually realize they're just creating a false bond and move on from it.
-   _Glass Mask_ gives Sakurakouji some traits of this as his unrequited feelings for Maya continue. He becomes insanely jealous of Shigeru when he gets together with Maya, despite her having already rejected Sakurakouji. Even asking why Shigeru broke up with Maya because of her scandal. When he reappears a few years later, with a sort-of girlfriend, he still retains these traits.
-   _Hello Sandybelle_: Kitty believes her and Marc are meant to be, hence her trying to sabotage his friendship with Sandybell. When Marc is forced by his father to enter an Arranged Marriage with her, she's elated.
-   _Lady!!_: Madeline Wavebury, Lynn and Sarah's would-be Wicked Stepmother wants their father George all to herself, even going as far as to repeatedly bar Lynn from seeing him no matter what.
-   Early on in _Mars (1996)_, Rei confronts Harumi over why she's bullying Kira, who he likes. The argument ends with Harumi storming off while tearfully shouting "I won't ever let Kira take you!" Rei is distinctly unimpressed by how little regard she has for what _he_ wants.
    
    **Rei:** Give this, take that. What am I, a gift?
    
-   _My Hero Academia_: All For One is eventually revealed to have had this attitude towards his own brother. This stems from their mother dying shortly after they were born and All For One having already stolen her Quirk from her corpse, so Yoichi was the only other thing he had at birth. Unfortunately for Yoichi, All For One saw him as more of a possession than a person, and constantly disregarded his stance on his older brother killing muggles and stealing Quirks, thinking that Yoichi lacked perspective due to apparently having been born without a Quirk. After Yoichi was rescued by Kudo and Bruce, All For One could not understand that his brother was trying to get away from him, and ultimately killed him. He later learned that Yoichi _did_ have a Quirk, and after convincing himself that it had been "stolen" (while in truth Yoichi willingly passed it on) became determined to retrieve it from Kudo as a way to recover his brother, starting his secret war with the One For All users. The narration even states that All For One gave his brother the name "Yoichi" because he was "his first possession", and he explicitly labels Kudo as "the man who stole his property".
-   Harry of _Outlaw Star_ is this for Melfina quickly after meeting her, saying they are the only ones who can understand each other and beating her once when she refuses him.
-   Discussed in _Puella Magi Madoka Magica._ When Sayaka thinks about using a wish from Kyubey to heal her childhood friend/crush Kyosuke of his Career-Ending Injury, Mami spots whiffs of this trope and, via an Armor-Piercing Question, warns her that she better make sure this is really a Selfless Wish _and not a subconscious desire to make him eternally grateful and bound to her_. Sayaka goes through with the wish when Kyosuke's depression gets increasingly bad, believing that it would still be Worth It, and a pre-Character Development Kyouko even says that she should've broken his limbs and made her completely reliant on him instead. How much this is Played Straight afterwards is open to debate, given what happens: Sayaka _still_ doesn't confess to Kyosuke and keeps quietly loving him from afar partly because she fears this trope and partly because she feels like she must leave her old life behind, so he remains Oblivious to Love and winds up dating Sayaka and Madoka's friend Hitomi, who actually was completely honest with her feelings towards him. Sayaka falls past the Despair Event Horizon and, after a notably bitter rant to some guys who were being assholes to their girlfriends, turns into a Witch.
    -   _Puella Magi Madoka Magica The Movie: Rebellion_ has Homura play this trope straight for Madoka, in a way. It's less that she feels like she's entitled to have Madoka and more that she feels entitled to make a world where Madoka is alive and happy, even if Madoka doesn't want it.
-   _The Quintessential Quintuplets_: Ichika Nakano is an interesting example because she does _not_ start out this way. While it's clear that she's attracted to Fuutarou very early on, she seems willing to support him being with one of her sisters, first with Itsuki and later with Miku. However, after she scores higher than Miku in the final exams, she seems to think this gives her the right to confess first. Unfortunately, Nino beats her to the punch and she ends up eavesdropping. It reaches a head when, during a talk with Nino, she tries (but fails) to dissuade Nino from trying to kiss Fuutarou, apparently appealing to the fact that she (Ichika) fell in love with him first. From here on out, she starts growing increasingly paranoiac that her sisters will try to make moves on him before she does, and resorts to underhanded moves to sabotage their efforts, and this all but kills her chances with Fuutarou because he's _not_ happy that she did this to her sisters for him.
-   _Ranma ½_:
    -   Tatewaki Kuno believes that his status as heir to the wealthy and aristocratic Kuno clan justifies his pursuit of the distinctly disinterested Akane and (female) Ranma, assuming he doesn't claim that they're the ones into _him_. Normally, he restricts his affection to bombastic declarations of love, the occasional gaudy gift, and sudden glomps with subtle groping. Ironically, after suffering Easy Amnesia, he actually gets _worse_ about this trait; remembering only that he wants the female Ranma, he begins pursuing her much more forcibly, even attempting to outright rape her before being forcibly restored to normal with a convenient blow to the head.
    -   Mousse declares frequently that he "deserves" Shampoo because they are former childhood friends from the same tribe, and his entire rivalry with Ranma is due to Ranma's Accidental Marriage to Shampoo. Never mind that Shampoo bluntly tells him that she doesn't love Mousse and _does_ love Ranma, or that Shampoo is more than willing to beat him senseless or exploit him for slave labor because of the disdain his attitude invokes in her.
-   In _Saber Rider and the Star Sheriffs_ (the English dub of _Sei Juushi Bismarck_), this is Jesse Blue's attitude toward April Eagle. It doesn't end well for him.
    
    **Jesse:** Don't you see, April? You belong to me, and I'll take care of you from now on.  
    **April:** I don't need taking care of, and I'm nobody's property.
    
-   In _Sakura Gari_ before he fell in love with Masataka, Souma clearly disregards Masataka's personal space and gropes him... when Masataka made clear he had no interest in sex. Souma is implied to have disregarded this because Masataka is a good-looking servant and Souma has slept with the help. After... he expects Masataka to fall into his arms because he loves Masataka and that Masataka should accept him despite the very **unsettling** discovery Masataka found. When Masataka refuses him out of fear, Souma rapes him.
-   _Sayonara, Zetsubou-Sensei_: Stalkers are parodied and played with in this series like everything else. One episode has a stalker chain where Matoi is stalking Nozomu, followed by a boy she stalked before, a lady who loves the guy stalking Matoi, and a cleaner that stalks a lady saying he “washes her underwear for her”. They all are acting in this creepy manner towards the ones they are partial towards because they feel it is their right and they are attracted to someone who does not have feelings for them and play hard to get (in their mind anyway).
-   _The Seven Deadly Sins_: Mael already hated the Demon Clan, but seeing Elizabeth kiss a demon did not help. This is why he acts so rapey towards Elizabeth in the present. He gets over it big time once all the brainwashing is cleared up.
    
    "You never took any notice of me...and instead, chose that filthy demon, Meliodas."
    
-   _Tokyo Ghoul_: Mutsuki is a trans male with scars and therefore biologically female which attracts a sexual interest from Torso who is attracted to women with scars. He eventually captures and marries him while misgendering him and objectifying Tooru like a Lust Object. Once when Tooru rejected him Torso responded by beating him in anger and saying "it's just me a man and you a woman here alone together so you've got no choice but to love me!" He thinks he and Mutsuki are destined to be together and that Mutsuki simply needs to realize that because they are similar.
    -   Mutsuki adopts the "force your love in a twisted fashion on your special someone" aspect from Torso and develops these feelings for Sasaki/Kaneki especially after getting jealous when seeing him interact with Touka. He thinks because he is a liar to protect himself and Kaneki/Sasaki is a liar to protect others that they are kindred spirits. Then he mentions that’s why he and not Touka should be with Kaneki. He feels this way about Kaneki initially and can’t comprehend why he is with Touka. In fact, he tries to kill Touka a couple of times before coming to his senses.
-   In _Tokyo Revengers_, The Reveal is that the Big Bad Kisaki knew Takemichi and Hinata for years and had been lusting for Hinata ever since, with everything he did being for the purpose of one-upping Takemichi for her affection. The reason she keeps getting killed over and over is because Kisaki was pulling an If I Can't Have You… every single time after being rejected by her, as he believed since he saw her first she belonged to him.
-   In _Tomodachi Game_, it's revealed early on that the traitor within the group is Tenji, who was Childhood Friends with Shiho and seemingly became a Stalker with a Crush seeking to use the Sadistic Game Show to destroy their friendships and isolate her from their mutual friends so he could have her all to himself. However, soon afterwards he reveals that his intentions weren't romantic at all; he believed her to be responsible for his father's mysterious death and just wanted her to suffer, seeing her as the real traitor.
-   In _Trigun Stampede_, Millions Knives views his twin, Vash, like a possession that solely belongs to him. He constantly disregards his brother's autonomy and opinions, deluding himself into believing that any disagreements they have is due to Vash being 'ill'. Their most painful confrontations involve Knives trying/succeeding in hurting someone Vash cares for. Even though he claims everything he does is for Vash's sake, it's evident that he's more possessive than protective.
-   _Witch Hunter_: The main character repeatedly declares that Princess Halloween is HIS. Keep in mind that this means that he sees the princess of Avalon (the girl whose hand in marriage would equal rulership over the entire continent) as his personal slave rather than a meal ticket to ultimate political power. Which is disturbing but also amazing (even for a rich kid).

    Comic Books 

-   In _Bitchy Butch_, Butchy herself is often a (female) example of this trope, ranting about how random women ought to "be loyal to their gender" and have sex with her rather than with the men they are in love with.
-   In _City of Dreams_, the white prince seems to have more than a little bit of this mindset, but this turns out to be caused by the fact that he actually IS her boyfriend - yep, Christine's sexually repressed Heteronormative Crusader real-life boyfriend is a dreamer too, but as much as he'd like to tell himself he's only there to rescue _her_, he did in fact end up in Morrigon of his own accord...
-   Yondu pulled an _extreme circumstances_ on Photon, thinking they were the last two of their species, in the 1990s _Guardians of the Galaxy_. It didn't go well. (Jim Valentino _meant_ to eventually get them together, but it never panned out.)
-   In one strip of _Inrutat_ (by the same guy who makes _Pondus_), a male dinosaur is pleading _extreme circumstances_ with a female dinosaur, as the Extinction Level Event Comet is blazing down from the sky.
-   In one _Mega Python_ album, the male protagonist demands sex from a random woman, using the argument that she must sleep with him because he's gay. When she disputes that he'd even want to have sex with her if he's gay, he replies that he's considering getting turned straight.
-   In _Robin_ Darla refuses to take no for an answer from Tim, she forces a kiss on him in front of the entire school and his girlfriend after he repeatedly told her he wasn't interested and was already in a relationship. After she comes back from the dead she decides they're dating when she uses her new powers to make sure Tim can't avoid her even though Tim makes it clear he still has absolutely no interest, then after committing homicide in front of him expects him to come live the rest of his life with her because he's such a nice person he "has to" forgive her.
-   _Spider-Man_:
    -   During the late '80s, Jonathan Caesar, a wealthy Stalker with a Crush, kidnapped Mary Jane Watson-Parker and tried to force her to return his affections. When MJ angrily informed Caesar that she was already married, Caesar answered, "Not to me so it doesn't count."
    -   Dr. Miles Warren, aka the Jackal, was dealt a severe blow by his beloved wife's death at the claws of his first genetic monstrosity, the Man-Jackel. He became a biology professor at Empire State University, where one of his students was Gwen Stacy, who reminded him so much of his dead wife that an ugly obsession with her was kindled inside him. When Gwen was murdered by the Green Goblin, Miles snapped and became obsessed with resurrecting her via cloning and punishing Spider-Man, who he blamed for her death. Even Spider-Gwen isn't immune to his obsession, with Miles following her to Earth-65 intending to force her to love him — something that even his Earth-65 counterpart was disgusted by.
    -   In 2004, Queen, a supervillain who could control anyone with the "insect gene" among her many other powers, felt that she was a true survivor and the Queen of all with the insect gene. After meeting Spider-Man, she quickly became impressed by his strength and determination, and seeing him as the strongest of her "subjects", she declared him as her mate. When Spider-Man refuses her seductions though she angrily knocks him around, declaring that as a member of her hive he will love her whether he wants to or not.
-   Maxima's main personality trait, in regards to Superman. She's a powerful metahuman, he's the most powerful metahuman/alien, so they're meant to be, whether he wants it or not. Maxima is generally interested in any powerful man who can bear her a powerful son, so while Captain Marvel is a nice guy he's of no interest to her, while she wanted Aquaman so badly that she kidnapped him. Superman's unlucky enough in that Maxima doesn't just want to have his kids, but she wants Superman raising those kids as her queen while she's out conquering planets.

-   _X-Men:_ In the earliest days before Character Development set in, this was Wolverine's attitude to Jean Grey, even though their only major interaction up to that point had been Jean telling Logan to his face she found him rude, unpleasant and disgusting. He was completely baffled as to why Jean was more interested in Cyclops, but still saw Jean as "his" regardless, including trying to murder a random stranger because he thought they were breaking into her apartment (when Wolverine was doing _the exact same thing_).

    Comic Strips 

-   _For Better or for Worse_: Gordon's crush on Allyson Creedmore unintentionally comes across as this. He acts like she should be with him simply because he's in love with her, he doesn't really know who she is beyond being pretty and when they do interact (helping her get home after her date to a school dance ditched her), he never contacts her afterwards, instead just waiting around for Allyson to fall in love with him. He does later move on with someone else, but Gordon never really learned anything from the experience.

    Fan Works 

### Crossovers

-   Adam Taurus' selfish entitlement towards Blake is on full display in the _RWBY_/_Transformers_ fic, _A Girl and Her Bike_. When Ruby calls him out on his abusive attitude towards Blake, his response amounts to "She belongs to me, I can treat her however I want."
-   Junya in _Kryptonian Plus Vampire_ tries to isolate Moka from Clark and take her for himself because he sees all other races as trash and believes a vampire should only be with another vampire.
-   _The Night Unfurls_ has two examples:
    -   Michelle Pantielle towards Maia. He became obsessed with her since she was recruited as a Shield by Celestine, having chased after her for some time, much to the chagrin of his own family and Maia herself, who would later flat-out tell him that she never loved him. His latest act of pursuit is to throw a party for Kyril as a nominal gesture of welcome for his knighthood, so that he can continue to show Maia his affections in a more spectacular way. During said party, Michelle declares her his lover while seething with jealousy at the sight of Maia being friendly towards the "false knight" Kyril, as he is being promptly ignored by the both of them, never mind that their relationship is merely professional. This trope comes in full circle in Chapter 11, when Maia is under the mercy of the Black Dogs as Ansur is attacked. Here, after Michelle expresses his frustration about her choosing Kyril over him despite joining the "winning side" that is the Black Dogs, he decides to have his way with her.
    -   Olga observes that this mindset is present within the rebels who are exhorting men to join the Black Dogs, summed up as "men practising their 'right' to a woman's body as if they own it".
    -   In the remastered version, Morgan has this attitude about Grace that counts as a _what they do_ type: since he "owns" the town of Baskerville as its "protector", by this reasoning, he should "own" her as well. Lampshaded and discussed in this exchange between Morgan and Kyril:
        
        **Morgan:** You've got a lot of nerve. The dark elf is mine, much like this little town. The Black Dogs are the protectors of this place so you just screwed up big time, friend.  
        **Kyril:** Are you? All I see are thugs... let me guess, in exchange for the coin you get the privilege of whatever women you want?  
        **Morgan:** What, you jealous?  
        **Kyril:** No. Rather I feel sorry for them if you're the only one willing.  
        **Morgan:** Grace is mine.  
        **Kyril:** We don't always get what we want in life. _(tilts his head)_ Or are you going to have a tantrum whenever someone says no?
        
-   In _Just Trust Me_, Louise is the _who they are_ type about Baron since they are both half-cat fairy folk and gets very aggressive when Baron announces he wished to court Haru (a human).

### _Coco_

-   _The Bedside Ghost_: The reason why Ernesto murdered Héctor: Because Héctor decided to stand up to Ernesto and put his own wishes (to return with Imelda and Coco) instead of what Ernesto wanted for him (to continue being a musical duo). Ernesto considered this a horribly cruel act of betrayal that Héctor had to be killed for. And he insists it was Héctor's fault for leaving him.

### _Danny Phantom_

-   In _My Beloved Brother_, many of the football players believe that they can have any woman they want simply because they're really popular. When Jazz Fenton rejects Dash, he and a couple of his friends decide to "correct her behavior" by raping her. Luckily, Danny and his friends are able to stop them and they are promptly charged with Attempted Rape.

### _Disney Animated Canon_

-   In _Only Exception_, Hans treats Anna this way, and is more than willing to blackmail, threaten and abuse anyone that gets between them. Not out of love, but because they're the 'power couple' of their school, and he has no intention of losing any of that prestige.

### _Girls und Panzer_

-   In _Boys Do Tankary_, Miho gets very upset when Vincent is attracted to Saori instead of her.

### _Harry Potter_

-   In _The Jaded Eyes Series_, the Potter clan believes that Sirius is entitled to have Madeline after everything he's been through and don't take Madeline's or Snape's feelings into account. Madeline objects... violently.

### _The Hunger Games_

-   _The Victors Project_: Tanni Romero, one of Cecelia's johns from when she was a Streetwalker and later one of her sponsors during the 57th Hunger Games, feels that she owes him sex for both real and imagined acts of kindness he has shown her. It doesn't end well for him.

### _Jackie Chan Adventures_

-   _The Ultimate Evil_: Shendu believes that he has the sole right to have Valerie Payne, who is his Other and love interest.

### _Let the Right One In_

-   _TorontoBatFan's Let Me In_ series reveals that Abby was turned into a vampire because her uncle, Hebediah, wanted her as his mate, despite the fact that they were biologically related and she was only twelve years old at the time. When he and Abby confront each other in the present, Jebediah still retains that obsession, but Abby is able to provoke him into making mistakes so that she and Owen can kill him.

### _Love Hina_

-   _For His Own Sake_ has an unusual variation: Mutsumi insists that Keitaro and Naru are meant to be together on an almost _fanatical_ level, to the point that she suffers Sanity Slippage after Keitaro dumps Naru for abusing him so much. This stems from Mutsumi having decided that she wanted them to be happy together, quietly giving up her position as his "Promise Girl" to Naru. In effect, she believes that her self-sacrifice entitles her to dictate their future, even when it's clear that they aren't good for each other.

### _Luca_

-   Downplayed with Vincenzo in _The Story of Apollo, Daphne and Luca: An Italian Tragedy_. While he can be quite obsessive regarding his crush with Giulia and feeling that she is destined to become his girlfriend because she's the only girl in school that doesn't swoon over him, he's quite civil, polite and respectful towards her.

### _Marvel Universe_

-   Parodied in the Crack Fic _Shuffle or Boogie_, in which Jean Grey summons several other women to the astral plane just to make it clear that she will _not_ tolerate them flirting with Scott. At this point, Jean has been dead for several years.

### _Mass Effect_

-   In _Miranda's Obsession_, Miranda Lawson becomes obsessed with Commander Shepard after extensively studying him during the 2-year time period where she was in charge of bringing him Back from the Dead. Eventually, Miranda starts to justify her obsession on the basis that, since she was the one who brought him back to life, he was now her property.

### _Megamind_

### _Miraculous Ladybug_

-   It's very common to see Chloé, Lila, and Chat Noir depicted this way, especially in Salt Fic, as all three are shown in-show to pursue their Love Interests without any regard for what Adrien or Ladybug actually _want_. Alya is also usually portrayed with a variation of this, either acting entitled to Marinette's friendship (even after she's treated her like crap due to Lila) or to Ladybug's Secret Identity (never mind how that would put the heroine in danger).
-   _Crumbling Down_: Lila believes that Adrien belongs to her and she can do whatever she wants with him, including rape.
-   _Dad Villain AU_: While his selfish Wish rewrote reality, Gabriel recalls how Nathalie fell in love with his devotion to bringing Emelie back, in no small part because she had been secretly crushing on his wife for a long time. Emelie is fully aware of Nathalie's feelings, and had been using them to string her along for her own amusement and self-validation. When Nathalie shows signs of moving on, both Agrestes are enraged and insulted; how _dare she_ start looking for somebody to reciprocate her love rather than yearning after them forever?!
-   _Dread String of Fate_ has Marinette literally being Strangled by the Red String tying her to Adrien; it's wrapped around her neck, while twined gently around his ring finger. While Adrien is unaware of this, he still acts smugly entitled to Ladybug as Chat Noir, insisting that they're 'meant to be' regardless of how she feels about it.
-   _I See What You Do Behind Closed Doors_ plays with Adrien's sense of entitlement towards Ladybug when he decides to start dating Marinette... because she looks like Ladybug. Naturally, he's unaware that this is because she _IS_ Ladybug. As a result, she's left with the impression that he's two-timing her because he wants to date _both of them_ at the same time, which isn't technically wrong.
-   In _Juleka vs. the Forces of the Universe_, this is one of the reasons why Juleka decides to Screw Destiny and help Marinette hook up with her brother Luka instead: Chat Noir acts as though it's only a matter of time before Ladybug 'comes around' to his unwanted advances, while Adrien seems completely uninterested in Marinette as anything more than a casual friend. After learning their respective secret identities, Juleka realizes that the only way she can imagine Adrien taking an interest in Marinette is if he learns she's Ladybug.
-   _The Karma of Lies_:
    -   After her Secret Identity is revealed in the Final Battle with Hawkmoth, Adrien expects Marinette to leap into his arms once he reveals that he not only knew about her crush all along, but that _he_ was crushing on Ladybug. To his shock, she rejects him, having already figured out that she was Loving a Shadow after he let Lila scam their whole class and socially isolate her.
    -   It takes being called out during a live interview, with Ladybug explicitly spelling out all the ways Chat Noir proved to be a horrible excuse for a partner and how much she can't _stand_ him after dealing with his harassment and Skewed Priorities for so long for Adrien to realize that he's not getting a Relationship Upgrade with her. He then complains to Plagg that she should have been clearer about this.
        
        **Plagg:** Kid, you not listening isn't her fault.
        
-   In _LadyBugOut_, Adrien feels so entitled to Ladybug that he defends their Oblivio-induced kiss by declaring that Chat _deserved_ it. He subsequently attempts to force Ladybug to submit to his desires, culminating in him wrenching her arm while demanding to know "What do you have against _destiny?!_" Not only does this get him called out, it leads to Fu stripping him of the Black Cat.
    -   Marinette eventually manages to turn this around on him by mirroring his behavior and teaching him how it feels to be on the receiving end, followed by pointing out something he didn't want to consider: if the Ladybug and Black Cat are meant to be together, then does that mean she's now destined to love the _new_ bearer?
-   _The Lament Series (ChaoticNeutral)_: In _Chloé's Lament_, she fully intended to rule over Paris with Adrien by her side, and is honestly shocked when he rejects her offer and admits that he refused to see what a Spoiled Brat she was. Part of the reason she makes the reality-warping Wish is to try and 'fix' this, only to learn that the new incarnation of Adrien is already estranged from her, only sticking by her side out of guilt over being her Only Friend.
-   _Leave for Mendeleiev_:
    -   Adrien not only feels entitled to Ladybug's love (despite her disinterest) but to everything else about her, including her Secret Identity. Despite being repeatedly warned against this, as they're keeping their alter egos hidden in order to lower the chances of Hawkmoth finding out, he's far more interested in figuring out who she is than in actually dealing with the various akuma sent after them.
    -   Tellingly, when Ladybug informs him that real relationships require both parties to take the time to get to know and understand each other better, he replies "Good thing we're already there," unintentionally implying that he doesn't care about her as a _person_ so much as a _possession_ he believes belongs to him by default.
    -   He's also shocked and appalled to learn that Marinette isn't particularly attracted to him, since they aren't classmates and she hardly knows anything about him. He attempts to guilt-trip her into apologizing for her disinterest, pouting, sulking, and generally acting offended by the notion that there are girls who _don't_ swoon over his good looks and charm.
    -   Chloe, meanwhile, feels entitled to Marinette as her favorite bullying victim, and is not pleased by the fact she transferred into a new homeroom run by a Stern Teacher who actually _defends_ Marinette from her cruelty. She's determined to prove to Marinette that she can't escape her, and has been pressuring Mme Bustier to guilt-trip Marinette into returning to their class.
-   In _Luckier Without_, Ladybug is unimpressed by Chat Noir's declaring that things are alright after Shadow Moth steals the Miracle Box, robbing them of all the other Miraculi and access to other heroes because "You haven't lost _me_." He then follows her and discovers her Secret Identity, not caring one whit about how this endangers them both because he's convinced this means she now _HAS_ to hook up with him.
-   _Of Patience and Pettiness_: When it finally sinks in for Adrien that Ladybug is _never_ going to give him what he wants, he turns bitter towards her, shifting his attention towards pursuing Marinette instead... and proceeding to act just as entitled to her love and forgiveness as he did towards her alter ego.
-   _On Thick Ice_ presents a future where Ladybug and Chat Noir are still active superheroes as adults, and now know each others' secret identities. Adrien now treats Marinette precisely the way he treated Ladybug as Chat Noir, giving her a red rose while 'encouragingly' stating that the two of them were tied together by destiny, and that "Nobody else can have with you what _I_ have."
-   _The One to Make It Stay_: Adrien's sense of entitlement towards Ladybug makes him incredibly jealous of all the temporary heroes, repeatedly lashing out at them. Especially Viperion.
-   _Scarlet Lady_: Chloé's entitlement towards Adrien was bad at the beginning, but as the plot advances it gets worse: in "Animan", when she learns Adrien's going to go to the zoo with his friends (including Marinette) Chloé decides to stalk him... while claiming she'll have a word with him for going to the zoo without considering how it would affect her. This remains present even after he calls her out for her behavior and breaks off their friendship.
-   _Two Letters_: As Chat Noir, Adrien spent nearly two years harassing Ladybug, steamrolling over all her objections, constantly declaring that they were going to be lovers whether she wanted to be or not. He only stopped when he decided to switch targets... to Marinette. This came right as Ladybug was breaking down under the stress of recent events enough to try and convince herself that maybe she liked him after all; when this is pointed out to him, Adrien declares that she should have immediately accepted that he didn't return her interest and move on, as that was the "mature" thing to do... and something he'd outright refused to do for ages.
-   _What Goes Around Comes Around_: When Marinette gets revealed as Ladybug in the Final Battle with Hawk/Shadowmoth, Adrien immediately thinks that this means he can finally get the Relationship Upgrade he wants with 'his lady', considering that to be more important than dealing with the revelation that Hawkmoth was his father all along.
-   _The Wolves in the Woods_:
    -   Adrien's sense of entitlement towards Ladybug is so severe that when the Iberian Heroes first introduce themselves, Chat Noir throws a massive fit over the 'betrayal' of her having more people to rely upon. When his overreaction directly leads to his secret identity being exposed, he smugly assumes that Ladybug will rush to his side and help him out; when she instead breaks down in horrified realization over his behavior, he dismisses it as her being 'overdramatic' and continues to expect her to immediately declare her undying love and devotion.
    -   Alya also feels grossly entitled to Marinette's friendship despite spearheading the bullying campaign against her. When her parents learn that she knew Lila was lying the whole time, but exploited the situation to turn the rest of the class against Marinette in order to destroy her self-esteem, she 'justifies' everything she did by declaring that she just wanted to ensure she never lost her 'bestie'. Despite her own actions driving Marinette away, she continues trying to force her way back into her life, insisting that Marinette **needs** to take her back.
-   In _Your Wish is my Command_, Lila pursues Adrien despite how she is now Gabriel Agreste's daughter and thus no longer needs him to get rich. This is entirely because she believes that part of her 'prize' for winning in the previous reality is claiming him as her boyfriend. Unfortunately for her, since he wasn't raised by an Abusive Parent, he's not the Extreme Doormat she remembers anymore.

### _My Hero Academia_

-   _Crimson and Emerald_: Endeavor fully expected best friend Inko to support him and his hero agency no matter what and feels betrayed that she called him an abuser for abusing his family.
-   _Mastermind: Strategist for Hire_: Hisashi orders Izuku to work for him, claiming he has every right to force him into his employ since he's Izuku's father. Izuku rejects his reasoning; Hisashi abandoned his family immediately after Izuku was diagnosed as Quirkless, and part of the reason he's become a villain is because he enjoys the freedom it brings him.

### _Percy Jackson and the Olympians_

-   Brett in _Through His Eyes_ constantly hounds Annabeth Chase about how Percy is not right for her and stalking her under the justification of protecting her.

### _RWBY_

-   In _Mending The Knots_, Oreo Uziel believes that he and Pyrrha should be dating simply because they're partners, despite the fact that he's a Hypocritical, Lecherous Jerkass with an "It's All About Me" attitude. When Pyrrha has to spell it out for him that she's not interested in him, Oreo teams up with Cardin to get revenge on her. Luckily, both Oreo and the more Jerkass members of Team CRDL get what's coming to them.

### _Star vs. the Forces of Evil_

-   _Stay_: Downplayed with Kelly; she appears to think that Marco owes her his love for being a good friend to him all those years and supporting him through his unrequited love for Star. When he rejects her on the grounds of feeling No Sparks with her, she is bitter and blames Star, feeling like she deserves Marco’s love more than Star.

### _Teen Titans_

-   Samantha Vanaver feels she is entitled to have John Grayson in _The Masks We Wear_ because they used to date.

### _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles_

-   _Same Difference_: Shredder feels this way not just towards Miwa, but towards Tang Shen and all of her children. The only one of her kids he _doesn't_ take this attitude with is Leonardo, and that's because he's so much like his father Yoshi that Shredder is disgusted by him.

### Other

-   A recurring theme in Dakari-King Mykan's works, most notably _The End of Ends_; Beast Boy/Davis Motomiya/another boy thinks he's entitled to have Terra/Kari Kamiya/another girl because they have sad pasts and/or work hard. He will sometimes resort to stalking, gaslighting, guilt tripping and mass murder to get her.

    Films — Animated 

-   In _Bambi_ and its Midquel _Bambi II_, Ronno has this attitude towards Faline, who naturally prefers Nice Guy Bambi over him.
-   _Beauty and the Beast_: The vain and egotistical hunter Gaston is proud of his reputation as the manliest and most popular guy in town. Therefore, he decides that Belle with her reputation as the most beautiful girl in town is the woman who would look the best as his bride, and he goes so far as to get dressed for his wedding and set up the festivities _before_ he proposes to her because he is so overconfident that he can take her saying yes for granted. When she makes it clear that she's _really_ not into him he feels humiliated, and eventually comes up with a villainous plan to _force_ her to marry him because he's a Sore Loser. And when his plan fails while he finds out she's in love with the Beast, his jealousy motivates him to kill him.
    
    **Gaston:** That makes her the best! _And don't I_ deserve _the best!?_
    
-   _The Hunchback of Notre Dame_:
    -   Since Esmeralda is "a sinner", it's Frollo's job to set her straight by making her "his," and if she refuses him she shall _be burned at the stake_.
    -   Quasimodo, by heroic contrast, is a subversion. While he hopes for a relationship with Esmeralda at first and expresses longing for the kind of love he's seen watching couples from the bell tower, he never believes he _deserves_ her – quite the opposite – and in the end, he shows no ill feelings toward the relationship between her and Phoebus and is in fact, happy for them.
-   In _Ice Age: The Meltdown_, Manny comes across this way to Ellie after a That Came Out Wrong moment. He was thinking a bit more along the lines of Adam and Eve Plot.
-   Played for creepiness in _Megamind._ Megamind motivates Hal Stewart, a Manchild version of Jimmy Olsen who has just gained superpowers, by saying that when a Super Hero saves someone they automatically fall in love with their rescuer. Of course, what Megamind doesn't know is that Hal lusts for Roxanne to stalker levels. When Hal finds out real people don't work that way, he ends up becoming a Psychopathic Manchild and goes on a Super Powered rampage.
-   _Strange Magic_: While Roland never says it outright, he definitely displays this mentality. He wants the crown and sees Marianne as great eye candy so in his mind, that means he's got to have her, whether he actually loves her or not. His sneering at the Bog King for daring to fall in love with Marianne because he's an ugly goblin only reinforces this.
-   _The Super Mario Bros. Movie_: Bowser's attitude towards Peach. He thinks their match would be ideal because they are both rulers, and can't (or perhaps _won't_) fathom the idea that she will 100%-without-a-doubt reject him, and when she does, threatens to kill not only her but her entire kingdom, thinking that the act of "sparing" them if she marries him makes him a decent guy.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   A complicated case in 1986’s _Castaway_ (not the Tom Hanks movie), based on the true story of Gerald Kingsland (Oliver Reed), a middle-aged London writer who decides to spend a year on a deserted island in the south Pacific, _Robinson Crusoe_ style, and then write a book about it. He places an ad for a "wife" to accompany him, which is answered by the beautiful young Lucy Irvine (Amanda Donohoe). Lucy wants the job and sleeps with Gerald in London to ensure she gets it and even officially marries him to satisfy immigration requirements. However, once they’re alone on the island, she decides that she doesn’t want to continue the sexual aspect of their relationship. He believes that it was clearly understood by both that part of the reason he wanted her along was for sex and that she "welched" on the deal after getting what she wanted. She, of course, counters that no matter what she can refuse to sleep with him if she chooses. (The fact that she spends much of their time on the island in no more than a bikini bottom, and often less, only increases his frustration.)
-   In the Johnny Depp _Dark Shadows_ movie, Angelique argued that she and Barnabas belonged together because they were both monsters.
-   The "Extreme Circumstances" example comes up in _Dogma_. Jay assumes through his typical stupidity that Bethany is in love with (or at least wants to have sex with) him after he saved her life from some hellspawn hockey players. Though a lewd pervert, he does drop the subject after she puts her foot down. He gets her to agree to have sex with him if they're in a situation where they only have five minutes left to live ("Like, a bomb or something's gonna go off"). At the start of the climax, when it looks like the heroes have failed to stop the apocalypse, Jay immediately drops his pants, planning to hold her to her promise until she figures out another way to save the day.
-   Debated in _Female Perversions_, a debate played for horror: A particularly creepy woman is holding a little lecture about how a woman "must" be an empty canvas for men to project their desire on. Her niece's (slightly delayed) response is to start cutting herself - carving the word "love" into her own flesh and explaining that she meant to write "hate". Maybe she didn't know the difference anymore?
-   Japanese film _Gate of Hell_ presents a variant on the _what they do_ type. A samurai is loyal to the emperor during a rebellion. The samurai's lord offers him a reward for loyalty. The samurai asks for the hand of an attractive lady-in-waiting at court. He is informed that she's already married. He doesn't care.
-   In _A Heart In Winter_, Camille is angered at Stéphane for manipulating her feelings but she's also somehow frustrated that he didn't actually do anything with (physical or otherwise) and her "The Reason You Suck" Speech could be read as frustration that he didn't respond to her advance.
-   The German sniper Zoller in _Inglourious Basterds_ spends most of the movie being nice to Shoshanna and flirting with her, but after being rejected one too many times, he gets angry and violent, frustrated that she has not warmed up to him and shown him the respect he feels entitled to, as a war hero.
-   _Just Friends_:
    -   At times, Chris acts this way; part of Chris' Character Development is realizing that this is not how he should act toward Jamie.
    -   Dusty is definitely this towards Jamie as she never reciprocated his feelings during High School, he feels it's completely justified to use Jamie for sex now as 'revenge', and even mistakes Chris, who is legitimately attracted to her, for doing the same. He even has the audacity to use the song he 'wrote for her' (in actuality, a song he wrote that he uses on every girl, merely changing the name to complement them) as a way to guilt-trip her into dating him.
-   In the film _Robot Overlords_, human collaborator Robin Smythe does everything but explicitly say that Kate Flynn should be with him because he’s helped to protect her son and his friends from the robot invaders when they do small things like stay out past curfew by accident. The fact that he had Kate’s husband arrested and claims that the other man is dead would guarantee that Kate will never be interested in Robin even before taking his past crimes into account (he was at least rumoured to have killed his wife when he found her cheating on him even if it could never be proven).
-   The case for Chad in _Tucker & Dale vs. Evil_ who believes that he is entitled to Allison because she and him are special and goes crazy when she falls for Dale who he sees as a hillbilly and beneath him.
-   _Wolves_: Connor wants Angel to be his son's mother, whether she likes it or not, as she's from the "old lines". Once she's had the baby, though, he's happy for her to leave town. That's... better?

    Literature 

-   _Ai no Kusabi_: Iason, the highest-ranking Blondy of the ruling class, has this general attitude about his low class "Pet" Riki. That he's entitled to sleep with Riki for no other reason than it's his right and the fact that Riki is a non-citizen so therefore has no reason to follow the strict No Sex Allowed laws with him. At least, that's the excuse he uses.
-   _Baka and Test: Summon the Beasts_:
    -   Shouko Kirishima is intensely possessive of her childhood friend Yuuji, to the point of forcing him to go on dates with her, zaps him with a taser if he refuses her demands, pokes his eyes out if she thinks he's looking at another girl. To top it off, she has a marriage registration contract ready to force him into her marrying her.
    -   Second to her are Himeji and Minami towards Akihisa. If he does something to offend them, like say talk to other girls behind their back, they'll punish him brutally. Flanderization in Season 2 made it worse.
    -   Miharu towards Minami. She ignores Minami's feelings and invades her personal space constantly. She even has the gall to think that Akihisa doesn't deserve Minami's affections because he treats her differently than Himeji.
-   _Beast Tamer_: For years, Edgar Fromware, the local lord's son, has been forcing women, no matter their age or status, into servicing him under different threats. When he demands Sora and Runa (who look like human children) to become his women, and gets rejected, he sends his knights to attack them and Rein, then threatens to murder multiple people, and keeps escalating his behavior as everything he tries fails.
-   In _A Brother's Price_, Kij Porter feels entitled to a second dance (and more flirting) with Jerin because she's a noble. When Jerin's sister Corelle comes to fetch him, stating that other women want to dance with him, too, Kij asks her: "Do you know who I am?", and Corelle, in a bored tone, recounts everything worth knowing about the Porter family, as Kij's sister already told her all of it one moment ago. This doesn't deter Kij from making a marriage offer for Jerin after the ball - after all, she's a noble, and the Whistlers are commoners, and they can't do any better than marrying their brother to a noblewoman. Or so she thinks - in the end, Jerin marries the _princesses_. Politics, however, also plays a massive part in the reason why the Porters were so insistent on pursuing Jerin—with Jerin and his sisters being the grandchildren of the lost prince Alannon, they have a considerable amount of status and novelty-value in high society, despite being commoners. Furthermore, the Porters are seeking to murder the current ruling line and manipulate high society so _they_ end up as queens. Marrying Alannon's grandson to give their children a vague claim to the throne, despite men not being allowed to rule and not normally having a claim to anything, would give them an extra edge when attempting to seize the throne.
-   In _The City Who Fought_, Belazir as the leader of the Kolnari believes that his people were each granted a portion of the Divine Seed which _must_ be spread, including to "scumvermin". Consent is not required, and the Kolnari are extremely rough with the inhabitants of the Space Station they invade. He likes to pretend to be friendly and reasonable, all the better to "play with his food", and affects great civility with Channa in particular, partly to make her lover jealous.
-   _A Court of Thorns and Roses_:
    -   Ianthe's attitude towards men in general.
    -   The more Feyre slips away from him, the more Tamlin develops this attitude. At the point that it can no longer be denied that she doesn't love him anymore, he suggests that for having sheltered her and supported her family, she owed him her affection.
-   In Frank M Robinson's _The Dark Beyond the Stars_, the characters are on a generation ship which has a rule by which any person may ask that any other person have sex with them ONCE... and the person being asked _must_ comply. After that, however, there is an absolute right of refusal. Any subsequent coercion does count as rape, of which a very dim view is taken.
-   In _Earth's Children_, Marona thinks that Jondalar "_should_ have been her's", because she's the most desirable woman of the Zelandonii and deserves the best of the men. When Jondalar didn't go through with mating her and ends up mating another woman, she is furious and takes it as a personal insult.
-   In _Frankenstein_, the wretch has this assumption when he asks Victor to create a female wretch for him.
    
    "But one as deformed and horrible as myself would not deny herself to me."
    
-   The third book in Scott Lynch's _Gentleman Bastard_ series at one point puts the reader into the head of an asshole nobleman while he's attempting to rape a poor woman simply because she's there and he's frustrated that his attempts to seduce a "noble" girl (one of the con artist main characters) are going nowhere, and after all poor people are there to serve the noble's needs. The poor woman kills him in self-defense, which starts a plotline about the main characters having to hide his corpse because the traditional feudalist society they live in (and even some of the older male "good" characters) agrees that she should just have endured it. This whole incident is used by the author to get across the message to the presumably largely young and male audience that power inequality and the attitude reflected in this trope (and general sociopathy) is the reason for rape, not anything the woman did or anything inherent in the male gender or impaired judgement due to intoxication.
-   _Haganai_: Perhaps due to her clear social cluelessness, throughout most of the series Yozora simply assumes that being the main character Kodaka's childhood friend means that him loving her is inevitable regardless of anything else that happens. When she realizes that, in real life, this isn't an instant romance button, she has a very bad freak out. All the more so because the entire time, she's only been able to control her envy of her rival Sena's various merits by constantly telling herself that none of it matters, because she is the childhood friend and thus no amount of beauty, talent, wealth or even genuine love on Sena's part would win her Kodaka. When she discovers that he's actually known and was friends with Sena since long before he ever knew her, she falls into utter despair once again.
-   _Harry Potter_:
    -   Snape seems to have had at least a degree of this in regards to Lily Evans. They were childhood friends who bonded over being magical kids in a world of muggles, and Snape loved her since the beginning. She ended her friendship (and any potential romance) in their fifth year when he became more and more invested in the dark arts and publicly called her a slur, but he never stopped loving her. A good portion of his bullying of Harry was due to him being Lily's son by James Potter, a man he hated.
    -   Merope in _Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince_ was an unhappy woman who was abused by her father and brother. In her unhappiness, Merope projected her dreams of happiness onto the wealthy and handsome young noble, Tom Riddle, Sr., who already had a girlfriend. Using either the Imperius Curse or a Love Potion to force Tom to abandon his parents and girlfriend to run off with her, Merope had a child with him. After enough time had passed, Merope simply expected Tom to love her and thus ended the spell. Unsurprisingly, Tom ran off in terror rather than return the affection of the witch who had enslaved him. His son, Tom Riddle Jr., would grow up to be one of the deadliest dark wizards of the Wizarding World.
-   Gale Hawthorne shows tendencies of this in _The Hunger Games_. He assumes Katniss will reciprocate his feelings because he is her best friend and while she's technically known Peeta longer they were only acquaintances while Gale and Katniss had a real friendship. In the end, though, he doesn't seem to have any hard feelings about her loving Peeta.
-   _Infinite Stratos_ has Laura who bursts into Ichika's class, kisses him then announces that she's decided to make him her bride. She takes it even further in the following episode, where she even breaks into his room and sleeps in his bed. His childhood friends Houki and Lingyin also have shades of this, constantly scowling at him whenever another girl shows any interest in him, and outright throwing violent tantrums when other girls get intimate with him. In fact, all the girls in Ichika's Unwanted Harem have shades of this; even Charlotte has her moments.
-   _Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon?_: Freya. She tends to have a possessive attitude towards the people she takes a fancy to and simply thinks of them as "hers" without considering their own wants, especially Bell. She's so obsessed with him to the point where she's even suggested his new In-Series Nickname be "Husband of Freya", and in front of Hestia no less.
    -   Apollo. Much like Freya, if he decides you belong to him, then your being part of another Familia and/or your own desires matter not, because he will (literally) go to the end of the world to force you into his Familia.
-   In Jane Austen's _Mansfield Park_, Henry Crawford has his admiral uncle promote Fanny's brother from midshipman to lieutenant in the Navy and then makes a big deal about how he did it for her so that she'll feel grateful and obligated to accept his proposal. (Contrast with Mr. Darcy from her last book, who makes a genuine sacrifice for his beloved and goes out of his way to hush it up so she _won't_ feel like this.)
-   Played straight, and reversed in _My Next Life as a Villainess: All Routes Lead to Doom!_. Gerald initially asks to marry Katarina when they're kids so that she can deflect attention from him, using the scar he accidentally inflicted on Katarina as an excuse. In the original _Fortune Lover_, Katarina played this straight, using the scar as an excuse to keep Gerald on the engagement to her even though it faded after a few years, while Gerald isn't happy with the situation. In the current timeline with reincarnated Katarina, however, Gerald eventually falls in love with her. She, on the other hand, only agreed to get married because she wasn't paying attention _twice_ and now can't call it off without his consent, with _Gerald_ using the scar as an excuse to keep the engagement on, even, again, as it faded in a few years. In the present, he behaves like she belongs to him as his fiancee, but it's actually pretty obvious that he's just using it as a crutch against his rivals and knows how flimsy the ground he stands on is.
-   _Nighttime Is My Time_ has an especially nasty case of this with the Owl's feelings towards Jean. He had a big crush on her because unlike the other girls she hung out with, she was never cruel to him and even showed him kindness on a few occasions. Because Jean also had a crappy home life and never quite fitted in at Stonecroft Academy, the Owl saw her as a kindred spirit and believed they belonged together. He then discovered Jean was secretly dating a young cadet, Reed Thornton, which he saw as a 'betrayal'. Twenty years on, the Owl is still bitter that Jean chose another man, which factors into his decision to kill her; he even convinces himself that Jean was just as horrible as the other girls behind his back (which is untrue). It's revealed that the Owl went so far as to kill Reed to make Jean suffer and he also plans to kill the daughter Jean conceived with Reed, purely to spite her.
-   Summer feels this way about Venn in _Obsidian Mirror_. She was a Romantic Runner-Up the first time around when Venn married Leah.

-   Mike "Ghost" Harmon in the _Paladin of Shadows_ series is openly and blatantly a _what they don't do_ type. This is a major contributing factor to the meme Oh, John Ringo, No!
-   Subaru at his worst embodies this trope concerning Emilia in Re:Zero (at least until he matures a little bit). It's ultimately played rather darkly straight when it occurs, with all its creepy implications, unhealthiness of the worldview that it implies, and destructive results on their relationship mercilessly displayed. Subaru ends up looking like a huge Jerkass with Attention Whore and Control Freak tendencies (as well as a not-insignificant dose of good old misogyny, given the way his delusions of being a Knight in Shining Armor for a helpless, fragile damsel who can't handle anything herself and needs to be protected by him borders on a Stay in the Kitchen attitude); not only that, but it leads into one of the story's most brutal and unforgiving arcs where pretty much _everyone_ around him, and most of all Subaru himself, suffer in absolutely depressing and horrific ways as a result of his actions.
-   _The Rising of the Shield Hero_: Part of the reason Motoyasu tries to free Naofumi's demi slaves (even though Melromarc is such a racist hellhole for demis that Naofumi's slaves are actually better off under his physical and legal protection as slaves rather than being free with no rights whatsoever) is that he's creepily obsessed with one of them, Filo, and has convinced himself that if he frees her, she'll have to join his party out of gratitude. This is made even creepier by the fact that Filo is a small child, leading to Naofumi accusing him of being a pedophile.
-   In _The Sleeping Beauty Killer_, Angela's Motive Rant and her response to a journalist indicates she felt entitled to Hunter's love. She is especially upset that Casey and Hunter bonded over losing a loved one to cancer - Hunter lost his mother, while Casey lost her maternal aunt, with Angela saying it was _her_ mother who died and so Casey had no right to claim she had that in common with Hunter. Angela says that she felt she and Hunter belonged together and that Casey didn't "deserve" Hunter which played a big part in Angela killing Hunter and setting up Casey for the crime.
-   By the fifth book of _A Song of Ice and Fire_, practically none of the men looking to marry Daenerys to make their lives and respective likelihoods of becoming king better think even for a second that she might say no. Aegon Targaryen VI has to be flat out told by Tyrion, "She has her own claim to the Iron Throne, her own _kingdom_ and, oh yeah, the _only_ dragons in the world and you think she's going to give that up for you and your fuck-all?" for him to change his mind from "Of course she'll marry me, I'm _me_!"
-   Jonathan got a bit like this towards Alanna in the _Song of the Lioness_ quartet, believing that she was sure to marry him because he was royalty. Alanna doesn't take it well.
-   In the _Star Trek_ novel _The Vulcan Academy Murders_, Sendet, a narrow-minded Vulcan, feels that he is the proper mate of T'Mir, despite the fact that neither she nor her family has given him any encouragement. When he finds out that not only has she bonded to someone else, but she has chosen a _human_, Sendet is so outraged that he attacks the man and attempts to telepathically destroy their bond. His attempt fails, and he is exiled.
-   _The Stormlight Archive_: The people of the Purelake demonstrate a very calm and friendly version of this trope (just like everything else the Purelakers do). Purelaker courtship involves doing favors for someone until they are so far in your debt they have no choice but to marry you to make up for it. If they don't want to marry you, they need to do favors in return to keep the scales balanced.
-   _Sword Art Online_:
    -   This is Nobuyuki Sugou's attitude towards Asuna throughout the Fairy Dance arc. He even flat-out tells Kirito (her actual lover) as such, saying he has every right to take advantage of her as compensation for keeping her and the other SAO survivors alive. Never mind the fact that, as Sugou freely admits, Asuna has always hated him.
    -   As the Phantom Bullet arc progresses, Kyouji Shinkawa acts more and more like a jilted lover towards Shino Asada despite the fact that they aren't even dating. After giving a Love Confession, he seems annoyed when Shino tells him that she's too busy focusing on the Bullet of Bullets tournament to answer him at the moment. This reaches a head by the end of the arc; Kyouji breaks into Shino's apartment, demands to know what she thinks of him, and claims that she promised to be his as he tries to rape her.
-   _The Tough Guide to Fantasyland_'s deconstruction of Rescue Sex has shades of this, saying that because the hero nobly refuses to sleep with the slave girl when her wicked master offers her to him ("what they don't do") _and_ helps her escape ("what they do") he _then_ gets to have sex with her.
-   _The Turner Diaries_ argues that women should not sleep with those of another race, claiming that those who do so "defile their race". The male white Nazi "heroes" even murder a lot of white women, hanging signs saying "I defiled my race" on their corpses. (And no, calling the protagonists "Nazis" is not Godwin's Law - the book is written by a neo-Nazi for neo-Nazis.)
-   In _The Twilight Saga_, Jacob starts to develop this view towards Bella. He argues that he was there for her when Edward was not, and thus she should dump Edward and switch to him. This leads to him forcibly kissing her twice to show her what she's missing, a tactic that works on her. This trope also is implied to be how imprinting operates. When a werewolf imprints on a girl, everyone - from the werewolf himself to the rest of his pack to _everyone_ who knows about imprinting - expects the girl to come to terms with what's going on and hook up with the werewolf. Jacob even says that while the girl technically has a choice in the matter, he doesn't see why she would choose to turn down the werewolf, because he would make himself into whatever she needs.
-   _Vampire Hunter D_: Greco, the town playboy and the mayor's son, wants Doris, a beautiful farm girl, to be his. He says he is being very nice to her and wants to help her as a “friend”, but is just saying this to get into her pants and believes he has a right to her. He cannot fathom why she is not attracted to him. When she refuses him, he reveals to the townsfolk that she was bitten by a vampire in the hopes that they will ostracize her. He says it is to protect the town, but Doris' brother Dan says the real reason he told everyone is due to him being spiteful over Doris rejecting him.
-   In _When A Man's A Man_, by Harold Wright, the character Phil expresses this opinion. Because the book was written in 1916, his doing so is considered heroic.
    
    _He rose to his feet abruptly. "All right," he said, almost roughly. "I'll go now. But don't make any mistake, Kitty. You're mine, girl, mine, by laws that are higher than the things they taught you at school. And you are going to find it out. I am going to win you—just as the wild things out there win their mates. You are going to come to me, girl, because you are mine—because you are my mate."_
    
-   _Wuthering Heights_: "You loved me – then what _right_ had you to leave me?" Heathcliff rages at Catherine Earnshaw in their last meeting before she dies. This is a nuanced variation on the trope, though, because Heathcliff's feelings of entitlement stem not from any merits he sees in himself, or even from his own love for Cathy, but only from the fact that he knows Cathy loves him. When he believed she genuinely preferred her husband Edgar Linton, his only goal in coming back to Wuthering Heights was to see her one last time, have revenge on his former oppressor Hindley, and then commit suicide. Only when her warm welcome makes him realize she still loves him and always has does his goal change to a Roaring Rampage of Revenge on all the Earnshaws and Lintons.

    Live-Action TV 

-   In _Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._'s first two seasons, this was Grant Ward's view of Skye in a nutshell, while deconstructing the Troubled, but Cute and Love Redeems trope. Ward infiltrated the team for HYDRA, where he would meet and become attached to Skye. Because he swore he'd never hurt her, he felt that meant that she should, in turn, forgive him for his dark side and love him (especially as, being an Inhuman, Skye was a 'monster' like Ward). She, however, reacted exactly how someone realistically would to finding out their love interest was a sociopathic Neo-Nazi Manipulative Bastard who had been lying to them all for months, had personally killed a large number of innocent people, _and_ had kidnapped her, and makes it clear she hates him and will never forgive him. He tries to nurture a relationship with her later during interrogation sessions after they've arrested him, under the belief that he can 'redeem' himself and in turn win her love, but this just further disgusts her as she realises its just another manipulation, and he only learns after she shoots him (after he'd kidnapped her _again_) and he finds a new woman to obsess over.
    -   In an equally twisted example, Aida chooses to love Fitz, but he doesn't reciprocate. As she puts it, "I chose you, now you choose me".
-   _Babylon 5_:
    -   In "Acts of Sacrifice" Commander Ivanova is tasked with getting the Lumati, a new race they have encountered, to sign a treaty with Earth. After a misunderstanding results in their representative being impressed by Earth's culture, he agrees to sign the treaty. The catch is, as tradition is very important to his people, they must sign the accord as is customary with his people: they will have sex. Ivanova, guessing the person is as ignorant of Earth culture as she was of his, tricks him into agreeing to have sex "human style" and does a fun dance around him saying some pick-up lines and screaming a fake orgasm and gets him to leave. It is noted by the series creator had her commanding officer been the one meeting this representative, he too would have been expected by the Lumati to put out.
    -   A long-term example is with Lennier's growing feelings towards Delenn and the ensuing growing dislike for Captain Sheridan, her husband. It's not solely due to this trope, but the fact that Sheridan is human definitely doesn't help.
-   _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_:
    -   Spike falls in love with Buffy because he believes the feeling is mutual and she showed attraction to him first. He then says he will kill Drusilla for her, and is maddened when this doesn't force her to even pretend to love him. He also pushes in a Dogged Nice Guy way when he was human with Cecily.
    -   The entirely of the season four episode "Doomed" is basically Riley telling Buffy over and over that they'd work amazingly together because they both hunt demons as if this is a great relationship starting point, and mostly ignores her reasonable arguments against the idea. By the end of the episode, she gives in and dates him, but since they're not very compatible outside of their jobs, it's really not a surprise when their relationship blows up in their faces a year later.
-   _Cagney & Lacey_ episode "Rules of the Game" introduces a high-flying Detective Captain who decides that he's entitled to have Chris after she engages in some (very) mild flirting. He threatens her career and even her job itself if she turns him down. He thinks that mild-flirting means that Christine doesn't have the right to turn him down.
-   _Cheers_: While normally Sam operates with some standards, on occasion his attempts to get with Rebecca dip into a version of this (Entitled to Be Had by You?), where he's baffled by the idea Rebecca _doesn't_ want to have sex with him, after his many skeevy and boneheaded attempts to seduce her, outright demanding to know why she doesn't want to.
-   In an episode of _Coach_, Luther moves into a retirement community and suddenly every available widow is cooking for him. Christine thinks Luther should stop accepting this treatment because the women may expect a relationship from him. Hayden points out that if a man prepared dinner for a woman she would be free to accept it and the man would have no right to expect anything in return. Rather than acknowledge that she was wrong, Christine invoked another Double Standard and let Hayden know they wouldn't be having sex that night.
-   _Forever_: Of the **what they do** type. In "Punk Is Dead" a man helped a woman he was infatuated with hide her pregnancy by taking her to live in upstate New York, then cared for her throughout her term. He was upset that instead of falling for him, once she'd had the baby she went back to her boyfriend, the child's father.
-   Becomes the plot point in an episode of _Law & Order: SVU_. A girl gets pregnant by a known bad boy type. She later appears to hang herself after getting harassed by a grown woman on the internet, pretending to be the bad boy who dumped her. Instead, she was murdered by her long-time boyfriend who felt entitled to have her, because they both made a promise to not have sex until marriage, and only with each other.
    -   The eponymous character in "Holden's Manifesto" doesn't direct this at any particular individual, but he feels entitled to have _a_ girlfriend in general and comes to resent women as a category for denying him what he feels is rightfully his, and attacks women for rejecting him years earlier.
    -   A few other episodes of the series also had rapists claim they were justified because they were in some way entitled to have sex with the victim. Marriage is a common basis for this argument.
    -   In a non-romantic example, one episode features a man suing for custody of the child of a woman he knocked up in college who was murdered, with the child being put up for adoption by his kidnapper. At this point, the child is 12 years old, has been adopted by a loving family, and does not want to change households. The biological father insists on pursuing custody despite multiple experts saying that it is not in the boy's best interests and would traumatize him. He's not totally wrong either; as the biological father of a kidnapped child he is _legally_ entitled to have that child returned to him.
-   Peter Campbell in _Mad Men_ does the _what they do_ type with a German au pair that his neighbours hired. He goes through some trouble to fix a dress with red wine or some such spilled on it, but it's only after he returns it that she tells him she already has a boyfriend. Her reactions indicate that it was naivete about his intentions rather than an attempt to use him, but he still forces himself on her a bit later. This comes back to bite him when the neighbour finds out.
-   There is a _very_ subtle case of this in _Merlin_ between Arthur and Guinevere. After he impulsively kisses her at her house, he tells her that there's no chance for them to ever have a relationship. Later, when she's kidnapped by a local warlord and held for ransom, Arthur defies his father and rushes out to rescue her, telling Merlin all the way there that he and Gwen can't ever be a couple and it's useless to dwell on what can never be. Thing is, he's completely unaware that Lancelot is currently staging his own rescue attempt, and when it becomes obvious that Gwen rather fancies his competition, he immediately gets huffy and tries to save face by saying that he only turned up because Morgana begged him to. So despite what he told Gwen, he actually did expect her to return his feelings and gets sulky when she takes his words to heart and searches for love elsewhere.
-   _Outlander_:
    -   In the early seasons Laoghaire and Claire clash over Jamie. Laoghaire feels entitled to Jamie's affections because she knew him first and she and Jamie are both Scottish while Claire is English in a time where the Scotts and English are bitterly opposed. Never mind that Jamie both wants Claire and married her. Laoghaire is convinced that Jamie will come to his senses as soon as she can get Claire out of the picture. Laoghaire even goes as far as trying to have Claire executed for witchcraft.
    -   Geneva Dunsany is convinced that she has the right to demand Jamie sleep with her because she is his boss's daughter (one of the many reasons Jamie vehemently doesn't want to). She eventually blackmails him into sleeping with her upon threat of having him sent back to prison and having Red Coats resume their campaign of terror against his family.
-   _Power Rangers Wild Force_: Viktor Adler felt that he was the one who truly deserved the affection of his colleague Elizabeth; her marriage to their other colleague Richard Evans instead pushed him over the edge, so when he found the seeds that had been the remains of Master Org, Adler swallowed them and then used his new powers to murder the couple, subsequently trying to kill their infant son Cole as well.
-   _Sabrina the Teenage Witch_: A female on male example that is Played for Laughs. During the Renaissance, Hilda desired a certain man, but the man didn't love her. She responded by imprisoning him in a ring, and she's kept him there ever since.
    
    **Aunt Hilda:** You can't make someone love you. But you can imprison them in a ring for not loving you. See?
    
    **Man in Ring:** Hilda, let me out! Thou art starting to grow upon me!
    
    **Aunt Hilda:** I love the way he catches the light.
    
-   In _Star Trek: Enterprise_, T'Pol—like most Vulcans—has had her marriage arranged since childhood to someone named Koss. She is uninterested in marriage and wishes to break off the betrothal in favor of remaining in Starfleet, while he emphatically does not. But when the High Command retaliates against Starfleet by forcing her mother's retirement, Koss twists T'Pol's arm by saying he can get her mother's job back (and her mother, who thinks her daughter is Going Native, agrees). T'Pol is forced to marry him, though she manages to negotiate remaining in Starfleet for a year. He breaks the marriage after T'Pol's mother dies, however, since he is well aware that was the only reason she agreed to it and it would be illogical not to.

    Music 

-   Cher Lloyd's "Want U Back" is about a girl who expects her ex to obediently leave his new girlfriend and fall back under her thumb, even though she's the one who dumped him in the first place, for no other reason than "I had you first."
-   Taylor Swift: "You Belong With Me" is about a girl who believes she deserves the boy better than his actual girlfriend does because she's the only one who "understands" him.
-   \*NSYNC: "Girlfriend" is about a boy who is trying to convince a girl that her current boyfriend doesn't care about her and that she should hook up with him instead.
-   Avril Lavigne: The infamous "Girlfriend" song is about a Jerkass "punk girl" who hounds a boy who's already taken, insists that his much more homely girlfriend is "like whatever" and tells him that she's a better lay so he should date her instead (while said girlfriend is constantly punished for being upset due to that). Lavigne says that she intended to either poke fun or call out girls who do such shit, but the video to the song plays this trope _infamously_ straight.
-   Shawn Mendes' "Treat You Better" is about a guy trying to convince a girl to leave her current boyfriend for him because apparently he'll "Treat her better" and he's a "Gentleman".
-   Similarly, country group Old Dominion's "Break Up With Him" is about a guy trying to convince a girl to leave her current boyfriend for him, with such lines as:
    
    _I know you say you're taken, but I say girl you're taking too long to tell him that it's over_  
    _(...)_  
    _C'mon you can't deny that you and I kinda fit like a glove_  
    _(...)_  
    _You would've hung up by now if you weren't thinking it too_
    
-   Drake's Marvin's Room. While it sets precedence to his sophomore studio album _Take Care_, Drake in this song uses being drunk and famous as an excuse to lash out at his ex-girlfriend to come back to him.
    
    **Chorus**: Fuck that nigga that you love so bad. I know you still think about the times we had...
    
-   Implied in Kanye West's "Stronger":
    
    _I don't know if you got a man or not,_  
    _If you made plans or not_  
    _(...)_  
    _But I know that God put you in front of me_  
    _So how the hell could you front on me?_
    
-   In the modern folk song "The Willow Maid", a young man falls in love with a beautiful forest maiden, but she refuses him. After multiple failed attempts to win her heart, he chops down her willow tree so she'll be forced to leave her forest and marry him, but since her life is magically bound to the tree, she dies and transforms into a flower.
-   The singer of The Black Keys' "Lonely Boy" keeps giving backhanded compliments to the girl he's singing to (the first lines are "Well, I'm so above you and it's plain to see / But I came to love you anyway"), yet still bemoans the fact that she won't love him because he pays attention to her. One gets a pretty good idea of why he's a lonely boy.
-   Culture Beat's "Mr. Vain" is about a man who wants a girl for his own selfish desires, claiming that he deserves her because he's the epitome of a man. The chorus sums this up nicely:
    
    _He'd say: I know what I want_  
    _And I want it now_  
    _I want you cause I'm Mr. Vain_
    
-   R.I.P.'s "It Should've Been Me" is about a girl whose crush has gotten together with someone else, leaving her stewing in jealousy over the other person and claiming that since she did so much for the person, _she_ should be the one they chose (outright telling them in the second chorus that she needs them to survive and so it's _their_ responsibility to keep her alive). The ending, however...
    
    _It could've been me!_  
    _Although I'm better than the rest_  
    _My polarizing rationality just couldn't pass the test_  
    _It could've been me!_  
    _But I'm unsure of my intent_  
    _Surely my fragile hospitality would shatter from the stress_  
    _**It shouldn't be me!**_
    

    New Media 

-   A Youtuber, the1janitor puts his own two cents on this kind of behavior. He discusses how many so-called "Nice Guys" seem to confuse being nice with being an Extreme Doormat, mixed with tones of Wants a Prize for Basic Decency.

    Theater 

-   The princes of Morocco and Aragon both feel this way about Portia in _The Merchant of Venice_, and, when they each have to choose a casket to win her hand in the Engagement Challenge, they both contemplate choosing the silver casket, labeled "Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves." Morocco sums their logic up nicely:
    
    "As much as he deserves"; why, that's the lady,
    
    I do in birth deserve her, and in fortunes,
    
    In graces and in qualities of breeding,
    
    But more than these, in love I do deserve.
    
    What if I strayed no further, but chose here?
    
    -   He doesn't end up choosing that casket, but Arragon does. They both get sent home, and Portia ends up marrying a poor gentleman below her station.
-   In _The Taming of the Shrew_, Gremio believes he's entitled to Bianca because a) he's her father's neighbor, b) he was suitor first, and c) he's rich. Of course, we're not meant to like him, and she ends up with Lucentio, a much more palatable, lucky-to-have-you suitor.
-   Despite his massive Draco in Leather Pants fandom and those who genuinely sympathize with his admittedly hard lot in life, The Phantom of the Opera _owns_ this trope in his relationship with Christine. Much like the "Not-Really-Nice-Nice Guy" mentioned below, The Phantom misrepresents his intentions when he begins to mentor Christine disguised as the ghostly "Angel of Music" her late father sent to her, using this as an opportunity to stalk her and lure her towards loving him in return for the help he's given her with her theater career. When Christine refuses, frightened a little by the Phantom's deformity and a _lot_ by his real personality, The Phantom... reacts poorly.
-   Female example; Glinda in _Wicked_ believes that she and Fiyero are "perfect together" and "deserve each other", and cannot understand why he falls in love with Elphaba. A far worse example is Nessarose (also female) who resorts to dangerous methods with Boq for liking Glinda more than her.
-   Thuy in _Miss Saigon_ towards Kim, partly because of _who they are_ (Kim is in love with Chris, a white American soldier), and also because Kim was betrothed to him when she was 13.

    Video Games 

-   A possible and popular interpretation of _Braid_'s main character's behaviour, the ending level all but stating that his advances towards the princess aren't exactly invited.
-   _The King of Fighters_: Both fans and haters of Sie Kensou say that he thinks Athena Asamiya owes him sex since he's had a massive crush on her from early times in the franchise. The haters insist that he's an entitled bastard who wants pity sex and would rape Athena if he could, the fans reply that he _does_ deserve Athena's affections better for supporting her and call her an Ungrateful Bitch. In reality, Kensou _very_ rarely falls into this: he's shown as being comically jealous when it seems Athena may not like him — but in the counted times when she _does_ need help, he helps her out WITHOUT any second intentions.
-   In _Life Is Strange: Before the Storm_, Elliot comes off as a Dogged Nice Guy at first, but when he follows Chloe to Rachel's house and refuses to let her leave until she returns his feelings for her, he crosses the line into this.
-   _Lollipop Chainsaw_: Swan is revealed to be this in the climax. He fell in love with Juliet because she treated him nicely one time, which caused him to obsess over her... while doing absolutely nothing to let her know about this. When he saw Juliet dating Nick, he proceeded to throw what was essentially one big supernatural temper tantrum, because how _dare_ his crush fall in love with someone else, least of all someone who resembled the jocks who bullied him.
-   _Mass Effect_: Turian General Septimus Oraka, who falls hard for the Consort Shaira (a High-Class Call Girl with a heart of gold "servicing" the elites who live on the Citadel Presidium). She sees him as just another high-ranking official who requires her services. He feels otherwise. When she outright rejects him, he can be found in a strip joint, drinking his sorrows away.
-   _My Child Lebensborn_: Some of the journal entries hint this as probably the less official reason for the massive Slut-Shaming towards Norwegian women who were in relationships with German soldiers during World War II:
    -   One entry mentions that such relationships weren't illegal, yet they were seen as treason on the part of the women. The sentiment persists to the game's present day, which is a good six years after the end of the war.
    -   Another entry about the punishments points out that women who had been in those relationships were punished more harshly than people who had formally worked with Nazi Germany or profited from its presence. One of the possible reasons offered by the entry for the harsher punishment is people considering the women as "belonging" to Norwegians and feeling betrayed because they chose the German soldiers _over the local men_.
-   The protagonist of the game _Next Station_: "Mary should love me, I loved her so much and I was so nice to her!"
-   _Persona 4_: Adachi feels entitled to have both Mayumi Yamano and Saki Konishi (who is a _high school student_) simply because he was interested in them, saying he saw them first. When he doesn't get what he wants, because Mayumi was having an affair and because he thought Saki was flirting with someone, he kills them both. The former was an accident, though the lead-up had some pretty heavy Attempted Rape undertones to it, while the latter was intentional.
-   _Shining Resonance_: Joachim treats Marion as his puppet and his meat shield. But his obsession with her also has stalker-ish undertones, particularly when Yuma and the others finally rescue her. His rant makes him sound more like a crazy ex-boyfriend, rather than a scientist:
    
    **Joachim**: _(at Marion)_ "YOU HEAR ME?! You belong to ME, Ette! I have EARNED YOUR SCREAMS!! And I'll tear them FROM YOUR THROAT!!"
    
-   General Tsao from _Sly 3: Honor Among Thieves_ feels this way toward the Panda King's daughter, Jing King, going so far as to kidnap her and force her to marry him. Why does he even want to marry her? For no other reason than wanting to create a new lineage of kings between the two of them. He doesn't even care if she loves him or not as long as she performs her duties as a wife.
-   This is one of the contributing factors to Consul M's emotional estrangement from Consul N in _Xenoblade Chronicles 3_. In a deconstruction of Reincarnation Romance, Noah had to watch Mio die time and again across several lifetimes regardless of what they did, upon which Z preyed to convince Noah to become an immortal Moebius as N. Assuming that Mio wanted the same thing as him, N resurrected her as one as well, razing the city that the two had helped to found in a previous lifetime to this end. Mio, now M, had never wanted this, and, though she did still care for him, came to resent him for what he had become in his grief. When she sacrificed herself in a Thanatos Gambit to free herself from the Endless Now, give renewed life to the current instance of Mio, and to try and show N the error of his ways, he completely broke down, raving with jealousy at the notion that the current instance of Noah had 'stolen her away', and asserting that she belonged only to him.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Double Homework_:
    -   Dennis seems to have this attitude toward sex with women and girls. Every single one.
    -   Tamara has this attitude toward the protagonist for much of the story. She thinks that she’s entitled to him because the two of them share a secret to what _really_ happened on Barbarossa.
-   _Fate/stay night_:
    -   Gilgamesh decides that Saber is destined to be his wife simply on the basis that he's so awesome that he deserves to have whatever he wants. Nobody else quite agrees with him on this, especially not Saber.
    -   Shinji Matou believes that Rin Tohsaka should be honored to be his girlfriend, and is disgusted and outraged when she chooses Shirou Emiya in the _Unlimited Blade Works_ route; to the point of trying to rape her.
-   In _Umineko: When They Cry_, George confesses that he used to be this sort of guy, assuming he should be more popular with women because he "treated them well" and that he wasn't because they have bad taste in men and prefer jerks. He hit a turning point when he realized that Battler was getting more attention from Shannon and other girls not because he was a rude punk, but rather because he was an outgoing and genuine guy who didn't put up a "Nice Guy" front simply to win over girls. George admits in hindsight that his past behavior was pretty douchey and entitled, and he'd rather forget he was ever like that.

    Web Animation 

-   _MoniRobo_:
-   _RWBY_: Adam, the epitome of an asshole boyfriend, his obsession with Blake leads to him becoming her Arch-Enemy until he kicks the bucket in Volume 6 when Blake and Yang decide they're not going to put up with it anymore.
-   The true nature of Neomutant's feelings for Flamegirl in _TOME_. He believes this trope wholeheartedly and decided that, since she didn't want to be with him, he's going to murder her for revenge. Word of God considers him to be the vilest character in the show, even worse than his boss Rubirules.

    Webcomics 

-   _Girl Genius_
    -   Martellus von Blitzengaard. At first it's because he comes waltzing in to 'save' Agatha from an army - which she was actually handling perfectly well herself - but then it takes an even darker turn when he kidnaps her, calling it a 'rescue', and then apparently expects her to be grateful because he didn't make her into his adoring "mindless slave" when he had the chance. And then he starts helping her defeat their mutual enemies and apparently thinks that this will make her think kindly of him. Big surprise - it doesn't. It's made very clear that Martellus is in the wrong in every possible way here - in a comic full of Grey-and-Gray Morality, he's one of the few antagonists who is considered utterly reprehensible - and Agatha gets several satisfying panels of beating him up every so often.
    -   Gil, one of Agatha's primary love interests, gets a much less dramatic one early on when he proposes to her out of nowhere and expects her to immediately accept. Although it's shown that this was a very bad idea on Gil's part, he does have some justification—Agatha's just been revealed as an extremely powerful Spark, and Sparks with no connections (social/political/otherwise) end up being exploited or killed, often burned as witches in rural areas, and female Sparks have been mysteriously disappearing for years. It's still not treated very sympathetically (at that moment, the two are on Castle Wulfenbach, one of the safest places in the empire, including for Sparks).
-   Jim from _Girls with Slingshots_ is supposed to be the Dogged Nice Guy version. However, the readers don't see as much of this as the author intended, so all we see is Jim trying to buy Jamie a million flowers and getting rejected hard, then periodically turning up to lament his loneliness while others ignore or mock him for it, leaving Jim wondering: if all these guys who are jerks to him get girls, _why doesn't he?_
-   In _Here There Be Monsters_ Roy is infuriated when Ella turns him down since he figured she's a party girl and should be easy.
-   _Homestuck_:
    -   This is a common fandom interpretation of Eridan, albeit in a more mild form: he was Feferi's moirail for a long time and then was quite displeased when she not only wasn't interested in a romantic relationship but wanted to break up their moirallegiance as well. However, while he did later kill her, there were extenuating circumstances, so it's a bit ambiguous.
    -   Cronus, on the other hand, is a Nice Guy (tm) all the way down. He insists that he's a sensitive soul and only wants to be there for everyone and gets very pissed off when they don't want to be around him...but makes it very clear that the only reason he hangs around anyone is that he thinks that means he deserves to sleep with them and doesn't give the slightest shit about their feelings. All of this combined with his refusal to take no for an answer unless there's seriously _no_ other choice makes for a _very_ creepy character.
-   Shishi from _The Law of Purple_ feels this way about Blue because she comes from an extremely misandristic culture (women have mind-control powers whereas men do not, and so the latter are treated as glorified sex toys and objects) and has "dibs" on him.
-   _Perfect Marriage Revenge_: After one blind date with the Tall, Dark, and Handsome Doguk, Yura is determined to make him her husband, despite that he dumps her right after said date and tells her flat out he has no intention of marrying her. Things get worse when he gets engaged to her stepsister, Iju. Somehow, she thinks if she can get them to break up, she'll be his next choice for marriage.
-   Becca in _Peter Is the Wolf_ is this, bordering on Yandere, for Peter. The only thing holding her back is that wolf!Sarah is nearly twice her height and can fling Becca out of the way... or possibly worse. However, her history of being regularly raped by her father gives her a Freudian Excuse regarding her possessiveness.
-   Makoto of _Red String_ does this when he is initially introduced as the antagonist. Unfortunately for the readers, the author later fell in love with the character and agreed with him...thus taking this to the logical conclusion of everyone in the comic feeling Makoto "deserved" Miharu. Including people who had every reason to hate the guy. The only one to ever call Makoto out on his sense of entitlement is Kazuo, but unfortunately the scene was intended not to highlight a serious character flaw, but the author trying to make the reader feel sorry for poor Makoto instead. Not shockingly, the narrative awards him Miharu's hand in marriage and thus 100% backs this trope.
-   _Something\*Positive_ sums up the "Nice Guy" variety. Oddly enough, a later storyline features a flashback to Davan in high school, where _he_ has the same basic attitude about a girl he tutored. In this case, it was his sister Dahlia who made him realize how his perspective was messed up.

    Web Original 

-   _Heartlessbitches.com_ shows how this trope can apply to self-proclaimed, vocal "nice guys". Basically, these are the people who think that being friends with a woman, and listening to her talk about stuff/accompanying her on shopping entitles them to be her romantic interest. There is also the double standard that these sorts tend to want attractive women, but dislike women who date attractive men.
    -   _Are you fed up with your Male friends who are looking to date a woman with the appearance of a supermodel, and yet they continually whine about how "women don't like nice guys - they only want good-looking assholes"?_
-   This piece also analyzes the _what they do_ and _what they don't do_ Nice Guys.
-   Played for Laughs when The Nostalgia Chick once had a long rant about what an asshole Todd in the Shadows was because he didn't "want her love and affection". Made all the funnier because Lindsay and Todd were dating in real life at the time, and apparently are still good friends even after breaking up.
-   Hyper Fangirl to The Nostalgia Critic. Even before she kidnapped him, forcing him to love her at gunpoint and preferring him that way, she wangsted for a good few weeks after he told her straight up he wouldn't sleep with her.
-   In Jacksfilms' "Dubstep Solves Everything 3" music video, Jack and Mike fight over who gets "the girl on the bench", ignoring her opinion in the matter. Upon winning the dubstep battle, Jack says, "To the victor go the spoils," then drags her off by the hair despite her loud protests. In this case, the (parodied) message is that "because I won a battle over her, she must date me."
-   The Cracked article _5 Ways Modern Men Are Trained to Hate Women_ postulates that part of this mentality sprouts from how pop culture, more often than not, has the guy "get the girl" as a reward for his efforts.
-   This article from The Onion offers a rare Perspective Flip on the matter, not defending the "nice guy" MO but raising the question of whether a girl who knowingly manipulates him is really any better.
-   We Hunted the Mammoth dredges these up _a lot_, and site runner David Futrelle _loathes_ this attitude. Many of his subjects get this way over women who are overweight or have piercings and tattoos, with at least one anti-feminist outright stating that women only have "stewardship" over their own bodies, as opposed to having ownership.
-   Madame Macabre made a video about having to deal with this trope in high school. A guy she called "Gary" told Madame's friends that she had "cruelly friend-zoned" him in order to guilt her into dating him. Even though, in reality, she didn't date him because he constantly texted her about wanting to hang out despite her refusals, acted creepily around her when she caved in and hung out with him (including making a "joke" about how hot her breasts looked), breaking up with his more-loving girlfriend, and Madame's friend, Julie, because he thought Madame was hotter and telling Julie to not talk to Madame anymore because he said it would damage his nonexistent relationship with her.
-   _Dragon Ball Z Abridged_: Cell's attitude towards the Androids is a non-romantic version of this; he basically thinks he's entitled to absorb them. Though some innocent bystanders overhear him yelling at Android 18 and mistake them for lovers, and Hilarity Ensues.
-   Noboyuki Sugou from _Sword Art Online Abridged_ serves a double-dealing of this trope in his intro episode by stating that, as he convinced Shouzou Yuuki to buy the Sword Art Online servers from its developers in Argus before they went under, he is entitled to both have Asuna as his wife and to push around Kirito as he wishes, up to and including having him back off of Asuna.
-   This story from _Not Always Romantic_ features an example of the "I want sex with you, therefore you are required to say yes" version of this trope. When the Happily Married (and not interested in cheating on her husband) poster turns him down, he goes online to complain about being friend-zoned and calls her a stupid slut for refusing to provide sex. He doesn't take it well when she brings up that that's a Non Sequitur.
-   This popular Tumblr post explores the nice guy's "friend zone" from the girl's perspective

    Western Animation 

-   _Danny Phantom_: Vlad Masters attitude towards Maddie. He believes having her as his wife is his right and resents Jack for stealing her from him. Of course, it's also made clear that he's more in love with the idea of being with Maddie than Maddie herself. Even in an Alternate Timeline where they _did_ get married, Danny's attempt to Set Right What Once Went Wrong causes Vlad to show just how entitled he really is by stating he doesn't care how the world should be, only how he _wants it_ to be. This fills Maddie with disgust and makes her side with Danny.
-   In _Superman: The Animated Series_, the Kryptonian criminal Mala is freed from The Phantom Zone by Superman because he believes that she had been Just Following Orders from her superior Jax-Ur and that her sentence had long been served. He teaches her to use her powers under a yellow sun like he has, and she naturally assumes that since they are the last two Kryptonians, she and Superman are mates. When she discovers that Superman is not interested in her and, instead, wants Lois Lane (a squishy human), she is disgusted and enraged and releases Jax-Ur... who turns out to _also_ be her lover.
-   In the _Wander over Yonder_ episode "The Hero" Brad Starlight thinks he's entitled to Demurra because she's a princess, he's a hero (or at least that's how he sees himself) and he takes fairy tale tropes way too seriously.
-   In _Jem_, the Stingers' lead singer Riot frequently insists that he is entitled to be with Jem and rationalizes that he'd treat her better than Rio. Riot's claims don't hold much water because while Rio tends to be hot-headed, Riot is an unapologetic Manipulative Bastard who will play anyone like a fiddle to get what he wants.
-   _Miraculous Ladybug_:
    -   All girls who have a crush on Adrien tends to have this attitude. Marinette often stalks Adrien and deliberately sabotages any girl who so much as looks at him. Chloé often refers to Adrien as her "boyfriend" despite Adrien clearly saying he thinks of her as a friend, often invades his personal space despite his obvious discomfort, and threatens any would-be romantic interests to stay away from him, this would gradually phase out starting in Season 2 and by Season 4 she would end her friendship with him altogether. Lila firmly believes that Adrien is rightfully hers and will fight anyone else for him. And Kagami, in season 3, affirms that Adrien is the only one "worthy of her", notably because she thinks they're similar. That's why she tried to slice Lila in two after being akumatized because of her jealousy of the latter. In season 4, Kagami will finally give up on this mindset and believes Marinette is a better match for Adrien.
    -   Chat Noir just cannot take no for an answer when Ladybug says she's in love with someone else. (The irony being the other person is his alter ego.)
    -   Nathaniel was this to Marinette, believing that she was leading him on when she stalled him to keep Chloé safe from harm.
-   _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2012)_: Shredder's mentality toward Tang Shen in a nutshell. His entire beef with Splinter is because he's pissed that Splinter took Shen away from him, despite the fact that, as Splinter points out, Shen was _never_ his in the first place.
-   Catra in _She-Ra and the Princesses of Power_ has this kind of attitude towards Adora. Chronologically, the warning signs started when she was a kid and scratched Adora's face because Adora dared to try and befriend someone other than Catra. It eventually escalates to the point of Catra attempting to control Adora's mind and make her murder her friends. She eventually grows out of this following Character Development and a Heel–Face Turn that begins with a Heroic Sacrifice to save Adora and one of her friends, helping stop Horde Prime and ultimately getting a Relationship Upgrade with Adora by the end of the series.

___