_"I will be an equal-opportunity despot and make sure that terror and oppression is distributed fairly, not just against one particular group that will form the core of a rebellion."_

Bad guys are often remarkably open when it comes to race, gender, religion, species, and so forth of their members. Some races might always be evil, but evil really knows no bounds. If the characters have the ambition, the bloodlust, the hatred of puppies, or the simple enjoyment of being evil, they're welcome to sign up. Evil Is One Big, Happy Family, after all.

At full force, this trope leads to a remarkably diverse set of top brass, as well.

If this trait is emphasized more than necessary, it might come across as a Pet the Dog moment. It might even result in Rooting for the Empire if the "good guys" are not so unbiased. It might even suggest that it's okay to be unethical or even murderous as long as you're "fair" about it. A villain could do this if it serves their own evil ends, and someone who employs equally can just as easily hate everyone equally and may have no problems with _disposing of_ their minions just as easily, often permanently.

While often done to avoid portraying certain races as evil, it can go in the other direction if the heroes are all one ethnicity and every other race are villains, or perhaps suggesting that race-mixing is inherently bad while segregation is good. Compare White Gangbangers and Straight Edge Evil. Contrast Politically Incorrect Villain and for the heroic side, Noble Bigot. Note however that they are not mutually exclusive; a villain can be intolerant towards some groups but inclusive towards others. See also Alike and Antithetical Adversaries and Anti-Human Alliance. May go hand in hand with Better Living Through Evil. May overlap with Carnival of Killers. See Five-Token Band and Multinational Team for the good-aligned version. A villain who is actively keen on achieving this is a Politically Correct Villain.

Needless to say, this can be Truth in Television, **but No Real Life Examples, please!**

Not to be confused with dangerous examples of Hates Everyone Equally, where a villain doesn't discriminate between who else they hurt.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   In the _Trigun_ manga, the Gung-Ho Guns were very equal-opportunity in employing all manner of disabilities and lifestyles (a paraplegic, a quadriplegic, a gang of midgets, a child who's really a sandworm, but point stands, a one-eyed woman, a transvestite, a samurai, a man with split personality, their own musician...) As long as they were sufficiently villainous and ruthless, Knives didn't care since he doesn't care enough about humans to discriminate.
-   After he killed their old boss in _Beastars_, the Shishigumi (think a Yakuza clan of Lions that deal in meat products) decide to make Louis the Red Deer their new boss. Despite the fact that the other dominant clans almost derisively call having a Herbivore boss "progressive" and even within the Shishigumi he was a controversial figure, Louis proves to be an incredibly effective leader. He was _so_ good at being a mob boss that after he leaves the organization, the Shishigumi threw themselves at the feet of the first Herbivore willing to lead them, which unfortunately happened to be Axe-Crazy Gazelle/Leopard hybrid Melon who was less interested in making money and more interested in causing chaos.
-   In _Berserk,_ the Big Bad, Griffith, allows people from all walks of life to join his army, including demons, commoners, soldiers from nearly every neighboring country, and even people from the nation of Kushan that he is currently fighting against (though in the latter case, it's because they were from a country invaded by the Kushans, and thus not particularly motivated or loyal).
-   This becomes a major plot point in book 5 of _Combatants Will Be Dispatched!_. Kirasagi's decision to take in and protect the Demons puts them at odds with the human kingdoms including their allies in the Kingdom of Grace.
-   While the Red Ribbon Army of _Dragon Ball_ wears strangely familiar uniforms, they apparently do not discriminate based on race, species, gender or sexual orientation. Commander Red is a redheaded dwarf, his adjutant Black is a tall, black man, Ninja Murasaki is obviously "Japanese", Sergeant Metallic is a giant android, General Blue is based on an Aryan, but he's gay (and also a pedophile in the anime adaptation), Colonel Yellow is a tiger-man, and Colonel Violet is a woman (despite the fact that Blue said he Red Ribbon Army has no need for women). Colonel Silver and General White look like normal Caucasian dudes, with the former being also a ginger. The assassin they hire, Tao Pai Pai, is "Chinese".
    -   Freeza has numerous different alien races working as members of his Planet Trade Organization. Debatable, however, since Freeza doesn't employ any of his own species. Remember that these are soldiers and thus at risk of injury and death. It's also made _very_ clear that he is extremely racist toward Saiyans despite initially making the entire race work for him.
-   _Bleach_:
    -   Aizen was willing to use anyone if it meant they could help him achieve his goals. He enlisted Shinigami such as the blind, black-skinned Tousen and Gin. He also enlisted Hollows (as Arrancars) the arch-enemies of Shinigami, such as the black-skinned, witch-doctor-themed Zommari, the female dark-skinned Harribel, the misogynistic Nnoitra, and the nihilistic Ulquiorra.
    -   The Quincies hunt Hollows and hate Shinigami. That hasn't stopped Yhwach from forcibly enlisting Hollows (or rather Arrancars) and attempting to recruit Shinigami to their ranks. Although some Arrancar accepted the offer, no Shinigami has. The Quincies themselves are a diverse group that comes from all over the world.
-   _D.Gray-Man_ has the Noah family, as the Noah memory seems to choose its apostles indiscriminately all over the globe. They have two women including a little girl, Western Europeans, a black man, an Indian man, Americans, an Egyptian man and an individual covered with a hood of unknown gender. On the other hand, the good guys are just as diverse.
-   _Doraemon: Nobita in the Wan-Nyan Spacetime Odyssey_ sees Doraemon and gang traveling to the Wan-Nyan Country, a world populated by andromorphic cats and dogs, with the main villain being Nekojara the cat who wants to Take Over the World and have felines ruling over humans. While Nekojara's second-in-command, Nyago, is another cat, his private army of thugs however seems to comprise of an equal number of cats and dogs. Then again, the mooks are likely Punch-Clock Villains whom are Just Following Orders.
-   _One Piece_ gives us Sir Crocodile, who has hired a black man, a flamboyant transvestite, old people, and every male member of his team has a completely equal female partner, including himself. Sure he may be evil, but at least he isn't prejudiced! Well, the transvestite doesn't have a partner. He considered himself his own partner in that regard.
    -   Doflamingo's crew is just as diverse as Crocodile's. There are people of all ages, any gender, and all levels of weirdness.
    -   The Big Mom Pirates have this as their dream, where their captain wants to create a nation where all races of the world can sit equally at the table... with her in charge of it of course. She also has had kids with basically every race and species that can breed with humans as part of her crew, and her nation is equally diverse. The Giants and Lunarians are among the few races she's missing, the former having an immense hatred for her, while the latter is almost extinct.
    -   Even the World Government has a diverse hiring practice, with several women, giants, and people of color holding command ranks and even Vice-Admiral and Admiral level positions.
-   The military dictatorship Amestris of _Fullmetal Alchemist_ is mostly an example of this. There are women in the military, and it is a multi-ethnic country (if only because of its continual brutal conquest of its neighbors). They didn't always qualify though, as prior to the war against Ishbal, there was a purge of people of Ishbalan descent from throughout the ranks of Amestrian society. Though this had reasons other than racism: specifically that the Big Bad's secret goal requires copious amounts of Human Sacrifice. Ishbal was unfortunate enough to be in a location where his transmutation circle required a massacre, and thus he and his minions stirred up as much hatred as possible between Amestrians and Ishbalans to facilitate it.
    -   Not evil so much as ruthlessly Darwinian, but Fort Briggs will accept anyone who’s competent in to their forces. As Olivier Armstrong explains in one scene, they don’t have the luxury of discrimination.
-   _Naruto_:
    -   Orochimaru's Sound Four are a fat guy, a brown six-armed person, a woman who curses like a sailor, two persons not completely unlike conjoined Twins, and the leader is a terminally ill guy.
    -   In-Universe there is Akatsuki, who employ members from almost every country<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and every member has a completely different philosophy (humorously, the members with opposite philosophies are paired together). That's to say nothing of the plant, the human-shark hybrid, and the puppet that they accepted into their ranks.
-   The computerized Dream Future executive branch of _Net Ghost Pipopa_ is composed of American, European, Asian and North African members.
-   The DUCK organization from _Tsuritama_. The top brass has black, Arabic, and Asian members, as well as a great gender ratio, and their lead agent, Akira, is Indian.
-   _Black Lagoon_'s Lagoon Company consists of a black man, a Chinese-American woman, a Japanese man, and a Jewish-American man.
-   In _Rurouni Kenshin_, Shishio's main followers include a former prostitute, a crossdresser, a blind guy, a giant who is about 20-feet tall, a financial expert, and an Arrogant Kung-Fu Guy. Furthermore, his philosophy itself fits this. Shishio is a Social Darwinist who dreams of Japan becoming a militaristic warrior paradise. While he has no empathy at all for those he considers weak, Shishio doesn't gauge strength based on wealth and background.
-   Mello's Mafia gang in _Death Note_ appears to be this. Rod Ross doesn't seem to judge on appearances or background. Case in point: Mello is young (as in, barely out of his teens), pretty, androgynous, and blond, Ambiguously Gay, and foreign...yet he's _practically_ the group's leader. (Nominally, that title goes to Rod, but in practice _he_ answers to Mello).
-   Millenium from _Hellsing_ is a mild case of this, at least by the extremely low bar set by the Third Reich. Whereas in Real Life the Nazis were very big on women remaining in the kitchen, Millenium has two women in its senior ranks and appears to be willing to bring in individuals like Jan Valentine and Tubalcain 'the Dandy Man' Alhambra who seem to be less than the Aryan ideal.
-   _Code Geass_:
    -   The Holy Britannian Empire is a zig-zagging example of this trope. Being reminiscent of Nazi Germany, they are known for being _very racist_ against anyone who isn't Britannian. That being said, they're surprisingly cool with women seeing as how there are numerous female members among their ranks. Also, there seems to be some diversity among them, as suggested by Villetta Nu (Ambiguously Brown) and Dorothea Ernst (black). Seemingly, being "Britannian" is defined solely by having Britannian parents, without regard for skin color. Emperor Charles zi Britannia also doesn't actually share is empire's racist philosophy, but he encourages it anyway as part of his Social Darwinism: non-Britannians must show the talent and strength of will to overcome the systemic racism in order to advance and keep on overcoming that discrimination even after being appointed "Honorary Britannian". Suzaku Kururugi proves it's actually possible to do this, being elevated as one of the Emperor's personal knights in season 2.
    -   If you view them as villains, The Order of the Black Knights fit. They're the resistance whose goal is to liberate Japan from Britannia. As you can imagine, the vast majority of members are Japanese, but it's explicitly stated that your ethnicity is of little importance, and they're trying to reform Japan in the vision of the United States of America (what it was supposed to be anyways). Case in point, their leader Zero aka Lelouch vi Britannia is of royal Britannian ancestry. Their top brass includes a half-Japanese/half-Britannian woman as his right-hand (Kallen), an Indian woman running the R&D department (Rakshata), and a Britannian as the head of PR (Diethard). Also, it doesn't seem to matter much if you're a man or a woman as long as you can fight for them. The organization only gets more diverse later on.
-   Many of the dark guilds in _Fairy Tail_ operate under this position since they're criminals by their very existence and need all the manpower possible to thrive should the legal guilds receive requests from clients or the Magic Council to take them down. The Alvarez Empire on the neighboring continent takes the cake, however, since it came into existence when _all_ the light and dark guilds across the country joined together in expanding its influence, and its Emperor's Praetorian Guard is made up of not just people from the Empire, but several that came from the continent of Ishgal (where the Fairy Tail guild and most of the events of the story take place) they intend to invade, as well as sentient machines, demons created by one of the most infamous wizards in history, and a Weredragon.
-   Used almost to the point of Deconstruction in _My Hero Academia._
    -   The League of Villains goes in this direction after they start recruiting. One of their members, Kenji Hikishi (Magne), is a male-to-female transgender and everybody refers to her with the proper pronouns — even Shigaraki, who generally seems to care very little about what people think. In fact, Magne's teammate Jin (Twice) gets violently angry at someone for misgendering "Big Sis Magne" and even moreso when that same person kills her.
    -   The League of Villains also boasts within its numbers Shigaraki, an abandoned child from an abusive home, Spinner, who was the victim of extreme prejudice and racism because of his reptile-like appearance, and Toga and Twice, who both suffer from pretty extreme mental illness. Those last three explicitly feel like the League Of Villains is the only place they feel like they've ever belonged, and regard the other members of their team as family.
    -   At the same time, the League's founder, All For One, is a subversion of this Trope. He adopts this rhetoric in his speeches to his followers, and seeks out those on the fringes of society to bestow his "gifts," but his kindness is transparently false. In reality, he only recruits people who are the victims of prejudice or who fail to fit in because they're vulnerable and more willing to buy into his beliefs, much like how real cultists seek out new members. Flashbacks show him smiling as he proudly tells his brother about killing large groups of his "ungrateful friends" who realized what a monster he was and tried to walk away.
    -   It's almost inverted on the part of the Heroes. While no major hero we meet is outright _prejudiced,_ the status quo they uphold has led to a very rigid and inflexible society, and many of the villains we see were driven to their current lives when they failed to find a place in it.

    Comic Books 

-   The Marvel Universe has the Serpent Society. From the group's inception, about half of them were women — and supervillain teams have tended to be boys' clubs. There were several black members, at least one Hispanic member, and at least one Middle Eastern member. The Society also welcomed disabled people: Death Adder was mute, Rattler was deaf, and Bushmaster was an amputee. (The last was a case of Disability Superpower, as he'd replaced his missing limbs with super-strong cybernetic parts). Funny thing is that the Serpent Society started out as a spin-off from HYDRA... Who were NAZIS. (Although they kind of grew into "generic evil organization" over time).
-   HYDRA have been shown to have female and non-white members. Baron Strucker lampshaded this at one point by noting that with age, his penchant for racism and eugenics had faded. Now he embraces the idea of diversity...because that just means more loyal subjects beneath his boot when he finally conquers the world.
-   _X-Men_: Both played straight and subverted with many of their enemies. While both the human bigots and mutant supremacists actively hate and discriminate against the "other side", their own memberships are often depicted as otherwise ethnically diverse. The subversion comes with the fact that they're hatemongers against either humans or mutants, and yet have no problem accepting members from many different ethnic backgrounds.
-   _The DCU_: Kobra might be a bunch of crazy murderous cultist with a snake fetish, but they pride themselves on understanding that "the serpent comes in many colours."
-   Lampshaded during the _Acts of Vengeance_ event, in which Loki assembles an evil team supreme consisting of Doctor Doom (Romani), Magneto (Jewish), the Mandarin (Chinese), The Kingpin, the Wizard, and the Red Skull (a Nazi). (He tried to recruit Namor too, which would have added an Atlantean to the group had Namor accepted, but he did not). It _really_ didn't work out. Entirely apart from the clash of egos, none of them could stand the Skull, and vice-versa. When you put the most evil Nazi in fiction in the same team as the most powerful and pissed off Holocaust survivor in history, you are really pushing the limits of this trope. To the surprise of nobody, the event ended with Magneto locking the Skull in an underground bunker with no light and limited water, to die painfully of thirst and starvation with just his sins for company. The two men had never met, but Magneto hated him anyway (with _very_ good reason; nobody else liked him either). When his minions broke him out, the first thing he did was swear vengeance on the mutant.
-   _Uncanny Avengers_: The clone of the Red Skull is the leader of a team of "superheroes" dubbed the S-Men. The team is very diverse, with a membership drawing from places as far off as Greece and Ethiopia. Lampshaded in that the Red Skull is still a horrible bigot, and only assembled such a diverse group to help sway the general public against his current target: mutants.
-   _Fantastic Four_: Dr. Doom is usually depicted as having meritocratic beliefs (definitely not an egalitarian, but believing that the elite can come from any background) and having specific contempt for racism due to his own Roma background and the discrimination he encountered in his youth as a result. Occasionally, the odd writer will ignore this and make him a bigot of some kind to make him seem more evil.
-   Discussed in _House of M_, an Alternate Universe story where Magneto and his army managed to conquer the world. Thunderbird mentions that he joined Magneto's cause precisely because of the racism he suffered as a Native American, a form of discrimination that he no longer experiences in a world run by mutants.
-   _Runaways_: The elder gods responsible for recruiting The Pride don't care about little things like race or species as long as their followers are willing to help them usher in the end of the world. Thus, The Pride are gender-balanced, multi-ethnic supervillains. Unfortunately, not everyone in The Pride is as egalitarian, and The Pride's destruction starts when the non-human members plot to betray the humans. Lampshaded in issue number 7, where our heroes - The Pride's children - are doing some survival shoplifting. Upon arrival, Nico isn't convinced about their disguises. "We look like those politically correct, multi-ethnic gangs that only rob people on bad TV shows."
-   _Star Wars (Marvel 1977)_ probably has more female antagonists than the rest of _Star Wars Legends_ combined. Lumiya is by far the most famous but there are many others ranging from serious villainesses like Kharys to one-issue annoyances like Captain Traal. There are even a couple of nameless female Mooks! The contrast with later writers is really quite startling.
-   In _Legacy_ both the Fel Empire and the reborn Sith Empire are far more diverse than the Empire and the Sith seen in the films, with both readily accepting women and non-humans into their ranks. This is particularly notable with the Fel Empire, as the earlier incarnation of the Galactic Empire under Palpatine was openly prejudiced against non-humans.
-   In _Supergirl_ story _The Death of Luthor_, Lex Luthor's criminal gang includes one man with dwarfism.
-   The Punisher special from the mid-90s _Empty Quarter_ featured a convention of every newsworthy terrorist organization of the time. Their brilliant plan was to switch targets, so some survivalist militia would bomb the Vatican on behalf of Hezbollah. Apparently all those Catholic IRA members were cool with this.
-   Another Marvel example is the Masters of Evil, archenemies of the Avengers and the Marvel heroes in general. Their roster changes a lot just like their heroic counterparts and has included villains from just about every demographic (women like Moonstone and Titania, non-white men like Radioactive Man and Thunderball, and even LGBT members in the form of Man-Killer and Machinesmith). This is especially notable as the Masters' default leader, Baron Zemo, is the son of the infamous Nazi member Heinrich Zemo, who helped found/lead HYDRA before his death at the hands of Captain America (granted, Zemo long ago abandoned his father's Nazi ideals, to the point that he once dated a Jewish woman). The Masters of Evil being equal opportunity goes all the way back to their first incarnation, when Heinrich Zemo, a former member of the Third Reich, was willing to recruit a woman, Enchantress, and a Chinese communist, Radioactive Man. This actually made them more diverse than the Avengers, who at that time were all white.
-   _Asterix_: As expected from pirates, they are a motley crew of several nationalities and one inclination: get gold through the easy cutthroat way. Also one tendency to run away from a certain pair of Gauls.
-   One _Grendel_ short story has Diabolical Mastermind Hunter Rose getting quietly but terrifyingly upset on discovering that members of one of the Mafia gangs he took over were planning to murder one of their own for being a Gayngster.
-   Most of the bad guys in _Atomic Robo_ are aversions: Helsingard and Dr Shinka rely on created minions, Dr Dinosaur and ALAN are solo threats, Department Zero and Chokaiten are national agencies from Russia and Japan respectively, and Those Wacky Nazis are Nazis. Majestic 12, however, is willing to hire almost anyone they can control, as long as they're a useful asset - the second general shown is Abigail Brooks, and a black man is tapped to get rid of the outside investigators in volume 8. Taken even further in the RPG sourcebook, where the sample group of Punch-Clock Villain Majestic agents consists of Cecilia Hirsch, Adetokunbo Aafolayan, Dervil Meaney, Ping Hayashi, Odin Ortega, and Kathy McCulloch.
-   _Pathfinder: Worldscape_: Empress Camilla has an extremely diverse collection of minions from multiple dimensions such as a Hyborian sorcerer, a snake woman, a Killer Gorilla, White Martians, a Black Martian and an elf, the last two are lesbians. Quite progressive for a tyrant used to rule over an African tribe as a deity and demanded human sacrifice from them, and now presides over the titular Worldscape.
-   In _The Ultimates_, the Liberators were superpowered agents from a coalition of "anti-American" nations, with each country contributing a member. Thus, they had someone from Russia, North Korea, Syria, China, and, um, France, all led by an Iranian terrorist.
-   _Marvel Fanfare_ #10-#12 had Black Widow dealing with a Gender-Equal Ensemble of six, internationally diverse assassins employed by the main villain. They were:
    -   N'kama, a South African Zulu warrior.
    -   Deadshot Darrance, a Great White Hunter who had switched from hunting big game to hunting humans for more profit.
    -   The Iron Maiden, a former Russian agent who who had been living in the Black Widow’s shadow for years.
    -   Laralie, an American rodeo performer who was very good with a rope.
    -   A Chinese female martial artist who went by the code name of Black Lotus.
    -   And Kono, a Japanese Sumo wrestler.
-   _Astro City_: Theoretically, this applies to PYRAMID, an international terrorist organization bent on world domination, who recruit from all races, nationalities, and genders, the only prerequisite being that said recruit is enough of a social malcontent. Practically, however, PYRAMID is implied to be both ageist and ableist, as they have no use for anyone who isn't physically fit enough for combat, and murder any recruit who does not pass their fitness tests to avoid security leaks.
-   _Wonder Woman (1942)_: Despite Diana's WWII era villains being fascists she ended up fighting a lot of women and POC allied with them. Many of these people turned out to have been blackmailed or brainwashed into helping the Nazis and Imperial Japan, but at least one of the ladies was fanatically devoted to Imperial Japan even though she had to disguise herself as a man to get a position in their military to go experiment on and murder non-Japanese people.

    Comic Strips 

-   _The Phantom_: The Singh Brotherhood doesn't care about race, gender, or social class, and have members from all over the world, though since the organization is strongest in the Pacific, most of them are Asian or Middle Eastern due to geographic convenience. Many high-ranking members throughout the Brotherhoods history have been women, even during historical periods that were very patriarchal, and the current leader is one as well.

    Fan Works 

-   While they only come off as evil in the author's eyes, the enemies of _The Prayer Warriors_ consist of the Greek, Roman and Egyptian gods and their followers, the students of Hogwarts, Dirty Communists and the Titans, as well as many others. Among them are satyrs, homosexuals, feminists, drug lords, vampires, the English royal family, and people who represent almost everything that the Prayer Warriors hate.
-   In _MRA Trilogy_, the feminist ranks have not only women but also various species of aliens (including the _Reapers_), dinosaurs, water elementals, demons, pagan goddesses, and gay men.
-   In _Harry Potter and the Power of the Dark Side_ Darth Veneficus (a.k.a. Harry Potter) notes that the Sith are accepting of all species and that respect is gained through power, not one's origins. Darth Veneficus finds it pathetic the way the Death Eaters limit themselves with notions of "blood purity" and tells Draco and his fellow Slytherins as much.
-   In _The Jaded Eyes Series_ while Harry/Tristan hates Muggles he's friends with and strives for the rights of Magical Creatures. His followers are mostly non-human magic users such as elementals, satyrs, furies, gargoyles, werewolves, and vampires.
-   _Bad Future Crusaders_: Twilight Sparkle, who has become a tyrannical despot and turned Equestria into a Police State, nevertheless employs Changelings (who are universally despised) as her spy network, and has ponies of both genders in her Royal Guard (which in canon appears to be entirely composed of stallions). Astringe, the artist whose pictures the story is adapted from, lampshaded this with the following comment:
    
    "Also too, I had a thought when Scootaloo and Apple Bloom passed a pair of guards and one was a woman. Twilight's army is unisex? How come the bad guys in these kinds of stories are always the most progressive?"
    
-   _The Rise of Darth Vulcan_: Vulcan's criminal enterprise includes diamond dogs, changelings, minotaurs, and ponies of both genders and every tribe (originally just escaped convicts, but later expanding to include ponies from every walk of life who have grown dissatisfied with Celestia's rule). Later still, he has no objection to his Number Two, Artful Dodger, recruiting Tooth Breezies as his own personal goon squad.
-   In _Black Wings, Black Sails_, the core of William Laurence's band of pirates is built from the prisoners he was ordered to transport to Australia. His second-in-command is an escaped slave and convicted murderer who killed his first master, he has an entire ship captained by a convict woman that's full of other convict women and Runaway Fiances, and his cause has attracted yet more convicts, mutineers, runaway slaves, and military deserters all the way from Europe to Africa to the Americas. The leadership of the fleet is also democratic in nature, and they plan to elect a new commander of the fleet to Laurence's post next year, just as was done with Laurence after those initial prisoners repelled his mutinying crew.
-   _Mastermind: Strategist for Hire_: Unlike the rest of society, villains don't care that Izuku is Quirkless because he's so good at the criminal plots he creates on commission under his Mastermind villain identity.
-   Discussed in The Conversion Bureau story "Beacon of Hope": Socrates initially only hires rogue Newfoals and refuses to let Equestrians work for him because he takes it for granted that Celestias subjects would never disobey her and the only reason a pony would want to work for him is that they're a Fake Defector or would become one eventually despite any evidence of the contrary. One of his underlings has to convince him that this isn't the case.
-   _Equestria Girls: Friendship Souls_:
    -   Though technically they're (mostly) a group of Well Intentioned Extremists, the Human Starlight Glimmer's group is composed of the most diverse cast of the villainous factions: Led by herself (a Substitute Soul Reaper and formerly a normal human) and consisting of a Soul Reaper (Platinum), a Fullbringer (Firefly), a Bount (Human Trixie), and an Arrancar (Hollow Chrysalis). Later additions to their ranks include Mod Souls and a deposed Changeling Queen (Equestria Chrysalis).
    -   Hydia's Fraccion are all somehow deformed from the more normal human shape most Arrancar possess since she doesn't care about looks as long as they're loyal to her and aren't sticks in the mud.
-   This is actually an important factor in Tifa's loyalty to Shinra in _Seventh Endmost Vision_. Tifa is not only from the Western Continent- which in this fic ends up violently opposed to Shinra- but was basically a middle-class nobody. Shinra still made her a SOLDIER and raised her high; in gratitude, and loving the perks, Tifa was fanatically loyal to the company for most of the War, even blaming what corruption she _did_ see on the War's aftereffects rather than something inherent to the company.
-   Invoked and Played for Laughs in _This Bites!_, where Sengoku admits to Garp that one of the major reasons he recruited Perona to the Warlords was to add more gender equality outside of sole-female member Boa Hancock thanks to pressure from the Marine Women's Rights Association<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> .
-   In _Here Comes The New Boss_ inheriting the Butcher's mantle also means receiving the minds of all prior Butchers, whose personalities tend to bleed over onto the new holder. As previous Butchers represent a mixture of several ethnicities, sexual orientations, and both genders, the Butchers tend to be equally horrible to everyone other than the Teeth and kids.
-   Similarly, in _Inheritance_ the Teeth accept all races, genders, and sexualities due to the Butcher's influence. A number of members joined because of the other major gangs in the city one is composed of Neo-Nazis and the other is Asian-only.
-   _Shadows over Meridian_: Jade lampshades that Phobos' reign allowed all of Meridian's races to coexist in peace, even if in a fragile one, while Elyon's reign has given new opportunities for interracial conflicts, such as the persecution of shapeshifters. This is one of the many things she intends to highlight in order to destroy Elyon's reputation and turn public favor back towards Phobos.

    Films — Animated 

-   _All Dogs Go to Heaven_. While trying to lure Charlie to the bad side, Belladonna, Anabelle's evil cousin, pretty much says this word for word.
    
    **Belladonna**: Think of my organization as an equal opportunity employer. No matter who you are or what you want to be; when you join with me, it's always an easy ride.
    
-   In _The Lion King_, Scar generally gets along with the hyenas (though being a snob, he looks down on _everyone_) and is more than willing to employ them in his plans to take the throne, and integrates them into the Pride Lands after becoming king, whereas the other "good" lions are pretty big pricks to them (though they may have their reasons). (Hilariously, this has led some conservative propagandists to portray Scar as an evil socialist because he gave special privileges to the hyenas and the Pride Lands fell into decay as a result). Additionally, going by their voice actors, the hyenas Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed are respectively black, Hispanic, and white.
-   Bad Bill's gang in _Rango_ are of very mixed nationality in a film otherwise populated almost entirely by Americans on both the good and bad sides. Bill himself is voiced by the very Cockney Ray Winstone, while his cohorts have a variety of accents.
-   While not seen in the army itself, (probably for other reasons), Shan-Yu and the Huns in _Mulan_ are notably among the few men never to show any sexism towards Mulan, just seeing her as another enemy and never even remarking on her gender. This is Truth in Television (Hun women enjoyed a lot of freedoms, including right to fight alongside the men) and creates an interesting contrast with the heroic Chinese forces, who have their period-accurate misogyny on full display.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   The thousand armies of the Persian Empire in _300_ seem to encompass every non-Greek race living in the Old World at the time — from actual Persians, to black Africans, to...orc ninja samurai? Historically speaking, the Achaemenid Persian empire was _gigantic_ (that's them in brown there<small>◊</small>) and frequently levied large numbers of troops from its conquered territories, though its reach did not extend to East Asia or Sub-Saharan Africa and thus such people wouldn't be found in their armies. Just about any Caucasians from Morocco to Tajikistan and from Crimea to Egypt were fair game though. Heredotus's accounts famously tallied every ethnic group present in Xerxes' invasion force and ended up listing several dozen, including Parthians, Chaldeans, Phoenicians, Judeans, Egyptians, Greeks, Baloch, Thracians, Libyans, and others.
-   Lampshaded in _Assault on Precinct 13 (1976)_ when a radio announcer comments on the racial diversity of the Street Thunder gang and how unusual it is. Shots of the gang are even composed to emphasize this fact further, while individual gang members have no dialog and almost seem like a supernatural force.
-   _Back to the Future Part II_. While his ancestors followed a "white guys only" rule, Griff Tannen's cybernetically-enhanced teenage gang includes at least one Asian and a woman.
-   Carl Grissom's criminal syndicate in _Batman (1989)_ was remarkably diverse, containing representatives with stereotypically Italian, Jewish, and Chinese facial features; when The Joker takes over this gang, he hires a black kung-fu expert (by far his most lethal henchman) and adds him to the mix. There's even an Ambiguously Brown (Arab? Latino? Polynesian?) samurai-swordsman with '80s Hair who appears to have a high rank in the gang hierarchy. Inverted with Lieutenant Eckhardt's squad of crooked cops, who are all white; Commissioner Gordon, meanwhile, has at least two black men working for him, one of whom appears to have the rank of captain, as he reports to Gordon personally.
-   Averted with the all-black street gang Chance encounters in _Being There_.
-   Lampshaded in _The Big Hit_: Hitman Melvin (white Mark Wahlberg) is suspected of betraying his employer (black Avery Brooks), who sends Cisco (mixed-race Lou Diamond Phillips) and two gunmen (one black, one East Asian) to confront him at his house. The four have a tense standoff sitting at Melvin's kitchen table, when his girlfriend's drunk father (Elliot Gould), walks in and remarks how happy he is to see four young men of different races sitting together in friendship, in contrast to his wife's rejection of Melvin as a future son-in-law for not being Jewish.
-   Spoofed in _Blazing Saddles_: The villain's "Thugs Wanted" ads specify that he's "An Equal Opportunity Employer", and it includes several representatives from hate groups like The Klan and the Nazis.
    
    **Lamarr:** I want you to round up _every_ vicious criminal and gunslinger in the west. Take this down.
    
    _(Taggart looks for a pen and paper while Hedley talks)_
    
    **Lamarr:** I want rustlers, cutthroats, murderers, bounty hunters, desperadoes, mugs, pugs, thugs, nitwits, halfwits, dimwits, vipers, snipers, con men, Indian agents, Mexican bandits, muggers, buggerers, bushwhackers, hornswogglers, horse thieves, bull dykes, train robbers, bank robbers, ass-kickers, shit-kickers and _Methodists!_
    
-   _The Bravados:_ The villains are two white men, a Native American, and a Mexican "half-breed."
-   _City of God_ features multiethnic gangs. Truth in Television as ethnic tensions in Brazil are very low.
-   The criminal gangs in the various _Crow_ movies were pretty ethnically diverse. Even the brother/sister team in the first film were of different ethnicities (they were half-siblings).
-   _Cyberjack_: The terrorist villains include an albino boss named Nassim, two generic Western Terrorists, a black Dark Action Girl, a cowboy-hat wearing Eagleland type, and an African guy dressed in traditional clothing.
-   _The Dark Knight Trilogy_:
    -   The League of Shadows from _Batman Begins_ had Europeans, Asians, and at least one African among its ranks in the few scenes we see them with their masks off (a review of the Licensed Game pointed out how jarring it seemed that the enemies the player faces in the game are very racially mixed).
    -   _The Dark Knight_ shows that the various ethnic gangs in Gotham (Blacks, Italians, Chechens, Chinese, etc.) are so scared of the Batman that they started working together against him. When The Joker comes along, even before he takes over the various gangs, it's obvious he doesn't care in the slightest about race or sanity provided his goons do as he says.
-   The raiders who invade the mall in _Dawn of the Dead (1978)_ are not only multiracial but also have women in their ranks fighting on equal terms with the guys. It's quite notable when you consider not only that they're a Hell's Angels-ish biker gang, but also the racist cop in the beginning and even when the movie came out.
-   The absurdly diverse group of Western Terrorists in _Day Night Day Night_ even include a deaf bomb-maker and his Irish-accented translator.
-   The gang in _Death Sentence_ is multi-ethnic.
-   _Death Wish_:
    -   In _Death Wish II_, the gang of scum includes two white, two black, and one Hispanic member, all buddies.
    -   _Death Wish 3_ portrays all the street gangs of New York as multiethnic.
-   _Descendants_: Auradon, the land of heroes, tends to put girls into Princess Classic roles while the Isle of the Lost, the land of villains, has complete gender equality. Jay notes in the sequel that the one thing better on the Isle is that girls aren't barred from doing anything.
-   In _Dredd_ the gang led by Ma-Ma is very diverse in terms of race, with Latinos, Asians, whites, blacks, etc., but there are no women besides their leader.
-   Played with in _Dick Tracy_, at least out-of-universe. While Big Boy Caprice's alliance of gangsters is almost totally monochromatic, he does include the ape-like Influence (played by Puerto Rican actor Henry Silva) and makes him the fourth-ranked member of the entire gang. (Caprice also has the female gangster Texie Garcia working for him, but she makes only a token appearance; otherwise, Caprice is _very_ contemptuous of women). This doesn't even include Big Boy's Dragon, Flattop, who according to legend was first drawn in the strip as a light-skinned black man (although he's played by a white actor here). Meanwhile, the only non-white "good guy" seen in the entire film is a Chinese shop owner whom Tracy saves from Ribs Mocca.
-   _Die Hard_:
    -   In the first film, besides Hans Gruber and his mostly blonde, Eurotrash henchmen, his (all-male) gang of terrorist/thieves also included a nerdy black computer hacker, an Asian guy with a Fu Manchu mustache, and a white American who looked a lot like Huey Lewis and speaks with a Texas drawl. Among the European gang members, there are seven Germans, two Frenchmen, and one Italian guy.
    -   _Die Hard with a Vengeance_. While the film's villain, Simon Gruber, doesn't quite fit this trope in terms of his mooks (they're all Germans and Slavs, with a token Hungarian as second-in-command), John McClane uses this description to convince Zeus to help him. McClane lies and tells Zeus that Simon put a bomb in Harlem (he actually put it in Chinatown), saying, "This guy doesn't care about skin color even if you do.".
-   Deconstructed in _Drive (2011)_: Nino is a Jewish member of The Mafia and it seems like an example of this... until Bernie tries to criticize Nino for backstabbing the East Coast mob by saying they were like family. Nino angrily snaps that said “family” calls him a kike to his face and still treats him like a dumb kid when he’s in his late forties. They see him as a Token Minority at best, as “one of the good ones” at worst.
-   The gang of Jerk Jocks who pick on Jesse and Chester in _Dude, Where's My Car?_ includes a black member - more than fair, given the gang's extremely small size. They also don't like the lone female flunky of the gang getting her breasts fondled - although this has much more to do with jealousy than sensitivity, especially as said flunky _likes_ being felt up and actually encourages Jesse and Chester to do so (not knowing that the jocks are not far away).
-   _Emperor (2020)_: Downplayed. The villains are all prejudiced against African-Americans, but a meeting of the most powerful and ruthless plantation owners in the region has one woman attending and being taken seriously by her peers, over half a century before women could even vote.
-   _End of Watch_: Curbside Gang members range from just barely teens up to late twenties or early thirties in the case of Big Evil, and both male and female participate in the drive-by shooting and the ambush hit on Taylor and Z at the climax of the film. One is also a lesbian-no one cares.
-   _Halloween_: Michael Myers doesn’t care if you're white, hispanic, black, gay, straight, disabled, female, male, or other. He _will_ kill you.
-   The film version of _Holes_ shows that Kissing Kate Barlow's gang of outlaws included multiple Native Americans. This is unsurprising when one considers that Barlow turned to crime after the murder of the man she loved, who was black; she kept her open-minded views even after she turned her back on law-abiding society.
-   _James Bond_:
    -   Hugo Drax in _Moonraker_ doesn't discriminate by gender or race. The number of women and non-whites in his ranks is impressive - especially for 1979. Even more impressive that this also counts for the crew of his space station. Only very seldom does another villain in the series have such diversity in his ranks. Noteworthy that despite the Master Race implications of his plan to create a superior version of humanity, his "chosen ones" include a sample of every ethnic group on Earth, in a stark contrast to his book counterpart who is a Politically Incorrect Villain (unsurprisingly, considering that version of him was a Nazi).
    -   SPECTRE, the Nebulous Evil Organisation that 007 frequently fights in the earlier movies and in the rebooted timeline, is a secret cabal of businessmen, terrorists, and politicians of varying nationalities and ideologies working to manipulate geopolitics from behind the scenes. Usually, they'll be at each other's necks, but how does SPECTRE's chief, Ernst Stavro Blofeld, who is of mixed Greco-Polish heritage in the books and original films, and an Austrian in _Spectre_, manage to keep the lid between the various underlings? To have women and non-whites such as Dr. No, Rosa Klebb, Osato and Helga Brandt on SPECTRE's ruling panel over the years is quite impressive, as Blofeld only cares about the ill-gotten profits he's seeking from his schemes and has killed mooks of all types no matter the situation.
-   _Kick-Ass_:
    -   Used several times. Dave and his friends are repeatedly threatened by 2 thugs early on in the film. One black, one white. Later, Dave/Kick-Ass goes to confront a drug dealer who had been harassing Katie. The dealer is black and his buddies consist of 4 other black guys, 2 white guys, and a white prostitute.
    -   Frank D'Amico's organisation is primarily Italian, but also has several non-Italian Caucasians and blacks on equal standing, including his personal bodyguard.
    -   In _Kick-Ass 2_ his son follows the same philosophy when he creates the Toxic Mega Cunts, despite the way he talks.
-   Frank White of _King of New York_ runs quite the multiracial gang, which even features women in several prominent roles. This creates conflict between him and The Mafia, which is run by a _very_ Politically Incorrect Villain.
-   In _Kingsman: The Secret Service_, the good guys' team consists entirely of white upper-class British people (barring Eggsy), and is mostly male with only one female in a relatively high profile position, while the bad guys' team includes a black Big Bad, some white male mooks, and an Ambiguously Brown female with artificial legs who is not only The Dragon but clearly the most dangerous of the lot.
-   _La Haine_ features three poor French criminals working together: Vinz (Jewish), Hubert (black African), and Sayid (a North African Muslim).
-   _Marvel Cinematic Universe:_
    -   In the 2008 _Iron Man_ film the villainous terrorist group operating in Afghanistan, the Ten Rings, is described as having members speaking a variety of languages from all over Central Asia, plus Russian and Hungarian. Though, with one exception, all the members we actually see are Pakistanis who speak Urdu. Astute fans of the comic book might not have been surprised if an East Asian showed his face, too... (As the leader of the group, naturally.) Which is a case of Truth in Television. Many of the paramilitary and terrorist groups are open to and include considerable numbers of Europeans and North Africans (though not Pashtun-dominated groups like the Taliban, i.e. the ones you'd actually find in Afghanistan, who are quite xenophobic).
    -   The comic book prequel to _Iron Man 3_ has War Machine facing a Ten Rings chapter from Hong Kong.
    -   _Iron Man 3_ has a white American Ten Rings operative. And if the legend put forth in the short is to be believed, the entire organization was founded on the teachings of the Mandarin, an ancient Chinese warrior king.
        -   The Mandarin appears, still alive, in _Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings_, and while many of the agents who work directly for him are Chinese, his dragon Razor Fist is Romanian.
    -   Loki's henchmen in _The Avengers_ are racially diverse. Where they're from is never specified though; Hawkeye just refers to them as enemies of S.H.I.E.L.D.
    -   _Captain America: The Winter Soldier_ reveals that while HYDRA as an offshoot of Nazi Germany was all white back during World War II, these days it doesn't care about the ethnic or racial origins of its members. This likely reflects the position of its founder, Johann "the Red Skull" Schmidt, who was dismissive of Hitler's beliefs and Hitler himself.
    -   Later on, _Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._ reveals that HYDRA is a multinational conspiracy stretching back millennia, of which Schmidt's operation was just a spin-off. They don't give a hoot about race or gender.
    -   In _Avengers: Infinity War_, the Children of Thanos come from all species and creeds and are both male and female.
    -   The Red Room from _Black Widow_ is a particularly tragic example. Girls from all over the world were kidnapped to become Widows. Dreykov doesn't care about their ethnicity or where they come from because he sees all of them as equally disposable and replaceable.
-   _Pirates of the Caribbean_:
    -   The crew of the Black Pearl (both Barbossa's lot and Jack's lot) in the series include white, African, and what appear to be Indian members—Annamaria in the first film is a black woman, and while Gibbs makes much of her gender nobody bats an eye at her skin color.
    -   And in _Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End_ we see pirates literally from all over the world, with the Brethren Court encompassing many races, cultures and _at least_ two genders.
    -   This is somewhat Truth in Television as real pirates didn't particularly care about race and accepted Anne Bonny and Mary Read (although they both originally pretended to be men). Alternative sexualities were also welcomed. They were all social rejects after all...
-   Clarence Boddicker's gang in the original _RoboCop (1987)_. White, black, Asian, and Latin.
-   Memnon in _The Scorpion King_ runs an equal opportunity and multicultural Horde.
-   Zig-Zagging Trope in _Small Soldiers_; the Commando Elite are a group of evil sentient action figures. They are the enemies of the heroic but monstrous Gorgonites, and as such are Fantastic Racists, but have no other prejudices. One of them is black, and they recruit a group of Barbie doll-Expies as soldiers.
-   _Star Wars_:
    -   The Sith come in all colors, genders, and species. Emperor Palpatine himself couldn't care less about it (considering everyone to be equally inferior to him personally), but encouraged humans' prejudice towards other species anyway to help maintain his power since humans are the majority of the Empire's population and the Core Worlds elite tend to be human males who actually are extremely prejudiced towards both aliens and, to a significantly lesser extent, Outer Rims humans and near-humans. Thus, the Empire officially was pretty much human only, with aliens being at best shuffled off to insignificant roles and at worst enslaved and genocided, but Palpatine would make (almost always secret) exceptions for aliens whose skills were particularly useful to him.
    -   The Empire itself is a somewhat odd example. In the original trilogy, their members were almost exclusively white male Evil Brits, likely to play up the Nazi-esque undertones of the faction. Their Fantastic Racism was also alluded to both by their complete lack of alien members (as opposed to both the good guy Rebel Alliance and other antagonistic factions like the Separatists and Hutt Cartel) and the occasional comment by their officers, such as one referring to Chewbacca as "that... thing" all the way back in _A New Hope_. In the new post-Disney continuity however, Expanded Universe materials show that male and female humans of various ethnicities served in the Empire as officers, soldiers, admirals, and stormtroopers without any discrimination. This was finally shown in the cinematic universe in _Solo_ which featured female and non-white extras cast as Imperial officers and soldiers. This is in contrast to the _Star Wars Legends_ continuity, which portrayed the Empire as having a chauvinistic streak that discriminated against women serving in their military. In all of their appearances, however, they are portrayed as having Fantastic Racism against non-human species.
        -   Some works from the original_Star Wars Legends_ and the Disney rebooted _Star Wars Expanded Universe_, such as the _Thrawn_ books that chronicle the early years and rise of Grand Admiral Thrawn within the Empire, have tried to reconcile any contradictions by saying that _on paper_ the Imperial military is not supposed to be prejudiced against non-humans or humans from the backwater, Outer Rim planets. _The reality_, however, is that the anti-alien/human supremacist factions (which are also bigoted towards humans from the Rim sectors and planets), have a lot of sway both within the military and the political system of the Empire. Thrawn encounters authority figures within both these spheres who are reasonable and fair, and also plenty of bigots who take every opportunity to second guess his abilities and competence or who even want to end his career right from the start, largely due to simply being non-human. Thrawn and his aide Eli Vanto (a human from the Rim), spend years dodging attempts to kill or stall their careers despite Thrawn's obvious abilities and string of successes.
    -   The Confederacy of Independent Systems in the prequels seems to be this combined with Cosmopolitan Council. While predominantly non-human, no single species dominated the Confederacy and human worlds are also part of it (one human, Count Dooku, is a top leader). They employ Droids, Geonosians (the flying insect aliens), cyborgs (Grievous), fallen non-human Jedi (Asaaj Ventress), Fish People, Rubber-Forehead Aliens (Umbarans, etc.), and mutant alien caveman cyborgs, among others. This could be taken as impetus for the Empire to be as discriminatory as it wanted to be, if they fostered backlash in the media. (The novelization for _Revenge of the Sith_ makes it clear that fostering backlash and animosity against non-humans was indeed part of Count Dooku's plans after he would conveniently switch sides after being captured by Anakin - not that that worked out for him in the end. Palpatine, being the ultimate pragmatist, couldn't care less, but still appreciated the benefit of framing the conflict as the human-dominated Core Worlds vs the alien-dominated Outer Rim).
    -   Jabba's Palace in _Return of the Jedi_ had all kinds of aliens: a Hutt, two Twi'leks (one of them female), Humans (of all races), Rodians, Gamorreans, Weequays, Klatooinians, Niktos, Jawas, even DROIDS, etc as the villains. Plus a cackling lizard-monkey.
    -   The First Order from _The Force Awakens_ seemingly dropped the Empire's anti-alien stance given their Supreme Leader is a non-human himself, albeit he is the only one we ever see. The actual human members making it up are much more diverse than the Imperials seen in the original trilogy, including non-white and female officers and enlisted personnel.
    -   The Mandalorians sometimes have this trait and sometimes don't Depending on the Writer. Sometimes they'll induct anyone with the skill and inclination from any race or gender into their Blood Knight clans and start massive wars for fun, sometimes those clans are humans-only, and other times they're just a largely peaceful human ethnicity that happens to have some famous criminal members.
    -   _The Rise of Skywalker_: Downplayed. In contrast to the old Empire, which was portrayed as subtextually Nazi-like and whose soldiers were mostly British Nazis, the First Order (at least as portrayed in this movie) is fairly multicultural and diverse by _human_ standards, with seemingly _more_ of their officers and Stormtroopers being women, black or South Asian than white men, and coming from every planet in the galaxy. One of the top generals seen in the Chiefs of Staff meeting early in the film is a black woman. However, like the Galactic Empire, they still do maintain Fantastic Racism (in contrast to the visibly multi-species Resistance), with no non-humans among their ranks (aside from maybe Snoke, though his species is unclear — he might pass for human). Most still have English accents though. Presumably (going by a Doylist view) any racism which they had toward other kinds of humans prior took a back seat to simply getting personnel. They keep the pseudo-Nazi aesthetics though.
-   _Street Fighter_ has Bison recruit minions and henchmen from all over the world; the end of the movie even has a joke segment using national stereotypes to make fun of his international regiments.
-   _Suicide Squad_ is a downplayed example since they are all boxed crooks, but it has a cast so diverse it almost looks like a parody of the concept. There are two women (one of them Japanese), two Blacks (one highly mutated), a Chicano, a Native American...and the only white male supervillain on the entire team isn't even American <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> ! Add to this their handler is a white male soldier and their leader is a Black Boss Lady, and we have what may be the least Eurocentric and male comic-book movie lineup in history!
-   _Superman III_: None of the villains care that Gus Gorman is black; Ross Webster treats him as a valuable ally and even puts considerable resources into implementing Gus' plan to build a supercomputer.
-   The gangs in _The Warriors_ are generally racially segregated except for the Warriors themselves and the Turnbull AC's who, oddly enough, are a gang of skinheads.
-   In the Bruce Lee film _Way of the Dragon_ (aka _Return of the Dragon_), Bruce goes to Rome to help a Chinese restaurant threatened with extortion by the local gangsters. The crime boss has an effete, Chinese lackey and thugs that are both white and black ("I'd like some Chinese spare ribs!") who scare away the customers and beat up the staff. After Bruce deals with these guys, the crime boss flies in an American (Chuck Norris) to kill Bruce.
-   The gang from the horror movie _While She Was Out_ consists of a white guy, a black guy, a Puerto Rican, and an Asian.
-   _X-Men Film Series_:
    -   The members of the Brotherhood of Mutants in _X-Men: The Last Stand_ are very diverse. Psylocke and Quill are Asian, Arclight is Hispanic, Spike is black, and that's not even counting all the nameless Mooks. They are, however, fantastically racist against regular humans.
    -   Ditto in _X-Men: First Class_, where Sebastian Shaw's Hellfire Club _appears_ multi-ethnic but look again and you'll see only one category: mutants. Shaw saves his racism for Muggles.
    -   _X-Men: Apocalypse_ has the titular Apocolypse and his Four Horsemen. To put it simply, an ancient Egyptian brings about world domination with the help of a modern Egyptian woman, a British woman of mixed ancestry, an American, and a Polish Jew. As Apocalypse considers himself a god, he likely views everyone as being equally beneath him, which is why he could care less about race or gender so long as they're strong and loyal.

    Franchises 

-   The _John Wick_ franchise cares naught for color or gender or creed, only gold coins, the sacred rules, and service.
-   Averted with the _Star Wars_ universe. There is bigotry aplenty, used from its inception to identify the bad guys. The Empire, in particular, has nearly always been stereotypically fascist, insisting on its officers being human, male, and white. More recent installments have made the Empire less Nazi-esque, including some brown people and women, and even _a_ non-human, but it's still pretty damn Nazi. The Rebellion, by contrast, is chock-a-block full of aliens, especially Bothans. The Rebellion's acceptance of non-humans ("walking carpet" notwithstanding) is one of the ways the franchise has always signaled they're the good guys. There is _one_ place non-humans can rank highly in the Empire, and that's in the Inquisitors. Likely this is because strong Force-sensitives are too rare for the Empire to discriminate.

    Literature 

-   _Agatha H. and the Siege of Mechanicsburg_: Mamma Gkika first joined the Heterodyne armies pretending to be a man and fighting the old Heterodynes' wars of looting and pillaging. Unlike other armies at the time, the Heterodynes didn't care if one of their best soldiers turned out to be a woman in disguise.
-   _Age of Fire_:
    -   The Red Queen is willing to draw her minions from all races and species (even those she looks down on), in sharp contrast to previous Big Bad the Wyrmmaster.
    -   The Copper doesn't think much of the hominid races (to be fair, he has pretty good reasons), but that doesn't stop him from employing any and all of them as servants, even going so far as ending a long-standing feud with the demen by getting them to agree to serve as the Dragon Empire's Elite Mooks. And he'll even employ creatures considered vermin (such as bats and rats) since he finds them useful.
-   _Bazil Broketail_: Padmasa accepts greedy, power-hungry people who harbor a secret hatred for the rest of the world from every race and nation. In fact, there appears to be no Padmasan ethnicity - Padmasans are simply people from all over who have flocked to the Masters’ banner. Women are mostly desired as breeding slaves, but they have some along with men too if they're useful in other ways.
-   The eponymous Black Legion takes anyone from any Legion, be they mutants, sorcerers, traitors, possessed or, in one case, a xeno. This provides an interesting contrast when one remembers that the Designated Hero Antagonist, the Imperium, accepts no one who's not human, gene-pure, and Emperor-worshiper.
-   _Blood Meridian_: While many people in Glanton's gang hold racist views, most of them are still willing to accept non-white people into their ranks. The only one who does actively discriminate against them, White John Jackson, is quickly murdered by his African-American rival Black John Jackson in self-defense, and nobody else in the group objects. The group is more of the Hates Everyone Equally type, as the only thing they cared about was getting paid. When the Mexican member Miguel is wounded during their genocide of an Apache village, Glanton executes and scalps him so they could pass him off as one of the natives and get more money.
-   _Caliphate_:
    -   Despite turning into a fascist regime that invokes a lot of Nazi-like imagery, the United States still allows immigrants from other nations so long as they aren't Muslim. In fact, when they are in the process of invading and annexing Canada, an American consulate turns down a German refugee from an Islamicized Europe because "they aren't needed" and would prefer Asians, Africans and Latin Americans over them. Also, in contrast to the titular Caliphate that mistreat women and girls, America comes across as A Lighter Shade of Black by granting greater freedoms to women evidenced by them joining the military.
    -   Likewise, the Neo-Boers overthrow South Africa's black majority government with the help of the Zulu natives and grants them their own independent land. The Zulu are also employed as Elite Mooks for the Boers specially to terrorize the Muslim minority into submission.
-   In Jon Land's _The Council Of Ten_, the Big Bad plans to hold a meeting with the leaders of the ten strongest terrorist organizations in the world, and convince them that while they may make noise about advancing their religious or ethnic or ideological groups, what they're _really_ after is simply power; and that if they all unite under him, they'll be strong enough to take it. The heroes crash the conference before anything can be decided.
-   In _Day Watch_, there are a group of dark wizards, called the Regin brothers, who belong to the family chronicled in Norse Mythology and Wagner's Ring Cycle. While the family is of Scandinavian descent, the brothers themselves were all children adopted from poverty in various countries, and who had magical talent. So, you get black, South American, etc. vikings.
-   _Discworld_:
    -   The Assassins' Guild is this, at least with respect to admitting women and all human ethnicities. There hasn't been any mention of their policy towards non-humans, although if it's like Ankh-Morpork as a whole they may not let them in.
    -   That said, one gag has a troll joining a dwarf gang when dwarfs and trolls _hate_ each other. Carrot tentatively suggests this is a step for progress, although perhaps it's simply that the troll happens to like beating up other trolls.
-   In _Dragon Bones_, while Ward's father is not the main villain of the novel, he's quite a jerk, and causes Ward a lot of problems. (Ward has resorted to Obfuscating Stupidity so that his father doesn't _kill_ him). However, he seems to be very open about hiring people with good qualification; he hired his bastard (half)sister-in-law, Stala, as armsmaster, even though she is a woman and no one else would hire her after she was discovered to be a woman and kicked out of the royal army. His valet, Axiel, turns out to be half-dwarf, though it is not clear whether he knew this. The guy in the actual villain role also employs a woman, though that is most likely because she's a slave with magic abilities, and she was a present. He didn't have much choice in the matter, and she isn't a regular employee. He doesn't treat her with respect, either.
-   The serial killer Jack Mort in _The Drawing of the Three_, the second book of _The Dark Tower_ series. Partway through the book, Odetta tells the story of how a brick fell onto her head from a building in New York when she was a young child. Since Odetta was a black girl in the 1940s, her father thought the brick might have been pushed down towards her by a racist. Later, after Jack Mort is introduced, it is revealed that he was the one who pushed the brick. The narrator explains that Mort was an "equal opportunity killer" and didn't do it out of racism - he simply got a thrill from trying to kill people.
-   In _Everworld,_ the Amazons (much like the Vikings) are portrayed as being largely multi-ethnic since they mate with whatever men they happen to conquer (an Everworld being a Patchwork Map, with the aforementioned Vikings and Aztecs being only a few day's sailing away from each other). Their egalitarianism is limited to women, of course.
-   _Ghost In the Noonday Sun:_ The pirate crew includes a Fiji islander and a Muslim man (although both are portrayed rather stereotypically).
-   Played with in _Harry Potter_: Voldemort's Death Eaters are largely driven by "blood purity" and Fantastic Racism against Muggle-borns. On the other hand, it's a plot point that they build their ranks by allying with giants and werewolves, whom the ostensibly good Ministry of Magic treats questionably at best. (Also dementors, but they really aren't people). On the _other_ other hand, though, these races are still kind of second-class citizens among the Death Eaters (Fenrir Greyback still can't officially join, and Voldemort openly sneers at his Dragon having a werewolf in-law), and Voldemort's mistreatment of a house-elf ultimately helps bring his downfall.
    -   There also doesn't seem to be any racial discrimination on the basis of skin colour or national origin among the Death Eaters, as Blaise Zabini, who is black, is shown to be a Death Eater sympathiser and there are Russian Death Eaters such as Karkaroff despite them mostly operating within Britain.
    -   There doesn't seem to be any sexism among the Death Eaters. Though the majority are males, one of the most prominent Death Eaters is the female Bellatrix Lestrange and a reasonable number can be seen in the films. Moreover when the trio questions whether Dolores Umbridge or Walburga Black were Death Eaters nobody cites their sex as a problem. Even Narcissa Malfoy who isn't an official Death Eater is expected to participate in their activities on some occasions.
    -   Hell even Muggle-borns are allowed to join Voldemort's circle in certain cases. Lord Voldemort wanted Lily Potter to join him despite her Muggle-born status.
    -   Word of God also confirms that wizards of any moral standing generally don't care about actual race, sexuality, etc and the same seems to extend to wizards with no moral standing such as the Death Eaters!
-   _InCryptid_: The Covenant of St. George is a Creature-Hunter Organization made up of Knight Templars who commit Van Helsing Hate Crimes, but men and women are treated equally and given the same training with weapons. Although most of the ones we see are white British, there also seem to be a few of Indian descent, indicating they only care about Fantastic Racism, not the ordinary kind. Thomas even mentions (in the 1950s!) that they tolerate homosexuality as long as the person in question fulfills their duty and sires children.
-   _Iron Shadows in the Moon_: The Red Brotherhood pirates have members from many different nations in their ranks.
-   In _Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell_, the gentleman with thistle-down hair becomes fixated on a handsome black man and finds it bizarre that English society would hate him for his skin color. It all falls in line with his Blue-and-Orange Morality.
-   _The Annihilation Score_, sixth book in _The Laundry Files_ and a novel-length parody of the superhero genre, briefly discusses the Unfortunate Implications around this trope. The book itself averts it, as the plot is mostly moved by one particular supervillain.
    
    "Superman, Iron Man, Batman, you name it. Rich, powerful, white alpha males who dress up in gimp suits and beat up ethnically diverse lower class criminals."
    
-   In _The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe_, the White Witch's army is made up of all kinds of evil creatures, such as giants, harpies, ogres, evil tree spirits, and poisonous mushrooms, among others.
-   _The Locked Tomb_: The Empire of the Nine Houses is an authoritarian theocracy that's been making war on the rest of humanity for the past 10,000 years, but is egalitarian about gender and makes no difference between heterosexual and homosexual relationships. Even the language it uses about reproduction revolves around XX and XY chromosomes, rather than "man" or "woman". In this case, the Nine Houses are ultimately the work of one man given the chance to rebuild his society from scratch, including the people, so he worked to make a better one — and also to pursue an eternal vendetta against those who left them to die.
-   _The Lord of the Rings_: Sauron's Empire had armies of Orcs, Trolls, Uruk-Hai, Easterlings, Southrons and Wild Men. As a demigod spirit that used to not have any set form, it's all broadly the same to him. Plus we are told that he even had even more allies and trade relations beyond that. The Free Peoples consisted of the light-skinned Men of Gondor and Men of Rohan, the Elves, the ents, the dwarves, and allied nations of Men. Despite what some critics have said, some of these allied nations' folk are explicitly described as darker-skinned than the folk of Gondor. It is explained in the LOTR's Appendices, _The Silmarillion_, _The Fall of Númenor_ and other texts that Easterlings and Southrons allied themselves with Sauron because the ancestors of the Gondorians were murderous imperialists who brutally oppressed the peoples of Middle-Earth during the Second Age. And it is suggested in _Unfinished Tales of Númenor and Middle-earth_ that the other two Wizards of the Order were at work in the distant South and East helping good folk of those races resist Sauron's domination.
-   In _The Machineries of Empire_, the Hexarchate is a brutal, imperialistic, totalitarian oligarchy with some vicious internal politics at times. However, it is notably free of sexism and homophobia — men, women, and non-binary people have entirely equal opportunities in society, and virtually Everyone Is Bi (with the minorities who are exclusively into a specific gender not being visibly looked down on either). There is still some lingering bigotry against binary trans people, but even this is depicted as limited to particularly old-fashioned circles.
-   In _Nineteen Eighty-Four_, _the book_ goes:
    
    "In principle, membership of these three groups is not hereditary. The child of Inner Party parents is in theory not born into the Inner Party. Admission to either branch of the Party is by examination, taken at the age of sixteen. Nor is there any racial discrimination, or any marked domination of one province by another. Jews, Negroes, South Americans of pure Indian blood are to be found in the highest ranks of the Party, and the administrators of any area are always drawn from the inhabitants of that area."
    
-   _The Postman_: Holnists, but only if you are male, although one of the augments clearly does not like the idea that black soldiers might serve with them. General Macklin chides him for this, however, saying Nathan Hold wasn't a racist and expresses admiration for a black man who's fighting them (a former Marine) while saying his own sons would be required to earn their place in the Holnist army, or else be serfs. The fact that all the Holnists seem to be white is explained by Macklin saying most of the racial minorities didn't survive after the apocalypse as the result of being disadvantaged. It seems probable people of color would be less attracted to such a philosophy given its historical associations though too.
-   _A Practical Guide to Evil_: since the reforms some decades earlier, the evil Dread Empire of Praes is quite open in its hiring policy, allowing humans of all genders and ethnicities, as well as orks, ogers and goblins (as well as undead and a dragon), to rise in the ranks of the Legions of Terror. At the same time, the more traditional evil nobles still retain their racism, and on the side of good, some heroes openly regard orks and goblins as worthless monsters.
-   In the _Ripliad_ series, Tom Ripley, the Villain Protagonist, is a textbook sociopath who for all his affability manages to destroy a number of peoples' lives. In between his villainy, he likes to go to a "workingman's bar" in the French village in which he lives. Two of the frequent customers are a far-leftist and rightist who don't agree on anything except their hatred of non-white immigrants. Tom finds this racism highly offensive.
-   _Shadows of the Empire_: Black Sun, in stark contrast with the Humanocentric Empire, accepts members of any species in its ranks (headed by Falleen Prince Xizor as well). Palpatine does let Xizor into his inner circle but maintains Humanocentrism otherwise (indicating he just uses this with recruiting Humans who support those views). With his Vigos (lieutenants) their leadership is a full-blown Cosmopolitan Council, with just one Human and every Vigo besides that from a different unique species.
-   At least a few of the gangs in _Six of Crows_ seem very equal-opportunity. The Dregs in particular- the second-in-command is disabled, the best spider (thief of secrets) is a woman of color, the best sniper is a man of color, and many of the side characters are mentioned to be women.
-   _A Song of Ice and Fire_: Has a few examples. In a Crapsack World, competency over background occasionally comes in handy, after all.
    -   The Brave Companions (aka the Bloody Mummers), the mercenary band of Vargo Hoat's, includes killers from all over the known world and from various class backgrounds. This includes several Westerosi, Dothraki, Dornishmen, Ibbenese, Lyseni, etc. Most are "middle class" in origin, but some come from the gutter and a couple fell from the heights. So long as you are both a competent fighter _and_ with an Ax-Crazy streak of a hefty width, you are in. Of course, for this very diverse bunch, there are no female members... possibly because no women would be safe around them for even three minutes.
    -   The Faith of R'hllor is characterized by its brutal fundamentalism and burning unbelievers at the stake. It also promotes gender and racial equality with Melisandre and Moqorro as its members, and takes anyone in regardless of background. It often bulks its ranks by buying slaves then training them up for the priesthood. It's emancipation, of a sort.
    -   While not exactly evil, Stannis Baratheon has a very unpopular reputation as an Evil Overlord. He also relies on a very diverse crew (something he is sneered at by his rivals) with aforementioned Melisandre as a foreigner priestess, privateers from Essos, and his second-in-command being a former smuggler turned landed knight. He is also the first monarch to accept Wildlings into his ranks, though admittedly under strict conditions.
    -   On the whole, this is one Deconstructed Trope among many, as the story emphasizes that, in a feudal society where social status and inheritance carry significant weight, any who tries to show or encourage equality will be seen as a villain. Case in point: Aegon V, "The Unlikely", was remembered as a tyrant for taking away several rights from his lords, with Tywin Lannister making his name as Hand by restoring said rights. Aegon's supposed tyranny was actually a set of efforts to improve the rights of the Smallfolk by limiting what lords could die to them, and Tywin's restoration of said rights was motivated primarily by classism.
-   _Temeraire_: Under Napoleon, France becomes the first power in Europe to recognize the personhood of dragons, and not just legally — the first time Paris is visited, he's engaged in huge public works projects to widen the streets so dragons can walk through them, building pavilions for them, etcetera. He even has them formally enlisted into the military, with ranks and salaries. Captain Laurence is bitterly aware that his own government still considers dragons unruly animals, and are dragging their heels on similar reforms, if considering them at all. However, later books make clear that this is also Pragmatic Villainy. Napoleon genuinely believes in the rights of dragons, but he's also aware of the strategic advantages of making French dragons loyal to France itself, not just to their handlers.
-   _The Traitor Baru Cormorant_ both invokes and averts it. The Imperial Republic of Falcrest _claims_ to be a rationalist, scientifically-backed meritocracy where only skill matters and anyone can attain high office, but it's clear that Falcrest is sexist and racist in its own ways, not all of them subtle — most obviously, its belief in Lamarckian inheritance, which has led them to develop whole taxonomies of "rationalist, scientifically-backed" racism. Baru would have ended up using her mathematical genius only for agricultural planning, being from a race considered degenerated from idyllic island living and useful only for "fishing, farming, and pleasure", if she hadn't caught the attention of a powerful patron (who wanted to demonstrate that people could be _taught_ to overcome the flaws of their race, as opposed to having those flaws eugenically bred out, Falcrest's preferred technique). Falcrest is also totally intolerant of non-Falcresti practices regarding gender, sexuality, and religion, and its vaunted meritocracy won’t matter at all if Baru, a lesbian, ever gets outed.
-   _The Turner Diaries_ has, as its villains, the System, a group that espouses multiculturalism and consists of every non-white group in the country (led by the Jews). The book ends with The Order, a gang of white supremacists led by the eponymous Turner, overthrowing the System and committing genocide against all non-whites and "race traitors" in the country (and later, the _world_). Mind you, these are the _good guys_. The writer was William Luther Pierce, the former head of the white supremacist National Alliance, and it also inspired a number of white supremacist gangs and terrorist groups, including one that took its name (the Order) from that of the group in the book.
-   _Vampiros do Rio Douro_: The titular vampires were seven men that made a deal with the Devil to gain immortality and demonic powers. Five of them were Portuguese (two aristocrats, three commoners), one of them was a Spanish merchant and the other was an African slave. In spite of his background and race, the latter is still treated as an equal by his "brothers" since becoming a vampire transcends all races as they are all one of the same kind that preys on humans.
-   The federal government in _Victoria_ is a multi-ethnic, anti-racist empire that consciously practices this, with even cabinet officers selected for "representation" rather than competence. As with _The Turner Diaries_, its diversity is intended to signify irredeemable corruption. After its downfall, the new villains who take its place generally avert this, however, as each race and sectional interest tends to coalesce in its own successor state.
-   _Villains by Necessity_: A running theme throughout the book is that the villains don't really hold personal points against you for any reason as long as you can get results, while the heroes tend to be (at best) patronizing to anything that doesn't quite fall inside their worldview. Our heroes are a Ragtag Bunch of Misfits of varying races and backgrounds that manage to get along and form friendships. The world's heroes, whoever, have been wiping out evil races, slowly eliminating all dissenting and "disruptive" opinions, and hunting down creatures who they've labeled as evil. Kaylana especially is regularly mocked by the heroes for being a Druid and following a "backward" religion that insists on balance as opposed to good destroying evil.
-   In _Warrior Cats_, the Dark Forest is made up of cats from all four Clans, which are treated like races in the series.
-   _The Witch of Knightcharm_: Invoked with respect to Lily's clique, which is surprisingly diverse given that most of them are proud of their ancestors being members of various racist, ethnonationalist, or tribalist groups like the Confederacy, the Barbary pirates, and Genghis Khan's forces. The clique members explain that they agree with their ancestors that some people are born to rule and others born to serve, but unlike those ancestors, they don't think that race or tribe should have anything to do with it. They instead think that magical ability should determine whether someone is a ruler or a slave; since all members of the clique are skilled witches, they get along fine.
-   _The Witcher_: Nilfgaard is a militaristic, expansionist empire that regularly commits acts of mass murder and outright genocide in its wars of conquest. However, it is also surprisingly tolerant of elves, dwarves and other non-human races, especially in contrast to the Northern Kingdoms, where racist violence and pogroms against non-humans are commonplace.

    Live-Action TV 

-   Since _24_ focuses on matters of terrorism, a rather sensitive topic these days, the producers are wary of staying on any particular race or nationality of villain for too long. Sure, Islamic Arabs have come up in more than one season, but usually not two seasons in a row, and usually it is revealed about halfway into the season that they're actually just Mooks in a larger plan. The larger plan will be headed either by a whiter nation or some rogue Americans—something that itself has been criticized ("Look, if you're going to portray Arab Muslims as the enemy, do you _have_ to make them subordinate to some white guy?"). At the very least, there are always a few Americans in the villain's employ. Also, expect a balancing Aesop to even things out when the producers feel guilty about who the villain is.
-   _Game of Thrones_:
    -   Tywin Lannister doesn't care if you're a man or a woman; he cares whether or not you are Stupid Evil.
    -   Stannis wouldn't strictly qualify as "evil" but he is seen as villainous by other "good" characters, namely Brienne. Nonetheless, Stannis was the only king claimant to promote individuals on merit, welcome foreign religions into Westeros and his general focus is reform and purging corruption. He likewise offers Jon Snow legitimacy, but he makes this offer in order to win the North's support via Jon, a son of Ned Stark, requiring Jon to pledge allegiance to him, which Jon ultimately turns down out of duty to the Night's Watch. More importantly, he offers the wildlings — who are trying to come south — rights as subjects in his kingdom, but he would require the wildlings to kneel to him as their king, accept his rule, and give up their status of being a free people, but this is more than what most kings or lords in the Seven Kingdoms would do.
-   Along with Western Terrorists, used _a lot_ by earlier seasons of _Spooks_. Probably the most egregious example is the fictitious terrorist group Shining Dawn.
-   The Goa'uld of _Stargate SG-1_ generally pose as Egyptian Gods, and while there are a number of dark-skinned hosts and Jaffa, they also have lighter-skinned races and cultures, including Goa'uld posing as Chinese and Greek gods. Which makes perfect sense for the Goa'uld - they grab host bodies from whatever's around but their identity doesn't change. After all, we 'all look alike to them'.
-   _Blake's 7_ regularly featured women in high-ranking roles in the evil Federation, most notably Supreme Commander Servalan.
-   The gang that forms out of the Level 5 escapees on _Heroes_.
-   In _Charmed_, the _Second_ Source of All Evil has a pretty diverse group of underlings. Pretty much the only bad guys he didn't accept in his group were vampires and harpies; he originally let the harpies into his group, but then one of them tried to kill his wife. After that, he cut them out (and cut _off_ their leader's hand). The vampires, however, had a queen who refused to serve him.
-   _Space Cops_ is set on a planet with 3 species: humans, blues, and crocs. Both cops and criminals were equal opportunity employers and to emphasize the point, each week, the criminal gang was led by a committee of 3, one of each species. One episode, the Crime of the Week was racism, so TPTB had to invent a 4th species of Space Jews for the criminals to be racist at. The worst thing is that the 4th species never appeared in any subsequent episodes. Therefore, the cops defeated ONE gang of Those Wacky Nazis, but ultimately, the Space Nazis won.
-   In _The Wire_, the shadowy criminal known as "The Greek" employs the Greek Spiros "Vondas" Vondopoulos, the Ukrainian Sergei Malatov, the Russian Ilona Petrovich, and the Israeli Eton Ben-Eleazar, among others, and he deals with the Polish-American Frank Sobotka and the African-American drug kingpin Prop Joe. And in the end, he wasn't even Greek.
-   _Boardwalk Empire_ places some emphasis on the willingness of gangsters at the time to work with different racial and ethnic groups. Nucky Thompson is an Irish Catholic politician/gangster and he walks a fine line between appeasing the racist \[WASP\] political elite and supporting the working-class blacks whose votes he needs to win elections. On the criminal front, his organization mostly consists of crooked Irish cops and politicians but he is closely allied with Chalky White's black gang. In Chicago, he has strong contacts among the Italian gangsters, and in New York, he has an uneasy relationship with the Jewish Arnold Rothstein. Rothstein's primary mooks are the Italian Lucky Luciano and the Jewish Mayer Lansky who are best of friends and just like their mentor have no hangups about doing business with other ethnicities.
-   The _Alien Nation_ TV series had a multiethnic human-supremacist group.
-   _Farscape_: While your mileage may vary on how evil the Peacekeepers are as a whole, they are often the bad guys and they are quite diverse. Mixed-gender battle groups, plenty of female officers, a rainbow of colors (including several not found in humans)...pretty much the only thing they don't allow are non-Sebaceans (Scorpius is VERY special).
-   Zig-Zagged in _Criminal Minds_; the vast majority of UnSubs are white males, much like Real Life serial killers who are overwhelmingly part of that demographic, but there have been a decent number of female UnSubs and a handful of minority UnSubs.
-   This is a big part of what makes the titular gang in _Sons of Anarchy_ the easiest biker gang in the show to actually like. They commit some undeniably heinous crimes over the course of the series, but they're also the most diverse gang in Charming. In contrast to the all-Latino Mayans, the all-Black Niners and the White Supremacist Nords, the Sons freely accept a Jewish member (Bobby) and a Latino member ("Juice") into their upper ranks, and the earliest episodes have them cooperating with Black sheriff Vic Trammell. There is however some Deliberate Values Dissonance with the gang's charter not allowing black members, which is a slight problem for Juice, who passes as Latino, but has to hide the fact that his father was black, and members will casually use the N-word to describe black people, including ones they are friends with.
-   Although Carmine Falcone's organization on _Gotham_ had the general trappings and stereotypes—and indeed was supposed to be—the standard Italian-American mafia family, in practice it included Asian, Russian, and Irish gangsters, not to mention that Fish Mooney, a black woman, was widely understood to be one of his top lieutenants. His top enforcer/hitman, Victor Zsasz, aside from not being Italian either had a multi-ethnic Amazon Brigade of assistants.
-   _The Borgias_: Part of what keeps the titular family of Villain Protagonists sympathetic when compared to their foes is that they're all remarkably open-minded for fourteenth-century Italy. Rodrigo allows persecuted Jews to take refuge in Rome, much to the horror of his fellow Catholics, and he has no problem with trusting women with important jobs and information — indeed, he sees his daughter as every bit as intelligent and worthy of being his dragon as any of her brothers. Likewise, his son Cesare doesn't seem to have any issues with his right-hand man being gay.
-   _The Handmaid's Tale_: The novel's version of Gilead is a white supremacy, which sent all black people to "national homelands" in North Dakota and presumably removes other racial groups too. In the series it enslaves women of all races as Handmaids, and also shows black people among not only Commanders or Wives but also some Guardians, the internal security forces of the regime. They're also fine with interracial marriage since the problem which June and Luke face was over him being formerly married to another woman (as the regime doesn't legally recognize a divorce unless it was for a wife's adultery) and Omar (the black worker who helps June) is openly married to a white woman (while secretly being Muslim's what they hide). However, it's also shown that at least one Commander and his wife have requested only white Handmaids, so it's not like racism has gone away entirely.
-   _The Sopranos_: When it comes out that Vito was spotted at a gay bar, most of the crime family's members are either crying out for his blood, or at the very least, calling for him to be removed completely. Patsy is the only one to declare that he has no problem with homosexuality. While Tony does have a problem with it, he has a far bigger problem with the fact that Vito is extremely competent and makes him vast amounts of money and wants to keep him on in an indirect fashion. However, his most homophobic members start crying too loud for him to ignore. Though the decision is eventually taken out of his hand by an even more homophobic member of another family.
-   Played with in the case of Dandy Mott in _American Horror Story: Freak Show_. He's prejudiced towards freaks, a misogynist who considers women to be "boring cows" but venomously insists that he is "not a fruit", showing homophobia and in general is a nasty, prejudiced individual in addition to being The Sociopath and a Serial Killer but interestingly enough, he doesn't seem to be a racist. He never makes any negative remarks about black people and although he hates the family maid, Dora, it's because she's not afraid of him, not because she's black. He rants at her that he hates her but never calls her any ethnic slurs.
    -   Fiona Goode, the Magnificent Bitch of _American Horror Story: Coven_ is shown to despise racists, punishing Madame Delphine la Laurie for calling Queenie a "negress" by making her Queenie's slave and outright stating "there is nothing I hate more than a racist". She also voted for Barack Obama. Agree or disagree with her politics, you can't call her a racist!
        -   The same goes for Alpha Bitch Madison Montgomery who despite hating Queenie and often fat-shaming her, is quite put out when Delphine makes the above remark, derisively referring to her as "Miss Aryan Brotherhood".
-   _Magic City_: Ben Diamond employs a black named Butterball to watch over a bolita house. Bel Jaffe lets blacks place bets with him. Bel Jaffe describes a black who owes him money who tried to kill him as "not a bad person."
-   _Star Trek_:
    -   Since the beginning of the franchise, the Romulans have displayed a high level of gender equality. Some of their top-ranking officers and politicos are women, and they had an Empress at one point according to Q. Romulans also have gotten rid of the very unsavory side of their Vulcan heritage. They've genetically removed the Pon Farr and as such no longer partake in Vulcan rituals where a woman could have a man challenge her fiancé to a duel to the death and end up with a man she's forcefully married to and have sex with. Even after they lose their homeworld when the Romulan star exploded, they continue to maintain this standard, and Romulan women are frequently seen working alongside men in all walks of life. However, _Star Trek: Picard_ introduces a Double Standard where Romulan men who have what is regarded to be a feminine occupation are subjected to Gendered Insults. Elnor, who was raised by the all-female Qowat Milat sect and follows their traditions, is taunted by the townspeople as a "sisterboy."
    -   _Star Trek: Discovery_: The Terran Empire is deeply racist and xenophobic against all kinds of aliens, but the empire itself is racially diverse, as long as they are all human. Women also have leading roles, with Empress Georgiou being the current ruler.
-   _S.W.A.T. (2017)_: Like the SLA they emulate, the Emancipators have men and women in their ranks. They have equal Black and White members too, with a Black man leading them.
-   In _The Umbrella Academy (2019)_ the Commission is shown to have quite a few women and people of color in positions of power. The Handler, the highest-ranking member we meet in season one, is a woman and a skilled killer. Cha-Cha is a black woman and one of the best assassins. Many of the background characters are women. Another assassin of note is Lila, a woman of color. There's even a talking goldfish who's the Chairman of the Board of Directors. This is treated as perfectly normal.
-   _Cobra Kai_: The Cobra Kai student body seen in _The Karate Kid_ was all-male and all-white. Upon starting up the new Cobra Kai, Johnny's initial students include Miguel Diaz (Hispanic), Aisha Robinson (black and female), and Eli "Hawk" Moskowitz (Ambiguously Jewish - and implied to be on the autism spectrum on top of that). While Johnny is initially resistant to taking female students, he quickly comes around once Aisha proves herself. The new Cobra Kai is admittedly a downplayed example - while Johnny teaches the students to fight ruthlessly, he intends for them to use it as a form of self-empowerment, and is dismayed when they become the kinds of bullies they used to hate. After Kreese takes back control of Cobra Kai, it's played straight, as Kreese continues Johnny's policy of accepting both boys and girls of all different races. This is because Kreese is The Social Darwinist at heart - he doesn't give a damn about what any of his students are, just that they can fight and are willing to be vicious.
-   _The Endgame_: Elena is Belarusian/Brazilian and has a criminal operation with people of many different backgrounds in her employ (white, black, Latino etc).
-   _The Night Manager_: Roper's private kingdom has a multinational army of mercenaries, which he dubs "the real United Nations".

    Music Videos 

-   The Michael Jackson videos "Beat It" and "Bad" both have multi-ethnic street gangs on the verge of fighting each other before going into heavily choreographed dance numbers instead. Also applies to the "Weird Al" Yankovic parodies of each video.

    Podcasts 

-   The demons of _Brimstone Valley Mall_ clearly could not care less what someone's race, sexuality, or religion is. Misroch degrades and looks down on Trainee, but that's because she's _human_, not because she's Jewish or a woman (and in fact, they chide Belzagor for just assuming she's Christian). The legions of Hell have no issue with Misroch being non-binary, or Asmoraius being gay, and Satan is portrayed as being a woman, or at least taking the form of one.
-   _Welcome to Night Vale_: Night Vale's City Council appears to be this. They may be Lovecraftian horrors,but they take no issue with Cecil discussing his gay relationship on public radio, and they're just as annoyed as everyone else by the Apache Tracker's offensive depictions of Native Americans.

    Professional Wrestling 

-   The Nation of Domination originally conceived in USWA had all the trappings of a black power group, except that 5 out of eight members were white men. Later versions of the stable in other promotions had considerably larger ratios of black membership but almost all of them still had token white guys.
-   AAA had successive examples in Lucha Libre Latina, luchadors of several sexual preferences and economic backgrounds trying to take over the company, who were pushed out by La Legion Extranjera, who had some kind of representative for almost every world culture as a member at some point, who were then absorbed into La Sociedad, an alliance so big it contained most of an entire rival promotion's roster, which still only accounted for roughly 1/3rd of it.
-   Similarly, the suspiciously named BLKOUT stable seemed to be named after its large black membership if you looked in CZW, Pro Wrestling Guerilla or IZW but looking through _all_ the promotions it existed in reveals membership was surprisingly diverse, with Chikara's splinter being almost all white and several Latin Americans of various shades and ethnic identities spread around.
-   The Rottweilers were another multi promotional stable ranging from the very white Bison, the not quite as white Low Ki and Grim Reefer, the fairly brown Cubans Ricky Reyes and Rocky Romero, browner Puerto Rican Homicide, darker still Jamaican Slugga, and very dark Julius Smokes.
-   TAKA Michinoku's version of Roughly Obsess And Destroy didn't just include men of different races and nationalities running over the All Japan and Pro Wrestling NOAH rosters but also of more than one sexuality, as RO&D had Rico Constantino among their ranks. They would pull a collective Heel–Face Turn after TARU introduced the Voodoo Murders, who demonstrated they were eviler than RO&D by trying to take them out but were just as equal opportunity in their membership.
-   Prince Nana is Ashanti Royalty who claims to abuse the people of Ghana. Over the years his Embassy in Ring of Honor has featured Canadians, Swiss, a Sicilian, and an Englishman alongside several US natives.
-   World Elite in TNA. A Canadian leading three British men, a Japanese man, a Puerto Rican, and a guy from Detroit against USA.
-   The Apostles Of Hell in SMASH consisted of Michael Kovac (Austria), Gabriel Antonik (Norway), Lin "Bitch" Bairon (China) and Sir Robin (Belgium).
-   Bullet Club wouldn't seem to fit at first glance, a stable made in tribute to the American style of wrestling that is openly dismissive of puroresu values, but said "American" stable was founded by an Irishman with two Tongans and later picked up a Japanese man, a Canadian, and another Tongan. And that's just the main New Japan group, as there was an entire Latin American branch in CMLL, mostly lead by the decidedly not Latin Tama Tonga.
-   Despite taking inspiration from a very isolationist period of history, Kimura Monster gun did not lose its cosmopolitan tendencies after being turned into Oedo~tai. The two groups have featured not just Japanese but also a German, residents from Spain, the UK, and USA of various pigments and identities, and two Mexicans, all unified in taking over World Wonder Ring STARDOM.
-   RETRIBUTION is led by Mustafa Ali (Pakastani-American), T-BAR (White American), MACE (African-American), SLAPJACK (Australian), as well as females RECKONING (Korean-American), and for short-time RETALATION (Puerto-Rican).
-   All Elite Wrestling's Inner Circle was a good example during their initial heel run, with the Puerto Rican Santana and Ortiz and the Cuban-American Sammy Guevara wrestling alongside Chris Jericho and Jake Hager as fully equal team members. This formed a pretty noticeable contrast to their initial arch-rivals The Elite, whose members were all white guys from the United States and Canada. Funnily enough, though, the Elite became a minor example following their Face–Heel Turn (which happened shortly before the Inner Circle's Heel–Face Turn), when the Japanese Michael Nakazawa joined the group.
-   Played for Laughs with The Full-Blooded Italians, a stable who's gimmick revolved around the wrestlers being old-school mafiosos (which traditionally required having both parents be full Italians and was very exclusionary), despite the fact that it included members such as Mabel and J.T Smith (African-American), Ulf Herman (German) and Tracy Smothers and "The Don" Tommy Rich (Southern American). In fact, the stable had been formed by Smith after a concussion made him believe he was actually Italian. Later incarnations of the group dropped this element and subverted this trope, consisting of actual Italian-American wrestlers (well, kayfabe ones anyway).

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Warhammer 40,000_ has enough of these to go around, since pretty much _every_ faction is "evil" to some degree:
    -   Chaos accepts/corrupts everyone, regardless of gender, race, age, ability, social standing, or species (though the main species other than humans are conveniently resistant or immune); as long as you can prove yourself to the Dark Gods, magnificent and terrible power is yours for the taking. It's part of the reason so many willingly defect from the Imperium, as at least Chaos gives you a _chance_ of improving your lot in life (assuming you are willing to worship Dark Gods who will either torture your soul for eternity or turn you into a Daemon Prince if you are really good or get absurdly lucky).
        -   That said, a majority of individual Imperial traitors serving Chaos are also anti-alien.
    -   While the Imperium is rigidly classist, xenophobic to the core, and being a "mutant" will get you executed or enslaved at best, they will hire any colour of human at all (when the colours that aren't describable as "white" appear, at least) as well as accepted Abhuman variants like Ogryn or Ratlings, and women are in every position available, from Guardsmen (Guardswomen?) to Planetary Governors to Inquisitors. Even queer people seem to be accepted, judging by throwaway lines in some Guard novels and the presence of Techpriests with neopronouns.
    -   The Tau have a British Empire sort of deal - they'll hire anyone from the worlds they've conquered, but colonials will get a bit of a rough deal.
    -   The Dark Eldar Archons are not really picky about who they let in to their royal court so long as they can be trusted. This actually means that the majority of _their own race_ is disqualified since the Dark Eldar are an entire race of Starscreams. This usually leads them to having Cadres of Foreign Bodyguards.
-   _Dungeons & Dragons_:
    -   _Forgotten Realms_:
        -   The Zhentarim. They're bad, sometimes mad, used to serve a God Of Evil Overlords and ended up with a pair of even worse ones. But their armies and poisoned knives work for a simple strategical purpose: power to _control the trade_. As such, The Black Network is understanding as to the strange tastes of its subsidiaries, but when things like hostility to nonhumans threaten the trade, Zhent high-ups remind the locals their style is about "An Offer You Can't Refuse", not "A Strongly Worded Letter". For that matter, an elf Ashemmi is one of their top-ranked wizards and Sememmon's consort.
        -   Xanathar's Thieves' Guild (actually, more slavers than thieves): here<small>◊</small> you can see their high-ups including beholder (or rather Elder Orb) boss, a dwarf, and a half-drow, the rest of the bunch are humans. Not depicted: doppelganger (or is it?), half-orc, gargoyle.
    -   _Mystara_: The humanoid tribes from the Broken Lands, although each is numerically dominated by a specific majority race, often include substantial minorities of other _D&D_ humanoids.
    -   _Dragon_: A somewhat tongue-in-cheek editorial in an old issue points this out as a benefit of having devils and demons in _D&D_: they make great villainous equal-opportunity employers because they honestly couldn't care less what their "native" agents on the Prime Material Plane look like as long as they serve their purpose.
    -   _Eberron_: The Five Nations are rather integrated, at least among the common humanoid races, so several villainous groups (such as the Emerald Claw or some Dragon Below cults) have a nicely varied make-up as well. The Inspired rulers of Riedra are also fairly unbiased in their general oppression, settling for mere dictatorial tyranny over anyone who bows down to them and cold extermination for anyone who doesn't.
-   _Shadowrun_:
    -   Some of the street gangs accept a diverse mix of ethnicities and/or metatypes, often because they're united by their Hats rather than their backgrounds (e.g. all-decker gangs).
    -   Some of the Megas are known for this as well. Saeder-Krupp, which is run by a dragon, is notoriously uncaring about things like gender, age, or metatype as long as you do your job, and EVO and Horizon embrace diversity as part of their corporate culture and openly include everything from The Undead to Artificial Intelligences in their ranks, even in high-up management and in their board of directors.
-   _Vampire: The Masquerade_: Clan Lasombra, in keeping with their Social Darwinist ideals, is cheerfully colorblind and will happily Embrace anyone who meets their standards of ambition, willpower and resilience. Lasombra vampires tend to be of either South European or Latin American origin, but that's just because those areas are Lasombra's traditional homeland. They also have a special hate-on for racists in general, and Those Wacky Nazis in particular.
-   _Werewolf: The Apocalypse_: The Wyrm isn't choosy about those he recruits into his ranks. Corrupted shapeshifters, spirits, and humans of all backgrounds are welcome. This is especially notable with the MegaCorp Pentex, which recruits freely from the supernatural underbelly of the World of Darkness. Its basic makeup centers around the main _Werewolf_ nasties, such as Black Spiral Dancers, fomori, and unscrupulous humans; various supplements expand its ranks to include Kindred, Nephandi, and at least one person possessed by a Fallen.
-   _Siren: The Drowning_: The Current of Acheron is noted to be very lax in who they recruit, accepting any Siren as long as they are willing to embrace their Straw Nihilist ideology. They do it mostly out of Pragmatic Villainy: because few people are insane enough to want the destruction of the world, they are hated by pretty much everyone and even other Abyssal Currents want them dead, so they can't afford to be picky about who they recruit.
-   _Princess: The Hopeful_: In _Ashes of the Motor City_, C.O.R.D., the Tainted organization devoted to ruining Detroit, has an ally in Jenni August, an outwardly-cheerful, white suburban transgender activist. C.O.R.D. won Jenni's loyalty by rescuing her after her parents rejected her, and paying for her reassignment surgery using embezzled funds.
-   _Sentinels of the Multiverse_: The only requirement to join the Citizens of the Sun is that you have innate superpowers. Your race, gender, and orientation are all equally unimportant, as is the manner in which you received those powers. Now if only they weren't led by a blatantly fascist Super Supremacist...

    Video Games 

-   This is the founding principle of Hebijo Academy from _Senran Kagura_: "Where good favors few, evil accepts all". In other words, they'll take anybody who pays the entrance fee while good shinobi academies only accept those who have a clean record and are already training to be ninja. Of course, this means that Hebijo gets the drop-outs, expelled, delinquents, losers, lowlife, psychos, and people who wandered in off the street, so they have to compensate with Training from Hell.
    -   Hebijo has no problem whatsoever in admitting a student who enrolls _openly intending to murder_ another student. If a student who's been there longer can't guard against such assassinations, it's their own damn fault. Shinovi Versus reveals this even extends to teachers.
    -   It's worth noting that "evil" here is a borderline misnomer. "Evil" Shinobi just take corporate contracts when they graduate instead of government ones.
-   Many of the evil organisations in _World of Warcraft_, to the point that the racist organisations like the Scarlet Crusade, the Grimtotem, or Garrosh Hellscream's "True Horde" are the _exception_. Criminal organisations such as the Defias Brotherhood, the Venture Co. or the Bloodsail pirates employ members from the Alliance (mostly humans) and the Horde (orcs, Forsaken...) as well as non-aligned races (ogres, gnolls) as mercenaries, while cults like the Shadow Council, the Cult of the Damned, the Wyrmcult or the Twilight's Hammer accept anybody fanatic/hungry for power/nihilist or stupid enough to join them.
-   _Evil Genius_ takes this into an interesting combination. Henchmen can indeed be picked from anywhere in the world, but the limited number of models means that minions all look identical. However, clicking and zooming on a minion gives a mini-biography, and shows that each has a different name and last name, many are Anglo-Saxon, Latin, and Asian. Clearly, the Evil Genius may be a heartless power seeker, willing to execute minions at the drop of a hat, but (s)he values diversity, or at least regards everyone else with equal contempt. Lampshaded in-game, where a couple of the Acts of Infamy point out that the Evil Organization is equal-opportunity, and thus will spread pain and misery in equal amounts to everyone. One mission involves burning down a national park, if only because "we've been focusing on urban mayhem lately." The sequel introduces more varied skin tones and adds female models to the basic minions to make a more firm example of the trope.
-   The antagonists in _Baldur's Gate II: Throne of Bhaal_ feature a female elven fighter/mage, a male half-orc berserker, a male fire giant warrior, a female drow cleric, a human monk who looks Arabic (despite him being techincally good), and finally a demigod priestess/sorceress.
-   The Nazis in _Bloodrayne_ are surprisingly diverse for, well, Nazis. Their leadership includes among their ranks two women (one of whom is Asian), a pair of disabled people, a freakish 10-foot-tall cyborg, and an 80-year old man.
-   Once, the _City of Heroes_ developers held a poll as to whether they should add more gender equality to enemy groups, or simply add more, different enemy groups to the game. The latter won out in the end, and most players think the groups have enough gender and racial diversity to fit them thematically—while street gangs and The Mafia and Yakuza-ish syndicates tend to be boys-only clubs in Real Life (with a few exceptions), the Crey Corporation is as politically correct as you'd expect an Evil Corporation to be (and the Corrupt Corporate Executive running the whole show is female), the Arachnos army has plenty of men and women on the front lines, and the heroic paramilitary Longbow corps and Vanguard are both run by women and staffed by many. And as of a recent issue, even _Ancient Romans_ have female soldiers in the ranks.
-   _Metal Gear_: Throughout. The very first Quirky Miniboss Squad contained two Russians, a Brit, a German, an Inuit, and an American, and from then on teams get even weirder. In context, probably Dead Cell are the strangest, with an openly bisexual Romanian and a black woman as the two team leaders in what was originally a SEALs unit.
-   Most gangs in the _Saints Row_ series have male and female members (the exception being the all-male Luchadores), but typically limit themselves to one race with maybe some outliers among the basic Mooks. The Saints seem to be the sole racially diverse gang, even among the higher ranks, and of course they are definitely the only gang that is willing to accept as its leader a morbidly obese, mohawked, bearded man with neon green skin who walks around in nothing but a lacy bra and panties that perfectly compliment his rough Cockney accent. Yes, even _despite_ the fact that green has been the colour of two enemy gangs so far.
-   Villains in the _Super Mario Bros._ series are known to contain a variety of different evil minions. The most famous being of course, Bowser, whose Mooks include giant mushrooms, giant turtles, evil man-eating plants, squids of varying sizes, evil fish, ghosts, and some games have enemies unique to them.
-   Similar to Bowser, Ganon's army in _The Legend of Zelda_ is made up of not just similar beings like gerudo, or moblins, but virtually every animal -or monstrous- being in Hyrule as well. Most notable in _Hyrule Warriors_, where the Dark Forces have a slew of different monsters that their armies can mix and match for a variety of different army setups. In contrast, the Hyrulean Forces simply use Hylian and Goron soldiers as troops.
-   In _Castlevania_, Dracula's evil army contains the undead, classic horror monsters, virtually every mythological monster you can think of, and various other enemies that all fit into other categories. Oh, and _Death_, of course. Even the occasional _human_ makes it into his ranks provided they're evil and/or loyal enough, like the Dark Priest Shaft (No, not that one), the Witch Actrise, and the Devil Forgemaster Issac, to say nothing of numerous Mooks that are apparently human like the Gravekeeper and the Invisible Man.
-   The Warlock/Dungeon town in _Heroes of Might and Magic_ contains a wide variety of creatures of the course of the series, which include harpies, minotaurs, centaurs, hydras, hot dark elves, and their signature unit, dragons. The Barbarians of I and II were also somewhat free in their hiring, featuring goblins, orcs, trolls, ogres, cyclopes, and wolves (and a large number of human heroes) - all traditional horde-related creatures, but better than just undead. III removed the barbarians/Stronghold from the evil camp, and the new Inferno town wasn't quite so inclusive<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   Part of the ideology that Atriox and the Banished in _Halo_ operate on is where, unlike the Covenant, all species, including humans, are welcome to join and have equal opportunity to achieve greatness (even Grunts - though still mistreated by everybody else - have the ability to rise to more prominent positions in the hierarchy of the Banished), though the Banished's definition of greatness is "having a larger slice of the power pie as we loot and plunder across the galaxy". The reason for this is due to Atriox not caring for genocide and conflicts between species, which he sees as a pointless barrier between species that could work together and reach their full potential, rather than just mindlessly killing each other for what Atriox considers to be petty reasons.
-   In _Dragon Age: Origins_, Arl Howe's servants include qunari mercenaries, elves and even mages. The latter two are both heavily discriminated against in the setting. In fact, Howe doesn't seem to care who he employs, so long as they're … morally flexible. (As one city guard says, Howe's men are "worse than the criminals we arrest. Some of them ARE the criminals we arrest.") He doesn't actually think any higher of elves than the average human in the setting, dismissing them as "animals" if the City Elf Warden confronts him with what he had done to the Alienage.
    -   Tevinter, the local Evil Empire Magocracy, was built on the backs of innumerable elven slaves and are still heavily involved in clandestine operations to kidnap or covertly buy elves from the officially slave-free south. But they gladly will, and do, enslave people from any race. It's just that elves, being second-class citizens at best, are much easily acquired and much of their original slave "stock" descends from the survivors of fallen Arlathan. Elven Magisters are uncommon but far from unheard of, and we even meet an elven Tevinter soldier who identifies as a Tevinter first and an elf second.
    -   Though not overtly evil as Tevinter due to Blue-and-Orange Morality, the Qunari have played an antagonistic role in the series and they were accepting of anyone who converts to their faith, whether it's human or elf they will be referred as qunari as well. In fact, elves tend to convert to the Qun more easily since it offers a better opportunity in life than either in Tevinter or the South. By contrast, the Qunari are highly prejudiced against magic users and go to truly horrific measures to restrain or kill anyone able to use magic.
-   The Colonel Badasses from _Just Cause 2_ have Chinese, Indians, and Malays in their numbers, if the names are any indication.
-   Mad King Ashnard of _Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance_ was said to hire any powerful men without regard for their backgrounds or motives, in accordance with his Social Darwinist beliefs. He's an odd example because he does seem to personally be racist (he uses the subhuman slur at various points in the game), but has no qualms about working with Laguz such as Ena and Nasir as well as the Feral Ones out of appreciation for their strength. He even took a Dragon Laguz as his wife, albeit solely based on his belief that she would bear him a powerful heir. He also has at least one Branded, Petrine, under his command, and shows no ill will towards her for it, though it's unclear if he knows what she is or not. This extends to other humans as well, as Sothe mentions he has no problem with recruiting lower class citizens into his army as long as they're capable (something that was noted to be uncommon for the setting), and employs the Black Knight despite having no clue as to his identity or motives and based solely on the fact that the man can get results.
-   _Assassin's Creed_ plays this seemingly straight for the 12th-century Templars, featuring both Arabs and European Crusaders in their ranks. However, it's downplayed in the spinoff sequel _Bloodlines_, where former high-ranking Templar Maria has now lost her status and is pretty much hunted since she no longer has Robert de Sablé to keep her in despite the No Women Allowed rule.
    -   In the sequels and other games in the franchise, however, it appears the Templars have greatly expanded their equal-opportunity employment, which is especially impressive since the games take place in extremely socially reactionary historical time periods such as the American Revolution and Victorian London. _Assassin's Creed Syndicate_ shows this best with the Templars having male and female agents and leaders in seemingly equal numbers. Of course, the modern-day Templars are even more egalitarian, naturally.
    -   Ironically, it's revealed in _Assassin's Creed Origins_ that the Templars' predecessors, the Order of Ancients, were just as egalitarian as their distant future counterparts since they employed Egyptians, Greeks, and Romans of both genders into their group. In fact, one of the reasons their leaders spare The Hero Bayek (a black Egyptian) was because they hoped he'd come around and join them.
-   The racist First-Person Shooter _Ethnic Cleansing_ has you fighting a force composed of black, Latino, and Jewish enemies. Like _The Turner Diaries_ example above (the game contains a speech by that book's writer as an Easter Egg), the enemies are depicted as evil _because_ they are equal opportunity. This trope also crops up in the Spiritual Successor _White Law_, which is primarily an Author Tract railing against multiculturalism and race-mixing.
-   _No More Heroes_ and its sequel feature very diverse enemies in terms of ethnicity, lifestyle, etc. In between the two, they included an old Soviet Cosmonaut, a black girl with a Japanese name, a straight-up Japanese man, an English schoolgirl, an all-American quarterback, a character actor, a Polish magician, a German punk-rock star, a black Irish cult leader, and an amputee/fashion model/marine, just to name a few.
-   Goblins in _Dwarf Fortress_ frequently kidnap children of other races, and raise them as productive goblin citizens who advance normally in goblin society and abide by goblin societal norms. This can reach such an extreme as to circle into inversion, in which none of the members of a goblin community are goblin by blood, and may be homogeneously elves, humans, or even dwarves. The only exception is one aversion; only full-blooded goblins seem to become priests, and they may be the only racial goblins present at a nominally goblin settlement.
-   In _Deus Ex: Human Revolution_, despite being based in a Chinese city and explicitly being under the control of a Triad leader, the Harvester street gang has a large amount of American accented Scary Black Men (who ironically call _Jensen_ "gwailo" or "laowai", Chinese racist terms for "foreigner"). Also, the five main bad guys you face are composed of an Afro-Russian, a Southern-American, an Israeli super-soldier, a Chinese businesswoman and a knighted Englishman. Evil comes in many flavors.
-   In _Sword of the Stars II_, a single pirate encounter can see you facing craft from all the different racial factions.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_:
    -   Throughout the series, this is true of the Daedric Princes. While they technically operate under their own Blue-and-Orange Morality while being Above Good and Evil, most are quite malevolent in their dealings with mortals and are thus considered evil. While there are a few instances where a particular Daedric Prince seems to _favor_ a specific race (Malacath toward the Orcs or Azura toward the Dunmer, for example) almost all accept worship from any mortal race willing to give it to them. One exception is Namira, who _hates_ attractive people and has outright refused the worship of people she does not find revolting enough.
    -   Vampirism, a creation of Molag Bal, Daedric Prince of Domination and Corruption, aka "The King of Rape", is also equal opportunity. It is a disease that can be contracted by any member of the mortal races. However, whether the infected individual is accepted by _other_ Vampires is a different story.
    -   Likewise, this is true for were-creatures as well. Any member of any of the playable races can become a were-creature, a disease which was created by Hircine, the Daedric Prince of the Hunt.
    -   The Order of the Black Worm, a cultish and reclusive Magical Society founded by the legendary/infamous necromancer Mannimarco devoted to the study of The Dark Arts, is remarkably accepting. When initially forming the Order, Mannimarco sought out Mages Guild defectors, witches, Reachmen, Daedra worshipers, various other rogue magic users, and even attempted to ally with the Sload of Thras, who are usually killed on sight in Tamriel tracing back to the Thrassian Plague they unleashed in the 1st Era which killed over half of Tamriel's population.
    -   The Dark Brotherhood is surprisingly very open. As long as you're willing to kill on command and have some skill in doing so, the Dark Brotherhood will welcome you regardless of race or gender. Throughout the series, members have included Argonians raised as Tyke Bombs, Vampires, Werewolves, a Khajiit sorcerer, a not-so-stealthy Orc, an elderly wizard who strongly believes that There Is No Kill Like Overkill, and many others. There is also relative equality when it comes to the genders of the members as well.
    -   Likewise, the Thieves' Guild does not discriminate based on race or gender. If you're a capable thief and are willing to follow the Guild's rules, you're welcome to join.
    -   _Skyrim_:
        -   The Thalmor and the Forsworn, while genocidally racist, appear to have pretty liberal views on gender. The Thalmor ambassador to Skyrim is a woman, and you'll encounter plenty of female Thalmor soldiers and wizards in the wild. They also apparently have no qualms with employing other races, as the ambassador has a Wood Elf as a servant and a Khajiit as a cook, and a Thalmor assassin you end up killing for the aforementioned Wood Elf is also a Khajiit. The Forsworn also have female warriors and mages that are no less murderous than their male allies.
        -   The Empire, from the perspective of the Stormcloaks, is this. Although from the Stormcloaks' perspective, the diversity of Imperial forces is actually a _downside,_ since they think the only people who should be ruling in Skyrim are Nords.
-   Cerberus in the _Mass Effect_ franchise is this from a Doylist perspective but is quite the opposite trope from a Watsonian perspective. To elaborate, Cerberus is a human survivalist/supremacist group in a galaxy full of sentient races that have established United Nations-esque diplomatic relations with each other (mostly). Naturally, the Cerberus agenda to "look out for human interests" and "put humankind on top" is abhorrently racist In-Universe (just replace "human" with "Aryan" to see how this looks). However, from a Real Life perspective, Cerberus is quite progressive, with male and female operatives of all nationalities, ethnicities, and sexual orientations working together.
    -   Also, the only time you'll see people of multiple species working together in an organized capacity outside of Citadel Space is in the galaxy's mercenary gangs and crime syndicates, such as the Blue Suns, Eclipse, and Aria's organization on Omega. By far the friendliest interactions between humans and batarians or turians and krogan occur in this context.
    -   The Exiles in _Mass Effect: Andromeda_ are murderous raiders, yet have no apparent discrimination based on species, race, or gender. Even turians and krogan can get along in the same gangs.
-   In _Mortal Kombat 9_:
    -   The Lin Kuei seem to be this; they ally with Shao Kahn and the prominent Lin Kuei we see are from various backgrounds, such as Sektor (Chinese), Cyrax (Botswanan), Bi-Han (original Sub-Zero/Noob Saibot), and Kwai Liang (second Sub-Zero) (both Chinese-American), and Smoke (Czech).
    -   In fact, the bad guys in _9_ are an overall fantastical version of this. Shao Kahn's Outworld forces include Kitana and Jade (Edenians, though they both defect), Reptile (Saurian), Baraka (Tarkatan), Shang Tsung and Kano (Humans, the former Chinese and the latter Australian), Goro, Kintaro, and Sheeva (Shokan), Mileena (Edenian/Tarkatan hybrid), and have a strategic alliance with the Netherrealm, which include Quan Chi (Demon), and Noob Saibot (Wraith). It's even more diverse considering the Lin Kuei are allies with them, who are all cyborgs from various Earth backgrounds. This trope is justified for a couple of reasons. The first being that Shao Kahn is a conqueror who has taken over many different realms and cultures, and utilizes them to his advantage. The second is that he has a god complex, and likely views everyone else as being equally inferior.
-   In _Guild Wars 2_, while many of the villainous groups are racially exclusive (and in the case of the Flame Legion and the Sons of Svanir, only accept men), both the regular seafaring pirates and the Aetherblades are very diverse, much like pirate crews in real life.
-   In _Shin Megami Tensei_, while YHVH is a Knight Templar Mad God, he is utterly consumed by his desire for egalitarianism. His subordinates, not really understanding his will, have occasionally fostered the birth of several highly classist societies. The moment He sees what's going on, all of that is _immediately_ thrown out of the window in lieu of an effort to make _everyone_ equal.
-   The Umbrella Corporation of _Resident Evil_ makes it quite clear on several occasions that they don't care what color, gender, or flavor you are so long as you meet their decidedly evil criteria for employment.
    -   Their Umbrella Biohazard Countermeasure Service greatly exemplifies this, consisting of ex-soldiers from all over the world including (just to name a few) the Russian Nikolai and Mikhail, the American Murphy, the South-American Carlos, and the Surinamese Tyrell. Granted most of these people aren't "evil" per se, as Tyrell is simply amoral while Carlos and Mikhail are good guys through and through, but their bosses and the organization they work for certainly are.
-   _Carmen Sandiego_'s V.I.L.E. has boasted villains of all ages, genders, nationalities, and even a couple who weren't human - and of course, their leader is a Hispanic woman herself (assuming that is her real name and not just an alias). However, in most cases, Carmen seems to only employ villains with Punny Names.
-   In _Splinter Cell: Blacklist_, the Engineers are mentioned to be borderless. While most of the higher-ups are Arabs, their leader is British, and the regular mercenaries include Americans, British, Iranians, Mexicans, and Russians. While you don't encounter any female Engineers in-game, it is implied in the Gone Dark missions that female Engineers do exist.
-   _StarCraft_ has two particular subversions of this trope:
    -   The UED includes a Frenchman and a Russian among its officers, they hesitate very little before accepting Confederate remains offering to join them (DuGalle does express disdain against them, but for different reasons than their background) and the two new units they bring to the table are both Always Female. The subversion comes from the information provided in manuals, which reveal they _are_ racist in a different way: their government back on Earth abolished things such as religion and cultural ethnicity, they banished to space all those who couldn't conform to the norm (which resulted in the main Terran faction of the game), they exterminated four hundred million people (mostly political dissidents and cyborgs), and they believe Humanity Is Superior, meaning they treat the two alien species of the setting with disdain and intend to enslave or exterminate both of them.
    -   Amon is willing to recruit anyone to serve his ambitions, so his forces include the Mobius Fondation (Terrans), the Tal'darim (Protoss), feral Zerg he took over. The subversion is that he actually despises all of them as much as he despises everyone else, and fully intend to pull a You Have Outlived Your Usefulness on all of them once they are of no more use to him: the only species he actually wants as his servants are his Zerg-Protoss Hybrids. This actually ends up biting him in the ass, since the Tal'darim end up pulling a Heel–Face Turn when they find out about it.
-   _Far Cry_:
    -   _Far Cry 4_ has the Royal Army of Pagan Min. In contrast to the Golden Path, which was implied to have very few women in it, with Amita as the first one, the Royal Army takes in pretty much anyone except Golden Path members, explaining why the American government was pulling out with the ongoing Civil War. Pagan Min's comments about about having no problems with homosexuality imply he's fine with that kind of diversity as well. That being said, in actual gameplay, female Golden Path militants are about as common as their male counterparts, while female Royal Army or Royal Guard soldiers are never encountered. Nonetheless, the governors include an American man, an Arabic-American woman and a Cantonese woman.
    -   Eden's Gate in _Far Cry 5_, while in essence a Christian denomination Doomsday Cult led by the all-white Seed family, doesn't discriminate when it comes to indoctrinating new members. Their rank and file consists of both male and female members of varying ethnicity, a first for an enemy faction in the series.
    -   Antón Castillo from _Far Cry 6_ is also this to some extent. While he brutally suppresses and even enslaves anyone who shows even smallest signs of dissent, he otherwise doesn't care much about his subjects' ethnicities or genders as long as they pledge their loyalties to his regime. Most notably, unlike Pagan's Royal Army above, Castillo's FND foot soldiers and officers consist of people from both genders, and a female soldier is almost as likely to be encountered in gameplay as a male one. In fact, he apparently _enforces_ this as he points out to Aña Benítez that the only reason he promoted her instead of "far more qualified personnel" is _because_ she was the only woman in the running.
-   In _The Sims_, gender or race does not affect your ability to become a high-ranking criminal or a master vampire, and neither does being genderqueer in _The Sims 4_. Then again, it doesn't affect your performance in other careers or aspirations either.
-   In _Valkyria Chronicles_, the East Europan Imperial Alliance army under Prince Maximilian is this. Prince Maximilian accepts anyone skillful in his ranks no matter who they are as shown by some of his commanders which include Selvaria Bles, a woman and a Valkyria, Radi Jaeger, a General from a nation that was once enemies with the Empire and Dahau, a Darcsen (their universe's equivalent of Jews), a race that the Empire dislikes, unlike his Gallian counterpart General Georg von Damon, who is both sexist and a Darcsen hater. Thus when he learns Princess Cordelia gi Randgriz is not a Valkyria but a Darcsen, he still doesn't mind and still wants to marry her since she's still the legitimate ruler of Gallia.
-   _Overwatch_:
    -   Nebulous Evil Organisation Talon are the primary antagonists. They allow members of any gender, race, nationality, creed, and species. The five playable representatives so far are Reaper, Doomfist, Widowmaker, Sombra, and Moira; a Latin-American, a Nigerian, a Frenchwoman, a Mexican, and an Irishwoman, respectively.
        -   Non-playable characters in Talon include Sanjay Korpal, an Indian; and Maximilien, a French Omnic as members of its ruling Council.
    -   MegaCorp Vishkar is another antagonistic faction. They started in Southern India and include members of both sexes, and also include members from all over the world.
    -   Los Muertos is a Mexican street gang known for having Fantastic Racism towards Omnics, yet not only do they include women but at least one _Omnic_ has been shown to be among them.
-   _Tyranny_ has Kyros' laws demanding equality between genders (which the description when you choose your character's gender explicitly contrast with the Tiers, the last conquered area, having established gender roles). Kyros' empire also accepts many forms of service and servants — the individual factions may be more discriminating (which leads to the internal example of the Disfavored, an elite army that _generally_ favours law and Pragmatic Villainy, restricting membership to only Northerners, while the generally cruel, bloodthirsty horde of the Scarlet Chorus allows anyone in), but not Kyros themselves.
    -   The Scarlet Chorus, in fact, are basically a deconstruction of this trope. Not only are they a disorganized Army of Thieves and Whores who are prone to infighting and desertion, the fact that they're explicitly a meritocracy makes them prone to Social Darwinism since they have literally nothing to unite them except terror and violence.
-   In _Star Wars: The Old Republic_, Darth Malgus' New Empire embraces aliens rejected by the Republic because their hat is repulsive to the good guys and looked down on by the xenophobic Empire.
    -   Darth Jadus doesn't look down upon non-Force users simply because they lack the ability to use the Force and has no problem with making capable Muggles his most-trusted lieutenants and operatives. In fact, he even wants to spread the teachings of the Sith to everybody, Force and non-Force users alike, saying he "believe(s) in the democratization of fear." He also lacks the Fantastic Racism rampant amongst the Sith.
-   The various Raider gangs/tribes found throughout the _Fallout_ series generally don't seem to have a problem with recruiting based on either gender or any particular ethnicity/racial group. As long as you're an evil cutthroat bastard, up for pillaging the innocent, weak, and defenseless, you're okay in their book.
    -   Caesar's Legion in _Fallout: New Vegas_ also has men of all races at in various positions, and even had many of their founding members made up of the Blackfoot tribe of Native Americans (though their supposed "God-Emperor" is actually a Caucasian man who brainwashed them into obeying his rules along with eliminating their original culture). However, they're otherwise a complete aversion of this trope: They treat women as property, are virulently homophobic, practice slavery, highly anti-intellectual, and view all other cultures as being full of "profligates" who must be either completely exterminated or conquered and subsequently brainwashed/enslaved into accepting the Legion's way of life.
    -   The Triggermen in _Fallout 4_ have a surprisingly high number of Ghouls in their gang, probably about 25% of the gang itself.
        -   The Institute from the same game is an interesting variation; racism and sexism do not seem to exist in the Institute, with several women and people of color in significant positions of power, respect and influence. Additionally, the Institute itself is (at least officially) classless, to the point where their internal economy operates on the barter system (the Institute proper doesn't use currency excluding their weapons and armor merchant Synth). However, "mundane" forms of human bigotry have been replaced with both a high-minded contempt for the surface Wastelanders and the enslavement of Synthkind.
-   In _El Matador_ we have a Columbian drug cartel employing Badass Israeli Major Yusuf Low and run by ex-Nazi Helmut Koch.
-   Noxus of _League of Legends_ is often presented as the 'Evil' faction in its war with fellow nation, Demacia. But despite its red and black color scheme and general war-hungry reputation, anyone can be someone in Noxus. Man or woman, highest of aristocracy or lowest of alley dwellers, regular fighter or powerful magic user if they can fight their way to the top. While Demacia, often presented as The Good Kingdom, is prone to class elitism and ostracizing of anyone not high in social circles and is completely forbidding of mages.
-   The Lost MC in _Grand Theft Auto IV: The Lost and Damned_ are a fairly diverse bike gang with Clay (African-American), Jim (Ambiguously Brown), Angus (wheelchair-bound) and the main protagonist Johnny (Jewish, albeit non-practicing) in contrast to their rivals, the white supremacist Angels of Death. That is not to say all their members are tolerant; Billy Grey and Brian Jeremy are bigoted towards Slavs and the Chinese and occasionally throwing antisemitic slurs towards Johnny. Unsurprisingly, they happen to be the most despicable members of the Lost who end up betraying them at one point or another.
-   _Grand Theft Auto Online_ continues to depict The Lost MC as multiracial, and starting in the 2020's also having active female members, and female gang members also appear with many of the other gangs in the game, especially Families, Ballas and Vagos. The Professionals and Merriweather Security are all male multiethnic groups.
-   The Payday Gang of _PAYDAY: The Heist_ is a group of bank robbers that consists of two Americans, a Swede, and a Brit. In _PAYDAY 2_, the various DLCs extend the roster so that the gang includes a Croatian, a Russian, and even a mixed-blood former Yakuza among many others, including women.
-   _Crackdown_: While the first two of Pacific City's gangs are homogeneously Hispanic and Russian respectively, the third is a massive, domineering East-Asian corporate oligarchy whose board of directors is made up of two Chinese (including their Managing Director), two Americans (one a black ex-Special Forces officer), a Brit and two Slavs. It also has two female lieutenants, tying it with The Volk for the most women in command positions.
-   Shadaloo's top brass in _Street Fighter_ consist of an African-American, a Spaniard, a Thai man, and a man of unknown ethnicity. When Sagat, the aforementioned Thai man calls it quits, he's then replaced by a Chinese man.
-   Ostensibly done in _Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction_, where one of Emperor Tachyon's employment videos ends with the line "Emperor Tachyon is an equal opportunity oppressor". Despite this, you only ever face male Drophyds and Cragmites when fighting his forces.
-   In the _Skyrim_ game mod _Falskaar_, this is played with. It's noted that many of the bandits in Falskaar are not Nords and have turned there because (they feel that) they have nowhere else to go. However, this doesn't stop the Nord bandits from shouting racial slurs at the Dragonborn when their non-Nord colleagues are less than five feet away. Similarly, while Yngvarr will willingly recruit non-Nords, he doesn't have all that much sympathy for them beyond "how good are they as Cannon Fodder". Furthermore, the "good guys" of Amber Creed may be mostly Nords, but don't hold racial prejudices.
-   Clan Kelley of _Watch Dogs: Legion_ may be a vicious organization of human traffickers, but they don't discriminate on their hiring, as seen by the various goons you see throughout the game. If you can hurt people and be an obedient thug, you're in.
-   _Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War_, despite being a renegade Soviet/Russian spy ring, Perseus as a whole faction is surprisingly diverse in ethnic background and gender for its era. Within its commanding circle alone are an American, two Iranians, an East German, and Bell, whose ethnicity and gender are left up to the player's decision.
    -   The faction is even more diverse in Multiplayer mode after Stitch takes up the mantle, which in addition of Russian Stitch, also includes a Norwegian woman (Wraith), a Laotian (Naga), an Irish (Knight), a black South African (Jackal), a Japanese woman (Kitsune) and a Spaniard (Fuze).
-   _The Last of Us Part II_, compared to its predecessor, has a lot more equality among its enemy groups:
    -   The WLF army is quite diverse for a military that openly commits genocide and will kill anyone they so much as _think_ is a threat, as their ranks include an equal number of men and women of varying races. Their leader, Isaac, is even a black man.
    -   Although they're an extremely backwards religious cult who wish death upon one of their members for coming out as trans, the Seraphites don't seem to have a problem with letting women join their armies.
    -   From what little screentime they have, the Rattlers appear to have both men and women, once again of different races, on their forces.
-   In _The Walking Dead_, every antagonistic faction, like Crawford, Carver's men, and even something as small as the Save-Lot Bandits, will have both genders and all races. The only exceptions are family groups like the St. John family (and even they were open to letting others like Lee and Clementine join) and the Russian group, and even _those_ groups involve both men and women.

    Webcomics 

-   The Slavers in _Lightbringer_ seem to be predominantly Caucasian, but Lightbringer notes that its members come from all sorts of different races. This probably has to do with how they began as a group of unrelated gangs.
-   _Last Res0rt_ has the furry variant of this trope: the Star Org isn't just made up of several different species, it also contains several alien species that aren't seen anywhere else. Enforced by a cameo drive (to raise funds for the first book) where fans submitted their fursonas (most of which were not of a species already featured in the story) to sign up and be featured as mooks and officers in the Star Org.
-   Team Evil from _The Order of the Stick_ is surprisingly inclusive. It is willing to employ or work with goblins, hobgoblins, ogres, ghasts, zombies, chimeras, mind flayers, humans, succubi, drow elves, kobolds, dwarves, half-orcs, and others. Ironically enough, Xykon is much more tolerant than Redcloak, who dislikes humans and hobgoblins. He got over the latter.
    
    **Xykon:** We're ALWAYS hiring!
    
-   The Veslian armies from _Dark Wings_ will hire anyone or anything that can kill Veslin's enemies.
-   The trolls in _Homestuck_ seem to be pretty thoroughly egalitarian when it comes to gender: they're just terribly strict about the roles and rights of different blood castes. This trope is pretty well justified when it comes to sex: trolls are born in hatcheries en masse, with no knowledge of their genetic parentage, and any romantic coupling (male/female, female/female, male/male) is equally viable for breeding. Since biological gender became completely irrelevant to them ages ago, it makes sense that they don't feel the need to split up their galaxy-conquering firepower with sexism. Officially, anyway; according to Porrim Maryam, the fact that the trolls are ruled by an empress does not make the lower blood ranks less patriarchal.
-   Although _Sturgeon's Law_ is trying to take over or destroy the world, the company's workforce is quite diverse in race and gender.
-   The Knights of Len from _Space Blood_ are in equal authority and that both the men and women can both be warriors and can even be part of the Blood Council in contrast to the Zedi who mostly have men as warriors and that the Zedi Masters are all male, but are also evil.

    Web Original 

-   Although the USA of _Decades of Darkness_ are an ever-expanding, slaveholding empire that makes peons of most Mexicans and other Latin Americans, some Hispanics from rich families manage to rise to the top — Alvar O'Brien (Álvaro Obregón) even becomes president as early as 1932.
-   The Evil Overlord List specifically recommends this trope; recruiting people of all genders and races for your Legions of Terror, hiring handicapped people to prevent common mistakes, and spreading oppression and terror equally amongst your subjects instead of singling out a specific group who will form the core of a rebellion.
-   Dragonstorm, the enemy organization of SF furry roleplay _Darwin's Soldiers_, has shown in its ranks examples of almost every species yet introduced. Of course, so does every other faction; cross-species racism is almost never touched upon.
-   Darth Vader in Epic Rap Battles of History might count. He claims to have a "homeboy in Israel" (although he may have made that up to taunt Hitler), and the second Vader vs. Hitler video portrays him allied with a Genius Cripple.
-   The _Hardly Working_ sketch "Secret Society" involves a secret organization of "lady punchers." One of them is a woman, and uses this trope as an explanation.
-   Seiji from _Only Villains Do That_, despite technically being the Dark Lord, has shown disgust at the sexism and racism present in Ephemera, and judging by the reactions of the other bandits he treated the goblins considerably better than most do.
-   In Film Brain's review of _While She Was Out,_ he derides the fact that the gangsters constitute a Four Token Band.
    
    "That's the most culturally diverse gang I've ever seen!"
    
-   This is noted as one of the ironies of _Elfslayer Chronicles_. Despite being portrayed as sparkly homophilic environmentalists, the Elves of the aforementioned Chronicles are pretty racially exclusive, while the greedy homophobic human empire has dwarves, half-orcs, tieflings, and (presumably) full orcs as fully accepted members of society.
-   _Enter the Farside_ has Jolly, leader of the Mancurian Freakshow. Jolly accepts any inhuman or physically deformed Fargraced, as long as they've been physically changed by the Farside and as long as you're useful and pull your weight.

    Western Animation 

-   _Avatar: The Last Airbender_:
    -   Among the series four Elemental Nations, the Fire Nation has integrated women into their armed forces (though they're only seen in the homeland, never the occupying army even though Zhao implies their presence while giving a speech to his army: "We are the sons and daughters of Fire — the superior element!"), none of them question being ordered around by a teenage girl, and even their prisons are unisex. Contrast this with the Northern Water Tribe, which didn't even allow women to learn combative Waterbending until Southern Tribemember Katara forced the issue, and the Earth Kingdom, which doesn't have any women in positions of power. And though the typical Fire Nation policy and attitude towards other nations is essentially racist, Princess Azula is quite willing to employ the Dai Li (the Earthbender Secret Police of Ba Sing Se, whose ruthlessness she admires), and even returns to the homeland with a personal contingent of them.
    -   The Earth Kingdom subverts this in the Sequel Series, _The Legend of Korra_, where there is in fact an Earth Queen. The conqueror who takes over after she's assassinated is female as well. Ironically, both of these characters are evil, though in different ways.
    -   The Sequel Series also has the titular Avatar Korra visit the multicultural Republic City, where criminal gangs are common. While some seem to be racially exclusive, the Triple Threat Triads each consist of a Firebender, Waterbender, and Earthbender. (Compare the police force, which used to be entirely Earthbenders, but is now more diverse).
    -   Amon's movement seems to accept people of any background, so long as they aren't benders (though they are, of course, also willing to attack non-benders who get in their way).
    -   Similarly, the Red Lotus will take anyone who proves to be sufficiently dedicated and useful.
-   In _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (1987)_, Krang is an "equal opportunity tyrant"; he uses that phrase himself when he hires Lotus Blossom.
-   _The Critic_ spoofs this with a film that Jay is reviewing; a politically correct James Bond film, _On His or Her Majesty's Secret Service_. Bond brags that he was able to convince Ernst Blofeld to start hiring midgets, homosexuals, and the blind. He is immediately attacked by a blind midget homosexual, whom he directs to the next room over.
-   Parodied in the _Family Guy_ episode "Excellence in Broadcasting" with Brian being attacked by a "multi-racial TV gang, including white guys", The Theme Park Version of a criminal gang.
    
    **Gangbanger:** "Let's beat him up! But not because of his color, because that doesn't matter to us!"
    
-   Cobra in _G.I. Joe_ is made up of people from all corners of the world, with Cobra Commander himself being one of the only white American males. In the original Marvel/Sunbow cartoons, at least, Cobra is predominantly filled with Caucasian males; women are notably absent from the rank-and-file Cobra Vipers, and the partially-exposed face masks they wear make the absence of dark skin obvious. There are a few noticeable (and generally uncommented on, curiously enough) exceptions with Cobra troopers—most prominently in the episode "Spell of the Siren," with Cobra _and_ the Joes forming ad hoc Amazon Brigades of their female unnamed low-ranking troops after most of the men are zombified.
-   In _She-Ra and the Princesses of Power_ The Horde uses anyone as his soldiers, regardless of the species or gender (it is implied that many have been kidnapped from their parents). They also use this as propaganda, accusing the princess alliance of despising those who are not like they.
-   In _The Spectacular Spider Man_, Tombstone is a Scary Black Man _and_ an albino. His bodyguards are black men and women.
-   In _The Venture Bros._, one of the mooks of Baron von Ünderbheit explains that in Ünderland, both men and women are required to serve in the Baron's army between ages 12 and 36 (at age 37, they are executed). All of the Baron's mooks to appear on-screen seem to be male, however. (Except Girl Hitler, who leads the Terrible Trio/Quirky Miniboss Squad and later La Résistance).
-   The Masters of Evil in _The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes_ are quite diverse. Among the group's members are Baron Zemo (German Nazi... sorry, HYDRA agent from World War II), the Abomination (English citizen of Russian descent), Radioactive Man (Chinese), the Enchantress (Asgardian woman), and Chemistro (African American).
-   In _Young Justice (2010)_, The Light seems to be some kind of human-supremacy group, but doesn't limit itself to any specific kind of human: there's white unpowered human male (Lex Luthor), white Atlantean male (Ocean Master), white French cybernetically-modified male (the Brain), Arab metahuman female (Queen Bee), black unpowered human male (Black Manta), Asian unpowered human male (Ra's al Ghul), and an Ambiguously Brown metahuman caveman (Vandal Savage). They also let in Klarion, who is not, technically, a human at all (and is mostly in it For the Lulz).
-   The Jokerz in _Batman Beyond_ seem to take anyone with a sick sense of humour (of course, considering whom the gang members have as their hero, almost everyone's face ends up getting whitened anyway), regardless of gender and ethnicity, and of the three spliced hoods in "Splicers" one's female and one's black.
-   The Royal Guard in _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ has been shown to be almost exclusively male, with only a couple of female soldiers appearing as of the finale of Season 8. Cue the Bad Future scenarios where both King Sombra _and_ Nightmare Moon are shown having unisex armies (albeit brainwashed in the former's case), with Celestia presumably only recruiting females out of desperation (One scene even implied kids were fighting). As of Season 9, Celestia is _finally_ averting this and having an inclusive guard of males and females (though it still implies it was done out of necessity to shore up their numbers after Sombra's nearly successful coup). Also in Season 9, Grogar doesn't seem to care who or what you are so long as you're willing to serve his cause, as his team consists of the unicorn King Sombra, the centaur Lord Tirek, the changeling Queen Chrysalis, and the pegasus Cozy Glow. It's fitting, considering his status as a gender-flipped Mother of a Thousand Young who unleashed thousands of various monster species on the world to wreak havoc.
-   Krombopulous Michael from _Rick and Morty_ is an Affably Evil assassin, who advertises himself as having no code of ethics, and will kill anyone his client asks without any hesitation, simply because he just loves his job.
    
    "Nice to meet you, Morty! Listen, if you ever need anybody murdered, _please_ give me a call, I'm very discrete, I have no code of ethics, I will kill anyone, anywhere. Children, animals, old people, doesn't matter. I just love killing."
    
-   The Galra Empire in _Voltron: Legendary Defender_ zig-zags this a bit. On one hand, every species they conquer is treated as part of the empire, are encouraged to show their support, and many commanders show no hesitation to include non-Galra and hybrid soldiers in their forces... but at the same time, many others are of the opinion that other species should stay in their place (a.k.a. subservient to the Galra) and that to treat them as equals is a sickening breach of tradition. Prince Lotor is noted to be controversial partly because of his extremely egalitarian views on other species joining the military. Emperor Zarkon himself doesn't really seem to care about the matter; he's a big Social Darwinist, so all he really cares about is whether his troops are competent or not.
    -   Played straight regarding gender, as the Galra military seems to have a pretty gender-equal membership. Notably, when Throk criticizes the above-mentioned Lotor and his Amazon Brigade generals, he brings up their half-breed nature as a flaw but never bothers mentioning the fact that they're all women.
    -   Deconstructed with the Altean Empire in the Mirror Universe. They're big believers in equality and want to spread peace throughout the universe, yet manage to come off as far more racist than the Galra. They see themselves as basically being a utopia that evolved past conflict and knows better than everyone else, so clearly the only "moral" thing to do in their eyes is to conquer the rest of the universe to _force it_ to be equal. And if you object to this, you're either killed or basically lobotomized because _clearly_ you're just an ill primitive who can't understand that the Alteans are bringing you equality and peace.
-   _Carmen Sandiego_: V.I.L.E. is a highly diverse organization, both among its operatives and its ruling council. A good example would be Carmen's former classmates; besides herself (born in Argentina and raised on V.I.L.E.'s base), there's Gray/Crackle (Australian), Sheena/Tigress (albino), Jean-Paul/Le Chévre (French and dark-skinned), Antonio/El Topo (Spanish), Mime Bomb (white), and Paper Star (Japanese).
-   Emperor Belos from _The Owl House_ only cares that his followers abide by the Coven system and are loyal. Indeed, the Boiling Isles as a whole are shockingly progressive for a fascist dictatorship where Might Makes Right, with discrimination based on species, race, gender, and sexual orientation being pretty much non-existent. However, "Hollow Mind" reveals that Belos is a 17th century Witch Hunter, who plans to kill all witches as he sees them as Always Chaotic Evil.
-   _Harley Quinn (2019)_: In a universe where most of the male villains are clearly misogynist, Bane stands out for treating Harley with any respect. Despite him complaining about political correctness ruining comedy when nobody laughs at his ocean toilet jokes, he's also the only member of the Injustice League shown to have hired women for muscle rather than eye candy. Hell, the reason he gives for why he was out of Gotham for the season 1 finale was that he was dog sitting for his aunt's girlfriend.
    
    **Bane:** We're very supportive.
    

___