**Revenant:** Turn away... before it's... too late...  
**Arthas:** Still trying to protect the sword, are you?  
**Revenant:** No... trying to protect _you_... from _it_...

— _Warcraft III_, about Frostmourne

Some weapons are people, complete with names and minds. And some people are evil.

Obviously, weapons are made to hurt and kill. These weapons enjoy it too. And some will try to talk the wielder into it, with strange voices of all kinds. Some are heard with the ears, some sound in the mind.

These weapons might kill everything in their way, rather than just what they need to. Some refuse to go back into the scabbard without killing. Some just don't activate the awesome magic without the wielder killing a kitten. Some kill not the body, but the soul. Some kill their wielders as well, whether directly or indirectly, instantly if they're hungry enough or over time by draining Life Energy. Some don't. Because, you see, these weapons wield you, instead of the other way around. And they are prone to being hard to get rid of.

How did they come to be like that? Some were deliberately enchanted, or rather cursed. Some are imbued with the evil of their maker, some indeed, are the Soul Jar of an evil human, if not something even _worse_. With some, it's the material they were made of, and some were corrupted by evil deeds done with them, even worse than the usual cruelty of the battlefield. Some may be Forged by the Gods - but not by any of the _nice_ ones. If It Was a Gift — do **not** trust the giver thereafter.

The "personality" of the evil weapon often varies according to the traits associated with it. A dagger is insidious, an axe encourages brutality, staffs are subtle and sophisticated in their corruption... Swords are the most common evil weapon. Most other weapons have a peaceful purpose: bows and spears for hunting, hammers for hitting nails, axes for chopping wood... The sword and mace are the only medieval weapons that cannot serve any purpose except war. Because they are so common they also vary much more in how they are evil.

Subtropes of Empathic Weapon and Artifact of Doom and supertrope of Hungry Weapon. Compare Unholy Holy Sword and Draw Sword, Draw Blood. See also Good Weapon, Evil Weapon.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Bleach_:
    -   In an anime-filler-arc-only appearance there are the Bakkōtō swords that — unlike Zanpakutō who are borne of their users' souls — are more akin to parasites that will become increasingly powerful with their wielder, but also devour their user eventually. They're outlawed for that very reason.
    -   Some Zanpakutōs count as well, since not every Soul Reaper is a good person. And even when they are, it's entirely possible for their Zanpakutō to end up reflecting the darkest aspect of their soul. Specifically:
        -   Kazeshini plainly seeks to murder as much as he can.
        -   One of the two spirits of Katen Kyōkotsu is described as treating fights as a game... a kind of game in which children tear off wings of a dragonfly.
-   _Dororo_: Nihiru is a bloodthirsty demon-possessed katana that is capable of controlling the wielder's body (with some effort, if the wielder chooses to resist) and cannot be released of the one's own free will once held (though can still be forcefully disarmed by another person). It also may affect the mind after enough kills, though it's not entirely clear whether that is the case or whether the wielder just went insane from trauma.
-   In _Durarara!!_, the truth of the cause of the Slasher attacks was caused by a group of mind-controlled crazies around town, courtesy of a sword called Saika, which wants to love, but cannot do so properly, therefore attacks people to "love." After all, it's a sword. Cutting people is the only thing it can do. The true sword of Saika is revealed to be inside Anri Sonohara.
-   _Genzo Hitogatakiwa_:
    -   Subverted in the side-story _Gotsuden_, where the villain is a madman obsessed with Black Magic who wields the Jintsumaru Tenganken, said to be an evil sword capable of creating illusions and twists its owner. However, the son of the blacksmith who forged the Jintsumaru claims that the sword has no magic power, it's reputation alone makes anyone who wields deluded that he's been influenced by the evil blade.
    -   Played straight by the Yamiganemaru in the final arc: while at first the danger seemingly comes only from the deranged wielder Yasuke, Kiku is overwhelmed by the spirits of the people died to make the sword and is possessed by their influence, turning on Yasuke and her own friends.
-   _Inuyasha_:
    -   Toukijin was forged from the fangs of Goshinki, which shattered Tessaiga, by a blacksmith who makes extremely powerful swords due to a forbidden process of forging swords that are imbued with hatred and malice (and Toukijin already possessed Goshinki's hatred and malice to begin with). The completed sword is so insanely powerful it possesses its forger, hunts down Inuyasha (who killed Goshinki) and tries to kill both Inuyasha and Miroku. Even when Miroku kills the possessed blacksmith, Toukijin animates the corpse and keeps trying to fight. Its evil will is so great even Ultimate Blacksmith Toutousai doesn't know what to do about it. When the sword attempts to possess Sesshoumaru, however, Sesshoumaru effortlessly suppresses Toukijin's power and destroys the sword's independent will so completely it never again causes any trouble.
    -   The third movie features Sou'unga, which is so nasty that not only does it take over its user (like Tokijin, but with more Body Horror), it eventually grows its own body from Sesshoumaru's severed arm and tries to cause The End of the World as We Know It.
-   Anubis in _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Stardust Crusaders_ is a sword with its own Stand, which possesses whoever picks it up. Even a piece of it has this effect.
-   _Love Hina_ had an evil katana that possessed Naru, Keitaro and a monkey. Played mostly for comedy. Then it showed up in _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_ — _not_ played for comedy (much).
-   In _My-HiME_, Mikoto's sword Miroku is an aspect of a very malevolent demonic entity, and it rarely ever leaves her sight because Mikoto's family had trained her to use it ever since she was little, and it and the pendant she wears possess mind-controlling powers.
-   _One Piece_:
    -   Zoro gets a cursed katana. It encourages the owner to seek conflict and kill, but Zoro was able to overpower it. Occasionally it delivers a serious blow when Zoro tries to hold back, like on Whiskey Peak. It is not sentient, nor does it ever "communicate" in any way- we only have Zoro's reactions and sense to go on. It's also the youngest, and thus weakest, of three swords of the same class by its forger. The oldest is also said to be in the strongest category of swords, and is likely to be much more evil.
    -   Deconstructed and Defied later by a certain Ultimate Blacksmith. As he puts it, a sword's purpose is to kill, and a swordsmith should try and make a sword that can take as many lives as possible. If his sword is considered evil, hungry or cursed because it's taken so many lives, he takes it as a _praise_, since that means the sword fulfills its purpose well. If the wielder comes into harm for wielding such a blade, that's on the wielder for failing to tame the sword; the sword chooses its wielder, after all.

-   _Rave Master_
    -   Sacrifar, the ninth form of the Ten Commandments sword, is actually a subversion. When Haru used it, it increased his bloodlust and tried to forcefully merge with his body, causing Musica to wonder why his grandfather had created the sword with such a form. The answer: He _hadn't._ What the elder Musica _had_ done was create a sword for the specific use of Shiba, Haru's predecessor, which in its more powerful forms, would not work properly, if at all, when Haru himself tried to use them. The Ten Commamdmemts was eventually reforged so that Haru could use its full power.
    -   The Decologue, Lucia's sword, is a more straight example. As a Dark Bring, it constantly tries to corrupt its wielder, and since Lucia's other Dark Bring turned out to be sentient, it's not too great a leap of faith to think that the sword might be as well.
-   The swords made in _Rurouni Kenshin_ by the man who made Kenshin's sword were all like this, save for his last two. In this case the swords weren't evil in and of themselves, they were just more likely to attract bloodthirsty users due to the way they were made.
-   _Silent Möbius_ has Medium, an evil sword that takes over anyone who wields it.
-   _Slayers_ has a few examples. The anime has a cursed knife which possesses its wielder and turns them into a maniac berserker (but this somehow can be undone by an angry wife), which Lina attempts to pawn off to an unfortunate shopkeeper. The novels have Doolgofa, the Cursed Sword of Bezeld, which is actually a disguised mazoku who will fuse with any poor fool who picks it up.
    -   In _Slayers Try_ the Sword of Light is revealed to be another dimension's Dark Lord equivalent — and there are four others just like it.
        -   The Weapons of Light — at least those in the regular Slayers universe and not the sentient starships of the Lost Universe alternate universe are a bit of a subversion, however, in that they don't seem to possess any sort of will of their own, nor do they influence their users in any way, excepting possibly giving them an opportunity to go mad with power. In fact, they were used as integral components of the spell to destroy their creator, with no resistance or side effects on their part.
-   _Soul Eater_ has Dark weapons, the evil counterpart to the Demon Weapons. Both are good and evil in their own right. The main difference being the latter powered themselves up by eating corrupted souls and the former were more indiscriminate.
    -   The Nakatsukasas' Uncanny Sword seem to be one of these; corrupted, possesses the wielder and destroys their soul...but can be turned to good use with the right influences. Apparently many, many previous members of the family had missed out on the last part before Tsubaki decided to have a meister in Black Star (probably significant she was the first of the family to have a meister, given this is a series that favours loners being freaky.
-   The Anathema Scythe from _Tetragrammaton Labyrinth_. At one point it was described as enjoying the pain it inflicted on its wielder; it was so evil it was able to convince an Angel, a being that by definition does not know death, that it had been murdered. The source of its power and root of its evil is the nail from the Crucifixion that was used in its construction.
-   An arc of _To Love Ru Darkness_ feature Rin possessed by a cursed sword called Bladix and Rito uses Mea's telepathic powers to enter Rin's mind and free her.
-   Romy the Silver from _Vamp!_, which is part of the same universe as _Durarara!!_, has a massive collection of Demonic weapons of a variety of types with various effects.
-   Cards that can corrupt, brainwash, possess, harm, or kill their wielder are a common occurrence in the _Yu-Gi-Oh!_\-verse, such as:
    -   The Seal of Orichalcos during the Doma Arc.
    -   Hell Kaiser's Dark Cyber Deck in _Yu-Gi-Oh! GX_, though Shou gets a good grip on it later.
    -   In _Yu-Gi-Oh!: Capsule Monsters_, the Blade of Chaos corrupts both Joey and a Red-Eyes Black Dragon.

    Comic Books 

-   The Ebony Blade, sword of _The Avengers_ member the Black Knight, was afflicted with a blood curse due to all the blood the original Black Knight had spilled. Dane Whitman eventually purged the Blade of its curse at Doctor Strange's behest by plunging it into the Brazier of Truth while Strange bathed them both in magic fire. The curse returned, however, when the Sub-Mariner used it to kill his wife Marrina. The curse seems to affect different people in different ways. It turned Dane into a statue, it amplified Proctor's _gann'josin_\-based powers, and it granted Sean Dolan great physical powers as Bloodwraith.
    -   Later, retcons in _New Excalibur_ claim the blood curse thing isn't true. The blade was evil waaaay before Sir Percy of Scandia got his hands on it. In fact, he knew going in, since the Black Knights before him had held it and gone insane as well. It was just that the only other options besides Sir Percy were Merlin and King Arthur, and the possibility of _them_ getting corrupted was not an option.
    -   _Age of Ultron_ has Captain Britain define the Ebony Blade as being the evil version of Excalibur. Where the former is the Sword That Heals, representative of everything good with Britain, the Ebony Blade is everything bad.
    -   _King in Black_ and _Death Of Doctor Strange_ expanded the history and the understanding of the Ebony Blade: the Ebony Blade doesn't really have a curse, so to speak, but instead amplifies one's bloodlust and rage and is at its strongest wielded by someone impure of heart. Furthermore, the Ebony Blade and other Ebony Artifacts were made from the Starstone, a meteorite that was not only the stone that Excalibur was stuck in, but was also the gateway to a demonic world known as the Hungry Lands and Excalibur was the only thing stopping its arrival until Arthur pulled it.
-   The 2012 _Batwoman_ series introduces the Ashoth, a sentient sickle that is able to possess someone with a similar bloodthirsty and carnal mindset when grafted to their body.
-   _Contest of Champions (2015)_: Guillotine's sword is an ancient living weapon which feeds on blood, and plenty of it for preference. When first seen it's in an abandoned catacomb under Paris, surrounded by bones, whispering to a Frenchman fleeing some revolutionaries to pick it up. In the modern day, it's having to get by on the paltry amounts Guillotine gives it, while suggesting she solve the little problem of her fiancé by murdering him. And as it turns out, ownership of the sword extends beyond death, since the flashback to Guillotine's origin shows that when she accidentally woke the sword up by cutting her finger on it, she was met by the spirits of every one of her forebears.
-   In one issue of _Justice League International_, a teenaged delinquent breaks into Barda Free's car and steals her mega-rod, an incredibly powerful weapon forged in the firepits of Apokolips and issued to her when she led Darkseid's furies. The mega-rod can be wielded safely by someone as strong-willed as Barda, but quickly possesses the teenaged thief, sending him on a rampage through New York, decrying his loyalty to Darkseid, even though he doesn't know who that is; the rod also drains his life-force. Barda tries desperately to get the rod away from the kid to save him, but Huntress kills him first.
-   Carvin' Marvin from _Knights of the Dinner Table_. Carvin' Marvin has existed in B.A.'s campaign world for close to ten years. Nobody in the party could control it, and every attempt at trying failed horribly, resulting in the deaths of over forty party members. Eventually, they kicked it into a ditch along with the last NPC to die wielding it, buried it, and called it a day. This became a Chekhov's Gun when the party needed to find an intelligent sword to match against _another_ intelligent sword, Tremble, who had taken control of Dave's character.
-   All-Black the Necrosword wielded by Gorr the God-butcher, a foe of _The Mighty Thor_, is a blade of darkness that grants its owner vast power fueled by the lifeblood of slain gods. The sword also has a nasty habit of corrupting anyone who wields it into an Ax-Crazy butcher, even someone as heroic as Thor. It's one of the most powerful and evil weapons in the Marvel Universe.
-   _Red Sonja_: The _Queen Sonja_ comic introduced a character named Ariok who possessed an evil sword that corrupted him every time he used it to kill. It was given to him by a demon as a means to destroy Ariok's enemies in exchange for the demon having one night with Ariok's mother.
-   In _Supergirl_ storyline _The Killers of Krypton_, it is revealed Rogol Zaar's battle axe influences its bearer by making them angrier and more violent to feed from their rage.
-   _Transformers_:
    -   _The Transformers (Marvel)_: In an early issue, Megatron is damaged and becomes stuck in gun mode with no free will. A petty criminal picks up the super-powerful gun and uses it to become a highly successful criminal, but the experience ends up pretty much ruining his life anyway. To cap it all off, after screwing up the crook's life beyond repair, the gun wakes up, turns into a giant robot, insults him, and leaves.
    -   In _Transformers: TransTech_, Alpha Trion claims his sword to be one. Actually, it's not. Alpha Trion himself is evil.
    -   _The Transformers (IDW)_: The weapons sold by Earth's Children, based on Megatron's alt mode. They contain the Decepticon leader's consciousness which can control humans who buy the guns.
-   _The Warlord (DC)_: Machiste found an ancient cursed axe containing a demonic entity which took possession of his mind. The demon's will prevented Machiste from letting go of the axe. Seeing that the axe's influence was making Machiste more and more tyrannical as well as violent, Travis was forced to remove his friend's right hand, thus severing the axe's spell.

    Fan Works 

-   _The Butcher Bird_ gives us Amakatta, the Berserker's Blade, wielded by Herman. If it doesn't like its wielder, it slowly eats their soul and then possesses their corpse until it finds a new wielder.
-   _The Mountain and the Wolf_: As part of his payment for being Tyrion's bodyguard, the Wolf demands Bronn's crossbow (which Cersei ordered Bronn to use on Tyrion). Tyrion lets him have it, not seeing anything special about it, but to a Chaos warrior like the Wolf, a weapon used by a son to murder his father has considerable potential.
-   _Rosario Vampire: Brightest Darkness_: While not evil per se, Yukari falls prey to one briefly in Act III; Ruby, Apoch, and Astreal make her a new wand after her original one broke, but Apoch and Astreal misread the instructions while doing so and give the wand a _Zeta_\-line seal instead of a _Beta_\-line seal. As Ruby explains, Zeta-line seals are specifically designed to harness a witch's natural power and amplify it, and can prove difficult to wield if the user is not trained to handle it. In Act III chapter 13, the seal initially gives Yukari increased Blood Knight tendencies and makes her more irritable to the point where she drops _three_ consecutive washtubs on Kurumu's head without provocation, but by chapters 14 and 15, she ends up going insane with power and attacking the others in a psychotic rampage; the wand actually starts to physically damage Yukari's body before Tsukune manages to bypass her defenses and destroy it.
-   _Thirty Hs_ brings us Fuckslayer, a guitar wrought from the silver heart of heaven's false promise, laced with vessels that pulsed with angel's menstrual blood, hewn from the horns of Satan's generals. Yes, that is a direct quote. Even more amazingly, this thing can summon fire in space, blow planets into smithereens, and requires its own pocket dimension where all scream for nought to store the thing.
-   Blackfire in _With Strings Attached_. It's a bit of a Stormbringer Expy. The four hate it when the Hunter first displays it, and realize it's evil when they see the very similar Heart of Evil. In fact, it's so obviously evil that they're a bit startled when the Hunter claims it's not. When he asks to accompany them back to C'hou so he can give up his adventurous life, they point out that the natives (at least the skahs) have no concept of good or evil, and if he brings Blackfire with him they'll learn what evil is. (Though John mutters that the skahs “might not mind.”)

    Film — Animation 

-   _Scooby-Doo! and the Samurai Sword_ featured a katana called the Sword of Doom which was created by a dark forger, and thus, imbued with his evil ambitions. Upon unsheathing it, a samurai was cursed and became known as the Black Samurai. Fortunately, when Scooby-Doo battled the samurai and destroyed the sword using the Sword of Fate, the Sword of Doom's opposite, the samurai was freed from his curse and his spirit was able to rest in peace.

    Film — Live-Action 

-   In the movie _Asoka_, Asoka's grandfather tells him to put his sword away because it's a demon that desires bloodshed.
-   The laser cannon in _Laserblast_, which has a corrupting influence on Billy.
-   Jack the Ripper's knives in _Razors: The Return of Jack the Ripper_. So long as they exist, the Ripper can never be truly destroyed.

    Gamebooks 

-   The Violin that Kills Demons from _The Laundry_.
-   The _Lone Wolf_ series features several very powerful and very evil weapons, a few of which Lone Wolf can wield.
    -   The Dagger of Vashna is Darklord Vashna's weapon and is claimed by Lone Wolf after he foils an ambitious warlord's attempt to revive Vashna with it via maiden sacrifice.
    -   Helshezag, the sword of Darklord Kraagenskûl, compels its wielder to butcher its enemies while draining its wielder's lifeforce (represented by a loss of Endurance), and Joe Dever even stated that it was inspired by Stormbringer.
    -   The Nyras Sceptre is empowered by the Doomstone of Darke, the most powerful Doomstone created by Agarash the Damned. An ambitious Drakkar warlord named Magnaarn rediscovers both and uses the Sceptre in a bid to conquer the good kingdom of Lencia. The Sceptre grants him vast power and allows him to cow the Nadziranim and their armies into serving him, but he pays a terrible price. By the time Lone Wolf catches up with Magnaarn, he is little more than the Sceptre's frail undead puppet.
    -   The Deathstaff is a powerful weapon forged by Naar himself which he sent to his servants so they could revive Darklord Vashna with it. If Lone Wolf wields it in battle it provides a Combat Skill bonus even greater than the one provided by the Sommerswerd but steadily drains his soul (leading to a major loss of Endurance).

    Literature 

-   _The Asterisk War_: Gravisheath, the Orga Lux used by Irene Urzaiz, or rather that uses Irene Urzaiz. A Sinister Scythe with energy-intensive Gravity Master powers, it transforms her into a vampire-like state to power itself (by draining mana in the form of blood from her beloved sister Priscilla) and overrides her normal nice (if uncouth and temperamental) personality with a Blood Knight one. Irene and Priscilla actually _thank_ Ayato for destroying it in their match at the end of volume 3.
-   The swords in Fred Saberhagen's _Book of Swords_ series don't talk, but each of them has a specific magic power that sounds like it would be awesome but in fact are mostly Blessed with Suck. (Farslayer, for example; you can throw it and tell it to kill anyone, and it will, no matter how far away or well guarded they are. Of course, that leaves it right next to the allies of the person you just killed, who can then pick it up themselves...) It's somewhat ambiguous whether the swords themselves are evil or just cursed (and a couple of them aren't too bad, except that they make you a target for everyone in the world who would prefer to have it themselves).
-   The sword Excalibur in _Bring Me the Head of Prince Charming_. After the eponymous prince takes it off a Black Knight, he finds that the sword is utterly paranoid and Ax-Crazy, and tries to convince him to kill everyone he meets. After he leaves it in the forest, it tries to get revenge on him by siccing a group of demons on him.
-   The titular weapon in _The Broken Sword_. Every time it is drawn it cannot return to its scabbard until someone is killed with it, and to ensure that it fills its wielders with violent rage and lust for slaughter. And it is bound to eventually cause death of any creature who dares to use it, likely not before inflicting enough misfortune on them that death would seem a release.
-   _Chrysalis (RinoZ)_: The regular Legionaries don't know exactly what Commander Titus' axe is, or how he got it, but when it drinks in enough mana to awaken, they can all feel its aura of violence and thirst for blood, to the point where it gives them nightmares. Even the monsters are so scared of whatever is bound inside it that they stop attacking the fort. Titus keeps it because it's useful, eg he used it to inflict a Wound That Will Not Heal on Garralosh, but he's worried, rather than excited, about it awakening.
-   _Constance Verity Saves the World_: Among Connie's collection of cursed artifacts is the Muramasa Blade, a sword that demands the wielder to take one life every day.
-   The Hand of Kryll and Eye of Rhynn from Moorcock's _Corum_ saga are also... morally questionable. The eye allows you to see into a Limbo-like world of pain and shadows. The hand allows you to summon the creatures of this realm who kill everything in their path. These victims then take their place in the purgatorial world until they are summoned, or else spend eternity in torment. Fairly evil. The fact that even creatures who were fearful pacifists in life are motivated to become remorseless (and effectively invincible) killing machines by this realm should be a hint that it's not Disneyland in there. Differing timescales with the 'real' world, a la Narnia, are implied.
-   Murasame, the Destroyer from _Dark Heavens_. The original legend that the novel is lifting this sword from tells of two swordsmiths who each forged what they each respectively thought of as 'the ultimate sword' while one was rumoured to deflect anything that was heading towards the blade, the other actively tries to pull things into the path of the cutting edge. The original legend tells of the Murasame being plunged into a river, and sucking leaves scattered on the surface into its' path. In _Dark Heavens_, not only did this happen, but fish started floating to the surface downstream, every one of them cut in two.
-   _The Death Gate Cycle_ has the Cursed Blade. It's a Morph Weapon that can turn into any weapon necessary to defeat a threat facing its wielder (or summon something that can if the threat is more powerful than the blade) though its true form is a rather crude-looking dagger. Unfortunately, it also has a rudimentary intelligence that doesn't usually have thoughts more complex than "kill the threat", and once it gets going, it sees _everyone_ as a threat<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . Even the wielder has only limited control over it, winding up as little more than a means of transport for the Blade. Worst of all? It's the only one that exists in the present time, but at one point the Sartan _mass produced_ these things before handing them off to unsuspecting mensch allies.
-   _Discworld_:
    -   The Gonne in in Terry Pratchett's _Men at Arms_, which wasn't just a powerful weapon, but a weapon that could possess the mind of those who hold it, tempting it with the power it has and what the holder could do with it.
    -   Coin's staff from _Sourcery_ might count, though its mind is the mind of his evil father who's using it as a Soul Jar.
    -   Hrun's talking sword Kring from the _The Colour of Magic_ isn't so much _evil_ as _long-winded_, but when Rincewind winds up with it it does threaten to kill him if he doesn't do what it wants (and it can move his arm without his will, so it's not an empty threat).
-   Morganti weapons in _Dragaera_ destroy/devour the souls of their victims, and Vlad could sense the hunger in one he was attacked with, and felt one he used to threaten a villain trying to turn in his hand and kill. This semi-sentience is downplayed later on, as Vlad isn't up close and personal with them that often. The Great Weapons are Morganti as well, but are more versatile and don't have to destroy souls (once even being used to _store_ Aliera's, allowing her to play possum by _actually_ being fatally wounded.)
    -   While a lot of the Great Weapons are shown as loving and protective toward their owners, a story set in the universe titled "The Desecrator" shows this trope to be totally straight with Telnan's Great Weapon, Nightslayer. Nightslayer is basically a Captain Ersatz of Stormbringer and is described being pure evil and wanting to slaughter everyone and everything. Telnan seems to have more luck than Elric in controlling such a weapon, convincing it that if it travels with him, it will have plenty of killing opportunities.
-   Shows up a lot in David Gemmell's _Drenai_ saga: Turns out that, among other weapons, Druss's mighty ax, Snaga, as well as the Swords of Night and Day used by Skilgannon are so effective not just because of their respective wielders' skill, but also because they each come with a built-in bloodthirsty demon.
-   _The Dresden Files_ has the Blackstaff, a possibly _living_ stave that massively amplifies the power of any act of black magic it's used in. In an inversion, however, the stave is used to _prevent_ the wielder from getting corrupted; when Ebenezar McCoy uses it to kill hundreds of mercenaries in one go, the staff seems to absorb the darkness of the act rather than letting its corrupting influence affect the wizard.
-   Stormbringer (from _The Elric Saga_ and other stories) actually steals people's souls in order to give its wielder strength — including those of many of Elric's friends as well as his enemies. And Elric's. Turns out the sword is actually a demon. It also has a sister sword, Mournblade.
    -   _Forest Kingdom_: Book 1 (_Blue Moon Rising_) features The Curtana, known as the Sword of Compulsion. It also features the three Infernal Devices: Rockbreaker, Flarebright and Wolfsbane. Subverted a bit, in that these ultra-powerful, ultra-Eeeevil weapons nevertheless fail to get the job done. Book 4 (_Beyond the Blue Moon_) reveals they were created by The Engineer, one of the Transient Beings, who made them from the bones of saints and delighted in perverting symbols of good into objects of evil, and explains that there are actually _six_ total, with three having been taken into the mortal world and the other three — _Soulripper_, _Blackhowl_ and _Belladonna's Kiss_ — being kept in the Inverted Cathedral.
-   The short sword with the wavy black blade in Aaron Allston's _Galatea in 2-D_. Kevin designed it to be the sort of sword a devil would use, and it's capable of killing The Cape.
-   During the liberation of Gereon in _Gaunt's Ghosts_, Merrt, an especially unlucky Ghost, loses his lasgun in battle and eventually receives another one, taken from a corpse of an enemy soldier. Not only is it in very poor condition, but it is possible that his new lasgun is tainted by Chaos. Since he is too afraid to admit that he had used a corrupted weapon, Merrt keeps the rifle for the next campaign and starts to believe that it is cursed and will bring his doom. Eventually, he decides to overcome the gun's evil influence with his own strength of will and, although it jams on several occasions, manages to survive the defense of the Hinzerhaus fortress, finally deciding to leave it behind him.
-   The Guns of _The Half-Made World_ are guns housing demonic spirits bent on spreading chaos and senseless violence throughout the West. Being selected to bear one as an Agent gives you superpowers like Super-Speed, rapid healing, and never missing a shot, but you'll also be bound to its will for the rest of your (probably short) life.
-   In Graham McNeill's Warhammer 40,000 _Horus Heresy_ novel _Fulgrim_, Fulgrim's Chaos-tainted sword. It lures him into treachery and murder and when he fights his own brother, Ferrus Manus, convinced him that he must kill him to save his life. Then it plays on his guilt and lets him realize the full extent of it, and uses that to persuade him to let it possess him.
-   Mo's "Zahn Special" white violin in _The Laundry Files_ by Charles Stross. Despite its horrific manufacture and gruesome effects, the main characters believe that it can still be used for a good cause. It can, but only until the evil sentience inside it gets strong enough to start trying to take action on its own.
-   _The Legend of Drizzt_: Khazid'hea was picked up by Drizzt Do'Urden and used by Catti-Brie, the sword could slice through rock with relative ease and spoke to the mind of the wielder to increase their blood lust.
-   In _Light Thickens_ by Ngaio Marsh, this trope is played with. The deranged and wildly imaginative fight master believes his claymore to be associated with decapitation and to possess a supernatural power, and allows this to take control of him.
-   The three titular swords of Tad Williams' _Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn_ are Empathic Weapons with a twist: they can control their wielders against their will. However, the most fitting example of this trope is Sorrow, forged and wielded by the Storm King prior to his death. Merely touching it can freeze you or destroy your soul.
    -   The other two swords, Minneyar and Thorn, aren't exactly _evil_ (though they are unnerving if you're not used to them), but the fact that they want to come together and be used alongside Sorrow makes it possible for the Storm King to use them as his tools anyway.
-   _Nightside_: The Speaking Gun. It's made out of meat, and capable of unmaking anything by speaking its name in reverse. Created to kill angels, but hateful and eager to kill _anything_.
-   Larry Niven's "Not Long Before the End" had Glirendree. The sword gave great power to its wielder, who would inevitably die within a year. The Warlock tells the current owner (who hadn't been aware of this) that Glirendree is a demon, correcting him when he asks "There's a demon in the blade?" that _there is no blade_. It's a demon in the _shape_ of a blade.
-   Present in the animistic universe of _Okuyyuki_. According to Audrey, the spirit of a weapon takes on some of the character of its wielder(s). Thus, while American tanks are immature and gung-ho but otherwise rather nice, the Iraqi tanks Reilly faces are evil, with thoughts filled mostly with "bribes and buggery" and such things.
-   Another is The Cold Sword from _The Phoenix in Obsdian_ by Michael Moorcock, a blade which "personifies" Evil Is Deathly Cold. It's implied to be an alternate universe Incarnation of Stormbringer. While it doesn't consume souls, as far as we know, it's still far from a friendly sword. Though it does save the world on its own accord at the end of the story.
-   In Portlandtown, the Hanged Man's red-handled Colt Walker always shoots to kill, and makes whoever's carrying it want to shoot.
-   In L. Jagi Lamplighter's _Prospero in Hell_, the Wounding Wand. Caurus thinks he's too tired, because he hears it; Miranda warns him to not listen.
-   The "thirsty sword" in _The Remarkable Journey of Prince Jen_ is quite possibly Ax-Crazy as well as evil. It constantly whispers into the wielder's mind "Give me to drink" it can also "slice through anything without force". Though it reaches its limit at one point, twists out of one owner's hand and screams "GIVE ME NO MORE TO DRINK!.
-   The Legendary Weapons of the Four Heroes in _The Rising of the Shield Hero_ have the potential to become evil through the Curse Series. If conditions are met, the Weapon can unlock a cursed form based on the Seven Deadly Sins and further corrupt its wielder with that sin. Naofumi unlocks the Wrath Curse which becomes his Superpowered Evil Side.
-   The Xin Mo sword in _The Scum Villain's Self-Saving System: Ren Zha Fanpai Zijiu Xitong_ is extremely powerful, but mind corrupting and constantly fighting against its wielder. Having had hundreds of owners over the years, all of them eventually died to it, unable to suppress its evil nature, at least until it falls into the hands of _Proud Immortal Demon Way's_ overpowered protagonist Luo Binghe. But even he has trouble with it. Shen Qingqiu ends up sacrificing himself _twice_ to keep him from completely losing control. After the second time, Luo Binghe ends up destroying it.
-   The four elemental swords _The Secrets of the Immortal Nicholas Flamel_. They absorb the memories of anything they cut, actively corrupt an unprotected user, eventually absorbing their souls, and so far in the series nothing has been introduced that they can't kill. Clarent (fire), the most evil of all of them, is the one the protagonists end up with for a while. Even the Eldritch Abominations are afraid of them.
-   The crystal sword Alanna gets after Lightning breaks in the third _Song of the Lioness_ actively tries to kill whoever uses it. Alanna eventually masters it, but it refuses to obey her once in the vicinity of its maker, Duke Roger.
-   In _Time Scout_, whenever anyone brings a modern weapon downtime, its presentation is rather... dark in comparison to the works of art that art downtime weapons.
-   _Tolkien's Legendarium_:
    -   Anglachel/Gurthang from Tolkien's _The Silmarillion_, described by Melian thus: "There is malice in this sword. The dark heart of the smith still dwells in it. It will not love the hand it serves, neither will it abide with you long." It sang in joy as it killed, and it may be responsible for the death of its third owner, Beleg (the intentions and will of the sword in that matter are left ambiguous), although when Turin asked it to take his life after discovering he had unwittingly married his sister, the sword agreed to drink his blood swiftly because it was pissed off that Turin had used it both in Beleg's Accidental Murder and an intentional but completely unjustified one later.
    -   _Lord of the Rings_ is about The Quest to destroy the One Ring, which is an altogether evil device that contains not only much of Sauron's power, but his cruelty, malice, and desire to conquer all living things. Gandalf and Galadriel, both contenders for the position of Big Good, are terrified of using it themselves—they know that their good intentions would inevitably be twisted so that they would become nothing more than a different kind of dark ruler. The Ring actively works to corrupt anyone holding it or anyone nearby and works really hard on Boromir, who can only understand it as a sword that could be turned against its master, until he falls—fortunately he snaps out of it and realizes at last why it absolutely cannot be used.
-   _Villains by Necessity_: Inverted; Finwick wields a holy blade called Truelight that exists to cut down evil. Sam actually uses this weapon to cut off Mizzamir's head, reasoning that however truthful or holy you make a sword, it's always going to be a weapon made to kill.
-   _Warbreaker_:
    -   Subverted with the sentient sword Nightblood. Though very powerful and incredibly dangerous to anyone in the vicinity, it was actually created for the purpose of _destroying_ evil. Problem was, its creators didn't realize that a sword has no concept of morality, so Nightblood continually goads its wielder into trying to kill everyone in sight, just to be on the safe side.
        
        **Nightblood:** I'm not evil, I destroy evil. Those people look evil, let's destroy them.
        
    -   That being said, Nightblood does have some power to distinguish good and ill intentions. "Evil" people are compelled to take it and use it, often killing their partners and eventually themselves. Throwing Nightblood into a group of enemies and letting them take care of themselves proves to be remarkably effective. "Good" people, meanwhile tend to feel nauseous upon seeing it and will simply run away.
-   In _The Wheel of Time_ there is a Ruby-hilted dagger that contaminates whoever holds it with madness, until its holder dies and passes it to another. Although it doesn't speak, it is referenced as having a will of its own.
-   "Wizard Bait": As a reward for his services, Thusalah gives Ernie a blood-red sword that screams every time it's swung and dooms its wielder with a terrible death. Considering Ernie is a skeleton animated by Necromancy, it's an improvement to the rusted hand-me-down sword he was using before.

    Live-Action TV 

-   Subverted in "The Day of the Doctor", the 50th Anniversary episode of _Doctor Who_. Previously, the Moment (the weapon the Doctor used to destroy both the Daleks and the Time Lords) was referred to as a fearsome device that no one in their right mind would ever use. However, in this story, we discover that it actually has a conscience. Further, it tries to convince the War Doctor not to use it and is clearly happy when he, and Doctors Ten & Eleven, come up with an alternate solution.
-   _Kamen Rider Saber_ has a zig-zag in the form of the _Ankouken Kurayami_, a sword of darkness created in tandem with the Sword of Light Saikou. The _Kurayami_ serves as an "anti-sword" that can seal away the powers of the other Seiken swords as well as seal people away and absorb souls. The weapon itself is not directly evil but it gives its wielders precognition, which the season makes very clear is a bad thing. The _Kurayami_ has generally found itself in the hands of well-meaning people who are subjected to so many visions of a Bad Future as the result of the dark truth behind the organization they serve that it cripples their trust issues and turns them on their friends as they try to seal the other Seikens to change the future.
    -   A more straightforward example is the _Mumeiken Kyomu,_ a sword of nothingness that's essentially a side-Seiken. The _Kyomu_ has found itself in the hands of Ax-Crazy users that seek to destroy everything (or everyone). _Kamen Rider Saber: Trio of Deep Sin_ indicates it has a will of its own, the blade ( impaling Yuina when she hesitates to kill Kento per her contract and may have kicked off the events of the movie by purposefully making itself available to the past self of the film's Man Behind the Man; only stopped via said man's Heel Realization.
-   One episode of _Mahou Sentai Magiranger_ featured the evil samurai Shichijuro, a Monster of the Week with a sword that could cut anything (including non-physical concepts like the bonds between the team.) Eventually, he's taken down, but the sword remains. When Magi Green picks it up, the armor of the monster appears around him and he attacks the others, revealing that the real Shichijuro was the _sword,_ posessing its wielder. (Which, in hindsight, means the "monster" who just got Humongous Mecha\-ed to death was probably a perfectly innocent whatever-he-was before touching the sword...)
-   _Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers_ has the Sword of Darkness, which Rita used to sustain her control over the Green Ranger, and which Jason ultimately freed Tommy from by breaking it. The name says it all. And it looked so awesome, too.
    -   Of course, the weapon on Power Rangers you most want to stay away from is the Dino Thunder White Ranger _power gem,_ which drove its user mad. To be fair, that was after Mesagog had it soaking in evil energy for a long while. Once that was gone, the White Ranger was an okay guy.
-   Discussed in _NCIS_ with a certain handgun that has apparently been used in several unrelated crimes.
-   _The Outer Limits (1995)_: The episode "The Gun" has a gun that fuses to its holder's hand and causes him to become filled with murderous bloodlust. It was sent by aliens to test how Humans Are Warriors and see if they will be valuable allies in an interstellar war. The aliens are disappointed when one man uses The Power of Love for his daughter and grandson to break free and let go of the gun, but decide to just send more guns to different people.
-   The Lance of Longinus (a.k.a. "Spear of Destiny") in the short-lived TV series _Roar_.
-   In _Supernatural_, the First Blade and the Mark of Cain influence their bearer to think that Murder Is the Best Solution. The current bearer is Dean Winchester. That situation is going about as well as can be expected.
-   _The Twilight Zone (1959)_: One shows up in the episode "The Encounter". It's heavily implied to be a Muramasa blade.
-   _VR Troopers_ had the Millennium Saber. Fortunately, it only activates once every thousand years, hence the name. The rest of the time, it's old and rusty.

    Music 

-   The titular weapons from _Axes of Evil_, by 3 Inches of Blood. Word of God says the song was partially inspired by Warcraft's Frostmourne.
-   _Black Blade_ by Blue Öyster Cult is about the aforementioned Stormbringer, and is written from the perspectives of both Elric and the sword itself.

    Myths & Religion 

-   _The Kalevala_:
    -   Kullervo has a rather nasty sword that talked to him before his suicide. It also inspired Michael Moorcock and Tolkien.
    -   There is also an attempt by Ilmarinen to forge The Sampo, where a failed attempt results in:
        
        ''From the fire arose a cross-bow,  
        With the brightness of the moonbeams,  
        Golden bow with tips of silver;  
        On the shaft was shining copper,  
        And the bow was strong and wondrous,  
        But alas! it was ill-natured,  
        Asking for a hero daily,  
        Two the heads it asked on feast-days.
        
-   The swords made by the Real Life swordsmith Sengo Muramasa are sometimes portrayed like this. Folklore tell of him competing against his master Gorō Masamune — who actually lived some 300 years _before_ Muramasa, making this impossible — to see who was the better swordsmith. They placed their swords in a river, to see if they could cut the passing leaves and fish without effort. Muramasa's swords cut everything indiscriminately, while Masamune's did not. A mark of their sharpness, yes, but also their complete lack of restraint or recognition of innocence. Other tales state the blades can only be sheathed once they have drawn blood (and aren't picky about where it comes from), and that they can drive their wielders mad with bloodlust.
-   Norse Mythology:
    -   Swords that "always (must) kill a man when unsheathed" are somewhat frequently encountered. Examples are Dainsleif from _Prose Edda_, Tyrfing from _The Saga of Hervor and Heidrek_, and the sword of Bodvar Bjarki in _Saga of Hrolf Kraki_.
    -   Tyrfing from _The Saga of Hervor and Heidrek_ was moreover cursed so that three deeds of parricide would be done by it.
-   In Irish Mythology, Lugh's spear, variously called Areadbhair, Luisne, and Brionac (the first is the most likely), had the advantage of being able to fight on its own. The bad news: it wouldn't stop, not even when the battle was over. Solution: Immerse the spear's head in poppy juice, keeping it in Snoozeville until it was needed again.
-   Taoism holds that _all_ weapons are this. Being an Actual Pacifist is preferred.
    
    **Laozi:** Now arms, however beautiful, are instruments of evil omen, hateful, it may be said, to all creatures. Therefore they who have the Tao do not like to employ them.
    

    Podcasts 

-   _Dice Funk_: The "strange dagger" Anne finds in the underground lair is actually cursed with vampirism so powerful as to be immune to the Dispel Magic spell.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Dungeons & Dragons_: there are every variety of magic swords that can be thought of, including swords that cause greater injuries if used against those of certain Character Alignment.
    -   Bonus points to the magic axe "Lifedrinker", which drains Life Energy from anything it hits, and half as much from the wielder at the same time, and to intelligent magic items in general, which come with an Ego score that scales with their power. If their Ego is substantially stronger than your Will save, they take over your body. Using a magic item with a similar alignment and goals can be an interesting choice, but often comes back to bite you. Using an intelligent evil weapon? Not so good...
    -   For a specific example, there is the Sword of Kas, forged by the Archlich Vecna for his lieutenant, Kas the Bloody-Handed. Because the sword has a tiny bit of Vecna's power in it, it's the only weapon which can permanently destroy the Hand and Eye of Vecna.
-   Orgoth Fellblades in _Iron Kingdoms_ turn anyone who picks them up into ax crazy murder machines, while greatly increasing their strength. The Empire of Khador leverages this by forcibly chaining them to men and turning them into berserk Doom Reavers to be used against their enemies.
-   Several cursed katanas in _Legend of the Five Rings_ RPG, including the blades such as Ambition (which does Exactly What It Says on the Tin and also is more deadly against those of higher position than the user.)
-   The glaive known as the Whisperer of Souls in an example in _Pathfinder_ mythology. It is the weapon of the Love Goddess Shelyn and is an inherently evil weapon that delights in drinking souls. Once the glaive eats 100 powerful souls, it will supposedly become a god and create an era of strife and death. Luckily, Shelyn has been freeing the souls trapped in the glaive with a combination of heroic deeds and Incorruptible Pure Pureness, keeping the evil weapon in check.
-   It is rumored the Ba'al Verzi daggers in the _Ravenloft_ setting cannot be sheathed before having killed someone, and furthermore cannot be sheathed in a scabbard made of anything other than humanoid flesh.
-   Several in _Warhammer_ and _Warhammer 40,000_. For starters, every single daemon weapon ever. Notable ones include the Slayer of Kings, the sword of Archaon the Everchosen (_Warhammer Fantasy_), Gorechild<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , the chain-axe belonging to Kharn the Betrayer (_40k_), and the Primarch Fulgrim in _40k_ got corrupted by a powerful daemon weapon. The weapon slowly caused him to turn to Chaos, and in the end, when he refused to obey it, it possessed his body, turning him into a daemon.
    -   Drach'nyen, the sword of Abaddon the Despoiler (_40k_). It's a Daemon Weapon bound in the form of a sword, but only because that's how Abbadon wills it to be. The entity bound within it is possibly the most powerful warp entity short of the Chaos Gods, having been born from Humanity's primal urge to murder, and was capable of fighting the Emperor to a standstill. Appropriately, it's name roughly translates to "The End of Empires".
    -   In addition to Drach'nyen, Abbadon also wields the Talon of Horus, a power claw with an integrated twin-linked bolter torn from the Warmaster's body. This was the weapon which Horus used to kill Sanguinius and which mortally wounded the Emperor as well.
    -   There's a Khornate mace that drives its wielder to ever-higher states of bloodlust until the wielder finally collapses from exhaustion. And then it turns on its bearer, because Khorne cares not from where the blood flows...
        
        "Willingly you picked me up. Your first mistake. Willingly you drew me. Your second mistake. I do not allow my servants to make three mistakes, foolish mortal..."
        
    -   The Widowmaker, Sword of Khaine (_Fantasy_) is one of the most powerful weapons in the whole _Warhammer_ universe. It pretty much single-handedly allowed the High Elves to push back a huge Chaos incursion early on in their history. Too bad it also drove the first Elven king murderously insane, placed a curse on all his descendants (which causes them to become fanatically obsessed with obtaining the sword every decade or so), and caused his illegitimate son to break off and form the Dark Elves, probably tied with the Skaven as the most loathsome and horrible force in the world and still warring with the High Elves to try and reclaim the sword.
    -   The Blade of Antwyr, a horrifyingly powerful Warp entity bound to a sword. It possesses, among other things, an ability to mind control the population of entire planets, and required the intervention of the entire Grey Knights chapter to subdue it. Currently in possession of Grey Knights Castellan Garran Crowe, who manages to hold back the blade's mental assault due to his Heroic Willpower and Incorruptible Pure Pureness. And even then it is clearly shown that he might fold under that pressure at any moment.
-   Soulsteel weapons and armor in _Exalted_ fit the bill—while they can technically be used for any purpose, including _opposing_ evil, the soulsteel that composes them is exactly what it sounds like, and their bonuses work by draining the life and vigor out of their victims (in the case of weapons) and attackers (in the case of armor). Meanwhile, hell-forged weapons and armor may have still-living demons bound to them as part of their creation...
    -   One of the Deathlords favours a daiklave crafted from the soul of one of the few pure heroes of the Old Realm...who was driven violently insane as part of the forging process. In fact, a _whole_ lot of Deathlords favor soulsteel weapons that work upon these principles; one soulsteel daiklaive will _eat_ the soul of anything it slays, restoring a measure of its wielder's health. Then there's Princess Magnificent's Parasol of Pain, made from the skin and bones of five First Age Solars. Even their _umbrellas_ are evil.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh! TCG_: Word of God says the equip spell Wicked-Breaking Flamberge - Baou holds the dark power of Baou, its Guardian spirit. When Warrior Dai Grepher later wields it, he is overcome by the dark energy and later becomes Dark Grepher.

    Video Games 

-   Magic Sword Maxwell, later more appropriately referred to as Demon Sword Maxwell, qualifies as this in _.hack//G.U. Redemption_. Infected with a particularly nasty AIDA, the sword puts anyone it "kills" into a coma in the real world and constantly demands to be "fed", but in return makes the wielder (hint: not you) practically invincible. Oh, and breaking the sword just frees the AIDA to infect Haseo.
-   Mike, Yoriko's staff in _Arcana Heart_ which is a sealed Demon King in reality and is more likely to use Yoriko as a bludgeoning device than the other way around. Though really, he is more of a Jerk with a Heart of Gold Weapon than an outright Evil Weapon. Offer him enough doughnuts and you'll have a friend for life.
-   A few of the hexed items in _Arcanum_ qualify, but the Bangellian Scourge stands out due to having the most fleshed-out backstory. Children and virgins were burnt alive to fuel the forge that created it. Notable people who wielded it in the past include Lorek (despised by the dwarves as a traitor for starting a civil war), Bane of Kree (barbarian warlord who used it to massacre civilians For the Evulz) and Stringy Pete (pirate king who claims he was manipulated, by the blade itself, into using the Scourge to slit the throats of his crew while they slept).
-   Desire in _Aselia the Eternal - The Spirit of Eternity Sword_ tries to force Yuuto to bend to its will through pain. What it wants is for Yuuto to rape, pillage and murder. Near the end it's revealed that it couldn't really help being like this because it was undergoing the equivalent of prolonged starvation. It also has a little bit of a soft spot.
-   The _Baldur's Gate_ series:
    -   The first game has the Cursed Sword of Berserking, one of the few +3 weapons in the first game. As the name suggests, the sword drives its wielder into berserker rages and cannot be unwielded except until the curse is removed. A hapless guard captain ruined his life when he unwittingly purchased the sword and slaughtered his own family.
    -   Varscona in the first game (better known as "that longsword +2 you can get early in the game"), whose combat bonuses are explained as possibly deriving from its vaguely undead original owner merging with it after remaining entombed for centuries and developing "a rage that bordered on insanity".
    -   Lilarcor from _Shadows of Amn_ is more insane than evil, but it sure does enjoy killing...
    -   Blackrazor from _SoA_, a life-draining sword that's not intelligent for any practical purposes (it's just another weapon in game terms) but is very firmly described as evil. Choosing to keep it is also part of the evil choice in a test of character and will turn the Player Character evil.
    -   In _Throne of Bhaal_ the Infinity Plus One Sinister Scimitar "Spectral Brand", when fully powered, is described as "an instrument of unholy death that should never have been unleashed upon the Realms".
-   The Ars Armagus and Nox Nyctores of _BlazBlue_. While the Ars Armagus, for the most part, "only" expose their weilders to seithr, which often leads to seithr addiction, physical and mental detoiration, death (if you're lucky) and/or Body Horror bundled up with complete and utter madness (if you're not), the Nox Nyctores are noticably more evil in nature. First of all, the catalyst to smelt a Nox Nyctores are tens of thousands of human souls. Secondly, the Nox Nyctores suppress "unnecessary" traits (e.g. fear, empathy, compassion and reason) and amplify others (e.g. aggression, hate, bloodlust and latent psychosises) in their wielders in order to make them more "effective" in combat. Thirdly, there's also the fact that a Nox Nyctores shares the Ars Armagus' wonderful side effects.
    -   The possibly most obvious case of side effects within the games are those displayed by Jin Kisaragi while under the influence of Yukianesa. Sure, he's still a cynical, rude jerkass without it, but at least he's no longer Ax-Crazy.
    -   Tsubaki Yayoi's Izayoi steals all light around it, both physical and conceptual, in order to fuel its own powers. And, no, its weilder's light is _not_ exempt: Tsubaki's usage of the weapon progressively robs her of her eyesight, but also (much thanks to the machinizations of Hazama/Terumi) seems to take away all "lights" in her life as well, such as her relationships with her friends and love interest. In some of her endings the Izayoi even ends up extinguishing the light of her life itself.
    -   There's also Hazama/Yuuki Terumi's Ouroboros, a metallic snake-head attached to a chain, which has the passive ability to Mind Rape whoever is hit by it. What luck that this weapon fell into the hands of a villain depraved enough to get off on making people miserable.
-   _Breath of Fire IV_ has a variant that qualifies as terrifying in and of itself, being the Hex Cannon/Carronade. Per official documentation in the artbook, the Carronade not only poisons the land with curse energy but also simultaneously empowers and possesses its users.
    -   What makes the Carronade especially horrific is two different things—the first being the _scale_ of the thing in that it is a literal Nuclear Weapons Expy and essentially the magical equivalent of multi-megaton nuclear ICBMs and the second being how the Evil Nuclear Weapons Expy is fueled: Specifically, persons with a connection with the target are tortured to the point insanity and hopelessness, and then are used in human sacrifices as the "warheads". If that wasn't creepy enough, the Evil Empire of the game specifically seeks out potential "warheads" based _explicitly_ on the closeness of the connection between "warhead" and "target"—the Evil Weapon _also_ specifically works under the theory Love Hurts, with the "best" ammo being a person in love with the target. Yes, you are reading that correctly: the Carronade is an Evil Weapon that is a magical method to Nuke 'em—and one which runs on horror specifically operating on the fact Love Hurts.
-   The cursed blade Yugiri in _Bushido Blade_ corrupts whoever holds it. It's done this for a _long_ time.
-   The Masamune in _Chrono Cross_. Originally an Empathic Weapon, it was once stolen from the kingdom of Guardia and used for evil, turning the once holy sword into a demonic, warped blade that can corrupt or take over the mind of anyone who wields it. By the time of the game's events, it was so corrupted that Lynx was able to use its evil aura to block the entrance to the Dead Sea. Removed from there by the sacred sword Einlanzer, and later cleansed of all evil influence, it was restored to its shining glory and transformed into the Mastermune.
-   _Cyberpunk 2077_ has the Erebus submachine gun. Being of the byproducts from Project Cynosure, the targeting software of the Erebus is a captured AI from beyond the Blackwall, which makes it a violation of a baker's dozen international treaties in itself in the _Cyberpunk_ world. The AI makes no effort to hide how it sees humans as beneath it and how it can't wait to wipe out humanity when the player uses it. To top it off, it has a chance of uploading the Blackwall Gateway quickhack on low-health enemies, which can be described as channeling the _Cyberpunk_ equivalent of **hellfire** to finish them.
-   _The Darkness II_ introduces the sword Kusanagi to the series, which used to be benevolent, until an evil shogun used it to take thousands of innocent lives, corrupting it. In order to purify it, it has to be fed the hearts of (via impalement) ten thousand evil souls, or else it reduces the lifespan of the current wielder by a year each day. Luckily for the sword, its current wielder is the revenge crazy Blood Knight Inugami, who's hunting down murderous cultists.
-   _Darksiders_:
    -   The novel _The Abomination Vault_ has the Grand Abominations. The Nephilim crafted them from the remains of the Ravaiim, the first race that the Nephilim slaughtered during their rampage across creation. The semi-sentient Abominations possess world-ending power and a deep hatred for everything. They were deemed so dangerous that the Nephilim sealed their full power and locked them away in the eponymous Vault.
    -   _II_ introduces "Possessed" Weapons, which start out weak but grow more powerful by being "fed" other items in Death's inventory, leveling up in power and, depending on what items were fed, can stack multiple different effects. Unlike most, these don't actually endanger Death in being used.
-   Bishamon in the _Darkstalkers_ fighting game series is a samurai possessed by a demonic armour (Hannya) and sword (Kien, which roughly translates to "demonic flame"). Even after he manages to rid himself of these artifacts' influence, they somehow form a body out of nothing at all, allowing them to continue their killing sprees. All they ever talk about is slashing, blood and suffering. And they still go by the name Bishamon, possibly to spite their erstwhile host.
-   _Deathtrap Dungeon_ has a cursed Black Sword which deals extra damage of enemies - but _also_ drains the health of the user.
-   Magic sword "Makoto" from _Demon's Souls_ is in fact one of these, draining life from the user each second it's equipped. You can also turn any normal weapon into a _Curse Weapon_ using a spell with that very same name.
-   Quite a few weapons used by or based off of the Hive in _Destiny_ are this given the Hive's casual relationship with things like death and the soul.
    -   The Sword of Crota was capable of draining the Light of Guardians it killed, resulting in their permanent end.
    -   Ir Anûk and Ir Halak once wielded a sniper rifle that didn't kill but altered the targets existence into one of never ending torment.
    -   The Touch of Mailce holds a piece of Oryx's soul and will eventually warp its wielder into him.
    -   The Bad Juju gains power as it kills anything.
    -   The Hand Cannon Thorn drains the Light of its victims. Its weilder, Dredgen Yor, had been corrupted by the Hive and killed for pleasure.
        -   In _Destiny 2_, Thorn makes its return. But The Guardian is able to purge it of its corruption back into its original configuration, Rose, and then imbues it with Light, turning a Weapon of Sorrow into a Weapon of Hope that can heal fellow Guardians.
-   Kleever<small>◊</small> from _Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest_. It's apparently a posessed, evil sword that starts out being wielded by an arm made of fire, then just attacks on its own accord.
-   _Dragon Age_:
    -   In the epilogue of _Dragon Age: Origins – Awakening_, it's heavily implied that Vigilance becomes one of these. Of course, it was forged with the bone of an ancient evil dragon (whose ghost you had to fight to get the bone) that lived in a swamp that bridged the gap between the physical world and the spiritual one. It would have been a surprise if the thing didn't turn evil.
    -   _Dragon Age II_: Near the end of the first act, an Artifact of Doom gets onto the market. Later, it is used to smith an Evil Sword, and makes Meredith, who was already a Knight Templar, turn outright evil and crazy (and make her eyes glow red). She eventually tries to use it to become a One-Winged Angel, but that backfires, turning her and the sword to stone. Before that, it allowed her to use magic, including animating statues to fight for her.
    -   _Dragon Age: Inquisition_ - should you side with the mages, Samson, General of the Red Templars, wields what is implied to be the red lyrium sword somehow recreated. You can actually add it your inventory after beating him. The same game also reveals what exactly makes the sword evil; the sword is made of lyrium, which only turns red when it has been infected with the Blight.
-   _DragonFable_ has the Doom Weapons, which ostensibly exert a corrupting influence over their owners, although this has yet to manifest in any obvious way. It also features the Necrotic Blade of Doom, a much more straight-forward example complete with Evil Laugh, massive hamishness, a position on the Omniscient Council of Vagueness and obviously being the boss of the Big Bad. You can either wield them as-is, or you can have Artix purify them to turn them into Destiny Weapons.
    -   In _AdventureQuest_, the E**b**il Scythes \[_sic_\] count, as two of them require payment in the form of HP or money to perform their special attacks, another corrupts the enemy, and the last one... heals you.
-   _Dragon Quest_:
    -   _Dragon Quest_ has the Cursed Sword. One of the best weapons in the game, but it curses the Hero if equipped.
    -   _Dragon Quest II_ has the Sword of Destruction/Demon Sword. Really high attack, but curses the user. There's also other "Evil Gear" in armor.
    -   _Dragon Quest VIII_: The staff that Dhoulmagus stole allows Rhapthorne to possess the wielder.
    -   In _Dragon Quest IX_, Excalipurr is "...wielder of a bewitched blade that can only be used by those it chooses."
-   The _Dwarf Fortress_ known as "Deathgate" forged the Red Monster Sword. While not intrinsically evil, it _was_ made from the arm of a fire demon and burned with everlasting hellfire, so hot that even going near it caused third-degree burns. No one could wield it. At great cost it was sealed in stone.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_: While the Blue-and-Orange Morality of the Daedric Princes tends to put them Above Good and Evil, _you_ will need to do some fairly evil things in order to obtain and/or power up some of their associated artifacts. A few examples:
    -   In general, any artifacts associated with the more outright malevolent Daedric Princes may be considered this. For instance, the Mace of Molag Bal and Mehrune's Razor aren't inherently evil on their own, but having to complete tasks for Molag Bal and Mehrunes Dagon typically means that you'll be doing _something_ evil in order to acquire them.
    -   _Morrowind_ and _Oblivion_ have Umbra, a powerful soul-stealing sword created by a witch for Clavicus Vile. It tends to take over the mind of its wielder, turning them into insane Blood Knights. In _Oblivion_, Barbas (Vile's external conscience and Morality Chain) begs you not to deliver the sword to Clavicus Vile, since he believes even a Daedric Prince won't be able to control the blade's evil power. He's right.
    -   _Skyrim_ has Mephala's Ebony Blade, which becomes stronger every time its wielder _kills a friend or loved one with it._ You need to kill _ten trusted companions_ to fully empower the Ebony Blade.
-   _Fear & Hunger_: Miasma is a sword looking and working almost identically to Soul Edge, complete with compelling its user to slaughter their party members. Le'garde is the only party member capable of wielding it without risk, as all others lack the mental fortitude to safely use it.
-   Evil Weapons in _Final Fantasy XI_ are floating living weapons that possess the bodies of earth spirits to fight for them.
    -   Downplayed by Guttler, the "Relic" Axe weapon. All Relic weapons have some sentience, and have a few lines when a player first obtains one. Guttler appears to be particularly bloodthirsty. In the Wings of the Goddess expansion, Guttler was wielded by Windhurstian mercenary leader Lhu Mhakaracca. When she used the special Onslaught weapon skill in battle, the chat log would show Guttler calling "Guttler thirsty! Guttler want blood! More blood!" Despite this, Guttler has no special hold over Lhu, and her main concern with the weapon is getting it to shut the hell up about blood when in town.
-   _Fire Emblem_:
    -   The series as a whole has a couple of examples:
        -   The Devil weapons, which are incredibly powerful, but can randomly make you take damage instead of your opponent.
        -   The Wo Dao is described as a wicked blade that feeds off of slaughter and bloodshed. As a result, throughout the series its wielders have been Blood Knights at best, and deranged psychopaths at worst.
    -   In _Fire Emblem: Genealogy of the Holy War_, you have the Loptous tome, which corrupted its wielder Julius from a kind and sickly young man into The Antichrist as soon as Manfroy put it in his hands.
    -   In _Fire Emblem: Thracia 776_, there's the Shadow Sword that turns Mareeta into a Brainwashed and Crazy swordmaster. Later, Saias purifies the weapon in order to allow her to wield it without any drawbacks.
    -   In _Fire Emblem: The Blazing Blade_, anyone who takes up the golden axe Armads is cursed to inevitably die in battle.
    -   _Fire Emblem: The Sacred Stones_ has the Cursed Lance, a weapon in the possession of General Duessel of Grado. According to him, Valter wielded it in battle after his own lance broke, and it turned him from a simple Jerkass to an Ax-Crazy monster. It makes its playable debut in _Fire Emblem Heroes_.
    -   _Fire Emblem Fates: Conquest_ has the final boss' weapon, Skadi. It is described as evil in _Heroes_, and it is heavily implied to be a corrupted form of Takumi's Fujin Yumi due to the very distinct physical similarities between the two bows.
    -   The Heroes' Relics from _Fire Emblem: Three Houses_ appear bonelike, have a pulsating orb in the centre & constantly twitch & move on their own. They also turn those without crests into demonic beasts as seen early on in the game with the Lance of Ruin. Late in the Verdant Wind route, it's revealed that the Heroes' Relics weren't gifts from the goddess, but weapons made utilising forbidden Agarthan technology & made from the bones & hearts of the Children of the Goddess.
-   _Flash of the Blade_ have it's Big Bad, a sentient, evil sword called the Soulstealer, a cursed blade possessed by maleovalent darkness forged in hell who unleashed The Horde on humanity. It's former user have to commit Seppuku after realizing how evil the weapon is, only for Soulstealer to revive it's ex-owner's corpse into battle. Somehow.
-   _Gothic_ has the claw of Beliar, a weapon which levels up with you, but requires some of your health each time to do so... you have to sacrifice your health to Beliar, the most evil of the three gods in the game. Additionally to the normal damage, it has a certain chance that an enemy will be killed instantly by Beliar's intervention. When you receive the weapon, you have the option to throw it into the sea because it is evil.
-   _Guenevere_: Meligaunt wields a giant, evil-looking claymore that poisons those wounded by it and can be used to fuel dark magic.
-   The header description from _Kingdom of Loathing_ doesn't mention how the Spirit Precipice takes its toll. On a critical hit:
    
    **A bolt of evil energy arcs out of Spirit Precipice and hits you in the \[body part\].**
    
    **You lose 12-24 hit points.**
    
    -   \*wince\* This can include a Groin Attack...now that's _evil_.
        -   It also quintuples your chances of getting a Critical Hit
    -   Also in _Kingdom of Loathing_, many weapons that do Spooky damage. Several are made from human remains.
-   In _League of Legends_, the Darkin weapons are a series of weapons that corrupt the wielder, eventually taking them over. The champion Aatrox is actually the name of the sword wielded by a nameless gargantuan. Varus is hinted at wielding a Darkin Bow, but not being corrupted - possibly its a symbiotic relationship between the bow's bloodlust and the champions' desire for revenge. The whole schtick of the champion Kayn is he begins each game wielding the corrupting scythe Rhaast, and either succumbs to it or dominates it through the course of each match. Rhaast form is a tanky bruiser, while Shadow Assassin Form is basically Exactly What It Says on the Tin.
-   _Legacy of Kain_: Not exactly evil, but very _very_ insane, the soul of Raziel inside the Soul Reaver, which has been in said blade for thousands of years several times, kind of, and it feeds off the souls of its slain.
-   _The Legend of Zelda_:
    -   In _The Legend of Zelda: Four Swords Adventures_, the Trident wielded by Ganon is a demonic weapon that marks its holder as the King of Darkness. It was stealing the Trident from the Gerudo's sacred pyramid that transformed this incarnation of Ganondorf into the monstrous Ganon.
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword_ has the sword of the Demon King Demise. It can take on the form of a white-haired man called Ghirahim, who has an Ax-Crazy Blood Knight personality.
-   _Mitsurugi Kamui Hikae_ has the Demon Blade, a demonic katana that is said to steal the life-force of its wielder and drains them of their blood.
-   The Kris of Ashrah in _Mortal Kombat: Deception_, which _Armageddon_ later explained is a sentient sword who fills its user with illusions of being purified as a way to make him/her slay his hatred enemies, those of the Vampire race.
-   The Muramasa legend above is brought back in the series _Muramasa: The Demon Blade_, where 108 swords are bound to Muramasa's spirit, and he is unable to pass on until they've all been crafted. The swords have various curses upon them in exchange for their power, as they cannot be put away until they've killed something, and corrupt the minds of unworthy or undisciplined individuals, culminating in the Kuzuryu sword corrupting and possessing the mind of the shogun, Tokugawa Tsunayoshi, with a dog demon trapped within.
-   Stormbringer from _NetHack_ is a "bloodthirsty" sword. Normally, when you want to move onto a pet or peaceful monster, you don't attack it (you get confirmation for attack for peaceful monsters, and displace (swap places with) pets). While wielding Stormbringer, you attack those without confirmation.
-   Enserric in _Neverwinter Nights: Hordes of the Underdark_ is a vampiric weapon named after the wizard it killed. The wizard's soul became trapped in the blade and the weapon became sentient. Enserric will encourage you to wield it against as many foes as possible, though it will complain if it doesn't like the "taste" of certain foes (it doesn't like being used against undead, for example). You can also channel a fraction of your own lifeforce into the blade to make it more powerful.
-   _Nuclear Throne_: Cursed Weapons have a small chance of spawning inside purple chests in every level. These weapons may be more advanced than what is possible for the given level it spawned in, but like cursed items in other roguelikes, they cannot be replaced except with other Cursed Weapons<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . Carrying two of them at once may cause enemies to drop purple-colored Cursed Mini Ammo Chests which give more ammunition on pickup than regular Ammo items, but will explode if left alone, possibly killing players who take too long to retrieve them. Finally, loading screen tips suddenly begin turning into distorted messages which imply that the Cursed Weapons are alive and can see the player. Retrieving a crown from the Crown Vault, choosing the Last Wish mutation, or looping the game will cleanse the weapon. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   The Orchid Malevolence from _Otogi: Myth of Demons_ is a crimson bladed sword covered in purple flames that can kill anything in one hit. The catch? It saps all of your health while it is held, turning you into a One-Hit-Point Wonder.
-   Some axes in _Planescape: Torment_ are so evil they cannot even be wielded by good characters. Names like "Hatred Gift" (wielder goes berserk), "Butcherer of Innocents" (steals enemy's life points) and "Edge of Oblivion" give a hint. Another one, "Entropic Blade", has no evil qualities of its own and can be wielded by anyone without any repercussions, but in order to obtain it you have to unleash a powerful force of, expectedly, entropy and destruction on the universe which instantly turns you Chaotic Evil. That's a worthwhile trade-off for a powerful weapon, right?
-   Cursed Sword/Rune Blade from the _Record of Agarest War_ series. Sure, they both sound so simple you'd probably think "Eh, they don't sound that bad.", only to face them in combat and find out just exactly why they were sealed in another plane of existence, though the Rune Blade can be safely wielded with some effort to getting it, which isn't easy. Oh, and did you know that you can face more than one in their respective rematches? And their stats are upped to absurd amounts for their Extended Boundary Plane cousins, have fun with both!
-   Gallows Dodger in _Saints Row: Gat Out of Hell_ is a sentient pistol shaped like a demon's skull, and is one the Seven Deadly Weapons, representing the sin of Pride. When you first find it, it gets upset at being called "a gun", claiming that it's like calling Jesus "a guy who wore sandals", and claims that it gets antsy when it hasn't killed for a while. When used during combat, it will compliment you on your killing prowess and make dismissive taunts at your enemies, and if used to inflict enough damage in a short period of time, it will enter "Overkill Mode", temporarily granting an increased rate of fire and explosive shots.
-   _Salt and Sanctuary_ has two of these.
    -   The first is the Black Widow, part of the royal regalia of Liven. It was once wielded by the Kingdom's founder, Gandra the Warrior, and handed down through generations of her successors until finally reaching the hands of Queen Lenaia. The description of the item heavily implies that Lenaia's tyranny and insanity were caused by the sword's influence.
        
        _The rivers of blood spilled by this cursed sword over the ages are said to have swallowed its prior owners, all of whom descended into violent madness after falling under its influence._
        
    -   The second is the Coveted, a strangely sharp executioner's axe made of solid diorite. According to legend, a royal executioner named Erland received it as a mysterious gift and immediately took a liking to it. Power in the kingdom shifted, and before long, the executioner had used his axe on the entire royal family. Power shifted further, and the executioner became king. But the executioner never resigned from his grisly station, and the axe was well fed, though never satisfied. Erland would later die alongside his son in a struggle over the axe. Their ghosts are now bound to the weapon, enslaved to their unending desire to possess the axe.
-   _Shantae and the Pirate's Curse_: The Pirate Master's weapons are revealed to be cursed and their evil will completely consume their wielder eventually. However, their curse could be broken if the Pirate Master is destroyed.
-   The PS2 remake of _Shinobi_ has the main character wielding Akujiki, a cursed soul-eating sword that if not repeatedly fed, will begin to eat the wielder (in this case, main character Hotsuma)'s own soul.
    -   The bonus character's non-named sword also consumes the soul of his host, though it eats through its reserves rather fast, meaning you get much less leeway on platforming between combat segments before you start losing health.
-   The quest "ANIMUSLAVER!" in _The Sims Medieval_ involves dealing with the titular sword. You eventually learn it's possessed by a demon that has already cleared out entire _kingdoms_ of people through its wielders. Depending on the approach, you either guide a Knight and Spy in uncovering and ultimately destroying the blade (though the Knight becomes temporarily possessed by it), or letting a Jacoban Priest and a Blacksmith leverage the blade's evil for the good of the Jacoban Church.
-   The Soul Edge from the _Soul Series_. The Soul Calibur was an attempt by the former wielder (at the time) of the Soul Edge to create the exact opposite of the 'Sword of Destruction', that is, a Sword of Order. However, it apparently just winds up in the other extreme, in that the Soul Calibur wants nothing more than to freeze the entire world in crystalline perfection... where there will be no war, no death, no destruction... because nobody will be able to move. Which is interesting, because Soul Edge was a regular sword corrupted by countless kills on the battlefield, while Soul Calibur was forged from a piece of Soul Edge.
    -   There are other lesser weapons in the Soul Series who are quite evil; Taki's Mekkimaru and Yoshimitsu's self-named sword are both evil swords with inmense evil power and destructive abilities. In Mekkimaru's case, it has even driven Taki's master insane by the time of the first Soul Calibur.
-   _Strife_ featured The Sigil. Made by an evil god to corrupt the world, worshipped by its Evil Empire Cult, and burns the user's life force to power it.
-   While not actually evil, The Star Dragon Sword from _Suikoden_ is an enormous asshole, and at one point tries to kill the party for being left in a cave. It was left in the cave because it was constantly complaining how much it hated it's wielder.
-   Essentially _all_ of the minions of Smithy in _Super Mario RPG_ are this - except they're also sentient beings that want to ruin the world. Up to and including Exor, the massive sword that strikes Bowser's castle in the game's introduction. Smithy himself is something like this. He's a demonic blacksmith that wants to replace all of the wishes in the world with weapons, and his minions are part of this plan.
-   _Tales of Symphonia_ has the Devil's Arms, which are nine demonic, almost organic-looking and moving weapons that apparently can talk, although only Presea is able to hear them.
-   In _Team Fortress 2_ one of the unlockable weapons for the Demoman replace his normal Mad Bomber arsenal with a haunted Claymore named the Eyelander (which lowers his health, but grants him bonus health if it's used to kill people). It also constantly whispers "headsss".
    -   And from the Halloween update we get a haunted battle axe, which is haunted with the spirit of the Horseless Headless Horsemann. (It has the exact same stats as the Eyelander, however.)
    -   There's also the Half-Zatoichi. Not stated to be evil, but you have to kill someone in order to switch to another weapon without losing health.
-   _Tekken_ has Yoshimitsu's katana, likely the same one from Soul Calibur, which in _Tekken 6_ is revealed to drive its wielder crazy if it doesn't taste blood regularly.
-   The Chaos Sword in _Ultima V_ is arguably the most powerful weapon in the game, capable of killing virtually anything in a single hit. Also, using it in combat causes you to lose control of the character wielding it and cause him/her to attack fellow party members as well.
-   Zulwarn from _Vanguard Bandits_ is a _Humongous Mecha_ example. It is one of the most powerful ancient ATAC mecha, one with the power to Mind Control foes. Zulwarn also has a corrupting influence on anyone who is crazy enough to pilot it, though it's not so obvious when the pilot is _already_ evil. And unlike other ATAC mecha, Zulwarn doesn't rely on a powerstone — it is fueled by _human blood_.
-   _Warcraft_:
    -   Frostmourne of _Warcraft III_ is one of these. It even corrupts the wielder (not that the wielder wasn't asking for it), and hungers for souls. It can drain the victim's soul to strengthen the wielder or to be later reanimated. There's even a warning inscribed on the dais where Arthas finds it:
    -   In fact, all death knight runeblades are sentient to a degree, and share a bond with their owner. Because the runes put on it each contain part of the wielder's soul.
    -   Another example from _Warcraft_ is Atiesh, greatstaff of Medivh, the last Guardian. When Medivh got possessed by Sargeras, the creator of the Burning Legion, he sealed a powerful demon inside his staff, turning it into an evil weapon with terrifying magic powers. The staff was later shattered to prevent it from falling into evil hands, but in the Level 60 version of Naxxramas, players can acquire its pieces to remake it and then banish the demon, making it wieldable.
    -   Yet another example is the corrupted Ashbringer, also from the Level 60 version of Naxramas. Ashbringer was/is the exact opposite of this trope, being a sword made specifically to destroy any unholy beings, but after its wielder got murdered by his son, it became corrupted. Players who wield the corrupted Ashbringer (prior to it being removed from the game) will occasionally hear the sword whisper to them in a creepy voice. In the _Wrath of the Lich King_ expansion the sword is cleansed and is now wielded by Highlord Tirion Fordring, the leader of the Argent Crusade. It even shattered Frostmourne at the end.
    -   More examples include several of the Artifact Weapons introduced in Legion, such as Apocalypse, a murderous greatsword that Unholy-spec Death Knights get, the cursed Dreadblades that Outlaw Rogues end up with, and literally all of the Warlock's possible Artifact Weapons. Shadow Priests even get a talking Old-God-related dagger with a disconcertingly attractive voice. Oddly enough, the Frost Death Knight swords, Icebringer and Frostreaper, despite being made from the remains of _Warcraft_'s king of this trope, Frostmourne, manage not to be.
    -   Kingsmourne, another runeblade, outright _enslaves_ its wielder to do the Jailer's will. Made even more galling since it was originally Shalamayne before the Jailer reforged it and its wielder is Anduin.
-   _Warframe_: The greatsword War is actually the last piece of the massive Sentient battleship, Hunhow. Despite being reduced to a state where he can't even move on his own, he is still fully intelligent, able to talk the Stalker over to his cause, and nearly destroys the Tenno. You can get a blueprint for War, but it acts exactly the same as any other greatsword when you use it, because it broke in half and was then repaired.
-   Several games in the _World of Mana_ series feature floating possessed swords as enemies.
-   _Xenoblade Chronicles 1_: The Monado itself, containing the soul of Evil God Zanza. Initially it doesn't do much actively evil besides injuring or temporarily possessing anyone it doesn't want to wield it, but later on it starts to actively encourage Shulk to give in to violence and revenge. Once Zanza is unleashed, we get to see just how evil he really is, being an Omnicidal Maniac that considers all other life nothing but his playthings.
-   _Xenoblade Chronicles 2_: Blades generally take after the person who resonated with their core crystal, whether for good or evil, although some do show the capacity to change. The most notable evil blades reflect this, being Malos, who merely took on the same evil worldview of his driver, and Jin, who was once a hero like his driver before suffering enough to become a Fallen Hero.

    Webcomics 

-   Komiyan from _Darken_ acquired a Morph Weapon called Blackshard, also a particularly chatty one. Before he got it he was warned to be wary of it by a Devil's consort. Currently it's possessing the body of one of his enemies, and is thrilled to have limbs. And is acting increasingly sinister. It's eventually revealed that the sword is an evil shapeshifter trapped in a gem and affixed to the sword, and was trying to drive Komi mad so it could take over his body. After fleeing it started working for Baal.
-   _The Handbook of Heroes_ has Fighter's sword, Mr. Stabby. It's a black sword with a glowing red aura that constantly chants "blood blood blood" and tries to drive whoever wields it to violence.
-   _The Order of the Stick_:
    -   One of the strips from the comic's brief run in _Dragon Magazine_ features a glowing black talking sword that Elan wanted Vaarsuvius to identify. When the elf told him to come back later, the sword said that it was cool, no problem, and hey, want to go kill some people while we wait?
    -   Tarquin's axe, as revealed in a bonus strip in the printed book, is an intelligent weapon that seeks blood and destruction, and can possess Evil characters. Tarquin was simply strong-willed enough that he could overpower it and force the axe to obey him. It briefly possesses Belkar, but Roy grabs it before it can do any damage and chucks it down a pit, where it is forgotten and buried.
-   _Keychain of Creation_ has Cluivnarihe, the (unpronounceable) soulsteel weapon used by Secret. To be frank, Cluivnarihe is kind of a jerk.
-   _Penny Arcade_ had a Genre Shift story in Japan where a man was possessed by an evil katana and forced to slaughter. When he briefly broke free of its control he drove a dagger into his eye, but it didn't let him die.
-   _Sluggy Freelance_: The talking sword Unholy Evil Death Bringer, aka. Weeping God or Chaz, is something of an instant subversion in that in spite of its name, its personality immediately turns out to be morally neutral and it only does what its wielder wills. Still, it continues to fit the trope in being powered by the blood of the innocent. The innocent person doesn't actually have to die to power it — though since it's a god-killing weapon, trying to nick someone with it to get a small blood sample might not be a good idea.
-   _The Water Phoenix King_ has recently given us "Malice," the most powerful blade ever forged by an archangelic servant of the titular Yamra known as "The Torture Lord" to replace Our Heroine's original sword after it's broken by one of her nemeses. Genre-Savvy Anthem objects rather strenuously when discovering what her Mentor is giving her — "You're giving _**me**_ an evil sword?" — but he's confident that it won't be a problem. The blade itself, which cleaves supernatural beings with ease, looks a little bit like a straightened katana with an extra hook cut from a redshifted nebula, and was made from Kawunei's agony during the time that he and Gilgam were POWs so essentially she's carrying around a piece of his soul; he is apparently resigned to it, but not terribly happy about this.

    Web Original 

-   In _Atop the Fourth Wall_, it is averted. The soul trapped in Linkara's magic gun destroyed her parents when they tortured her to death in order to forge her into a weapon, but she considers Linkara a friend and protected him from Silent Hill's influence.
-   _Critical Role_
    -   Lord Briarwood's blade, Craven Edge is this. As a greatsword it is of course wielded by Grog. It constantly whispers to him, craving fresh blood, and occasionally seems to influence Grog into being... slightly more of a bloodthirtsy maniac than usual. Then you read Craven Edge's stats. If its ability to absorb the strength of the people it cuts is used too often, it can outright kill the wielder the next time they sleep.
    -   The same goes for Percy's first pepperbox pistol, The List. It was forged after Percy became a host for Orthax, a malevolent spirit that forges revenge pacts to sate its hunger for souls. The barrels of The List are magically engraved with the names of Percy's mortal enemies (including the aforementioned Lord Briarwood), and when one of them is nearby, Orthax begins to exert his influence, making Percy more violent and less receptive to reason. If Percy even considers sparing one of his targets, Orthax will go as far as to force Percy to attack.
-   In _The Gamer's Alliance_, the Sword of Darkness grants its wielder immense power but also actively corrupts him or her into becoming a dark knight. Once the sword is drawn, it can't be sheathed until it has tasted blood.
-   Perhaps inevitably, the Whateley Universe has one definite, and one possible:
    -   The cursed longsword Imalris from _Ill Winds_ definitely qualifies. Just summoning it devours the soul of the summoner.
-   The _SCP Foundation_ has plenty of evil weaponry, but one that stands out is actually a subversion, the "Katana of Apparent Invincibility". This sword imbues the wielder with the **impression** of great power and drives them to attempt dangerous actions that are almost guaranteed to end terribly because the sword actually grants no supernatural combat skill whatsoever and is, in and of itself, a shitty sword with unnecessary cutting parts that are apparently a lot sharper than its actual edge, which is blunt as a butter knife. In contrast to the usual evil weapon, it's pretty much harmless to others, but almost guaranteed to get the wielder injured or killed, so it still handily qualifies.

    Western Animation 

-   The Grass Sword from _Adventure Time_, which binds itself to Finn and slowly starts to possess his body with horrible, plant-like growths. This ultimately turns out to be a subversion: the sword isn't necessarily evil, just really clingy. When Finn admits he's never going to be rid of the sword and just decides to live with it, the sword, happy with that, returns Finn to normal and becomes a grass bracelet from which Finn can summon it at will and potentially saves his life when he loses his arm for unrelated reasons, by covering the stump in plant matter so he doesn't bleed out.
-   Mumm-Ra's Sword of Plundarr from _Thunder Cats 2011_ is outright said by Lion-O to be evil, and we find out that it was created through the destruction of a solar system by collapsing its star, meaning it's powered by the deaths of billions of lives lost. Interestingly, while the Sword of Omens was forged from the same metal, it is not considered evil, presumably because it was only made from fragments leftover, and was not imbued with the spell that the Ancient Spirits seemed to cast on the Sword of Plundarr.
-   Rubilax from _Wakfu_ is a Sealed Demon in a Sword whose greatest desire is for absolute carnage and happens to be able to possess people. Near the end of Season 1, he manages to break free from the sword and fights Sadlygrove, and seals himself back in the weapon upon his defeat.

___