_"It's cold in the future, and it's wet, but never so cold or wet that the costumes do not bare the arm muscles of the men and the heaving bosoms of the women."_

A trope where characters with a Limited Wardrobe or Iconic Outfit find themselves wearing far too little to possibly be comfortable or healthy given the current temperature — but will usually not act any differently to how they do in other temperatures.

It should be noted that this trope was born and is still used to show how _badass_ and/or "hardcore" a character was, not necessarily about fanservice as you might gather from the picture. It started with the Shirtless Barbarian figure popularized by _Conan the Barbarian_; it was a simple shorthand to demonstrate how savage, deadly, and probably superhuman the individual is. It's through the abuse of writers to show a little skin — often by Stripperiffic or Chainmail Bikini — that this has come to the trope of today.

Curiously, this is just slightly less unrealistic than it seems. In real life, there are a sect of monks who can control their own temperature and avoid frostbite even in below-zero temperatures; this is, of course, exaggerated in fiction. On a more mundane level, acclimation to cold is experienced by most people who live in areas that experience a cold season, and those who live in colder climates in general will be better acclimated to cold weather. Hence what qualifies as "T-shirt weather" to a Colombian and a Swede will probably differ dramatically, sometimes to the extent that this trope appears to be in play to those from warmer areas.

This trope also applies to other times when the clothing is grossly inappropriate to the environment. To be expected in video games, especially free-roaming ones, unless finding appropriate clothing becomes a Broken Bridge.

This trope is related to Harmless Freezing and Frigid Water Is Harmless. It is also often complementary to Martial Artists Are Always Barefoot, as it's usually a pretty quick and easy way of establishing a character as a badass who scoffs at rugged terrain and hostile climates.

Not to be confused with being exposed to literal (classical) elements.

Compare Fur Bikini and Loincloth.

See also Sexy Santa Dress, An Ice Suit.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

    Animation 

-   Characters in _Noonbory and the Super 7_ range from fully nude to Accessory-Wearing Cartoon Animals, but they can all enter Winter without proper winter clothing with little-to-no issue.

    Anime & Manga 

-   _7 Seeds_ subverts this, as the characters will feel hot and cold if they aren't dressed appropriately. When Arashi was floating in the ocean with nothing on but shorts and shoes, he kept himself wrapped in seaweed to keep warm. Vice-versa, he kept himself covered with it during the day to avoid being in direct sunlight for too long.
-   In episode 10 of _Bakugan New Vestroia_, Runo and Julie go to Moscow to visit Alice while wearing their usual outfits, a short dress, shorts, and crop top respectively, without being bothered by the cold. Lync doesn't wear winter clothes when he goes to Moscow, either, but at least his outfit is less revealing.
-   _Carnival Phantasm_: In Episode 7, Arcueid Brunestud goes diving for squid in the middle of a huge storm and is able to stand around in a bikini. She comments that she is a vampire and is not bothered by cold.
-   _A Certain Magical Index_:
    -   Sasha Kreutzev wears skimpy bondage gear in the snow at her boss, Vasilisa's, insistence. She has to use her magic to stay warm and says if it were up to her, she would wear weather-appropriate clothing so she would not have to waste magic this way.
    -   Othinus is a goddess, and because of this wears very little out of arrogance since almost nothing can harm her. When she and Touma teleport to Denmark, he immediately starts freezing his ass off and gets annoyed when she doesn't react to the snowy conditions. When he hugs her, he remarks that she feels warm. However, when she loses her powers, she begins to suffer from the cold.
    -   Ayame Fusou is an entertainer whose stage outfit consists of baggy pants and a bikini top. In her first appearance, it was November and the bystanders were wondering why she wasn't cold.
-   Chrono in _Chrono Crusade_ wears a coat, leggings, and gloves constantly, no matter what the weather is like. He rarely comments on the weather at all or even takes off his coat to cool down. Of course, he is a demon.
-   Justified in _Claymore_, as the procedure that turns the title warriors into Half Human Hybrids also makes them much more resistant to the elements. When one Claymore, Clarice, shows up in the snowy north in a heavy fur coat the other Claymores quickly realize something is up, and it's revealed that she's an incomplete hybrid (and thus dead last in ranking) and is not resistant to the point of the others, who treat her like The Load and consider her useless.
-   Averted in the _Cowboy Bebop_ episodes Jupiter Jazz part 1 and 2. The city of Callisto is noted to be extremely cold, so when Faye goes there she ditches her normal stripperiffic outfight for a heavy coat with insulated gloves and pants.
-   The Rider Suits worn by the pilots in _Cross Ange_ are clearly not designed for high-altitude dogfights in open cockpits. Regardless, none of the characters seem bothered by the freezing temperatures and harsh winds one would encounter traveling at such heights and high speeds, without a helmet and exposed cleavage, stomach, and thighs. Averted by Embyro's personal squadron, who wear full flight suits with helmets.
-   _Digimon_:
    -   Played straight in _Digimon Adventure_, where the Digidestined are scattered across File Island, with Taichi notably in nothing but underwear and sneakers in a snowy climate. He does find his clothes fairly quickly, though. Deconstructed in the same episode where Yamato, dressed in an outfit that would be all right for milder climates, enters the snowy area and quickly becomes sick and feverish.
    -   Averted in _Digimon Adventure 02_. The characters still have somewhat Limited Wardrobes, but they have outfits for each season — so when it's winter, they wear warm clothes, etc., while in the Real World.
-   Averted by the _Dirty Pair_; the Angels always change into something warmer in cold weather.
-   _Doraemon_ movies usually justify this trope when it happens, because Doraemon's gadgets are involved.
    -   Mostly averted in the various manga shorts, TV episodes, and movies, but an unintentional moment occurs in _The Genius Nobita's Airship Amusement Park_ (a 2005 TV special). The gang visits the titular amusement park, located atop a futuristic Cool Airship, only for a hostile takeover to break out when the villain Jester and his Robot Clown army capture everyone. Shizuka, being the Bathing Beauty she is, was abducted in the _middle_ of her bath and spends a big chunk of the special in a two-piece bathing suit (in contrast, Nobita and the boys are fully clothed) - including the climax, atop the airship's upper deck when it is _flying through clouds, in the middle of a storm_. No, there isn't a forcefield on the deck, there is a Rain Aura on everyone. Somehow it doesn't seem to affect Shizuka in any way.
    -   Riruru's first scene in _Doraemon: Nobita and the Steel Troops_ has her walking around in the Arctic cold, in a _one-piece_. But later on, the audience finds out she's a Robot Girl.
    -   _Doraemon: Nobita and the Birth of Japan_ has the gang traveling to prehistoric times and wearing Doraemon's Artificial Life Furs (basically, cavemen clothing sans shoes) for most of the adventure, including the third act where they're crossing snow-covered mountains and through a blizzard. Semi-justified because the furs are made from Doraemon's gadgets and have a built-in temperature adjuster.
    -   In _Doraemon: Nobita and the Winged Braves_ Nobita and friends visit Birdopia, a world populated by Bird People, and to blend in they put on Doraemon's Avian Caps, which turns them into similar bird-folk. The climax has them racing up a World Tree that extends into the stratosphere, which somehow doesn't affect them despite the high altitude; while initially that could be written off as an effect of Doraemon's gadgets, at one point Nobita loses his cap and reverts to human form while stuck somewhere in the clouds, and doesn't suffer from any side-effects.
    -   Averted in _Doraemon: Great Adventure in the Antarctic Kachi Kochi_, an adventure set in the Antarctic where the gang spends most of the film in appropriate winter gear (early on Nobita accidentally falls into Antarctic waters while in his winter coat, and nearly suffers from hypothermia if Doraemon didn't teleport everyone back to Japan with the Anywhere Door), but invoked in one scene when Nobita sees Carla, the Mysterious Waif in his dreams, in the middle of a wintery wasteland whilst Nobita is in his pajamas and barefoot, where he runs after Carla for several minutes without any ill-effects. And then he wakes up and it turns out it's All Just a Dream.
-   _Dragon Ball_:
    -   Averted during the Muscle Tower portion of the "Red Ribbon Army" arc. Goku has to don warmer clothing in order to keep from freezing to death when outside.
    -   Played straight in _Dragon Ball Z: The World's Strongest_, most of which takes place in the icy Tsumisumbri Mountains. Except for Oolong, none of the characters wear anything that really protect them from the cold. Goku ends up getting chills at first when he arrives, but it's quickly forgetten about after he's forced into battle and by the end, much of his clothing is destroyed but he doesn't seem bothered by the temperature.
    -   Several other movies take place in icy locations, but the characters never wear warmer clothes. Especially apparent in _Dragon Ball Super: Broly_, which takes place in the arctic. Although in that case the non-superpowered Bulma wore a full, heavy snowsuit, so it's generally assumed the others use their own ki to keep themselves warm.
-   Kohaku of _Dr. STONE_ always wears a Minidress of Power that only reaches her mid-thighs, though the slits in the side go up even further. Even in winter, it's the same hem length, just lined with fur. Most of the men also have their arms exposed, though their tunics are generally longer.
-   _Fairy Tail_:
    -   Played with in an early arc. Natsu plays this trope straight, not being bothered by cold weather due to his powers. Lucy, on the other hand...
    -   For both Grey and Lyon, exposing themselves to the elements in snow-covered regions was part of their training routine. Afterwards, as a habit, Grey wears a shirt or a long coat only about half the time. On the other side, he isn't in such cold places any longer...
-   _Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood_:
    -   Averted sharply; not only does Ed nearly collapse from exposure while inadequately dressed, he almost gets frostbite on the stumps of his arm and leg because his automail, being made of metal, conducts heat away from his body very efficiently. It's also mentioned that automail gets uncomfortably hot in the desert and other extremely warm environments, though any dangers related to that aren't touched upon.
    -   Automail users living in the cold northern regions of the country have addressed the issue of frostbite by using automail tempered with aluminum and carbon fiber, which helps reduce the heat loss. Captain Buccaneer of Fort Briggs uses this variety of automail, and his combat model arm has the added benefit of keeping his automail warm through the exhaust of the engine contained inside.
    -   Inverted in dealing with Sloth. He freezes solid within seconds when they kick him out into a snowstorm while he's lightly dressed and doused in fast-evaporating diesel fuel. For an illustration of the principle, turn a compressed-air-in-a-can duster upside down and spray it on something (but **NOT** your skin). The fluid gas that comes out almost instantly boils off once it's no longer under pressure, riming whatever you spray it onto with frost. But even this could only give you a good frost burn in that time frame. When you account for how huge he is, the amount that would be coating him wouldn't be enough to freeze him solid even if all of it were completely evaporated using only his body heat.
-   In _Girls und Panzer_, the Oarai tankery team wears their standard tankery uniforms, short skirts and all, when going to fight Pravda in a snowy environment.
-   _Gundam_: In an episode of _Mobile Suit Gundam Wing_, Heero wears his usual tank top and bike shorts... in Antarctica!
-   _Lupin III_: Whenever the gang goes somewhere freezing cold, they bundle up...except for Goemon, who sticks with his usual samurai garb. It even gets discussed in _Lupin III: Voyage to Danger_ when Lupin (who was fine in his usual suit before a gust of wind left him shivering) asks Goemon how he's not freezing.
-   _My Hero Academia_:
    -   This is Toru Hagakure's Logical Weakness. To take full advantage of her powers, she has to be entirely naked, which can get her in trouble.
        -   During the combat exercise, she is frozen in place by Shoto Todoroki's ice powers and finds herself shivering and her unprotected feet completely frozen to the floor. When Shoto melts the ice with his fire side's heat, Toru yelps in pain as she hotfoots about in the scalding water created from thawing it.
        -   Her hero costume (a set of boots and gloves) is the same in the winter as in the summer, prompting Jiro to ask if she's cold.
    -   Eijiro Kirishima's hero suits leave his torso bare and he doesn't upgrade his costume even in the winter.
-   _Naruto_:
    -   Fascinatingly averted in _Naruto the Movie: Ninja Clash in the Land of Snow_, where the main cast, who have worn a series standard open-toed wooden heel set of sandals (because the author says so, that's why), don a pair of thick shoe covers that morph them into fully closed-toe snow boots. In the DVD extras of the US version, you can see that the animation team thought up a clever design that buckles onto the normal sandal. It actually becomes a Chekhov's Gun in the case of Naruto's who has a steel file hidden in the cloth used to wrap the boot in place.
    -   When the plot eventually leads to the snowy Land of Iron, many of the characters are quite inappropriately dressed for the area. While some at least started wearing jackets or coats, the Leaf and Sand Village ninja are still wearing sandals, Sakura and Karin are still wearing biker/short shorts, Temari and Samui are still wearing a sort of dress/skirt exposing most of their legs, and the Raikage continues to not wear anything on his upper body but a cloak that leaves 60% of his chest exposed.
    -   By _The Last: Naruto the Movie_ Hinata has discarded her usual jackets for sleeveless blouses. Most of the film takes place in a snowy environment. The fact her clothes are ill-suited for the weather is lampshaded by Naruto, however, Hinata states that is just how her ninja clothes look. Also, their kids greet their dad barefoot at the end of the film, ignoring the need for shoes, something which their mother gently scolds them not to do but doesn't enforce given the heartwarming family group hug.
-   _Negima!?_: In episode 3, Asuna rescues Negi from Evangeline by throwing her shoes at her. Later her bare feet are exposed to Eva's ice magic.
-   _One Piece_:
    -   Poked fun at when everybody puts on winter clothes when they go to Drum Island, except for Luffy who fails to notice it's cold until it's too late. At one point he even puts a fight on hold while he goes to find a jacket.
    -   Averted again, same arc, when Zoro gets lost wearing nothing but his pants (long story). When he finally finds his way back, the local village is in the middle of a Mexican Standoff with Wapol's Mooks. He immediately beats down _all_ of the mooks so he can get a pair of their boots and a jacket.
    -   Bizarrely played with in the anime's "Ice Hunter" filler arc. Most of the Straw Hat crew wears weather-appropriate clothes, except for Luffy and Franky. They both wear a parka and gloves but continue to wear shorts and a speedo (respectively), Luffy retains his sandals and Franky continues going barefoot. Don Achino, the villain of that arc, also wears next to no clothing but he's justified thanks to his ultra-high temperature-inducing Devil Fruit powers.
    -   In one of the episodes about the rest of the crew after their defeat by Kuma we see Franky, who is in a winter country. The locals are naturally horrified to see him in his speedo in the middle of a blizzard, to which he replies, "Ew! No!" (seriously). He then tries to warm himself up with his patented 'SUPAAA!' dance, but it doesn't work and he freezes solid in a block of ice. Yup.
    -   In one scene Robin is wearing her usual style in a cold, snowy location. (It's not exactly a scene that suggests fanservice, however, given what just happened.)
    -   This is deconstructed with Oars the giant, who ends up freezing to death due to him not bothering to swap his loincloth out for something warmer while going through an extremely cold environment.
-   _Pokémon: The Series_:
    -   Characters occasionally dress for the weather, but usually walk around in their standard, summery outfits no matter what. For Misty, this involves a couple walking in snowy mountains wearing micro-shorts and a really short, sleeveless T-shirt. When "dressing for the weather", half the time she just puts on a jacket and continues walking around in shorts, too. Like all other _Pokémon_ media, neither Dawn nor Candice spent a second of their time in snowy areas not wearing a short skirt, either.
    -   Averted in _Pokémon 2000_, where Ash is clearly cold when it suddenly begins snowing and he's stuck in his warm weather attire.
    -   Lampshaded in _Sun and Moon_ when Ash's Pokémon School class and Kahuna Hala visit Mt. Lanakila. Kiawe, Professor Kukui, and Hala (a Walking Shirtless Scene, a guy who wears No Shirt, Long Jacket so often the one time he doesn't is evidence that something is wrong, and an old man dressed for tropical climate, respectively) initially refuse jackets on the basis that their fiery spirits will keep them warm. They quickly change their minds when a cold breeze blows by, but even then Kukui leaves his winter coat open to expose his chest. Also a bit of a Mythology Gag reference to the games, where Kukui appears on Mt. Lanakila in his normal outfit and the player character wonders if he's cold.
    -   "Holiday Hi-Jynx", the Christmas Episode of the Indigo League had Ash decide to travel to the North Pole by stripping down to his underwear and personally pulling the raft by water. That kid is Made of Iron to even think about attempting that.
-   This is played with in many ways in _Pokémon Adventures_. Platinum faints due to the freezing cold, but Candice is just fine because she simply claims that nothing should get in the way of fashion. Maylene is also all right in her sleeveless shirt and bare feet because running around keeps her warm. Later Platinum gets a coat, but takes it off when running also warms her up. When the three of them meet together, Candice dubs them the "Thin-Clothed Trio".
-   In _Pokémon: Diamond and Pearl Adventure!_, Candice actually subverts this trope _once_: Hareta sees her sneezing the first time he sees her. After that, though, she goes back to playing the trope completely straight, not even bothering to put on that jacket she has tied around her waist.
-   In _Ranma ½_, Ranma weaponizes this: even though it's the middle of winter, and Akane isn't particularly thrilled with the cold, Ranma and Akane go out to the tennis court in skimpy blouses and miniskirts more appropriate for the summer and try to act natural. Since all the other girls are bundled up for the weather, this plan will lure the perverted Happōsai out of hiding and they'll catch him when he does.
-   The protagonists of _RG Veda_ dress pretty lightly whatever the circumstances, even when traveling through a snowy mountain range. Including an utter and complete _lack of footwear_.
-   _Sailor Moon_: Especially in the first season finale, which takes place _in the Arctic Circle_. They _did_ acknowledge the cold though. Usagi whined and complained about being too cold but Mars scolded her for being a baby and pointed out that everyone else was focused on their mission. Given their miniskirts and body stockings in sub-zero temps, the rest of the team must have been \*very\* focused. Justified, though: in the previous episode, the characters walked around on the surface of the Moon without spacesuits or ill effects. If their superpowers include that degree of invulnerability to the environment, they were likely justified in saying only Usagi's lack of concentration caused the cold to affect her.
-   Averated by the World Destruction Committee in _Sands of Destruction_ when they visit the Winter Continent; Morte and Kyrie buy coats from Agan so they won't freeze, and Taupy claims he'll be fine because he's a bear. Played straight by their pursuers; Naja and Rhi'a might be able to excuse themselves for being a half-wolf and a dragon, respectively, but the Alligator Master also wears only his normal robes, despite alligators being cold-blooded. The game played it very straight all around.
-   In _Seven Mortal Sins_, the titular Demon Lords, with all their Stripperiffic outfits, gather in a place in the middle of _Cocytus_. Interestingly, Lucifer's body freezes instantly when she first arrives there, while Leviathan who is right in front of her isn't bothered at all by the cold. After the fallen angel is thawed out nobody is seen complaining about the cold again. It's implied that Demon Lords have some sort of magical protection against extreme temperatures and Lucifer's body only froze as part of her punishment.
-   Amu in _Shugo Chara!_ transforms into her Heart persona (outfit: cheerleader skirt and teeny tiny tank top) while skiing and instantly complains that it's completely inappropriate for the situation.
-   In _Tales of Wedding Rings_, the party ventures into the dwarven tunnels to bypass the Abyss King’s armies. Everyone else has put on heavy cloaks to ward off the subterranean chill, but Granart is walking around in her usual Stripperiffic duds. When they ask how she isn't cold, she explains that she's using the ring of fire to heat herself up and keep warm.
-   In _Tokyo Shinobi Squad_, Hyosui Nagumo's hideout is kept as cold as a winter in Antarctica, but he's perfectly comfortable in it while wearing nothing but a tank top and a light jacket.
-   _Urusei Yatsura_: Although Lum might sometimes don winter clothes, it's more to fit in than from any need of protection. She's seen wearing her tiger bikini whatever the weather, including while flying on a windy, snowy night, with no sign of discomfort. Ten too, in fact, meaning this resistance to cold is just another trait of their alien biology.
-   In _Zombie Land Saga_, the zombies dress rather lightly when camping in the winter; for example, Junko wears a sleeveless sweater. Justified in that they're zombies and no longer feel the cold.

    Audio Plays 

-   _Big Finish Doctor Who_: In _Blood of the Daleks_, Lucie invokes this. She claims that since she's used to going clubbing wearing ridiculously skimpy clothes (see Real Life below), the cold doesn't affect her, so she can attract the aliens' attention by undoing a few buttons. It doesn't do her any good since the aliens in question are _Daleks_ — omnicidal maniacs who aren't interested in scantily-clad young women.

    Comic Books 

-   Averted by Aurora from _Alpha Flight_. When she donned a skimpy white and yellow costume to differentiate herself from her Half-Identical Twin brother Northstar, she had a second costume for winter/Arctic missions that appropriately covered her while still emphasizing her figure.
-   Aquaman and other Atlanteans usually wear little or no additional clothing in arctic conditions. Justified in that Atlanteans live on the ocean floor and are used to cold currents. Their bigger issue is suffocating in the open air, not freezing.
-   _Arawn_: Justified Trope. This gets lampshaded by the decapitated head of his former friend whom Arawn is recounting his life story to. His mother Siahm was an Amazonian warrior, the Last of Her Kind, who always walked around in a Chainmail Bikini, even in the middle of winter. This was because of a magic spell that she used to prolong her life and protect her body from the elements.
-   _Asterix_: In _Asterix and the Griffin_, the Sarmatians are clearly very used to the harsh winter conditions of their homeland. Many of the men and children have bared torsos; the shaman isn't even wearing protective footwear in the snow. The women too, most of them having bared arms, shoulders, and backs, some having bare legs, and in one case even a bared midriff.
-   Batman, Red Robin, Nightwing, Black Bat and Robin generally appear to wear the same costumes regardless of weather but they make a point to mention their winter costumes are more insulated and have built-in heaters, though they do sometimes mention that the heat can be miserable in their costumes. Spoiler once commented how nice it was to be able to cling to Robin in the cold since his heated suit made him like her personal heater since her suit was emphatically _not_ suited for the weather they found themselves in.
-   _Batman_ villain Mr. Freeze has the reverse problem. He _needs_ to be at sub-zero temperatures to survive. When he's forced to spend time at the North Pole, he enjoys the opportunity to walk around without his bulky armor and is dressed like he's at the beach.
-   Lampshaded in an issue of _Batman '66_. When Robin shows up wearing his classic costume in a snowy environment, he claims he's wearing flesh-colored thermal underwear to protect him from the cold.
-   Captain America had a flashback to his time with The Invaders during World War II during the winter in Russia. Most of the men were huddled around a fire, while Sub-Mariner, in just his speedo, didn't look uncomfortable at all. Justified in this case, as Namor is specifically adapted for living deep underwater, which is an even _colder_ environment than Russia (in the sense that the water would carry away body heat faster than air, even if the actual temperature of the water was warmer than the air).
-   A _Conan the Barbarian_ comic from the 1970s had the woman Conan was rescuing going about in a snowy wasteland clad in little more than a gossamer loincloth and bra, and some magic slave chains. Averted the trope, as she turned out to be a sort of synthetic life form made of ice and snow, with the magical slave chains being pretty much all that held her together, and she melted away when they were removed.
-   Lampshaded in _Crisis on Infinite Earths_. Firestorm asks Martian Manhunter if he ever gets cold<small>◊</small> in his Underwear of Power, but J'onn states that Martians do not get cold (which does make sense, since Mars is farther away from the sun and thus, on average, far colder than Earth).
-   Aside from wearing her typical, revealing "costume" even in inhospitable climates, _Elektra_ has more than once been forced out into snowy conditions wearing as little as a barely-covering bra and underwear. Although there's usually a bit of internal monologue about her extensive training having made her resistant to feeling the cold, she _is_ still human and is in a rush to get out of the current situation before frostbite or the like sets in.
-   This cover<small>◊</small> for _Excalibur_ shows Captain Britain and a group of female heroes on a roof in London. It's winter, and there is an inch of snow on the ground. All of the women are wearing midriff-baring crop tops except for one, and her outfit is more like a one-piece swimsuit.
-   _Justice League of America_:
    -   Averted in an early issue when the League goes to Siberia; many of the Leaguers are shown to be huddling and shivering with no coats (except Batman, because he's so Badass Normal... and also, it's a nice cloak).
    -   They also go to Siberia in the _Terror Incognita_ storyline but are wearing costumes designed for the cold (except for Green Lantern who just wills a force field).
-   Lampshaded in the _Knights of the Old Republic_ tie-in comics by Dark Horse. Character Celeste Morne spends several issues on an ice world wearing, well see for yourself<small>◊</small>. When in the very next issue Jarael has to impersonate Celeste, well:
    
    **Jarael:** But I'm **freezing!** Did your friend really wear something like this out in the snow?
    

She did. There's a Force power to warm the user.

-   For a time, Lady Death was stripped of her powers and most of her memories. She continued to wear her usual skimpy attire despite briefly addressing how cold she felt earlier in the story. When warned about running in the rain, her response is that if the rain will avoid her if it knows what is good for it.
-   This is played straight and then averted in the Furry parody, _Red Shetland_, where the title character dresses in that exact way through a wintry forest until she stays in a farmhouse where the elderly matron makes an appropriate suit for the weather, which Red accepts with grace and her Stag lover agrees that it looks great on her.
-   Red Sonja (depicted in the page pic) averts and plays this straight, depending on the writer and artist of the story. The better writers will have her wearing several layers of fur when she is in a snow-covered realm. The worst ones will have her marching through the snow in a Chainmail Bikini without even as much as the still revealing fur cloak seen above.
-   The Smurfs go through winter wearing just a hat and pants, sometimes also adding a scarf and gloves, and are hardly affected by the elements. Even Wild Smurf gets away with it, and he's just wearing a loincloth and a hat. Sometimes this gets played with, depending on the media, as in some cartoon show episodes where the Smurfs do wear winter jackets.
-   Angela, from the _Spawn_ series, has ribbons in her armor that have heating abilities, enabling her to hunt dragons in freezing weather wearing a chainmail bikini.
-   Spider-Man sometimes notes that while his costume fully covers him, it's got basically no insulation value when he's stuck outside in a New York winter. Despite that, he never bothers coming up with a winter variant.
-   This is lampshaded in the Superman story _For the Man Who Has Everything_. Wonder Woman, in her swimsuit-style costume, tells Batman and Robin they must be cold and should go inside. Robin finds it more likely _she_ would be cold. Of course, they're human, while she's Wonder Woman.
-   Vampirella has worn her iconic red Leotard of Power when it's either snowing or raining. Given she's a vampire, she has a much higher tolerance for the cold than humans.
-   In _Violine_, Kombo has no trouble with the snowy European winter, despite being dressed in nothing but a loincloth.
-   _Watchmen_:
    -   Both averted and played straight. When they assault Ozymandias' Antarctic base, Nite Owl wears a specially designed cold suit (which resembles a snowy owl). Rorschach just wears a scarf with his usual suit and longcoat. (It should be noted he _is_ in serious danger of freezing to death during this sequence. He's too crazy to care.) When Silk Spectre arrives (by teleportation, without any opportunity to prepare warmer garb) in her rather skimpier outfit, she's freezing.
    -   Doctor Manhattan, being a Physical God, is perfectly fine despite being nude.
-   _Wonder Woman (1942)_: In issue 29, where Minister Blizzard makes his debut, Etta offers to share her fur coat with Wonder Woman since Wony is wearing a strapless top and shorts and it's freezing, but Diana counters that Amazons are trained not to be affected by such mild weather fluctuations.
-   _X-Men_:
    -   In the miniseries _Phoenix: Endsong,_ Emma Frost doesn't seem the least bit bothered traipsing around the Arctic half-naked. Beast and Wolverine are too, but the former has fur and the latter is _Wolverine_. Well, she IS Emma _Frost_.
    -   In a '90s issue, the team goes to Siberia. Psylocke, whose costume exposes most of her arms and legs, not to mention virtually her entire butt, adapts by... putting on a short jacket, which she doesn't even bother to close.

    Comic Strips 

-   _The Boondocks_ has more than one strip joking about the stereotype that white people can handle the cold absurdly well. In one strip, Huey and Riley are covered in winter clothes while someone jogs by in shorts.

    Fan Works 

-   In the _Fullmetal Alchemist (2003)_ fanfic _build your wings on the way down_, Gabbie is described wearing very skimpy clothes on an early spring night and is completely unbothered by the cold. Which weirds out Edward since he's fully dressed in a jacket but is shivering from the cold.
-   Explained in _Empath: The Luckiest Smurf_ that a Smurf's body is able to adjust to various temperature changes.
-   In the opening chapter of _My Immortal_, Ebony is outside wearing little more than a corset and a miniskirt whilst it is sleeting or "snowing and raining" as the story puts it.
-   In the first chapter of _Plankton's Eye View_, C'ren is in the snowy streets of Russia wearing almost nothing. The scene is vividly illustrated here by the author himself. NSFW, obviously.
-   _Pokémon Reset Bloodlines_: Krysta is able to walk around the extremely cold Icefall Cave with no problems despite wearing nothing but a sports bra, gym shorts, and running shoes. Justified, as she's an Ice Heart Bloodliner whose abilities give her extremely high cold tolerance, enough that she can hold Nevermelt Ice with her bare hands, while ordinary humans can't touch it without protective gear.
-   _Star Wars: Paranormalities_ plays with this trope.
    -   Chapter 8 of Episode I, which has Zolph and Grein on the ice planet Polus, has a moment where this is justified. Zolph is dressed properly for the planet's cold weather and Grein is dressed up in her usual attire, which aside from her scarf, is mostly casual urban gear with a short-sleeved shirt. However, while Zolph is still freezing, Grein isn't affected much, because as a Chiss, she's biologically adapted to lower temperatures.
    -   Juganak, a large, muscular Miraluka in the employ of the Valkoran Empire introduced in Episode II, is seen without a shirt on most of time. According to some field reports, he has dressed the same way even on worlds where most humans or near-humans should not, such as Hoth and Mustafar.
-   Played for Drama in _Sunset's Recovery Arc_ when Sunset Shimmer wears her skirt on a winter day when there's several inches of snow on the ground. She's having a manic episode and doesn't feel the cold.
-   Averted in _Vow of Nudity_, Haara must go to extreme measures to keep from freezing to death while stranded naked in the snowy mountains, from keeping fire spells constantly active to mystically controlling her breathing and heart rate, to killing a boar and covering herself in its fat.
    -   Justified in a different story with Kay'la, who as a sea elf grew up in the frigid temperatures of the deep ocean, and struts naked through the snowy mountains while teasing Bren for bundling up.
-   _Warriors Redux_: Firepaw is a short-furred cat who runs away to the forest to live with a group of long-furred Maine Coon-looking cats. Firepaw hates cold weather because he's ill-suited to it compared to his Clanmates. However, in contrast, he finds summer comfortable, while everyone else is overheated and dealing with shedding.
-   In _Water Aerobics for the Aquaphobic_, part of Hermione's Jusenkyō curse (Spring of the Drowned Warrior Goddess) is that whenever she changes, her clothes turn into a Chainmail Bikini and don't change back. Among many other complaints about her clothing, Hermione points out that it's very inappropriate for Scottish weather.
-   _Trigun_ and _Gungrave_ crossover fanfic _Wintertime Business_: Brandon does not shiver even a bit when exposed to the winter weather despite wearing just a loose t-shirt and pants all the time. Justified, because he's a corpse. The cold weather preserves his body; he learns this fact from watching the discovery show about Ötzi the Iceman. Vash frequently lampshades Brandon's cold resistance and suggests he get a coat, because Vash on the other hand, is still sneezing despite wearing his trademark Badass Longcoat.

    Films — Animation 

-   In _Fire & Ice_ , Princess Teegra spends the entire movie barefoot in a micro bikini, even in a castle literally made of ice in the middle of a frozen wasteland. She doesn’t seem to mind the cold at all.
-   _Frozen_:
    -   _Frozen_:
        -   Justified Trope. While surrounded by snow and ice, Elsa changes from a conservative summer dress to what looks like a winter-toned sundress, with bare arms and light enough material that it would probably be a little chilly even on a bright spring day. And it's made of ice and snow. She doesn't have a problem with it because she wields ice magic; as she says, "The cold never bothered me anyway." She puts it on specifically because she wants to play with that magic.
        -   Subverted Trope with Anna who runs off to find her in a blizzard still wearing a summer ballgown. This is because she's so worried about her sister that she rushes out, not because the writers want to avoid showing the environment affecting her. The temperature is shown to affect her, and she shivers and pulls her cloak closer. Anna then changes into a more suitable winter outfit when she finds a shop.
    -   By _Frozen II_, it's a good thing Elsa's immunity to cold is already well-established, as she's seen leaving her coat and boots behind, keeping only skimpy clothing to affront a stormy, chilly sea (which she partially freezes) and later threading through a glacier barefoot. Lethal hypothermia would be more than a guaranteed thing for anybody else.
-   Averted in the Tinker Bell movie _Secret of the Wings_. Tink has to wear cold-weather clothes to enter Winter without having her wings tear, and she needs to build a device that keeps the air cold for Periwinkle so that she can follow her into Spring without suffering the same fate.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _Atanarjuat: The Fast Runner_ takes this to the logical extreme, with Atanarjuat running around naked in one particular scene. (it's an homage to _The Naked Prey_.)
-   In the climax of _Beauty and the Beast_, Belle rides and runs through the castle's perpetually snow-covered grounds wearing only her sleeveless ballgown at first, then only her underclothes after an Action Dress Rip, but shows no sign of feeling the cold.
-   Played for Laughs in _Cool Runnings_ when the four Jamaican bobsledders — who might never have experienced anything below 20 degrees C and are dressed for such conditions — go to Calgary and get their first taste of a Canadian winter. Mass "Oh, Crap!" ensues.
-   _Darlin'_: The Woman and Darlin' can stand in the snow barefoot and in tattered rags without any trouble.
-   In _Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle_, Martha's avatar, the Lara Croft parody Ruby Roundhouse, is dressed in a midriff-baring top and short shorts in the middle of the jungle. Martha immediately notes that this outfit leaves her exposed to mosquito bites. Sequel _Jumanji: The Next Level_ averts this once the characters reach a snowy level and Ruby is given proper winter clothes.
-   The climax of 2005's _King Kong_, unlike the 1933 original, is set during winter, and it's so cold that the waters in Central Park Lake are frozen enough to support Kong's weight. Somehow, Ann Darrow can walk around in a thin, sleeveless dress without the cold affecting her — and taken to the extreme in the climax when Kong carries Ann to the top of the Empire State Building, thin dress and all.
-   In _Lara Croft: Tomb Raider_, the final piece of the MacGuffin is in Siberia. Lara shows up in a shirt and pants that aren't much heavier or cover her any more than what she wore in _Cambodia_, with only a rather lightweight cape and hood with fur trim (worn open, of course) to keep her warm. Everyone else is in heavy parkas. She even takes a swim in an underground pool of water, though there _is_ some very bizarre temporal mechanics at play in that cavern, which may partly justify it.
-   In _The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen_, Rodney Skinner has invisibility, which works best when he isn't wearing any clothes. So, when the Leagues goes to wintry Mongolia, they find Skinner there, stark-naked in order to keep himself from being discovered. This is in the middle of a blizzard. Lampshaded by Skinner himself:
    
    **Skinner:** ...And, need I remind you, I _am_ naked in the snow. I can't feel any of my extremities, and I mean _any_ of them.
    
-   In _Mirror, Mirror_, several people get robbed and stripped to their underwear in the snowy woods. They don't shiver.
-   _Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End_ features the crew sailing through a frozen ocean. One unnamed Chinese crewmember's foot is frozen through, to the point that he accidentally snaps his big toe off. The rest of the crew are still wearing the same clothes they had in Singapore, yet suffer no ill effects apart from Pintel and Ragetti shivering.
-   In _Resident Evil: Extinction_, Alice's clothes don't seem to be very suitable for the desert. In the desert you have to cover your face at the very least.
-   In _Resident Evil: Retribution_, Ada Wong wears her iconic red dress while Luther and Bad Rain wear tank tops in the Arctic. They don't even shiver. Only Bad Rain has the excuse of being superhuman.
-   _Santa Claus Conquers the Martians_ has Billy and Betty wandering through the Arctic in woefully inadequate winter clothes. Especially Betty, who's wearing a skirt with no leg covering at all. Notably for a kids' movie, however, the two are shown freezing to death before their rescue.
-   _Superman_:
    -   In _Superman II_ Lois Lane wears a thin, skimpy dress to Superman's Fortress of Solitude, which, lest we forget, is at the _North Pole_ surrounded by nothing but ice. He asks her if she's cold and she says she should be, but she's not. In a deleted scene, used decades later for the Dick Donner director's cut, she wanders around the Fortress wearing nothing but a blue Superman top (in the great scene in which the giant head of Jor-El gives her the evil eye!).
    -   This follows Lois's untroubled exposure to the freezing upper atmosphere during the "Can You Read My Mind" sequence in the first movie.
    -   _Superman Returns_ ill-advisedly attempts to partly explain this phenomenon as Superman takes Lois flying again with the hilarious line:
        
        **Lois Lane:** I forgot how warm you are.
        
-   In _Thor_ we meet the not-so-friendly Frost Giants, literal ice people who can extend the frost layer on their arms at will, shaping it like swords or daggers. Justified, for they're beings _native_ of the ice planet of Jotunheim. And let's not forget their local version of our lions, the Frost Beasts.
-   In the _Underworld_ series, the Lycans are always left naked after returning to human form. In _Underworld: Blood Wars_, the Vampire Lena only wears a very skimpy dress and is barefoot. None of them have any problem standing around in the snow. Justified in that they are all superhumanly resilient.
-   In _X2: X-Men United_ Mystique spends most of the scenes set in the Canadian Arctic in winter STARK NAKED!

    Literature 

-   _12 Miles Below_: Deathless are most easily identified by the fact that they are fully capable of walking around bare-faced on the surface, an environment so cold that one breath is a death sentence.
-   In _Animorphs_, the title superheroes can only morph very skimpy skintight clothes, so when they're in the Arctic, they're very poorly dressed. However, this is explicitly referred to, and until they turn into first seals, then polar bears, they're in serious danger of freezing to death. Cassie's wolf and Rachel's grizzly bear is okay for a while, but even they (Cassie's isn't an arctic wolf) are in serious trouble, and one of the grizzly's legs breaks off after freezing.
-   Done explicitly by the Marat in the _Codex Alera_ series, where they have no problems skipping about in bone-chilling temperatures in loincloths. Being Marat, though, their ability to resist extreme temperatures comes in quite handy. This causes some impropriety in the Aleran lands since the women dress the same as the men. When Tavi brings on a team of Marat horsemen as auxilliaries for the First Aleran, he convinces them to wear actual clothes and armor by presenting them as gifts, which the Marat don't refuse because that insults the gift-giver.
-   In Robert E. Howard's _Conan the Barbarian_ story "Gods of the North" a.k.a. "The Frost-Giant's Daughter", the woman Atali wears nothing but a light veil of gossamer. On a snowfield. Conan is bleeding to death from a head wound when he sees her and is convinced that she's an illusion brought on by massive blood loss and the cold killing him.
-   Lampshaded in _Discworld_, where an explicit requirement for taking on the life of an adventuring barbarian is resistance to cold.
    -   Played with in _The Last Hero_. The Silver Horde never talk about it, but they have all supplemented their loincloths with a variety of leather, rubber, and woolen garments that serve a variety of support and warming purposes. They are a group of octogenarians climbing up a 10-mile-tall mountain in the middle of the equivalent of the Arctic.
    -   Also played with in _Sourcery_ by Nijel the Destroyer, who apparently wears long woolen underwear under his straps and loincloth.
-   Science Hero _Doc Savage_ gets round this with another miraculous invention, a substance covering his body that prevents it from freezing (and somehow prevents his body from overheating as well), and makes a trek through Antarctica just a walk through the park. The movie adaptation has Doc meditating outside his Fortress of Solitude in the Arctic, wearing just a loincloth. We're not meant to take this seriously though, as the whole movie is deliberately camp.
-   Lampshaded in _The Dresden Files_, where various supernatural gribblies can walk around in frigid conditions wearing nothing heavier than T-shirts, and Harry complains about this at length, along with his own inability to do the same, despite the fact that he's a wizard and later on the Winter Knight.
    -   Using the Ways often leads to this — the climate where you start, where you end, and where you travel through are often distinctly different. When Harry gets a MacGuffin that gives him vast knowledge of the Ways, he intentionally averts this.
    -   While Maeve has the benefit of being one of the Winter Queens (albeit the weakest and youngest one), she has at least one fey girl in her lair swimming in a pool completely naked, despite the freezing temperature. Harry notices that the cold has . . . some effect on her body when Maeve offers him information about his fathering a child with the girl.
-   The Mage Species in _The Golden Compass_ live in cold climates and wear relatively little. Although they feel the cold, they know it won't harm them, so they put up with it in order to better communicate with nature.
-   It's brought up in Barry Longyear's _Infinity Hold_: "…The weather would be cold enough to geld every brass monkey in the northern hemisphere, and there would be the hookers on the sidewalks wearing high heels, short shorts, and a beauty spot. Then old Pepe Pimpo would come rolling up...He’d be wheeling a heated chrome machine with thermopane windows and be dressed in ear flaps and furs like Nanookie of the North...There was something a bit once told me. She said that women have to be tougher than men just to survive..."
-   Edgar Rice Burroughs loved this trope. In the _John Carter of Mars_ novels, despite living on a cold world, his Martians still run around naked, or close to it. The yellow-skinned Okarians who live up in the far north are the only exception, wearing heavy cloaks.
-   _Journey to Chaos_:
    -   When crossing the Kyraan Desert, Team Four and their client can either burn up during the day or freeze during the night. Their client was prepared for night-crossing but a monster attack forced her to abandon most of her gear. Thus, Eric complains about the cold.
    -   While wintering in Dnnac Ledo, Eric wears nothing but a toga while standing in the snow. Annala, by contrast, couldn't be more bundled up in warm clothing. The narration notes that she underscores how silly he looks, but by this point Eric has mutated into a grendel that can appear human when he wants to and it is explicitly stated that grendels can withstand colder temperatures than humans.
-   In _Krampus: The Yule Lord_, Krampus and his belsnickels are virtually immune to the winter conditions they are put through. Krampus does not even wear any clothes and he seems just fine.
-   _The Lord of the Rings_: As the Fellowship struggles down the pass of Caradhras through deep snow, Legolas wears light shoes instead of boots and scouts the path ahead by walking on top of the snowdrift.
-   Averted in _The Magic Treehouse_ book _Sunset of the Sabertooth,_ when Jack and Annie show up in the Ice Age wearing nothing but swimsuits and towels. Realizing that they'll freeze to death if they don't find better clothes, they take shelter in a cave and put on some fur clothes left by the family that lives there.
-   In _Mistborn_, Ham is a Pewterarm, or one who can burn pewter to increase most of his body's capabilities. Cold doesn't bother him, so his preferred uniform is a vest, even in the middle of winter. In fact, it gets exaggerated to the point that he tears the sleeves off of any top given to him, and even refuses to lead the heroes' troops unless they agree that he will never have to wear long sleeves. If the series were movies rather than literature, it would look like a silly amount of fanservice.
-   The children's book _Nuddy Ned's Christmas_ has Ned spend the story streaking in the snow. His parents and Santa Claus plead for him to get dressed out of concern that he'll get cold, but Ned insists that he likes the feeling of being naked in the snow.
-   Inverted by Solomon Kane, who wears a long black coat with black leather gloves and boots while in Darkest Africa. It is truly a testament to how tough Kane is that he doesn't succumb to heatstroke.
-   Many of the characters in _Survivor Dogs_ deal with cold forest nights well despite their short pelts. Of note is Sweet as Greyhounds are notorious for their inability to withstand cold (due to their short pelts and lack of fat).
-   Discussed in Poul Anderson's _Time Patrol_ story "Delenda Est" — a Cro-Magnon guide is dressed rather like an Eskimo, and Everard derides the way no one credited them with enough sense to wear lots of clothes in a glacial period.
-   _The Tough Guide to Fantasyland_ discusses and parodies the trope as a fantasy stereotype:
    
    It is a curious fact that, in Fantasyland, the usual rules for _Clothing_ are reversed. Here, the colder the climate, the fewer the garments worn. In the _Snowbound North_, the _Barbarian Hordes_ wear little more than a fur loincloth and copper wristguards (see _Chillblains_ and _Hypothermia_).
    
-   _Tunnel in the Sky_ averts this. Deacon Matson fails any student who arrives for their off-world survival test without bringing cold-weather gear. He knows they don't need it, they do not, but they should arrive prepared for any reasonable testing conditions. Conversely, he also fails any students attempting to be Crazy-Prepared and arrive with a space suit, tundra or high mountains are reasonable conditions, vacuum or toxic atmospheres are not.

-   Subverted in _The Wheel of Time_. The Aes Sedai are known for their mastery of a concentration trick which allows them to ignore extremes in temperature. However, while they'll show no external signs, harsh weather can still harm them.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Arrow_: On a crossover with _The Flash (2014)_, Barry asks if Oliver is cold in his new, sleeveless costume. Oliver points out that after five years on an island in the North China Sea, he doesn't _get_ cold.
-   Inverted in _Brimstone_: Ezekiel Stone wears long sleeves and a trench coat in the middle of the day in LA. Justified with Fridge Brilliance when you realize that Stone spent the last fifteen years in Hell and consequently summer in southern California is _much_ colder than he's used to.
-   The now-defunct Gamer Jargon website called the inverse of this "CSI Wear", after the original _CSI_, where despite being set in Las Vegas, one of the hottest cities in the US, every character wore black, leather, or some other outfit that would be ridiculously hot and uncomfortable.
-   _Daredevil_: Nobu stands on a freezing New York rooftop in a lightweight business suit, completely unaffected by the weather. An associate, much more heavily attired, even complains about it.
-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   In two early back-to-back serials, Jamie finds himself wearing his kilt in both Tibet and on a glacier. In the former, he is told to put on warmer clothing but claims that as a Highlander he is unaffected by the cold. He later regrets the decision. In the latter, no one seems to care.
    -   In "The Hungry Earth", Amy is quite underdressed for Wales because they were supposed to be going to Rio. Oddly enough, she wears the same miniskirt/shorts-and-tights combo that she always does, but this is the only time it's lampshaded as being inappropriate for the locale.
    -   In "The Snowmen", Victorian Clara in her barmaid mode wears a dress that exposes a lot of her cleavage. Out in the snow. She never seems cold, not in the least.
-   _Friends_: Phoebe and Mike's wedding takes place outside in the aftermath of a blizzard. Just before walking down the aisle Phoebe decides to take off her coat so she can properly show off her wedding dress. Joey, acting as officiant, opens the ceremony by announcing he's going to Skip to the End because the cold is spreading to his "special place". As soon as they're done Phoebe asks someone to get her coat because she's _freezing_.
    
    **Chandler:** Aren't you going to be cold?  
    **Phoebe:** I don't care. I'll be my something blue.
    
-   Inverted in _The Golden Girls_, where the main characters often wore sweaters and cardigans _in Miami_, which has year-round tropical weather. Not once do you ever see them just wear a t-shirt or tank top.
-   _Lucifer_: Subverted when Maze goes on a bounty hunting trip to Canada. She assumes that because she's a demon she won't need to change her usual Stripperiffic wardrobe even though Chloe warns her that it's going to be a _lot_ colder up north. When Maze arrives she struts out of the hotel and immediately starts shivering. She ends up stealing a parka from a man who laughs at her when a pile of snow falls off the roof onto her head.
-   The protagonist of _Spartacus: Blood and Sand_ spends time in blizzard conditions wearing a loincloth and some light shoulder pads, without seeming to care. _Other_ people are affected by the cold, but not Spartacus or his comrades.
-   _Star Trek: Enterprise_. T'Pol wears her Future Spandex while on the planet Vulcan, while all the other Vulcans wear their traditional pragmatic robes for the hot desert.
-   _The Thin Blue Line_: Inspector Grim on why the orienteer Brigadier Blaster-Sump is a loony:
    
    **Fowler:** I admit he eccentric.  
    **Grim:** Eccentric? The bloke tried to be the first man to reach the South Pole in short trousers!
    
-   _Wonder Woman_: Wonder Woman has outfits for swimming ("The Deadly Dolphin" and others), motorcycle riding ("The Murderous Missile" and others), skateboarding ("Skateboard Wiz"), ranching ("The Bushwackers"), and impersonating a lab assistant ("Anschluss '77" - seriously! It's a brown dress). All other times, she wears her Leotard of Power. This includes escaping a Nazi base then searching for an airplane in the middle of WWII Germany ("Fausta, the Nazi Wonder Woman") and catching up to Colonel Von Blasko, a top Nazi spy, _boarding his plane in midair_, knocking him out, carrying him back to the invisible jet still in midair, and crashing his plane into a submarine ("The New, Original Wonder Woman"). That had to be cold just judging from the heavy flight jacket and clothing he was wearing while failing to soil his hands.

    Magazines 

-   This is actually a common occupational hazard for models. Advertisements and catalogs are typically shot in the opposite season, so a model is going to be wearing a swimsuit in the dead of winter and a thick coat in the middle of summer. Pretending to be happy and comfortable is part of the job description, and models frolicking in freezing water in an itty-bitty bikini are typically told to "think warm".
-   Related to models, _Playboy_ pictorials in the snow usually aren't savory for the nude girl, with even reports of hypothermia.
-   _Sports Illustrated_'s 2013 Swimsuit Issue had Kate Upton do a photoshoot in _Antarctica_. While in the magazine she's all smiles, Kate said that she was freezing her ass off the whole time. The cold was so extreme her eyesight and hearing began to be impaired, and that's with breaks to warm up after just a _minute_ of shooting.

    Music 

-   Indigenous had album art where the inside flap featured a man going on a vision quest. But he's holding his loincloth up. Yes, he's naked.
-   When K.T. Oslin performed the live version of "Younger Men" in Indianapolis, Indiana at Farm Aid IV on April 7, 1990, she told the audience, "I was out walkin' around this afternoon and I saw a cute little farmer standin' there with blue jeans on and no shirt! I leaned out the bus window and said 'Honey, You're looking good!'." The high temperature was only 47 degrees F. in Indianapolis on that day.

    Music Videos 

-   The AVByte behind-the-scenes for their "Disney Princess Leia" music video showed that it was shot in fall in New York during a cold snap, and several of the actresses were freezing in their princess outfits, most especially the one playing Ariel, who was wearing a summer skirt and bikini top.
-   Destiny's Child's Music Video for "Survivor" was shot in Fiji during a cold snap.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  The _Making the Video_ special humorously showed the girls _freezing_ in the water and on the beach as they pranced about in shipwrecked clothing.
-   The music video for Ava Max's "Maybe You're The Problem" features several shots of Ava wearing a bikini in the snow and/or her lover wearing nothing but shorts in the snow.
-   When cosplaying Misty in her _Pokémon_ video, Lindsey Stirling and Kurt Schneider end up in a city covered with snow and the river frozen over, yet they are still only wearing T-shirts and shorts. The cold does not appear to affect them at all as they cheerfully run around.

    Podcasts 

-   Storm Blackfire (a character in the _Jade Regent_ Actual Play podcast series from _RPGMP3_) is a half-elf barbarian and combat expert. She's on very good terms with her childhood friend, Sandru. At one point, she acquired a magical glow-in-the-dark butterfly tattoo on a certain part of her body, which is difficult for her to conceal under her... usual attire. Luckily, her magical sword imbues her with cold resistance.

    Pro Wrestling 

-   Wrestlers often compete in their Underwear of Power or otherwise skimpy outfits even in matches held outside. When it rained on IWA Puerto Rico's ballpark shows almost everyone still wrestled in tights and trunks, with even the more heavily dressed wrestlers just being in t-shirts, or in one involving Chicano and Homicide, mud as their fight spilled into the dugout.
-   In TNA, Karen Jarrett once punished the Knockouts by forcing them to wash the cars in the parking lot while wearing bikinis. It was December and the girls complained that it was too cold.

    Sports 

-   Athletes in general are often able to get away with far less clothing in cold weather than other people might feel is necessary. This is both because being in better shape allows the body to thermoregulate more effectively, and because exercise itself generates a considerable amount of body heat, which is then circulated throughout the body by increased heart rate. Naturally, the body parts doing the most work warm up the most, resulting in strange sights like a runner wearing shorts and gloves.
-   NFL Cheerleaders often wildly underdress for a sport that is played outdoors in fall. ESPN.com columnist Gregg Easterbook thinks this helps teams win, and gleefully points out when cheerleaders dress warmly and the home team subsequently loses. He also complains when coaches overdress as well.
-   The Freezer Bowl, the coldest NFL game in terms of wind chill ever played, with the air temperature at -9 degrees and the wind chill at -37. Several of the Cincinnati Bengals players went sleeveless and even gloveless as an intimidation tactic. It certainly helped, as the Bengals would dominate the San Diego Chargers 27-7.
-   Track and field athletes always wear relatively short clothing, and are always subject to the climate (except in indoors tournaments) — so much so that strong winds both invalidate new world records that might be set and hinder certain performances (not that the audience cares — when Brazilian pole vaulter Fabiana Murer gave up her last attempt on the 2012 Olympic Games blaming on the wind, jokes and complaints ensued as they felt it was a lame excuse). However, running full speed increases your metabolism to ten times its normal rate, mitigating the heat loss from wearing so little in the cold.
-   Pita Taufatofua got very popular in the 2016 Summer Olympics Parade of Nations with a shirtless, oiled getup, so when he qualified for the 2018 Winter Olympics, he just had to do it again, even if this time it was in below freezing temperatures.

    Tabletop Games 

-   This can potentially occur in any game that doesn't actually provide explicit _rules_ for this kind of exposure (which, to be fair, actually is something of a special-case scenario in many campaigns where the environment isn't normally considered a major threat by default anyway unless the Game Master decides to make its hazards an explicit plot point), or in groups that decide not to use them even if they exist. In this case, it can be either an honest oversight or a conscious decision not to bother with modelling the game world at that level of detail.
-   In _Changeling: The Lost_, one of their low-end magical powers allows them to be comfortable in any temperature, regardless of clothing or lack thereof.
-   _Dungeons & Dragons_:
    -   By specific rulings in _Frostburn_ and _Sandstorm_, in 3<sup>rd</sup> Edition or _Pathfinder_, if you have cold resistance or fire resistance 5 you're completely immune to any natural cold or heat, respectively. Barbarians automatically gain damage reduction as they level up. The interplay of the damage reduction rules and the cold weather rules require some handwaving, but it is very common for players take advantage of this to have barbarians walking around the arctic in a loincloth.
    -   Fifth Edition provides similar benefit to any character with resistance to cold or fire damage. Given that it's relatively easy to get both on the same character depending on your choice for race and class/subclass and then combine it with a class that gives you defensive bonuses when you're not wearing armor, like Barbarian, and you can run around naked regardless of conditions.
    -   Also note the _endure elements_ spell, which does the same thing, but _only_ applies to weather. Characters with a Vow of Poverty gains a permanent _endure elements_ power by 3<sup>rd</sup> level (implied to be through body control, as it isn't a supernatural effect) and thus can ignore the need for protective clothes (which they usually can't afford precisely because of their vow).
    -   The artwork for the _Dark Sun_ setting, set on a desert planet, had pretty much everyone running around in loincloths and not much else. According to Word of God, one of the reasons they picked a warm climate for the setting (as opposed to, say, a frozen tundra) was to better justify the fanservice... except they apparently failed to distinguish between a _humid_ warm climate (where it would indeed be appropriate to wear skimpy clothes) and an _arid_ one (where it is very much not). Oops.
    -   A non-fanservice example happens in the _Dungeon Adventures_ module "The Price of Revenge"; the PCs first meet Eliza (a Creepy Child who initiates the plot) in the middle of a blizzard in the dead of winter; her clothing consists of a dirty, tattered shawl and little else, not doing much to hide her "gaunt form". (If they ignore the hungry wolves with her and show concern for this, she replies, "I hadn't noticed." Which might not be a lie, seeing as she's a vampire.)
-   In _Pathfinder_, sorcerers, depending on their heritage, can gain Cold/Fire resistance, and they also suffer from Armor and Magic Don't Mix, which goes a long way to explain Pathfinder Iconic Seoni running around in a skimpy dress even in the snow.

    Theatre 

-   At the end of _In the Next Room, or the Vibrator Play_, Catherine and Dr. Givings strip down and have sex in the snow.
-   A famous moment in the history of Broadway musicals was Mary Martin introducing Cole Porter's song "My Heart Belongs to Daddy" in _Leave It to Me_. As the chorus boys (of which Gene Kelly was one) danced around her, she stripped off a few articles of clothing. The backdrop for this scene (which was not strictly relevant to the drama) was the snow-covered Siberian steppes — the Irkutsk train station, to be precise.

    Video Games 

-   _1080° Snowboarding_: Rob's standard outfit is a thin wifebeater. Akari's alternate costume is a similarly thin belly top.
-   _Age of Mythology_: As the heroes trek through Scandinavia, Amanra, still wearing clothes fit for Egypt, hopes it will be warmer in Midgard.
-   In _Animal Crossing_, you can wear whatever you want no matter what season it is. In _New Leaf_, your character will have a sweating animation or a shivering animation when they leave their house if their clothes are ill-suited for the weather, but they're otherwise unperturbed.
-   _Ape Escape_: Spike, the protagonist, travels to three separate areas in the ice age wearing just a T-shirt and shorts. This is the COLDEST TIME IN THE HISTORY OF EARTH, and he's fine as long as he stays out of the water... in the first level. For some reason the water in the next two areas is swimmable. Ironically enough, most of the monkeys in the area actually trade in their standard pants for a snowsuit. The protagonists of later games follow suit, and the monkeys ditch the snowsuits as well, sticking to just pants. One ape from _3_ actually LOST his pants in a windstorm, but still tries to fight you.
-   _APICO_: Whether you're exploring the frigid Tundra or the humid Swamp, you're not affected by the climate even in your regular clothes.
-   _Arc the Lad: Twilight of the Spirits_: Lampshaded. Early in the game, Arc, Paulette, and Maru climb a snow-covered mountain. Maru, who is wearing nothing but a mask, a pair of shorts, and shoes, immediately complains about how cold it is. Paulette then points out how _anyone_ would be cold if they were dressed like _that_. Paulette is at least dressed sensibly. Played straight with other characters — Kharg wears short sleeves and shorts, and doesn't complain about the cold at all, and neither does Gantz (Who wears a coat with the sleeves tied up around his waist, and otherwise is wearing a wifebeater) if you take him into the cold. The characters also never complain about the heat in a Volcano.
-   _Atelier Firis: The Alchemist and the Mysterious Journey_: In the snowy village of Flocke, Firis will complain about the cold, and a kindly old woman offers to make her a warmer outfit after a sidequest. The Snow Bright suit you get from this does have a coat, mittens, and a wool hat... but it also has Zettai Ryouiki which leaves part of her thighs exposed. It still gives enough protection to slow down your stamina drain in snowy areas. And of course, outside of this one scene, Firis doesn't seem to have much of an issue wearing the lighter outfits in her wardrobe.

-   The Legendary Chicken Suits presumably do more than just giving the kids of _Billy Hatcher and the Giant Egg_ the ability to roll eggs while making them look silly; not only do said suits have sleeveless shirts but also give three of them fingerless gloves (Chick gets mittens instead), yet they're able to brave Blizzard Castle without any apparent ill effects. One mission even has Billy making a snowman's head by rolling up a giant snowball, which he does with partially exposed fingers.
-   _BlazBlue: Chronophantasma_: Snow Town is exactly what it sounds like — a small snow-covered village at the base of the Hierarchical City of Akitsu. Among the highlights are a small group of penguin beastkin playing with each other and dressed in full coats to keep warm. Not one of the player characters changes their attire for fighting here — not Bang or Azrael with their bare chests, nor Noel or Platinum with their miniskirts. Not even Makoto, with the most bare skin of the entire cast, gives two shits about the early February cold.
-   _Borderlands 2_: The first few levels take place at Pandora's equivalent of the Antarctic. None of the playable characters are dressed for this (although that's because they didn't intend to end up there), and yet none are even remotely bothered by it.
    -   Salvador: A T-shirt and jeans.
    -   Maya: A skintight Leotard of Power with one sleeve and a small Cleavage Window, one glove on the same side the sleeve is on, and pants worn low enough to show off a bit of thigh.
    -   Zer0: A skintight bodysuit (assuming he _has_ skin) with a few bits of armor plating and a face-concealing helmet.
    -   Axton: A military uniform with the sleeves perpetually rolled up.
    -   Gaige: A sleeveless shirt, sleeveless jacket/vest, and a skirt over skintight leggings.
    -   Krieg: Walking Shirtless Scene. Though he's also quite insane and a Combat Sadomasochist to boot, so if anyone has an excuse not to be bothered by the cold it's him. In fact, he probably _enjoys_ it.
-   _Brown Dust II_: When Eclipse leads the Levatein Resistance, she travels outdoors in her highly revealing Playboy Bunny outfit which lacks an upper half and all she had for covering her massive breasts was a thin strip of fabric that barely covers them with no bridge over her cleavage.
-   In _Chrono Trigger_, none of the party is particularly geared for the elements. However, Ayla, in a Fur Bikini, and Marle, in a tank top and sandals, suffer the most from it. Amusingly, the cover art depicts a snowy battle were Crono wears a cloak over his clothes and Marle is dressed in boots and a heavy coat.
-   _Danger Girl_ for Play Station uses this trope, then throws it in the player's face. First, the loading screen for the stage shows Abbey Chase in a slinky, extremely sheer evening gown, out in the snow. Then, right after the obvious Fanservice, she immediately begins complaining about the cold and taking damage, and the player has to very _quickly_ find warm clothes before she freezes to death.
-   Any of the _Darkstalkers_ when fighting in the snowy stages of Bishamon or Sasquatch. Most extreme cases being Felicia and Morrigan, who barely wear anything yet can fight in arctic conditions regardless. Though given that Morrigan is a succubus, she's probably immune to such things as cold weather.
-   The _Dead or Alive_ series has winter stages in each title and several of the outfits don't cover up much: some male characters have no shirts for their fighting outfits such as Jann Lee, and the girls all have at least one costume that's skimpy or otherwise weather inefficient, and in some of them such as _Ultimate 2_ and _5_ they have swimsuits.
-   _Diablo III_:
    -   Lampshaded if the player, as a barbarian woman, takes the desert enchantress Eirena to the chilly north:
        
        **Eirena:** I fear my dress is not particularly appropriate here.  
        **Hero:** Or anywhere else.  
        **Eirena:** Whatever do you mean?
        
    -   The hired followers, the jeweler and blacksmith, also complain about the extreme change of environment, though the former claims he can keep warm by just sticking fire opals in his clothing. Since gems do have magical properties in this setting, he might be telling the truth. It's also played straight with the heroes, who go about their business unaffected in all types of weather out of sheer stoicism.
-   Variation. _Disgaea's_ Etna frequently complains about the temperature whenever she's in a Fire and Brimstone Hell. Interestingly enough, she does nothing of the sort in any wintery locations, despite wearing about as little as she can get away with in a T-rated game. That's assuming all demons are associated with fire and brimstone.
    -   Her boss, Laharl, is worse. He's frequently depicted as wearing a scarf, shoes, and shorts, yet shows no problem in walking through either extreme cold or heat. In one scene he dives into an active _lava flow_ to retrieve Flonne's pendant, and when he later surfaces with it, states that it's burning his hand (albeit this is due to the pendant burning anyone with evil in their heart), but makes no mention of the lava being an issue at all.
-   _Dragon Age: Origins_:
    -   Morrigan doesn't seem to mind wandering around on top of a mountain through caves carved into a glacier while wearing an Stripperiffic outfit with a Navel-Deep Neckline. Though in the CGI Sacred Ashes trailer, she does grumble about having to "freeze to death while digging for the bones of a madwoman!" during said wandering-around-on-top-of-a-mountain quest. Ironically, her personal gear gives a bonus to cold damage.
    -   Leliana doesn't complain either, despite the fact that female leather armor in _Dragon Age_ is exceedingly impractical.
    -   Of course, if you remove the characters' armor, they will go around in their underwear. Other than obviously being more vulnerable to attacks, this does not hinder them at all, regardless of environment.
-   _Dragon Age: Inquisition_ has several snowy areas, including the Inquisition's headquarters. Doesn't stop the Iron Bull from walking around with nothing above the waist but a pauldron that only covers one side of his chest (at most) and an eye patch.
-   _Dragon Quest VIII_, possibly unintentionally, has the swimsuit for Jessica first available just before entering the game's version of the arctic. And since it changes her look in cutscenes, it makes one wonder why she isn't dead from frostbite yet.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_:
    -   _Morrowind_'s _Bloodmoon_ expansion adds the frigid isle of Solstheim to the game world. The northernmost regions of the island reach full-blown Arctic conditions including frequent blizzards. However, the Player Character can run around stripped to their underwear with no ill effect. Additionally, there are Berserker enemy NPCs who live in this frozen wilderness and wear very little clothing. They at least have the justification of being Nords, who have an inborn racial resistance to the cold.
    -   _Skyrim_:
        -   Some higher and/or further north areas have ice everywhere and heavy snowfall, including two of the main cities, but nobody freezes, even if not wearing any clothes or armour at all. Some NPCs will point out if you are underdressed for the temperature though.
            
            "Ysmir's beard, you're going to freeze to death!"
            
        -   Justified by the game mechanics for a Nord main character and Nord NPCs; all Nords have resistance to frost damage. Which you're going to need if you're going to run around in a snowstorm without a shirt.
        -   Averted by a mod that adds realistic temperature mechanics, demonstrating why said mechanics were omitted in the first place. At low levels, the frost will kill you faster than the bandits, and leaving Riverwood without some warm clothes is extremely ill-advised.
-   _Endless Ocean_: Two of the dive locations of _Blue World_ are the Arctic and the Antarctic. There is a handwave about body gel that helps with cold weather, and special air tanks or something, but no mention of a dry suit. Considering the character's costume can be changed to a bikini (for women) or just a pair of trunks (for men), you can very well go diving in those places thusly garbed and suffer no ill effects.
-   _Fate/Grand Order_:
    -   Servants often wear very skimpy outfits and can have swimsuits as alternate outfits. In the _Fate/Grand Order: First Order_ anime, Ritsuka asks Shielder if she is cold in her revealing armor. She remarks that she is unaffected by the temperature. Later in the game, when Sir Galahad's spirit abandons Shielder, taking away the lion's share of her powers, she is no longer protected from the elements and has to bundle up.
    -   This is especially evident for Christmas welfares, who tend to favor the Sexy Santa Dress look. Several of them even have lines acknowledging that, yes, they're freezing their butts off.
    -   Beowulf always goes barefoot and shirtless and wears only trousers, even in a Russian winter. Some people ask if he is cold and ask him to put some clothes on, but he refuses.
-   The _Final Fantasy_ series:
    -   _Final Fantasy VII_ avoided this: when you're approaching the Northern Crater through a snow-covered wasteland, you actually have to move quickly to avoid freezing, and as you climb the crater-wall, you're forced to frequently stop and work up some heat through exertion. If you bring Yuffie, the characters will actually comment on her poor choice of clothing when you reach the top of the crater. If you bring _Tifa_, she just spends the trip shivering and stammering about how cold it is. Tifa was a notable offender, particularly during her stay at the Great Glacier.
    -   _Final Fantasy IX_ provides a number of examples (such as walking blithely through a sandstorm without their faces covered), but has one aversion where Zidane walks through an icy cavern and into a blizzard in just his usual vest, and his posture changes to show that he's freezing. In fact, as a whole, the game provides a subversion of the usually horrendously impractical clothing of Final Fantasy games. Out of the main cast, only Zidane and Amarant are badly dressed; all the other characters are completely covered up.
    -   _Final Fantasy X_ has all the characters undergo this, but with Kimahri it's especially noticeable, given that he's from the snow-capped mountain environment. And his entire tribe wears little more than loincloths. While this would be understandable given that his species has fur, he seems just as comfortable in tropical climates as snow-capped mountains, so...
    -   Likewise, "I'm Too Sexy for a Closed Shirt" Tidus, "What, I'm Supposed to Stay in This Dress?" Lulu, "We Don't Wear Sleeves Round Here, Ya?" Wakka, and Rikku who wears... well, next to nothing don't seem all bothered by Mount Gagazet.
    -   Speaking of islands, Lulu's fur-trimmed leather dress can't possibly be comfortable on tropical Besaid where she lives. Considering that its revealing nature wouldn't keep her warm in cold climates either, this is Awesome, but Impractical in action, folks. (Not that _Final Fantasy_ clothes, save maybe the white mage from _Final Fantasy_, have ever been practical.)
    -   In _Final Fantasy X-2_, Kimahri does actually mention the "cold mountain winds", this being about the only reference to weather in either game.
    -   And the official holder of the "Miss Beltskirt" title is Ashe of _Final Fantasy XII_. It's even bright red to draw the eye... but she suffers no ill effects in the frozen wastes of the Paramina Rift.
    -   Balthier is the only one who could even remotely be considered to be dressing for the weather. Vaan and Basch both have open vests, Penelo's outfit leaves her arms and thighs bare, and Fran wears a metal bikini. Larsa is covered up and even wears gloves, but he's only in the party temporarily.
    -   Even worse: many of the characters are from a desert nation. It may seem reasonable to wear less clothing in a hot environment, but desert-dwellers know that what you really need is to cover up with loose robes. Tight clothing, like Balthier's, holds in the heat, and exposed skin risks severe sunburn; you'll lose more moisture to the sunburn than you would be sweating in robes.
        -   Vaan and Penelo have an excuse, being residents of Lowtown - literally a slum built underneath another city, shady but sweltering to the point one wonders how they stand wearing anything. The rest of the cast, who spend more than temporary forays to the surface, have no such excuse.
    -   _Final Fantasy XIV_ lampshaded this and Limited Wardrobe hilariously in a cutscene wherein two characters who wear rather thin clothing (one of them bordering on Stripperiffic) arrive in Coerthas, an area that has been permanently snowbound for the past five years since the fall of Dalamud. Alphinaud, who _already_ spent time in Coerthas freezing his ass off and apparently didn't learn from the experience, stands there shivering... while Minfilia shows up in appropriate gear for the arctic weather. Gameplay, likewise, almost outright encourages this for comedy (in the same manner that the addition of flying mounts in _Heavensward_ includes the ability to fly with things like bears because... well, just because) - in the portion of the story where you take your first expedition to Coerthas, the main-story quests gear rewards consist of heavy metal armor for Tank classes (which themselves would be a poor choice without insulation of some kind) and _harnesses_ that leave very little to the imagination for the other non-magic-using classes.
        -   This was inverted in the _Stormblood_ expansion. After finally getting something resembling winter clothes towards the end of Heavensward, Alphinaud and his sister, Alisae, spend all of Stormblood jaunting around either tropical/subtropical Kugane and Doma, or pure desert Ala Mhigo, in jackets that looked like they belonged on the Eastern Front. The player didn't escape these shenanigans either. Throughout Heavensward, much of the gear for gathering classes was suited for more Arkansas than Alberta. Come Stormblood, gathering equipment for the expansion set in the tropics and a desert consists of a woolen hat and matching poncho. One wonders if the developers creating the gear and the ones creating the setting ever talk to each other, or just think this is kind of funny.
        -   Invoked during _Endwalker_. When it's finally time for an incursion into Garlemald, an icy-cold nation that rivals Coerthas's sub-freezing temperatures, the first thing Tataru does is give everyone (including the Warrior of Light) heavy fur-trimmed coats to keep them cozy. You can opt not to wear it, but everyone in the Ilsabard Contingent, from nameless Eorzean NPCs, to allied warriors like Sadu and Sicard to, of course, the Scions themselves, will be wearing heavy winter clothing, and they will still comment on the biting cold occasionally. This pays off much later on in the expansion, when Urianger arrives via the portal in the Tower of Babil, smack in the middle of the Garlean capital, while still wearing his customary Astrologian garb—which is basically a very light chiton with fully exposed arms and collar, no pants, and sandals. As Alisaie expresses shock at his garb, wondering if he's not cold, he very calmly expresses worry for his health while shaking uncontrollably from head to toe. The irony is that he still spends a very lengthy conversation standing there slowly freezing to death, until Alisaie finally interrupts to remind everyone that Urianger is about to catch his death of cold.
-   In _Fire Emblem Engage_, Ivy, crown princess of Elusia, wears a revealing outfit despite coming from a cold and snowy country.
-   The environments in the _God Eater_ series include such locales as a desert at night, marshlands during a rainstorm, and a snowbound temple, yet not once does any of the eponymous God Eaters layer up for the occasion. Justified, as their own clothes are as cosmetic as they are Limited. The Oracle Cells their bodies are infused with provide protection from extreme environments.
-   In _God of War (PS4)_, while Kratos does at least wear some pants compared to just a toga draped around his waist, he still wears little more than a leather shoulder-strap by default despite living in Northern Europe. The various armors he can equip vary from mere pauldrons to actual chestplates that cover his torso.
    -   This is also exceptionally common among the Aesir; Baldur, Magni, Modi, and Thor all go shirtless, Freya is shoeless, and Sif wears a strapless blue dress. The only gods who cover up are Tyr and Heimdall, and the only one who actually seems to acknowledge that Fimbulwinter is _cold_ is Odin, who wears a coat at all times and adds a fur hat when at home in Asgard.
-   In the _Pipeworks ''Godzilla'' Trilogy_ spinoff, _Godzilla: Domination!_, the human character of Connie Matsu - a news reporter who serves to explain the game's backstory, introduce the battles and wrap up the game's multiple endings for the player - is shown in some locations wearing a belly-baring outfit. Once of these instances in when she is reporting from a military base located in the Arctic, yet is wearing a hooded parker that shows off her midriff _in the middle of a blizzard_.
-   Lampshaded and subverted in _Golden Sun: Dark Dawn_, when Amiti joins the party, Karis ask him to Please Put Some Clothes On, apparently because it's going to be cold in Te Rya. which he does. Five guesses who complains about the cold in Te Rya.
-   _Golf Story_: Played for Laughs in Coldwind Wastes, where the Player Character is wearing the same outfit he wears on every other (usually warm) course, but the NPCs who _are_ wearing heavy winter clothes are freezing to death.
-   Hydromancer armor in _Guild Wars_ stands out somewhat, as it provides cold resistance while being rather stripperiffic. This trope applies more generally also.
-   The _Harvest Moon_ series is guilty of this in nearly every game - the characters' outfits never change at all throughout the four seasons (which follow typical spring - warm; summer - hot; fall - cool; winter - cold fashion). The Wii installments _Tree of Tranquility_ and _Animal Parade_, however, give each character separate spring/summer and fall/winter outfits.
    -   _Harvest Moon One World_ subverts this. When the player first heads into the hot desert or the icy snowlands, they will faint from the extreme temperature in a cutscene. They can eat cold or hot food to deal with the respective temperature for a while, as not doing so will lead to their stamina running out faster.
-   Lampshaded in _Hyperdimension Neptunia Re;Birth1_. The party's usual clothes are hardly appropriate for perennially snowy Lowee, so IF made sure to bring enough heat packs to go around. The one time the plot made it unambiguous the characters have been out in the cold for longer than they were expecting, everyone started shivering and it's acknowledged they'll be in real trouble if they don't find a place to warm up.
-   Nobody in _Jade Empire_ seems at all troubled when they go to a mountain atop the Land of Howling Spirits, which is basically Tibet, despite Dawn Star's continuing pantslessness, Henpcked Hou's sleevelessness and Sky and the Black Whirlwind having open shirts, and depending on what character model you choose, the Spirit Monk can be severely lacking in skirt length or constantly shirtless. (The Black Whirlwind could be handwaved by noting that he's pretty fat and hairy, which would keep the heat in.)
-   _Jak and Daxter_:
    -   _Jak and Daxter: The Precursor Legacy_: At one point, you go to Snowy Mountain wearing a sleeveless shirt and sandal-like footwear.
    -   _Jak 3: Wastelander_: At the beginning of the game, Jak's clothing is way too warm for the desert environment he finds himself in. Logically, he overheats to dangerous levels; Damas later tells him his monks were ready to pray for him. His hair is cut off together with his shirt sleeves before he goes out again. In Real Life, Arabs are associated with those loose, billowy white robes because such clothes are by far the best things to wear in desert conditions (lightweight, breathes well, reflects heat, offers protection from the sun and sand).
-   Lampshaded by Jo in _Kendo Rage_, when the bus drops her off at a Slippy-Slidey Ice World with her still wearing her Minidress of Power:
    
    **Jo:** SNOW!! Oh Great! Like I'm REALLY dressed for this!
    
-   In the _Final Fantasy/Disney_ crossover _Kingdom Hearts_:
    -   In _Kingdom Hearts II_, Sora climbs to the top of a mountain in The Land of Dragons wearing nothing but his drive clothing: A short-sleeved shirt, jacket, and shorts. Taken to extremes in Donald's case, where all he wears is his hat and robe, but, notably, with no shoes.
    -   Christmas Town also seems to play with this trope, but Sora wears vampire attire here (with a few modifications in the Final Mix version), which is a _lot_ more suitable for cold weather than his normal attire. Though played straight with Donald and Goofy, who are respectively turned into a Mummy and a parody of Frankenstein's Monster; the Final Mix version fixed that by making them into a snowduck and "half-dog, half reindeer", respectively.
    -   _Kingdom Hearts 3D \[Dream Drop Distance\]_ has an even more extreme example with the Snowgleam Wood in Symphony of Sorcery, which is a frozen lake surrounded with snow. It's exclusive to Riku, who wears a tank top and jeans in this game. What makes it more disturbing is that he can _swim_ in the lake. Then again, they are in the Dream Worlds, where logic does not have to make sense, considering that Sora didn't need to use scuba gear or turn himself into a merman in Prankster's Paradise, and both boys weren't even human in The Grid. Not to mention Riku himself being a Spirit Dream Eater...
    -   _Kingdom Hearts III_: As with the Land of Dragons example above, Sora and Donald visit Arendelle during Elsa's eternal winter, with nothing but their normal attire. Subverted for Sora because as soon as he steps foot into Arendelle, his immediate reaction is to complain about how cold it is (in fairness, he's an islander). And then he starts getting used to it.
-   _Last Cloudia_: Lukiel is capable of traveling through snowy areas with her sleeveless biketard-like attire. Later, it's taken up another notch in one such area where, after having her master's powers taken away, her new attire consists of a two-piece dress that exposes her midriff, replaces her gloves with detached sleeves, and discards her footwear completely.
-   _League of Legends_ has several champions from the frozen northern regions, and very few of them are actually dressed sensibly for that climate. Ashe has a cloak, leather armor, exposed skin, and tights; Tryndamere and Udyr fight shirtless; Olaf doesn't wear any leggings or sleeves; Braum only wears pants and a few pieces of armor, though he's also meant to be seen as a legendary Folk Hero who can withstand the harsh cold; Sejuani wears metal shoulder pads, a metal thong, and a bra, something explained as a form of Macho Masochism. Both Ashe and Sejuani are iceborn who are justified as having resistance to the cold and some control over ice magic, which might make this less suicidal. Ashe and Tryndamere are explained away as being from more Southern regions of the Northern areas, while Sejuani has since been visually updated to wear full armor. Her designer went on to explain her art was finalized and passed to the devs before he was given the memo about being from Freljord, or she would have been more covered in the first place.
-   In _The Legend of Dragoon_, Meru still wears her Stripperiffic dancer's costume in Kashua Glacier and the Snowfield, and she complains of the cold alongside Haschel. Ironically, being water elemental she should have resistance to ice.
-   The majority of the second game of _The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel_ takes place in December, with regular visits to a snow-covered mountain village. Despite this, all of the girl's outfits stop at the knees or higher. Fie's outfit is the most extreme example, consisting of a midriff-baring tank top, low-hanging short shorts, and an open jacket.
-   _The Legend of Zelda_:
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask_ deserves mention because even as Link is fine with no sleeves or pants in the snow while other characters will bundle up or shiver. Even Link will start to shiver and sneeze if he's left stationary, in both _Majora's Mask_ and _Ocarina of Time_. Seeing as he runs everywhere, movement probably keeps him warm. Stopping on a mountain gets him cold real quick. He is also fully affected by the opposite and can't stay in extremely hot areas for long until he finds a protective tunic. How exactly a Palette Swap protects from heat is another question...
    -   Averted in _The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_. Link has a body temperature gauge, and if he travels somewhere too hot or too cold without proper clothing or elixers, he'll feel it and begin to take damage. Additionally, heat and fire protection are considered two separate properties, so Gerudo clothes and armor that protect against heatstroke (and resemble what you'd find if this trope was played straight) will still burn on Death Mountain like anything else, and likewise Goron-made Flamebreaker armor does no good against ambient desert heat.
-   In _Lightning Legend: Daigo no Daibouken_, Yuki Shirogane, a Snow Girl from the icy Zehgo Village, has clothes that don't cover her legs. Another character, Forelock, lampshades this when meeting her in his storyline. She answers him it's not a problem, giving the justification that Snow People like her have a biology fit for cold weather and thus don't need a lot of clothes.
-   The main character of _Lost Planet: Extreme Conditions_ wears clothing designed to resist hypothermia, and he only takes his mask off during cutscenes. Inverted in that there is a Lethal Lava Land level, and not only does he still wear the same clothing, you're constantly losing heat even while directly above a pit of boiling lava!
-   Used intentionally in _Lunar 2: Eternal Blue_ to introduce the Mysterious Waif, Lucia. When a woman is standing _naked in a blizzard_ and doesn't seem particularly bothered by it, it's safe to assume she's not an ordinary human.
-   Averted in _The Mark of Kri_, where Rau, otherwise a Walking Shirtless Scene, puts on a heavy coat for the snowy level.
-   _Mass Effect_:
    -   In the first game, all party members wear covering armor that cannot be taken off, complete with sealed headgear for hostile environments. Come _Mass Effect 2_, all the party members have two costumes at best, and they are comfortable wearing nothing above the waist except for a mouthpiece to help them breathe... in near vacuum. Actually somewhat averted there too, since the only things you have to worry about in space are the radiation, micrometeorites, and breathing. The first two can be fixed with shielding, which everyone has.
    -   Averted again in _Mass Effect_: On ice-world Noveria, quarian Tali will sometimes if spoken to remark "I'm wearing an environmental suit, and I'm still freezing." She's wearing a sealed, thermoregulatory suit. Interestingly, other teammates will merely express minor discomfort ("The sooner we get off this frozen world, the better" — Liara), and you can visit colder worlds on non-essential side missions wherein they don't say anything. The only other awareness raised to the environment is on the volcanic, lava-pooled planet Therum, where Garrus reminds you to keep hydrated and remarks how he thought his homeworld Palaven was hot. Again, you can visit hotter planets, including a Venus-like pressure cooker of a world.
    -   There's also one planet that has chlorine gas enveloping all the lowlands. Which is apparently not an eye irritant in the _Mass Effect_ universe.
-   In _Metal Gear Solid_, Sniper Wolf exposes her cleavage even though the game takes place in the bitterly cold Alaska. Lampshaded near the end of the game when Meryl notes that Snake is missing his shirt, and Snake takes a moment to get his Sneaking Suit's top before escaping the base with Meryl.
-   Played straight in most MMORPGs. In _World of Warcraft_, you can run around colder climates in your underwear and not be any worse off (besides lacking in stats). You can also take animal companions to any climate in the world, regardless of whether or not the creature is suited for it. (Reptiles on the north pole? Sure! Bears in the desert? Why not?!) For the record, _Dungeons & Dragons_ does indeed address this issue for pet classes. That is, figure it out or your pet dies from exposure. However, armor models in Northrend are rather suitable for the climate, and you can't use flying mounts there until you learn how to fly in cold weather. Sadly, a few fans _still_ bitched about the lack of skimpy armor. Perhaps they should take a trip to the north pole in their underwear themselves sometime... Arguably justified with the Dwarves. One of their racial bonuses is frost resistance, which would logically allow them to wear less in the cold. _World of Warcraft_ also has plenty of non-player examples. Particular standouts among these are the orcs, who have a tendency to wear very minimalistic armor, no matter whether they are in a desert or in a polar environment.
-   _Monster Hunter_:
    -   The series has various armors that provide protection from the elements due to set abilities, and charms can augment this protection. Practicality is another issue, however — the Loc Lac set leaves the head and arms exposed (the right arm is usually safer than the left if you're wielding a Sword and Shield), which is never a good idea in a desert town, and the Barioth set which protects against cold is skimpy enough to raise issues.
    -   _Monster Hunter 3 (Tri)_ changes armor and armor abilities around. While the Ludroth armor is less than ideal for fiery foes, it provides much better coverage for its Negate Heat ability, and the same goes for the Plesioth armor, which is basically a wetsuit. The Lagombi armor, however, is not only resistant to Ice and Tundral cold by default, it also provides complete coverage, making it ideal for its chosen conditions.
-   In _Mount & Blade_ about a third of the map is permanently covered in snow. If you get into a battle in this area, neither you, your allies, or your enemies have any sort of wardrobe change. So if you're up against Looters, there's a good chance some of them will be running around in just their shorts, just as anywhere else on the map.
-   _Neverwinter Nights_:
    -   Averted in _Neverwinter Nights: Hordes of the Underdark_. No matter what you're wearing in chapter 3 you take cold damage. Also, Nathyrra has a particularly bad time with the cold, since she's lived all her life far enough underground that her environment was pretty warm.
    -   Though all outfits in _A Dance with Rogues_ are pretty stripperiffic, your character takes cold damage for wearing nothing or clothes defined as underwear while outside. Also, Pia complains about the cold at times.
-   Thoroughly averted in _Ni no Kuni_; Ollie and Co. are quite clearly freezing their tails off the first time they visit Winter Isles, and are quick to grab some heavy coats and gear from the nearest town. Afterwards, they'll automatically change outfits should you choose to revisit.
-   Averted in the _No One Lives Forever_ video games. The protagonist, Cate Archer, wears a coat in cold climates.
-   Lampshaded in _Odin Sphere_ with the stripperiffic Velvet: merchants on Winterhorn Ridge greet her with, "A half-naked maiden, on this mountain?" and, "Wow... you came all the way up here dressed like that?" Also subverted, as your HP is constantly dropping and you need to periodically consume warming potions
-   _Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan_: The final levels in the sequel take place when the sun has stopped working and ushered in a new ice age with everything freezing around. Doesn't stop both Cheer Girls from wearing their stripperiffic cheerleading outfits that include bare midriffs, Zettai Ryouiki, exposed shoulders, and (in the case of the first game's girls) exposed cleavage. Then again, considering they rush to the scene with a fiery aura already emanating from them and their objective being to gather enough energy to power up the sun again, it's possible that's how they stay warm.
-   _Perfect Dark_:
    -   In _Perfect Dark Zero_ Joanna Dark's outfit in a freezing cold snow-covered mountain is torn jeans, a half jacket, and a half sweater that exposes her midriff.
    -   In the original game, she wears her standard spysuit in cold climates, which one can assume is well insulated.
-   The _Persona_ games have a bit of a history of this when it comes to certain female characters.
    -   _Persona 3_ has the fashion-conscious Yukari Takeba donning a fur-lined dress for her winter casual clothes, one that leaves both her shoulders and legs completely exposed. Made oddly egregious as her summer outfit actually seems to cover more.
    -   _Persona 4_ gives us the sporty Chie Satonaka well known for wearing a short-skirted school uniform and shorts, even in the portion of the game where it starts snowing. She does upgrade to leg coverings when the group goes skiing/snowboarding, however.
    -   _Persona 5_ Has Futaba Sakura's casual clothes include Zettai Ryouiki leaving her thighs exposed in the dead of winter. Similar to the Yukari case above this is oddly contrasted by her summer clothes appearing to cover more despite the commented-on extreme heat.
-   _Pillars of Eternity II: Deadfire_ has a main game that takes place in the titular archipelago, reminiscent of Polynesia. The _Beast of Winter_ DLC takes place on the equivalent of the northern shores of Antarctica. Characters dressed for the sweltering jungles of the Deadfire express no discomfort in the frozen tundra of the White That Wends, and vice-versa.
-   Annah of _Planescape: Torment_ justifies her outfit by finding even room temperature to be uncomfortable (when she gets excited, her leather — let's face it — swimsuit starts to sizzle). At the same time, she is very resistant to cold damage.
-   _Pokémon_:
    -   In _Pokémon Gold and Silver_, Red wears a vest over a T-shirt<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  or a short-sleeved jacket<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  on a perpetually snowing mountain peak. For at least a couple years straight. The only change from his normal outfit is a pair of gloves that don't look particularly warm. One piece of official art<small>◊</small> depicts him with a winter jacket and yellow scarf, but this is never seen in any game.
    -   _Pokémon Diamond and Pearl_ gave us two new protagonists: Lucas, a guy with a t-shirt, jeans, and a backpack; and Dawn, a girl with _a mini-dress that has an outrageously short length_, boots, and a large handbag. They both have scarves and a nice hat. Why is this a big deal? Because an eighth of the game takes you through **snow up to your neck** and blizzards. Lampshaded by a girl in Snowpoint City who will exclaim "Eww! Aren't you cold with just that scarf?!"
    -   To make matters worse, when _Platinum_ rolled around, they altered the setting and the characters' wardrobes to be suited to a colder environment. Lucas got an overcoat, thicker pants, and a thicker scarf. What did Dawn get? Sleeves. No pants, no shorts, no more length to the skirt, just sleeves. Oh, and more snow to walk through. Have fun! (She did gain a coat though, but it's still open bottom.)
    -   Gym Leader Candice has the shortest skirt of any character or NPC in the history of _Pokémon_ and maybe even Nintendo as a whole, and her socks only go up to below her knee. So, Game Freak made her live in the Slippy-Slidey Ice World, and even had her walk through waist-deep snow to let you into Snowpoint Temple after the player obtained the National Dex. It was lampshaded in more then one manga, where they either question her or she has a cold.
    -   _Platinum_ gives us a short scene where we find Maylene walking to Snowpoint City to visit Candice. Note that Maylene wears a Leotard of Power, some baggy sweatpants, and is completely barefoot everywhere she goes. Slightly more justified in her case compared to Candice though, as she explains it as being part of her martial arts training, even then she wasn't entirely unaffected by the frigid cold.
    -   _Pokémon Black and White_: The female Player Character wears a sleeveless top and short-shorts, and seems perfectly fine during the winter season. Further driving the point home is how Cheren and Zinzolin, both much better dressed than she is for _Cold Storage_ (which is exactly what it sounds like), won't stop complaining about how the environs are _freezing their nuts off_. Clearly, she's twice as tough as they are, or her Plot Armor keeps her warm. Not to mention all the Cold Storage workers are wearing thick protective clothing, and at least one or two of them complain about the cold, too.
    -   Also from _Black and White_, we have the seventh Gym Leader, Brycen. He uses Ice-type Pokémon, so naturally, his Gym has an icy floor and the gaps in the floor look a bit misty, implying that it should be fairly cold in there. Brycen _is_ wearing a robe... But only about _half_ a robe, for some reason, and yet he never complains about the temperature at all.
    -   _Pokémon X and Y_ takes it a step further than all previous entries if you pick the female character. Due to the introduction of Character Customization to the series, you can dress your character in a midriff-baring top and a pair of shorts or a miniskirt, and walk around in the obligatory snowy area without a peep of complaint out of her. Oh, and one of the two midriff tops you can buy is a _parka_, presumably _designed_ to be worn in the cold, although it's sold in a warm coastal town, not the snowy one. The actual snowy town sells a turtleneck sweater, which _would_ be better protection from the cold... except it's _sleeveless_. The girls of Kalos must be tough.
    -   _Pokémon Sun and Moon_:
        -   At Mount Lanakila's peak, the coldest area in the otherwise-tropical Alola, you find Professor Kukui in his usual attire, bare chest and all. Humorously, a dialogue option with him at this point is "Aren't you cold?" This is despite a player's clothing options being limited to short-sleeves and shorts (or skirts as a girl), and yet they don't feel any cold themselves.
        -   Given the region's tropical climate, a few characters invert this; while the rest of the Aether Foundation wears clothing acceptable for a warm climate, Wicke wears a bright pink sweater. And then there's returning character Cynthia, who still wears her all-black attire complete with longcoat and boots. The possibility of heat stroke never crosses her mind, so it seems. Colress also wears a bulkier coat than he did before, though an NPC at least claims it uses coolant technology.
    -   _Pokémon Sword and Shield_ has Route 9, an area that serves as both the mandatory water route _and_ the mandatory ice route of the game. As a result, you get to spot a bunch of Swimmers hanging around in the snowy beaches of the area, wearing nothing but swimsuits, lampshading how unsuited their choice of attire is for the area.
    -   It's lampshaded in _Pokémon Legends: Arceus_, where Adaman is completely stumped to find out that Irida, with her sleeveless shirt and booty shorts, is completely fine in the Alabaster Icelands while he's freezing despite being much better dressed for the situation. Turns out her mentor, Gaeric, is a Walking Shirtless Scene who _lives_ in the Icelands, and she's clearly picked up a thing or two from him during her training days.
    -   The Spin-Off series _Pokémon Ranger_ explains in one of them that Ranger Uniforms are made with a super-insulating material, in an attempt to handwave how Rangers can explore snowy mountain peaks without discomfort. This is flimsy at best, as not only are the uniforms still short-sleeved, but anything that traps enough heat to let you survive in such cold environments would probably broil you alive in the volcano areas each game also has.
-   _Project I.G.I._: The protagonist is bare-headed and wears a navy blue jumpsuit in the first missions of the game. He continues to do so after the winter levels begin, eschewing both heat conservation and camouflage. In the first winter mission, Ekk believes he will die from exposure, and mentions on the radio to search for 10 minutes then no more.
-   _Princess Maker_:
    -   _Princess Maker 2 (Refine)_ and _Princess Maker 4_ subvert this, with Cube mentioning when Summer is unbearably hot or Winter is incredibly cold. If the player hasn't bought the clothes designated for Summer or Winter, the daughter will remark on the temperature and her parameters will suffer.
    -   _Princess Maker 3_ plays it straight, since Uzu may mention when Summer becomes very hot and it will affect how much the daughter's parameters may increase or decrease during activities, but clothes are completely cosmetic.
-   _Rabi-Ribi_: None of the characters seem to have a problem wearing very light clothing even in a tundra area (Ribbon complains about the cold exactly once and it's never brought up again). Especially notable with Rita, an ice mage who lives in the snowy area, who just wears a leotard with detached sleeves. Spoofed in one conversation, where Rita claims that it's common knowledge that the less clothing one wears, the higher their defense is.
-   Averted in _Red Dead Redemption II_. If Arthur is wearing lightweight clothing and goes up into the mountains, he'll start to freeze and have to put warm clothes on or have his health drain due to hypothermia. And if he goes to the hotter parts of the map he needs to wear light clothing or overheat.
-   _Resident Evil_:
    -   Claire in _Resident Evil – Code: Veronica_ is kidnapped and dumped in the Arctic with just a midriff-baring T-Shirt and jeans. You hear no complaints. Justified as she had no time to search for something warmer considering she had other things to worry about at the time. Lampshaded in the Battle Game. Claire's alternate mode features a stripperiffic outfit, and her idle animation involves rubbing her arms and jumping in place to get warm.
    -   _Resident Evil 6_:
        -   Carla/Ada walks around a war zone in December with only a revealing dress and high heels to ward off the cold. This is the first clue that something isn't normal about her.
        -   Can also be invoked by the player by choosing Sherry's fairly skimpy alternate costume and playing through the snow-covered mountain stage.
-   In _Rune_, Ragnar goes through the icy regions of Hlora's Pass unscathed despite being naked from the waist up after goblins stole his equipment. He later steals some Viking armor from a mook once he makes his way into the stronghold.
-   _Shantae_:
    -   _Shantae_ (2002): Lampshaded after Rottytops advises Shantae to go to Mount Pointy.
        
        **Rotty:** Er... you don't have any warmer clothes, do you?  
        **Shantae:** Why would anyone want to wear warm clothes?
        
    -   _Shantae and the Pirate's Curse_: Lampshaded when Shantae and Risky reach the game's Slippy-Slidey Ice World.
        
        **Risky:** This is it. Frostbite Island. End of the line.  
        **Shantae:** _\[while frantically trying to rub some warmth in her underclothed self\]_ Oh my gosh it's freezing! I'll take the burning sand and lava any day over this!
        
-   _Sigma Star Saga_ is one of the "ignoring temperatures for Fanservice" examples. Scarlet is introduced on a planet that's covered in ice, but there and everywhere else she wears significantly less than would be expected of any normal human female. This also applies to Psyme, but for her, it's semi-justified—most members of her species don't wear clothes in the normal sense.
-   Sonic the Hedgehog seems comfortable in zones ranging from the lava-filled depths of the Marble Zone to the snowy peaks of the Ice Cap Zone wearing nothing but his fur, White Gloves, and a pair of red shoes. Justified as his Super-Speed is bound to produce a fair amount of heat.
-   Averted in early versions of _Starbound_, where the cold could cause the player to take damage and die if they weren't wearing appropriate clothing. Eventually, this was changed to using techs that provide an all-covering, invisible shield against extreme radiation/cold/heat (depending on the tech's level, with cumulative effects). Even so, low-tier "snow" and "desert" worlds require no special protection whatsoever and can be safely explored in ordinary Floran clothing.
-   In _Star Trek Online_, players on the Klingon faction playing female Orion characters (yes, the notorious 'green alien chicks') can run around on the most ice-covered, deep-frozen worlds in little more than a metal bikini & loincloth and suffer no ill effects.
-   _Star Wars_:
    -   _Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy_ allows you to play as a female Twi'lek, with some of the outfits almost as stripperiffic as the one in the image up top (seriously, black vinyl bikini?), and this you wear in every single level in every single environment... except for in the Hoth level, where no matter what gender or species you play as, you wear the same gear the Rebels did way back in _Episode V_. (Which is appropriate, because you're going to the abandoned Echo Base.)
    -   In _Star Wars: The Old Republic_, there's a group of survivalist pirates on Hoth, a frigid planet, who go half-naked to show that they've mastered the cold. Imperial characters can learn their technique. Of course, as standard for MMORPGs, player characters don't suffer any ill effects regardless of how they dress for the cold, or the intense sunshine on Tatooine, or the industrial cesspool that is Quesh.
-   Miranda from _Steel Harbinger_ have her default outfit being a skimpy, impromptu metal frame one-piece that covers thirty percent of her body, and she can walk around in snowy Canada in that attire. Then again she's not a human anymore after suffering an Unwilling Roboticisation.
-   _Street Fighter_:
    -   Not as extreme as some examples, but take Cammy. Look at her usual outfit. Now look at her stage in _Super Street Fighter II_. It's got an aurora borealis going on, and while it's not covered in snow or anything like that, it has a late fall look to it at best.
    -   Ryu's stage in _Street Fighter Alpha 2_ takes place on a _snowy mountain_, and he fights there wearing nothing but the karate gi on his back.
    -   The last two stages from _Street Fighter X Tekken_ are explicitly in the Antarctic (one in a speeding vehicle with an open rear hatch, the other out in the snow). None of the characters bother with a coat (to say the _least_), and roughly a fourth are not even wearing shoes. A cutscene for the PlayStation Vita version plays with it: the vast majority of the characters play it straight, except for Blanka. Following behind Sakura (in her usual uniform), Blanka is wrapped up in several scarves like a mummy and is freezing his _ass_ off.
-   _Super Mario Bros._:
    -   _Super Mario 64_ has Mario running through the ice and snow wearing nothing but his shirt and overalls and is not at all bothered by the wintry environment. However, one ice level has water that is so cold that it damages Mario on contact and sends him flying as if he landed in lava. There's another body of water in the same level that is not as cold, but cold enough to sap Mario's health if he stays in it.
    -   Averted in _Super Mario Sunshine_ which has very intense sunlight on a tropical island. Should Mario lose his hat, he'll start taking damage from standing in direct sunlight since nothing is protecting his head from it. Moving towards shade like those made from a tree is a temporary measure until you can get Mario's hat back.
    -   _Super Mario Odyssey_ allows you to dress Mario up in many different outfits. The obligatory snow and ice world has a snowsuit for sale, and its Flavor Text says that after all these years, Mario _finally_ has something warm to wear in ice levels. However, the only difference between wearing that or wearing anything else is whether or not Mario shivers a little bit when standing still. There's even one Power Moon that requires Mario to strip down to only his underwear to prove he's tough enough to walk around like that in the cold. You can also invert this trope by wearing the snowsuit in a hot level. Again, the only real difference is that Mario will start panting and fanning himself when standing still.
-   The _Tales Series_:
    -   Averted in _Tales of Eternia_. When the party enters Ifrit's volcano, they don't have to change, but Undine's influence protects them from the heat (at the cost of Undine's own health, which is also implemented in the dungeon). When the party climbs Celsius' mountain as the spirit creates a bitter snowstorm over the entire surrounding countryside, they have to obtain winter gear beforehand, and their sprites even change on the mountain, though not in battle.
    -   Lampshaded in _Tales of Symphonia_. If you equip your characters with their swimsuit titles in Flanoir, the NPCs there will comment on how freezing you must be. Played with another skit in which Sheena complains about the cold, to which Genis replies that she's not wearing much. She then points out that he's even more lightly dressed than she is, after which he really starts to feel the cold.
    -   Also lampshaded in a _Tales of the Abyss_ skit — however, no amount of clothing could _possibly_ help you when you're _inside the crater of an active freaking volcano_, which is when this skit normally shows up.
    -   Played with in _Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World_, the sequel to _Symphonia_ where one skit has Presea mentioning that she's invented a midriff-baring outfit for people that nonetheless protects them from the elements and damage. Called the "Loni-Kyle".
    -   Subverted in _Tales of Destiny_: Attempting to enter a frozen river dungeon without the appropriate fur coats means you instantly freeze to death. Like Eternia, there is no physical change to the characters regardless of whether their coats are on or not.
    -   Played straight in _Tales of Vesperia_ - Judith, the most stripperiffic character of the bunch, doesn't complain about the cold at all when you take her in. Everyone else only complains when you make Sorbet.
    -   In _Tales of Graces_, Pascal doesn't mind at all when you go up to the icy northern area of the game, however Hubert _does_, even though he's more dressed for it. Pascal, however, complains about the heat when you take her into the desert area of the game. This is actually Fridge Brilliance - Hubert lives in a desert, and Pascal is actually _from_ that frozen north area, so they're used to the heat and the cold.
    -   Lampshaded in _Tales of Berseria_. Daemons like Velvet and Rokurou don't feel extreme temperatures as much, and neither do Malakhim like Eizen and Laphicet. Human party members Eleanor and Magilou absolutely _do_. Eleanor's a native of tropical Southgand, so even in a very covering dress she finds Northgand's snowfields and glaciers intolerably cold. Magilou is dressed far less conservatively and while she's used to the cold, she finds the heat of being near a volcano worth loudly bitching about.
-   _Terraria_:
    -   The closest the game has to temperature affecting the player character is an aesthetic discomfort added in 1.4 if they are out in the Tundra biome during a Blizzard, and the Expert/Master-exclusive Chilled debuff being applied when entering water in the same biome. Other than that, the player is free to go through the upper edge of the atmosphere to the freezing Tundra to the depths of Hell with no ill effects, regardless of armor or vanity costume.
        -   Even these two effects can be averted in realistically absurd ways. Players will only change their expression if the game considers them "outdoors", such that no background wall exists behind them; it's possible to be deep within the coldest, iciest caverns the game has to offer and be just fine. The Chilled debuff (aside from simply not playing on a high difficulty in the first place) can be negated either by wearing an event-exclusive hand warmer item, or by equipping a certain shield (the Ankh Shield, to be specific).
    -   The Dryad's outfit is at most a bikini made of vines. When 1.4 gave the NPCs positive and negative reactions to being in certain biomes, she still has no issue whatsoever being dressed like that in the Tundra. She _does_ dislike the Desert, but she claims that this is because it is "devoid of life."
-   _Time Gal_: Reika spends the whole game in nothing but a bikini, even when she's in the Ice Age or outer space. Somehow she never gets cold.
-   _Tomb Raider_:
    -   The original _Tomb Raider_. Lara wears khaki shorts and a T-shirt in the high Andes. The only thing for protection she wore was a cloak in the opening cutscene. And, in the second game, she wears khaki shorts and a… bomber jacket in Tibet.
    -   In the third game and _Legend_ she actually wears trousers and a coat in cold environments. She does take her coat off as a result of it catching on fire in one scene, but she is also clearly dressed in layers. _And_ when replaying completed levels, Lara can wear any of the outfits she has previously unlocked, regardless of impracticality (although the skimpy swimsuit is not wearable outside of the house level, possibly due to a programmer oversight). As well in _III_, there is one part where Lara must traverse through a body of water in Antarctica where she stays under so long, she has to use a health pack or freeze to death.
    -   _Tomb Raider: Underworld_: Lara in the final level, dives into the Arctic Ocean, with a thermal wetsuit. Though you can later replay the level wearing a regular wetsuit, which leaves her legs and some of her cheeks exposed.
    -   And again in the 2013 reboot. It's averted in the early part of the game where Lara must find shelter to make camp and wait out a storm, but later in the game, she wanders around in a snowy area without a coat. Then the climax of the game takes place on a snow-capped mountain under _gale force winds_, while dressed only in her tank top and pants from the beginning (which by that point have suffered heavy Clothing Damage). Arguably justified, however, as Lara _immediately_ notes that weather patterns on the island are not at _all_ normal and something's seriously bizarre about the local climate. Also, the rest of her wardrobe is still in her cabin on the Endurance (Assuming it didn't go overboard), which she doesn't get back to until three-quarters of the way through the game — at which point she has more pressing concerns than seeing if any of her other outfits are more intact than the one she's wearing — so she doesn't have the option of wearing more environmentally practical outfits.
    -   You can avert this trope by purchasing the DLC Aviatrix outfit, which dresses Lara in a bomber jacket.
    -   _Rise of the Tomb Raider_ has Lara traveling through Siberia for much of the game, in practical winter clothes. Until she is captured, where her captors take said clothes away from her, leaving her in a long-sleeved shirt and some pants. During her escape from her captors, she jumps into a partially frozen lake and the game treats it as her almost drowning as being worse for her, rather than the sub-zero water she was in. After that, she spends the rest of the game in an old Soviet army coat, with no clothes, or a hat, in spite of making several more jaunts into bodies of water and climbing icy ledges.
-   _Total War: Warhammer II_ plays this for laughs. When idling in her native snowy regions on the world map, the Stripperiffic Crone Hellebron will occasionally complain that she's cold and order someone to fetch a cloak.
-   In _Trials of Mana_, Altena is located in a very cold, snowy area. However, its female mages wear dresses not designed for warmth. The game states that the queen of Altena keeps their home warm with magic. On the other hand, when their princess Angela escapes the castle wearing what looks like an orange leotard, she collapses from the cold. Lucky for her, some NPCs show up to help. Due to Gameplay and Story Segregation, nothing prevents Angela from going back later. The one thing that changes in the remake is the characters' propensity to complain about the cold; even Charlotte, the most sensibly dressed character, can only put up with it for so long before she whines about it. The same can be said of Nevarlan heat, except for regional native Hawkeye.
-   Munch in _Tribal Hunter_ wears nothing but a kilt and a hoodie, which is fine for the tropical setting. Late game, Munch has to climb a mountain's snowy peak and is exposed to the cold, but he doesn't complain about it likely due to him being a walking plushie brought to life plus he can grow extremely fat, which would give him some form of warmth. Yisya, who wears nothing but a loincloth, follows Munch to the mountains to give him some items and barely complains about the cold herself, but she does snuggle against Munch when they rest in the cave in order to stay warm.
-   _Uncharted 2: Among Thieves_: After almost freezing to death in Tibet, Nate gets some winter apparel. Though he is still remarkably comfortable climbing icy, snowy walls and ledges without any gloves. His winter clothes are quite light and he doesn't wear any sort of head protection. Plus he keeps getting his pants wet in icy water and trudging through snow, causing snow to collect in huge amounts on his legs. Apparently Nate can wisecrack his way out of frostbite and gangrene.
-   _Valkyria Chronicles 4_:
    -   Used as a plot point: while nobody's exposing that much skin, army fatigues meant for temperate climates turn out to be nowhere near warm enough for a northern winter that includes around-the-clock snowfall and intermittent blizzards. Morale plummets, everyone's shivering constantly, and characters comment the cold is more of a threat than encroaching enemies. It's even reflected in gameplay, as downed units will die quicker than normal thanks to hypothermia. Then the rangers finally meet up with a supply convoy, the most exciting thing for them isn't the artillery support, reinforcements, or mobile base - it's a hot meal and warm clothes.
    -   This is played straight by Crymaria. While she does technically wears a coat, the manner in which she wears it seems to be for purely aesthetic purpose and not really for keeping herself warm. Given her powers, however, this is justified.
    -   You can also do this during gameplay since most characters can switch costumes between standard uniform and winter uniform post-story. The main characters also have swimsuits if you have the right DLC.
-   _Xena: Warrior Princess_ have the player in control of Xena, who spends every single stage in her iconic Chainmail Bikini\-esque armor. Including four levels set in a Fire and Brimstone Hell, and three in Tir'Na, a snow-covered village, where the heat or cold doesn't affect Xena at all.
-   In _Xenoblade Chronicles 1_, some members of the party complain about how cold it is upon entering Valak Mountain, but won't suffer any ill effects from it. One might think there would be some warmer-looking armor sets to be found there, but it's actually the complete opposite, as you can loot _swimsuits_ that are said to be designed for cold weather use(according to the flavor text, the person wearing them is covered in a clear, insulating gel).
-   In one of the flashback levels of _Ys VIII: Lacrimosa of Dana_, the Eternians are shown still wearing their traditional Stripperiffic outfits, despite the fact that thanks to the Lacrimosa, they were several years into an ice age. This played a large part in why most of the Eternians ended up freezing to death, with the others (apart from Dana) starving after their food animals froze to death.
-   Similar aversion in _Zack & Wiki: Quest for Barbaros' Treasure_. Zack, who wears an open sleeveless coat with no shirt and shorts throughout the game, shivers, sneezes and huddles for warmth whenever he's not doing anything in the Ice World.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Ace Attorney_:
    -   In case 5 of _Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney – Trials and Tribulations_, Phoenix, Maya and Pearl go to a temple high atop a mountain. Because of their inappropriate clothing (a simple blue suit for Phoenix, and a short-sleeved kimono and sandals for Maya and Pearl), the insanely cold weather becomes pretty harsh for Phoenix and Maya; in fact, it was the very reason why Phoenix originally _didn't_ want to go there. They soon stop paying attention to it, though (or at least stop commenting on it), and Pearl doesn't even mention it at all, despite wearing just as little as Maya and only being nine. Of course, this is the same girl who _ran_ from Kurain Village to Phoenix's office when she was only eight (a trip that takes two hours by train) without issue, so it's not too hard to believe she'd be unaffected by the cold as well. They're dressed more warmly in the anime; for example, Phoenix wears an overcoat over his suit.
    -   Soseki Natsume in _The Great Ace Attorney_ wears _geta_ sandals without socks in the frigid London winter.
-   _Heart of the Woods_ has two downplayed examples in the snowy town of Eysenfeld.
    -   Tara has a short-sleeved jacket over a moon shirt. Madison, who wears a green coat with a scarf almost all the time, worries that Tara isn't adequately dressed for the cold.
    -   Abigail wears a purple gown, which she died in, but the cold doesn't bother her because she's a ghost. Surprisingly Realistic Outcome when she comes back to life and feels the cold again, so Madison's first priority is to get her back to the cabin and loan her some warmer clothes.
-   The girls' school uniforms in _Kanon_ consist of a short dress and a capelet, and the girls who wear it don't seem to be bothered by the cold even though the story is set during winter. Similarly, Makoto wears a short skirt and isn't bothered by the cold either. Downplayed with Ayu, who's the only one of the five main heroines who actually wears a coat when she's outside, though it still leaves some of her legs exposed since she's wearing shorts underneath.
-   _Nine Hours, Nine Persons, Nine Doors_: Lotus is, for no explicable reason, wearing a skimpy bellydancer outfit throughout the game. When the party discovers a walk-in freezer, she flatly refuses to enter. Way too cold! Naturally, they get accidentally locked in while she's outside.

    Web Animation 

-   Oran in _Broken Saints_ takes off his shirt in the desert at night. While many believe that deserts are hot, at nighttime the temperature drops significantly.
-   _RWBY_: Huntsmen wear iconic outfits that project their personalities in a world where the right to express one's individual identity is taken very seriously. As a result, many combat outfits rarely take weather into account. Even in the icy tundra of Solitas or the harsh deserts of Vacuo, skin will be exposed through cleavage windows, bared midriffs, arms or legs, rolled-up sleeves, thin shirts, and so on. It's confirmed in Volume 7 that Aura, which Huntsmen are trained to amplify and use, will protect from harsh weather conditions. When Ren, Yang, and Jaune are stranded in the tundra in Volume 8, Yang begins monitoring their low Aura levels as they seek shelter, which are steadily dropping due to sustained exposure to the cold. Ordinary citizens of Mantle wrap up much more warmly because only Huntsmen are Aura-trained; when the heating grid is sabotaged, this means they're much more vulnerable to freezing to death than the Huntsmen trying to protect them are.

    Webcomics 

-   _Bomango_: Andy and Hector made a bet on a football game that if they lose, they'd shovel snow for the one person unaffected by the cold. Naturally, they lost. And to rub it in their faces even further, she is lounging around in the cold in nothing but a bikini, telling them to fetch her a drink and calling them "snow-slave".
-   Parodied in _Edemia World,_ where a female adventurer has been eating tons of magical "magma berries" that make her body warmer, so she's able to withstand the freezing snow without batting an eye.
-   In _El Goonish Shive_, this gets lampshaded when Cheerleadra, a superheroine with enhanced durability, is seen wearing her usual skimpy outfit during a snowstorm. It's a bit of a running gag that this character doesn't understand her powers very well (even though they technically came with a manual) and keeps surprising herself.
-   In _Everyday Heroes_, a flashback shows a certain ex-villain complaining about her skimpy gear.
    
    **Iron Jane:** _\[thinking\]_ OK, I'm about to commit a felony by breaking and entering... I have no moral qualms about that... and the fact that I'm dangling from a rope 200 feet above the ground doesn't bother me... but wearing this outfit while working outside in November... whoever thought that this was a good idea needs to have his frickin' head smacked.
    
-   In _Fite!_, Guz warns Lucco of winter's approach and offers him a tunic. Lucco declines, instead doing... this.<small>◊</small>
-   In _Ghastly's Ghastly Comic_, Cosplay Girl is seen wearing her usual Stripperiffic costume on the street in the middle of winter, attracting plenty of stunned looks. This is precisely the point, as she thinks to herself, "Winter is the time when you can tell the real attention whores from the simple posers."
-   Played with in this strip of _Keychain of Creation_, as Secret finally gets her revenge on Marena. It's notable that Marena refuses to dress for the snowy weather despite constantly complaining about the cold.
-   This comic called _Life of the Party_ parodies it with the female of the group agreeing to use just bikini armor in the snow, but only if everyone else in the party does as well.
-   _The Order of the Stick_:
    -   Defied by Haley, who trades out the skimpy leather armour she wore in the desert when the team heads to the arctic because "I was freezing my butt off."
        
        **Haley:** Like dungeon delving with a bare midriff, all I can say is that it seemed like a good idea at the time.
        
    -   Lien and O-Chul march through the frozen wastes of the dwarven homelands in the same clothing they wore down south in their near-tropical city. Lien says she can handle the cold due to fighting evil on the cold depths of the ocean floor, while O-Chul says his thoughts of justice and the fires of Hell keep him warm. Then they admit that their magic items also help.
        
        **Lien:** I don't know what I was thinking, trying to beat you in a paladin-off.  
        **O-Chul:** _\[smiling\]_ Through grim virtuous perseverance and the will of the Twelve Gods, I was able to triumph.  
        **Lien:** OK, OK, you won! Take it down a notch!
        
-   Ozy in _Ozy and Millie_ _sometimes_ combats the winter weather by putting on a jumper. Which sounds like an aversion, until you take into account that he still doesn't bother with pants. Then again, he is an arctic fox.
-   _Penny Arcade_ mocks _Prince of Persia: Warrior Within_.
    
    "Well, I am a Time Bitch. I can't come out here in **performance fleece**."
    
-   Spectacularly mocked (in conjunction with stripperiffic female outfits) in _RPG World_. Cherry and Diane complain about the cold as they cross a snowy mountain. Hero sympathizes because he's wearing short sleeves. Close-up of Cherry (in her shorts and sleeveless shirt) and Diane (in her quipao/cocktail dress thing) shivering. Cherry further lampshades the trope by complaining about the male, 13-25 target demographic
-   In _Rusty and Co._, neither Madeline nor Yuan-Tiffany dress foolishly, but Mimic knows the trope, and Yuan-Tiffany points out, with some vigor, that she's cold-blooded.
-   Subverted in one strip of _Sinfest_. Monique bundles up for the winter, but all the guys passing by her ignore her, so she decides to go out in her usual tube top and jeans, only to freeze instantly upon stepping out.
-   Lampshaded and parodied on this fake box art for The Frozen Funds expansion of the fictional "MMORGYPOO" _Years of Yarncraft_ from _Sluggy Freelance_, which shows a scantly-clad Rose Elf wearing little more than a cloak that literally says, "This is my _winter_ armor! Am I NUTS?" The expansion apparently also introduces the "Nude Elves".
-   This strip of _Two Guys and Guy_. Both Guy and Wayne are acting like it's summer despite it clearly being winter. This includes inappropriate attire like Guy wearing a bikini top and sunglasses or Wayne without a shirt and in swim trunks. They're even having a barbecue outside while it's snowing.
-   One of the bonus arts of _TwoKinds_ involves a character sunbathing in the snow; then again, she _is_ a snow leopard.

    Web Original 

-   Lampshaded several times in _Occupy Richie Rich_, as the titular child never wears pants, even in colder environments (including _the North Pole_). The site's reactions to this grow increasingly angry.
-   Gloriana of the _Whateley Universe_ is wearing her Leotard of Power under her street clothes in the middle of winter in Boston (while on a _shopping trip_, mind you), only to find out the hard way that this trope doesn't apply to her when she doffs her mufti. Worse, she left her cape at home because it was too bulky to hide in a purse.

    Websites 

-   _SCP Foundation_:
    -   A non-fanservice example from the SCP-4666, also known as the "Yule Man", always appears as a naked, emaciated old man and frequently appears in snowy regions in the dead of winter and lives in an underground cavern where one of his victims claims it was "too cold to sleep".
    -   Another non-fanservice example, SCP-096, a humanoid creature that flies into a rage whenever someone looks at its face, is animalistic in behavior and thus doesn't wear clothing. In its initial recovery, the sole survivor of the team sent to catch it states it was freezing cold, yet 096 didn't even shiver despite being naked.

    Web Videos 

-   Benzaie in _Suburban Knights_ plays Conan the Barbarian, lack of shirt and everything, despite being in the Windy City (and the weather was part of the Troubled Production, as the cold and wind disturbed basically all the cast with the exception of Phelous, whose Rockbiter costume was basically a hoodie).

    Western Animation 

-   A one-time character in an episode of _American Dad!_ is a cheerleader in a midriff-baring outfit asking Steve why he stopped rummaging through her trash. Note how the rest of characters are dressed for winter but not her.
-   _Avatar: The Last Airbender_:
    -   Sokka and Katara have furs for the cold weather, but Aang appears to suffice with a light suit/robe in the South Pole. Apparently, all of the Air Nomads are fine wearing that much even though they all live on mountains. In Avatar Extras, it's revealed that Aang knows a special breathing technique that keeps him warm while he's sleeping.
    -   Averted and justified with Zuko. In the first season finale, he covers himself head to toe in protective gear, and is able to survive swimming in freezing waters due to a special breath technique that allows him to _breathe fire_. However, he is in very real danger of freezing to death the whole time, which prompts Aang to take him with them after he gets knocked unconscious. Two seasons later, he gets stuffed in a "cooler" (a cross between a solitary confinement cell and a freezer) and uses the "breath of fire" technique to keep himself warm.
    -   _The Legend of Korra_:
        -   Korra spends most of her time in Republic City in a shirt with the sleeves ripped off, even though the first two books take place in autumn and winter respectively. Of course, as the Avatar, she has access to both airbending and firebending for special breathing techniques for retaining heat, never mind the fact that she's from the South Pole. When they actually go to the South Pole, she does bundle up, though still not as much as everyone else.
        -   Bolin's outfit in the "mover" as Nuktuk definitely counts as this, as does his castmate Ginger's.
-   Betty Boop wears her short-skirted and shoulder-less flapper dress even in the extremely snowy weather, in the cartoon "Snow White".
-   Inverted in _Ben 10: Omniverse_. Esther, a half-human member of an alien species who can only survive in extreme heat, still has to wear a parka to go outside during a heatwave, since otherwise she'd be too cold. And that's _with_ her human genes making her more resistant to the cold. The other members of her species all live around a giant furnace underground, and their plan involves breaking open the crust of the Earth and letting lava flow onto the surface so they can take over Bellwood without freezing to death.
-   Inverted in one episode of _The Boondocks_, where Huey continues wearing heavy winter gear in the middle of an unexpected heat-wave during winter. He doesn't seem too concerned about the heat, but everyone else keeps asking him why he's still wearing all those layers.
-   In The Boss Baby Christmas Bonus, Tim and the two babies who accompany him to the North Pole aren’t dressed for the occasion, special mention goes to Jimbo the giant baby who is clad in only a diaper, yet none of them complain about being cold.
-   Averted in _Conan the Adventurer_ of all places. Although they all suffer from Limited Wardrobe, everybody has a cold outfit they switch to when climbing mountains, or journeying north. Conan goes from his trademark loin cloth to being covered from head to toe in fur.
-   A self-conscious reference appears in _Drawn Together_, in which one member of the fictional League of Heroes is named "Not Dressed for This Weather Woman".
-   Karen from _Frosty the Snowman_ doesn't wear any snow pants nor stockings when playing outside in the snow, though she does get cold when she and Frosty are in the freezer storage compartment on the train and later when it snows heavily. Her schoolmates don't have long pants for the same reason, with the blonde girl wearing a short-sleeved dress without any signs of winter gear.
-   _Futurama_:
    -   Amy is so committed to wearing midriff-baring clothes that when the characters go ice fishing in the episode "Cold Warriors", she wears a belly _parka_.
    -   Played with in "Birdbot of Icecatraz", where Leela wears a parka on Pluto along with the rest of its human inhabitants. Seems reasonable, until she mentions that it's _below absolute zero_ outside, taking windchill into account.
-   _Gargoyles_:
    -   The Gargoyles wander around in all climates in those handsome barbarian shorts. Goliath actually says that cold does not bother them early in the series, although in a later episode, a different one complains about the cold. Maybe he just can't get as many updrafts.
    -   Elisa nearly freezes to death on the "world tour", when their open skiff emerges from Avalon in Norway, and they need to move fast to get her to shelter and warm clothes.
-   Averted in _Justice League Unlimited_ episode "The Balance". Upon entering the center of Tartarus, which is frozen, Hawkgirl begins complaining about the temperature and becomes _very_ irritated when she learns that Wonder Woman's "armor" magically shields her from the cold.
-   In various Looney Tunes shorts Porky Pig still never wears pants outside in the snow.
-   _The Owl House_ is usually pretty good about avoiding this, as characters are shown to bundle up whenever they travel to the frozen peak of the Knee. However, it's played straight in the Grand Finale when Luz, Eda, and King take a brief trip there without taking the time to get changed and don't have any trouble standing in the snow. While this could be explained by the Collector being with them and presumably casting a spell to keep them warm, no mention of it is made.
-   _Samurai Jack_:
    -   In "Jack and the Three Blind Archers", Jack goes up against the titular archers a second time while blindfolded and wearing nothing but a fundoshi, even though it's in the middle of winter. In "XCIV", he later fights the Daughters of Aku during winter while wearing nothing but a shredded loincloth.
    -   Ashi and her sisters, the Daughters of Aku, have worn what seemed to be black ninja suits, however the sixth episode of Season 5 revealed that those aren't actually suits of clothing. They were forced by their mother to bathe in burning hot coals, which meant that they were actually _naked_ all the time. Not even walking around outside during a cold, snowy winter seems to bother them at all. When Ashi later rubs and washes off the coal suit from her body, she makes a new outfit made of leaves.
-   Frequently inverted in _South Park_. The kids are wearing winter outfits most of the time, even in such places as sub-Saharan Africa, the tropical rainforest, and Afghanistan. It was even lampshaded when a doctor asked Kenny if it was hot under his parka.
-   _Stripperella_ is always featured in skimpy revealing clothing, even when at a ski resort. It's repeatedly stated that one of Stripperella's powers is that she's impervious to all temperatures and weather conditions.
-   _Tangled: The Series_: In the first season, Rapunzel actually _did_ dress for cold weather, including actually putting on some boots. Not so in the final season, which has two episodes where she goes to a snowy area and just wears her normal outfit, bare feet included (though to be fair, the first time wasn't intentional since her balloon was shot down, but the second time was). She does find it cold, but no more so than anyone else.
-   Averted with Bull Gator and Axl from _Taz-Mania_. Normally they wear a red bandanna and a hat, and in the case of Bull, a brown vest, but in the case of cold weather, they wear jumpers under their bandannas.
-   In the 2012 _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles_ cartoon, April's friend Irma's only concession to the snow is a scarf wrapped around her neck, but she still walks around in a tank top and a short skirt. It's another hint that she's actually a Kraang robot.
-   Averted in _Teen Titans_. When the team goes to Siberia on a mission, most of them wear modified costumes suited for cold weather, such as Raven's fur-trimmed cloak. The only exceptions are Starfire, who isn't bothered by cold (at least until a heavy snowstorm takes its toll), and Beast Boy, who quickly regrets the decision and takes various animal forms to avoid freezing. The locals draw attention to Starfire's outfit rather quickly, but for different reasons.
-   _ThunderCats_:
    -   Averted somewhat. After New Thundera reforms, they get snowsuits for when they're travelling in winter areas. And the first time we meet Snowman of Hook Mountain, Lion-O has a cape to billow dramatically around his bare legs and arms, but when the other ThunderCats show up all of them are dressed in their normal uniforms.
    -   On Thundera, they _didn't wear anything_ except for utility or mark of office. During the voyage to Third Earth, Jaga was explaining to them how on this hostile new world they were going to have to wear clothes to deal with the environment (of course, that depends on your definition of clothes). Apparently life was so good on Thundera, it was Crystal Spires and Togas minus the togas.
-   _Winx Club_:
    -   The girls traipse through the dead, blizzard-y galaxy of Sparks/Domino in their skimpy fairy outfits. To be fair, they are wearing magical cold-weather suits, which may have carried their protection against the elements when the girls transformed. Their class also went on a hiking expedition in a swamp in school-issued hiking uniforms consisting of short-shorts.
    -   Averted in Season Four, when the Winx are given their Lovix forms specifically to keep them from freezing to death while inside Aurora's flying glacier fortress. Unfortunately, Roxy doesn't have access to that form and almost freezes to death before one of the Earth fairies casts a spell that keeps her warm. Which is weird, since Roxy is at the same power stage that the Winx were when they went to Domino/Sparx in the first season (the basic first form), as are all the generic Earth "warrior" fairies that seem to be perfectly fine walking around a giant chunk of ice.
    -   They do go back to this trope when they go to the Omega Dimension (which is basically an ice dimension where the prisoners are frozen alive; the fact that it's ice is how Icy freed herself, Darcy, Stormy, and Valtar in the beginning of Season 3) chasing the Wizards of the Black Circle in the finale. They are back to their Believix forms, which are not cold-resistant (which was supposedly the whole reason they needed the Lovix forms in the first place).
-   _Xiaolin Showdown_: In "Ring of the Nine Dragons", the monks don't wear winter clothes for most of the episode (only Omi does during his showdown against Jack), but don't complain about the cold. Special mention goes to Kimiko, whose outfit in this episode consists of a crop top and a skirt. Averted in other episodes, where they wear appropriate clothes during cold weather.
-   Played straight and then subverted in the Sick Episode of _The X's_, where most of the family gets sick following a mission in sub-zero temperatures at the beginning, leaving Tuesday, the only one who bothered to wear her snowsuit, to take care of them.

    Real Life 

-   Marilyn Monroe performed to American troops in Korea in February 1954, where she wore a sexy dress despite the freezing cold.
-   In 2009, Kristina Addington, a PETA protester, and several other girls stood nearly naked on a street corner in Edmonton in -15 degree temperatures holding paper signs that read "Only Animals Should Wear Fur".
-   In any part of the world where the snow flies in the winter, you are guaranteed to find young women going to nightclubs in skimpy evening wear despite the cold. To be fair, in most cases, the longest they spend outside is walking from their car to the club; hopefully they don't suffer a flat or breakdown.
    -   People in the north-east of England have a notoriety for this sort of thing in the rest of Britain. Anyone not wearing minimal clothing in the Bigg Market, Newcastle, in a blizzard at midnight on a Saturday in January is likely to be a tourist. Justified in that the inside of pubs and clubs on Friday and Saturday night tends to be very warm because of the mass of people and the heating being on quite high, and coats having a tendency to get lost, spilt on, pickpocketed or taken means they get left at home.
    -   Even without the excuse of going to parties and other such events, most women in Japan in the wintertime will continue to keep their legs exposed to the freezing air. It's long been the fashion in Japan for women to wear skirts and shorts that only go down to their legs at most, regardless of season, though their upper bodies are well protected from the cold. This is why in anime, manga, and Japanese video games, you'll often find female characters dressed for frigid weather wearing thick long-sleeved jackets, warm heavy hats, earmuffs, and short skirts—they really _do_ dress like that during winter.
-   Many places in the United States and Europe host "Polar Bear Plunges" every New Year's Day, in which people strip down to bathing suits and jump into an icy lake or ocean.
    -   A Russian Orthodox Church religious rite involves celebrating a midwinter feast day<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  by breaking the ice in a river or a dedicated plunge-pool and immersing yourself in cold icy water. This is total immersion. Not once but three times. Celebrants tend to do this in bathing costumes and as often as not make a party day of it. YouTube has lots of videos
-   While not at the levels of anything above, some people do have the ability to resist cold temperatures, leading to them walking around in what would normally be heavy clothing weather for the locals wearing a t-shirt and shorts and feeling little to no effect despite living in the area all their life.
-   It's possible to get used to extreme temperatures, given time. In Arizona, for example, it's often joked that you can tell someone is from out-of-state by the fact that they refuse to go outside in the summer while everyone else is out and about. For context, summers in Arizona _regularly exceed one hundred degrees Fahrenheit_ <sup> *&nbsp;</sup> .
-   Some mammals adapted to cold conditions, such as llamas and alpacas, have large bald patches on their underbellies to allow them to shed excess heat when they're running. When they're staying put and not in danger of overheating, they shield these patches from extreme cold by curling up or lying with their legs folded between their bare skin and the ground.
-   Russian Free Diver Natalia Avseenko did a nude photo shoot with Beluga whales near the Arctic Circle. The water was just above freezing, and while most people could die of hypothermia within five minutes, she has learned some breathing and yoga techniques that allow her to stay in the water for up to ten minutes.
-   Also in Russia, a pair of models made scantily-clad photo shoots with a bear in the snow for a wildlife awareness campaign.
-   The infamous "Forty Below Club" at the University of Alaska-Fairbanks. Not a club per se, but a longstanding tradition of students stripping down to their underwear in the middle of winter and _quickly_ taking a photo near the university sign as it displays the temperature, which can drop to -40 degrees in subarctic Fairbanks.
-   The old Amundsen-Scott South Pole Station had an even more extreme version of this, the "300 Club". When it reaches -100F, go to the sauna wearing only boots. Screw with the temperature control so it reaches 200F. When you can't stand the heat any longer, _run outside completely naked_ into a 300-degree temperature change until you can't stand that, then go back inside. Best done with a buddy waiting to let you back in, so you don't freeze your fingers to the outside handle of the door.
-   Just about every goth is familiar with the inverse of this: Black clothes + summertime = no fun. Gothic Charm School has a post on this issue here: https://gothic-charm-school.com/charm/?p=980.
-   Dramatically inverted by Erwin Rommel, who would often wear a black leather trenchcoat _while in the North African desert_.
-   Averting this trope is the reason behind Cleveland's annual indoor fair, the IX Indoor Amusement Park, held at the International Exposition Center ("The IX Center" is local shorthand for the fair, even though the Center holds various conventions and exhibitions throughout the year). The fair runs from late March to mid-April, meaning it's technically spring, but in Cleveland, it's still cold and possibly snowing until mid-April at the earliest.
-   The Yaghan, an indigenous people of stormy sub-Antarctic Tierra del Fuego, traditionally wore no clothing at all. They were able to survive by covering themselves in animal grease and huddling around fires whenever they could; they were also observed to have evolved higher metabolisms than the average human, allowing them to generate more internal body heat (a whole degree higher than the average European's, by some estimates).
-   The Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade is usually held in temperatures of 40-50 Fahrenheit (in the single digits for Celsius). Broadway musicals in the parade have to rehearse and perform in this weather, resulting in aired segments where the audience are all dressed appropriately warmly while cast members wear their show costumes. For example, _In the Heights_ takes place during a few days in a very hot summer in Washington Heights, so the cast are dressed in summer clothing. Natalie Mendoza as Satine in _Moulin Rouge!_ stands out for starting the performance in a revealing dress, and then she takes it off to reveal an even more revealing costume beneath. Similar to the athlete example above, though, musical theatre actors wearing weather-inappropriate clothing still have to sing and dance to the best of their abilities, with some shows having intense choreography, so the threat of hypothermia is somewhat diminished.

___