_"They can't break you if you don't have a spine."_

Humble, quiet, obedient, stoic; the Extreme Doormat is all of these virtues... and that's all they are. A "doormat" is a slang term for someone who lets other people walk all over them, much like the mat you'd wipe your feet on before coming into someone's home. The Extreme Doormat lacks drive, ambition, boundaries, and in extreme cases even _opinions_. Something about them just drives them to make _everyone_ happy, even at the expense of their own happiness, and kowtow to every order and insult they're given, no matter how ridiculous or unfair it may be to them.

Naturally, such a narratively empty character won't start drama, so they're usually a Satellite Character, Battle Butler, trusty companion, or part of a love harem for the more active hero. Part of being the Extreme Doormat is that they will obey just about any command from their love/hero/superior officer short of the suicidal ones (and sometimes even those). Sometimes, this can result from an Empty Shell with combat training under Mind Control. Or it could result from a character who Desperately Needs Orders as it would be a possible way for them to get people to give them orders.

A common Character Arc for the Extreme Doormat is the discovery or growth of their own personality and backbone. Be it by having a true friend Teach Him Anger, confronting their (ab)user or being the subject of Character Development or even a Mook–Face Turn when the hero who treats them nicely encourages them to abandon a boss who doesn't, or a "lover" who keeps them dependent.

Frequently Apologises a Lot. Often the victim of those Taking Advantage of Generosity.

Contrast Yamato Nadeshiko and Silk Hiding Steel, both of which _appear_ to be this trope but have a hidden backbone that _will not_ bend, and Hair-Trigger Temper, who will _overreact_ about anything. Compare and contrast Love Martyr, which is, mostly, not this trope. Goes with Conditioned to Be Weak, where a powerful character is only docile and submissive because they are conditioned to follow orders and/or fear their leader.

___

## Example Subpages:

-   Anime & Manga
-   Literature
-   Live-Action TV
-   Western Animation

## Other Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Comic Books 

-   In _Archie Comics_, Archie has been known to do this to Betty, e.g., asking her to do his homework while he takes Veronica to the dance. And Veronica sometimes does this to Archie.
-   In _Convergence: Supergirl: Matrix #1_, Matrix just seems to roll with whatever insult Lex Luthor throws at her.
-   When Magneto ran the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants, the doormat role was played by the appropriately named Toad.
-   _Robin (1993)_: Tim's classmate Philmont Denlinger never stands up for himself when he's being bullied and goes off with Meachum and "Stanz" on his own without argument even though he knows that at best they're going to rough him up. They end up beating him to death.
-   Insignificus in _Secret Six_. He does anything a member of the Secret Six says while lamenting that he is not worthy to shine their shoes
-   Mikołaj, one of the main characters in _WILQ – Superbohater_, is constantly mocked by Wilq and his friends, and occasionally he becomes a victim of their practical jokes, but he's never seen fighting back or even getting angry at them.
-   X-23, of all people, spent time as one when she was a prostitute under the violently controlling and abusive pimp, Zebra Daddy. She lets him walk all over and control her even though she could _tear him to shreds_ if she wanted to. And eventually she does. To a certain extent, she was this when still under the control of the Facility, as well, allowing Rice to subject her to horrific amounts of physical and emotional abuse even though, like Daddy, she could kill him in seconds. And once again, eventually she does. Though not in seconds...

    Comic Strips 

-   _Peanuts_: Linus Van Pelt is another good example, due to being naturally introverted and having a dictatorial big sister who is also physically stronger than him. (Actually, Lucy has this effect on lots of men, including Schroeder.) Linus finally reached his breaking point at the end of a story arc that started when he rashly promised his "blanket-hating" grandmother that he'd stop carrying around his blanket as soon as she stopped smoking, thinking she was too much of an addict to ever quit — and Grandma did just that! After demanding Linus fulfill his end of the bargain and forcibly taking the blanket from him, Lucy spent the next week or so taunting her brother, who was already such a nervous wreck that he was fainting several times a day. Linus went so far as to hire a private detective (Snoopy, who else?) to try to steal the blanket back, but no luck. Grandma finally relieved Linus of his promise after she admitted to him that she had sneaked a cigarette, only for Lucy to not only refuse to give the blanket back but to claim that Linus had proved he could survive without his blanket and no longer needed it — and that it was time for the blanket to be burned. With Linus following after her and fruitlessly pleading, Lucy took the blanket to a garbage bin (which she lied was actually a furnace) and performed a "liberation" ceremony that ended with her tossing the blanket right into the "furnace". Linus let out an unearthly scream, furiously fished his blanket out of the bin, and then let his bitchy sister have it with all the righteous anger at his disposal.
    
    **Linus:** Nobody's going to treat me that way anymore! Who do you think you are to tell me what to do? And Grandma, who does she think _she_ is? When Mom tells me I have to give up this blanket, I'll do it, but that doesn't go for anyone else, YOU HEAR ME?!  
    _\[Lucy is temporarily cowed into silence\]_  
    **Charlie Brown:** Hooray!  
    **Lucy:** Oh, shut up!
    
-   Caspar Milquetoast from the 1920s comic strip _The Timid Soul_. His name went into the dictionary as a word for this trope.
-   Deanna from _For Better or for Worse_ lets her family walk all over her, especially her husband and children. It’s implied that she fears turning into her domineering mother Mira, so she goes the opposite route and goes along with Michael’s questionable choices, Meredith and Robin’s Bratty Half-Pint behavior, and Elly and Mira’s meddling.

    Fan Works 

-   Orion Black from _The Black Sheep Dog Series_ is a weirdly zigzagged example. Being the acting head of a Noble Wizarding family, he is proud, bigoted, and autocratic — used to making orders and getting what he wants. But to the other members of his clan, he's considered soft-hearted, weak-willed, and indulgent. He gets frequently chewed out by his father and his wife for letting the others walk all over him and rarely reacts when people insult him. He was also intimidated by his younger son after the latter became a Death Eater and proceeded to avoid Regulus until the latter almost died. He apparently sees himself as being "unneeded" and doesn't attempt to seek treatment for the disease that's slowly killing him because he doesn't see much point in living anymore.
-   Although a lot of it is heavily dependent on the individual writer due to the general nature of these works, the Newfoals (humans turned into ponies through a magical potion) in _Conversion Bureau_ deconstruction fics are frequently characterized as this with shades of the Stepford Smiler.
    -   In _The Conversion Bureau: Not Alone_ and its sequel _The Conversion Bureau: Conquer the Stars_, the newfoals are able to get sad, scared, and even annoyed and frustrated, but they never really get angry or assert themselves. The natural-born ponies are revealed to be just as unsettled by this as the humans are.
    -   _The Conversion Bureau: The Other Side of the Spectrum_ takes it Up to Eleven, with the newfoals being so utterly drained of free will, that one human character actually wonders if they even possess any higher brain function besides praising Celestia. They are also routinely exploited for their passiveness too, being used as meat shields to soak up bullets in suicide attack runs, will literally work themselves to death if they aren't told to take a rest break, and Prime!Twilight Sparkle notes at one point that the native-born ponies could treat them like utter garbage and they would just happily take it.
    -   In _The Negotiations-verse_, the newfoals are described as such. Twilight Sparkle admits that even when she still had complete faith in Celestia, the newfoals always rubbed her the wrong way with how they always seemed to be _too_ nice and happy. Similarly, Halberd Wings even admits that he finds it unsettling how the newfoals never say "no" to anything natural-born ponies ask of them, including requests for sex.
-   _Hetalia: Axis Powers_ fanfic _Gankona, Unnachgiebig, Unità_: Japan is this most of the time. _Most_, except for when he fights Germany over Italy.
-   In the latter parts of the _Gensokyo 20XX_ series, an age-regressed Reiimu is noted to take any sort of abuse coming to her and does so without hesitance, as cruelty is half of what she knows, thus she's learned to put up with it. However, she does have exceptions, particularly in the case of Baka, who she tricked and hit with her IV pole, and Yume Ni, who she stabbed with a pair of scissors.
-   Blaine in _Hunting the Unicorn_ is Cerebus Retconned into this, Played for Drama AND laughs. His friends the Warblers call him Kurt's bitch (though they're also the first to defend him whenever he gets in trouble), and he's a Love Martyr who lacks self-esteem, constantly defends his neglectful father, and has a _lot_ of baggage. Then he's so sheltered and idealistic that he tried to invoke Sex Equals Love at _sixteen_. It went badly.
-   The _The Loud House_ _"Nightmares"_ features Lincoln being Mind Raped into this trope, to the horror of his sisters once they pick up on unusual behavior.
-   In _Lucky Number Thirteen_, Ana admits she has a tendency to let people walk all over her, especially Christian (which is definitely true of the original as well). Sharon makes a point of stating this is _not_ the same thing as being sexually submissive and that it's troubling that Christian suggested to her they were the same thing.
-   Fern Potter in _More Than Her Mother_. No matter the provocation, the most she ever does is make soft-voiced, perfectly factual statements that are _always_ misconstrued by the Dursleys.
-   Harry Potter becomes this in _No Curiosity_ when the child abuse he receives at the hands of his relatives leads to psychological problems.
-   _The One to Make It Stay_: While he's perfectly comfortable asserting himself as Chat Noir — especially when it comes to pursuing a romantic relationship with Ladybug over her protests — Adrien repeatedly balks at the prospect of standing up for himself or anyone else as _Adrien_. Instead, he prefers dealing with uncomfortable situations by ignoring them in hopes that they'll go away, or smoothing things over by defending the aggressors and telling their victims that _they_ should be the ones to make amends.
-   In the _Discworld_ as envisaged by A.A. Pessimal, a classroom bully makes the error of thinking this about the youngest daughter of Ponder Stibbons. Just because Ruth Smith-Rhodes-Stibbons is quiet, shy, intellectual, and physically takes after her father, people might make the mistake of thinking she is a doormat who won't fight back. Ruth warns the bully twice, mildly and gently. But the bully pushes it for a third time. Ruth then takes the classroom compasses and stabs the bully in the hand with them, pinning her hand to the table. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> .
    
    I asked you not to do that. But you wouldn't listen, would you?
    
-   Dominic in _Pink Personal Hell And Altering Fate_ shows traces of this. When Pinkie Pie and Gummy (literally!) walk all over him, he doesn't do anything except voice his annoyance. It's implied that he is often this way with other people, becoming a borderline Hikkikomori. Nickel Steel is also this way at first, never leaving the bedroom unless escorted out, constantly thinking he wasn't able to do anything, never speaking to ponies unless introduced, but he starts opening up to others. Revealed to be Dominic's Character Development. Although he still lets Pinkie Pie jump all over him.
-   In the universe of _Pokémon Reset Bloodlines_, the spin-off _Charmander Gaiden_\- looking at the life lived by Ash's future Charizard in this new reality when he was still a Charmander- depicts Charmander as this, basically allowing his trainer Damien to treat him like his losses and failures are all his personal fault, constantly blaming himself for his perceived inability to protect his first trainer from a flock of Spearow.
-   _The Pokémon Squad_: Henry, June's much-abused boyfriend.
    
    **Henry:** "I am not a pushover!"  
    **RM:** "You totally are!"  
    **Henry:** "Okay."
    
-   The titular character from the _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fanfic _Quizzical_. Overcoming her tendency toward this, if only somewhat, is the point of the story.
-   _Seth in the Pokécity_:
    -   Vinny, who is the much abused assistant to Flosshead the Dinosaur. As Flosshead Took a Level in Jerkass, Vinny appeared to be more and more of a doormat forgiving him over and over again. While Barney and Reko wouldn't put up with his behavior, Vinny almost always overlooked whatever he did, from pranks to genuine acts of cruelty.
    -   Seth himself is also an Extreme Doormat, especially to his wife, Misty.
-   Kiriha Sadamune of _Tales of the Undiscovered Swords_ who has abuse heaped on him by his Big Brother Bully Ishida, and yet makes no attempt to speak out about the mistreatment and willingly lets his master favor said Big Brother Bully over him. He breaks out of his doormat status near the end when he kicks Ishida to the curb for trying to kill the saniwa for petty reasons, though he later feels _guilty_ for it and _blames himself for manifesting a human form and bringing nothing but trouble_.
-   In _Walk On The Moon_, Hinata Hyuga is one. Just how bad and unhealthy she has it becomes a major issue during the Forest Of Death training arc.
-   _A Year To Fill An Empty Home_: Joker's parents, Takeshi and Chou are both like this at the start of the story, too passive to protest their son's arrest very strongly, defend him when others put him down as a delinquent, or, in the case of Takeshi, argue when his boss puts him down for overtime on a project that would force him to spend more time away from his wife. A lot of their Character Development involves them overcoming this.
-   _Vow of Nudity_: Spectra begins her story working in the circus, after a lifetime of being browbeaten into submission by the eternal mistrust of the townsfolk and the embarrassing nature of her career. When she develops magical ability, she resolves to get better at not being this.

    Films — Animation 

-   Belle in _Beauty and the Beast: The Enchanted Christmas_. She went from not taking any of the Beast's shit to being his "cheerful lifecoach". Such a striking contrast to her role in the original _Beauty and the Beast_.
-   Flounder from _The Little Mermaid (1989)_, who usually just goes along with Ariel's whims. He complains often, but always ends up just doing what she or Sebastian says.
-   Human!Twilight in _My Little Pony: Equestria Girls – Friendship Games_ doesn't get along with her extremely competitive and selfish classmates. She's constantly being pushed around, glared at, and mocked. Sugarcoat outright calls her one after a combo of abuse.
    
    **Sugarcoat:** You are kinda being a doormat right now.
    
-   Lawrence from _The Princess and the Frog_, who starts out as Naveen's put-upon servant and then becomes the Shadow Man's (at first reluctant, soon eager) villainous sidekick. No matter who he ends up working for, though, the film makes it clear that Lawrence is always pushed around because he's too meek to stand up for himself.
-   In _Turning Red_, Jin seems to be this as a Henpecked Husband to the domineering Ming.
-   Poor Fix-It Felix Jr. from _Wreck-It Ralph_. He's so much of a Nice Guy, the bystanders he saves on a daily basis from Ralph (in-game) take advantage of his kindness to force him to keep Ralph out of his own _30th-anniversary party_. When you think about it, Felix is just as much The Woobie as Ralph. Just in a different way.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   Elliot is one at the start of _13 Sins_, being completely subservient to the needs of his father, his brother, and his boss. Only his fiancee does not take advantage of his obliging nature.
-   Chip is this at the start of _68 Kill_, allowing himself to be bullied into going along with whatever Liza proposes: even when that is a robbery that turns into murder. He starts to stand up for himself when he decides he cannot allow Liza to sell Violet to her brother for his new 'hobby' (which is murder and necrophilia). After he escapes with Violet, she helps him to grow a spine.
-   There's a line in the first _Austin Powers_ movie that suggests Number Two sees himself as having behaved this way over the years. Of course, Dr. Evil bullies and abuses all his henchmen pretty much equally (though not Frau Farbissine and Alotta Fagina, of course), but only Number Two is ambitious enough to believe himself the Doctor's equal. This is then followed by a Double Subversion: Dr. Evil initially appears remorseful for having made his right-hand man cry, and suddenly adopts a paternal stance, but then he changes his mind and executes Number Two anyway.
    
    **Dr. Evil:** Silence, Number Two!  
    **Number Two:** NO! _\[sobbing\]_ I'm sick of you pushing me around!
    
-   George McFly was like this in _Back to the Future_ before Marty helps him take a level in badass in 1955.
-   In _Beast (2017)_, Moll starts out as one to her family, meekly doing whatever they ask of her, never standing up to them, and dissolving into tears when her mother tells her off for going out alone without telling anyone (for reference, she's twenty-seven) but she quickly starts to rebel after she meets Pascal.
-   Nicholas Ray's _Bigger Than Life_ portrays a sympathetic and gut-wrenching depiction in Lou Avery (Barbara Rush), the '50s housewife who more or less has to enable, on account of social stigma and high expenses, her husband Ed's psychotic episodes, even if it involves subjecting herself to emotional and verbal abuse.
-   Nina starts out like this in _Black Swan_.
-   The Winter Soldier in _Captain America: The Winter Soldier_ is this to HYDRA, despite the fact that he is one of the most dangerous men on the planet. This serves to highlight just how thoroughly Brainwashed and Crazy Bucky is, and makes him an even more Tragic Villain.
-   In _Coming to America_, the woman Prince Akeem was to enter an Arranged Marriage was groomed to be an Extreme Doormat, totally compliant to his every whim and wish. Unfortunately, Prince Akeem didn't like the idea of being married to such a woman, and his desire to find a woman with a bit of spine begins the plot of the movie.
-   Harry in _Dumb and Dumber_. Throughout the movie, he comes off as a little smarter and more sensible than Lloyd but for the most part goes along with everything Lloyd does partly because he's just very passive.
-   Kyoko from _Ex Machina_ takes Nathan's verbal abuse for spilling wine on Caleb without protest, and seems to assume that any man present wants to use her for sex. It appears to be part of her programming.
-   Stu from _The Hangover_, who allows his girlfriend to abuse him, cheat on him, and boss him around...until he finally stands up to her at the end.
-   Herbert Russell in _Laughter in Paradise_ is a timid bank clerk who kowtows to everyone, and is too scared to ask out the girl he likes. His On One Condition in Henry's will is designed to help him grow a backbone.
-   Lea in _Loves Complicated_ does her very best to avoid hurting anyone and agrees to anything people say. Her boyfriend finally gets tired of this and signs her up for a conflict management class.
-   George in _Mona Lisa_ allows his gangster boss Mortwell and Simone, the prostitute he chauffeurs and falls in love with, to push him around and use him.
-   _Murder Party_: The plot kicks off because Chris, a rather pathetic loser, asks his cat to get off his recliner so he can watch movies, but the cat ignores him, so Chris abandons his plans and goes out to a mysterious "Murder Party" instead.
-   _Office Space_: Milton pitifully complains whenever someone in the office pushes him around, which seems to be daily, but he ultimately complies with whatever is demanded of him. When he's pushed too far, however, The Dog Bites Back.
-   _One Foot in Heaven_ has Hope Spence, Rev. William Spence's devoted wife. In 1941 when the film was released, she was no doubt meant to be an inspiring example of a virtuous wife who supports her husband. To a 21st-century viewer, however, Mrs. Spence comes off as this. William makes her leave her family and come with him to the U.S., he tells her that she can't redecorate the dingy parsonage they move into, he tells her she can't dress nice because that might outshine the other ladies in the congregation, he tells her they have to go hungry because advertising for his wedding services is "too commercial", he refuses the much cushier posting in California that she wanted him to take, he disregards her wishes about naming their third child, and he forces her to leave for another crappy district just when things have been fixed up nicely in their Iowa home. At no point in the film does William ask her about any of these life choices; he tells her, and she obeys.
-   Used as a _plot point_ in _Speak No Evil_. The protagonists, a milquetoast Danish couple, become friends with a Dutch couple while on a holiday and is invited to the latter's secluded cabin in the Dutch countryside to spend a weekend in, only to realize the Dutch couple behaves rather strangely towards their guests, are abusive to their only child, and when the Danes decide to leave, they're talked into staying for another night by the Dutch. Turns out the latter are serial killers who deliberately seeks passive, meek victims who can't speak up or stand up for themselves, who eventually becomes their latest victims.
-   Jon in _Stag_, who immediately agrees enthusiastically with whatever plan anyone suggests for dealing with the rapidly spiraling situation. Even if that plan involves dumping bodies, framing innocent people, or murder.
-   _The Three Faces of Eve_: Eve White seems to be completely dependent on her husband to make decisions and is a very meek woman. Eve Black on the other hand is the complete opposite.
-   Larry from _The Three Stooges_ comes across as the most sensible of the three in most of the shorts but apparently only goes along with what the others do and puts up with Moe's abuse because he's just very passive. The fact that Curly and Shemp also put up with Moe's abuse makes them examples of this as well.
-   _Wanda_: Depression, low self-esteem, hopelessness—whatever the reason, Wanda is only too willing to let Mr. Dennis, a mean-spirited Would Hit a Girl bank robber, walk all over her. Wearing only dresses, wearing hats, driving the getaway car: she'll do what he tells her. When she comes back to the hotel room and finds her wallet in the trash can (Mr. Dennis had rifled through it and was preparing to leave) all she says is "How did that get there?" Most disturbing is when he slaps her across the face while she's chattering about going to get the hamburgers, and after a pause, she keeps chattering.
-   Mild-mannered Jones, in _The Whole Town's Talking_, lets everyone use him however they want, and never stands up for himself.
-   _X-Men: Days of Future Past_: In between 1963 and 1973, Hank has willingly reduced himself to this so that he can keep a constant eye on the self-destructive Charles. Xavier is the sole person McCoy has left who fully accepts him for who he is, so Beast does everything he can to ensure that nothing bad happens to his Only Friend.

    Music 

-   "You've Brought A New Kind Of Love To Me" covered by Frank Sinatra on _Songs for Swingin' Lovers!_:
    
    _I know that I'm the slave, you're the queen_
    
-   2-D of Gorillaz is an Extreme Doormat to Murdoc. To date, the psychopathic bassist has kidnapped him, stolen his girlfriend, sold most of his belongings, taken several of his organs, beat him up repeatedly, and run over him...twice. And though 2-D has _only recently_ smartened up to this and come to resent Murdoc, he's still too afraid of him to do much.
-   "Bound For The Floor" By Local H seems to be about someone like this.
-   "Self Esteem" by The Offspring is about someone who is a combination of this and a Love Martyr.
    
    _When she's saying that she wants only me  
    Then I wonder why she sleeps with my friends  
    When she's saying that I'm like a disease  
    Then I wonder how much more I can spend  
    Well I guess I should stick up for myself  
    But I really think it's better this way  
    The more you suffer  
    The more it shows you really care  
    Right? Yeah yeah yeah_
    
-   In "Any Man Of Mine," Shania Twain demands that her boyfriend/fiance/husband be exactly this.
-   The male character in "It Took Me By Surprise" by Maria Mena fits the bill... Until he finally snaps, that is, with the song focusing on the narrator's shock to his outburst.
    
    _I would react badly  
    To the slightest hint of hesitance  
    He'd bend awkwardly to suit my mood  
    No word from his defense_
    

    Myths & Religion 

-   Arguably, the main character of the Hindu epic _Ramayana_, Sita, is this, as she takes every slander, exile, and degradation by _her own husband_ without any protest, always folding at whatever she is ordered. Eventually though, it becomes so much she begs her divine mother, the Earth, to take her home, and is granted this.

    Radio 

-   Scumspawn of _Old Harry's Game_, who once _ate himself_ because Satan told him to.
-   Eileen in the _John Finnemore's Double Acts_ episode "The Rebel Alliance", who meekly accepts that she has to sit at the bottom table at her own daughter's wedding, won't be giving a speech, and doesn't question why the entire meal is seafood, when Yvonne, the mother of the other bride, knows she can't eat seafood. (There's a vegetarian option, but Yvonne said it should be saved for actual vegetarians.) Her tablemate Lizzie encourages her to stand up to Yvonne but is slightly taken aback to realise the reason Yvonne has it in for her is that she also wouldn't stand up to her husband when he opposed the wedding.
-   One of the themes running throughout _Were You Raised by Wolves?_ is that you can be polite _without_ being this, making it a Discussed Trope.

    Roleplay 

-   In _We Are Our Avatars_, modified Asimovian laws mean that a human simply has to give Yuzuki Miura a command, which she is unable to resist.

    Tabletop Games 

-   Beholden in _Genius: The Transgression_, who lack a worldview of their own and generally end up simply going along with the most convincing Genius in the area and serving the vitally important role of Igor.
-   Exaggerated with Slave Mentality in _GURPS._ With this disadvantage, you have to make a roll to do _anything_ out of your own free will, even if not doing it would result in your death.

    Theater 

-   Like his movie counterpart, George McFly from the theatrical adaptation of Back to the Future, is pretty spineless:
    
    "I don't have ambitions / big dreams of my own / happy with the way things are / just leave me alone / I don't need the headaches too much money brings / fancy cars, tailored shirts, shiny diamond rings / don't need the complications / success is overrated, overstated, overblown / listen to my mantra / just leave me alone
    
-   _How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying_: "But what is your point of view..." "I have no point of view." "Supposing the company thinks..." "I think so too!"

-   Princess Mary of _Natasha, Pierre, and the Great Comet of 1812_ is pretty much this. Her Doormat status is self-inflicted in part because of her strong religious convictions, which keep her submissive to her crazy, cruel old father to the point where she has given up hope of getting married, or really, being happy.
    
    _This is just how it is, It's just how he is, I'm always to blame. He could beat me, And treat me like a dog, Make me fetch food or water And it's just how it is, Oh, Father, I love you, Father._
    
-   Constance Blackwood of _Ride the Cyclone_ has won the "Nicest Girl in Town" award in her class three years in a row because she's kind and thoughtful and friendly, and abhors confrontation. Her official catchphrase is even "sorry!" Constance became Ocean O'Connell-Rosenberg's "best friend" because she was the only student at St. Cassian who would put up with Ocean's overbearing, self-centered personality and bossy style of "friendship."

    Video Games 

-   Dante Moro in _Assassin's Creed II_, who is left extremely impressionable after being knifed in the head. The guy who paid the thugs to attack him (who secretly lusted after Moro's wife) is subsequently able to talk Dante into annulling his marriage and even has the audacity to hire him as a bodyguard.
-   The player character in _BioShock_ arguably is this way even after the Mind Control is cured. "You won't even walk until someone says go!" By extension, this is applicable to virtually all silent player characters in a video game, a fact that the game's developers intended to point out.
-   This is Noelle's Fatal Flaw in _Deltarune_. She's shy, sweet, and accommodating to a fault, and will fold like a house of cards the second anyone tries to contradict her. This means her "friend" Berdly walks all over her, and she ends up getting dragged into assisting Chapter Two's Arc Villain because she lacks the willpower to stand up for herself or do more than trying to passively avoid actually helping. Her character arc in that Chapter sees her grow out of it. If you choose to take the hidden Snowgrave route, this is Played for Drama. You, through Kris, order her to murder every person she comes across, and because of her lack of self-confidence and hatred of conflict, Noelle will ignore her discomfort and do as she's told. By the end of that route, she's become an emotionally distant Serial Killer, and it doesn't feel out of character because she's just _that_ submissive.
-   Despite being one of the most opinionated and argumentative party members in the game, Fenris from _Dragon Age II_ is revealed to have been one of these, due to not only being a slave but also having lost all memories prior to serving his master. If Hawke chooses to sell him back to his previous master, he will go without a fight.
-   _Dragon Quest VII_ has Pepe, who just wants to keep everyone happy, but is pressured and pushed into a situation where he must choose between his lover Linda and his family... because Linda refuses to do anything to solve her own problems and expects him to sweep her away from it all by eloping, regardless of how that would leave his family to deal with _her_ family's debt. In the end, he cracks under the pressure and decides to Take a Third Option by leaving town alone. This doesn't help, and _everyone_, even the heroes, are pissed at this non-solution. All it does is cement everyone's unhappiness for years to come since nobody gets what they wanted, and this decision ends up sowing the seeds for the town's eventual collapse.
-   _Dyztopia: Post-Human RPG_: In Chapter 1, after the destruction of Pon Pon Village, Akira has a dream where they realize that following the law and complying with Zetacorp's demands just gives the corporate state more power to oppress the citizens. They also realize that their past relationship with Rosie failed because they were too passive and mainly just did what Rosie wanted, which only made Rosie feel bad. At this point, Akira decides they need to start doing what they want instead of trying to please people, resulting in them becoming a rebel against Zeta. However, Akira can regress back into this trope in the Evil Runi route, where they become too passive again and do nothing to stop Gemini until it's too late.
-   Lilli of _Edna & Harvey: Harvey’s New Eyes_ is this by way of Heroic Mime. She never has an option to talk, only to begin a sentence that's then interrupted by another character guessing what she's going to say. Nor, at first, does she have the option to disobey orders given by authority figures. Over the course of the story, she's forced to disobey some people's orders in order to help other people, but the degree to which she develops a spine depends on the ending. If she surrenders to Dr. Marcel, it's all for nothing. If she kills him, she's still doing what the story wants. Only in the semi-hidden "Contradict" ending does she tell everyone, including the Interactive Narrator, to stuff it.
-   _Ensemble Stars!_ most prominently features Tsumugi, a guy with so little spine that when he realised his apparent friend Eichi had deliberately set him up as a scapegoat merely to further his own career, his only response was to praise how smart the move was. Things don't get much better for him after he joins Switch and finds him constantly hit by Natsume as punishment for aiding _fine_ against him and the other Oddballs, though every now and then he will comment on Natsume's Jerkass violent behaviour demonstrating at least a _bit_ of a spine. It also has Mika, who swears complete Undying Loyalty to Shuu, to the point of valuing his life and happiness far above his own. However, Shuu always cared more about Nazuna, leading to a very unequal relationship. Over time, Mika comes to value himself more and realise how destructive his obsession with Shuu is.
-   Charon, a possible companion in _Fallout 3_, has been brainwashed to unquestioningly obey whoever holds his employment contract. His doormat behavior doesn't extend to anyone else, though. Employers who antagonize him would be well advised not to fire him.
-   Yes Man in _Fallout: New Vegas_ is forced to be as helpful as possible due to his programming. However, he's also incredibly cheery about it. If the player decides to kill him<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , all he can do is beg for mercy and say that he deserves it. Of course, he's actually instrumental if the player wants to be the sole ruler of Vegas and in the Independent Ending. He tries to avert this a bit when he states in the ending that he's found an upgrade that lets him be more "assertive". Players started forming theories that this meant he was planning on betraying you, but Word of God eventually clarified that the upgrade is meant to make it so that he'll only take orders from you, and not literally anyone who gives him one.
-   _Fire Emblem: Three Houses_ has Mercedes who admits to Byleth in their A support that she has been following the whims of those above her, believing everything in her life was at the Goddess' will. However, during the timeskip, she decides to enter the war of her own volition, defying her adopted father's wishes and later rejects the marriage proposal he sent to her.
-   _Fire Emblem Engage_: Played for Drama. Veyle is _too_ nice, which is why Sombron and the Four Hounds find it so easy to manipulate her. They know just how nice she can be, and use her obliviousness to use her for their own personal gain.
-   Namine in _Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories_ is this for the Organization until the end, where she defies Marluxia for Sora's sake. In _358/2 Days_, she's suddenly back to being an extreme doormat for DiZ. For her few scenes in _Kingdom Hearts II_, though, it's clear she's gotten past this phase at last and does things because she wants to, rather than because someone ordered her to. To be fair, _358/2 Days_ takes place at least partly during/immediately after _Chain Of Memories_, so it makes sense that Namine's Character Development might not be so clear.
-   Visas Marr from _Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords_. Her encounter with Darth Nihilus practically sapped all her will and she believes her own life is completely meaningless and only exists to be used by someone else. Can be taken to extremes when you confront Nihilus towards the end of the game: he and her share a link in the force which gives him power. You can still defeat him, but if Visas is wearing plain clothes and is armed with a lightsaber, you can tell her to kill herself to break the link and weaken her master.
-   _Lonely Wolf Treat_: Since rabbits tend to be deathly afraid of wolves, Treat tries to be as non-confrontational as possible when interacting with them, because she wants to show them that she means no harm. Unfortunately, this just means the rabbits are free to harass and insult her while she makes no attempt to stand up for herself.
-   _Mana Khemia: Alchemists of Al-Revis_ gives us Vayne Aurelius, _The Hero_...
    -   Though Vayne is more than just your typical doormatty hero: he has a pretty good reason to be that way. He's the Mana of Wishes. Meaning he exists to grant everyone else's.
    -   In the sequel, Zeppel Kriever , who is now the principal, has undergone a serious case of Flanderization and become one.
-   _Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain_: Every Diamond Dogs soldier whenever Venom is doing something to them. Perform CQC unannounced? "Thank you, Boss!" Threaten one with a chokehold? "Thank you, Boss!" Hit them with a tranquilizer dart and kick them in the stomach? "Thank you, Boss!" Hit _Ocelot_ with a tranquilizer dart? "La Li Lu Le Lo. La Li Lu Le Lo."
-   _Persona_:
    -   Saori Hasegawa, the Hermit Social Link in _Persona 3 Portable_'s female path. Naturally, she ends up on the receiving stick of some Malicious Slander, and it's up to the protagonist to teach her to enforce her opinions.
    -   Yuuki Mishima, _Persona 5_'s Moon Confidant, starts off as essentially Kamoshida's whipping boy, but his Confidant reveals that he had pretty much always been this in his previous school and was receptive of the bullying he received because he believed it was simply his lot in life. It's not until he meets the Phantom Thieves that he realizes he has more to offer than just being everyone's punching bag.
-   _Planescape: Torment_: Dak'kon is actually this towards the Nameless One because at some point in the past, he swore eternal servitude to the Practical Incarnation. No matter how abusive and evil the Nameless One is (and there have been some really bad ones), Dak'kon will follow whatever orders he's given without protest.
-   Lily Pad from _Plants vs. Zombies_ doesn't say anything if you put a plant on top of him, and keeps all his thoughts inside.
-   Kokkoro from _Princess Connect! Re:Dive_ outright states that even if her lord Yuuki were to whip and abuse her, she would not mind in the least and continue to serve him to her utmost. Thankfully for her, Yuuki is much too nice to take advantage of her in any way, though given that Kokkoro herself basically raised him from an amnesiac Blank Slate, she perhaps has herself to thank for that.
-   Dehl in _The Reconstruction_ _never_ acts whenever anyone, mainly Tehgonan insults him. It's only after Havan devastates the world that he becomes assertive, to a _huge_ degree.
-   In _Red Dead Redemption_, while he is no pushover, this happens to John who is often subjected to verbal abuse, insane rants, manipulation, and unfair transactions from other characters. He puts up with it stoically because he needs to earn their favor in order to track his targets so he could save his family. It's best shown in the Nuevo Paraiso arc where John works for both the detestable Allende and the insufferable Reyes. The Mexican army missions are immoral with the occasional obvious setup while the rebel jobs tend to pit John against _the entire army_ while Reyes takes all the credit for John's heroics. Both men string John along, forever promising information that never seems to come because they know John will leave Mexico as soon as he gets his targets and they will lose their best agent.
-   Pinocchio from _SINoALICE_, befitting his Concept of "Dependance", struggles to make decisions of his own and would rather have his life dictated by someone else. He seeks out his author as he believes that his author is the most suited to telling Pinocchio what to do. He's often dragged around by his rude, foul-mouthed, and violent staff, and despite his protests, he still follows his staff's orders because of his inability to make his own decisions.
-   Uther, leader of the lost kingdom of Insalaum in _Super Robot Wars Z2: Saisei-Hen_ starts out as one of these, taking orders from an old hag of a prime minister, retreating after taking a single hit and just being an all-around sissy. Once he awakens his Sphere, he does a complete 180, gains about fifty levels in badass, smashes the final boss of the first game into the dirt with one hit, and if you end up taking the "If" route, he becomes the game's Big Bad.
-   Haruka in _Yakuza 5_ spends the vast majority of the game like this, despite her much younger self in previous games being strong enough to endure a whole lot of yakuza intrigue, to the point she even out and out slapped a patriarch across the face in _Yakuza 3_. However, as a sixteen-year-old in this installment, she never quite fights back against the idol group that's gratuitously bullying and harassing her (though, admittedly, she could've had the potential for negative publicity in mind should she retaliate in any meaningful way). She also desperately tries to gain the approval of her manager, a woman who made Haruka's long-term guardian/near father, Kiryu, disassociate himself from her due to the fact that his (severed) ties to the yakuza would be harmful to Haruka's career should they be found out. This manager then goes on to threaten to defund the orphanage Kiryu had been managing should Haruka fail to win a contest it's clear she's being overworked to prepare for in much too short of a time. Really, Haruka only regains a semblance of her prior spine once her manager dies.

    Visual Novels 

-   Youko Hasekura, resident emotionless Ninja girl of _CROSS†CHANNEL_, lives mostly only to do whatever the protagonist Taichi Kurosu asks of her, except for the times when she decides she knows what's better for him.
-   _Danganronpa_:
    -   Mukuro Ikusaba. While we don't get to see this part of her personality in _Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc_ due to dying while disguised as her sister Junko, who’s also the one she serves and the mastermind, it becomes the central part of her personality in the light novel _Danganronpa Zero_ and the anime _Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School_, and in the alternate universe novel _Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc IF_ we also get to see her actually break free from it. Her talent as the Ultimate Soldier is the first hint at this. She's completely loyal, obeys orders without question, and has absolutely no limit to what she's willing to do to follow those orders, including inflicting Mind Rape and torture as well as slaughtering an entire classroom of children just to prove her obedience to Junko. When Junko insults her, she happily agrees with the insults. When Junko tries to kill her, she gets excited by how much Junko wants to kill her. She'll wait on the ceiling just for Junko to set up a visual gag. She's complicit in the murder of billions for Junko's amusement. Between _Zero_ and _IF_, we actually get an explanation for this: love. When she loves someone, her entire goal is doing what they'd want (or at least her interpretation of it) and pleasing them, allowing for both Love Makes You Evil and, in the ending of _IF_, Love Redeems. Fitting her dog-like nature, she has a wolf tattoo from her time in the mercenary group Fenrir. Junko clearly likes to collect these kind of people.
    -   Mikan Tsumiki in _Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair_ is a tragically severe example. She became the Ultimate Nurse by taking so much abuse as a child and having to treat her own injuries because nobody else would, and is almost constantly talked down to by everyone but the protagonist. In free-time events, she reveals that she used to let people write on her, throw things at her, burn her, saddle her with their debts, or force her to take off her clothes. She's grown so accustomed to abuse that she assumes that people who don't bully her must not care about her at all. When she catches the Despair disease in Chapter 3, it turns out, unsurprisingly, that on some level she despises those around her for not even trying to help or protect her. Unfortunately, she also remembers her “love” who, in despair-warped perspective, did love and protect her, Junko Enoshima, the Ultimate Despair, a woman who caused the apocalypse to amuse herself. When we finally get to see what it actually was like, she’s a brainwashed implied sex slave, but the despair brainwashing makes her love her own despair, seeing it as love.
    -   _Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony_
        -   Kirumi Tojo has a personal motto of "duty before self", doing whatever anyone asks of her as the Ultimate Maid and rarely showing emotion. She's shown to be incredibly good at anything she tries, saying that she only does what she's told to the best of her ability, no matter the task. The only times Kirumi refuses to do something are when it's outright impossible (like "destroy a country"), or if it's anything sexual (the one opinion of her own she holds on to). In spite of this, she's the killer in Chapter 2, as Kirumi was so competent when helping the Prime Minister of Japan that she effectively _was_ the Prime Minister. She also shows that her stoicism and doormat behaviors have limits, being the only killer in the entire franchise that attempts to escape her own execution, as well as the only killer in the entire franchise to vote for you as the blackened out of spite after you prove her guilty.
        -   A somewhat more lighthearted example is Ki-bo, who is treated as a nuisance by most of the other students (barring Kaede, Shuichi, Gonta, and Miu) and despite protesting about their treatment being "robophobic", he tends to end up doing what they tell him to do anyway, such as being forced to join the séance in the third chapter, then getting kicked out of the same séance when Shuichi shows up because the other characters don't think robots and the supernatural mix. It's only when his Restraining Bolt gets knocked off that he finally decides to take matters into his own hands.
        -   Himiko Yumeno tends to go along with what other people do because she's simply too apathetic to think for herself. She _is_ capable of being stubborn when it comes to issues she deems important to her (like her magic), but unfortunately she often chooses to do so at the worst possible time, like during the second class trial when she refuses to explain how a trick works, and then she often tires herself out so much that she'll just stop arguing her case because it's too much effort. It takes some serious Character Development and Break the Cutie to snap her out of it.
-   Johanna from _Double Homework_ lets people walk all over her, and tries to avoid conflict at all costs. She tries to please people due to a sense of insecurity she feels, especially to her siblings, the protagonist and Tamara.
-   _Fate/stay night_:
    -   Shirou Emiya was inspired by the man who saved his life; he dreams of being a superhero who can create a world where nobody ever has to suffer. ...But before the plot kicks in, he's basically just a high schooler whose war on suffering takes the form of doing various chores and repairs for his classmates, all of whom routinely dump work on him. Some of them are polite and grateful about it... and some of them, such as Shinji Matou, don't even bother to pretend that they're not taking advantage of him. That said, if you actually hurt anyone in front of him, his more heroic side will emerge.
    -   Assassin never varies from polite interest in his emotions. Caster partially ruptures his lungs, he continues chatting. True Assassin eats his way out from inside and he practically comments on the weather. Bleeding to death after Saber has run him through? Talk about birds. He expresses no opinions or goals beyond wanting to have one good fight during his tenure as a temple guardian. He can't leave the temple because he'll vanish if he does, and even _if_ he beats everyone else, his master wins and gets the Grail and he still won't get anything because he is a fake Heroic Spirit that is something of a composite identity, and therefore has no wish to be fulfilled (not that the Grail would grant a wish to fake like him). Why bother?
    -   Also Kuzuki, who weirds out Shirou with his complacency. Around the time Archer kills him, though, it seems like at least SOME of this is faked. Continuing a fight to the death against someone you have no hope against just because he feels he ought to finish what he started? Suuuure, that has _nothing_ to do with how said guy caused the death of your Servant and the one person that ever made you feel anything in your life.

-   _The Fruit of Grisaia_: Sachi will do absolutely anything you ask her to. She has not refused a request once in the entire time she’s gone to Mihama. Even joking requests are taken absolutely seriously, which can even put her in danger. She actively shies away from making her own decisions or setting the goals or actions of the group. After a while, it's hinted that a really troublesome order will be interpreted in a convenient way if possible, but that's it.
-   Used as a deconstruction in the Visual Novel _Heart De Roommate_ when one of the girls accuses the resident Yamato Nadeshiko of being this, only coming across as sweet and innocent because she's too much of a moral coward to have her own opinions. Amusingly enough said character quickly proceeds to rectify this by expressing her own opinions on the other girl's Genki Girl/Yandere tendencies. Thus proving that she really was a Yamato Nadeshiko; otherwise she wouldn't have the inner iron to do such a thing.
-   Ken Krause of _Jake Hunter Detective Story: Memories of the Past_, with no small amount of lampshading by several characters.
-   M in _Shikkoku no Sharnoth_ never shows any emotion or interest in _anything_. He doesn't even bother telling people to leave him alone.
-   Kiryuu Moeka from _Steins;Gate_, to the point that Tennouji Yuugo, AKA Mr. Braun, contacted her as "FB" as she was about to commit suicide due to feeling useless and exploited her by making her feel useful, instructing her to perform tasks for him to the point of murder. Eventually in one world line FB ceases contact with her, which eventually pushes her over the edge to hang herself.
-   Genji Ronoue from _Umineko: When They Cry_ is "exemplary furniture," according to Ronove. He basically lets Kinzo and Beatrice do whatever they please, even if that includes killing the rest of the family. He even shocks Kanon by passively accepting Beatrice as his new master after she kills Kinzo in the third arc... and her next task for him is to die. He complies.
    -   Clair Vaux of Bernard in _Requiem of the golden witch_, as she is merely a tool created by Bernkastel for the purpose of reading Beato/Yasu's past.
-   The protagonist of _X-Change_ is in exactly the wrong genre to be this, and he only gets weaker after getting turned into a girl. Not until the third game does he finally get the option to fight off an attempted rapist.
-   Diana from _Zero Time Dilemma_ could never say "no" to her abusive husband. Even when she tried to run away from him he found her and pressed her to get back to him. Trying to force herself out of this is the reason she joined D-com's experiment.

    Web Comics 

-   In _Agents of the Realm_, Kendall is described as such by the cast page. So far, however, she seems to be a very underplayed version.
-   Elliot from _El Goonish Shive_ tends to be this when villains aren't involved. It actually causes problems, as his inability to take initiative or make choices based on his own needs basically ruins any romance he's involved in.
-   Tavros in _Homestuck_, to the point where he can't even bear a grudge towards the person who _paralyzed him_. Taken to extremes in the afterlife, when he can't even bear a grudge towards the person who _killed_ him. Who is the same person who paralyzed him earlier. After another round of verbal abuse from the same person, Tavros _finally_ gets fed up and flies away while flipping her off.
    -   Mituna swings between this and a sort of even more aggressive Karkat mode with poorly-spelled profanity.
-   Edward from _Life (2012)_ isn't actually named Edward. "Edward" is just the name Felicia called him, and he never cared enough to correct her.
-   Gary from _Ménage à 3_ allows himself to be beaten, kissed by his gay friend (who is well aware he's straight), prevented from having sex by the same person who said she would help him _get_ sex, be used by multiple women for his skill at oral sex without getting so much a "thank you" in return, be talked into giving a blowjob to another man (again he's straight, although he finds a way to cheat with this one by blindfolding the man and using a grapefruit), and be pegged regularly by a woman with a strap-on (he eventually starts enjoying it, but was very unwilling at first). A dominatrix identified him as "the perfect sub", saying "it's like he has no will of his own". A fangirl of Zii's mistook him for a butler<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and Gary immediately begins obeying her orders.

-   Helen from _Penny and Aggie_, who, throughout the course of the series, had basically been treated as a minion for various cliques — as well as The Un-Favourite in her household, who was expected to advertise for her sister, and given a conditional love response for failing to do so — and at one point explicitly thinks, "At least if I'm being used, that means I have a use." Eventually, she runs away in response.
-   Marten in _Questionable Content_ indulges in a little snarking now and then, but most of the time patiently endures all kinds of crap from the rest of the (mainly female) cast. Oh! And his former job was "office bitch" (with an official office bitch _business card_, no less).
-   Kazuo of _Red String_ fits this trope perfectly. His entire life is wrapped up in winning his Father's approval. From his job, to his major, to the girl he marries, he'll do anything Kenta says. Shame Kenta sees Kazuo as worthless and nothing but a bargaining chip, which finally drives Kazuo to attempt suicide.
-   Kusari from _Sluggy Freelance_ is an interesting case: She does have an attitude, but that's about all. She still obeys the CEO of Hereti-Corp absolutely, and though she is capable of rational, independent thought, she has no motivation to do anything but serve. Mind Control is suspected, but it also seems like she has been made this way from the start and has no "real" self.
-   In _Spacetrawler_, the Eebs are an entire species of doormats. Which in turn has led to them all being enslaved, as they will follow any direct order. It later turned out that the doormat tendency was the result of brain-clamping, naturally they're borderline Ax-Crazy.
-   _Stand Still, Stay Silent_: Siv is pessimistic about quite a few things, including her own capacity to defend her opinion about a given situation, which causes her to not put much effort into holding her ground.
-   _Subnormality_ has the pink-haired woman, best exemplified here.
    
    **Pink-haired woman:** Am I gonna watch your dog that's locked in a safe to prevent it from being stolen, which was _itself_ stolen, by you, from a store you forgot you owned, when you were trying to rob a bank, and you for some reason don't know the combination, and you say you'll be gone five minutes but that could probably mean almost anything at this point?  
    **Joleco Pet Store robber:** Yeah!  
    **Pink-haired woman:** _\[after nightfall\]_ Okay I have **got** to learn to say no.  
    **Safe:** Meow.
    
    -   A later comic has a guy approach her in a bar, and eventually coach her into how to say that "no".
-   _Under the Oak Tree_: Maximillian was abused as a child and has severe issues standing up for herself, or asserting her wants or needs. Under her husband's loving care, she gradually begins to grow out of it, but it's a very slow process.

    Web Original 

-   Weasley Crusher of _Binder of Shame_ was constantly bullied by the other players, on one occasion being pushed into buying pizza with money he said he needed for insulin.
-   The Producer from Screen Rant Pitch Meetings. Even when the Screenwriter comes up with all the weird, nonsensical plot elements, he initially objects but when the Screenwriter refuses to back down, he just goes along with the idea. As seen in the _Wolverine: Origins_ episode, Screenwriter sometimes insults Producer to his face but he doesn't retaliate.
-   Several characters from _Tales of MU_ show levels of doormat affinity, but two in particular have fit the definition of Extreme Doormat:
    -   Two the Golem was set free with an order to do what she wants, but she was created with only one desire: to do as she's told. Her growth out of being an Extreme Doormat began when she learned to have other desires, starting with eating sweets.
    -   The Lizard Folk use communal decision-making, so Hissy holds no strong opinions of her own. Human missionaries decided she should go to school, the school decided she should join the skirmish team. Her response to all of it is simply that she has no objection. As a background character, her Extreme Doormat status wasn't even apparent until she got some Character Development.
-   "Handy" from _Void Dogs_ doesn't even consider herself to be a person. Considering that her real name is a serial number, this might not be surprising.

    Web Videos 

-   _Dream Machine_: Josie. She’s so desperate for approval she’ll basically do anything to please the people around her.
-   In _The Guild_, Codex starts out as this to pretty much everyone, although she eventually gets better through Character Development. The prequel comics show that she used to be even worse, allowing herself to be completely dominated by a boyfriend who took credit for all her ideas while constantly cheating on her.
-   Although he likes starting arguments, The Nostalgia Critic constantly succumbs to peer pressure because he desperately wants to be loved and those arguments nearly always end with him crumbling for not much reason.
-   In _SMPLive_, Schlatt implies Connor is one, talking about his "submissive nature" and telling him he needs to assert himself more while reducing his share in the company. Connor briefly objects to this, but seems to give up on arguing almost immediately.

___