**Leo:** It's about those alien face-huggers. They clamp to your face and implant their babies into your stomach, right? _\[...\]_ Wouldn't that mean they stick their, _you know_, down your throat?  
**Aeris:** OH MY GOD! They're raping your face! That's horrible!  
**Leo:** I tell ya. As if killing you isn't bad enough. You also get a face full of alien wing-wong.

A creature reproduces by impregnating another species. This can be a very literal pregnancy, a rearrangement of your DNA, or it could be the implantation of a parasitic egg or larva into the body of a host of either gender, which may very well lead to a Chest Burster situation.

Please note: Despite the name given to the trope and the unpleasant image its name implies, the impregnation doesn't _have_ to occur via the face of the victim, nor does it _have_ to be non-consensual. The above can result in an Express Delivery. A similar weaponized version of this would be Spawn Broodling, which also involves the previous trope.

Closely related to Face Hugger and overlaps with Orifice Invasion if the process involves forced insertion through a natural body orifice. This can easily be a prelude to Womb Horror. If the aliens kidnap victims and the "birthing" process _doesn't_ kill them, the poor saps are effectively Breeding Slaves. See Anal Probing, Hot Skitty-on-Wailord Action, Boldly Coming, and Mars Needs Women for more alien-on-human action.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Berserk_, being a series where monster-on-human rape happens on occasion, has not shied away from this trope. The Trolls that Guts and crew encounter in the Qliphoth reproduce by impregnating captured women. The births kill the mothers in horrific fashion as the new trolls<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  rip their way rather gorily out of the mother's belly before eating her alive.
-   _Bleach_: The _**humanoid**_ Szayelaporro Grantz impregnates a Nemo _with himself_ through her stomach as a parasitic method of self-healing, being "reborn" fully grown upon his original body dying. This process leaves Nemo a desiccated husk, but Mayuri revives her using some bizarre off-screen method.
-   Saika from _Durarara!!_'s means of taking over people involves implanting the soul of one of its "children" in the cut it creates.
-   The diclonii from _Elfen Lied_ (who are otherwise sterile, with one exception) 'reproduce' by infecting humans they encounter with a virus containing the genomic information of diclonii. Although it has no overt effect on its victim, the virus alters its reproductive cells, resulting in that every child born of an infected parent, regardless of whether the infected was male or female, will be a diclonius.
    -   Oddly, when they infect human hosts, they stick their invisible 'vector' inside the _head_ of their victim. They're supposed to be messing with the pineal gland, which actually had to do with sleep-cycle regulation, but which New Age types believed to be involved in psychic powers.
        -   All Diclonii born from this mechanism are sterile "soldiers" who tend to have more and longer vectors, while the regressive-trait full-fledged ones like Lucy can still have children. But unless they have them with other full-bloded Diclonii, the children produced lack the powers of their parents.
-   _Franken Fran_ provides an example with a female creature, "Azusa" the mutant mimic octopus, but the results are just as unpleasant for the human.
-   Goblins in _Goblin Slayer_ are a One-Gender Race that can only reproduce with females of other species, the result being goblins no matter what the race. If you're overtaken by goblins, you can expect to die horribly if you're male, but if you're female, you'll almost certainly be turned into a Breeding Slave<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and used until you die of exhaustion.
-   _Henkyou no Roukishi Bard Loen_: Geliadra fruits are known to have their seeds replaced by eggs of a parasitic bug, which spread like pollen. If a human breaths them, they cause death by being Eaten Alive from the inside and an exponentially faster spread across the populace. Strangely, Goliosa fruits always grow nearby and acts as an insecticide.
-   The chimera ant king in _Hunter × Hunter_ is supposed to mate with the female of another species, turning her into a chimera queen ant somehow (or making her give birth to one, the manga simply mentions it'd "create" a queen). After the death of the former queen (the King's mother), chimera ant generals also gain this ability (becoming lesser "kings").
    -   The same manga also featured a character who had a colony of leeches living in his tongue (which looked like a turtle cloaca, for extra gross-out points). The leeches burrowed into the victim's wounds and laid their eggs in the _bladder_, hatching a few days later and evacuating through the urethra. The pain is so agonizing it kills the victim.
-   One breed of mushi in _Mushishi_ has the ability to enter a soon-to-be-pregnant woman and take over the body of her unborn fetus. The "child" that's born months later resembles a slime-like creature that slips under the floorboards of the parent's house. It begins spawning humanlike offspring that the parents unwittingly take care of. These "copies" age much more quickly than a human child, and once enough of them have been born, they enter the next phase of their reproductive cycle, wherein they 'die' and scatter their seeds. (These mushi children also possess human intelligence, making them far more _dangerous_ than other forms of mushi, as Ginko, the main character found out.)
-   _Rental Magica_ has a variety of Cordyceps which grows on humans in early stage of development. It's rare, so its cultivators contract suitable people as hosts (and plant it on themselves for that matter). However, its requirements as a parasite are negligible and it has no side effects worse than making host's hand look weird. It's more dangerous that it's a strong material component for necromancy _and_ on the last stage of a life cycle destroys magical barriers—including ones preventing its detection.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh!_: Parasite Paracide could be considered to fit this in the anime, at least Jonouchi's Panther Warrior has gotten infected with it, leading to some parasite wing wong coming out of its mouth.

    Comic Books 

-   A Future Shock in _2000 AD_ had a drunk guy narrating his woes to a barkeeper. Apparently a super-space-uber-wasp turned up at his office one day to tell him that he'd been selected as 'brood parent' for the wasp's eggs. The wasp also explains that the eggs are implanted through(!) the skull, and the larvae would eat their way out later, and would he mind holding still for a few seconds? The guy objects, and runs for it; uber-wasp chases. 30 or so panels of chase through an office block later, the wasp catches him after he jumps off the roof. End of flashback. The reason that he's in the bar is that he's trying to kill the eggs with elevated blood-alcohol before they hatch...
-   A throwaway line in _Buffy Season 8_ indicates that a slayer who'd been impersonating Buffy had a _magical_ version of this implanted in her by a creepy fairy.
-   The Grant Morrison comic _The Filth_ plays with this trope through the character of a Pornomancer called "Tex Porneau". Porneau uses the black semen(!) of Dutch posthuman pornstar(!) Anders Klimaxx(!) to create giant magical flying death-sperm(!) which are unleashed to fatally attack any creature with a uterus.
-   One story in an issue of the _Futurama_ comic had Captain Zapp Brannigan really enjoying being treated like a deity by a tribe of insect-like aliens. They catered to his every whim and fed him constantly, leading to a huge weight gain. It turned out he had been pumped full of their larvae and was acting as a living incubator. In the end, the crew of the Planet Express Ship managed to rescue him and extract the larvae, which looked like brine shrimp. Bender made a stew out of them and served it as dinner. Only Dr. Zoidberg was willing to eat it.
-   After the events of _Secret Invasion (2008)_, Tigra, who was impregnated by Dr Pym who turned out to have been a Skrull imposter, starts having nightmares of this trope, specifically that she's pregnant with a litter of mutant Skrull babies that will tear/eat their way out of her body. She goes to Trauma, a licensed therapist who specializes in superheroes, over this. Her fears turn out to be completely unfounded and she gives birth the ordinary way to an adorable Cat Girl baby.
-   _Hell_ was this trope for Anton Arcane in _Swamp Thing_.
-   _X-Men_ has an evil alien race called the Brood that fits this trope. They are basically very large insectoids whose queens lay their eggs in sentient beings. The Brood embryos not only transform their victims into Brood, but they also absorb their host's abilities. Thus, if a host has super-powers, that Brood will have them. The X-Men only avoided this fate by freeing the Acanti, a race of Space Whales enslaved by the Brood, whose shaman magically killed the embryos growing inside them in gratitude. It was too late to save Professor Xavier, but that's when having an alien girlfriend who owns a cloning tank comes in handy, as well as having enough psychic powers to transfer your mind into the clone.

    Fan Works 

-   In _Fallout: Equestria_, Littlepip is attacked by a creature (dubbed the Hospital Horror by fans) that resembles a tentacle-mouthed half-melted skinless pony that immobilizes her and tries to spread her legs open before she gets away. She later finds the skeletons of other mares with shattered pelvises that were broken from the inside-out.
-   The trope is quoted verbatim in _Glorious Shotgun Princess_ as the penultimate fate of Harkin, when a baby thresher maw ejected from the Normandy comes through the windshield of his shuttle.
-   _The Night Unfurls_: Invoked by Evil Sorcerer Shamuhaza as part of his experiments on the citizenry of Rad to bolster the Black Dogs' ranks. His first appearance shows him overseeing a female half-ling giving birth to a monstrosity.
-   Lieutenant Aoba quotes the trope almost word for word in chapter 68 of the _Neon Genesis Evangelion_ fic _Nobody Dies_ after having his face humped by an Israfim for a NERV PSA for those wanting to keep them as pets.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   The eponymous Aliens from _Alien_, whose reproductive cycle via the Facehugger is the inspiration for the name of this trope, and was deliberately invoking Body Horror and being a rape metaphor. H. R. Giger designed the Alien creature, and director Ridley Scott said that he wanted it to be the embodiment of sexual fear.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   The prequel, _Prometheus_, naturally features Noomi Rapace's character giving birth to a squid-like prototype Facehugger, that ends up tentacle-oral-raping the Engineer, who then gives birth to a prototype Alien.
-   The Predalien creature from _Aliens vs. Predator: Requiem_, which has traits of both a Predator and an Alien Queen, rips apart human males on sight, but upon finding a female, it will drive its phallic tongue into her mouth, and pump _several_ Alien embryos down her throat and into her belly. It seems to prefer doing this to _already pregnant_ women — which is why we suggest you avoid thinking about what happened to their unborn fetuses.
-   _Breeders_ has this as its whole premise. It skips the 'metaphor' part of 'rape metaphor'.
-   In the film _Dagon_, the Fish People in the village force themselves on human women to procreate, creating Half-Human Hybrids. The protagonist discovers near the end that he is one of them.
-   _Feast_ had a scene which took the trope's title 100% literally.
-   _Gamera vs. Jiger_: During their second battle, Jiger injects Gamera with an egg from her ovipositor tail, which both knocks him out and implants her offspring into his body. Two little boys go into Gamera's comatose body to get rid of the baby Jiger before it can "hatch".
-   _God Told Me To_: Pete and Phillips are Half-Human Hybrids conceived when their mothers were raped in Alien Abductions, which involved a bright light going through the women. Pete was born first; when it became clear that his human side was dominant, Phillips was conceived.
-   The hellhound creatures known as Sammael in the _Hellboy_ film sting their victims with a barbed pod at the tip of their tongues, which contains a parasitic infant sac meant to grow, devour its host, and grow into an adult demon. Hellboy was not pleased with this.
    
    **Hellboy:** Didn't even buy me a drink.
    
-   _Horrific_: In _Terror Vision_, the giant floating eyeball impregnates Rita and Jane to create an invasion force for its species.
-   Subverted in _The Host (2006)_, when it really looks like the monster is laying eggs in people's skin or something, and the hero mentions that he feels something moving around in his skin. It's just his imagination, it turns out.
-   _Humanoids from the Deep_ also features the "unsubtle, Gratuitous Rape" variation, complete with Chest Burster, though the titular Humanoids are mutant fish rather than aliens.
-   _The Mist_ has giant alien spider monsters that tie up at least one unlucky human and lay eggs in his stomach/face. He even says "I can feel them inside me" before they start crawling out of his face.
-   Lincoln suffers this in _Monster Hunter (2020)_, being implanted with Nerscylla egg sacs _along the entire left side of his torso_ when they capture him. They start hatching as he tries to escape, and he's so distracted trying to get them off of him that he's unable to protect himself when the Nerscylla come after him again.
-   _MST3K_\-featured B-Movie _Night of the Blood Beast_ has the hero getting filled with alien embryos.
-   _Necronomicon_: In the third segment a group of batlike aliens kidnap people so they can use their brains for reproduction. The female protagonist is told that she has an alien fetus inside her after an All Just a Dream fake-out.
-   This trope gets repeatedly referenced in _Paul_. When Graeme and Clive first find the titular alien, they're afraid he's going to do this to them due to being a pair of sci-fi nerds who've seen too many movies with the idea. Paul himself later makes use of the trope to threaten a pair of rednecks into leaving. Of course, Paul's species doesn't actually reproduce that way.
-   _Sev Trek: Pus in Boots_ (an Australian CGI spoof of _Star Trek: The Next Generation_). The Enterforaprize makes First Contact with the Makular, who having heard Sevfleet have endless supplies of expendable ensigns want them as hosts for their young. Captain Pinchhard indignantly refuses, but meanwhile a large Makular pimple is breaking out on Commander Piker's forehead, with the crew torn between respecting the natural evolution of a sentient lifeform versus Piker's right to maintain his good looks. The pimple grows to enormous size before detaching as a shapeshifting creature that rampages across the ship, causing the death of numerous ensigns.
-   The comedy/horror movie _Slither_ has slugs (really damn fast slugs) that jump into people's mouths to turn them into zombies. It also has a tiny seed thing that shoots a hick, turning him into an alien king that impregnates humans with two tentacles, turning those humans into giant swollen balls of sluggy nastiness.
-   Spoofed in _Spaceballs_, with a baby Alien bursting from the chest of a diner customer (amusingly, played by John Hurt again), then donning a hat and dancing his way offstage ala One Froggy Evening. If you look closely, you'll see Hurt is accompanied by versions of the other crew members of the Nostromo, even Ripley, but they're played by unknown look-alikes. It's enough to make the heroic duo go "Check, Please!".
-   As the lead said, the _Species_ series has this. Mostly they are sexy female aliens who want to get themselves pregnant. The second movie has an infected astronaut having sex with human females... who then go from conception to full term in minutes.
-   At the climax of _Splice_ Dren, now a male, rapes Elsa, and as the twist ending Elsa is revealed to be pregnant and making a deal with the company she and her husband worked for to carry it to term for further research.
-   In _Tales from the Hood 2_, Audrey is impregnated by Golly Gee and then suffer a Death by Childbirth as the offspring rip their way out of her abdomen Chestburster-style.
-   The Creepy Children of _Village of the Damned (1960)_ were implied to be the result of alien impregnation.
-   _Xtro_, and it's not nearly as bad as how the "birth" occurs — let's just say that the human vaginal canal was not meant to give birth to a _full grown human man._

    Literature 

-   _Bloodchild_, a short story by Octavia Butler: Human hosts (almost always male) act as incubators for eggs of the female aliens, who look something like human-size centipedes. If the host is lucky, the mother gets to him in time to extract the newly hatched larvae before they eat their way out. This relationship is presented as approaching symbiotic; the aliens (mostly) cherish the human families from whom they select their hosts, but the hosts don't get a lot of choice in the matter.
-   _Demon Seed_ featured a woman being impregnated by her obsessed _computer-controlled house_.
-   Ixtl from A.E. van Vogt's 1939 short story "Discord in Scarlet" (later reprinted in the fixup novel _The Voyage of the Space Beagle_) reproduced that way. A female womb may have suited its eggs, but since this was an All Male Crew, it had to settle for the male intestines.
-   In the Discworld novel _Snuff_, Igor describes a tropical weevil that's been known to lay eggs in people's brains, entering through the ears and then exiting the skull via the nostrils.
-   In Stephen King's _Dreamcatcher_, exposure to _byrus_, a moss-like alien substance, occasionally causes humans to be impregnated with a serpent-like creature called a _byrum_. It spends a few days or hours in the victim's intestine, growing and eating the poor victim from the inside, after which it makes its exit through the anal orifice, killing the host in the process. Side-effects of having a _byrum_ growing inside you includes a bulging, pregnant-looking abdomen, frequent chemical-smelling flatulence, and telepathic abilities.
-   Isaac Asimov's "Green Patches": The lifeforms of Saybrook's Planet are able to telepathically induce pregnancy in any lifeform capable of reproduction (including asexual and females of sexually dimorphic species). This ability also ensures a hybrid organism will gestate that possess the same green patches that allows Saybrook lifeforms to use Telepathy. (These patches are how Captain Saybrook identified the Assimilation Plot in the first place.)
-   Anne McCaffrey wrote a short story called "Horse From A Different Sea" for her collection _Get Off the Unicorn_. The gist of the story is a small town doctor notices that a large number of his male patients are having odd symptoms like nausea, weight gain and unusual cravings. The men have nothing in common but visiting a "house of ill repute". After running every test he could think of the doctor finds out the men are pregnant and that the "ladies" have vanished along with the house they were in. It was done with very little horror.....given the subject matter....
-   _Humanx Commonwealth_: A couple of unwise intruders on the jungle planet Midworld die this way, one from being bitten on the foot by a vine-mimicking alien leech and the other by choosing the worst possible wildflower to decorate her hair.
-   The lubbocks in Diana Wynne Jones's _House of Many Ways_ reproduce by laying their eggs in human hosts. Males infected this way simply die when the eggs hatch, but females give birth to purple-eyed Always Chaotic Evil creatures called lubbockin. As it turns out, the mysterious disease infecting the hero's uncle is that he's been attacked and "impregnated" by a lubbock.
-   In Jo Clayton's _Irsud_, book 3 of _The Diadem Saga_, Aleytys was sold to a insect-like species to be used as the host for their next queen, which would consume her as time passed. The book makes a point that nayids are normally civilized enough to use nonsentient animals to grow their larvae, but Aleytys' abilities made her particularly good fodder: they hoped the adult queen would inherit her powers. Aleytys uses her powers to kill the queen and expel it from her.
-   _Known Space_: Pierson's puppeteers reproduce by implanting gametes in a non-sapient herd animal from their own planet, eventually producing offspring that fatally extract themselves from their host. They're rather squeamish about this, and like to pretend that they've actually go three sexes instead.
-   H. P. Lovecraft played with this:
    -   Implied in _The Dunwich Horror_, in which the invisible monster terrorizing the town and Wilbur Whateley turn out to be the sons of Lavinia Whateley and Yog-Sothoth.
    -   In _The Shadow Over Innsmouth_, the "Third Oath of Dagon" requires someone who swears it to marry and have children with a Deep One. The kids start out human, but slowly turn into fish people themselves as they age. However, some citizens just swore the First and some the Second Oath. The Third Oath was reserved for the people who wanted most in return, and were resistant enough to Squick. Zadok Allen mentioned that he had taken the First and Second Oath, but wouldn't take the Third even if they killed him. Considering that he had already lived decades like that, it doesn't seem that the Third Oath was compulsory.
-   David Eddings of all people briefly touches on this trope in one of his _Malloreon_ books where a demon lord has impregnated a woman with obscene results. Polgara bloodily terminates the abomination.
-   One of the _Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark_ is of a girl with an inexplicable red spot on her face, that grows bigger and bigger... and explodes with spiders.
-   A short story by Robert Sheckley features a race where the females implant the eggs inside males during sex (otherwise completely human), forcing them to spend 99% of the time in hibernation while the kids develop. Not surprisingly, the females have to travel around the universe looking for suitable hosts - their own males all ran away.
-   The Tunnels series has the Styx reproduce this way every once in a while. They normally reproduce the same way as whatever they currently look like—in the series, humans, though it's mentioned that they didn't always look like humans—but on some occasions, the females go on an oral-impregnation rampage, the larvae eating their way out of the host and killing it.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_: the psychneuein, a wasp-like warp creature, infested Prospero, the homeworld of the Thousand Sons, until the natives' psychic powers evolved in defense. They could infest unprotected psychic minds with their eggs without even making physical contact.
-   The _Wraeththu_, from Storm Constantine's eponymous series, reproduce by injecting their blood on a human male, who then transforms into one of the androgynous anemone-penised mutants. Optionally, they _can_ just have "relations" with a human being...but in that case, their "secretions" would prove fatal to the human.

    Live-Action TV 

-   The aliens in _American Horror Story: Double Feature_ have only one goal coming to Earth: creating the perfect human-alien hybrid that will allow their Dying Race to adapt to Earth's environment. To do so, they need to regularly abduct humans to make them fall pregnant (and the biological sex of the host does not matter). The pregnancy is very much like a human one (morning sicknesses, strange food cravings, painful chest), however it is abnormally fast (the protagonists of the modern days section looking several months pregnant after a few days or weeks). While the female hosts can deliver the baby through the natural process of birth, male hosts need to have the baby surgically removed. Not only is the birthing delivery quite painful, but it is also very dangerous for the life of the host. Let's just say that there's a reason why the aliens need at least five hundred test subjects _per year_.
-   This is how the Magog reproduce in _Andromeda_. Harper once got an intestine full of mini-Magog that required Applied Phlebotinum to remove. For a while he still had them, couldn't get rid of them safely, and so had to take a drug every day to keep them from growing that would not work forever (perhaps a protease inhibitor metaphor). They could be removed with surgery, but considering the process nearly killed a genetically enhanced Übermensch, the typical person probably wouldn't survive.
-   Interestingly, this actually happens _three_ times to Cordelia in _Angel_. In "Expecting", she conceives a set of demonic septuplets the, er, usual way after a one-night stand. Though they're demons, not aliens, the Monster of the Week Skillosh in "Epiphany" impregnate Cordelia by injecting their spawn into her skull after stabbing her head with a tongue stinger. (In both cases, the pregnancies are mystically terminated.) Lastly, her death is ultimately caused by her giving birth to Jasmine.
    
    **Cordelia:** I want you to find me a dimension where some demon _doesn't_ want to impregnate me with its spawn! Is that just too much to ask?
    

-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   The Wirrn in "The Ark in Space" have this as a part of their complicated life cycle. The queen parasitises the bodies of other creatures (on their planet, they use non-sapient animals that they farm for the purpose, but humans can be used as well) and their body is converted into a larval Wirrn. This larva eventually becomes a fully-grown Wirrn, inheriting the knowledge of its host.
    -   In "The Invisible Enemy", an alien parasite which transmits itself via electrical impulses and light implants its eggs in the Doctor's brain via his eyes. The larva hatches and escapes through the Doctor's tear ducts, but the Doctor forces it to grow to human size using his TARDIS's dimensional stabilizer and kills it.
    -   The Adipose from the episode "Partners in Crime" might be the most adorable example ever. The Adipose themselves are an innocent and benign version — being sentient fat, they traditionally breed from other sentients' fat. However, there is a prohibition on doing this on planets where the natives have yet to achieve interstellar travel — including 21st-century Earth. The villain of the episode violated this, using "diet" pills that converted human fat into newborn Adipose, the birth rate of which would be increased to fatal levels by converting organ and bone.
-   In the _Fringe_ episode "Unleashed", Charlie is attacked by a genetically engineered creature with a sting that's believed to be poisonous. Then it turns out that the sting isn't poisonous, but rather a means of finding a host for the creature's larval young.
-   _The Outer Limits (1995)_: In "The Surrogate", Claire Linkwood agrees to be a surrogate mother for Craig and Donna Ellach in exchange for $30,000. She is implanted with an embryo by Dr. Deanston, who runs a clinic. A week or so later, she begins to have strange, vivid nightmares about herself and the fetus in distress. She shares them with the clinic's surrogacy support group and finds that several of the other women have had similar experiences. Seven months later, Fern, another member of the support group whom Claire has befriended, loses her baby. Shortly afterwards, Claire is approached by FBI Special Agent Glen Grant who tells her that every baby born through the Deanston Clinic's surrogacy program has disappeared without a trace. Claire is unconvinced by Grant's conspiracy theories but agrees to her ex-boyfriend Ben's request that she be examined by Dr. Chan, an old high school friend of his brother's. Dr. Chan runs an amniocentesis on Claire which reveals the presence of a strange green fluid in her womb. Claire then learns that Ben had been approached by Grant and that he didn't know Dr. Chan beforehand. Refusing to have anything more to do with Ben, Claire goes to stay with the Ellachs. When she goes into labour, they bring her to the Deanston Clinic against her will and she realizes that the two of them are part of the conspiracy. Having being tipped off by Emily Bushmill, another surrogate mother, Grant rushes to the Deanston Clinic but he is too late as Claire has already given birth. The alien controlling Claire's body explains that its species does not give birth to live young but instead uses host bodies to gestate. When gestation is complete, they devour the host from the inside out, leaving only the shell as it aids in the deception. Grant is then eaten by the aliens in control of Claire and Fern.
-   _Primeval_:
    -   One extinct parasite normally infects dodo birds but is perfectly capable of maturing and reproducing in humans as well. It causes rabies-like symptoms that force the host to bite the next host in line, transferring larvae into the bloodstream. They grow to adulthood in a matter of hours and eat the host's central nervous system upon reaching full maturity.
    -   The Canadian spinoff gives us flesh-eating beetles from the early Jurassic period, whose queen is bigger than a human for some reason and yet can still fly, and forcibly stuffs her egg sac down the throat of her victim. The human victim in the episode has it removed before it can hatch, but it's heavily implied due to the behavior of the normal-sized worker beetles that the newly-hatched larvae would feed on the host until they kill it.
-   _Red Dwarf_: In "Can of Worms", Cat is impregnated by a polymorph who shoves her ovipositor down his throat while they are making out.
-   _Stargate SG-1_:
    -   The Jaffa have symbiote pouches that are used to incubate the larval form of the Goa'uld. They are dependent on their symbiotes to carry out the function of their immune system. In a season 1 episode, Daniel Jackson was raped by the Goa'uld queen Hathor to harvest DNA to make her larvae better adapted to incubation by humans from Earth. Jack O'Neill was given a symbiote pouch to accommodate one of these (though, as stated by Dr. Frasier, "nothing got in there"). Not to be confused with the implantation process, during which a _mature_ symbiote takes over the central nervous system of a host by entering the back of their head. The Tok'ra go in via the mouth, because they're only sharing the body and it's far more consensual — well, except for Jolinar and Sam Carter... (That one's been argued by the fans as a misunderstanding on the part of Jolinar, who was thinking that Sam wanted to be a host-and let's face it, he/she was desperate at the time.)
    -   In the episode "Bane", Teal'c is infected by a mosquito-like alien and starts transforming into more mosquitoes. It takes both his symbiote and an antidote to cure him.
-   Discussed in the _Stargate Atlantis_ episode "Doppleganger" when one character has a dream about a Chest Burster, so the characters sit around discussing _Alien_.
-   _Star Trek_ has gotten much mileage out of this trope:
    -   _Star Trek: The Next Generation_:
        -   In "The Child", Troi is impregnated by that week's cosmic entity and gave birth within a matter of days. Naturally, the child (the entity itself) causes the episode's Negative Space Wedgie just by existing.
        -   In "Identity Crisis", Geordi and several of his former crewmates are metamorphosed into invisible feral aliens after being infected by a parasite on the planet Tarchannen III they were surveying several years before.
        -   The _Enterprise_ itself became a victim of this trope in "Emergence". At first it seems the ship is becoming sapient. It turns out that the ship has been "impregnated" and "gives birth" to a strange construct which floats away into space.
    -   The _Star Trek: Enterprise_ episode "Unexpected" had Trip unintentionally impregnated with an alien embryo after putting his hand in a box of "pebbles" at the same time as the Alien Babe of the Week.
    -   _Star Trek: Strange New Worlds_ establishes that the Gorn, despite being the franchise's most iconic example of Lizard Folk, reproduce like parasitic wasps by implanting their eggs inside other creatures. The hatchlings eat their way out, invariably killing the host, and then fight for dominance.
-   Season 2 of _Stranger Things_ reveals that the Demogorgon reproduces this way. The slug-like creatures are actually its larvae, and they incubate inside a host (living or dead) until they are old enough to seek out food on their own.
-   _Super Adventure Team_: Head gets attacked by a Face Hugger and gets impregnated. Although everyone else wants him to get an abortion, Head refuses and eventually gives birth to an alien.
-   In the _Torchwood_ episode "Something Borrowed", an alien transfers its spawn to Gwen via bite the night before her wedding. It's then up to Torchwood Three to inelegantly teleport the fetus out of her before its biological mother comes to rip it out.
-   A bizarre non-fictional example in _Wildboyz_: Steve-O takes a mouthful of salmon roe and semen from a male fish is squeezed into his mouth (covering his face thoroughly in the process) to fertilize them.

    Multiple Media 

-   _MonsterVerse_: The adult MUT Os in _Godzilla (2014)_ were originally implanted in their "spore" forms (explicitly confirmed to be eggs in the sequel's tie-in graphic novel _Godzilla: Aftershock_) within the body of another member of Godzilla's species, causing the creature's death thousands of years ago as they fed on it, before emerging in the present day. The _Godzilla: The Art of Destruction_ book provides some more details of the MUTOs' life cycle, while _Godzilla: Aftershock_ introduces a MUTO variant named Jinshin-Mushi, which intends to lay its eggs in Godzilla just as it did to the aforementioned MUTOs' host.

    Tabletop Games 

-   Chaosium's supplement _All the Worlds' Monsters_ Volume III. The Scarlet Stalker captures human beings and inserts eggs into their bodies. The eggs keep the humans paralyzed until the eggs hatch and the young eat their way out of the body.
-   _Bleak World_: The Breeding team of the Aliens in a nutshell, they usually stick around to bring the kid up with good martian values though, and female Martians can be part of this squad too.
    -   To elaborate, in order to fight the Venusians, the Martians need a larger army, so they are encouraged to impregnate or be impregnated by humans in order to raise the army. They are then obliged to maintain the cover as a human family and eventually overthrow the human governments and their Venusian controllers.
-   _Changeling: The Lost_: I bet you think there's some entry on a particularly nasty hobgoblin here, huh? Nope. This is why the True Fae _actually_ abduct changelings. See, once a changeling's connection to the Wyrd reaches its highest level, their Clarity manages to drop at an exponential rate — mainly because whenever they dream, they remember Faerie _perfectly_, which means they have a trigger condition every time they go to sleep. And when a changeling hits Wyrd 10 and Clarity 0... they _become_ one of the True Fae.
    -   This isn't normally done specifically for the purpose of procreation. On the other hand, unwanted pregnancies aren't unknown among humans either.
-   One of the creepier monsters of the Creatures section of the _Urban Arcana_ setting for _d20 Modern_ is the Roach Thrall. The only thing nastier than seeing one shed its human skin to take on its true giant, bipedal cockroach form is the way these things reproduce — they use the sexual organs of their human hosts to implant their eggs into a human, and when the eggs hatch, the new roach thrall eats the victim's brains and internal organs while they're asleep, then takes over the body of its new host and blends into human society until such time as its own eggs are grown and it's time to seek out a new host to implant the eggs into.
-   _Dungeons & Dragons_:
    -   The brain-eating Illithids reproduce via a process known as ceremorphosis. Mind Flayers are hermaphrodites that lay thousands of eggs, two or three times over their lifespan, into the Elder Brain's pool at the heart of an Illithid settlement. These eggs hatch into what look like tadpoles, but these by themselves do not grow into Illithids. Instead, after ten years of feeding on each other and avoiding the predations of the Elder Brain, these tadpoles are ready to be inserted into a helpless victim's ear canal, at which point the tadpole consumes its victim's brain, melds with its nervous system, and transforms its new body into a fully-grown Mind Flayer.
        -   Implanting these tadpoles into humanoids like humans or Drow results in standard Illithids, but other victims result in variant creatures with Illithid features. Lizard Folk yield more intelligent bipedal reptiles called Tzakand, implanting a tadpole into a Roper results in a Urophion that augments its host's natural camouflage with a psionic mental blast, and combining a Mind Flayer's psychic power with a Beholder's arcane power results in the nightmarish Mindwitness. Illithids don't experiment like this too much, however, since it risks wasting offspring in failed biological combinations.
        -   An even greater taboo is to _not_ implant an Illithid tadpole into anything, because of the monster that results. If a Mind Flayer community is wiped out, the tadpoles in the dead Elder Brain's pool will prey on each other until only one remains, at which point hunger will drive it to crawl onto land and hunt for prey. If this creature then manages to kill a sentient being and consume its brain, it triggers the same growth spurt as ceremorphosis, but without a host body to take over. Instead the now-sentient creature gains terrible psychic powers and keeps growing into an enormous, tentacled, worm-like monster called a Neothelid. These horrors have no memory of their Illithid heritage and are just as likely to prey on Mind Flayers as anything else.
    -   Red Slaad implant their eggs in unfortunate victims, driving them mad until they're killed when the eggs hatch. The description and accompanying picture in the 5th Edition _Monster Manual_ is a direct Shout-Out to a chest-burster. Blue Slaad instead carry a disease that mutates their victims into Slaad.
    -   In _Forgotten Realms_, ancient Phaerimm, aka "thornbacks" aka "spell grubs". Spell-hurling, very resistant to magic (eating it, in fact), mentally controlling everything they meet up to and including Mind Flayers, laying eggs into humanoid bodies. One even _complimented a prospective host_:
        
        **Phaerimm:** Come along quietly, and you will live.  
        **Aubric:** I doubt it.  
        **Phaerimm:** Do not. I have a fondness for you brave ones. You hatch strong larvae.
        
        -   Morkoth (kraknyth) are aquatic vaguely cephalopodic sentient creatures that lay eggs in living victims. Even Morkoth mages gives "pregnant" females a wide berth _and_ keep a weapon in hand. In _Under Fallen Stars_ the process is depicted in detail, and ends with magical healing of the wound the ovipositor left, but by this time the hosts have reason not to be very happy about this.
            
            **Khorrch:** Even should you live after the young hatch inside you and eat their way free, you would only be reimplanted with eggs or killed outright.
            
    -   The Vargouille, inspired by the South American _chonchon_ and the Malay and Filipino _penanggalan_ and _manananggal_, is a ghoulish undead humanoid head with leathery wings for ears and jagged teeth. This monster reproduces by paralyzing and then 'kissing' a victim, which causes a curse that slowly makes the victim's hair fall out, followed by their ears turning into wings, then they slowly lose ability points, until finally the head takes flight and simply removes itself from the body as another Vargouille.
    -   Xill (inspired by Ixtl in the above Literature folder) are four-armed quasi-humanoid extraplanar creatures with a special ability, Implant. The Xill grapple and pin an opponent then paralyze them by biting. Then, they implant eggs. The larvae will eat their way out if not removed. Surgically removing them will be nearly as traumatic.
    -   Ekolids are _literally_ the demonic incarnation of people's fears of infestation. They live up to it, too; they have six stingers which can implant ravenous larvae, and their mere presence drives people insane with hallucinations of biting insects.
    -   Quanloses are insectoid creatures that can inject their larvae into the bodies of victims, which deals Damage Over Time until the victim is saved with magic like _remove disease_ or _neutralize poison_, otherwise they're slowly devoured from within.
    -   Tirbanas are intelligent insectoids who implant their eggs in the throats of humanoids they've incapacitated with _sleep_ magic, who will then serve as food for the tirbana larvae when they hatch a week later. Tirbanas usually attack villages en masse, knocking out the inhabitants and then occupying the settlement, caring for the slumbering incubators until the next generation of tirbana emerges, around which time the previous generation dies off.
    -   Vinespawn are plant monster that get in on this trope. They reproduce by grabbing a humanoid victim and pulling them into the vinespawn's tendriled body, then jamming a "spawning root" down their throat once the victim's been rendered unconscious by nonlethal crushing damage. The spawning root spreads through the victim's body over the course of four days, until a newly-grown vinespawn emerges from its parent.
    -   _Ravenloft_, naturally, jumps on this trope's bandwagon, with red widows (shapeshifting giant spider/redheads who seduce human male egg-hosts), death's head trees (implanted seeds in lieu of eggs), and sea spawn (which combine this trope with Body Snatcher).
-   _Exalted_ gives us a few Yozis with powers like this. Kimbery represents motherhood in all its positive and negative aspects, and since she's lost the ability to sire children herself (due to the fact that her main form is an acidic ocean), she's got the ability to infect others with her own mutant youth and have them undergo the joys of childbirth. Metagaos, meanwhile, is a swamp that devours everything, including space, time, color, and health — which means that even if you survive a trip through his depths, you'll be bearing something that will make you wish you hadn't.
-   Nearly half of the various creature species in the _GURPS_ sourcebook _Creatures of the Night_ need humans as a component in their reproductive cycle in one way or another.
-   There's a _Magic: The Gathering_ card for everything: Spawnwrithe.
    -   Corpsehatch, too. Again, is there any trope the Eldrazi don't fall under?
-   Not to be outdone, the _New World of Darkness_ gives us _Cymothoa Sanguinaria_, cousin to the real world _Cymothoa Exigua_. Congratulations! You have a parasite living in a hollowed-out pocket under your tongue. It will influence you to seek out other infected hosts so it can be fertilized (the phrase "during a kiss, the parasites will copulate" comes up). Then it will lay its eggs in your esophagus and encourage you to kill people and drain their blood to feed the eggs. And it all goes downhill from there.
    
    _In the end, the lesson we learn from parasites is that we're all flesh, we eat, and we are eaten._  
    _Everything else is just meat, singing to itself in the dark._
    
    -   The Thing From The Deeps in the _Hunter: The Vigil_ supplement "Horror Recognition Guide" is a _very_ unpleasant tentacle demon that kills people in order to reproduce. After it's killed, the hunter responsible finds himself being followed by creepy individuals who don't seem fully human and keep glaring at him with eyes full of hate.
-   ''Shadowrun gives us the Deathspiral Butterfly. It lays its eggs inside living people, who eat their host from the inside out. To make matters worse, the butterfly also employs a painkiller that keeps the victim conscious and unaware of what's happening to them.
-   _Pathfinder_ retains the aforementioned Xill, and also gives us the Akata, which are a Shout-Out to Xenomorphs. The victim is bitten and implanted with eggs which slowly kill it, reanimate it as a zombie, and eventually burst out.
-   The Broos, beastmen in _RuneQuest_ procreate by rape. They can and will mate with _anything_, but the chance of this actually resulting in a living Broo... _larva_ is greatest if the victim is a still living being of suitable size. Hence, most Broo look like goats, deer or antelopes on two legs, since capturing a herbivore like that and impregnating it is easy, but there are Broo born of various humanoids, huge predators like dinosaurs, and, well, _rocks_.
-   The Genestealers from _Warhammer 40,000_ have a slightly more insidious method: They implant their _DNA_ into the victim, in a manner similar to _Species_. This doesn't result in the conventional hybrid offspring, instead acting more like The Corruption: the victim is compelled to love and adore the infecting Genestealer (also known as the Genestealer Patriarch or Broodlord)... and to spread the infection. This not only means luring new victims to the Genestealer for implantation, but also to seek out humans of the appropriate sex and breed with them. _All_ of the children produced with at least one tainted parent are essentially Genestealer hybrids, which grow more human looking up to the 4th generation- which then produces pure Genestealers with anyone they breed with. This eventually leads to the formation of an entire cult of hybrids that seek to ensure that the planet they're on loses the upcoming Bug War they're inevitably going to call down on their heads. Making it even more insidious is that the cultists often know full well that they're next on the menu. Shades of _Village of the Damned (1960)_ mixed with _The Shadow Over Innsmouth_. Especially because the psychic web of a Hybrid Cult means that each person truly loves and adores even the most bestial-looking of their "family".

    Urban Legends 

-   Quite a few modern folktales feature this trope, most often involving spiders, wasps, earwigs, or other arthropods that lay eggs in someone's ear or brain. Accidentally swallowing, inhaling, or even _douching with_ the live eggs of eels, frogs, or cephalopods also leads to this in some.

    Video Games 

-   The Xenomorph weaponizes this trope in _Mortal Kombat X_. Cruelty Is the Only Option, as defeating your opponent without killing them later shows them tied up and a new alien emerges from their chest. The Alien also has a brutality that involves landing the killing blow with a facehugger, which then a new alien bursts from their victim. If they happen to be Johnny or Cassie Cage, Sub Zero, Raiden, Erron Black, Kung Lao, the Predator, or Jason Voorhees, a certain button press can result in the alien emerging with their characteristic apparel.
-   In _Aliens vs. Predator 2_, a facehugger jumping on your face quite literally shows this. The entire screen become the alien's underside with a very phallic tube swinging around in front of your face, implied to be going in your mouth (which can't be seen, since it's an FPS). It's instant-death, and after you see the "wing wong," the game cuts to your body laying on the floor, where you see your chest swell up, your body convulse, and an alien pops out.
-   _Baldur's Gate III_ opens with a first-person cutscene of the Player Character getting an Illithid brain parasite (see the Tabletop section above) inserted into their eye, allowing the player themselves to experience this trope.
-   The Hearteater of _Baten Kaitos Origins_ uses an attack called Ovulate that slaps a timer on a character and results in a Chest Burster scenario (One-Hit Kill) when it runs out. You _can_ cure it, but that means wasting the MP you are going to need to bring the damned thing down.
-   The Bone Leeches from _Blood II: The Chosen_ are the headcrabs' worse, squickier cousins. First, they can and will try to infest the Player Character, resulting in an Interface Screw. Second, they undoubtedly do use their hosts for breeding; after they mutate the poor human to the point of unrecognizability, the victim's body turns into a sack full of baby Bone Leeches (which come out and attack if you shoot the creature with bullets). Third, they aren't adorable hybrids of frog and melon, they are something between a worm, a crustacean and a millipede.
-   In the ryona/vore platform shooter game _Crackle Cradle_, a potential death can see your female character captured and impregnated by a giant alien wasp creature. The character falls to the floor seemingly unconscious, and then after a few moments grasps their stomach and moans. The character's torso violently erupts with bloody viscera and small brown worms, that crawl over to the character's now lifeless body and begin devouring it. Hmm, lovely.
-   _Dark Seed_ starts the game by implanting an alien embryo into your skull. You have 3 days in-game to get it fixed or it will hatch and herald the alien invasion. Fun.
-   In _Dragon Age: Origins_, Darkspawn reproduce their near-endless hordes by creating Broodmothers, each of which can breed a combat-ready squad EVERY TEN SECONDS. The Broodmother in the Deep Roads was the result of Darkspawn ghouls (A.K.A. blight infested dwarves) violating a member of Branka's exploratory group until they spread the taint into her, then force-feeding her their own flesh so she had enough mass to birth more Darkspawn.
-   The Excuse Plot of the _Duke Nukem_ game series has one definite point, which is that the alien invaders need human women's uteruses to serve as breeding machines for their species. The result, of course, is that Duke frequently stumbles on breeding pods: naked, writhing, moaning women wrapped in vine-like cocoons begging Duke to kill them.
    -   It's all a very, very obvious Shout-Out to _Aliens_; Episode 4 of the Plutonium Pack (or Platinum Edition) even features aliens that look like Xenomorphs. Also, there are aliens similar to facehuggers that will jump on the player character (thought they only drain his health, not infect him with a chestburster.)
    -   Taken to a literal point in _Duke Nukem Forever_ where they actually reproduce by depositing their "load" in the women's mouth as their underwear is still intact when Duke finds them.
    -   The concept art suggests otherwise, though.<small>◊</small>
-   _Fear & Hunger: Termina_: When fighting the Woodsman, the player might discover that his phallus is actually some sort of parasite, which will attack the party. Should they fail a coin toss, it will orally assault the main character similarly to a headcrab, making them vulnerable, before skittering away.
-   _Half-Life_:
    -   While there isn't any evidence the Headcrabs of the series use their hosts for reproduction, they fit this trope almost entirely otherwise, commandeering the nervous system of a viable host and using it for their own purposes, with the whole experience being very unpleasant.
    -   However, the new types of headcrabs introduced in _Half-Life 2_ (and their attendant new zombie types) include one that apparently DOES use the host body to reproduce, then FLINGS THE OFFSPRING AT YOU.
    -   A monster that got Dummied Out of _Half-Life_, nicknamed "Mr. Friendly", was designed to **rape the player to death** as its final attack.
-   Look no further than the _Halo_'s Flood. And you get to see it happen in real time in _Halo 3_.
-   In _Kingdom Rush Frontiers_, there's a enemy called the Parasyte (which looks like a purple headcrab spawned from a xenomorph egg). These will latch onto the faces of your soldiers and drain their health. Once the soldier dies, a deadly insectoid alien called a Reaper bursts out of them. These can attempt to infest a Necromancer Tower's skeleton, but no reaper is formed when the skeleton dies.
-   The Mogekos from _Mogeko Castle_ usually hatch from eggs vomited from adult Mogekos, who hatch into Mogeko Larva. The Larva can use human bodies as a host for a large number of Mogekos, if they can get access to one before they grow up.
-   _Monster Hunter_:
    -   _Monster Hunter (2004)_: The Khezu reproduces this way, by leaping out of a crevice in the wall, paralyzing the creature it takes by surprise, and then injects its young whelps into the unfortunate victim. The whelps live off their host until it dies, or they grow strong enough to leave. You can find Khezu whelps and deliver them for money, but while you have a whelp in your inventory it will constantly bite you, slowly draining your health till you get rid of it. Its cousin, the Gigginox, doesn't use this tactic...perhaps because it just makes _so damn many_ whelps. That it can send at predators.
    -   _Monster Hunter: World_: The Jyuratodus reproduces like this. It spawns in the wet season of the Wildspire Waste, its eggs hatch soon after, and the young sneak into an orifice of large monsters passing by, latching their sharp gills to the monster's innards and feeding on them a la candiru.
-   _Resident Evil_:
    -   _Resident Evil 2_: The parasites that the mutated One-Winged Angel William Birkin implants into people (Ben in Leon's 1st scenario, Chief Irons and Sherry in Claire's 1st scenario), which burst out of their victim's chest Alien-style, then metamorphose into a creature that resembles a Xenomorph. It manages to infect a corrupt Umbrella worker in _Resident Evil: Outbreak_, too. The chest bursting only occurs if the victim's DNA doesn't match the host. Because Sherry is the daughter of Birkin, she doesn't get a chest bursting monster and would have transformed into a monster herself had Claire not intervened.
    -   _Resident Evil 4_:
        -   Las Plagas generally live as parasites with the tendency to mutate their hosts, but after a point in the game, the player runs into Plagas who can live independently. Their method of exit has been well-documented, but their method of entry seems to have varied: first as spores, then later via injection. According to Ramon Salazar's concept art he has tentacles that protrude from his fingers that are capable of implanting humans with tentacles, though this is unmentioned/unused in the game itself in favor of said injections.
        -   Then there's Saddler's favorite method of killing people: impaling them on a giant tentacle like appendage with a razor sharp stinger on the end... that seems to come from a junction between his legs.
    -   _Resident Evil 5_: Plagas make a return in this game, this time being an egg that other hosts literally shove down the throat of a victim, making it a more literal application of this trope.
    -   _Resident Evil 6_: Played straight with the Rasklapanje. If it kills you it pins your character down and bites onto their face. A few seconds later a new one bursts from their chest.
    -   _Resident Evil 3 (Remake)_: Done _disgustingly_ so with the Drain Deimos enemies that can attack by grabbing Jill, shoving a long tongue down her throat, and implanting their larvae in her stomach. This results in the "Parasite" status that slows her down and eventually kills her when the things burst out if she doesn't cure it by eating a Green Herb.
-   The only way the Chimera in _Resistance_ can gain new numbers is to more or less gather up infected or dead humans and warp them into foot soldiers.
-   In _Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri_, the Mindworms are a bunch of worms that gather up in huge boils, stun their victims with psychically-induced fear, and place their ravenous larvae on their skulls. Needless to say, the resulting death is Horrible, with capital H.
-   The plot of the first and third _Silent Hill_ games revolve around this trope being implemented by an Eldritch Abomination instead of aliens, although it is no more pleasant to the host.
-   _The Sims_:
    -   In _The Sims 2_, human male sims can be abducted and impregnated by aliens if they use the telescope during the wee hours of the night. Females can also be abducted, but won't be impregnated.
    -   _The Sims 3 Seasons_ brings back that option, and unlike in the previous game where the babies were hybrids of the aliens and the Sim parent, the child will be a pure-blooded alien. With Psychic Powers.
    -   _The Sims 4_ with the _Get To Work_ DLC. The resulting children are pure-blooded aliens again (although the father is listed as a parent as well), have a unique crying sound and plumbob, and can come in a variety of colors. They can also put up a human disguise making them indistinguishable from their human peers, though it's implied that it's not perfect—any sim WooHoo-ing with them will discover their alien-ness. The aliens favor scientists when it comes to kidnapping this time around.
-   The Zerg in _StarCraft_ are already partly based on _Aliens_, so naturally they get in on the act with the Queen unit, which has a special ability to fire a spore at a ground unit, which destroys the unit when two small Zerg hatchlings pop out of it. Very effective when used on a siege tank's pilot in the middle of other siege tanks.
-   Chryssalids in _X-COM: UFO Defense_. Very fast acting, too, as all it takes is one bite from them and then a few non-fiery shots to hatch. Even the 'zombies' that are unhatched Chryssalids can kill unarmored units with ease. Thankfully, they're a terrorist unit for the mid-game Snakemen, so they don't show up very often and you should have sufficient tech when you do meet them. Still doesn't prevent them from being a great source of Paranoia Fuel, which becomes unleaded in a hurry during Snakemen terror missions where they can infect Innocent Bystanders and increase their ranks with you being unable to do a thing about it.
    -   The rapid development is Hand Waved as a characteristic of the species. However, when a zombie is a destroyed, the egg inside supposedly hatches _early_, resulting in... a full grown Chryssalid. This is _further_ Hand Waved by stating that the resulting "early birth" Chryssalid is substantially weaker than a normal Chryssalid, but use of the stat-scanning device reveals that they are... a full grown Chryssalid.
    -   The Tentaculat replace the Chryssalids in _X-COM: Terror from the Deep_. They're limited to underwater missions but that's where practically the entire game is. They're worse than the Chryssalids in that, since they can swim, they can come at you from any direction. There's one bright spot though, there are no underwater Terror Missions, so they'll never have any Innocent Bystanders to multiply with.
    -   Slightly different are the Brainsuckers from _X-COM: Apocalypse_. They're small and have a very short lifespan, but have the nasty habit of leaping at an unsuspecting agent's face and injecting them with alien microbes which take over the host's body.
    -   In _Enemy Unknown_, Chryssalids now no longer hatch if a zombie is killed. Instead, if you wait for 3 turns before killing the zombie, a Chryssalid will be birthed (rather messily) with its host being torn apart from inside. If you kill the zombie before the Chryssalid is born, then there will be no new Chryssalid. Problem is, however that Chryssalids are now _much_ more mobile, easily infecting civilians where you can't reach them, and zombies are often even tougher than Chryssalids.

    Web Animation 

-   The Alien in _Red vs. Blue_ impregnates Tucker this way.
-   In the Black Comedy web cartoon _Stickman Exodus_ episode 'Sex Ed,' this trope comes into play with (sketchings of) giant flying sperm, appropriately enough, attacking one of the stick figure protagonists.

    Webcomics 

-   _Deep Rise_: Nobles can reproduce normally, but have the ability to infest a host with their blood, which slowly mutates the host into one of them. If the neurosurgery doesn't go well, then the resulting spawn will be more of a daughter than a rebirth, retaining the memories of the host but not growing a similar personality to match. This is what happens to Baron and his subsequent "daughter", B'r'n.
-   _Fans!_: Rumy is impregnated (along with a host of other artists) in a slightly more benign manner: The Energy Beings impregnate hosts via a special type of otherwise-harmless radiation, which is shown to make Rumy's head swell up for a few hours before a floating, glowy Half-Human Hybrid fetus emerges, leaving Rumy exhausted but physically unharmed.
-   _Gnoph_: Several of the protagonists are parasites who lay eggs in people's nasal cavities.
-   _Homestuck_: To play Fiduspawn, a troll game similar to a real-life version of _Pokémon_, the player throws an egg that hatches into a facehugger, which forcefully implants a HOST PLUSH from which the newborn spawn promptly tears its way out. In "Fiduspawn", one of the _Paradox Space_ comics, it's stated that the queens used to produce the Fiduspawn eggs, however, can and do use living beings as hosts.
-   _Narbonic_: Helen's gerbil insemenator deserves an honourable mention on the grounds that... well, it doesn't just work on female gerbils.
-   _Shotgun Shuffle_: The health department isn't too happy about the creation of a new "omega pestilence."
-   _Sluggy Freelance_:
    -   In an early arc, the character Aylee is born in this manner, parodying _Alien_. Only instead of facehuggers, the alien species uses a technique that prompts the cry, "Get me a proctologist!"
    -   Later, another member of Aylee's species takes a humanoid form so as to impregnate human females with new drones (it's implied that it's consensual, as the alien finds young women willing to date it _because of its freakish appearance_, though even Aylee's disgusted).
-   _VG Cats_: Is the Trope Namer, and dedicated a comic to the painful realization of the implications of facehuggers.

    Web Original 

-   The Nostalgia Critic and The Nostalgia Chick parodied the _Star Trek: Enterprise_ example in their review of _FernGully: The Last Rainforest_. They were hand-holding in the same ridiculous manner as the characters in the movie, rather than using pebbles, but she gleefully informed him he was now pregnant. (Cue flailing Freak Out.)
-   _Looming Gaia_: Skorpius reproduce by injecting females of other species with their venom, which causes them to grow a red egg in the womb that eventually kills the mother.
-   _SCP Foundation_
    -   SCP-371 ("Macrovirus"). SCP-371 reproduces by inserting its genetic material into an animal. The genetic material takes over the victim's cells and causes them to produce SCP-371 specimens. When the specimens become large enough, the next time the victim enters an aquatic environment they use a Chest Burster technique to leave the body.
    -   SCP-400 ("Beautiful Babies"). SCP-400 reproduces by touching a human woman's skin. This causes the woman to become pregnant with more examples of SCP-400 and eventually give birth to them.
    -   SCP-525 ("Eye Spiders"). SCP-525 looks like a small starfish. It climbs the body of its victim and extracts one of its eyes, then implants eggs in the eye socket. About 24 days later new SCP-525 hatch from the eggs.
    -   SCP-612 ("Aggressive Cable"). If a human being removes an instance of SCP-612 from a power source the SCP-612 may stick copper wires in their throat and electrocute them. After death occurs the human's spinal cord rips out of their body and becomes a new instance of SCP-612.
    -   SCP-695 ("Eels"). SCP-695 reproduce by entering a male human and laying eggs, then forcing the male to rape a woman and infect her with the eggs.
    -   SCP-751 ("Organ Eater"). SCP-751 infiltrates the victim's torso, eats their stomach and takes its place. It then eats and replaces other organs (intestines, liver, kidneys and lungs). It then increases in size and bursts out of the victim's body, afterwards dividing into 10-20 offspring.
    -   SCP-772 ("Giant Parasitoid Wasps"). SCP-772 implants 5-20 eggs into large mammals (such as human beings) using a barbed ovipositor up to 70 centimeters long. The eggs hatch 4-12 days later and the larvae start eating their way through the body.
    -   SCP-783 ("Baba Yaga's Cottage"). In Experiment Log 783, a cockchafer (beetle) was mutated so that when it bit into a person it implanted eggs into their body for later hatching.
    -   SCP-867 ("Blood Spruce"). SCP-867's leaves act like hypodermic needles, injecting a seed into any creature that brushes up against it.
    -   SCP-940 ("Araneae Marionettes"). SCP-940 reproduces by having its host rape other people, which infects the victim with SCP-940 eggs. The eggs grow inside the victim and eventually take it over, continuing the cycle.
    -   SCP-1325 ("Easter Frog"). SCP-1325 are frogs that lays eggs that appear to be chocolate Easter eggs but have SCP-1325 eggs inside them. When they're eaten by human beings the SCP-1325 eggs hatch into tadpoles that attach themselves to the inside of the stomach and grow into more SCP-1325. When they're old enough they use a Chest Burster technique to get out.
    -   SCP-2484 ("Parasitic Mayonnaise Worms"). The eggs of an unknown alien species are in a substance resembling mayonnaise. If a vertebrate animal eats enough of it the eggs will hatch inside the victim's body and grow to up to 12 centimeters long. They will then try to eat each other until only one is left.
    -   SCP-2869 ("Fuckworms"). SCP-2869 reproduces by secreting SCP-2869-S, a mucus containing parasitic sperm. If SCP-2869-S touches another living creature, it will enter that creature's body and grow into new versions of SCP-2869 that are a combination of the forms of SCP-2869 and the host body.
    -   "Bees" implies this is what happened to the diary writer, from a single bee sting to bees everywhere, culminating in his last journal entry "I am bees."
-   _Whateley Universe_ example: in the story "The Op", the mutant semi-military team known as 'The Grunts' takes on a ruined city where something has invaded. They find a building with a Womb Level and some chambers where women have been given this treatment and are encased in tubes in the process of giving birth to monstrosities. Then things really go to hell. This is Sara if she stopped holding back.
-   While preparing calamari, Titli of _Titli's Busy Kitchen_was assaulted in the face by a seemingly dead, seemingly normal squid. At the end of the episode, a baby squid bursts out from inside her shirt. The series being what it is though, she and the baby squid take this in passing, and even become friends.
-   On the adoptable pet website Valenth, there's a series of creatures called Leupaks, who all produce eggs. Including the males. And they can only have children by implanting them in another creature, which the egg will absorb various traits of, so when the egg hatches (and claws out of your body, _Alien_\-style), it will be a whole different creature, in a way. Oh, and they implant them in your body by using a long, flexible tongue with a claw on the end. Squick much?

    Western Animation 

-   In an episode of _The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron, Boy Genius,_ Jimmy's friend Carl is impregnated (in the butt) by a flying alien Electric Jellyfish. It's "born" by static electric discharge from the behind, but is otherwise fairly harmless.
-   In _Adventure Time_, Jake the Dog was born when an alien implanted an egg in his father's head.
-   Roger on _American Dad!_ gets Steve pregnant by accident when Steve gives him CPR since Roger's species reproduces through mouth to mouth contact. Strawman conservative father Stan takes him to Mexico — "God's blind spot", he calls it — to have it aborted. Steve keeps it, but it's transferred to his girlfriend via kissing. The girlfriend, having been raised by Stan's even more conservative rival, thought that was how pregnancy happened anyway, so she never caught on.
-   In part 1 of the _Aqua Teen Hunger Force_ episode "Allen," Master Shake ends up with a face-hugger in his cryo-sleep chamber that makes love to his face _for 9 years._ The alien, named Danny, later admits that the clamps on his butt "are because the sex got boring." Master Shake explains: "_because I was asleep for 9 years_!" Later Master Shake goes to an abortion clinic to have the alien spawn removed.
    
    **Master Shake:** I'd like 1200 face abortions. Can I get a discount because I'm getting them in bulk?
    
-   _Ben 10: Alien Force_'s Mooks are DNAliens, creepy tentacle creatures who are revealed to be kidnapped human victims who have been taken over by an alien brain that latches onto their face and eats their DNA from the inside out. Rather dark when you consider the heroes kill dozens of these guys each episode, the Big Bad already has hundreds of thousands working for him, and it's stated that once someone is fully corrupted, their human mind is dead. They're rather easily reverted back once the resident Gadgeteer Genius studies the Omnitrix's genetic repair function and makes instant-healing guns.
-   Reversed in the _Futurama_ episode "Kif Gets Knocked Up a Notch", where a seemingly male alien is revealed to have a life cycle whereby he can be impregnated by skin contact with a human. Apparently, it's so sensitive at times that even indirect contact, like a shared toilet seat, is enough to do the trick.
-   Discussed in _King of the Hill_ when Dale believes that his son Joseph (actually the result of his wife's affair) is a result of this. In addition to Joseph looking nothing like him and having a completely different personality, Dale wasn't even in town when Joseph would've been conceived. Dale convinces himself that his wife was impregnated by aliens because he was too close to learning the truth about UFO sightings.
-   The male Agent J from _Men in Black: The Series_ is impregnated when he accidentally swallows an embryonic alien, mistaking it for a pill.
-   In one skit on _Robot Chicken_, a woman with a Face Hugger attached walks into a pharmacy and asks for a morning-after pill.
-   _The Simpsons_: "Treehouse of Horror IX" has Kang as the father of Maggie.
    
    **Marge:** _\[voiceover\]_ I tried to resist, but they applied powerful mind-confusion techniques.  
    **Kang:** Look behind you. _\[she looks, and Kang uses a ray gun to impregnate her\]_ Insemination complete.  
    **Marge:** Really? That seemed awfully quick.  
    **Kang:** What are you implying?
    
-   _Star Trek: Lower Decks_: The Anabaj procreate by injecting their eggs into another person's throat.

___