The Endless, going clockwise starting left: Death, Destiny, Dream, Destruction, Desire, Delirium, and Despair.

_Time started to spin.  
Space began to expand.  
From itself again, three living things  
the Original One did make.  
The two beings wished, and from them,  
matter came to be.  
The three living things wished, and  
from them, spirit came to be.  
The world created, the Original One  
took to unyielding sleep..._

— **The Original Story**, _Pokémon_

In Speculative Fiction, especially Fantasy, one way of distinguishing your fantasy world from another is to populate it with made-up gods.

Real-world theology aside, unless the story involves An Aesop about religion being the opiate of the masses or the tool of corrupt priests, it is popular (but not necessary) for the gods in a fictional world to really exist In-Universe. This can serve many uses for the author:

-   It can provide a base for a world's Functional Magic, particularly clerics, monks and paladins.
-   It promotes conflict, especially if you have good vs. evil gods or just Jerkass Gods.
-   It may be that God's Hands Are Tied and they need the hero to carry out their mission.
-   It provides unique euphemisms for characters to swear by.
-   What better way to mess with the character's lives?
-   It gives you a convenient Hand Wave device that's one step above A Wizard Did It.
-   If the deities _are_ real, but played a different role in Real Life, it gives the author a chance to expand on that role, or give them _new_ roles. (See the note about _Fushigi Yuugi_ below for an example.)
-   It allows exploration or criticism of religions, with less chance of offending people.

Roughly 9 times out of 10<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , the Fantasy Pantheon will be polytheistic and each god and goddess will have an Anthropomorphic Personification. Being a Flat-Earth Atheist is a potentially dangerous prospect. Non-godly spirits, demons and ordinary magical beings don't count, but various lesser gods, demigods and Odd Job Gods do. Note that while the title says "pantheon", single Gods count too, but they are rarer.

Interestingly, and possibly because of the non-polytheistic background of most sci-fi and fantasy writers, fantasy religions tend to be far more inclined to Henotheism than most real-world polytheisms. Expect fantasy characters to pick one deity and stick to them rather than worship whichever holds the portfolio most appropriate to the business of the moment. See Henotheistic Society.

Of course it's also plausible that a work's fantasy pantheon is never even encountered, or perhaps they may or not be real.

The gods might also not even be the most powerful beings in their universe. Eldritch Abominations, the Powers That Be, or perhaps even the occasional mortal can be more powerful than them.

This trope is the basis of any good Mythopoeia.

Compare Crossover Cosmology, All Myths Are True, Crystal Dragon Jesus. May overlap with Original Generation, if they co-exist with pantheon from actual mythology.

Expect some incidence of Physical Religion. See Stock Gods for the typical structure and common inhabitants of a Fantasy Pantheon. See also The Modern Gods.

___

## Example Subpages:

-   Fan Works

## Other Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Fushigi Yuugi_ has its pantheon of The Four Gods as the reason behind the whole story. To clarify: The Four Gods _were_ actual deities. But they were very minor deities: guardians of a portion of the sky, and associated with seasons (and maybe a few concepts like love, war, fertility, etc.). They did not have an entire religion devoted to just them like they do in _Fushigi Yuugi_.
-   _Berserk_ has the Godhand and the Idea of Evil, as well as the Four Elemental Kings.
-   This is the driving force in the short-lived _Unico_ series of movies - Unico is forced to move from place to place because the Gods want him banished from existence. Why? Because he can make people happy, and they feel they should be the only ones with that power.
-   _Dragon Ball_: _Dragon Ball Z_ reveals that Earth's "God" introduced in the original _Dragon Ball_ is one of many sufficiently advanced aliens and in fact has partial amnesia and lacks full access to that technology. He's still godlike by human standards, having a room that lets one visit the past, a chamber that accelerates time, a spaceship capable of faster than light travel and was himself stronger than a man who reduced the moon to a cloud of ashes without technological aid but "Kami" was getting old and also used up some of his power splitting himself in two. Above "planetary gods", are King Yemma who judges the dead and kai, who use mass interstellar telepathy to watch over creation. The _Dragon Ball Z: Battle of Gods_ movie centered around the awakening of a destroyer god who destroys planets to recycle material for the creation of new ones and is capable of ending galaxies. The creation of new worlds, which the kai will watch, fall into the realm of the "Kaioshin", introduced right before the god of destruction and don't get along with him. The two Kaioshin revealed also had fusion devices that allowed them to gain the abilities of Super-Empowering and instantaneous movement from other beings that existed in their realms. The destruction god also has prophetic visions, which he shares with a "retainer" who is able to put him to sleep with a tap and turn time back when things go wrong. And that's just touching on the gods introduced in _Dragon Ball Super_ that neatly fit into the hierarchy of Universe Seven. There's an entire multiversial hierarchy with several other gods and comparative creatures that operate apart from the rest!

    Comic Books 

-   Marvel Comics:
    -   In the Marvel Universe in addition to the various different pantheons based on real-life ones, there is also of course the Panther God that Wakanda worships and whose high priest is none other than Black Panther, when Stan Lee and Jack Kirby presented the Black Panther in _Fantastic Four_ #52, it showed that the hero and the Wakandans worshiped the Panther God, with no relation to worshiped gods in life, only with the stories of the Black Panther by writer Christopher Priest (comics) in late 90s, revealed that Panther God was actually the black cat goddess Bast of the Egyptian pantheon, other authors started to find other explanations, the evil Lion God became the lioness goddess Sekmeth, Bast's sister, Sobek, the Crocodile God is another Egyptian deity from an ancient and forgotten cult in Wakanda. The gorilla god worshiped by M'Baku and the Jabari was identified as Ghekre, which is originally a Baoulé deity, recently, Ta-Nehisi Coates created the Pantheon of Wakanda, known as Orishas (name given to spirits and deities in the Yoruba language, one of the languages spoken in Wakanda) composed of Egyptian gods as the aforementioned goddess Bast, Toth and Ptah and gods of other origins: Kokou (from Benin) and Mujaji (from South Africa), David Lapham recounted the story of Gorilla-Man (character created by Stan Lee in 1954) and the associated with the Jabari, it was revealed that before the tribe was known as Jabari, there was a cult of a gorilla deity called Ngi (originating in Cameroon). Another is a totemic spider entity that works across the multiverse that Spider-Man has interacted with from time to time.
    -   There are also the Celestials, who are original creations. Technically Sufficiently Advanced Aliens, but so advanced that the difference is pretty much semantic.
    -   The universe also features a larger "pantheon" of cosmic entities greater than any gods, who control reality: At the top are The One Above All (actually Jack Kirby) and their opposite number The One Below All, next comes the three-faced Living Tribunal, and then several Anthropomorphic Personifications (usually in trios, such as Eternity (who represents life) Death (Exactly What It Says on the Tin) and Galactus the Planet Eater, who serves as a balance between them. Note that this pantheon was put together in hindsight, so its structure is not always clear.
-   The DCU and Vertigo sub-universe (don't ask, it's complicated) have pretty much everything. Christian God? Check, and at least three superheroes are actual angels. Egyptian Pantheon? Meet their champion, Black Adam. Greek Gods? Meet the Amazons, who exist by the grace of said deities, not to mention they also provide the powers of the Marvel family. There are also original divinities such as the New Gods, and Ahl, the literal god of superheroes, as well as the Endless who are above mere gods in terms of universal relevance, with Death herself being more or less the top of her siblings and possibly all of existence (though how her power compares to The Presence... is unknown). The _Green Lantern_ books have established an "emotional spectrum", where the white light of creation split into seven colors/emotions, each with its own Anthropomorphic Personification Energy Being: the Butcher for red rage, Ophidian for orange avarice, Parallax for yellow fear, Ion for green willpower, Adara for blue hope, Proselyte for indigo compassion, and the Predator for violet love; plus Nekron for black lifelessness (as in the absence of life rather than death) and "The Entity" for white life.
-   The introduciton of Yara Flor in _DC Future State_ brought a "gods of Brazil" concept with her. Fair enough, except the writers of DC can't seem to agree on who these gods of Brazil are supposed to be. Between future state, _DC Infinite Frontier_ and _DC Rebirth_ we've seen such diverse refrence pools as the Incan gods, pre-Incan gods of varies Andes dweling tribes, pre colombian Guarani gods and post Columbian colonization Guarani gods. Not only is the usage of most of these deities inherently contradictory, but the stories themselves contradict each other, often ignoring roles other gods had been established as filling, such as Ka-Ata-Killa being established as the third tribe's main deity in _Wonder Woman Annual_ only to be abruptly replaced by Yacy in _Trial of the Amazons_.
-   _DIE_ : Being a dark parody and full deconstruction of classical fantasy worlds and role-playing games, there is of course a pantheon of gods - twenty in total, to match the twenty realms of the world of DIE (based on a d20 die). As suggested by their actions in the comic, and as explained in detail by Kieron Gillen in bonus material, these gods were designed to subvert and twist the archetypal deities of role-playing games : the local nature god is not a "flower-loving hippie" but a giant ferocious bear, the "God of Light" is the sinister Mourner who loves so the world much she constantly weeps for its inevitable doom, and the goddess of fate is Mistress Woe, a goddess always ready to help adventurers and interfere with the world... because she is the goddess of bad luck, misery and the "natural 1": anyone who gets her "help" soon regrets it.
-   _ElfQuest_ has Gotara early on. (Much) later other humans in another land swear by Threksh't. (Later shortened to 'Threk'.)
-   _Sleepless_ takes places in a low-fantasy world, and the two countries whose religion is explored worship natural concepts that reflect the limited forms of magic practiced within their realm:
    -   Harbeny's religion focuses on "Time." Oaths and vows are sworn "on time." Proper greetings include "time keep you" or "time protect you." Traitors are punished by being "erased from time." Magic users in Harbeny can perform great feats of healing by borrowing time from the end of a sick or injured patient's lifespan to speed the course of a disease or close a wound.
    -   Mribesh has a similar concept with "Stars." "Stars keep you" is considered a polite greeting, and magic users in Mribesh divine the future by observing the night sky.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _Avatar_ has Eywa, a Mother Goddess worshiped by the Na'vi. She is believed to be made of all life on Pandora (and is even implied to be Pandora itself), and when Na'vi and other Pandoran wildlife die, they are believed to merge with Eywa's essence. Being a nature goddess, Eywa usually does not take sides in conflict. The only exception she will make, is if all her children are threatened by a foreign enemy.

    Literature 

-   _The Belgariad_ has seven gods, all brothers, above them their father UL, and over all else the disembodied Purpose of the universe.
-   In _Circle of Magic_, the Traders and the Living Circle worship different pantheons, and there is no evidence as to whether either pantheon does or doesn't exist.
-   _The Crew of the Copper-Colored Cupids_ prominently features deities from classic mythologies, but it also has the three Embodiments of the Void, (not-so-)Anthropomorphic Personifications of the fundamental concepts of reality: Lord Thymon (the Embodiment of Time), Lady Spatium (the Embodiment of Space), and Squire Psykha (the Embodiment of Thought). Some characters are shown to worship one or all three of them, such as the Collective of the Retconning Crocodiles, who worship Thymon (or at any rate, used to until they met him in person and he turned out to be less than sympathetic to their aims).
-   In _Dragon Queen_, people worship the sun and swear by its rays.
-   _Discworld_: Gods Need Prayer Badly produces swarms of small gods and Odd Job Gods. Most regions have their own deities or local pantheons, most notably Djelibeybi, whose gods are strongly based on the Egyptian ones, Ephebe, based on the Greek, and Tsort, who know the Ephebian gods by different names in a similar way to the Romans. However, they're all jockeying for space in Dunmanifestin, home of the gods, and in cosmopolitan areas like Ankh-Morpork the most prominent deities like Blind Io (Ephebian Thunder God) and Offler the Crocodile God (primary deity of Klatch) form a sort of "default" pantheon. _Small Gods_ provides a rare monotheistic example in the Great God Om, but believing Om is the only god doesn't actually make it so, and Om has to deal with the pantheon somehow. There is also a pantheon of troll gods, all of whom bless their followers by hitting them on the head with a rock.
-   Many Urban Fantasy works combine a Fantasy Pantheon with Crossover Cosmology, drawing on mythological gods of all stripes. Neil Gaiman's _American Gods_ is probably the most obvious example; _Anansi Boys_, also by Gaiman and in the same continuity, does this too. American Gods goes further as the conflict is shown to be between the "old gods" (from old pagan beliefs) and "new gods" (embodiments of modern constructs, such as The Technical Boy, god of the internet.)
-   _Young Wizards_ does this too with The Powers that Be: "The One" is the nearest equivalent of the Biblical God, the Lone Power is more or less Satan. Other gods through history are either aspects of The One or his servants (Michael (as in the archangel) being one of the forms of The One's Champion, Brigit (of Irish myth) turning up as a forge goddess...)
-   The Tortall Universe's pantheon is ruled by Father Universe and Mother Flame from whence came both gods and Uusoae, Queen of Chaos, the two being in frequent conflict. Of the gods theres Mithros the Sun God, the Great Goddess who embodies law and order with her servant, Faithful the cat. Then there's Kyprioth the Trickster, The Black God (death), the Graveyard Hag, Gainel the Dream King, a lesser healer-goddess called the Green Lady, the Horse Lords... the list goes on. (And on, and on, and _on_...) Furthermore, every plant and animal has its own god.
-   In _The Elenium_, David Eddings almost goes overboard with gods—there are literally hundreds of deities in the setting, though most aren't particularly powerful, divided into a number of pantheons (Styric Younger gods, Tamul gods, _troll_\-gods) as well as a handful of deities who head up monotheistic religions and aren't affiliated with a pantheon (such as the Elene God).
-   _The Deed of Paksenarrion_ has gods on both the good and evil side of the spectrum. Leading the good side is the High Lord who is known most places; the domains of other gods vary by location and probably a persons career. You also have saints such as Gird, Falk and Tir whose deeds in life ended up with them having almost godlike status. On the evil side you have such gods as Liart the god of torment and Archaya the Webspinner.
-   The Lords of Law and Chaos in Michael Moorcock's writings, particularly the Elric of Melnibone stories.
-   The Cthulhu Mythos in some of its characterizations. Lovecraft himself was less than consistent on this point, treating his Eldritch Abominations sometimes as powerful aliens, sometimes as true divinities or at least something equivalent. The point of the mythos being to be impossible for the human mind to comprehend, such confusion is no surprising.
-   The Rankan and Ilsig pantheons of the _Thieves' World_ stories. They're later joined by the Beysib, because Sanctuary obviously needed more divine squabbling and turf-wars...
-   The gods of the Hyborian mythos in Robert E. Howard's Conan the Barbarian stories. Interesting in that some gods have very different domains and followers depending on where you are, such as Bel the Zamoran god of thieves was respectable and honest in another country.
-   Lois McMaster Bujold's Chalion novels feature a pantheon of gods: The Father, the Mother, the Son, the Daughter, and the Bastard.
-   Dragaera has a pantheon which sits in the Halls of Judgment and manipulates things from behind the scenes. One of them at least, Verra, has something of a Crystal Dragon Jesus religion which is mainly popular with the humans of this setting.
-   The rabbits of _Watership Down_ have their pantheon: Frith the creator and sun god, the Black Rabit of Inle as the god of death, and El-ahrairah, the heroic "prince of rabbits."
-   Similarly, the deer in David Clement-Davies's _Fire Bringer_ have their god Herne and folk-hero Starbuck.
-   _Kushiel's Legacy_ has, in addition to All Myths Are True, Elua the god of love, and his Companions, former angels of the One God, each of which is in charge of their own domain, exactly like a traditional pantheon.
-   _The Nightrunner_ series and _The Tamir Triad_ by Lynn Flewelling has the Four Gods, as well as the Mother, the goddess of the hill witches, and the dark god of the necromancers.
-   Played with in _Tales of MU_. Rather than form a unified pantheon, most of the gods deny each others' divinity, and all teach contradictory theology/mythology. One character (a demon, so technically an enemy of the gods... or something) even asserts that the gods are just anyone who is powerful enough to smite anyone who claims otherwise.
-   In Kevin J. Anderson's _Terra Incognita_ series, the supreme god, Ondun, has three sons, Jorun, who stayed to rule the literal Heaven on Earth, Terravitae, and his other two sons Aiden and Urec who he sent out to explore the world and whose later quarrel formed the basis for the two religions in conflict in the story.
-   The seven Saints of _The Empirium Trilogy_ were humans that were each exceptionally gifted in a particular magic. They created the Gate and were the ones that put an end the Angelic Wars. In Rielle's time, temples dedicated to each Saint exist as well as prayers related to that particular saint's element. There are also many references to God, but it's unclear if this God is the same as or similar to the Christian God/Jesus Christ.
-   In Brandon Sanderson's _Warbreaker_, the Returned have a pantheon in T'Telir, including their ruler, The God King. Played with, because the Returned were human once.
-   All of Sanderson's books in _The Cosmere_, despite their very different settings, exist on different planets in the same dwarf galaxy, with the Shards of Adonalasium driving each unique magic system. Named Shards include Ruin and Preservation (_Mistborn_), Endowment (_Warbreaker_), and Honor, Cultivation, and Odium (_The Stormlight Archive_). At least two Shards have been present on the world of _Elantris_ as well, confirmed by Sanderson to have been Devotion and Dominion, but they're dead now, and their power has been dispersed. Word of God is that there were sixteen Shards total. As of the end of _MistbornTheOriginalTrilogy_, Ruin and Preservation have been effectively combined into one entity, Harmony.
-   The _The War Gods_ series by David Weber has both good and evil pantheons.
-   _The Silmarillion_ and other works by J. R. R. Tolkien are, like the Narnia series, a reconciliation of Christianity and paganism. Essentially the Valar, powerful beings who do the work of Eru Ilúvatar (God) in the world are viewed as pagan gods by some and as Christian-like angels by others. In _The History of Middle-earth_ a pagan Anglo-Saxon understands their relationship as "Ilúvatar is not _of_ the Gods; he _made_ them." Essentially, Middle-earth has three "levels" of divinity. At the top is Eru Iluvatar, the monotheistic creator (Big-G God). Next are the Valar, powerful angelic personifications of forces and principles (little-g gods or archangels). At the bottom are the Maiar, who belong to the same race (Ainur) as the Valar but are less powerful and generally work for them (demigods or ordinary angels). In general, only Eru is worshipped, and that lightly and indirectly; hymns to the Valar (particularly Varda) show up in the text, but are more like tribute than actual worship. However, Sauron (a corrupted Maia) usually mandates worship of himself as God in territories under his control. Melkor **wanted** to be Lord Of Everything and be worshipped as such. Pride was his main fault. Tolkien alludes to a prophecy that states that Eru would one day incarnate himself in order to redeem the world.
-   In _A Song of Ice and Fire_, there are several faiths coexisting more or less peacefully. It is not known if these gods really exist, but many of the magical feats performed in the series are attributed to them. The main ones are:
    -   The Faith of the Seven worship a monotheistic God with seven aspects, but often prayed to as seven different gods by the mass, and referred to as "The Gods" in idioms and curses. Those aspects are The Mother, The Father, The Smith, The Maid, The Crone, The Warrior, and The Stranger. Also referred to as the "New Gods". It originated from Essos, where it was brought by the Andals, who justified their settlement of Westeros as a way to spread their faith.
    -   The Old Gods. Their worshippers are not organized, with no holy texts, priests, or rites like the Faith of the Seven. While their original worshippers, the "Children of the Forest", have not been seen for centuries, the Faith is still very strong in the North of Westeros, but forgotten everywhere else.
    -   R'hllor, the Lord of Light, the Red God. Locked continuously in a battle for the fate of the World with the Great Other (god of ice and death). His followers are zealots waiting for the return of the messianic figure known as Azor Ahai. Like the Seven, his worship was brought from Essos, where it is widely practiced. In Westeros, there are only a handful of believers, although one (Melisandre) has become an adviser of Stannis Baratheon, a pretender to the Iron Throne.
    -   The Drowned God, a Cthulhu-like figure worshipped by the Viking-like Ironborn of Westeros.
-   _Swan's Braid & Other Tales of Terizan_: People in Oreen worship many gods, all with their different temples and clergy. Some of them are small gods, less powerful overall. To get more power, one's followers collect others' icons through stealing them, but Terizan thwarts the plot. Later, she actually meets one goddess, Ayzarua the Gateway of Death while inside the Necropolis.
-   The world of Gillengaria in the _Twelve Houses_ series features a mythological pantheon of goddesses. One character hypothesizes that it is from them that mystics originally inherited their magical powers. Most of the realm’s population accepts the goddesses’ past existence as more or less fact, but as they have not apparently been directly active for a long time, worship of the pantheon is almost uniformly lapsed (with the exception of a Cult that is a front for the villains’ coup d'état conspiracy).
-   The _Deverry_ series has dwarves, elves, humans, Horsekin, and Gel da'Thae, each with their own gods. Then there's the Seelie and Unseelie hosts who sometimes play at been gods. Except for one. And then the dweomer masters know who's _really_ running things.
-   Tanya Huff's _Wizard of the Grove_ duology has The Mother and Chaos and their child Death. The other, lesser gods were born from the dreams and hopes of mankind but were killed by their children the Wizards. The male gods are never named but the seven goddesses are.
-   Rachel Hartman's _Seraphina_ has various saints collectively known as Allsaints, who reside in Heaven. They are patrons of particular skills, jobs or traits, and generally infants are granted a saint to be their patron, similar to Christian saints. Allsaints are worshipped in churches and prominent saints have cathedrals. Because there is no higher power as in God for Christianity, Allsaints are pretty much on equal footing.
-   There are nineteen deities in The Rogue King. The All Mother and the Devil are the highest, whilst the majority are divided into two hierarchies:
    -   The Serpent Gods. Eight in total. Only a few are named: Lorric, the God of Lust; Meka, the God of Miracles; Dek is another. Not much is known beyond them being related to each other and Lorric being the most powerful amongst them.
    -   The Stars. The daughters of destiny and grandchildren to the All Mother. Six in total, but only Evalka is named.
-   The _Malazan Book of the Fallen_ takes the idea and runs with it. There are gods and goddesses everywhere and for everything and whatever gets worshipped in a given place depends on the people living there. While the biggest suspects have temples in the most major cities, even individual desert tribes can have their own, real and kicking, deities. There are various kinds of deities in the malazanverse:
    -   The _Elder Gods_ are rumored to be elemental forces that used to be worshipped in times gone by. Their areas of competence are kept nebulous with some exceptions like Mael (Elder God of the Seas) or Mother Dark (Elder Goddess of Darkness, duh) and their worship is said to have involved various amounts of blood sacrifice.
    -   _Gods_ in the more traditional fantasy genre sense that are worshipped at the time most of the series takes place in vary from general deities like Burn (the Sleeping Goddess of the Earth), Oponn (the Twin Gods of Chance), several (yes, several) gods of war to patrons of specific occupations like Cotillion (Patron God of Assassins). Gods, in the malazanverse, are bound to the limits that worship sets upon them.
    -   _Ascendants_ are beings that have in some way transcended the natural boundaries of their race and make for excellent god material. Many of the younger Gods used to be Ascendants.
-   In Michelle West's "Essaliyen Empire" meta-series (_The Sacred Hunt_, _The Sun Sword_, and _The House War_), the gods are usually remote from the world but play an important role in the backstory and Myth Arc. They used to physically incarnate in the world, but millennia ago decided to leave and now reside in the heavens, occasionally popping back into the mortal world to have god-born children.
    -   The main gods acknowledged in the Empire are Cormaris (god of justice), Reymaris (god of wisdom), the Mother (self-explanatory), Teos (god of knowledge), Bredan (god of oaths), Laursana (Love Goddess), Kalliaris (goddess of luck and fortune) the nameless god (an enigmatic trickster figure), Mandaros (god of fate and judge of the dead) and Allasakar (Lord of the Hells, usually referred to by title only). The neighboring kingdom of Breodan worships the Hunter God, who is eventually revealed to be another form of Bredan.
    -   The Dominion of Annagar, the Empire's neighbor to the South, has a different pantheon with some overlap. They have three main gods -the Lord (solar god), the Lady (lunar goddess) and the Lord of Night (God of Evil). The Lord of Night is explicitly the same as the northern Allasakar, and the Lady roughly corresponds to the Mother (though the Lady is harsher and more ruthless, considering her worshippers). The Lord doesn't seem to have a Northern counterpart.
    -   Kallandras, a significant supporting character, was trained as an assassin by followers of the Dark Lady, a goddess of death. How she fits into the broader pantheons isn't really discussed.
    -   Below the gods are the Firstborn, children of two gods (rather than a god and a mortal) but born within the mortal world. They're not transcendent like the gods and exist as physical beings, but within their spheres can rival the gods for power. Notable Firstborn include the Winter Queen, the Warden of Dreams, and Allasakar and Laursana's daughter Calliastra.
-   Fiona Patton's Tales of the Branion Realm series has the Holy Triarchy, which is actually three minor gods and a major one, all based on the four elements. The primordial aspect of Flame is on top, with the ruler of the realm doubling as Its avatar. Oaks, Sea and Wind are, however, the namesake of the faith, even though seeking to give them avatars of their own is regarded as heresy. All four have priests and hierarchies of their own, though the Flame's is by far the most powerful.
-   In _Alien in a Small Town,_ we know that the alien Jan have many differing religions, and it's implied most are polytheistic. Named deities include Survival, a war god named Glory, and the Supreme Matriarch.
-   Zarathan, the setting of _The Balanced Sword_, has hundreds of gods, large and small; most people only follow one god or group of gods, though it's generally accepted that they all exist. Kyri follows Myrionar, God of Justice and Vengeance; Tobimar follows Terian, the Light in the Darkness; Poplock follows Blackwart the Great. One way gods show their power is by providing theurgical Functional Magic to their priests; Healing Hands and Living Lie Detector abilities are common.
-   In _The Dinosaur Lords_, the people of Paradise worship the eight Creators, each of whom traditionally has their own domain. Some people worship all eight, while others chose one Creator and stick with him or her.
-   Religion in _The Ascendant Kingdoms Saga_ goes a step further than the usual small number of gods into full-on polytheistic paganism. The top three gods are the ambi-gendered creator deity Charrot and his/her consorts Torven (male) and Esthrane (female), but below them are hundreds upon hundreds of minor location deities and household gods. One of the few of these minor gods that is named is the capricious ocean god Yadin. There are atheists in the world, but the vampire ghost the Wraith Lord verifies that the gods are _very_ real: he became a ghost due to Esthrane taking pity on him when he traded his life to save King Hougen hundreds of years earlier and cheated The Grim Reaper of her due.
-   _The Witchlands_:
    -   The two seafaring nations of the continet share the same pantheon. Noden is the Top God, who, while usually associated with the sea and portrayed sitting on a coral throne beneath the waves, rules over all of existence. He has a bunch of subordinate deities, including the Hagfishes, who act as Psychopomps, Fury, who's a horridly scarred god of justice and vengeance, and Lady Baile, whose purpose differs depending on who's talking. Nubrevnans consider Lady Baile to be a benevolent intermediary between humans and Noden, whereas Saldonica has Gladiator Games dedicated to her.
    -   The Nomatsi worship a protective deity called the Moon Mother.
-   _Dreamblood Duology_: Several deities of Kisuati origin are mentioned, but Hananja has risen to be the sole deity worshipped in the city-state of Gujaareh. According to scripture, she bestowed the magic of narcomancy on its citizens and in return Hananja's Law is the highest law within its walls. Since she is the goddess of dreams and peace, the Gujaareens worship her by offering her their dreams, which are gathered by her priests and used for narcomacy, and peace is to be maintained at all cost.
-   _Animorphs_ provides some insight to the aliens' religions. Hork-Bajir seem to worship Mother Sky and Father Deep, the "Deep" being the mysterious, monster-inhabited mist that covers the valley floors of their home world. (Hork-Bajir live in skyscraper-sized trees.) Yeerks apparently worship their home world's sun, the Kandrona, because they need its rays (or an artificial equivalent) to survive.
-   In _Everworld,_ the mythological gods eventually got tired of the "Old World" (that is, ours) and created a new one, Everworld, where they set up a Physical Religion with the random human followers that they brought along with them. What makes this interesting is that there are apparently worlds besides Everworld and ours, because eventually, Starfish Aliens started showing up with _their_ gods. The ones we know about are the unnamed god of fire and goddess of the ore whom the Coo-Hatch worship (until at least some abandon them to go home), and Ka Anor, the god-eating deity of the Hetwans.
-   _The Wicked Years_:
    -   The main religion of Oz is Unionism. It's a Christian-esque religion where people believe in the Unnamed God.
    -   The traditional pagan religion of Oz is Lurlinism. Lurline is a fairy goddess and the world's creator is a dragon who lives underground.
    -   Two religions that are discussed only in passing are the pleasure faiths and tiktokism. The pleasure faiths is a religion that believes in just having fun, which puts it at odds with the more conservative Unionism.
-   Dogs in _Survivor Dogs_ believe in nature spirits called the "Spirit-Dogs". They're a combination of nature spirit and anthropomorphic personification. For example, the sun is a dog called the "Sun-Dog" and the planet itself is the "Earth-Dog".
-   _The Tough Guide to Fantasyland_: Many Tours will feature a vast number of gods. However, oddly enough the adherents of polytheist religions will generally be devoted to just one (henotheism).
-   _Villains by Necessity_: The gods are frequently referenced, but most don't get named or explicated (one, Mula, actually appears in a vision though).
    -   There's Rhinka, goddess of wisdom.
    -   Baris and Bella, the twin thief gods.
    -   Azal, the god of death.
    -   Artelis, the hunters' god.
    -   Mula, the goddess of healing and fresh water.
    -   Cror, god of thunder.
    -   Hruul, the god of darkness.
    -   Tharzak, god of blades and or assassins.
-   In _The Fire's Stone_, Darvish and Chandra follow a religion with ten gods, each referred to by numbers and each with their own domain.
-   _Bazil Broketail_: Veronath, the empire which preceded Argonath, worshiped many gods. Argonathi have largely abandoned this for worship of the Goddess, though the old gods' statues are still found in isolated places. The three which the books mention are Caymo (their god of chance and wine), Asgah (War God god of war) and Gongo, ruler of the dead and hell.
-   _Split Heirs_: There are at least 172 Gorgarian and Hydrangean gods, though only a few get mentioned specifically.
-   In _This Used To Be About Dungeons_ the gods are based on various mathematics concepts - Bixzotl, God of Copies; Garos, God of Symmetry; Kesbin, God of Nothing; Oeyr, God of Emergence; Qymmos, God of Sets; Xuphin, God of Infinity.
-   _Slayers_ has Gods vs Mazoku (demons). And the Lord of Nightmares though she usually likes sitting around not interfering in anything.
-   In _The Faraway Paladin_, multiple gods are known to exist in the new world, each offering their blessing and protection to their followers. While Gus explains to Will that describing the gods as good or evil is somewhat arbritrary, they're generally divided into two groups: the benevolent gods (Volt, Mater, Blaze, Whirl, Rhea Silvia, Enlight, and Gracefeel) and the malicious (Illtreat, Dyrhygma, and Stagnate). There was also the original creator deity who spoke the world into being, but their name is lost to history (and are dead according to the 'verse's creation myth).
-   _Of Fire and Stars_: People in Havemont and Mynaria generally worship the Six Gods, who represent the classical elements (earth, fire, water, wind) but shadow and spirit as well. However, they have different opinions about some things, as the Havemontians hold the fire god is highest. Mynarians though think the wind god is supreme. Also, while magic is deemed a gift from the gods in Havemont, most people from Mynaria view it as evil, and it's banned there. Each god has different symbols and prayers. It later transpires there's a seventh god, whose nature has not been revealed yet.
-   _The Chronicles of Dorsa_: Several gods are mentioned as worshiped in the books' setting, among the Terintans especially but people elsewhere too.
    -   There is Father Mizzu, who it seems is the Top God for worshipers of his, believing he sets their fates.
    -   Mother Eirenna is goddess of the dawn sun.
    -   Father Eiren is god of the daytime sun.
    -   Mother Moon is naturally the moon goddess.
    -   Uncle Q'Util is god of the night sky and a trickster, though at heart he's benevolent. There are several other trickster deities also believed in by people of different regions.
    -   Preyla, the sea goddess who Akella and other Abessians worship, as a seafaring people. It appears she's their only god, while other peoples don't appear to worship her.
-   _Tales of Inthya_: In Rhodia, Ieflaria and Ioshara the people believe in eleven gods whom they worship. Vesolda numbers the gods as ten. Both in Rhodia and Iefliara they view the Eleventh god as the tiebreaker among the others, however they differ on which that is. Ieflarians, and people on the entire continent of Ioshara, believe that Cyre, God of Animals is the Eleventh. However, in Rhodia Nara, Goddess of the Sky, is the Eleventh. Ioshara though has Cyne as the Eleventh.
    -   Cyre is the son of Eyvindr, God of the Harvest. In Vesolda, he is Third of the Ten.
    -   Eran is the God of Dreams.
    -   Talcia is the Goddess of Magic.
    -   Talcia is also the wife of Iolar, God of Law and Civilization. The paladins' Order of the Sun serves him.
    -   Dayluue is the Goddess of Romantic Love, mostly depicted with scant clothing. She is also the Goddess of fertility in Vasolda, being prayed to for conception. She also has "companions" who serve as prostitutes in her name.
    -   Reygmadra is the Goddess of War.
    -   Adranus is the God of Death. However in Ieflaria he also has dominion over healing, whereas Rhodia ascribes this to his daughter Adalia.
    -   Ethi is the God of Knowledge.
    -   Avala, the Goddess of Winter, is viewed as Eleventh in Siabaeld.
    -   Inthi is the God of fire, metal work and smiths. Being neutroi as well, Inthi also appears to _de facto_ be the neutrois' deity. Most of the people who they bless with their magical gifts are neutroi.
    -   Pemela it appears is the Goddess of marriage, though her domain is not explicitly stated.
    -   Merla is the Goddess of music and the ocean.
    -   Zeneen is the Goddess of the desert, sun and fire in Masim, depicted with very curly hair and massive feathered wings.
    -   Ridon is the God of Art.
    -   The chaos gods are considered dangerous and even evil, standing outside of the others.
        -   Rikilda is the Goddess of Alchemy. She's extremely powerful and people associate her with dark practices.
        -   Cytha is the Goddess of revenge.
        -   Aelia is the Goddess of caprice. Eventually she becomes the Goddess of inspiration.
        -   Iius is the God of Gluttony. He is in the form of a huge fish, and has followers bring him human beings to eat.
        -   Xera is the Goddess of Melancholy. Her presence can increase a nearby person's grief to the point it manifests as a wraith wholly separate from their body.
        -   Edan is the God of wrath.
-   In _Reborn_, While Usleth isn't particularly religious, Rezwyn is, and they have a main pantheon of five gods, as well as hundreds of unnamed minor gods. The one who actually affects the plot is Suoduny, the god of prophecy. He is responsible for Izra's clairvoyant and mystic abilities, and he's the only one Oren eventually comes to accept actually exists, as his intervention gradually becomes harder to ignore or wave off.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_ has so many gods that you can't even count them. There are seemingly all mythological gods, the Powers That Be, The Old Ones, Hellgods and an unnamed goddess mentioned a few times by Willow (probably the Goddess of Wicca). The only one who seems to not exist is the one Joss tends to refer to as the "Sky Bully". Which is a little odd, when you consider that the symbol of the Sky Bully is apparently the only one that has the power to repel and/or inflict serious burns on vampires.
-   _Power Rangers_ doesn't feature gods too much, but _Power Rangers Wild Force_ had Animus as the supreme nature spirit (at least to the Animarian civilization, and implying that the Power Animals were lesser deities), _Power Rangers Mystic Force_ showed a High Council governing magic, and _Power Rangers Operation Overdrive_ gave Thor and Loki a brief appearance.
-   _Super Sentai_ has done this a few times as well:
    -   _Mahou Sentai Magiranger_ features both the Heavenly Saints of Magitopia and the Infershia Pantheon which serves under the Absolute God N Ma.
    -   In _Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger_, the Humongous Mecha Daizyujin is in fact an avatar of the Zyuranger's patron god.
    -   _Ohsama Sentai King-Ohger_ has the entity known as King-Ohger playing the role of the guardian deity safeguarding the planet Tikyū. Two thousand years prior, King-Ohger actively supported the original heroes in their triumph over the Bognaarok Empire. Comprising the five King Shugods, each representing a distinct body part of King-Ohger, these divine beings individually serve as the guardians of the five kingdoms constituting Tikyū.
-   _Battlestar Galactica (2003)_ at first glance seems to have a Greek pantheon, but as the series goes on it becomes more apparent that it's similar, but not quite the same as the real life Greek pantheon.

    Tabletop Games 

-   The pantheons of the _Dungeons & Dragons_ universe, including the various campaign settings.
    -   Notable exception to the standard: in Eberron, the gods are a mystery. There are angels and others who _claim_ to serve the gods directly, but Word of God claims they aren't sure either. Divine magic is powered by faith rather than the gods themselves. (A running joke is the Church of My Left Sock.) There are divine entities at the heart of several religions (such as the evangelical religion of the Silver Flame), as well as other entities who claim to be divine, but there are also several self-motivated religions (such as the dark-themed Blood of Vol) as well as the Path of Inspiration.
    -   _Ravenloft_, too, is a setting where the legitimacy of deities is unclear. While some of the setting's religions exist in other D&D settings, it's uncertain if their followers' prayers ever reach their nominal patron deities, and some churches have taken up practices that their alleged "patrons" would never endorse. Likewise, one of the setting's major faiths (god included) was born of a madman's delusions, and a couple of minor ones started out as intentional frauds. _All_ of these sects' clergy possess divine magic, but none can actually commune with their respective deities, real or otherwise.
    -   _Dark Sun_ was another exception. It's implied that in the distant past, the people of Athas worshiped various gods, but at present, they've all been forgotten. In their place, the powerful—but mortal—Sorcerer-Kings are worshiped as gods in the city-states, while most non-city dwellers are nature worshipers. In the 4E reboot, the gods are stated to have been killed or driven off in the conflict with the primordials.
    -   _Forgotten Realms_ is more polytheistic than most implementations. Even though most characters select a particular patron deity (and divine spellcasters are required to since the gods are the only source of magic in the Realms), they'll still typically pray to others for help in corresponding endeavors: for example, nearly every combatant on the continent offers a prayer to the War God Tempus before battle regardless of other considerations. (Expanded Universe authors vary in whether they pay attention to it, but this is how it's presented in the rulebooks.)
    -   In practice, _Forgotten Realms_ has an enforced henotheistic rule by the gods; You may only have one patron god, but you are allowed to acknowledge the other gods in the world. Paladins of Heronymous for example, are not hindered to pay respect to Umberlee, if they wish to travel the oceans. But the point remains that once you pick a god, you stick by them.
    -   Played with in _Dungeons Of Drakkenheim_; the Old Faith fits the general _archetype_ of a fantasy pantheon, having twelve distinct gods with distinct portfolios, natures and ambitions, but in-universe the followers of each god don't necessarily consider their gods to be connected at all. The term "the Old Faith" is used by a rival religion that now dominates the political landscape, the Church of the Sacred Flame. Which itself worships no gods, but instead devotes itself to a Sentient Cosmic Force it calls the Sacred Flame, the embodiment of light, hope and good. Shadow Cults, meanwhile, devote themselves to a range of cthonic patrons, ranging from malevolent entites of death and darkness to believers that the Sacred Flame has an equally important opposite they call the Exalted Darkness — the _term_ "Shadow Cults" is used by the Sacred Flame's worshipers to lump them all together, as they universally dismiss them as Dark Is Evil.
-   _Warhammer_:
    -   The Elves and the Empire both have pantheons composed of various gods. These gods tend to be anthropomorphic personifications of various concepts (Isha is the Elven goddess of life, Ulric is the Empire's god of winter, battle and wolves, Khaine is the Elven war god, etc.), although the Empire also has Sigmar who isn't really a personification of anything but a human who ascended to godhood (or a Physical God, or possibly a Folk Hero whose legend has gotten out of hand, depending on who you ask).
    -   The four great Gods of Chaos, created from the psyche of mortals: Khorne, god of rage and war; Slaanesh, god of lust and excess; Nurgle, god of disease and despair; and Tzeentch, god of schemes, magic, and ambition. It's worth mentioning that Khorne is sort of like an evil version of Odin, minus the magic. There are a number of lesser Chaos Gods, but they're minor figures and their canonicity is questionable.
        -   Since Chaos uses the symbol of eight arrows arranged into a star, the devs made a group of lesser Chaos gods to round out the number to eight. They have existed on and off under dubious canonicity due to unimportance or real world legal complications. There are Hashut, god of Chaos Dwarves; Malal, renegade Chaos god that represents Chaos' inherent instability; Necoho, god of atheism (no, really!); and Zuvassin the Undoer, who simply meddles with the plans of other gods. There's also Be'lakor, a Daemon Prince who's subordinate to each of the big four but has ambition of true godhood; and also the Great Horned Rat, the god of the Skaven.
        -   There's also the concept of Chaos Undivided, whose adherents worship the main four Chaos gods as a pantheon or as aspects of a higher deity. Chaos is usually at its most unstoppable when the gods set aside old rivalries and focus their power and followers on a single goal.
    -   The ancestor gods of the Dwarfs are another pantheon and so is the old pantheon of ancient Nehekhara. Ind is mentioned and referred to as the land of a thousand gods so one would expect them to have quite the pantheon. Bretonnia is said to have the commoners and the occasional noble worship some Empire gods along with the Lady of the Lake, but that might not count.
    -   The Orcs have two gods (Gork, the god of cunning brutality and Mork, the god of brutal cunning. Or possibly the other way around. Wars have been started by Orcs arguing which is which), but that hardly counts as a pantheon (a couple of other gods, such as Bork and Khalekk have been mentioned in the older background, but they probably aren't canon anymore).
    -   Interestingly, the ogres, who worship the Great Maw, seem to be the only truly monotheistic race, although a fire cult among them also worships a volcano, the Fire Mouth, as an offspring of the Maw.
    -   The Skaven have only one _official_ god as well: the Horned Rat. It's a deity strongly associated with Chaos, although it isn't part of the "true" pantheon, possibly existing only as a minor Chaos god. This until Slaanesh disappeared, and the Horned Rat took over the vacancy. Some Skaven worship the other Chaos gods, but this is considered blasphemous and anyone caught doing so is destined for an excruciatingly painful death.
-   _Warhammer: Age of Sigmar_: In the new Mortal Realms, there are implied to be countless gods, but the ones most powerful and relevant were Sigmar's Pantheon Of Order — _were_ because the alliance between them fell apart at the end of the Age of Myth, and each went their own separate ways — comprised of eight survivors of the World-That-Was, some of whom were already gods, and others who ascended to godhood as a result of the massive magical energies released during it; each one embodies one of the Eight Winds of Magic and its associated properties, and, since those Winds coalesced into the Mortal Realms, they became the de-facto rulers of each:
    -   Sigmar, who embodies Azyr, the wind of the Heavens; not exactly the Top God, but as the founder of the Pantheon he was the first among equals.
    -   Gorkamorka, who embodies Ghur, the wind of Beasts; in the Old World, he had been the god of the orcs, and he's now worshipped by them, as well as other "savage" races like the Ogors and the Grots. He hunted the various godbeasts that plagued the Mortal Realms, channeling his Blood Knight nature into something positive for once.
    -   Tyrion and Teclis, the former of whom embodies Hysh, the wind of light, while the latter, called the Mage God, is a satelite deity who embodies knowledge and magic; they were mortal elf heroes of the World-That-Was who wanted to recreate their kin in the new world and protect them.
    -   Allarielle, who embodies Ghyran, the wind of life; another formerly-mortal elf who is now the goddess of nature and all growing things.
    -   Grimnir, who embodies Aqshy, the wind of Fire; the Dwarven war god, who joined Sigmar after he and his brother are implied to have had a falling out with the rest of the dwarven pantheon that ended with them imprisoned, he served the Pantheon by founding the warrior lodges that would eventually become the Fyreslayers.
    -   Grungi, Grimnir's brother, who embodies Chamon, the wind of Metal, and the dwarf god of blacksmithing, crafting, and engineering; like his brother, he left (or was possibly cast out by) the rest of the Dwarf pantheon to join Sigmar's new pantheon, and top the mortal races the arts of metalworking and engineering.
    -   Maelrion, who embodies Ulgu, the wind of Shadow; once the elf warlord Malekith, also known the Witch King, and leader of the Dark Elves in the World That Was, he became a god of deception, darkness, and conspiracy, but willingly worked alongside his former nemesis Tyrion for the renewal of the elven race, but always with his own agenda in the back.
    -   And Nagash, who embodies Shysih, the wind of Death; once a mortal mage, turned undead necromancer, turned death god, Nagash was Sigmar's Arch-Enemy in the World That Was, but was persuaded to set aside old grievances to help shepherd the souls of the mortal races, and ruler of their many afterlives Despite being the least trusted member of the Pantheon (with good reason) he was ironically the last to abandon Sigmar.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_ started out as Warhammer IN SPACE!, so there's some overlap.
    -   The Chaos gods are still present, but massively Flanderized from their counterparts and some of their champions belong to Earth history (it's implied that Doombreed, the oldest of Khorne's daemon princes, was once known as Genghis Khan). The backstory is different as well: where Nurgle, Khorne and Tzeentch were created by the collective human emotions of love, rage, and hope at various time in human history, Slannesh was created from centuries of nonstop Eldar depravity (the psychic Eldar being much more sensitive to emotions).
    -   The main addition is the presence of the C'tan, though they're closer to space horrors, who used to feed on stars before eating living things' souls. The four known to still exist in some form are the Void Dragon (presumably trapped on Mars by the Emperor and likely worshipped by the Mechanicus), the Nightbringer (the original Grim Reaper, who implanted his image into the minds of every species so they'd fear death. Except Orks, which is why they fear nothing.), the Deceiver (who turned the C'tan against each other For the Evulz), and the Outsider (whatever the Outsider is, it's trapped in a Dyson Sphere, and a Tyranid hive fleet made a huge detour rather than get close to it). The C'tan also bear the dubious honour of having been **shattered** into shards after the Necrons came to some semblance of sense and enacted revenge on the C'tan for screwing them over in their whole immortality deal, essentially reducing their former gods and masters into a Grimdark Cosmic Horror version of _Pokémon_.
    -   The Eldar pantheon is mostly dead due to Slaanesh's birth ripping a several hundred light years wide hole into reality and consuming billions of Eldar. Most of their gods, save for war god Khaine (who was shattered similarly to the C'tan), fertility goddess Isha (who was taken by Slaanesh first, but then became the bride-slash-prisoner of Nurgle) and jester god Cegorach, who is busy planning the demise of those who annoy him/endanger the Eldar/try to intrude into the Black Library. The Eldar are also trying (with eventual success) to summon a new god of death into existence (Ynnead), so it'll take out the C'tan and Necrons, and anyone else threatening the galaxy such as the Orks and Tyranids, as well as Chaos itself later on. Criticisms of this plan include that it might kill off the entire Eldar species or the fact that the last time the Eldar tried to create a god, they got Slaanesh, but as mentioned, they do eventually succeed and even manage to get some help from the humans (if with the usual very morally questionable means).
    -   Gork and Mork are also around, with Ghazghkull Thraka as the galaxy's mightiest Ork Warboss and their (self-proclaimed or chosen) Dark Messiah.
    -   The Imperium of Man worships the Immortal God-Emperor of Mankind, which is dark Irony since the Emperor never wanted to be worshipped as a god, wanted the Imperium to be enlightened, secular and free of mysticism, and in fact banned all religions to the point that he personally torched the last church on Terra before taking to the stars. It's generally assumed that he wanted to starve the Chaos Gods this way, but severely underestimated their powers and severely overestimated his own plan's likelyness of success. Now he's been on life-support for 10,000 years while the Imperium around him crumbles into an authoritarian, ultra-religious nightmare and he can do nothing but watch and despair while his soul splinters into fractions of fractions until it will eventually disappear entirely.
-   The pantheons of the world of Glorantha in Chaosium's _RuneQuest_. These are quite complex and play a very important role in the game, much more so than in most other RPGs.
-   The deities of Tekumel in Professor M.A.R. Barker's _Empire of the Petal Throne_
-   The Passions in FASA's _Earthdawn_
-   The Invisible Clergy in Atlas Games' _Unknown Armies_
-   The "Gawds" of Garweeze World in _Hackmaster_, as described in _Gawds and Demi-Gawds_
-   _Exalted_ possibly built the biggest pantheon in fictional history. Granted, some of them are just described, but even so, there are gods for _individual rice grains._ Even if one ignores the Terrestrial Gods (who represent and protect localised things) and sticks to the Celestial Gods (who represent and protect universal conceptions), there are still enough of them to inhabit a city the size of a continent. Third edition scales back on this a touch - not everything gets a god, only what's important to Heaven. That's still an impressively large number of gods, though.
-   Troper Looney Toons' long-standing multi-system campaign world Narth has a pantheon of nearly 60 active gods, as well as a good number of quasigods and metagods.
-   The GURPS Banestorm fantasy setting actually _averts_ this, believe it or not. The elven/dwarven religions don't have gods at all, and since the humans of the setting were initially yanked from Crusades-era Earth, the major human religions are Christianity and Islam.
-   Although Scion is largely based on actual myth, they also offer Atlantean deities as a lost pantheon.
-   The _Palladium Fantasy RPG_ has a number of Gods and Pantheons, such as Algor, the Pantheon of Rurga, the Northern Gods, and such. Strangely enough however, the most prominent pantheon in the world is the Church of Light And Dark: the Gods that once ruled _Ancient Egypt_ back on Earth.
-   _Magic: The Gathering_ has fantasy pantheons on several of its worlds:
    -   Theros has a pantheon of gods much like the Greek pantheon.
    -   Similarly, Amonkhet has a pantheon of gods akin to Egypt's. Only one survives.
    -   Kamigawa has the Myojin, which are the highest of the kami.
    -   Shadowmoor has a pantheon of demigods.
    -   Ixalan has a solar deity divided in three aspects. It also bears a bat-god of night.
    -   The Norse-inspired Kaldheim has the Skoti pantheon, which replaced the previous Einir pantheon (in turn reduced to elves).
    -   And Zendikar has a pantheon of three gods that turn out to be based on the three Eldrazi titans.
-   _Nobilis_ has two ranks of gods: the Imperators, who each embody a particular set of concepts fundamental to the universe, and the Nobilis, those whom the Imperators have granted dominion over their concepts, turning them into Anthropomorphic Personifications. There are elements of Christian mythology in the mix, such as Lucifer and Adam and Eve, but C'neph the Creator is a mystery, and Heaven and Hell don't have primacy over the other divine factions.
-   In _Ironclaw_ Lutarists believe in a pantheon centered around the fertility goddess Lutara and an indeterminate number of lesser deities such as Brukes the Bloody-Tusked (war), Daga (farming), Lyrisica (music, poetry), and Femort (death, winter and sadness). However Lutarism is a minority faith in Calebria and mostly confined to House Doloreaux's lands, the other three major houses all follow the monotheistic Church of S'Allumer and the tribes outside the kingdom follow animistic druids.

    Toys 

-   In Transformers, Primus and Unicron are generally considered the supreme Cybertronian gods. Below them are the thirteen original Transformers that Primus created. Being a relatively recent addition, there's not much known about the thirteen, with two exceptions: Vector Prime, guardian of time (seen in _Transformers: Cybertron_); and the guardian of entropy known only as "The Fallen" (the Big Bad from _Revenge of the Fallen_).
-   This was a _huge_ aspect of LEGO's _BIONICLE_ line, originally. The "Legend of the Great Spirit" has been beaten into our heads over and over again, and many characters and prophecies referenced "The Heavens", "Spirit Brothers", and all kinds of borderline-religious mumbo-jumbo. Turns out not only was most of it a lie that the elders made up so that they wouldn't have to tell the islanders their terrible forgotten history, the whole Legend was based on a total misunderstanding. Everyone (save for some fans) seems to have gotten over it with ease, and they still continue to respect their former "god". But this time, for the things he has _done_, rather than because of what the legends said.

    Video Games 

-   The _Lunar_ series has the Goddess Althena, a Physical God who is Loved by All. She is the the only deity worshipped on Lunar, but she has a support network: she created Four Dragons to govern the world's magic and select the Dragonmaster, a human hero that acts in Althena's name. Later games add variation, like Lucia, an apparent counterpart of Althena from another world, and Zophar, god of destruction.
-   _Treasure of the Rudra_ has the Majestic Four, Mitra, Meifa, Hausen, and Saizou.
-   _The Legend of Zelda_ has the three creator goddesses (Din, Goddess of Power; Nayru, Goddess of Wisdom; and Farore, Goddess of Courage), plus a rather large supporting pantheon, which changes from game to game. Of particular note is the Goddess Hylia, because the various Princess Zeldas are her mortal incarnations.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_ has many. While names and details vary wildly in the religions of the races of Tamriel, there are some consistent elements:
    -   Anu and Padomay. "Twin brothers" who are the Anthropomorphic Personifications of the primordial forces of "stasis/order/light" and "change/chaos/darkness", respectively. The series' primary Creation Myth states that their interplay in the great "void" of pre-creation led to creation itself. Creation, sometimes anthropomorphized as the female entity "Nir", favored Anu, which angered Padomay. Padomay killed Nir and shattered the twelve worlds she gave birth to. Anu then wounded Padomay, presuming him dead. Anu salvaged the pieces of the twelve worlds to create one world: Nirn. Padomay returned and wounded Anu, seeking to destroy Nirn. Anu then pulled Padomay and himself outside of time, ending Padomay's threat to creation "forever". From the intermingling of their spilled blood came the "et'Ada", or "original spirits", who would go on to become either the Aedra or the Daedra depending on their actions during creation. (Some myths state that the Aedra come from the mixed blood of Anu and Padomay, while the Daedra come purely from the blood of Padomay).
    -   Lorkhan, also known as Shezarr, Shor, Lorkhaj, and quite a few others, is the closest thing to a "creator god." Depending on the culture, he tricked/convinced the "original spirits" (et'Ada) of the creation era to help him create the mortal world, known as Mundus. This act cost those et'Ada a large portion of their divinity, binding them forever to the world they helped create. For this perceived treachery, these et'Ada "killed" Lorkhan, tore his "divine center" (heart) out of his body, and cast it down into the world he created (where it landed in modern Morrowind, forming Red Mountain.) His spirit too is forced to wander Mundus, occasionally taking form as a Shezarrine, great champions of mankind who usually show up during times of crisis, most often fighting against the races of Mer (Elves) in some form.
    -   The Aedra, also known as the Divines, are those et'Ada who helped Lorkhan to create Mundus. Originally eight in number, they were joined by a ninth, Talos, the ascended divine form of Tiber Septim. Because of their sacrifice during creation, they lost their Complete Immortality and can be destroyed. They are seen as unambiguously "good" by most of the mortal races. There are also lesser Aedric spirits of all sorts, most notably the Dragons.
        -   The Dragonborn (of which the _Skyrim_ Player Character is one), according to lore, are rare mortals blessed by Akatosh, the chief Aedric deity and draconic God of Time, with the immortal soul of an Aedric dragon. This allows them an innate knowledge of the Thu'um, the draconic Language of Magic, and the ability to absorb the souls of slain dragons, which is required to permanently kill them. Akatosh specifically created them to serve as natural predators to dragons.
    -   The Daedra are the original spirits who did not participate in the creation of Mundus, leaving them truly immortal. (Their physical forms can be destroyed, but their spirits will always return to Oblivion where they can be reformed.) Chief among them are the 17 Daedric "Princes," who govern over "Spheres." They rule over their own planes of Oblivion and occasionally interact with mortals, usually to accomplish goals within the mortal plane where they can only manifest as avatars, though sometimes simply for their amusement as well. Depending on the culture, most are viewed as "evil" with a few typically "good" ones also in the mix. However, most in-universe scholars are quick to point out that the Daedra are really Above Good and Evil, operating under their own divine Blue-and-Orange Morality.
        -   In _Oblivion_, the Champion of Cyrodiil at the end of _Shivering Isles_, ends up inheriting the mantle of Sheogorath, becoming the _new_ Mad God Daedric Prince.
    -   Additionally, there are numerous other minor gods and powerful spirits worshiped as gods in the various cultures of Tamriel. For 4000 years, the Dunmer worshiped the Tribunal, a trio of Physical Gods who tapped into the aforementioned Heart of Lorkhan to achieve divinity. The Redguard believe in Hoon Ding, the "Make Way" god who manifests as a great Redguard hero whenever their people are in need of a place to live. Cyrus the Restless, hero of the game _Redguard_, is believed to be one such manifestation. The Argonians worship the Hist, ancient sentient trees who grow and shape the Argonians by letting the Argonians drink their sap. Magnus and the Magna-Ge are spirits who escaped Mundus to Aetherius during creation in order to avoid being bound like the et'Ada, puncturing holes in reality as they did so. (Those holes are now the sun and stars, through which magic flows in to Mundus.) The list goes on.
-   _Romancing SaGa_ has 10 Deities.
-   The _Touhou Project_ universe has _a lot_ of fantastic deities, such as Shinki from _Mystic Square_ and Kanako Yasaka and Suwako Moriya from _Mountain of Faith_ (in fact, _Mountain of Faith_ introduces 5 goddesses, though the Aki sisters and Hina Kagiyama aren't that powerful, unlike Kanako and Suwako). Also a case of Gods Need Prayer Badly. This happens _in addition_ to the gods already known in reality and various plot points are about the known gods and _Touhou_\-exclusive gods interacting in some way, such as Reimu having to summon 3 specific gods for space travel. Usually, gods and goddesses of the series are from Shinto, but a goddess that appears in _Legacy of Lunatic Kingdom_ is from _Greek_ mythology.
    -   It's worth noting that most of the gods in the series are in fact expies of actual deities, although this isn't obvious to most — especially Western — audiences, as ZUN appears to have a preference for drawing inspiration from very obscure myths. The aforementioned Kanako is a Composite Character of Takeminakata-no-Mikoto and his wife Yasakatome-no-Kami, while Suwako is based on Moreya, a local deity from the same region where Takeminakata and Yasakatome are enshrined. The Watatsuki sisters are named after daughters of the sea dragon Watatsumi and ancestors of the Japanese imperial dynasty. Utsuho Reiuji of _Subterranean Animism_, while herself an original creation, received her powers by eating the Yatagarasu, messenger of Amaterasu. Shou Toramaru is an avatar of Bishamonten, the Japanese version of the boddhisattva Vaiśravaṇa and one of the Seven Lucky Gods. From _Legacy of Lunatic Kingdom_, Sagume Kishin is based on Amanozako (also called Ame no Sagume), a wicked goddess, daughter of Susanoo, and ancestor of amanojaku and tengu, while Hecatia Lapislazuli is obviously Hecate. Okina Matara is apparently based on Matara-jin, an extremely obscure deity who, in Tendai Buddhism, was syncretised with several dozen more or less obscure figures from India, China, and Japan. From _Wily Beast and Weakest Creature_, Eika Ebisu is Ebisu, another one of the Seven Lucky Gods, Kutaka Niwatari is the folk god Niwatari-jin, and Keiki Haniyasushin is most likely a reference to Haniyasuhime no Kami, a goddess of soil and pottery mentioned in _Kojiki_ as one of the kami born when Izanagi cleaned himself from the filth of Yomi.
-   _Incursion_'s pantheon subverts many of the traditional aspects of the tabletop game pantheon. The Eldritch Abomination (Kysul) is Lawful Good, the god of Justice (Semirath) is a zany Karmic Trickster rather than a stern judge, the gods of Art (Maeve), Animals (Zurvash), Chivalry (Erich), and Fertility (Xel) are all evil while the god of Purity (Immotian) isn't far from it, the Good gods include a whip-wielding seductress (Essiah), the goddess of The Undead (Mara), and the guy with The Illuminati trappings (Xavias), and so on.
-   The most prominent gods in _RuneScape_ are Saradomin (good/order), Zamorak (evil/chaos), and Guthix (balance/nature). Other gods include Armadyl (good/justice), Brandos (evil/war), Seren (light/Peace), Zaros (darkness/control), Marimbo (monkeys/hedonism), Brassica Prime (cabbage/deliciousness) and several more. The gods are divided into many young gods and a pantheon of six elder gods who created the universe. Each of the elder gods is associated with an element and an aspect of time. They are Jas, Ful, Bik, Wen, Mah, and an another that hasn't been named. Most of the young gods are former mortals who got their power from artifacts left behind by the elder gods or by stealing it from another young god. The Kharidian Desert has its own pantheon of eight gods. And the eldtrich god Xau-Tak is the head of a pantheon of four evil gods. And the island of Karamja has its own pantheon of gods.
-   Played with in _Warcraft_. While the Titans fulfill the role of a fantasy pantheon in the series, even having their own Satan analog with Sargeras, Blizzard stresses over and over that they are **not** gods, and despite their name neither are the Old Gods. So far there has only been one entity in lore that is officially a deity, the Night Elf goddess Elune.
-   _Guild Wars_ has a group of 5 (later 6) gods. Shrines to the gods are found throughout explorable areas, and can grant different sorts of bonuses if a particular region of the world has "favor". In the setting, some people focus mostly on particular gods, though all gods are generally acknowledged. In the sequel, only human worship these gods with any conviction. The other playable races either worship their own deities, or have a different conception of the world.
-   The _Fall from Heaven_ mod for _Civilization 4_ has 21 different gods, each associated with a particular type of magic, as well as a way of behaving and a facet of the world.
-   Legendary Pokémon have always been powerful, but thanks to Sequel Escalation newer ones can be positively godlike. _Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire_ had Groudon and Kyogre, who formed the land and the seas; and Rayquaza, a sky Pokemon that kept them in balance. The games after that, _Pokémon Diamond and Pearl_, included Dialga, Palkia, and Giratina, Pokemon that controlled _time, space, and antimatter_; Uxie, Mesprit, and Azelf, who granted mankind _knowledge, emotion, and willpower_; and Arceus who _created the world_. _Pokémon Black and White_ continues with Zekrom and Reshiram, the embodiments of Yin and Yang, and _Pokémon X and Y_ have Xerneas and Yveltal representing creation and destruction. _Pokémon Sun and Moon_ have a set of "Tapu" Pokémon that were openly regarded as guardian deities, though they don't seem to represent metaphysical concepts like the above-listed Legendaries do.
-   The _Ogre Battle_ series has their own Gods like six for their elements (Zoshonel the Fire Goddess, Berthe the Earth Goddess, Grueza the Water Goddess, Harnella the Wind Goddess, Filarhh the Light God, and Asmodee the Dark God), with a few other originals like Fellena, Goddess of Justice, Dagda, God of Life and Death & Holp, God of Wisdom, among others mentioned in the Zeteginean Myth. However, there is some Crossover Cosmology as there are mentions of Thor and Loki (Surtr, too, but not in the heavenly pantheon) and the Four Gods of the Winds (Boreas, Zephyros, Notos and Euros) from Classical Mythology among them. There are also those ones who reside in the Underworld, as well. Diablo, both the God of Destruction & King of the Ogres and Danika, the Persephone-like daughter of Berthe are some of them.
-   _Kid Icarus_ has at least one god made up for the game (Palutena). The monster Medusa is a goddess in this game, and references to Zeus were made. This makes it a mix between a Fantasy Pantheon and Greek/Roman gods. Palutena may be based off of Pallas Athena. In any case, _Uprising_ introduces the goddess of Nature (Viridi) and the god of the Sun (Pyrrhon). Neither of whom resemble much of anything in Greek myth. However, Zeus's brothers, Poseidon and Hades, are also in the pantheon.
-   The _Disciples_ series has several deities, who are usually patron gods of certain races. They are often borrowed from real-life religions or other fantasy worlds. The human Empire worships Highfather in a Christian manner, making the origin obvious. The Mountain Clans worship Wotan, which is another name for Odin. The Elves worship Gallean and, formerly, Soloniele, who are responsible for the creation of the Elves and the Merfolk. Interestingly, Highfather is _not_ the creator of humanity. That would be his favorite angel Bethrezen, who is also the creator of the fantasy world of Nevendaar. Thanks to the jealousy of the other angels, when Bethrezen showed it to Highfather, it was engulfed in war. Angered, Highfather locked Bethrezen at the molten core of his creation, leading him to go mad and become The Devil, who later created a race of demons meant to free him and destroy the mortal races. A misunderstanding lead to Wotan killing Gallean and causing Soloniele to become Mortis, the goddess of death. She slaughtered a magical people and raised them as her undead servants.
-   _Divinity: Original Sin_ has the Seven Gods who each created one of the six races (humans, dwarves, elves, lizards, orcs, and imps) with the exception of Amadia, who serves as the patron god of wizards.
-   The _Dragon Age_ 'verse has three. A decent majority of humans worship the Maker, who is pretty close to the Judeo-Christian God; to a lesser extent, they also worship his once mortal bride, Andraste. The ancient Tevinter Imperium had a slew of dragon-gods, who were banished from the surface and sleep beneath the earth; when darkspawn uncover them, the Blight transforms them into Archdemons and unleashes hell above ground. Elves, meanwhile, have gods and goddesses of many different functions. As of _Dragon Age: Inquisition_, the player has actually _met_ two of the members of the elven pantheon.
-   _Fable_ is pretty straightforward. Avo is the god of good, Skorm is the god of evil. Neither one actually exists.
-   _Dungeon Crawl_ has a diverse pantheon by Roguelike standards - 18 gods, each imposing their own restrictions on the player and offering different rewards. There are good gods dedicated to law, healing and crusading against the evil, dark gods that focus on death and necromancy, a god of plants, a god of slime, a god of war, a god of anti-mage berserkers, a god of time and several different chaos gods - one of them behaving almost unpredictably.
-   _Pillars of Eternity's_ pantheon consists of eleven deities. Berath is the god of cycles, including life and death. Eothas is the god of light and redemption. Magran is the goddess of war and fire. Abydon is the god of crafting and forging (and before getting killed and rebuilding himself as a golem, also of preservation). Galawain is the god of the hunt. Hylea is the goddess of the birds and the sky. Ondra is the goddess of the water and the moon. Rymrgand is the god of death, famine, plague and misfortune. Skaen is the god of secret hatred, resentment and violent hatred. Wael is the god of secrets, dreams, mysteries and revelations and Woedica is the goddess of law, memory, rightful rulership and vengeance.
-   Atlantean religion in _Atlantis: The Lost Tales_ revolved around the gods Ammu and Sa'at.
-   In the iOS game _Ravenmark Mercenaries_, the people of the Faiths who join with the Kaysani and the Islanders to form the Varishah Federation worship a pantheon of eight gods. As mentioned in the in-game Codex, these gods are Deverra (the crone and wisdom), Matre (the mother and fertility), Eos (the young girl and innocence), Prisma (resilience), Serci (purity and beauty), Tersa (luck and chaos), Ayas (the gardener), and Nox (night). Interestingly, the Faithmen don't worship the gods equally. Each aspect (possibly, a clan) belongs to one of the eight temples. The Kaysan worship the sun god Kayes, so it was fairly easy to integrate them with the Faithmen by including them in the Ayas temple, since "Ayas" is likely derived from "Kayes" and shares the same position in the pantheon. Many other peoples of the world Eclisse have the same mythology, which is rooted in the world's heavenly bodies, but don't necessarily worship them as gods. The Kaysan are known for their "sunsoul" magic, allowing them to use deadly fire on the battlefield and even create eclipses on a whim. The Tellion people, for example, primarily revere Corvii, the sun god's prized pet raven, and instead use wind magic as a counter to sunsoul magic.
-   As the _Dark Parables_ continue to be told, the games reveal an ever-increasing pantheon of goddesses; thus far, all the deities have been female. Some, like Flora (the goddess of nature's balance) and Thalassa (the sea goddess), have names. Others are only identified by their function, including the Sun Goddess, the Maiden Goddess, and the Moon Goddess. The Moon Goddess is the one who has appeared the most often to this point, and according to the tenth game, seems to have adopted the player character as a disciple without telling her.
-   _Cantr II_: All religions are created by the players of the game. Some of them worship the creator of the game. One of the most notorious ones, is a simple copy paste of the Donii religion, which cheerfully ignores the fact that everyone spawns at 20, sex doesn't create children, there are no volcanoes, nor caves. But hey, since when did that stop someone waving their fetish fuel around? Caveman rumpy ahoy!
-   The _Sword of Damocles_ mod for _Mount & Blade_ has a (sadly somewhat rudimentary) religion system which affects which fiefdoms are friendly (or unfriendly) towards you, the contentment of the people in your kingdom, and the development of some of your late-game units and some unique buildings. The Temple of The One is centred on a Crystal Dragon Jesus figure and the official cult of the Empire of Antara, a proud aristocratic nation resembling the late Western Roman Empire. The Zerrikanian Sultanate, which borrows cues from the Ottoman Empire, is dedicated to a truly bizarre religion which worships... _something_ referred to as only "The Void" - The Void supposedly grants powers to the its followers, basically making it an Expy of Chaos. In the Duchy of Villian, an idyllic kingdom based on medieval Scotland, The Old Gods still hold sway. And in the Republic of Marina, a nation which combines renaissance Venice with ancient Greece, gods and religion have been thrown aside entirely in favour of a scientific agnosticism called Natural Philosophy.
-   _Sacrifice_ has a pantheon of five gods, who in the backstory were responsible for the creation of the game setting's world. Each god (roughly) possesses a fifth of the world each and is, in practice, the ultimate sovereign of its own nation and that nation's sole worshipped god. Some people do switch patron gods, but in essence become exiles from their homelands in the process — a B-plot in the game's campaign involves the gnomes, a race aligned with Persephone, having a civil war and half their number skipping ship to join up with Pyro (and in the process helping Pyro invade and abduct an entire generation of Trolls to become his minions). Eldred, the Player Character, is a Wild Card as he doesn't come from the world and is free to make alliances with the gods at his leisure.
-   The _Nexus Clash_ pantheon has three good deities, three evil deities, and three neutral pro-free-will deities to justify the Mêlée à Trois of the setting. Except for the Good deities, they _don't_ get along and agree on very little except that disagreements are to be settled via the Cosmic Chess Game that players' actions represent. Only _one_ deity can shape a world per cycle of the universe, making even the little cooperation that there is uneasy.
-   _Far Cry 4_ is set in Kyrat, a fictional country in the Himalayan region of South Asia. The local religion is (rather loosely) based on other Dharmic religions such as Hinduism and Buddhism, but features a very unique mythology. Deities include Banashur (the creator god who made the world), Kyra (Banashur's daughter, the goddess from whom Kyrat takes its name from), and Yalung (a devil who once battled Banashur over the fate of the world). There's also a famous story about Kalinag, a warrior-hero who visited Shangri-La to fight off an invasion by the Rakshasa.
-   In _Cookie Clicker_, by investing at least one sugar-lump into temples, you unlock three slots on which you can put punnily-named gods (or rather, as the game calls them, spirits) to gain their favour in exchange for a drawback:
    -   Holobor boosts your cookie production speed but will denounce you if you click a golden cookie.
    -   Vomitrax lengthens the duration of golden cookie effects but decreases the production rate of your buildings.
    -   Godzamok grants temporary production buff when you sell buildings.
    -   Cyclius gives a 15% cookies-per-second buff that slowly gives way to 15% penalty and vice versa.
    -   Selebrak gives vaguely defined boosts to seasonal events at the cost of making switching to them costlier.
    -   Dotjeiess makes buildings cheaper but also makes heavenly chips less effective (that is to say, slows down your cookie production rate).
    -   Muridal<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  makes clicking on a cookie produce more cookies but reduces your buildings' production rate.
    -   Jeremy (represented by a gear) raises your buildings production rate but makes golden cookies rarer.
    -   Mokalsium does the same thing as Jeremy, but with milk.
    -   Skruuia makes wrinklers more frequent and worth more cookies but turns every golden cookie into wrath cookie.
    -   Rigidel makes sugar lumps ripen slightly earlier if your total number of buildings is divisible by 10.
-   The Krosmoz has:
    -   a yin-yang pair of Top Gods, the Lady Eliatrope and the Great Dragon, who created the whole verse in their cosmic dance,
    -   ten greater demons, of whom only Rushu survives (having made off with the others) to function as God of Evil,
    -   twelve gods who take power from being worshipped - some of them look sort-of-like the Classical Mythology Olympic gods:
        -   Cra, goddess of archers and hunting (and the local equivalent of apples),
        -   Ecaflip, the catlike Trickster God of gambling,
        -   Eniripsa, the goddess of words, knowledge and healing,
        -   Enutrof, the god of treasure hunting and mining,
        -   Feca, the protector goddess,
        -   Iop, the god of fighting,
        -   Osamodas, the god of beasts,
        -   Pandawa, the goddess of fermentation and drunkenness,
        -   Sacrier, the goddess of pain (and compassion),
        -   Sadida, the god of plantlife,
        -   Sram, the god of assasins (also, rouges),
        -   Xelor, the god of time.
-   In _Final Fantasy XIV_, many gods are worshipped such as Hydaelyn and the Primals. In Eorzea, the Twelve are a pantheon of gods worshiped since ancient times. The city states of Eorzea, past and present, worship one of the Twelve as a patron. They are:
    -   Althyk, the Keeper
    -   Nophica, the Matron
    -   Halone, the Fury
    -   Rhalgr, the Destroyer
    -   Nymeia, the Spinner
    -   Oschon, the Wanderer
    -   Llymlaen, the Navigator
    -   Byergot, the Builder
    -   Thaliak, the Scholar
    -   Azeyma, the Warden
    -   Menphina, the Lover
    -   Nald'thal, the Traders
-   _Mythic Ocean_ has the player interact with seven fictional gods with most being unaware of what they really are.
-   The kingdom in _King of the Castle_, regardless of the territories forming it, has a religion based around the Ninth God, who slew eight other creation deities (although the Counts of the East are more apt to worship the Seventh God, ruler of the Hells, while the Chiefs of the North have their own pagan deities).

    Visual Novels 

-   In the _Shinza Bansho Series_ the divine pantheon of the Throne and their conflicts acts as the heart and soul of the series. While there are plenty of lesser Gods, the main focus is on the great Hegemonic Gods. Common to them all is that started out as somewhat regular humans who then grew powerful enough to alter the reality around them according to their wishes, eventually turning those wishes into new natural laws that would govern the multiverse. They are, in order:
    -   The First Heaven, Mithra the Righteous One. She governed the world of moral absolutes and making good and evil revolve around herself. A world torn by endless warfare between the two sides that are fated to never be able to reconcile.
    -   The Second Heaven, Magsarion the Tyrannical King. He governs the world of the eternal sin and planting sin in the hearts of all. It's a world driven by a Darwinist ideology and the darkest sides of humanity is always at the forefront.
    -   The Third Heaven, Nerose Satanel the Sorrowful Genius. The sinless god, he rules a world of no sin filled with happiness, rationality and purity but devoid of free will.
    -   The Fourth Heaven, Mercurius the Mercurial Snake. Eternal Recurrence, a world where all souls endlessly repeat their lives without knowledge of their past lives apart from those sensitive to the whispers of the past timelines. Also the world that acted as the birth of alternate timelines and realities, giving birth to a multiverse.
    -   The Fifth Heaven, Marguerite Breuilh the Twilight Goddess. She rules a world of acceptance and reincarnation. A peaceful world where all have to right to a second chance to improve their lives and where all ways of life are embraced.
    -   The Sixth Heaven, Mara Papiyas the Evil One. He rules a world driven by selfishness and rejection of others. A self-destructive world that prevents new birth and destroys old life as all life vies to destroy itself until only it's ruler is left.
    -   The Seventh Heaven, Hirume the Myriad Dawns. The current ruling God. A world that incorporates elements from past dynasties, souls are now able to chose which world they want to be born into and to chose the afterlife of their desire.
    -   And finally, there are the two Gods who never had any rule due to either being slain by another God or forfeiting the right to rule to another but are still recognized as true Gods. Those are Ren Fujii the Ephemeral Moment, the ruler over the ephemeral moment and eternal stagnation, and Reinhard Heydrich the Golden Beast, the ruler over eternal strife and war.

    Webcomics 

-   It’s an integral part of the premise of _Champions of Far'aus_, as the story primarily follows the champions of the Hyperia Pantheon deities, Hyperion and Leilusa. Various other Pantheons and individual gods and goddesses exist as well, with the deities often playing the role of Mission Control for their respective champions.
-   _The Order of the Stick_:
    -   In the same vein as the _D&D_ example, the pantheons here are the Chinese Zodiac animals, the Norse gods, the Mesopotamian gods, and the Greek gods, who were killed by the Snarl before the world began. There are also completely fictional deities in the setting, such as the Elven gods and the Dark One, God of the Goblin races (both of which were formerly mortals).
    -   Then there is Banjo the Clown, God of Puppets, created by Elan early on in the strip, as in a literal hand-puppet. Despite this, Elan's legitimate faith in him is enough to have be considered a god, albeit a very minor one. However, Banjo was considered to join the Northern Pantheon (Odin liked puppets), but was ultimately turned down (which ironically becomes something of a plot point down the line.) Furthermore, Banjo has started spawning his own pantheon which includes the heretical cult of Banjulhu and Giggles, the Clown God of Slapstick, as well as Banjo's rival and brother (who would become the main god for an island of orcs after initially worshipping Banjo). With conflicts between different sects settled by the traditional pie-eating contest.
    -   Most infamously is the Eldritch Abomination known as The Snarl. While not worshipped, he is acknowledged, mainly because he was born from the various paradoxes from what the Gods were creating the world. It's capable of _killing gods_ and it's believed the mortals killed are Deader than Dead though the reveal of a whole another world seen within the world that confines it indicates things are much more complicated.
-   The main characters of _The Gods of Arr-Kelaan_ were ordinary humans and aliens from the near future before they somehow ended up in the fantasy world of Arr-Kelaan and became gods. Their pantheon is detailed here.
-   In _The Challenges of Zona_ the Erogenians follow the Goddesses of the Moon and Earth. The Sun is also a deity but not much followed except for the Sun tribe. The Urrts follow Shuach, God of Evil and Fire who used to be followed by the Erogenians and the Kivallians follow Thrasu, a Crystal Dragon Jesus who may or may not actually exist.
-   The world of _Erfworld_ was apparently created by the Titans of Arc, who are worshiped its inhabitants and who look like giant Elvis impersonators.
-   _Unsounded_ has Father Riv and Mother Yerta<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , the creation deities. There's also Brother Baelar, who's some sort of god of magic, and Sister Terna, a supposedly sympathetic Satan-like character. (But note that the person narrating here is highly unreliable since she's telling the story to sell a doll).
-   _Vanadys: Tales Of A Fallen Goddess_ has, in addition to the titular fallen goddess, a pantheon of gods who _didn't_ fall.
-   _Rusty and Co._ elevates this to the Mundane Fantastic: rather than compete over followers, gods in the Crossover Cosmology form LLCs ("Limited Liability Congregations") around areas of interest like "Luck" and "Knowledge", splitting the prayer power and spell-granting duties.

    Web Original 

-   _Fire Emblem on Forums_: Given the roots of these roleplays, they have a few examples:
    -   _Fire Emblem on Forums: Chains of Horai_: The Gods of the Land, whose blessings, called Gnosis, grant their chosen immense power. The player characters are those who wield a Gnosis. There are also two other gods, the God of Life, a former member of the Gods of the Land that died in a Heroic Sacrifice, and the God of Curses, an evil god who became Sealed Evil in a Can due to the Gods of the Land and the aforementioned sacrifice.
    -   _Fire Emblem On Forums Wonderful Blessing_: The Goddess Dragons, eight of whom created the world of Generia. The Goddess of Water and Healing, Serena, is the game's Lord and one of the main characters; a few of her sisters, the chaos goddess Discordia, wind goddess Borea, order goddess Rhea and love goddess Freya, play significant roles in the game's story.
-   _Monster Girl Encyclopedia_ mention few deities in some of Cute Monster Girl entries. So far, we have God who seems to based on Judeo-Christian-Islamic one, Poseidon who governs the ocean. And the Fallen God who resides in Pandemonium. The profile of the Cyclops suggest that there are more, with Cyclopes themselves being gods until other deities cursed them to become monsters.
-   In The Movolreilen Saga, each of the nations has one of its own, though so far only Nilenira's has been fleshed out.
-   In _The Gamer's Alliance_, various gods live in the High Plane and are basically divided into factions supporting Chaos, Order or Neutrality. Each god and goddess is a jerkass to a lesser or greater degree. The gods shown so far are Artemicia (Goddess of Healing), Cardia (God of Order), Dionysus (God of Wine and Madness), Gaea (Goddess of the Earth), Ganesha (God of Merchants), Heath (Goddess of the Sky), Hephaestus (God of Smithing), Hivena (Goddess of Love and Fertility), Laverna (Goddess of Thieves), Mardük (God of Chaos), Nergal (God of War), Shakkan (God of Beasts), Paedün (God of Knowledge), Phil (God of Arseholes and Bastards) and Tiamat (Goddess of the Sea), and Thoth (former God of Music and Storytelling, and present God of Death).
-   In the _SCP Foundation_ Universe there are several cults that worship their own gods, such as The Church of the Broken God, the Sarkic Cults and the faith of the Second Hytoth, some of these anomalous religions have their own fictitious pantheons (it is debatable if they are real gods or just entities of enormous power worshiped by human beings, although in the Foundation universe there really is not much difference between the two cases)

    Western Animation 

-   _Avatar: The Last Airbender_ has the Avatar Spirit, and its various incarnations, including the main character. In addition, there are various other spirits, such as Tui and La, the Moon and Ocean spirits worshiped by the Water Tribes; as well as local guardian deities, such as Hei-Bai, a forest guardian, and the Painted Lady, a river spirit.
    -   In _The Legend of Korra_, two "god-tier" spirits have been established, Raava and Vaatu.
-   In _Samurai Jack,_ Jack's magic sword was crafted by divine forces and from the pure honorable goodness of his father, who wielded the sword before him. Specifically Odin, Rama and Ra being the big three we've seen. Other beings include a Water goddess who was able to stand up to Aku and a Celtic demon. Aku himself is worshipped as one by a cult.

___