The Five-Man Band has been a long-standing symbol of group unity, so what better way to do it than to show your cast actually performing in a band? It's sort of a cousin to the Dancing Theme and shows the characters playing instruments, rocking out, and having fun. Even if they never actually play the instruments in the series. If they do, though, all the better.

Also, unlike the Five-Man Band trope, any character ensemble can do a Concert, so long they are canonically portrayed as a group and are seen interacting with each other.

The band can perform In-Universe, in supplementary material and in the music videos of the Theme Tunes.

Expect this trope to appear if there's a School Festival or if it's a Musical Episode. Compare with Fake Band (budget forbids creators from hiring real-life musicians to be the In-Universe top artists, so they cast musically untalented actors). See also Image Song (a song specifically about a character) and Band Episode (when the band lasts only one episode).

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

-   _Monster Cereals_: The "Monster Mash" anniversary of the cereal would turn the original five monsters into a band: Count Chocula on vocals and keyboards, Frankenberry on bass, Boo Berry on guitar, Fruit Brute on drums, and Fruity Yummy Mummy on tambourine. The five of them would perform a cover of "Monster Mash" for the get-together. The "Monster Mash Remix" variant of the cereal added Carmella Creeper to the band, making her DJ.

    Anime & Manga 

-   _And Yet the Town Moves_: The waitresses of the Maid Cafe and Haribara form a band for the School Festival in chapter 8 (21 in the manga) with the song "The Maids". Of course, all of them are in their French Maid uniforms. All four girls are vocalists (three backing and a lead) but play different instruments: Boke Hotori with the accordion, Tsukkomi Toshiko with the violin, Haribara (a regular customer with Large Ham tendencies) with the drums, and their grumpy Senpai Kon with the guitar. Played for Laughs because the song's lyrics are nonsensical — one line is literally "Come on, Mammoths!". The makeshift band is featured in the ending theme, "Madis Sanjo!", and in the cover art<small>◊</small> of the album.
-   _Bubblegum Crisis_: The Knight Sabers form a band in the video for "Touchdown to Tomorrow". They're also credited with a number of other songs associated with the franchise. Priss, The Lancer and protagonist, is the lead singer and the only one with an In-Universe musical career. Sylia, The Leader and the Big Good, is the backing vocalist and plays the electric bass. Nene, The Smart Girl, plays a multineck guitar. And Linna, The Big Girl (in terms of abilities, not appearance), is on the drums.
-   _Haruhi Suzumiya_:
-   _Heaven's Lost Property_: Tomoki and the main cast form a band on the occasion of the School Festival. It starts light-hearted enough until Yakuza Princess Mikako turns it into Serious Business and a Battle of the Bands against Sorami Academy — a Private School full of stuck-up jerks. The arrogant rich kids set up an orchestra of Classical Music and play the "New World" symphony. Meanwhile, the kids of Soramy School have a fumbling song that Tomoki purposefully messes up — it's called "Nipple, Nipple Big Nipple!", what did you expect? And then proceed to perform the real song. The new arrangement has Robot Girl and ace Ikaros on the vocals, Nymph (another Robot Girl) on the keyboard, Artificial Human Mitsuki on the drums, Ax-Crazy Mikako on the electric guitar, Ditzy Genius Sugata on the electric bass, and Dirty Kid Tomoki on the classical guitar. The song is called "Falling Down".
-   _Marmalade Boy_: Yuu and Kei, romantic rivals for the love of Miki, the female lead, are enlisted to help in a five-man band, along with Satoshi, the student council president, and two unnamed extras. All goes A-OK until Kei (who, by the way, is a piano prodigy) starts improvising just to show off. Luckily, the other members of the band react surprisingly well.
-   _My Bride is a Mermaid_: The opening has the characters as part of a music band: Sun, the Magical Girlfriend, sings; Nagasumi, the Badass Normal, plays the guitar; Large Ham (and Sun's dad) Gozaburo is on the drums; and Masa, the Only Sane Man, plays the electric bass. It ends with Sun and other characters (who vary depending on the episode's plot) dancing. It's all very fitting to the manga's comedic tints.
-   _My Hero Academia_: The School Festival Arc couples a variation of this trope with Dancing Theme. Izuku, The Leader and main character, is not part of the band but one of the dancers. Instead, it's The Lancer who is part of the band because he turns out to be a talented drummer. The band itself is comprised of Jiro (voice and electric bass), Momo (keyboard), Bakugo (drums), and Tokoyami and Kaminari (guitars). They all play "Hero Too" as their School Festival class presentation in the episode "Let it Flow! School Festival!".
-   _Myself ; Yourself_: A sequence in the opening has the main characters pull one of these: Closet Otaku Sana plays the electric bass, Broken Bird Nanaka is the violinist, Genki Girl Shuri is the guitarist, Token Evil Teammate Asami provides the vocals, Cute Clumsy Girl Aoi is on the keytar, and The Big Guy Syuusuke plays the drums.
-   _NEEDLESS_: The second ending has some of the girls as a music band in a Super-Deformed art style. Eve, The Ditz and deuteragonist, is the vocalist. Fragile Speedster Setsuna is the guitarist. Anti-Hero Seto is the grumpy keyboardist. Cute Bruiser Mio is the trumpeter, accompanied by her stuffed, Orichalcum bear. And Token Evil Teammate Solva is the drummer.
-   _Prima Doll_: The dolls of the Kuronekotei not only serve customers with food and drink but they also sing together on stage.
-   _The Prince of Tennis_: This is the premise behind the OAV named "Band of Princes". In an Alternate Universe, the Seigaku regulars didn't pursue professional tennis but a music career as a rock band. The special episode is mostly comprised of flashbacks of the band's rise to fame interspersed in a concert.
-   _Shugo Chara!_: The second ending briefly depicts the Guardians as a band: Yaya, The Baby of the Bunch, is the vocalist; Tadase, the Bishōnen, plays the electric bass; Nadeshiko, The Ace, is on the keyboard; and Kukai, the Big Brother Mentor, plays the drums.
-   _Slayers_: The main characters are pictured in official art<small>◊</small> as a band. Probably because the voice actors sing Image Songs about their respective characters for the soundtracks. We have Anti-Hero Lina and The Lancer Amelia providing the vocals, The Smart Guy Zegaldis playing an ax-guitar, The Big Guy Gourry ramming the drums, Token Evil Teammate Xellos on the electric bass, and Guest-Star Party Member Filia on the keyboard.
-   _YuYu Hakusho_: The Urameshi team is decked out as a rock band in the "YuYu Hakusho Music Battle Hen 1" album (album cover here<small>◊</small>). Yusuke, the antihero leader, as the vocalist; Kuwabara, the Large Ham lancer, as the drummer; Kurama, the stoic smart guy, as the guitarist; and Hiei, the petite big guy, as the bassist.

    Comic Books 

-   _Astro City_ has a literal example with "Powerchord", a rock 'n roll band composed of five super-powered beings.

    Fan Works 

-   _Class Trials ET 5_: Wanting to try his hand at rockstardom, Kaito forms a rock band with Ibuki, Shuichi, Keebo, and Sayaka that lasts until Ibuki's death.
-   _Lucky Star: After Story_: In Chapter 19, the band Red Roses and Blue Violets (organized by 5 of the original characters) perform "Castle in the Sky" at a Halloween party concert. Basically, think of them as the _Lucky Star_ version of Ho-Kago Teatime. As for the members, Ayaka is the bassist, Nanami is the lead guitarist, Mariko is the drummer, Chiyoko is the lead singer and the keyboard player, and Tomoyo is the other lead singer and the percussion player. In Chapter 27, Hiroko joins as the saxophone player And in Chapter 28, it's Mikoto enters the band as a backing singer and a percussion player.

    Films — Animation 

-   _My Little Pony: Equestria Girls – Rainbow Rocks_: The Movie's entire premise is this trope, complete with prelude shorts. Long story short, the villains turn the Canterlot High talent show into a vicious Battle of the Bands. Since they are not affected by the evil spell, "The Rainbooms" team up to stop "The Dazzlings" — Twilight Sparkle will write the counterspell while the rest will enter the show as a competing band to buy time for her. Rainbow Dash is the vocalist and guitarist, Applejack is the bassist, Rarity plays the keytar, Fluttershy is on the tambourine, and Pinkie Pie is on the drums. For this, they perform "Awesome as I Wanna Be". Later, they reunite to cast the musical counterspell together by performing together. Here, they are joined by Sunset Shimmer as the guitarist and Twilight Sparkle as the vocalist. Sunset Shimmer becomes the lead singer after they are temporarily defeated by The Dazzlings.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai Across the 8th Dimension_: In this cult classic, Buckaroo Banzai and The Hong Kong Cavaliers are both a crime-fighting and a music band. They give a concert at "Artie's Artery". The Ace and Leader Buckaroo rocks it on the electric guitar, Reno is the trumpeter, Perfect Tommy plays the electric bass, Rawhide is the pianist, and Casper on the drums. There is a couple of extra characters playing the guitar and the trumpet as well, so it's more like a seven-man band concert. Later, when Buckaroo asks Dr. Sidney "New Jersey" Zweibel to join the group, their rise their numbers. Numbers that sadly decrease when Rawhide dies.
-   _Juliana_: Arañita and Pelé have gotten the shit beat out of them by Don Pedro because they've failed to pay up their quota twice. Everyone hears them cry and sob without doing anything until Juliana starts singing a cheerful tune from the radio. She slowly gets the other kids to play their instruments, even Arañita and Pelé, together so they can share a moment of joy and cheer the two beaten kids up. Notably, Arañita and Pelé do the percussion and Clavito plays his zampoña.

    Live-Action TV 

-   The Aquabats! in _The Aquabats! Super Show!!_: M.C. Bat Commander is The Hero and lead vocalist; Eaglebones Falconhawk is The Lancer and guitarist; Jimmy The Robot is The Smart Guy and keyboardist or saxophonist; Crash Mc Larson is The Big Guy, DJ, and bassist; and Ricky Fitness is The Heart and drummer.
-   _The First Shop of Coffee Prince_: Deconstructed. The Coffee Prince shop staff gives a concert as a publicity stunt. It ends up being all percussion because they don't know how to play any instrument. Min Yeop is the DJ and presenter and describes his fellow coworkers as mister Hong, the handsome Han Kyul, The Ditz Eun Chan, the vain Ha Rim, and the waffle Sun Ki.
-   _How I Met Your Mother_: The opening sequence of the sixth season episode "Hopeless" features the adults doing a rendition of the Ti Tle Sequence's song. They are Five Temperament Ensemble — Ted (Leukine) and Barney (Sanguine) are the guitarists, Lily (Choleric) is the bassist, Robin (Melancholic) is the drummer, and Marshall (Phlegmatic) is the keyboardist.
-   _Kamen Rider Den-O_: The "Do It Yourself" Theme Tune, "Climax Jump", uses this trope. The Imagin Four-Temperament Ensemble provides both the vocals and instrumental accompaniment separately. They sing as a quartet with only microphones in front of them (and act as backing dancers when one takes the lead). In interspersed cuts, they are playing rock band instruments. All four possess the protagonist, Ryotaro, to aid him in battle — turning Ryotaro into the absent Leader. Momotaros is The Lancer and on the electric guitar, Urataros is The Smart Guy and on the bass, Kintaros is The Big Guy and on the drums, and Ryutaros is The Baby of the Bunch and the DJ.
-   _Superhuman Samurai Syber-Squad_: The main characters belong to a teen rock band called "Team Samurai" but are never seen performing. The one time they skip classes to practice, they get interrupted. And then they do a magic act for the school's talent show. Purportedly, The Leader Sam is the lead guitarist, The Big Guy Tanker is the drummer, The Ditz Amp is the bassist, and The Smart Girl Syd is the keyboardist and vocalist.

    Video Games 

-   _Deardrops_: As if proving that Tropes Are Tools, it's Played for Drama in this visual novel. A Five-Man Band Concert is the premise —Shouichi, the main character, has his dream of being a professional violinist shattered, so he returns to Japan. There, meets fellow musicians — just, that they are not Classical Music artists but aspiring rockstars. Predictably, Shouichi gets roped into being part of a rock band and is only then that the Five-Man Band is formed. Shouichi, The Hero but not quite the leader, is the guitarist as well as his guitar teacher Yayoi (the Only Sane Woman). Riho, The Heart, is the singer. Eiji, The Lancer, is the bassist. And Cloudcuckoolander Rimu invokes All Drummers Are Animals because she features a prominent Animal Motif (cats), but is human. The drama part comes very early when Shouichi fails to play the guitar to his own, perfectionist standards and decides to break his hands and quit his first (makeshift) rock band.

    Web Animation 

-   _Homestar Runner_: Played for Laughs in "Halloween Hijinks". After the Large Bean shots a paralyzing beam to Teen Strong Bad, Teen Homestar checks on him and suggests they play in a band. Just like that, out of nowhere. Cue for an Insert Song sequence of the "Mysfit-teries" with The Leader Teen Homestar singing and playing the guitar, Token Evil Teammate Strong Bad (who gets defreezed for this) on the keyboard, The Heart Teen Marzipan playing both the tambourine and the trumpet, and The Big Guy Teen Strong Mad on the drums. They perform Kooky Monlight. Later, Stave aka Large Bean, because everyone forgets he's a murderer, is invited by Teen Homestar to play the classical guitar and provide some backing vocals in the song's reprise.
-   The album cover art for the _TOME_ soundtrack has Flamegirl on the electric bass, Nylocke on guitar, Gamecrazed on the keyboard, Kirbopher on drums, and Alpha as the singer. The Season 2 soundtrack re-iterates this theme, but with the Netkings, with Kindarspirit as the singer, Execk on bass, Rubirules on guitar, Webmaster as a DJ, and Bitshrum on drums. To allude to the second season's more techno-dubstep style (courtesy of _The Living Tombstone_), the Netking band uses electronic instruments.

    Webcomics 

-   _Axe Cop_: In the Ask Axe Cop 36th issue<small>◊</small>, Axe Cop reveals he is part of a band predictably called "The Axe". Ralph Wrinkles on the drums because All Drummers Are Animals, The Big Guy (on account of being a dinosaur) Wexter on the violin, a Chinese wrestler on the flute, a wrestler on a bear on the electric bass, Sockarang on the lead guitar, and Axe Cop on the... axe. As it turns out, if you flip his axe it turns into a string-less guitar. Oh, and Baby Man as the dancer. They have released two albums with Double, Double Titles: "Axe Axe Axe" and "Boom Booom Wexter's Fiyah Powah".

    Western Animation 

-   _Adventure Time_: Justified in the episode "What Was Missing" since the characters have to play in a band together to try to open the Door Lord's lair and retrieve their most precious belongings. The Hero and Heart Finn beatboxes, The Lancer Jake (who parodies Creative Differences as the band jerk) plays the violin, The Smart Girl Princess Bubblegum uses BMO as a makeshift synthesizer, and The Big Girl Marceline is the bassist and vocalist. They start off with "I'm just your problem", a song with strong Homoerotic Subtext. After several failed attempts, they disband. They are brought back together by Finn, who invokes True Companions with the song "My Best Friends in the World". It's first a solo but the others gradually join him — there's no beatboxing this time, though.
-   _Code Lyoko_: Several members of the cast form a band in an early Season 1 episode — Odd on the guitar, Ulrich on the keyboard, Jim on the slide trombone, Nicolas on the drums, and Yumi the singing. Only Odd and Nicolas had any real skill at their instruments, and after that episode, the band was never mentioned again.
-   _Jabberjaw_: The cartoon's premise is that a band called "The Neptunes" has an amphibious shark for a drummer. Besides the titular character, who is The Big Guy, the band has Standardized Leader Biff on the electric guitar, Only Sane Woman Shelly on the tambourine, Mellow Fellow Clamhead on the bass (and, occasionally, the trumpet), and Cloudcuckoolander Bubbles on the keyboard. Their instruments are appropriately ocean biology-themed.
-   _Josie And The Pussy Cats_: It's more like a Power Trio Concert but also has this trope as its premise. The Leader Josie plays the guitar, The Smart Gal Valerie plays two tambourines, and The Ditz Melody plays the drums. All three girls provide the vocals.
-   _Ninjago_: The third episode of the _Wu's Teas_ series of shorts features the Ninja performing to advertise Wu's Tea Shop. The Chosen One Lloyd is the singer, The Ace Nya is on the drums, Big Brother Mentor Kai and Large Ham Jay are the guitarists, and The Big Guy Cole plays the electric bass. Notably, Zane is absent.
-   _Scooby-Doo_:
    -   After they solve the mystery and if "The Hex Girls" are involved, there's a concert and the gang is often a backing band of sorts for "The Hex Girls". Big Friendly Dog Scooby Doo is on the percussion, Lovable Coward Shaggy is on the bass, The Heart Daphne is on the tambourine, The Smart Gal Velma is on the keyboard, and Standardized Leader Fred is on the guitar. All of them are appropriately dressed following the goth style that characterizes "The Hex Girls". Such lucky, In-Universe Ascended Fans.
    -   _Scooby-Doo! and the Witch's Ghost_: They play the iconic song "Earth, Wind, Fire, and Water" as well as "Those Meddling Kids".
    -   _Scooby-Doo! and the Legend of the Vampire_: In an inversion of the usual formula, "The Hex Girls" are the backing singers while the main stars are "The Meddling Kids" (aka the Mystery Incorporated gang). They perform a rendition of the franchise's Theme Tune "Scooby-Doo, Where Are You?" in a winner concert at the end of The Movie. Some roles are shifted — Velma is the singer and doesn't play any instrument while Daphne is on the keytar. Also, it's revealed Velma does like to sing, just not in front of so many people.
    -   _What's New, Scooby-Doo?_ (2002): Subverted in "The Vampire Strikes Back", since the gang helps in the music video of "Petrified Bride" but as actors, not as musicians.
-   _Total Drama World Tour_: In "Picnic at Hanging Dork" Team Amazon forms a band and sings about... sheeps, specifically, about "Shear the Sheep". Heather, who is surprisingly an Anti-Hero this season, as lead vocals; Courtney, The Lancer, as the guitarist; Cody, the The One Guy, as the bassist; Gwen, the Guile Hero, as the drummer; and Sierra, The Big Girl, as the squealing fangirl. Sierra and Gwen switched positions before the performance, though. Since this season's premise is a musical, this trope was very much expected, especially since everyone has been shown singing from the beginning. However, Courtney is the only one to play her instrument outside of this episode.
-   _Winx Club_: "A Virtual World" starts a whole subplot in the fourth season about the girls creating a band because it's Musa's dream. Neither of them was previously stated to be able to play a musical instrument. Barring Musa, of course, who is the fairy of music and proficient in several musical instruments as well as having an angelic singing voice. The band, named Winx Club, is arranged as follows: Bloom, The Leader, is the main vocalist. Something that, curiously enough, enraged several fans because the spotlight should have belonged to Musa. Stella, The Lancer, plays the guitar. Musa, The Big Girl (she's a slim heavy-hitter), is also on the guitar and provides the backing vocals. Flora, The Heart, plays the bass. Tecna, The Smart Girl, plays the keytar. Very fitting for the fairy of technology. And Layla, the Sixth Ranger, is on the drums. From this season onward, they perform at least a couple of concerts per season: one at the beginning and one at the ending. Their most iconic song, however, remains to be "Heart of Stone".

___