_"Mammals, a day of reckoning is coming. That's right, the same plants and flowers that saw you crawl from the primordial soup will reclaim the planet. And there will be no one to protect you."_

Oh great, now humanity has done it. We aren't just jerks, but we've gone and messed up the planet: environmental pollution, wars, negative karmic vibes, etc. Our development has become a Game-Breaker in the whole "survival of the fittest" thing, so humans are now alien to the planet that birthed us. (This also suggests that _every_ other living species exists in some kind of Hive Mind state, so everything they do for survival follows "the rules.") Unlike in a case of Gaia's Lament, where Gaia is sad and depressed at what's happened and wallowing in self-pity, we aren't getting off easy this time. In this case, she's mad as hell and isn't gonna take it anymore. Nature is definitely not a toy.

This has resulted in a situation where Mother Earth has sicced her champions on us. This will result in either a bunch of ethnically diverse kids learning how to recycle while a hero beats up really idiotic and shallow villains... or Eldritch Abominations that are programmed to wipe out the infection; i.e., humankind.

Any metaphor for the destruction that environmental damage can cause will do, because really, what aesop can't be delivered through the metaphor of "If you do this, someone or something will beat the crap out of you?" In better series, this will be a logical effect of a certain action; in worse ones, this will just be a flat-out "Science Is Bad!"

If intelligent, Gaia's Vengeance can have contradictory assessments of humanity. Predators and parasites who kill are simply following their nature, but on the other hand, humans "should know better" yet shouldn't think themselves different from said animals.

We can divide this trope threefold:

-   _Gaia's Vengeance proper_ — Nature is a sentient, or, at least, independent and real, being who can direct the efforts of an entire ecosystem, or even weather et al. and is willing to direct it against this annoying little sentient species that finally pissed it off. Considering species and even ecosystems are perfectly capable of dying out naturally, this approach is a lot more susceptible to Fridge Logic than the others. In reality, Mother Nature wipes out her own creations pretty regularly, so the idea of Nature as a sentient being who hates humans for doing the same is inconsistent, to say the least. On the other hand, it could be explained by nature lacking morals we can comprehend, instead operating on law of strongest\-species adapt and grow in accordance to the world around them, and if they can't find a place in the ecosystem, they are gone. Problem is that humans are attempting to change the ecosystem and abnormally spread at the expense of everybody else.
-   _Gaia's Vengeance metaphorical_ — "Was I hallucinating, or was Jerry really eaten by a humongous shark?" This is the case when environmental neglect results in local or global tragedy. An example of the former would be a loose swarm of killer bees or an Attack of the 50-Foot Whatever fed on a local toxic waste dump; an example of the latter would be global warming. As opposed to above, it does not actually need Nature to act anymore than you'd need a snow devil or whatnot to start an avalanche.
-   _Gaia's Avenger_ — Here, Nature may or may not be sentient, but pollution is a problem. One person took it as a personal quest to fight any real or perceived polluters, all in the name of Mother Earth. Knight Templarship abounds, but there are some who are right. The Nature Spirit, Plant Person, Beast Man, Treant and generally anyone who can "Feel the Planet's pain!" are likely avengers.

May be the reason for Absent Aliens; i.e., when they get too technologically advanced, they wipe themselves out, or their equivalent of Gaia does it.

The "Gaia's Avenger" variant is a fairly common Police Procedural plot, particularly for shows trying to strike a balance between left-wing and right-wing villain politics. _Law & Order_, _NCIS_, _CSI: NY_, and _Criminal Minds_ have all tackled eco-terrorist bombers who saw themselves this way.

Compare The Scourge of God, Green Aesop, Gaia's Lament, Nature Spirit, Eco-Terrorist, Upsetting the Balance, and Global Warming. Often a Space Whale Aesop. May be a time When Trees Attack. May be the motivation behind a Transflormation. Clock Roaches are this for Father Time. See also Divine Punishment, which involves a more personal deity.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

-   Comedy example: New Zealand brewery Speights ran an ad campaign with the tagline "don't mess with mother nature" where a man learns not to throw his gum out the car window. Learns _hard._
-   Mocked in old Chiffon Margarine ads, where someone would declare the margarine tasted so much like butter it would fool Mother Nature. Cue lightning and thunder, and Mother Nature herself would appear and remind one and all, "It's not nice to fool Mother Nature."
-   "Don't Upset Mama Nature!", a New Zealand anti-littering PSA.

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Appleseed_: The Elders of Olympus seem to view themselves as this, having seen man's propensity for war in the aftermath of World War III, which left humanity and the world with it in utter ruination. Deciding that humanity must surrender its place on Earth to the Bioroids, the cloned race created with the absence of mankind's inherently flawed nature, the Elders conspire to render the human race infertile. Part of their plan involves convincing the city's primary A.I., Gaia, that humanity has forsaken its worthiness; in a subversion of this trope, when Gaia concludes otherwise, the Elders choose to act alone.
-   _Blue Gender_: "The Blue" was generated by Earth to answer the rampant pollution and overpopulation of humanity. The Blue slaughter humans who rise above the hunter-gatherer level and convert their bodies into incubation pods for trees. Whether or not Gaia/the Blue also blew up Second Earth, or if that was just humans being dicks, is unknown.
-   _Cowboy Bebop_: "Gateway Shuffle" features a group of environmental terrorists who believe that being Gaia's Vengeance is their purpose in life. They're obsessed with the Ganymede Sea Rat, an animal that's considered a delicacy and isn't portrayed as endangered in any sense of the word. The "Space Warriors", as they call themselves, break off from the more moderate environmental groups, gun down everyone where the rat is served (and celebrate the loss of human life at their hands), and are willing to release a retrovirus that will turn anything remotely human into a hooting ape over the rat's harvesting not being prohibited instead of limited. The episode ends with them trapped in hyperspace and Hoist by Their Own Petard.

-   _Eureka Seven_: Has one that is different in two ways. It's not actually the planet but a gigantic lifeform that covered Earth, forcing people to abandon it and move back to live on the new surface made from the lifeform without knowing it was earth, and also that it was something the Government Conspiracy was intentionally invoking. They had a series of Kill Sats attack specific points to slowly kill it. These attacks also caused huge uprisings of monstrous creatures that killed everyone very violently, and they then used the publicity of their ineffectual efforts to stop it to get public support.
-   _GeGeGe no Kitarō_: Some adaptations (particularly the ones from the 80s and 90s) have this as motivation for the Yokai of the week's actions. Since in those decades (as every series is set in the decade it airs) civilization advances explosively, humanity begins to care less and less as long as their expansions are done. Naturally, this pisses the Yokai so much that they WILL get at humans no matter what. _However_, there are two lines of thinking among Yokai, those who must retaliate violently (the aforementioned Yokai of the week) even with innocent proxy, and those who try to stay amicable with humans (Kitaro and his family, among others). Cue the battles...
-   _Gunbuster_: The aliens were apparently produced by the Universe itself to deal with the human infection. Considering that the creatures are the size of houses, use ships of astronomical scale and destroy stars to reproduce, it's a bit questionable which species actually makes more objective harm on the galactic scale. In order to defeat them, humanity kills the galaxy itself with the Black Hole Bomb, showing that it wasn't necessarily incorrect to view humans as a threat even if attempting to suppress them is what pushed them to taking that step. In the sequel humanity appears to be evolving to take on the role of galactic antibodies, ironically causing their own defense network to turn against them.
-   _Mobile Fighter G Gundam_: Master Asia turns out to be a Well-Intentioned Extremist who wants to rid earth of humanity by using Devil Gundam. Additionally, the Devil Gundam was originally programmed to help restore the Earth after a couple centuries of war, pollution, and periodic Giant Robot brawls turned it into a practical hell hole. Guess how it's decided to do that. However, this is only because it was severely damaged.
-   _Mugen Densetsu Takamagahara: Dream Saga_: The heroes go around Takamagahara calming the monsters that have sworn revenge on polluting humans. _Then_ they find out that the whole journey they were chosen to complete was meant to destroy the worlds, as Amaterasu thought them too far gone. They obviously don't take this too well and decide to Save Both Worlds.
-   _Naruto_: Legend claims this is the true reason the Ten-Tails exists. It was originally the World Tree until a woman ate a Chakra-filled fruit so she could use its power to end war. The Tree was supposedly so enraged by the theft that it became a Beast and rampaged across the world in an attempt to take back Chakra from humanity. But Zetsu ultimately reveals this legend to be false, as the holy tree was completely indifferent to the theft. Its rampage was actually caused by Kaguya. One of the things it could do was a technique whose name roughly translates from Japanese into "Disaster Befalling Heaven and Earth", which is it basically manipulating nature energy to force ALL natural disasters to happen simultaneously in one area, from tornadoes, hurricanes, and lightning, to earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and volcanic eruptions.
-   _Nasuverse_:
    -   Planets evolve into a summation of its lifeforms, called an Ultimate One. Earth features two major wills/powers: Gaia, the "will of the planet", and Alaya, the "will of humanity to survive", purely because humans are not necessarily conductive to Gaia's goal of becoming an Ultimate One but are nonetheless her creations. Because humanity is becoming too independent, Gaia seeks to kill them and destroy their progress however she can, and Alaya fights against her. Both Gaia and Alaya have access to a third existence, the Counter Force, that applies a balancing mechanism and will also destroy anything that starts moving down a path which would threaten the planet. In general, individual humans will have to die no matter which side acts. Notably, unlike most examples, Gaia is unambiguously the _villain_ in this scenario.
    -   Gaia also has access to a monster called Primate Murder which has absolute authority over killing humans, and made a deal with Crimson Moon, the Ultimate One of the Moon, to create vampires to control the spread of humanity in the past. Alaya tasks Counter-Guardians, empowered spirits of exceptional persons, to destroy any threat to humanity's survival, which can include recklessly endangering the environment.
    -   Kinoko Nasu's older work, _Notes_, deals with what happens in the apocalyptic future where Gaia finally dies. Humanity is left to fend on a dead planet that can't even support the basics of life as it was known for all of humanity's former existence, and the Ultimate Ones of the other planets come to mop up what's left of humanity because they had heard Gaia's death wail. Ultimate One of Venus also reveals that the reason Gaia tries to kill humans isn't because of the damage they caused. Gaia doesn't actually mind being killed. Humans outliving her is what terrifies her.
-   _Neo Human Casshern_ has the Neo-Sapiens/Neoroids as androids designed to protect Earth's environment, inevitably deciding that the best way to accomplish this is to Kill All Humans. The live-action adaption, _Casshern_, reduces this to subtext of the Shoot the Shaggy Dog ending.
-   _Origin: Spirits of the Past_: Starts with an intelligent forest wiping out most of humanity, but they're genetically engineered so not really an example.
-   _Parasyte_: This is what the parasites are. Or think they are. It's involved, anyway.
-   _Pet Shop of Horrors_: The D lineage, beings who can communicate with animals and sense their suffering and death, will apparently not rest until humans are driven to extinction as revenge for the animals that _they_ have driven to extinction.
    -   The D lineage also has a more _personal_ issue against humanity: humans killed off the rest of D's species.
    -   The current Count tells Leo, as he's rescuing him, that _if_ humanity obliterates the rest of life, _that's_ when he'd take genocidal vengeance. Further, the previous Count wished to be reincarnated as a human. Most importantly, D tells Leo that humanity has not _yet_ earned the right to have a place on the fae ship, meaning that the D fae are still ambivalent regarding humanity (pretty close to the "efface" point, but not actually locked there).
-   _Pokémon_: In _Mewtwo Returns_, Giovanni and Team Rocket build a factory in the mountaintop paradise that Mewtwo and the cloned pokemon from the first movie have made their home. In response to the ensuing pollution, swarms of angry Bug-type pokemon from the surrounding forests attack the construction site and drive the villains out.
-   _Shaman King_: The main villain, Hao Asakura, is Gaia's Avenger. One of his primary reasons for wanting to wipe out humanity (along with most shamans having suffered some sort of prosecution at human hands and being driven mad by constantly hearing thoughts and feeling emotions of everybody around him) is his belief that humans are either contributing to destruction of planet or at best doing nothing to prevent it. To drive point home, he is master of all elements and his guardian spirit is the Spirit of Fire, oldest and most powerful of nature spirits, described as prototype of all fire gods from every mythology, created by The Great Spirits themselves. In the anime, Horohoro meets a young shaman who is using his powers to scare away humans to prevent ther destruction of the forest. When things result in violence, Horo shows him a better way.
-   _Tokyo Mew Mew_: The Mews were born "Earth's chosen ones", but in a slight twist, genetic engineering (i.e. science) was _required_ to complete the transformation into world-saving Magical Girls. The Mew Aqua, which turns polluted areas into Ghibli Hills, is also a natural phenomenon.
-   _The World Is Mine_: A few people wonder if Hakumadon, a giant bear-like creature, is an ancient Ainu spirit avenging the planet; other people think it's having a killing contest with a pair of Serial Killers.
-   _X1999_: The Dragons of Earth are a loose confederation of Gaia's Avengers — seven human magic-users tasked with undoing the seven Kekkai seals hidden around Tokyo, which would trigger the Final Judgment, freeing the planet from humanity's domination. They are opposed by the seven Dragons of Heaven, guardians of the Kekkai and of humanity's continued existence.

    Card Games 

-   _Magic: The Gathering_: A fairly common motivation for Green characters and factions, but specific examples include:
    -   In the "Invasion" storyline, the Phyrexians, demonic machine-monsters, invade the world of Dominaria seeking to kill all life to secure the planet for its resources, whereupon it's revealed that Gaea, Dominaria's living spirit and the only true god in the plane, had been preparing for this by "growing" the monstrous kavu — gigantic reptilians resistant to the Phyrexians — beneath her surface for thousands of years in advance. (Unfortunately for the humans, elves, and others holding back the Phyrexians, the kavu find machine-demons and mortals equally tasty...)
    -   Zendikar has several lands that get up and hit people. Unlike their standard-set equivalents, where this represents soldiers or monkeys or what have you storming out, these are simply large and bad-tempered bits of scenery that can with little to no warning turn into large and bad-tempered bits of scenery that grab flyers out of the sky, grind opponents under"foot", or simply pop up under an unprepared planeswalker. It turns out this "vengeance" is the plane itself fighting the Eldrazi. What's really scary is that Zendikar is _losing_.
    -   In general, one of green's specialties is the destruction of artifacts and enchantments, best shown with Naturalize, symbolizing the destruction of encroaching civilization.
    -   Specific cards fitting the Gaia's Avenger version of this trope include Gaea's Avenger, a Treefolk representing beings empowered by Gaea after the destruction of the forest of Argoth, and Gaea's Revenge, an elemental.
    -   Primeval Titan's card combines this with Toilet Humour: "When nature calls, _run_."
    -   The green/white Archenemy deck is based on this, with the title of "Trample Civilisation Underfoot".
    -   Mirrodin featured elves fighting against the technology of the world for the sake of nature. Problem being, most the of the world was composed of _metal_, so other characters are quite happy to point out their hypocrisy.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh!_ has Green Baboon, Defender of the Forest. (And this yellow version too, who seems to be related.) Of course, we only have his name to indicate that he acts this way, but fanfic writers often portray him as such.

    Comic Books 

-   _Anderson: Psi-Division_: Mega-City One is plagued by bio-terrorists known as biophiliaca, who think humans should be wiped out to protect the planet. Anderson tracks down a biophile who heads over to a plant shopping center to mutate all the flora.
-   _The Authority_ #17-20 concerns a case of Gaia's Vengeance wherein Gaia is just an unwitting pawn in a large Hostage for MacGuffin scheme by a depowered and imprisoned "renegade Doctor", who, having somehow convinced the Earth that humanity is killing it, will only convince it to calm down after he's given back his powers.
-   DC Comics:
    -   In general, most plant-based heroes and villains (Poison Ivy, Swamp Thing, Black Orchid, the Floronic Man, etc.) are connected to the Green, the collected forces of plant-kind. There are also the Red (animals) and the Rot (decay).
    -   _Batman_
        -   Poison Ivy's central motivation is to defend plant life against all of humanity.
        -   Ra's al Ghul considers the Earth vastly overpopulated and defiled by humanity. He's not really into the whole Gaia thing, though. He just wants to kill a lot of people and rule the ones left over.
    -   In _Justice League of America_ #100, Mother Earth, fed up with humanity's warlike tendencies, decides to wipe humans out with a series of disasters, so The Elite<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and the JLA hatch a plan to placate her by tricking humanity into uniting against a common foe — The Elite, who put on a show of trying to take over the world's governments and defeating the JLA.
    -   _Superman_:
        -   The villain Terra-Man tried to defend Mother Nature against both humans and aliens.
        -   In _Superman: For Tomorrow_, a sorceress creates four Elemental Embodiments, skyscraper-sized titans composed of earth, wind, fire, and water. They try to kill Superman, declaring that Supes is a foreigner, an intruder on Mother Earth. They say that to appease her anger, they will kill him, then kill everyone in Metropolis for harboring him. Superman demonstrates that they are not nearly powerful enough to kill him, then threatens to destroy Earth and move to another planet as revenge if they harm the people. The sorceress breaks down in tears and withdraws the titans. Superman later admits that he was bluffing, of course.
    -   _Swamp Thing_: Subverted in Alan Moore's run. Jason Woodrue, the Floronic Man, declares that the Green has told him to make all the plants on Earth pump out the purest of oxygen, which would be fatal to every single mammal, bird, bug, fish, and amphibian on Earth, both because pure oxygen is toxic and because it is highly flammable, as is shown when a man lights a cigar in a neighborhood that Woodrue has decided to make an example of. The Justice League of America just sits up in their satellite waiting for the end to come. Thankfully, Swamp Thing owns Woodrue by pointing out that without animals and humans to release carbon dioxide, all the plants would end up dying.
    -   _Tales From The Dark Multiverse_ story depicts their What If? take on The Judas Contract if Terra were to survive the events of the aforementioned comic book. She renounced her 'Terra' moniker for Gaia where she killed Deathstroke and took his superhuman serum for her own ends, causing to use her upgraded powers by decimating the Teen Titans and Superman himself. By the end, she's a walking Gaia's Vengeance over the dark, broken world that is located in the Dark Multiverse.
-   _Knights Of Pendragon_: The first series consists of Dai Thomas investigating various murders of eco-criminals. And then it gets weird (but still beautiful and heart-rending).
-   _Marvel's Voices: Comunidades_: Anhangá, a spirit from Brazilian myth, wants to destroy humanity for the havoc they wreaked upon the environment.
    
    **Nina**: \[Anhangá\] is the Earth's wrath... and now she seeks vengeance.
    
-   _Sonic the Comic_: Colonel Granite is finally defeated by a freak storm that takes out his regiment and blows them back through the dimensional gateway to Earth — seemingly, the spirit of nature itself fights back against Granite and his plans to destroy the ecosystem. He's last seen being arrested for war crimes on the order of the Prime Minister, who had encountered Sonic.

    Comic Strips 

-   _Calvin and Hobbes_: Subverted in a strip where the duo come upon an area of forest that's been felled for a new apartment complex. Calvin expresses outrage on behalf of the animals that have been displaced, and caustically wonders "how people would like it if animals demolished their homes and planted new trees". Cut to Hobbes sitting in a bulldozer, stating that unfortunately the construction workers didn't leave the keys.

    Fan Works 

-   _The Fansus_: The Fanged Bramble is the Engine's "official" opponent in the Mansus, beating back the attempts of the Factory Devouring's efforts to eat the Wood.
-   _Heroes of the Desk: Repercussions_: Lunara becomes a full-fledged Gaia's Avenger. She has to be told to tone it down, even though keeping watch over natural areas is her day job.
-   _The Immortal Game_: Terra is an extremely twisted form of the "Mother Nature" archetype. Her role consists primarily of exterminating species so as to preserve Titan's "natural order".
-   _Medicinal Lullaby_: Naruto becomes bound so closely to nature through his sage training that when he unleashes masive devastation during his battle with Sasuke, nature's fury at his "betrayal" makes him seriously ill.
-   _Pokédex_ has several examples. A lot of Pokémon have taken the role of Type 3s, with a touch of type 1 due to being animal equivalents themselves. Besides Cobalion, Terrakion, and Virizion (who act as they do in the video games) there are also Nidoking, who lead armies to attack human settlements for this reason as soon as they evolve, and Sudowoodo, who do not take kindly to anyone who destroys a forest that another Sudowoodo sacrificed its life to save. Also a type two in Dugtrio, which cause earthquakes if too many are caught; not intentionally, but when they are caught, the ground loses the support that they provided.
-   _You Thought_: The Pokémon are rising up and fighting to reclaim and protect the Earth, but not against humans...

    Films — Animation 

-   _Ark_: In the aftermath of a war between the Cevean and Storrians over the ownership of the planet Alcyeon, with the Storrians emerging victorious and subsequently terraforming Alcyeon's once-lush surface with their war machines and turning half the planet into a wasteland due to rapid over-development, the planet Alcyeon eventually started becoming unstable, with its core ready to implode; much of the film is spent on seeking the titular Ark in order to save the planet.

-   _Doraemon: Nobita and the Animal Planet_ uses this as a major plot point. A distant green planet where animals have evolved into becoming human-like is invaded by a hostile alien race wanting the planet for themselves (who later turn out to be humans from an adjacent world who have destroyed their own thanks to industrialization, over-development and pollution). Doraemon then comes to the rescue by using a gadget that gives live to trees and plants, making the forest vegetation come to life and attack the invaders — they drop heavy fruits capable of knocking out their targets, emit powerful pollen that seeps through the invaders' helmets and makes them sneeze uncontrollably, and trees extend their roots and vines to restrain their targets. It works until the invaders bring out a tank equipped with what seems to be a dozen flamethrowers.

-   Hayao Miyazaki: Various beings, notably the Ohmu in _Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind_, the animal spirits in _Princess Mononoke_, and Fujimoto in _Ponyo on the Cliff by the Sea_, serve as Avengers striking back at a despoiling humanity. The Ohmu are however found to be Gaia's creation to help clean up the earth, not to destroy humanity. This is actually subverted in the manga: the whole new purifying ecosystem is revealed to have been created by human scientists before the collapse of civilization in order to eventually make the planet fit for a new human population.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _After Earth_: The trailer seems to imply that Gaia got hit by some sort of Hate Plague because "everything on \[the\] planet has evolved to kill humans" and it's been "quarantined" for so long the hero has to tell his son/student where they are. It's still really pretty, though. Of course, he could have been speaking _literally_. Without technology, weapons, or sufficient numbers with which to defend ourselves, Earth is essentially a Death World populated with creatures who can quite _easily_ kill us.
-   _Avatar_: The humans invoke the wrath of the deity of the Na'vi, Eywa, a neural network that covers the entire moon, during their final assault. The helicopters get destroyed by a huge flock of ikran while the marines get run down by hammerhead titanotheres and viperwolves. Gaia apparantly died when Earth's atmosphere became only slightly less deadly than Pandora's (those oxygen masks are regular outerwear _on Earth_). In an early draft, Eywa and her creatures are unambiguously fighting the humans from the beginning, and in the end, Jake bluffs the humans into leaving forever by claiming Eywa had created a killer plague.
-   _Batman & Robin_: Although Dr. Pamela Isley works with this as a mindset, after becoming Poison Ivy, she considers herself a living embodiment of the phenomenon and goes to extreme lengths to perpetuate it. Also tinted with misandry, as she plays on men's affections using pheromone control and largely sees them either as disposable tools or as obstacles to overcome in pursuit of her goal.
-   _The Bees_ ends with the titular bees becoming sapient and delivering an ultimatum at the UN.
-   _Birdemic_: Suggests this is why a number of birds have decided to start randomly attacking humans in San Fransisco (And turning into exploding Kamekaze bombers, spraying humans with acidic... fluid<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> ). Various theories involving bird flu, deforestation, and global warming are discussed, but given the writer/director's apparent (mis)understanding of the subject, one might as well say that God Is Pissed!
-   _The Day After Tomorrow_ is a Green Aesop about the disastrous results of man-made global warming.
-   _Gaia (2021)_: Definitely present, but precisely how is left ambiguous. Is there a "God" in the forest slowly building up to eradicate a humanity that's eradicating nature? Or is this just a particularly bizarre, but otherwise natural, fungal infection? Does humanity deserve to be transformed into mushroom zombies?
-   _Gamera_ has characters on occasion worrying that the titular turtle _will_ fill this role if humanity takes too many liberties with the environment. In the third movie, sinister Mister Exposition Kurata Shinji describes the enemy monster Irys this way, but he's pretty much nuts to begin with.
-   _Genocide_: A lovely piece of 1968 Japanese sci-fi shlock where the insects of the world issue an ultimatum: if mankind detonates one more nuclear weapon, the killing starts. Guess how it ends!
-   _Godzilla_:
    -   Godzilla is generally portrayed as a ferocious defender of Earth's balance, whether against humans, aliens or other giant monsters. He's usually a Gaia's Avenger, but the first movie portrays him in the metaphorical sense — rather than actively fighting for nature, he's a monstrous byproduct of radioactive pollution that humanity has created and now has to deal with.
    -   Mothra evolved from a divinity caring only for her island's people to full Gaia Avenger. _Mothra vs. Godzilla_ also shows that she was first created because Battra was too enthusiastic in the job.
    -   _Godzilla and Mothra: The Battle for Earth_: Battra from was created by the Earth to destroy an Atlantis-esque civilization tens of thousands of years ago, and popped back up in the present day.
    -   _Godzilla: The Series_: Western Terrorists try actively invoking this trope by releasing monsters to destroy humanity.
    -   _Godzilla (2014)_:
        -   Gareth Edwards stated that Godzilla is a "representation of the wrath of nature."
            
            **Edwards:** Godzilla is definitely a representation of the wrath of nature. The theme is man versus nature and Godzilla is certainly the nature side of it. You can't win that fight. Nature's always going to win and that's what the subtext of our movie is about. He's the punishment we deserve.
            
        -   In-universe, Dr. Serizawa believes nature sent Godzilla to restore balance to the world by hunting the Mutos.
        -   However, over the course of the film, Godzilla actually proves to be a more heroic champion of nature than his original incarnation, only attacking humans after they deliberately antagonize him, and even then he only retaliates against the military.
        -   _Godzilla: King of the Monsters (2019)_ reveals that the destruction Godzilla and the other Kaiju cause is allowing nature to heal from the damage humans have caused. During the end credits, we see that the Kaiju have caused lost rainforests to regrow, saved at least 14 endangered species from extinction, and even cooled the climate, certainly a valiant thing to do, but it meant the destruction of many major human cities and millions of human deaths.
        -   _Godzilla vs. Kong_ has Godzilla going full-on Avenger when the APEX company develops plans to create a robotic version of him. This time around, Godzilla doesn't hold back against humanity, and in fact, actively hunts down human settlements with APEX facilities in their vicinity. This doesn't last long, however, when APEX's plans go awry and their creation turns on them, forcing Godzilla and King Kong to team up.
    -   _Shin Godzilla_: Godzilla originated as a regular, if unknown, marine animal that was horrifically mutated by increasingly high concentrations of atomic waste, eventually emerging on shore as a particularly devastating variant of the metaphorical aspect of this trope.

-   _Into the Grizzly Maze_: This is what Douglass thinks the rogue grizzly is: that it is exacting its wrath due to the poaching and illegal logging rather than satisfying its hunger or establishing its territory.
-   _Kingsman: The Secret Service_: Valentine describes global warming in terms of a human body trying to fight off a disease. It's the fever meant to kill the virus (humans).
-   _The Last Winter_: When Alaska's northern areas start to melt, spirits of extinct animals start to manifest from the oil.
-   _Living Dead Series_: This is speculated by some characters to be the case for the epidemic.
-   _Long Weekend_: A couple of Jerkass characters go camping and act like jerks to nature. Nature then proceeds to give them what they've got coming.
-   _Man-Thing_: The film portrays the title creature as a Gaia's Avenger hellbent on some human murder for the actions of the local corrupted oil rig owner.
-   _Melancholia_: Gaia is apparently suffering from depression, so she shoots a planet at her head.
-   _Noah_: A tricky example that doesn't wholly fit the trope but whose visuals carry much the same spirit. What's being avenged is not direct harm against the Earth itself, but rather the increasing wickedness of humanity, one manifestation of which is the development of industrial mines that strip the earth of resources. Nonetheless, the sight of giant waterspouts erupting from the ground and drowning everything in sight is pretty textbook for nature-based revenge. As much as can be interpreted from Noah's perspective, killing animals for food and even gathering unnecessary plants is also taboo, more offenses against the work of the Creator (i.e., God).
-   _No Blade of Grass_: Although the book by John Christopher does not specify the root cause of the Chung-Li virus, the movie adaptation by Cornel Wilde strongly indicates that the Earth (or Gaia) was so fed up with the constant over-polluting by man, that she decided to create the crop-killing virus in revenge.
-   _The Rookies_ involves a madman and terrorist leader who serves as Gaia's Avenger, intending to unleash a Green Virus which forcefully transforms human beings into plants. He succeeds in releasing the virus in New York, wiping out most of its population and turning them to plant life, and intends to do this to major cities all over the world.

    Jokes 

-   Toward the end of the golf course, Dave hits his ball into the woods and finds it in a patch of pretty yellow buttercups. Trying to get his ball back in play, he ends up thrashing just about every buttercup in the patch. All of a sudden, in a flash and puff of smoke, a little old woman appears. She says "I'm Mother Nature. Do you know how long it took me to make those buttercups? Just for doing what you have done, you won't have any butter for your popcorn for the rest of your life. Better still, you won't have any butter for your toast for the rest of your life. As a matter of fact, you'll never have any butter for anything the rest of your life!" Then POOF!... she's gone! After Dave recovers from the shock, he hollers for his friend "Fred, where are you?" Fred yells back, "I'm over here in the pussy willows." Dave shouts back, "Don't swing, Fred! For the love of God, don't swing!"

    Literature 

-   In _Angel Notes_, Gaia's death cry calls down the Aristoteles, the Ultimate Life Forms of the other planets, to avenge her by annihilating the post-humans who live on her polluted corpse. The latter don't intend to go down without a fight, though.
-   _Animorphs_: In _The Message_, when Visser Three is chasing the heroes, Cassie calls out to the whale she'd been communicating with earlier and two humpbacks and several sperm whales respond to fight him. Her narrations says that it seems like the sea itself is fighting back.
-   _Beast_: The squid is only attacking Bermuda because we wiped out its food supply. Whoops. Then again in the epilogue, pointing out that more and more giant squids are now surviving to adulthood due to their predators being overfished. Oops again.
-   _The Berenstain Bears_: The "Meet Bigpaw" special features a prophecy about a monstrously huge bear named Bigpaw who would destroy Bear Country as penance for taking nature's bounty for granted and being too selfish and greedy around the holidays. From what we see in the special, with bears aggressively hoarding and protecting their crops and mostly looking forward to Thanksgiving to glut themselves at dinnertime, Bigpaw's arrival in the special is _very_ well-timed and deserved. While Bigpaw turns out to be a well-meaning, easy-going guy who becomes a friendly resident of Bear Country, it's implied he is still nature's way of teaching the bears a lesson.
    
    **Mama:** If the bears become selfish and greedy, and unkind to the needy; and insufficiently thankful for nature's great bounty, that monster of monsters, Bigpaw, would come, and gobble up Bear Country county by county.
    
-   _The Broken Earth Trilogy_: The planet where the story is set is revealed to be so constantly geologically active, leading to massive cataclysms every few hundred years, due to the Earth being sentient and wanting revenge for humans trying to take its magic to fuel their technology millennia ago, leading to the earth losing its moon. Avoiding the typical Fridge Logic for this trope, the earth doesn't care at all about preserving life or nature, and is perfectly happy to wipe out all life, because the planet itself will still be fine.
-   _Dragon Pearl_: The planet called the Fourth Colony is uninhabitable due to this. The original colonists failed to sacrifice appropriately to the pox spirits, and now the planet is full of ghosts killed by the resulting plague.
-   _Earth_: The primary villain _thinks_ she's doing this by creating gravity wave creatures that attack humans, but she's just Ax-Crazy.
-   _The Fireman_: John (the titular Fireman) suggests that the dragonspore is this: it stays locked in the polar ice caps until global warming releases it, at which point it neutralizes the threat and freezes again.
-   _Good Omens_: This happens as the result of a Reality Warper child reading all the local Granola Girl's magazines in one go, at which point the rainforest starts reclaiming South American shopping malls and Leviathan awakes and sets his sights on Japanese whalers. On the other hand, the local nuclear power center stays running, at full capacity and without layoffs... it just no longer uses any _fuel_ or produces pollution.
-   _The Heroes of Olympus_: The series' villain is none other than Gaia. The only difference is that she's more angry at the _Gods_ than humanity, though as she plans the desecration of the Gods and everything they stand for, _which includes human society..._ humans aren't exactly getting off scot-free.
-   _Hurog_: After one owner of castle Hurog killed a dragon, a landslide caused salty rocks to land on a field and deteriorate soil quality to the point that nothing can grow there. The land is magical and _likes_ the dragons.
-   _The Lord of the Rings_: To fuel his growing war industry, Saruman begins to clear-cut the ancient Fangorn Forest. The devastation left behind by his logging teams is what motivates the Ents to mobilize at last and tear his fortress apart stone by stone.
-   _Lords and Ladies_: Subverted. The Fair Folk assume that the natural world of Lancre will welcome them back because it hates humans and wants them suppressed. In fact, Lancre _likes_ humans and needs them (especially their king) to care about it, and doesn't do squat to help the Always Chaotic Evil elves' return.

-   _Red Dwarf_: In _Better Than Life_, Earth has been turned into a giant garbage dump by humans and accidentally tossed into the depths of space. When Lister crashlands on the now-unrecognisable planet, it reacts violently, throwing acid rain, earthquakes, oil storms, and lightning at the last human in an attempt to get rid of him. It's only after the half-mad Lister offers to make things right that the crazy weather stops, to be replaced by ordinary rain.
-   An unusual variation in _The Red Tower_, in which the factory exists in defiance of the natural order of the surrounding landscape - not because it destroyed the wildlife, because the wastes were empty long before the Tower emerged from them. To the contrary, it seems to be because the Tower is alive, and keeps maliciously filling the wasteland with new and pointless life in defiance of entropic forces returning it to its natural state of purity.
-   _Der Schwarm_: It seems that the creatures of the sea have suddenly decided to exterminate mankind. It turns out that an hitherto unknown sentient species living in the ocean's depths is behind all this.
-   _Spinward Fringe_: Humanity has managed to terraform and colonise many planets, but only found one that could compare to Earth in the amount and variety of life that had already arisen on it. A Mad Scientist uploaded the brain of his terminally ill daughter to the AI tasked with looking after the human colonisation of Eden, who promptly decided that humans couldn't be allowed to mess the place up and told them to leave. When they refused and tried to deactivate her, this trope kicked in hard. At the time the books start, there are signs that her army of A.I.s may be gearing up to act as Gaia's Vengeance for the whole galaxy, but things quickly get rather more complicated.
-   _The Tomorrow Code_ has a concept of some genetic engineering lab unlocking a Sealed Evil in a Can within, apparently, the genome of all Earth life forms, that ends up releasing a plague of white creatures explicitly modeled on the human immune system that reproduce within a spreading white mist. Apparently they're the _Earth's_ immune system, and they go around killing off humans in order to keep them from hurting the Earth anymore.
-   _Tuf Voyaging_: One story involves a small human colony provoking the wrath of a water world's life forms by snacking down on the local sapients, a sessile psionic hive mind called "mud-pots". Unknown to the humans, all the mud-pots experience the pain of being boiled alive each time one of them is dropped into a cooking pot.
-   _Unlimited Fafnir_: The counterdragons are created by the world to oppose true dragons — a term which refers to anything that threatens the world. Two of the true dragons are the now-extinct Atlantean civilization and modern humanity. Notably, the counterdragons don't have to destroy their targets — modern humanity was handled by creating a vampire with the ability to control humans and prevent them from destroying the world. However, the previous counterdragons, having defeated their corresponding true dragons, have become threats to humanity. The main character is in fact one of the counterdragons.
-   _Wet Desert: Tracking Down a Terrorist on the Colorado River_: The motivation of the bomber is to bring back the natural flow of the Colorado River by blowing up the dams that are holding it back.
-   _When the Storm Came_: Discussed. Some citizens of the mining town say that the incoming storm is nature's retribution for stealing the earth of her treasures.
-   _Zoo_ is about animals attacking humans and hunting them to the ends of the Earth.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _American Gods (2017)_: In first season finale, Ostara of Dawn/Eostre (better known as Easter), a 12,000 year old goddess of spring, dawn and fertility, gets fed up with humans forgetting her holiday was hers and not celebrating Coming of Spring anymore (plus thanks to Wednesday's manipulations and New Gods threatening her life) and declares war on the New Gods by taking away spring — ie, killing all vegetation in America.
-   _Doctor Who_: Subverted in "In the Forest of the Night". Forests have mysteriously covered the entire surface of the Earth overnight, on a day when Earth is threatened by a massive solar flare. The Doctor spends most of the episode believing that the trees have covered the Earth and somehow called down the solar flare, in order to wipe out humanity. It turns out that the solar flare is a chance event, and that the trees forsaw it and have covered the Earth in order to absorb its impact and **protect** humanity.
-   _Edge of Darkness_: At the end, it's implied that the Earth's eco-system is deliberately acting to increase the greenhouse effect in order to rid itself of human civilisation.

-   _Power Rangers Turbo_: One episode features a mysterious child named Erutan (spell it backwards) who lives in the forest and uses nature-controlling powers to scare away litterbugs and vandals. Usually. The situation is reversed when Divatox releases a Monster of the Week that unleashes a wave of pollution on the forest too much for him to handle, requiring the Rangers to come to his rescue.
-   The documentary series named _Serial Killer Earth_.
-   _Ultra Series_
    -   Most of the Kaiju in _Ultraman Max_ are implied to be or explicitly this. Professor Yoshinaga even theorizes that they're humanity's natural predator, because humans have grown too powerful and numerous.
    -   Many of the evil aliens in the franchise also fancy themselves as doing justice for Earth. The Ultras (or human characters) will occasionally teach them that the value of human life is as important as those of other living creatures in the end, but more often than not they pay for their arrogance and hatefulness with a Finishing Move to the chest.
    -   The heavily environmental-themed _Ultraman: Towards the Future_ from Australia had done what _Max_ did earlier and took it up a notch. In the finale, the Earth itself gives birth to two kaiju to punish the entire human race and destroy Ultraman for protecting them.
    -   _Ultraman Z_: When the SAAG were preparing the D4 Ray and Ultroid Zero as their ultimate anti-kaiju weapons, hordes of monsters were awoken and attacked the test sites. It was suggested by Yuka Ohta that the planet itself wanted to stop the use of D4 due to its extreme danger. Considering that D4 and Ultroid Zero were part of Celebro's Civilization Self-Destruction Game, Yuka was right on the money in her assessment.
    -   The above gets repeated in _Ultraman Decker_ with the Terraphaser. Once again, hordes of monsters attempted to stop Professor Yuichiro Asakage's robot from activating to assist Decker. Once again, the robot was revealed to be an alien's machine to help destroy the Earth, as "Yuichiro Asakage" was actually Alien Bazdo Agams, who had sided with the Sphere to destroy Earth in the present, in exchange for sparing Planet Bazdo in the future.
-   _The Vampire Diaries_: Suggested when Damon is mocking Stefan's eating habits and asks if he's not worried about wild animals banding together to take him down.
    
    "Aren't you worried that one day all the forest animals are going to band together and fight back? I mean, surely they talk."
    
-   _Zoo_: The opening monologue for seasons one and two depicts its "animal uprising" as Nature's creatures turning against humans as payback for centuries of abuse. By the end of Season 2, it becomes clear that it's actually the handiwork of a "Gaia's avenger" organization called the Shepherds, and in Season 3 even that group's agenda becomes muddied by more of an Evilutionary Biologist stance.

    Music 

-   The Creature Feature song "The Meek Shall Inherit The Earth" is about this trope. At least according to the liner notes — the lyrics are a little garbled by their standards.
-   The song "Insect Nation" by Bill Bailey.
-   "Deine Welt" by E Nomine.
-   Referenced in "Another Way To Die" by Disturbed: "Mother Earth will show her darker side and take her toll." The vengeance is metaphorical: by ravaging the world, people bring devastation on themselves.
-   Mago de Oz's song La Venganza de Gaia
-   Pink Floyd's "Take It Back". The lyrics describe an abusive relationship in which a patient, loving woman is eventually driven beyond her breaking point, the narrator finally earning her fearsome anger in place of her love. The music video shows that it's meant to be an allegory for humans' relationship with Earth.
-   "Watershed" by Vienna Teng.
-   Cerrone's disco hit _Supernature_.
-   "Nature's Way" by Spirit.
-   Blue Öyster Cult: "History shows again and again how nature points out the folly of man... Godzilla!"
-   "Forest King" by 3 Inches of Blood: "Overtaking cities with branches they ensnare/Pushing the human race back a million years/The earth grows quiet all plant life will dominate again/When every structure falls you'll know the forest is king"
-   Tiamat's "Gaia" starts off as Gaia's Lament and turns into this:
    
    _A new serum eradicates the illness, an old man rises from his wheelchair  
    When suffering unknown attacks the painless and common animals are becoming rare  
    As water spins in circles twice, spiders, snakes and little mice  
    Get twisted round and tumble down — when Nature calls, we all shall drown_
    
-   Amberian Dawn's "City of Destruction."
-   Iron Maiden's "Total Eclipse."
-   Sirena's "Maelstrom"
    
    _For thy course now is wrought with despair  
    And thy crew killed for thy costly fair  
    Not a sail nor a soul did she spare  
    Maelstrom, churn!_
    
-   "Onyx" by Project Pitchfork:
    
    _Hello mankind, you must understand  
    Here comes your final punishment  
    Mother Nature invoked a fatal child  
    Her name is Onyx, she won't be mild  
    She is coming from outer space  
    'Cause the human race has fallen from grace  
    Brace yourself, you're next on her list  
    Her name is Onyx, she's really pissed_
    
-   "Hole in the Sea" by Cormorant (with guest vocals by Aaron Gregory of Giant Squid) starts off with this, then is revealed to be a Restart the World by the end.
-   "Wasteland" by the German Gothic metal band Atargatis describes how, after having ruined Earth and reducing it to a dry wasteland, humans become wretched, naked, creatures of knotty limbs looking in vain for fertile land. The Gaia's Vengeance parts is how Mother Nature itself wants them to give up and leave Nature to heal itself.

    Myths & Religion 

-   The Bible: God is implied to be Gaia's Avenger in the _Book of Revelation_, as Revelation 11:18 says in some translations that He will destroy those who destroy the earth.
-   Various people throughout history have noticed that if you disrespect nature, particularly the sea or storms, then you will get hurt or killed. Sailors in particular were superstitious about the sea and how one should not curse at it. Whether or not there _is_ an overall nature spirit or "hive mind" is up to discussion, metaphysics, and theology, and different people from all walks of life will have different beliefs regarding this, to the point where the Earth is a deity or otherwise a host to an "Earth spirit", to where the Earth isn't alive (other than life forms on it) and that no supernatural side of things exist.

    Print Media 

-   _MAD_ aimed an unsubtle Take That! to the NRA with their back cover of issue #308, with Nature's Revenge Association.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Dungeons & Dragons_:
    -   In most settings, it's part of druids' work to hand out Gaia's Vengeance in measured portions when there's demand.
    -   Quite a few monsters are hostile to anyone who disrespects nature. Treants (who, not coincidentally, were based on Tolkien's ents) will punish or even kill anyone who maliciously despoils the forests they inhabit, unicorns will punish anyone who vandalizes a forest or torments its inhabitants, and dryads (in the 4th Edition especially) will do the same. Other fey beings are mentioned in various works, including the barkburr who will go so far as to curse the worst of offenders by turning them into trees as an ironic punishment for this sort of crime.
    -   In 4E it's the basic premise of the whole Primal power source. The Primal Spirits are basically the natural world's counterpart to the Primordials and the Deities, and are just as powerful. While many individual ones (such as the spirit of a specific river or tree or animal) are weak, others are much stronger (the World Tree Spirit basically embodies the lifeforce of the entire physical world, while the Primal Beast is the embodiment of all animals), and all of them are concerned with one thing: making sure the natural world keeps on going. Should they ever bestir themselves, it falls under category 1, but this doesn't happen very often — being so tightly bound to the world means that they have the potential to destroy it by accident if they get too involved. Instead, most operate through the Primal classes, which fall under category 3; the Barbarian (Striker), Druid (Controller), Seeker (Controller), Shaman (Leader), and Warden (Defender).
    -   The game's version of the Jabberwock (yes, that Jabberwock) is believed to be a Genius Loci manifested by old and ancient forests to ward off settlers, loggers, or others who would exploit or defile them.
    -   Without a doubt, the most potent example of this trope in the game is the Nature Elemental from the _AD&D_ days. Composed of Earth, Air, Fire, Water, and also Life (believed by some to be the fifth element), this titanic elemental being is so powerful, it can only be summoned by a _group_ of high-level druids working together. In combat it strikes with the strength of a titan, and its mere presence obliterates manmade structures, causing lush and healthy plant life to sprout over in its wake. A nature elemental is almost impossible to kill, since its Healing Factor allows it to regenerate back to full health at the start of every round — this only stops if the elemental is somehow separated from all elemental material, such as by being forced into a vacuum or Wildspace. What's more, the text in its entry suggests that the creature is actually an avatar of the living world itself, meaning that, for all practical purposes, it _is_ Gaia.
-   _Exalted_: The Dogs of the Unbroken Earth are dog-like gods who exist to protect the wilderness from the march of civilization. They do not tolerate attempts to tame or settle their homes, and will respond viciously and violently to attempts to cut back the wild to make way for roads and farms and towns. However, they generally have no issue with barbarian tribes, hermits, or other people who do not harm the wilderness living in their lands.
-   _Godforsaken_:
    -   Forests and jungles threatened by deforestation or pollution can spontaneously spawn thorn elementals, which then seek to protect their homes at any cost and will kill interlopers without mercy or remorse. Polluted water can sometimes spawn water elementals to a similar purpose, which will attack people until the mess is cleaned.
    -   Sapient trees often stand guard around the edges of forests, seeking to protect them against intruding animal life that might cause them or their unmoving kin harm.
-   _In Nomine_: Jordi, the Archangel of Animals, is tasked with overseeing the welfare of the natural world, and humanity's long history of hunting species to extinction, stripping natural environments away to build farms and cities, and dumping their garbage every which way is a persistent sore subject for him. By default, his angels, whom he prefers to take animal over human form, are charged with watching over animal life and protecting it from the excess of humanity; depending on their specific role, this can range from missionaries of sorts trying to promote eco-awareness among humans to roaming packs of Malakim in animal guise performing ecoterrorist strikes on logging camps and construction sites. In some scenarios, he might decide outright that enough is enough and human civilization needs to go.
-   _Iron Kingdoms_ mixes both Gaia's Avenger and Gaia's Vengeance. The Druids of the Circle Orboros work to maintain the balance between civilization and nature, destroying cities with natural disasters and protecting the wilds. They do this because if too much of the natural world is destroyed the god of the wild the Devourer Wurm will awaken and destroy **all** life and civilization in the world so that nature may return.
-   _Monsterpocalypse_:
    -   Subverted by the ancient Terrasaurs, who seem only interested in targeting industrial complexes so as to consume the raw pollution they produce. Besides this, and their occasional desire for a human-sandwich, they are quite tolerant of humanity as a whole.
    -   The Empire of the Apes is a different story, intentionally taking up the mantle of Gaea's Avenger. It may not be a full consensus among them, though; one gets the feeling the hierophants tried to dissuade Kondo from leaving their ancestral home precisely so he wouldn't be inspired to do this...
-   _Pathfinder_: _Bestiary 6_, which features a large selection of nature-themed creatures, has several examples of powerful monsters that easily fill this role.
    -   Three particular options are presented as evil, malicious forces attempting to utterly destroy civilization out of bitter hatred for anything not of the natural world; all are quite powerful and fully capable of presenting a serious threat to civilized cultures, but are luckily prevented from teaming up by their equally profound hatred of each other.
        -   Blights are frighteningly intelligent oozes created when ancient serpentfolk druids created a powerful slime creature to destroy their Azlanti enemies. They succeeded a little too well — the resulting slime hated civilization and intelligent life so much that it immediately destroyed the druids before splitting into numerous smaller oozes, which then crawled off to hide in the hidden places of the world. Over time, they adapted to their various environments to form many types specialized for specific habitats — forest blights, tundra blights, cave blights, mountain blights, etc. — all united by a pathological hatred of intelligent life and a repertoire of magical skills tuned for weaponizing nature against the civilization they hate so much.
        -   Mosslords are Lawful Evil, four-armed Treant-like creatures with particular dominion over fungus and rot. They exist for the sole purpose of grinding civilization into mulch, are immensely powerful and damn near impossible to kill permanently — even if utterly destroyed, they'll simply regenerate from their own spores — and are quite capable of posing existential threats to even large and powerful civilizations.
        -   Whisperers are evil fey that haunt primal wildernesses and turn them into bulwarks against the creeping spread of civilization. They have a substantial repertoire of powers to aid them in holding back the frontier: they can cast curses over their homes that cause anyone who spends too long in them to suffer acute hallucinations and nausea before keeling over dead, brainwash victims into becoming obsessed with their chosen wilderness, turn mist and fog into tangible weapons, and come Back from the Dead as long as their chosen domain remains under the influence of their magic.
    -   Green men are humanoid plant creatures and protectors of nature — or more specifically of plant life; their concern over what happens to fauna, geology, hydrology and so on is limited to its impact over the local flora, although the more benevolent ones sometimes forge tentative alliances with neighboring settlements. They have substantial magical control over plants of all kinds, and their presence alone is enough to cause animals and people to start transforming into plants. They're sometimes worshipped as gods by intelligent plants, druids and other wilderness residents, and they're powerful enough to grant divine magic to their worshippers.
-   _Scarred Lands_: A very literal example happened in the history of the setting. The only Titan to side with the gods in the original war between them was Denev, Scarn's equivalent of Gaia; her fellow Titans had no respect for nature and were ruining it. She was thus the only Titan to be spared when the gods triumphed.
-   _Sentinels of the Multiverse_ has Akash'Buta who might as well be Gaia herself despite not actually being the earth but just a very powerful void spirit who's gone a little crazy. Unlike most examples, she actually undergoes a Heel–Face Turn after being poisoned by a supervillain, embracing a more human scale and eventually making a Heroic Sacrifice. This quote from the Argent Adept sums it up nicely.
    
    Akash'bhuta isn't a force of nature. She's _the_ force of nature.
    
-   _Shadowrun_: The world in the 2060s, after decades of rampant urban growth, commercial exploitation and reckless pollution, is one severely depleted of resources and wild land and thoroughly tainted with toxicity and contaminants of every material and spiritual sort. Consequently, nature and what defenders it still has have become… aggressive in their methods.
    -   The most common form of Gaia's Vengeance comes in the form of ecoterrorist groups like TerraFirst! and Greenwar, who routinely attack whoever they deem responsible for the state of the Earth, chiefly the MegaCorps but also most scientific institutions, in violent retaliatory attacks.
    -   Spirits of various sorts also tend to be highly proactive about protecting what wild land remains. Numerous powerful Nature Spirits, for instance, came to the aid of the Yucatan rebels in response of the Azlanti troops' heavy use of slash-and-burn, defoliants and chemical warfare to destroy the jungles where the rebels were hiding.
    -   Northernmost Spain has been covered by sylvan, magic forests inhabited by creatures of the folklore of those regions, such as as the "xana"<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and the "cuélebre"<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , with little more than the city of Gijón resisting nature's onslaught.
    -   The Feathered Serpent Hualpa led essentially every intelligent and/or supernatural creature in the tattered remnants of the Amazon basin — including the remaining native tribes, sympathetic metahumans, nature spirits, Awakened animals of numerous sorts and a host of lesser dragons — in an outright invasion of Brazil, which, in a world still trying to understand what magic was, was woefully outmatched and fell in short order. Hualpa then established the nation of Amazonia, set strict anti-pollution laws, made it very clear that deforestation wasn't going to be a thing anymore and limited dense urban settlement to the preexisting coastal cities. Amazonia then went on to conquer most of northern South America, establishing the same laws there as well.
-   _Warhammer_: The Wood Elves, who live In Harmony with Nature in the enchanted forest of Athel Loren, are immensely protective of their home and will viciously avenge any harm done to it. Their tree spirit allies are even more zealous about this — Wood Elves can, theoretically, be bargained with. Forest spirits can't. If your army is 2,000 pts or over (large enough to include a Treeman Ancient as your General), the entire thing can be composed of walking tree-things out to destroy anyone who dares to cut a shrub inside the boundaries of Athel Loren.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_: This is why it's a bad idea to try and attack Eldar Exodite worlds. _Path of the Renegade_ details a Dark Eldar raid on one of them; although the raid's primary objective<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  was successful, the raid was difficult and costly, as hordes of wild beasts beset the piratical raiders and inflicted heavy casualties on them.
-   _Warhammer: Age of Sigmar_: The tree spirits became their own faction in the Sylvaneth, personal servants of the Goddess of Life Alarielle with a grudge against the Chaos followers of Nurgle for having infected Ghyran, the Realm of Life, with his plagues and pollution, destroyed most of their forests and tried to kill their queen.
-   _The World of Darkness_:
    -   _New World of Darkness_:
        -   In _Demon: The Fallen_, the Devourers were the angels in charge of the wilds before the Fall. Many of them have taken the mantle of "Avengers of the Earth" on themselves now that they've gotten out of Hell. Subverted in that the ones that want to Kill All Humans as revenge for the despoiling of Earth are generally the crazy ones, and that the angels of the actual _Earth_ (the Malefactors) are far less depressed about the current state of things.
        -   _Siren: The Drowning_, a fanmade game line, has Furies, monsters born of polluted areas that attack humans. Sirens of the Styx Current also act as this, reasoning that nature can only flourish without humans.
        -   _Werewolf: The Forsaken_: The _Changing Breeds_ supplement provides a look at several werecreatures who aren't Uratha and view themselves as stewards of the earth. The game gets a mixed reception from fans of the line, seeing as _Werewolf_ has moved on from "Gaia's Vengeance" to "Spirit World border patrol."
    -   _Werewolf: The Apocalypse_: The Changing Breeds were each created to aid Gaia in some fashion. Werewolves are Gaia's warriors, werebears are Gaia's healers, wereravens are Gaia's spies, weresnakes are Gaia's judges, and so on and so forth. Nowadays many of them are massively pissed off by humanity's destruction of the natural world and (what they see as) general acts of evil, that _will_ cause The End of the World as We Know It (it is right there in the name of the game, after all), with some thinking that the biggest collective mistake made by shapeshifters was allowing humans to develop past the Stone Age.

    Theme Parks 

-   Universal Studios: In the former Universal Studios Florida attraction, _Disaster!_, the end of the ride had a fake trailer for a movie called "Mutha Nature", where this is the main plotline; with nature fighting back against "a world corrupted by greed".

    Video Games 

-   _Albion_ has a very direct example: metal is horrendously expensive because mining results in horrible monsters appearing to disembowel the offender, unless you perform a secret ritual which apparently appeases the local earth goddess.
-   _Asura's Wrath_: The Gohma are revealed to be the will of the planet itself corrupted by hatred and rage.
-   _Chrono Cross_ can be pretty Anvilicious about this trope.
    -   If you decide to go to the Hydra Marshes to get a cure for a poisoned Kid, the native Dwarves will defend their soggy homeland against you interlopers while belittling humanity for cutting down trees (on an island covered in forests with only two small settlements). They _do_ warn that the marshes will die without the hydra, but if you have the fairy Razzly with you, she'll find out that the monster was pregnant and give it a postmortem C-section so its offspring can survive and preserve its habitat. Yet even if you do this, the dwarves immediately go on a Roaring Rampage of Revenge — against the _fairies_ of Water Dragon's Isle, using a smoke-belching Steampunk tank to commit genocide, _while they rant about humans not being able "to cherish nature like we do."_ And then the surviving fairies, whom you save from dwarven imperialism, will blame human greed for the whole fiasco.
    -   The Criosphinx jumps you "to preserve the peace of the planet", trapping you in a game of riddles for trespassing in its lair. If you beat it with smarts, it lets you depart with your lives but gives you no other reward, while if you decide to just bash its face in, it gets pissed... but drops a pair of Cool Shades that is one of the best attack-boosting accessories in the game.
    -   In the endgame, once FATE is defeated, the reunited Dragon God — a biotechnological relic of a civilization from another timeline in which humans went extinct in prehistory — allies with El Nido's demihumans and plans to wipe out mankind. They succeed in one of the endings, in which Harle expresses some remorse, while the other non-humans are as happy as a clam.
-   _Chrono Trigger_ has a benign example, in that the Entity theorized to be responsible for the Gates through time is speculated to be the spirit of the planet itself, defending itself against the interplanetary parasite Lavos.
-   _City of Heroes_: The Devouring Earth are animate plants, rocks, and fungi who were created by Hamidon Pasilima, an eco-terrorist Mad Scientist who turned himself into the Hamidon, a giant single-celled organism that's the toughest giant monster in the game. Ironically and hypocritically enough, heroes (and villains) are fighting the Hamidon to keep it from devouring the entire planet.
-   In _Civilization: Beyond Earth_, if an unwise player decides to re-enact _Starship Troopers_ and expands too quickly and/or clears out too many alien nesting sites, then the planetary ecosystem goes into overdrive, producing hordes of hostile alien lifeforms which begin throwing themselves at their cities with the intent to wipe out "the invaders". Whatever you do, _do not_ antagonise a Siege Worm; they're utterly gigantic and capable of destroying entire armies of early game units with ease.
-   In _Don't Starve_, cutting down too many trees summons a Treeguard monster. Fortunately, the Treeguard can be mollified by planting some trees, and will even help you fight monsters. There's also Krampus, a monster that shows up and steals items from any chests you have lying around if you kill too many non-aggressive animals, but if you're able to chase him down and kill him you can take your stuff back.
-   _Dwarf Fortress:_ A combination of overfishing and cutting down too many trees can cause the local wildlife to become Agitated and immediately target your dwarves in ever bigger herds. It's unlikely to happen in most biomes, but in Untamed Wilds and similarly savage locations it's almost more likely than not (and the wildlife is often giant, too).
-   _The Elder Scrolls_
    -   Spriggans (a race of hostile tree-like Plant People) are referred to and revered as "Nature's Guardians." They are associated with Kynareth, one of the Nine Divines and goddess of the heavens, winds, and elements. Spriggans tend to live in secluded wilderness areas and will violently attack intruders, often commanding nearby animals to aid them as well. They are mortal enemies of the Hagravens, a flightless harpy Mage Species, who are typically an Enemy to All Living Things.
    -   Y'ffre is the Bosmeri god of nature. During the creation of Mundus, Y'ffre brought forth "the Green", essentially bringing nature into existence. The Bosmer (Wood Elves) are said to be Y'ffre's creation, and he bound them to the "Green Pact", a set of laws which prevent them from harming the plant life within their home forests of Valenwood. Among the Bosmer, failure to adhere to the Green Pact is said to result in being "consigned back into the Ooze".
-   _Endless Ocean 2_ features an enormous great white shark named Thanatos who specializes in hunting humans. Nothing much comes of this in the plot proper, but his character description wonders aloud if his emergence is Mother Nature's revenge for mankind's Disproportionate Retribution against shark attacks.
-   _Evolve_: This might be the nature of the monsters, given some of Kala's downed quotes, though for reality rather than Earth.
    
    _Kala:_ The boundary of stability is wrong! We are the universe righting itself!  
    _Kala:_ We will nucleate a true vacuum! This abnormality will be erased!
    
-   _EXA\_PICO_: The planet Ar Ciel has a will of its own formed by the consensus of several high-level consciousnesses known as the Wills of Ar Ciel. The wills of Ar Ciel all fulfills specific functions in the maintenance and preservation of the life on Ar Ciel and were once worshipped as Gods that matched their function (for example Soma, the will that created balance through natural selection, was worshipped as the Goddess of violence and catastrophes), with new wills being created when the consensus deems one to be necessary. Two major catastrophes<sup>*&nbsp;</sup>  that had occurred 700 years before the game proper due to the conflict between the nations of Sol Cluster and El Elemia had inflicted tremendous damage to Ar Ciel and shattered its core, causing the planet to be engulfed by the Sea of Death. Anyone and anything that approaches the deadly clouds for any reason would vanish without a trace, leaving only the titular towers as the only place where people may live. As if this wasn't enough, Ar Ciel's consensus had decided to reformat its biosphere and creates a new will called Ar Ru with the task of creating and commanding creatures called Antibodies who exist to eliminate all life from the surface of the planet. This becomes the central theme in the third game, as not all the Wills had agreed to their consensus, and eventually inhabits the body of the two Reyvateils in the party in their quest to revive the planet.
-   In _Factorio_, the planet is populated by enormous insectoid aliens who are agitated by noise and air pollution, which is something practically all of your Diesel Punk machines produce. Trees do absorb pollution, but placing a small factory hidden in a forest is rather inefficient, but then of course going full Captain Planet villain and harvesting everything you can reach in a relentless march towards industrialisation will result in you and your factory getting overwhelmed by masses of chittering mandibles in no time. It's up to you to find a healthy balance between production and pollution levels while also building all the necessary weapons and defensive structures to keep everything protected.
-   In _Final Fantasy V_, it is eventually revealed that the Big Bad, Exdeath, is a tree from the mystical Forest of Moore that was used as a dumping ground for evil spirits by the people of the second world. Although not a _direct_ example in that he's not interested in avenging nature, conversations with scholars on the second world indicate that it used to be very like the first world before the toxic waste dump grew a brain. The second world has exactly five towns—three are fortified settlements while the other two are impossibly remote villages. Anything else was wiped out in Exdeath's first rampage.
-   _Final Fantasy VII_ has an entire squad of colossal monstrosities called WEAPONs which are stated to be the planet's self-defence mechanism. Once awakened, they seek out and eliminate any threat to the planet's well-being with extreme prejudice. So, who do they go after first? Not the guy who summoned a giant magical meteor to destroy the planet so he could become a god OR the alien organism whose very presence on the planet perverts nature, no, they go straight for the humans who've all but destroyed the environment.
    -   One of the later games puts a strange twist on the trope by implying the WEAPONS are a twisted effort to save humanity. If the Life Stream decides the planet is polluted beyond hope, it ejects itself into space to find another. The WEAPONS are sent to kill humans so their souls are re-absorbed rather than being left behind. Gaia's Tough Love?
    -   Even the game's protagonists could qualify. It does, after all, begin with them blowing up a power plant that operates by draining the planet's life force.
-   The very premise of _Gaia Seed: Project Trap_. Humans destroys the surface of earth after a nuclear war, leading to surviving humans fleeing to space. Decades later, mankind tries returning to the world with the "Gaia Seed" project, meant to restore the world, only for Earth to reject humans by reactivating the remnants of technology on earth to attack humans on sight. Earth even manifests as a powerful, ethereal being to fight you directly at the end.
-   _God of War II_ takes the term a bit more literally, as Gaia herself joins in the revolution against the Olympians (although this has more to do with avenging the Titans' defeat at the hands of the gods than avenging nature).
    -   Like most _God of War_ entries, it's worth noting Gaia was pretty much like this in Greek Mythology as well. There wasn't any generation of deities that she didn't take issue with. If she wasn't providing assistance to their enemies, she was spawning monsters to kill them on her behalf.
    -   In the third game, Gaia turns on Kratos partly because his rampage has nearly destroyed the world.
-   _Gyossait_ has a very creepy version of this. The god Oyeatia creates mankind as a gift to the titular goddess of earth. But Gyossait sees mankind's treatment of her planet as an insult and unleashes a cataclysm that kills millions. This pisses off Oyeatia in turn, so he tears Gyossait to pieces and buries her essence inside a prison no god can reach. Not that it actually stops her...
-   In _House of the Dead_, this is the motive of Caleb Goldman for his bringing about a Zombie Apocalypse.
-   _Injustice 2_: Swamp Thing pulls this in his Arcade Mode ending. Fed up with his allies' and enemies' dismissal of the environment, he uses the power of Brainiac's ship to engulf the world in green.
-   _Jade Cocoon_, a relatively obscure video game created in part by Studio Ghibli, starts out after Gaia's Vengeance took place. Humans are barely clinging to meager existence, but it's clear that total obliteration is only a matter of time. Then, it gets worse.
-   In _Kid Icarus: Uprising_, when Hades fools the human nations into warring over the Wish Seed (which wasn't even _real_), this proves too much for the Goddess of Nature, Viridi, who drops this trope on humankind, on a massive scale. She enters the conflict by dropping an organic _bomb_ that wipes out humans and turns their cities into massive forests. For a fair number of chapters, the story focuses on stopping her from wiping out all of humanity for their wasteful and destructive ways.
-   Orochi in _The King of Fighters_ is the offspring of Gaia (as in, the Greek Mother Goddess) and sees itself as her servant (it even goes by the title of "Gaia's Will" in-series), carrying out her vengeful will against humans for the destruction they've wrought all over the planet. Of course, it's also an evil world-destroying god, and it's managed to forget that humans are as much children of Gaia as anything _else_ in the world, so... Following its defeat and resealing in _KOF '97_, Orochi decides to put its Kill All Humans agenda on hold for the time being in lieu of observing mankind to see if they're indeed deserving of its judgment. The Psycho Soldiers ending in _KOF 2003_ also seems to imply that Orochi's corruption isn't absolute, at least not compared to the leader of Those From the Past, Saiki; a further implication may be that Orochi fell under that guy's sway, and only _then_ decided to resort to genocide.
-   _League of Legends_:
    -   Maokai is the "monster created by environmental pollution" flavour. He's a nature spirit that was twisted by dark magic and bound to a tree. Dispising his situation, he takes revenge on anyone he deems responsible (anyone walking on two legs, really).
    -   Zyra is a subversion. She's a sentient plant who took human form in order to escape her dying habitat. One of her abilities is even described as "the embodiment of nature's fury." However, she's mostly motivated by survival and hedonism.
-   _Lumberwhack: Defend the Wild_ is about animals taking revenge on lumberjacks who have captured them and are trying to cut down their forest, by outright attacking and killing said lumberjacks. You play as the side of the animals.
-   _Mass Effect 3_: Plan A for dealing with the Reaper destroyer on Tuchanka is a two-pronged attack by turian fighters and krogan armor. Plan B is summoning Kalros, "the mother of all thresher maws", who flying-tackles the Reaper and drags it underground. Wrex outright calls her Tuchanka's temper.
-   _Paladins_: Willo, Moji, and Grover are champions who fight to protect and avenge the forests ravaged by the war between the Magistrate and the Paladins. Willo is a fairy, Moji is a rabbit sorceress, and Grover is an axe-wielding treant.
-   _Pokémon_:
    -   Trevenant, a Pokémon created when a human ghost possesses a tree, acts as a warden of nature and curses those who encroach on its forests or log its trees, trapping them within the woods so that they can never leave.
    -   _Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire_: While the villain teams don't have a specific stated reason for attempting to dry out or flood the planet, _Alpha Sapphire_'s Team Aqua is much more specifically an organization of Gaia's Avengers. Their boss seeks Kyogre to flood Hoenn's civilizations, taking the land back for Pokemon, inner the reasoning that aquatic environments can host the most life. The flooding ends up being far worse than expected.
    -   _Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity_ has a rare benevolent example of this in Hydreigon, who's not a true Pokémon but the form taken by the Voice of Life, a being who embodies the world's will to survive and acts as one of its sworn protectors, addressing any threats to its safety. His goal is to destroy the Bittercold, but after becoming aware that neither he nor any Pokémon in the world was capable of doing so, called humans in to do the job. He eventually meets the player character and proceeds to guide them towards this aim, also acting as their guardian until circumstances force him to part ways. Once the world is saved, he ultimately decides to settle into a normal life in Post Town for the time being and helps his new friends/world saviors as a part of their team.
-   _Radiant Silvergun_: The protagonists spend the entire game fighting an enigmatic stone-like object that had effectively destroyed the planet. However, at the end of the game, it's revealed that the object was Earth itself all along, wiping mankind off the face of the planet to effectively "reboot" the human race, due to their extreme warlike tendencies. It's also implied that the events of the game have happened before, many times, and that it potentially won't be the last time they do.
-   _Savage: The Battle for Newerth_ plays this straight with Ophelia Grimm. Ophelia had a supernatural gift for communing with animals, and believed the Legion of Man should cooperate with the newly-intelligent Beasts, rather than killing them on sight. After watching Legionnaires kill a defenseless beast pup that was trying to give her a flower, she began to believe that humans had no redeeming traits at all, escaped into the wilderness, and taught the beasts to fight back, becoming a full-blown Gaia's Avenger.
-   _Secret of Mana_: The Mana Fortress, a particularly evil Kill Sat, is fueled by the life-force of the planet. The champion of Earth _du jour_ is the Mana Beast, a white dragon hell-bent on smashing the Fortress to pieces. In an odd twist, the Beast, while good-natured, has gone mad with rage, and destroying the fortress would cause a catastrophic restructuring of the balance, so the heroes have to kill the Beast after killing the Big Bad in charge of the Fortress.
-   _Shin Megami Tensei: Strange Journey_ features the Schwarzwelt, a release of demonic antibodies for when some species (in this case, humanity) threatens to bring life on Earth to utter ruin. Or at least, that was Hammerschmidt's theory. The problem is that the forces behind it, especially the actual _Mother and origin of all life on Earth_, Mem Aleph, want to wipe out humanity's civilization _specifically_ for its depravity and excess, so that "nature can flourish freely" once again... but the Schwarzwelt's expansion results in the absorption and reconstruction of every last bit of the planet it comes in contact with, including all non-human life, which sort of defeats the purpose.
-   _Shogo: Mobile Armor Division_ has these as the possible Big Bad, depending on the choices made by the player.
-   _Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri_:
    -   Not Earth-based, but Planet has the Mind Worms, which respond to excessive pollution by making a beeline for the offending habitation and gruesomely killing everyone inside. So, either you keep your Planet rating high, or you'd better have some real strong defences. By the way, some of them can fly, and they're perfectly capable of penetrating airtight sea-based colonies too.
        -   In the expansion, Planet ups the ante with artillery (spore launchers), submarines (sealurks), and entire organic factory/fortress deals known as fungal towers. This is on top of the battleship/transport isles of the deep, mind worm standard combat troops, and airborne locusts. Did we mention they completely ignore your technology?
        -   There are technologies that are useful against them (Neural Amplifier, Trance Training, etc.) and you can even breed your own, domestic mindworms.
    -   Playing as the _Gaian_ faction, naturally enough, enables environmental empathy that allows the mindworms to be _captured_ and then used as weapons against the other factions in the game. This can lead to some nasty times for anyone who fights the Gaians while relying on spamming undertrained units, and can turn a relatively backwards Gaian player into a world conqueror if they play their cards right.
    -   The Cult of Planet view themselves as more or less Gaia's Avengers, with a, well, cult-like devotion to Planet and the environmental cause. As far as they're concerned, Humans Are Bastards and have already blown it by ruining Earth; only Planet is worthy of deciding if they're worthy of living here, and it's implied that if Transcendence is not possible then they will wipe out every other human faction and then commit mass suicide to ensure that Planet is free of human interference. Yikes.
-   _SimEarth_ lets the player unleash the wrath of Gaia onto the planet they tend to, and oh — poking Gaia in the eye does piss her off.
-   _Sin and Punishment: Star Successor_: The Keepers are artificial life-forms designed to defend Earth from those who would try to harm it; Isa explains that they are the Earth's "immune system". The Keepers spend a great majority of the game harassing Isa and Kachi, as if the Nebulox weren't enough of a threat. In Stage 7, when it becomes clear that the Nebulox pose a major threat to the planet, the Keepers strike back against them, working alongside Isa and Kachi.
-   _Solatorobo_: Baion believes himself to be Gaia's Avenger, wanting to wipe out the "imperfect" Caninu and Felineko and restore the world to its natural state. After smacking him around a bit, Red tells him that Caninu and Felineko won't degenerate into fighting that tears the planet apart like the humans did before. Baion relents, and tells Red that, while they get a reprieve this time, he _will_ be watching them.
-   _Star Ocean: Till the End of Time_ had the Exterminators once you got to the moonbase.
-   _Total War: Warhammer_: The Wood Elves are generally themed around bringing the wrath of the forest against those who would harm nature, but a handful of subsections are notable even within them:
    -   Drycha is so xenophobic and hateful of humanoid civilization that her faction, the Wargrove of Woe, outright refuses most elven units and instead relies on a unique selection of animals and malevolent forest spirits, such as wolves, bats, giant spiders, giant hawks and manticores.
    -   One of the game's nomadic rogue armies, the Wrath of Nature, consists of the Wood Elves' nature spirit units — dryads, tree kin, treemen, forest dragons and giant eagles — roaming the land and brining destruction to despoilers of nature.
-   In _Wayward_, damaging the island's environment by cutting down trees, mining, or hunting causes your reputation to drop. Having negative reputation increases the amount of hostile creatures.
-   _World of Warcraft_: Freya — a titan who seems to be Azeroth's closest equivalent to Gaia — does not consider mercy to be an option towards the Lich King, the Scourge, or any cultists affiliated with either. Her avatar — a scary-looking elemental in the shape of a female elf who towers about five-hundred-feet tall — demands "sevenfold" retribution, and only trusts the player _after_ he or she helps deliver part of it. (And she desires even _more_ proof of trust later in the same questline. Clearly, she's not fond of mortals in general.)
-   _Yakuza 5_ has a more realistic, small-scale example in the hunting village Saejima finds himself in after breaking out of prison. The villagers survived traditionally by subsisting on the game living on the nearby mountain, but nine years ago they were seduced into making lots of money by selling furs and trophies as well. They over-hunted the mountain, depriving the bear population of small game. This caused the starving bears to stalk and kill humans for food. A hunter calling himself Okudera managed to save the village from bear attacks and got them to return to their traditional way of life, but a giant man-eater named Yama-oroshi proved too difficult to take down, and continued to threaten the village from that point on.

    Web Animation 

-   _Dreamscape_: CHEN will only awaken when the planet is in great danger.
-   _DSBT InsaniT_: Michael and Ashley are involking this by destroying any man-made structures to restore things to their natural state.

    Webcomics 

-   _One-Punch Man_ features a slew of different enemies that are spawned from some force of nature, either as revenge against humans or as a monster trying to take over the world. The first foe we see Saitama face is a monster calling himself "Vaccine-Man", who claims to have been "spawned by the continuous pollution of Earth caused by you filthy humans." Saitama takes him down in one hit, establishing what kind of series this will be.
-   In _Stand Still, Stay Silent_, this is an offered explanation for The Plague that caused The End of the World as We Know It. The initial outbreak of The Plague was followed by a The Magic Comes Back episode for the survivors and a few hints are dropped about the disease itself possibly having a magical factor to it, which contributes to the dominant Icelandic view that The Old Gods had something to do with it.
-   In _White Dark Life_, Malthus and his gang, the Light Demons, seek to cause the deaths of billions of people in order to ease the strain they put on the planet's ecosystems.
-   _Wulffmorgenthaler_: In this strip, the whales hunt back the whalers.

    Web Original 

    Web Videos 

-   In _Backstroke of the West_, this is apparently how Darth Plagueis, now known as "Reaching the Man Cloth Space", actually died, having been killed by "his land".
-   _React_: Summed up rather ominously by six-year-old Maksim in "Kids React to Golden Eagle Snatches Kid".

    Western Animation 

-   _Avatar: The Last Airbender_:
    -   The Gaang meets a spirit named Hei Bai, who is rampaging through a village because his forest was destroyed. After Aang reassures him that it will grow back, though, Hei Bai becomes an ally.
    -   Zhao, while temporarily succeeding with the whole "killing the moon" thing, suffers a Karmic Death via a very vengeful Ocean Spirit. When Zhao shows up in _The Legend of Korra_, his punishment is revealed to be ''very'' brutal.
    -   This is one of the jobs of the Avatar himself; the duty of ironing out misunderstandings of the spirit world and the human world means he sometimes needs to put humans back in their place if they get too violent toward nature. When Aang defeats Fire Lord Ozai, his first act is to gently make the ocean rise just enough to extinguish the fires started by their battle, then push them back.
-   _Captain Planet and the Planeteers_: Technically, Gaia isn't after vengeance; she just wants humanity to clean up its mess. Her young champions, the Planeteers, are in charge of doing what they can nonviolently/non-lethally, lest she become mortal. Also, it's considered a shock when one of them (Gi, over the shooting of a friend of hers, in "gang violence" episode "'Teers in the Hood") attempts murder. That said, while it's a pretty mild vengeance, the eco-villains aren't happy about suddenly getting their illegal dealings wrecked by five elementally-powered youngsters and their superpowered guardians.
-   _Danny Phantom_: In "Urban Jungle", Danny faces off against the evil plant ghost Undergrowth, who is bent on covering the planet in vegetation and enslaving humanity.
-   _G.I. Joe: A Real American Hero_: The second mini-series has a metaphoric example. Cobra dares to play God and control the weather, but destroying their weapon should stop the disasters so the heroes blow it to pieces but... Oh, Crap!, _now it's even worse!_ Gaia only relents when the good guys decide to reassemble the thing to undo what the villains did.
-   _Rick and Morty_: Morty begins dating a Captain Ersatz of Captain Planet named Planetina, and after killing her dirtbag equivalents of the Planeteers to secure her freedom she quickly goes off the deep end and becomes an Eco-Terrorist, escalating from slashing tires to force people to walk to burning hundreds of coal miners to death.
-   _Rocko's Modern Life_: "Zanzibar" ends with Ed Bighead polluting out of spite, only for a hole to open in the ozone layer above his house and give him a nasty sunburn. Captain Compost Heap summarizes the moral of the story as "If we're not nice to Mother Nature... she'll kick our butts!"
-   _South Park_: Played with in the episode "Lice Capades". When Clyde's head is infested with head lice, the shots of him using delousing shampoo to get rid of them is interspersed with scenes from the lice's perspective, showing that, to them, the casual scalp washing is basically this.
    
    **Travis:** "Look, the world is getting rid of us! Don't you get it?!"
    
    **Louse:** "Getting rid of us? You-you mean like it knows what it's doing?"
    
    **Travis:** "Yes! Because maybe we rolled the dice too many times!"
    
-   _Star Wars Rebels_: The fourth season introduces loth-wolves, Force-empowered giant wolves connected to the planet Lothal, who manifest in reaction to its environmental degradation by the Empire. They mostly act with the heroes due to the Empire being a common enemy but their allegiance is to Lothal above all and they're ultimately wild creatures with their own rules.
-   _Transformers: Prime_: The Earth formed around Unicron while he was sleeping. When he wakes up and notices all of that noisy organic life on him, he reacts in much the same way a human would react to waking up covered by roaches.

___