_"A Brontosaurus — feeding merely on leaves. Perfectly harmless — unless it happens to step on us."_

The Sauropoda clade of saurischians are arguably the best-known dinosaurs after _Tyrannosaurus rex_. Among their most distinctive features are their massive sizes, which dwarf most dinosaurs considerably, and their Long Necks, which tend to reach several meters from their bodies and sometimes even stretch upwards, giving them a towering appearance.

Contributing to their popularity, the largest sauropods, such as _Argentinosaurus_, comprise all the current contenders for largest land animal to have ever lived. As a result, they tend to be featured a lot in numerous forms of media, usually as very docile and friendly animals that spend their time migrating from one land to another in search of trees. This perception often comes from the assumption that they were so big as to have no predators and had such abundant food that they wouldn't need to be territorial, leaving them with little reason for aggression. In reality, some sauropods (especially as babies) _were_ small enough to be preyed on by large theropods, and it's also believed that even the largest sauropods had predators that had specialised traits _specifically_ to hunt them! Meanwhile, elephants (their modern-day counterpart as the largest land animal) are in a similar situation yet can be _very_ territorial and aggressive.

Sauropods are frequent victims of Artistic License – Paleontology, for example grinding and chewing leaves as they browse the treetops, which their jaws were incapable of doing<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . As they became extinct millions of years before the first humans, we can only make educated guesses about what sort of behavior sauropods displayed in real life; their popular image as friendly animals mainly stems from the fact that they were herbivorous. This also falls into Animal Stereotype, given the usual depiction of sauropods as friendly and non-territorial animals. Also a subtrope for Herbivores Are Friendly. On the rare occasion when sauropods _are_ portrayed as hostile, it's usually when they're fighting off a predator. In stories where dinosaurs as a whole are shown to be violent and aggressive, sauropods are often the exception.

Due to their already tame demeanor, sauropods are commonly depicted as Domesticated Dinosaurs. May also overlap with Dumb Dinos if a sauropod's niceness and docile nature becomes detrimental to the point where they are unable to recognize the threat of an oncoming predator.

Contrast Predators Are Mean and Raptor Attack, with the latter also serving as a stereotypical depiction of maniraptorian dinosaurs, in addition to the obvious inaccuracies like exaggerated size and constantly-aggressive nature towards its surroundings. Also contrast Headbutting Pachy, Temper-Ceratops, and Tough Armored Dinosaur, for herbivorous dinosaurs portrayed as dangerous and aggressive. Compare Social Ornithopod for another type of dinosaur typically depicted as a gentle (and social) herbivore, and Honorable Elephant and Genial Giraffe for the modern-day equivalents. For another stereotype commonly associated with this group of dinosaurs (and frequently showing up in tandem with this trope), see Aquatic Sauropods.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Daikyouryu no Jidai_ features _Brontosaurus_ and _Brachiosaurus_ that both peacefully feed on plants.
-   _Doraemon_:
    -   In _Doraemon: Nobita's Dinosaur_, the main cast encounter a herd of sauropods (_Brontosaurus_ in the original, _Alamosaurus_ in the 2006 remake) which are passive enough to allow them to ride on them. They drop their gentle nature, however, when a _Tyrannosaurus rex_ attacks the herd.
    -   _Doraemon: Nobita's New Dinosaur_ features a herd of _Titanosaurus_ which are not only docile but cute-looking to boot.
-   _Dragon Ball_: During his training set up by Piccolo, Gohan manages to find and nurse a wounded _Apatosaurus_, eventually befriending it. Unfortunately, a _Ferocisaurus_ that had been hounding Gohan since his training began attacks. The _Apatosaurus_ defends Gohan, but is killed and eaten by the _Ferocisaurus_, leaving Gohan to mourn for his fallen friend.
-   A group of aliens in _Gantz_ disguise themselves as dinosaur statues in a museum. In an odd inversion, _Tyrannosaurus Rex_ and _Velociraptor_ are assumed forms, but it turns out that the most dangerous of them all is a _Brachiosaurus_.
-   _Seton Academy: Join the Pack!_: The school's headmaster is an _Alamosaurus_ named Aramato. He is shown to be a Reasonable Authority Figure, asking Jin and Ranka if they could help escort Miyubi (a sloth) to the student dormitory after school. When Jin refuses, however, the 70-ton headmaster threatens to step on him.
-   Averted in _You Are Umasou_ where a herd of _Titanosaurus_ try to crush Heart with their forefeet to protect their young. However, Heart proves to be too fast for them and they all pass out from dizziness, with the alpha male getting knocked out by a jump-kick to the head from the _T. rex_.

    Comic Books 

-   _Age of Reptiles_: The story, _Ancient Egyptians_ averts this with the depicted _Paralititan_, who while displaying parental instincts, are incredibly defensive to the point where they would stomp predators if threatened or even without being provoked.
-   _Jurassic League_: Superman is re-imagined as a _Supersaurus_ and is shown as this. He was raised by humans and shown to be very friendly with the children of his tribe.
    -   Averted with the story's version of Bizzaro, a _Brontosaurus_, who as Superman's evil counterpart is shown to be thug-like and aggressive.

    Comic Strips 

-   In one Sunday strip of _Calvin and Hobbes_, Calvin imagines encountering a herd of _Apatosaurus_ right outside his house, and one of the sauropods gives him a ride on his head. Subverted in another strip where he imagines himself as an _Allosaurus_ being intimidated by Moe as an _Ultrasaurus_.

    Documentaries 

-   A major aversion in _Prehistoric Planet_ with the _Dreadnoughtus_: during the mating season, males are shown as hyper-aggressive when fighting over females and territory, violently jabbing with their thumb claws and slamming their necks together like elephant seals. Indeed, given their fifty-ton weight and sheer strength, the weaker combatants are actually _killed_ in the process, probably the first instance in popular culture of sauropods actively killing one another.
-   _Dinosaur Planet_ features a _Saltasaurus_ named Alpha as the central character of the episode "Alpha's Eggs." Downplayed in the sense that while the animals are generally harmless, males can be territorial and aggressive during the mating season, as shown when two of them fight over who gets to mate with Alpha. Although Alpha does kill the antagonist Dragonfly, it's mainly because the latter attacked her while Alpha's injured leg caused her to be disoriented and crush Dragonfly's skull, killing him instantly.
-   _Dinosaur Revolution_ features a _Dinheirosaurus_ named Woodstock as one of the two protagonists alongside, amusingly enough, an _Allosaurus_ named Broken Jaw in the episode "The Watering Hole" episode. Woodstock thoroughly averts the trope as he gives Broken Jaw a brutal beatdown prior to the episode and kills the _Torvosaurus_ when he attacks his son.
-   _Jurassic Fight Club_ features a _Camarasaurus_ that subverts the trope, as it takes on and kills an _Allosaurus_ pair. Though to its credit, the sauropod did seem to be stressed and panicking over the fact that it was trapped in quicksand whilst being attacked.
-   _Planet Dinosaur_: The _Argentinosaurus_ is a downplayed example, given that while the animal isn't inherently aggressive, it also doesn't seem to care much for its surroundings and the other inhabiting fauna save for the residential predator, the _Mapusaurus_. That, and the _Argentinosaurus_ do unknowingly kill a few small ornithopods due to quicksands created by their footsteps. The same applies to the _Paralititan_. The _Magyarosaurus_ also downplays the trope, though in a less conventional way, as while it's shown to be a pretty docile dinosaur, it's also very small by sauropod standards, at about 6 meters.
-   The main dinosaur character in _Time of the Titans_ of _Walking with Dinosaurs_ is a _Diplodocus_. The episode follows the life story of a female individual from infancy to adulthood whilst going through great danger that claims the lives of most of her siblings. The _Diplodocus_ are depicted as traditional herbivores minding their own business, though they are very protective, shown when an adult uses its tail to slap an _Allosaurus_ attacking a juvenile _Diplodocus_. A _Brachiosaurus_ also makes an appearance midway through the episode simply passing by a grassland and grazing on a treetop.
-   Usually played straight with the _Camarasaurus_ and the _Apatosaurus_ in _When Dinosaurs Roamed America_, though the latter does become aggressive when an _Allosaurus_ tries to attack its herd.

    Fan Works 

-   Subverted in The Geeky Zoologist's reimagining of Jurassic World. While the appearing sauropod species (_Apatosaurus_ and _Mamenchisaurus_) doesn't show any kind of gratuitious agressivity towards the humans, they can pose a huge threat if they panic, knocking down fences and trampling people. It also seems that _Apatosaurus_ doesn't follow this trope since a subadult male attacks the Indominus for territorial reasons. Things don't end well for him though...
-   Zig-zagged in Dinosaur King: Retold. Whilst the most prominent sauropod in the story, Brontikens, serves the villains, all the other sauropods are portrayed as heroic. The portrayal of sauropods as stupid, however, is averted — Brontikens is a giftedly intelligent Genius Bruiser and Guru the Ampelosaurus is a Cool Old Guy who serves as The Mentor to some of the others. The other sauropods in the story are no slouches in the brains department either.
-   Most of the sauropods rescued in _Prehistoric Earth_ prove to be very amicable and friendly creatures to work with after being rescued and added to the titular zoo's animal roster.
-   In _Prehistoric Park Reimagined_, sauropods, for the most part, are portrayed as fairly placid herbivores if left unprovoked — however, the narrative makes a point of saying that, if provoked, they can still be incredibly dangerous.
-   In _The Lost World Survival RPG_ expansion to The Amalgam'verse averts this is a vengence in regards to the dinosaurs of Isla Sorna. Not only are the herbivores as a whole just as capable of being aggressive as the carnivores, but the most aggressive animal in the play-through was a large male _Mamenchisaurus_. Prone to attacking intruders to its territory in a manner akin to a hippo, it was directly responsible for killing multiple hunters after crushing several jeeps and was immune to threats by predators. The players weaponized its aggression by getting it to chase them into the hunter's camp, where it went on an rampage as it was far too big for the chaotic rifle fire to actually meaningfully hurt. Fittingly, the players nicknamed it "The Hulk".
-   In _Phineas and Ferb's Dinosaur Adventure_, the _Apatosaurus_ and _Brachiosaurus_ are depicted as docile and majestic creatures, with the former not minding the time-travelling human cast observe them up close and one of them gives Phineas a ride on its head. However, the _Apatosaurus_ show off their aggressive side when the _Allosaurus_ attack later on.

    Films — Animation 

-   _Dinosaur_: Baylene is the sole _Brachiosaurus_ in the herd, and she is one of its kindest and most understanding dinosaurs.
-   _Fantasia_ features _Brontosaurus_, _Diplodocus_, and _Brachiosaurus_ in the Rite of Spring sequence. They peacefully graze through a field with a herd until they are invaded by a _Tyrannosaurus rex_ who proceeds to kill a _Stegosaurus_ and drive the herd away.
-   _Gertie the Dinosaur_: Gertie is a _Brontosaurus_ (called a "_Dinosaurus_" for some reason) who performs stage theatrics ordered by her master. She is playful and talented, but also childish and sometimes refuses to do what her master says. It's only when she's scolded and has to stopped from crying that she starts performing for real, even picking up her master as he bows to the audience. It is the earliest animated work featuring a dinosaur and is one of the most influential pieces of animation in Western Media.
-   _The Good Dinosaur_: The main character is Arlo, an _Apatosaurus_ who lives on a farm with his family and tries to find his place in it, being the youngest member. After his father dies in a flood and he's separated from his family, Arlo sets off to reunite with them, eventually coming across a primitive human he names Spot.
-   In _Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs_, the _Brachiosaurus_ is one of the few dinosaurs to be consistently portrayed as nonthreatening. It's so passive that Ellie lures one to help the Herd escape from an attacking _Ankylosaurus_.
-   _The Land Before Time_
    -   The central character is an infant _Apatosaurus_ named Littlefoot, whose mother is killed by a Sharptooth. He has to trek a desolate world, making new friends along the way, before eventually making it to the Great Valley to be reunited with his grandparents. Littlefoot is consistently shown to be a kind, caring and hopeful child, and it's his optimism that drives much of his successful adventures. Franchise marketing also tend to label him as _Lovable Littlefoot_.
    -   On his journeys over the series, Littlefoot meets numerous other sauropods, like Ali in the fourth movie and his father Bron in the tenth movie, who has adopted a _Brachiosaurus_ named Shorty during the time he was away. Although all of the sauropods in the series are depicted as friendly to the main characters, they can be incredibly aggressive towards predators.
-   In _Scooby-Doo and the Cyber Chase_, the first dinosaur seen in the prehistoric level is a _Brontosaurus_ calmly eating plants. The sauropod then gets startled by the arrival of a _Tyrannosaurus_ controlled by the Phantom Virus.
-   _Speckles: The Tarbosaurus_ features a herd of _Pukyongosaurus_ grazing through a forest. Some of them do gaze on Speckles and Blue Eyes and don't mind their presence.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _Baby: Secret of the Lost Legend_ features the Mokele-mbembe, here portrayed as a _Brontosaurus_ family that is discovered by a paleontologist and her husband, who try to defend them from a mercenary scientist. The baby brontosaur plays this trope straight and so do the parents. That is until the villain becomes antagonistic to the point where the mother grabs him by the jaws and shakes him King Kong-style.
-   _Dinosaurus!_: One of the two featured dinosaurs in the film is a _Brontosaurus_, which is seen as a passive and amicable giant, but is also rather dumb. It clashes against the opposing _Tyrannosaurus rex_ and unfortunately loses.
-   _Jurassic Park_:
    -   The _Brachiosaurus_ in the earlier parts of _Jurassic Park (1993)_ are the defining moments of wonder and awe for the main characters. Later on, another _Brachiosaurus_ approaches Alan, Tim and Lex on a treetop as she sneezes onto the latter whilst she was trying to give it leaves to eat. A modern Trope Codifier as well as what bought _Brachiosaurus_ into Small Taxonomy Pools territory.
    -   Later films, such as _The Lost World_ and _Jurassic World_ showcase _Mamenchisaurus_ and _Apatosaurus_ respectively, with the latter being listed as _low_ in its aggression index. _Brachiosaurus_ does however make appearances in _Jurassic Park III_ and _Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom_ and remains among the most popular dinosaurs in the franchise. _Dreadnoughtus_ was added in _Jurassic World Dominion_.
    -   As with many other elements of the franchise's portrayal of prehistoric animals, this is potentially a Justified Trope given that all of the park's creations were genetically engineered to fit pop-culture expectations, and with this in mind the sauropods may have been modified to be as docile as many people would expect for the sake of both entertainment value and public safety.
-   _King Kong_:
    -   Averted with the depicted _Brontosaurus_, who goes on to kill much of Carl Denham's crew for stepping into its territory. Even after the men begin retreating, the _Brontosaurus_ still goes on to chase them and take the time to grab a panicking crew member from a tree. It also grabs any unlucky crew member in its jaws as if it was a carnivore, but that's only because it doesn't have anything else to grab with.
    -   Subverted with the _Brontosaurus baxteri_ in the 2005 film. Though herbivorous and non-aggressive, they are very prone to becoming spooked and panicked, which shows when a _Venatosaurus_ pack attacks a herd, prompting them to go on an Animal Stampede during which they accidentally trample and kill several members of the S.S. _Venture_.
-   _Lost Continent_ subverts this with a flesh-eating _Brontosaurus_.
-   _The Lost World_: A _Brontosaurus_ appears and subverts this trope. It fights against an _Allosaurus_ and is later captured by civilization to be taken to London for public exhibition. The _Brontosaurus_ escapes and causes havoc towards the city's populace.
    -   Played straight in _The Lost World (2001)_, where Professor Challenger is able to get right up close to a mother _Diplodocus_ and her calf with no danger.
-   In _Prehysteria_, the main human character, Jerry Taylor, finds a clutch of dinosaur eggs and, upon being hatched, looks after them as a surrogate parent. One of the dinosaurs, Paula the _Brachiosaurus_ is easily the most calmest and sweetest member of the group.

    Literature 

-   _Carnosaur_ is an amusing case where in a setting that's filled with predators acting more like monsters, there is a baby _Brachiosaurus_ that does play the trope straight. Alongside a infant _Tyrannosaurus rex_ pair, the _Brachiosaurus_ remains one of the only dinosaurs to survive till the end.
-   _Danny and the Dinosaur_ is about the titular characters's relationship with one another (yes, the dinosaur's name is _Dinosaur_). Dinosaur, despite his intelligence and ability to speak, acts like a usual pet dog; loyal, obedient and loving towards his owner Danny.
-   _The Dinosaur Lords_: The novels feature _Apatosaurus_ as one of the several dinosaurs that are tamed to be used as war mounts and beasts of burden by the populace of Paradise. The former example downplays the trope.
-   _Dinotopia_ features various Sauropods that have been domesticated by humans and are often used as transport.
-   _Jurassic Park_ features an _Apatosaurus_ herd, which are one of the more peaceful and sociable dinosaurs, as they simply mind their own business and don't pose a threat to the main characters.
-   _Raptor Red_ has the titular character and her mate hunting an _Astrodon_. The dinosaur, although a herbivore and usually passive, has been described as aggressive when threatened. The raptors manage to kill the _Astrodon_ by luring it into a trap and slashing the helpless animal until it bleeds to death, but the sauropod's weight also crushes Red's mate into the mud, suffocating him. Averted _hard_ later on when the pack encounters a whip-tailed diplodocid that relentlessly fights back when they harass him, severely wounding Red's sister.
-   In _The Abysmal Invasion_, the surface world is invaded by Lizard Folk from Beneath the Earth and their dinosaur mounts. Brontosaurs seem to be some of the most commonly-used steeds, and are said to be "more tractable" than the others... although they're still pretty terrifying to the human characters.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Dinosaurs_ features _Brontosaurus_ lady Monica DeVertebrae as the only four-legged dinosaur in the show. She gets along well with main female character Fran Sinclair (who is an _Allosaurus_), but the trope is downplayed in a sense that Monica doesn't really care about men.
-   _Prehistoric Park_: A herd of unnamed _Titanosaurs_ are shown in the third episode when Nigel Marvin sets off to capture the _Microraptor_. While Nigel and his crew are able to to capture at least 4 _Microraptors_ they have to escape a volcanic eruption during which 9 _Titanosaurs_ make it to the present day. The sauropods present themselves as rather sociable, though are very prone to panicking and being fussy, making them a Downplayed example. They are allowed to roam the park freely due to their massive size, though despite their hospitable nature, their habit of getting panicked has caused damage to the park, namely the breakout in the final episode. Thankfully, they don't harm anyone generally.
-   _Terra Nova_ showcases human civilization travelling back to 80 million years in the Cretaceous due to a climate crisis on the present day. After arrival, the first dinosaur encountered by the main characters are a pair of _brachiosaurs_, who approach them with amicable curiosity. The younger daughter of the protagonists even feeds it leaves.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Dinosaurs Attack!_ completely inverts the trope by turning every species of dinosaur, sauropods included, into Prehistoric Monsters, with some of them even going as far as eating humans.
-   _Dungeons & Dragons_ has long had dinosaurs exist as stock creatures in the game, with sauropods being noted in every edition as being completely non-aggressive toward human-sized creatures unless attacked.

    Theme Parks 

-   The first iteration of the _Jurassic Park River Adventure_ showcases the _Ultrasaurus_ as the first dinosaur to be seen by ride attendants. While the dinosaurs tend be enclosed in exhibits and in fences, the _Ultrasaurus_ is the exception with the ride narration stating that "these gentle giants pose no threat to us".

    Video Games 

-   _Ape Escape 2_: The Lost Valley/Lost World level features a pair of _Brachiosaurus_ that only stand around eating, not minding if Jimmy (or a monkey) climbs onto their backs.
-   _The Archotek Project_ features _Brachiosaurus_ and _Camarasaurus_ as adoptable dinosaurs. In the simulation, they don't seem to pose a threat and seem sociable towards other herbivorous dinosaurs.
-   In _ARK: Survival Evolved_, _Brontosaurus lazarus_ and _Diplodocus insulaprincep_ are listed as docile and naive respectively in terms of their general behavior. The _Titanosaurus vagacastrum_ is listed as "Passive, unless approached".
-   In _Banjo-Tooie_, one of the friendly characters in Terrydactyland is a _Diplodocus_ named Dippy, who is suffering from dehydration and begs the main duo to fetch him drinking water for his dried-up pool. He rewards them with a Jiggy when they refill his pool with water from Cloud Cuckooland.
-   _Carnivores_:
    -   The _Brachiosaurus_ is the one animal that is completely immune to any weapons, but it's also completely harmless and doesn't seem to notice the player.
    -   One of the huntable dinosaurs introduced in _Dinosaur Hunter_ is _Amargasaurus_, which is listed as not dangerous and will run away from the player.
-   _Diddy Kong Racing_: In the Dino Domain courses, friendly-looking _Brontosaurus_ are often seen walking around.
-   Sauropods in _Dino Run_ will make a noise if you stand on their head, but otherwise don't react at all if you use their body as a platform.
-   _Dinosaur Safari_ features prosauropods like _Plateosaurus_, _Riojasaurus_ and _Anchisaurus_ in addition to traditional sauropods like _Brachiosaurus_, _Diplodocus_, _Camarasaurus_, _Saltasaurus_ and _Cetiosaurus_. They are among the non-aggressive dinosaurs you encounter in the game.
-   _Dino Storm_ features _Brachiosaurus_ as the residential sauropod in an alternate New Old West setting with dinosaurs and laser guns. They appear to be one of the more amicable fauna in the game and are often used for travel and war mounts.
-   _E.V.O.: Search for Eden_ features _Brontosaurus_ ("Brosasaurus" in the English translation) which just happily munch on leaves, ignoring the player. However, if the player attacks them three times, they turn hostile and lash out with their necks.
-   _Final Fantasy VI_ subverts this with the Brachiosaur, a rare random encounter in the dinosaur forest. It is one of the most powerful enemies in the entire game, on par with a Boss Battle in difficulty and can easily cause a Total Party Kill by casting _Ultima_.
-   _Horizon Zero Dawn_: Tallnecks, massive machines designed to take after sauropods, are the _only_ variety of machine that will never be hostile to Aloy, even while she's climbing all over their back to update her map.
-   _Joe & Mac_ subverts this by having a ferocious _Brachiosaurus_ as a Boss Battle.
-   _Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis_:
    -   The game features _Brachiosaurus_ and _Camarasaurus_ as dinosaurs that can be raised from the hatchery before being released for public attraction. Both sauropods display no aggressive nature towards other dinosaurs and visitors, and in their profile, both have each other as their preferred friends.
    -   Likewise, alongside the aforementioned two, _Jurassic World: Evolution_ features _Diplodocus_, _Apatosaurus_, _Mamenchisaurus_, _Dreadnougtus_ and _Nigersaurus_, all of whom are friendly dinosaurs. There is also the hybrid dinosaur, _Ankylodocus_.
    -   In _Jurassic World Evolution 2_, unlike the previous game (where every sauropod but the much smaller _Nigersaurus_ was immune to predation by anything but the _Indominus rex_) _any_ sauropod can be hunted by any large carnivore or pack-hunting small carnivore with no ability to fight back, standing placidly and looking confused as they're torn apart.
-   In _Lost Eden_, Adam and his friends has to get help from _Apatosaurus_ and _Brontosaurus_, the former serving as transporters and the latter building citadels.
-   _Pokémon_:
    -   There are various prehistoric Pokémon, one of which is the Amaura and Aurorus evolutionary family, with inspiration taken from the _Amargasaurus_. The Pokémon is said to be gentle in nature due to having no natural predators during its time, meaning that the Aurorus didn't have any intrinsic reason to be aggressive. Indeed, in Pokémon Sword and Shield, Amaura and Aurorus will curiously approach the player and act friendly when spotting them in the wild, contrasting with the aggressive Tyrunt and Tyrantrum.
    -   There is also the Chikorita line and Tropius, both Grass-Type Pokémon from the Johto and Hoenn region respectively and take on the appearance of an _Apatosaurus_. The Chikorita line in particular its noted for being peaceful in nature compared to most of the other starter Pokémon, and Tropius is amicable towards its surroundings and seems more concerned about its favorite food, bananas.
-   In _Putt-Putt Travels Through Time_, among the dinosaurs Putt Putt meets are a _Brachiosaurus_ and an _Apatosaurus_, both of which are gentle giants. The _Brachiosaurus_ gladly moves her tail out of the way when Putt Putt asks her to, and the _Apatosaurus_ helps Putt Putt get to a _Pteranodon_ nest in return for scratching an itch on his back.
-   In _Star Fox Adventures_, the HighTop tribe consists of sauropod dinosaurs. Fox encounters two of them, both of which help him during his travels in Cape Claw and Dragon Rock.
-   The _Brutosaurs_ of _Warcraft_ are large dinosaurs based on the _Brontosaurus_. They are stated to be rare in Vol'dun, according to a caption for "Snake on a Stick". The _Brutosaurs_ are hospitable towards it's tamers, often being used as war mounts and mobile trading posts. That said, there are some _Brutosaurs_ that avert the trope by being carnivores. Carnivorous _Brutosaurs_ are rarer and it's even more rarer to find a _Brutosaur_ that eats cooked meat.
-   In _Ys VIII: Lacrimosa of Dana_ the only dinosaur expies that are _not_ automatically hostile on the northern side of the Isle of Seiren are explicitly noted to be Sauropods. At the same time, all the characters agree that it's best to not bother then anyway. Their sheer size probably has something to do with it.
-   The original _Zoo Tycoon_ game has _Apatosaurus_ and the prosauropod _Plateosaurus_ as adoptable dinosaurs in the _Dinosaur Digs_ expansion pack, with the latter being a DLC addon. The _Apatosaurus_ is **the** largest terrestrial animal in the game (the later _Marine Mania_ expansion pack added Sperm, Humpback and Bowhead whales which are **the** largest aquatic animals ingame), however it subverts this trope due to very lazy developer programming- due to its large size it's one of the 4 most dangerous animals (the others are _T.rex_, _Allosaurus_ and _Spinosaurus_) in the prehistoric expansion pack and it requires the strongest electric fencing but if it does escape the game will have it chase around human guests and eat them as if it was a predatory carnivore animal instead.

    Web Animation 

-   Subverted in _asdfmovie_ with the Stegosaurus, a sauropod who crushes any nearby passer while declaring himself as a "stegosaurus" in a demeaning manner.
-   Subverted in _Mighty Magiswords_. One of King Rexxtopher's Dino Patrol members is a _Brachiosaurus_, which just as hostile to the Warriors as the rest of the crew.

    Web Videos 

-   Played with in _TierZoo_, sauropods were noted to be surprisingly dangerous combatants among dinosaurs, thanks to their tails giving them a massive attack range while their stomp was explicitly stated to be an outright One-Hit Kill.

    Western Animation 

-   _Bunnicula_: Subverted in "Jurassicnicula" when Bunnicula turns into a menacing _Brontosaurus_ and nearly steps on Chester and Harold.
-   The _Daffy Duck_ short, _Daffy Duck and The Dinosaur,_ features an _Apatosaur_ named Fido, who acts like a gentle lumbering dog and is the butt of most of Daffy's shenanigans, as well as the abuse of his caveman owner, Casper.
-   _Dink, the Little Dinosaur_:
    -   Dink the _Brontosaurus_ is the titular protagonist who likewise forms a bond and friend group with an assorted list of child dinosaurs.
    -   Zig-zagged with the various sauropods the cast encounters. Some are friendly, while others are brutish.
-   _Dino-Boy_: Dino Boy has a pet baby _Brontosaurus_ named Bronty, who is consistently friendly and obedient toward him.
-   Even without the aide of their AMP crystals, the heroic Valorian _Dino-Riders_ seem to have little trouble getting the likes of _Diplodocus_ and _Brontosaurus_ to become gentle beasts of burden for their rather rustic home base, and manage to get _Diplo_ to stand up to Krulos's armored T. rex.
-   Played straight and subverted in _Dinosaucers_. Two of the dinosaur characters are sauropods; one is an _Apatosaurus_ named Bronto Thunder and is a member of the heroic Dinosaucers. The second sauropod is a _Brachiosaurus_ named Brachio who works for the villainous Tyrannos led by Genghis Rex. To further the subversion, Brachio has fangs.
-   _Dinosaur Train_ features several kinds of sauropods, all of which are friendly.
-   _DuckTales (2017)_: In "The Impossible Summit of Mount Neverrest!", one of the things on Webby's bucket list is to high-five a _Brontosaurus_. _30 Things With DuckTales_ shows her actually high-fiving a _Brontosaurus_.
-   While he looks more like a prosauropod, Dino from _The Flintstones_ is a _Snorkasaurus_ who is friendly and obedient to his owners, the Flintstones. There's also the _Brontosaurus_ Fred sits on at the quarry and uses to move rocks in its mouth like a living excavator.
-   _Gertie the Dinosaur_, one of the first cartoons ever made, has its sauropod title character acting like a trained elephant and doing tricks. She does, however, have a bit of a temper at times.
-   One of the main characters in _Gigantosaurus_ is Bill the _Brachiosaurus_, who is a timid and sensitive Big Eater. Playing this trope more so is Ayati, an elderly _Brachiosaurus_ who acts as a grandmotherly figure to the main four.
-   _Harry and His Bucket Full of Dinosaurs_: One of Harry's dinosaur friend is Patsy the _Apatosaurus_, the only female member of the group. As one of Harry's friends, Patsy is also acquaintances with his other dinosaurs, one of whom is a _Tyrannosaurus_ named Taury.
-   _Il était une fois..._: In one episode of _l'Espace_, "Land of the Dinosaurs", Pierrot and Psi befriend a baby _Brontosaurus_ and return it to its herd. The adults, however, become aggressive when they get attacked by the big theropods.
-   _Jurassic World: Camp Cretaceous_ has a baby _Brachiosaurus_ in season four who’s dubbed Firecracker. He’s playful and energetic but friendly.
-   _The Little Mermaid (1992)_: In "Land of the Dinosaurs", sauropods are among the frozen dinosaurs freed by Ariel. They are not aggressive like the rest of the dinosaurs, despite looking just as ferocious, and there's even a cute moment between a mother and her young.
-   _The Magic School Bus_: The first dinosaurs the class encounters in "The Busasaurus" are a herd of _Alamosaurus_, which the kids become alarmed at the sight of, particularly Carlos who is under the impression that all dinosaurs are vicious. The _Alamosaurus_ immediately prove they mean no harm, focusing only on the tasty vegetation, and a call from a herd of _Parasaurolophus_ has them decide it's time to move on.
-   _Phineas and Ferb_: In "It's About Time!", the step-brothers and Candace escape from a pursuing _T rex_ by grabbing onto some reeds dangling from the mouth of an _Alamosaurus_, who places the three siblings onto safety once Phineas tells it they're made of meat.
-   _Primal (2019)_: The episode "Plague of Madness" features a herd of _Argentinosaurus_ that gently graze on the vegetation and care for their nestlings, without minding other animals' business. Until, that is, one of them gets bitten by a small hadrosaur infected with the eponymous plague of madness — a flesh-eating super-rabies. What results is a horrifying aversion of this trope: a ferocious Technically Living Zombie sauropod that attacks anything in sight, slaughtering its entire herd and horrifying the otherwise battle-hardened Spear and Fang as it then pursued both with an utterly unnatural level of persistence, survived through multiple potentially lethal injuries (some of which were self-inflicted), and was only stopped by falling into lava.
-   _The Simpsons_: In the "Geriatric Park" segment of "Treehouse of Horror XXIX", the senior citizens are transformed into dinosaurs and other Mesozoic reptiles, most of them turning violent. The seniors taking the form of sauropods remain docile, although one of them accidentally steps on Hans Moleman (who is transformed into a _Compsognathus_).
-   _TaleSpin_: In "Paradise Lost", the first dinosaur encountered in the lost world is a _Brontosaurus_ that Wildcat befriends by feeding it jellybeans, but then the sauropod is scared off by O'Rourke shooting at it with a rifle, which Baloo shames him for. That same _Brontosaurus_ later returns to help Wildcat keep the lost world safe from hunters.
-   Subverted in a big way in _Transformers_ with Slag, Sludge, and Snarl, three Dinobots based on the _Triceratops_, _Brontosaurus_, and _Stegosaurus_ respectively, if only because they tend to spend most of their time in their alt-modes. Slag is a hothead who will GLEEFULLY turn his metal melting flame breath on anything that irritates him, or that he even thinks is irritating him for that matter. Snarl could give Grouchy Smurf lessons and doesn't much care who his tail smacks when he's walking around. Sludge MIGHT be considered gentle if he wasn't such a dim-bulbed klutz he that caused localized disasters when he moved around. An early two part episode of the original series even had the Autobots have to banish all five Dinobots because they were simply too destructive.
-   _Valley of the Dinosaurs_: While some of the herbivorous dinosaurs tolerate the humans who often visit the eponymous valley, the _Brontosaurus_ subverts this outright by being a full-on Monster of the Week. The _Brachiosaurus_, on the other hand, plays this trope straight, despite Katie being intimidated by its appearance.

___