_"GLITZ! GLAMOUR! I'LL FINALLY HAVE IT ALL! SO WHAT IF A FEW PEOPLE HAVE TO DIE? THAT'S SHOW BUSINESS, BABY!"_

A person, often an officer in military settings, who is out to win glory in war, regardless of the cost. Sometimes the cost is to himself, but usually it's only to his men. (Sometimes just the foot soldiers, when he regards only officers as important, sometimes all subordinates, when he subordinates them all to his quest for glory.)

May lead the troops himself, often long after it's clear the attack is futile, but the more odious examples may also be the Armchair Military. In either case, count on his laying claim to his men's, or other officers', work and ideas, and sloughing off all the blame. He will never say Think Nothing of It until he is certain that it will only be taken as modesty — and he requires a great deal of certainty.

May actually refuse to provide support to other units, or ask for reinforcements, when it would interfere with his quest for glory. May neglect the less glamorous parts of the military—leading from the front, for instance, when he should be attending to supplies. When stealing credit, he may try to destroy the career of the actually responsible person, because he isn't in sole control of the promotion ladder, and he can't prevent a capable underling from being promoted.

Indeed, in peacetime, he may foment war; if he has enough power, he may insist on attack. The Caligula, when a Glory Hound, is particularly dangerous. And when a Glory Hound develops a Blood Knight tendency, he may Put the "Laughter" in "Slaughter".

Most common among the military because of the authority of his position, but other characters are possible: an Egomaniac Hunter endangering others on the expedition, a Super Hero who even sets up "menaces" so he can receive credit for dealing with them.

He is unusually likely to be the Karma Houdini, walking away with medals or promotions after slaughter. (He is often fond of the Bling of War.) At worst, he usually suffers no more than Reassigned to Antarctica. His subordinates may realize that every mission is What You Are in the Dark.

May also be The Neidermeyer. Count on his saying We Have Reserves, not only when the battle might be lost, but when the victory will not reflect on him as well without it.

The canonical Character Alignment for many Glory Hounds is Chaotic Evil, though Neutral Evil and Chaotic Neutral examples exist. Usually is The Unfettered, depending on how willing they are to sacrifice anything to achieve glory.

Sub-Trope of Glory Seeker, who is also after glory but doesn't have to do anything discreditable to get it. However, there is an important distinction between the two: A Glory Seeker would happily get themselves killed in pursuit of glory, while a Glory Hound would happily get others killed in pursuit of glory (often with no remorse), loves bloodshed, tends to steal the glory others have legitimately earned, casts Disproportionate Retribution on those opposing their plans, or engages in Chronic Backstabbing Disorder.

Compare Attention Whore and "Well Done, Son" Guy, which often overlaps. Contrast Miles Gloriosus, who will often try to steal credit after the fact but is far too much of a Dirty Coward to actually seek out any actually glorious situation.

Inverse of A Father to His Men. The Fair-Weather Mentor is often this. See also Engineered Heroics, Fake Ultimate Hero.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Death Note_ has Light Yagami. While he believes he's doing humanity a favor by eliminating criminals, actually he's just a narcissist who sees himself as "perfect" and wants to be praised.
-   _Fullmetal Alchemist_ has Hughes' commander in the Ishvalan War. Basque Grand "accidentally" shoots the commander for this, and everyone else instantly agrees to the cover story that it was a stray bullet.
-   _Fate/kaleid liner PRISMA☆ILLYA_: The alternate Earth is running out of Mana, which will eventually make it uninhabitable. Julian Ainsworth comes up with a solution that involves sacrificing Miyu to the Holy Grail so that they can make a wish for humanity to be able to survive. The heroes rescue Miyu, and Illya proposes that they work together to find a different solution that doesn't involve sacrificing anybody. Julian angrily refuses and attacks them, calling them evil for opposing him. As Miyu's brother explains, Julian refuses to admit he could be wrong and wants to get sole credit for saving the world so that he can become a legend.
-   Frank Archer from _Fullmetal Alchemist (2003)_ is most definitely this. Sending his soldiers to their doom and being most unreasonable as Lior is "His opportunity to be a war hero".
-   Iok Kujan of _Mobile Suit Gundam: Iron-Blooded Orphans_ is the head of House Kujan, one of the Gjallarhorn Seven Stars families. He often zealously holds to the Kujan family's motto, to crush his enemies with his might. He often rushes toward the front line recklessly, risking the lives of both himself and his subordinates without any benefit. In order to impress Rustal Elion, his commander and the one he looks up to as a role model, he often carries out ruthless solutions when it comes to destroying his enemies, such as framing the Turbines for possessing illegal weapons and using the said illegal weapons to bombard civilian ships. His glory hound tendencies finally get him killed when he goes after Akihiro Altland alone and announces his name to the latter.
-   Itsuki of _The Rising of the Shield Hero_. The guy deliberately holds back during fights solely so he can get as dramatic a killing blow as possible, what more proof do you need?
-   Barnaby Brooks Jr. from _Tiger & Bunny_ appears to be one at first, but it turns out that his Punch-Clock Hero tendencies have a more complex reason than that. Specifically, the head of his sponsoring company is the orphaned Barnaby's trusted mentor — and has used the opportunity to raise a hero who won't complain about compromising morality for the sake of appealing to the masses.

    Comic Books 

-   _Astro City_:
    -   The Conquistador from "The Tarnished Angel", who is actually the disgraced superhero El Hombre, who misses being famous so much that he stages a supervillain attack so that he can stop it and become famous again.
    -   Crackerjack, a boastful, wisecracking, attention-stealing, self-promoting vainglorious flamboyant showboat who _loves_ signing autographs, merchandising his likeness, and upstaging everyone else nearby, is undoubtedly Astro City's premiere example of this trope.
-   Booster Gold's original characterization. In _52_, the writers brought it back leading to his apparent death, followed by the revelation that it had all been a trick to disguise what he actually did.
-   In _Once & Future_, Galahad is utterly convinced that he's destined to be the greatest knight, not caring if untold thousands or millions suffer should the real world merge with the otherworld to bring about a land of stories so long as he's the hero of them all.
-   In _The Punisher MAX_ storyline "Mother Russia" the 'making of' eight generals was going to be getting a contagious virus from a Russian silo. To help keep Russia's attention from this, they had terrorists hijack a plane to crash into the Kremlin, only for it to be blown up by Russia's air defence. This also killed the innocent passengers aboard. Even worse is that they all cheer in victory when the plane gets blown up. Despite Nick Fury calling them out, not one of them shows a sign of remorse.
-   One of the main characters of the _Star Wars Legends_ miniseries _Vader's Quest_ is a rebel pilot who, due to illness, had been forced to sit out the attack on the Death Star and has since then convinced himself that _he_ could've made the one-in-a-million shot that destroyed it, becoming irrationally resentful of Luke for "stealing" his chance at glory. He gets better over the course of the miniseries and ends up pulling a Heroic Sacrifice.
-   Pyro in _The Transformers: Last Stand of the Wreckers_. He refuses to take a particular Heroic Sacrifice because it's _not cool enough_ for his tastes and insists that Ironfist make the sacrifice instead. He later reconsiders and says just dying for your friends is good enough. He does.
-   _Wonder Woman: Warbringer_: Jason wants the glory afforded to the heroes of Classical Mythology and has decided that his inheritance and power as a descendant of Helen of Troy entitles him to it. He intends to cause a worldwide war, destroy the technological abilities of everyone besides himself, and bring back the power of mythological creatures to get it.

    Fan Works 

-   _Androgyninja's A Drop of Poison_: When the Chuunin Exams are interrupted by an enemy assault, Sasuke ignores direct orders to help with the evacuation efforts in favor of purusing the fleeing Gaara and his siblings, dismissing the enemies who are actively attacking people as "less impressive opponents" and not worth his time. When Kakashi confronts him over this, Sasuke proves completely unapologetic, complaining that "How was I supposed to advance to chuunin if I couldn't even finish my match?" Sakura is so infuriated that she promptly decks him.
-   _Davion & Davion (Deceased)_ has a Mechwarrior officer inform the infantry he should be supporting that he's 'jousting' against the enemy 'Mechs. The infantry officer makes at least a token effort to warn them of the enemy airstrike heading towards the 'joust'.
-   In _Savior of Demons_, Haabu is one, as his internal monologues reveal. Judging from his questionable involvement in any actual fights (he only appeared on New Arcos to shout orders at the Saiyans and look important), he is likely a Miles Gloriosus as well.
-   _The Value of Strength_: Steve Rogers lets the fight against a dragon continue over an hour after figuring out its weakness because "There’s no glory in prevention."
-   _Wyvern_: While Armsmaster is mostly a Well-Intentioned Extremist, this does not change the fact that his ultimate goal of trying to get Taylor into the wards is so that he can mentor her and partner up with the goal of defeating an Endbringer he literally thinks that he'd "be fine" with half the fame, but also because he has always wanted to partner with a dragon.

    Films — Animated 

-   Steele in the movie _Balto_ is a _literal_ glory hound. He crosses the Moral Event Horizon midway through the movie by trying to attack Balto when he comes to get the sled team, and then mimics Balto's tracks on the tree line, getting the team hopelessly lost. This not only puts the lives of the sled dogs in danger, it jeopardizes the entire rescue operation for the sick kids who will die without the medicine the sled team is carrying. Jenna even calls him a glory hound as part of a What the Hell, Hero? speech.
-   The entire plot of _Coco_ is set up and driven by Ernesto de la Cruz's desire for fame and the murderous methods by which he pursues it.
-   In _The Incredibles_, Syndrome's plan is certainly reckless with people and property. His plan is to act as a Super so that he gains the admiration of the public, which involves a giant robot doing massive amounts of damage and putting lives at risk. Not to mention all the Supers he killed off.
-   In _Osmosis Jones_, the villainous virus known as Thrax plans to kill Frank (whom in the setting is like a heavily populated city-state) within 48 hours to "get \[his\] _own_ chapter in the medical books". More specifically, he is envious of big-name diseases like Ebola and AIDS, believing himself to be deadlier than they are, and wants their levels of global infamy. To do this, he tricks several pathogenic gangs to create symptoms of a common cold infection to divert the immune response away from him, then abandons them to die as he steals a DNA bead to send Frank's body into a death spiral while he alone escapes to find another host to kill.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   The antagonist in Sam Peckinpah's 1977 film _Cross of Iron_ is a German aristocrat who joined the war specifically to get the Cross of Iron on the Eastern Front.
-   _Godzilla vs. Kong_: Walter Simmons, the corporate CEO who's backing Team Kong's efforts to combat Godzilla's enigmatic attacks, is ultimately revealed to be one. He's been _knowingly_ provoking and continuing to provoke Godzilla's attacks on populated cities (disrupting a completely-beneficial truce between Godzilla and mankind in the process), not caring for the thousands to millions of innocent lives lost, all so that he can become a Fake Ultimate Hero when he has his lackey use Mechagodzilla to kill Godzilla. Whereas Simmons' right hand Ren Serizawa and his daughter Maia both have more personal reasons for participating in his plot, Simmons is unambiguously doing all of this for the sake of his own warped pride, self-aggrandizement and ambition. The novelization notes that this isn't limited to Simmons' plot concerning Godzilla's rampage either: if Ren's internal musings are to be believed, Simmons has a habit of taking all the credit for other people's technological innovations.
-   In _Hansel & Gretel: Witch Hunters_, The Sheriff opposes Hansel and Gretel because he wants to get sole credit for defeating the witches. Of course, he and his men are absolutely no match for the witches and their troll and are slaughtered.
-   In _Kagemusha_, Katsuyori Takeda is a newly elevated ruler eager to claim exploits of his own and thus disregards the defensive strategy set by his deceased father and the other generals, with catastrophic results.
-   Captain Amazing from _Mystery Men_ intentionally releases an evil mastermind from the Asylum and waits for him to commit an act of mass murder (i.e. blowing up the asylum) before trying to defeat him once again and revive his image.
-   In the film _Patton_, the eponymous character admitted that he was this trope. Montgomery is portrayed this way as well: Patton says that one of the main reasons he doesn't like the British Field Marshall is because the latter won't own up to it.
-   The older brother in the South Korean Korean War film _Tae Guk Gee_ is this only so he can request for his younger brother to be sent home. Because he's such a good soldier his superiors keep delaying sending his brother back; when he thinks his beloved brother has died in an attack he does a Face–Heel Turn to North Korea out of despair.
-   Lieutenant Colonel Tall in _The Thin Red Line_ berates the Captain of Charlie Company for hesitating in a frontal attack that will cause excessive casualties, because he is more concerned with the promised schedule and his reputation than the cost of victory. He later tells his XO how lucky the younger officer is to have a war upon graduation from West Point because the Colonel has "worked, slaved, eaten untold buckets of shit to get to where \[he\] is now!"
-   _Trench 11_: Jennings spent the war riding a desk and sees this operation as possibly his last opportunity for promotion before the war ends.

    Literature 

-   _Discworld_: Lord Rust in _Jingo!_ marches an army to war with little preparation and starting the invasion at the worst possible place because the enemy _would never suspect anyone to do so_. Indeed, this is the basic outline of all military thinking on the Sto Plains. The important part of war is that you took part and there were Glorious Casualties. Actually winning is a minor, inconsequential detail, and keeping one's troops alive is seen as irrelevant at best, outright _cheating_ at worse.
-   Domingo Espada, the Big Bad of _DoubleShot_, is already a famous figure through his years as a bullfighter, but still wants his name to be remembered in history books by orchestrating the takeover of Gibraltar for Spain.
-   Pell, an F-86 pilot in James Salter's novel _The Hunters_, consistently puts the rest of his squadron in danger by failing to cover them and going after the kill instead.
-   The _In Death_ series: The FBI, especially Agent Jacoby, definitely is this in _Betrayal in Death_. Eve and her unit were about to arrest an assassin named Sylvester Yost when the FBI shoved them out and Yost escaped because he saw them coming in. Karma hit the FBI pretty hard on that one.
-   Captain Falco from John Hemry's _The Lost Fleet_ makes himself out to be the hero of the Alliance even though his victories are all but indistinguishable from his defeats. This ends up blowing up in his face spectacularly when he persuades a chunk of the titular Fleet to go haring off on a glorious headlong charge... straight into an enemy ambush. When we next see Falco, his mind has cracked completely.
-   Two perfect examples in Norman Mailer's acclaimed book, _The Naked and the Dead_. Sergeant Croft and General Cummings both fit this role, though Croft is the foul-playing war-lover, whereas Cummings is part of the Armchair Military. Cummings believed war can be calculated with a formula, whereas Croft is just bloodthirsty. Either way, they're both out for glory regardless of the cost, and both attempt to send Lieutenant Hearn, one of the protagonists, to his death. They are successful. Cummings assigns Hearn to Croft's squad, and Croft sends Hearn ahead to lead the group, and he gets killed in an ambush due to his lack of battlefield experience.

-   In Lois McMaster Bujold's _Vorkosigan Saga_ books:
    -   Prince Serg in _Shards of Honor_ and his supporters. The Emperor intentionally let them go to war against enemies who had weapons they didn't know about to get rid of them.
    -   The Cetagandian attackers in _The Vor Game_. During the fighting, Miles thinks that they should have realized that all was lost and retreated, but owing to the dishonor, they attack on and on in hopes of redeeming themselves with victory. Justified in this case, as a defeat would lead to the campaign being disavowed by their government to save face and the commanders facing (likely fatal) punishment for their "unauthorized" actions.
    -   Miles himself runs dangerously close to this trope; while he runs his people well and ensures that the Dendarii are incredibly useful as a covert operations force, _his own mother_ speculates that he does so only so that he can keep being the dashing, dazzling Admiral Naismith, and not the crippled, unregarded Lieutenant Vorkosigan. However, that's only one side of his duality: the other side is the man who will jump after a woman he barely knows, as she's falling out of a shuttlecraft, and try to grab her despite her being twice his size and weight and the action almost certainly causing his death, because she has been drafted as One Of His People.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_ novels:
    -   In Dan Abnett's _Gaunt's Ghosts_ novel _Ghostmaker_, the general in overall command claims credit for victories essentially won by Gaunt and his Ghosts.
    -   In _Honour Guard_, when Gaunt is ordered to not follow his own battle plans, resulting in a disaster, the general who gave the orders sets out to end Gaunt's career.
    -   In _Sabbat Martyr_, the same general used another's battle plans, and Gaunt observes that he would doubtlessly claim credit.
    -   In Dan Abnett's _Horus Heresy_ novel _Horus Rising_, Eidolon sent his men to the planet surface, wasting them in small groups when overwhelming force was clearly needed, to claim glory. Later, when Tarvitz's actions in blowing up certain trees has beneficial effects on unnatural storms, Eidolon claimed he had had it done when he had in fact rebuked Tarvitz for doing it.
    -   In Graham McNeill's _False Gods_, Temba, Chaos-tainted, accuses Horus of being no friend, because he left him behind while he went on to win glory.
    -   In Ben Counter's _Galaxy in Flames_, Lucius, being envious claims to Eidolon that Tarvitz had once been content to plod along as a common soldier, but has discovered a thirst for glory leading the betrayed loyalist Space Marines on Isstvan. Which is why he wants to become a Turn Coat. With the advantage Lucius gives him, in a quest for glory, Eidolon strikes ahead of with no thought of tactics. Tarvitz gets the loyalist Emperor's Children to disengage, join him, and make a flanking attacking. Eidolon's troops are slaughtered, and Horus is signally displeased with him.
    -   In Graham McNeill's _Fulgrim_, Fulgrim's plan to come to the aid of the Iron Hands would also ensure that most of the glory would fall to his Emperor's Children; even one of his own men thinks it vainglorious (though admitting to a thrill at being back in the fight.)
    -   In Mitchel Scanlon's _Imperial Guard_ novel _Fifteen Hours_, it's what kills the protagonist: he is part of a recon team on the field of the day's battle, led by an officer looking for an easy medal. Things go horribly wrong, most of the team being killed by scavenging Orks.
    -   In Gav Thorpe's _The Last Chancers_ novel _13th Legion_, Franx's Back Story: after long serving under a Glory Hound, he demanded adequate supplies to carry out an attack, and when they were refused, his men went berserk and he did not stop them.
    -   In William King's Space Wolf novel _Grey Hunters_, Ragnor is not sure about Berek, because his glorious victories were often won at a high price in blood. To be sure, he does lead himself, and freely shares credit, and the Space Wolves want to join him to lay claim to the glory.
    -   In Lee Lightner's _Wolf's Honour_, Ragnar is stunned when Bulveye says he must be the distraction and so Ragnar and the other younger Space Wolves will have the honor of facing down Madox and retrieving the Spear of Russ; he had assumed that the older Space Wolves would claim the privilege.
    -   In Graham McNeill's _Storm of Iron_, Vauban remembers hearing of Yastobaal, a great and selfless hero who sacrificed himself to save his planet, and how his further researches had discovered the man was a reckless Glory Hound. (He is reflecting on how another soldier might be remembered.)
    -   In Graham McNeill's _Ultramarines_ novel _The Killing Grounds_, Uriel recognizes Barbaros's personality as a Glory Hound at once, even though he is mustered out and serving as Governor.
    -   In James Swallow's novel _Deus Encarmine_, Koris declares that Inquisitor Stele is pursuing his own glory and can not be trusted not to exploit the Chapter.
        -   In _Deus Sanguinius_, Sachiel glories in the adulation, despite his vows to seek only the good of the Chapter and not glory.
    -   In James Swallow's _Faith & Fire_, Miriya rebukes her squad: they are elite troops and find prisoner escort beneath them, and she tells them that any duty to the Emperor is glorious.
    -   In Steve Parker's _Gunheads_ General deViers starts out as a competent and respected commanding officer but after his previous campaign turns from a major victory into a massive disaster, he becomes obsessed with preserving his legacy. He sends his Army Group to attack an Ork world in the hopes of retrieving a legendary battle tank. If he can accomplish his goal he will be proclaimed a hero of the Empire and will earn a spot in the history books. The fact that his entire Army Group is getting destroyed in the campaign does not seem to matter to him at all.
    -   In Andy Hoare's _White Scars_ novel _Hunt for Voldorius_, the Raven Guard accuses the White Scars of headlong charges to glory without consideration for the grand scheme.

    Live-Action TV 

-   In one episode of _M\*A\*S\*H_, Hawkeye persuades a Glory Hound that his stomach problem is appendicitis. This allows him to operate and take him out of the line of battle for a while — though it ends with the grim Aesop that this will not stop the war.
-   In the TV Movie _Panic in the City_, August Best's patriotism is little more than a desire for personal glory as an operative, and he even kills his superior, Steadman, when the latter refuses to support his scheme.
-   Arnold Rimmer of _Red Dwarf_ longs to be an army general, yet when he gets his chance in Meltdown, while he ends up winning the battle, he ends up killing not just the enemy, but his own soldiers. Since he and Kryten are the only ones who survive, he declares it a victory.
-   Ultraman Taro's final opponent was the alien Valky, whose goal was to become famous throughout the universe by capturing the fish-monster Samekujira and defeating Taro. Of course, he's not above underhanded tactics to do this, as he releases Samekujira out to rampage, but when Taro kills the fish kaiju, he's _pissed_ and tries to kill human host Kotaro in retribution.
-   _Young Sheldon_: In "An Academic Crime and a More Romantic Taco Bell", Sheldon suggested a better format for the calculations Dr. Sturgis was working with, and spends the rest of the episode unsatisfied that he's being mentioned in just the footnotes, believing that he deserves a co-author credit. It reaches the point where Sheldon calls Dr. Sturgis' colleagues to accuse him of academic theft, which upsets Dr. Sturgis enough to call Sheldon and ask him to stop attending his class.

    Theater 

-   In _A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum_, the character named Miles Gloriosus is actually not a Miles Gloriosus but a Glory Hound — and a pigheaded fool.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Magic: The Gathering_ has three of its colors prone to this.
    -   Black is incredibly focused on the individual, even more so than the other colors, and would do what it can to stroke its own ego.
    -   White is the near antithesis of Black in this respect but wants the glory because it makes it easier for it to control its population as its image to the group improves.
    -   Red is all about emotions and freedom, but unfiltered emotions make it so that Red would do anything that would help its self-esteem, to suicidal effects.

    Video Games 

-   Most paladins in role-playing games tend towards this, even though it goes against their alignment.
-   _Ace Combat 7: Skies Unknown_:
    -   Col. McKinsey, the leader of the Osean 444th "Spare" Penal Fighter Squadron, shows absolutely no respect for the pilots under his command. He also takes credit for what the pilots have done, rather than acknowledging their merits. One of the Spare Squadron's pilots called him out during one of the briefings on this trope. Being The Neidermeyer Col. McKinsey is, he promptly ordered the pilot who truthfully snarked at him to be taken to solitary confinement. McKinsey ultimately pays _dearly_ for this; he's doing all this to get a desk job, but his superiors decide he's pining for action and send him to the front lines.
    -   Count is a competent pilot who regularly disregards orders and complains about "easy" missions (re: anything not involving air to air combat) and disrespects the Player Character whom he sees as a threat. Eventually, he gets over it.
-   Cole in _Battlefield 3_. Campo calls him this(out of earshot), and later it plays a major part in getting Campo and Matkovich killed in _A Rock And A Hard Place_.
-   Axton of _Borderlands 2_ was formerly a commando of the Dahl corporation whose obsession with personal glory eventually led to him botching an escort mission by using the person he was supposed to protect as a targeting beacon and forcing him to go AWOL at the advice of his wife (who was also his CO).
-   _Bug Fables_: Mothiva is primarily motivated by fame and glory, and is willing to get it by any means possible, no matter unethical. She is even willing to attack other exploration teams if she interprets them as a threat to her own popularity, in hopes of stealing their missions to complete by herself to gain all the fame, and even went as far as to attempt to beat Team Snakemouth, the main rivals of her team, on Colosseum to prove that her team is stronger so that Queen Elizant II would have to bring her along to defeat the Wasp King. She is so blinded by her pursuit of fame that she doesn't even acknowledge the possibility that her actions might doom all of Bugaria because if Team Snakemouth loses in the Colosseum, it would ruin the negotiation with the Termite Kingdom royalty who would use Team Snakemouth's defeat as a way to discredit the validity of Elizant's warning about the Wasp King, or that Mothiva's team might turn out to be not strong enough to defeat the Wasp King by themselves, both factors she willfully ignores.
-   The _Dynasty Warriors_ series of games portray Yuan Shu this way, especially when playing under the Wu storyline. Yuan Shu's decision to delay much-needed supplies to Sun Jian, fueled entirely by gall at the idea of the latter stealing the former's glory, threatens to unravel the coalition against Dong Zhuo.
-   _The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion_: Farwil is a nobleman's son who founded the alleged Knights of the Thorn, a Small Name, Big Ego club with no accomplishments to its name, and leads them straight into the planes of Oblivion when a Gate opens outside his city. When you rescue him, he's indefatigable, even after having gotten most of his friends killed. Even his father admits that "Most would have left him for dead rather than deal with his ego."
-   General Lee Oliver of _Fallout: New Vegas_, whose strategy against Caesar's Legion is for one big ol' slaughter-fest at Hoover Dam, hoping that it'll be big and glorious enough to outshine Chief Hanlon's more tactical defeat of Joshua Graham.
-   Gail from _Front Mission_ is also one, a skilled Wanzer pilot who "pay for glory with the blood of his own men" by Hell's Wall leader Greg, he becomes Kevin's rival in the game.
-   Cole Phelps, the protagonist of _L.A. Noire_, had shades of this during his time in the war, and retains the attitude once he enters the police force.
-   _Persona 5_: Sociopathic killer Goro Akechi committed crimes and then solved them as a self-styled Great Detective just so he could be famous. Unsurprisingly, he regularly appears on TV talk shows, which is how your party first meets him.
-   The fan game _Rakenzarn Tales_ has a guild of them, with the Morning Glory guild. A group of lying jerkass Glory Hounds.
-   Ratchet from _Ratchet & Clank_ is a bit like this. His main motivation is the fame and fortune that come from his adventures. But by game three, he has become jaded when Clank gets his own secret agent series that has Ratchet as his chauffeur, constantly annoyed that Qwark and Clank keep getting credit for his work.
-   _Shin Megami Tensei IV: Apocalypse_ introduces Gaston, a Samurai from Mikado who leads an elite Samurai unit known as Merkabah's Crusaders and is eager to prove his worth to his divine superiors as part of the forces of Law's efforts to put down the Divine Powers. He insists on showing off his combat prowess, getting mad at you for killing mutual target Shesha instead of letting him do it. Additionally, if you choose him as your battle partner, he may occasionally jump into battle at the start of your turn, _stealing your Press Turns to attack_, even if his attacks get blocked resulting in _you_ suffering turn penalties as a result.
-   _Sword of Paladin_: Berienstahl seeks to use the Extra Gems to start and win a world war, and then have history written to portray him as a "hero".
-   Dr. James Whitman in _Tomb Raider (2013)_ is an archaeologist who is obsessed with having fame and glory for himself. Whitman's reality TV show based on his discoveries had dwindled greatly and he resorted to more general reality TV elements that don't pertain to what he does for a living. Whitman was so used to glamorous parties, fine dining, and the attention being focused on him that he was willing to do anything to get his glory back. When Whitman and the rest of the crew get shipwrecked on Yamatai, he becomes so fascinated by the crazed cult and the Sun Queen that he focuses on trying to study them so he has a story to sell to the media and barely even bothers helping Lara Croft and the others find a way to escape from the island. At one point, Whitman kidnaps Lara's best friend, Sam, and hands her over to the Big Bad (whom he had planned to use the girl as a vessel to restore the Sun Queen's soul) just so that he could make his story bigger for the media after he witnessed what would happen to Sam during the ritual. Laser-Guided Karma bites Whitman in the ass hard as he gets killed by a pair of undead samurai.
-   _Undertale_:
    -   Papyrus wants nothing more than to capture a human and gain prestige, but not out of hatred for humanity: he just wants to be recognized for all his efforts, and he thinks that glory will bring him friends. What helps keep him sympathetic is that he's no actual threat as his puzzles are completely ineffectual (and he rejects the only one which _could_ be because it doesn't consider it the honorable way to win), and he's the only enemy who never kills the Human Child because he downright **refuses** to do so by holding his strength, even if it could bring him the recognition he craves.
    -   On the other hand, Mettaton is not as scrupulous: his end goal during the Hotland arc is to steal the Human Child's SOUL and reach the surface for himself. While he makes it clear that he wants to do this to stop Asgore from exterminating humanity, he's also completely open about the fact that he's gunning for fame and fortune among the race he's grown to love.
-   General Damon from _Valkyria Chronicles_ uses your Militia Squadron as cannon-fodder, sending you on one suicide mission after the other — and when you actually succeed, against all odds, he claims it as a victory for himself and the conventional army. While you're busy trying to save your tiny nation from being entirely overrun and/or razed by The Empire, he's more concerned with earning his Field Marshall star...

    Visual Novels 

-   Yaginuma in _Kara no Shoujo_ is pretty open about being this. On the other hand, it's implied that were he to screw up he would take responsibility for it, meaning he has to actually be pretty competent.

    Webcomics 

-   _Homestuck_: Vriska tries to keep her metaphorical fingers in all the pies (all of them) so that her ultimate (planned) victory over the demon will be that much greater. This includes being responsible for Jack getting prototyped with Bec, and for Bec being created in the first place.
-   In _Nip and Tuck_, Charlie.
-   General Tarquin turns out to be this in _The Order of the Stick_. His goal in life is to be the famous chief general of a selection of evil empires that he basically controls and then to go out in a legendary confrontation with a great hero. There are _maybe_ five people in the world he isn't willing to sacrifice in order to get his personal story to work out according to plan, and his Faceless Goons are very much not on that list.
    
    **Tarquin:** If I win, I get to be a king. If I lose, I get to be a **legend**.
    
-   Lieutenant Cross from _The Pocalypse_ was perfectly willing to ignore the distress calls sent by the main characters because they got the missions he wanted. When this is revealed, he just attempts to kill them.

    Web Original 

-   He, Cato Sicarius from _If the Emperor Had a Text-to-Speech Device_, would like you to know that he, Cato Sicarius, is the greatest swordfighter among the Ultramarines and is the most qualified to succeed the Chapter Master; not that he, Cato Sicarius, wishes him anything bad, unlike regular Ultramarines who should be honored to die for the most esteemed Company Captain of the chapter. Who is he, Cato Sicarius.
-   In _Mahu_, in "Crownless Eagle" general Stanislaw Poniatowski seems to fit this trope perfectly. One of the best generals of his time, no victory seems to ever be enough for him. Luckily for the Commonwealth, his eagerness to gain a place in history is matched only by his tactical and strategic skills. No the foe, his men are always victorious that is, until the siege of London.
-   Aaron Hughes of _Survival of the Fittest_ fits. Almost right away he starts an escape group, only to manipulate and use extreme methods throughout the game to get what he wants. It becomes abundantly clear (even flat-out said at one point) that he doesn't want to escape, but rather he wants to take the glory for being the one to figure out how. It reaches the point that when the escape boats come, he refuses simply because it wasn't him who summoned them and that he would _rather play the game conventionally_.
-   Armsmaster, of _Worm_, is explicitly noted as caring more for his own career than the wellbeing of his city or his team, but it isn't until he realizes that he is no longer on the command track that he crosses the line, sabotaging the joint hero/villain alliance in order to give himself the chance to kill Leviathan personally.
-   In _X-Ray & Vav_, unlike his idealistic partner Vav, X-Ray only cares about becoming popular from being a superhero instead of actually being a hero. He gets angry when the superhero Mogar starts stealing his spotlight and is more concerned about getting rid of him than helping people.

    Western Animation 

-   Zapp Brannigan from _Futurama_. He will not hesitate to throw wave after wave of his own men to their deaths to merely force killbots to shut down by reaching their pre-programmed kill limits or command a battle fleet in a dangerous space battle remotely from the New New York Appleby's.
    
    **Zapp:** Just say the word and I'll throw wave after wave of my own men to help you out! Isn't that right, men?  
    **Zapp's men:** _(mortified silence)_  
    **Voice from the back ranks:** YOU SUCK!
    
    -   Bender desperately wants to be remembered for his greatness and doesn't care if his "success" is only nominal. After winning third place in a sausage-making competition, he threw the second-place winner in front of a charging rhino and the first-place winner over an icy slope and took their trophies. On the other hand, he's occasionally capable of noble actions undertaken with no hope of reward.
-   Major Man from _The Powerpuff Girls (1998)_ at first appears to be a kind and selfless superhero. In reality, he's a con artist who deliberately causes crises when nobody's watching so that he can show up and save the day. After he's exposed as a fraud, he admits that he only became a superhero so that people would admire him.
-   _Star Wars Rebels_: Imperial Admiral Kassius Konstantine is focused more on attacking and getting glory. He ends up paying for this tendency with his life in "Zero Hour", when he disobeys Grand Admiral Thrawn's orders to keep his Interdictor cruiser in the back when he sees a rebel command ship attempting to make a break for it during the fighting. He moves to intercept, and it turns out that Commander Sato was baiting him, as the _Phoenix Home_ then abruptly turns and heads straight for Konstantine's Interdictor with intent to ram it. Konstantine only has time for an Oh, Crap! before the ships collide and go up in a massive explosion.
-   Commander Palmer of _Titan Maximum_, who despite being The Hero of the Five-Man Band is portrayed solely as a glory-seeking moron while his former Lancer Gibbs did all the actual work of making plans.
    -   Sasha Caylo comes in a close second, being a sex-obsessed socialite whose life otherwise consists of partying and drinking while achieving maximum media visibility. Turns into a Chekhov's Skill when Willy figures that they can use this celebrity to force President Caylo to unlock the funds needed to repair the busted Titan Maximum.
-   Sentinel Prime from _Transformers: Animated_. He's willing to make a deal with Lockdown, a sociopathic monster who butchers his victims to steal their upgrades who is probably high on the Elite Guard's most wanted list, for him to, in exchange for parts from the Elite Guard's ship, capture Decepticons for him so he can take the credit and be the hero. This backfires, leaving him to be rescued by Optimus and the others. When they make contact with Cybertron, Optimus covers for him _again_, leaving Sentinel free of any consequences. At the end of the series, he's now the default leader of Cybertron, who is _still_ taking credit for said captures? Optimus was also one to a lesser extent in the series pilot, made worse since he was a washout cadet assigned to a menial post. He is quickly sobered after his first confrontation with the Decepticons.

___