Follow

"BLOOD FOR THE BLOOD GOD!  
SKULLS FOR THE SKULL THRONE! LET THE GALAXY... **BUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUURN!!!!!!!"**

_"I am called a villain, but mine is a doctrine reflected in the unspoken truths behind all other philosophies. Recognize that truth, my child: Strife is the single element most essential to meaning and existence. Without conflict, without struggle, all of creation might as well be so many unmoving, unfeeling stones. Without me to hate, who would have cause to call themselves holy or just?"_

In a polytheistic religion each God and Goddess serves a specific role and fills a certain niche: love, life, war, death, and everything in between; be it Aardvarks or Zebras. One such incredibly vital purpose, believe it or not, is Evil.

Please allow us to play as (uncomfortably) literal Devil's Advocates. On the one hand, the Balance Between Good and Evil must perforce have Evil to balance Good, lest the latter become an intolerant conformist theocracy. Likewise, it also serves as a definition of what _not_ to do for worshipers of all the Good and Neutral gods. Most importantly for purposes of this Wiki, it also serves as an excellent plot enabler and antagonist for the heroes and forces of good to fight against.

Being the absolute apex of the Sliding Scale of Villain Threat, The Chosen One can spend an entire series fighting their way up from the Religion of Evil, the Black Pope, its Dark Messiah, and then fight the God of Evil itself... or at least enable a good god that was a Sealed Good in a Can to do so.

This God/dess Of Evil can take any shape or form... not just as a master tempter and deceiver, but—because evil includes a heady and large portfolio—as Characters they can have as varying a range of personalities as any normal villains.

Here are a few popular variants: Standard Gods Of Evil can take after Satan, being rebels from The Light or God of Good and tempting peasant and king alike. Kind of a non-denominational counterpart of Crystal Dragon Jesus. However, most aren't futile rebels; they are very real and threats often motivated by goals other than rebellion for its own sake. The Grim Reaper is at times represented as a God of Evil, wanting nothing but the death of every living thing, and the protagonist in particular. War too may be shown this way, desiring to bring about a world where Asskicking Leads to Leadership and the weak are killed just for being weak... which does raise the question of whether or not it's ironic for heroes to vanquish them by fighting. If they have any philosophy, ethos, or commandment, it's usually that Might Makes Right, that ethics and morality are mere shackles for The Fettered masses of Muggles, and that Evil represents the path to power.

Not surprisingly, they tend to be cruel, dominating and treacherous. If there is more than one God of Evil in a setting, they usually engage in Eviler than Thou, betraying each other before any lasting headway against the forces of good can be made. Their metaphysical home, where worshipers and non-worshiping sinners end up, is usually akin to Hell. Given the above, why would anyone worship them? Well, they usually offer worshipers power in life via a Deal with the Devil, fine print and afterlife be damned (literally). Plus, just because they'll go to hell if/when they die, doesn't mean they'll be tortured souls... they might become the _torturers._ Provided they don't fail their dark lord first, that is. And of course, most gods of evil are worshipped out of fear of what would happen if they _stopped_ worshipping. Is it any surprise their pawns in the Divine Chessboard are usually unwitting or unwilling?

Their followers include Cults, the Religion of Evil and Path of Inspiration. Necromancers and Infernalists usually get their powers by worshipping them. Expect them to forge many an Artifact of Doom as a source/repository of their power. When they or their agents are actively recruiting, expect them to be The Corrupter. They're a Card-Carrying Villain by definition and sometimes the God of Evil is also literally Evil. Likely candidate for As Long as There Is Evil. A theocracy to one of these is probably The Empire. May be creator of an Always Chaotic Evil race. May have a court of Demon Lords and Archdevils, or if they exist at all these may be upstarts or otherwise in opposition. Gods of evil may have The Legions of Hell at their command.

Often, there is a God of Good who stands in opposition to the God of Evil; the two are locked in an eternal Divine Conflict that dictates the Balance Between Good and Evil. The God of Good has his own agents or agent to fight against the God of Evil.

Compare and contrast Eldritch Abomination, which, as horrifying as it may be and act, are most often completely amoral and not malicious - though there can be some overlap. Compare God Is Evil, where the supreme God of the whole fictional universe (or explicitly the Judeo-Christo-Islamic One God) is a nasty piece of work. If a God of Evil exists in a setting where the Big Bad who actually drives the plot is a mortal, they'll be the Greater-Scope Villain. May overlap with or also be a Mad God. May be The Anti-God if it's powerful enough. If there is a personified representation of evil in a world with no other deities, that's case of Devil, but No God.

There are some examples in real-world pantheons, but sometimes more morally-ambiguous or outright decent gods get depicted as Gods Of Evil in Sadly Mythtaken fiction just because they are dark or associated with violence. For various reasons, this happens often enough with death gods to create a subtrope. It's worth noting that evil gods from real world religions (i.e. Angra Mainyu, Lamashtu, Marmoo, Apep) were never worshipped, and in Apep's case, were even worshipped _against_. So the concept of a Religion of Evil is relatively unrealistic (not that fiction needs to be).

**To avoid Flame Bait and Edit Wars, note that this trope isn't about gods who simply _are_ evil, it's about gods _of_ evil.** Jerkass Gods that are petty, vain, or prone to Disproportionate Retribution do not qualify.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   _Berserk_: The Idea of Evil is made from our need for there to be a God of Evil, and thus is formed from the negative emotions of humanity's collective.
    -   Subverted by the Godhand, who profess that despite their immense powers and observance of causality, openly state that they are not gods, and cannot predict everything.
    -   The Sea God is a Lovecraftian monster as big as an island who assimilates lifeforms within itself to become stronger. It's more primal and discordant than anyhting humanity can create, and was only released from its slumber after the Great Roar of the Astral World.
-   _Lost Universe_: Dark Star Dugradigdu is named after one of the Dark Lords from _Slayers_, and is sometimes believed to be one and the same as him.
-   _Naruto_: Jashin means "Evil God". He/she/it is mostly an excuse to allow his follower Hidan to practice his Religion of Evil Blood Magic (read: fight and kill people). Whether Jashin actually exists is never clarified, but Hidan's unique powers are _very_ real and quite different from ninjutsu so it's possible he really was empowered by his god.
-   _Puella Magi Madoka Magica The Movie: Rebellion_: Homura becomes a goddess of evil and suppresses Madoka's powers as the goddess of good in order to bring her back to earth and erase her memories. She actually comes off as an Ambiguously Evil Well-Intentioned Extremist given that she just wants Madoka to be happy...which means making everyone else happy.
-   _Record of Lodoss War_: This would be Kardis, goddess of destruction and madness, patron deity of the forces of Marmo.
-   _Sailor Moon_: Chaos and its humanoid incarnation Sailor Chaos.
-   _Slayers_: Ruby-Eye Shabranigdo, along with three other Dark Lords that exist in The Multiverse it features. Before the world as everyone knows it existed, Shabranigdo started a war against the Lords of Light. The war almost destroyed existence itself, but the Lords of Light prevailed and the world was created.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh! ARC-V_: Zarc is one whose power was unstoppable and destroyed the world. The kicker comes when he's been split into four pieces, one of which is the protagonist, Yuya. Though downplayed as the cast calls him demon instead.

    Comic Books 

-   For DC Comics:
    -   Darkseid, the Big Bad of Jack Kirby's _New Gods_, has been called the God of Evil by many people in the DCU- and in point of fact, he's the literal God of Tyranny, so close enough. And in _Final Crisis_ he is revealed to be a full-blown Eldritch Abomination — his very _existence_ is causing reality to die. Just to bring this point home, here's what Boss Dark Side says: "There was a war in Heaven. _I won_." He is the poster boy for Dystopia Justifies the Means\- his goal is to turn the entire universe into an even more hellish version of Apokolips, a world of perpetual enslavement and burning fire pits where the only purpose you are told to have is to endlessly worship Darkseid.
    -   However, Darkseid wasn't always the God of Evil, his father Yuga Khan was his predecessor and was considered even WORSE than he is.
    -   Trigon the Terrible isn't just referred to as a god, but the literal manifestation of ALL evil that has ever existed. Think Dormmamu, but in the DC Universe instead of Marvel.
-   And for the Marvel Universe:
    -   Loki, foster brother and Arch-Enemy of The Mighty Thor, is the God of Mischief and Evil in Marvel's Norse pantheon, a powerful magician and Manipulative Bastard extraordinaire who seeks to conquer Asgard and kill his heroic sibling. He is the father of various evil creatures as well as Hela, Goddess of Death.
        -   Subverted post-_Siege_, where Loki gets sick of being a cackling villain and decides to reinvent himself as a Lovable Rogue. He's a god of lies and mischief, but there's no reason he has to stick with the Evil bit.
    -   Set is the God of Evil for the Heliopolitan (ie. Egyptian) pantheon, based on the mythological Set but, in-universe, taking the name of the Elder God for its badass connotations. Like Set and Loki, he uses magic and soul-stealing to enhance his powers, to the point he now rivals Odin, arguably the most powerful god in any pantheon.
    -   Knull, the progenitor deity that created the Symbiotes and predates the entire known universe, having created the god-slaying All-Black the Necrosword for the purpose of slaying the Celestials and their creations, which he feels have _polluted_ the void of nothingness he used to rule over.
    -   Shuma-Gorath is a high-end example, dwarfing the likes of Mephisto and Dormammu by a significant margin and having enslaved hundreds if not thousands of other realms. Out of all of Marvel's evil gods, he is likely the most powerful. Which goes a long way to explaining why he both appears very sparingly and only manages to partially manifest small fractions of himself at any given time.
    -   Chton, Marvel's resident Chtulhu Expy, is a recurring foe of Doctor Strange and the Avengers, and the Darkhold he wrote continues to plague the universe to this day.
-   _Judge Dredd_: Judge Death happens to be worshipped as a God of Evil by the Mortarian Death Cult with some aspects of Evil Overlord thrown in.

    Fan Works 

-   _The Bridge (MLP)_:
    -   The Big Bad, Bagan, who is explicitly referred to several times as the God of Extinction, and is shown to be leagues beyond even the most powerful kaiju in power, to the point that only the Big Good, Harmony, is able to match him in a fight. And even then, just barely. He used to be a God of Life, but then fell from grace and dedicated his existence to killing everything.
    -   Grogar is said to be the nexus of all dark magic in Equestria and on par with the Big Bad. He was originally part of a God Couple with Harmony and played a constructive role as a god of _Destruction_, but over time, he started believing that as a god, everything he does is good so therefore he _cannot_ be wrong. This leads to his separation from Harmony and his fall into villainy.
-   _Codex Equus_: There are many evil gods in the world of Equus, though some are simply amoral to be truly evil.
    -   Grogar, the ancient tyrant of Tambelon from the First Age is a Fallen Deity of Dark Magic, a Control Freak who believes mortals are too incompetent to rule themselves and thus seek to take over and control the world, starting by taking over Tambelon whilst still a mortal necromancer. A consummate master of Dark Magic with powers themed after the Seven Deadly Sins. He has not been seen since the First Age and is believed to had been defeated or destroyed, but time will tell...
    -   Subverted with Temnobog. While unapologetically evil, reveling in causing suffering, he operates on a unique philosophy which rationalizes evil as an integral part of the world, as much as good, and that both good and evil are needed to define one another and balance each other out for the world to function properly. As such, he's perfectly fine with co-existing with his good twin brother, Belyolen, with whom they co-rule the Bogolenya Deer Pantheon. He embodies evil as a testing force, driving the good and worthy to rise up against it while weeding out the evil and unworthy, whom he would then torment/devour in the afterlife. The only outright villainous thing he is up to is trying to destroy his father, High King Irminsul of the Eltenteil Deer Pantheon, whom he understandably hates for abusing him as a fawn and treating him as nothing more than Belyolen's unwanted "cast-off".
    -   The Four Terrors, then known as the "Eight Terrors", were sired by Temnobog with Ispita, who was originally a constructively evil goddess. However, after Ispita's fall into destructive evil, four of the Terrors either sided with their mother or committed crimes so heinous that Temnobog punished them by devourment and stripping them of their names and domains, respectively. The other surviving four (Yarost, Bolezn, Phykti, and Pokhot) remained "good" in that they stayed loyal to their father. While they're unapologetic with their evil, they use their natures for constructive purposes, spreading evil as a way to test the strength and will of heroic mortals. They respect those who manage to defeat them, and if the heroes die trying, they let their souls pass on to the afterlife instead of dragging them down to hell as evil gods typically do. Despite their bad reputation, most of their family members and fellow gods tolerate and even respect them for the roles they play.
    -   Orochi, the eight-headed Dragon god of evil, tyranny and darkness takes the cake. He broke with his Parents after being refused a Dragon Lord title (Reserved for mortal dragons), descended upon Neighpon (Right after the Warring States period), and apart from being briefly driven away by a mortal samurai, Neighgi, wielding a magic sword, proceeded to conquer the Eight Great Islands and plunge it into a time of suffering and tyranny. He demanded sacrifices in form of innocent daughters that he would devour just For the Evulz, have armies of evil mortals and yokai terrorize and rule the place in his name, allied himself with other Fallen Deities like Rabia, and generally made life in Neighpon miserable for everyone. It took the combined might of Princess Celestia (who disguised herself as Amaterasu), the Neighgi's descendant Susaneigho wielding his ancestor's sword, the Neighponese deities and their followers, and even _Nightmare Moon_ indirectly helping to finally see his defeat and destruction.
    -   Zkáza, one of Ispita's brothers, is a Fallen Draconequu of Pollution, Decay and Destruction who had come to love destruction and ruin for its own sake, especially by tricking mortals into doing it to themselves and feeding upon the results. During Discord's reign he followed his sister Ispita to join Discord's side, though was forced to rein in his desires to bring down all civilizations as Discord wanted them around to toy with. Like Ispita, he was eventually sealed away by Pakak with the help of the Deer Pantheons and other trickster deities, being sealed inside a great tree where he remains to this day. Word of God is that he is basically a mix of Hexxus of _FernGully: The Last Rainforest_ with Zarm from _Captain Planet_.
    -   Rabia in this universe is a Goddess, namely of Primordial Darkness.
    -   The Tyrannos Pantheon is composed of Gods representing various aspects of tyrannical regimes.
    -   Prince Dissonant Tune of the Kerajaan Pantheon is an Alicorn god who embodies Vice and Corruption, as well as the wicked/unfettered aspects of Music and Revelry. His entry describes him as The Quincy Punk who acts like a loud, wild, and rebellious Jerkass to people, and is unapologetically evil. However, it's subverted as he is a follower of 'constructive Evil', and much of his behavior is a front he puts up to test/motivate heroes. He did indulge in 'destructive Evil' for a time, but it was thanks to being wrongly judged and mistreated by many people for being a musical prodigy and one of War Rock's illegitimate children, which convinced him that he might as well be evil if his parentage made him such. What pushed him into 'constructive Evil' was meeting Luminiferous, which made him aware of other, better paths he could take, and learning of Moon Ray Vaughoof's life story and struggles with drug/alcohol addiction. When not playing the villain, he's actually much nicer, empathetic, and loving than he initially appears, albeit still rough around the edges.
    -   Zigzagged with the Deti Uzhasov, the children of the Four Terrors. Like the Four Terrors themselves, many of the Deti Uzhasov are Noble Demons, but are also unapologetically depraved and evil. However, some like Queen Krásná Tradice and Prince Lenost are more moderate in their evil than their infernal siblings/relatives. And then there are others like Stækka who are born with domains like Life and Fertility, which are 'good' in concept but can be used to commit evil when pursued to unfettered extremes.
    -   The Dark Purveyors are infernal deities who either embody the unfettered/wicked aspects of Music itself, or embody concepts that are related to the genre of music they each specialize in. For example, Prince Dühroham Erobreseg embodies the unfettered aspects of music, technology, strength, and fury, while Princess Voľná Láska embodies the unfettered aspects of the Hippie movement like addiction, nature, love, and enlightenment.
-   _Empath: The Luckiest Smurf_:
    -   In the story "Smurfed Behind: The Other Side Of The Mirror", the Mirror Universe version of Tapper worships the evil counterpart of God, as Empath discovers from his reading of the Book of Evil, which is that universe's counterpart of _The Bible_.
    -   Ares, the God of War, is considered this, though he likes to fancy himself as a God of Order.
-   _Pony POV Series_:
    -   Morning Star is the literal Personification of Evil. He was originally the Alicorn of Perfection, but eventually his Control Freak tendencies and his views on what was "perfect" started showing up. Cadence enabling his bad behavior was what partially cemented his fall into evil, and she regrets for not speaking up sooner.
    -   Subverted with the divine Draconequui. They're treated as chaotic and malicious, though most of the information on them comes from Princess Celestia, who doesn't have the best impression of Draconequui in general due to her experience with Discord. The Draconequui are actually the part of Nature's Balance, where they are Nature's Fury to contrast the divine Alicorns, who are Nature's Law. A lot of the things they represent in nature are treated as malicious concepts, such as Destruction, Desire, Anarchy, Fear, Oblivion, and Survival, but they are extremely necessary in order for ponykind and all other creatures to live.
    -   Nyarlathotrot is best described as the God of Horror, Tragedy, and Grim Dark. He corrupts worlds until they are twisted messes where no one but the bad guys can ever get a happy ending.
    -   Abandon is the God of Sadomasochism. He corrupts worlds until all are sex-crazed maniacs who enslave and torture each other.
    -   This trope is also Deconstructed with all examples: everyone hates Nyarlathotrot and tolerates him at best, Abandon is considered similarly, and Morning Star is justifiably treated as a criminal and imprisoned for eternity.

    Film - Animated 

-   _Hercules_: Hades, the Big Bad of the film and the Greek god of the underworld. He is portrayed as an Evil Overlord that schemes and plots to betray his brother Zeus, who is essentially the Grandpa God, by overthrowing him and taking over Mount Olympus, i.e. Heaven. This is contrary to Greek mythology and more in line with a Christian line of thought, as he's more of a Satanic Archetype in the movie than in the myths, where he was benign.
-   _Teen Titans Go! & DC Super Hero Girls: Mayhem in the Multiverse_: Cythonna, the Kryptonian goddess of darkness, plague and suffering, and the Big Bad of the film. She is portrayed as the corrupter capable by stuffing the hearts of her victims with evil in order to become stronger, control the minds of her victims and turn them their servants, and can possess people and make them her hosts.

    Film - Live-Action 

-   _Hellbound: Hellraiser II_: Leviathan, Lord of The Labyrinth, God of flesh, hunger, and desire. Leviathan rules over Hell and decides its very nature, including the very torture of any unlucky soul that wanders into its domain (whether they deserve it or not) for all of eternity or turning them into cenobites.
-   _The Mummy (2017)_: Ahmanet, the eponymous Mummy, makes a Deal with the Devil with Set, the Egyptian God of the Desert (symbolizing chaos, storms, death, and the like). While Set is portrayed as somewhat more benign in the original myths, this does get the title for the Egyptian God of Evil a lot closer than works that promote Anubis to this role.

    Gamebooks 

-   _Lone Wolf_: Naar, the God of Darkness. Naar is the source of all evil in the universe and is in eternal war with Kai and Ishir, the Solar and Lunar pair of God of Good. Nearly every villain in the series is either created by, sponsored by, or worships Naar.

    Literature 

-   _The Afterward_: The Old God was sadistic, always tormenting his creatures just for the hell of it. Later when he's been brought back, he threatens to harm the loved ones of Sir Erris' if she won't worship him.
-   _The Chronicles of Narnia_: Tash is described this way in _The Last Battle_, with Crystal Dragon Jesus Aslan outright stating that Tash is his antithesis. (It is left somewhat unclear, though, whether Tash is a "real" god by the standards of Narnia, or simply a powerful demon.) Interestingly, while Tash is very much a Card-Carrying Villain, his own religion is _not_ a Religion of Evil, given that it apparently includes a number of sincere followers who believe Tash to be a just and righteous god. It gets better — Tash is so evil that you cannot commit a good act in his name — they automatically are assumed as your service to Aslan. The opposite is also true: if you do something terrible in the name of Aslan, you're really serving Tash.
    
    **Aslan:** No service which is vile can be done to me, and none which is not vile can be done to him.
    
-   _The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant_: Lord Foul the Despiser was imprisoned with Time by his opposite, the Creator, for planting various sources of evil magic into the universe shortly following the creation, and he's been trying to get out ever since- and because he's super-intelligent and unrepentantly horrible, this generally means misery for everyone else unlucky enough to be stuck in the Land with him.
-   _The Cosmere_:
    -   The setting as a whole features "Shards", the leftover parts of the original god Adonalsium after it was shattered into sixteen pieces, each with a specific Intent (EG: Preservation, Cultivation, Honor, Autonomy) and nigh-infinite power, but which need to be fused with a sentient mind to guide their actions. After a Shard is claimed, there is a struggle between the personality of the Vessel and the Shard's Intent to get anything done which the Shard always eventually wins, gradually wearing down the Vessel's personality until only the parts aligned with the Intent are left. As a result even the 'good' Shards have some Blue-and-Orange Morality, and the worst are almost entirely evil.
    -   _Mistborn: The Original Trilogy_: Ruin is the Shard of death, decay, and destruction. Apparently Ati, Ruin's Vessel, was originally quite selfless and generous, and even as Ruin there are some shades of that shining through, as he talks about the beauty of destruction and how an eventual end is what gives meaning to life. He even helped create Scadrial, the world where _Mistborn_ takes place, although part of the agreement is that he eventually gets to destroy the world. He's not exactly evil, but he is actively trying to destroy the world simply because he's literally not capable of doing anything else. He enjoys killing and destruction immensely and the only times he doesn't decide to destroy something immediately is if he believes that doing so will cause more destruction later. He doesn't seem to be malicious, however, and genuinely seems to see death and destruction as a positive force. _Secret History_ expands on this, revealing that part of what Ruin represents is being at peace with the idea that everything must end, and that his counterpart Preservation would freeze all of Scadrial in time to prevent anything from changing if Ruin wasn't there to stop him.
    -   Odium:
        -   Odium is the Shard of Hatred. He seems to be shaping up to become the Greater-Scope Villain of _The Cosmere_, and is at least the Big Bad of _The Stormlight Archive_. He is, essentially, a force of living hatred, and has already begun murdering all his fellow Shards in order to become the supreme deity of the entire Cosmere; notably he doesn't claim the other Shards for himself, as taking multiple Shards would combine them to create a new one and dilute the "purity" of Odium's Intent, so instead he _destroys_ the other Shards so that no-one can have them. His pastimes include creating cosmic horrors and roving about the Cosmere, causing chaos everywhere he goes. According to Odium himself, he's actually the Shard of _passion and emotion_, not just hatred, and he's the only Shard that actually understands and cares for mortals. Evidence suggests he's wrong if not intentionally lying, as other Shards have shown considerable concern for mortals, in their own strange ways, and do at least somewhat understand them, if incompletely. According to Hoid, Rayse was already a selfish asshole _before_ he became the Vessel of the nastiest of all the Shards, which made him even worse.
        -   In _Rhythm of War_ we see him from the perspective of one of the Unmade, who believes that he is correct: Odium _is_ passion and emotion, not merely hatred, but its Vessel is emphasizing its worst aspects, and there is some sign that the Shard itself is dissatisfied with this. It's also noted that Hoid is more concerned about the Vessel when he arguably should be paying more attention to the Shard.
        -   At the end of _Rhythm_, Taravangian manages to kill Rayse and take his place as Odium's Vessel. He discovers that yes, it is all emotions... but mostly hatred. It doesn't take long for it to amplify his existing flaws as Well-Intentioned Extremist into a desire to destroy the other Shards and conquer the entire Cosmere, because they clearly aren't doing as good a job running it as he would.
-   _Cradle Series_: The Dreadgods are four impossibly powerful beasts that exist for no other reason than to devour everything in the world. Every few centuries they wake up, and the Monarchs have to work together to defeat them. Just _defeat_ them—killing them is absolutely impossible. One Dreadgod awakening is a regional catastrophe and generally dealt with by evacuating half a continent, but the last time all four woke up at once, the previous generation of Monarchs died defeating them. And of course they have legions of cultists worshiping them as an easy path to power, which usually involves killing everyone they meet.
-   _Dark Heart_: Vraxor, one of the three gods of Caliel, is a demon who rose to divinity. His religion is run by a sinister, all-powerful priesthood and is centered around human sacrifice.
-   In the post-Lovecraft Cthulhu Mythos, Nyarlathotep is frequently portrayed as this, constantly pulling sadistic schemes to torment humanity for his own amusement, or suckering people into a Deal with the Devil for fun. This is arguably the result of Flanderization from his more subtle and less For the Evulz original characterization, but it has become basically the predominant depiction of him in popular culture.
-   Stephen King:
    -   _The Dark Tower_: The Crimson King definitely qualifies. Before he got nerfed he was depicted as an invincible anti-God that had always existed, but was trapped on a balcony near the top of the Dark Tower. Even trapped his avatar "The Court of the Crimson King" was so powerful that almost no force in King's multiverse could stand against it. Supposedly if his physical body was free he would become utterly infallible, and so he planned to bring the Tower (and by proxy all of existence) crashing down. Later King retconned him into a senile half-god that was not nearly so imposing.
    -   Mother in _Revival_ is an Eldritch Abomination that absorbs the souls of everyone who dies and seem to be worshiped as a god by its ant-like minions.
-   David Eddings likes this one: In _The Elenium_, Azash is an elder evil that verges on Eldritch Abomination if he didn't manipulate human desires so often (though it's clear his understanding of humanity is imperfect, and largely based on the cultural group most of his worshipers come from). In the sequel series _The Tamuli_, Cyrgon is a straight example and Klael is _the god_ of Gods of Evil.
-   _Incarnations of Immortality_:
    -   The universe has this as one of its offices. However, the particular office holder in the series averts this; he's less interested in being a relentless evil and more interested in simply being a fair evil - that is, separating good and evil people through temptation so that they can go to Heaven or Hell rather than stuck in Purgatory.
    -   In the initial five books, there's no indication that he's an Incarnation; he (and God) are treated as being eternal constants, and while he generally presents himself as Affably Evil, he's quite tricky and it seems to be just an act. In the sixth book, it's revealed that the Satan of the previous books has had the job for less than a millennium, and is a basically decent person with a legitimate reason for opposing God (and therefore the other Incarnations).
-   _The Elder Empire_: The Great Elders, most obviously Nakothi, the Dead Mother. She is a queen of the undead, who wishes for nothing more than to kill everyone and remake them as her "children." Even the Sleepless, the cult dedicated to worshiping the Elders, is very careful when dealing with anything related to Nakothi.
-   _Kushiel's Avatar_ by Jacqueline Carey: The series involves Angra Mainyu, taken from real-life Zoroastrianism. (See the Real Life section below for more details.)
-   L. Jagi Lamplighter's _Prospero Lost_: Theo recounts how the _Orbis Suleimani_ eradicated knowledge of the supernatural. This was to prevent people from trying to solve problems by appealing to supernatural beings, many of which demanded worship and some of which were evil. Success resulted in the Industrial Revolution.
-   _Malazan Book of the Fallen_: The Crippled God Deconstructs this trope. He essentially fills this niche, but he's more like a god of _suffering_ than evil- and while he certainly inflicts more than his fair share of suffering on the world, he also continually suffers himself. In the end, after a bunch of AbusivePrecursor Knight Templars hijack his power, he ends up becoming a more sympathetic deity who empathizes with those who suffer.
-   _Mithgar_: Gyphon is both the overarching Big Bad of the series and its primary God of Evil. Specifically, he represents tyranny, since he holds to the belief that the strong should use their powers to control the weak and in fact opposed giving mortals (and non-divine immortals) free will in the first place. Other, lesser Gods of Evil who follow him are namedropped occasionally, but none of them ever do anything directly and very little is ever revealed about them.
-   _Second Apocalypse_: Mog-Pharau, the No-God, is essentially the antithesis of life. The Consult create him to reduce the world's population to fewer than 144,000 souls, which will sever the world from the Outside forever and save them from damnation. During the first apocalypse, the No-God appeared as a black whirlwind and spoke through the throats of one hundred thousand scranc. All births were stillborn while Mog-Pharau lived.
-   _A Song of Ice and Fire_:
    -   The Great Other is this to the worshippers of R'hllor. While R'hllor represents light, warmth, and life, the Great Other represents cold, darkness, and death.
    -   The Ironborn religion has the Storm God as its Devil equivalent. Since the Ironborn live by the sea, they naturally fear storms during their voyage.
-   _Tolkien's Legendarium_:
    -   Morgoth in _The Silmarillion_. Though really, he bears more similarities to Satan than he does a polytheistic God of Evil, being the former servant of Eru Ilúvatar, the actual God of the setting, who generally doesn't interfere in the temporal world. Still, Morgoth essentially invented the concept of evil because of his malign influence when him and his fellow celestials helped the creator in making the world. He will continue to exist As Long as There Is Evil, and since the world itself is the source of all evil because of him, he cannot die unless the world is unmade.
    -   In _The Lord of the Rings_, Sauron, a lesser type of angel-like being who started out in Morgoth's service, _tries_ to ascend to this level and fully emulate his former master as the new Evil Overlord, but is more of a _demi_god of evil.
-   _Sword of Truth_: The Keeper of the Underworld. He rules over the souls of the dead, but his goal is to unleash himself on the living so they can be killed and tortured forever in the afterlife.
-   _Toll the Hounds_: The Dying God, aka Bellurdan Skullcrusher, is the trope more or less played straight, corrupting people with his toxic blood into becoming his followers. Although due to being both a new god and a dying one, he doesn't have much power outside his own temple or through his followers.
-   _Videssos_: Skotos is the cosmic lord of all evil, and the opposite and Arch-Enemy of the God of Good, Phos (both of whom are considered deities by the Zoroastrian-esque religion which dominates the Videssian Empire, though the precise nature of their relationship is a matter of rather heated - and often violent - debate). Avshar is the series' Big Bad and Skotos's High Priest, and Skotos-worship tends to follow in his wake, but it's left ambiguous if Skotos himself is a real being or a philosophical abstraction... at least until the climax of the last book; when Avshar gets Dragged Off to Hell, _something_ unutterably vast and powerful is there to receive him...
-   _The War Gods_: The series comes with a whole pantheon of them. Phrobus is the most powerful, a renegade from the main pantheon, and the Greater-Scope Villain of the entire series; his wife is the goddess Shigu (originally a demon he elevated to become his consort), and their children fill out the evil pantheon - Fiendark is a god of violence and destruction and The Dragon to his father, Carnadosa is the goddess of Black Magic and The Evil Genius of the pantheon, Krahana is the goddess of The Undead, Krashnark is a War God and fancies himself a Noble Demon, and his twin brother Sharna is the Dirty Coward god of murderers and torturers.
-   _The Wheel of Time_: The Dark One, whose real name is Shai'tan is both this and The Anti-God; cosmic antithesis of the Creator, bound at the moment of creation, partially unsealed and barely defeated at the end of the past age, and whose attempts to finish the apocalypse it started forms the backbone of the series' plot. Subverted by the Dark One's elite minions, the Forsaken, who are perceived as godlike figures by the people of the present age, but are really just very powerful, very evil human channelers.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_: The First Evil exists As Long as There Is Evil, and is ultimately responsible for every evil being and act in the series.
-   _Charmed (1998)_: The Source of All Evil (usually just referred to as The Source), who was the ruler of the underworld and the Greater-Scope Villain for the first half of the series' run. It was later revealed that "The Source" was actually a primordial force that lived inside whatever demon was currently the leader of the underworld at the time.
-   _Doctor Who_: Uses Broad Strokes continuity, but has (in order of appearance on the series) the Black Guardian, Fenric and possibly the Beast (but he's more equivalent to Satan). Only the Black Guardian has an equivalent God of Good.
-   _Legend of the Seeker_: The Keeper of the Underworld, who caused all death, suffering and darkness, in contrast to the Creator. He did this to spite her when the Creator lavished so much on human beings (they were lovers, and the Keeper was jealous).
-   _Supernatural_: Subverted by Lucifer. He's revered by the demons as an actual god of evil, but in reality he's "just" an archangel who is several orders of magnitude below his heavenly Father. Though he _can_ mop the floor with just about any pagan god, possibly because Gods Need Prayer Badly.
-   _True Blood_: Zig-Zagged with Lilith. She is worshipped as a God in vampire society, and she's set up as the personification of evil for vampires. Other characters like Godric and Eric describe her as "A Godless God" and a "Mad God" who will lead everyone to destruction. However, when she appears to Bill in season 6, she claims that she isn't a God, and that "There is no God but God." According to her, God created her as the first vampire, which makes her more of a Monster Progenitor.
-   _Xena: Warrior Princess_ and _Hercules: The Legendary Journeys_: Dahak is said to be the source of all darkness, destruction, and evil.

    Music 

-   On GloryHammer's second album, _Space 1992: Rise of the Chaos Wizards_ Evil Sorcerer Zargothrax tries to unleash Korviliath the Elder God from the 18th Hell Dimension, which will destroy all life in the Universe.

    Mythology and Religion 

-   Aboriginal Australian Myths:
    -   Marmoo is the evil spirit to the Gamilaraay/Kamilaroi. His claim to fame was a Suicidal Cosmic Temper Tantrum when the other gods created the world, prompting him to create insects and spiders to kill everything.
    -   Wambeen is the Arrernte god of evil. He also doubles as a God of Thunder by trying to kill everyone with lightning bolts.
    -   Droemerdene is the Evil Twin of Moinee, the Tasmanian God of Good. Not much is known about him (you can thank genocidal British people for the destruction of most of Tasmanian culture), but he seems to have been associated with the tasmanian devil and to have a role in sending plagues. Otherwise, the west wind god Rageowrapper takes this role, often being the one to lead dark spirits to torment humans at night.
-   _The Bible_:
    -   Meta-subversion. Satan is often portrayed this way in Western media, as a direct Evil Counterpart of God. This is the result of Word of Dante however and in contrast to most Christian doctrine, where Satan is recognized as being a far lesser power than God and has no chance of succeeding in his cosmic takeover bid. He's never described as being a _representation_ of evil, merely an evil angel. However, while angels are nothing compared to YHWH, that's because He's an omnipotent Cosmic Entity beyond all space-time, and angels still have god-like power (in the lesser sense). A comparison would be that Zoroastrianism portrays Ahriman as an Evil Overlord of a hostile empire, while Christianity portrays Satan as a terrorist. Furthermore, the Book of Ezekiel and Thomas Aquinas both suggest that Satan was a cherub before he fell, meaning he wasn't even the most powerful _angel_, let alone an equal to God.
    -   The word _satan_ literally just means adversary. In the early Jewish writings, _ha-satan_ (using the definite article) wasn't evil, but a sort of divine prosecutor, testing Creation. Thus in the Book of Job, he plays the role of adversary testing Job's fidelity to see if it's genuine. The title of _satan_ was later used specifically to refer to the Fallen Angel who made himself the adversary of God.
-   Mara in Buddhism is a Deva and is also the "King of Demons". Devas in Buddhism are not exactly like gods in other religions as they're not immortal (though they do have very long lifespans, as in millennia-long) and although most Buddhists believe that they inspire the gods of other religions, should not be praised as they are not really different from humans and not only have karma of their own, they can't really change a person's karma either. Nevertheless, they are still very powerful, making Mara particularly dangerous as he is the only really "evil" Deva (the other Devas are not evil, just generally very arrogant and materialistic, with some exceptions (as some —very few of them— are Buddhists). Mara attempted to tempt Buddha away during his pursuit of enlightenment and will still do this to others in Buddhist teaching.
-   Classical Mythology has Kakia, the goddess of vice, whose name even _means_ evil. In Xenophon's _Memorabilia_, she appeared to Herakles at a crossroads and attempted to seduce him to a life of empty and worthless pleasure. He chose otherwise.
    -   There is also Eris, goddess of discord. On top of having a hand in causing the Trojan War, she was also known for causing strife among mortals, gods, and nations alike for her own amusement. She was said to dance in the burning ruins of cities even after all the other gods and spirits of war and death had grown tired of the carnage. Eris was also known as the mother of demons (called kakodaimons in Greek), having birthed the spirits and minor gods of pain, murder, lies, war, carnage, and anarchy, among a host of others.
    -   Atë, daughter of Zeus and the aforementionned Eris, is the personification of the Tragic Mistake. She once conspired with Hera to delay Heracles' birth to make him the subject of his cousin Eurystheus. Casted out of Olympus by Zeus, Atë since then walks on the head of men and leads them to their sufferings and ruins. Her benevolent sisters called the Litae (the "Prayers") follow her in her wake but Atë always outruns them.
-   Egyptian Mythology:
    -   Apep (or Apophis) is the monstrous serpent that tried to eat Ra every night and wasn't so much worshipped as worshipped _against_, straddling the line between God of Evil and Eldritch Abomination. It's little wonder that, when it comes to naming astronomical objects after mythological figures, _his_ name was reserved for an asteroid that was (at the time) thought to be making a beeline straight for Earth, potentially causing a dinosaur-level impact catastrophe.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   Set is portrayed as this to a degree in later versions of the mythology, though contrary to popular opinion he _wasn't_ a snake god, and was actually a _good guy_ in earlier myths; Set lost ground as the Horus cult gained it in later centuries, and became more identified with foreigners and the desert, even becoming identified sometimes with the chaos-serpent he had used to fight. By the time Petrarch recorded the most familiar-to-moderns versions of the Egyptian gods, he was bidding fair for this role. But even at his most evil, Set still comes to Ra's aid to prevent Apep from destroying the world.
-   The Demiurge of Gnosticism is a giant snake-lion-sun thing who created the physical world and all life in it. He is usually portrayed as prideful, destructive, myopic and dangerous. Interestingly, he is often depicted as thinking himself to be not only a good god but the only god period.
-   Medieval Maori religion gives us Whiro, who manages to some way or another cause practically every problem we have while locked in the underworld. He will eventually escape and destroy everything besides himself and the ashes.
-   Mesopotamian Mythology:
    -   Lamashtu was a goddess (or sometimes just a demon, depending on the account) who caused miscarriages and sought to capture children to drink their blood and consume their bones. She was often depicted in a monstrous form too, with the head of a lioness, the feet of a bird of prey, and a donkey's ears and teeth. The demon Pazuzu was thought to be her most hated rival, so, even though he was a demon who brought about plagues of locusts and storms, his image was thought to ward off Lamashtu.
-   In Shinto, Ama-no-Kagaseo is the Anthropomorphic Personification of Amatsu-Mikaboshi, which is essentially The Dark Side. So it is the personification of Evil, or at least discord, destruction and chaos, and destructive impulses.
-   Some more dualistic forms of Zoroastrianism claim Angra Mainyu (better known by the Persian name _Ahriman_) is the Evil Counterpart to Ahura Mazda. In other words, he is essentially the anti-God, or the god of evil. Angra Mainyu isn't so much a name as a title alluding to his nature. Angra can be translated as "destructive" or "malign", while Mainyu can mean "spirit" but also "mind", "concept" or "thought". Which means, Angra Mainyu is _the_ Idea of Evil.
-   Originally just a God of the Dead, Erlik in Turkic mythology turned into the God of Evil and ruler of hell after the Turks entered in contact with the more monotheistic faiths of the West. It is believed that their originally shamanistic polytheist religion become more dualistic like Zoroastrianism with a good god Tengri and a bad god, Erlik.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Dungeons & Dragons_: Each setting usually has at least one (or three, for each evil alignment), but often more.
    -   _Dragonlance_, being almost entirely about the Balance Between Good and Evil, divides all its gods into gods of good, gods of evil, and gods of neutrality. Obviously, each of them does have the own unique spheres of influence above and beyond their alignment.
    -   _Forgotten Realms_:
        -   Cyric the Mad God is the god of of lies, trickery, and strife, and for a while also had domain over murder, tyranny and illusion. (The previous gods in those roles turned out to be Not Quite Dead.) Cyric has an Archangel of Lies. The twist is the archangel was put under a geas to only tell truths. When he complained to his god how could he be the archangel of lies when all he can say is truth, Cyric simply said that's _exactly_ why he's perfect for the role. Cyric's paranoia and megalomania eventually reached the point where he refused to acknowledge the other gods were even divine.
        -   Bane, who was god of tyranny before and after Cyric was seen as _the_ God of Evil in Faerun before Cyric ascended, and regained the role after Cyric was imprisoned for his role in the Spellplague, having always viewed the Mad God as an upstart pretender. (Notably, Zhentil Keep's Religion of Evil was originally the Church of Bane, then the Church of Cyric after Bane's apparent death in the Time of Troubles, but following Bane's resurgence, Cyric-worshippers found in the city were put to death — the _only_ evil deity they won't even tolerate as a minority faith.)
        -   Bhaal, Bane's former adventuring partner when they were still mortal godhood seekers was the god of Murder before and after Cyric.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> .
        -   Jergal _was_ this as the Lord of the End of Everything, being the original deity who held the portfolios of Murder, Strife, and Death. He himself wasn't actually evil though, being a Lawful Neutral deity who treated godhood as an accounting job.
    -   Asmodeus is probably the biggest, although he wasn't technically a god until 4e, where he became the god of indulgence by absorbing the divine essence of another god. He's the literal ruler of Hell, and, according to some sources, was one of the creators of the multiverse (representing evil, whereas his sister Jazirian was good).
    -   _La Notte Eterna_:
        -   Garod, the god of tyranny, is listed as Lawful Evil. He is worshiped by the evil races like the vampires and the Karevi, but, in the absence of the sun and moon gods, his influence has grown to the point that even non-evil races worship him in his capacity as a god of order.
        -   Demien, a lesser god, presides over evil as a concept. His cult is full of nihilists who see the unending night as an inevitability.
-   _Exalted_: The Ebon Dragon, as a Primordial, decided to add certain qualities to Creation — like betrayal, suffering, and antitheses. The Unconquered Sun, generally the Big Good of the setting, came into existence just so that the Ebon Dragon would be stronger by having something to contrast against. After being defeated, turned into a Yozi, and cast into Malfeas, the Ebon Dragon was one of the beings behind the idea of Reclamation, which means escaping Hell by making Creation so equal in quality to Hell that the Yozis can move in without technically violating the terms of their imprisonment.
-   _In Nomine_: Downplayed. Some demons worship Lucifer as a dualistic evil counterpart to God. Lucifer himself doesn't mind this (especially if it keeps his minions too scared to try anything), but he personally knows better.
-   The concept of the game _Midnight (2003)_ is fighting hopelessly against the Evil God Izrador who rules the world. However, Izrador is not the Creator, but merely the evil member of a pantheon exiled to the mortal world. However Izrador, being a god of chaos and corruption, screwed up the seal that locked him into the world. Instead of being a world where every being except Izrador could enter and leave at will (by normal _Dungeons & Dragons_ standards), nobody is free to enter or leave, not even the other gods of the pantheon.
-   _Pathfinder_ has a few, of different evil Character Alignments:
    -   Rovagug is probably the worst, a Chaotic Evil universally misanthropic Omnicidal Maniac Destroyer Deity.
    -   Lamashtu is Rovagug's mother and an awful creature herself, essentially a stand-in for D&D's Tiamat but with very different methods and personality. She is The Corruptor, wanting to spread madness, nightmares, and mutation throughout the world and fill it with monstrosities. In keeping with her mythological inspiration (see above), she's associated with children (here it's because she's a mother of monsters) and enemies with Pazuzu (she betrayed him to become a goddess).
    -   Zon-Kuthon, Lawful Evil god of envy, pain, torture, and loss, is far less of an existential threat but makes up for it with creative sadism.
    -   Asmodeus also qualifies as the Lawful Evil god of tyranny and Lord of Hell, although since _Pathfinder_'s version of Asmodeus is a Well-Intentioned Extremist Visionary Villain he's a less straightforward example than some other versions of the character.
    -   Downplayed with Norgorber, the Neutral Evil divine patron of thieves, poisoners, murderers, and assassins. He's less a god of Evil in the metaphysical sense than the God of Crime.
-   _Ponyfinder_: Apep is a deity of chaos and wanton destruction, and delights in nothing more than spreading misery and death throughout creation. Nobody worships him except the insane and a few people with great ambition and no morals.
-   The _Shadow of the Demon Lord_ RPG from Schwalb Entertainment, has Warhammer Fantasy as one of its biggest influences. In this Crapsack World, Cosmic Horror Dark Fantasy RPG, the universe is under threat from the all-consuming, near omnipotent Demon Lord, the most powerful being in existence. The Demon Lord is actually God himself, but with his best bits removed by ambitious genies when he was taking a break after creation. Sure he's a lot less powerful now, but he's all spite and rage with plenty of sadism mixed in too.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_, _Warhammer_, and _Warhammer: Age of Sigmar_ have this as integral parts of their settings, in the form of the Gods of Chaos, and (only in _Warhammer 40,000_) the C'Tan. The Gods of Chaos _technically_ have positive parts of their portfolios, but sometimes they are totally forgotten, and even in the best cases the world is so terrible that they're not really focused on.
    -   Khorne is the God of Blood and War, and is shown in the image on this trope's page, along with his follower's signature Battle Cry. He's also the God of Martial Prowess and Honour. Depending on the story, his followers are either Berserk Killers who revel in violence for its own sake, or Honourable Opponents who care about honorable combat and will spare the defenseless. In general it leans towards the first though.
    -   Tzeentch is the God of Ambition and Change. His followers are usually Psykers and those touched by the powers of the Warp. He's all about long, complex plans that are often mutually exclusive and have no real long-term goals, plus his followers generally end up screwed out in the bargain. He is also the God of Hope, although this rarely comes up.
    -   Nurgle is the God of Death, Decay and Contentment. He's infamous for spreading disease to every corner of the galaxy, and embodies the emotion of being happy with one's lot in life. His followers are generally those who turn to him when there is no other choice, or if they're already nuts to begin with because of disease, starvation or any of the myriad things that CAN happen in the universe of Warhammer 40,000. His followers become immune to all disease and are unbelievably tough, but mutate so grotesquely and with such effects that even the ground rots under their feet, and their very presence is lethal to anyone within a 50-mile radius. Special mention to the fact that his followers generally consider all of this enjoyable and delight in spreading the "blessings" of Nurgle wherever they go. Nurgle is also the God of Life, Growth, and Acceptance.
    -   Slaanesh is the God(-ess?) of Pleasure and Perfection. Their followers are usually drawn with promises of Pleasure and Perfection in all things, so they're as likely to be Artists and Scholars as well as Hedonists and Harlots. The drawback is that Slaanesh has a very different idea of perfection and pleasure, and the followers will normally end up as something... else. Positive aspects include the desire to improve and perfect ones self, of course. While other followers are Sadist madmen, who revel in infliting pain on others, and even themselves.
    -   _Fantasy_ and _Age of Sigmar_ has the Great Horned Rat, a minor Chaos God and patron god of the Skaven. He combines a few traits from Nurgle and Tzeentch, being a malevolent schemer who encourages the spreading of plague and destruction by his followers. He even takes Slaanesh's spot as the fourth major Chaos God following Slaanesh's capture at the hands of the Aelfs, but the other three Gods despise the Horned Rat as a venemous upstart and non-Skaven Chaos worshippers spit on him and his "gifts".
    -   _Fantasy_ and _Age of Sigmar_ also has Hashut, the Father of Darkness. He's a relatively minor Chaos God of Greed, Oppression, and Tyranny, and is worshipped almost exclusively by the Chaos Dwarfs. He is depicted as a brazen bull wreathed in smoke and shadow. He gives their sorcerers the ability to use dark magic in exchange for sacrifices, although since Dwarfs weren't meant to wield magic all Chaos Dwarf Sorcerors end up turning to stone. Due to mostly being constrained to the Chaos Dwarfs and them being located in the Dark Lands far away from the Old World, Hashut is a rather minor threat.
    -   In 40k, there are the C'Tan Star-Gods, as old as the universe itself and far older than the Chaos Gods. Originally diffuse Energy Beings the size of solar systems, they were given bodies of living metal by a mortal race in need of allies, which the C'Tan promptly betrayed and turned into the Necrons, a race of Mecha-Slave Mooks without free will. They used to eat stars, but they later found mortal souls to be much more appetizing, and world after world was sacrificed to their hunger. Individual C'Tan were near as unpleasant as the Chaos Gods: the Nightbringer Mind Raped organic life into fearing death to feed on their terror and despair; the Void Dragon, a being of oblivion and utter destruction, had absolute control over technology and tried to sever the warp from realspace, which would have torn the souls out of every living thing; the Burning One just wanted to _burn everything_. And not to mention the Outsider, who although is crying in the void of dark space because it committed cannibalism to a ridiculous degree, is still supposed to be more dangerous than the rest of the C'tan. They were eventually cast down and shattered by rebellious Necrons and the gods of other races, but the pieces are still out there, and should they reunite...

    Toys 

-   _Transformers_: Some versions of Unicron have him as one of these (or treated as one by anything unfortunate enough to be in his path). His very first origin story had Unicron recounting how he led a legion of dark gods, with Primus as his opposing number. The second has him as the _last_ dark god, trying (and succeeding) in taking the universe down with him. Most depictions since have him as Primus' direct opposite, the evil to Primus' good (if not necessarily nice).
-   The Makuta race in _BIONICLE_ styled themselves as these, especially after the managed to evolve past the need for physical bodies and became Energy Beings made out of pure antidermis. However, only one actually managed to accomplish this in truth; Makuta Teridax, the Big Bad of the franchise, managed to accomplish this at the climax of the Karda Nui arc by slotting himself into the control systems of the Great Spirit Robot during the brief period between Mata Nui's death and his revival by Matoro using the Kanohi Ignika, the Mask of Life. When the Toa Mata activated the Codrex in the heart of the GSR to bring Mata Nui fully back to life, the GSR activated with Teridax at the helm, giving him complete control over the _entire Matoran universe._ To fully cement his control he shunted Mata Nui's spirit into the Ignika and jettisoned it out into space, where it landed on the desert world of Bara Magna. Mata Nui eventually was able to drive Teridax out of his former body, but it took pulling an entire _moon_ (the former planetoid that the franchise had actually taken place on up to that point) out of orbit and slamming it into the back of his head to finish him off.

    Video Games 

-   _AdventureQuest_: Falerin is an interesting subversion; he is the God of Evil, but he is not malevolent and bloodthirsty. He's quite gentlemanly and passive; in fact, he helps the protagonists indirectly against the actual Big Bad.
-   _Age of Mythology_: Greek, Egyptian and Norse mythology are simplified somewhat from the original myths for the sake of the campaigns. As a result, Set becomes this for the Egyptian, Loki for the Norse (especially notable for turning up as an antagonist in person, and serving a much more direct role than Set), and Poseidon for the Greek. However, the ultimate God of Evil is Kronos, from the Atlanteans, since the other three are ultimately subservient to him, and his master scheme of breaking loose and causing The End of the World as We Know It. All the Titans except Gaia also qualifies, while Cerberus and Ymir are more Eldritch Abominations anyway. The game is notable for averting Everybody Hates Hades though, Hades is somewhat neutral, and his only contribution is helping the heroes escape Erebus when they are trapped there by Gargarensis, the servant of Kronos.
-   _Ancient Domains of Mystery_: The game built around Chaos Is Evil, so Andor Drakon, the ElDeR cHaOs GoD, is the God of Evil. And the player can kill him to take his place.
-   _Arc Rise Fantasia_: Deconstructed _horrifically_. Prince Weiss accuses the god Eesa of being one of these. The other gods, Real and Imaginal are an Omnicidal Maniac and a racist jerkass, so the party doesn't really have any other frame of reference... until it's revealed that Eesa is actually an emotionally-broken Woobie, Destroyer of Worlds. _How_ she became one is pure Tear Jerker material.
-   In _Bayonetta 2_, there is Loptr, who is the evil side of Aesir, Creator-God of the mortal world. Created when Aesir decided to divide his powers and give them to humanity so humans would have free will, he wants to take control of reality back from them by any means necessary.
-   _Dragon Quest_: The final bosses of _Dragon Quests 3_, _5_, _6_, _7_, and _8_.
    -   The offshoot _Dragon Quest Builders 2_ has some fun subverting this. The main antagonists are a Religion of Evil trying to resurrect their dead god, the Master of Destruction. It's assumed that this is a God Of Evil, but the game takes great pains to point out that the forces of creation and destruction are both inherently amoral and inextricably linked.
-   _Chrono Trigger_: Lavos is a weird form of this. Lavos is worshipped as a god by several beings (among them the Queen of Zeal), and its power can be drawn upon by mortal beings. That power _is_ inherently evil, destroying the morality of those who use it and sometimes transforming them into monsters. However, Lavos itself is a Starfish Alien Eldritch Abomination and isn't really evil, itself - it doesn't really seem to be sentient on a level that humans can comprehend, and the corrupting aspects are simply how its power affects humans who channel it.
-   In the Crapsack World of _Demon's Souls_, Magic is explained as power that comes from the human (Or demon) will, and Faith is explained as a power that comes from God. For this reason, Faith-users are usually pretty rude toward ungodly mages. This is all well and good, but in multiple places in the game you can discover that the "god" that faith users actually get their power from is the world-destroying Big Bad Demon Overlord, the Old One, and that faith users are not aware of this. Whether the religion is completely wrong, or whether (even worse) the Old One actually IS God is not revealed. However, faith coming from the Old One is implied by Sage Freke in an optional conversation, and confirmed by the item description of the Talisman of Beasts.
-   _EarthBound (1994)_: Many hints given throughout the game indicate that Giygas has essentially become this. Porky's statement during the final battle even says that he _is_ evil itself.
-   _Elden Ring_ has the Outer Gods, which are different shades of malicious:
    -   The Scarlet Rot is a sentient magical plague, taking the form of an Alien Kudzu that corrupts the land and everyone in it - first by devolving them into mindless creatures of instinct, before eventually assimilating them into itself. Becoming infected with the Rot is considered as a Fate Worse than Death - except for the Order of Rot, which is almost exclusively made up of centipede-like abominations born from corrupted lands and consider the Scarlet Rot a 'blessing' to be spread - everyone else firmly disagrees.
    -   The Formless Mother is, as the name implies, a formless entity that entered into a covenant with Mohg, Lord of Blood for the sole purpose of spreading bloodshed and pain in the material realm - and delights in being harmed too, as some of the Bloodflame spells involve reaching into a portal, clawing at the formless body of the Mother and throwing her burning blood at your enemies.
    -   The Flame of Frenzy is an ancient power in conflict with the Greater Will. It represents maddening knowledge, yellow flames and destruction - it believes that the Greater Will creating life and individuality was a mistake, and its solution to that is kill every living being and melt them down to reform the 'One Great', the origin of all life. All of its worshippers are nihilistic madmen or have been forced into servitude after the flames burrowed its way into their eyes and metaphorically melted their minds.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_: The series' mythology contains many deities, some more benevolent while others are more malevolent. Even the worst of these deities tend to act within the Blue-and-Orange Morality of the spheres over which they govern, but several stand out as almost irredeemably "evil". To note:
    -   The elves in general view Lorkhan, the god who initially came up with the idea to create the universe, to be a god of malicious evil and trickery, as they hold that prior to the creation of the universe their souls were all glorious immortal spirits, and the world they live in now is a prison in which their spirits are trapped in a perpetual cycle of reincarnation. That Lorkhan seems to protect and guide humanity, who are perpetual enemies of the elves, only affirms this belief. Other elves, most notably the Dunmer, hold that Lorkhan is indeed an evil god, but his deceptions and trickery exposed the "lies" of the Aedra, the gods that most of the rest of the world revere, and thus they view Lorkhan as a god of necessary evils.
    -   Molag Bal, the Daedric Prince of Domination and Corruption (spheres which include Enslavement, Violation, Defilement, and Rape), is the only entity who absolutely _everyone_ agrees is absolutely evil and devoid of redeeming qualities. His realm, Coldharbour, is the closest thing to Hell in the Elder Scrolls universe. While all the other Daedra have at least a few redeeming qualities or rule over things that are beneficial to mortals, Molag Bal is entirely evil and does nothing with his powers but cause strife and pain. Other than vampires (which in this universe came to be because of a rape committed by Bal and whose souls he owns), the only people in Tamriel who see Molag Bal as anything other than a being of pure evil that must be avoided are the Dunmer, and even in their mythology, he isn't seen as benevolent, but a creator and manipulator of obstacles that they must learn to overcome, and never to be trusted.
    -   Mehrunes Dagon, the Daedric Prince of Destruction, often gets this label in-universe (due to his actions typically resulting in the death or ruin of many mortals) and incorrectly by the series' fandom. It is an easy mistake to make given that Dagon has served as the Big Bad or Greater-Scope Villain of several games in the series. However, Dagon ultimately subverts the trope. While he is highly destructive, and many of his _followers_ are straight-up evil, Dagon himself is an amoral force of nature who destroys simply because that is what he is, no more malicious than an earthquake. Dagon also has several redeeming qualities within his sphere, such as governing over Change, which a functioning world requires to exist. (If the old is never "destroyed", there can be no room for anything new.)
    -   Sithis, referred to as a "great void", is a force representing chaos, change, and limitation. Sithis may be one by default, as Sithis is said to be an equal but opposite force to Anui-El, the "soul of all things". Sithis is essentially the _antithesis_ of all things. Sithis Is Not.
    -   Mannimarco, the God of Worms, is the ascended god form of Mannimarco, the King of Worms. Mannimarco is the infamous and highly dreaded Lich/Necromancer who has terrorized Tamriel since the early 2nd Era, all as part of his quest to become a god. Following a failed attempt during the events of _The Elder Scrolls Online_, he succeeds as a result of the Warp in the West at the end of _Daggerfall_...sort of. The Reality Warping Warp in the West merged _Daggerfall_'s numerous Multiple Endings, but none occurred to the same extent they would have individually. As such, he did ascend to a form of godhood as the God of Worms, but it is in a rather minor station. It also seems to have created another version of him which did not ascend, remaining on Tamriel as a Lich who leads a cult that worships the God of Worms, who seems to be treated as a different entity.
-   _Fable_: Skorm, who the PC can make human sacrifices to, doesn't actually exist. More important than Skorm is the Corruption, as well as the Queen of Blades, who had the position in the setting's backstory.
-   _Fantasia Otome Game Series_ : The God of Death Oswald Leingold from _Fantasia - Realm of Thanos_, who much prefers to be called the Demon Lord.
-   _Fire Emblem: Genealogy of the Holy War_ has Loptous, the dark dragon who founded the Evil Empire of centuries past after forming a blood pact with a power-hungry human, demanding worship and Human Sacrifice. After the Empire was thrown down, the surviving nobility were forced into hiding to escape the continent's vengeance and continued to revere Loptous as a god. They sought out the descendents of the human emperor's kin so that they could breed a suitable vessel for him to enter and restore the Empire.
-   _Legacy of Kain_: The Elder God is eventually revealed to be this in _Defiance_, following truckloads of Foreshadowing in _Soul Reaver 2_.
-   _The Legend of Zelda_:
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask_: It's left ambiguous as to what exactly Majora is, but "unspeakably powerful" and "incredibly evil" are some of the only things we know about it. Through its mask, Majora is able to end all life on Termina by crashing the moon to the surface.
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword_: The Demon King Demise is set in direct opposition to the God of Good Hylia. He also curses Hylia and the hero with his death, telling them that an "incarnation of his hatred" would follow them for all eternity, making him responsible for all the evil in the entire series.
-   _Might and Magic_: The Demon Sovereign from the rebooted series (_Heroes of Might and Magic V_ and VI as well as _Dark Messiah of Might and Magic_) is the setting's Crystal Dragon Satan equivalent. _HOMM 6_ shows that he was a regular demon lord who ascended to the position through politics and conquest.
-   _Mortal Kombat_: The Elder God Shinnok is more or less this after his fall from grace, going as far as overthrowing Lucifer himself to take over the Netherrealm.
-   _Nexus Clash_: There are several contenders for the title, but the sanest and most focused is Tlacolotl, an ancient mortal warlord who managed to ascend to godhood by seizing the death and rebirth of an entire universe in his own megalomaniacal name. He _requires_ his followers to do evil and is thus ironically just as bound to the notion of Good and Evil as his angelic archrival Namm. Tlacolotl's real personality and goals are loathsome enough that he's become totally reliant on goodly moral systems to brand people as Evil (thus leaving him as their only refuge) in order to secure recruits for his forces.
-   The Black Goat from _Night in the Woods_ is an ancient Eldritch Abomination that (maybe) lives within the mines of Possum Springs. In the trifecta of possible gods mentioned, it is the one who is "Vicious and Roaming". The Black Goat offers to bring prosperity and good fortune back to Possum Springs, but only in exchange for sacrifices. And if it stops getting sacrifices, it brings misfortune and disaster instead. Even so it isn't clear what sort of prosperity is on offer since Possum Springs doesn't seem to be doing so well regardless.
-   _Painkiller_: The series started out with Satan in the role, but he was killed in the first game, and a veritable conga line of successors would pop up in the expansion packs one after the other to claim the title (first Alastor, then Eve, then Samael).
-   _Pillars of Eternity_:
    -   Skaen. The god of silent hate, resentment and rebellion, he can also be described as the god of Disproportionate Retribution and Chronic Back Stabbing Disorder. His followers may rise up against cruel masters, but they do so in violent ways that frequently harm innocents, his priests are rewarded for being cruel and penalized for benevolence and he abandons any followers who achieve their goals, because all he cares about is the act of the underdog rising up. Worship of Skaen is understandably banned in many places, and his worshippers frequently end up working as torturers or executioners when it isn't.
    -   Rymrgand is a more complicated case, though he's definitely not as evil as Skaen; he's the god of cold, death, and entropy, so a lot of his "evil" is a necessary part of life. However, he takes a little _too_ much glee in his job, actively working to end things just for the sake of it (even when their time hasn't necessarily come) and openly acknowledging that he looks forward to the planet dying. In the second game, he's the only god to have zero complaints or objections to Eothas destroying Berath's Wheel and wrecking the whole divine system, killing thousands in the process; to Rymrgand this is completely okay because it would've eventually ended on its own anyway. In fact, he tries to convince you to make the damage _even worse_, because hey, may as well get it all done at once right? Needless to say, worship of Rymrgand isn't met with much more acceptance than Skaen worship.
-   _Rise of the Kasai_: Kri. Neither it nor its followers make any attempt to hide or justify it.
-   _Romancing SaGa_ has a trio of evil gods, all three siblings: Death, the eldest and warden of the underworld, Schirach, goddess of dark magic, and Saruin, god of all that is evil.
-   _Sacrifice_: Charnel is a Card-Carrying Villain God of Evil who is well aware of how important his place is in the pantheon. Amusingly, Charnel is publicly the most fervent opponent of the game's Final Boss, Omnicidal Maniac Marduk, as he doesn't like competitors. It remains ambiguous just how much he knows about who's _really_ responsible for summoning Marduk and whether his lines of reasoning for siccing you on the other gods are genuine or simply him using you to settle his old grudges.
-   _Persona_:
    -   Nyarlathotep, an Eldritch Abomination Anthropomorphic Personification of _the entirety of Humanity's collective evil_. He was cast away at the end of _Persona 2_.
    -   Other than Nyarlathotep, there are other god-like beings born out of malice in the _Persona_ universe: Erebus is a two-headed four-legged beast of darkness born out of humanity's suicidal thoughts that is desperately trying to awaken Nyx in order to die, along with humanity itself, and Izanami, who embodies lies and deceit and wants to envelop the world in fog and turn all humans into Shadows, because that's what she thinks humanity wants.
    -   Nyx itself subverts this trope, as it's not malevolent, but due to its existence as an incarnation of death itself and how alien and incomprehensible it is, its very physical presence causes the world to end.
-   _Silent Hill_: The God of Silent Hill. Her angels are Humanoid Abominations (see Valtiel), her followers are almost unquestionably murderous nutcases, and, as revealed in the third game, her idea of "Paradise" happens to involve bringing Hell on Earth.
-   _Smite_: Most of the gods, even those whose main theme is death, can be considered neutral at worst. The closest one to this trope, however, is Ah Puch of the Mayan Pantheon, who rules over the deepest layer of Hell and is pretty much a Sorcerous Overlord who wants to drag all living beings into a pit of eternal torment, especially those who are already sick or injured. This isn't a case of Sadly Mythtaken; even real-life Mayans, who were generally more fearful of death than other Mesoamerican cultures, tended to avoid praying to him..
-   _Ōkami_ has Yami, God of Darkness as the true villain of the game who happens to be a foil to Amaterasu in almost all the ways that matter. While Ammy is a nature goddess who represents the Sun and whose powers revolve around healing and creation, Yami is a God of Science responsible for granting mortals technology represented by the cold and lifeless moon who adopts a mechanical body and whose powers are wholly destructive.
-   _A Very Long Rope to the Top of the Sky_: The Eater is "a fictional deity" that's "a representation of pure evil" as said by Genevieve in her history lessons.
-   _Xenoblade Chronicles_:
    -   _Xenoblade Chronicles_: Zanza turns out to be this retroactively; _Xenoblade Chronicles 2_ confirms that he was the half of Professor Klaus who retained his unfettered ambition and malevolence, whereas the Architect retained his hopes for humanity and benevolence.
    -   _Xenoblade Chronicles 3_: Moebius Z is a much more straight example than Zanza, as Z is the embodiment of the negativity, fears, and selfishness of the people of Aionios, and exhibits this by expressing amusement in watching the denizens of Aionios suffer and continuously kill each other in a Forever War.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Fate/stay night_: Played with. During the Third Holy Grail War the Einzberns tried to guarantee a victory by summoning the Zoroastrian god of evil, Angra Mainyu. It turns out that the Grail can't actually summon gods, so the Grail grabbed the closest thing it could find: an ancient villager who was sacrificed by his people as the _representation_ of all their sins, who eventually became known in legend as Angra Mainyu. Having no special abilities he was quickly killed and absorbed by the Grail. But because this man represented the _wish_ of those ancient villagers for there to exist a singular source of evil, the Grail attempted to grant that wish. Had there been a victor in either the Fourth or Fifth Grail Wars, he would have become a Physical God.

    Web Animation 

-   _Sock Series_: The titular evil hamster is worshipped by his cult as this, rampantly murdering and torturing people seemingly for kicks... Not that the other gods are much better. In _Empire_ we get a look at the Cult of Sock's creation myth, depicting Sock descending from a crack in the firmament with the other gods, implying some rather disturbing things about them all. _Genesis of Sock_ confirms him to be an Eldritch Abomination inimical to reality itself.

    Web Original 

-   Till from Creepypasta is a being created from the collective evil of all beings in the universe, be they angels, demons, humans and any other, even God. He was created by an "angel", quotation marks needed because he was very different from his siblings after Lucifer's rebellion. He accidentaly found the prison of the sins, an Eldritch Location which held the evil, madness and worst parts of all beings in the universe and God punished him by trapping him inside, unable to handle the energies he created Till, something capable of absorbing the evil indefinitely, and after absorbing enough, Till most definitely fits this trope.
-   The Quest Den series _Nice Save!_ has Quincy the god of gratuitous evil. His core precept is being an asshole to everyone, while wearing garish colors. He doesn't even empower his cultists, which makes even _worshipping him_ an act of gratuitous evil in itself. This made him the _only_ god to be targeted by _all_ other gods with a Kill on Sight order.

    Webcomics 

-   _Digger_: "Black Mother, pass us by! We are not here!"
-   _Oglaf_: Parodied. At one point, two preachers appear trying to convert everyone to their belief of a hateful angry god Sithrak promising an eternity of pain even to its followers. When one of them actually dies and meets him, the god tells them that the book they were reading was his old poetry book from when he was going trough a Teen Angst phase and that he doesn't really have any interest in hatred and pain like that, even sending the man back to warn the other followers. When the man does so, they believe Sithrak just hates them so much he is messing with their heads.
-   _Sluggy Freelance_: The Demon King is worshiped by his demon followers and was powerful enough to defeat the Goddess of Goodness. He even sealed her away in a plastic baggie, which he kept in his refrigerator.

    Western Animation 

-   _The Legend of Korra_: Vaatu, Book 2's Big Bad. The spirit of chaos and darkness (not just _a_ spirit, _the_ spirit), he likes nothing better than corrupting spirits and letting them go on rampages, and if he wins during Harmonic Convergence then he'll bring about The End of the World as We Know It.
-   _Samurai Jack_: Aku, who is the incarnation of all evil and seeks to rule not just the world, but the entire universe. Interestingly, he is merely a small part derived from a mindless straight-up Eldritch Abomination that was almost entirely destroyed by a pantheon of good gods. It took millions of years and a magic spell before he gained sentience and became the demon god of evil.
-   _Teen Titans (2003)_: Trigon who, like his original comic book counterpart, is supposed to be the incarnation of all evil.
-   _Mighty Max_: Lockjaw, who is specifically the god of violence, who's mere presence fills the mind of everyone near him with extreme rage.
-   _Tutenstein_: The recurring Big Bad of the series is Set. He regularly hatches plots to take over the world. One episode also features him betraying Ra to Apep, the true Egyptian God of Evil, as a plot point.
-   _Villainous_: Lord Black Hat, a purely evil being with no clear limit to his power. He is so powerful, in fact, that he got bored of winning all the time, and ultimately decided to start a business on earth in order to help other villains.

___

## Darkseid

The greatest evil in all the DC universe.

Example of:  
Big Bad

### **Alternative Title(s):** Gods Of Evil, Goddess Of Evil

-   Flaming Devil
-   Infernal Tropes
-   Good Angel, Bad Angel

-   God-Emperor
-   ImageSource/Warhammer
-   The Heretic

-   God Is Evil
-   Evil Tropes
-   Good Colors, Evil Colors

-   A God I Am Not
-   Tropes of the Divine
-   God of Good

-   God-Karting with Beelzebub
-   Religion Tropes
-   God of Good

-   God of Chaos
-   Cosmic Entity
-   God of Good

-   God of Darkness
-   God Tropes
-   God of Fire

-   God and Satan Are Both Jerks
-   Horror Tropes
-   Gorn

-   God in Human Form
-   Characters as Device
-   God of Good

-   God Is Evil
-   Villains
-   God Save Us from the Queen!

-   Glass Weapon
-   This Image Is Not an Example
-   Gun Nut

-   Sacrifice
-   QuoteSource/Video Games
-   God of Fire