**Johnny Rico:** This is Roughnecks 201. We are under heavy attack! ... I request retrieval, now!  
**Radio Operator:** On the outpost? That's crazy!  
**Johnny:** Well I hope you have a crazy pilot. Out!

The heroes are facing overwhelming odds, probably their Last Stand. Everything looks hopeless and there is no possible way they can survive this. There's only enough time for a Final Speech. It almost looks like they are heading for a Bolivian Army Ending, when suddenly... The Air Cavalry is here!! An allied aircraft swoops overhead and loops around for another pass! The enemy (one that uses Hollywood Tactics, anyway) just got raked from above!

It is often set up to be a complete surprise to the ones being rescued. That way, when the gunship lowers into place it produces squeals of joy from the audience. The real joy is the look on the enemy's face when the gunship appears and they have to stare down the machine guns, missile pods, lasers, or whatever other kind of heavy firepower is mounted on the craft.

Often preceded by It Has Been an Honor. It also invokes some resemblance to Death from Above, and can often include an awesome looking visual of the rescuers doing a flyby, often putting themselves between the rescuees and the bad guys. Also likely to include the soul-shaking noise of big aircraft engines... followed a chorus of gun booms, rocket fwooshes and laser pews.

When played straight, this is a variant of The Cavalry. Not classified as Deus ex Machina, since most times it is set up in advance and rarely anticlimactic. And while most examples are of aircraft, specifically helicopter gunships or the Technology Level equivalent, ground vehicles and ocean vessels with a BFG mounted can sometimes be used for a Gunship Rescue. Compare Orbital Bombardment.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   The first story arc of _Black Lagoon_ has the Black Lagoon being chased by a Mi-24 Hind-A heavy attack helicopter. Inverted — instead of saving the day, the Hind Gunship is destroyed spectacularly by a surprise torpedo attack of all things.
-   In Episode 5 of _Bodacious Space Pirates_, the Odette II is being fired upon by the Lightning 11 using optical sights (since the crew had hacked their computer beforehand). The main character, Marika, aboard the Odette II, uses an Improvised Weapon in the form of aiming their solar sails to blind the Lightning 11's gunners. Shortly afterwards, the Bentenmaru and the Barbaroosa, along with several military ships show up to assist them.
-   In _Cat Shit One_ the Mi-24 gunship, call sign Angel One, comes in to rescue our heroes Packy and Botasky just when they thought they are completely surrounded. To quote Packy's words:
    
    **Packy:** Well... that's one hell of an angel who came to help us.
    
-   _Full Metal Panic! The Second Raid_'s first episode has Sousuke being surrounded on a bridge. With nowhere to go, Al recommends self-destruct to avoid capture which Sousuke promptly rejects. The enemy commander starts counting down over loudspeaker... and just as he reaches 'one', the Arbalest launches off the bridge above the water. Cue the Tuatha de Danaan breaking through the surface and launching several cluster missiles at the enemy forces, wiping them all out in a single salvo while retrieving the Arbalest and quickly diving back underwater. Hilariously lampshaded by the shocked and singed enemy commander a while later.
-   _The King of Braves GaoGaiGar Final_, Episode 7. Palparepa: "Pathetic God of Destruction...what can you do alone against us?" Off-screen Taiga: "He is _not_ alone!" Turn camera to the Division Fleet and cue Taiga's greatest speech _ever_.
    -   Even earlier in the series, during the final battle with the Machine Kings. Volfogg's getting trashed rather badly by Penchinon, then gets saved by the Multi-Dimensional Intelligence Submarine going on a kamikaze strike to Volfogg's 3rd theme. Topped off by Penchinon's attempt to absorb it proving to be a _very_ bad idea as its fusion reactor explodes.
    -   Inadvertently invoked by Soldato J and the J-Ark on their debut a few episodes later. While defeating the Primevals _was_ intentional, saving GaoGaiGar in the process...not so much.
-   _Gate_: This trope is shown oh-so **very beautifully** during the Defense of Italica from the soldiers-turned-bandits when they decide to raid Italica to try to replace the utter shame they got when they miserably failed to retake Alnus Hill from the vastly superior JSDF forces. Huey and Cobra gunships do their work **exquisitely**, and the reaction from the Gate-worlders show equal fascination/terror upon viewing such advanced military technological might firsthand, with the Princess and her royal aide reacting to it especially.
-   _Halo Legends_:
    -   In _The Package_, when the Master Chief and Dr. Halsey are escaping from dozens of Seraphs, the ONI stealth ship _PRO-49776_ comes to their rescue by blowing up all their remaining pursuers in seconds.
    -   Subverted in _Homecoming_; the Pelican gunship coming in to rescue Daisy and company is itself destroyed.
-   _Hanaukyō Maid Team_. _La Verite_ Episode 11. The gang is trapped in a dire situation, being chased by Konoe's Ax-Crazy sister, when Ryuuka's murder zeppelin shows up, now sporting laser cannons, to save the day.
-   There was a _Toad_ Rescue moment in _Naruto_. During the invasion of Konoha, a giant three-headed snake was devastating a large region of Konoha, having already breached the defensive wall to allow the invasion force inside. As the Konoha ninja are fighting a losing battle against it a giant toad summon falls from the sky, wiping out the snake summon and turning the tide.
-   In the last episode of _Macross Frontier_, a Vajra "gunship" is about to blast its Wave-Motion Gun point-blank into the _Battle Frontier's_ bridge, only to have the _Macross Quarter_ — a ship _much_ smaller than _Frontier_ — skewer the _Vajra_ with its own main cannon while coming out of Fold space.
-   In the flashback of _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_, the armada of the three major powers in the Magic World arrives to stop the end-of-the-world spell, as Nagi defeated the Big Bad one second too late.
    -   In Chapter 274, Paru uses her ship for this, complete with Sayo manning a Magitek minigun. It doesn't make much difference, though, since Kaede and Setsuna can handle the Mooks, and Paru hadn't anticipated the enemy cruisers and summoned Eldritch Abomination.
    -   Chachamaru's Artifact was introduced this way.
-   The arrival of the Moby Dick, Whitebeard's personal flagship early in the Marineford arc of _One Piece_. The shocker is that it came from underwater taking the entire Marine force at Maineford by surprise!
    -   And then one-upped 15 chapters later, when a black replica of Moby Dick arrives in the same way as its predecessor, to save the Whitebeard pirates who survived Admiral Akainu's destruction of their entire fleet's vessels.
-   _Rebuild World_:
    -   When Akira holes up with Katsuragi's merchant convoy for mutual defense from The Swarm of monsters and the three of them are on their last legs, Elena and Sara bust through the enemy answering Katsuragi's Distress Call with Sara blasting the swarm with a BFG in each hand.
    -   When Akira is escorting hunters whose Distress Call he answered away from a Scary Scorpion nest, just as Akira is running out of ammo and they're all surrounded, a convoy from the Forward Base blasts through and rescues them.
    -   When Akira answers a Distress Call from lower ranked hunters coming from further back in the Big Badass Rig convoy he's escorting, he blasts through The Swarm embattling them but both parties end up nearly overwhelmed by successive waves until the convoy's head of security Mercia rushes back in her Walking Armory Mini-Mecha to save them.
    -   Alpha does this a number of times controlling Akira's weapon equipped Cool Bike, one time with Carol on board helping.
-   _Arcus Prima_'s return to active duty in _Simoun_ takes place just in the nick of time to save _Messis_ from an overwhelming Argentum attack.
-   _Tales of Wedding Rings_ features a fantasy version in Chapter 30. Satou has just taken his best shot at the Abyss King, but failed to kill him, and he is too exhausted to defend himself as the Abyss King retaliates. Granart and the other princesses leap to Satou's defense, only to be surrounded by endless hordes of the Abyss King's demons. Just when it seems all hope is lost, Alabaster swoops in on the back of a giant bird to save the day.
-   At the end of _The Familiar of Zero_'s first season, Saito shows up in a WWII-era fighter plane, turning the battle and giving up his chance to go home.
-   In _Transformers: Armada_, the Decepticons decide to call in Tidal Wave as a backup. Tidal Wave happens to be a gunship. In the sense that he's a Flying Aircraft Carrier with Guns.
-   _Durandal_ gets the medal for her appearance to save _Elsa_ from Gnosis in _Xenosaga_. _Episode 1_ goes one better with a heavily-armed mobile _space colony_, appearing to similarly relieve the Durandal and the colony it is docked with.

    Comic Books 

-   The _24_ comic _One Shot_ has a scene where Jack and an informant are being pursued by a chopper full of terrorsts when a CTU helicopter appears to shoot down their pursuers. This keeps Jack and his companion from being gunned down, although the friendly chopper takes damage during the fight and has to land, leaving it unable to evacuate the heroes away from land-based pursuers.
-   In _Elephantmen: War Toys Volume 1_, French freedom fighter Yvette is cornered on the roof of a cathedral by several Elephantmen. Then three or four Red Chinese gunships appear and open up on the Elephantmen with More Dakka. Subverted, because the gunships are shot down by the Elephantmen, crash into the cathedral roof, and kill everyone except Yvette who miraculously survives.
-   _The Mighty Thor_:
    -   During The Surtur Saga, Sif stays behind to defend a convoy of alien transport ships from horde of demons. When her strength starts failing, she prepares herself to take as many demons as possible with her. Then all the sudden the demons are blasted away and she is greeted by Skuttlebut, an intelligent spaceship who was also sent to protect the convoy.
    -   Skuttlebutt did it again, during the Godhunter Saga. When Beta Ray Bill was on the receiving end of a curbstomp battle from the Silver Surfer, Skuttlebutt flew in and proceeded to blast Surfer unconscious. You gotta love that ship.
-   In _Tintin_'s "Red Sea Sharks", Tintin's ship is under attack by a submarine. They manage to reach an Amrican warship, but are afraid they'll be sunk by the time it gets there. As they try to avoid the torpedoes, the captain suddenly hears a boom and thinks they've been hit — only to discover it's the cruiser's seaplanes depth-charging the sub.
-   In _Wynonna Earp: Season Zero_, Wynonna and the remains of the Banditos, her old Badass Biker gang, are holed up in Bloody Porch. Outnumbered and outgunned, they are preparing to make a Last Stand against their foe when suddenly Smitty appears on the horizon, flying a helicopter gunship sporting a Hood Hornament, and loaded with Black badge reinforcements. Suddenly the fight gets a lot fairer.

    Fan Works 

-   In the _Star Trek: Voyager_ Uberfic _The Artisans of War_, B'Elanna Torres and Annika Hansen are extracted from a bladescraper via a tilt-rotor gunship shooting out the windows, followed by a US marine jetpacking through the broken window, locking them into a hostage rescue harness and flying them back to the helicopter.
-   _Goggles and the Tears_: In the climax, the Vox Populi arrive in dozens of zeppelins and gunships to help the main characters fight SHODAN, thanks to Booker DeWitt and Elizabeth actually rescuing Chen Lin earlier.
-   _A Hollow in Equestria_: Ulquiorra performs the living equivalent of a gunship rescue. The ponies are facing off against the arc Big Bad Nightmare Moon barely able to hold their own even with reinforcements, and ultimately getting wasted for their efforts. Just when it seems all hope is lost, Ulquiorra comes in out of nowhere, delivers a badass one liner, and deploys a cero right in her open mouth at point-blank range.
-   _Jaune Arc, Lord of Hunger_: The chapter "Fear" see Glynda Goodwitch, Team JNPR, and Team RWBY all driven to exhaustion following a prolonged fight with a terentatek. The terentatek had no-selled almost all of their attacks and was preparing to finish them off when it's interrupted by the arrival of a Bullhead that Glynda had radioed in prior to the battle. The dropship then unloads hundreds of high-caliber Dust rounds and a barrage of missiles which break through the terentatek's previously impenetrable armor. This gives the heroes time to recover and regroup to finish the creature off.
-   _Kimi No Na Iowa_: Subverted in Chapters 32 and 33. Faced with Northampton's impalement of Takanami, Naganami calls in fire support from the Chinese bombers on overwatch. The attacker proceeds to Teleport Spam her way around the incoming missiles and then use Judgment Cuts to slice both bombers in half, killing all but one of the aircrew. Later on, additional fire support is deployed from Australian F-35s firing antiship missiles, and both the Demons and Northampton dodge the missiles before the latter tries to Judgment Cut them as well. Naganami ends up having to save the saviors, and for her troubles she gets punched into a missile meant for Northampton.
-   _The Mysterious Case of Neelix's Lungs_: Tuvok uses _Voyager_'s Aeroshuttle to pull out a fireteam led by Ayala when they come under attack by the Kazon-Nistrim, torpedoing a Kazon ground position and dogfighting with Kazon fighters on the way back out.
-   _Origins_: Aria T'Loak's forces attempting to retake Omega (which has by then crashed into the Citadel) are rescued in this fashion by geth. Said geth had been waging a guerrilla war against the invaders, and having noticed that potential allies were in trouble, swooped in with what forces they had. It even leads to an airdropped geth colossus serving as a mount for the remaining organic forces. Arguably, Trans-Galactic Republic forces in the previous work count as well when they smash Reapers.
-   _Pony POV Series_: There's one of these in the Shining Armor Arc, during Shining's first battle with Makarov's forces. Just when it looks like Shining and the Griffon special forces unit he's working with are going to be wiped out, in comes the rest of the Royal Guard, complete with armed airships.
-   _The Weaver Option_: Taylor's army is on the verge of being overrun by a daemonic horde led by Fulgrim. Just as things are looking grim, a Webway gate opens and the _Flamewrought_, Vulkan's personal battleship arrives, devastating the daemons and deploying veteran Space Marines to deal with Fulgrim.

    Films — Animation 

-   _Batman & Mr. Freeze: SubZero_: Batman and Robin do this with Batwing to save Barbara Gordon.
-   Towards the end of _Despicable Me 2_, Gru and two minions are rescued from a bunch of evil minions from a rooftop by a VTOL plane. Visually the scene is held close to the well known examples of this trope, but instead of lasers or machine guns the plane uses jelly-miniguns to distribute a cure.
-   _How to Train Your Dragon_ has this for the climatic scene where Stoik and his forces are fighting a hopeless battle against the Red Death Dragon, and suddenly Hiccup and Toothless swoop in and give the Vikings one thing they never had before in battle, _air support_.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _9th Company_ depicts a last stand by a company on a hilltop in Afghan mountains. Just when the very last of the defenders are cut down by Mujahedeen, Mi-24 Hind gunships show up and annihilate the enemies with 30mm cannon, leaving the last survivor to contemplate his sacrifice (note that in the real defense of Hill 3234, most of 9th Company survived and was successfully relieved, after getting regular fire support throughout the fight).
-   _Act of Valor_ has the SEAL team heavily outnumbered and outgunned, hotly pursued by militia forces, and then just as the militia catches up to them, a pair of SWCC boats show up and deliver a literal _wall_ of fire, doing their best to achieve enough dakka in almost two minutes of near-sustained fire.
-   _Avengers: Age of Ultron_ has one near the climax when Nick Fury shows up with Helicarrier 64 from the first Avengers movie, in order to help evacuate the city that Ultron had just ripped out of the ground. Played with, as the Avengers, or at least Iron Man and War Machine end up defending it by shooting down Ultron's drones as they attempt to attack the Helicarrier and its rescue ships.
-   _Battleground (1949)_: With Nazi forces closing in and all hope lost, Sgt. Kinnie suddenly notices that the trees around his soldiers' foxholes are casting shadows. It takes several seconds for his exhausted brain to work out what that means: If the trees have shadows, then the sun is shining. If the sun is shining, the clouds have broken. And if the clouds have broken, Allied aircraft can get off the ground! Cue the thunder of engines overhead, as Allied fighter-bombers rip the Nazi attackers to shreds while American transport aircraft practically bury the besieged GIs in crates full of fresh food, fuel, medicines, and ammunition.
-   In _Behind Enemy Lines_, Burnett is cornered by pretty much the entire Serbian Army, but is rescued when a fleet of American helicopters loaded with weapons and angry Marines arrive and completely wreck the Serbians.
-   _Black Hawk Down_ is a bit of a subversion of the trope: the eponymous Black Hawks _were_ good for gunship purposes due to their miniguns, but proved too vulnerable to RPG fire. On the other hand, the much smaller Little Birds fulfilled this purpose admirably — they packed more firepower in their rockets and were much more difficult to hit.
-   In _Blue Thunder_, the titular Black Helicopter pulls one of these off when hero Frank Murphy's girlfriend is about to be arrested by the police after being pulled over on a bridge while carrying the Plot Coupon. Cue dramatic engine roar and the sight of _Blue Thunder_ rising up from beneath the bridge, BFG aimed right at the cops. A hilarious Double Subversion follows, as while the Oh, Crap! moment gives Murphy's girlfriend a chance to drive off, the cops recover in time to pursue her... until Murphy blows their car in half.
-   The squadron of Indian Air Force Hawker Hunters shows up at daybreak to pull this off for Major Chandipur's embattled weapons company, in the Bollywood movie _Border1997_, which was based of the events of the Battle of Longewalla.
-   The Bat serves this purpose in the climax of _The Dark Knight Rises_.
-   _Escape Plan_: During the final escape, the allies of Breslin and Rottmayer send a armed helicopter to pick them up. The heavy machine guns provide useful suppressing fire that forces the guards to keep their heads down (and kills several of them).
-   _Godzilla: King of the Monsters (2019)_: A Monarch military jet squadron pull off such a rescue quite early in the movie, during Ghidorah's first scene after awakening. The main human heroes are trapped on the ground in the middle of Antarctica with no working vehicles, and Ghidorah is directly terrorizing them (having already killed most of their mooks and Dr. Graham) while Godzilla is momentarily knocked down. A barrage of airborne missiles impacting Ghidorah's faces before he can attack anyone else is the very first sign the cavalry has arrived. And the aerial attack on one side of Ghidorah combined with Godzilla getting back up on Ghidorah's other side is apparently enough to drive Ghidorah to retreat and rebuild his strength.
-   _Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man_. And even firing at the building.
-   _James Bond_:
    -   In _On Her Majesty's Secret Service_, Bond and his ally (and soon-to-be father-in-law) Marc-Ange Draco attack Ernst Stavro Blofeld's mountain hideout of Piz Gloria with helicopters full of Red Shirts that are equipped with submachine guns and a flamethrower in order to rescue Marc-Ange's daughter Tracy and ruin Blofeld's Evil Plan.
    -   In _Diamonds Are Forever_, a helicopter attack is launched on Blofeld's oil rig by Leiter and the CIA. Said helicopters are armed with rocket launchers.
    -   In _Octopussy_, the old _Q_, of all people, saves some of Octopussy's Amazon Brigade by landing on some of Kamal Khan's mooks with his hot air balloon.
    -   Inverted in _Skyfall_. This time, the _Big Bad_ has a gunship, and tries to kill Bond with it.
-   _Man of Steel_: Surprisingly, this is achieved more often by the villains than the heroes, as a couple of Kryptonian fighters are part of their limited arsenal, and it outclasses anything humans have. The military does help a little with their A-10 Warthogs being able to at least distract and/or disorient their targets, but can't deal any real damage. In addition, earlier in the movie, one of Zod's gunships is about to blast Kal-El's capsule out of the sky when it is blown to smithereens by a Kryptonian Council loyalists-aligned gunship. Cue many more gunships surrounding Zod's position and forcing him to surrender.
-   _The Matrix_ had Neo and Trinity in a helicopter armed with a mini-gun that even the near unstoppable Agents can't dodge.
-   In _Off Limits_ two American military policemen are surrounded by corrupt South Vietnamese police. The chief policeman tells the Americans, "I am afraid you are outgunned today." As a helicopter BDG appears from behind the buildings, the lead MP replies, "You still don't get it, do you? We \[Americans\] are _never_ outgunned!
-   In _Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End_, after Will Turner stabs Davy Jones' heart and the _Dutchman_ sinks, the EITC armada is about to wipe out the pirate armada... and then the _Dutchman_ explodes from the water, with Will at the helm.
-   In the beginning of _Red Dawn (1984)_, the heroes realize that their escape to the mountains is about to be prematurely cut off by a Soviet roadblock. Just then an Army Huey helicopter turns up and blows the roadblock to pieces, clearing the way for them. (Another chopper, or possibly the same one, shows up later on harassing the Soviets as they secure the town)
    -   Inverted towards the end, when the Dirty Commies finally catch La Résistance out in the open, and the Wolverines find out that Mi-24 Hinds are out of their league.
-   Averted in _Rogue (2020)_. The mercenaries are expecting to be extracted by helicopter gunship after they rescue the governor's daughter. The helicopter arrives but Zalaam shoots it down, forcing Sam and her men to keep running and attempt to improvise a new extraction route.
-   The ending of _Saving Private Ryan_ features the US Army Air Forces saving the day, specifically the P-51 Mustang "Tank Busters."
-   An entire fleet of Royal Navy Airborne Aircraft Carriers turns up to rescue the protagonists at the end of _Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow_ (2004), though they really don't need saving by that stage.
-   _Star Trek_
    -   _Star Trek (2009)_: Alternate Spock is headed into a massive missile barrage in Spock Prime's little ship, with the computer warning him that the black-hole-creating-stuff in the back will ignite if they're hit. Cue the "Jump-out-of-warp" noise, and the _Enterprise_ blasts into the scene with all guns blazing furiously, picking off every missile. Oh, and they beam Spock out of the little ship and Kirk and Pike off of the bigger one about to be rammed. Big Damn Heroes _and_ Gunship Rescue moment for the _Enterprise_ and her crew, set to an epic, _epic_ soundtrack.
    -   _Star Trek Beyond_: When Kirk is about to be sucked into space after ejecting Krall and the weapon from Yorktown, Bones arrives in a stolen swarm ship and Spock comes out and saves Kirk.
        
        **Kirk**: What would I do without you, Spock?
        
    -   In _Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country_, Captain Sulu and the _Excelsior_ show up to help the _Enterprise_ fight a cloaked Bird-of-Prey. In this case it wasn't necessarily for the firepower but in Sulu's own words "Give them something else to shoot at" and take pressure off the beleaugred _Enterprise_ while the technicians figured a way around the cloak. But once the modified seeker torpedo finds its mark, Sulu and the _Excelsior_ are quick to exploit the opening.
        
        **Sulu**: Target that explosion and fire!
        
    -   The climax to _Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home_ played with this, partly for comedy: A whaling vessel is chasing the two humpback whales Kirk and crew need to bring back to the 23rd century to save Earth from a destructive probe. The vessel sights the whales, fires a harpoon — which suddenly bounces off _nothing_ with a metallic clang. Cue the heroes' stolen Bird of Prey decloaking above the water... and the whaling ship urgently attempting to turn around and run away.
    -   _Star Trek V: The Final Frontier_ had Spock as gunner on a Klingon Bird-Of-Prey blowing up a wanna-be _God_ with a timely arrival.
    -   _Star Trek: First Contact_: "Sir, there's another ship coming in. _...It's the Enterprise!_" Cue the shiny new _Enterprise_\-E swooping in like an avenging angel to save the mangled _Defiant_ (commanded by Worf at the time) from the Borg cube.
    -   Two Romulan Warbirds under Commander Donatra tried to do this for _Enterprise_ in _Star Trek: Nemesis_, but were quickly disabled.
-   _Star Wars_:
    -   _Attack of the Clones_ featured a gunship rescue moment from Yoda and the clone troopers, and a Big Damn Heroes moment from Yoda confronting Count Dooku. The event is even _called_ "Gunship Rescue" on the DVD.
    -   _A New Hope_: Han Solo saves Luke, who is being targeted while piloting straight to the tunnel leading to the core of the Death Star.
        
        **Han Solo:** You're all clear, kid! Now let's blow this thing and go home!
        
    -   _Return of the Jedi_:
        -   Just after hijacking it an AT-ST Scout Walker, Chewie started blowing away other Scout Walkers that had been chewing up the Ewoks pretty badly.
        -   When Han and Leia manage to take care of a couple of storm troopers giving them trouble, only for a AT-ST Scout Walker to approach them. They give the Oh, Crap! look, only to find out it was the one Chewbacca and the Ewoks hijacked earlier. And in the end they used the communications link in the walker to draw the base guards out rather than just blast open the doors.
    -   _The Force Awakens_ has an X-Wing squadron tearing through First Order forces like paper during the battle over Maz Kanata's base, clearing the way to extract most of the focal characters.
    -   In _Rogue One_ X-Wings and U-Wings of Blue Squadron obliterate the entire force of AT-AC Ts that had the ground team dead to right in a single pass, after the sprint through the Scarif shield gate that claimed multiple ships. The U-wings also drop a few squads of reinforcements. Blue Squadron are wiped out with the rest of Rogue One in the end but without their intervention the raid would have failed, and the Rebels would never have been able to destroy the first Death Star.
    -   _The Last Jedi_ has Rey and Chewbacca arriving on Crait in the _Falcon_ during the Resistance's Darkest Hour on Crait. Their Dynamic Entry consists of taking out three TIE fighters with one shot.
-   The climactic battle in _Swiss Family Robinson_ is won when Roberta's grandfather returns in the nick of time with a warship and blasts the pirates to smithereens.
-   _Tears of the Sun_ ends when Bruce Willis' team of Navy SEAL badasses, having just barely survived a battle with a pursuing enemy army, end up chased into a grassy field. Just when all hope seems lost for them and the refugees they have been escorting, a flight of F/A-18 Hornets comes screaming in and liberally applies napalm amongst the enemy ranks. The timing of it also deserves special mention, the SEALs call in air support almost as soon as the battle starts, and the jets _still_ only arrive a the last second.
-   Used severral times in the Transformers Film Series.
    -   In _Transformers (2007)_, the Decepticon Scorponok had several soldiers pinned down and facing imminent death, when they call in two A-10 Warthogs and an AC-130 Spectre. Later in the movie, Megatron is beating the crap out of Optimus, when a bunch of F-22 Raptors swoop in and shoot Megs and Blackout.
    -   _Transformers: Revenge of The Fallen_ features an air strike to help the ground troops trying to hold their position that was represented on-screen with a Guinness Record for the largest explosion Hollywood has ever done. Say what you will about Michael Bay as a director, he knows how to blow shit up.
    -   _Transformers: Dark of the Moon_ has a subversion, as they already know that none of their aircraft could match the Cybertronian aerial fighters (a F-22 Raptor was shot down with little trouble) and thus they staged a wingsuit entry into the city, in this case the "air" support was actual people. But it was played straight somewhat during the climax, not from physical aircraft but from a series of Tomahawk cruise missiles launched from a nearby base thinning out the Decepticon ranks.
-   In a marvelous example of overkill, _True Lies_ has Arnold approaching the terrorists holding out in an office building and proceeds to rip apart the entire floor with an anti-tank weapon on the Harrier-II he was flying.
-   _We Were Soldiers_:
    -   In the final battle scene of the movie as the U.S. soldiers crest the hill they are staring down the barrels of the enemy weapons who are about to shoot them. Just as it looks like they are about to get shot to pieces, you see the enemy getting splattered by rockets and minigun fire from Huey Gunships allowing the Americans to finish storming the enemy positions.
    -   Earlier in the film, the Americans are on the verge of being overrun by the NVA. In a desperation move, they call in a "Broken Arrow", which calls in _all_ available air assets to assist. The NVA get curbstomped, at least for the moment.

    Literature 

-   In _1634: The Baltic War_, one of the USE's "timberclad" warships steams to the rescue of the folks escaping from imprisonment in the Tower of London.
-   _The Alchemist_ by Ken Goddard. When the undercover narcs are pulling the drug deal at the end of the novel, an attempted rip-off is stymied by their pilot turning up in an AH-64 Apache he borrowed from a nearby military base.
-   In a two-for-one hybrid of Gunship Rescue with the Biggest Damn Hero _ever_, Angel City is saved by the timely appearance of the Garuda bird in _The Case of the Toxic Spell Dump_. It qualifies as a ship as well as a hero, because in this Magitek setting, the mighty Garuda is being _outfitted for space travel_ by the setting's analog of N.A.S.A.
-   Another Tom Clancy one in _Clear and Present Danger,_ this time from the perspective of the gunship. A twenty-one-ton Pave Low might make for awesome firepower, but it's not a dedicated gunship, as the crew are keenly aware.
-   In the _Dirk Pitt Adventures_ book _Atlantis Found_, Dirk Pitt and the unarmed icebreaker he came in on are getting pummeled by a U-boat's machine guns and deck gun in Antarctica. They look well and truly screwed until his boss Sandecker pulls some strings and gets the U.S Navy to send the U-boat to the bottom with a destroyer-launched Tomahawk cruise missile.
-   In _The Dresden Files_ novel _Small Favor_ Harry Dresden is saved by Badass mercenary Ms. Gard, who proceeds to gun down demons using a minigun on an illegal Huey. While playing "Ride of the Valkyries" on speakers mounted on the chopper. Even Marcone was very impressed. The best part? It is piloted by an _actual Valkyrie._
    -   There's also Dresden himself, in _Dead Beat_, Harry charges into a zombie horde on top of a reanimated _T. rex_ and rescues the Wardens who are losing miserably.
-   _Eisenhorn_ has a guncutter that turns up at least once per novel. In _Xenos_ when the titular inquisitor is cornered by Glaw, Midas Betancore brings the cutter down and helps Eisenhorn escape with an artefact. In _Malleus_ his daughter Medea saves Eisenhorn from witch-finder Tantalid — "Never argue with a guncutter, asshole". Subverted in _Hereticus_ where Medea flies in to try and save Eisenhorn and company from a Chaos titan, despite Eisenhorn's orders to stay put, and gets shot out of the sky.
-   Also by John Ringo, in _Hell's Faire_, the fourth and final book of the Posleen War series, just as all hope looks lost for the ACS the entire Space Navy shows up in orbit (against orders) and begins Orbital Bombardment of the Posleen positions.
-   _The Heroes of Olympus_ series:
    -   Subverted. The Argo II doesn't get to Camp Jupiter until the day after the invasion.
    -   It does, however, pull off a lot of rescues in _The Mark of Athena_.
-   It happens several times in _Honor Harrington_, which both played this straight and subverted it, depending on the book in question.
-   Though they are intelligent animals and characters in their own right, this is the narrative role of the Eagles in _The Lord of the Rings_, _The Hobbit_, and _The Silmarillion_. Almost every time they show up it's to bail out the heroes from a hopeless battle, rescue anyone who needs rescuing, and turn the tide. Complete with enough power to _wound a god_ in the case of Thorondor.
    -   Lúthien and Huan showing up at Tol-in-Gaurhoth and kicking Sauron's butt. This happens just as Beren is left alone and helpless by the death of Finrod Felagund. It's this, not Deus ex Machina, because the implication is that Finrod knew they were coming.
    -   The Númenoreans pull a literal one on Gilgalad and Elrond during the War of the Elves and Sauron: sailing up the Anduin and relieving the Siege of Imladris. While the elves had asked for help from Númenor, Queen Telperien dithered about whether to help for so long that the situation had gotten quite desperate for the elves before the fleet showed up.
-   Subverted in the _Mass Effect_ prequel novel. A gunship arrives with lasers blazing to save the outnumbered-and-pinned-down soldiers from mercenaries, only to be shot down by the The Dragon bounty-hunter who not only predicted the gunship, but prepped massive anti-aircraft weaponry beforehand.
-   In the Clive Cussler novel _The Mayan Secrets_, at the very end, the townsfolk are ready to be on the receiving end of a major curb-stomp when two attack helicopters arrive, seemingly out of nowhere. Apparently Sam Fargo, one of the main characters, has some secrets in his background.
-   Is used to good effect in the _Mutineer's Moon_ and _Excalibur Alternative_ universes. "Break off _and leave them to us!_"
-   In _Orphanage_ by Robert Buettner, Metzeger combines this with a heroic sacrifice, crashing a gunship into the alien hive to save his friend and his pregnant wife from being killed in a hopeless siege.
-   John Ringo's _Paladin of Shadows_ series features in its later volumes two gorgeous helicopter pilots call-signs "Valkyrie" and "Dragon." Dragon flies a Czech version of a Hind attack helicopter with so much weaponry on it that when she unloads on the bad guys it looks like the helicopter has blown up.
-   Happens a few times in _Parellity_, once by Mobius, and once by the CORE.
-   Ralph Peters's _Red Army_. Soviet close air support with _fuel-air bombs_ destroy the remaining Dutch tanks about to overrun Kryshinin's forward security element.
-   _Red Storm Rising_: Edwards and his men have been discovered, are pinned down and getting torn apart by a Russian squad. Friendly A-7s manage to kill the Russian mortar teams, but are unable to safely hit the assault troops because of their proximity to the Americans. Then Edwards is hit, hears rotor blades and figures it's the Russian Hind from Keflavik... it's not.
-   In _The Salvation War_, during the battle at Hit between the U.S. Army and the invading demon army, the infantry are heavily pressed by the baldricks because their rifles don't do enough damage to drop the invaders, and they have no air support because of the harpy presence....until the harpies have been culled from the skies by massed anti-air fire. Cue the Apaches.
-   In Harry Harrison's alternate history novel _Stars and Stripes Forever_, Washington D.C. is being invaded until the ironclad Avenger arrives to save the day.
-   _Star Wars Legends_:
    -   _Shatterpoint_ played with this trope intensely. Throughout the novel, gunships both repeatedly assault the main characters at the worst possible moments, and rescue a whole bunch of civilians in the nick of time. The climactic sequence involves the rescue cruiser being ambushed, the crippled gunships being saved by Mace Windu commandeering ENEMY gunships, using these in a Trojan horse assault, being Gunship Rescued right back by the enemy air fleet, using one of the gunships stolen earlier as a tank to try to pull off the daring assault, having it destroyed, and having a different set of enemies use another set of aircraft to lure the first enemies into a brutal massacre of civilians. Peace only reigns when everyone sends the damn things home.
    -   Another particularly noticeable example in _Legends_ comes at the end of _Choices of One_. The local Imperial Fleet (including Pellaeon and Thrawn), which Han, Wedge and Leia have been covertly helping are surrounded and badly outgunned by the true Big Bad of this novel. Cue Lord Darth Vader's personal squadron.. You know, the one from _Empire Strikes Back_.
-   Happens in the climax of Jenő Rejtő's novel _The Vanished Cruiser_ with the titular cruiser, unexpectedly emerging on the nearby river and not only dishing out so much needed artillery fire, but also dispatching some troops with machine guns.
-   In Lois McMaster Bujold's _The Vor Game_, the heroes are hopelessly outnumbered when the commander says, "Whatinhell's that? It's too big to be that fast. It's too fast to be that _big_." It's the gunship rescue, is what it is, spearheaded by the Barrayaran Empire's newest, biggest, shiniest battleship, still on it's shakedown cruise, and at forefront of a rapidly-formed and extremely motivated alliance of neighboring Navies. Jointly commanded by the Empire's most famous military tactician (and former Imperial Regent) and the Emperor himself. Once they arrive, and demonstrate that their weapons have three times the effective range of anything else in flight, it's essentially all over bar the mopping up.
-   _The War Against the Chtorr_. After losing his surrogate children the protagonist decides to drive into an alien-infested zone until something eats him, only to have his Colonel Badass girlfriend turn up in a massively-armed jetcopter gunship and blow up the road in front of his vehicle.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Airwolf_ used this _all_ the time, being that the title craft was a gunship.
-   Plenty of cases in _Babylon 5_. A memorable example in "Walkabout", where Sheridan takes the _White Star_ to face off several Shadow vessels. He wants to use Lyta Alexander's Psychic Powers to immobilize the Shadows in order to destroy them. Lyta manages to hold one Shadow ship, while three telepaths on the accompanying Minbari cruiser restrain all but one. Just as it seems the remaining Shadow vessel will blast both the _White Star_ and the Minbari cruiser, a jump point opens, and the Narn cruiser _G'Tok_ appears, blasting its Slow Lasers at the unsuspecting enemy. This outmatches the Shadows to the point of forcing them into retreat, for the first time since the Shadow War opened. _Then_ G'Kar orders the _other_ ships he brought with him into action...
    -   During the battle for Babylon 5's independence, Babylon 5 and two destroyers manage to hold back an EarthForce fleet loyal to the President (losing one of their destroyers in the process). Cue jumpgate opening and a large EarthForce fleet arriving, larger than the one they just barely repelled. Then cue _more_ jump points, with three Minbari _Sharlin_\-class warcruisers, a _White Star_, and a _very_ unhappy Delenn.
        
        **Delenn:** Babylon 5 is under our protection. Withdraw or be destroyed.  
        **Capt. Drake:** Negative, we have authority here. Do not force us to engage your ship.  
        **Delenn:** Why not? Only one human captain has ever survived battle with a Minbari fleet. _He_ is behind me. _You_ are in front of me. If you value your lives, _be somewhere else_.  
        _\[the fleet proceeds to turn tail and get the hell out of there\]_
        
    -   During the battle for Earth at the end of Season 4, the deranged President Clark turns the Earth Defence Grid against the planet itself. The _Agamemnon_, captained by Sheridan, is out of ammo and the only ship close enough to destroy the last remaining weapons system. Sheridan orders ramming speed — at which point the _Apollo_, in a magnificent Heel–Face Turn, comes blazing out of a jump point with all guns firing, saving the hides of both the _Agamemnon_ and Earth itself. Let's not forget that the _Apollo_ had put a cap on this battle, which began with the cinematic _beauty_ in the combined fighting might of Minbari, alien and Earthforce ships and fighters working in destroying the defense grid with astounding might and power in a way never seen before.
-   _Battlestar Galactica_ has just such a moment in the evacuation of New Caprica. The _Galactica_ is going down, it's being pummeled by basestars, it's lost maneuvering thrusters and FTL. Adama has told his crew It Has Been an Honor. Cut back... the Battlestar _Pegasus_ swoops in and destroys one basestar in the first few seconds of firing. The Pegasus then has to take the brunt of the battle and is itself heavily damaged, leading to Lee to conclude Ramming Always Works. It does, killing TWO other basestars.
    -   In the same episode, when the Resistance forces were pinned down by Cylon fire, _Galactica_ comes to the rescue by jumping _into the planet's atmosphere_, launching its Viper wing, and jumping out again in time to avoid going splat<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> .
        
        **Hotdog:** Well, this oughta be different.
        
    -   Lee did it first when he rescued Tyrol, Cally, and Baltar from Centurions on Kobol in the Season 2.
-   In the final episode of _Cowboy Bebop (2021)_, Spike is Forced to Watch Vicious and his men execute Jet and his daughter Kimmie, when suddenly Faye Valentine opens up from outside the building with the guns on her Red Tail, using an infrared imager to target the goons inside without hitting their prisoners.
-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   "The Sontaran Stratagem"/"The Poison Sky" has the _Valiant_. Although it isn't the guns that save the day, but the jetwash from its rotors blowing away the poison in the immediate area's atmosphere.
    -   Danny Boy and his space Spitfires, first in "Victory of the Daleks" and then in "A Good Man Goes to War".
-   _The Expanse_: The _Rocinante_ naturally serves this role often, having been designed as an MCRN fast-attack gunship. Prime examples include in "The Monster and the Rocket" when the Roci shoots down a missile launched at a refugee ship before threatening the UNN and MCRN fleets with mutual assured destruction in order to get the civilians out of the combat zone. Later in "IFF" the Roci rescues the Razorback by again taking out pursuing torpedoes, then using a nuclear blast to blind the much larger UNN warship hunting them long enough to cripple it.
-   Parodied in the _Farscape_ episode "Scratch 'n Sniff" when damsel-in-distress Raxil discovers our heroes preparing to assault the Big Bad's fortress with a couple of pulse pistols.
    
    "Two guns? I mean, I thought you were the great Crichton and D'Argo! I mean, you blew up a Shadow Depository. I mean, I thought you'd bring pelshfer charges...and a plasma bomb...and a really big gunship...but no! You bring nothing! You bring two little weapons that wouldn't kill a negnik!"
    
    -   Talyn often played this role in other episodes, such as "Thanks for Sharing" and the "Liars, Guns and Money" Trilogy.
-   _Firefly_ subverts this trope repeatedly.
    -   Set up and inverted in the original pilot, when During the War, Mal's little group of Independents hang on against impossible odds. You get your moment of Gunship Rescue as the roar of an arriving fleet of aircraft sounds... only to find out that the gunships belong to the other side and they're about to be on the receiving end of all that firepower. Cue the look on Mal's face.
    -   There's a bluffed rescue in the episode "The Train Job", when Wash shows up in _Serenity_ to save the crew from a fight, threatening to "blow another crater in this little moon". _Serenity_'s sudden appearance is apparently so intimidating that the locals back off without stopping to think that, as a transport ship, she doesn't actually have any guns. Jayne laughs at the locals for falling for it.
    -   Played straight in "Safe", before River can be burnt at the stake. _Serenity_ may not be armed, but _Jayne is_. Heavily.
        
        **Preacher:** This is a holy cleansing. You cannot think to thwart God's will.  
        **Mal**: Y'all see the man hanging out of the spaceship with the really big gun? I'm not saying you weren't easy to find... but it was kinda out of our way, and he didn't want to come in the first place. Man's lookin' to kill some folk. So really it's HIS will y'all should worry about thwarting!
        
    -   Subverted yet again in "Heart of Gold" when Mal's plan for _Serenity_ to provide support in a firefight with Weaponized Exhaust is screwed up by the bad guys ambushing Wash and Kaylee in the cargo bay.
-   _Game of Thrones_: Drogon and the other dragons are the closest equivalent _Game of Thrones_ has to this trope. The first one happens in the pits of Meereen where Drogon spontaneously saves Daenerys from the Sons of the Harpy in Season 5. In the penultimate episode of Season 7, Daenerys rescues the Wight-hunting party from the Night King's army of wights by roasting veritable scores of the undead with her dragons. Viserion doesn't survive said rescue raid, however.
    -   _House of the Dragon_: Subverted with the Velaryon soldier who's crucified by the Crabfeeder. He's overjoyed when Daemon Targaryen enters the scene on the back of his dragon Caraxes and expects to be saved and for them to annihilate the Crabfeeder's forces... only for him to end up crushed under the claws of Caraxes.
-   A rather archaic appearance of the trope happens in the _Horatio Hornblower_ TV series episode "The Frogs and the Lobsters" when the main characters and a platoon of marines are trapped on a beach and about to be killed by the French, at least, until the HMS _Indefatigable_ opens up. Ocean vessel variant of the trope.
-   _JAG_:
    -   At the final climax in the first season episode "Scimitar", Harm and Meg while driving a limousine are chased by Iraqis in a Soviet made Hind. But at the Kuwait border a U.S. Army Apache saves the day.
    -   Also in the fifth season episode "The Bridge at Kang So Ri", two U.S. Air Force F-15 Eagles out powers two North Korean Migs.
-   An episode of _NCIS: Los Angeles_ has Kensi and Deeks pinned down by mercenaries near the Mexican border with a pair of kidnapped Marines. Cue Sam and Callen coming over the horizon in a helicopter with Sam sitting in the open door with his M4.
-   _Power Rangers RPM_: Gem and Gemma's or (Hiroto and Miu) debut as involves two gunships that look like a giant chicken and a tiger.
    -   _Power Rangers Samurai_: Done with the Samurai Battlewing in the episode "The Rescue".
-   The Marines rescue the titular team in _SEAL Team_ with three gunships. As the SEA Ls are pinned down, a Huey fires its door mounted machine gun, suppressing the enemy horde. A Cobra gunship then blows them up with its nose cannon and rockets, after which an Osprey lands and deploys an extraction team that provide covering fire while the SEA Ls run to the tilt rotor and board it.
-   _Stargate SG-1_ and _Stargate Atlantis_. In fact, the _Daedalus_\-class' service record is about 50% Gunship Rescue moments.
    -   Hell, Atlantis itself has a moment of this during the series finale.
    -   Also happens with the _Beliskner_ in the episode "Thor's Chariot", where Thor's flagship comes down from the clouds and beams away all enemy Jaffa and destroys every Ha'tak piece-by-piece.
    -   "Into the Fire" has the survivors of SG-1, -3, -5, -6, and -11 held prisoner by Jaffa. Then the gate opens and Teal'c and General Hammond fly through in a modified death glider that blasts apart the turrets guarding them while a squad of rebel Jaffa led by Bra'tac comes through the gate.
    -   Another episode involves the heroes trying to get the Asgard of a parallel reality to pull a Gunship Rescue to save that reality's Earth. Viewers are treated to same shot as in "Thor's Chariot", except that _Beliskner_ is hovering over the SGC.
    -   In "Avenger 2.0" Jack and Teal'c get tired of waiting for the gate network to be fixed and hijack an Al'kesh just in time to save Carter and Dr. Felger from an army of Jaffa.
    -   _Lost City, Part 2_, the Season 7 finale has SG-1 in a small, unprotected Tel'tak using a modified ring transporter to drill through a mile of ice in Antarctica and Anubis's fleet rapidly approaching their position. The _Prometheus_, with General Hammond as commander, and a squadron of F-302's show up and the _Prometheus_ _parks_ above the Tel'tak to defend their position.
        -   The _Prometheus_ herself gets rescued by a Big Damn Gunstation once O'Neill launches a giant swarm of glowing squid missiles that completely destroy the attacking Goa'uld fleet, including Anubis's giant ship.
    -   Defied in "Camelot." The Ori motherships have come through the Supergate and are curb-stomping the combined forces of several Ha'tak vessels, Asgard ships, and Earth ships. Teal'c comes in raining fire on the Ori with three ships of his own… which proceed to get curb stomped just as easily.
    -   At the end of the first _Atlantis_ episode with the Genii they attempt to double-cross the Atlantis team and steal their Puddle-Jumper, which Major Sheppard had earlier told them was the only one the Expedition had...
        
        **Sheppard:** Puddle-Jumpers 2 and 3, execute.
        
    -   Averted and then played straight in an early episode of _Atlantis_: When Sheppard engages in a 12 hour game of cat and mouse with a particularly powerful Wraith, and it's not going at all well, he's relieved to hear Lt. Ford call him on the radio to say that Ford's coming with reinforcements and heavier weapons, and Sheppard compliments Ford on the "nice timing" of the rescue. Ford radios back that he and the reinforcements are still twenty minutes away, to which Sheppard replies "In that case, your timing stinks Lieutenant. Get here when you can." But the big guns still turn the tide in killing off the Wraith.
    -   Played straight with the arrival of the _Daedalus_ itself in the first season finale.
-   _Star Trek_:
    -   _Star Trek: The Next Generation_'s Grand Finale had Riker flying in the new-and-improved _Enterprise_\-D which is capable of ignoring the Klingon shields and blasting several holes in their ships with the huge super-phaser.
        -   Riker would do this again about the Zheng We in the Season 1 finale of Star Trek Picard, jumping in with a fleet of Federation ships to see of the Romulans
        -   And a third time in the Season 1 finale of Lower Decks, aboard the Titan this time, jumping in to rescue the Cerritos from the Packleds. Riker makes a habit of this.
    -   Shran's ship performs this role in the Season 3 finale of _Star Trek: Enterprise_.
    -   The _Defiant_ does this twice in the Mirror Universe two-parter in _Enterprise_'s fourth season.
    -   An entire fleet of Klingon ships did this at the episode "Sacrifice of Angels".
    -   To quote General Martok in _Call to Arms_, "Continue your work, Commander, _I_ will handle the Jem'Hadar."
        -   Who says there's never a Klingon around when you need one?
    -   The Klingons get to do it again in the TNG episode _The Defector_. The _Enterprise,_ alone in the Romulan Neutral Zone, is surrounded by two huge Romulan warbirds (each of which alone would nearly be a match for the _Enterprise_). Picard gives a Rousing Speech and _three_ Klingon Birds-of-Prey decloak to reveal that it was actually the Romulans who are surrounded and outgunned.
        
        **Commander Tomalak**: You will still not survive our assault.  
        **Picard**: And you will not survive ours. Shall we die together?
        
    -   In the _Discovery_ episode "The Butcher's Knife Cares not for the Lamb's Cry", the USS _Discovery_ uses the experimental spore drive to appear right above the mining colony, as the Klingon birds-of-prey are preparing to finish it off, and blasting several ships before they figure out what's going on. Rather than fight them conventionally, Captain Lorca decides to teach the Klingons a lesson, while showing off his new toy. He lets the Klingons get very close, while strafing the hull of the _Discovery_, then has the ship "spore" out, leaving behind a cluster of primed photon torpedoes that obliterate the rest of the Klingon force. All this takes a few seconds. By the time the colonists look up to see what happened, the _Discovery_ is gone, and they're left wondering who saved them.
        -   This, unfortunately, fails in "Si Vis Pacem, Para Bellum", where the _Discovery_ comes to the aid of the USS _Gagarin_, which is being pounded by Klingon ships that have been equipped with cloaking devices. A Klingon ship launches two torpedoes at the crippled _Gagarin_. Lorca orders the _Discovery_ placed between the _Gagarin_ and the torpedoes, but they manage to intercept only one. The other one obliterates the _Gagarin_. This is when Starfleet decides that something needs to be done to counter the cloaking device.

    Music 

-   At the ending of "Cows With Guns", the eponymous cows are rescued from "ten thousand coppers" by "chickens in choppers".
-   In "Dawson's Christian" by Leslie Fish, the titular spaceship comes to the rescue when Hera's Dream, an unarmed freighter, is attacked by pirates.
-   "Hell Patrol" by Judas Priest, a tribute to the US Air Force during The Gulf War.

    Podcasts 

-   In Chapter 36 of _We're Alive_, The Colony looks to be on the brink of collapse under the assault of the "Little Ones" when Michael and crew arrive in the Pelican an proceed to mow down zombies with an M134.

    Tabletop Games 

-   In _Rocket Age_ during the Trail of the Scorpion, the heroes can be rescued from a hostile Martian city-state by a mixed force of British, US and Europan space ships.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_ has several.
    -   In the fiction, during the siege of Terra, primarch Rogal Dorn seemingly deserted his post, only to return in the nick of time aboard a city-sized floating superweapon.
    -   Apocalypse games using flyers can throw this out a lot, especially now that it is (slightly) more affordable to have an entire Elysian army mounted in Valkyries. One can imagine the variety of scenarios that could be put together; a small Imperial Guard garrison set to hold a fortress against an overwhelming tide of Tyranids until a Space Marine company with a Thunderhawk swoops in to the rescue...Or a band of Eldar Guardians holding the line until half a dozen Aspect Warrior-laden Vampires drop out of the sky and start opening Webway portals all over the battlefield...

    Video Games 

-   You are the Gunship Rescue several times throughout the _Ace Combat_ series. The fourth installment's Operation Bunker Shot plays this twice in the same mission. The first is you doing this for the amphibious assault forces; the second was the Eruseans attempting this at the end of the mission with their flight of A-10s showing up.
    -   The most triumphant example is in Mission 12 of Ace Combat 6, where you're heavily outnumbered and surrounded on all sides — and then _every single allied squadron you've helped shows up to return the favor._
-   In _Apache Air Assault_, you ARE the Gunship Rescue most of the time.
-   In _Battlefield: Bad Company 2_ the main characters are about to be executed by an improvised firing squad in a cutscene, and just as the command to fire is about to be given Flynn the pacifist pilot flies over the cliff edge in an armed Blackhawk and unleashes hell on the bad guys. Accompanied by a few appropriate words, of course. Also happens in one of the multiplayer trailers, where american soldiers are pursued by russians in a hectic vehicle chase, they run into a cliff and are seemingly cut off from escape until a Blackhawk comes from below, turning to face its mounted minigun towards the pursuers. Braaammm!
-   Somewhat subverted in _Battlefield 3_ expansion _Armored Kill_ : There are Gunships, they can rain down instant death, but the fact that it's slow moving, hard to spot the people down on the ground, and require trajectory calculation just make the Gunship a huge target.
-   _Bloody Wolf_ finishes the game with your current commando escaping enemy territory after killing the General, only to be cornered by mooks, with a helicopter bearing down upon him. But it turns out that helicopter was commandeered by the _other_ commando, who then mows down all surrounding mooks before picking up the player character. Cue ending credits.
-   The final stage of _Caliber .50_, where you infiltrate the enemy airbase, and radio for help. In the stage's last area, a US Army chopper will arrive and provide cover fire as you try forcing your way past enemies, but you'll need to kill enough mooks to allow the chopper to safely land. The game ends once you got onboard.
-   _Call of Duty 4_ featured at least three Gunship Rescue scenes: one is in the USMC mission "The Bog", featuring two Super Cobras coming to The Squad's rescue when it's overwhelmed by enemies; the second features a _Lockheed AC-130_ gunship appearing just before the team faces a enemy armored platoon (it then also covers their subsequent escape); and the third one is in the very end, when a Havoc arrives to rescue Soap in the last damn moment. There's also a mission where you can call in a Mi-28 at will, so whether it invokes a Big Damn Heroes moment depends entirely on you.
    -   A very similar scene to the ending of COD4 appears in _Modern Warfare 2_, when Roach and Ghost escape from Markarov's Dacha, chased by dozens of Russian Mooks. 30 meters from the extraction point, you get knocked out by a grenade right next to you, only to awaken while being dragged away by the collar by Ghost. As you try to take some more enemies down through your blurry gaze, the ringing in the ears turns into the unmistakeably sound of miniguns warming up and a chopper flies over your head, completely shredding the pursuing soldiers to pieces. But once you're up on your feet and handed the retrieved data to General Shepherd, he shoots Roach and Ghost and burns their bodies in a ditch.
    -   In _MW3_ The Lockheed AC-130 from the first game returns, in which you have to blast free a path out of Paris for the soldiers who captured Volk. Earlier in the level you can throw purple smoke grenades to call an airstrike, so again whether it invokes a Big Damn Heroes moment depends entirely on you. At the end of the level, the Delta Force soldiers are making a stand on the Pont d'Iéna against vastly superior Russian forces with heavy tank backup. Just as you start to run out of ammo and the tanks close in, American bombers come in and obliterate the Russian forces. Unfortunately this causes the Eiffel Tower to collapse. In Sierra Leone you can take remote control of the gun on Nikolais gunship, and in Berlin you are given a target designator for an A-10, "the tanks natural enemy".
    -   _Black Ops_ has _two_ in the mission "The Defector", one by a gatling-armed Huey chopper that clears the path for your squad and the other by a flight of F4 Phantoms covering your escape.
    -   There is also a Gunship Rescue in _Call of Duty 2_. Dog Company has to hold Hill 400 against an overwhelming amount of German infantry, supported by tanks and half-tracks. After doing this for several minutes, a flight of P-51 Mustangs will finally come to the Rangers' rescue, forcing the German troops to break off their attack.
    -   Also used in _Call of Duty: World at War_ in the mission "Black Cats". The titular "Black Cat" is a PBY Catalina flying boat that's landed on the water to pick up survivors of a sunken destroyer. Your character is trying to keep attacking Zeroes off the plane while it tries to get airborne, but the gun turrets are scripted to run out of ammunition as one final wave of enemy planes is inbound. At the last possible second, a squadron of Navy Corsairs show up and clear a path for your escape.
        -   An example of a Gunship Rescue for the Gunship Rescue. You had just arrived on the scene as the fleet was being attacked by the Japanese, doing your best to fend off the Zeroes and the Japanese torpedo boats while you did your rescue work.
-   _Cold Winter_ have this happening in the final cutscene. You sabotaged Project _Cold Winter_, saved the world, and makes an escape as terrorists chases after you. When you reach a balcony with no escape, suddenly you're rescued by a military chopper who uses it's turrets to wipe out your pursuers.
-   _COD 2 Spanish Civil War Mod_: In one mission, your armoured car gets ambushed and destroyed by a Republican tank. Then you crawl out of the wreckage and find yourself in an open area with no cover, the tank aiming at you and left without any means to damage it.... but the enemy vehicle is suddenly destroyed by one of your dive bombers.
-   Arguably, any RTS where you can call in an air attack to bail out your ground forces can count. _Company of Heroes_'s Strafing Runs from Airborne Company P-47s have been known to turn the tide of many a game. In the expansion pack, the Panzer Elite can request Henschel close air support aircraft for a similar purpose. The Soviets in the _Eastern Front_ fan-made expansion take it up a notch in typical Russian style by calling in an entire squadron of Il-2 Sturmoviks. Nothing says "Gunship Rescue" like watching Panther and Tiger tanks disintegrate under a storm of aerial rockets.
-   Mission 3 from _Dawn of War: Winter Assault_. Your Imperial Guard force is holding the line against the biggest Ork WAAAGH! you've probably ever seen for 10 minutes. As the timer counts down, a Squiggoth charges your lines and proceeds to dominate your pitiful force. Countdown ends: cue Baneblade tank, a rolling engine of destruction that saves your ass and easily devastates the Squiggoth and remaining Orks single handedly.
-   In the arcade game _Dungeons & Dragons: Shadow over Mystara,_ the heroes defeat the final boss, only for it to start getting back up for a final attack. But, before it can, an entire fleet of Elvish airships shows up and bombs it into the ground for good.
-   There is a battle in _EarthBound Beginnings_ where your party is saved by the giant tank that rolls up and kills the enemy.
-   _Fallout 3_, in the DLC Broken Steel: After you set the Enclave mobile base to self-destruct, your guys show up in a captured Enclave VTOL.
    -   Enclave Vertibirds in general employ the villainous version of this trope, coming out of nowhere and laying down all sorts of suppression fire on everything in sight. Amplified by the fact that, for the most part, nobody but the Enclave has functional cars let alone military gunships.
-   This can happen in the final battle of _Fallout: New Vegas_ twice. If you help the Boomers get their B-29 bomber, they'll use it against whatever faction you're fighting. If you manage to get the help of the Enclave Remnants, they'll show up via a Vertibird.
-   _Fallout 4_:
    -   Once you join up with the Brotherhood of Steel, you can summon a Vertibird gunship with the Signal Grenades. Also, completely siding with either the Railroad or the Minutemen and completing their main quests in the right manner will have them provide you with Signal Grenades to summon a captured Brotherhood Vertibird.
    -   The Brotherhood do this regularly with their Vertibirds appearing in random locations in the Commonwealth Wasteland, providing either fire support and/or dropping off their troopers, similar to the Enclave in _3_. This only happens after killing Conrad Kellogg in the main quest.
    -   The Gunners happen to possess at least one Vertibird in their arsenal (presumably stolen or salvaged from an undisclosed wreck somewhere) and will appear if you decide to travel to the South Boston area and have hostile relations with them.
-   Some _Final Fantasy_ games (e.g. 3/6 and 7) give the airship owner a special attack in the form of a bombing run by the party's airship.
    -   Also is in _Final Fantasy IX_ The main character's airship is facing down a large flight of silver dragons when Lindblum's Aerial Fleet Arrives and takes them on to open the way for the heroes.
    -   Another example, from _Final Fantasy X_: right before Yuna is about to be forced to marry Seymour, her guardians arrive, at high speed, in the ridiculously cool airship which is on fire from the previous bossfight, and then slide down the airship's grappling lines to the rescue, under heavy fire.
-   _Cirisis Core: Final Fantasy VII_ has the Air Strike Limit Break invoked by lining up Tseng's image in the DMW slots. He flies in on a helicopter, shoots up your enemies, then launches some rockets/missiles. Unfortunately, it doesn't ignore enemy Vitality.
-   _Freelancer_ has many of these. In one instance you and Juni are cornered by _half the Liberty Navy_ as wanted criminals, and you're outgunned so badly it's not even funny. Just when things are at their bleakest, Captain Marcus Walker charges to the rescue in his cruiser, blowing away a _battleship_ with its Wave-Motion Gun, buying you and Juni precious time to escape.
-   Happens some in _FreeSpace_. One mission has an enemy ship about to open fire on a station you are protecting (an enemy ship too powerful for your fighters to handle), when all of a sudden, the very-aptly-named _Colossus_ warps in and blasts the crap out of it.
-   In _Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter_, Captain Mitchell (the player) is given the chance to direct gunships at armored targets at various point in the game. However, there is a deliberate invocation of the trope in the infamous Plaza del Angel mission: after the US Embassy has been blown up by insurgents, the Ghost squad must protect the dignitaries — and the "football" — from a sheer _onslaught_ of enemy forces. These start as endless on-foot infantry... then a couple of jeeps... then an APV... Then you see a _tank_ just a few blocks away, and all of a sudden the ruins of the embassy are demolished by cannon fire... Then you hear the roar of helicopter blades and the tank _disintegrates_ as a US gunship descends from _freaking nowhere_, giving Mitchell and his squad the chance to evacuate on a Blackhawk, providing a glorious finish to the most intense firefight in the entire game.
-   _Grand Theft Auto_:
    -   Whether you choose the "Deal" or "Revenge" path in _Grand Theft Auto IV_, the final battle leads to a pretty much unwinnable chase — Niko is either going after a helicopter while in a boat or a boat while on a motorbike. Until Little Jacob swoops down in an aptly-named Annihilator helicopter to give him a lift and provide supporting fire.
    -   Happens in _Grand Theft Auto IV: The Ballad of Gay Tony_ during the final mission. Luis is on a motorcycle being chased by assassins when Yusuf shows up in a _gold plated helicopter_ and blows up the assassins' vehicles.
-   _Halo_:
    -   _Halo 3_ had a Pelican come in to take out Covenant ships that are giving you trouble. Subverted later; when thousands of Sentinel drones are rising in the air and Sergeant Johnson is preparing to engage them with the turret on the Pelican, Guilty Spark alerts the good guys that the Sentinels are on their side, and are ready to help them against Covenant forces.
        -   A cavalry version happens earlier when the _Shadow of Intent_ arrives and Elites start dropping into to help you against the Flood, showing that they have switched sides.
        -   The scene where Miranda Keyes goes to rescue Johnson by piloting a Pelican through a _giant tower's window_. However, it ends up being subverted when Miranda is killed by Truth.
    -   A variant of it happens in _Halo 2_. The Master Chief rides a bomb into a Covenant Assault Carrier, destroying it. Unfortunately, he is now plummeting to Earth. Fortunately, Miranda Keyes maneuvers her frigate to "catch" him.
        
        **Johnson:** For a brick, he flew pretty good.
        
    -   In the _Halo Wars 2_ beta, Captain Cutter could call in a squadron of 4 Pelican gunships that circle an area, obliterating all enemies with volley after volley of guided missiles, paired with withering rakes of fire from 8 gatling guns.
-   In the _Henry Stickmin Series_, some of the options involve asking helicopter pilot Charles for help with mixed results. These range from having him use some sort of weapon to him deciding to crash his chopper into you.
-   _Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II_: At the end of Level 1, Kyle has shot off 8t88's arm, but the droid has escaped in an Imperial shuttle... and then a TIE Bomber appears and shoots at Kyle. Fortunately, Jan Ors shows up in the _Moldy Crow_ to destroy it and save Kyle's life.
-   _Jets'n'Guns_ does this once with the USS _Impotence_: Just as the player ship is about to be overwhelmed by enemy forces, it arrives and detonates five ion torpedoes _that completely clear the entire screen of everything_ (save the player). Even the music changes to reflect this.
-   You can subvert this in _Just Cause 2_. If you case enough chaos (read: blow up a military base single-handedly) the enemy will send in helicopters as their Gunship Rescue. This would work really well, since they are armed with minguns and occasionally rocket launchers, if only you didn't have your grappling hook, as this allows you to hijack the helicopeter and wreak even more destruction (read: blow up two more bases, then jump out and jack another helicopter on the way down).
-   A common sight in the _Mass Effect_ series:
    -   Near the end of _Mass Effect_, Shepard can order the Fifth Fleet to rescue the Council aboard the _Destiny Ascension_. Its a Gunship Rescue for the Citadel regardless, but the _Destiny Ascension_ is only saved if you feel like it.
    -   In _Mass Effect 2_:
        -   Archangel's recruitment mission has this, too, on the bad guys' side. Depending on the choices you made earlier, it may or may not be completely repaired. Samara's recruitment mission and Kasumi's loyalty mission have the same thing for the bad guys.
        -   During the ending cutscene, after killing the Human-Reaper, Shepard and his/her squad are on the run from the overwhelming horde of Collectors. Just as you reach a dead-end leading into space, the _Normandy_ swoops in from above and you make an epic low-gravity leap to safety (or not). Not an entirely classic example, since _Normandy_ actually doesn't have any weapons she can safely deploy at that moment, but unless you fared _really_ badly up to that point, she is still carrying the ten toughest badasses in the galaxy ready to cover you.
    -   And in _Mass Effect 3_:
        -   The _Normandy_ pulls this off again during the Action Prologue, where they obliterate the Cannibals about to over-run Shepard and Anderson's position.
        -   On Tuchunka, you are prevented from taking any side routes, and are forced to charge _straight at_ a Reaper. The Reaper charges its weapon (fully capable of incinerating) you...and then the Turian fighter squadron (which most players probably forgot about) flies in and starts shooting it. They are far too weak to destroy it, but they do distract it and save you.
        -   Shepard flies in on a shuttle and uses a mounted gun to save Admiral Koris.
        -   A villainous example is found with Kai Leng, who during your first boss battle with him will call up a gunship to provide cover fire while he recharges his shields.
        -   At the end of the game, the entire allied fleet arriving to retake Earth, consisting of every single faction Shepard has gathered in the game. It's even better if the _Destiny Ascension_ arrives to return the favor for saving her in part one: while she is not shown doing anything awesome, she nonetheless makes up for it by being an awe-inspiring sight completely dwarfing every other vessel of the fleet.
-   _MechCommander_: the final Cut Scene of the first game involves a _Drop Ship_ Rescue: on the verge of victory, the protagonists' command lance are suddenly ambushed by a desperate and overwhelming Clan Smoke Jaguar counterattack, which is just as suddenly interrupted by several Draconis Combine dropships firing naval cannons into the attackers and then disgorging a vast army of Humongous Mecha onto the field. The stunned protagonists are informed that this was the last remnant of the Jaguars on Port Arthur, and that the planet was secured. \[1\]
-   The _Medal of Honor_ 2010 reboot has one in the form of 2 Apache helicopters coming to the rescue of Army Rangers who have been ambushed at the foot of a mountain. Particularly poignant as the _four_ Army Rangers (well, three Rangers and one Air Support Tech) had already spent minutes and most of their ammo waiting for reinforcement, only to call off their own troops, as their support would only arrive in time to walk into another ambush after the squad was killed. The four resign themselves to their fate as their ammo quite literally runs out and their cover is completely blown away… and _then_ the gunships show up.
-   _Metal Gear_:
    -   _Metal Gear 2: Solid Snake_ ends with such a rescue, as Snake and Holly escape from Zanzibarland.
    -   _Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots_ has quite a few, a notable one being near the end, where the Navy shows up with a formerly mothballed battleship to save Snake from the super-submarine Outer Haven.
    -   _Metal Gear Solid V: Ground Zeroes_ features this as a _gameplay mechanic_ with Morpho the support helicopter, which can be called in for an emergency extraction if neccessary. Subverted in that calling it into a high-danger zone runs the risk of it being shot out of the sky. One Mission even revolves around it, having Snake provide air support from the chopper while an Intel Operative modeled after and voiced by _Hideo Kojima himself_ makes his way to the landing zone.
    -   The support helicopter returns in _Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain_, now code-named Pequod. Unlike Morpho, Pequod can also be used to provide fire support as well as extraction, and can be upgraded with more resilient armor to prevent it from being shot down so easily.
-   Averted throughout the _Metal Slug_ series, where the gunship belongs to General Morden.
-   _Ninja Gaiden II_ had this occur in an arena battle almost exactly like _Star Wars_.
-   Happens a lot in _Operation Flashpoint_ and _ARMA_ missions, due to the inherent power of helicopter gunships against tanks and infantry. In a rare example of this being used against the good guys, the climax of one mission in the Resistance expansion has your guerrilla group abandon the armored vehicles you captured in the previous mission and flee into the woods when you come under attack by Soviet Mi-24 attack helicopters.
-   The climax of _Pilotwings_ sees you flying a gunship to rescue your instructors and a political prisoner. It's also an Unexpected Gameplay Change, since they're the only missions you fly the gunship in.
-   This happens all the time in _Planetside_ — often, as one faction is about to lose a base, a large tank column or group of Liberators and Galaxies will reinforce the base, saving it from being captured.
-   Inverted at the end of _Ranbow Six: Vegas 2_. The player, Bishop, orders his team to stand down while he goes to face off against the Big Bad. He's in a white shirt carrying a handgun, and you're fully armed and armored... this'll be an opportunity to Pay Evil unto Evil. And then his own Gunship Rescue shows up, and you have to distract it for a while until your allies can shoot it down.
-   Subverted in _Red Alert 3: Paradox_: it's stated that the Harbinger gunship was sent to attack a prison camp holding a high-value prisoner. The gunship did indeed singlehandedly destroy the defenses, the ground forces, the camp... unfortunately, it also destroyed the prisoner as well. The scandal was such that the Harbinger project was shelved indefinitely (to explain why the Harbinger, like all Uprising units, are absent from Paradox).
-   _Resident Evil_:
    -   _Resident Evil 4_ has a gunship come and help the player deal with a lot of zombified enemies. Which is then promptly subverted when it gets hit by a well-aimed RPG and is destroyed.
    -   Happens again in _Resident Evil 5_, only this time with flying Plagas instead of a missile.
    -   Inverted in the opening of _Resident Evil 6_ where Leon and Helena are fired upon by a helicopter right after they barely survived an explosion. Played straight when later it is revealed said helicopter was actually piloted by Ada and was helping them by shooting at the zombies around them.
-   _Scarface: The World Is Yours_ has some missions where the enemy calls in a chopper to take Tony down.
-   In _Splinter Cell: Conviction_, in the Michigan reservoir level, on your way to tag the second generator for the EMP an enemy helicopter shows up to give Sam trouble. Fortunately, Vic's chopper shows up after you tag the second generator and blows the enemy heli away.
-   _StarCraft_:
    -   Subverted in the opening cinematic to _Starcraft: Brood War_, wherein the Gunship Rescue is seen hovering overhead... and then _leaves_ without firing a shot, abandoning the marines below to the fury of the Zerg Swarm.
    -   In _StarCraft II_, the _Hyperion's_ first appearance takes the Brood War example and does it right. By the time it arrives your base is being completely overrun by Zerg, with Creep Tumors falling from the sky and Nydus Worms erupting right inside your base... Then the _Hyperion_ drops in like a meteor and rains _hell_ down on them. They do it again in a cinematic near the end of the campaign, although in this case it's a squadron of Banshee gunships instead of a capital ship.
-   _Star Fox: Assault_ has an Enemy Mine variant of this. During the Corneria mission, Fox is ambushed on a rooftop by the Aparoids. Suddenly, Wolf appears piloting his Wolfen and makes short work of the bugs, while also flying underneath to catch Fox when he's forced to jump off the building. When Fox questions him about this, Wolf replies "If anyone's gonna tan your hide, it's gonna be me."
-   At one point in _Star Wars: Republic Commando_ the squad prepares to make their Last Stand and to Take Them With Us. And then the Acclamator assault ship _Arrestor_ drops from Hyperspace to save the day. It's a Subverted Trope, however; the _Arrestor_ is out-gunned by the Trade Federation battleship and you need to get the _Prosecutor's_ weapons back online to support it or else it will be destroyed.
    -   This seems to happen at least once per campaign. On Geonosis, a gunship blasts a hole in the side of a ship that's about to self destruct, allowing the player and his squad to escape. Later on Kashyyyk, a gunship shows up just after numerous Mook Makers are dropped virtually on top of the squad.
-   A _Super Robot Wars_ staple, with the catch that the "guns" are also your party. You're given a small group of units and told to take out around ten enemies. Once those are out, a horde appears, possibly with a boss... at which point your ship also appears and you get to deploy the forces you've already collected.
-   Happens in _Syphon Filter: The Omega Strain_ after holding the line at Taherir Palace. In this case, you have to physically jump to the helicopter, if you miss, you fall to your death and fail the mission.
-   The TCS _Mount St Helens_, in _Wing Commander IV: The Price of Freedom_, steps up to bat for this trope, jumping in from Sol System with Captain Eisen in command, to engage its sister ship, the _Vesuvius_, just as the _Vesuvius_ was about to blow the player's carrier to dustbunnies. However, as the _Mount St Helens_ wasn't completed before Eisen hijacked it, things didn't go quite as well as hoped, though they did still delay the _Vesuvius_ long enough for Blair to slip in ahead of Admiral Tolwyn, for the final showdown.
-   In _World in Conflict_, the heavy attack helicopters. Their only purpose in the game is dishing out Death from Above to everything that moves and has wrong colors on it, meaning that in any given multiplayer match, the Heavy Air players will end up pulling off Gunship Rescues repeatedly. Is it any surprise that the Separate, but Identical heavy chopper models of the Soviets and the U.S. are Mi-24 Hind and AH-64 Apache? The Tactical Aids can be this, if applied correctly, particularly the Heavy Air Support.
    -   In the singleplayer campaign, when your battalion is heavily outnumbered during the Battle of Pine Valley, critically-low on ammunition and with Colonel Sawyer ordering a retreat to the beach, the USS Missouri arrives and rains death on the Soviets.
-   _World of Warcraft's_:
    -   The Halls Of Reflection instance ends with one. After fleeing from the Lich King, the players and Jaina Proudmoore (Sylvanas for Horde) find themselves at a dead end. Just as he prepares to kill you and your leader, your faction's gunship shows up and buries him in a pile of rubble.
    -   The Alliance's attempt to invoke this trope accidentally results in the awakening of the Sha, and kicks off the Mists of Pandaria expansion. Mostly because Garrosh Hellscream can't resist following them and attacking them: even though the ship in question is a lightly armed ship crewed mostly by Theramore marines _who are neutral_. To top it all off: it turns out that the person they were trying to rescue, Prince Anduin Wrynn, doesn't really need it.
    -   Sylvanas and Varian attempt a literal one of these at the Broken Shore in the lead up the Legion expansion. Alliance forces led by Tyrande Whisperwind, and Horde forces led by Warchief Vol'jin, were facing certain defeat after the shattering death of Tirion Fordring. Suddenly, Alliance and Horde gunships appear in the sky. However: Vol'jin is mortally wounded, forcing Sylvanas to retreat, which in turn forces Varian to sacrifice himself so that the Alliance can leave.
        -   Later in the same expansion: Lothraxxion and the paladin player pull one of these on the priest player, during the Order Hall campaigns. The priests are about to be overwhelmed by Legion attackers who have found their hidden base. Then suddenly the paladins show up out of the blue, having been warned by X'era of the attack.
        -   In a horrifying subversion, the green dragon Ysera's attempt to pull one of these on Malfurion Stormrage ends with her forced Face–Heel Turn instead.
    -   During the Battle for Lordaeron the Alliance is on the verge of routing after Sylvanas unleashed the Blight. At the last moment Jaina Proudmoore flies in on her enchanted galleon, cleanses the blight with a single spell, and blasts a hole in the keep's walls with her cannons. Seeing this, the Alliance rallies and pushes into the city.
-   A couple of wacky examples occur in the _Battle for Azeroth_ expansion to _Worldof Warcraft_.
    -   When the Horde troop ship carrying Princess Talanji comes near the island of Kul Tiras, the Alliance navy also happens to be in the area. A chase ensues, and the Alliance are about to surround the Horde ship. However, Talanji calls on her loa (patron spirit) Rezan and a spectral dinosaur attacks the Alliance fleet covering the Horde entrance into Zandalar, Talanji's home.
    -   Lady Ashvane betrays the Lord Admiral of Kul Tiras and attacks the harbor with a pirate fleet. The Kul Tiran navy is forced to fight inside their harbor, and the walls of the city are under attack as well, and she has summoned some nasties as well. New Lord Admiral Jaina Proudmoore has to take matters into her own hands, summoning back her brother who has been lost in a mystical fog for twenty years. He comes in behind the pirates and pretty handily turns the tables on Lady Ashvane and her cronies.
-   In the _Worms_ turn based attack games one of the attacks you can choose is calling in a bomb drop.
-   _Zombie Gunship_ has your AC-130 protecting your away team from hordes of zombies as they scavenge for useable scrap in a Zombie Apocalypse. Your gunship also has to save your base occasionally from overwhelming tides of undead trying to overrun it.

    Web Animation 

-   Hilariously played with in _Red vs. Blue_:
    
    "I would say that was the cavalry, but I've never seen a line of horses crash into the battlefield from outer space before."
    

    Webcomics 

-   Early on in _Dubious Company_, Walter steers his heavily armed airship around in an attempt to do this for Sal. Unfortunately, his airship is wooden and Izor has a squad of mages with him, forcing Walter to retreat and think of a better plan.
-   The climax of _A Miracle of Science_, though it was fairly obviously coming. In a bit of a twist, however, the gunship fleet only guarantees everyone's physical safety, and the main character still risks his life to Save the Villain (or rather, the villain's sanity).
-   _Schlock Mercenary_, troops from the company on the ground have on occasion been rescued by close air support provided by their home ship, as shown here and here, for two examples.

Followed immediately by,

-   In the "Dead Dogs" arc of _Skin Horse_, the team and Sweetheart's pack are facing off against a horde of werewolves. Sweetheart is in the middle of her Rousing Speech when Nick, who'd been left behind at the pack's base, shows up with massive reinforcements.

    Web Original 

-   Subverted in Season 8 of _Acquisitions Incorporated_: With the party trapped inside Dragonspear Castle by two large green dragons, The Intern Viari brings back help in form of the Acquisitions Inc. Battle Balloon, equipped with all kinds of dragon-killing weaponry and crewed by six gnome automatons. However, Viari decides to dramatically leap off onto one of the dragons' back, while the gnomes prove too dumb to operate said weaponry, so the Balloon just floats idly above the castle, while the party somehow manages to slay the dragons and their cohorts on their own. The airship's weaponry comes in helluva handy a bit later, though, when the party accidentally flies into a massive aerial battle between two dragon factions.

    Western Animation 

-   _Avatar: The Last Airbender_ had a dramatic reversal with the airships the Fire Nation had built, premiering in the pivotal "Day Of Black Sun."
    -   Also a more traditional one with the use of a War Balloons in the episode "The Northern Air Temple" to protect those living at the Temple. Especially when the Fire Nation thinks _they're_ the ones being reinforced, thanks to the insignia on the balloon. They aren't.
-   A handful of times in _Adventures of the Galaxy Rangers_. "New Frontier" where Kidd's ship swoops in and takes out some of the Crown fighters (granted, it was just to get their captain back from the Rangers' custody). In "Renegade Rangers" the Laredo shows up to blast at the battle cruiser the Rogues Gallery stole. Subverted in "Changeling" where the Rangers have to convince the gunship _not_ to open fire on a penal colony asteroid, and inverted in "Armada" where Shane and Niko fly in with a tiny interceptor and broadcast to the gunships how to destroy the Crown Armada.
-   Villainous example in _Exo Squad_, when gigantic dreadnought, _Olympus Mons II_, arrives to the besieged Venus, temporarily changing the tide of battle in favor of Neosapiens.
-   _Star Trek: Lower Decks_:
    -   In "No Small Parts", the U.S.S. _Titan_ drops out of warp to save the _Cerritos_ from the Pakleds.
    -   Exaggerated in "The Stars at Night" where Mariner calls in _every single Cali-class ship in service_ to deliver Death by a Thousand Cuts to the rampaging USS _Aledo_.
-   _Star Wars_:
    -   _Star Wars: Clone Wars_: "Chapter 21", the Season 3 opener, has a custom-painted gunship save some Jedi from General Grievous just in the nick of time, in a move almost as cool as Grievous hunting them down in the first place.
    -   _Star Wars: The Clone Wars_:
        -   "Landing at Point Rain": The clone troopers under Obi-Wan Kenobi are falling back and an injured Obi-Wan lights his saber for their Last Stand... and a squadron of Y-Wings arrive to take out the incoming droids and bugs.
        -   "The General": During the clones' assault on the Umbaran positions, Fives and Hardcase sneak into an enemy air base and commandeer two of their fighters to take down the Umbaran juggernauts, which none of the clones' weaponry can harm.
-   _Transformers: Animated_:
    -   Played straight in the first season, when Lugnut and Blitzwing were trying to reach the Ark. Ratchet had reactivated the war ship weapons system and the two Decepticons found themselves facing one hell of a Wave-Motion Gun in the face. In the end of Season 2, Sari and Ratchet go to get reinforcements... which consists of reactivating the ship they came to Earth on and turning it into Omega Supreme. Also a plain old Big Damn Heroes since, hey, he's both a Humongous Mecha and a battleship.
    -   Ultra Magnus rescues Bulkhead, Wheeljack, and Miko from Predaking with his space cruiser during the third season of _Transformers: Prime_.

    Real Life 

-   During the American Civil War, at the Battle of Hampton, ironclad warships were relatively new. On the first day of the Battle of Hampton Roads, the Confederacy revealed their shiny new metal behemoth, the CSS _Virginia_ (a rebuilt captured steam frigate, the former USS _Merrimack_), which almost single handedly mopped the floor with two of the wooden ships that the Union Navy was using. On the second day of the battle, the _Virginia_ came back to the fight to finish off the third Union ship, the USS _Minnesota_. However, the Union had brought in their own ironclad, the USS _Monitor_, into a defensive position in front of the _Minnesota_. Thus began the very first battle between metal warships... Which resulted in a stalemate as both ships were armed with weapons that couldn't penetrate the hull of their opponent.
-   Also during the American Civil War, at the Battle of Shiloh in 1862, the final Confederate assault on Union lines was repulsed with the help of naval artillery fire from the wooden gunboats _Lexington_ and _Tyler_, steaming on the nearby Tennessee River. Small, shallow draft gunboats were used throughout the war, especially during the Mississippi River campaign, so this trope is bound to crop up quite a few times.
    -   One major advantage that the river gunboats had was that they could easily transport guns that were significantly heavier and more powerful than land-based units could, which meant that the gunboats were often able to engage enemy artillery positions from a safe distance. Later in the war, _ironclad_ gunboats became more and more common, meaning they could safely engage land-based units even if they _weren't_ outside the enemy guns' range.
-   Used multiple times in the Battle of Jutland with cases of "All According to Plan". First, the German battlecruisers, outnumbered by 6 British battlecruisers and 4 fast battleships to 5 battlecruisers, succeeded in luring them into the teeth of the main German fleet, which was their plan all along, to lure parts of the larger Royal Navy to be destroyed piecemeal by the German fleet. The British ships fled north, luring the German fleet into the teeth of the even larger British fleet, which was _their_ plan all along, to lure the German fleet into a Decisive Battle. The British fleet didn't get the battle they wanted, when the Germans successfully fled back into port, but never really left port afterwards.
-   At the Battle of Normandy, American troops who were pinned down at Omaha Beach received some respite in the form of American and Royal Navy destroyers, sailing dangerously close to the beach (several times nearly running aground in the shallows) to engage the shore defenses directly with their 5 inch gun batteries. By the end of the battle, the Navy had lost three Destroyers, a Destroyer Escort, and a troop ship to the enemy defenses in order to help the Army get ashore and inland.
-   Reports are that the Libyan rebels in the 2011 civil war, being forced to retreat under fire from government forces, regarded the sudden arrival of French air support as this. To make it even more dramatic, one commander even said that he had thought that the UN resolution authorizing force had been forgotten and that they really had been abandoned.
-   Close air support duty tends to lead to this, and it's what most modern aircraft designated as "gunships" are designed for.
-   The USAF AC-130 gunship is a converted transport plane equipped with an artillery gun, autocannon, and two vulcan cannons.
-   Among the A-10 Thunderbolt II's jobs is to provide this for downed pilots and the helicopters sent to pick them up.
-   As mentioned in _Act of Valor_, the whole point of SWCC boats is to be this when the SEALs need hot extraction, bristling with guns on every corner.
-   One real incident was during the 1983 US invasion of Grenada when a unit of SEALs tried to extract the US ambassador from the US embassy, but found themselves surrounded by enemy troops. Cut off from their support, and their own communications equipment out, the US troops desperately make a civilian phone call to their base in North Carolina. Once the callers were confirmed as US troops in peril, the base connected them to the theatre operations-headquarters and the commanders diverted an AC-130 gunship to provide air support for the unit.
-   In the World War II Battle of Bulge, things were looking bleak for the Allied troops trying to hold off Nazi Germany's counterattack until the weather cleared midway into the battle and the Allied air forces could start striking back from the air.
-   Something similar happened earlier that year at the Battle of Arracourt. The Germans attacked during bad weather, but in at least one instance, the very moment the storm clouds parted, Allied attack aircraft swooped down and attacked the Germans.

___