In modern English, "antagonize" means something like "to harass" or "annoy", and is usually negative in tone. Its original meaning, however, was something more akin to "opposed to"; and "antagonist" uses this original meaning — the "antagonist" of a story is simply "whoever is working against the main character", regardless of them being the villain... or The Hero.

A Hero Antagonist thus opposes the main character, but their objectives are usually things like Saving the World, foiling evil plans, helping the helpless, and otherwise working For Great Justice.

Usually, a Hero Antagonist's main concern is that The Protagonist is going to end up hurting someone or something, or bring about The End of the World as We Know It, which may be completely correct (whether because The Protagonist is a card carrying, moustache-twirling villain or just an Unwitting Instigator of Doom), or misinformed as to the nature of their enemy. In a Good Versus Good story, the antagonist might become less "opposed to" and more "competing against". In any of these events, the Hero Antagonist is able to keep their good alignment while still being the narrative's opposition. Or the conflict could be not a matter of life and death, but a simple game or sporting event in which both the protagonists and their opponent are on good terms, averting Opposing Sports Team.

Can be related to Rousseau Was Right depending on the type of Hero Antagonist in question. Often overlaps with Villainous Valor. Sometimes related to My Country, Right or Wrong. Inspector Javert is often a Sub-Trope, as is its mentally healthier cousin, Sympathetic Inspector Antagonist. If the protagonist is a Well-Intentioned Extremist, their antagonist will often be a Knight in Sour Armor. Settings with White-and-Grey Morality will favor these.

Compare the Knight Templar, whose devotion to good ideals has become unreasoning fanaticism and they refuse to see how evil they are. Often (though not always, depending on how the morality is played in the work) will oppose their inverse, the Villain Protagonist.

If the Hero Antagonist having Noble Profession is revealed to be a malicious figure, then that overlaps with Evil Hero.

Compare Hero of Another Story, Anti-Villain and Designated Villain.

___

## Example subpages:

-   Anime & Manga
-   Live-Action Films
-   Video Games

## Other examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Comic Books 

-   In _Barbe-Rouge_, a lot of stories revolve around people trying to capture the eponymous character. Since he is a ruthless, bloodthirsty pirate who terrorises everyone, this is actually quite an understandable goal. On the other hand, a lot of those who try to capture him are shown to be corrupt or using particularly underhanded schemes to do so, such as targeting his son Eric to get at him.
-   Superman in _Batman: The Dark Knight Returns_ qualifies, as he genuinely tries to do the right thing, but he's a bit too willing to bow to authority for Batman's liking.
-   Batman in _Batman/Huntress: Cry for Blood_ is just trying to stop Huntress from murdering people, and is willing to seriously consider the possibility that Huntress is innocent of the initial murders, which she is. In the end, he does give her the benefit of the doubt and agrees to let her resolve the situation without any further bloodshed; she proceeds to murder her father in a way that she can't be touched for.
-   In _Calvin and Hobbes_, Calvin's parents frequently trying to shut down Calvin's more adventurous or destructive plans, because they're his parents and need to maintain at least _some_ discipline.
-   _Darth Vader_ : Except in _The Ninth Assassin_, the people Vader (the focus of the story) is fighting have far more sympathetic goals and personalities than he does.
    -   In _The Ghost Prison_, Moff Gentis leads a ruthless coup against the Empire and doesn't seem to feel that all of their policies need changing, but he is disgusted by their murders and how they use young soldiers as human waves.
    -   In _The Lost Command_, Lady Saro and her allies are trying to trick Vader into attacking Imperial loyalists and strengthen their forces to protect the Ghost Nebula from the Empire and live in peace.
    -   Practically everyone in the city of former Separatists and more recent dissidents in _The Cry of Shadows_ (Lima Starcourt and her co-councilors, General Farstar, Kaddak, various unnamed hospital patients, etc.) embodies ideals of bravery, democracy, and mercy toward their enemies and just want to be left alone as Vader tries to subject them.
-   In _A Death in the Family_, the UN calls in Superman because they correctly assume Batman is not going to like the Joker being made Iran's ambassador to the UN and don't want him to cause an international incident. To Superman's credit he doesn't like the job but recognizes its importance, which is why he holds Batman back.
-   Most of Emp's jerkass teammates in _Empowered_, particularly Sister Spooky (although she becomes more sympathetic and less hostile towards Emp in the later volumes).
-   Argent the Wolf of _Grendel_, who's opposed to the Villain Protagonist Grendel (particularly Hunter Rose, but later on Christine Spar) as an Anti-Hero Werewolf who is compelled to take down what the series equates to the Devil.
-   _Harley & Ivy_ is told from the perspective of Batman's enemies Harley Quinn and Poison Ivy, and naturally has Batman serve as an antagonist due to his obligation being to thwart their criminal schemes.
-   _The Incredible Hulk_: The U.S. military usually genuinely believe that the Hulk is a dangerous monster that they need to stop. Stan Lee commented in an interview that portraying them that way allowed him to get around The Comics Code's insistence that authority figures always be portrayed positively. Afterwards this changed, and there emerged a trend to portray General Ross, who usually commands the anti-Hulk military forces, as a General Ripper.
-   _Joker_, expectedly, has the Clown Prince of Crime's nemesis Batman serve as the opposition to the Joker, who serves as the graphic novel's Villain Protagonist.
-   _Joker's Asylum_, an anthology series consisting of one-shots that each focused on a member of Batman's rogues gallery, had Batman himself appear in some stories trying to stop the issue's spotlight villain, such as attempting to end Poison Ivy's murdering of land developers in her story or investigating teenagers disappearing near a movie theater in Clayface's story.
-   The DC Comics supervillain Kobra starred in his own series and his worst enemy was his own twin brother, since they had a psychic bond that prevented Kobra from killing him without dying himself.
-   _Lex Luthor: Man of Steel_ frames Superman as the antagonist for Lex Luthor. It's Luthor's moment in the sun and Superman is correspondingly depicted in a cold, inhuman and alien fashion.
-   _Tintin_:
    -   An early installment has Nestor the butler working for someone he doesn't know is evil, and for much of the plot he actively sabotages Tintin and the Captain.
    -   In most of their early appearances, the Thom(p)son are attempting to arrest Tintin and/or his allies for any assortment of supposed crimes. The only problem is, they're not very good at it.

-   In _Wonder Woman: The Hiketeia_, Batman is the antagonist though he's acting in a heroic, if jerkass, capacity. He does ultimately just want to bring in Danny for her multiple counts of murder but is shown as largely unsympathetic/uncaring to the desperation and callousness of the authorties to the abuse and murders they don't care about that drove her to it. He also is agitated that she's already gotten away from him twice.
-   Ord from Whedon's "Breakworld" arc in _X-Men_. He seems like an Always Chaotic Evil alien invader at first, but ultimately he's just trying to save his world from destruction. The only reason he is even opposing mutantkind in the first place is because of a prophecy planted by the real Big Bad that a mutant would destroy Breakworld. In the end, he makes a Heroic Sacrifice to save Breakworld from the true Big Bad.

    Fan Works 

-   In the _Jackie Chan Adventures_ fic _Queen of All Oni_ Jade is the Villain Protagonist, so naturally Jackie and company fight against Jade in the hope of saving her from darkness.
-   _The Heart Trilogy_, a series of _The Hobbit_ and _The Lord of the Rings_ fics, focuses on the villainous dragon Smaug and his human lover Kathryn. Due to Kathryn's ties to Smaug and the latter's Villain Protagonist role, some heroes from canon — including Bard the Bowman, the Company of Thorin, Kings Dáin and Brand — wind up being this, as do original characters such as Faervel (on-off), Freyja and Queen Lalemwen. One could even argue that Gandalf is partially right to blame himself in the second part for starting the quest for Erebor in the first place. Those canon heroes who have good relationships with Kathryn — such as Elrond, Gandalf and Galadriel — tend to avoid this trope.

-   Strafe in _Fantendo Playing War_ and _Fantendo Forgotten Legends_ kills his way through the entire 41 chapters, though it is necessary.
-   The _Pony POV Series_: In the Epilogue timeline, since the first few chapters set in the Epilogue universe follow the Discorded Mane Six, and Cadence is leading La Résistance against them and Discord, she's naturally seen as the antagonist from their point of view.

-   _Red Fire, Red Planet_ is a war story that presents characters on both sides of the Federation-Klingon War as protagonists when the story is told from their perspective and the enemy when the viewpoint switches to the other side.
-   In _Origin Story_, most of the "bad guys" Alex Harris ends up fighting are the well-known superheroes of the Marvel Universe.
-   Several of the sidestories of _Pokémon Reset Bloodlines_ focused on the bad guys have some of these:
    -   Twenty Gyarados Bill Gaiden has the title character face his biggest direct opposition in General Javelin Wataru (Lance's grandfather), and Denki Tekina, an Elite Four member specialized in Electric-types. The latter even performs a Heroic Sacrifice to finally bring Bill down once and for all.
    -   In the Sabrina Gaiden, a bug-catching trainer named Tommy decides to confront her after she terrorizes their town. Incidentally, this was her intention all along, to get someone to stand up to her.

-   In the _Temeraire_ fanfic _Black Wings, Black Sails_, the aviators and others who oppose William Laurence and his black fleet just want to protect England, and that includes enabling the currently-legal and quite valuable slave trade to continue without him stealing their ships, cutting their slaves loose, and burning slave ports.
-   _The Masks We Wear_: Robin is the hero antagonist to his father John Grayson who has taken the identity of Slade.
-   Team RWBY and Ozpin become this to Jaune in _A Rabbit Among Wolves_. After a freak occurrence, Jaune ends up in control the White Fang and gains the reputation of a cold-blooded killer. Fearing what he might be planning, Ozpin plots to bring Jaune into custody.
-   In the fan webcomic _AOT No Requiem_, the Alliance functions as this to Eren's Villain Protagonist.
-   In the _Destiny_ / _Inheritance Cycle_ crossover fic _No stars in sight_, Cuaroc has been ruthlessly hunting the deuteragonist Formora across Vroengard for decades, but only because Formora used to serve Galbatorix and Cuaroc is under the mistaken impression that she still does. Likewise, he is hostile to the protagonist Ikharos during their first encounter because the latter had been found investigating the entrance to the Vault of Souls, which Cuaroc is supposed to defend with his life from any trespassers.
-   _Dark Spectrum Public Enemy_, Spitfire, Soarin, and Misty Fly are only trying to stop a now-villainous Rainbow Dash from doing anymore damage to Ponyville.

    Films — Animation 

-   _The Bad Guys (2022)_: Governor Diane Foxington is introduced as this, being a savvy politician trying to stop the titular Villain Protagonist gang for good. This gradually fades away; she reveals to Mr. Wolf that she really believes he can change for the better, and after bonding with him, she becomes the 11th-Hour Ranger when Marmalade frames the gang for a crime they didn't commit.

-   Disney Animated Canon:
    -   Copper becomes one during the second half of _The Fox and the Hound_. When his father figure and mentor, Chief, gets hit by a train and falls from a great height while chasing Todd, almost perishing in the process, Copper becomes consumed by vengeful wrath and, along with his owner Amos Slade, swears to hunt down Todd as payback for Chief's close call with death.
    -   Clopin becomes one near the end of _The Hunchback of Notre Dame_, suddenly becoming a cruel judge presiding over a Joker Jury in the Court of Miracles.
    -   Kerchak from _Tarzan_ is the stern leader of the gorilla tribe who disapproves of Tarzan and forbids him to interact with humans. However, he is only concerned about his family's safety and he is right about some of the humans being dangerous (i.e. Clayton, the true villain of the film).
    -   Captain Gantu in _Lilo & Stitch_ is trying to capture a dangerous escaped experiment, who happens to be the main character's beloved friend. This is also the case for Cobra Bubbles, a stoic CPS agent who's there to break up Lilo's family, but is clearly a goodhearted man who wants to do everything he can to help them.
    -   _Tangled_: Maximus, the Guard Captain's Steed, happens to be a hell of a lot smarter than his rider. He's an antagonist to Flynn, not Rapunzel — but only because Flynn is a wanted criminal and Max is firmly on the side of justice. However, he's willing to humor Flynn's endeavor to get Rapunzel to where she wants to be, and eventually he even becomes their chief Shipper on Deck.
    -   Alma from _Encanto_ is the closest thing the movie has to a central antagonist—her inflexible control over the family and her mountain-high expectations are the cause of all of the family's dysfunction—but Alma's not remotely evil so much as she is a deconstruction of the Almighty Mom. Alma loves her family, and when she finally has her big realization in the climax, she steps back, even accepting her long-gone son Bruno who has been gone from the family for _years_ at this point.
    -   In the Disney Fairies _Tinkerbell and the Legend of the Neverbeast_, Nyx and her scout-talent fairies often have to clean up after Fawn, who likes to bring home and care for injured foundlings of fairy-eating species like hawks, rats, snakes, and vampire bats. Things come to a head when Nyx's research links Fawn's latest foundling to a thousand-year comet and a storm that threatens the whole Protectorate.

-   Sally in _The Nightmare Before Christmas_ is the only one who opposes Jack's plans for Christmas, not out of malice but because she had a vision that his Christmas will go down in flames and she simply wants what is best for Jack.
-   _Ruben Brandt, Collector_: Mike Kowalski's and the police force's goal is to arrest Ruben Brandt and his team of criminals for stealing paintings. Mike Kowalski changes however after discovering Ruben Brandt did it because it is the only way to stop his harmful nightmares.
-   Abbot Cellach from _The Secret of Kells_ is only concerned with protecting his abbey and his nephew Brendan from the Vikings, but his stern and overprotective attitude puts him into an antagonistic Fantasy-Forbidding Father role.
-   _Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse_: Despite the Spot being the Big Bad of the movie, the main conflict of the movie is between Miles Morales and Miguel O'Hara (a.k.a. Spider-Man 2099) as the latter builds up a Spider-Society who beliefs that some events have to happen for every Spider-Man in every universe which would include the death of Miles' father, a police officer. When Miles refuses to just let that happen, Miguel angrily fights him and sends his army of spider-people behind him, despite technically being a superhero too.
-   Mr. Potato Head in part of the first _Toy Story_. The protagonist Woody has become jealous of Andy's new toy Buzz Lightyear after he became his new favorite toy and stole the spotlight away from him. He tries to push Buzz away behind a desk, but accidentally causes him to fall off the window instead, and thus Mr. Potato Head rallies nearly all of Andy's toys against Woody, suspecting he would try to get rid of other toys, and so becoming arguably the second biggest antagonist of the film after the Big Bad Sid.

    Literature 

-   Holly Short in the first _Artemis Fowl_ is part of fairy law enforcement, opposed to the title Villain Protagonist in his schemes. As the series progresses Artemis becomes less and less villainous and as as a result Holly shifts away from the antagonist role, but is no less heroic.
-   Natricia Dream in _The Corrupted Chronicles of Coco Claramisa_ serves as the biggest obstacle for Coco on account of how determined she is to prove Coco guilty of her crimes, forcing Coco to find ways around her methods of outing her.
-   Porfiry Petrovich, the brilliant and implacable policeman investigating Raskolnikov, in _Crime and Punishment._
-   Roy Merritt in _Daemon_. Though we eventually know better, Sobol is a dangerous maniac who employs a menagerie of vicious sociopaths.
-   In the _Daniel Faust_ series, FBI Special Agent Harmony Black is a straight-shooting, by-the-book crusader who practices witchcraft on the side. She's got a massive hate-on for anyone who uses magic for evil… which, unfortunately, includes Daniel Faust and most of his friends.

-   Claude Lebel, the man assigned to catch the eponymous assassin of _The Day of the Jackal_. After Lebel is introduced, the plot stops following the Jackal exclusively, and is as much Lebel's story as it is the Jackal's, so Lebel goes back and forth between being a Hero Antagonist and a straight Hero. The Jackal goes back and forth between being a straight Villain and a Villain Protagonist.
-   _Discworld_:
    -   _The Last Hero_: Cohen and the Silver Horde are traditional fantasy heroes, but they are convinced their plan is bad once an honest man with a simple sword stands alone against them to stop it. This is mainly because they _know_ they're traditional fantasy heroes.
    -   A plot point in _Witches Abroad_, in which the supposedly wicked witch Granny Weatherwax is the one aiming to stop a fairy godmother trying to force storybook endings onto people. During their encounter, said godmother insists that _she's_ the Good One.
    -   Played with in _The Truth_, in which the protagonist William de Worde (mind you, not a Villain Protagonist) finds his work as a journalist significantly complicated by one Sir Samuel Vimes, Commander of the City Watch. Most readers will know Vimes to be a thoroughly decent, if perpetually grumpy, person and, as such, can understand where he's coming from.
    -   Moist von Lipwig _is_ a criminal, and Vimes has every reason to be suspicious of him, but in this case he's actually attempting to accomplish something good. Vetinari actually recognizes Moist's natural talents and turns them to his own ends. Starting with the postal service in _Going Postal_, Vetinari eventually places Moist in charge of most of Ankh-Morpork's civil service, banking system, transportation system, and ultimately the economy itself. By the time the author died Moist is easily tied with Vimes as the second-most powerful person in the city.
-   In _Dragon Queen_, the old man is a The Mentor archetype trying to force the protagonist to take The Call. His ham-fisted attempts at getting her to come with him on a quest make him an antagonist.
-   Morgan from _The Dresden Files_, who watches Harry like a hawk, is convinced that he's either a traitor to the White Council or just into Black Magic. This is, of course, his job, as he is specifically responsible for watching Harry after Harry used black magic to kill his mentor (in self defense). Since black magic is addictive in the setting, his concerns are perfectly valid. Eventually, he gets over his distrust of Harry; he still thinks Harry's a loose cannon, sure (and he's not exactly wrong, either), but he sees that Harry's _trying_ to do good. Then, he dies. Heroically.
-   Kariya Matou in _Fate/Zero_. His reason for entering the Grail War and deciding to endure horrible torture and surely die no more than two weeks after the Grail War ends to make up for his lack of training? Because he's the Unlucky Childhood Friend of Tokiomi Tohsaka's wife and he wants to save her daughter, because he knows pretty well what kind of magecraft the Makiri family perfected. Oh, and since he failed, just look what happened to Sakura in Heaven's Feel Route. Granted, his ending and last couple of actions aren't exactly very heroic, but yea, the motive was good.
-   "The General (Foundation)": General Bel Riose (the titular character) is surprisingly likable for an enemy of the Foundation, and the narrative begins with his perspective. He demonstrates himself to be fairly noble and philosophical. His main concern is reigniting the glory of the Empire, with no ulterior motives whatsoever, which makes his inevitable defeat by politics in the inner court of the Empire rather heartbreaking.

-   In the _Honorverse_, the Worthy Opponents of the title character who fight for the (People's) Republic of Haven — most notably Thomas Theisman and Eloise Pritchart — are heroes of their star nation's own story despite being in opposition to and at war with the title character and _her_ star nation. They become outright protagonists when a galactic conspiracy which kickstarted the war between the two is discovered and revealed to the nations' respective governments, which form what is known as the Grand Alliance.
-   _Les Misérables_: Inspector Javert is shown to be a good man who believes in the law, unfortunately he takes it to Knight Templar extremes and becomes the trope namer for… well… Inspector Javert.
-   _The Necklace Of Princess Fiorimonde_: The eponymous Princess Protagonist is also a Villainous Princess who transforms her suitors into beads to avoid an Arranged Marriage. She is eventually foiled by Gervaise, a friend of one of her victims, who takes advantage of her vanity by telling her he knows of a woman more beautiful than she is, and tricks her into touching her cursed necklace cord, turning herself into a bead.
-   In _Please Don't Tell My Parents I'm a Supervillain_, Generic Girl and Miss A are the only ones that come after the Inscrutable Machine on their own initiative — Generic Girl genuinely wants to stop crime (even their relatively harmless crimes), but Miss A is just a Jerkass. Mech, Ifrit and Marvelous all show up at different points to disrupt their supervillainy activities as well, but that's more secondary. Mech showed up to stop the Eldritch Abomination they unleashed, Ifrit got dragged in by Miss A and later Marvelous, and Marvelous was actually trying to steal the same thing they were at one point.
-   _A Practical Guide to Evil_: Since there is a Villain Protagonist, Catherine Foundling, many of her opponents are Hero Antagonists. Most Notably William, the Lone Swordsman, one of Catherine's nemeses in the firt few books, and ocassionally a point-of-view-character. He, although an antihero and kind of a jerk, is on the side of (cosmic) Good. His goal is to free his country from foreign oppression, while Catherine wants to work with the foreign conquerers to help the country. They hate each other, but they dramatically influence each other, too. In an alternative timeline, they would be on the same side and in the same Five-Man Band.

-   Inspector Mackenzie of Scotland Yard is this to Bunny and Raffles, the criminal protagonists of the _Raffles_ stories.
-   In _Shadow of the Conqueror,_ Ahrek and Lyrah are both genuinely heroic and have a ton of excellent reasons to want Daylen dead. Daylen recognizes this, which is one reason why he absolutely refuses to kill them.
-   Irene Adler in her original (and only) appearance in the _Sherlock Holmes_ stories is this. Her only "crime" is owning a compromising picture of the King of Bohemia that he wants back (which he gave to her in the first place), because she has threatened to use it to ruin his upcoming marriage. Her true motive is simply to marry for love and get away from him — and she eventually gets away with everything. Holmes reflects a number of times in the story, even before then, that he's only following her because of the King's authority.
-   In _A Study in Emerald_, the murderer the detective is seeking is murdering members of the "royal families" of Europe with intentions of overthrowing them, but the reader is expected to sympathize with his goals even if the detective and the narrator do not. Especially given that the detective is Moriarty and the narrator Moran, and the murderers themselves none other than Sherlock Holmes and Watson.
-   _Siobhan Dunmoore_: Commander Brakal, the deuteragonist of the series, is an honorable, My Country, Right or Wrong sort who considers Captain Dunmoore a Worthy Opponent and thinks the war between her Commonwealth and his Shrehari Empire is as idiotic as she does.
-   _Star Trek: Typhon Pact_:
    -   Thot Keer in _Zero-Sum Game_. A Breen shipyard manager, his work crews are developing a prototype starship using stolen Federation technology, and the protagonist's mission is to destroy both prototype and shipyard. Keer is certainly not a villain, though; he is merely a patriot who takes pride in his work, and displays great bravery and (for want of a better term) humanity throughout the novel.
    -   Praetor Gell Kamemor is a Romulan patriot opposed to the Federation politically, but she adamantly disagrees with the notion of Romulan superiority promoted by the Tal Shiar and much of the military. She would rather resolve the conflict with the Federation in the diplomatic arena than on a battlefield. All of her scenes in the series show her as a Reasonable Authority Figure compared to the previous cadre of conniving and backstabbing Romulan politicians.
-   Daniel Keys Moran's _Tales of the Continuing Time_ has Mohammed Vance, a cyborg who works for (and eventually leads) the PeaceForcers, a military and police force by the uber-powerful successor to the United Nations. He totally opposes the main character Trent, is totally ruthless, was responsible for the decision the nuke several hundred people including Trent's family, as well as repeatedly trying to capture and/or kill Trent himself. But he is honorable and truly believes that what he does is making the world a better place. There is a scene in _The Last Dancer_ where he is addressing his military forces prior to a major invasion and telling them why what they are doing is right and why they must defeat their opponents, interspersed with the leader of their opponents addressing her forces and telling them why what they are doing is right and why they must defeat the PeaceForcers, and they are both correct in their arguments.
-   _Earthsea_: Ged, the protagonist from _A Wizard of Earthsea_, serves as the Hero Antagonist to Tenar in the next book, _The Tombs of Atuan_. Tenar spends the entire book as a priestess to a cabal of evil spirits posing as gods. When Ged clues her into that fact, she Heel Face Turns and sides with him — much to the chagrin of her old bosses.
-   In _Vampire Academy_, Hans Croft, head of the guardians at Croft, punishes Rose and Eddie Castile for their Las Vegas "vacation", is in charge of hunting down an escaped Rose and interrogating her friends. He is an antagonist, but one that ultimately tries to keep everyone at Court safe.
-   _Villains by Necessity_: The side of light is, unknowingly, destroying their world by eradicating every speck of evil in it, to the point that they are annihilating everything that could be qualified as "not-light". This included the druids, who were keepers of balance, and the bards, who were more or less neutral. They then begin whitewashing thieves, assassins, and other criminals, who were more or less just grey. Indeed, the entire premise of the story is basically this: in a world of magic, once the Big Bads are fully eradicated, what would happen if the good guys started taking their intended plans for the betterment of the world _to their inevitable conclusion?_ After all, the only way you can remove all evil from the world is if you remove choice, and freedom, from the world.
-   In the _Whateley Universe_, the Reverend Darren England, protector of the planet from demonic threats for decades. He's willing to deal with The Syndicate if it means the death of The Kellith, the descendant of a Great Old One, before The Kellith can destroy all life on earth. The only problem is that The Kellith is Carmilla, who is an Anti-Hero protagonist and is trying to go straight.
-   Given that the main character accidentally becomes a villain, it's unsurprising that _Worm_ contains a lot of these. How heroic they are varies greatly.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _24_ has CTU or any other law enforcement agency whenever Jack Bauer has to go rogue or is set up (which is _a lot_).
-   In _The A-Team_, Colonel Lynch and later Colonel Decker and General Fullbright all fill this role. Although they oppose the A-Team they're not evil or corrupt. They're good soldiers who are following orders, and they honestly believe that the A-Team are dangerous criminals that must be brought to justice (which is not an entirely unreasonable assumption).
-   In the _Angel_ episode "Sanctuary" Buffy becomes this. She wants to kill Faith; it doesn't matter if Angel wants to redeem her. The former lovers even come to blows because of it, and part on bad terms.
-   Prime Minister William Pitt the Younger is this in the first episode of _Blackadder_ the Third, trying to get Prince George struck off the Civil List. He's in the right because George is an Upper-Class Twit who does nothing but waste money, but this puts him up against Edmund Blackadder.
-   _Breaking Bad_:
    -   DEA Agent Hank Schrader is something of an interesting case in that he doesn't know the Villain Protagonist he's chasing is his own brother-in-law Walter White ...until the middle of the finale season.
    -   Hank's partner Steve Gomez also counts. While he often questions when Hank doesn't always take something at face value and makes unconventional analyses based on what they see in a case, Gomez still supports and helps him though nonetheless. Plus, when it comes to the final season, Hank confides in Gomez when he finds out that Walt has been Heisenberg all along and Gomez helps Hank with his low key investigation.
    -   Hank's wife Marie also counts eventually. Once she's let in on the big secret that her sister's husband who she cared deeply about was the criminal mastermind her husband had been looking for all this time, she's quick to take Hank's side and help support him—as well as becomes even more against Walt once Hank is killed and she deems him responsible. She eventually returns in the follow-up series to see to it that the last living accomplice of Walt's—once caught—is properly brought to Justice as well.
    -   _Better Call Saul_: Lawyer Howard Hamlin unlike his colleague Chuck McGill—brother of Jimmy, the future Saul Goodman, is a more than Reasonable Authority Figure wanting to see the best on people and do right by them—despite occasional selfish choices. His motives are often brought into question throughout the show until the middle of the finale season shows the full range of him having been The Chew Toy all along.
-   _Burn Notice_:
    -   Season 1 has two FBI agents tasked with making Michael's (who was "burned" and turned into a villain in the eyes of most of his fellow co-workers) life miserable, and also Jason Bly, a CSS agent who takes up the cause when the FBI backs off.
    -   Detective Paxon in the beginning of Season 3 is a squeaky-clean, by-the-books cop (when Michael & co try to figure out how to blackmail someone and can't, you know they're clean) who is a little tired of Michael blowing things up in her city.
    -   Dani Reese in Season 5 is hunting for a killer. Too bad Michael has been framed very convincingly to look like said killer.
-   Lee Jin Pyo in _The City Hunter_: His entire black ops team was murdered by their own _government,_ who first denied their existence and then branded them as traitors. As he's a "dead man," he can't work/live in his native Korea. He just wants to expose their corruption and get revenge on the ones who ordered his team's execution.
-   Due to its Reverse Whodunnit format, _Columbo_ usually casts its title character in this role, with the killer as a doomed Villain Protagonist, gradually realizing that the seemingly bumbling detective is relentlessly closing in on them. We rarely actually see much of Columbo's life when he's off-duty — for instance, he regularly mentions being married, but we never actually see his wife.
-   _Dexter_:
    -   Sergeant Doakes, though his morality is called into question a few times. Somehow, he's the only one in a precinct full of cops and forensic specialists to get a creepy vibe off serial killer protagonist Dexter. This doesn't end well for him.
    -   Special Agent Frank Lundy in the second season. He probably would have caught Dexter if it weren't for Doakes' suspicious and secretive behavior making him more conspicuous than Dexter.
    -   Detective Quinn is set up as this in Season 5. He's the only one in the office who notices that the Mitchell family's sketch drawings of "Kyle Butler" look a lot like Dexter, and starts to suspect that Dexter may have killed Rita, his wife. At the end of the season, he abandons his investigation when Dexter gets him off the hook for a murder that Quinn is erroneously suspected of (in fact, Dexter himself committed the murder), and he falls in love with Debra.
    -   Stan Liddy in Season 5. Although he's a Dirty Cop, and is trying to expose Dexter mostly for his own benefits so that he will be allowed back on the police force, he is still trying to catch a serial killer. Dexter kills him, and Quinn is subsequently suspected of the murder.
    -   Maria Laguerta in Season 7. She discovers evidence that may expose Dexter as the real Bay Harbor Butcher, and starts her own investigation. Dexter tries to kill her, and Debra shoots LaGuerta to cover up for her brother.
-   _Doctor Who_: In "Planet of the Dead", DI MacMillan is trying to capture Lady Christina, the Doctor's companion for the episode. He's mainly Played for Laughs and has a minor role, but Christina _is_ guilty of theft.
-   In the second season of _Dollhouse_, Senator Daniel Perrin tries to expose the corrupt Rossum corporation, the Dollhouse's main benefactor. Until it turns out that he's a Doll imprinted to investigate the Dollhouse so that he can "discover" convincing evidence that it doesn't exist and exonerate Rossum.
-   Peacekeeper Commander Scorpius of _Farscape_ swings somewhere between here, Well-Intentioned Extremist and Villain Has a Point. His one driving goal is to stop the advance of the Scarrans, a brutal and murderous race who are known to have ordered a systematic raping of women from another race to gauge whether it was worth keeping them alive as breeding stock (answer: no, because the halfbreed physiology kills the mother and normally the child on birth) and to be willing allies with the Charrid (a race of Orcs In Space who are infamous for attacking the harmless Hynerians and devouring 80 million of their young before being driven off by waves of suicide attackers). He believes the key to this is mastering wormholes, via information locked in the brain of the human John Crichton. To this end, he is willing to chase Crichton to the ends of the galaxy and Mind Rape him into giving up this info, though this is only because Crichton will not countenance simply cooperating with Scorpius and giving him the wormhole technology peacefully.
-   Most of the less-developed alliance officers in _Firefly_, who are unaware of the alliance's atrocities and are just trying to capture a band of criminals, such as the captain of the Alliance cruiser in the pilot episode: he tries to capture the Serenity's crew for conducting illegal salvage, but immediately breaks off to respond to a (phony) distress beacon because he thinks lives are in danger.

-   _General Hospital_:
    -   The PCPD usually fulfills this role in Sonny Corinthos' case (such as his son, Detective Dante Falconeri, who's on good terms with Sonny, but will still arrest him and investigate when it's called for) as well as innocent civilians who badmouth him for his criminal activities (such as Jasper "Jax" Jacks, Dr. Patrick Drake, Michael Corinthos/Quartermaine, the surviving Quartermaines, etc.).
    -   Ex-Police Commissioner/FBI Agent Anna Devane is probably the most prominent one in law enforcement.
    -   Dante's partner and friend Ronnie Dimestico was a particularly irritating example of this, constantly giving Sonny trouble and berating Dante for not doing more to secure an arrest and conviction against Sonny. He even went as far as to transfer to the PCPD when now Ex-Commissioner Mac Scorpio hired Dante on. Then Ronnie was revealed as the biggest hypocrite of all time. Not only did he conceal evidence to make it look like Sonny tried to kill Johnny Zacchara (who he actually shot in self-defense), but was later revealed to also be a serial rapist and murderer _and_ the one who tried to shoot Dante, but shot Sonny instead! He's dead now. He's not missed.
    -   Sonny's trial for Claudia Zacchara's murder was prosecuted by Claire Walsh, a federal prosecutor who Jax got assigned to the trial. Even after Sonny was revealed to be innocent, she still sought to get him locked up. Sonny was able to get her to fall for him and soften her heart.
    -   Judge Peter Carroll oversaw the trial and after it was revealed that Michael killed Claudia in self-defense, he sentenced him to five years just because he was frustrated at how much of a mockery the trial made of the legal system.
    -   John McBain was this for a brief time to Sonny (until it was revealed that it was Joe Sully Jr., and not Sonny, who murdered McBain's sister).
    -   Judge David Walters, a Knight Templar who handles custody hearings. He gave custody of Sonny's daughter Avery to Michael (the grandson of the woman he is dating), but earlier on he held a personal bias and stake against Maxie Jones in the custody case pertaining to her daughter. He sort of applies as Heel–Face Revolving Door as he did eventually let her get joint custody of her daughter (though under the threat of his girlfriend losing her job unless he gave in). His Freudian Excuse (his daughter, who was reckless and impulsive like Maxie, died in a car crash) is more than understandable.
    -   After FBI Agent Tom Rainer (who extorted Jason by having Spinelli arrested for the hacking he did) came Ex-FBI Agent/Ex-Police Commissioner Kyle Sloan. Though since then, he's corrupt. Though he still values justice to a degree, he crossed into criminal territory by rigging the Mayoral election so that Anna would be fired and he would get her job. Plus, he only dropped the charges against Jake Doe/Jason Morgan (who was controlled by Helena Cassadine) under the condition that he infiltrate the Jerome Crime Family. Though he's doing it all for a good cause, it's a hypocritical venture. He recently started working far more closely with Anna again though, so now, he's a straight example again.
    -   Former Mayor Garrett Floyd was this, but his pompous and ambitious attitude did not make him likable.
    -   Mayor Janice Lomax was a somewhat Reasonable Authority Figure, until she went along with rigging the Mayoral election so that she would win it. Now, she's being set up as a new Big Bad.
    -   Jordan Ashford is now Police Commissioner and develops a personal stake against Sonny, pertaining to her son TJ.

-   _Kamen Rider Gaim_: Takatora Kureshima, Armored Rider Zangetsu, starts off the series looking like the Big Bad, a Corrupt Corporate Executive who allowed transformation belts to be handed out to unsuspecting teens For Science!, and is humanized only slightly by his bond with his younger brother Mitsuzane (one of the main characters). Eventually, however, his true motivation is revealed: he's trying to save Earth from a form of Alien Kudzu that can (and has) destroyed entire alien civilizations in the past. However, due to misinformation from his treacherous inner circle, Takatora thinks he can only save 1 billion people at best, and is depressed at the thought that they'll have to sacrifice the rest of humanity but is still prepared to do it for the greater good. When The Hero Kouta discovers that there might be a way to stop the invasion entirely and save everyone, Takatora gladly joins forces with him… but unfortunately that's the moment when the aforementioned inner circle backstabs him.
-   On _Leverage_, Sterling is this, as an insurance investigator and later Interpol Special Agent up against a team of Just Like Robin Hood thieves. It doesn't help him that he is a Magnificent Bastard who is able to always win and seems Affably Evil.
-   _Merlin (2008)_:
    -   Many of the antagonists are just working to bring down King Uther, who is undoubtedly a tyrant.
    -   Arthur occasionally lapses into this. While he's undoubtedly The Hero, he has been raised from birth to be distrustful of magic and will not hesitate to arrest anyone caught using it, even though the penalty is death. What separates him from Uther is that he does this not out of maliciousness, but because it is his Father's law and he's honour bound to obey it.
-   _Monarch: Legacy of Monsters_: The titular organization, whom have previously been characterized in the MonsterVerse as the good guys supporting Godzilla and Kong however they can against the truly dangerous kaiju, take on this role for the TV series, which focuses on Bill Randa's descendants. Monarch are still made up of well-meaning people trying to help and safeguard the world, and they're just trying to plug a classified data leak by seizing the data and bringing the people who've been exposed to it in, but those goals run counter to the Randa family's and Lee Shaw's own goals to find out what happened to Hiroshi Randa, and their first contacts with Monarch haven't left them the best of impressions.
-   _Person of Interest_:
    -   Detective Carter is actively trying to track Reese down... for the first few episodes, anyway.
    -   Agent Donnelly continues this trope after Carter joins Team Machine.
    -   The entire police force and multiple governments become this in "Deus Ex Machina".
-   Jack Walters, Joanne Meltzer, and later, Jeffery Sykes on _Profit_. They're all colleagues of the sociopathic main character who realize his true nature and try to expose him for what he is.

-   _Sons of Anarchy_ is a show about an outlaw biker gang and is heavy on Grey-and-Gray Morality, falling into this trope almost as often as it features its opposite, with examples ranging from the idealistic Deputy Hale to the cynical but loyal Lieutenant Roosevelt.
-   Agent Victor Henriksen on _Supernatural_ spends the better part of two seasons chasing Sam and Dean Winchester, believing them to be dangerous serial killers. He's a good agent and a good guy, but doesn't know that he's living in a Crapsack World where things like demons and skin-walkers exist — eventually he finds out in his last appearance on the show.
-   _Wizards of Waverly Place_ is driven by the three protagonists being this for each other — especially Alex, who's the nearest the series has to a recurring main villain, and her by-the-book brother Justin.

    Myths & Religion 

-   Older Than Feudalism: Hector in _The Iliad_. The Trojans are portrayed far more sympathetically than the Greeks, Achilles finds redemption instead of punishment at the end, and the narrative ends with Hector's funeral. At the end of the day he's trying to defend his home over his brother's folly and the Greeks' warmongering.

    Pinball 

-   In _High Speed_ and its sequel _The Getaway: High Speed II_, the player's main adversary is the police officer in Car 504. 504's just doing his job of making sure people don't drive recklessly on the freeway, and then here you are in an exotic car pretending that speeds below 100 mph don't exist.

    Podcasts 

-   Captain Lovelace from _Wolf 359_ spends a lot of time in this role. Despite being an obvious threat, her motivations are sympathetic, and the clashes between her and the rest of the crew often end with it unclear who's actually in the right.
-   Eric Chapman from _Wooden Overcoats_ is completely ruining the lives of our protagonists, Rudyard and Antigone Funn, and is on the verge of driving them out of business and forcing them to close a funeral home that's been in their family for generations... because he, like them, also runs a funeral home. And he, _un_like them, provides services with _actual quality_. He's also an incredibly nice guy, and incredibly charming and outgoing (again, unlike them). He's not out to hurt the Funns (or indeed, anyone), he's just providing them with some genuine business competition for the first time in their lives, and is genuinely _better_ at what he does. Even Antigone admits this, and doesn't actually hate Eric (so much as she will tell you otherwise), but Rudyard sees Eric as an out-and-out villain for this.

    Pro Wrestling 

-   Kevin Steen during the RoH CZW feud, at least from the CZW perspective, where the baby faces, the closest thing to "heroes" in pro wrestling, were out to destroy another company because arenas catered to it more and Chris Hero had a personal vendetta against one of their owners. Steen was a traitor who made it clear on multiple occasions he didn't want to be contracted under CZW but when the CZW owner and wrestlers continued to make use of the nationally banned weed wacker as well as torture a member of the other roster, it's hard to say he wasn't right, even if he could have been far less whiny about it.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Beast: The Primordial_ has the Heroes, the counterbalance to the eponymous Beasts. Where Beasts incarnate human fears and are meant to teach humans about the dangers of the world, Heroes are meant to inspire humans to face their fears and overcome their limitations.
-   _Leviathan: The Tempest_ has you play Kaiju straight out of Lovecraft. Unsurprisingly, one of your biggest enemies will be the Marduk Society, an order of Science Heroes and monster hunters who have been defending humanity from the Leviathans since before recorded history.
-   In the _Pathfinder_ adventure path _Hell's Vengeance_, there are a number of these, as the path is specifically designed for evil characters serving the devil-worshipping nation of Cheliax. In particular, the "Big Bad" of the adventure path is Lord Marshal Alexeara Cansellarion, a noble paladin wielding a holy sword.
-   _Villainous (Ravensburger)_: Hero cards are Twists of Fate meant to hinder the player's villainous goals. Mickey deserves special mention, as he can effectively stop Pete from ever achieving his goal(s) at all, especially when played alongside Donald.

    Theatre 

-   Macduff, from _Macbeth_, being a loyal servant of the crown compared to the Villain Protagonist Macbeth. Macbeth also had Macduff's family murdered, making Macduff's opposition much more personal.
-   Charlie, the anvil salesman, from _The Music Man_. He's trying to expose a con man looking to run off with the townspeople's money and, as result, makes doing business impossible and even dangerous for the legitimate salesmen who follow.

    Web Animation 

-   The _Father Tucker_ short "Like Unto Sheep" has the title character's usual child-molesting antics hindered by a nun named Mother Superior.
-   The Insurrectionists/Charon Industries are this in the prequel segments of _Red vs. Blue_, in opposition to the Freelancers, who are Villain Protagonists at that point. Later revelations show that Charon is just as bad if not worse than Freelancer, CEO Malcolm Hargrove being a Corrupt Corporate Executive more than willing to exterminate an entire planetary population to get his hands on alien tech (and had a hand in shutting down Project Freelancer for much the same purpose) while the surviving Freelancers have become firm heroes.
-   _RWBY_:
    -   Cordovin is in charge of protecting the city of Argus from attack by the Grimm. However, she is egotistical, prone to overreacting, and obsessively believes in the superiority of Atlas to all other people. Determined to prevent Atlas's border lock-down from being breached, she refuses to even consider the possibility that the heroes might have an urgent reason to make contact with General Ironwood. The heroes decide to steal an airship which brings them into conflict with Cordovin. When Maria rekindles her old rivalry with Cordovin, Cordovin becomes completely unreasonable; instead of responding by the book and launching fighter pilots to escort the stolen craft back to base, she unleashes a gigantic Grimm-killing robot onto the heroes, determined to teach them a lesson. The fight only ends when the Ruby's group disable the robot only to realise that Grimm are attacking the city in response to the negativity generated by the fight. The two sides are forced to cooperate to take out the giant Leviathan that is threatening the city, resulting in Ruby apologising to Cordovin and Cordovin letting Ruby's group proceed to Atlas in the stolen ship.
    -   When the heroes get to Atlas in Volume 7, Ironwood involves them in a project to build a new CCT which will restore global communications. However, he gets supplies to build by diverting resources assigned to repair the outer walls protecting Mantle, quickly becoming enemies with Robyn Hill, an independent huntress who strongly opposes Ironwood's policies that are already hurting the city. Eventually, Robyn resorts to robbing supply trucks to keep the materials from leaving the city and convinces the city to refuse to sell to Ironwood unless Mantle's walls are fixed. Ironwood, however, refuses to tell why the supplies were being diverted for fear of Salem's agents finding and sabotaging the project. Blake and Yang decide to covertly tell Robyn part of the truth in the hope of getting her on their side. It works, but Ironwood later becomes furious for their disobedience. When he finds out that Cinder is in the kingdom and Salem is on her way, Ironwood concludes that exhausting his army by evacuating Mantle is exactly what Salem wanted him to do; he decides to abandon Mantle to the Grimm, by raising Atlas into the heavens to protect the Relics and Winter Maiden from Salem, using the argument that he's going to concentrate on saving who he can. When the heroes refuse to support him, he orders their arrest. The volume ends with the heroes facing separate conflicts with both Salem's forces and Ironwood's. During Volume 8 however, Ironwood's actions cause him to lose the hero part and instead become a full-on villain as the Volume's Arc Villain when Salem is taken out of commission while his forces struggle to deal with his actions as a result.
-   Zetto from _TOME_. It turns out that throughout Season 1, his goal has been to suppress and erase the Forbidden Power by hiring hackers to find it/steal the necessary resources to seal away the Forbidden Power. This is a departure from his original depiction in TTA, where he was an Anti-Hero at best, though Zetto in TOME still makes many misguided mistakes like trusting Rubirules which leads to some morally questionable actions.

    Webcomics 

-   The Robot Masters in the 6th Megaman storyline in _Bob and George_ were trying to stop a rampaging Brainwashed and Crazy Villain Protagonist Mega Man.
-   Captain Madison Vrax of the Prime Galactic Navy typically finds herself opposing Loveable Rogue _Cassiopeia Quinn_. However, Vrax is an honorable woman who, when not battling Quinn, is usually found protecting civilians and battling actual dangerous criminals.
-   Tyr of _Darken_ is the Captain of the Guard in a holy city, opposing his Evil Twin Gort, a Villain Protagonist and champion of Hell. Too bad Evil has way more fun.
-   Kevin Kolton in _Evil Plan_ is trying to be a good little fledgling boy scout superhero. Too bad the supervillain is our Villain Protagonist.
-   _Girl Genius_:
    -   Othar Tryggvasen (Gentleman Adventurer!). His stated goal of killing all the world's Sparks, ending finally with him committing suicide, appears to place him squarely in the realm of being a Villain with Good Publicity. It is only when one looks at how nearly every Spark he has ever encountered has acted that it becomes clear that his actions are fully justified. In one possible future timeline, his failure to complete his self-appointed mission results in the apparent eradication of human life in Western Europe, apparently within a few years of the main storyline. On the other hand, his twitter has him killing a college student and her father (because she was a spark and he said that the worst thing that could happen to a parent is their child to die before he did), derailing a train and killing police.
    -   Klaus Wulfenbach is almost the Only Sane Man in Europe, which means that he's got to play whack-a-mole with every crazed Spark or creation that gets loose. He is half\-rightly convinced that Agatha could be the Biggest Bad of all time — the "Other," a spark who destroyed most of Europe while he was removed from the picture decades ago and who may have the secrets of time travel on top of a host of other horrifying technologies. If he's right, he _has_ to destroy her to save the world. Unfortunately, he doesn't have the full picture, and the pieces he knows look _really_ bad for Agatha. Of course, as Agatha is the protagonist, she isn't about to tamely sit down and let him hold her.
-   _Last Res0rt_ features Jason Spades, a hero on his home planet of Fenirel who happens to want to viciously kill Daisy to the exclusion of everything else, even if 'everything else' is something like _getting the rest of the crew (including himself!) off an enemy ship alive_.
-   The main characters in _Niels_ are murdering, scheming, criminal mobsters. The antagonists are two good cops and a pervy secret agent trying to take them down.
-   _The Order of the Stick_:
    -   Minor character YokYok. A Captain Ersatz of Inigo Montoya who serves as an inversion of the Evil Counterpart trope for Heroic Comedic Sociopath Belkar Bitterleaf, he states that he joined the Linear Guild in order to find the one who killed his father.
    -   In _Start of Darkness_, the members of the Order of the Scribble, most notably Durokan and Lirian, serve as this to Xykon and Redcloak.
-   _Sluggy Freelance_:
    -   Berk appears at first as Gwynn's weird and annoying new boyfriend, but then, in the chapter "K'Z'K", tries to assassinate several main characters — because he's been sent from the future to stop them from causing The End of the World as We Know It by summoning the demon K'Z'K.
    -   Pretty much all the holiday figures in "Holiday Wars", thanks to Bun-bun being a sociopathic Villain Protagonist bent on world domination.
-   One of the main antagonists of _True Villains_ is a Paladin, fighting for God. Then he becomes a vampire and joins a plot to let an undead army wipe out all life on the mainland, Jumping Off the Slippery Slope pretty thoroughly. He fights for the God of _Progress_, not _Good_, after all.
-   _What's New? with Phil and Dixie_ presents: The happy crew of weatherbright!
    
    Everybody has an "Evil Twin", right? Well, _these_ guys see our Weatherlight crew as _their_ evil twins and act accordingly. They're not villains, per se, but everybody hates them.
    

    Web Original 

-   _Metaverse_ is full of these since everyone else seems to be a Villain Protagonist.
-   _Worm_ Most of the Protectorate, the Wards and the PRT all count when Taylor is Skitter instead of Weaver. While they might oppose Taylor, they are doing their jobs as heroes and protecting people.

    Web Videos 

-   Captain Hammer in _Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog_ is technically a hero, but he's also a Smug Super and a huge jerk who uses everything from excessive force to personal attacks against Dr Horrible, himself the Villain Protagonist.
-   Tim from _Marble Hornets_ temporarily becomes this towards the end of Season 3, as Jay begins to become less stable and more paranoid.
-   Hugo, the clone of Matthew Santoro, serves as a Hero Antagonist when Matthew locks him up for no apparent reason, and he attacks Matthew and takes over his web series.
-   On The Nostalgia Critic commentary on _Disney Afternoon_, Doug confirmed that Tamara was this while Critic was the Villain Protagonist, and that it was creepy that fans think Malcolm and her deserve what he does to them.

    Western Animation 

-   Uncle Iroh from _Avatar: The Last Airbender_ is only chasing the Avatar with Zuko out of concern for his nephew and a hope to guide him to a better path. He refrains from actually coming into conflict with Aang and his group himself despite being a master firebender and retired general. In Season 2, where Zuko is more of a neutral figure, he's more frequently heroic or at least calming before eventually even working with the group before Zuko does. Overall, his presence has an incredible amount of influence over Zuko, who ends up reforming when he realizes that his father's approval is worthless.
-   Batman in _Batman: The Brave and the Bold_ episode "Joker: The Vile and the Villainous!" Even sporting lines like “You’re a fool if you think you can stop my master plan!” The 'plan' was a device that tracks crimes as they happen, summoning the police or himself to the scene.
-   In _The Brothers Grunt_, the titular brothers Frank, Tony, Sammy, Bean, and Ding frequently ran afoul of a detective trying to turn them in for the trouble they inadvertently cause on their quest to find their brother Perry.
-   The toy robot Destructo is this in _Bump in the Night_ due to his obsession with order and justice and always menacing the main character Mr. Bumpy whenever he breaks the rules.
-   Dr Von Goosewing in _Count Duckula_ is the self-proclaimed 'greatest wampire hunter in the vorld" and refuses to believe the Count is anything other than a threat to all. Given that all previous Duckulas were evil and the current Count is only harmless because of a botched resurrection ritual, he's pretty justified to this view, believing the Count's pleasant demeanor to be nothing more than vampiric deception.
-   Caprice in _The Crumpets_ episode "Ransoming Dad" leads the Crumpet children who investigate the disappearance of their father, who was "kidnapped" and hidden under a rug by their youngest sibling Li'l-One and their Granny for a ransom scheme. However, she blames them for the scheme without sufficient proof until they're tested with a Lie Detector. As this is the show's first episode, many of Caprice's subsequent portrayals are a far cry from this episode due to her selfish and rude behavior.
-   The Yankee Doodle Pigeon of _Dastardly and Muttley in Their Flying Machines_ was implied to be of heroic alliance, delivering important messages to squadrons. However, his role rarely exceeded outside blowing his patriotic trumpet and giving bewildered glances to the Vulture Squadron's blundering attempts to "Stop That Pigeon".
-   Borderline case with _The Dreamstone_. Slapstick Disproportionate Retribution aside, there isn't very much antagonistic about the Land Of Dreams, at all. It is perhaps for that reason however, that the heroes are kept somewhat flat compared to the Urpneys and tend to get the shorter straw in Sympathetic P.O.V. in most episodes. The odd episode attempts to make them the more sympathetic side or plays them as Deuteragonists however.
-   Xander Crews from _Frisky Dingo_, also known as the superhero Awesome X. He's also one of the biggest dicks in a show made almost entirely of dicks, sometimes more than Killface himself (who kills one of his PR reps in the first episode and then uses the guy's remains as a ventriloquist dummy in front of his twin brother).
-   _G.I. Joe: Renegades_ has Flint in this role, as he keeps trying to arrest Duke, Scarlett, Roadblock, and Tunnel Rat because they are fugitives who have been framed by Cobra.
-   Dib from _Invader Zim_ is between a Hero Antagonist and Deuteragonist. A paranormal investigator trying to prevent the alien Zim from taking over the world, there are numerous Villain Episodes where Dib is the main character, making him the protagonist (and usually casting Zim as the antagonist) a good portion of the time. He and Zim team up almost as often as they fight, and a fair number of episodes are about Dib dealing with other stuff while Zim makes only a cursory appearance.
-   _Little Demon_: Two major ones from the first episode.
    -   Laura, our protagonist's mother. She's brave, determined, and is just trying to get her daughter back from Hell before her father tricks her into destroying the world. She's an antagonist because, while trying to keep her daughter away from Satan and prevent the world from ending, she moved them constantly for their own safety, and once Satan finds out their new location, she wants to move again, separating Chrissy from her new friend and depriving her of the chance to meet her dad and learn more about her demonic powers.
    -   The unnamed Unshaven Man, a mercenary hired by the Pope to dispose of the anti-Christ. All well and good. The problem is that the anti-Christ is thirteen, not evil, and he doesn't even do it because it's the right, just because he's greedy and bloodthirsty. Unscrupulous Hero at best, Designated Hero at worst.
-   _Looney Tunes_:
    -   The Road Runner is one of the most iconic Hero Antagonist of Western Animation; the shorts granted little character to the bird outside his fast speed and his trademark "Beep Beep", and all sympathetic spotlight was deliberately kept on its predator, Wile E. Coyote.
    -   Bugs Bunny, Tweety Bird and Speedy Gonzales occasionally leaned into this trope, with many of their respective shorts focusing more on the blundering of their foes.
    -   In "Fresh Hare", Elmer Fudd is only chasing Bugs because he is a mountie and Bugs has been charged with crimes. In "Big House Bunny", Bugs escapes hunters but ends up tunneling into a prison. Yosemite Sam is the guard and only goes after Bugs because he believes Bugs is an escaped prisoner.
    -   In some Daffy Duck cartoons, Porky Pig is an authority figure such as a police officer trying pursuing Daffy for his antics. While the nature of some of his "crimes" can be rather disproportionate (in "Daffy Doodles" for example he becomes Public Enemy Number One for painting mustaches on advertisement posters) Porky is clearly the higher moral ground.
-   Candace in _Phineas and Ferb_ dedicates herself to stopping the title characters' plans because their mother wouldn't like them, although "Anti-Hero Antagonist" might fit better, as their plans rarely even inconvenience anyone and she's doing it for her own self-gratification.
-   The title character of _Samurai Jack_ is this in one episode, told from the Sympathetic P.O.V. of a robot who is being blackmailed by Aku to kill Jack.
-   _South Park_:
    -   Kyle usually serves this when an episode focuses on Cartman, because he's the closest thing the show has to a moral compass. Expect there to be traces of He Who Fights Monsters.
    -   Kenny takes this role in "Poor and Stupid", because Cartman's antics as a NASCAR driver are tarnishing the sport's reputation, and Kenny loves NASCAR. Similar to Kyle however, he reverts to such overzealous extremes as trying to shoot Cartman with a rifle.
    -   Santa becomes the antagonist of the Season 23 finale, "Christmas Snow". This is not due to him pulling a Face–Heel Turn and turning evil, but rather that he's just banning drugs and alcohol until the holiday season ends so that the adult don't end driving under the influence of those substance and end up kill themselves and other people.
-   The protagonists of _Star Trek: Prodigy_ spend most of the back half of Season 1 at odds with a formidable Starfleet vice admiral (specifically, Admiral Janeway). Fortunately for everyone involved, the antagonism is based on bad information rather than incompatible ideals. Unfortunately for everyone involved, the nature of the actual villains’ plot makes clearing up the misunderstanding a hazardous prospect.
-   In the episodes of _Star Wars: The Clone Wars_ centered around Villain Protagonist Maul, Obi-Wan Kenobi fills this role. This is an interesting example because although Obi-Wan is one of the protagonists of the series as a whole, Maul is unambiguously the protagonist of this set of episodes, and Obi-Wan, by opposing him, fits the narrative role of antagonist.
-   The Centauri Empire officers in the _Teen Titans (2003)_ episode _Sisters_ only attacked the Titans due to misunderstanding that they thought Starfire was committing a thievery on their solar system when in truth, Blackfire was the one doing it and framed Starfire for it. Once that was cleared off, they successfully capture Blackfire and then never threatened the Earth anymore, therefore they're pretty much their planet's good police doing their job. Their conversation also kinda imply this:
    
    **Officer**: In the name of the Centauri Empire, you are all under arrest!  
    **Beast Boy**: Uh… you can't be the good guys. We're the good guys.  
    **Officer**: And we are the Centauri police!
    
-   _Tom and Jerry_: Tom is this depending on the short. Most of the time, he usually chases Jerry because he is a house cat who is ordered to in order to keep the mouse for stealing far more food than he actually needs, and there have also been moments in which Jerry have provoked Tom for no reason whatsoever. Naturally, Jerry would lose during those instances.
-   _Top Cat_: Officer Dribble, er, Dibble. The protagonist, T.C., is a con-artist and leader of a street gang! Of cats.
-   According to Fresh TV the Interns of _Total Drama Presents: The Ridonculous Race_ are this.
-   Sentinel Prime in _Transformers: Animated_ is a member of the Autobot Elite Guard, but he's also very antagonistic to the show's main Autobots, so he's often at odds with them.
-   Ranger Smith from _Yogi Bear_. All he's trying to do is keep Yogi and Boo Boo from stealing food from the campers at Jellystone Park. A few cartoons show that he cares for them and gets upset if he thinks they're in trouble.
-   Agent James Bennett of _The Zeta Project_, though an outright Inspector Javert who absolutely will not stop in his quest to capture and reprogram (read:_kill_) the titular Zeta, is nevertheless a good man who genuinely is doing it for the safety and well-being of everyone. Since the ability to have a conscience simply isn't in Zeta's schematic, Bennett believes Zeta was reprogrammed by a terrorist organization to think he has one as part of some manner of Manchurian Agent ploy. Though rather stern and Married to the Job, he's constantly trying to talk Ro into giving herself up for her own good (he believes Zeta is using her and will dispose of her when he no longer needs her), is rather kind and even comforting of Zeta when he has the synthoid in custody, is a loving father, and when he's accidentally shot down Ro, Zee, and Bucky's plane his reaction is _horror_.

___