Take note: God prefers charcoal over gas.

_"But He said, 'You cannot see My face; for no man shall see Me, and live.'"_

Everyone knows it's a bad idea to mess around with evil. If you're foolish enough to poke a concentrated ball of malevolence, you've got no one but yourself to blame for the consequences. Conversely, we should expect _goodness_ to be more, well, user-friendly? Less liable to reduce you to a pile of ashes for looking at it crosswise?

Don't count on it.

Even when Light Is Good, it can still be too hot to handle. Maybe holiness is judgment untempered by mercy, and only the most incorruptible people can come in contact with it and come away unscathed. Maybe it's really temperamental, and objects violently to being used for any but the most noble causes. Maybe it's just that light _burns_, and enough holiness in one place is naturally dangerous to _anyone_, not just the wicked — and maybe, when compared to pure, unfettered holyness and goodness, everyone is at least a little bit wicked. In any event, you'll probably rest easier with some safe distance between yourself and anything _really_ holy.

This may be the logical extreme of White Magic. While Black Magic involves drawing power from others, and has a tendency to kill or corrupt anyone, White Magic generally helps others through self-sacrifice and purges evil. Think about the implications of this: purging evil can range from the depraved villain to the Noble Demon to even an Anti-Hero to _anyone_ even remotely human, because all people carry the seeds of sin. Another way to think about is thus: If you aren't willing to make the sacrifice, you get punished, but if you are worthy enough, you get sacrificed. Likewise, anyone helped by your sacrifice is likely to be saved or punished by its effects.

Closely related to Holy Hand Grenade; the distinction is that this trope refers to holiness being inherently dangerous to Muggles, whereas Holy Hand Grenade is when holiness is weaponized in a way that is at least somewhat safe for the user. Also compare and contrast Holy Burns Evil and You Cannot Grasp the True Form. Sometimes manifests as Cast from Hit Points or Brown Note. See also Humans Are Flawed for a possible reason Holy Is Not Safe. Contrast Revive Kills Zombie, in which something beneficial to normal beings is harmful to unholy and/or undead ones. The Good Counterpart to Evil Is Not a Toy (though there are differences: Holy things will _usually_ only vaporize the offender, while Evil is much more likely to corrupt the victim and turn them into a monster... best not to make any assumptions, though).

See also Artifact of Hope.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   _Bakugan_:
    -   The Infinity Core, the source of positive energy for Vestroia in the first season. When Naga got sucked into the Silent Core trying to take control of it, the Infinity Core was forced out of place. It then crashed into Wavern, and just as the Silent Core took her brother, the Infinity Core took her before traveling to Earth. Eventually however, just as her brother managed to master the Silent Core, Wavern managed to do the same with the Infinity Core, merging with it with no ill effects.
    -   From _Gundalian Invaders_, the Sacred Orb, the true originator of all Bakugan, as well as the vessel for the goddess of the Bakugan, Code Eve, is this, or rather, it’s Code Eve who’s this. In "The Secret Of The Orb", angered by the 4-way battle between Fabia, Marucho, Ren, and Nurzak, she unleashes what Fabia calls a "dimensional twister", which would doom anyone caught in it to drift across random dimensions for all eternity. Then, in the finale, "Destiny Revealed", after Barodius and Dharak attempt to seize the Sacred Orb's power by force, she seemingly vaporizes them. Then _Mechtanium Surge_ reveals what really happened to them: she sealed them in armor made from their own evil and sealed them in another universe, bound together in isolation for all eternity.
-   The Innocence in _D.Gray-Man_ is the Divine Crystal used as a weapon by Exorcists. As such it is obviously harmful to evil beings... but it can just as well be harmful to the good guys. Parasitic type Exorcists (whose weapon is a part of their own body) are stated to have a short life-span due to the sheer amount of energy it consumes. Also, any Exorcist who forgets his mission will be eaten by the Innocence from the inside, and die after turning into an uncontrollable monster that indiscriminately destroys everything around it for several hours. Finally, non-Exorcists cannot stand being exposed to pure Innocence, even if they aren't evil.
-   _Digimon Adventure 02_: The Big Good digimon Azulongmon provided a "digi-core" that could provide a great deal of power to the DigiDestined, but when Gennai showed up with it in hand, he warned them that it was extremely powerful, and offered them a chance to back down from using it, implying this trope was in effect. They took it anyway, and it allowed the original 8 kids' digimon to reach the Ultimate level, and gave Paildramon the ability to digivolve to Imperialdramon.
-   _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Steel Ball Run_:
    -   The corpse of Jesus Christ, which has the potential to become an Artifact of Doom in the wrong hands. The "Holy Corpse" as it's known in the story possesses the power of equivalent exchange, redirecting any misfortune suffered by the wielder somewhere completely random. President Funny Valentine wants to use its power to give eternal prosperity to America. This would have catastrophic consequences for the rest of the world as all that misfortune has to go _somewhere_.
    -   To a lesser degree, the Devil's Palms scattered across America which are places where pieces of the Holy Corpse were laid to rest. Anyone passing through them will either die or gain a stand, and the chosen few will receive that location's holy corpse part along with a stand.
-   Holy weapons in _Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid_ are completely non-judgmental in who they hurt, with Tohru mentioned that the sword that pierced her back would have Mind Raped any mortal who touched it (Kobayashi was only able to remove it because she's an atheist). Also, the one named character shown wielding one was a blatant racist trying to bring about a war.
-   In _Scrapped Princess_, Ginnungagap is the highest known military grade offensive spell, and is so powerful that it must be sanctioned for use, by way of unanimous decision, by the High Council. The attack itself covers a wide area and is devastating enough on its own, but the real threat is resulting shockwave triggered by it. When used, it caused a mega-tsunami that devastated the majority of the continental coast!
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh!_ gives us the Egyptian God Cards, the most powerful and dangerous monsters in the game. Only a chosen duelist can summon a God Monster; anyone else who tries (or who uses a counterfeit card) will be struck down. Even when they all end up in Yugi's hands, they're still extremely dangerous, and Yugi resolves to be careful with how he uses them.

    Comic Book 

-   _The Darkness_: The Angelus represents the light of creation and is the divine embodiment of law and order, but is indiscriminately dangerous to all who get in her/its way of purging the Darkness. The Angelus was known to have destroyed The Tower of Babel, torn down the Walls of Jerusalem, and ripped apart Krakatoa simply as a display of its holiness and ferocity.
-   _Fantastic Four_: Johnny Storm the Human Torch had the bad luck of being burned by Hellfire and the Flaming Sword of an archangel in the same story arc. The archangel's sword was more painful.
-   _JLA (1997)_:
    -   This is an important plot point in a story where Earth is being invaded by a renegade king angel called Asmodel to hunt down the fallen angel Zauriel, because Zauriel knows about Asmodel's plan to rebel and try to take control of Heaven. The angelic soldiers and their weapons, including their massive flying ship, use holy power, and Zauriel is horrified because he knows that such powers and objects are too much for the mortal world.
        
        **Zauriel:** We're talking about a higher order of reality entering this plane. The world they come from, the world I come from, has... more of everything. I don't think you understand yet; the light of Heaven would slash open your corneas. The music of Heaven would puncture your eardrums and drive you insane. The air in Heaven would burst your lungs and boil your blood. Only spirit can bear Heaven's touch.
        
    -   Averted in a Chosen One kind of way with Superman in the very same story arc. Just when Asmodel is about to finish the Martian Manhunter, Superman shows up and tells J'onn to stand down and let him take care of Asmodel. Superman holds his own and stands toe to toe with Asmodel, and, when Asmodel gets desperate and blasts Superman with holy light, Clark completely No Sells it. When Asmodel, baffled by this, comments on it he also inadvertently confirms what everyone already knows about Superman.
        
        **Asmodel:** How? How can you bear the scouring light of heaven? Only the purest of souls can gaze upon this flame and not be driven mad!
        

    Fan Works 

-   _Child of the Storm_:
    -   Phoenix Fire, which is intrinsically cleansing, and has a particular antipathy to dark magic and darkness in general. Unfortunately, if not carefully controlled, its approach to cleansing tends to be 'burn absolutely everything', and overuse of it in a single place risks burning holes in reality. And then there's the fact that a wielder can become corrupted and corrupt their piece of the Phoenix in turn, becoming the Dark Phoenix.
    -   Artifacts blessed by gods in general, such as the Swords of the Cross, Mjolnir, Carol's uru shield (enchanted by Odin), also qualify. If they're nice, like Mjolnir, they'll just refuse to work. If you have any shred of supernatural darkness about you, maybe not even that, they'll outright burn you. And that's not even getting into the wielders, who tend to epitomise Good Is Not Soft.
    -   Harry's sword, Curtana. The latter is a puzzling case, in that it was originally forged by Uhtred and enchanted by Loki, later reforged by a lightning bolt from Dracula whilst it is bathed in Harry's blood and embedded in his shoulder, imbuing it with certain Phoenix related properties, something sealed by Doctor Strange. In any case, Loki suggests that it might "bite" the unwary, and it tends to appear when Harry's feeling particularly uncompromising.
-   In the _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fic Seeking Power<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , the Elements of Harmony are various shades of cursed artifact, the worst being Laughter:
-   _RainbowDoubleDash's Lunaverse_: Corona, the Tyrant Sun. Unlike most of the 'verse's other villains, she is a genuinely good pony who only wants to destroy all the threats to her little ponies and keep them safe. She is _also_ a threat so terrifying that for a thousand years fear of her has been the bedrock of pony culture.
-   In SPECTRUM's Snowbound story the latent magic remaining in the corpse of Sint Erklass in Alaska is messing with the PER expedition in ways that bring an Artifact of Doom from a Cosmic Horror Story to mind. For example a character is watching a newfoal building a scaffolding only for a board he's hammering to move out of alignment (despite being partially nailed in place already making it impossible) making the newfoal miss and make the whole thing collapse, he also notes that the hammer lands on the snow without actually sinking into it.

    Film 

-   _Dogma_ uses the idea that God's voice is fatal to mortals as a plot point. It places Metatron (whose purpose it is to relate God's words to mortals) in the role of Mr. Exposition, and is used to destroy the renegade angels.
    
    **Metatron**: Humans possess neither the aural nor the psychological capacity to withstand the awesome power of God's true voice. Were you to hear it, your mind would cave in and your heart would explode within your chest. We went through five Adams before we figured that one out.
    
-   _Indiana Jones_
    -   As in the scriptures, The Ark of the Covenant in _Raiders of the Lost Ark_ is an inherently dangerous artifact. Indy and Marion aren't killed by it because Indy remembers the Bible saying not to look upon the open Ark. Those Wacky Nazis aren't so lucky, and pay the price in _nightmarish fashion_ for their greed and arrogance.
    -   In _Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade_, the artifact is the Holy Grail, which isn't deadly itself, but has some rather deadly traps protecting it. (Seeing as the Grail can't be taken from the temple and the eternal life it bestows only lasts so long as you stay there, one has to wonder why such traps are necessary.) Elsa discovers this the hard way when she attempts to take the grail towards the exit and sets off the self-destruct sequence. In a Take My Hand! scenario, she obsessively tries to reach for it, despite hanging over an abyss. She falls to her death and Indy almost does the same, until his father tells him to “let it go.”
        -   Not to mention all the fake grails that kill those who choose poorly in nightmarish fashion.
-   Played for Laughs with the Holy Hand Grenade of _Monty Python and the Holy Grail_, which contains long and repetitive instructions about how to safely use it.
-   _The Ten Commandments (1956)_: As with the source material, the presence of God is dangerous. The burning bush prematurely ages Moses, and so does the pillar of fire. The stone tablets destroy an idol and all it's worshipers.

    Literature 

-   The _Young Wizards_ series likes this trope:
    -   The Archangel Michael manifesting at full power strains the fabric of reality nearly to the breaking point.
    -   The True Name of God is so potent that, if not kept in two separate pieces, its raw power would destroy entire universes.
    -   If more than one of the Four Great Treasures of Ireland is kept in the same house without proper preparations, the result would "make a nuclear bomb look like a wet firecracker". The spirit of the Spear Liun, whose element is fire, is particularly temperamental: it wants to burn the evil, darkness, and entropy out of things, and it hurts to look at because entropy is bound to some degree into every living thing.
    -   _The Book Of Night With Moon_, the book (at least as it appears to humans) that defines the operating parameters of the Universe, is described as "blindingly bright" (in a psychic sort of way) and most adult wizards fear the idea of being a conduit for such immense power when someone has to read from it to remind the Universe how to behave.
-   The sword Dyrnwyn in _The Chronicles of Prydain_, the only weapon capable of slaying the undead Cauldron Born and the Dark Lord Arawn, also has a pronounced tendency to kill any unworthy person who tries to wield it.
-   _The Dresden Files_:
    -   Harry receives the Soulfire power from Archangel Uriel, an ostensibly holy ability that is basically the fires of Creation ... which is powered by his own soul. Though according to Bob, this really isn't as big of a deal as Harry thinks it is. The soul is pretty malleable, and any portion of his soul that he uses up will eventually come back. So long as he doesn't use Soulfire too much in a short amount of time, he'll be fine. If he does, then as Bob put it, "if you subtract five from five..."
    -   By the same token, the Knights of the Cross are holy warriors tasked to defend the world against the forces of darkness, each one wielding a blessed sword imbued with one of the nails from the Cross. Yes, the capital "C" Cross. They're also world-class swordsmen, capable of carving through baddies like a hot knife through butter. The Knights are some of the nicest people you'll ever meet, willing to lay down their lives to protect the innocent...as long as you're not on their bad side.
    -   Angels can be quite dangerous if _just looked at_. In the few times they appear, they tend to take the appearance of a police officer in dress uniform, or somebody otherwise entirely normal. Whenever Harry tries to get a good look at one in with the Wizard's Sight, they would politely but forcefully keep him from using that magic sense, saying that seeing them through it would harm him.
-   _The Silmarillion_ by J. R. R. Tolkien:
    
    -   The Silmarils were gems of light that burned everything and everybody trying to touch them who wasn't Incorruptibly Pure. This of course mean Morgoth got horribly burned when he seized them (though he refused to relinquish them out of pride), but when the two surviving sons of the Silmarils' maker _finally_ got them—after Kinslayings, and betrayals, and abandonments, and all sorts of other faith-breaking with friends and allies—the Silmarils burned _them_. With their millenia of grief and struggle All for Nothing, Maedhros threw himself into a nearby chasm of fire while still holding the gem. His brother Maglor did not, casting his Silmaril into the sea, but took up Wandering the Earth to sing songs of lament.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   Eru Ilúvatar, the ultimate Creator, left the Valar in charge of the world to guide and help the humans and elves. When the Númenoreans decided to declare war on the Valar and invade their land, however, the Valar were unsure what to do and asked Ilúvatar to momentarily take control of the world once again. He responded by immediately _sinking the Númenoreans' whole country into the sea,_ leaving only nine ships of faithful survivors.
    -   Earlier in the First Age, when the inhabitants of Middle Earth finally managed to get a messenger across the sea to the Valar to say (paraphrased), "Hey, sorry about that dust-up a couple thousand years back, but there are a lot of innocent people over here who had nothing to do with that, and we could REALLY use some help against the God of Evil. Do a brother a solid?" So, the Valar came over _en masse_ to kick Morgoth out of creation. The resulting battle _sank the better part of the continent into the sea_. Wanting to avoid a similar catastrophe is a big part of why they adopted a relatively "hands-off" policy during the Third Age in general, particularly the War of the Ring, with the Wizards being explicitly banned from directly contending with Sauron for power. Saruman violating this policy caused his fall and corruption. Gandalf, on the other hand, returned with his restraints somewhat loosened, but still didn't contend directly with Sauron - the closest he got was confronting the Witch-King at Pelennor Fields.
    -   There's a variety in _Morgoth's Ring_ where Aman, the Blessed Realm, is said to be forbidden to most mortals precisely because it grants those who dwell there extended bodily life. It doesn't stretch the lifespan of your _soul_ correspondingly. The possible fates of mortals there when their lifespan ran out are terrifying, and one assumes the only actual cases of mortals going there (as a reward) were exempted somehow:
    
    "he would become more like a beast, though one tormented within. Or else, if his \[soul\] were strong, it would leave the \[body\]. Then one of two things would happen: either this would be accomplished only in hate, by violence, and the \[body\], in full life, would be rent and die in sudden agony; or else the \[soul\] would in loathing and without pity desert the \[body\], and it would live on, a witless body, not even a beast but a monster".
    
-   The Orb of Aldur in _The Belgariad_ will kill anyone who touches it unless they are "pure", which really means "a direct descendant of its last wielder"; purity is In the Blood, apparently. As this line is thought to be extinct, and the danger is well-known, no one has touched the Orb for hundreds of years. The plot of the series kicks off when someone, somehow, manages to _steal_ it.
    -   As it turns out, the "only the pure of heart" thing was a convenient bit of fiction. While the standard of "purity" for safe handling of the Orb is stated to be "without ill intent in the silence of his soul", the reality is a bit different. Practically speaking, the Orb is the instrument of the Light Prophecy (one of the instruments, anyway), and it reacts violently to anyone who it doesn't trust to aid that Prophecy/Destiny. See Torak, who misused it by Breaking the World and promptly _spent several thousand years with half his face on fire_. This tends to conform to a lack of personal ambition to use it. The original (human) wielder met the standard, as did the thief (a small child who, having been carefully raised to be perfectly innocent, didn't understand the concept of theft, or how it applied to "take the pretty glowing rock and give it to the man who raised me"). Descendants of the original wielder are able to handle it despite having some ill intent, partly because the orb - being sentient - likes them, partly because it's their job to protect it, and partly because they don't actually try to use it. Testing how much "ill intent" that lets them get away with is a bad idea. Again, see Torak.
-   In _VALIS_, the narrator notes that Horselover Fat's encounter with God was no better for Fat's sanity than the illegal drugs he used to take. Also, the meeting with God had the side-effect of giving cancer to all Fat's pets. (On the other hand, it's possible that the entity Fat met was not actually God—it's a point that gets debated extensively by the characters, and never completely resolved.)
-   Works by C. S. Lewis:
    -   In _The Chronicles of Narnia_, Aslan, the local Jesus-stand in, is explicitly described by Mr. Beaver in _The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe_ as "not safe, but good." He's also a Phrase Catcher for "not a _tame_ lion." He doesn't harm anyone arbitrarily, but he may render judgment on people without immediately letting them realize it's a moral lesson, as with Aravis in _The Horse and His Boy_ whom he clawed in punishment for her callously allowing her servant to be beaten.
    -   In _The Silver Chair_, when Jill Pole first meets Aslan, she asks him if he eats little girls.
        
        _"I have swallowed up girls and boys, women and men, kings and emperors, cities and realms," said the Lion. It didn't say this as if it were boasting, nor as if it were sorry, nor as if it were angry. It just said it._
        
    -   Lewis has his literary avatar of J.R.R. Tolkien encounter this in _Perelandra_, the second book of _The Space Trilogy_. Lewis barely manages to fight his way past the fright tactics of harassing demons, to reach a friend's house. There, he sees a beam of unearthly light and hears an inhumanly beautiful voice speaking to him, realizes he is in the presence of an angel ... and is even more terrified. Justified, as the first thing any angel says in the Bible when they show up to talk to someone is, "Do not be afraid." He muses that the reason is because when you're confronted by something evil, you can still hope for something _good_ to rescue you. When you run into something good and are _still_ terrified...
    -   _The Great Divorce_: Heaven as a landscape is actually painful and dangerous to the hellish ghosts: being so much less real than even inanimate objects in Heaven, they can't so much as bend blades of grass by stepping on them, so the grass stabs their feet. Once they give up their Fatal Flaw and become a real Person, this is no longer problem, and they can interact with heavenly matter normally.
-   In _Dragon Bones_, the protagonists make camp in the ruins of an ancient temple. Turns out the temple is haunted by _the god himself_. Ciarra is possessed by the god, and Oreg suffers horribly because he couldn't protect her. Though the latter is caused by the magic with which Oreg was Made a Slave, the god doesn't seem to have much compassion, either. Needless to say, the main protagonist, Ward, is quite angry at that Jerkass God.
-   _Ravelling Wrath_: The Stern God (which is the closest to stereotypical "holiness" among the gods) values personal sacrifice and uncompromising commitment to principles – and its magic reflects that, for better or for worse.
    
    **Justicar:** If need be, the Stern God will grant me weapons capable of damaging the fabric of the Otherworld itself. But it has always been my duty to minimize the harm that is done.
    
-   In the _Hellboy_ novel _On Earth As It Is In Hell_ by Brian Hodge, Seraphim (angels) can be summoned by anyone for any purpose, as long as it involves destruction. Hellboy says they are described in scripture as "Heaven's stormtroopers." One of the renegade priests who has seen them describes them as beautiful, but "incomplete" - no more and no less than the purest manifestation of God's wrath.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Alien Nation_: In order to open the ancient Tenctonese artifact _The Heart of Tencton_ requires training as the artifact must be opened in a very precise manner. Humans and Newcomers who opened the artifact without proper training meet with a very warm ending.
-   In _Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers_ the Zeo Crystal can grant superpowers by accessing the Morphing Grid, however, it is protected by a force field that is deadly to anyone with evil in their hearts (thus explaining why Lord Zedd and Rita Repulsa haven't already used it despite it being in a cave right under their palace.) Tommy Oliver ends up having to grab it, but is almost destroyed in the process due to having been forcibly turned evil by Rita at one point, though he survives, presumably because it wasn't his fault he turned evil.
-   In _Star Trek: Voyager_, the Borg see the Omega molecule as the pinnacle of perfection and seek it with an almost religious reverence. When Seven of Nine observes Omega molecules self-stabilizing in "The Omega Directive", she reacts as if she is having a religious experience. However, Omega molecules are among the most dangerous substance in the universe, capable of generating deadly radiation, creating massive explosions, and destroying the fabric of Subspace (utilization of which is vital to interstellar society).
-   _Supernatural_:
    -   Angels and demons both have to possess a human in order to walk the Earth. Angels require the consent of the human who is to be their vessel, but just because they're angels doesn't mean it's all going to turn out okay. Many angelic vessels are killed or left broken like victims of bad lobotomies after the angel is finished with them. Nor does it have to be _willing_ consent: during the apocalypse arc, angels aren't shy about trying to torture selected mortals into giving permission.
    -   When Pamela calls on Castiel to show himself (she's trying to find out who got Dean Winchester out of hell at the beginning of Season Four), he burns her eyes out because humans can't look upon an angel's true form. Did we mention that their true voices shatter glass, shakes buildings and makes your ears bleed?
    -   The Archangel Michael does the same thing to some hapless humans who happen to be sitting in the same bar as Zachariah (a middle-management angel). Unlike Castiel, he doesn't seem to regret it.
-   _Where In Time Is Carmen Sandiego_: There's a being that's implied to be an Eldritch Abomination called "Omnicia" that the Chronoskimmer rarely contacts. Make no mistake: she's _good_: every time they contact her, she provides information helpful for recovering the loot and stabilizing the timeline. But that doesn't make contacting her a safe proposal; hence the paucity of times they contact her.

    Mythology and Religion 

-   This is Older Than Feudalism. In Greek Mythology seeing the undisguised glory of a god would strike mortals dead, as happened to Semele, one of Zeus' many human lovers and the mortal mother of Dionysus.
-   From The Bible:
    -   The Book of Exodus provides the page quote. Moses asks to see God's face. God answers that this would kill Moses, but He does arrange for Moses to see His back<sup>*&nbsp;</sup>  instead. Even just His back has the result of Moses' face glowing for several days and having to wear a veil in the meantime.<sup>*&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   Even before that point, God's appearance at the top of Mount Sinai, just prior to giving Moses the Ten Commandments, is marked by thunder, lightning, deafening noise, and cloud of impenetrable darkness. God also warns the Israelites that they will die if they so much as set foot on the mountain, and only Moses is permitted to actually go up there.
    -   Nadab and Abihu were priests serving the Lord's tabernacle. When they deviated from the established procedure of worship by offering a "strange" fire to God, they were immediately struck dead for their troubles.
    -   The Ark of the Covenant was far too holy for any ordinary person to come in contact with, hence why the priests carried it with poles. Attempting to touch it, even for a good reason, as in the case of the Israelite Uzzah in 1 Samuel who tried to prevent it from falling on the ground, would result in that person being struck dead instantly. One exception is when the Ark resided in the home of Obed-Edom (right after the death of Uzzah), where the Lord blessed his household for the three months that it stayed there (although maybe nobody touched the ark there).
        
        At another point in 1 Samuel (Chapters 4-7) the Israelites tried to use it as a good luck charm in battle against the Philistines. Its presence ended up galvanizing the Philistines who ripped the Israelites a new one and captured the Ark. Then the Philistines made the mistake of keeping it in the same room as an idol of Dagon, and God destroyed the statue and struck them with a plague of tumors and rats. The Philistine cities started playing hot potato with the thing and eventually decided to send it back to Israel with a guilt offering. The Israelites promptly had a whole bunch of people die from looking into the Ark. Seriously, compared to the Ark of the Covenant, nuclear waste is _safe_.
        
    -   Jewish tradition has the archangel Metatron<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  whose job is to be the voice of God, employed any time in the Bible when people hear the voice in the sky. Presumably hearing God's voice is just as dangerous as seeing His face.
    -   Even _angels_ aren't safe. The Seraphim are mentioned as using their first pair of wings to cover their faces while they cheer God on. Mind you, the Seraphim _themselves_ are this trope, since they're God's personal throne guards and any mortal who looks upon them is instantly incinerated.
    -   Despite warnings from the priests, King Uzziah attempted to burn incense in the temple as a sacrifice to God. God got extremely angry at him for performing a task exclusively reserved for priests and so the king was struck with leprosy.
    -   In St. Paul's First Epistle to the Corinthians, he warns that Communion is not safe for those lacking reverence and holiness. While it gives life to those who have been prepared to approach the Table of the Lord, for those who are not prepared, it brings curses, illness, and can even kill you.
    -   In Acts Saul/Paul was on the road to Damascus and then struck blind by a heavenly light.
    -   Subverted in one of the beatitudes: Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God.
-   The Islamic version of the aforementioned story about Moses asking to see the face of God/Allah has it that after making a similar warning about the dangers involved, Allah told Moses that He would reveal His Face to a nearby mountain (and _only_ that mountain), so as to let Moses witness what could happen. The result? _The mountain is instantly reduced to be as even as the land around it._ The implication from other Islamic traditions is that all creations of Allah cannot help but completely humble themselves before His fully unveiled glory, and that what happened to the mountain was the equivalent of an extreme Pose of Supplication. As for Moses, he understandably fainted from the spectacle.
-   Bhagavadgita has a downplayed version of the theme employed in the three above examples: seeing Krishna's true form, the god Vishnu, does not harm humans (at least, as long as he doesn't mean harm), it just freaks them out real bad.
-   In later interpretations of Arthurian Legend, the Holy Grail tended to be this. Only Sir Galahad, the purest of knights, could survive looking upon it. This might also be said to apply to the Siege Perilous, Galahad's seat at the Round Table, which marked the knight destined to complete the Grail Quest. Anyone other than Galahad who sat in it would immediately die.
-   In Hawaii, lava rocks and black sand are considered sacred; they are considered to be Pele's "babies." Legend has it that taking them from wherever you find them will awaken Pele's Mama Bear tendencies and bring some kind of bad luck. For this reason, many lava rocks end up being mailed back after those who took them as souvenirs attribute to them whatever misfortunes have befallen them.
-   In Asian mysticism, Yang, the energy of light and Heaven,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  has to be balanced with Yin, as otherwise your body will be unbalanced and suffer from excess Yang, with things like fever and excessive anger being common symptoms.
-   Native American cultures, _big time_. While magic (usually in the form of medicine and songs) is a big part of traditional life, its abuse (accidental or otherwise) is extremely dangerous, and practitioners are highly trained and expected to be diligent in its use. Sacred artifacts (especially those whose owners have died or place in the society has been lost) are treated about how a modern day person might treat a canister of radioactive materials or an improvised explosive, and for much the same reasons.
-   The Wrathful Deities in Tantric Buddhism are monster-like hybrids whose work is to kill or subjugate demons.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Dungeons & Dragons_:
    -   Positive energy is a type of magical energy closely associated with life, and spellcasters often channel it when casting healing spells, Holy Hand Grenades, or Turning Undead. The Positive Energy Plane is made entirely of the stuff, and trying to visit it without appropriate protection will cause your body to become overloaded with life energy, which will vaporize you if you spend too long there. Depending on your Constitution, "too long" ranges from a few minutes to literally seconds.
    -   From the _Book of Exalted Deeds_ 3E sourcebook:
        -   The Words of Creation are a precursor tongue to Celestial considered inherently good to the extent that no evil creature can speak them or bear their sound. However, most uses of the Words cause the user to suffer varying amounts of nonlethal damage (for example, speaking another creature's true name inflicts 5d4 damage on the speaker).
        -   Sanctified spells are spells available only to good-aligned spellcasters who prepare spells before casting them. Like the Words of Creation, most are Cast from Hit Points in the form of varying levels of ability damage or, in the case of Exalted Fury, death.
    -   Radiant dragons are magnificent golden beasts from the Upper Planes, unswervingly dedicated to Law and Good, and powerful foes of the wicked. They are also terrifying beings, whose dedication to opposing evil turns them into merciless, unstoppable whirlwinds of light, power and death when facing the wicked.
        
        _Radiant dragons are simultaneously wonderful and terrible, awesome in their righteousness and fearsome in their dedication to destroying evil._ — _**Draconomicon: The Book of Dragons**_
        
    -   When you read the 5th Edition's version of the Book of Vile Darkness and have an alignment of Neutral or Good, you need to make a save or instantly become Neutral Evil. Obviously, the inverse would be so for the Book of Exalted Deeds, no? Actually, if you try to read it and aren't Good-aligned, it instead _vaporizes you_. This is because Evil corrupts. Good respects agency and free will, so if you are evil and choose to expose yourself to the epitome of Holiness, well then, you determined your own fate...
-   _In Nomine_: While true of all the angels, who are extremely powerful cosmic beings with long reaching plans at the best of times, a few entities really hammer this home. Dominic has a code of morality so strict and rigid that it threatens fellow angels, Jordi hates humanity for the damage it has done to his charges and is just barely held back from wiping us out, and Gabriel is a living natural disaster that Heaven has basically lost control of. On the lower levels, the Kyriotates are full-on angelic abominations that can cause mental damage simply by being looked at, and the Malakim are murderous shadows who embody Heaven's ruthless wrath.
-   _Magic: The Gathering_ contains many white cards that brings holy destruction everywhere, every block usually containing at least one of these. The most iconic examples being Wrath of God and Day of Judgment, both of which destroy all creatures (including the caster's). While Light Is Not Good is in effect in the setting, it does tend to be _fair,_ and what's more fair than destroying _everything_?
-   _Warhammer 40,000_: Astropaths are psykers who make brief psychic contact with the nearly dead God Emperor of Mankind so they can safely use their psychic power for FTL communication. This has the unpleasant side effect of burning out the astropath's eyes.
-   _The World of Darkness_: _Princess: The Hopeful_: Bathing in the Light of the Dreamlands is beneficial, but going any deeper than the shallow end of the pool will obliterate everyone, including the Light's own champions.

    Video Games 

-   By implication in _Aoi Shiro_. The <<Sword>> is a holy object but in addition to being the Key to the Lapis Lazuli Gate it has a corrupting influence on humans and oni alike unless they have enough power to fight off the influnce or the right sort of power to neutralise its effects.
-   In the _Bayonetta_ series, the Umbra Witches need to make a Deal with the Devil with the demons of Inferno in order to gain their powers. The Lumen Sages, their light-based counterparts, do something similar, making contracts with angels in Paradiso... however, the angels in this universe are anything but benevolent, despising humanity for their weakness. Also, just as Umbra Witches get their souls dragged down to Inferno when they die, the souls of Sages are taken into Paradiso, where it's insinuated that their souls are used to create Cannon Fodder soldiers for the angelic armies.
-   The land of Cvstodia in _Blasphemous_ has been visited by an incarnation of divine will they rightfully call "The Most Grievous Miracle"... which has twisted Cvstodia into a hellish realm where mortals are warped into undying, pain-fueled monsters of manifest guilt and sorrow. In fairness, there are hints that it might have been warped into doing this by Cvstodia's Martyrdom Culture... but there are also hints it might just be due to the cosmic entity behind the Grievous Miracle being an utter dick.
-   The Zombie Apocalypse that nearly destroys New Tristram in _Diablo III_ is eventually revealed to have been inadvertently caused by the power of Justice: the zombies were the remains of people unjustly killed during previous conflicts between humans and demons, brought back to life because the power of Justice became unregulated after the Archangel of Justice, Tyrael, renounced his position and fell to Sanctuary to take a more active hand on humanity's behalf against the forces of Hell.
-   In _Elden Ring_, the "Holy" element is mostly associated with the Golden Order and worship of the Erdtree, and while several of its Incantations take the form of healing or protective effects, just as many involve smiting with divine fury. The Golden Order isn't exactly...very benevolent, and even the hunters of the undead are represented as zealous murderers, since undeath isn't shown as inherently evil. A few bosses also make extensive use of holy powers, most notably the final bosses of the game, Radagon of the Golden Order and the Elden Beast, whose attack are almost exclusively Holy-aspected.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_
    -   The eponymous Elder Scrolls themselves are referred to as "fragments of creation", and are (usually) kept under close guard by the Cult of the Ancestor Moth, a sect of specially trained "Moth Priests" who are the only people typically allowed to access or attempt to read the Scrolls. Despite the divine nature of the Scrolls, mortal readers are typically struck blind and insane following readings. Moth Priests undergo a lifetime of rigorous training which allows them to overcome these side effects, but only for a finite number of readings before they too are struck blind.
    -   While most of the series Legendary Weapons and other artifacts of great power are associated with the (often amoral) Daedric Princes, the (often more benevolent) Aedric Nine Divines have gifted objects of great power to mortals as well. The Crusaders Relics are prime example - a set of blessed armor and weapons granted to Pelinal Whitestrake, the divine champion of St. Alessia in the 1st Era during her conflict with the Daedra-worshiping Ayleids. Included are a mace and sword enchanted to inflict fire-damage. Pelinal used this equipment to commit near-genocide against the Ayleids. This equipment needs to be recovered and sanctified in _Oblivion_'s _Knights of the Nine_ expansion, where the Player Character is "Pelinal Reborn" and needs to defeat Pelinal's ancient enemy, Umaril the Unfeathered.
-   _Final Fantasy VII_:
    -   The White Materia, Holy, is the Planet's ultimate defensive measure. It wipes away anything it judges to be a threat to the Planet. While this obviously includes the incoming Meteor, there is a risk it could consider _humanity itself_ to be a threat to the Planet and wipe humans out too. Its only thanks to a last-minute intervention by Aerith via the Lifestream that it actually _doesn't_.
    -   The various WEAPONS (giant monster creatures, not actual swords/guns/etc.) are the backup in case Holy doesn't work. However, since the Big Bad who's actively trying to destroy the Planet is hiding behind a shield that even the WEAPONS can't penetrate, they opt to go after the #2 threat to the Planet instead. Which would be humanity.
-   After the final battle of _Final Fantasy Dimensions_, all the light that had been sucked out of the world begins to flood back. When Diana asks if that isn't a good thing, Dusk says it is, except for the fact that they are right in its way. In the end, Dusk and Alba are ready to perform a Heroic Sacrifice to hold it back (although they're forestalled) and Castle Avalon is _vaporized_ when the light rushes out of the gateway to Nil.
-   In _Fire Emblem Gaiden_, Black Magic and White Magic alike are Cast from Hit Points. Many of the most expensive spells are White Magic, so it's always wise to keep a second healer around to heal your first healer (the basic heal spell only costs 1 HP).
-   The Apollo Sanctum in _Golden Sun: Dark Dawn_ is bathed in light so intense that it can incinerate anyone who approaches it unless they're wearing the Umbra gear, which covers the person in darkness. However, the heart of the sanctum (which your party needs to access in order to banish the darkness threatening to consume the world) has the light that's even more intense than normal and not even the Umbra gear can give adequate protection. Volecheck decides to fire the Apollo Lens in your party's place so that he sacrifices himself instead and he gets incinerated by the light.
-   _Hexen II_ weaponizes holiness with one of the crusader's weapons. It is a beam of holy light that burns even on the most minor of guilt that exists in all living things.
-   _The Legend of Zelda_:
    -   The Master Sword from has always been a holy sword that Only the Chosen May Wield (or at least remove from its pedestal). _Breath of the Wild_, however, reveals that to remove it from its pedestal requires a test of strength - it drains the life from whoever grasps its hilt, and if they aren't worthy or aren't stopped from pulling it, then they die. Link has to undergo this test in order to claim the Master Sword, and if he doesn't have enough hearts then the sword will kill him.
    -   The Triforce is an object of near-unlimited power tied directly to the creator gods of the setting. While it's the most holy artifact of the Hylian faith and the physical embodiment of its three cardinal virtues, the Triforce itself has one critical flaw: as it embodies morally-neutral virtues, it makes no distinction between good and evil. It will grant at least some of its power to anyone who makes contact with it as long as they have enough of at least one of its virtues regardless of their intentions. For most of the games he appears, Ganondorf has used the Triforce fragment to transform himself into a demon king and enact countless atrocities on the world.
-   _Lunacid_: The description of the Holy Water item mentions that it needs to be diluted to keep those who are "less than saintly" from being burned by holy light.
-   Large parts of the angelic plane of Elysium in _Nexus Clash_ can and will burn anyone who isn't a full-blown angel to death no matter what their ranking on the Karma Meter.
-   At the end of _Riddle Of The Sphinx_, clicking on the light from The Ark of the Covenant knocks your character out temporarily.
-   In _Planescape: Torment_, Trias the Betrayer's has a pair of charred, skeletal wings. The first explanation you get for this is that they were mutilated by prison guards (which is plausible, since he is currently imprisoned on a plane which is basically one giant prison). In actual fact his wings were burned to a crisp when he was cast down from the heavens. He claims that all of the fury of the Abyss pales in comparison to the divine wrath that burned his wings off.
-   The Hallow in _Terraria_, a spreading biome filled with holy energy that forms colourful trees, and rainbows as opposed to The Corruption and The Crimson. Sounds pleasant? It contains pixies, unicorns, and gastropods that will tear you apart (and in the case of the latter, Beam Spam you) with frightening ease. It also houses Empress of Light, a Superboss that surpasses hardmode-upgraded versions of Corrupt bosses by a couple tiers if you fight her at night. If you let the fight run into daylight, her attacks will turn into unstoppable instant-kills. Fighting her _entirely_ during the day is the hardest challenge in the game but also drops the most overpowered weapon if you manage to pull it off.
-   _The Trader of Stories_ has several examples:
    -   The Oak's sap sends people on Vision Quest, but they don't always wake up. The Servants typically undergo strenuous preparation before they partake.
    -   Using a Guardian sword will kill any mortal who tries. Except for Myo, but the sword in question has been tampered with.
    -   Touching the Messenger has deadened the nerves in the hand of one character mad enough to do it. His gaze supposedly brings bad luck. Even the immortal Guardians avoid him.
-   Gaia/Yggdrasil/The Immaculate Machine in _The Secret World_ is a massive divine supercomputer within and without the Hollow Earth, with its Magitek symbiotic bees being the source of all player characters' magical sensitivity. It also has the usual slew of Alien Geometries, unknowable truths and burning white light inflicted upon those with no magical aptitude who happen upon an entrance to Agartha.

    Webcomics 

-   The entrance to the Maze of Many in _Goblins_ is built into the blade of an angel's sword, lost in some long ago cosmic war. The sword is the size of a building, and while the portal is relatively safe to pass through touching the sword itself instantly vaporizes the poor schmuck that did so. Kin has to prevent Minmax from peeing on the sword before they go in.
-   _Marble Gate Dungeon_: Even though the Highfather is by all accounts a benevolent and righteous god, channeling his power still badly hurts an untrained Colleen.
-   The titular protagonist of _Witch Hunter_ can charge silver with holy energy, causing it to burn people in proportion to the severity of their sins. It's specifically noted that this charged silver will sting _him_ as well, to remind him that he is himself a sinner and not to get proud.

    Western Animation 

-   In _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_: _Equestria Girls_ spin-off movies it is shown that the magic coming from the Elements of Harmony — artifacts which are normally used to banish or purify evil by the heroes — can not only turn people in the human world very powerful, but also monstrous (not just in appearance), crazy, extremist or all at the same time.
    -   _My Little Pony: Equestria Girls_: After the already nasty resident Alpha Bitch Sunset Shimmer gains hold of Twilight's Element, it turns her into a demon. She then goes onto brainwash the whole student body into an army of zombies and then tries to outright kill the protagonists with a fireball.
    -   _My Little Pony: Equestria Girls – Friendship Games_: When the socially awkward Human Twilight is coaxed into unleashing all of the magic her pendant has absorbed up to that point, it corrupts her into her Superpowered Evil Side, Midnight Sparkle, and she very nearly ends up destroying reality in her attempt to try to gain access to more knowledge about magic.
    -   _My Little Pony: Equestria Girls – Legend of Everfree_: A workaholic Gloriosa Daisy is under heavy stress from the threat of losing her family's camp and tries to make everyone's time there as best as she can with the help of the magic coming from the Equestrian geodes. It eventually corrupts her and she tries to trap the campers to the point of nearly harming them, while claiming she's trying to preserve Camp Everfree _for them_.

___