_"I am Kronar, son of man. For a hundred generations, my fathers have kept the bloodline pure. Free from woman's taint."_

— **Kronar**, Son of Kronar, _Oglaf_

It's not unusual to see a same-sex couple with a child. In the real world this happens through adoption, in-vitro fertilization, or children of a prior relationship viewing the other same-sex partner as a stepparent even if they're not (or cannot be) legally married.

But what about the child who is _conceived from_ two genetic parents of the same sex?

Assuming there's no pre-op<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  transgender people involved, this trope turns a blind eye to the exact method of birth (People Jars, womb, etc.) and sticks to naming any kid who draws their genetic heritage from two individuals of the same sex, regardless of how they were incubated/born, and whether this was the result of magic, genderbending, shapeshifting, DNA splicing, or bizarre alien/human biology.

Compare Truly Single Parent and Extra Parent Conception. Contrast Face Full of Alien Wing-Wong. Can result in Mister Seahorse (even though Pregnancy Does Not Work That Way). Often a necessity in a One-Gender Race. Not to be confused with Your Tomcat Is Pregnant.

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Blame!_: Cibo and Sana-Kan have a "child" at the end of the series.
-   A rather disturbing example with Tier Harribel's Fracciónes from _Bleach_. Apacci, Mila Rose, and Sung-Sun have the ability to create a chimera Hollow by ripping of one of their respective arms and fusion them into the said Hollow. Its name is Ayon<small>◊</small> and the said technique to create it is called _Quimera Parca_. Ayon has no feminine traits, has a very muscular and masculine body, though it's also not male, and is a very ugly giant. Its mask doesn't cover its face, but its _nose_. Behind its lion mane are its big googly eyes which can fire Ceros, and what looks like its neck is actually its big mouth. Makes you wonder how three pretty women can produce that<small>◊</small> ugly thing from their bodies.
-   The Arume reproduce this way in _Blue Drop_. For an extra kick, they can also mate with human women. To be fair, they _do_ use cloning/genetic engineering technology to accomplish this. Though, in a dark twist, it turns out that their reproduction method isn't viable for their kind in the long-term and that the reason they invaded Earth in the first place is that they needed human men, particularly any that are descended from surviving male Arume who arrived on Earth and mated with female humans at some point in the past, to use for their race's survival. However, in the end, the Arume got cold feet and decided to have their way with humanity's women instead.
-   The civilizations in _Crest of the Stars_ definitely have the tech to do this, though we haven't seen any characters with odd parentage... that we know of. As the Abh society runs on a setup of only one parent raising the kid and being directly counted as a mother or father, and the other more a source of genes (though being asked to give your genes is considered a great honor), much of the Abh cast could have same-sex parents and we wouldn't know.
-   A patient in _Franken Fran_ was infected with a protozoan with her (female) best friend's DNA. Fran managed to use that DNA as the 'sperm' to the patient's egg to create a child.
-   Fletch and Arata have a daughter with a little help from "groundbreaking science" near the end of _Iono the Fanatics_.
-   Before they were famous, CLAMP produced a doujin with a focus on _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure_ characters. Jotaro Kujo and Noriaki Kakyoin have a child in a peculiar way.
    
    **Polnareff**: Kakyoin!! Did you lay this egg?!
    
-   Played for Laughs in _Kaguya-sama: Love Is War_ when Kaguya and Fujiwara end up having a child together while playing a _Game of Life_/Sugoroku mashup designed by the Tabletop Games club. They probably never took gender into account when designing the game.
    
    **Fujiwara:** Oh! I landed on a baby space! We had a kid together!  
    **Kaguya: HOW!?**
    
-   _Lyrical Nanoha_:
    
    -   Reinforce Zwei was born in this manner due to the unusual circumstances behind her creation. As revealed in the third Sound Stage of _Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha StrikerS_, she was made from the Linker Core of Hayate. However, Hayate's Linker Core had permanently melded with Reinforce Eins' Linker Core by then, leading to a child with traits of them both, including a few leftover memories and emotions of the two. This, among others, allowed Reinforce Eins to leave a Video Will for Reinforce Zwei to view in her dreams, even though she has been dead for ten years.
    -   Events of _StrikerS_, namely the first four Numbers having Jail's DNA, with Uno being a feminized clone, suggest that Midchildian society has the tech to do this for ordinary people, though it may not be commercialized.
    -   When Mariel was first told that Vivio was Nanoha and Fate's daughter, she assumed that Shario meant biologically since Vivio looks like a Patchwork Kid.
    -   In chapter 15 of _Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha INNOCENTS_, it's heavily implied that Vivio is Nanoha and Fate's biological daughter in this continuity due to Einhart's line when she just barely stops Vivio from making it slip that Fate is her mother. Vivio also nearly calls Nanoha her mother as well before stopping herself later on in the same chapter.
    
    **Einhart**: "If we have to talk about your birth, then we might end up causing a paradox, so..."
    
-   Maybe occurred in _Neon Genesis Evangelion_ with Rei, who was made up of a combination of Yui Ikari and Lilith's DNA. It's debatable whether Angels have a physical sex, though.
-   _Patalliro!_: Maraich gets pregnant twice over the course of the manga; the first pregnancy ends in a miscarriage, but the second results in a successful birth. Neither pregnancy is ever explained, although given the series you'd be wrong to expect an explanation.
-   Word of God has revealed that, in _Saki_, due to its 20 Minutes into the Future setting, two women can have children through the use of IPS cells (induced pluripotent stem cells) — and that many of the main cast were born from couples using that technology.
-   _Semelparous_: Mures are able to conceive with human-mure Uneven Hybrid Bulwarks by taking the Bulwark's Aegis into themselves. In the case of main character Yorino's parents, both partners were female. After learning this, Yorino mentions the possibility that she might get pregnant with her girlfriend Youko while having sex with her.
-   This trope makes up a large part of the plot of the _Sex Pistols_ manga.
-   Kano from _Texhnolyze_ is stated to have _three_ mothers, though the exact mechanics are left unexplained. He did also have a father or several, who were also sons of these mothers. The Class is obsessed with selective inbreeding and genetic engineering to defeat the perceived defects that caused them to be imprisoned underground in the first place, but they get all the physical and mental deformities associated with incest along the way.
-   It's implied in _UQ Holder!_ that Konoka and Setsuna of _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_ had children together, since one of Konoka's granddaughters is a carbon copy of Setsuna, right down to the wings. Given the setting it's not implausible that the technology (or magic) to do so exists. The series would later confirm that they are the grandchildren of Konoka and Setsuna.
-   _Vandread_ is full of this. Ezra, one of the female side characters, was pregnant with the child of Rebecca, another female crew member, via technological gene-mixing. In fact, this is how all women from Megele reproduce. The men, on the other hand, use a less personal but otherwise similar factory setup.

    Comic Books 

-   America Chavez comes from a dimension where humans are a One-Gender Race comprised entirely of women, yet still capable of having biological offspring. The mechanics of how this works are never revealed, it's just part of what makes her home-dimension a lesbian paradise. This is subverted with the reveal that America is from Earth and that her memories of being from another dimension are just figments of her imagination/trauma.
-   In Phil Foglio's _Buck Godot: Zap Gun for Hire_'s "The Gallimaufry" storyline, a male alien Pog member named Qvakk mentions that he "really loved Oort...was gonna take him home, make lots of eggs".
-   _Judge Dredd_ has had more than a few one-shot characters demonstrating that it's possible for men to get pregnant in Mega-City One, usually by another man.
-   Superboy (Conner Kent, or Kon-El) is the result of mixing Superman's DNA with Lex Luthor's. His only daddy was originally Cadmus director Paul Westfield but that didn't have nearly enough sexual tension.
-   In _DC Comics Bombshells_, Supergirl's birth parents are Alura In-Ze (her mother in regular continuity) and Lara Lor-Van (her cousin's mother in regular continuity).
-   In the Young Animal run of _Doom Patrol_ Casey Brinke manages to accidently get her friend Terry None pregnant, despite the fact both of them are cisgendered women. It's later explained that this was possible because technically neither Casey or Terry 'exist' as they were both created by their respective fathers' reality-altering superpowers.
-   In Alan Moore's _Tomorrow Stories_, it's revealed that the heroine Cobweb and her sidekick/lover Clarice are the daughters of a previous Cobweb and Clarice, having been born as a result of a ritual where their ancestors made love in a certain place which had certain special qualities. This was because their ancestors were, due to an accident, from a One-Gender Race.
-   In _Transmetropolitan_ this trope seems to be a major part of the in-universe soap opera "Republican Party Reservation". Would be tame compared to all the other stuff that goes on daily in the City.
-   Wonder Woman is an interesting case. Traditionally and originally she was brought to life by magic combined with her mother's longing, Aphrodite's compassion, and both of their love, and both women call her daughter, though in practice when Diana talks of her mother she means Hippolyta. In some continuities, Aphrodite gets help from a trio of other goddesses, and Gaia is also oft used as Diana's other mother, as the clay used to form her body came from her.
-   According to Chris Claremont, this was the original plan for Nightcrawler of the _X-Men_. Mystique and Destiny were supposed to be his birth parents, with Mystique morphing into a man for it to happen. However, it received an Executive Veto since it was deemed too controversial. Instead, his father is revealed to be one of Marvel's equivalents of Satan, which is so much less controversial. More than one subsequent writer and a decent number of fans have since considered Retconning this into his actual backstory. This finally comes to pass in the _X-Men Blue: Origins_ oneshot as part of the _Fall of X_ event. To wit: Mystique lived the life of the wife of a rich German aristocrat with Destiny as their servant and the two ladies fell in love. At the same time, Azazel, the Satan equivalent, was making his presence known. Seeing a possible future with Azazel taking over the Earth, Destiny convinced Mystique, when they decided to have a child, to take the form of Azazel to throw him off.
-   In _Monstress_, Dusk Court Baroness Tuya tells her wife, The Sword of the East, that they can't make out at this time as it's both of their "Lunas". Otherwise they could both end up getting pregnant and this is right before the start of a war with the humans.
-   At the end of the _Oz Squad_, a '90s comic book series that reimagines characters from _Land of Oz_ in a '90s Anti-Hero setting, an adult Dorothy Gale reveals that she is pregnant with Princess Ozma's child. The 2011 sequel novel _Oz Squad: March of the Tin Soldiers_ officially introduces this child as Ozzy.
-   In the Aftershock comic _Insexts_, the mysterious egg/pellet that grants protagonists Mariah and Lady Bertram their insectoid abilities is also used to produce their biological son William. Mariah inserted the egg into Lady Bertram, who then forced it into her husband's mouth through a kiss. Eventually, the egg grew so big it burst out of her husband's stomach, at which point it hatched to reveal William.

    Fan Works 

-   _A Clash Of Neets_: Chris Dayne is an odd example; she's the daughter of Ashara Dayne... by Eris, the goddess of thieves. It was eventually shown that in an emotionally intimate moment after Eris aided Ashara in a heist, Eris inadvertantly transferred some of her divine essence into Ashara's body (no actual sex was involved). Since a mortal body can't handle that kind of power without burning up, channeling it into an immaculate conception was the only way to save her. Besides, the Pantheon needed another Child of Destiny to round out the set anyway.
-   _Hetalia: Axis Powers_ fanfics _Hakkōna_ and _Kaitō Kokoro_: Within both stories, male Obake can impregnate other male Obake, perhaps because they could technically materialize the necessary organs and synthesize the necessary hormones. This is how Kiku and Feliciano had their own children.
-   The _Steven Universe_ fic _New Feelings_ has Jonah Eudialyte, son of Pearl and Garnet. Seeing how both of his mommies are Humanoid Aliens (well, Starfish Aliens) who practice magic and have No Biological Sex, this seems quite plausible.
-   Becky Ariel Doofenshmirtz, the daughter of _Phineas and Ferb_ characters Dr Heinz Doofenshmirtz and Perry The Platypus. Not only does she have two daddies, they are barely in the same _class_. Well, the Foe Romance Subtext is there in the original, and one of her daddies _is_ a Mad Scientist...
-   Very common all over the _Invader Zim_ fandom, usually a byproduct of Zim and Dib shipping. Some justify it with at least one participant being an alien, though most don't even bother with a Hand Wave. _In Short Supply_ meanwhile managed to obtain popularity even among people who usually don't like MPreg by exploring in extensive detail the mechanisms and consequences of the trope (for example, Zim wasn't prepared for the physical strain, and his first birth was not a pleasant experience).
-   _Hazura Sinner_ from DeviantArt has built quite a reputation for her work giving "fan babies" to her OTPs (all of them slash), including Kim/Shego, Allelujah/Neil, Fang/Vanille, and Pinkie Pie/Twilight, Rarity/Applejack, and Rainbow Dash/Fluttershy.
-   _Sherlock_ fandom gives Sherlock and John broods of (biological) kids by fanartists. It runs on Rule of Adorable.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fanfiction and fanart feature such things frequently enough that the term "magical lesbian spawn" is frequently used to sort them on fan sites. This is primarily for two reasons: an overwhelming majority of the main characters are female, and magic is an integral part of the setting, which makes it easier for fans to Hoof Wave two mares having a foal with "A Unicorn Did It" or more specifically "Twilight Did It."
    
    -   In part 4 of the _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fic _Out in the Cold_, Trixie ends up bearing Twilight's foal after the two get carried away with a book of sex magic (a Gender Bender spell is heavily implied).
    -   An established part of pony existence in the _Triptych Continuum_, courtesy of a unicorn working known as Mytilene's Truest Love — although practically everypony just calls it The Most Special Spell. However, it has a number of restrictions. It only works on mares. (All attempts to find a stallion version that would work in conjunction with a surrogate mare have failed.) Pregnancy is not guaranteed: a mare under the spell's influence has the same chance of becoming gravid as she would at that point in her cycle. The spell generally only lasts one night, which means repeated castings are often necessary. Any pregnancy which does result is fully normal — including the chance of miscarriage. And the foal will _always_ be a filly. Castings are available free from the government, mostly to avoid con artists creating useless glow and leaving (or sticking around long enough to watch the conception attempt), along with arranging a health screening to assess the chance of an "in the blood" disease being guaranteed in the offspring. Celestia saw that part coming — but wasn't quite expecting centuries of the spell's use to push Equestria into a mare majority.
    -   In Lopoddity's Pandoraverse, same-sex couples with biological children include Rarity and Applejack, Bruce (an Original Character stallion) and Aerostorm (a Rainbow Dash/Dumbbell son), and Pandora (a Twicord daughter) and Cupcake (a Pinkie/Cheese Sandwich daughter). Justified in-universe, due to all cases of homosexual reproduction involving a draconequus either temporarily changing one half of the couple into the opposite gender for a short while or actually being part of the couple. There's also the case of Bruce's female pet sea hawk and Pandora's pet chicken who had a clutch together, which Pandora chalks up to said hen spending most of her life in a high-Chaos magic environment.
    -   _Oversaturated World_: Discussed in Sugarcatharsis:
    
    Lemon burst out laughing and clapped Sugarcoat on the shoulder. "It's fantastic! She's like if you and Indigo had some weird magic lesbian baby." She turned to Twilight. "Hey, are magic lesbian babies a thing now?"
    
    "I... what?"
    
    "I'll take that as a 'maybe.'"
    
    -   The Winningverse has these. The term used is "Love Foals". Rainbow Dash is a love foal to ponies who share a very striking resemblance to Firefly (The pony Dash is an expy of) and Surprise (The pony Pinkie is an expy of). It's said that The Magic of Love decides who gets a love-foal and who doesn't, which is a problem for Lyra and Bon-Bon, as while they satisfy the conditions for a love-foal, neither of them are at a stage in their lives where they could raise a foal. Later fics seem to imply that certain magics that can give a mare the equipment to do things the traditional way can also create new life and may be able to power through methods to stop pregnancy. While the author has said that stallion/stallion pairings can produce love-foals, they have not elaborated on the logistics of how or where the foal gestates.
    -   _A Diplomatic Visit_: The epilogue of the fourth (and final) story, _The Diplomat's Life_, reveals that Queen Scolopidia (one of many changeling queens in the setting) and her wives, Vinyl Scratch and Octavia Melody, have had foals together. They decline to explain how though.
    -   In _And Tootsie Flute Makes Three,_ Twilight uses a spell to turn Lyra into a stallion for 24 hours so she and Bon-Bon can conceive a foal.
    -   Averted in _Auntie Tia's Matchmaking Service_: Two of the mane characters, Luster Dawn and Zap Apple are both children of lesbian couples, Starlight Glimmer and Trixie and Applejack and Rainbow Dash, respectively. But a sperm donor was used in both cases, Starburst and Big Mac respectively. Though the latter is still a blood relative of both his mothers, as his uncle was the donor in his case, Luster is only biologically related to Starlight and not Trixie.
-   _Touhou Project_ fandom uses this a lot and provided a former page image. Far more plausible than most settings, given a) the Improbably Female Cast, b) the abundance of casual magic, and c) it being very rare for any two random characters to be the same _species_, so this trope would be the least surprising thing about them having children.
-   Happens a _lot_ in _Kim Possible_ fanfic, because the big Fan-Preferred Couple is Kim and her Evil Counterpart Shego, and their world is so riddled with Mad Science that this hardly needs justifying. Two daughters (named Kasy and Sheki) created by one author for the fic _A Small Possibility_ are popular enough that they're often borrowed by other writers, but they're hardly the only ones.
-   Many, many _Harry Potter_ fics concern ways for two men or, less often, two women to have kids without a surrogate or a previous relationship, from potions and/or spells to magical creature heritage to simply having powerful enough magic/being in "true love"/wanting it badly enough. In other words: A wizard did him resp. a witch did her.
-   The usual result of "McShep" slash involving accidents with Ancient technology in _Stargate Atlantis_ slash fic. Especially because Sheppard's Ancient gene and McKay's genius intellect are considered extremely valuable by the entire Pegasus Galaxy, and fanon often considers the city Atlantis to be sentient and very fond of the two.
-   Some _Fire Emblem: Awakening_ fanfics try to sidestep canon's lack of same-sex marriages while keeping the children's existence intact, mainly among yuri shippers. Sumia/Cordelia and Lissa/Maribelle are the most noteworthy examples.
-   Pretty much any ABO (Alpha/Beta/Omega) Alternate Universe Fic (long story short: some characters have a working penis and can impregnate anyone regardless of gender while other characters can get pregnant by anyone regardless of gender) involves this and is often the impetus for writing one in the first place.
-   _All of the Little Things_, a _Bleach_ fanfic where Yoruichi and Sui-Feng end up getting married and conceiving a child together. The fic takes a chapter out to go into all the metaphysical detail of how that is possible (especially as Yoruichi was adamant that she did not want Sui-Feng growing any extra appendages to get the job done).
-   The _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_ Science Baby AU. Technically, they're _magic_ babies.
-   Many _Lost Girl_ fics have Bo impregnating Lauren. Typically explained by her taking and giving back chi is an exchange life force and can be used to impregnate women. The fics that have the baby be a son however show the authors have a questionable grasp of biology, which is discussed in _Believing in the Impossible_, where Lauren mentions she's positive their baby is a girl. When Bo asks how she can be sure, Lauren points out neither of them has a y chromosome.
-   _RWBY_ fandom classes fics where this happens as RWBabies for maximum punny potential:
    -   The titular character of _Snowflake!_ is Yang and Weiss' daughter. She was conceived through DNA mixing.
    -   _Linked in Life and Love_: It's mentioned off-hand that advancements in Dust can do this. Ruby is in fact the result of this process. Raven and Summer were a couple and wanted a baby. At first, the process only had a sixty percent success rate so they had Taiyang act as a donor (this produced Yang), but by the time they wanted another child the odds were better, so Ruby is a true DNA mix of Raven and Summer. Raven carried Yang, while Summer carried Ruby.
-   Marvel Cinematic Universe:
-   In New Blood, Hermione takes on a personal quest to help Head Girl Jade and her girlfriend Milan conceive a child. In chapter 318, the ritual is performed successfully.
-   In "Remembrance of the Fallen" Tiana Lanstar is very pregnant with a child conceived using in-vitro fertilization with her dead wife's ova, which had been technobabbled.
-   Lantern Prime gives Cybertronians two ways to procreate. While a male and female Cybertronian can breed (which involves the female taking a portion of her and the male's Spark, incubating the new Spark until it is complete, and then transferring it to a new body), the more common method is through Protoforms, which require one to five parents, in any combination of genders, to be scanned to set the new Transformer's traits (except gender, which is already set for each Protoform). Arcee ends up with Optimus Prime, Abin Sur, Kilowog, and Mogo as her sources. The latter three use their Lantern Rings to interface with the cyberwomb.
-   _Shudo cross Modern Ash: The Professor Who Observes his Charges_ has this mentioned as becoming possible in the last few decades with the tech available to the Pokemon world, with the specific method used being the Parthenote method mentioned under Real Life. Verity is the result of this with her two mothers.
-   In _Neither a Bird nor a Plane, it's Deku!_, Casey Brinke, a member of the Doom Patrol, developed a drug that allows women to impregnate each other. Momo Yaoyorozu is the product of one of these consummations.
-   In the adult _The Legend of Korra_ Palcomix story _You're In My Heart, In My Soul_, Korra somehow impregnates Asami during _non-penetrative_ sex. Yep.
-   _Warrior Cats_:
-   In SilfofinaDragon's _Sengoku Basara_ fanfics, Date Masamune and Sanada Yukimura have children named Yuki (daughter) and Masa (son) through having sex.
    -   This even works for Masa and Oyamada Nobushige copulating and Masa getting knocked up just at the age of thirteen. We meet their son Tsukitora in chapter 1 part 2 of Silfofina's latest fic _Finally Home_.
-   Same-sex pregnancies are apparently common enough in the _Fantasia Times_ series there are people specialized in helping deliver them. Most notably, main character Sera is the daughter of Sirius Black and Remus Lupin, and Elsa ends up pregnant with Andi's child.
-   _The Hobbit_ fics are fond of finding ways for Bilbo and Thorin to have "dwobbit" children in spite of both of them being male. Some fics just have Bilbo get pregnant with no explanation other than maybe a handwave about how hobbits are different from other races, but other fics take more creative, non-Mister Seahorse approaches like revealing that hobbits reproduce by growing their children in gardens a la Cabbage Patch Kids or that dwarves can carve their children out of stone like their creator Aule allegedly did with the first dwarves.
-   In _Total Command_, they are only female Quirk users (with the exception of Izuku). As such, children are mostly born through artificial insemination. A darker example of this trope is played by Endeavor, who used her wife Rei as a baby factory to create the ultimate quirk.
-   _Total Drama Legacy_:
    -   Cameron creates two children for him and his husband Lightning using a Uterine Replicator that he invented, an enucleated egg cell implanted with his DNA, and Lightning's sperm.
    -   The sequel, _Worldwide_, reveals that Carter is the biological child of Noah and Owen. In their case, it's a lot simpler— Noah is a trans man and gave birth to Carter.
-   In _So you time travel to the future and your classmate gets punched..._, Rose and Juleka are revealed to have had a biological child via magic (although future!Chloe calls it modern medicine), and Chloe and Alix also had one, although the method of birth they used was not revealed.
-   In the _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_ fic _Militat Omnis Amans(Every Lover is a Warrior)_, Buffy and Willow, who are established as a couple in this story, are transported to a medieval alternate universe that has been plagued by demons. At one point when a demon attack nearly kills Willow, Buffy desperately reaches out to Willow with her mind, creating a permanent psychic bond between the two. This also results in Buffy and Willow both becoming pregnant with each other's babies.
-   In some _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Golden Wind_ fan works (including this one), Melone modifies Baby Face so it can produce a human baby from DNA samples of donor parents, including two males.
-   The _Love Live!_ Alternate Universe Fic _Parent Trap_ involves Nishikino Maki and Ayase Eli developing a medical process that would allow lesbian couples to have their own children but couldn't or wouldn't adopt children. Maki's friends Hanayo and Rin use the process to have their daughter Tora, while Maki would use an egg from anonymous donor and singer Yazawa Nico to have her daughter Dia.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _The Baby Formula_ features a scientific discovery (listed under Real Life) that would allow a woman to be impregnated with sperm created from another woman's stem cells. The main characters are a lesbian couple who undergo the process and successfully impregnate one of them. Then, the other has herself impregnated with the first's stem cells when she feels she should be the pregnant one. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   In _Being John Malkovich_, Cameron Diaz gets Catherine Keener pregnant. (Which is to say, this happens between their characters, but you get the picture.) Well, technically John Malkovitch gets Catherine Keener pregnant while Cameron Diaz is metaphysically inside his body, but they seem to count it as Cameron Diaz's kid.
-   A similar realistic example happens in _The Broken Hearts Club: A Romantic Comedy_. Patrick's lesbian sister Annie asks him to be her partner Leslie's sperm donor; this way the baby would be related to both moms.
-   Mentioned disparagingly by homophobic politician Dan White (and the source of a pretty good joke) in _Milk_.
    
    **Dan White:** Can two men reproduce?  
    **Harvey Milk:** No, but God knows we're trying!
    
-   The setting of the Polish science fiction film _Sex Mission_ necessitates this, as male population was entirely wiped out by Depopulation Bombs in the past. The remaining female population breeds via lab-assisted parthenogenesis. The film ends with the protagonists successfully changing that for good, much to the cloning lab's nurses' horror.
-   _Stingray Sam_. The rich have only been having male children (via gender-decisive drugs) in order to perpetuate their dynasties and so are in danger of dying out. Doctors Fred and Edward come up with a solution by combining their DNA to create their son, Fredward. This leads to (another) Big-Lipped Alligator Moment from our heroes, as they sing of this miraculous invention and all the ensuing names.
    
    Fredrick and Edward had a son named Fredward! Max and Clark had a son named Mark! Aldo and Rex had a son named Alex, Bob and Ringo had a son named Bingo, Zack and Deke had a son named Zeke... (etc)
    

    Literature 

-   _Aeon 14_: By law, new sapient AI are created by blending the minds of multiple SAI or SAI and humans. In several cases this results in AI children who have two or more parents of the same gender presentation: Faleena is the child of Tanis Richards, her flesh-and-blood Joe Evans, and her AI partner Angela, while Jessica Keller, Trevor, and Jessica's AI Iris birth several AI children in the _Perseus Gate_ series as new defenders for Star City.
-   In Walter Jon Williams's novel _Aristoi_, the (male) protagonist's boyfriend voluntarily becomes pregnant with the protagonist's sperm, using the commonplace technology of the far future. (It's so far in the future that people have godlike powers and can do just about anything.)
-   In William Gibson's _Count Zero_ one of Turner's team is a lesbian who had a kid with her partner via "DNA splice". The procedure was apparently very expensive though, the reason she went on the run was to make payments on it.
-   In _Courtship Rite_, the Liethe clan commonly create new clone-lines by fusing ova from two existing but not quite perfect lines, though they do also breed with the priests they seduce. Other clans do some broader gene-pasting. The maran-Kaiel brothers were produced from a complicated process combining Prime Predictor Taien's genes with genes from a past male Prime Predictor who died long ago.
-   Cordwainer Smith's "The Crime And The Glory Of Commander Suzdal": When the planet Arachosia was originally settled, a bizarre happenstance, in the author's words, "rendered femininity carcinogenic". The end result is a monosexual society of beings neither truly male nor truly female, incapable of conventional reproduction and with an abiding hatred of normal humans.
-   In _The Culture_ novels of Iain M. Banks, easily reversible sex-change technology exists. In _Excession_, one major plot point revolves around the common lovers' practice of simultaneous pregnancies: after one half of the couple gets pregnant, they both change genders (which stalls but doesn't abort the pregnancy), the other person gets pregnant, and then the now-male one becomes female again.
-   In _The Dark Profit Saga_, Dwarves are a one-gender race, and no one outside their race has any idea how they procreate. Any attempt to question a Dwarf about it results in teeth being knocked out. As a corollary, Dwarves consider other races openly talking about romantic feelings akin to us listening to someone describing a graphic sex act.
-   There's a character in _The Dark Tower_, Mordred Deschain, with two mothers and two fathers.
-   The bizarre lesbian sci-fi book _Daughters of a Coral Dawn_ has its protagonists accomplish this via a drug called Estrova (although it is implied that they also had kids by more natural means). How this is done is never quite clarified, although it seems to involve fertilizing one motile ovum with one sessile one. It's necessary because they've all left Earth and need to breed to make sure their colony survives. Two books later, it turns out that their granddaughters have mutated into a new humanoid being that produces Estrova naturally.
-   In _The Expanse_, gene-splicing allows any two people to conceive a child. Anna Volovodov and her wife have a daughter conceived this way, and Holden is an odd case of having eight different parents in his genome (essentially being used to abuse a loophole in land rights so his parents could keep their farm).
-   In Joanna Russ' novel _The Female Man_, the narrator comes from an all-female planet in which couples reproduce by merging ova. She considers this obviously superior to mere parthenogenesis.
-   _That Irresistible Poison_ by Alessandra Hazard: Seyn’s two mothers have biological children related to both of them, thanks to advanced technology on the planet Calluvia.
-   Nicolae Carpathia of the _Left Behind_ novels is revealed in the prequel _The Rising_ to be the son of two gay men, incubated in one of their wives. You know, because homosexuals are evil. Subtle as a sledgehammer.
-   In _Rangers At Roadsend_ by Jane Fletcher, it is stated that the DNA of a gene mother is magically copied into her partner's ovum by a so-called "imprinter", a person blessed by Celaeno. As this is all very secret and the temple is implied to be corrupt, it could just be science shrouded in mystery to be able to demand more money for it.
-   _Star Wars Legends_: _Hand of Thrawn_ leans a little more towards Genetic Engineering Is the New Nuke, but it turns out that Major Grodin Tierce is a clone of a Red Guard with a bit of Thrawn's mind added in. For that matter, Joruus C'baoth could be considered to be the child of the original C'baoth and Palpatine — we don't know much about his origins, sure, but while he looks like and thinks he's C'baoth, there's certainly an Emperor-ish cast to his thoughts and use of Force Lightning. That would make Luuke, who is a clone of Luke but is an extension of C'baoth, another one of these.
-   Subverted in the _Tales from the Shadowhunter Academy_ story "Born To Endless Night". Robert Lightwood suspects that Magnus somehow did this magically when he and Alec suddenly adopt an abandoned, blue-skinned, warlock baby. Noting that Alec's eyes are deep blue, and Magnus's magic glows blue, Robert strongly hints that he thinks Magnus created the baby using himself and Alec as some kind of biological donors. Magnus is so stunned that he simply states that he is going to pretend that Robert never asked him about this. Which only seems to make Robert believe it more.
-   In _The Trials of Apollo_, the third series of Rick Riordan's Greek Gods saga, Apollo mentions one of his kids' mortal parent is male. He then points out that his brother Dionysus was incubated and birthed from their father's leg so this shouldn't be so shocking.
-   Older Than Feudalism example in _True History_: after the hero and his crew return to the Moon after the failed war expedition against the Sun people, he's married to the King's youngest child, and then explains that Moon people, apparently all male, can reproduce and how: in a couple, the "husband" (above a certain age range) impregnates the "wife" in a spot in the back of the knee. The fetus then develops in the calf and upon growing big enough it's bodily removed from the leg. It's also mentioned that alternatively, Moon people can detach their testicles and bury them like seeds, generating phallus-shaped trees that give birth to several Moon people. Also doubles as Bizarre Alien Reproduction.
-   In Wen Spencer's _Ukiah Oregon_ series Jo and Lara's second child, Callie, is biologically related to both of them with the aid of a fertility clinic.
-   The dystopian After the End world of _Victoria_ features the technologically advanced but politically eccentric state of Azania as one of the new nations built out of the rubble of America. The ideologists who rule it have outlawed natural births, mandating that all reproduction be by cloning; by the time of the story, they are well on their way toward becoming a real One-Gender Race of lesbians.
-   _Vorkosigan Saga_:
    -   In _Ethan of Athos_ we get Athos, an all-male colony. The plot kicks off because there are problems with the (repeatedly cloned) ova they have to import to allow the males to reproduce. When this novel was written during The '80s, the use of cloned ovaries to produce egg cells was pretty sci-fi, especially when paired with Uterine Replicator technology. It started to show some Zeerust due Science Marches On with Real Life advances suggesting that the creation of zygotes using the genes of two same-sex parents may be possible in the near-term. To catch up, Bujold introduced advances from Beta Colony that allow for such offspring to be produced in any modern Galactic reproduction center.
    -   In _Gentleman Jole and the Red Queen_, Admiral Jole has several sons with Aral Vorkosigan.

    Live-Action TV 

-   The _Broken Hearts Club_ scenario is duplicated in _Girlfriends_, in which William is the biological father of his sister's girlfriend's baby. He refers to the child as his "nephew-son''.
-   In the 2009 Kennedy Center Honors, Jon Stewart provided this semi-joking theory regarding honoree Bruce Springsteen:
-   This is possible in _Dark Matter (2015)_ through genetic engineering techniques. One of the main characters, Two, and her female lover Dr. Shaw had a daughter by this method.
-   The last season of _Legion (2017)_ features a pregnant virgin, Salmon, though it's clarified that she's only a virgin with respect to having sex with men. Her pregnancy is said to be the result of a lesbian relationship with Lenny (yes, Lenny is a woman), though an explanation is not offered other than the show's general Mind Screw nature and the implication that David Haller used his Reality Warper powers to help his friends out.
    
    **Salmon:** When two women have a baby, it's always a girl.
    
-   _Legends of Tomorrow_: In Season 6, Sara Lance is killed and resurrected as a clone by Bishop. However, Bishop splices some extraterrestrial DNA into her new body, among many changes to her physiology, one being absorbing DNA upon contact. This is how Sara ends up becoming pregnant with Ava's child.
-   In the space episode of _NewsRadio_, Space Matthew accidentally unplugs the life support for the whole station, so he and Space Bill McNeil decide they'll need some petri dishes to further the human race.
-   In _The Orville_, there is the Moclan race, who are an all-male species... who lay eggs to reproduce... and are sometimes born "female". They also urinate only once a year and can eat almost anything.
-   Happens a few times across the different Dimension20 seasons, never explained in detail but assumedly through various forms of DND magic
    -   Danielle Barkstock from _The Seven_ is a half-elf with one human mom (Winona Barksdale) and one elven mom (Alyria Hempstock), and appears to bear a physical resemblance to both of them.
    -   In _A Court of Fey and Flowers_, Lady Chirp Featherfowl and her wife Esmé have a daughter named Phillipa (aka Peep) who is human like Esmé but possesses fey magic like Chirp.
    -   _The Ravening War_ has Delissandro Katson, a pastrami-sandwich person with one Meatlander mom (Chieftess Clava Katson, a prime-rib person) and one Ceresian mom who dies before the events of the campaign.

    Myths & Religion 

-   Norse Mythology:
    -   Sleipnir has two fathers — Svaðilfari (described as "the best of all horses") and the Giant/God Loki, though technically speaking Loki was female throughout the entire relationship.
    -   This is not even the only time Loki has children with another male, although at least one of the other incidents also involved Loki taking female form beforehand. According to the Aesir in Lokkasenna, Loki spent eight years in another realm as a milkmaid, having babies with an unnamed husband. Interestingly enough, this may be one of the reasons Loki became a common "bad guy" in Norse myth. The concept of men giving birth (thereby violating Norse sex roles as well as basic biology) was considered the most grievous of taboos.
    -   Heimdall has _nine_ mothers — even odder, they were sisters and each one is said to have given birth. No, we don't get any explanation of how this is possible. Presumably they took turns.
-   In the Welsh _Mabinogion_, the demi-god brothers Gilfaethwy and Gwydion anger their sorcerer uncle Math, who transforms them into matched sets of animals: a stag and a doe, a boar and a sow, and a wolf and a she-wolf. The brothers mate in their animal forms and produce offspring: Hyddwn (fawn), Hychddwn (piglet), and Bleiddwn (wolf pup). After three years Math transforms his nephews and their children into humans. Must've been an interesting family.
-   Classical Mythology:
    -   Poseidon's most prominent romantic relationship before marriage was with a boy named Nerites. Together they sired the god of requited love Anteros.
    -   In one myth, Zeus tricked Callisto into sleeping with him by taking Artemis' form, and impregnated her while in female form. Callisto didn't even question it, and when Artemis interrogated her about her pregnancy, she said to her face that she had knocked her up.

    Tabletop Games 

-   The "Invading Clans" sourcebook in _BattleTech_ notes that this is possible for the Clans, as the scientist caste has the ability to insert DNA from a male donor into an egg or DNA from a female donor into a sperm cell. How common this is never gets revealed and the Clans care little for family ties anyway.
-   _Exalted_:
    -   One of the advanced Craft Abilities is Craft (Genesis), the setting's equivalent of genetic engineering. This trope is really the least of what advanced Genesis-tech can do. Also, ghosts can produce Ghost-Blooded with human women. The gender of the ghost is irrelevant.
    -   Lunars play with this; they reproduce through taking whatever gender they need to make the baby. That said, they can still turn into men while pregnant, and it's within Lunar abilities to make a knack to get around the need for a male and a female to make a child. Their patron Luna is known to appear as a pregnant adult male when it feels like doing so.
-   The small-press RPG _Fates Worse Than Death_ takes place in a rundown cyberpunk future where, among other things, homosexuality is perfectly normal. One of the sourcebooks makes mention of artificial wombs that allow male couples to reproduce and a finger tool that converts epithelials into sperm cells for lesbian couples.
-   In the backstory of _Forgotten Realms_, before the goddesses Shar and Selune were enemies they had a daughter together — the goddess Chauntea. During their feud, the goddess Mystra was created when Selune threw a piece of herself through Shar's body.
-   In _GURPS Transhuman Space_ genetic recombination and exowombs are expensive but viable methods for two people of the same sex (or different parahuman types) to have kids. In the case of two women, exowombs aren't necessarily required; Denise in _Personnel Files 5: School Days_ was carried by one of her mothers, but she doesn't know which one.
-   In the _King's Blood_ card game, playing the titular card allows a character to produce heirs with _anyone,_ regardless of suit or gender. For some reason, pairing males seems to be especially popular.
-   A god with sufficient Knacks in _Scion_ can be whichever gender he or she pleases in the World, allowing a goddess to impregnate a woman or a god to become pregnant. One sample character, Annie X, is the result of Kali taking on a male form.
-   _Vampire: The Requiem_ has a supplement known as _Wicked Dead_ that talks about dhampyr, creatures born from the unnatural desire of vampires to have children. One method of creating dhampyr is the use of a dark ritual, some versions of which allow a vampire of either sex to likewise impregnate a human of either sex, resulting in human men being impregnated by both vampire men and vampire women, and in vampire women impregnating human women. Other versions allow the vampire to fall pregnant by a human lover, again regardless of respective genders. And some vampires produce dhampyrs through The Power of Love, resulting in spontaneous homosexual pregnancies or male pregnancies in one (or both) parties.

    Video Games 

-   The _Army Men_ series had an entry titled _Green Rogue_ wherein plastic was taken from all six of the (all male) Bravo Company Commandos to form a single Supersoldier, 'the Omega soldier prototype.' It is explicitly stated by the supercomputer running the experiment, Mister X, that Omega is the result of splicing all their genes together, making Sarge and his Heroes Omega's genetic 'fathers.'
-   _ClanGen_ has a toggle to allow same-sex mates to have kits, though this is turned off by default.
-   While it was ultimately cut from the final game, _Dragon Age: Origins_ was at some point going to allow a female PC to father a child with Morrigan during the dark ritual at the end of the game, with a Handwave about magic explaining why it was possible. According to the lead writer, one of the reasons they decided against it was because it raised the question of why they even needed to have sex at all if it was all magic, and the conversation ended up coming across as if the game was trying way too hard to justify a sudden lesbian sex scene. Because of the potential Narm, the idea was scrapped and female players were instead given a different moral dilemma where they have to convince a male character to do it.
-   In the _The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind_ In-Game Novel _The 36 Lessons of Vivec_, Vivec and Molag Bal _somehow_ had sons and daughters. Both are generally referred to as male, though Vivec is a hermaphrodite and Molag Bal is a technically genderless deity. Also, as a Daedra, Molag Bal should _not_ be able to create life. It should be noted that the _Lessons of Vivec_ are largely allegorical, even at their most reliable.
-   _Elona_ lets you "Make a Gene" with anybody you've married, regardless of gender or species.
-   The mobile kingdom building and harem games, _Game of Sultans_ and _King's Throne: Game of Lust_, originally let players play a Sultan/King respectively whose job is to raise their Kingdom to glory and gather a harem of wives, who can give birth to the monarch's heirs. Due to these games' popularity with female players, the developers updated the games to allow players to play as a Sultana/Queen. Whether is was intentional or just to save development time, now these games allowed the female monarchs to have lesbian relationships with their all-female harem but even have children with their wives.
-   In _Harvest Moon DS Cute_, it's possible to choose one of the four special not-exactly-human girls as a "best friend" in place of a husband. Should you go their route, the Harvest Lord will show up at some point and magic up a kid for you and your "friend". Only in the Japanese version, though, since Natsume had to appease Moral Guardians who wouldn't acknowledge this game exists if it broke into their house at night and ate their children alive.
-   In _Hitman: Codename 47_, Agent 47 is the result of a cloning experiment that combined the DNA of _five_ of the world's deadliest criminals - all men - in an effort to create a "perfect human".
-   In _I Was a Teenage Exocolonist_, a conversation with Tammy about who her surrogate parent is implies that between Marz's fathers, Al and Bernie, the latter was the one who carried Marz. This was made possible thanks to the colony's surrogacy program.
-   _Mass Effect_:
    -   The asari resemble human women but are actually a One-Gender Race, and they can conceive and give birth to a child by a partner of any gender from any other species. This involves a psychic as well as physical coupling, and the child is always asari. Liara is a child of two asari, as are Samara and her daughter Morinth in the second game. Morinth, however, has a bizarre genetic condition known to the asari as Ardat-Yakshi, which presents its own problems. Problems that are suggested to be the real reason why asari-exclusive pairings are heavily stigmatized.
    -   In a conversation with an older asari, who had partnered with another, she pointedly clarifies that she was her daughter's _father_, since her partner was the one who conceived and bore their daughter.
    -   This is possible for _all_ species, or at the very least humans, through genetic engineering. Designer babies are common amongst the rich; in _Mass Effect 2_ you meet a character who was created using only a single person's DNA (albeit with a lot of genes borrowed from elsewhere). If you can do it with one person, you can do it with two.
-   Enforced in _Minecraft_ — as Notch pointed out, all life in the three worlds Minecraft takes place in consists of One Gender Races, which means that any creature in Minecraft is homosexual, because there is only one gender to choose from. Obviously, this also means that any baby animal or villager is the result of Homosexual Reproduction.
-   _The Sims 2_ has a cheat that allows you to impregnate your sims with anyone you want, so same-sex genetic parents are possible. Numerous mods have been created for _2_ and _3_ that allow same-sex couples to get pregnant through standard WooHoo. _4_ directly allows players to make transgender sims, allowing this trope.
-   _Wizardry 8_ offers the chance to sleep with a demon goddess (actually necessary unless the player knew about a certain plot event ahead of time and set things up to work around it), and the character who did it will find their pissed-off demonic daughter near the end of the game. Go into that scene with an all-female party, and a woman will sleep with the demoness. The daughter shows up regardless.

    Visual Novels 

-   In Medusa's Season 4 of _Astoria: Fate's Kiss_, Celeste and Saffi are pointed out to be half Gorgon and half human, while in the _What to Expect_ special, the protagonist was shown as pregnant.
-   In _Fate/stay night_ Saber, aka King Arthur, has a child with Guinevere. Merlin did some very strange magic for the occasion. During that same period her sister used some of the sperm taken from her to make a homunculus, Mordred, and raise her to be Arthur's rival. This turned out terribly for everyone involved.
-   In Mackenzie's route in _Havenfall Is for Lovers_, the protagonist has three children with Mackenzie which is made possible by a magic werewolf ritual. In her final season, the protagonist gets pregnant by Mackenzie again, this time with twins.
-   One of the endings in _Mizuchi_ has Ai find a way to impregnate the protagonist Linh: creating an egg that she can implant in Linh's body. Before discovering this method, Ai has already used the supernatural equivalence of partheogenesis to create two daughters.
-   In _Monster Prom_, the devs have confirmed that Damien's dads Lucien and Stan are both his biological fathers. No further detail is given, but since they're both shapeshifting demons with implied spellcasting abilities, they presumably had a number of options at their disposal.
-   In _Nurse Love Addiction_, Asuka and Kyoko have a daughter together in Sakuya's good ending. The twist is that their daughter is Sakuya's reincarnation, and Sakuya herself is still in love with Asuka.

    Web Animation 

-   This (extremely perverted) Flash video by a onetime web video maker named "Evil Dave". Just the _description_ is Sick and Wrong: Ricky Martin gets impregnated with a "butthole baby" after gay sex with Puff Daddy, and proceeds to get an abortion, which kills him. Then his corpse is cooked and eaten by a cannibal tribe.
-   The punchline to a gag in asdfmovie9; a woman tells her lover that she's pregnant only for it to be revealed that her lover is also a woman, who is understandably confused by this revelation. Granted, this is assuming the first woman didn't get pregnant... the old-fashioned way with someone else.

    Webcomics 

-   As revealed in the final story arc of _And Shine Heaven Now_: the boy that will grow up to be Vampire Hunter D is somehow Integra Hellsing and Seras Victoria's son. Only they know how that happened, and they aren't telling.
-   In _Drowtales_, it turns out that the Jaal'darya use their manatech to do this. They also sell this technology to Snadhya'rune, which allows her to have a daughter, Kalki, with Mel'arnach without alerting her mother. Or Mel'arnach, at that.
-   Discussed in _El Goonish Shive_. Lesbian couple Ellen and Nanase talk about maybe having kids someday and how to go about it, then Ellen points out that they can... this being _El Goonish Shive_, take a wild guess. Heck, neither of them even needs to change genders or get pregnant, considering that Grace or a pair of Uryuoms could potentially provide them with a Uryuom egg (with the result that their child would look like a combination of both of them and have Voluntary Shapeshifting to resemble either of them).
-   _Ennui GO!_ takes place in the near future where the technology to do this has become commercially available, with Izzy's nephew Max being one such offspring (exactly how two women gave birth to a biologically male son isn't made clear, but it's far from the weirdest thing in the comic). Izzy herself later makes use of it so she, Darcy, and Tanya can have kids as well, which eventually results in Darcy giving birth to a twin son and daughter
-   In _Girly_, the main character's love interest has two moms, and we're told outright that she's their biological child (the explanation is given a humorous Hand Wave). In the end, it turns out that the two main characters have a daughter themselves!
-   _#Blessed_: When the gods say their plan is to impregnate Joanna, she points out that half of them are female. They laugh and say that's not a problem for them.
-   _Homestuck_:
    -   The trolls have genders, but the way their reproduction works (it involves buckets and a "mother grub" who takes genetic material and combines it into an "incestuous slurry") means that it's possible for a child to have _several_ parents, including same-gender ones.
    -   The ectobiology equipment in SBURB means same-sex genetic parents are a possibility for human players—although all the recombination seen so far has been in male-female pairs.
    -   Leprechauns as in the Felt are stated by an Exposition Fairy to have homosexual reproduction exclusively. She's interrupted before she manages to say so but the author puts up her speech anyway, and though the part about how they reproduce is damaged by the glitches it seems quite similar to Dave's Brother's Smuppets.
-   An _Oglaf_ comic _Son of Kronar_ (NSFW) says his family has kept their bloodline pure of woman's taint for a hundred generations. And depicts one of the aforementioned, er, ass-babies.
-   The Japanese fan-art site Pixiv had an art challenge along these lines: "Let's Make _Touhou_ Kids!". The results are available for review (might be NSFW), including a few artists' comic series starring their new creations. Notably, the artist Kyouno has a series, _Touhou Boys and Girls_, with (at last count) six children of female-female couples — and, as the title suggests, two of the kids are male.
-   _Runaway to the Stars_: The Designer Baby version is widely available in human colonies, as seen with Gillie<small>◊</small>, who has two dads and Cat Girl traits thanks to a promotion the lab was running.
-   _Scale and Tale_: Violet and Lily are the biological offspring of a lesbian couple; tiefling artificer Melissa and silver dragoness Brimelle. The bonus sketch to page 2 shows that Melissa gave birth to them and implies that Brimelle temporarily assumed a male form.
-   In _Shortpacked!_, Joe offers to use his crazy tech skills to help Robin and Leslie have a baby together. The plan is to convert some guy's sperm \[they settle on Ethan\] to match the DNA of one of them, so it can then combine with the egg of the other. (He admits he totally stole this idea from _Justice League Unlimited_.)
-   The _Touhou Project_ fancomic _Touhou Nekokayou_ features Original Character Carroll Kirisame, born after magically combining the DNA of Marisa Kirisame and Alice Margatroid. She refers to Marisa as her father (though she uses feminine terms and pronouns to refer to her in every other respect). The exact process Marisa and Alice used remains a Noodle Incident.
-   In _Umlaut House 2_ Rhonda is the daughter of two men, she even jokes that she "is of no woman born". Towards the end of the first series, it was stated that there are biotech companies that help homosexual couples reproduce (though one of Rhonda's dads is a Mad Scientist).
-   In the comic _Wizard & Giant_ the Giant, AKA Prince Varka, a massive pink guy from a sunless frozen wasteland gets married to, and impregnates Wizard. Both characters are male. How is this possible? A wizard did it.

    Web Original 

-   In the _Elcenia_ 'verse, homosexual reproduction has been directly stated to be possible via magic, though a male-male pair requires a surrogate to carry their child.
-   The _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ imageboard Derpibooru has a "Magical Lesbian Spawn" tag for the biological children of such pairings.

    Western Animation 

-   An episode of _Family Guy_ sees Stewie impregnating himself with Brian's puppies in a misguided attempt to save their friendship.
-   This is possible in _Futurama_ with Kif, who is able to absorb DNA from any species and gender through skin contact to become pregnant, as long as he's in a receptive state induced by love. A Who's Your Daddy? scenario results from him being grabbed by the crew and Zapp as he's being sucked out an airlock, and everyone has to go through a DNA test to figure out. Kif is extremely relieved when Zapp is not the father.
-   In _Gargoyles_, Delilah was produced from the DNA of Demona and Elisa.
-   _The Owl House_: During the flashback in "Them's the Break's, Kid", at one point we can see two women—one with three eyes and one with red hair similar to Boscha's—together, implying that she may have been the biological result between them (which, considering how fantastical the setting of the Demon Realm is, it's entirely possible), then there is the implication that Willow is the biological daughter of both her dads.
-   In the _Pinky and the Brain_ episode "Brinky", Roman Numeral One, or "Romy", was meant to be a clone of Brain, but some of Pinky's DNA ended up in the mix, producing what Pinky (and eventually Brain) treats as the duo's son.
-   Played for Laughs in _Ren & Stimpy "Adult Party Cartoon"_. The aptly titled episode "Stimpy's Pregnant" starts with Stimpy having typical pregnancy symptoms, which he has to explain himself of to Ren. Despite them having a child is biologically impossible, neither complain nor question it; Ren even says "You said you'd use protection!". It is later revealed that it was not, in fact, a child, but a living lump of Stimpy's excrements (even though he went through lactation and had his waters flow out). They never find out, because the delivering doctor didn't want to "break their hearts".
-   _Transformers_, being a One-Gender Race with a few rare exceptions, can do this. Two examples would be Sumdac and Megatron making Soundwave in _Transformers: Animated_ and Ratchet and Wheeljack making the Dinobots in _Transformers: Generation 1_. It is worth noting, however, that no "reproduction" in the biological sense is involved- they simply make a chassis and either program in a "soul" or give it a soul via MacGuffin application. As long as the parties involved have the requisite know-how, Transformer reproduction can be performed by two male super-intelligent iguanas if the need arises.
-   Following the comics, Superboy in _Young Justice_ is revealed to be a combination of the DNA of Superman and Lex Luthor in the episode "Agendas." Given that this was in the comics this also counts as an I Knew It! for many fans of both.
    
    **Luthor:** _Half of your DNA is human. Have you ever wondered who the donor was? Face it,_ son, _you have more in common with me than with Superman._
    

    Real Life 

-   In Real Life, scientists have managed to create viable sperm from female stem cells, and hope to create eggs from male cells in the near future. While legislation will undoubtedly take its time to catch on, there is now theoretically (very expensive) means for lesbian couples to have children without a man; the technical term for this is "parthenogenesis." Such children, called "parthenotes," would always be female. And that's not all — it has been demonstrated in animal experiments that it's possible to make a child inherit the genes of _three_ parents — the implications for unorthodox family structures are pretty interesting.
    -   Although the result doesn't usually thrive, it is possible for one of the 'waste' cells formed during female meiosis, the polar body, to fuse with an egg producing a zygote. If the problems are ever overcome, any two females could produce a child without the need to engineer sperm cells.
    -   As far as working on making children from two fathers, it's significantly harder, as eggs become the core of an embryo while sperm is little more than genetic information. There are a few ideas, but in practice, it's quite a ways away still. Also, YY combinations must be avoided because the X chromosome is necessary for life, so effectively the children will be male 2/3 of the time and female 1/3 of the time. That doesn't even get into the fact that there'd need to be a surrogate mother to actually carry the baby, or an artificial womb outside of a body (while there could in theory be male pregnancies, they would be extremely dangerous, and the technology required to make them would be more difficult than a completely artificial womb altogether).
-   Reciprocal IVF is a fertility technique already used by lesbian couples. It involves taking an egg from one mother and implanting it in the other mother for gestation after it has been fertilized by a donor's sperm. The resulting child effectively has two biological moms (one genetic, and one gestational).
-   You could say that Dolly the sheep had three mothers: one that the nuclear DNA was taken from, one that the egg cell was taken from, and one that it was implanted in.
-   Believe it or not, Gay/Lesbian reproduction has actually been proven to be biologically possible in some species, just look no further than the Desert Grassland Whiptail Lizard. They are an all-female species, have mastered this unique adaptation long before humans came into the picture as they reproduce strictly through cellular meiosis (no fertilization of eggs required), while ovulation is enhanced by what basically amounts to lizard lesbianism.
-   Mice from two genetic fathers. And two genetic mothers. An experiment was done to see if bi-maternal mice have longer lives by changing some eggs to behave like sperm (answer: yes, but they were also drastically smaller).

___