_"Scene 3: Daphne Rubin-Vega plays Mimi. In 'Boheme', she's a sweet, shy seamstress. Now, she's a CRACK-HEAD, NYMPHOMANIAC PROSTITUTE! YEAH!"_

This is a trope about when an installment becomes more risqué in nature. Whether by giving characters more skimpier outfits, adding in sex scenes or otherwise making things more steamy between the main couple, things in this installment are much more sexual than the one that came before it.

There are a variety of ways for this trope to be put in place. Sometimes the writers want to add more sexier scenes in their work for the sake of Fanservice, other times they want to explore sex-based themes in a broader sense than simply for titillation. Others want to make this installment suited for an older audience so they add them in.

A Super-Trope to Sexy Whatever Outfit.

A Sister Trope to Sex Sells.

Parallel to Darker and Edgier, Lighter and Softer, Bloodier and Gorier, Denser and Wackier and Younger and Hipper.

See also Avoid the Dreaded G Rating and Rated M for Money. Rule 34 cranks this up. If a single specific character gets this, see Historical Beauty Update, Fanservice Pack, Adaptational Attractiveness, or Adaptational Skimpiness. Going in the opposite direction will get you Tamer and Chaster, Bleached Underpants or Adaptational Modesty.

___

## Example Subpages:

-   Anime & Manga
-   Live-Action TV
-   Video Games

## Other Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

-   The freaking _Sun Maid Raisin Girl_ has gotten this treatment. Seriously, see for yourself.
-   The Wendy's logo depicts a little girl who looks like Pippi Longstocking. The commercials portray her as a young adult.
-   Viagra commercials in the late 90s consisted of former US Senator Bob Dole telling men that ED was a perfectly normal condition and there was no reason to be ashamed of having it. Twenty years later, they consist of a variety of hot, flirtatious women in suggestive outfits.
-   Some of YTV's advertisements for its shortlived teen-oriented block "Limbo" used this trope, compared to the normal child and family-oriented programming on the lineup. An ad for _Lucy Sullivan is Getting Married_ tells the viewer to get past the British accents in order to see "lots of skin" while focusing on shirtless guys and hookup scenes throughout, while another ad for _Opposite Sex_ calls the male protagonist a "lucky bastard" (bleeped) as we see him surrounded by scantily-clad girls in a changing room.

    Arts 

-   As proof that this Trope is much Older Than They Think, artwork depicting scenes in Classical Mythology is often used as an excuse for nude art, even if this would be completely out of character for the subject being portrayed.
    -   One very common "offender" is the Judgment of Paris. From the Middle Ages onward, all three goddesses are typically depicted nude in art, despite the fact that they were not trying to seduce Paris, and it only fits Aphrodite's character. (The opportunity for three female nudes was a large part of the attraction of the subject.)
    -   The Three Graces are subject to this too more often than not; Renaissance masters like Raphael and Charles-André van Loo have featured them in nude art, and the trend goes back even further, as explained by Greek poet Pausanias:
        
        "Who it was who first represented the Graces naked, whether in sculpture or in painting, I could not discover. During the earlier period, certainly, sculptors and painters alike represented them draped. At Smyrna, for instance, in the sanctuary of the Nemeses, above the images have been dedicated Graces of gold, the work of Bupalus; and in the Music Hall in the same city, there is a portrait of a Grace, painted by Apelles. At Pergamus likewise, in the chamber of Attalus, are other images of Graces made by Bupalus; and near what is called the Pythium there is a portrait of Graces, painted by Pythagoras the Parian. Socrates too, son of Sophroniscus, made images of Graces for the Athenians, which are before the entrance to the Acropolis. Also, Socrates was known to have destroyed his own work as he progressed deeper into his life of philosophy and search of the conscious due to his iconoclastic attitude towards art and the like. All these are alike draped; but later artists, I do not know the reason, have changed the way of portraying them. Certainly, today sculptors and painters represent Graces naked."
        
-   _Olympia_: Compared to other portrayals of the Reclining Venus, _Olympia_ is very sexualized and the character is very aware of it. That's why this painting was considered scandalous in its time because of the naked woman's confrontational gaze and the details suggesting she is a prostitute —such as her bracelet, pearl earrings, and the orchid in her hair.

    Comic Books 

-   In addition to making everyone Younger and Hipper, Ultimate Marvel did this for almost all of its female characters, not to mention how everyone Really Gets Around and there are far more sexually charged storylines.
-   WildStorm's horribly misjudged _ThunderCats_ revival, which included amongst other things, an aged-up (but still in their teens) Wilykit and Wilykat _becoming Mumm-Ra's sex slaves_. Cheetara was chained provocatively to a wall in her first appearance, with the insinuation she'd been raped by the mutants.
-   Pictured above is Zenescope Entertainment's _Grimm Fairy Tales_, with the comic in question obviously centering around _Little Red Riding Hood_ (although she isn't so little anymore). The wolf actually turns out to be the former lover of the teenaged Red. In the end, this story is merely a teenager's Dream Sequence based on her fight with a boyfriend who wanted to have sex with her.
    -   As a whole, _Grimm Fairy Tales_ is a subversion — sure, all covers feature attractive women in fetishized costumes of fairy tales characters, or with those characters, but stories themselves are mostly modern versions of fairy tales, rather Darker and Edgier than Hotter and Sexier.
-   Comic book artist J. Scott Campbell has been producing "Fairy Tale Fantasies," an annual pin-up calendar series that features female characters from various Disney/Mother Goose fairy tales in decidedly skimpier outfits and sporting more comic book-proportioned figures.
-   Happened to the second Wonder Girl, once she moved from _Young Justice_ to Teen Titans. This<small>◊</small> is how she was looking in her Young Justice days. This<small>◊</small> is her current look.
-   Done in _Green Lantern Corps_. Sheriff Mardin was originally an overweight woman in a trenchcoat. In the _New 52_, she's a lot skinnier and is now a Purple-Skinned Space Babe and wears a tank top.
-   Speaking of the _New 52_:
    -   The sexuality of traditional Ms. Fanservices Catwoman and Starfire in _Red Hood and the Outlaws_ have been ramped up significantly. Notably, Amanda Waller also had a major redesign to slim her down when she has _never_ been a particularly attractive woman (in either looks or personality). DC later toned down Starfire into something more similar to her portrayal in the _Teen Titans_ cartoon in her _Starfire (2015)_ solo series.
    -   Similar to Waller, Ma Hunkel/Red Tornado I has apparently also been revised to no longer be a slightly overweight middle-aged housewife/grandmother, with her cross-dressing theme seemingly removed. Though, she's apparently now a composite of Ma Hunkel and her granddaughter Maxine, better known as Cyclone, who didn't share Ma's appearance.
    -   The male characters are getting it a little, too. Jay Garrick and Alan Scott, as part of the Younger and Hipper reboot in _Earth 2_, both went from senior heroes to young and very attractive (as drawn by Nicola Scott, who gives the readers plenty of Female Gaze). Superman's facial features have been reworked, making him look more youthful and cute.
    -   Inverted, though, with _Supergirl_, whose Leotard of Power shows a lot of leg but otherwise has been notably downplayed in favour of a more ordinary teenaged girl look; Power Girl, who for about a year had a much more modest costume<small>◊</small> that even lacked her infamous "boob window"; and the Star Sapphires in the _Green Lantern_ books, whose new costumes aren't nearly as Stripperiffic as the old ones.
    -   Harley Quinn was always a bit fanservicey considering she was a Perky Female Minion; however, most of the time she was completely covered up. She rarely appeared without her harlequin costume, her face coated in makeup, or even her hat off. _Batman: Arkham Series_ started the trend of Harley without the hat and in skimpy outfits. The New 52 embraced this and got rid of her traditional outfit for Girlish Pigtails 100% of the time and casual clothing (often with a midriff baring shirt and short shorts) instead of a costume. Adaptations such as _Suicide Squad (2016)_, _Injustice: Gods Among Us_, and _DC Super Hero Girls_ use the more fanservicey outfit, however _Justice League Action_ uses her classic clothes.
-   In the '80s, Peter Riverstone did this with The Bible stories where _every_ notable woman has an Impossible Hourglass Figure that would shame Jessica Rabbit from their perfectly cherubic faces, perfectly set triple-Ds, _washboard abs,_ a matching ass and the long legs of a runway model that don't even need heels to stand that way compared to every notable man being built like Superman with a permanent Raging Stiffie, which in Holophernes's case could literally impale a woman to death! Stories like "Judith and Holophernes" and "Thamara and Judah" would be certainly memorable this way.
-   Dynamite Entertainment has made a comic adaptation of the _A Song of Ice and Fire_ novels, which is by far more similar to the book than the TV adaptation. Particularly, comic Catelyn is younger and hotter than her TV version.
-   _Archie Comics_ usually portrays the characters in a chaste manner (with the main trio explicitly being celibate according to a 70s comic, and sexuality beyond a PG manner being rare). In the 2010s they began drifting away from this image:
    -   _Archie vs. Predator_ is a parody of slasher films. It features all the overly sexual tendencies that slasher works are known for.
    -   _Afterlife with Archie_ uses this mostly for Fan Disservice. For example, the twins Cheryl and Jason Blossom are involved in twincest, though whether it's sexual or not is not mentioned and it's heavily implied to be abusive.
    -   The _Archie Comics (2015)_ reboot is designed to be more realistic and contemporary than the classic continuity. The characters still don't have sexual relations in the reboot, but the topic at least gets suggested.
    -   The _Josie and the Pussycats_ reboot which goes with the 2015 reboots uses this trope even more than the other rebooted comics. The characters are in their mid-twenties, unlike previous depictions or the high school _Archie_ characters, which gives the writers the ability to write them as having active sex lives. It is suggested that Melody Really Gets Around instead of just being a Dude Magnet while Josie and Alan have had sex.
-   Despite already being one of the most provocatively dressed stars in comic books, Harris Comics began the process of making Vampirella's costume more and more like "Dental Floss" as Trina Robbins said.
-   _X-Men: Phoenix – Legacy of Fire_ is an alternate take on the X-Men, or more specifically Jean Grey, that focus entirely on scantily-clad female characters caught in risque situations and cramming as much fanservice as possible. The comic was originally published with a normal PG rating, but after the first issue, execs most likely realized they were publishing soft-core porn that the two following issues were released with a Marvel MAX brand, bumping it for mature audiences.
-   _Nightmares on Elm Street_: Taryn's outfit in the dream world is even skimpier than her badass leather outfit in the third movie.
-   _Legion of Super-Heroes_ has had two instances of this:
    -   When Mike Grell redesigned the team's costumes, everyone was more Stripperiffic. Saturn Girl's original costume covered her up entirely and wasn't even drawn to be skintight, but Grell's redesign is essentially a bikini (a later issue (after Saturn Girl had reverted to her original costume) had her actually use it as a bikini at the beach), Cosmic Boy's costume changed colour so that it matches his skin and gave the appearance that he was naked, Phantom Girl got a shutter-style Cleavage Window, and Princess Projectra ran around in a bikini.
    -   The Retroboot Legion, who are basically the original Legion up to a certain point in their history (though they _had_ gone back to their regular costumes by this point), had this in _spades_ compared to their previous incarnation, the Threeboot Legion. Shadow Lass was back to a bikini, and Phamtom Girl's costume actually got _more_ fanservice-y than her Grell outfit, as it was now skintight on top of her cleavage window.
-   X-23 was introduced in _X-Men: Evolution_ as a child. When made a Canon Immigrant, she was age lifted up into a teenager and given a Race Lift. Laura in the comics is portrayed in a much more fanservicey goth-ish way than her original incarnation and usually bares her midriff. She also has Rape as Backstory elements not present in the cartoon.
-   The _RoboCop_ franchise doesn't really have much in the way of fanservice. Given Avatar Press released _Frank Miller's RoboCop_, it should come as no surprise that there's a lot more scantily-clad women there.
-   AC Comics' _Femforce_ has Golden Age characters Miss Victory and Yankee Girl, whose costumes have been updated to match the stripperiffic tone of the series.
-   _Star Fems_, also by AC Comics, features Planet Comics heroines Mysta of the Moon, Gale Allen, and Futura. While all three wore stripperiffic attire in their original stories, _Star Fems_ puts them in tighter, even skimpier outfits.
    -   _Star Fems_ also features _Femforce_ character Stormy Tempest, who dons a Leotard of Power, being rendered topless due to Clothing Damage.

    Fan Works 

-   _Weiss Reacts_ applies this to a _character_, mostly for comedic potential. In canon, Pyrrha is a Team Mom who quietly nurses her feelings for Jaune. In _WR_, she's a Stalker with a Crush who openly ogles Jaune and tries to invoke Clothing Damage.
-   Invoked in _POP Culture_, which is an AMV about a fictional singer in the music industry. According to a blink-or-you-miss-it piece of paper, Cassie's abusive managers forced her into changing her image and becoming more sexualized.
-   _A New Hope (Danganronpa)_ features far more romance than in canon, complete with detailed sex scenes between characters.
-   _New Tamaran_ and other stories by Saberlord Oboeshoes aren’t shy about discussing the young heroes’ sex lives (to the point where it can be awfully disjointed from the rest of the story).
-   _League of Extraordinary Gentlemen: Tempest Rewrite_: This story has a lot more sex than the original comic; it also ends with our heroines in much more revealing clothes
-   _White Noise_: Yang can't believe that the famous popstar Weiss used to be a Christian singer.
-   The _Mob Psycho 100_ fandom is not in any way shy about the character's sexuality. This can be seen in _Shigeko Kageyama AKA Mob,_ _Could Do, Should Do, Will Do,_ _Apparitions Gone Awry,_ _Null Homotopic,_ _3 a.m._ and _The Penny Drops._
-   Many, many _Odd Squad_ fanfics are downplayed examples, since the characters are, after all, kids. The only thing added is romance, which was barely present in the original show outside of a few Ship Tease moments and some subtle Getting Crap Past the Radar moments. The _Ships Ahoy!_ universe of fanfics is the most well-known example of this trope, as many of the characters are either in relationships or looking to be in a relationship.
    -   The fanfic _OSMU: Fanfiction Friction_ has an in-universe example of this trope played straight, with the revival of _Bizarre Brigade_, which was initially introduced in the _Odd Squad_ Season 1 finale "O is Not For Over" as an adult-casted counterpart to _Odd Squad_ as a show. The main characters, who are aged up into teenagers and are played by adults, are all in skimpy outfits and there are a lot more sex themes (such as Oprah's counterpart's bodyguards in bondage gear). The revival as a whole is a triple Take That! at terrible revivals of TV shows, people who sexualize minors, and TV shows that have black characters solely as a Ratings Stunt but treat them poorly to the point where they only get one Mandatory Line.
-   You thought _To Love Ru Darkness_ is already more fanservice-heavy than the already extremely-fanservice-heavy _To Love Ru_? Well, the fans thought _Darkness_ isn't sexy enough and in turn, decided to make a Fan Game based on the anime, but this time, turning it into a full-fledged Hentai game and making the game show the sex scenes as explicit as logically possible and not pulling any punches about it. The name? _To Love-Ru Diary_.

    Films — Animation 

-   _Frozen_ does a costume-specific variation of this trope. After Elsa runs away, she realizes she no longer has to hide her powers, so she does things like swap her proper coronation dress for a slinky dress (through Gorgeous Garment Generation), which she does a Supermodel Strut in.
-   Disney's _The Little Mermaid_ is this to the original _The Little Mermaid_ story. The demure little mermaid is revamped into Ariel. The mermaid in the original tale was topless (as most mermaids were at the time) but is presented non-sexually. Ariel however is a slightly older character with more Ms. Fanservice aspects. The film contains a lot of subtext with several of her scenes.
-   _Who Framed Roger Rabbit_ does this with Jessica Rabbit's rendition of "Why Don't You Do Right?" that she sings in her opening number. The song, best popularized by Peggy Lee, was upbeat and jazzy. Jessica's performance is slower, and involves teasing the men in the audience.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   Every single Uwe Boll adaptation of every video game, particularly _Alone in the Dark (2005)_, which was changed from a Lovecraftian detective story to a poor man's version of _The Matrix_... but with more sex.
-   _Captain Fracassa's Journey_: This adaptation of Théophile Gautier's _Le capitaine Fracasse_ is the only one to feature a seductress, bare-breasted women and long kisses. Compare the way more chaste _Le Capitaine Fracasse_ made in The '60s.
-   This happens with a lot of adaptations of _Dracula_, in particular _Bram Stoker's Dracula_, as it was Truer to the Text (probably because the Lugosi version that became the benchmark is based on Hamilton Deane's play, and not Bram Stoker's book).
-   _Fright Night (2011)_ is infamous for casting a bunch of sexy actors (including Colin Farrell as the villain and David Tennant as a Criss Angel-like stage magician in the role originally portrayed by Roddy MacDowell) in this remake of _Fright Night (1985)_.
-   _Mary Shelley's Frankenstein_ (which appropriately enough was a Follow the Leader situation from _Bram Stoker's Dracula_) adds in a passionate sex scene for Victor and Elizabeth's wedding night. Victor also finds a lot of reasons to walk around shirtless.
-   _Paint Your Wagon_ greatly rewrote the original musical play, adding subplots about prostitution and wife-sharing.
-   _Percy Jackson and the Lightning Thief_ did this with Grover. In the book, he was shy and introverted with self-esteem issues. The movie turned him into a sex crazed maniac and played up the lust in Percy and Annabeth's romance.
-   _Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides_ to the franchise and Disney in general; it's the very first Disney film to mention sexual content (though not in those words) in the MPAA's reason for giving it a PG-13 rating.
-   _Red Riding Hood_ is a great example of this (as well as Darker and Edgier), what with all the bondage-gear pseudo-medieval clothing and rolling about in the snow.
-   There's more nudity and related fanservice in the third _Riddick_ movie than in previous installments, including from Riddick himself.
-   In _Scooby-Doo (2002)_, when a "Freaky Friday" Flip occurs, Freddy in Daphne's body feels himself, while Shaggy in Velma's body looks up her own skirt. This is quite a departure from the very chaste animated entries of the series.
-   It's common for parody films such as such as the _Scary Movie_ series and _Austin Powers_ trilogy to feature more nudity and raunchier sex than the target material.
-   The film versions of _The Dukes of Hazzard_, which took a family-friendly comedy series (with a resident, though mild fanservice character) and turned it into a sex comedy, complete with a raunchier unrated DVD version and R-rated direct-to-DVD sequel. Several actors from the original series even went public with their complaints.
-   The Live-Action Adaptation of _The Flintstones_ had Halle Berry as Fred's Sexy Secretary, with some lines that went beyond Parental Bonus. To prevent backlash, however, Wilma and Betty were not oversexualized, no matter what some fans thought about them.
-   The musical _The Phantom of the Opera_ was already this compared to its source novel, but the movie of it is even more so — not to its benefit when it means the Phantom has been hit with severe Adaptational Attractiveness that makes all the talk of his hideousness prior to his unmasking moot.
-   _The Three Musketeers (2011)_, starring Milla Jovovich as Action Girl fourth member Milady De Winter, who at one point rips off her overdress and has a petticoat cut as a Showgirl Skirt.
-   In _The Transformers_ cartoon, Spike did have some dating issues. The movies made it more explicit and had plenty of fanservice shots of the love interests.
-   Who knew that Charles Xavier was a charming, Pretty Boy cad or that Erik Lehnsherr was a brooding, Tall, Dark, and Handsome "bad boy" during their youth? _X-Men: First Class_ also provides the most scantily-clad females in the entire franchise. Inverted, surprisingly, with Mystique, who usually wears at least _some_ form of clothing in _First Class_, whereas she spent basically the entirety of her time on-screen (as herself) entirely naked in all three of the previous movies.
-   _Zapped! (1982)_, a sex comedy, was originally filmed as a more family-friendly PG-rated movie. However, following the box office success of _Porky's_, parts of _Zapped!_ were refilmed to increase the amount of nudity and to intentionally earn an R-rating. These changes led to an official complaint from actress Heather Thomas and gave the movie a Troubled Production.
-   _The Hunger Games_:
    -   In the book, the yellow dress that Katniss wears at her final interview was supposed to be girlish and understated with a high, modest cut. In the movie, while not designed to overtly flaunt sex appeal, the dress's design is more mature than what's described in the book.
    -   Inverted with Glimmer's dress. In the book, she's described as wearing a translucent golden dress. However, in the movie, she girlishly bounces out on stage in a puffy white dress.
-   _Wishmaster 3: Beyond the Gates of Hell_ had some gratuitous nudity added in compared to the previous ones. And then this is taken one step beyond with _Wishmaster 4: The Prophecy Fulfilled_, or as put by Deusdaecon's review, "Wishmaster 4: The Porn Version", where the very first scene after the opening text is the protagonist having sex with her boyfriend.
-   _The Way He Looks_ is a Brazilian Coming of Age Story Queer Romance focusing on a blind teen figuring out his sexuality after falling for the New Transfer Student that befriends him. The movie is based on a 15 minutes short called _Eu Não Quero Voltar Sozinho_ (in English: "I Don't Want to Go Back Alone"), which only goes as far as a kiss in the end of the video. The film however, dives deep into Leo's developing sexuality and Leo and Gabriel's genuine sexual attraction to each other, includes a shower scene in which Gabriel looks and analyzes Leo's naked body and has Leo masturbating with Gabriel's sweater.
-   _Sleepaway Camp_ had two sequels that were more explicit in sex and nudity for two main factors: more money from following the common Fanservice in 1980s horror movies and the fact that they could legally do it with their Dawson Casting compared to the original which used real teenagers.
-   The 2002 TV movie _Sherlock: Case of Evil_ is a hotter and sexier version of Sherlock Holmes, transforming the great detective from a celibate misogynist into a sexy ladies' man who sleeps with no fewer than four different women over the course of this one hour and a half movie (two of them at the same time).
-   In-universe in _Darling Lili_. The song "I'll Give You Three Guesses" is first performed as one of Lili's Silly Love Songs in her routine - where she's wearing a frilly and conservative dress. The Dark Reprise has it turning into a striptease.
-   Two in-universe examples in _The Cabin in the Woods_:
    -   The controllers use pheromones to influence Kurt and Jules to have sex in the woods, and for Jules to show her breasts when she wouldn't have otherwise.
    -   The board of potential monsters has a distinction between 'witches' and 'sexy witches'.
-   The only real differences between _Psycho (1998)_ and the original are that the remake sex and nudity added, such as a shot of Norman masturbating and a gratuitous scene of Viggo Mortensen's butt.
-   1970s Brazil, which saw the emergence of the Sex Comedy genre "pornochanchada", had a few spoofing Hollywood blockbusters: _The Godfather_ inspired _The Studfather<small>◊</small>_ and _The Godfather's Son<small>◊</small>_, _The Exorcist_ was followed by _Sexual Nightmare of a Virgin_ and _The Women Exorcist_, and _Jaws_ had _Bacalhau<small>◊</small>_ (where one of the many women in bikinis comes from the sea smiling, waves thankfully to the killer fish, and then says "he ate me", followed by some Bow Chicka Wow Wow music).
-   _Troll 2_: In-Universe, Creedence uses her magic to turn her (human) appearance young and beautiful in order to help her seduce Brent.
-   _The New Mutants_: Downplayed. While the film contains no explicit sex scenes, there is more explicit discussion of sex than is common for the franchise, with Rahne confessing to masturbation, Roberto's powers triggering whenever he becomes aroused, Toplessness from the Back occurring for both Dani and Rahne (then them kissing outside).
-   In _TRON: Legacy_, the costumes are a lot more attractive, tighter and revealing than in the original film. Casting Garrett Hedlund, Olivia Wilde and Beau Garrett really helps.
-   In-universe in _Book of Love_. Sam Claflin is the author of a badly received book. Then he discovers it's a best seller in Mexico and they want him to visit. While there, turns out the translator basically rewrote the book with more romance and sex - by her admission, she "made it more interesting" and changed "the boring parts" - including a lesbian scene. He is outraged at first, but eventually comes to both accept and start a relationship with said translator.
-   _Ophelia_: Not a very severe example seeing as it's rated PG-13, but this iteration of _Hamlet_ has more of an emphasis on romance and sensuality, including several make-out scenes between Ophelia and Hamlet. Even Claudius and Gertrude get a few make-out scenes too and it turns out that Gertrude likes to read the medieval equivalent of _Mills and Boon_ in private (though nothing that explicit is mentioned). Also, while the original story is a bit ambiguous as to how far Ophelia and Hamlet's relationship went, in this case it's made very clear that they did have sex after secretly marrying. Ophelia even has their daughter after Hamlet has died.
-   _Police Squad!_ is a straightlaced parody of cop shows. It's film adaptation _The Naked Gun_ finally let loose with sex jokes.
    
    **Frank**: Nice beaver.
    
    **Jane**: Thank you. I just had it stuffed.
    

    Literature 

-   This trope has been applied to the periodic table of elements by a female Japanese university professor.
-   _Agatha H. and the Clockwork Princess_: In the original comic, when Lucrezia decides to "admire" Agatha's body, she strips down to her skivvies. Here, she strips down _completely_.
-   When Lewis Carroll's heroine from _Alice's Adventures in Wonderland_ is portrayed as a teenager or adult in a work of modern fiction, she is likely to get this treatment _and_ Xenafication.
-   _A Court of Thorns and Roses_: The series has never shied away from depicting sexual content, but _A Court of Silver Flames_ (the first book to be specifically marketed as adult literature rather than young adult) really ramps this up, with sex scenes being far more frequent and explicit than previous installments, to the point of bordering on/crossing into Porn with Plot.
-   While the overall tone of _Heroes_ isn't shy about its Fanservice or the number of characters who hook up or have had illegitimate children, Hiro's TV character is written as a very pure, romantic, nigh-asexual man (in contrast to his buddy Ando). In the Tie-In Novel _Saving Charlie_, however, Hiro "gets pretty randy" by admission of his actor, Masi Oka. A classic example of Tropes Are Tools, as many fans loved Hiro precisely _because_ he's awkwardly earnest and a sincere knight-in-shining-armor wannabe.
-   Hunter Steele's novel "Lord Hamlet's Castle" is this to _Hamlet_.
-   The _Nancy Drew Files_ is this to the original series, with Ned and Nancy making out quite often, and it being described more sensually and in greater detail. This series also had much more emphasis on romance and relationships in general—not just Nancy's and Ned's, but also those of other characters—than any other _Nancy Drew_ series.
-   _The Hardy Boys Casefiles_, the Spear Counterpart to the _Nancy Drew Files_, counts as well. The romance isn't played up as much for the Hardys as it is for Nancy, but makeout sessions between the boys and their girlfriends, or sometimes the Girl of the Week, are referenced or at least implied or alluded to (usually with a Sexy Discretion Shot), and both of them have deeper relationships with their girlfriends than they do in other series.
-   The tie-in novels, _The Rise of Kyoshi_ and _The Shadow of Kyoshi_ are more overtly sexual than the rest of the _Avatar_ franchise. There are some pretty erotic scenes between Kyoshi and Rangi in the first book but the second ups the sex even more. Kuruk sleeps with one of his maids in a flashback, although no actual sex is shown. While there are other half-siblings in the franchise, notably Toph's daughters Lin and Suyin, the implications about having multiple extramarital sexual partners are glossed over. All that's said is that they have different dads and Lin's dad was a nice guy named Kanto but things didn't work out between him and Toph. Fire Lord Zoryu has a bastard half-brother whom is specifically called his bastard half-brother. Kyoshi even meets said brother's mother who regales her about their passionate extramarital love affair. Zoryu also tells Kyoshi he assumes he has other half-siblings out there that he's never met.
-   The first season of _Pretty Dudes_ is very tame compared to the seasons that followed, but the novelization of the season ramps up the sex, with Zario hooking up in flashbacks and the present, giving a particular Adaptational Context Change to his book-ending decision to skip town with Jay.
-   The publisher Monarch Books released novelizations for the European kaiju movies _Reptilicus_, _Gorgo_, and _Konga_, all of which featured explicit sex scenes completely absent from the actual films, to the point that they seem like soft-core pornography that also has a monster attacking in the background. This is particularly egregious with _Gorgo_, which had a Canon Foreigner as the female love interest because the film had no women characters.
-   _The Ship Who..._ is a short series where every entry is co-written with Anne McCaffrey and a different author and is largely independent of the other entries, though callbacks abound. _The City Who Fought_, written with S. M. Stirling, is the longest, darkest, and most sexually explicit. Simeon introduces himself to his new brawn Channa by hitting on her, which she does not appreciate. When Channa's on a date with a pretty, charming man she thinks that if this was a movie there wouldn't be a dry seat in the audience, alluding to how wet she is. Simeon is wildly jealous and resents that Channa wants privacy for sex, so interrupts them by accessing her ocular implants and telling her he's watching. This is also the book with the Kolnari, who are obsessed with spreading their "Divine Seed" and not concerned about consent.
-   _Star Wars: Lost Stars_: The manga adaptation depicts several young male characters as pretty boys, female characters (especially Ciena and Jude) have some generous Male Gaze and even partial nudity when Ciena is taking a shower.
-   The “Wild and Wanton” editions are writers doing this to some classic books (there’s a Wild and Wanton edition of _The Age of Innocence_ with sex scenes added, for example.)
-   There's a company called Clandestine Classics (link contains NSFW) which takes classic novels like _Jane Eyre_ and _Wuthering Heights_ and adds in explicit sex scenes.

    Music 

-   Nelly Furtado's first two albums were kinda experimental pop/folk, normal clothing<small>◊</small>... then _Loose_ had her singing R&B/hip-hop, some with suggestive titles like "Promiscuous" and "Maneater", and sexy wardrobe.<small>◊</small> Giving birth between those albums helped her body to get good enough for those tight pants. It's downplayed however because, as critics have noted, she did not resort to just wearing underwear or grinding like some of her contemporaries.
-   The K-Pop group T-ara did two music videos of their song, "Bo Peep Bo Peep". The 19+ version is basically softcore porn... Some think it's still "not porny enough" compared to Western music videos going the same way, but then again, this _is_ South Korea we're talking about.
    -   Then there is Hyuna, whose sexy solo career has more views on Youtube than when she is working as part of 4minute, her teaser video for What's Your Name has more views than her entire group combined which says the Hotter and Sexier direction is well received.
-   Hilary Duff is a downplayed case. Her music has gotten hotter and sexier over time, and many critics have noted that it is strange to hear her sing things like _"Reach out and touch me"_, but she still wears the same type of clothing from her Lizzie McGuire days.
-   Miranda Cosgrove is starting this with her EP, _High Maintenance_. Note the last track of the EP, as it's just that.
-   Miley Cyrus went there the moment she started _Party In The USA_. Special mention goes to Wrecking Ball.
-   Untitled (How Does It Feel) by D'angelo.
-   Lovage did this when they covered Berlin's "Sex (I'm A)". The Lovage version can be heard here and is either Hotter and Sexier or Narmy depending on taste. Probably Not Safe for Work either way.
-   Katy Perry started out as a Christian pop singer. Then she made "I Kissed a Girl"...
-   Carly Rae Jepsen. After the saccharine sweetness of "Tug of War" and especially "Call Me Maybe", she released "Good Time" with Owl City; she bares her midriff in the video. There was even a nude photo scandal!
-   Michael Jackson attempted this starting with the _Bad_ era in the late 1980s, as a contrast to his previous more innocent-looking image.
-   Kwon Eunbi, formerly of IZ\*ONE, went this direction after embarking on a solo career. Her solo music has contained more sensual lyrics, especially "Underwater." Her stage outfits have accentuated her figure as well.
-   Christina Milian, during her Dip It Low phase.
-   R&B group 702, after their hiatus returned with skimpier clothes and with what some believe were boob jobs.
-   Brooke Valentine, but it didn't stop her album _Physical Education_ from being shelved.
-   R. Kelly became this more and more over the 90's heading into the millennium.
-   Ciara was always in this category but moved further into this direction in her later albums.
-   Brandy started going into this phase with her third album, _Full Moon_ and amped it up even more with her _Afrodisiac_ album.
-   Zigzagged but mostly inverted with X Japan over the 2008 reunion and forward, which used to have songs such as _Stab Me In The Back,_ _Orgasm,_ _Standing Sex,_ and the like - as well as lots of onstage man-on-man fanservice - as a regular feature of the setlist for almost all live shows. Post 2008, _Orgasm_ was the only one to remain in the setlist (and only then for certain shows for the full version - the gigs outside Japan didn't even feature the full version, if they featured it at all), and most of the homoerotic fanservice became more of the Witty Banter and Call-Back variety.
-   Nick Jonas, starting with his solo career.
-   Girl group 3LW with their music video for "I Do".
-   Amber first started heading in this direction with singles such as "One More Night" and "Sexual", and climaxed (pardon the pun) with her third album, appropriately titled _Naked_.
-   Girl group Fifth Harmony got more sexed up with their 7/27 album hit, starting with "Work From Home".
-   Demi Lovato's song "Cool for the Summer" and the accompanying music video represent a pretty marked upping of the sexuality in their music and image.
-   Justin Bieber started in this phase once he turned 18.
-   Pentatonix members Scott Hoying and Mitch Grassi began their side project Superfruit for this reason. Scott and Mitch are both openly gay, and Superfruit allows them to create original music and explore more sexual themes, whereas Pentatonix is more for general audiences.
-   Liam Payne stepped into this phase after leaving One Direction. His song, "Strip That Down", lampshades this clearly.
    
    You know, I used to be in 1D (now I'm out, free)  
    People want me for one thing (that's not me)  
    I'm not changing, the way, that I (used to be)  
    I just wanna have fun and (get rowdy)
    
-   Blackbear's acoustic version of "idfc" has more explicit lyrics than the normal version.
-   Inverted with Atomic Kitten - whose first album was full of Spice Girls style innuendos and blatant sexuality. Their second saw them becoming far more modest and wholesome.
-   Most recently, Ava Max turns up the heat with "My Head and My Heart" but then it cranked it much higher with her more recent song “Maybe You’re the Problem”.
-   Christina Aguilera's first album, while suggestive at times, was fairly standard bubblegum pop. For her second traditional album<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Aguilera took control of the project and her image. The result was the much raunchier _Stripped_.
-   Janet Jackson's entire career was building up to this. From clean dance-pop on her first two albums as a teenager, to a suggestive take on New Jack Swing on _Control_ (though even that album features "Let's Wait Awhile", which is Exactly What It Says on the Tin). _Janet._ ramped this up significantly by being almost exclusively about sex, featuring a cropped version of a topless photo shoot as an album cover. _The Velvet Rope_ was more eclectic and mature in its subject matter, but the sexual songs were even more daring, involving BDSM and bisexual themes. The trend peaked with 2004's _Damita Jo_ and her infamous Wardrobe Malfunction at the Super Bowl halftime show that year, the point at which backlash from Moral Guardians sent her career into decline.
-   Country singer Dottie West underwent a transformation during the late 1970s and early 1980s that went from being known for singing in modest gingham dresses and turning down an offer to cover the Kris Kristofferson song "Help Me Make It Through the Night" due to it being "too sexy" to wearing spandex, sequin-covered Bob Mackie gowns; appearing in the lead role in a stage production of _The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas_; posing for the French men's magazine _Oui_ and recording "Help Me Make It Through the Night". This led to West, nearing 50, experiencing a dramatic (though ultimately short-lived) Career Resurrection.
-   Taylor Swift went through this period in the mid-2010s, starting with the video for her 2015 single "Bad Blood" and continuing with her 2017 album _reputation_. Taylor had previously crafted a wholesome Girl Next Door image, first as a teenage country singer and then as a twentysomething pop star, but by 2015, a growing wave of personal controversy, most notably her feuds with various other celebrities, made that image increasingly hard to sell. Knowing that she could no longer convincingly play a "good girl", she pivoted towards playing the "bad girl" that most of America and the tabloids saw her as, and not only did the songs feature her most overtly sexual lyrics yet, but her music videos during this time often had her in skimpy, fetishized outfits a long way from the T-shirts and ball gowns of her earlier years. "Bad Blood" had her playing a sexy Dark Action Girl in leather crop tops and studded bras, "...Ready for It?" had her in a white Spy Catsuit inspired by _Ghost in the Shell (1995)_, and "Look What You Made Me Do" had her as a Biker Babe and a dominatrix. Her following album cycle saw her mostly pull back from it, though she would remain more comfortable wearing revealing clothing than she'd been before (for instance, the pink leotard she famously wore on her Eras Tour).
-   80s Teen Pop sensation Debbie Gibson, once she reached adulthood in the early '90s, went in this direction with _Body, Mind, Soul_. Here's a particularly cheeky snippet from that period. A racier look for America's sweetheart Debbie Gibson just didn't catch on, and the album tanked.
-   The song "The Witch of the Westmoreland" was originally written by Scottish folksinger Barbara Dickson and has since been covered by several artists (including Archie Fisher, Stan Rogers, and Kate Rusby). Dickson's original lyrics had the witch heal the wounded knight with a kiss, saying "There's none can harm a knight who's kissed by the Witch of the Westmoreland"; all the cover versions instead have "...who's _lain_ with the Witch of the Westmoreland," indicating she heals him by having sex with him rather than simply a kiss.
-   Canadian singer Tate McRae started her career as a dancer, most notably becoming the first Canadian finalist on the American show _So You Think You Can Dance_, but broke through in 2020 as a Teen Pop star with a Bedroom Pop sound, image, and baggy clothes reminiscent of Billie Eilish. She started incorporating more of her dance background into her music as time went on, especially after she turned 18, and by the time of her 2023 album _Think Later_, this came paired with a Y2K-era throwback pop sound that included an embrace of the sex appeal of the era's pop princesses like Britney Spears and Christina Aguilera. Compare her 2020 Breakthrough Hit "You Broke Me First", a downbeat Break-Up Song telling off a boy who took advantage of her and used her as an emotional crutch and whose video is one take of her singing into the camera while wearing a black jacket, with her 2023 singles "Greedy" and "Exes", upbeat dance-pop tracks whose videos are Three Minutes of Writhing.

    Pinballs 

-   Exaggerated in the case of _Black Rose_: an X-rated backglass was designed for an interested European market, but it was never produced.

    Podcasts 

-   A very Downplayed example, but the _1865_ Booth prequel miniseries does open with a sex scene, something the main series never featured. Otherwise, it isn’t any more explicit than the main series.

    Pro Wrestling 

-   _GLOW_ in the 80s was this to traditional women's wrestling. The G stands for Gorgeous after all. Women's wrestling at the time was serious athletic competition so _GLOW_ took things in a more tongue-in-cheek Double Entendre comedy direction.
-   The birth of the WWE Divas archetype in the Attitude Era. Before then the female wrestlers in the company were average-looking women wrestling in singlets. Then along came Sable - a stunningly beautiful glamour model. Whenever she did moves, the fans went wild and so WWE started bringing in more pretty ladies. Not only did the standard wrestling outfits for women become considerably skimpier, they also had Cat Fight evening gown matches, bra and panties matches, gravy bowl matches etc.
-   This happened to WWE again in 2004. It opted to make its second Diva Search part of its flagship show, resulting in a collection of pretty models, actresses getting a segment each week for the opportunity to win a contract, and unlike Jamie from the previous year, this time the winner got a pay per view match...which ended up being less wrestling match and more pillow fight. WWE ended up hiring most of the losers anyway and releasing most of its trained women wrestlers. Needless to say, there were a lot less actual wrestling matches between women. This was toned down in 2008 when WWE began to appeal more to families.
-   Yoshimoto's JD Star promotion went in this direction in 2001. Having lost its top draw, Jaguar Yokota, who was also its reason for existing, they tried to stay relevant by recruiting girls with glamour model potential in hopes they would become crossover stars outside of pro wrestling and bring new fans to the sport.
-   Ohio Valley Wrestling, especially its women's division, veered this way a few times. First when WWE started making the diva search an official part of its shows, which saw a sharp reduction in the calls for wrestlers without breast implants. Second when Al Snow joined the booking team, which saw a shift in how women's angles and segments went. Third when TNA took it on as its developmental brand, resulting in Snow's return and the knockouts making more frequent appearances. Tropes Are Tools, as some other bookers did take things more seriously than Snow but others wouldn't book women's matches at all so long as boobs were on the show.
-   The Bella Twins actually debuted as a Token Wholesome, which according to Word of God was out of pressure to preserve PG - "We were like the G-girls" - and they wore very modest tops and long tights with ruffles on them. Upon a Face–Heel Turn they dropped the ruffles and started wrestling in Spy Catsuits. Nikki Bella likewise eventually got breast implants and - when the two no longer needed to look identical - wore more outfits that showed off her cleavage.
-   Lana was pretty tame when it came to Fanservice in her initial days - she wore form-fitting business suits and although the skirt was short, it wasn't dangerously so. There was nothing particularly sexual about her character either, aside from occasionally doing a turn as if to show off her body at an angle. But when she started wrestling, she opted for a Leotard of Power and incorporated sexy dances into her routine.
-   Lisa Marie Varon debuted as a Blood Knight whose outfits in the ring weren't particularly skimpy. In 2004 she switched her long tights for hot pants and began performing a twerk before a standing moonsault. She also cranked up the Ambiguously Bi aspect of her character, and would occasionally share a kiss with another female.
-   Dolph Ziggler was at first a golf caddy for 'Kerwin White' and then a male cheerleader wrestling in a bodysuit. The Dolph Ziggler character went for very tight trunks and an oiled up Adonis look. He went through a storyline of being Vickie Guerrero's boy-toy as well.
-   Aksana's first character on WWE TV was a ditzy Funny Foreigner. Even when she switched to a Femme Fatale character, she mainly made Innocent Innuendo jokes due to the language barrier (and her ring gear was still quite modest). Then she adopted skintight catsuits and started doing seductive crawls around the ring.
-   Sammy D began wrestling in Ireland when he was only fourteen, and thus played a wholesome Big Fun babyface. Around the time he turned eighteen, he switched his long tights for trunks, went shirtless completely and portrayed an oiled-up fitness junkie who was far more provocative.
-   Madison Rayne's indies persona as Ashley Lane was a wholesome babyface, and even in _Wrestlicious_ she played a peppy cheerleader called Amber Lively. In TNA, as part of The Beautiful People, she was implied to sleep with referees to help her teammates win matches, shook her ass seductively on the ring apron and would tease a kiss with either Velvet Sky or Tara. In one memorable match against Angelina Love, she wrestled in a flesh-coloured bodysuit. In late 2010, she did begin to downplay this, with dyeing her hair brown and acting more like a pageant queen instead.
-   Alexa Bliss debuted as a Kid-Appeal Character, dubbed the 'Fairy Princess of NXT'; who wore a tutu and blew glitter everywhere. When she turned heel to hook up with Blake and Murphy, her outfits became skimpier and she went from Cute Bruiser to Amazonian Beauty.

    Tabletop Games 

-   Princess Frostine in _Candy Land_ has evolved into a pouty lipped girl with fishnet stockings in a later incarnation of the game.

    Theatre 

-   The revival of _Cabaret_ in the 1990s directed by Sam Mendes was pointedly Hotter and Sexier despite the show being hardly clean in the first place. Subverted in that you could also see the needle tracks on the skins of the Kit Kat Klub dancers where they'd been using. Not so sexy.
-   The Musical version of _Chicago_ adds a great deal of (rather anachronistic) sexual dialogue to the original non-musical play, portrays Roxie as much more of a sexpot, shows her in the act of committing adultery in the opening scene and allows a semi-dressed Billy to cavort around with Chorus Girls.
-   Parodied by the Tag Line to _Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson_: "HISTORY JUST GOT ALL SEXYPANTS."
-   In the transition from _La Bohème_ to _RENT_, most of the characters stayed pretty much the same. Except for Mimi, who went from sweet, soft-spoken and naive seamstress, to junkie S&M dancer. A lot of the contrast between sweet Mimi and sexy Musetta/Maureen is lost, but Mimi actually becomes a more rounded character in the process.
    -   Mimi's number "Out Tonight" became Hotter and Sexier in the transition between play and movie. In the play, the song is sexy, but it takes place in Mimi's apartment as she prepares to meet Roger. In the movie, its an excuse for Rosario Dawson to do a strip routine.
-   There have been several cases where decades (sometimes even century-old) plays that were notorious in their day for suggestive content (usually no more than suggestive) have been revived, but with greater freedom of expression on stage often crank up the sexual content. The popular teen play _Spring Awakening_ is a good example of this. Two characters do not have sex in the middle of a song in the original.
-   _Aida_ to other Disney musicals. The sight of a clearly post-coital Radames and Aida is quite shocking.
-   In _Don Quixote_, the Deconstructive Parody of Chivalric Romance includes Don Quixote making up his own fictional Damsel in Distress, Dulcinea del Toboso, whom he loosely bases on a rude country girl that he finds beautiful but never interacts with, Aldonza Lorenzo. How much 'hot' Aldonza gets depends on how much weight you put on innuendo (she's said at one point to "have the best hand salting swine in all of La Mancha"), but in the end, there is nothing to assume she's anything beyond a simple, rude (and apparently smelly) country girl. In The Musical _Man of La Mancha_, however, Aldonza is a beautiful Hooker with a Heart of Gold who has run into trouble with The Spanish Inquisition. And she is played by Sophia Loren in the movie.

    Toys 

-   Barbie, though moral guardians (or those who prefer the original 1950s cat's-eyed version) might not approve.
-   Action figures and dolls based upon movie and TV characters (male or female) these days tend to be more realistic and accurate than they used to be back in the old days. Depending on who is being portrayed, the trope can definitely apply.

    Visual Novels 

-   _CLANNAD_ was one of the few Key VN's that didn't include any sex scenes, even though it had some degree of Fanservice. Cue the _Tomoyo After_ Spin-Off, which includes three sex scenes between Tomoyo and Okazaki.
-   _Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony_: Given the new love hotel feature this game is certainly more "suggestive" than the previous entries in both the main story and the dating sim mode. Buying the "Key of Love" allows the main character to play out one of their classmate's most desired fantasy, with the player character being seen as that student's "ideal partner". Depending on who happens to show up when the player visits the love hotel, there could be a heavy implication that the characters end up sleeping with each other. More of the characters here are also more open about their sexual interests than those of previous games, like the two BDSM enthusiasts (Miu and Korekiyo) have this appear in just their character designs.
-   Both _OshiRabu: Waifus Over Husbandos_ and it's sequel have a version on JAST USA and MangaGamer websites whhich includes H-Game content not present in other public releases; for those that already purchased the game via Steam, JAST and MangaGamer also sell a "DLC" patch that can be applied to enable this content, which cannot be sold through Steam itself due to terms and conditions.
-   _Princess Evangile_, while already including sex scenes, was rather conservative about their use, restricting them to towards the end of each heroine's respective route. Come _W Happiness_, there's a far more liberal usage of them, especially in the epilogue routes. Pretty much 3/4th of the latter's CGs are an H-scene of some sort when compared to the base VN.

    Web Animation 

-   Played for Laughs In-Universe in _Red vs. Blue_: in Jax's movie, when after Washington and Carolina bond the former says "Take Off Your Clothes", instead of explaining the misunderstanding, it's the cue for her to swoon and a sex scene.
-   _Deep Space 69_ is a sex comedy, so it makes sense it would be chock full of fanservice. However, because the series was originally released on YouTube, which has pretty strict guidelines about sexual content, the fanservice had to be kept fairly mild. However, the unrated version, available to purchase via Mondo Media's digital shop and Google Play, takes advantage of not being restricted and cranks up the fanservice to softcore porn levels.

    Web Comics 

-   _Inverted_ with _Hetalia: Axis Powers_. Along with becoming Lighter and Softer, the fanservice, while still very existent, is a lot lesser than in the earliest strips. The earlier strips had a lot more Black Comedy Rape and much more Homoerotic Subtext, some so blatant it could only be called text. Some of the old fanservicey strips were even deleted. Ironically, played straight with the fifth season of the anime. After 4 seasons of toning down the fanservice, the 5th season goes all out in pandering to the Yaoi Fangirls, animating some of the raunchiest strips such as _April Fools 2011_ and _Buon San Valentino_.
-   _Nerf NOW!!_ is a webcomic where Stripperiffic Distaff Counterpart versions of all the characters of _Team Fortress 2_ are featured frequently.
-   Rather infamously, _Sonichu 8_.
-   When T gave up on getting _Penny and Aggie_ syndicated, he "celebrated" it with "Behind Closed Doors", where nearly all the couples past and present either have sex or almost have sex. This is the first arc to hint at Stan's bisexuality, and while it's not the first arc to hint at Sara's lesbianism, touching herself to Lindsay Lohan is a bit clearer than the strip had gotten in the past.
-   _Penny Arcade's_ infamously censored _Strawberry Shortcake_ strip, which was actually a parody of the industry's tendency to do this plus Darker and Edgier. Eventually followed by a _Rainbow Brite_ parody. Hopefully they don't get sued this time.
-   The Fanservice-sodden pre-Scratch trolls in _Homestuck_ are all in their late teens/early adulthood and many are sexually active, as opposed to the chaste post-Scratch trolls that the reader is first introduced to. Porrim is an Ethical Slut who Latula and Aranea have apparently slept with out of boredom, it's heavily implied Kurloz/Meulin, Rufioh/Horuss and Latula/Mituna have slept together, Cronus is obsessed with getting sex, and most jarringly almost all of Damara's dialogue is her begging people to have sex with her in kinky and creepy ways (when _Homestuck_ has had, despite plenty of swearing, _no_ sexual swearing up until that point). Damara's sexualisation is so extreme that not only is her text written in Japanese, requiring finding a point in a flash walkaround with a link to her transcripts and then copy-pasting text into Google Translate to read, some of her gestures are censored (likely as a joke, but still, that was only done in the comic previously for Equius's Porn Stash).
-   _Learning with Manga! FGO_ is this to _Fate/Grand Order_ the same way _Fate/Grand Order_ is to the rest of the _Fate_ series. Despite the Puni Plush art style, it's packed with sex jokes, the occasional Black Comedy Rape or molestation, and semi-explicit pairings and fetishes for almost every character. They only manage to get away with it by making sure most of the naughtier stuff happens off-panel.
-   _Mr. Boop_: Betty Boop's sex life is depicted in much more explicit detail than the original cartoons.
-   Despite being Best Known for the Fanservice, the infamous _Undertale_ Alternate Universe comic _Underlust_ is actually a deconstruction of this trope. The Underground is sex-obsessed as a result of unethical experimentation in order to combat the monsters' dropping fertility rates, and now all monsters are suffering from their artificially-induced libido. In addtion, this sex obsession only worsened the Underground's already-existing problems, and now crimes such as rape are extremely common. Several characters are seen suffering heavy psychological and emotional damage as a result of their experiences.
-   Intentionally invoked in the continuation of _Dominic Deegan_, _The Legacy of Dominic Deegan_. In an article titled "The Sex is the Point," Mookie stated he wanted to flip the script on the previous comic, which shyed away from nudity and sex, but had plenty of violence and gore. _Legacy_ was planned for little violence but far more, and more explicit, depictions of sex and nudity... And the comic coming after that rant would ramp things up.

    Web Videos 

-   _Brad Jones' Demo Reel_ has this In-Universe, where Braddie insists that _E.T. The Porno_ wasn't hot enough, so he wants to make a truly sexy one.
-   In a Black Comedy Rape way, _Spooning with Spoony II_ compared to _Spooning with Spoony_. While the latter's comedy was based on how traumatized Chick was while everyone around her was enjoying it, the former was mostly Spoony talking in great detail about the ways he had sex with Critic.

    Western Animation 

-   The introduction of Lola Bunny in _Space Jam_ had this purpose in the _Looney Tunes_ franchise.
-   _Red Hot Riding Hood_. Starts out as a normal Little Red Riding Hood until the characters suddenly rebel at this done-to-death staging and demand a fresh approach. Red is a sexy adult nightclub entertainer. It was voted #7 of The 50 Greatest Cartoons of all time.
-   _The Simpsons_:
    -   Referenced in the parody spinoff _Chief Wiggum PI_!
        
        **Skinner:** He's gradually getting away, Chief!  
        **Wiggum:** Ah, let him go. I have the feeling we'll meet again, each and every week. Always in more sexy and exciting ways!...
        
    -   Starting with Season 3, the series began having more fansservicey scenes. It only got more Hotter and Sexier as time went on.
    -   The later seasons in general. They've never exactly shied away from making sexual references but there's a bit more... blatancy in the later ones. Marge getting breast implants, anyone? Or making out with Lindsay Neagle (in Homer's imagination)? Or the beginning of a lesbian threesome between a group of Marge's old friends?
-   In the Famous Studios _Popeye_ shorts, Olive Oyl was made more attractive so it would make more sense that Popeye and Bluto were fighting over her.
-   _ThunderCats (1985)_: While the original<small>◊</small> Cheetara is still considered sexy by fans, many agree that the 2011<small>◊</small> version is much sexier. Her new outfit doesn't quite reach the Stripperiffic point, but it does show her midriff and some cleavage. And her hairstyle and figure are similarly "improved".
-   A _Robot Chicken_ sketch promotes a theatrical re-release of _2001: A Space Odyssey_, updated to include _Playboy_ model Robin Bain prancing around in nothing but a thong, to keep the movie from becoming "really...really...boring!"
-   The special episodes of _La Linea_, titled _La Sexilina_ and _Eros Linea_, which have the main character get into situations involving naked women and humping animals respectively.
-   _Justice League_:
    -   In the _New Gods_ comics, Barda's costume is usually rather modest; in _Justice League_, she was made a little more daring.
    -   _Unlimited_, compared to the first series. Several new (and some returning) characters are introduced, many with very fanservice-y costumes. Examples include Vixen's Navel-Deep Neckline, Huntress and Shayera's exposed midriffs, Black Canary (whose basic character model had been used a prostitute in _Batman Beyond: Return of the Joker_), Galatea (an expy of Power Girl, with a similar costume), and Fire, who looks basically naked while using her powers. Wonder Woman's "neckline" was also lowered, with some shots emphasizing the exposed top of her chest, as opposed to a simple cleavage line.
-   The Chipettes from _Alvin and the Chipmunks_ are an odd example. They're eight-year-old Funny Animal chipmunks yet managed to become this over time. Their first appearances were more on par with their Spear Counterparts but eventually they began engaging in Age-Inappropriate Dress often and singing rather inappropriate songs (one is even a thinly veiled Intercourse with You song). This began being toned down starting with the _Alvin and the Chipmunks_ movies. They were made more chipmunk-looking and wear more appropriate clothes. Even in _ALVINNN!!! and the Chipmunks_ (where they look humanoid again), they're still not as fanservicey as they were in the 1980s.
-   When Daisy took off her coat in _DuckTales (2017)_, it was revealed that she wears a very beautiful and colorful dress with a single shoulder strap.
-   Despite its cartoony art-style in comparison to _Teen Titans_'s animesque one, _Teen Titans Go!_ is actually Hotter And Sexier than the original. It contains a lot more fanservicey-esque episodes and innuendo than the original.
-   The Fionna and Cake segments in _Adventure Time_ are much more romance and (implied) sex focused than the normal episodes, and Fionna in particular is drawn a lot more mature looking than her male counterpart.
-   As part of being a Darker and Edgier adaption, _Spider-Man: The New Animated Series_ has far more sexual innuendos than usually seen in a Spider-Man cartoon, female characters often dress in form fitting clothing that bare their midriff, and while not outright stated both Harry and Peter are shown to have slept with their respective love interests in two different episodes.

    Other/Real Life 

-   A lot of pin ups and centerfolds eventually turn into this. Starting out as standard mild but sexy non-nude modeling, then semi-nude, then completely nude, then explicit poses, soon followed by "insertions" (and possibly hardcore porn, though not always). Basically "_Raunchier and Nastier_". Although whether or not that's a bad thing depends on your taste.
    -   Case in point: Teri Weigel. She started her career as a _Playboy_ Playmate in 1985. Soon after she posed for the more explicit _Penthouse_ magazine. Eventually, she started appearing in hardcore pornographic movies and magazines and even worked for a while as a legal prostitute at the Bunny Ranch brothel in Reno, Nevada.
    -   Other examples are Amber Easton, Meggan Mallone, Tila Tequila, Vicky 6, Priya Rai, Brianna Frost and Francine Dee.
    -   B-movie actress Sara St.James aka Jacqueline Lovell, although she never did hardcore.
    -   This is a typical career progression for the Page Three Stunna. While many girls who do relatively innocuous topless cheesecake shots for national tabloid papers go no further than this, it isn't unknown for them to progress to more explicit work in the tried-and-trusted _softcore - hardcore - filmed pornography_ manner. The career of Jane Warner, described on the Page Three Stunna entry, is a notorious case of how it can go really wrong.
-   A lot of real-life Former Child Stars will deliberately take on Hotter and Sexier roles when they're older, in an attempt to shed the "innocent child" image they've had and be seen as a legitimate adult actor who can take on mature roles. It works better for some than for others. Some would take a step further and to completely erase the innocent child image by becoming a polar opposite of it - in other words: full-on pornstars.
    -   See, for instance, Anne Hathaway's switch from _The Princess Diaries_ to films like _Havoc_ and _Love & Other Drugs_.
    -   Another example is Elizabeth Berkley from _Saved by the Bell_, who starred in _Showgirls_ in an attempt to shed her "good girl" image. It didn't work; the film bombed at the box office and was thrashed by critics, effectively killing Berkley's career.
    -   Daniel Radcliffe, who became one of the most famous child actors of all time as lead in the _Harry Potter_ films, received a considerable amount of media interest for his stint in _Equus_, solely because it involved the then-17-year-old appearing nude onstage.
    -   Quasi-inversion: Seeing as she _started_ her career playing a 12-year-old prostitute (in _Taxi Driver_), Jodie Foster had to go the route of "actually doing well in good movies" rather than this. It worked.
-   While the _Halloween Horror Nights_ event at Universal Studios Orlando concentrates mainly on the scares, Universal Studios Hollywood supplements their scares with some eye candy. This comes courtesy of Freddy's Fly Girls, cage dancers dressed up in Freddy's trademark fedora, sweater and claws (and not much else).
-   Halloween costumes in general. First, it was the kids dressing up. Then the adults started dressing up. Then someone decided to make their costume a little more "adult", and soon enough, no one wanted to be the one in the 'lame' costume, and now there is an entire industry devoted to adopting Rule 34 to the costume industry.
-   The Fetish Fuel Wiki compared to this Wiki.
-   _Exit Tunes Presents ACTORS_' three Music Situation drama CDs compared to the drama tracks included in the series proper. The former depicts a Japanese pleasure district (_Yoshiwara Lament_), a duke's harem (_Lunacy of Duke Venomania_), and a boyfriend who wants to go 'further' with his girlfriend (_Ifuudoudou_). The latter is a run-of-the-mill Slice of Life comedy.

___