_J.J., punch-drunk, acts like a dumb fuck,  
Bum-touch girls lookin' young enough to thumb-suck  
Once sought a life, thought it right to rat him out  
Now he gets raped by Aryans in the big house<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>_ 

In fiction, the audience (and sometimes the hero) often doesn't just want the villains _stopped_, they want to see them _punished_. Often, and especially when the heroes are a little too heroic to get their hands dirty, this comes in the form of a Karmic Death.

But some villains are _so_ villainous, so _incredibly_ evil, that "merely" dying may seem like they're getting off just a tad too easy. For these villains, A Fate Worse Than Death is in order. To Pay Evil unto Evil, for the very worst of the worst, we have Karmic Rape.

A Sub-Trope of Asshole Victim, Sexual Karma and Laser-Guided Karma. Often implied if the villain is imprisoned. Commonly Played for Laughs a la Black Comedy Rape, but can be portrayed seriously. When played for laughs, it often overlaps with Disproportionate Retribution, as considering this a A Fate Worse Than Death means that even a murderer gets something worse than what they did. Common for those who are rapists themselves, especially child molesters, as a sort of Ironic Hell and the only ones for whom no one can call it disproportionate. Many victims are male, but the examples below demonstrate that female victims are not exactly rare. Can overlap with Rape Portrayed as Redemption if this starts the villain on the long hard road to a Heel–Face Turn. May also overlap with Sex Signals Death and Redemption Equals Death. See also Victim-Blaming. Almost by definition comes with a heaping helping of Unfortunate Implications and Karmic Overkill. Compare and Contrast with Rape and Revenge as it can turn into this trope if the original rape victim, later on, ends up raping their rapist.

Of course, many people would argue that no one, no matter how evil, deserves rape. There is such a thing as a Sympathetic Murderer but no such thing as a sympathetic rapist after all, therefore it means that someone at the very least equally vile if not worse gets off in this twisted way. It makes for such an atrocity, in fact, that it leaves a sore taste no matter how unpleasant the victim was. Pretty much every civilized nation in the world has laws meant to protect both free citizens and criminals from rape, and international law considers it a crime against humanity to allow or commit rape as part of a punishment for a crime, and there are countless human-rights organizations that work to eliminate rape against prisoners. This trope is when rape is treated _by the narrative and/or the characters_ as a just punishment for the villain's crimes. Since Real Life, as far as we know, lacks a narrative to pass judgment, No Real Life Examples, Please!

These days, including Karmic Rape in a work of fiction is likely to result in at least some backlash, which indicates that it might be on the way to becoming a Discredited Trope.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   In the H-manga _Bullied Hypno Revenge_, a trio of girls are the most feared students in school due to their ability to put down anyone, and their wanton use of Blackmail to keep everyone subservient. Their leader is a Spoiled Brat who has been manipulating everyone around her, including teachers, for years, just for the sake of her amusement. However, their latest victim manages to trick them into getting hypnotized, and turns them into his personal harem, though when the hypnosis briefly wears off, he tells them that their reign of terror has come to an end, and once their free will is completely eliminated, he happily becomes their demented overlord.
-   In _Karin_, Bridget Brownlick is one of the masterminds behind the plan to kidnap Karin, rape, and forcibly impregnate her. When the Maka family find out about this and come to her rescue, Bridget herself ends up getting raped by Karin's brother Ren, _and gets pregnant._ Of course, it loses some of its meaning when it turns out she's actually thrilled to have the baby; it's _Ren_ who's less amused by this turn of events.
-   Fuuri Sakaki from _Murciélago_ raped her own girlfriend, Minako Sou (while she was blindfolded and held by Fuuri's friends). She laters comforts her by making love to her, but Minako recognises her fingers and hatches a plan to kill them both. After said plan is foiled, Kuroko talks her into raping Fuuri with ping-pong balls. Ever since then, Fuuri has become weak and submissive to Minako, who enjoys dominating and torturing her.
-   Kayoko Kasuga from _Mofuku Tsuma_ rapes Honami and orders Manabu to do it, only to end up raped by Manabu and Honami.
-   _Redo of Healer_: This is Keyaru's go-to method for enacting revenge on his abusers. Most notable examples would be Princess Flare (who also received Cold-Blooded Torture and Heel–Face Brainwashing) and Captain Renard (who is transformed into a woman and left with his drugged-up soldiers).
-   _Reincarnation Colosseum_: The Four Heavenly Kings enjoyed abusing and torturing their slaves, either physically or sexually, so when Kouji Mikagami defeats them at the arena and they're demoted into his sex slaves, the colosseum audience considers it a fitting punishment.
-   Kazunari Sakagami from _Satanophany_ was a serial rapist involved with human trafficking. He ends up being raped by own of his allies, Floyd King, who couldn't hold it in any longer. Kazunari is physically and mentally devastated by the rape, and now knowing what his victims went through, swears to turn over a new leaf. only to get immediately killed by the main characters.
-   _Succubus & Hitman_: Yakuza "cleaner" Mount Beatdown was a Serial Rapist among his many other endearing qualities, so in Hell, Armelina and Riderk torture information out of him by having him be continuously sodomized by a demon in the shape of a giant boar.

    Comic Books 

-   _The Authority_
    -   This is Seth's ultimate fate. He's Too Kinky to Torture, so the Doctor turns him into a flock of chickens outside his uncles' home. We don't see it happen but it's very strongly implied the chickens are then raped/eaten. Seth is a racist, homophobic monstrosity who brags about being a pedophile, gleefully slaughters/tortures on behalf of a cabal of amoral rich people and at various points declared his intention to murder, eat and/or rape a _baby,_ plus made his big entrance by exploding out of an innocent woman's uterus, so no one's shedding any tears over it.
    -   Implied to happen to the Commander, after he raped Apollo. Apollo leaves him unable to walk and flies off but then Apollo's boyfriend shows up with a jackhammer…
-   In _Gold Digger_, the evil genie Madrid, trapped in a form resembling Gina Diggers and without any of her powers, was kept as a pet by two dragonesses who once served a villain named Fauntleroy, one of whom 'asserted dominance' over her repeatedly. To make matters worse, Madrid was only in this situation because of a backfired attempt at betrayal. She learns that if she had simply waited, she could have gotten out of the situation without any problems. This brutal treatment plus the knowledge that it was her own scheming ways that got her into this are what catalyzes Madrid's complete Heel–Face Turn.
-   In _The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen_, the Invisible Man's rape by Mr. Hyde is treated this way (the Invisible Man is introduced having raped several young women at a boarding school, besides spying for the Martians). May overlap with Evil Versus Evil depending on whether you consider Hyde an Anti-Hero or just another villain.
-   In _Preacher_, the exceptionally vile Herr Starr is raped in an alleyway by a man after a truly disastrous misunderstanding arising from his sheltered underling's incompetent attempt to hire a (female) prostitute for him. This is actually just the **beginning** of his series-long Humiliation Conga.
-   Mirage of the Team Titans once raped Nightwing by using her powers to make him think she was Starfire. When the deception was revealed, she laughed at the idea of his relationship being ruined and Dick was jokingly called a slut. Then a few issues later, Mirage's actual boyfriend (her time's version of Nightwing) was driven insane by Raven and became "Deathwing." Their first night together following his Face–Heel Turn, Deathwing violently assaulted and raped Mirage. Given how incredibly unpopular Mirage was for raping Dick Grayson, it's difficult not to read Mirage being raped as her intended karma.
-   In _The Walking Dead_, The Governor uses Michonne as a Sex Slave. When she gets her revenge, part of it includes sodomizing him with a spoon.

    Fan Fiction 

-   Soi-Fon's ultimate fate after Aizen becomes Soul Queen in _The Defeated_ is being brought before Barragan to serve as his concubine as punishment for raping and torturing Ichigo, having blamed the Substitute for Yoruichi's death (despite Soi-Fon having killed Yoruichi herself). Notably, while the revived Yoruichi believes it to be a just punishment, she still breaks down crying after leaving Soi-Fon to her fate.
-   A brothel owner in _A Discordant Note_ paid some men to kill Harry Potter and kidnap his part-giant wife Ava to be used as an exotic sex slave. Ava uses a wooden strap-on to rape the brothel owner before killing her, claiming she wanted the woman to experience some of what Ava would have.
-   In the _New Tamaran_ sequel _Justice Returns_, Belle Reeve has been converted into a playpen for Killer Frost, who gleefully tortures and rapes the other prisoners, who are kept alive and healed for her amusement. Said victims include Vandal Savage (who had become a third world dictator to commit genocide and the next world war) and Lex Luthor (who is directly responsible for the Tamaranean invasion and the death of Supergirl.)
-   After Bark and Storm rape Tails in _Prison Island Break_, Knuckles beats them up and, in the case of the former, gives him an Ass Shove. This is not done out of any sense of payback, however, since Knuckles is their rival.

    Films — Animation 

-   In _Queer Duck: The Movie_, the homophobic Reverend Vandergelding attempts to spray every gay man at the theme park with his gay cure to make them straight. He ends up crashing down in a gay rodeo and doused with his own concoction, causing him to be covered in pink fur. This results in a gay bull becoming attracted to him and this is treated as his comeuppance.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   In _Ace Ventura: When Nature Calls_, the main bad guy, Vincent Cadby, tries, after his plans to bring the Wachati and Wachootoo tribes into war with each other are brought crashing down around his ears, to escape their wrath, but is cornered by a silverback gorilla with... amorous intentions. Cue "The Lion Sleeps Tonight." The fact that it is an animal that does it may make it better or worse depending on your POV.
-   In the epilogue of _Animal House_, Greg Marmalard, one of the adversaries of the Delta House, was mentioned to have been raped in prison after taking part in the break-in of the Watergate Hotel in 1974.
-   In _Dangerous Worry Dolls_, Eva rapes a prison guard using the same strap-on that the guard had earlier used to rape her.
-   _Descent_: At the beginning of the film, Maya is raped by Jared. Her life then goes downhill, until the end, when she lures Jared back to her room, ties him to the bed and has a gay friend brutally sodomize him while she watches.
-   _Flavia the Heretic_: After capturing the duke, Flavia brings the girl he had raped to him so she can rape him as he had raped her. When this does not go as well as she had hoped, Flavia turns the duke over to two of the Muslim warriors who rape him before killing him.
-   _Holidays_: _Halloween_ has Ian, a pimp who abuses the women he employs, get a vibrator up the ass that then gets superglued in, with them shocking him using a car battery. Earlier he'd sought to rape one, and by his attitude was implied to have raped them all in the past. It's shown as part of their revenge.
-   At the end of _The Hot Chick_, the villain (now male again, but in a female stripper's outfit and handcuffs) is making his escape from the police and climbs into the back of a car in a back alley, thinking that he will be driven to freedom. Unfortunately for him, the doors immediately lock and the driver turns around with a lecherous smile on his face before driving off as the villain screams in terror. It's insinuated that said driver is going to rape him after the fade-to-black.
-   In _Kinjite: Forbidden Subjects_, Charles Bronson's character decides to let the villain (who rapes and pimps out teenage girls) live, because that is real "justice..._poetic_ justice." The catcalls from the prison block and the "new mama" speech from his new cellie leave no doubt as to what that means.
-   _The Kunoichi: Ninja Girl_: After being defeated by Kirasagi, Shimotsuki—one of eunuchs who kidnap women to serve as sex slaves in the Iga village—is raped by the diseased man, and then left to return to his village and spread the infection.
-   Played for Laughs in _Little Nicky_, where part of Hitler's eternal punishment in Hell is to be periodically anally violated by the Devil with a pineapple. Overlaps with Pay Evil unto Evil considering that the Devil and some of his family are treated sympathetically and it's later used to punish Cassius and Adrian for attempting to stage a coup on their father.
-   _Mallrats_ has the jerkass love interest of one of the girls who is obsessed with doing it someplace uncomfortable (and no, not the back of a Volkswagen) get sent to prison, where this is strongly implied to happen to him by a larger inmate. Note that although he is unscrupulous and manipulative and intentionally seduces women who are emotionally vulnerable, he is never stated to use force.
-   In _My Favorite Martian_ the evil reporter played by Elizabeth Hurley ends tied to a litter and molested by another villain, Dr. Coleye.
-   _The Other Boleyn Girl_ portrays Anne Boleyn as a Femme Fatale, who schemes to become Henry VIII's next wife and eventually queen. She refuses to become The Mistress and insists he divorce Catherine of Aragon. When he does, he's impatient for Anne to give herself to him, and violently rapes her in what forms the crux of the Be Careful What You Wish For theme.
-   _Promising Young Woman_ plays with this. Cassie encounters Madison, who victim blames Cassie's friend Nina by saying maybe she shouldn't have gotten drunk. Cassie gets Madison drunk and makes it look like Madison's been raped (though according to Cassie nothing actually happened.) Notably, while Madison is furious at Cassie for doing this she also acknowledges that Cassie was right about how callous she'd been and gives her evidence.
-   In _Reefer Madness: The Musical_, this happens in the musical number "Little Mary Sunshine," in which Ralph's marijuana-facilitated attempted seduction of Mary goes horribly, horribly wrong.
    
    **Ralph:** Help! This crazy tomato's RAPIN' me!
    
-   In _Tamara_, Shawn and Patrick frequently Date Rape their female classmates at parties. Tamara, using her newfound mind-control powers, retaliates by forcing them to have sex... with each other. They get interrupted before it gets that far though.
-   In _This Is the End_, Jonah Hill's character is at first nothing but nice to Jay in that overly-nice way of someone who knows they aren't liked and is trying really hard to change that opinion. Then he reveals in a monologued prayer to God that he really hates Jay, thinks he's a bad influence on Seth Rogen, and wishes he _died_. Well, his prayer was heard... by a demon. Who comes at night and forces himself on Jonah Hill's character, leading to him being traumatized and soon after getting Demonically Possessed.
-   _Top Secret!_. While breaking into a top secret facility, Nigel is dressed in the rear half of a cow costume. After he reveals himself to be The Mole who has betrayed the Resistance to the East German government, he is attacked and anally raped by a bull.
-   In _Trading Places_, Clarence Beeks finds himself in a cage with a horny male gorilla, in what is supposed to be karmic justice. They're _both_ last seen being loaded on a freighter bound for Africa, for release into the wild.

    Literature 

-   In _The Apothecary Diaries_, the previous emperor was a pedophile with a deep fear of adult women and filled his harem with young girls instead. His empress, who gave birth at the age of ten, didn't appreciate being raped as a child and then cast aside when she outgrew his interest, and raped him in return as an adult to force him to remember her, resulting in her second pregnancy.
-   In _The Spider_ novel _The Red Death Rain_, the villainess is raped to death off-screen by an orangutan. Both a Karmic Rape and a Karmic Death as she had planned to do this to Nita van Sloane, in addition to killing large numbers of people with poisoned tobacco.
-   In _Misery_ it's Discussed when Paul compares his fight with Annie with a rape and he embraces the idea when he thinks of all the terrible things she subjected him to, believing that it would be proper retribution for everything she'd done.
-   In _Myra Breckinridge_, the title character anally rapes a man using a strap-on dildo. This act is generally construed as teaching the man a lesson and making a statement for sexual equality. The entire work satirized sex, gender, and sexual practices.
-   Seen repeatedly in _The Wheel of Time_:
    -   The enslavement, degradation, and sexual abuse of the minor villain Galina Casban by another woman plays this trope straight: she is captured shortly after kidnapping and horribly abusing Rand al'Thor on the Forsaken's orders. She gets this twice over, since her fellow captives' help gets her within a Hope Spot of escaping before she picks up the Villain Ball, betrays them, gets caught by her abuser while trying to escape alone, and is irrevocably broken.
    -   A similar fate befalls early story villain and haughty sociopath Liandrin, who is permanently blocked from the Source by Moghedien, who then Compels her to live, meaning she does not even have suicide for an option when she is shortly captured by the Seanchan and made into a Sex Slave and plaything of High Lady Suroth.
    -   Ultimately Suroth meets a particularly brutal form the trope herself: when her treachery is ultimately thwarted and exposed, Tuon revokes the noble status of her family, makes her da'cavole and (because a shaved head is a sign of nobility) orders that until her hair has grown out, she is to be given to the Deathwatch Guard for their "entertainment", with the rest of the scene making it clear that she is going to spend her first weeks in slavery being gang raped.
    -   Myrddraal are Humanoid Abominations known for raping women, which usually either kills them or drives them insane. The Mouth of Sauron, Shaidar Haran, takes the form of a Myrddraal and on three occasions focuses his "attention" on a female Forsaken, first Mesaana, then Mogheiden, and ultimately Graendal, as punishment for failure. In Graendal's case, she actually dies and has to be given a new body. Additionally, both Cydane and Moghedein are Soul Trapped for their failures and "given" to Moridin, who can make them feel any mental or psychical sensation he wishes.
    -   A variation of this exists for several female villains who are enslaved as damane. The a'dam allows damane to be forced to feel literally any physical stimuli the sul'dam can conceive, and every possible form of violation this implies is shown to be on the table for the sake of "breaking" the damane to make her docile and compliant; numerous of these assaults are described in detail. Not one but two of the story's arch villains have their narratives end in this way: Elaida and Moghedein are both last seen screaming in terror at this fate. In fact, Moghedein is made damane mere minutes after Moridin's death frees her from her previous abuser.
    -   Mat's repeated rape at knife-point by Queen Tylin is generally Played for Laughs, and the other female characters see it as this trope until he, after much pleading for help, finally impresses the severity of the situation on them. Even after they help him, they (and the narrative) treat the situation much less seriously than they would if the genders had been reversed. Word of God is that the reader is _not_ supposed to agree with the ladies' quip that he "had it coming" thanks to his Chivalrous Pervert habits.
-   In one of the SERRAted Edge novels by Mercedes Lackey, the villain of the book has been sexually molesting his daughter since she was 2 or 3. At the end of the book, he's dumped in an extra-dimensional prison cell with an entity that will put him through _everything_ he did to the girl.
-   In _The Dresden Files_, Lord Raith raped his daughters into submission. But when it turns out he can't feed after Harry's mother cursed him, his oldest daughter decides to turn the tables. While a horrific scene, he definitely doesn't get any sympathy. Said daughter, Lara, does this _again_ in a later book, against her cousin Madeline, The Heavy for the book. This time, despite her victim generally being unpleasant, it's treated more of a reminder of her own monstrosity than a karmic punishment, in part due to the fact that Lara disembowls (and, it's implied, eats) the victim as well.
-   _Millennium Series_: In _The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo_, anti-heroine Lisbeth Salander gets revenge on her abusive social worker by secretly filming him raping her and then anally raping him with a dildo, tattooing the words "I'm a pig and a rapist" on his torso, and threatening to show the tape recording of his abuses on her if he doesn't comply with her demands.
-   In _A Land Fit for Heroes_, in retaliation for his cousin being sold as a sex slave, Ringil has the female crime boss responsible gang-raped for almost a whole day.

-   In Sara Douglass' Tencendor series, a highly malevolent magician and former dictator named Wolf Star Sun Soar is captured by a group of demons who have stripped all of the magic out of his world and are now busily trashing it for their own pleasure. Wolf Star did a lot of evil in his life, and head demon Qeteb isn't above letting his minions (one of whom is a demon of pestilence and disease) have their way with Wolf Star while painting it as Karmic justice for the man.
    
    Qeteb: Watch, as your lover receives a fraction of what he has dealt out.
    

    Live-Action TV 

-   Only a few episodes after he raped his ex-wife, Tommy on the dark comedy/drama series _Rescue Me_ is drugged with roofies and raped by his needy, obsessive, psychotic girlfriend Sheila after turning down her offer to retire and run away with her with to live at her beach house.
-   In _The Boys (2019)_, Aquaman expy The Deep's Establishing Character Moment is him using Sexual Extortion on Naïve Newcomer Starlight. After this gets out he goes through a _two-season long_ Trauma Conga Line that starts with a groupie raping him while painfully jamming her hands into his gills.
-   The episode "Go Fish" of _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_. The evil swim coach forces Buffy into the water below his office with the mutant fish-men, but not to feed them: "Boys have _other_ needs." (Buffy herself doesn't like the idea that she'd "made it with the whole swim team"). Xander helps her out, the coach falls through the trap door, and while he yells and splashes below, Buffy quips "Boy, those boys sure like their coach!"
-   At one point during his tenure as host of _Weekend Update_, Norm McDonald joked that Prison Rape, being the worst part of the whole experience, should be formally portioned out during sentencing.
-   _The Mentalist_: Referenced at the denouement of "Red, White and Blue" when Rigsby gets annoyed at a Killer of the Week who's convinced it's Never My Fault.
    
    **Rigsby:** Oh, well, look on the the bright side. In prison, you won't have to pay for dates.
    
-   In _Torchwood_, a couple of episodes after he drugs and is strongly implied to rape a man and a woman with Alien Sex Pollen, Owen gets the experience of being raped and murdered implanted into his memory by a time-viewing alien artifact.
-   In the first episode of _American Horror Story: Coven_, Madison gets gang raped by frat boys during a party. They later end up in a bus accident and one of them is brought to the hospital. Zoe then avenges Madison by raping the comatose boy, causing him to bleed from every orifice and die.
-   Implied on an episode of _My Name Is Earl_. Earl punches his Bad Boss in the face, which leads to his wife and his girlfriend finding out about each other, and his (soon-to-be-ex) wife finding the money he stole from the fast-food restaurant he managed, which leads to him being sent to prison. In the end, he is drinking coffee out of a tin mug with the words "World's Best Bottom" scrawled on it, while his cellmate looks on.
-   Black Comedy Rape version in one episode of _Married... with Children_: Seeking revenge on a girl who's been stringing him along and humiliated him years ago, Bud convinces the guy she's really interested in (and who couldn't care less about her) to go along with his plan — entice the girl into meeting him under the bleachers for a round of quickie sex. Later, the girl is seen emerging from the bleachers, adjusting her clothes, apparently completely unaware—thanks to the darkness—that she just had sex with Bud, who the audience soon sees coming out a few minutes after she did.
-   Subverted in _Orange Is the New Black_. After Coates rapes Pennsatucky, she and Big Boo plan to drug him and rape him with a broom handle. However, Pennsatucky changes her mind—she's _been_ raped, and she's not going to do that to someone else.
-   _One Life to Live_ Roughly a decade after leading the gang-rape of Marty Saybrooke, Todd Manning is kidnapped by an obsessed woman and raped by her (she wants to have his baby). He clearly views his ordeal as this trope, even hallucinating Marty taunting him, "Todd rapes Margaret (her proper name) and Margaret rapes Todd."
-   _Guiding Light_. After his Date Rape of Lucy Cooper, Brent Lawrence flees town to avoid prosecution and returns as a Creepy Crossdresser, disguised as a woman named Marian. He is attacked on the docks at one point and although he manages to fend the guy off and kill him before he can complete the assault, for several moments, he's legitimately terrified that he's going to be subjected to what he did to Lucy (though this actually failed to cause any kind of Heel Realization about it).
-   _Oz_: The male-on-male rape that occurs in the Oswald prison is always treated as horrific and unjust, except a few instances where it's very clearly Laser-Guided Karma. Examples of such include Franklin Winthrop, who was convicted in the first place for raping a woman in public; and Robbson, who frequently raped other inmates himself before he was later ousted from his gang and had to become a sex slave to a stronger inmate.
-   In the _Firefly_ episode "Heart of Gold," a prostitute named Chari betrays the heroes and her brothel by reporting their activities to the villain Rance Burgess. Burgess then proceeds to force Chari to service him in front of his men.
-   _Spartacus: Blood and Sand_'s chief female villain Lucretia spends the first season as a cruel slaveowner who also keeps the ludus's champion gladiator as her personal Sex Slave, and later cruelly tortures his actual lover when she discovers the affair. The second season has her miraculously surviving the ludus massacre, supposedly driven mad by the event, but she soon reveals she's Obfuscating Insanity and tries to manipulate Asher to secure a future for herself. However, when Asher gets politically elevated by Glaber, Lucretia has no more power over him and he rapes her as a Break the Haughty. She then becomes _his_ Sex Slave, and must symbolically go into the quarters below the ludus that were originally where the slaves lived for the act to continue to happen.

    Music 

-   Aesop Rock's "11:35" recounts many different unsavory things happening at the titular wee hour of January 21st, among them a pedophile being Prison Raped by a white supremacist.
-   Played straight and for laughs in Sublime's "Date Rape", in which a date rapist is sentenced to prison where he himself is Prison Raped, making him a _literal_ Asshole Victim.
    
    _Well I can't take pity on a man of his kind,  
    Even though he now takes it in the behind._
    
-   Locusta in Macabre's song of the same name, when her crimes are figured out, was raped by a trained giraffe before being torn apart by animals as punishment.
-   Nirvana's song "Rape Me" from _In Utero_ is, according to one of Kurt Cobain's explanations, about a male rapist of women being raped in jail as some sort of "poetic justice".
-   Georges Brassens' song "Le Gorille" ("The Gorilla") describes a horny male gorilla who escapes from his cage at the zoo. Everyone runs away, except for two people: a Dirty Old Woman who claims that she'd appreciate being desired by literally anyone or anything, and a judge who doesn't believe that the gorilla could possibly confuse him for a female. The gorilla ends up raping the judge, and the narration compares his cries to those of a man whose execution he'd ordered earlier that day, all described as if he deserved it.

    Mythology and Religion 

-   In _Book of Genesis_ Lot and his daughters take shelter in a cave after their Doomed Hometown is destroyed. Lot is raped by his daughters, and has a son/grandson by each of them. Some interpret this as divine punishment for offering the girls to be raped. The reason given in the narrative, however, is that the girls (erroneously) believed themselves and their father to be the last people on Earth alive After the End, their fiances had been killed, and they felt compelled to have children for future security. In other words, they viewed sex with their father as Necessarily Evil, but knew that he'd never go for it sober.
-   The 23rd chapter of _Book of Ezekiel_ has the parable of the two adulterous sisters Aholah and Aholibah. Aholah commits adultery with Assyrians and ends up gang raped and killed by her lovers. Aholibah then commits adultery with the Babylonians and God announces a fate similar to her sister's.
-   In the _Book of Judges_, an unnamed Levite man's concubine runs away from him, and allegedly cheats on him with several different men before running home to her father. In turn, he gives her over to a bunch of townsmen that wanted to rape him, and she is raped to death. The narrative is not shy about connecting her alleged cheating with her rape and her most unfortunate demise.
-   A midrash of the Book of Ruth says that the moabite Orpah after abandoning Ruth and Naomi to return to her people was then gang raped by hundred men and _a dog_. (The text itself says nothing about what might have happened to her. She isn't seen in the text as a "bad person" or deserving of punishment for choosing to go back home, and Naomi actually encouraged it.)
-   In the Yashts the God of Evil Ahriman is fisted by the heroic Jamshid. Not only had Ahriman caused all worldly evil by that point, he also ate Jamshid's brother.
-   In the _Mabinogion_, Gilfaethwy and Gwydion are punished for raping Goewin by being transformed into animals and forced to breed with each other every year for several years until they produce multiple offspring.

    Theatre 

-   As per The Zeroth Law of Trope Examples: In William Shakespeare's _Measure for Measure_, the villain Angelo attempts to use the Scarpia Ultimatum to rape the heroine Isabella by offering to pardon her condemned brother in exchange for sex with her. The Duke foils him by suggesting that Isabella persuades Angelo's rejected ex-fiancée Mariana, who still loves him, to have sex with him in a dark room pretending to be Isabella. So by modern sexual morality, Angelo gets raped by deception while believing that he's raping Isabella by extortion.

    Video Games 

-   The Korean arcade game _Boon-Ga Boon-Ga_ allows you to select from a number of unpleasant characters, then use the attached stick to anally violate them by shoving the stick through a hole on the front of the cabinet, upon which the character will then make comically exaggerated motions and facial expressions. Well, calling it a "game" is stretching the definition very thin, as there is no story to it or in-game goals (though it does drop prizes). It was marketed as stress relief. _Boon-Ga Boon-Ga_ was never exported to any other region because this premise wouldn't fly anywhere but Korea and its intended audience of Japan.
-   _General Retreat_, a sequel to the infamous _Custer's Revenge_ game, has you play as the Native American woman Custer raped in the first game, as you try and rape _him_ in return.
-   In _Resident Evil 2_ and its remake, corrupt Police Chief Brian Irons, who is explicitly stated in the former to be a rapist, is impregnated with an embryo via a very sexually suggestive method by the virus-transformed William Birkin, and then dies giving 'birth' to it.

    Web Animation 

-   _Manga Soprano_:
    -   Implied in "My sister, who is adored by her parents, looted my boyfriend", as Sakura returned home crying after finding out the "Punio" her sister Haru was talking about was In-Universe fictional character Puni before the guy hanged up and had his way with her.
    -   In "A twin thought she successfully stole her sister's fiance at the reunion but ended up with" \[sic\], after Kanade hung up on her twin sister Utako following the latter being tricked by Onpu into mistaking local playboy Yamada-kun for the former's fiancé, it's implied that he was about to rape her.
    -   "The day after my fiancée proposed to me, I got a call saying my sister had stolen my fiancée": Anna plotted to steal Karin's fiancé right on her wedding day, but Mikan tricks her into bedding Karin's stalker Kenji. Not only she failed to steal Karin's fiancé, but Kenji prepares to rape her in the middle of her call with Karin. However, after Karin and Casino consummated their marriage, Anna called once more to apologize for what she did, prompting Karin to call the cops on Kenji.

    Web Original 

-   An article on Cracked mentions an infamous _Harry Potter_ fan theory that Dolores Umbridge—a thoroughly terrible woman who, among other things, tortures children—got gang-raped by centaurs at the end of the fifth book. In the text itself, said centaurs drag Umbridge deep into the Forbidden Forest. After Dumbledore rescues her, she shows little physical damage but remains temporarily catatonic from whatever she endured—until the students start making hoofbeat sounds, at which point Umbridge goes into a panic. As Cracked points out, this has led many fans to conclude exactly what you'd expect. It doesn't help that the original centaurs of Classical Mythology are among the ur-examples of Mars Needs Women, and J. K. Rowling likes to show her work regarding myths that she borrows from, even though the centaurs of the Wizarding World are a far cry from their savage mythological counterparts.
-   _Tails of the Bounty Hunter_ has a scene in the final chapter where Gobor Grizzer gets raped in the showers while he's in prison. That being said, Gobor himself is a Serial Rapist who sexually assaulted over a dozen football players in high school, and later grew up to rape civilians indiscriminately on top of being a terrorist who is responsible for killing thousands. It's very difficult to say he didn't have this coming.
-   _Whateley Universe_, Jade 4: Bottle a Jinn
    -   Alpha Bitch Solange enters a horrific contract with Thuban: in exchange for keeping her rival Hekate out of her hair for a week, she would allow her body to be possessed for two days and let herself, in effect, be raped by Montana, whom she had previously offered sexual favors with no intention of following through. Having absorbed a powerful spirit (Jinn, who is essentially a part of another student's astral self), she is convinced she can withstand the possession and get around the terms of the contract... but Jinn has been harassing Solange from inside her mind, trying to get Solange to free her, and eventually Solange does - just before the terms of the agreement come due.
    -   Jobe Wilkins finds himself in a bind: he's accidentally injected himself with a formula he created which irreversibly turns the recipient into a female dark elf. Desperate to prevent this, he goes to his arch-rival, Carmilla, and asks her to use her magic to undo the serum. Assuming his unparalleled genius would be sufficient to make a Deal with the Devil that wouldn't backfire on him, her fails to notice that she'd 'signed' it with an insult, leaving her free to do whatever she would. She uses her power to seduce him, while simultaneously completing the Gender Bender transformation he was hoping to avoid.
-   Deconstructed in the web novel continuity of _The Rising of the Shield Hero_. Princess Malty, who falsely accused the hero Naofumi of rape (among other things), ends up herself raped to death by the King of Faubley, who records the whole thing before getting burned at the stake. Yet despite how much Naofumi hates her, he is so horrified that he can’t bring himself to watch, and it gets treated as an Alas, Poor Villain moment for Malty while making it clear how much worse the King is.

    Western Animation 

-   It's hard to tell whether it's also specifically this or just the show's general, usual, karma-free Black Comedy, but in an early episode of _Family Guy_, an Alpha Bitch cheerleader is tied up by Stewie and left in a bathroom stall, where Quagmire finds her.
    
    **Quagmire:** Dear Diary: jackpot!
    
-   In the _Justice League_ episode "Injustice for All" which features the Injustice Gang, Cheetah appears for the first time and meets Solomon Grundy who clearly shows an unwelcomed attraction to her which she rejects violently. At the end of the two-part episode she's left alone trapped with a smiling Grundy, nothing is shown obviously but the implications are clear. Funnily enough, this is actually the result of a mistake. Grundy was supposed to _kill_ Cheetah, but due to an animation error she is seen taken into custody by the police at the end of the episode. That's right, a mistake turned her death into A Fate Worse Than Death.
-   In an episode of _South Park_, Nathan who repeatedly tries to get Jimmy killed is raped by a shark. On screen. Twice.
    -   In a later episode, another of his schemes involves being a driver for Timmy's taxi service and sexually harass the passengers so that said business could fall apart from the scandal. His first attempt ends up in him being raped by a transvestite, which he thought to be a ripe target. Apparently, it was worse than the shark!

___