_"In war, one should seek to take and hold the high ground. From there, the enemy's movements are clearly visible, and he will struggle just to reach you, let alone fight you. High orbit is the highest ground there is."_

When it absolutely, positively has to be destroyed on time, nothing beats your own remote-controlled, satellite-mounted laser cannon.

A variation of the Wave-Motion Gun, Kill Sats have the added advantage that you don't need to be anywhere near either the weapon or the target. Instead, you can fire it from the safety of your headquarters: your satellite will move into position and unleash a shiny descending Pillar of Light (or, less often, a good ol' kinetic projectile) on your unsuspecting target. Power/accuracy on Kill Sats vary, ranging from "lone vehicle" to "entire building" to (rarely) "town or small city." Planet busters are another category entirely, as firing them remotely from _anywhere_ on the surface is inadvisable.

Since it's considered poor form to snipe your opponent from such a risk-free distance, Kill Sats are generally the realm of villains. So-called good guys who resort to these will, at best, fail miserably. If Everything Is Online in their world (and you know it is), there is always the risk of control falling into the wrong hands.

In video games, Kill Sats are frequently used by the good guys (ie the player) but usually requiring some sort of targeting system on the ground in the vicinity of the target (distance varies from a few meters to a few miles). If the good guys _do_ have one, its precision and accuracy are emphasized, often by providing the bad guys with a less precise weapon of equivalent power (such as a nuclear missile).

Of course, in the hands of either side, it would end the story in a hurry if these could be used repeatedly: none of the opposing side could poke their nose into the open without risking vaporization. Therefore:

-   It's prohibitively expensive, time-intensive, and/or just plain difficult to get it moved over the target and charged, making it something that can't be used regularly or that can be avoided.
-   It Only Works Once, because there was only enough power/ammo to fire it the one time, or because the heroes sabotage it or its control system before the villains can shoot again.
-   Some combination of the above two, the former giving the opportunity for the heroes to do the latter.
-   The area of effect for its firepower is too limited: you can pick off soldiers or armored vehicles one at a time, but the amount of time this takes makes it unable to turn back a mass invasion. Thus, usage is reserved for important high-value targets. Or the exact opposite, it's a Weapon of Mass Destruction that can't even be considered until the Godzilla Threshold is reached.
-   The weapon, if fired, risks being discovered and shot down, hence it is reserved for only super high value targets.

Alternatively, it's not active at all yet, in which case the story centers around making sure it never gets off its first shot. In these cases it generally leans toward the powerful end of the scale.

Kill Sats sometimes display the orbital properties of their more benign counterparts, the Spy Satellites, able to move themselves over any target in record time and then park themselves there to get off as many shots as they please. More often, thankfully, the writers actually pay attention to how satellites work and incorporate that into the plot ("we've got two hours to destroy the control center before the satellite is in position over our headquarters!")

Any villain seeking to get their private space program off the ground (pun most definitely intended) is probably doing so to put one of these bad boys in orbit (never mind what it actually gets used for). Spy villains love these things. The Ancient Conspiracy may already have a full network of Death Ray Sats secretly in orbit, but they're careful about using it regularly, lest someone catch on.

The Standard Sci-Fi Fleet can and will take this up a notch, with the heavier ships turning their guns on a helpless planet below.

An early test fire of these may create the Doomed Hometown.

The trope name is a parody of "TelSat", the TV satellite system.

A popular way to rain Death from Above, and a subtrope of Orbital Bombardment. Compare Wave-Motion Gun, BFG, Big, Bulky Bomb, Doomsday Device, and There Is No Kill Like Overkill. Very often considered a Superweapon by the forces on the ground with no way of knowing when and where it will strike. Contrast Save Sat, when a satellite crashing down has a beneficial/defensive effect.

_This item is available in the Trope Co. Catalog._

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _AKIRA_:
    -   SOL is used to sucker punch a rampaging Tetsuo, incinerating his right arm in one shot. The reason why it doesn't get a second chance varies: in the anime, Tetsuo flies up and crushes it while the military is still recalibrating; in the manga, he just runs away and goes into hiding, leaving the satellite available for the Colonel to use against him in the final battle.
    -   As nice as SOL is, it's hard to argue against "Floyd", the Kill Sat used by the US Military near the end of the manga, having it beaten hands-down — able to fire multiple beams at once, move the beam _while_ firing, widen the beam... The American commander actually orders _the entirety of Japan_ to be targeted at one point! Not that any of these features kept Tetsuo from boarding the thing and crashing it on top of the US command carrier... Although only Floyd makes an actual appearance, it is perhaps worth noting that it was introduced as "the only one currently in range of Neo-Tokyo"... so, just how many ARE there...?
-   A pin-point precise version of this goes haywire in the _All-Purpose Cultural Cat Girl Nuku Nuku_ OAV.
-   In _Assassination Classroom_, the government builds an orbital satellite, armed with a laser, specifically designed to kill Koro-Sensei. And when he manages to escape that, they trap him in a forcefield, so the next one would kill him for sure, and temporarily confine his students, just in case they decide to sabotage something in order to break him out.
-   _Bakugan_: Hyper Pulsor, Bolcanon's BakuNano, transforms into small satellite that can fire energy blasts. While it's attacks are powerful, it can leave it’s user defenseless against close-range attacks.
-   _Battle Programmer Shirase_ has a technique called "Three Sisters Deathblow", where three scrapped Cosmos satellites are programmed for re-entry. The first two serve to shield the third from atmospheric heat, so that it can enter the atmosphere intact and precisely hit a target on the ground (or sea).
-   One of the major subplots in the original _Bubblegum Crisis_ revolved around a MacGuffin which would allow a Boomer to gain control of the military's network of Kill Sats.
-   The first anime Kill Sat was in _Cat's Eye_, but they got the idea from _Diamonds Are Forever_.
-   In episode 4 of _Cells at Work! CODE BLACK_, penicillin is represented as a satellite zapping the cell walls off the invading gonococci, leaving them vulnerable to the white blood cells.
-   The Sky Fortress Damocles from _Code Geass_. Technically not a satellite but a floating fortress armed with a cannon that shoots F.L.E.I.J.A. warheads, but since it was supposed to be flown out of the atmosphere and placed on a geosynchronous orbit, it fulfills all the criteria for a Kill Sat (it's in space, it rains doom on people).
-   The _Cowboy Bebop_ episode "Jamming With Edward" features a network of satellite-mounted lasers. They were built in an attempt to reduce the severity of meteor showers after the moon was destroyed by the hyperspace gate explosion. In the episode, an A.I. which evolved in the network uses them to carve graffiti on unoccupied areas of the planet surface to recreate the Nasca Lines. Then automated defense programs activate when Spike comes to collect a bounty on it and try to blast his fighter...
-   _Dancougar_ handles this differently; the Kill Sat hits the _sword_ of the titular machine, creating a gigantic laser sword for it to use.
-   _El-Hazard: The Magnificent World_ arguably has two: Ifurita, a Miniature Death Star With Breasts, and the Eye of God, a superweapon which steps up the game by being able to _selectively_ destroy a planet.
-   In episode 10 of _Engage Kiss_, a satellite with laser weaponry, from the Cold War era, was used against Asmodeus, an especially dangerous demon. It did not damage the demon.
-   In _Eureka Seven_, Dewey Novak fires one called "Oratorio #8" once at the Scab Coral to make a hole for TheEND to fly through, and again to target the beacon TheEND placed on the Control Cluster. After the second shot, the thing self-destructed and STILL rained death down on the poor planet with its highly explosive debris.
-   _Fairy Tail_ features the Etherion, a magical version of this. It takes about an hour for the Council to charge it up, and then it blasts down with the power of more than two billion, seven hundred million ideas of magical energy, which is about equivalent to the combined magical energies of all the wizards on the continent. According to one member of the Council, its destructive power is sufficient to wipe a country off the face of the planet. Naturally, the arc's villain manipulated the council into firing the weapon at his magic tower (which was secretly designed to _absorb_ magical energy) so he can use the energy as a power battery for his spell to resurrect history's most infamous black wizard. As the tower takes too much damage in the battle between him and the heroes, however, the energy starts to leak out and runs the risk of going out of control and exploding anyways. Only barely is the tower forced to fire the energy back into space to avoid a massive loss of life.
-   _Fate/Prototype_ brings us Archer: his twin swords join to form a bow, yet the arrow fired from the bow itself is nothing more than a targeting beacon for a magical version of this trope.
-   _Gall Force_ ups the scale considerably with a planet-sized energy cannon orbiting the sun.
-   _Getter Robo_ features two of these, in Humongous Mecha form. The first, from the _Shin Getter Robo vs. Neo Getter Robo_ OVA dispenses countless meteorites over North America, some of which are so large that they function as drop pods for _other_ Humongous Mecha. The second is in the _Getter Robo Go_ manga, and is of the laser variety. Though it can apparently fire multiple times in succession.
-   _Gintama_, naturally, featured a comedic variation: Otae actually uses one of these in an episode as protection against Kondou stalking outside her dojo, along with spiked fences and pratfalls. It's name is SOL, which stands for "Stalker Obliterating Laser".
-   In _Great Mazinger_ (the sequel of _Mazinger Z_), Great Marshall of Hell fabricated a massive lens of ice orbited around Earth and worked like a Kill Sat by focusing sunrays in one single point and blasting it with a massive, hot-melting heat ray. It appeared only in one of the manga continuities, though.
-   The GHQ's satellite laser "Leucocyte" in _Guilty Crown_. All 256 of them. Or rather, all _three_ of them, and two of them were destroyed in episode 6. The 256 number was a bluff pulled by a guy with massive steel balls, and the U.N. _bought it._ The last remaining satellite was not in a position to deal any damage.
-   Kill Sats show up in many _Gundam_ series, although they aren't quite as common as the Colony Drop.
    -   _Mobile Suit Gundam_ has the Solar Ray, a super weapon made out of a colony. In the anime, it's burnt up after using it to kill General Revil and Degwin Zabi. In the novel, it's fully operational and it outright murders both sides.
    -   _Zeta Gundam_ has the Gryps Colony Laser. Which makes a return in the final episode of _Gundam Unicorn._
    -   _Victory Gundam_ has the Keilas Guilie... and it is still around in _∀ Gundam_.
    -   _Gundam Wing_ has the Space Fortress Barge and Space Fortress Libra.
    -   _Gundam X_ also has a colony laser. The titular mobile suit itself is a Kill Sat in a mech; Garrod once used the Satellite System in this manner, using the system as if he was preparing to fire the Satellite Cannon, then getting out of the beam's way.
    -   _Gundam SEED_ has the Gamma Emission by Nuclear Explosion Stimulate Inducing System, or GENESIS. It's an _enormous_ gamma ray cannon that fires what is best described as a massive microwave beam powered by _nuclear explosions._ And it's estimated to be powerful enough to wipe out half of all life on Earth with a single shot.
    -   _Gundam SEED Destiny_ has the Requiem and the Neo-GENESIS.
    -   _Gundam 00_ has the Memento Mori. Two of them.
    -   According to the backstory given in the original Gundam novels, the reason space colonization was needed was due to the Federation bombarding the Earth with kill sats _entirely by accident_. They tried to solve the world's energy problems with solar power satellites, but miscalculated the power of the microwave beams used to transmit the energy to the surface and almost burned off the entire atmosphere.
    -   _Gundam Build Divers Re:RISE_ shocks the fandom with one of these. Alus reveals this from the moon base he was in and, despite BUILD DiVERS trying their best, it fires and completely nukes the city of Seguri from the face of Eldora. The second half of the series is devoted to making sure Alus doesn't pull off a round two.
    -   _Mobile Suit Gundam: The Witch from Mercury_ has the Interplanetary Laser Transmission System. That name is a lie - it's one of these disguised as a energy transferring system. The Space Assembly League plan to use this to obliterate Quiet Zero, knowing full well pulling this off would also ravage those living at Lagrange 4, planning to allow Peil Technologies to lead the reconstruction. The first shot is blocked by the Aerial Rebuild and the Gundnodes, destroying the Gundnodes and ravaging the Aerial. Suletta in the Calibarn unleashes a powerful data storm using the Aerial, Pharact and Schwartzette to shut it down for good, at the cost of the Gundams and ravaging her body.
-   Jiro from _Hajimete No A Ku_ has one, on top of that it has ridiculously accurate aim, able to shoot glasses of the heroines face without hurting her.
-   Parodied in _Heaven's Lost Property_, where Ikaros acts as a Peeping-Sat with a mirror (think Periscope). It then carried a karate-chop back (still through being reflected by the mirror), making it act as a Kill-Sat in reverse.
-   _Legend of the Galactic Heroes_ featured two variants of Kill Sat, both of which are designed as space-based defences: the giant Iserlohn Fortress occupying an important choke-point in the Imperial frontier and the Artemis Necklace networks of battle-satellites orbiting around determinated planets. The Artemis Necklace is notable for being extremely powerful, wiping out an Imperial warfleet off-screen, but ultimately failing against the amazing skills of their opponents in the two occasions it's used on-screen.
-   From the _Lupin III_ film series:
    -   In _Island of Assassins_, the major governments of the world control a satellite laser that's been programmed to shoot down any ships that approach, or attempt to leave the island without authorization. Which Lupin reveals is the secret behind all the disappearances in the Bermuda Triangle.
    -   _Travels of Marco Polo: Another Page_: Zeal, Bernardo’s satellite-based laser weapon, which incinerates everything it touches.
-   _Macross_:
    -   _Macross Plus_ reveals that, decades after Space War I, Earth has upgraded its defenses with a network of _hundreds of thousands_ of densely-packed, automated Kill Sats that serve a dual purpose: vaporize orbital debris before it falls into the atmosphere, and discouraging invasion from external forces. When Isamu has to navigate this network and force his way into Earth, his only hope is to shoot down a couple of communication sats, hide among the falling debris, and _pray_. His companion has so little faith in their chances he just shuts himself off into hibernation.
    -   On that subject, the conclusion to Space War I in _Super Dimension Fortress Macross_: the main Zentraedi fleet folds in and the first thing they do is shoot the Earth with several million (Not Hyperbole) Wave Motion Guns, turning most the surface into an arid wasteland and exterminating 90% of the human population.
-   In the final episode of _Mnemosyne_, Techno Wizard Mimi hijacks a Kill Sat belonging to her friend's company and uses it in an attempt to stop the Big Bad's plan. She fails.
-   Mikawa Kai uses a NASA Kill Sat in an effort to destroy the "Terminator" in _My Bride is a Mermaid_.
-   Artemis, the trump card for the Searrs Foundation in _My-HiME_, is actually a meaningfully-named gigantic _Mon_ in orbit.
-   Used in _Nadia: The Secret of Blue Water_. Especially impressive considering the series takes place in the 19th century (the satellite was Atlantean technology).
-   In _Najica Blitz Tactics_, one of the android girls actually is the remote control for a Kill Sat, making a fair grab for the sexiest use of this trope in fiction.
-   _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_:
    -   Chachamaru's artifact is this. _And it's shaped like a cat_.
    -   Fast forward a few decades in _UQ Holder!_, and the kill sat is now under the control of the Holders, though a little worse for wear.
-   _Neon Genesis Evangelion_:
    -   It included a Kill Sat angel. It fired a Mind Rape beam at you to the tune of the _Hallelujah Chorus_ from Handel's _Messiah_. Asuka was unfortunate enough to be on the receiving end of said beam, and needless to say, the results were not pretty.
    -   A different Angel started out dropping bits of itself on the city, gradually target-tracking onto the geofront, at which point the whole thing came crashing down and the Evas have to run up and catch it.
-   In _Not Lives_, the Emperor Gentleman's skill, the 'Emperor's Thumb', involves firing a giant laser beam from an orbital satellite onto the unfortunate avatars in its path.
-   Saya from _Onidere_ has access to a Kill Sat that strikes her father every time she says a phrase. However her father is so tough that despite destroying his house he doesn't even notice it.
-   _Panzer World Galient_ has the Eraser, a network of killing sats that uses a powerful gravity surge to destroy the surfaces of planets.
-   _Princess Lucia_: "God" employs one in chapter 36, it takes 180 seconds to recharge per shot, and it completely wrecks a city block trying to zero in on its target.
-   _Sekirei_: MBI owns one that can attack any single target in Tokyo. Matsu reveals its existence by attacking Musubi with it. Musubi manages to escape with minor clothing damage. The neighborhood she was in (she was buying groceries on Miya's behalf) wasn't quite so lucky.
-   _Shaman King_ has one of these which is used against the main villain Hao Asakura, but he is unhurt by it. It was also detrimental for the other shaman as it caused the world to become aware of their presence on the island.
-   The AMP in _Silent Möbius_ has access to a Kill Sat, which seems to be privately owned by member Lebia Maverick. It also acts as her second brain, providing a ridiculous amount of extra data storage. Its name is Donald.
-   The original _Sol Bianca_ OAV cheats a little, when Feb hides herself on an orbiting Space Ring with a _very_ long-ranged laser sniper rifle to help her friends escape from their own execution on the planet below.
-   _Space Battleship Yamato_ had a few of these. The first series had a series of Gamilon mirror satellites working in conjunction with a planet-based BFG, and the second had a proper kill sat in Earth orbit.
-   _Stealth Symphony_: Laika's "third eye" is revealed to be a satellite that looks like an eye and can shoot deadly lasers from above.
-   The Radam-occupied Orbital Ring around Earth in _Tekkaman Blade_ is used for orbital bombardment in several episodes.
-   _Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann_'s Anti-Spiral-controlled Cathedral Terra. The heroes nip its firing sequence in the bud, but it had several hundred (if not thousand) massive death rays trained on the planet, and it was (disguised as) the planet's natural satellite at the time.
-   Wormhole Driver from _The Third: The Girl with the Blue Eye_ is an old (but still fully operational) Kill Sat capable of creating Black Holes on top of the targeted area (which means that depending on the power used in such attack it can most likely destroy anything up to the entire planet)
-   In _Toriko_ allied forces used those against Four Beasts, along with massive army of giant tanks, ships and airplanes. It fails miserably.
-   The Death-Para Machine from _Transformers: Super-God Masterforce_, which had the power to destroy Earth's ozone layer.
-   _Utawarerumono_. You won't know where it is though... Until episode 24, when Mikoto/Kamyu uses a powerful magic to obliterate a country. The next episode, we are given a glimpse on how it actually works... arrays of satellite-mounted beam cannons.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh!_:
    -   In the _Yu-Gi-Oh!_ Virtual Nightmare filler arc, Gozaboro Kaiba's former right-hand man Daimon/Lecter (who takes the form of "Jinzoningen - Psycho Shocker") summons a monster called Satellite Cannon, which is quite a pain for Kaiba until he finally summons Blue-Eyes White Dragon and destroys it.
        -   Damon hints in the original version that Gozaburo was working on a _real_ version of a Kill Sat before he was ousted from his position. It turns out that he succeeded and the weapon was in orbit ready to fire. Noah uses it to destroy the mechanical fortress sustaining the virtual world; he changes his mind and tries to stop it, but Yami Marik destroyed the controls when he stepped away.
    -   _Yu-Gi-Oh! GX_: In the last third of the second season, securing one of these was part of the plot. The bad guys—an extraterrestrial Eldritch Abomination and a brainwashed prince—were planning to use it to scour the Earth of all life. The 4Kids dub claimed the satellite fired a brainwashing beam and that the bad guys were planning to use it to take control of the world, but forgot to edit out the satellite's laser destroying the landscape before the heroes could stop it. Its owner, the aforementioned prince, duels with a deck built around his love for Kill Sats, using three copies of Satellite Cannon as well as a much larger Fusion of three of them.
        -   The card itself is just as Cool. It cannot be destroyed by battle with anything less than Level 8 (signifying the difficulties of attacking it), Gains 1000 attack per turn (charging for its attack), and sadly loses its ATK after attacking (empty, reload). This has some potential problems when you realize that you do not have to attack with it to have it be in a battle (if it attacks, then and only then does it lose its ATK). Many cards force your opponent to attack and some even allow you to control who your opponent attacks. You can even summon _three_ of them at once using a Spell Card called Machine Duplication.
    -   Continuing with the trend, _Yu-Gi-Oh! ZEXAL_ has "Number 9: Dyson Sphere", a weaponized space colony that's the 2nd largest monster in the game, falling just behind its Chaos Number form "Chaos Dyson Sphere".
    -   In _Yu-Gi-Oh! ARC-V_, Shun Kurosaki has a card called "Raid Raptors - Satellite Cannon Falcon", which is a Kill Sat combined with a giant cybernetic falcon. Combined with the Hard Light technology of the setting, it has absolutely devastating results - he blew up the stadium, and in the following 20+ episodes it never gets fixed. He's also banned from dueling there again.
    -   _Yu-Gi-Oh! OCG Stories_: In the backstory of the Sky Striker arc, the AI-run nation of Spectra used satellite weapons to render humanity extinct. The AIs of the nation Karma blew up all the satellites, filling the planet's orbit with so much debris that that it is impossible to launch anything into orbit again. In the final part of the arc, Azalea reveals that there was one satellite that they missed and commands it to blast her enemies, but Raye is able to shoot it down before it can fire.
-   _Zoids_:
    -   There's one in the _Zoids: New Century_ series, as a side function of the Judge satellite. While it doesn't usually come up because the enemy uses Dark Judges, which skew the battle in their favor, in one specific instance there's a regular Judge on the battlefield and the bad guys ignore him completely, prompting him to call down a barrage that completely frags the remaining enemies and their Airborne Aircraft Carrier.
    -   Near the end of the series during a tournament, the Backdraft Group calls down a whole bunch of different Dark Judges. As they're defeated on the ground, the real judging authority has a very large satellite covered in gun turrets that blows the satellites out of the sky.

    Comic Books 

-   _Atomic Robo_ sees the titular character seize control of a Nazi kill sat.
-   The Blue in _Fathom_ had a network of these orbiting Earth before Killian's Blue Sun destroys them all to absorb their energy. In the event that the Surface Dwellers ever gave them a reason, this network could have obliterated every city on Earth several times over! They also had a secondary function of being spy satellites.
-   The final issue of _Global Frequency_ is based around a preset plan by the US government to cause a population reduction by blasting a few major cities with Kill Sats. These are kinetic harpoons, a single shot weapon mostly by virtue of being a fancy orbiting crossbow that fires an artificial diamond at enough speed that the kinetic energy goes off like a nuke when it strikes the ground.
-   _Superman_:
    -   In _Superman vs. the Amazing Spider-Man_, Lex Luthor appropiates Comlab, an orbiting communications laboratory, and turns it into a weapon capable of controlling the weather. He creates a giant storm with the deliberate intention of destroying human civilization, but Superman and Spider-Man stop him.
    -   In _War World_, the eponymous super-weapon is a star-sized satellite equipped with weapons that can easily disintegrate planets. When Superman and Supergirl attempt to destroy it, they confirm that a pair of blows of the weakest weapon of Warworld can kill them in spite of being nigh invulnerable.
    -   Ultraman is a human version in _JLA: Earth-2_. When he hears someone on Earth talking trash about him, he leaves the Crime Syndicate's satellite bases and blasts the man from space with Eye Beams.
    -   One of the Kryptonite Rings which Superman helps Leo Quintum design in _All-Star Superman_ is a cannon that's fired from the Moon which can send Superman into the Phantom Zone.
    -   In _The Phantom Zone_, General Zod and his criminal band build a giant space cannon, powered by Green Lantern's power battery, to send Earth into the Phantom Zone.
-   _Blackhawk_: A kinetic harpoon, armed with bunches of tungsten rods, appears in one story. Wildman is in love with the concept — "Why spend all the money and resources building a laser or a missile when an inert object traveling at Mach Ten does the same amount of damage?"
-   The last Story Arc of the original _Grendel_ series features the Sun-Disk, a superweapon used only once (to level Japan and a future cold war), before its creator disables it and dies.
-   Zodon's 'modifications' to the lunar lander in _PS238_.
-   An orbital particle beam cannon shows up in _Planetary_.
-   _G.I. Joe: A Real American Hero (Marvel)_ has a kill sat with the command centre hidden in the Chrysler Building. The IDW series that carries on the Marvel continuity also uses it.
-   _Infinite Crisis_: The rogue Brother Eye satellite that Batman built can be used as a Kill Sat; it even has the A.I. necessary to use and control all of it's functions (yes, even the _really_ deadly ones) on its own, which sucks for Earth.
-   _Paperinik New Adventures_:
    -   It is stated that Xerba had a powerful network of these for defense, believed to be able to stop any and all attacks. However, we don't get to see it in action, as the Evronians convince the Xerbians to sign a trading treaty and temporarily deactivate the defense network and invade in that small window of opportunity, quickly overrunning the capital to prevent reactivation and conquering the planet in a matter of days.
    -   Earth is also stated to have one such defensive network. While far less efficient than Xerba's, it _is_ seen in action as it wipes out a number of Evronian ships and is believed formidable enough that it would cause unacceptable losses to an Evronian invasion... Assuming it detects them, as Evronian stealth technology is advanced enough to make it rather hard.
-   _Star Wars: Shattered Empire_ shows the Galactic Empire using a number of kill sats in Operation: Cinder, a series of orbital bombardments triggered as a contingency following the death of Emperor Palpatine.
-   _The Avengers_: An early story features a group of mad scientists (Egghead, the Mad Thinker, and the Puppet Master) attempting to hold the Earth for ransom with one of these. Obviously, the Avengers stop it.
-   In _The Dark Knight Strikes Again_, Luthor gleefully describes the system of Kill Sats he placed around Earth to a captive Batman. Kill Sats which will wipe out most of Earth's population and bring it to a level that will be easier for Luthor to control. Fortunately, Batman had only let himself be captured as a distraction to give Green Lantern an opportunity to get rid of the Kill Sat network.
-   Taken to _ridiculous extremes_ in _Secret Wars (2015)_, as it is revealed that, in order to stop the Incursions, Iron Man has created the _Sol's Hammer_, a Kill Sat surrounding the sun which absorbs solar energy to recharge itself and can destroy a _planet_ at **2% of power!**
-   Warren Ellis would revisit the kinetic harpoon concept in _The Wild Storm_; Skywatch calls it "Little Stick", a single diamond rod too small for radar detection, dropped into the atmosphere over a target and striking with the force of a tactical nuke. Bendix uses one to level a recently-evacuated I/O base and threatens he could easily do the same to their New York City HQ.

    Comic Strips 

-   _Bloom County_ parodied SDI with "The Space-Based, Basselope-powered All-Purpose Defense Initiative," featuring a ridiculous variety of Death Rays including the "Anti 7-Eleven Porno Rack Raygun" and the "Anti-presidential Progeny Destruct-o-Beam."

    Fan Works 

-   A variation of Kill Sats appeared in the _All Things Probable Series_ story: _A Friend in Darkness_. The villains of the story, Monkey Fist (who had been infused with the power of the Yono) and Maze, used a device called an Ultra-Atmospheric Jammer to seize control of the world's communication satellites and use them to channel the Yono's petrification power across the world to create an army of Living Statues.
    -   Monkey Fist also had a more destructive lightning bolt attack, and some readers wonder why he didn't channel that through the satellites.
-   _HERZ_: The Orbital Defence Platforms, satellites mounted with positronic cannons. Power was collected by solar panels and channelled into a sophisticated power system to blast enemies from the sky.
    
    _"We've still got the Orbital Defence Platforms that we put up over the past few years. Their positronic cannons should give HERZ's Evas a real nasty surprise should the need actually arise. And they thought that we'd actually use it to help those UN and HERZ guys over that little escapade in Kransoyarsk."_  
    _"Ain't this a beauty." Each ODP was a satelite mounted with a version of the positron rifle first used by Eva. Power was collected by solar panels and channeled into a sophisticated power system. This was the ultimate weapon. And now, they were all in place, circling the heavens. Deadly and waiting._
    
-   In _Imaginary Seas_, Zoe Nightshade assists Percy through her constellation in the stars, raining arrows in the form of lasers upon foes in the general direction of Percy's sword swings through their mutual connection in Riptide. While these beams are normally a mere D-Rank Noble Phantasm, enough to injure but not kill a Servant, their power rises dramatically at night when the stars and moon are visible, easily delivering a Boom, Headshot! death to the soldiers Lostbelt Chiron sends after Percy. At full power, they're strong enough to scour an island.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ has an image macro titled "Hate Detected. Firing The Orbital Friendship Cannon. (It's not actually a Kill Sat though, just Speed Lines combined with Mundane Made Awesome). The _MLP FIM FanFic_ animation, however, plays it straight.
    -   Orbital Friendship _Beam_, meanwhile, is used by several fanfics to refer to the beam produced by the Elements of Harmony.
-   In _Kyon: Big Damn Hero_, Kyon's Morph Weapons can assemble into a Kill Sat called "Spear the Gungnir".
-   During _The Emiya Clan_ Christmas Special Zelretch is shown to have an orbital railgun, in the shape of a giant yellow smiley face. It's used to great effect.
-   Used in _A Dream_. As part of Valiant's satellite program, he's launched several stations capable of carrying out kinetic bombardment of nearly any location in Equestria. So far it's only been used against Gabby, which while it failed to kill her, it completely destroyed the landscape and is the only thing to even come close to disabling Tin Mare.
-   _The Last Son_ features a couple of examples:
    -   A.I.M. constructed an orbital railgun as part of a blackmail scheme with Kaznia.
    -   Battlestation Sentrius is described by Nick Fury as a Death Star 2.0, and with good reason: it has all the state-of-the-art weaponry available in the Kryptonian Military Force. General Zod uses it to launch a Nova Javelin at North Korea in retaliation for them trying to attack it with a salvo of nukes.
-   The oddly named "Cosmetic Moonlight Blaster" appears as part of Bahija's backstory in _The Zero Context Series_, dealing the finishing blow in a vicious chain of attacks that she experienced. Bahija remembers the blast as striking her with the force of "a thousand supernovas concentrated into a single point" while the power was set to less than one percent.
-   _Fallout Equestria: Pink Eyes_ features Ponymedes, a pre-war system of these. Since nobody remembers it exists nowadays, the controller finds its way into the hands of Puppysmiles, an elementary schooler who thinks its a toy gun. Attempting to 'fire' it in the middle of a battle forces both sides to immediately abort and start running as soon as they notice the beams of light taking aim from space.

    Films — Animation 

-   The Zeus space cannon in _Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within_.
-   In _Antz_, a kid with a magnifying glass functions as the insect-sized version of this. He vaporizes one soldier ant before chasing the protagonists down with a beam of sunlight. They get away, but end up hopelessly lost in the process.
-   This is how Megamind actually kills MetroMan. Except that it turns out that MetroMan's Not Quite Dead. In the straight-to-video _Megamind: The Buttom of Doom_, the villain-turned-hero Megamind tries to sell off all his "evil" inventions at a garage sale, including the Kill Sat, which he markets as a barbeque starter. This is the only item he fails to sell. It turns out to be useful in the end when he has to destroy a Humongous Mecha he built a long time ago programmed to kill heroes, who he now happens to be.
-   In _Batman Beyond: Return of the Joker_, the Joker using his host Tim Drake's knowledge as a communication expert, builds a Satellite Jamming System that allows him to take control of a military defense satellite armed with a laser. Terry is forced into a chase scene with the beam through downtown Gotham at one point. (The commentary notes that this is a Shout-Out to the _AKIRA_ example from above.)

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _Star Wars_:
    -   The Death Star from _Star Wars: A New Hope_, and its successor in _Return of the Jedi_. It's not _technically_ a satellite, since it's a mobile space station with millions of staff, a full complement of fighters and support ships, thousands of secondary weapons, and a planet-shattering superlaser - however, it is seen orbiting the planet Yavin in _A New Hope_ so that it can turn its superlaser on the moon where the main rebel base is located.
    -   The Death Star acts much more like a typical Kill Sat in the Star Wars anthology film _Rogue One_ when Tarkin orders the battlestation to fire low-power shots to destroy the Holy City on Jedha and the Imperial base on Scarif. The blasts destroy the targets and their surrounding areas while the celestial bodies remain (relatively) intact. This is because it was firing its superlaser at minimum setting.
-   The Soviet Nuclear Attack Satellite in _The Return of Godzilla_ counts as this, being a military satellite operated by Soviet Russia armed to the teeth with ICBMs. In the original Japanese film, the Satellite is accidentally activated after Godzilla damages the boat carrying the launch system, but not before the ship's commander, Colonel Kashirin, bravely tries to stop the launch sequence, but dies in the process. In the American dub, he deliberately launches the missile.
-   The Dimension Tide in _Godzilla vs. Megaguirus_ was designed to trap Godzilla within a miniaturised black hole. Unfortunately, a test firing of the satellite's cannon opened a wormhole for a very brief moment, allowing an egg from the Carboniferous period containing countless Meganulon and the larval Megaguirus to arrive in the present day. The Dimension Tide is later used at the end of the film to successfully trap Godzilla, although it seems to have merely imprisoned him underground...
-   Dr. Evil's "Alan Parsons Project" in _Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me_. He cheats a little by putting it on the Moon, but that's still in orbit — in fact, the Moon is a **natural satellite**.
-   _James Bond_ villains loved this one:
    -   Diabolical Mastermind Ernst Stavro Blofeld helped pioneer this trope in _Diamonds Are Forever_. Willard Whyte, a faintly disguised version of Howard Hughes, is a reclusive billionaire who supposedly put a satellite into orbit as part of his Aerospace operations, only to discover it was actually Blofeld, impersonating Whyte, who went on to use the satellite's ability to focus the sun's light into a coherent beam and thus fire a laser anywhere on earth to attack important locations such as nuclear missile launch facilities or nuclear submarines.
    -   _Moonraker_ had a slight twist on it: Hugo Drax's Kill Sat was also an inhabited space station, where his master race would remain safe and sound while nerve gas wiped out the rest of humanity.
    -   The titular weapons in _Goldeneye_ were single-shot EMP-based Kill Sats. The first one is used to cover up the theft of the satellite control codes by destroying the operations base. The Big Bad plotted to use the second one to knock out London (and all evidence of a grand electronic bank raid to be completed first), but was stopped by Bond and his Girl of the Movie, Natalya.
    -   The villain in _Die Another Day_ makes an orbital mirror that doubles as a Kill Sat.
-   In _Real Genius_, the lead characters are duped by their college professor into building a laser which is intended as the main weapon for a Kill Sat dubbed "Crossbow". They retaliate by sabotaging the test to have it destroy the duplicitous professor's home. With popcorn.
    -   Technically, the weapon would be mounted on a shuttle, not on a satellite, as shown by the demo video at the start of the movie. It's still insta-death from orbit for anyone it hits though.
-   The Steven Seagal movie _Under Siege 2: Dark Territory_ features a Diabolical Mastermind who designed one such satellite for the military, faking his death, and seizing control of it to threaten Washington, DC. It shoots _earthquakes_ — which, somehow, can also destroy high-flying bomber jets.
-   The disaster movie _Meteor_ features two satellites armed with over a dozen nuclear weapons. It turns out Sean Connery designed one to be a defense against asteroids, but they thought it would be better used against Russia.
-   In _The Right Stuff_, this is the flavor of Red Scare that Senator (later VP and President) Johnson invokes to scare the cabinet into funding the space program.
    
    _"And now the Communists have established a foothold in outer space. Pretty soon they'll have damned space platforms so they can drop nuclear bombs on us, like rocks from a highway overpass."_
    
-   The protagonists in _Space Cowboys_ go into space to fix what they're told is a communications satellite, only to find out it's an old Soviet Kill Sat armed with nuclear missiles and in danger of activating.
-   _Star Trek (2009)_: The _Narada's_ drill. It seems to blast some kind of epic fire rather than an actual laser, but it can punch straight to the _core of a planet_. This turns out to be problematic for Vulcan, as it allows the Romulans to drop a ball of black-hole-creating matter to the core and make it implode. Something like that in the hands of angry and "particularly troubled" Romulans? Oh sure, they get kinda woobie with the backstory, but that still ain't a happy situation.
-   In _Transformers: Revenge of The Fallen_, Soundwave's alt mode is that of a satellite. Instead of normal projectiles, however, he fires other Decepticons, notably his minion Ravage. And if his toy bio has any credence, he's hacked so many satellites that he could destroy human civilization if he got bored.
-   The stolen MacGuffin in _Escape from L.A._ is a control for a network of Kill Sats that can be focused to shut off all electric devides in specific regions, effectively returning them to the Dark Ages.
-   Although it didn't make it into the final product, an early draft script of the _Watchmen_ movie featured one of these. (None existed in the original comic.)
-   _Maximum Overdrive_. At the end, the epilogue states that the alien mothership was destroyed by a Russian "weather satellite" equipped with a laser cannon and "Class IV Nuclear Missiles".
-   _G.I. Joe: Retaliation_: Cobra's Zeus satellites which they use to break London like an egg. Want to know something scary? That appears to be a very accurate depiction of how such a system would function in reality. The only mistake they make is when they say that the satellite "drops" its rods instead of launching them. If it merely dropped the rods, then they'd continue orbiting with the satellite instead of falling to the surface. The rods have to launched on a tangential velocity in order to reduce their orbit and get them to fall where intended.
-   A _very_ unconventional example in _Geostorm_. The Dutch Boy satellites are orbiting weather control machines that are meant to _save people_ by changing the weather in a specific area. The plot revolves around them doing the opposite (which is made blatantly clear by the trailers). The Moscow satellite plays it particularly straight by attacking the city with a massive heat ray very akin to the (in)famous one in _Die Another Day_.
-   _AmeriGeddon_: The terrorists affiliated with the United Nations possessed a satellite that can fire an EMP before self-destructing. It was used to cause a massive blackout as a pretext for martial law in the United States.
-   _Looney Tunes: Back in Action_ has the ACME satellite, which harnesses the power of the Blue Monkey diamond to turn the earth's population into monkeys.
    
    **Daffy:** Uh, did you order satellite?
    
    **Bugs:** Eh, I don't even have cable.
    
-   In _Once Upon a Spy_, Big Bad Marcus Valorium steals the X-2 supercomputer from NASA because this allows him to calculate the exact position of any satellite in orbit. This in turn allows him to use any satellite as a kill sat by bouncing his Shrink Ray off it.
-   In _Spider-Man: Far From Home_, Tony leaves Peter in charge of a Stark satellite that holds an army of Attack Drones that can be deployed anywhere on Earth.
-   _Epoch Evolution_ starts with a Chinese General Ripper launching an unauthorized nuclear strike at a Western space station armed with three laser weapons for shooting down ICBMs. The attack was preceded by a Chinese satellite disabling one of the weapons with a powerful jamming signal. Two of the missiles are shot down early enough, but the remaining one can only be hit by the disabled laser. The crew of the station manages to get control of it in time to destroy the missile, but the nuclear blast still destroys the station. In retaliation, a US sub torpedoes a Chinese one. Things start to snowball toward a nuclear war. Fortunately, they don't reach that point, and a Chinese party official has the rogue general arrested.
-   _Man of Steel_ (and the opening of _Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice_) has the Kryptonian World Engine, which is used for terraforming planets using a destructive pillar of light with gravitational effects; while not explicitly a tool for mass murder, it has that effect by default if deployed over a populated area, and indeed the Kryptonians park it directly over Metropolis.
-   _Def-Con 4_: A case where it's a space station instead of an autonomous satellite, nevertheless, the film's main protagonists were stationed in one and ordered to launch the nuclear missiles if war broke out — which it did. One warhead that was not launched because of an apparent malfunction, but which remained armed and began counting down after the station crashed, is the film's biggest Diabolus ex Machina.

    Literature 

-   _The Cardinal of the Kremlin_ by Tom Clancy had as a major plot point the simultaneous development of anti-satellite weapons by the US and the USSR. As the lasers were ground-located, they weren't technically Kill Sats, but the US system included the ability to bounce the laser beam off of multiple orbiting mirrors, thus hitting any target on the planet. It worked, too, except that the laser was too weak to do much more than give the target a mild sunburn.
    -   In the non-Ryanverse novel _Red Storm Rising_, the both the US and USSR employ anti-satellite weapons. Played straight by the Soviets with kamikaze anti-satellite satellites, but inverted by the US with the air-to-orbit ASM-135 missile. See the entries under Real Life, below.
-   The Dean Koontz novel _Dark Rivers of the Heart_ has a rare heroic use of one. One of the protagonists uses a back door to commandeer a Japanese laser satellite, using it to help make a getaway. The satellite is named Godzilla.
-   The fusion-powered microwave satellites in _Duumvirate_ can burn and melt a building.
-   _Flight of the Old Dog_, which involved the Russians with a nuclear powered laser in Siberia. Later, they deploy a mirror sat, and the Americans deploy their own Kill Sat with X-Ray warheads in response.
-   In Dan Simmons' _Hyperion Cantos_, Fedmahn Kassad uses these to resolve a planet-wide hostage situation—by simultaneously attacking all of the terrorist ringleaders at once. The leader of the terrorists is even killed on live television mid-Sedgwick Speech, for bonus points.
-   In _Milan last stop_ by Simone Farè, in a soft dystopic world, the city of Milan, Italy, has a secret Pure Energy and Deflector Shields and use it, among things, to create and launch such a satellite called "Giudecca", controlled by the same physicist who controls the city and created these technologies.
-   A Kill Sat named ODIN ( **O**rbital **D**efense **IN**itiative) appears in Philip Reeve's _Mortal Engines_ Quartet, especially in _Infernal Devices_ and _A Darkling Plain_. A semi-sentient one no less. You might even feel sorry for it after its mini-BSOD.
-   Peter F. Hamilton
    -   In _Mindstar Rising_, Julia Evans creates an improvised version by hacking her own space probe so it remains in Earth orbit. She intended to place a phone call to the Big Bad to establish the location of his yacht, then Colony Drop the probe on it. It ends up getting used in a similar manner in the climax of the novel.
    -   By the third book of the Greg Mandel trilogy, the area of concern is a surprise attack by a Space Plane armed with kinetic energy harpoons, so networks of high-orbit defense platforms have been organised on a regional basis rather than political alliances. Strictly defensive, but as there's a fear of them also having hidden kinetic energy harpoons, spy satellites are put up to keep an eye on them. The protagonists are investigating a possible First Contact by an alien lifeform, and there's a lot of concern that the alien might be hostile. A Russian general who is a friend of Greg's tells him he has the means to access these defense satellites to take direct action if needed.
    -   _The Night's Dawn Trilogy_ has planets surrounded by swarms of these, known as "Strategic Defense satellites". They usually are pointed outward to defend against attacks from space, but can be used against surface targets with devastating effects.
-   _Powersat_ by Ben Bova: a microwave power satellite is turned into a Kill Sat by a bunch of terrorists.
-   In _Quicksilver_ by Judith and Garfield Reeves-Stevens, the titular satellite was intended to be a relatively harmless (to biological material) EMP blast, but instead caused some sort of chain reaction which charged the air around the target to such a degree that hugely powerful bolts of lightning would strike the target instead.
-   Almost completely inverted with VALIS in _Radio Free Albemuth_. In addition to healing serious injuries and curing cancer, it provides telepathic assistance to keep you from _getting_ killed (including taking control of the protagonist when he is framed as a Communist spy), advice (prophetic dreams, future knowledge, and at one point an audience with God), and immortality beyond death. The only thing it _doesn't_ do is perform resurrections... at least not within the context of the story.
-   One of the ultimate examples of this trope: Larry Niven's _Ringworld_ is defended by a magnetically controlled X-Ray laser made by the forced-fluorescing of sunspots. The beam of this weapon is the width of Earth's moon. Sort of makes the Death Star seem wimpy in comparison.
-   In the _Riverworld_ series by Philip Jose Farmer, human history (as represented by the population of the Riverworld) ends when a fumbled first contact triggers a counterattack by an orbiting alien satellite that methodically lases every square mile of Earth into ash.
-   David Weber's _Safehold_ series: The planet Safehold's prohibition on advanced technology is enforced by orbital platforms that, if they detect power sources, will unleash a kinetic bombardment capable of devastating a small continent. Merlin is running extensive tests to determine what counts as a "power source". So far, no solution has been found to the main problem, but we're up to steam engines with no response.
-   _Silver Tower_ by Dale Brown. The title space station has a high energy laser weapon called Skybolt that's used to wipe out a swarm of Soviet cruise missiles and save an American naval fleet from destruction. It reappears in later books, but the Skybolt is eventually removed. _Executive Intent_ has the Mjölnir/Thor's Hammer kinetic kill vehicles, transparently based on the Real Life "Rods from God".
-   _Star Wars Legends_:
    -   In _Wedge's Gamble_, Rogue Squadron remote-control-hijacks a solar mirror orbiting Imperial Center. The mirrors are used to redirect sunlight, but this one was focused on one of the water reclamation plants in order to raise the local humidity to create a massive thunderstorm and knock out the power at a shield generator. Nothing exploded, but there was quite a bit of steam and melting going on.
    -   Base Delta Zero.
    -   In _Rebel Dream_, the New Republic pulls this off for the first time with Operation Emperor's Hammer, using the _Lusankya_ to bombard the Yuuzhan Vong warriors assaulting the Borleias base.
        
        **Wedge:** We're going to face them with an enemy they've never had the displeasure of fighting. We're going to hit them with the Empire.  
        **Tycho:** They're not going to like the Empire.
        
    -   _Shatterpoint_ features a De-Orbiting Kinetic Anti-emplacement Weapon, or DOKAW, that essentially drops a chunk of metal from orbit at 30,000 kilometers per hour.
-   _Takeshi Kovacs_' homeworld of Harlan's World has several Martian satellites in orbit that vaporize any technology more advanced than a gas-powered helicopter that rises above a certain altitude. Though there is at least one gap in the coverage through which the original Colony Ship landed. The "angelfire" also makes for good Harlan's Day fireworks, and easy disposal of bodies.
-   In the Bizarro Universe _Transformers: Shattered Glass_, the United States has a massive Kill Sat called the Global Orbiting Defense Satellite, which gets hijacked by the Autobots and used to hold the world hostage to their demands.
-   In Vernor Vinge's story "True Names", the Eye of God laser satellites are the first military installations taken over during the climactic in-computer battle between the Big Bad and Mr. Slippery/Erythina. Suddenly, things get real, and the danger of dying the True Death raises its head.
-   _The Last Command_ is a short story by Arthur Clarke in which the USSR built one of these, armed with nuclear missiles, as the "ultimate deterrent".
-   In _Book of the Ancestor_ the planet Abeth's moon is a giant focusing mirror that melts away a bit of the ice covering the planet each night. The moon's light can also be focused on a single point, instantly vaporizing everything there through the immense heat. In the climax of the third book, Zole and Nona kill the Scithrowl's warrior-queen this way, ending the ongoing war.
-   In _Wraith Knight_'s third book, _Wraith King_, there is a literal example of the trope as an orbital satellite leftover from the days of Old Terralan is used to blast the armies of both Empress Morwen and Jacob, killing the majority of both. Jacob ends up destroying it by sacrificing his newly acquired human body.
-   _Kitty Cat Kill Sat_: Lily's station, unsurprisingly. Funnily enough, its weapons are supposed to be pointed _out_, towards space, but at some point it was flipped upside down because she needed most of the guns pointed down at the surface. She uses the to bomb portals spitting out monsters, ancient machine foundries who don't know their wars are over, or just blast a few demagogues leading armies of conquest.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Angel_: In "Soul Purpose", the heroes are surprised and disturbed to find they have such a thing at their command (in the form of microwave laser satellites) after taking over Wolfram and Hart. Angel considers using them to wipe out all the bad guys rather than continue to live as a corporate drone.
-   _Babylon 5_:
    -   In "Endgame", when Sheridan's forces arrive at Earth and easily overwhelm most of the remnants of EarthForce fleet, President Clark kills himself, after programming the planet's orbital defense system to take all of Earth with him. This means Sheridan's fleet must destroy the satellites before they fire.
    -   The rebuilt orbital defense system shows up again in "A Call to Arms", and this time manages to fire their Wave Motion Guns at the target, the Drakh fleet. The Drakh are _obliterated_... but, sadly, not in time to stop them from infecting Earth with their plague.
    -   The Expanded Universe has many other models from multiple factions. Honorable mention for capability and originality go to the Abbai Alanti, the Orieni Skywatch and the Drazi Shodroma: where most models are just a large gun or missile launcher (or both) with thrusters for positioning and aiming, the Alanti, like most things put in space by the Abbai, has actual Deflector Shields, the Skywatch complements the laser cannons and missiles with _kamikaze drones to ram enemy targets_ (a standard Orieni weapon), and the Shodroma packs the same Drazi-designed Wave-Motion Gun of the Earth model (the blueprints of the weapon were given to Earth during the Earth-Minbari War as an apology for their inability to intervene and fight the Minbari).
-   The Season 2 finale of _Blindspot_ reveals that using one of these is key to Sandstorm's ultimate plan, based on the more realistic principle of a satellite (which Sandstorm put into orbit) launching a projectile from high orbit to impact the surface. This one has the added component of being targeted for the GPS coordinates of some nuclear material that Sandstorm stole; the impact will cause it to disperse over most of the East Coast.
-   Parodied by _The Colbert Report_ when Colbert responds to North Korea's bizarre video about a man dreaming about nuking the United States by falling asleep and dreaming about flying into space to blow up North Korea with a satellite-mounted laser. (The effect is mitigated by the obvious use of movie clips and the presence a man dancing around in a hot dog suit.)
-   In _The Expanse_, the UN has at least 5 large railgun-armed satellites orbiting Earth. They can target and take out any target within the inner Solar System. The MCR has stealth orbital nuclear platforms aimed at Earth as a MAD-type deterrent. The UN uses the former to take out the latter, but one of the platforms manages to get off a missile before being destroyed. The MIRV gets a warhead through Earth's anti-missile defenses and nukes South America, killing 2 million people.
-   An early _First Wave_ episode has the protagonist investigate the death of a college student who is revealed to have been working on a government project to deploy a series of nuclear missile-armed satellites in Earth's orbit. While he initially assumes they're there to attack other nations, the fact that they're pointing _away_ from Earth tips him off that the government is aware of (some sort of) an alien threat and are taking precautions. Unfortunately, the aliens find out about this and send their agent to set the satellites to self-destruct, showing Earth with radioactive material. Since Cade foils this plot, the satellites are assumed to still be up there. None if this is ever mentioned again.
-   _Kamen Rider Fourze_: The M-BUS is capable of acting as one, though it mostly serves as a Transform Sat instead.
-   Project Crossbow in _Nikita_, a defunct Strategic Defense Initiative satellite that couldn't hit a moving target, but does really well against large, planet-based targets...like nuclear power plants. Except it doesn't. In a subversion, it turns out that the whole thing is a hoax cooked up by a villain with mooks willing to conduct suicide bombings of the targeted reactors.
-   In The '90s remake of _The Professionals_, a scientist developed a successful laser satellite for the Star Wars program, but then the Soviet Union collapsed and the system was made redundant. He's able to regain control of the system and plans to sell it to an Arms Dealer.
-   The 1978 _Quatermass_ series (a.k.a. _Quatermass IV_ or _The Quatermass Conclusion_) featured an alien device that lured people into small areas and then engulfed them in a column of light. True Believers assumed that the light was transporting them to a better planet. No such luck. It was actually a kind of nasty and insidious form of Kill Sat, only just to make things worse there wasn't an actual satellite that could be shot down. There was something that the Russians launched nuclear missiles at, but it didn't work.
    -   In the novelisation (by the scriptwriter) Quatermass theorises that it's a kind of energy field surrounding the Earth like a huge soap bubble. When it needs to fire it just concentrates its energy on one spot.
-   _Stargate_:
    -   _Stargate SG-1_:
        -   In the season 4 episode "Absolute Power", the Harsesis (a human child born with the racial memories of the Goa'uld) gives Daniel a sample of that knowledge after warning him that "Evil is too strong". Daniel uses that knowledge to lead the construction of a network of kill sats intended to defend the Earth from The Goa'uld, but then takes sole control over it and destroys Moscow to prove his power and discourage retaliation. The entire thing was a dream given to him instead in order to teach him that Absolute Power Corrupts Absolutely.
        -   In "Ethon", the Ori supply one of these to the Rand Protectorate, one of two feuding governments on the world of Tegalus. It ends up destroying Earth's first starship, the _Prometheus_.
    -   The Asurans use a Kill Sat against Atlantis in the _Stargate Atlantis_ episode "First Strike". The Kill Sat itself is a big ship with a stargate embedded in it. The beam is fired on the Asuran homeworld through a stargate, and out the other onto Atlantis. The Expedition also uses one (though it's actually a space station, not a satellite) in order to destroy a Wraith hive ship while a fleet of Wraith is on its way to Atlantis in in the finale of the first season.
-   _Star Trek_:
    -   _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_: In the season 6 finale "Tears of the Prophets", the combined Federation, Klingon, and Romulan fleets attempt to invade a Cardassian world protected by kill-sats. These satellites appear again when the allied fleet manage to reach Cardassia near the series finale.
    -   _Star Trek: Enterprise_: The Xindi weapon in season 3, which blasts a corridor of death from Florida to Venezuela in literal scorched earth campaign. And that was just the _prototype_. The finished version was designed to create an Earth-Shattering Kaboom.
-   _The Twilight Zone (1985)_: In "Quarantine", Matthew Foreman designed a series of particle beam satellites for the American government before he entered suspended animation in 2023. Sarah and the other members of the Commune ask him to use one of the surviving satellites to destroy a meteor that is rapidly approaching Earth. However, it turns out that they are deceiving him using their psychic powers. They actually want him to destroy an American spacecraft containing 1,000 politicians and military figures for whom only five or ten years have passed since the nuclear war of 2043 because of Time Dilation.
-   In _The X-Files_, the episode "Kill Switch" (written by William Gibson) centered around a network of Kill Sats, complete with a computer control system that developed its own ideas about how to use it.

    Myths & Religion 

-   God in _The Bible_ does this a lot.
    -   Although He deals out punishment from Heaven several times throughout the Bible, special points go to the story of Elijah. The prophet is sitting on a hill when a captain leading fifty soldiers approaches and calls out, "Man of God, by order of the king, come down!" Elijah responds, "If I am a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and consume you with your fifty men!" A second captain leading fifty men suffers the same fate, and the third one appears begging for his life. An angel tells Elijah that this one is safe to go with.
-   Aquinas in the Summa Theologia discusses a speculative theory for the cleansing of the Last Judgement in which the light of the heavenly bodies is focused into massive burning laser beams by huge concave cloud mirrors. He considers it improbable, mostly because it could make the hour of judgement too predictable.
-   The same goes for any solar deity. Helios, for instance, is begged to by Gaia to throw a burning "red" ray to melt off Zeus' snow and ice off Typhon in Nonnus, Dionysiaca 2. 543 ff. Ra's Eye, usually a goddess like Sekhmet or Isis, acts as this every night to kill of his enemy Apep... and punish whoever is unlawful.

    Radio 

-   _Earthsearch_. After the Sun threatens to go nova, Earth is surrounded by orbiting artificial suns and moved to another solar system. The artificial suns are run by freewill computers, one of which goes power-mad and threatens to fry a city unless it's given control of the other artificial suns. Instead they cut the tractor beams holding it in orbit.

    Tabletop Games 

-   In _Conspiracy X_, the secret organization "Project Rasputin" has a _psychic_ Kill Sat. It's a gigantic amplifier for a crew of psychic characters, letting them use their powers on anything from one building to several square kilometers. In that area it can do things like read minds, alter memories, or yes, kill people.
    -   More directly, NASA also had "Gun Stars" that would fire hockey-puck sized chunks of metal really fast at ground targets.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh!_ has Satellite Cannon. While it has 0 attack points it gains 1000 attack points every turn and continues to charge itself up indefinitely. And it cannot be destroyed by monsters who are Level 7 or lower, as according to the anime the Satellite is in outer-space and only strong monsters can reach the satellite.
-   In the _Old World of Darkness_, the Technocracy had secret orbital satellites for spying, defense against alien incursions, you name it (as well as various research stations on Luna and some moons of Jupiter and at Lagrange points throughout the solar system, a defense parameter around Earth and Moon, a Dyson Sphere in Deep Space...). As revealed in the supplement _Time of Thin Blood_, when an ancient vampire arose from slumber in India during the End Times and laid waste to Bangladesh the Technocracy executed "Code Ragnarök"; they finally managed to destroy the vampire by first stunning him with fusion bombs and then incinerating him with the help of a network of mirror satellites and a concentrated ray of sunlight from heaven.
-   In _Leviathan: The Tempest_, the Marduk Society has access to orbital Lightning Gun satellites. They are very much a Godzilla Threshold weapon though, as they will probably kill everything within a quarter-mile of the target and are exactly as unsubtle as you would expect from a giant orbital lightning bolt. The rulebook mentions that player Leviathans should not have to worry about these unless they very seriously screw up.
-   In _Warhammer 40,000_, Exterminatus is the command used by the Inquisition when demons or heresy spread too far across the planet to be contained by covert or even overt military action. All possible (or at least important) Imperial forces pull out, and the orbiting fleet blows the planet in any of a wide variety of ways, ranging from glassing the surface with hundreds of multi-gigaton warheads and ship-based beam weapons, to bombs filled with viruses that turn all organic matter into sludge, and "cyclonic torpedoes" that _light the atmosphere on fire_ in a rather _Homeworld_\-esque way. All of these methods aim for one thing: rendering life on the planet impossible.
    -   Even when you don't need to destroy the entire planet, the various factions aren't above shelling the battlefield from orbit.
    -   There is a giant defense system in Terra's solar system meant to defend it against enemy fleets thousands strong. It includes Kill Sats, moons that were hollowed out and made into bases, and a whole space fleet to name a few items.
    -   This being _Warhammer 40k_, sometimes setting the atmosphere on fire, rendering organic matter into its constituent molecules or just plain old turning everything into molten slag just is not enough.. for this, there are two stage torpedoes which will actually blow a planet up.
    -   Lampshaded in the Ciaphis Cain novels, with Cain admitting that occasionally a planet is too far gone even for bombardment, as it won't work and merely "gives them ideas".
-   In _Shadowrun_, "Thor shots" are Kill Sats that fire space junk at the target. It has similar power to a nuclear device and is treated as such. Orbital lasers also exist, and one was used on the dragon Alamais. He survived. Neo-Tokyo also has a power generating satellite in geosynchronous orbit, which as is quickly pointed out, also an enormous orbital microwave laser cannon. It's jokingly suggested in-universe that it's there in case Gojira attacks the city.
-   The Fist of Shiva from the _Feng Shui_ supplement "Seed of the New Flesh" is a Buro weather control satellite that doubles as a Kill Sat. In the adventure that features it, the players have to forge an alliance between all the other factions in order to commandeer a space shuttle, take over the Fist of Shiva, and use it to destroy the Buro-controlled 2056-era Vatican in order to wipe out not only a powerful Buro feng shui site, but also to stop the Buro from using their new Transworld Maglev Network to make the site the most powerful in the world and warping the world's chi to an unimaginable degree.
-   _Dungeons & Dragons_ has a spell called "Apocalypse from the Sky". No points for guessing what it does, considering it's not summoning kitties.
    -   Also, in 4e Warlocks with a Starpact learn an spell that calls down an ice beam from the stars. Sustaining it drains the Warlock's life but continually ramps up the power. With Actions and a paladin sustaining him a Warlock could do several dozen D10's of damage over the course of the spell.
-   In the d20 Modern Urban Arcana setting, the Swiss Juncture of Gnome (a bunch of gnomes dropped in Switzerland using their "out of the box" though process to form their technical consulting company) made plans for a kill sat, that was never built because of cost concerns.
-   In the post-apocalyptic world of _Eclipse Phase_, the Earth has been ravaged by nuclear weaponry, bio- and nanovirii, and rampaging TITAN technology. The planet is under interdiction by a number of Kill Sats - they shoot down anything attempting to reach or leave the surface. Who put them there? Nobody's quite sure...
-   In _Heavy Gear_, there's even a new term to describe kill sats - ortillery, a portmanteau of orbital artillery.
-   In _Genius: The Transgression_, "Orbital Gun" is a modification one can make to Katastrofi Wonders. It allows the Wonder in question to deal out hellish amounts of damage, but makes it difficult to successfully hit any target smaller than an Navy destroyer. For added fun, you can also pour in some extra training and a crapton of Mania, and get the mother of all Healing Shivs in orbital laser form.
-   For reasons that aren't entirely clear a lot of White cards do this in Magic: The Gathering. Smite the Monstrous is a apparently a mystical laser that is fired by the moon of Innistrad.
-   In _Nuclear War_, the Killer Satellite card is used to deter/destroy Space Platforms.
    -   It can also shoot down the Space Shuttle, IIRC.
-   In _Rifts_ many people believe that Earth is surrounded by Kill Sats put into orbit by the nations before the Great Cataclysm, which is why nothing can be launched into space without being destroyed. They're partially right. In reality, survivors from Earth's space stations and Moon colony maintain and deploy new Kill Sats deliberately to keep the Earth under quarantine.
-   _BattleTech_ has Space Defense Systems used to protect capital worlds from invaders. They are armed with multiple cannons, design to take down warships, and blast incoming Drop Ships attempting to make land fall. They're also insanely rare Lostech to the point that by the late 31st Century it's possible they've become completely extinct.
-   _Sentinels of the Multiverse_: While he joins the heroes in fighting OblivAeon, Luminary is still very much the Mad Scientist Baron Blade was. Case in point, his deck's special keyword is "Doomsday Device," and among them is an orbital death ray.
-   _Neuroshima_ has two potential examples:
    -   The ARGUS system is a constellation of missile defence satellites equipped with powerful lasers.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Some say it can be reprogrammed to hit ground-based targets. Although, if that were the case, the Moloch would probably have used it for that purpose long ago.
    -   There are rumors that the Orbital, a pre-war space station, has some kind of weapon system installed. Naturally some people are worried that the astronauts who are stuck up there will start to shoot random targets once they finally Go Mad from the Isolation.

    Video Games 

-   _7th Dragon III: code VFD_ has one that the Agent class can gain access to by completing a sidequest. Firing it causes massive damage to all enemies and has a high chance of inflicting Hacked status.
-   _Ace Combat_:
    -   _Ace Combat 3: Electrosphere_ has the OSL (Orbital Satellite Laser) unlockable weapon, which only requires a radar lock and the push of a button to annihilate any target in one hit, is available for all aircraft, and has plenty of "ammo" too.
    -   _Ace Combat 5: The Unsung War_ has the SOLG (Strategic Orbital Linear Gun), a satellite-based railgun capable of firing MIRV-type nuclear warheads and wiping out half the major cities in the game's two main countries, and it's programmed to crash down into Earth if control from the surface is cut off. There's also the Arkbird, which is actually a huge spaceship rather than a satellite, but can still kick some ass down there when equipped with a laser system.
    -   The Belkan laser-based superweapon Excalibur in _Ace Combat Zero: The Belkan War_ is kind of a downplayed example of one. While the weapon is ground based, it uses a network of satellites with mirror-like structures in orbit to redirect the beam, thus allowing Excalibur to increase its effective range and change its angle of attack as if were an orbital platform.
-   The _Aero Fighters_ game _Sonic Wings_ features a barrage of orbital lasers presumably from satellites as the special weapon of one of the playable characters. Video games seem to like to give these to good guys and bad in equal measure.
-   _Another Century's Episode 2_ has the Guardian System controlled by the mysterious red Buster Ark which shows up to periodically harass the heroes. They occasionally wonder why the pilot doesn't just vaporize their battleship, but eventually you learn that the pilot is Tak's partner/love interest Marina, who faked her death at the start of the game. The Guardian System was designed to prevent an alien invasion (here, the Zentraedi from _Super Dimension Fortress Macross_), but it runs off the pilot's lifeforce and the energy required to defeat the Zentraedi fleet would be fatal. Tak eventually unlocks the Guardian control program in his own mecha and convinces Marina that they should fight the invasion together so nobody has to die, which prompts her Heel–Face Turn back to the good guys and their eventual happy ending. As an added bonus linked to the storyline aspect of the Guardian, it actually does cause damage to the Gunark and Buster Ark when used, making these two the only mecha in the game capable of destroying themselves.
-   _Armored Core_:
    -   The Justice cannon is a space-based laser cannon which fired once, charring the surface of Earth and forcing humanity underground and to Mars in order to survive. Later, someone attempts to fire it again, and the player must take the fight down the barrel of the cannon to stop it from annihilating the planet. This fight, by the way, is between robots that are at least fifty, and probably closer to one hundred feet tall, and they fight down the barrel of a space gun that takes a full three seconds of flight to reach the top of. That is a _big fucking gun._
    -   In _Armored Core: Silent Line_, a Kill Sat takes out anything that crosses the titular boundary. In _Armored Core: For Answer_, its revealed that there are _so goddamn many_ of these cannons in Earth Orbit that it become _impossible to reach space_.
-   _Ar tonelico II: Melody of Metafalica_ features Replekia, which is powered by a Combined Energy Attack and amplifies your magic. It's rather effective. Several spells in the series also do this.
-   One of the oldest (if not _the_ oldest) examples of this trope in video games is the _Missile Command_\-inspired _Ashes to Ashes_ from the early Macintosh days, which has a satellite-based ion cannon as one of the three weapons in the player's defensive arsenal. It strikes the target area instantly and has unlimited uses, but has a 2-second cool-down delay and a smaller blast radius than ground-based missiles. Still, skilled players can survive for quite a while after exhausting their other weapons.
-   _Battlefield 2142_ has Orbital and EMP strikes.
-   The EA version of _Battleship_ for iOS has a one-shot satellite-based superweapon that can devastate a fairly large area of the game grid. Naturally, it ends up being Too Awesome to Use.
-   In _Bayonetta_, Balder owns one of these and will try to use it during their Boss Battle. It has a two-shot limit, after the second time, if you don't kill the boss before the third, they'll just yank it out of the orbit.
-   _Black & White_:
    -   The most destructive spell is called Mega-blast, in its basic form consisting of one powerful beam capable of turning a building into scraps and in its most powerful form consisting of many powerful beams capable of turning a _village_ into scraps.
    -   In the sequel, activating a Wonder initially manifests as a beam from the sky, quickly followed by anything from a localized hurricane to a _volcanic eruption_ at ground zero.
-   _BlazBlue_ has the magical satellite _Nox Nyctores Gigant: Take Mikazuchi_, complete with digital monster in a coffin that shoots the beam. It has a four-year "cooldown" period, and the firing sequence is breathtaking to behold.
    -   Ruins of Japan: The shot from Take-Mikazuchi was the finishing blow to the Black Beast.
    -   Ibukido: The entire city was annihilated. In one timeline, only Number 12 (a.k.a. Noel) survived.
    -   Kagutsuchi: "Activating Tsukuyomi Unit."
    -   _Chronophantasma_: The true Big Bad pulls it down to earth and repowers it to serve as the True Final Boss.
-   The fifth game in the _Bloons Tower Defense_ series has the Bloonsday Device, which can send down a laser that can pop bloons.
-   In _Borderlands 2_, Hyperion's Helios Space Station is outfitted with a moonshot cannon: originally designed to fire supplies to the moon of Elpis, Handsome Jack modified it to function as an orbiting artillery cannon. In _Borderlands: The Pre-Sequel!_, it had a laser cannon called the "Eye of Helios", which weaponized an eyeball recovered from the Destroyer, the Final Boss of the original _Borderlands_.
-   In _BoxxyQuest: The Gathering Storm_, Low Orbit Ion Cannons are mentioned a few times in passing. A certain item lets you call down a strike from one on enemies during battle.
-   _Breath of Fire IV_ has the ultimate dragon forms of the protagonist and antagonist, Ryu and Fou-Lu — Kaiser and Tyrant, respectively. The method of attack is eerily similar to the _Final Fantasy VII_ Bahamut Zero example below; they both transform, fly high into space, and then Tyrant blasts the entire battlefield with a massive dark ball of power, while Kaiser beam spams the area.
-   _Call of Duty: Ghosts_ takes place after the United States has been devastated by strikes from its own Kinetic Impactors ("Rods from God") after the space stations containing the weapons were hijacked by astronauts from a hostile nation.
-   _Champions Online_ actually has the "Orbital Cannon" power available for Player Characters (and some NPCs) to use. Normally a single, vehicle-sized blast, one optional advantage allows it to fire continuously — and select new targets on its own (always an enemy) as it does so.
-   _City of Heroes_ features a few examples at higher levels - the powerful War Walkers have access to an Orbital Cannon, while Mad Scientist Anti-Matter can launch an Obliteration Beam from his space station which not only deals massive damage but also holds players helplessly in the beam.
-   _Civilization: Call to Power_ includes the ability to build space-based weapons and cities. One of these weapons is, for all intents and purposes, a high-powered Kill Sat that can hit anything on the ground with near impunity. It's a shame that the game was never completely debugged...
-   _Cloud Cutter_ gives you the Ion Strike designator, a power-up that homes in on designated targets you must plant manually, on certain targets like an enemy submarine or a power plant. The following cutscene will have a laser bolt larger than yourself coming down from the stratosphere and wiping out everything in its way.
-   Looking for a Death from Above superweapon? Play as the good guys and beat the baddies with style _and_ morals in _Command & Conquer_, with three different flavors!
    -   The GDI Ion Cannon in the _Tiberium_ games is a by-the-book kind — used _and_ abused against the Brotherhood of Nod. It has a humble start killing small targets but eventually moves to leveling entire military bases. As of _Tiberian Twilight_, it even has adjustable power settings, and there are even some foot-soldiers that can call down a strike (first seen in _Renegade_ with the Ion Cannon Beacon). Compare this to Nod's excessive use of tactical nukes.
        -   In the _Command & Conquer 3: Kane's Wrath_ expansion, GDI have an additional orbital attack protocol: Thor's Hammer orbital attack satellites that fire Mjölnir rods at the surface, decimating Kane's little armor divisions with impunity.
        -   The Scrin, having a bunch of support starships beyond Neptune's orbit, _as well as_ wormhole capabilities, can deploy a Tiberium-laced _asteroid_ against ground targets, as well as call down a Tiberium-seeding beam from orbit. None of these are superweapon-grade, however.
    -   The American Particle Cannon orbital reflectors in _Generals_ are a less verbatim kind. Technically, they're not even real Kill Sats — they're actually part of a bigger beam cannon system, and their job is to reflect beams fired from a Particle Cannon on the ground to another spot on the ground. And what do the other two sides get? Tactical nukes and anthrax SCUD barrages, respectively.
    -   The Allied Athena Cannon in _Red Alert 3_, in the form of a truck-mounted Laser Sight and comms boom paired with a Kill Sat up in orbit — also less verbatim. Oddly, though, each truck purchased gives you control of a different satellite, leading some players to wonder why, if they have all these satellites up there, they can't just use them _all at once_. However, given that the Allies are clearly obsessed with data security ("clearance" must be purchased in order to deploy more advanced weapons), it does make a kind of sense for them not to give you too many at once.
    -   The Soviet Union also uses a _sort_ of Kill Sat in the form of the Magnetic Satellite, which is capable of sucking any vehicle up into space. This, coupled with their Krasna-45 Orbital Drop protocol enables them to not only _de-orbit space stations_ at you, but also send back the _same vehicles_ they've previously captured. The only thing that could ruin your day more than having your aircraft carrier sucked up into space is having that same aircraft carrier thrown back down at your base.
-   _Confidential Mission_ revolves around recovering control of a laser satellite from the Big Bad, which you do. Then you fire it at his escape submarine.
-   The last few missions of the first _Crusader_ game involve striking at an orbital defense platform which controls a network of nuclear-armed satellites before it becomes fully operational.
-   The 8-bit game _Dark Side_ takes place on a moon where terrorists have built a superweapon. It continuously collects energy from the Sun; guess what will happen if you fail to disable it.
-   _Dawn of War_:
    -   The Space Marine Force Commander's special ability allows him to call in supporting fire from his Battle Barge in orbit. In _Dark Crusade_ onward, the Tau Ethereal can also call down an Orbital Bombardment.
    -   _Dawn of War: Soulstorm_ has the Tau turn a natural satellite into a Kill Sat. As in, they built a cannon capable of firing across the system's interplanetary distances on a moon. (Flee not, spoilerphobes! This is told to you in the very first campaign cinematic!)
    -   In _Dawn of War 2_, the Orbital Bombardment ability for Space Marine players is essentially three lasers hitting the area of your target. Devastating to anything that gets hit.
-   _Digimon World 3_ has Gunslinger, the location (and last boss, sort of) of the final boss battle for the main part of the game. It's infested with powerful Digimon and at the end Snatchmon merges itself with its master and then with the station itself. Then it plans to merge with Earth to make the most powerful Digimon EVER to have existed.
-   _Dino Crisis 2_ has one of the protagonists activating a satellite to vaporize a gigantic dinosaur.
-   Kira from _Dirty Bomb_ has this as her special ability, which she controls via a Puppet Gun.
-   In _Dungeon Fighter Online_, the Wrecking Ball class' ultimate attack is a satellite beam.
-   In _The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim_, the _Dawnguard_ expansion features Auriel's bow, a weapon forged by a God. Whenever this weapon is used to fire Sun-Hallowed Elven Arrows directly at the Sun, cue the magical equivalent of a powerful Kill Sat being unleashed onto nearby enemies.
-   _End of Nations_ has the Shadow Revolution use these.
-   In _EndWar_, both the American Joint Strike Force and the European Enforcers Corps have access to Kill Sat technology. The latter have your usual laser satellite tech, while the former have kinetic impactors, a.k.a. "Rods from God".
-   _Epic Battle Fantasy 2_ gives _you_ one of these after you reach the first checkpoint. The final boss has the ability to do this, as well. It appears in the third game as well — though instead of a summon for Natalie, it's a Limit Break for Lance, and it's safer to use. Then in the fourth one, one of the bosses hacks it to use it on _you_, though you can use it as well if you find the right chest.
-   As an Affectionate Parody of James Bond villains, it shouldn't be too surprising that your goal in _Evil Genius_ is to launch one of three Kill Sats to blackmail world leaders into total surrender. It works.
-   In _Evil Zone_, _Metal Heroes_ parody Danzaiver's Limit Break has him calling upon a Kill Sat to strike at his enemy from orbit, complete with cutaway to the satellite itself. It's not as painful as it sounds. However, this technique is actually a _grappling maneuver_, which takes the concept to an unforeseen level of ridiculous.
-   In _Evolve_, the support character Hank can target an orbital bombardment fired from a modified mining satellite. His modification replaces the artillery barrage with a laser beam.
-   _Extreme-G_: In _XGRA_, you can use the Death Strike for a One-Hit Kill. It's an orbital laser _operated by the sponsors_.
-   _Fallout_:
    -   The scrapped _Fallout: Van Buren_ project revolved around the B.O.M.B., one of two nuke-throwing death stations, still in orbit after 200 years, and still with its payload intact.
    -   _Fallout 3_ has a Development Gag to the above with "Highwater Trousers" orbital platform. Broken Steel has the Enclave dust off the Bradley-Hercules satellite weapon, which you can use against either their own base or the Brotherhood of Steel Citadel. Then there is Mothership Zeta and its Wave-Motion Gun...
    -   The player finally gets one of their own in _Fallout: New Vegas_, in the form of the Archimedes II solar death ray. Complete with a Lethal Joke Item for a target designator. Prior to that, you can fire the Archimedes I on the NCR's own Helios 1 plant, earning you infamy to them.
    -   Taken up several notches in _Fallout 76_, in which the player can earn access to the Kovac-Muldoon orbital platform. Unlike in previous games, there's no limit to where you can aim the K-C or how many times you can use it, so craft some orbital strike beacons and go wild!
-   In _The Farm_, a Tower Defense game, the farmer can use a satellite-mounted laser to defend his flock of sheep. This may seem excessive, but then he is being attacked by zombies, cultists and the US Army.
-   _Fate/Grand Order_: In "Lostbelt 5.1: Ancient Ocean of the Dreadnought Gods, Atlantis", one of the biggest threats Chaldea faces is one of these, a massive divine satellite in orbit that unleashes massive magical lasers powerful enough to reduce islands to nothing and it's classified as an _Anti-Planet_ Noble Phantasm. It's actually the true form of the Moon Goddess Artemis herself. You see, in the _Nasuverse_, the Twelve Olympians were once massive alien machine life-forms that gained sentience and humanity from mingling with humans after their original bodies were destroyed by another extraterrestrial threat. This Lostbelt shows what happens when said Olympians managed to keep their old bodies.
-   _Final Fantasy_:
    -   _Final Fantasy VII_ has two. One was the "Bahamut ZERO" summon (though it was less a satellite and more a giant dragon blasting the enemy from orbit), and the other was one of Barret's level three limit breaks called "Satellite Beam", which does exactly what the name suggests (even underground).
    -   _Crisis Core_ had Bahamut Fury turn _the Moon_ into a Kill Sat.
    -   _Final Fantasy IX_ has another summons that seems to do much the same thing, Ark, complete with mystical targeting electronics readouts.
    -   _Final Fantasy XII_ has yet another in the form of the Holy summon Ultima, who fires a beam from space via a cannon mounted below herself from space, as a finishing move.
    -   Ultima did it again in _Final Fantasy Tactics Advance_. However, this version only did MP damage. Watching a gigantic lance of energy smash into the enemy from above with an explosion of magical force, only to see nobody at all physically harmed, let alone reduced to a pair of smouldering boots... a case could be made for subversion, there.
        -   The sequel makes Ultima deal Light-based damage on all enemies _and_ heal all allies. There are others with this Modus Operandi, as well.
    -   _Duodecim_ gives access to one of these to Laguna as one of his HP attacks.
    -   _Final Fantasy Dimensions_ has Holy. Small beam targets an enemy, large one obliterates it. Even in the World of Nil.
    -   _Final Fantasy XIV_ has the Machinist's Level 3 Limit Break call one down to raze whatever boss is unfortunate to be in its path.
-   In what is one of the (probably) few _unintentional_ uses of a Kill Sat, the game _Freelancer_ makes mention of a winter world attempting to use a vast array of orbital mirrors to gradually thaw out the world, or at least the settled parts of it. Evidently, someone didn't carry the one, because the in-game article states that it focused the refracted light into a single coherent beam and described the results as being akin to a superlaser bombardment on the colony.
-   _Freespace_: The second game introduces the Mjolnir RBC (Remote Beam Cannon), a stationary emplacement that fires a large green beam weapon, capable of doing major damage to even a Destroyer - class ship. Notable in that we only see them used to guard jump nodes, firing on enemy ships as soon as they emerge. We never see them used against ground targets, although there is nothing that would stop them from being used this way.
-   _Gears of War_: The Hammer of Dawn, controlled by the good guys, and somewhat more limited than usual for this trope as it requires a grunt on the ground to 'paint' the target using a handheld laser gun from close range; getting into a position it can reach while it's overhead plays a part in the stages where it's used. The Hammer only works in certain weather conditions — it's how they explain it only being used occasionally. The government in _Gears_ deliberately Kill Satted most of the planet to stem the Locust invasion, which is the major reason for all the Scenery Gorn.
-   The _Golden Sun_ games have a fair few summons that do this — and, being summons, they can naturally target anywhere you happen to be battling, even inside caves or buildings — but only Eclipse (a dragon) and Isis are in space at the time.
-   In the Doomsday Heist update for _Grand Theft Auto V_, an orbital cannon was made available as a purchasable utility for your high-tech facility, enabling you to use it as surveillance across all corners of the map, or as its function as an instant kill weapon by firing on your target from high above, but you will need $500k to fire a manual shot or, if you so choose to leave the reins to the game, pay $750k to autotarget your choice of players in the lobby and let the cannon do the rest for you. On top of that, there's a long cooldown period before it can be used again, and you can only use it from a command post in the facility.
-   In _Guilty Gear -STRIVE-_, Goldlewis Dickinson has a target designator for one in his glasses, and has it fire on the enemy for one of his specials.
-   _Gunbound_ has two. First, the mobile E. Sate has a Kill Sat as its normal attack, though it doesn't as much fly through space as hover above its head. However, there's the giant Kill Sat named Thor that hovers above the stage, adding damage to attacks on certain turns, and becoming stronger as it deals more damage. The two of them together is a sight to see. Then there's the Aduka, whose secondary weapon is specifically designed to call down the Thor. A 4v4 match where _everyone_ is piloting an Aduka... things aren't so bad in the beginning, but the pain _really_ starts once Thor hits 3 or 4.
-   _Halo_:
    -   Human planets are defended by UNSC Orbital Defense Platforms, Orbital "Super MACs" (Magnetic Accelerator Cannons) that fire 3000-ton slugs at up to 4% the speed of light at incoming enemy warships. Smaller MAC weapons are mounted on every UNSC warship, and both versions can be turned to fire planetside in a tick.
    -   Earth's orbital defense grid is featured in _Halo 2_; the announcement trailer has a debate between a general on the ground wanting those platforms to be used as Kill Sats against the already-landed invasion forces, and the admiral in orbit trying to hold off the Covenant fleet:
        
        _"I'm asking you to re-target the orbitals!"  
        "And let **more** of them sweep the kill zone? That's insanity! There's nothing more I can do!"_
        
    -   The expanded universe reveals that the Covenant have their own orbital defense stations, except theirs fire energy beams.
    -   In _Halo Wars_, the smaller MAC Gun of the Cool Ship _Spirit of Fire_ can be used as a more conventional, if ad hoc, Kill Sat. On the other hand, Covenant ground forces can call upon their own ships in orbit to deliver plasma bombardment or 'glassing' on their enemy.
    -   _Halo: Reach_:
        -   A MAC strike destroys a Covenant ship this way - then the Covenant bring a whole fleet:
            
            _"MAC rounds? In atmosphere!?"_
            
        -   After the _Grafton_ destroys the Spire, it gets kill-satted by the _Long Night of Solace_'s energy projector.
        -   On a smaller scale, there's the Target Locator for calling down orbital bombardment strikes.
-   A miniature variant (Romanov Attack Satellite) appears as a regular enemy in _Heavy Weapon_. It will fire a death ray downwards, which will instantly fry your tank if it hits, regardless of your shielding. To avoid such a fate, you have to shoot at it to push it away from you. It's also the game's signature enemy. Uniquely for a Kill Sat, it doesn't appear to be travelling in space; rather, the satellite apparently travels through the atmosphere at similar heights to other Red Star aircraft, which raises questions on exactly how it works and if it's even a "satellite", given that a _tank_ can shoot it down.
-   The Toppat Clan's orbital space station in the _Henry Stickmin Series_ contains a large energy weapon called the Supreme Dominance, which they charge up in one path in a last-ditch effort to stop Henry from stealing the Norwegian Emerald.
-   In the _Homeworld_ series, Low-Orbit Atmospheric Deprivation Weapons are war crimes to use, possibly even build. Firing one burns up the target planet's atmosphere, infrastructure and population.
-   _Honkai Impact 3rd_: The previous era of humanity built the Selene satellite, which could fire all the way to the moon and result in an utterly massive explosion that failed to inflict anything permanent on the 14th Herrscher.
-   Since the protagonist in _inFAMOUS_ has attacks that mimic Standard FPS Guns, one these attacks is this in the form of lightning.
-   LARS from _Interstate '82_, which is possibly the first video game weapon that's more effective in the hands of the player than the AI.
-   _Ironsight_ features the Zeus, a tactical drone that calls in a beam of concentrated energy to kill enemies once you've scored enough points to call one in.
-   In _Jedi Starfighter_, one of the protagonists gains access to a giant space laser (actually designed to be fired from the ground at orbiting capital ships, like the ion cannon on Hoth), which can be targeted to vaporize anything.
-   _Just Cause 2_ of all games has this, while fighting the Japanese boss, and you have to dodge it constantly. Sadly for this boss, he's not Friendly Fireproof.
-   _The King of Fighters 2000_ has the Zero Cannon, a Kill Sat created by the NESTS group, powered by fight energy, but stolen by the renegade Clone Zero, who desires to use it against them. While it fails to destroy NESTS, it does succeed in nuking Southtown. It's later destroyed by Kula Diamond.
-   _Last Alert_ has the player as a mercenary out to stop a Mad Scientist from taking over the world with one of these.
-   _Like a Dragon_:
    -   _Yakuza: Dead Souls_ has a "Satellite laser" weapon that players can wield. Hits with it often register as "headshot".
    -   In _Yakuza: Like a Dragon_, completing the Business Sidequest storyline unlocks the "Essence of Orbital Laser" in which Ichiban presses a Big Red Button on his phone that activates a satellite owned by his MegaCorp to nuke the enemies to oblivion.
-   _Machines: Wired For War_ has an ion cannon that can wipe out almost anything in its (small) blast radius and set fire to anything just outside it. Taking over an enemy base can gain access to their ion cannon.
-   _Magic Rampage_: The green lightning bolts in Dungeon 15 and 16 are like this.
-   _Mega Man_:
    -   _Mega Man X4_: the Final Weapon satellite was such a Kill Sat that Sigma was trying to use to destroy the Earth.
    -   In _Mega Man X8_, Optic Sunflower's Earth Crush and Zero's Tenshouha calls a gigantic laser from above. For an Easter Egg, a simulation of the Final Weapon is shown when Sunflower uses it.
    -   SearchMan.exe can summmon a small one as his most damaging attack in the _Mega Man Battle Network_ series. Unfortunately for him, it's also the easiest of his attacks to avoid, as it'll only fire if its targeting cursor touches you, and if it does, it can still be sidestepped.
    -   The Ragnarok satellite in _Mega Man Zero 4_ was built by Big Bad Dr. Weil to help destroy all inhabitable places on Earth. After Craft's Hazy-Feel Turn and he uses Ragnarok to destroy Neo Arcadia, Dr. Weil then uses it for a Colony Drop. Zero destroys the satellite, with himself still in it.
-   A rare heroic example occurs in _Metal Max Returns_. The only problem is activating the program that allows you to trigger it using your BS Controller.
-   _Metroid Prime 3: Corruption_ has one which is used by the good guys to destroy an incoming Leviathan (a living, sentient, evil meteor) before impact.
-   _Neverwinter Nights_ added one in the second Expansion Pack with the Epic Spell "Greater Ruin" (though no mention is made of a "Ruin" spell) that includes a beam of earth-shaking golden light striking from above, then tracking across the ground onto target. There is also the "Hammer of the Gods" spell, which causes a large yellow column of holy light to strike the target. "Greater Ruin" also causes holy energy damage. It is likely an upgraded version of "Hammer of the Gods".
-   _New Legends_ has the main villain, Xao Gon, using a powerful particle beam satellite called the God's Eye as his ultimate Trump card. Said weapon is a forbidden technology whose blueprints were supposedly destroyed, but Xao Gon managed to obtain a backup and have it constructed in his lab underneath the Forbidden City, with the final stage having you and the resistance stopping Xao Gon from using it. Appropriately enough, Xao Gon would suffer a Karmic Death when his satellite gets sabotaged — its first and only shot is the one which vaporizes Xao Gon in the final cutscene.
-   Doubly subverted in _The New Order: Last Days of Europe_. Among Hermann Göring's _wunderwaffen_ is a so-called "Sun Gun" satellite. It doesn't work as intended... but it does kill _someone_ by falling on Oskar Dirlewanger.
-   In _Ninja Blade_, the UN's backup plan in case Ken fails to eradicate the Alpha Worms from Tokyo is to fire an orbital death laser at Japan.
-   The fourth boss in _The Ninja Warriors (1994)_ wields a pimp cane that can direct an unseen Kill Sat to fire on your position.
-   _Nintendo Wars_:
    -   _Advance Wars: Dual Strike_ features a Kill Sat called the Black Onyx on the level _Crystal Calamity_. Its primary purpose is to create a barrier around Kindle's main source of power — a large crystal that turns the land into desert while creating energy. The Black Onyx also features a potent laser beam.
    -   _Battalion Wars_ features a good guy version — the Doomsday Weapon used by the Solar Empire to put an end to the Iron Legion in the game's backstory.
-   Captain Vladimir, Rank 3 in _No More Heroes 2: Desperate Struggle_, has a radio uplink to an old Soviet Union satellite cannon called Volk. It has two functions: a rain of smaller beams that deal good damage, and the "big beam". The big one's a One-Hit Kill.
-   _Parasite Eve 2_ features a Kill Sat that fires what seem to be kinetic projectiles down on the entire main setting, acting as a last resort when containment looks unlikely.
    -   _The 3rd Birthday_ features another one, although scaled down, that you get to use several times.
-   The first Support Character you earn in _Penny Arcade Adventures: On the Rain-slick Precipice of Darkness: Episode 2_ is a 14-year-old girl with a steampunk Kill Sat.
-   In _Phantasy Star Online 2_, if a Ranger or a Gunner uses an Assault Rifle, they can use a photon art that has them call down a laser blast from orbit. Holding down the trigger button allows it to deal more damage, but it leaves the player vulnerable to attack, making this Awesome, but Impractical. In _New Genesis_, the Photon Art is changed into a Photon Burst when a player uses an Assault Rifle that calls down a laser beam from orbit, and the player is temporarily made invulnerable to attack while its active.
-   In _Phantom Dust_, this is one of the many psychic powers you can obtain. Where exactly the laser comes from is never explained.
-   In _Planescape: Torment_, the Mechanus Cannon is effectively a cross-planar kill sat. The spells Power Word Kill, Meteor Storm Bombardment, and _Torment_ also have kill sat mechanics with some rather impressive visuals.
-   In _Planet Alcatraz_, each of the prison planets has an "Orbital security and surveillance complex" hovering in orbit. It is equipped for precision strikes again targets on the ground, on the air or in space. Your mission is to locate the space shuttle in construction, so that it can be destroyed with an orbital strike. Also, if you spill details about your mission to an NPC in Northern City, you get to see an orbital strike killing your team and everyone in the area, resulting in a Non Standard Game Over.
-   In _PlanetSide_, each empire has access to an orbital laser that can annihilate anything outdoors after a short charge-up period. If you hear the distinctive whine of the strike and you aren't in a vehicle or already at a dead sprint, You Are Already Dead. Orbital Strikes can be called in by players that have reached Command Rank 4, and the blast radius gets upgraded at Rank 5.
-   In _Playstation All Stars Battle Royale_, Spike's Level 3 super move involves the use of one of these to wipe out every player on screen.
-   _Ratchet & Clank_:
    -   The Deplanetizer from _Ratchet & Clank (2002)_.
    -   The BFG of _Ratchet: Deadlocked_ is the Harbinger, which scatters targets all over the battlefield, which are then quickly followed by beams of light blasting those spots.
-   In _Razing Storm_, your allies have one, aimed by firing a laser cannon at the target to transmit its location to the satellite. It's used in Stage 3 to destroy the Big Bad and his headquarters, as well as to finish off the Giant Spider Tank boss.
-   _Resident Evil 5_, in a seemingly desperate attempt to fit possibly every trope ever into one game, gave you a Kill Sat to fight one giant boss, that came with an "L.T.D." (short for Laser Targeting Device), which was effectively an empty bazooka with a laser attached to it, a la _Gears of War_'s Hammer of Dawn. It takes a while to lock on, so it's good to have a friend stun the orbs you aiming at (which, by the way, are the giant orbs of a humongous version of the Uroboros you fought four chapters ago). The recharge time is ridiculous, and you can destroy the orbs you're aiming with bullets, but it's great when you hear the three quick beeps letting you know it stopped charging, and you can once again destroy whatever you lock on to.
-   In _Rimworld_, the planet that your colonists are on has several abandoned satellite arrays which can serve this function though only one of the three current types is purpose built for it. Your colonists can activate one of them with one-use targeter items, hacked not to require security credentials from someone who's been dead for centuries. They can be orbital weapons which drop tons of bombs, solar collection satellites which shoot a massive beam of intense heat to the target, or weather manipulation satellites which create tornadoes.
-   In _Sacred_, one sidequest involving a Seraphim researching their history reveals that the Seraphim are actually genetically engineered cyborg supersoldiers of a space empire. Their ultimate energy beam "spell" is actually them activating one of the empire's Kill Sats that is still in orbit around their world and still fully functional after thousands of years.
-   In _Sengoku Basara_, Nohime has this as her Limit Break, summoning the Oda Mon as beacons with pillars of lights coming from the sky.
-   In the GBA version of _Shining Force_, the hero gains a spell called "Supernova", which the flavor text implies is a Kill Sat beam. In fact, all magic in the continent is described as being provided by a satellite.
-   _Shin Megami Tensei II_'s Megiddo Arc is a massive superlaser designed to all but eradicate humanity's last strongholds. YHVH had it constructed, and he's intent on using it — _even against cities explicitly confirmed to be aligned with Him._
-   _Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri_ features the Orbital Defense Pod, a satellite that serves as a missile defense system. You can also sacrifice the pod to destroy a Planet Buster or an enemy satellite.
-   If you built a Microwave power station in _SimCity 2000_, it could occasionally "miss" and rain Kill Sat-like destruction on your helpless citizens.
-   In _Snatcher_, the Snatchers' final stronghold is destroyed by one of these in the game's climax. It takes out Random, too. Painfully, a commenter on Slowbeef's Let's Play of the game said, "Oh, as if Random could be taken out by anything shy of orbital bombardment." Ow.
-   _Sonic the Hedgehog_:
    -   Eggman's orbital station known as the Death Egg. The original was central to _Sonic the Hedgehog 2_ and _Sonic 3 & Knuckles_, and later games featured other incarnations like the Death Egg mk. II or the Death Egg II. The one in _Sonic Battle_ showed its true power by destroying a star.
    -   In _Sonic Adventure 2_, the bad guys take control of the Space Colony ARK and threaten to use the Eclipse Cannon (so named because at full power with all seven Chaos Emeralds it can _pierce stars_) on the populace, demonstrating its power by using it to destroy half of the moon. Fortunately, the heroes managed to short-circuit the system in time to prevent the planet's destruction (what happened afterwards is a different story).
    -   _Shadow the Hedgehog_:
        -   The game saw the Eclipse Cannon used once again. In several of the routes, the Black Arms take control of it from G.U.N. and fire it down at a city on Earth, wiping it out (thankfully, the city was evacuated). In the Final Story, it's used to the destroy the Black Comet and the alien menance once and for all, which was apparently the original reason Gerald Robotnik made the cannon before he went crazy.
        -   The game featured a "Satellite Gun" as one of several rewards for beating the game; this was a targeting beam for what was presumably an orbital laser satellite. There's a significant delay before firing, during which the target often moves away, which is probably why the laser doesn't see more use by the heroes.
    -   _Sonic Unleashed_: One of Eggman's satellites is equipped with the Chaos Energy Cannon. After draining Super Sonic's Chaos Energy, it was used to break the Earth open and release Dark Gaia.
-   In _Spore_, you get the "Uber Turret", a fast-moving low-orbit satellite missile platform. It is an inversion in that instead of attacking ground targets (you deploy on your own colonies; not exactly the thing you'd want to blow), it is used to destroy (in a matter of seconds) squadrons of alien invaders that enter your planet's atmosphere.
-   In _Spy Hunter (2001)_, the Nostra corporation aims to cause a worldwide power blackout with an array of EMP\-producing satellites known as "the Four Horsemen".
-   In _Star Control II_, this is how the Ur-Quan appears to enslave alien races. Once an alien civilization's starfleet is destroyed, they will send ships into near-orbit as Kill-Sats over the major capitals of their homeworld and threaten death unless they surrender. Except...they still destroy some capitals as a message. As the Earth commander states: "you won't find Buenos Aires" on any new maps...
-   _Star Wars: The Old Republic_.
    -   Imperial Agents have the Orbital Strike skill, calling in a strike from some of the Imperial ships orbiting the planet.
    -   In the _Knights of the Fallen Empire_ Expansion Pack, Arcann built six of these to ensure compliance of conquered planets.
-   _SDI: Strategic Defense Initiative_ subverts this trope. While you control a Kill Sat, that at the end of each stage goes back to the cargo hold of a space shuttle to be carried elsewhere, you use it to destroy enemy missiles, bases, and ships... in space.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   _Street Fighter Alpha 3_ has this as one use of the Psycho Drive, apparently. Also, Karin Kanzuki's ending has her calling in a family favour and using their own Kill Sat to blow up the Shadaloo base.
-   _Sunset Overdrive_: The Fizzco DSRC, introduced in the Fallen Machines DLC, calls upon one to rain lasers and occasionally satellites on your enemies.
-   _Super Robot Wars: Original Generation_: In _2nd Original Generations_, one of the optional weapons is this.
-   The expansion pack for _Supreme Commander_ gives these to the UEF. They aren't particularly powerful, but given enough resources, you can use a group of them to pick off enemies with impunity. As a nice touch, if the control station is destroyed, the satellite de-orbits. Straight down at whatever it was targeting. With all the ready-to-explode mass and energy of any experimental. Did we mention wreckage ignores shields?
-   The Satellite Rain weapon in _Syndicate Wars_ drops a tungsten-uranium alloy rod which melts into ten "raindrops", each a couple of seconds apart. While it _can_ level buildings, so does a regular land mine. Just not with half the style.
-   In _SYNTHETIK_, there are items that can release satellite beams. The G87 "BEAMER" shoots a slowly moving beam, the "Icarus" shoots triple beams at once, and the Legendary-tier "Redline" can unleash a massive orbital beam for a long time.
-   _System Shock_ has the Tachyon Mining Beam on Tri-Optimum's _Citadel Station_, in orbit around Saturn. A note says that it can be "easily configured for military usage" on top of the hundreds of other weapons available on the station itself. In-game, the station's AI SHODAN first tries to use this laser to obliterate human cities. You have to disable the laser by blasting it into the Station's shields, but you can also get a glimpse of what happens if it is fired directly.
-   Belcrant in _Tales of Destiny_. It was used to fire on the earth to absorb pieces of it to create the Aethersphere.
-   In _Target Terror_, the player can acquire a one-use "Smart Bomb" by firing at a miniature Kill Sat that quickly scrolls across the screen at regular intervals. When used, a cutscene shows a satellite charging and firing into the earth, immediately killing all hostile targets with individual lasers while leaving friendly NPCs unharmed, even indoors.
-   In Jack's ending in _Tekken 2_, he is destroyed by a Kill Sat in front of young Jane. In his _Tekken 3_ ending, he is carrying adult Jane on his shoulder, when Dr. Abel tries to do the same thing, but he protects her and himself with a Beehive Barrier.
-   The heroes in _Time Crisis II_ are fighting to foil a plot to launch a nuclear equipped military satellite. A prototype copy of the satellite features as the Final Boss and is equipped with rockets, a laser and a guy in glasses perching on top with a pistol.
-   In _Transformers: War for Cybertron_, the alternate form of Trypticon is one.
-   Several of the _Twisted Metal_ games feature a weapon of this type.
-   _Unreal Tournament 2003_ and _2004_ have the Ion Cannon, which deals lots of damage in a wide radius, but requires an Ion Painter to designate a target area, and there needs to be a clear line of sight between the target area and, depending on the game, one of the satellites that actually fires the beam (_2003_) or the sky directly above (_2004_).
-   _Uprising_ has this as a building called Ksat. Awesome, but Impractical, and _very_ annoying when the Single Player enemy uses it.
-   The plot of _Vanquish_ is kicked off when Russians hijack the orbital colony of Providence and use its microwave emitter on San Francisco.
-   _Vector Thrust_ boasts the EOS-02 MRSA satellite, which uses a scalar-based laser system to One-Hit Kill most, if not all objects barring other superweapons. While each beam is small, there are a lot of satellites. The Blackstar UAV is functionally the same, except it's an upscaled Darkstar reconnaissance drone equipped with no less than three microwave lasers on its underbelly for shooting down enemy nuclear missiles before they reach orbit. Nobody's stopping it from pointing these lasers at other things.
-   _War Wind_'s human scientist faction can build armed satellites.
-   _Warzone 2100_:
    -   The main antagonist (a self-aware computer virus called NEXUS) eventually powers up his laser satellites against the player during the semi-final mission as at this point all of his systems are now back online.
    -   Just before The End of the World as We Know It, the North American Strategic Defense Agency also had access to satellites stuffed with thermonuclear missiles, which NEXUS used to nuke most of humanity all the way to the afterlife.
-   In _WinBack_, the GULF Strategic Weapons System is a top-secret satellite laser owned by the US Government with an unlimited power source and the ability to obliterate any target on Earth with pinpoint accuracy, but it takes several hours to charge between shots. The plot kicks off when one of its two Control Centers is seized by terrorists and it's used on the Center for Space Development, the location of the other Control Center.
-   _World of Warcraft_:
    -   Azeroth has 4 Kill Sats in orbit, used by the Titans as orbital defense weapons and named after the Keepers of Ulduar.
    -   The final quest in the current starting area for gnomes suggest that the gnomes have some themselves.
-   The _X_ series features lasertowers and orbital defense stations, which operate like _Halo's_ Super MACs in that they're defensive in nature, blowing hostile ships out of the sky. In _X3: Terran Conflict_ the lasertower is a Useless Useful Spell since out-of-sector combat mechanics<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  negate its main advantage over its targets (superior range). Even in-sector, it can take dozens to bring down a capital ship. Lasertowers got a major buff in _Albion Prelude_, making them effective defenses. The Torus Aeternal, a Ringworld\-esque megastructure that wraps around Earth, is a defensive kill sat — it has enough weaponry to One-Hit Kill _any_ ship that deviates from their assigned docking path. The Torus was such a powerful piece of Terran infrastructure that the Argon Federation resort to sabotaging it via suicide-bombing in order to invade the Solar System in _X3: Albion Prelude_.
-   In _Xenoblade Chronicles 2_, the Artifice Siren, commanded by Mythra, is a Humongous Mecha floating in space that wields a particle cannon. As part of Mythra's and, in New Game Plus as of patch version 1.3.0, Pneuma Level IV Blade Special, she calls on Siren to rain lasers from above onto the target (so long as there isn't a roof over the party's head). Its _targeting ray_ is apparently enough to kill Pyra, when she threatens to do so in order to get Torna to take her without harming the rest of the party.
-   _X-Men Legends_ gives you super moves for each character. Beast's is "Orbital Bombardment", wherein he magicks a holographic computer from nowhere, presses some buttons and multiple lasers rain down and wipe out all onscreen enemies. Mr. Fantastic gets the same ultimate attack in _Marvel Ultimate Alliance_.
-   In _Zone of the Enders_, BARAM turns Mars' moon, Deimos, into a Kill Sat based on the Urenbeck Catapult, a form of space-compression power slingshot. Of course, then it turns out the real use is to _not_ fire it, and let the overload blow a hole in space/time three times the size of the solar system.

    Web Animation 

-   The graphic novel-esque flash series _Broken Saints_ features a fanatical Corrupt Corporate Executive who sets up a Kill Sat network in order to broadcast a signal triggering his vision of Judgment Day. It also has the ability to lock on to anywhere on the planet and emit highly-focused EM pulses.
-   The "MIR Anti-Nuke Express" of 3D animated short _Indigen_ is an autonomous Earth-orbitting particle cannon which does exactly what its name implies. It doesn't mind blasting anything in the target's vincinity along with it though. Until its suffers a blue screen.

    Webcomics 

-   The RPG-spoof _Adventurers!_ has a laser-obsessed Big Bad who loves nothing more than using his orbital-based DeathRay to toast bread and make sammiches.
-   In _The Adventures of Dr. McNinja_, Dracula is _far_ too elegant to bother with something as blunt as an orbital satellite. He uses Moon Lasers instead.
    -   Technically, the moon is a satellite.
-   A military Kill Sat was fired with great precision at just one person in this strip of _Antihero for Hire_.
-   In _Drive (Dave Kellett)_, it is revealed the Tesskans used some kind of Kill Sat on Berlin, Beijing, and New York City.
-   _Exploitation Now_:
-   _Exterminatus Now_, being a combination of _Sonic the Hedgehog_ and _Warhammer 40,000_, is _named_ after the command that field agents of the Mobian Inquisition can use in times of imminent defeat or upon discovering a massive demon incursion to request a direct strike from an orbital weapons platform on their current position — which means if they don't manage to get far away quickly enough, they too will go out with a bang. This is a _toned down_ version of the WH40K Exterminatus...
-   In _The Far Side of Utopia_, the IDS have The Skyhammer, which is Exactly What It Says on the Tin. Unfortunately for them, it proves no match for Mium.
-   Gilgamesh Wulfenbach of _Girl Genius_ made it look like he was directing a kill sat with a handheld scepter. Subverted when the power source is six large crystals positioned around the city, which fried right before the enemy surrendered.
-   In _Megatokyo_, the Tokyo Police Cataclysm Division used "a high-intensity satellite-based laser" to "neutralize" Ed and his plasma cannon, in this strip.
-   _NSTA_ revolves around the operations of the titular National Satellite Tracking Agency, which manages orbital satellites used for both techno-telepathic brain-borrowing computation and orbital laser strikes. The first strip to introduce the latter functionality involved precision brain surgery by thought-controlled orbital laser.
-   In _Romantically Apocalyptic_, The Good Directorate possesses (possessed?) at least one of these.
-   In _Schlock Mercenary_, Earth has a ring of smartlucent microsatellites around the planet used primarily for climate control (smartlucent as in, they reflect light when and where they're told to). When the Toughs visit Earth in the Delegates and Delegation arc, Schlock wonders what would happen if all the satellites reflected their light at the same spot. He gets his answer when the ring is hijacked by terrorists faking a civil war: a pillar of hot, hull-melting death, hot enough to melt a building into slag and strong enough that it takes Dom Atlantis raising its shields before the beam can be deflected.
-   In _Sequential Art_ Jack launched an orbital laser cannon and used it to destroy a couple buildings, then Art accidentally made it target the tank Jack was driving, and (intentionally) pinned him to it. Later OZBASIC attempted to upload into that satellite.
-   In _Sluggy Freelance_:
    -   The "Eyes in the Sky" from. In the ghoul-infested world, these "Eyes" were used to rain destruction down upon attacking ghouls.
    -   This turns out to be the mysterious Oasis's true nature, an artificially intelligent satellite with Invisibility that can ignite fires from orbit. It is also the most important element of Dr. Schlock's plans to Take Over the World, equipping said satellite with a Teleport Gun to intimidate or wipe out all opposition.
-   The Tower of Babel in _S.S.D.D._ is an odd variation in that the satellite is only a mirror designed to redirect the lasers fired from a very large, very phallic looking tower. Apparently previous attempts at orbital weapons were either really large and easy to shoot down, or underpowered.
-   Used in This strip about Sound of Music robots from _Truck Bearing Kibble_.
-   _User Friendly_ is also fond of this trope, in the form of "Crowbar Satellites", which... well, drop crowbars from orbit. When the User Friendly crew were visiting Antarctica, one of the techs living there used a satellite to drop a crowbar on the unfortunate Predator wandering around outside with a soldering iron stuck in his eye (it's a long story), exploding him quite satisfactorily. Pitr (resident evil-genius wannabe) eventually got his own Crowbar Satellite... at least until one of the other techs found the remote and mistook it for a handheld game, wasting all the ammo.

    Web Original 

-   _SCP Foundation_:
-   Anonymous has a Low Orbit Ion Cannon (a program that helps with their DDOS attacks), which got them noticed by the FBI after they attacked sites that were boycotting WikiLeaks.

    Web Videos 

-   In _To Boldly Flee_, Big Bad the Executor has a Kill Sat that he uses to (almost) kill That SciFi Guy. And plans to use it to destroy the Earth.
-   In _Microsoft Sam and the War in the Republic of My_, the Orbital ROFL-Laser serves as one. In Episode 1, one of its tests was a Disastrous Demonstration, erroneously firing into an unintended target.
-   _MrBeast_: In the "$1 vs. $100,000,000 House" video, a satellite blows up the entire planet with its laser, only for the video to continue on a chunk of the Earth to showcase the $100,000,000 house.
-   In _Super Power Beat Down_ episode "Iron Man vs. Optimus Prime", Tony attempts to take out Prime with one of these, which he nicknamed 'Lucy'. Optimus is able to fly up to it and hijack it physically to kill Tony, leading to him to self-destruct it, only for Prime to come down from space on its flaming carcass. In the normal ending, Prime crushes Tony with it. In the alternate ending, the Endo-Sym Armor saves Tony.

    Western Animation 

-   _Adventures of the Galaxy Rangers_:
    -   The episode "Queen's Lair" revolves around the Rangers' efforts to take out one of these before The Queen of the Crown takes out Earth with it. This actually makes for one of the darker episodes of the series.
    -   It's also played for tragedy in "Ghost Station". The Kill Sat is from a lost alien civilization that presumably blew itself to bits. The AI running the station tries holography and other tricks to try and scare the heroes off, then prematurely triggers its self-destruct in order to save Earth.
-   In _Beast Wars_, an alien race known as the Vok had built a gigantic death ray (well, a heat ray designed to detonate all the Energon they'd placed in the crust) within a second artificial moon orbiting Earth with the purpose of getting rid of the Earth "experiment" if it didn't work out or would cause them problems. Said ray was blown up when Optimus Primal attempted a Heroic Sacrifice. He got better.
-   In _Celebrity Deathmatch_, Ronald Reagan tries to kill Ayatollah Khomeini with the Star Wars satellite defense system. The first attempt fails and kills a random audience member instead, but the second attempt succeeds.
-   _Code Lyoko_:
    -   In one episode, XANA hacked into a laser satellite, apparently to try to vaporize Yumi... again.
    -   The Satellite shows up again in Season 4 episode "Hot Shower" to divert an asteroid from its course.
-   In the _Dilbert_ series, Dogbert causes some havoc with one of these.
-   The _Futurama_ episode "Crimes of the Hot" has an unintentional satellite of doom. In an effort to defeat Global Warming, Farnsworth's rival Wernstrom creates a giant mirror to reflect the sun's rays. When the giant mirror is knocked off course, it focuses a beam of sunlight on the Earth that incinerates everything in its path. Epic Fail. Later in the episode, when President of Earth Richard Nixon lures all the robots in the world to the Galapagos Islands to destroy them,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  he has Wernstrom convert his mirror satellite into an EMP satellite to fire it at the Galapagos and permanently deactivate all the robots.
-   In _G.I. Joe: Resolute_, Cobra uses a kill sat to blow up Moscow, successfully, in the first ten minutes of the first episode.
-   _Invader Zim_ parodies this. When Dib discovers that Zim is weak against water, naturally a water fight ensues. This escalates until Zim builds a giant, orbital water balloon launcher.
-   In _Invincible (2021)_, the Global Defense Agency uses one of these against Omni-Man. Twice. They only manage to piss him off.
    
    **Director Cecil:** 400 billion dollars for the world's most expensive nosebleed.
    
-   _Johnny Bravo_ was once fried by one when he started hitting on a random nerd girl.
-   _Justice League_:
    -   In the episode "Maid of Honor", Vandal Savage takes control of a mass driver-equipped Kill Sat owned by the kingdom of his intended bride... and is promptly crushed (but not killed, thanks to his regenerative powers) by a shot from the weapon after his plans are foiled.
    -   In _Unlimited_, the second Watchtower has a more conventinal one of these, which causes the heroes no end of grief when it is hijacked for villainous purposes. Even before that, just the knowledge that they have it on top of being the single largest force of metahumans on the planet causes a lot of people to become very distrustful of the Justice League. They eventually decide that it's too much power for anyone to have and decommissioned the gun. It's called the "Binary Fusion Generator", which (while never spoken as such in the show) has a convenient acronym.
-   A Kill Sat made a short appearance in the _Kim Possible_ episode "Kimitation Nation". Drakken attempted to obtain the controls for it, but failed.
-   One episode of _Mighty Ducks: The Animated Series_ featured Dragaunus taking over one such satellite while the ducks dealt with an energy monster he had unleashed. Fortunately, the ducks managed to solve both problems by firing the energy creature at the satellite, destroying both.
-   The US President in _Rick and Morty_ uses one of these. He has a watch with a laser pointer which causes the kill sat to fire a beam at his target.
-   _Rocko's Modern Life_:
    -   The episode "Teed Off" featured a satellite that launched _grand pianos_.
    -   In "Wacky Deli", Ed Bighead proposes the use of a more conventional Kill Sat to vaporize Rocko and co. after their cartoon, the eponymous 'Wacky Deli', makes executive producer and Ed's child Rachel<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  the target of constant mobbing by fans of the show. After Rachel says that she doesn't want to kill Rocko, Ed settles for melting the polar ice caps instead to create a wall of water to get rid of Bighead Studios.
-   In the _South Park_ episode "Sons a Witches", the men in town have an annual witch week, during which one of them, Chip Duncan, uses a spell book to transform into a real witch. He proceeds to terrorize the town and kidnap children. This is resolved when the kids call their old fourth-grade teacher Mr. Garrison, who had the previous year been elected President of the United States. Mr. Garrison flies to South Park in Air Force One, and tries to talk Chip down. When it fails because Chip claims to be more powerful than ever, Mr. Garrison replies "you wanna see what real power is?" and has a US military space laser incinerate Chip, leaving nothing but dust. The men cheer and then proceed to party with El Presidente.
-   In _Spider-Man (1981)_, Doctor Doom introduces us to a satellite-mounted laser — the laser part of which was actually a holdover from an earlier episode — and uses it to play with the Pacific Ring of Fire. As far as the "kill" part, the satellite turns out to have a surprisingly localized effect when it gets knocked off course, burns a path to his castle and bodily vaporizes him.
-   In _Spliced_, Octocat controls a Kill Sat that she uses on people who annoy her.
-   _Superfriends_: In an episode of _Galactic Guardians_, Darkseid tries to turn the peaceful Star City into a Kill Sat. When the heroes foil his plan, he is forced to settle for a Colony Drop.
-   Played for Laughs in _Teen Titans Go!_, when Beast Boy and Cyborg's desperate attempts to stall the pizza boy ultimately result in using one of these to destroy the whole pizzeria. They quickly realize that they may have gone too far.
-   In one episode of _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (1987)_, Shredder and Krang take control of a satellite armed with a super laser and used it to cut the Technodrome free from the Arctic ice trapping it. However, just as they were finally moving, Bebop and Rockstead get into a scuffle over a comic book, resulting in Bebop falling back against the controls of the laser<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . This not only shorted out the controls, preventing them from using the satellite any further, but it also caused the laser to create a hole in the ice in front of the Technodrome, resulting in it ending up at the bottom of the ocean.
-   A villainous attempt to build one is a running plot for much of the second season of _Thunderbirds Are Go_. He does eventually manage to get the thing working, and tries to use it to kill his (even more villainous) boss; it can only fry relatively small areas, and the power is directly proportional to how long it takes to charge, so it's not really a global threat, but it's certainly a problem for the guy he's trying to kill.
-   _Transformers: Prime_ has established that before he founded MECH, leader Silas was involved in the development of these as part of "Project Damocles", which was believed to be cancelled, but it turned out the prototype had been built, and when Silas gets transplanted into Breakdown's chassis and joins the Decepticons, it gets put to use with great effect by Soundwave.

    Real Life 

Although the actual deployment of nuclear weapons in space has been prohibited by the 1969 Outer Space Treaty, that hasn't stopped anyone from seriously suggesting it as a way of dealing with people they don't like.

-   This kind of thing was commonly bandied about in the Soviet Union and beyond:
    -   The Fractional Orbital Bombardment System (or "FOBS") was designed to deliver a nuclear warhead (or several) by mimicking a satellite's orbital path. The Soviet brass was not too enamored by it because it would have been _too_ effective — it would bypass any early-warning system and make for a very effective decapitation strike, thereby eliminating the prospect of Mutually Assured Destruction. And without mutually assured destruction, the Soviet Union's enemies would be more likely to throw a preemptive nuclear strike at the country, which would not be very good for the people who lived there. The fear around FOBS led to the SALT II treaty in 1979 specifically prohibiting development, testing, or deployment of any such technology.
    -   The Almaz-class military space station OPS-2/_Salyut 3_ sported a 23 mm self-defense gun (in Fixed Forward-Facing Weapon fashion) that was tested successfully on another satellite. The intent here was probably taking out potential American Kill Sats. Had any subsequent Almaz outposts been commissioned, they would have carried missiles instead.
    -   The Polyus/Skif-D was an advanced weapons satellite that would have sported a megawatt laser — key word being "would", because the only time they tried to launch an unarmed test platform, they had to launch it upside-down (for structural load reasons), and when it spun to fire its engines, it spun too far and plowed straight into the ocean. Officially (and most likely) it was a programming error, but some people believe that it was deliberately sabotaged in order to end the disastrous ongoing space weapons arms race.
    -   Kaskad was a missile-based equivalent to the Polyus. That never got off the ground, but they did plan to test it on six refitted Progress cargo drones, which were already on the assembly line by the time the Soviet Union fell.
    -   _Sputnik 1_, the first ever artificial satellite, was not a Kill Sat, but many people were afraid that it was thanks to the political climate at the time, or more specifically that the launch vehicles could be repurposed to launch nuclear warheads.
    -   In the late 1990s, the Russian government proposed a sort of "peaceful" Kill Sat — a network of mirror satellites that would redirect sunlight onto subpolar regions (_i.e._ Siberia) during winter, to improve agriculture and cut down on electrical lighting during the polar winter. They quietly dropped the project due to costs, but there's enough interest in it to make it a proposed alternative to terraform Mars, as this could (at least in theory) counteract the lack of atmosphere that makes Mars as cold as Hell.
-   This kind of thing was also bandied about in the United States to counteract the Dirty Communists:
    -   Project Horizon was a 1950s feasibility study into a joint scientific/military lunar expedition which included a proposal to install nuclear missiles on the Moon as an invulnerable strategic reserve. The base would have been equipped with Davy Crockett low-yield nukes and claymore mines specifically designed to puncture spacesuits. The proposal died quietly after someone pointed out that the missiles would take at least three days to reach Earth, by which time the war would be over.
    -   The "Strategic Defense Initiative" or SDI, a Reagan-era proposal commonly referred to as "Star Wars", was a way to ramp up the U.S. defense against a possible Soviet strike by launching it from space. It never got past the experimental stage, was widely seen as a waste of money, and was shelved in the last years of the Cold War, but it did include a few Kill Sat-like proposals, in addition to just firing missiles from space:
        -   The "Kinetic Bombardment System" (commonly nicknamed "Rods from God") is meant to fire not missiles, but 20-meter-long tungsten rods. Their kinetic energy from their fall, plus the plasma sheth created by reentry into Earth's atmosphere, would give the weapon the force of a nuclear explosion. It could even penetrate nuclear shelters through sheer momentum. But it wasn't radioactive, which meant _(a)_ no fallout and _(b)_ it's not covered by the 1969 Outer Space Treaty. It's still on the drawing board, having survived SDI as a way of discreetly dealing with hardened terrorist bunkers.
        -   The little brother to "Rods from God" was "Brilliant Pebbles", a fleet of small satellites that would detect and then attack incoming Soviet ICBM's. Technical problems and the end of the Cold War led to it's cancellation.
        -   SDI also planned a pop-up one-shot X-ray laser satellite, powered by a nuke and (at least in theory) able to toast an area as wide as a football field. It was tested only once, and the result was inconclusive, but it serendipitously fueled the development of plenty of other technologies (many of them civil). This one was directly referenced in _Shaman King_, as Hao calls the Kill Sat in question as SDI X-ray laser. It may also have been an inspiration for the _Goldeneye_ example.
    -   In the late 1960s, the "Lenticular Reentry Vehicle" was a proposed manned version. It was essentially a large nuclear-powered Flying Saucer that would have been carried into orbit by booster rockets and covertly loitered in orbit with a payload of four nukes which it could launch as a revenge weapon. The status of the project remains classified, but its _existence_ is not, and that implies that it's possible that this thing was fully functional at one point — but likely not, if only because it probably would have cost a lot of money.
-   In fact, it's Older Than They Think: Those Wacky Nazis proposed a version, with the original design being from 1929. They called theirs the _Sonnengewehr_ or "Sun Gun", and it would have been a giant space-borne parabolic mirror designed to burn down cities from space. This, naturally, never got off the ground, much like the Nazis' other absurd technological proposals.
-   The Nicoll-Dyson Laser is essentially a Dyson Sphere of Kill Sats. It would use the same basic principle — _i.e._ surround the sun with a shell of satellites to collect its energy — but rather than simply harness the energy, it would focus it into a single laser beam whose initial width would equal the size of the satellites' orbits and whose effective range could be _millions of light years_. Its "designer" is not a scientist or engineer, but rather sci-fi blogger and fan-writer James Nicoll, who admits it's not feasible in real life and just uses it as a plot point.
-   The inversion of the Kill Sat is more common than the straight example; it's called an anti-satellite weapon or ASAT. While these, too, can contain anything from ordinary missiles to nuclear warheads, they're aimed at other satellites and not at Earth. They could still be just as destructive, though, especially given how much of our cool information technology runs on satellites. It _is_ the safest way to dispose of an obsolete satellite (because the alternative is dropping it on Earth with all the flaming debris that entails), but it does leave debris in orbit which could still hit other satellites and cause big problems (_i.e._ _Gravity_ in real life).<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  The Soviets have had one since 1968 (although early versions were more _kamikaze_\-style satellites designed to crash directly into U.S. Kill Sats), the Americans since 1985, and the Chinese since 2007 — and the Chinese also _used_ theirs, to much criticism internationally (and forcing the International Space Station to change its orbit _twice_).
-   United States Representative Marjorie Taylor Green seems to think that, instead of human-caused climate change, a more likely explanation for recent wildfires was a "Jewish Space Laser".

___