_"How can you not like cats?"_

The more benevolent version of Crazy Cat Lady and Right-Hand Cat.

It has commonly been said that the dog is man's best friend, but there are many people out there who prefer company of a more feline variety. Unlike the above mentioned evil and crazy versions of the cat loving tropes, these characters have an honest affection for cats and are usually decent individuals themselves.

The range of love for cats in these characters runs a wide spectrum. Some people simply have a cat as their best friend or just adore them for their inherent cute factor. Other characters have a strong affinity toward them and will even go as far as to adopt some of their mannerisms or have felines flock to their location.

Characters who follow this trope aren't necessarily good guys, but the kind gestures they make are a way of showing that they aren't all bad — in other words, a scene where they're petting a cat is an example of Pet the Dog. This one crops up in anime a lot due to the way cats are perceived in Japan, as opposed to much of the Western world, though it is by no means exclusive to it.

Compare Cuteness Proximity, and Heroes Love Dogs for its canine equivalent (real-life examples go in Canine Companion). See also Crazy Cat Lady, Mega Neko, Panthera Awesome, and Introverted Cat Person.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

-   Cosmic Debris mascot _Emily the Strange_ is consistently depicted as one in the various works she appears in. In particular, she is always accompanied by four cats: "Miles", "Sabbath", "Nee Chee", and "Mystery".

    Anime & Manga 

-   While showing off photos for the class yearbook in _Assassination Classroom_, Korosensei shows a photo of Cold Sniper Rinka Hayami cuddling a kitten.
-   Side material in _Attack on Titan_ shows Reiner Braun, Annie Leonhart, and Ymir to be this, playing with cats during quiet moments.
-   _Azumanga Daioh_: Sakaki is very kindhearted and loves all animals, especially cats. Unfortunately, the cats don't love her back. For most of the series, she is bitten by a grey cat with enormous teeth every time she tries to pet it. However, near the end of the series she befriends a mountain cat named Maya. This cat later protects her from an attack by the bitey Kamineko and Co. At one point, she lets the biting cat chomp down on her hand... _and pets it with her other hand_. Word of God is that Sakaki's height and her cold, tough default attitude makes animals think she's going to hurt them.
-   In _BanG Dream!_, Yukina Minato, the ace vocalist of Roselia who takes her career very seriously, holds her bandmates to very high standards, and holds no quarter when it comes to calling out their shortcomings, is shown to fawn over cats. When one of her bandmates, Ako, jokingly comes up with the idea of playing with cat-paw drumsticks, Yukina accepts the idea as if Ako was dead serious about it.
-   Hiroki of _Battle Royale_ is a Martial Pacifist that avoids violence and loves cats.

-   _Bleach_:
    -   Yuzu Kurosaki has a whole episode devoted to finding a cat (which turns out to be the spirit of a _dead_ cat) and taking care of it, thus when she's in trouble with hollows, it protects her and in so doing can finally pass on.
    -   Soi Fon is a Tsundere of a more severe variety, with the dere-dere side only being exposed to a certain cat/person in particular, which is expressed, among other things, by her making her squad's barracks cat-friendly.
-   The various MISAKAs apparently have a strong attachment to cats in _A Certain Magical Index_. Or it may just be number 10032 that does. In any case, it's the humanizing touch given to ten thousand clones who do not otherwise have much in the way of identity or character traits at that point. The original Misaka _Mikoto_, while finding cats adorable and cuddly like most normal girls her age, is hesitant to approach them as the ambient electricity generated by her mere presence causes discomfort in the poor little animals.
    -   Index herself finds a box of kittens and immediately adopts one calling it Sphinx, who she then proceeds to take with her everywhere. Being generally kind and friendly to everyone she meets, her place here is deserved.
-   _Code Geass_: Suzaku Kururugi is said to love cats, but the fact that Animals Hate Him has become somewhat of a running gag on the show. And yet in one of the last scenes of the series, Arthur, the cat he'd been taking care of, is seen standing in front of his (empty) grave.
-   Kaoruko of _Comic Girls_ is more comfortable with cats than with people, and since moving from Fukushima to Tokyo, she started having feline _withdrawal symptoms_ since her new apartment doesn't allow pets.
-   Lindon of _A Cruel God Reigns_ has seven cats, and whenever he is at his home, there is at least one on his lap.
-   Hikari Yagami/Kari Kamiya from _Digimon Adventure_, who has both a real-life pet cat and a cat Digimon.
-   In _Dragon Ball Z_, Dr. Briefs (Bulma's father) is seldom seen without a small black cat perched upon his shoulder or in his hands.
-   _Fairy Tail_:
    -   Milliana is of the villainous (at first) variety, and has turned loving cats into an _obsession_. At one point, she refuses to even hurt Natsu, her enemy, who was currently poorly disguised as a cat, and she was even well aware of it.
    -   Speaking of Natsu, he goes everywhere with his cat companion Happy, and Wendy does the same with Carla. Both the cats' presence make the whole Strongest Team cat lovers to various degrees.
    -   Amusingly enough, Gajeel can be considered this, as he reacted pretty bad when he realized he didn't have a cat companion like the other dragon-raised Dragon Slayers, and he was extremely happy to find one in Panther Lily.
    -   Orga of all people was stated as being this in his character profile.
-   In _Free!_, Makoto Tachibana is arguably the biggest softie in the Iwatobi swim club, and in the first episode of both seasons is shown petting or holding the same white cat on his way to visit Haruka.
-   _Fullmetal Alchemist_:
    -   Alphonse is one. Since he's an empty shell of armor with the soul of a boy embedded into it, he often takes kitties and places them inside. Hilarity Ensues more than once.
    -   It's implied Scar is one of these too, at least in the omakes. _Brotherhood_ confirms it. The episode when they first meet May and Shao May, Scar reaches toward Shao May in the most awkward fashion, making many of the viewers believe that he was about to molest her.
    -   The elder Slicer brother is a cat-lover as shown in an omake as well, placing a kitten in his helmet to shield it from the rain. In contrast, his younger brother is a dog lover.
-   Mitsukake in _Fushigi Yuugi_, who has a cute kitten named Tama.
-   Bunji Kugashira of the _Gungrave_ anime adopts a ragged-eared cat sometime after his introduction in the series. This, along with his close relationship to the show's protagonist, help distract us from the fact that he's kind of a cold-blooded mob enforcer.
-   _Hayate the Combat Butler_:
    -   Hinagiku is an avid cat lover. Shiranui plays a prominent role in her drama scenes with Hayate. The fact that her foster mother is allergic to cats keeps her from having cats of her own. She's also compared to felines for her fear of heights.
    -   Nagi and Isumi could be said to have this trait as well, Nagi is Tama and Shiranui's owner, and Isumi spends a chapter trying to befriend Shiranui when he first joins the cast.
-   _Hetalia: Axis Powers_:
    -   Greece, and to a lesser degree Japan, both like cats. In Greece's case, it's a reference to the large number of feral cats that live in Greece in Real Life.
    -   Himaruya himself appears to be this as well.
    -   Word of God is that Scotland likes cats.
-   The title character of _InuYasha_ loves playing with Kagome's pet cat, Buyo, whenever he visits her home in modern times.
-   Okuyasu Nijimura from _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Diamond is Unbreakable_ turns out to be this. He and his father adopt Tama/Stray Cat after Kira's death. Even during _the final battle_, Okuyasu is able to calm down the otherwise violent animal-turned-plant quite quickly in order to neutralize him as a threat upon grabbing Tama/Stray Cat in his hand. It's telling when Tama/Stray Cat doesn't attack any more people after that.
-   Shirogane from _Kaguya-sama: Love Is War_ is noted to be a cat person, though he doesn't have a cat of his own. The fact that his crush Kaguya has many cat-like traits might have something to do with it.
-   Miu and Kisara from _Kenichi: The Mightiest Disciple_ instantly become overjoyed when in a cat's presence. Kisara has taken this fondness to new extremes when she created the _Nya Kwan Do_ which is a style based on a cat's movement.
-   Komi of _Komi Can't Communicate_ loves cats. The trouble is, they don't seem to take well to her initially intimidating appearance.
-   Rikka of _Love, Chunibyo & Other Delusions!_ keeps with her a gray cat dressed up in a pink top with angel wings and an attached snake plushie she calls "Chimera". When Touka, allergic to cats, refuses to let her keep it in their room, Yuuta would act as its caretaker.
-   _Lyrical Nanoha_:
    -   Suzuka. Her entire mansion is filled with adopted kittens.
    -   Precia used to be one of these before Alicia died. In fact, the death of Linith (her pet cat turned Familiar) was the point that she went from neglectful to downright abusive towards Fate.
    -   Yuri had three pet cats in the backstory of the _Reflection_/_Detonation_ duology, who would end up becoming the movie version of the Materials.
-   _A Man and His Cat_: In case you couldn't tell from the title. Kanda loves cats and is very kind to Fukumaru.
-   After her Heel–Face Turn (but before getting her part-time job), Ilulu from _Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid_ spent most of her free time hanging out with stray cats.
-   _Moriarty the Patriot_: Fred feeds _thirty_ stray cats around the slums of London and wishes he could adopt all of them. Of course, he's also one member of the team who strives the most to keep everyone together and happy.
-   Both Shota Aizawa and Hitoshi Shinso from _My Hero Academia_ are noted to be fond of cats. The former is a pro hero and the latter wants to follow in his footsteps.
-   In one of the _My-HiME_ omake shorts, it's shown that Mikoto Minagi has a pair of cats - one white and one black - to keep her company when Mai isn't around. Mikoto herself acts cat-like a lot.
-   _My Roommate is a Cat_: The combination of the optimistic tone of the story and one of the two leads being a cat results in a human cast full of cat people.
-   Chachamaru of _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_ is quite fond of cats, the reader's first hint that, despite her mistress, she isn't all that evil (and neither is said mistress, no matter what she says). Referenced later on when she gets a _Kill Sat shaped like a kitty_.
-   _Neon Genesis Evangelion_:
    -   Doctor Ritsuko Akagi is a cat person. She even has cat-themed office decorations. She mostly likes them because of loneliness issues though.
    -   Although she isn't seen with one (except in some promotional art), the _Rebuild of Evangelion_ movies heavily imply that Asuka is also fond of cats. Her hat and her plugsuit helmet both resemble cat ears, and in the third movie her Eva unit gains a tiger-like "beast mode". Of course, given that this is Asuka, the "kind-hearted" part doesn't always apply.
    -   In the fourth _Rebuild Of Evangelion_ movie, Rei (or rather, the most recent clone of her) is established as a cat-lover, if the fact that she coos over a mother cat with kittens in the refugee village is any indication.
-   In _The Pet Girl of Sakurasou_, Sorata's love for cats got him kicked out of the regular school dorms.
    
    **Nanami:** You're far too much of a nice guy.
    
-   _The Prince of Tennis_:
    -   Ryoma Echizen shows quite a bit of love toward his cat Karupin.
    -   Also Kaoru Kaidoh, who loves playing with said kitty.
-   In one of the _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_ drama CDs, it is revealed the very first iteration of Madoka used her wish to rescue a cat from getting run over. Presumably the same cat is the one being hugged by Madoka in the opening credits of the anime. This is one of the first demonstrations of her kindness to Homura, and eventually she bonds with her to the point of going through the same month repeatedly to save Madoka's life.
-   Gentle Giant Corporal Randel Oland in _Pumpkin Scissors_, who apparently spends most of his pay on cat food.
-   Haruka from _RahXephon_ think Buchi is the cutest widdle kitty evah! Averted by Kunugi who really doesn't like Buchi.
-   Enma from _Reborn! (2004)_. Shown when he goes to feed a couple stray cats.
-   All of _Sailor Moon_'s Sailor Guardians count, given that Luna and Artemis are their advisors, but especially Usagi, Minako, Chibiusa, and Ami.
-   Kusano "Kuu-chan" of _Sekirei_ adores kitties, and being still a child, she often calls them "nya-nya" while chasing after them.
-   Sora in _Sketchbook ~full color'S_ doesn't have a cat (though a few of her friends do), but is your typical Friend to All Living Things...but the kid keeps giving them expired food, which her brother calls her out on. So this might be subverted in the cats' eyes until she realizes her error.
-   Kanone Hilbert of _Spiral_ adores cats, though he doesn't own any himself, he's been seen feeding strays and buying plush cats to keep himself company. What's more, at one point during his attack on Tsukiomi high school, Hiyono Yuizaki planned to momentarily "stun" him and thus keep from getting shot simply by _wearing a pair of kitty ears_. The craziest part? _**It worked.**_
-   Vamp in _Tentai Senshi Sunred_ is nice to cats, and is shocked by the implication that a wild monster living in his attic had eaten the neighbour's kitty (the cat was fine; the monster had simply removed its collar because it considered collaring cats animal cruelty). Not bad for a self-proclaimed sentai villain with plans for World Domination.
-   Chifuyu in _Tokyo Revengers_ is very kind and also loves animals. He owns a cat named Peke J, who he enjoys playing with, and in the current present timeline, he runs a pet shop.
-   Yui in _To Love Ru_. Only short of owning one. She even goes window-shopping at pet stores and a lot of her belongings are cat-themed, including a meowing ringtone set to (you guessed it) Rito's number.
-   In _Tokyo Ghoul_, Akira Mado turns out to be hiding a kind personality beneath her cool exterior. One of the first hints is when Amon brings her back to her apartment after a night of drinking and meets her very ugly cat. During a mission, she even quips that she cannot die yet because her cat is waiting for her at home.
-   Shinichi Sakurai of _Uzaki-chan Wants to Hang Out!_. At one point he tried to pet a street cat and Hana had to teach him how to properly do it, then he was mortified when it ran away before he could pet it. Since his apartment building doesn't allow pets, he immediately takes up the chance when Hana offers to let him visit her house to meet her cats.
-   Bruno in _Yu-Gi-Oh! 5Ds_, who lost his memory trying to save one.
-   _YuYu Hakusho_: Kuwabara completely gave in to other bullies holding his kitten hostage.
-   Mirage Farina Jenius, the tritagonist of _Macross Delta_, owns a pet "Mer-Cat", an adorable creature that looks like a cross between a cat and a fish.
    -   Misa Hayase/Lisa Hayes, in the original _Super Dimension Fortress Macross_/_Robotech_, is also shown to be a cat-lover. When she gives Hikaru/Rick photos to put in his album, the majority of them turn out to be of her playing with her cat. _Awww._
-   This trope is very frequently used in the Studio Ghibli movies:
    -   The eponymous Kiki in _Kiki's Delivery Service_ has a pet cat Jiji (or more exactly a familiar), but her patrons at the baker shop are also nice to him for no particular reason and are presented as incredibly nice people.
    -   Shiro Nishi, the friendly old man owner of the antique shop in _Whisper of the Heart_ and his grandson Seiji (them being nice to the cat is one of the reasons why Shizuku trust them).
    -   Haru in _The Cat Returns_, the Spin-Off movie about the novel in _Whisper of the Heart_, even risks her own life to save a cat from a truck, unraveling the plot.
    -   The friendly ill boy Shō has a pet cat Niya in _Arrietty_.

    Audio Plays 

-   A "lost" white kitten is one of the recurring plot devices of the _Exit Tunes Presents ACTORS_ franchise - so there's no surprise that they have a bunch of these in their midst.
    -   Kai, who first saw the cat and brought it to everyone's attention.
    -   Hinata, who had become rather 'motherly' to the cat in question.
    -   In the biggest surprise of all, Ryou is the one who seems most attached to the cat when she appears - he even _threw a tantrum_ when told he had to give her back to her owners.

    Comic Books 

-   Pictured above: While Selina Kyle/Catwoman of _Batman_ fame is no straight heroine, she does keep a number of cats that she cares for deeply. Official count is 17. She is frequently portrayed as donating money from her criminal endeavors to animal care charities. One of the reasons she likes Batman is that she's seen him rescue cats, and Bruce Wayne donates to many animal care charities as well.
-   Starting in _Winter Soldier_, Bucky Barnes has been depicted living out his post-Winter Soldier life with a small white cat named Alpine. At one point, a bunch of gunmen break into his house to kill him, and his first thought is that they could have killed Alpine in the process as he tucks his kitty into his jacket and rides away on his motorcycle.
-   As shown in _Secret Six_, Catman lived with a pride of lions during his stay in Africa and grew to love them as his own family. It's safe to assume he likes house cats, too.
-   A minor recurring character in the _Justice Society of America_ comics, detective "Speed" Saunders (Hawkgirl's grandfather), kept a scruffy tomcat during World War II.
-   _The Sandman (1989)_: Dream of the Endless seems to have an affinity for cats, it's one of the many reasons Bast adores him. Possibly a bit of Author Appeal; at any rate, Neil Gaiman did write one issue of _The Sandman_ entirely from a cat's point of view.
    
    **Possible Cat Messiah:** _I am a cat, and I keep my own counsel._
    
-   Supergirl is a cat person. Back in the Silver Age, she owned a pet tomcat called Streaky (which accidentally got superpowers). In the '80s, she found a stray female cat and she adopted it and named Streaky right away<small>◊</small>. She really adores her cats<small>◊</small>. In _The Coming of Atlas_, Kara is playing with a pride of thoroughly confused lions<small>◊</small> when she hears her cousin is in trouble. It must be a genetic trait, because Post-Crisis Kara and Power Girl (her alternate universe counterpart) also own pet cats (although Power Girl's is called Stinky).
-   _Wonder Woman (1942)_: In the one-shot _Fuzzy Logic_ from issue #600, Wonder Woman is revealed to be one of these too, since she helps Power Girl understand the stress her cat is going through after moving to a new house. This isn't the only time Wonder Woman is shown to have a fondness for cats, whether domestic or wild — in another one-shot titled _Both Ends of the Leash_, she was revealed to have befriended a lion in her childhood on Themysicra.
-   _Green Lantern_: While calling Atrocitus of the Red Lanterns kind-hearted would be a stretch, he seeks to make sure justice prevails (twisted as his methods may be) and he certainly seems to have a soft spot for his Right-Hand Cat and fellow Red Lantern, Dex-Starr.
-   Betty Cooper from _Archie Comics_ keeps a pet cat named Caramel and is probably the most kindhearted person in the series.
-   In _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (Mirage)_, Michelangelo has a beloved cat named Klunk.
-   _Hellboy_: The title character is fond of cats. The Anti-Anti-Christ page image shows how fond he is of the adorable little hairballs!
-   _The Crow_: Eric Draven has his pet Gabriel, which is one of the few things that he owned in life with Shelly. Eric is shown in a couple of pages talking with her, and in the end, he tells Captain Hook that she's pregnant and expecting kittens soon. Considering how brutally Eric gets revenge, this, among other things, makes him even more human.
-   In the _Commando_ story "Night of the Cat", Lieutenant Harry Milne is a British Army surveyor with a passion for rescuing stray cats, which he takes to the Cat Sanctuary in Cairo. One such stray is key to the start of his crucial role in the plot.
-   Subverted with Pizzazz from _Jem and the Holograms (IDW)_. She loves cats to the point where her pajamas are cat-themed, however she is a Spoiled Brat with a Hair-Trigger Temper. She has Hidden Depths but they're hidden under her angry, Perpetual Frowner personality.
-   The Harvey-style parody comic book _Little Lost_, created by students of the Center for Cartoon Studies, has a female cat called Virgil who is Lost's "most cherished companion in the whole world". Lost learns Virgil is dying and seeks out beliefs about the afterlife. Virgil's actual destination is left up to the reader.
-   _De Argonautjes_: Hercules, the strongest member of the team, but at the same time the biggest pacifist you ever meet, has a pet cat named Odipoes, who he loves dearly. Insulting his cat is a surefire way to get him mad.
-   One of the earliest indications that _Transmetropolitan_'s Spider Jerusalem isn't entirely an Unsympathetic Comedy Protagonist is when he rescues a stray cat (with two mouths, three eyes, and a chain-smoking habit) off the street. The cat, which Spider never names and simply refers to as "Cat" or "Ugly Purry Thing", remains his companion for most of the strip (even though she never does anything for his job other than kill geckos and urinate on him at inopportune moments) and Spider is shown to take reasonably good care of her.

    Fan Works 

-   In _Asuka Quest_, SB!Asuka is both a much nicer person than canon Asuka and an absolute lover of cats who gets pet cats for most of the cast. This actually nearly gives her away to Kaji, who's aware that the original Asuka was not as fond of cats.
-   _Hetalia: Axis Powers_ fanfic _Gankona, Unnachgiebig, Unità_: Both Italy and Japan are this. It was to the point Italy ran top-speed toward a cat just to pet it, and Japan felt better just by petting Pookie.
-   Death Eater Walden MacNair is far from kind-hearted, but in this picture, he does have a very soft spot for cats…
-   Sasuke becomes this in _A Teacher's Glory_ after taking in the ninja-cat-raising inhabitants of Sora-ku as his retainers.
-   _Guardian_ has Yuna discover her white magic by healing a cat-like creature, which she keeps as a pet up until she leaves Besaid to start her pilgrimage.
-   In _Supergirl (2015)_ story _Survivors_, Kara owns a pet cat, Streaky, in accord with comic canon.
-   Matt Engarde in the _Ace Attorney_ fic _Somebody That I Used To Know_. He starts out the story as a genuinely kindhearted young man before some unknown but severe trauma sets him on the path to being the two-faced sociopath we know from the game. But at no point in the story does he ever stop caring for his pet cat, Shoe, and he continues to care for his kitty well after the point where he's clearly stopped giving a crap about people. See page entry for more details.
-   In the _Neon Genesis Evangelion_ fanfic _Fading Into The Stolen Light_, Asuka owns a tortoiseshell cat named Erika, who she adopted from a shelter and saved from being euthanized.
-   In another _Evangelion_ fanfic, _Aki-chan's Life_, the title character (Shinji and Asuka's Kid from the Future) spends several pages playing with a kitten.
-   Evelyn in _Walking in Circles_ has a soft spot for cats. In fact, the reason her magic was discovered when she was still a little girl was that she threw a fireball at a man who was abusing a cat. Solas even tries to give her the task of taking care of Fennel when they leave Ostwick in hope that it could do something to her Tranquil state.
-   _My Hero Academia_ fanfic _If I Only Had A Heart_ has Aizawa caring for all of the strays in his neighborhood. Izuku also picks up on this habit, becoming especially close to a fat, slow-witted cat he ends up naming Pumpkin. They're so close that Izuku refuses to remove the sleeping cat from his pillow, instead lying down in an uncomfortable position.
    
    **Izuku:** What kind of hero would ever move a sleeping cat?
    
-   Another _My Hero Academia_ fanfic, _old light still slants through_ has Izuku as one of these as well. He and his mom have a habit of patching up the cats that wander by their house. Izuku ends up adopting one of them, naming the feline Natsu. Unbeknownst to him at the time, this was the name of his Box Weapon in his previous life as Tsunayoshi Sawada.
-   The Gospel of the Holy Twelve, which is 19th century Jesus fanfic by a Willing Channeler minister, has this beautiful story:
    
    Jesus entered into a small village where he found a young cat, which had none to care for her. And she was hungry and cried unto him; and he took her up, and put her inside his garment, and she lay in his bosom. And when Jesus came into the village square, he set food and drink before the cat, and she did eat and drink and showed thanks unto him.  
    And Jesus gave the cat unto one of his disciples, a widow, whose name was Lorenza, and she cared for her. And some of the people said, "This man careth for all creatures. Are they his brothers and sisters that he should love them?" Jesus said unto them: "Verily, these are your fellow creatures of the great Household of God: yea, they are thy brethren and sisters, having the same breath of life in the Eternal. And whosoever careth for one of the least of these, and gives it to eat and drink in its need, the same doeth it unto me."
    
-   Slasher from _The Pirate Pegasus_ is a cat lover in flying colours. Not only does she have three cats in her cabin, but she used to be a burglar of cats.
-   In _Kara of Rokyn_, the title character owns a cat as a gift from her parents who are aware of how much she likes them.
    
    A little orange cat looked out at her. He had a white star-like mark between his eyes.  
    "We always knew how you liked cats, dear," said Allura. "It isn't good for you to be so alone. He isn't Streaky, but he should do."  
    Kara smiled. Streaky was off someplace, or dead. She hadn't seen him in years. But Mom was right, she did love cats. She unhooked the cage door and let the cat curl up in her arms.  
    "Hey, White Star," she said, cuddling it to her shoulder. "How you doing? Do you like me?" The cat nuzzled its head against her shoulder and purred. He knew how to con a good meal with the best of them.
    
-   _The King Nobody Wanted:_ The High Septon adopts Princess Rhaenys Targaryen's former cat after finding him wandering the streets and gushes affectionately over the animal while struggling not to cry whenever he thinks of the cat's late owner.
    
    **The High Septon:** Who's a sweet boy? You, Balerion, you are a sweet boy. Yes, you are.
    
-   _With This Ring_: Paul/Orange Lantern loves cats, despite being all too aware of their less than noble qualities, and remembers his family cats Bingo and Magic back on Earth Prime a few times. While he does want to acquire new ones, he's uncertain about being able to make Mount Justice a good habitat for one, due to the lack of exits and space for them to roam. He eventually acquires Teekl, originally the cat familiar of Klarion the Witch Boy, and she becomes his companion through much of the fic only for him to accidentally destroy her when permanently dealing with Klarion months later, much to his guilt
-   In the _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fanfic _The Long Eventide,_ Brandywine, a highly intimidating-looking earth pony who is also part of a shadowy organization known as the Umbral Society, both shows a softer side and draws Shrinking Violet Friend to All Living Things Fluttershy into conversation by bringing a litter of kittens she rescued with her to a luncheon.

    Films — Animation 

-   Several characters from the Disney Animated Canon like cats:
    -   Geppetto from _Pinocchio_ has a kitten named Figaro, whom he does love, although early on, he uses the not-yet-brought-to-life Pinocchio to playfully torment the kitten.
        -   Later, Figaro appeared in some Disney shorts as a pet of Minnie Mouse.
    -   Madame Bonfamille from _The Aristocats_. She's a kind woman and a former star actress who has a beautiful white cat Duchess with three cute kittens. She loves them and they love her back.
    -   Princess Jasmine from _Aladdin_ is an extreme example, with her pet tiger Rajah.
    -   Charlotte Le Beouf from _The Princess and the Frog_, seems to very much love her kitten in the opening.
    -   Jenny in _Oliver & Company_.
    -   Milo Thatch from _Atlantis: The Lost Empire_ has a cat named Fluffy.
        -   Fluffy's care is later transferred to Audrey, and she can be seen lovingly holding him in her lap and petting him at the end of the movie, qualifying her for this trope.
    -   Antonio Madrigal in _Encanto_ is another extreme case, having a pet _jaguar_.
    -   Baymax from _Big Hero 6_ picks up the family cat, Mochi, at one point, and pets him. (Even though Baymax's batteries are low at this point, and he thinks it's a "hairy baby".)
-   _Coco_: Imelda's alebrije is a giant, winged, cat-based creature named Pepita. Later on (and in a canon story book) it is revealed that, in life, Pepita was her beloved pet cat.
-   _Home (2015)_:
    -   Tip is very close to her pet cat, Pig.
    -   Oh grows quite fond of Pig and the feeling is mutual.
-   Old Tom from _The Mousehole Cat_ loves Mowzer and she returns it fully.
-   Prince Chen the protagonist of _The Legend of Su-Ling_ is a prince who owns an albino tiger cub and thinks of other people more than he does himself.
-   Brother Aidan in _The Secret of Kells_ is a kind old monk with an adorable cat called Pangur Ban (named after a famous medieval poem; see Literature).
-   Wybie from _Coraline_ doesn't exactly _own_ the black cat that guides Coraline through the Other World, but his friendliness with it is a clear sign he's not a bad guy. Of course, Coraline herself counts too.
-   Mr. Wolf from _Western Animation/The Bad Guys_ grows a special bond with the cat after rescuing him from a tree.
-   In _Turning Red_, Mei's love for kittens is exploited by her parents when they test her emotional control by placing a box full of them in front of her.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   In the _Hellboy_ movies, Hellboy reveals his soft side with his affinity for cats, in contrast to his usual gruffness. He manages to save a box of kittens at one point. In the second movie, he even goes so far as to disobey orders to stay hidden from a troll, because he wanted to prevent it from eating a cat.
-   In _North Sea Hijack_, also released as _ffolkes_ (yes, with 2 f's and no capital, not a typo), Roger Moore is deliberately cast against type. Rather than the womanizing playboy characters he was known for as James Bond and The Saint, the character Rufus Excalibur ffolkes was a bearded eccentric arrogant misogynist cat-lover. At the end of the film, having expressed his disdain for medals, he's instead presented with a trio of kittens in recognition of his heroism. He's rather touched.
-   In _Spectre_, Q reminds Bond that he'd prefer not to be fired because he has a mortgage and two cats to feed.
-   Darkman usually keeps a cat or two around.
-   Blondie from _The Good, the Bad and the Ugly_ takes time out to stroke a cat while clearing a town of Mooks with Tuco.
-   _Big Fish_ had one in the form of Jenny, one of Will's childhood Love Interests, who had grown up into an eccentric lady with a house full of cats. May also cross with Crazy Cat Lady as she had left her house to slowly rot and bend over the years and is mostly seen without any other company.
-   Played with in the opening scene of _The Godfather_, where Don Vito Corleone is causally stroking a cat on his lap while listening to an acquaintance beg for his help. He continues playing with the purring cat all while calmly pretending to have a polite conversation that very thinly veils his displeasure over being disrespected. While he seems affable throughout the entire scene, the fear in the undertaker's face shows he knows damn well what displeasing Don Corleone means. However, Vito's gentleness with the cat juxtaposed with how intimidating he is to an acquaintance characterizes that Vito can be warm, even affectionate, to those close to him, particularly his wife, children, and young grandchildren, but that does not mean he is any less scary for it.
-   Preston's character introduction in _Species_ is him thanking a next-door neighbor for minding his cat while he's out of town. What makes this hilarious is that Preston is played by Michael Madsen — known for playing psychotic villains. Playing Against Type indeed.
-   Andy Serkis's character in _The Prestige_ gets very distressed when Tesla puts his cat into his new machine and threatens him not to let anything happen to it.
-   Mr. Krueger in _Mr. Krueger's Christmas_ lives with and dotes on his cat George.
-   In _Mrs. Miniver_, the Miniver family has a huge tuxedo cat. Their youngest child Toby is particularly attached to the sweet animal.
-   _The Hunger Games_: Prim simply adores her cat Buttercup, who is utterly nasty to everyone except her, but then, she's the only one who seems to treat him with kindness.
-   Subverted in _Notes on a Scandal_, as while Barbara Covett is most certainly not "kindhearted", she clearly loves her cat Portia and is as devastated when she passes away as one would be at the death of a human loved one.
-   The documentary _Kedi_ features a number of İstanbul citizens who are exactly this.
-   Ripley in the first _Alien_ movie. She loves and cares a lot about her pet cat Jones. She and her cat are the only survivors of the destruction of the _Nostromo_.
-   As shown in _Captain Marvel (2019)_, Nick Fury absolutely _loves_ cats and takes a shine to Goose. Even though Goose is actually a Flerken and the one eventually responsible for taking Fury's eye out.
-   _Colette_: The real Colette loved and cherished her feline companions. She wrote many poems and stories with cats, so it's entirely in keeping with reality that the first image in this film is an orange cat washing itself on her bed. She would approve.
-   In _Zombies! Zombies! Zombies!_, Pandora feeds a stray cat called Scruffy who hangs around the strip club. This eventually gets her killed when she goes outside to rescue Scruffy from the zombies.
-   In _Plan B_, the normally macho-acting Bruno is shown happily playing with a little girl's kittens in the opening scene. It's revealed at the end that Pablo secretly took a photo of Bruno with the kittens and kept it in his wallet, implying that seeing Bruno like that was what caused him to start developing feelings for him.
-   In _If You Could Say It in Words_, Nice Guy Nelson loves his cat George, whom he calls his best friend.
-   In the first _Men in Black_ movie, Rosenburg the Arquillian deeply loved his cat Orion, taking him everywhere he went and even had a large portrait of him at his jewelry store. It got to the point that he even entrusted Orion with the Galaxy by hiding it on his collar.

    Folklore 

    Literature 

-   _Discworld_:
    -   Death likes cats more than anything else and truly hates people who kill them. He has enough of them in his home that when his granddaughter Susan pays him a visit in _Hogfather_ she becomes worried that he's become a Rare Male Example (for a given value of "male") of a Crazy Cat Lady.
    -   Nanny Ogg is a cat person. And, a people person. Greebo occasionally covers both sets.
    -   Granny Weatherwax, however, is _not_ a cat person. Or... that's what she wants everybody to believe (especially when she's around Nanny Ogg; tripled near Greebo). Until, that is, she is offered the kitten, You, in _Wintersmith_, to which she shows no affection at all (in front of any witnesses). You has it _made_.
-   _Harry Potter_:
    -   Arabella Figg and Hermione Granger. Interesting in that they are both good people, but at the opposite ends of the sliding scale of magical power. Also, Hermione's cat becomes a Chekhov's Kitten later. He is inexplicably hostile to Ron's pet rat Scabbers. The rat turns out to be Peter Pettigrew, a Death-Eater and spy for Voldemort.
    -   Hermione's cat, Crookshanks, also befriends Sirius Black, and Harry is momentarily given pause when Crookshanks does his best to put himself between Sirius and a vengeful Harry.
    -   Subverted with Dolores Umbridge, who likes kittens and is a total, horrid bitch. Possibly averted here - all we see are pictures of kittens, not actual kittens. (According to Pottermore, she finds the real thing too messy.) Her Patronus taking cat form as well might be another hint. Still up for debate.
    -   Filch, though he comes off as more sympathetic than Umbridge. (So does _Voldemort_...) His only friend seems to be his mean cat, Mrs. Norris, and he seems truly horrified in the second book when she's attacked by Slytherin's monster.
-   Faithful, Alanna's cat in _The Lioness Quartet_. Faithful was sent by the gods themselves to protect and watch over Alanna. He can talk and possesses almost-omniscient powers, so he finds it pretty easy to protect his "owner."
-   Robert A. Heinlein and most of his books' characters are ailurophiles.
    -   In his short story _Ordeal In Space_, the protagonist likes cats. Also, when he hears a kitten out on a ledge, he rescues it and cures his agoraphobia.
    -   The title of one of his books is even, _The Cat Who Walks Through Walls_.
    -   In _The Door into Summer_, when the protagonist goes into suspended animation for 30 years, he arranges for his cat, Pete, to come with him. Unfortunately, Pete doesn't, and one of the reasons he travels back in time is to get his cat back.
    -   _The Puppet Masters_'s most heart wrenching scene comes when Pirate the cat is taken over by a slug. He doesn't survive the ordeal and dies in Sam's arms. When Sam and the Old Man make their final charge, Sam narrates that he owes them revenge for Pirate. Not that he wasn't committed to their utter annihilation already. But now It's Personal.
-   Morwen, the not-so-wicked witch in the _Enchanted Forest Chronicles_, has cats in every color except black.

-   Inversion in _The Chronicles of Narnia_ as the whole series is about a cat who is a kindhearted Narnian and occasional Englishchild lover. In _The Horse and His Boy_, Aslan comes in the form of a cat to comfort Shasta.
-   Cats are entirely friendly in Mercedes Lackey's fantasy novels, although pampered housepets can be more nosy and gossipy than helpful. This is in all likelihood Author Appeal.
-   Cats, and catlike aliens, are found throughout Andre Norton's books. This is most definitely Author Appeal, as she was well-known for being a cat lover.
-   Six-year-old Queen Varicose in the second Welkin Weasels trilogy is constantly surrounded by cats. They come from miles around to see her, because the old saying that "a cat can look at a queen" is taken rather more seriously by the Talking Animal population of Welkin.
-   Captain Tinker, from Esther Averill's charming _Jenny And The Cat Club_ series of children's books.
-   Honor Harrington and Nimitz though Treecats aren't the same thing. One suspects that Nimitz was an avatar of David Weber's cat.
-   Dean from the _Garrett, P.I._ series is fond of cats, even hiding a kitten in the house against Garrett's direct orders in _Red Iron Nights_.
-   Several of Haruki Murakami's heroes have a fondness for cats (a bit of Author Appeal) and are generally decent people. Toru from _The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle_ and Nakata, the secondary protagonist of _Kafka on the Shore_, are probably the best examples (the latter can actually talk to cats and makes money by reuniting lost pets with their owners).
-   Shadow, the protagonist of _American Gods_, is this, whether the cat in question is just a regular kitten or Bast.
-   Bertie Wooster is quite fond of cats; in one story he mentions that cats "always do take to me". Makes sense, since he's the Nice Guy of his series.
    
    "No, sir."
    
    His response pleased me. No hemming or hawing, just 'no, sir.'
    
-   Prim in _The Hunger Games_. Her feline friend Buttercup is a Jerk with a Heart of Gold in cat form: he's mean to everyone, but not Prim.
-   Grace Cahill of _The 39 Clues_: Cool Old Lady, awesome grandmother, matriarch of the Madrigals, and owner of Saladin, the epitome of a Cool Cat. She appears to be very fond of him. Due to Death by Origin Story, this ends up applying to Dan and Amy Cahill as well, with Saladin becoming the (often quite helpful) fourth member of their Clue-hunting team. Nellie Gomez likes Saladin quite a bit, too, as evidenced by her insistence upon getting his favorite red snapper for him every time the team moves on to a different city.
    -   In the sequel series Cahills vs. Vespers, Evan Tolliver shows signs of this as he becomes the high-maintenance Saladin's main caregiver in Amy and Dan's absence.
-   Haviland Tuf of the _Tuf Voyaging_ anthology by George R. R. Martin.
-   Also by George R. R. Martin, Prince (later King) Tommen Baratheon of _A Song of Ice and Fire_ is a nice, kind and a bit naive boy who loves cats. Compared to his cat-killing brother Joffrey who hated everything and is hated by everyone in (except his mother) and out of universe.
-   Will Parry of _His Dark Materials_.
-   Harrison Withers from Louise Fitzhugh's _Harriet the Spy_ shelters 26 cats (who eat better than he does). After a Health Department raid, he has a Heroic BSoD which she witnesses — just before she loses her notebook. As she puts her life back together, she spies on Harrison again and sees him happy and content with a single tiny kitten. This becomes the first story she writes for publication.
-   Beth from _Little Women_. Also Molly Lou Bemis from _Jack and Jill_, who has _nine_ cats.
-   Amelia Peabody and her whole family are fond of cats, and "the Cat Bastet" (always referred to in full) is a character in several of the novels, as are her descendants Horus, Seshat, and the Great Cat of Re.
-   Barbara Hambly's _Star Trek_ Tie-In Novel _Ishmael_ is a time travel story set in 1860s Seattle. The local protagonist notices that cats have a strange affinity for Spock but that dogs are afraid of him.
-   Lizzie Thompson in the _Ms. Wiz_ books. Her pet cat is a stray she rescued and christened Waif - and she is incredibly depressed when he disappears. When she discovers an heiress is collecting neighbourhood cats for fur, she willingly has herself transformed into one to save them.

-   Lloyd Alexander himself seems to be very much this trope if his books are any indication.
    -   Taran and Fflewddur Fflam in _The Chronicles of Prydain_, but most notably Fflewddur. When facing the giant wild cat Llyan, Taran can't help but appreciate the magnificent creature and when Fflewddur had the opportunity to slay her, he didn't. Whether it was out of animal appreciation or cowardice or a mixture of both is never clear, but the end result is that Llyan becomes Fflewddur's mount and pet by the end of her debut book and he dotes on her every bit as much as she dotes on him.
    -   The title character of _The Marvelous Misadventures of Sebastian_. He rescues a white cat from men accusing it of being a witch and when it follows him, he names it Presto. Sebastian is a very affectionate owner, giving Presto all sorts of silly nicknames (such as "His Most Excellent Catliness" and "Duke of Gauli-Mauli") and making jestful (but somewhat sincere) promises like gifts of silk pillows and gold saucers. Presto himself is a very intelligent cat and helps Sebastian any way he can and in surprising ways.
    -   Chen Cho of _The Remarkable Journey of Prince Jen_, though his feline companion is a magical tiger named Lao-Hu who is capable of talking and occasionally gives Chen Cho advice, so Lao-Hu is less a pet and more a confidant/traveling companion.
-   _The Reynard Cycle_: Subverted by Tybalt, who is a Jerk With A Heart Of Jerk, and one of the few characters besides Tiecelin who is depicted as having a pet (it is, of course, a cat.) Later, this trope is played straight when Hermeline adopts the cat.
-   According to Buddhist legend cats were not allowed into heaven because the cat would not come with the other animals to sit with Buddha when he was dying. Elizabeth Coatsworth fixed that, with her Tear Jerker tale of _The Cat Who Went to Heaven_, where we learn that the all-merciful Buddha loves kitties too.
-   In _Feed_, Rick adopts/is adopted by a cat he finds at the Ryman ranch post-cleanup, naming her Lois. Sadly, Lois does not survive the book, giving Rick a whole new heartbreak.
-   Tia in _Escape to Witch Mountain_ loves her adopted cat Winky. He traveled with her throughout her trip.
-   _Emily the Strange: The Lost Days_: Emily/Earwig loves all of the local cats, especially the four who she eventually realizes are her own cats.
    -   Hilda combines this and Crazy Cat Lady due to her age and possible senility.
-   Jem Carstairs in _The Infernal Devices_, when he adopts Church.
-   _Tomcat Blue Eyes' Diaries_: Blue Eyes' owner is an affectionate older man who doesn't have any family and adores Blue Eyes. Blue Eyes is very fond of him and refers to him as "my two-legged creature" and later "my human".
-   Reginald Hill's Private Detective Joe Sixsmith goes everywhere with his cat, including the pub. In one novel, Sixsmith knows that a DI must be on the side of the angels because he mentions having _three_ Persians of his own. This may have been Author Appeal for Hill, whose blurbs often noted that he lived with multiple cats.
-   Gary Seven cares deeply for Isis in _Star Trek: The Eugenics Wars_.
-   Hannah Swensen adopted Moishe off the streets, takes care of Norman's cat Cuddles when he needs a 'babysitter', and a minor plot point in one book is over how she agreed to take care of Cuddles instead of finding a way to postpone an impending engagement.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   _The Cat in the Stacks Mysteries_: Charlie, who found the young Diesel as a cold, wet stray and quickly took him in. He also takes in five kittens in book 10 and is noted as having owned cats before.
-   One of the oldest known Irish poems, Pangur Bán, was written by an anonymous monk about the quiet contentment of working alone with his (titular) cat while one studies and the other hunts mice.
-   Peter, the protagonist of the Paul Gallico novel _The Abandoned_, is stated to have quite an affection for cats such that he longs to own one as a pet though neither his family nor his nanny allows him to. However, he does not really understand much about them until his experience with Jennie after he's been transformed. In the end, when it turns out to have been a dream, he is finally given a kitten.
-   Gallico returns to cats in _Thomasina: The Cat Who Thought She Was God._, a gripping story that is also a poem of Scotland, a polemic for compassion and animal rights, and a parable of love overcoming fear. Disney's _The Three Lives of Thomasina_ is faithful to the book and its core messages, thanks to Gallico having written the script, maintained creative control, and insisted on being on the set at all times, similar to William Peter Blatty for _The Exorcist_.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   _The Winnie Years_: Dinah is sweet and innocent and loves cats.
-   H. P. Lovecraft was extremely fond of cats and wrote several stories with brave and helpful kitties. In "The Cats of Ulthar", we learn why that city has an ordinance that no harm must ever befall a cat. In _The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath_, his only novel, Randolph Carter befriends a clowder outside of Ulthar and speaks to other cats he meets along the way. Tim Powers' short story "Dispensation" shows how Freia, the goddess of cats, has rewarded the Old Gentleman for his kindness.
-   _Sam the Cat: Detective:_
    -   Max the handyman Wrongfully Accused of the burglaries feeds the local cats often and plays hide and go seek with them. Even after being fired he feeds them on his way out.
    -   In the second book, John Casey Jones' former pet Felix recalls that even when suffering from depression, John never abused him or forgot to feed him, and apologized for his aloofness and played with Felix every evening once that depression passed.
-   _The Cat Who... Series_: Qwilleran, as well as many of the other cast members. The author counts as well.
-   _Stepping on the Cracks:_ Gordy's little sister is noticeably nicer than he is and is upset whenever anyone mistreats her scrawny cat, Mittens.
-   _Confessions of Georgia Nicolson_: One of the things that solidifies the titular Unsympathetic Comedy Protagonist as a Jerk with a Heart of Gold is her literal Morality Pet, her cat Angus. She's cared for him ever since finding him as a kitten, and positively dotes on him despite him being, by any objective metric, terrifying. The prospect of being separated from Angus is a surefire way to depress her.
-   Oscar from _The Real Boy_ is a gentle boy who has named and befriended all the cats that live in the basement of Caleb's shop.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Game of Thrones_: Tommen Baratheon has an adorable cat named Ser Pounce whom he clearly loves (especially given how Joffrey threatened to kill it to hurt Tommen).
-   Mrs. Davis, Miss Brooks' kind-hearted landlady and friend on _Our Miss Brooks_. Her cat's named Minerva.
-   _Doctor Who_ has the Doctor himself, at least the Sixth, Ninth, Tenth and Eleventh incarnations. Six, even as he donned that hideous coat, decided to make it marginally less ghastly with some cat-shaped lapel pins. Nine actually pets a cat during an episode, and Ten has a good rapport with some cat people (not people who like cats. People who are cats.) in one of his episodes. Eleven talks to a housecat to investigate a time loop in Colchester.
-   Britta Perry from _Community_. To further drive the point home, her cats are adopted from shelters and suffer from a wide range of illnesses.
-   Emma Tutweiler of _The Suite Life On Deck_, who cares for a vast number of cats alone on _a cruise ship_. Flanderization in later episodes have turned her into a Crazy Cat Lady, getting a new cat every time she's dumped.
-   Quite a few characters, including Tristan, from _All Creatures Great And Small_.
-   Bubbles, in _Trailer Park Boys_ has a love for kitties, and even opened his own "cat daycare centre".
-   Randy from _My Name Is Earl_ dated a kindhearted (and quite pretty) cat lady, but they split up after he realised that she was treating him exactly like a cat (with his own little "Randy" collar and a giant cat bed).
-   Radar O'Reilly of _M\*A\*S\*H_ is a Friend to All Living Things generally, and in one episode he tells Colonel Blake he's got sixteen cats back home.
-   The host of _Must Love Cats_ loves cats so much that he even writes songs and sings to them.
-   Jackson Galaxy of _My Cat from Hell_ is dedicated to helping cats and owners get along. Since he's a musician, he looks more like a biker than a cat lover.
-   In one episode of _Animal Precinct_, a man had over 20 cats, even though he was only allowed two. It turned out that he couldn't afford to have them neutered or spayed, and things took their natural course. The rescue officers had nothing but praise for how well the man had performed the monumental task of caring for all of them (the apartment was fairly clean, the cats all socially well-adjusted and healthy), and so they allowed him to keep two of his beloved cats—after spaying them for free. (The rest were easily adopted out, due to their health and human-friendly temperaments.)
-   Lily on _Cold Case_ has two cats at home, one missing an eye and the other missing a leg. One date actually gets put off his game by her "broken cats", which was probably a good thing.
-   _Law & Order: UK_: Matt Devlin mentions having a cat to friend/colleague Alesha Philips. She's delighted to hear this. The moment gets a very sad callback in the following episode, where Matt's partner Ronnie is seen caring for it and commiserating with it, petting him and telling him, "Yeah, I miss him too.", as well as walking off with it at the end.
-   _Star Trek: The Original Series_ episode "Assignment: Earth"
    -   Gary Seven regularly holds and pets his cat Isis. He is on Earth to save it from a nuclear arms race in space and saves Captain Kirk from being killed by Roberta.
    -   Spock is shown petting Isis, who seems to adore the attention. Spock has an even harder time hiding his affection for her than he did with the Tribbles! Spock is presented a positive character in the series.
-   Toyed with in _Star Trek: The Next Generation_. Data, the robotic crew member is the only one seen to keep a cat. This makes sense since he's the character exploring What Measure Is a Non-Human? and humans inexplicably take pleasure in the company of certain animals. And it's all fine with the cat, whose name is Spot: any robot sufficiently advanced to serve cat food and provide a warm lap is an acceptable human substitute to the average cat.
    -   Later, when Data has a functional emotion chip, finding out that Spot survived the crash in _Star Trek: Generations_ is enough to move him to tears of joy.
    -   Speaking of Data's cat, Reg Barclay is the only other being on the _Enterprise_ who's on friendly terms with Spot. On _Star Trek: Voyager_, he gets his own cat.
-   Louis Litt from _Suits_, is a devoted cat lover, who is quite devastated when his cat passes away.
-   Brenda Leigh Johnson in _The Closer_ adopts a cat that belonged to a murder victim, naming it Kitty. Brenda always referred to Kitty as 'he' or 'him' (even after 'he' gave birth to a litter of kittens) and was devastated when he had to be put to sleep. At the end of series 5, Fritz gives her a new kitten named Joel.
-   Dr Warner, a vet from one _Sabrina the Teenage Witch_ episode. Salem thinks she's in love with him and hopes a kiss from her will turn him back into a human. It doesn't, he complains and she faints at the sight of a talking cat.
-   In the _2 Broke Girls_ third-season episode "And the Kitty Kitty Spank Spank", Max is shown to be this in contrast to the Crazy Cat Lady she and Caroline almost gave the stray they took in to.
-   Lister of _Red Dwarf_ gets in trouble for illicitly keeping a pet cat, named Frankenstein, in the first episode, which sets off all his later misadventures. He's very chatty and affectionate toward Frankenstein. He also later readily attempts to befriend one of her humanoid descendants. This all ties in with the fact that Lister is a relatively kind, decent sort of bloke.
-   Keith Olbermann reportedly adores cats but can't have one due to allergies. Ben Affleck's satirical take on Keith's Special Comments centered around Keith's hypothetical cat, Miss Precious Perfect.
-   Both _The Addams Family_ and _The Munsters_ are based on the concept that creepy and scary-looking people are actually very kindhearted nice individuals. Both of the families have a lot of pets but, to live up to this trope, both families have a feline pet. In the case of the Addams is Kitty Kat (an adult lion) treated like a spoiled kitten, in the case of the Munsters is a black cat with the roar of a lion.
-   _Million Yen Women_: The series opens on the household picking a name for a kitten one of the women found in her bedroom earlier in the day. Nobody protests keeping it, and both Nanaka and Hitomi are later seen playing with it and cuddling it.
-   _7 Yüz_:
    -   In "Karşılaşmalar", the gregarious and good-natured Gözde volunteers for a group that innoculates, sterilizes, feeds, and provides care for the neighborhood's stray cats.
    -   Gökçe of "Biyologik Saat" is a compassionate woman who loves all animals, but has a special affinity for felines. She cares for the block's stray cats, providing them with food and shelter. This initially brings her into conflict with Metin, who accuses her of turning the block into a feral cat shelter and threatens to have the animals forcibly removed.
-   _Just Shoot Me!_: Finch loves cats, and at heart he's nice (just hiding it under lots of obnoxious personality traits).
-   Q of _Impractical Jokers_ has three cats and sees no problem in him living alone with his furbabies when the others tease him about it.

    Puppet Shows 

-   Topo Gigio is an Italian franchise about a friendly well-mannered and loving Nice Mouse, and he has a conveniently proportionally sized pet cat.

    Radio 

-   Never exactly "kind", but Ed of _Ed Reardon's Week_ reserves his minuscule portion of the caring instinct for his cat, which allows the audience glimpses of a fairly decent acceptable human being beneath all the snark. And gleeful misanthropy. And general jerkassery.
-   The Man in the Shack in _The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (1978)_, who refuses to believe he rules the universe because he has no evidence the universe exists, is a generally pleasant person once he's been persuaded to temporarily accept your existence, and makes a point of being kind to his cat. Zarniwoop seizes on this as evidence that he believes in _something_, but the Man simply replies that it makes him happy to behave a certain way to something he thinks may be a cat.

    Theatre 

-   Averted In _The Lieutenant of Inishmore:_ Irish terrorist Mad Padraic loves his cat Wee Thomas, and when he comes home from a spot of torture and murder to find out that Wee Thomas has been run over, he does not take it well.
    -   Mairead also has a soft spot for cats and her cat Sir Roger in particular. She is, however, the only person in the cast who can outdo Padraic in the "homicidal lunacy" department, and spent time "protesting against the meat industry" by shooting the eyes out of cows with an air rifle.

    Video Games 

-   _The Binding of Isaac_ has Isaac himself writing a will to his cat Guppy whenever the player gets a game over, donating all of his items to his beloved late cat. If the player grabs certain items, Isaac can even _transform_ into Guppy.
-   _BlazBlue_:
    -   Ragna the Bloodedge wields the mighty Azure Grimoire, is known far and wide as the Grim Reaper, has the world's largest bounty on his head, and is considered an SS-class criminal by the NOL...but he just loves cats, and cats seem to love him too if his interaction with Taokaka and the Kaka kitties are any indication. In fact, his young self's reaction upon meeting his future sensei Jubei (a character based on the Nekomata aka cat spirits) is... "YOU'RE A KITTY! A BIG KITTY!"
    -   And even moreso Litchi Faye-Ling. Despite obsessing over saving her partner Arakune, she still finds time to protect the Kaka clan from his threat and even teaches the not-so-blessed-in-intelligence cats, and the kitties, Taokaka included, love her very much. In a redeeming point in her Face–Heel Turn, one of the things she remembered before making the heavy decision was the fun times with Taokaka.
    -   While Bang Shishigami doesn't interact with the Kaka clan as much as Litchi does, Tao is one of his regular contacts and he has taken her in as an apprentice, often sparring with her if the match intros are to be trusted. This trend continues into their journey to Ikaruga.
-   _Chrono Trigger_: Although a slightly milder example than most, Crono has a pet cat, and has the opportunity to win another (they themselves will either breed or run away, depending on if you regularly take time to win cat food for them). You can have _at least_ ten by the ending depending on how well you play this.
    -   Crono's mother also implies through dialogue that she doesn't enjoy looking after the cat(s) — it's her son's job.
    -   An early side-task also has you return a cat to its owner — which itself determines the jury's view of you when you go on trial later.
    -   In 12,000 BCE, Janus holds himself above everyone... except for his cat, Alfador. And when Janus returns to that time as Magus, the cat _still_ recognizes him and follows him around.
-   _Cyberpunk 2077_: V is implied to be fond of cats. They can adopt a stray cat that lives near their apartment, and when Takemura notices a stray cat in the mission "Gimmie Danger", V can answer with excitement that it's a "fine feline". Adds another layer of meaning to their relationship with Johnny Silverhand, who himself has a cat motif.
-   Felicia of _Darkstalkers_ is this for obvious reasons as she is a cat herself.
-   Anders of _Dragon Age: Origins – Awakening_ has a fondness for kittens. The player can even give one to him as a pet, who he names Ser Pounce-A-Lot and carries into battle (where it can actually revive the entire party should a Party Wipe happen). Unfortunately he was forced to give up his kitten between _Awakening_ and the sequel, though he still has a big soft spot for them. Eventually subverted; Anders starts out kindhearted, but becomes more and more ruthless as the sequel progresses...
-   _Final Fantasy_:
    -   _Final Fantasy: The 4 Heroes of Light_ has Rekoteh, one of the temporary party members. She has a cat plushie and a cat-shaped carpet in her room and instantly adopts the black cat that Jusqua brought to Invidia mistakenly thinking it was Aire. She'll also turn into a cat when the Transform Staff is used on her—it emphasizes that she's kept her kind heart while everyone else in town has been embittered by their endless winter.
    -   _Final Fantasy XV_: Noctis and the rest of the Chocobros have a incredibly sweet little side-quest which has them feed a cute siamese while on an important diplomatic mission, which no one objects to. Beware readers, Cuteness Proximity Overload.
-   _Fire Emblem_:
    -   Cormag from _Fire Emblem: The Sacred Stones_, according to his supports with Natasha. He once found an injured kitty who barely survived the battle he and his group had been in, took him as his pet, and asked the aforementioned White Magician Girl to heal his injuries. Later, he helped said kitten get reunited with his still-living mother.
    -   In _Fire Emblem: Awakening_, Henry is really... weird but ultimately kind-hearted, and he loves animals of all kinds. While he bonds more with Creepy Crows, he specifically says that he loves playing hide-and-seek with cats, especially a black kitty that's said to hang around in the Barracks.
    -   In _Fire Emblem Echoes: Shadows of Valentia_, _both_ Alm and Celica are seen cooing and fawning over every single kitty cat that shows up in their travels. Plus, one of Alm's companions, the very socially awkward mage Luthier, tells Alm in one of their base talks that he never got on well with humans but had a close relationship with a cat in his village.
-   _Fran Bow_: Fran herself. One of her closest companions is her little black kitty, Mr. Midnight, who calls her "my dear" and always makes sure to tell her he loves her. Awww.
-   Yomiel in _Ghost Trick_. His cat is literally the only friend he has. Of course, the "kind-hearted" bit applies _only_ to his cat. Luckily, the cat is considerably nicer.
-   _Granblue Fantasy_ has Dante. He brings a huge pack of cats with him onto the Grandcypher, and a gameplay gimmick for his SR version is that the happier his cats are, the stronger he becomes. He also shares a cross-fate episode with Sen, the most distinctly cat-like of the playable Erunes. The event "The Daily Lives of Cats" shows that his cats in return are deeply loyal to him and the crew.
-   _Guild Wars 2_: Your character can easily turn into one of these if you're playing the side quest that involves feeding cats around Tyria (who then move into your home instance). As of Living World Season 3, this is _canon_ — a rescued golem moves in with the Commander and takes care of the cats.
-   In one of the overworld conversations Ellie can have with her girlfriend, Dina in _The Last of Us Part II_, Dina mentions how she used to take care of two stray cats who lived near her old home in Arizona.
-   In _The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess_, we have both Telma and her cat Louise and Impaz with her dozens of playful, friendly kitties. Link himself can pick up and carry less shy cats around, and even plays a minigame with some of Impaz's.
-   _Light Fairytale_: Haru is affectionate towards cats and goes as far as to defy a soldier who attempted to poach one. He also takes an immediate liking to Miyu, a catgirl.
-   _Love Plus_: The normally quiet and distant Rinko Kobayakawa becomes _a lot_ more talkative when the player learns of her love of cats. It's the first sign that she's not as cold as she tries to appear.
-   Vayne from _Mana Khemia_ never goes anywhere without his cat Sulpher, who even starts circling his legs in an adorable idle animation if you leave him alone. To be fair, though, his bond with Sulpher is a bit more complicated than most. He also can have a more-than-just-friends relationship with catgirl student, Nikki, and will even marry her in her ending, resulting in a LOT of kids. Roxis, meanwhile, can be found having adopted a kitten and baby-talking to it in a scene you can see while walking around the school grounds, but he'd never actually admit it to your face.
-   _Mitsumete Knight_ has Laury Callwell, Gene Petromolla (who's a Friend to All Living Things in general) and, to the surprise of the players, Sam Burston. They're all linked by an interesting event: Laury first finds three abandoned kittens she decides to adopt and names them. Later, if you have Gene in your girl roster and have a good relationship with both Laury and Gene, Laury will lose the kitten and you can offer to search for them for her. You'll have two possible leads : Go ask Gene, or go ask the local punks. Choosing the first option will net you a special CG, where Gene has found the kitten, and, after explaining the situation, will agree to give them back, albeit with a sad face; choosing the second one will allow you to see an unknown kind side of Sam (who's normally in antagonistic ways with the main protagonist), and he too will give the kitten back.
-   _Office Jerk_: Both the Jerk and Zombie show are apparently this in both this game and its Spin-Off _Office Zombie_. The Jerk has a picture of himself with a cat and will occasionally "pet" the cat. The Zombie does the same, saying "Kitty..."
-   _Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan_: Kai Doumeki, the tough, rugged, intimidating leader of the Yuuhi Town Ouendan is implied to be one of these in the second game, as he's seen hugging a cat at the end of the tutorial after it was chased by a dog. In the main menu, he's even seen ordering two of the other squad members to cheer on the same cat as it takes a nap.
    -   Cats show up frequently in both games (and in their Westernized counterpart _Elite Beat Agents_) and most of the characters are unfailingly kind to them (except of course to a giant kaiju-sized cat that tries to destroy Tokyo in the second game).
-   _Persona_:
    -   Katsuya Suou of _Persona 2 Eternal Punishment_ isn't a grouch by any means, but he's quite stern. In addition to being a sucker for baking cakes, he also adores cats. If Eriko Kirishima is the fifth party member midway through the game, the party will find a black cat in a TV Studio and Katsuya finds it adorable. His initial Persona, Helios, resembles a black cat wearing 19th-century dress.
    -   The protagonist of _Persona 4_ seems to have shades of this. If the player completes one quest to feed a stray cat, the protagonist will request himself to continue feeding it. Also, there's the option to spend the _entire afternoon_ just petting a cat.
    -   One of the earliest indications in _Persona 5_ that the protagonist's guardian Sojiro Sakura is a good person is how much he clearly loves cats. When the protagonist brings Morgana home, Sojiro tries to act like he doesn't want him around, but quickly brings food for the cat and is disappointed when he doesn't get to name him.
-   _Raidou Kuzunoha vs. The Soulless Army_: The owner of the Shin-Sekai soda joint takes in cats that are in front of his store. You have to spend enough money there to find out, though.
-   In _The Sims_, we get Ginia Kat with her four cats in _The Sims Unleashed_ who is sweet but on the shy side and loves to write children's books in her free time. Tara Kat in _The Sims 2 Pets_ wishes to open a pet store to help precious kitties find loving homes. And Catarina Lynx in _The Sims 4 Cats and Dogs_ who can't turn down a poor stray cat. _The Sims 3 Pets_ gives a more straight example of the Crazy Cat Lady trope with Hetty Lionheart however as she's highly disliked by everyone in town.
-   _Spider-Man: Miles Morales_ has the rough around the edges but kind at heart Bodega owner Teo Álvarez who has a cat he's named after Spider-Man (albeit he takes some warming up to Spider-Man II as he preferred Spidey I). His cat gets petnapped by the Kingpin's mooks during a raid on Teo's Bodega & Miles has to rescue the kitty. Teo later shelters his neighbours during a major fight hitting Harlem.
-   _Street Fighter_:
    -   At the start of his story in _Super Street Fighter IV_, Abel is shown befriending a stray cat.
    -   Cammy White is a highly-trained Delta Red Agent and former assassin but melts at the sight of a cat as she adores them. In _Super Street Fighter IV_, it turns out to be quite important: in the prologue, Cammy is shown to be friends already with a cute cream-colored cat... and in her ending, she brings it as a gift to her fellow ex-Doll and sort-of adoptive sister Juni, who is hospitalized. The girl's reaction to the kitty, proof that she's getting better from her ordeals as a Brainwashed and Crazy bodyguard babe. _Street Fighter 6_ shows off more of Cammy's love of cats. On the character select screen in Fighting Grounds mode, she is seen admiring a cat while highlighted. Her victory pose when having high HP has her pet cat come to congratulate her. In World Tour mode, her instant messenger icon is a cartoon cat version of herself, and one of her sidequests tasks you with taking pictures of cats.
-   _Sunless Skies_: The Felined Eccentric is a lovely person with three incredibly evil pet cats that she's inseparable from. It turns out they aren't cats, and she didn't use to be so nice. She became how she is now after being imprisoned in Piranesi and the "cats" are actually aspects of her personality that refuse to go away. Her whole questline involves getting rid of them.
-   _Tales of Xillia 2_: Both Ludger and his older half-brother Julius really like their chubby cat Lulu. The former even brings him along on his entire journey instead of leaving him at home, (which manifests itself as a gameplay mechanic, allowing you to send Lulu out to gather items for you).
-   _Tekken 5_: Asuka Kazama is the niece of two of the game's heroes, great-niece of the main villain, and cousin of the current protagonist, so badass is in her blood. She's also a Bully Hunter and in the game's intro she rescues a Cat Up a Tree.
-   _WarioWare_: Jimmy T., as first shown in _Wario Waref Smooth Moves_ where he gives a cat an umbrella when its raining and then dances with a whole _crowd_ of cats for his section. It's brought up again in _WarioWare Gold_ where he lets a cat hang out in his afro.
-   _The World Ends with You_: Shiki Misaki fights with a stuffed cat she made herself, so she's most likely a fan of kitties.
-   _Rumble! @ the Campus_:
    -   Kiyo Tsukino has two pet cats, Yo and Ki.
    -   Hotaru Katsuragi has also shown a soft spot towards cats, but it seems like all living things are afraid of her Evil Laugh, and that includes the kitties.
    -   Almost all Japanese characters in this game: Megumi, Akane, even the Shirogane Family!

    Visual Novels 

-   Misae Sagara in _CLANNAD_ has a pet cat that lives in her dorm. Tomoya is frequently seen playing with it when he visits Youhei. Cats are also Nagisa's favorite animal.
-   In _Heart of the Woods_, all four of the main characters are good people at heart who love cats. Madison and Tara have a cat named BT, Morgan has a cat named Geladura, and while Abigail doesn't have any pets, she has an affinity for animals and hits it off well with BT in the ending in which Morgan dies. Contrast Evelyn, a Jerkass who hates Geladura.
-   _Ikemen Sengoku_:
    -   Mitsunari, easily the sweetest character in the game, has a pet cat named Kitty.
    -   Kennyo saving a stray cat in one route is an indicator that he's not as irredeemably evil as he passes himself off as.
-   _Little Busters!_: The main heroine Rin might have No Social Skills, but the way she treats the many, many cats who crowd around her more than demonstrates her inner good nature.
-   Becca in _Melody_ fits the bill to a "t."
-   Jumin in _Mystic Messenger_ dotes on his pet cat Elizabeth the 3rd, one of the few creatures capable of bringing out his softer side. This trait of his becomes deconstructed on his route, however, where he realizes that he's been unhealthily using her as a substitute for an actual relationship with another human and acting as if she could fully understand and empathize with his emotions when in fact she's just a cat.
-   Kaoru Kirishima in _Our Two Bedroom Story_ seems cold and standoffish, and has trouble communicating with people, but he loves cats. His affection for his cat Tama is the earliest sign that he's not simply an unfeeling jerk.

-   _Tokimeki Memorial_: Megumi Mikihara is rather a Friend to All Living Things, but in one of her Events, she finds abandoned kittens in a cardboard box under a snowy night, and decides to take them in and take care of them until she finds kind new owners for them. It's also the basis of her scenario in _Tokimeki Memorial Taisen Tokkae Tama_ (one of the two Puzzle Game spin-offs of the game).
    -   _Tokimeki Memorial 2_ has two of them, Miyuki Kotobuki and Kaori Yae. Of special note, Kaori doesn't like dogs on the other hand.
-   _True Love Junai Monogatari_:
    -   The Player Character can be this if he takes a stray cat in despite how his apartment building doesn't allow pets... The cat turns out to be pretty... special.
    -   One of the potential girlfriends, Arisa, is implied to be this. When she plays a game where the Big Bad is a cat, she feels _terrible_ after defeating him.
-   _Umineko: When They Cry_: Willard H. Wright owns a cat named Diana who he's very fond of.

    Webcomics 

-   Yun-lee and Dong-whi from _Nineteen, Twenty-One_. Their love for cats is what got them together.
-   Judy the gorilla from _The Adventures of Dr. McNinja_. A recent chapter was called "Judy Gets a Kitten" and involved... Judy getting a kitten. Yoshi the dinosaur tried to eat the kitten, but it survived. It's sporting an eyepatch.
-   _Freaking Romance_: Both Zelan and Zylith love cats, especially Zylith's cat, Mr. Purrfect.
-   It's more accurate to say that Krosp from _Girl Genius_ is a cat who's a kindhearted _human_\-lover. He may be the King of Cats, but he has a strong allegiance with Agatha and is one of the first friends she made on board Castle Wulfenbach.
-   The title character of _Harpy Gee_ is almost inseparable from her pet goblin-cat Pumpkin.
-   _Homestuck_:
    -   Not only is Nepeta's Lusus a cat, but she basically emulates cats in every aspect of her life. She also happens to be the nicest troll in the series (so far).
    -   Roxy and Rose Lalonde are also kind-hearted girls with an association with cats; in Roxy's case she has cloned many FRIENDLY MUTANT KITTENS, and Rose's game sprite is based on her childhood cat Jaspers.
-   _I Love Yoo_: Even when Shin-Ae can barely feed herself, she still buys food for her cat. When she gets a bit more money than usual, she buys him salmon.
-   _Insecticomics_:
    -   Blackout loves to collect scorpion-bots (in toy form, that's continued incarnations of movie Scorponok). Since the scorpions purr when scritched, cluster around ankles, and are generally adorable, they might as well be cats with a fondness for toe-pinching.
        
        **Arcee:** How many scorpions do you _need_?  
        **Blackout:** _All of them!_
        
    -   Liege Fabulo is also "an insect person".
-   Cat Master the demon from _Kill Six Billion Demons_, the "Professional Obstacle Remover" of the Caper Crew in the third book. As his name implies he associates with cats, to the point that people in his regular haunts avoid approaching cats because a cat being present means he might be lurking around. He even brings a grey cat along with him on the caper and makes sure it stays safe through all the traps and fighting. He's also one of the only devils in the crew who never backstabs anyone and makes it through to the end in one piece.
-   Jiwon of _Marry My Husband_ loves cats. She tried to help a small cat when she was in college which ended up being Pang. In the first timeline, her smart phone wallpaper showed her with a different cat smiling.
-   Belkar Bitterleaf of _The Order of the Stick_ is _far_ from kindhearted under usual circumstances, being Chaotic Evil, Ax-Crazy, and an all-around Sociopathic Hero with little of the "Heroic" part. However, he genuinely likes Mr. Scruffy, the late Lord Shojo's Right-Hand Cat, and caring for him has led to numerous Pet the Dog moments as part of his real/fake Character Development.
-   The jailer and the doctor from _Papi Nyang_.
-   Yuudai from _Sakana_, perhaps surprisingly. He owns a cat named Hime, which is pretty much his Only Friend.
-   _Sister Claire_'s eponymous character.
-   _Stand Still, Stay Silent_: The comic's After the End society is extremely reliant on Evil Detecting Cats, so most humans can be assumed to be on good terms with them. Most of the families seen in the Distant Prologue have a cat with them and are the ancestors of the main characters, which suggests being this trope helped a lot with surviving the Zombie Apocalypse in the first place.
-   One of the first things you see Orrick doing in _Undead Friend_ is making himself late for school by stopping to take home a stray cat in a box he found, showing the audience the sort of person he is.
-   Even the KillTron 5000, mentioned in this _VG Cats_ comic, who hates all known beings in the universe, has a special place in his robot heart for cats.
-   In _Wapsi Square_, Amanda taking in a stray cat showed that she was starting to become slightly less cynical.
-   _Weak Hero_:
    -   On his way back home in the pouring rain, Teddy comes across a poor little kitten in a cardboard shelter. He feeds it, takes it home, and eventually adopts it as his pet, which is the biggest showing of his secret soft side. Afterwards, he's often seen reading books and magazines about cats and always makes sure to leave out food for the cat he finds hanging around school.
    -   The kitten's cardboard shelter mentioned above is revealed to be Eugene's doing, and he was off buying food for the poor thing when Teddy came across it. After Teddy adopts the cat, Eugene frequently checks up on it.
-   Ronnie from _Whomp!_, to the point that he calls himself a monster for accidentally disturbing the sleep of one of his cats as he tried to get into bed (with 3 laying on the covers).
-   Coco from _Zoo Academy_ is not only a cat lover but a cat himself!

    Web Original 

-   In _Break Quest Club_, party member Etain is a fan of cats and owns Pangur Ban (Pan for short). She takes something of a dislike to Goodbad the Badgood, the barbarian, after he (ashamedly) admits that he ate a cat, although in fairness to him he's trying to atone for it.
-   Brad Jones of The Cinema Snob fame loves his cats. Even if he's ranting, he pauses to pet them and speaks to them in a very gentle tone of voice. They provide cute comic relief and Funny Background Event moments throughout the series.
    -   There was one moment where O.O.C. Is Serious Business kicked in when during his review of _Elves_, the main character's stepmother kills her cat, resulting in Brad dropping character and outright snarling "I'd kill her, I'd **FUCKING** kill her."
-   The Let's Player raocow is a MASSIVE cat lover, to the point where he refused to kill the cat enemies in his Let's Play of _Clarence's Big Chance_.
-   Another LPer with this trait is HC Bailly. He took the time to win the maximum amount of cats you could own in _Chrono Trigger_.
-   Chuggaaconroy has had a few cats named after video game characters. One of them was Teddy from _EarthBound Beginnings_ who passed away in 2016 and the other is Kirby, both that he has taken a few silly pictures with. And in his Pokemon Emerald Let's Play, he named his Slakoth, Teddy.
-   James Rolfe, AKA The Angry Video Game Nerd, has two cats, Yeti and Boo, who he takes time to show off in his vlog where he temporarily moves to California.
-   LittleKuriboh has owned several cats at various points which his love for is shown via Twitter.
-   _The Lizzie Bennet Diaries_: In a meta-joke and Mythology Gag, the youngest Bennet daughter Lydia has a cat called Kitty that follows her everywhere — Catherine "Kitty" Bennet was Lydia's elder sister in the novel who really followed Lydia everywhere to a fault. She shot one cute vlog entry talking to Kitty about how to help out her cousin Mary, and Kitty also had a Twitter account.
-   This is arguably the one redeeming trait of Hank J. Wimbledon of the _Madness Combat_ series. Per Krinkels, if cats existed in this version of Nevada, Hank would go out of his way to pet them, making them the one thing on the planet he doesn't have at least a token interest in killing.
-   Sofie Liv of Movie Dorkness owns a fat cat named 'Piv'. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   A capella cover artist Smooth McGroove is by all accounts a nice man whose videos regularly feature his dulcet vocal stylings, his awe-inspiring facial hair, and prominent cameos by Charl, his extremely laid-back black cat.
-   Several of the _Game Grumps_ own cats and positively fawn over them, especially when they find them in games. Ross goes so far as to make his _The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim_ character a black Khajiit modeled after his own pet cat, Orpheus.
-   Claire of _Kittisaurus_ had seven cats until 2020, when she took in three more (a mom and her kittens she was initially fostering).
-   Many of the Yogscast have cats, but there has to be special mention for Nilesy, who built a Cat Train around his and Hannah's Minecraft base. Hannah is also a cat lover, particularly where big cats are concerned.
    -   Also Martyn - his cats Kiki and Pascal even got to guest star in an episode of his Tomodachi Life series.
    -   Subverted by Duncan, who was really excited to get his in-game cat Tiddles in his Minecraft series with Kim, but his care for it... let's just say there's been several Tiddleses.
    -   William Strife is a cat lover. He's had at least one, which sadly died in 2014.
    -   Zoey Proasheck also lost her beloved cat in early 2015.
-   Several members of Rooster Teeth are known to be very fond of cats. Examples include Lindsay Jones, Miles Luna and Gavin Free. For a while, Burnie Burns would bring his tabby, Joe the Cat to the office, and people could frequently be seen on the podcast playing with him and petting him.
    -   Between the members of Achievement Hunter, they have collectively adopted _17_ cats and often mention them in podcasts and recordings. Jack Pattillo and Gavin Free each have four, Jeremy Dooley has _five_, Matt Bragg and BlackKrystel each have one, and Lindsay and Michael Jones have two. During their streams and recordings from home during the COVID-19 pandemic, their cats can be seen wandering on screen looking for attention or sleeping behind them in their facecams.
-   In _Twig_, during Friendly Sniper Sanguine's Villain Episode, he saves a cat from a genetically modified spider, noting that he'd always wanted a cat to sit on his lap between kills.
-   _Daisy Brown_ loves cats, and in one vlog comes across one named Strawberry. She also mentions that cats are her favorite animal.
-   Ellen Rose of _Outside Xbox_ loves all cute animals but is particularly affectionate towards cats. At one point, during a sort of "two lies and a truth" thing, the first one proposed is that Ellen was once late for school because she lost track of time while petting a cat<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . Her teammate Luke's reaction is telling:
    
    **Luke:** I mean, I _will_ hear the other ones, just in case.  
    \[later\] **Luke:** Ellen has told me about literally every cat she's ever met.
    
-   Lewis Lovhaug adopted two cats named Starfire and Chieri. They frequently appear in his live streaming sessions to his audience's delight and he keeps in his reviews the shots where his cats walk into the frame.
-   One submitter on _Not Always Friendly_ is approached by a stray with a matted coat and immediately gives it a full-body brush and trim, the cat continuing to snuggle and purr the whole time. The submitter concludes that the cat must have somehow sensed they were a cat lover and would help it.
-   The staff of an animal shelter on _Not Always Right_ are anxious about a kind cat lady adopting the shelter's most aggressive stray tom, "One-Eyed Willy". They fear that while well-meaning, she doesn't know what she's doing and will undo what little progress they've made in rehabilitating him. Three weeks later, they're proven wrong when "Creampuff" returns for a medical appointment, sweet as his new name. The comments suggest that Willy/Creampuff needed individual attention and was stressed by the other shelter cats.
-   Doug Walker adopted two cats - Chaplin and Buster. His colleague Tamara Chambers has two cats - Ike and Wendy - who feature prominently in _Tamara's Never Seen_.
-   Alex Day of FailRace has several cats, a few of whom frequently pester him while he's recording, and who have all been featured in a few videos. Every year around Christmas he brings out a Scalextric track so they can chase or swat at the cars for a bit.
-   StephenPlays adopted two kittens in 2012, Sagan and Kepler (with the former passing away in 2020).
-   While their furry child gives them a hard time during streams and his outdoor adventures, it's clear that ProtonJon and Lucahjin adore their one-eyed tabby Bagel.

    Western Animation 

-   In _The Animals of Farthing Wood_, The Warden, as well as being a force of good for the wild animals, also looks after his pet cat.
-   Lydia in _Beetlejuice_ loves her pet cat Percy to the point she risks her life to rescue it if endangered. Beetlejuice as a Jerk with a Heart of Gold fakes caring for the cat only because he cares for Lydia, but some episodes hinted that he secretly likes Percy.
-   On _Big City Greens_, Tilly is fond of animals in general, but she seems to have a particular affinity towards cats. This is prominently demonstrated in the episode "Forbidden Feline" and the shorts "Tilly's Cats" and "Secret Cat" - all of which revolve around Tilly befriending various cats.
-   Dan from _Dan Vs._ is an interesting subversion of this trope. On the one hand, he is the show's protagonist, but on the other hand, he is _dangerously_ unstable and possesses a Hair-Trigger Temper. His cat Mr. Mumbles is his literal Morality Pet and the only thing that can get him to stop a revenge scheme.
-   _Disney_:
    -   Goofy in _Goof Troop_ has Waffles, resulting in this trope being filled by an anthropomorphic dog. Later, in one _House of Mouse_ short and _Mickey Mouse Clubhouse_, he has Mr. Pettibone.
    -   Minnie Mouse has Figaro the kitten from _Pinocchio_ (see Film: Animation) above after he started appearing in shorts. That's right, a kitten is owned by an anthropomorphic mouse!
-   On _Doc McStuffins_, Lambie, already a cute stuffed lamb who wants to give everyone a cuddle, becomes this in the _Pet Vet_ installment "Smitten With a Kitten" when she adopts Whispers, an adorable but skittish pink toy kitten.
-   _He-Man and the Masters of the Universe (1983)_: It should be noted that He-Man, the main hero, really loves his pet tiger Cringer. Of course it helps that Cringer can turn into a pretty awesome Battlecat.
-   This is how Ryan Adams is portrayed in _Hey Joel_. He wrote an entire album for his dead cat Wiskers and even thinks the song "Mandy" was about a dog.
-   Mrs. Hasigawa from _Lilo & Stitch: The Series_ combines this with a touch of Crazy Cat Lady. Or at least, from _her_ perspective — her "cats" are actually superpowered alien genetic experiments, but she's too blind and/or senile to notice.
-   _Metalocalypse_:
-   _Mr Krbec and his Animals_: Mr Krbec's first animal is a tomcat named Kokesh. Mr Krbec is a kindly, elderly man, while Kokesh is a bit grumpy and mischievous.
-   In _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_, Rarity adores her cat Opalescence, despite the fact that anytime she gets near her, she tries to swat her.
-   _The Owl House_: Post-Heel–Face Turn, Amity gets a white cat named Ghost as a Palisman, which she clearly loves dearly. Fanon often depicts her as an full-blown cat lover who displays a lot of feline behaviours herself.
-   _PAW Patrol_: Ironically for a dog, Rubble loves to play with kittens.
-   _Postman Pat_ is always accompanied by his black and white cat, Jess, who later got his own Spin-Off series.
-   _The Real Ghostbusters_:
    -   Egon in the Baby Morph Episode when he is de-aged is shown to distract from his job of setting up the trap for a ghost by hugging a stray kitten. In other episodes (almost all episodes with witches involved) cats seem to follow him or like him for some reason (might be the fact that he comes from a family of wizards). He (albeit in his generally emotionless way to be) is in general kind to all animals including a dragon.
    -   Slimer is shown to be similarly kind to cats, particularly an episode with a friendly witch’s cat (familiar) that he takes care of until the witch finds him.
-   In an episode of _Regular Show_, Benson catches his employees using the computer to watch funny videos instead of the business purposes it's meant for. He's about to write them up, but Mordecai and Rigby turn on a cat video. Benson ends up forgetting all about the write-up and ends up gleefully watching cat videos.
-   _The Simpsons_:
    -   When Homer tells his crew to think of their loved ones in "Simpson Tide", Moe thinks of his cat Mr. Snookums.
    -   While Lisa Simpson has her occasional Jerkass Ball moments, she is often portrayed as one of the most caring characters of the series, and she is very fond of cats.
-   The _South Park_ episode "Major Boobage" was somewhat bizarre for turning Cartman into this, serving as the one time in about ten years that one of his many, _many_ Pet the Dog moments _didn't_ turn out to be fake or manipulative. Well, he did have Kitty early in the show's run and refused to let Stan and Kyle put firecrackers up his butt.
-   _SpongeBob SquarePants_: The title character owns Gary, who is a snail, which appears to be the underwater equivalent of a cat in the show.
-   _Strawberry Shortcake_ usually has a cat named Custard as her pet.
-   Dr Orpheus in _The Venture Brothers_ is a necromancer who owns a black cat named Simba. He's kind and patient with her even when she's being a nuisance, just like he is with almost all of the humans he knows.

___