_"He's an absolutely awful human being. The strange thing about comedy is that if an awful character makes people laugh, people feel affectionate towards him. It's insane because if they had to sit next to him for five minutes at a dinner, they would absolutely not be able to cope with him. They would loathe him. But because he makes them laugh, they think, deep down, he's alright."_

Villains can be many things... magnificent, horrific, self-obsessed, philosophical and even sympathetic... but special attention goes to the villain that makes you laugh. It might be because they’re an idiot, it might be that you empathize with them, it might be because they’re quick with a quip, or it might be simply that their actions are so unexpected. In any case, some villains will always be funny.

Of course, funny does not always equal weak. Praise be to the villain who can cause a chuckle from the audience, right before viciously thwarting the hero's best efforts. In fact, if done correctly, the very things that make a villain qualify can make them downright disturbing once they begin crossing the Moral Event Horizon. Villain laughing at faking someone out with a gun with a "BANG!" flag coming out? Funny. Same villain doing the exact same laugh when shooting them for real a few seconds later? _Creepy._ A truly well written one can manage to pull off both at once. See the trope picture for an excellent example of this subtype. Just because a character qualifies, it does not prevent them from being completely evil and there are many villains that manage to be both (again, see the page image). In these cases, what makes them funny also makes them _very_ unsettling because of how much fun they have committing the most horrific acts possible.

Often overlaps with the Harmless Villain (Harmless Villains are inherently funny, but funny villains are not inherently harmless), Affably Evil, Faux Affably Evil (who are often funny), Love to Hate, the Ineffectual Sympathetic Villain and Magnificent Bastard. And with Evil Is Hammy (playing a villain seems to be very fun). It's also a prerequisite for the Bumbling Henchmen Duo, the Terrible Trio and the Quirky Miniboss Squad. Interestingly, this either subverts or complements Evil Has a Bad Sense of Humor, as does Too Funny to Be Evil, a closely related sister trope. Tends to be the sort who Crosses the Line Twice. See also Laugh with Me! and Beware the Silly Ones. A villain who is laughably evil need not have an Evil Laugh, though it can help. Alternatively, they may have an Un-Evil Laugh. A particularly Card-Carrying Villain with emphasis put on the comical aspects of their "Bad Is Good and Good Is Bad" morality can very easily turn into a Laughably Evil villain.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   Jason Beck from _The Big O_. When he's not being an egotistical fop, he's actually frighteningly competent. Too bad this is overshadowed by his over the top hubris, which pushes him firmly into the "Laughably" part of this trope.
-   _Dragon Ball_:
    -   Most of the villains of early _Dragon Ball_ are like this. Such villains include General Blue, who is utterly hilarious in personality (and also Camp Gay) but also a very deadly opponent, and Emperor Pilaf, who has no idea what he's doing.
    -   The Ginyu Force from _Dragon Ball Z_ are Frieza's top soldiers, and regularly lay waste to entire planets, and give the heroes the beating of their lives. They're also the definitive Quirky Miniboss Squad, who punctuate their beatdowns with well-rehearsed Super Sentai poses and play Rock–Paper–Scissors to decide who gets to fight when.
    -   Majin Buu, especially in his Fat Buu form, where his antics and are so childish, goofy, and cartoonish that you almost forget that his "games" are killing millions of people, at least until the Establishing Shot of the barren wasteland where a thriving city used to be. Unlike others, he honestly _doesn't_ know what he's doing is wrong (at least as Fat Buu), and Mr Satan manages to single-handedly convert him to good.
    -   Beerus from _Dragon Ball Z: Battle of Gods_, for a certain value of "evil". He's a goofy cat-god who loves gorging on food, and also happens to want to blow up Earth for petty reasons.
-   The Team Rocket trio from _Pokémon: The Series_ are this, which is the reason why they are so popular. At least until _Best Wishes_, when their boss gives them an actual serious assignment. Once that season was concluded, they soon reverted to their original goofy antics.
-   Tobi from _Naruto_ was this at first. Then he decided to stop fucking around.
    -   Then we got Hidan. A psycho priest who laughs every time he kills his opponents. How he does it is gruesome but it's his interactions with everyone tend to be hilarious despite the situations of some of them.
    -   And to an ever so slightly less milder version of this trope, we got Deidara. He is also a bit crude in his methods as well, but he has his entertaining moments generously sprinkled in the series.
-   Dedede in _Kirby: Right Back at Ya!_. He's more evil than his game counterpart, but also one of the most entertaining characters on the show.
-   _One Piece_:
    -   A number of villains are various shades of doof, such as Buggy the Clown, a Villainous Harlequin who's (violently) sensitive about his nose, Spandam, who alternately kicks the dog in new and horrible ways and makes himself look like an idiot, and Doflamingo, a vicious crime lord who likes wearing a pink feathery cape and is nicknamed "Doffy".
    -   On the opposite side of the power spectrum is Kaku. The second most powerful member of Cipher Pol 9, he can transform into a giraffe. No, you didn't misread that. He can transform into an actual giraffe. Even better, he can transform into a half-man/half-giraffe. One that keeps his trademark square nose. He sincerely believes giraffes to be powerful creatures and during his fight with Zoro was prone to defending them by saying such things as "Witness the power of a giraffe!". Though that _could_ be part-denial since everyone keeps mocking him for his powers. Oh, and he uses his nose as a weapon. Any animal that can kick a full-grown lion ass-over-appetite _is_ powerful, even if their goofy build and lack of vocalizations in the range of human hearing obscures that fact. What makes the fight even funnier is that Kaku has just eaten his Devil Fruit, and is figuring its powers out as he goes along (bear in mind that many Devil Fruit users have to spend _years_ learning their powers; for example, flashbacks show that when Luffy ate the Gum Gum Fruit, he had to go through quite a bit of training before he could even throw a proper punch). The funny moment comes when he discovers the aforementioned "shorten neck to extend arms and legs" move, reasons that it works on the same principle as a pasta machine, then names the move "Pasta Machine." Also in his favor is that, despite being a government agent, he's a pretty chill guy, even giving a good-natured laugh to a post-battle quip from one of the heroes.
    -   Blackbeard introduces himself getting into an eating contest with Luffy, before becoming one of the Four Emperors.
    -   Big Mom is a real threat and most of her problems are played for drama, but the lengths her Sweet Tooth goes (she even named most of her children after various confections) often add levity to her arc.
    -   The final emperor, Kaido, is mostly a Knight of Cerebus... but he's also The Alcoholic and a hilariously destructive drunk.
    -   Kaido's subordinate Queen engineers biological weapons and is actively abusive to his underlings, but is also a round and hammy man who describes himself as "funky" and is introduced with a dance number.
-   Mara from _Ah! My Goddess_. She takes time out of her busy day tormenting goddesses and attempting world conquest in order to _knock a child's ice cream cone_ out of his hands to fulfill a snide wish by his sister. A truly admirable commitment to evil on any scale. For those who are wondering this happens in the first season of the TV series — if not in Mara's first episode, then in her first or second appearance after that. The scene in question actually makes her seem oddly like a _Disgaea_ character, laughing maniacally at her "evil deed" and resulting in both of the kids kicking her in the shin simultaneously and high-tailing it, to her angry surprise.
-   Baki and Minki from _Hell Teacher Nube_. They're (nominally) evil, powerful, hugely destructive Oni, but the former _adores_ ice cream, toys, and riding around on the little kids' train in the park, and the latter has some _bizarre_ notions of what a good big brother/little sister relationship should be like.
-   Gates of _Full Metal Panic!: The Second Raid_ is so over-the-top with his Chaotic Evil antics that everything he does is completely random. Despite the sadistic violence, this makes him even funnier.

-   Oda Nobunaga from the _Sengoku Basara_ anime. It's not because he's dumb. Or incompetent. Or even snarky, for that matter. It's just that he's so mind-bogglingly, skull-stompingly, baby-eatingly evil that he becomes hilariously awesome just through his very existence.
-   The various teens of _Ranma ½_ could conceivably come off as this, as opposed to Comedic Sociopathy. Not one of them (except for Kasumi, and even she made mischief on some occasions in the early manga) has done something that doesn't make them look at least partially villainous, yet these same deeds (and the regulars who generally are villains) still manage to be funny because of their attempts at evil.

-   Almost all of the Order of the Glittering Star from _Star Driver_. Their everyday personas are so over the top that you can't fully take their villain sides seriously - all of them being hammy certainly helps too.
-   _El-Hazard: The Magnificent World_: Katsuhiko Jinnai is an Evil Genius, whose antics are constantly over-the-top and the delivery of his dialog ranges from snark, to bombastic.
-   _Patlabor_: Richard Wong initially comes across as a happy-go-lucky Manchild, to the point that it'd be hard to believe he's a villain, if the series didn't remind you of it by having his glasses glint every so often... except it doesn't have the usual effect, since his mannerisms don't change in the slightest.

-   The Golden Witch Beatrice in _Umineko: When They Cry_ is aware that she is the villain of the series, and is just adoring the role. She's a Large Ham and she loves to chew the scenery, just listen to it when she talks to Battler. However, this is only in the anime, since in the original sound novels she's later revealed to be a good deal more tragic, and she isn't even the main villain in the first place.
-   Blastmon from _Digimon Fusion_ is said to be immensely powerful, but has the mind of a 5-year-old and calls the other generals by nicknames. Then he's defeated by the heroes and is reduced to a hopping head for the rest of the series. Before him, there was Etemon, an over the top rockstar monkey who's both silly, and far stronger then the last Big Bad.
-   Prince Eccentro of _Mon Colle Knights_. He's the comedian of the anime, often accompanied by a Fiery Redhead and a Cloud Cuckoo Lander as two of his followers, thus why he's so popular with fans of the show. The aforementioned Batch and Gluko are also quite comedic. Quite often at the end of many episodes, Gluko often happily stands by and adores the scenery while Batch and Eccentro get rather embarrassing moments. They even get into rather comedic situations involving Ms. Loon.
-   Laharl in _Makai Senki Disgaea_ has quite the reputation for having some rather funny moments. Also, in Episode 3, Vulcanus becomes this when he accidentally almost falls off a statue and causes it to fall, which leads to Flonne and Etna's clothing & personality swaps. When he finds Flonne sleeping with Laharl and Etna, he flips out and hits her with a This Is Unforgivable! and attempts to kill all three but accidentally falls into a clam exhibit and is unable to get out for the rest of the episode. Later, while he's still trying to get out, he knocks over the same statue again, causing clothing swaps again, this time for Laharl, Etna, Flonne, and one of the Prinnies.
-   _Fullmetal Alchemist_:
    -   Barry the Chopper is an unrepentant Serial Killer whose lunacy, hamminess, and total inability to understand normal human morality is Played for Laughs. He ends up becoming Laughably Anti-Heroic later on post Heel–Face Turn, becoming a Heroic Comedic Sociopath.
    -   Before he went all One-Winged Angel, Father had a tendency to make small, sardonic quips while horrendous battle raged all around him - usually along the lines of "Why does everybody feel the need to demolish my home?"
    -   Envy is a disgusting, malignant sadist to be certain. But they're so comically inept and mindlessly hateful that they're able to make you laugh at their absurd physical abuse and comically self-superior behavior before horrifying you by gloating about another unspeakable atrocity. And Envy has godawful fashion sense and, according to Ed, looks like a palm tree with his hair.
-   In a similar case to Barry, Ladd Russo from _Baccano!_ is a complete nutjob who loves killing just for the sake of killing. While it can be argued whether or not his actions are _intentionally_ Played for Laughs, it's hard not to enjoy watching the guy have so much fun.
-   Macine Baron from _Steam Detectives_. A bumbling collector and inventor of steam-powered robots with a hilariously overblown Austrian accent; willing to steal the robots if he feels like it. Certain robots he's got his eye on are more-or-less Steampunk Roombas. Upon being defeated by Goriki, he develops a deep affection towards "him".
-   _Sword Art Online_: For a psychopathic player killer, Vassago Casals can be somewhat humorous when interacting with his allies. He has a tendency to make Gabriel uncomfortable by calling him "bro," constantly butts heads with Critter, shows childish glee in logging into the Underworld and joining the front lines, confuses his Underworld allies with MMO terminology, and frequently makes random tension-breaking comments. In a dark twist, his goofiness is just an act to hide his monstrous nature from his fellow Glowgen mercenaries. Once he logs into the Underworld as PoH and abandons the act, his physical and psychological violence against enemies and allies alike is played for horror.
-   Jan Valentine of the Valentine Brothers assassination team from _Hellsing_, he's very sadistic and cruel and he's also hilarious, he's very foulmouthed and loves to tell disgusting stories, he also treats the assignment like a game, and in the manga long after he's been killed he shows up from time to time to break the fourth wall.
-   Jake Martinez from _Tiger & Bunny_ is basically the T&B universe's Joker. He's a Fantastically Racist terrorist, a serial killer, a kidnapper, a mercenary and an all around egotistical asshole who's threatening despite his... questionable wardrobe. And yet he somehow manages to say and do terrible things like murder an underling who failed him (& brag about it to people who had captured said underling), threaten to destroy a city if its heroes couldn't beat him, & force one of the heroes to help draw out his allies in ways that make them hilarious as they are horrid.
-   _Transformers: Robots in Disguise_:
    -   Skybite is the Ineffectual Sympathetic Villain version.
    -   Any Predacon who isn't Megatron/Galvatron is prone to making silly remarks and screwing up missions in absurd ways.
-   _Undefeated Bahamut Chronicle_ has Yoruka Kirihime, who attempts to convince Lux to join the Arc Villain of Volumes 3 to 5. However, she lacks any sense of personal space or tact, causing her to create all sorts of awkward situations. This includes interrupting his math class, helping him mow a lawn with a katana, and washing his back in the school's bathhouse. This gets inverted after her Heel–Face Turn, where her lack of social skills and her inability to connect with others are played for drama.
-   While _Berserk_ has always been a dark and edgy series, there are a few villains that stand out who are kind of hard to take serious.
    -   Adon Corbolwitz, the big bragging leader of the Blue Whale Heavy Assault Knights of Chuder. While the other two villains of the Hundred-Year War Mini-Arc are not very funny (Governor Gennon is a Depraved Homosexual and a pederast wishing to make Griffith his lover, and General Boscone is a scary, no-nonsense military mastermind), Adon seems to go out of his way just to make the situation as laughably hammy as possible. Though he has nasty qualities as both a Dirty Coward and a Straw Misogynist who resents Casca a great deal, he's still just _so_ over-the-top that you can't help but laugh. He brags about his great love for battle, as well as boasting about his family's secret techniques, passed down for over 1,000 years, and his dramatic entrances. It helps that Mike Pollock, the guy who voices Doctor Eggman, voices him, too.
    -   While Griffith shaves all of this after becoming Femto, he still manages to be a pretty damn silly goof during the Golden Age, as seen during the water fighting scene and the scene were he shows Guts a pornographic book. While he’s not a villain at this point, he’s still rather evil, as shown when he smiles after Adonis is accidentally murdered.
-   _Jujutsu Kaisen_: Suguro Geto and the disaster curses are sadistic monsters trying to wipe out humanity and for most of them, there are no lows they wouldn't step down to in order to win. Still, their Villains Out Shopping antics and frequent bickering makes them quite enjoyable to watch, e.g. playing football with a severed curse head, lounging around in a restaurant or in their tropical beach-located base of operations. Special mentions goes to Mahito, the most sadistic of the group, with his cheerful behavior and occasional lapses in judgement that lead to even more satisfying moments of getting his ass kicked.
-   _Project A-Ko_'s villains, with the exception of Gail and his Co-Dragons, are all comedic or have funny moments.
    -   B-ko Daitokuji and her Girl Posse are the antagonists for much of the series, but B-ko's attempts to claim C-ko Kotobuki for herself tend to utterly fail more often than they come close to succeeding, and her rivalry and bickering with A-ko Magami is the main source of comedy. Her Girl Posse are a bumbling Quirky Miniboss Squad who get easily beaten by A-ko, even Mari, a female Expy of Kenshiro who is herself played for much laughs.
    -   Captain Napolipolia and Agent D are two members of the alien Lepton Kingdom who launch an Alien Invasion halfway through the first film. Despite this, D is a joke- the first film's Running Gag is D getting run over by A-ko while she is speeding off to school and carrying C-ko with her; and while the Captain is intially portrayed as a legitimate threat, this lessens once she and D are revealed as manly-looking women, with D wearing a Battle Bikini and the Captain having a massive drinking problem that manifests in anger if she is sober. From the second film onward, they are purely comedic characters and represent no threat.
    -   Mr. Hikaru Daitokuji, B-ko's father, is a Corrupt Corporate Executive who wants to steal the Lepton ship for himself and get even richer with its technology, and tries to force Kei into an Arranged Marriage in _Final_. But his mannerisms are so goofy that it's no wonder where his daughter gets it from.
    -   In _Uncivil Wars/The VS_, Lady Xena, unlike the others, is a legitimately dangerous and vile villain. But she gets some scenes of comedy, mainly the ones where she throws childish tantrums because Gail doesn't want to let her destroy planets (he would rather they stick to their plan to head to the Talho Sector), and when A-ko and B-ko start arguing with each other _in the middle of the final battle_, she stands there with an amusing look of "are you serious" on her face.

    Asian Animation 

-   Wolffy, the primary antagonist of _Pleasant Goat and Big Big Wolf_, is comedically incompetent at capturing the goats for him and his wife Wolnie to consume and has a hammy voice.

    Comic Books 

-   The Joker is a sterling example of the trope, even inspiring another. The trick in writing the Joker is to make his actions such that you can laugh one moment, and be horrified the next. Brilliantly brought out by many of the actors to portray him in other media, most prominently Jack Nicholson, Mark Hamill, Heath Ledger and Brent Spiner. Whether it's electrocuting a gangster while singing showtunes, casually (and cheerfully) stalking an everyday accountant in the middle of rush-hour traffic, or doing a magic trick by making a pencil disappear, you can always find it either way with the Joker. Even Cesar Romero qualifies, although because the show was such high Camp, he focused more on the "laughable" than the "evil".
    
    **Paul Dini on the Joker:** Joker's that perfect combination of schoolyard bully and class clown. The kind of sicko who will make you laugh just before he sticks the knife in and twists it.
    
    -   Part of what makes the Joker so terrifying is his special mixture of being funny as all get out but also incredibly vile in most stories. While other villains have managed to pull off this combination, the Joker is probably one of the best examples in fiction.
    -   The Joker even has certain caveats on killing people: he only does it when it's funny.<small>◊</small> Of course, that doesn't mean mutilation and torture to drive you batshit crazy are off the plate, he IS The Joker, after all.
-   Everyone's favorite Villainous Harlequin Canon Immigrant, Harley Quinn.
-   Marvel Comics' Madcap is a Chaotic Neutral who acts deliberately silly, and whose power is simply to make people act uninhibited.
-   The Green Goblin, who, just like the Joker, can make someone laugh one moment, and horrified the next.
-   Herr Starr from _Preacher_.
    
    -   Every time he shows up he has a smartass line, but he scares some poor old lady for blocking the moving walkway by yelling at her to step on it.
    
    "Moving walkway, Granny Fuck! Not moving fucking **standway!!**"
    
    -   By this point in the series he's had to deal with "an angel, a whore, an eunuch, several dozen idiots, an unkillable mick, a one-man holocaust in a duster coat, the occasional twenty-course banquet for the mother of all fat fuckers, inbreeding, family feuds, bulimia, a retarded child (always good for a laugh), and the utter destruction of our most sacred shrine and secret retreat in the detonation of a fifty-ton bomb." And there's "having my head carved into a giant gleaming dong", so it's understandable that he'd be a mite testy.
-   Superboy-Prime can come off as humorous when he's not terrifying, since a lot of his rambles make him come off as an arrogant, childish lunatic with little tolerance for not getting his way and having such wonderful bits of dialogue such as "I'll kill you! I'll kill you **to death**!"
-   Larfleeze of the _Green Lantern_ books can be accurately described as the Daffy Duck of the DCU. He's a greedy and short-tempered Psychopathic Manchild who constantly whines that everything he desires is his and is consistently shown to have a most unorthodox thought process.
-   Jameson is a power-hungry undead Mad Scientist and demonologist. He's also the Meta Guy of _Creature Tech_, and as such spends most of his time making awful puns, references to other media, Chewing the Scenery, and hanging lampshades anywhere they'll fit.
-   Deadpool, when he's the antagonist. Except for that one time...
-   In the _Teen Titans_ comic of the 1980s, the alien despot Lord Damyn (High of Highs and Best of Best) played a supporting role to recurring villain Blackfire for all of two issues... but in that time, he managed to be both a relentlessly brutish, murderous dictator and bizarrely funny in every other panel<small>◊</small>.
-   _The Walking Dead_: Negan is a wonderful example of this trope, with his constant one liners, non-sequiturs, and profanity-ridden speech.
-   Lobo might count Depending on the Author, especially if the ultraviolence gets cartoonish.
-   Big Head from _The Mask_, depending on the wearer (the mask itself travels from host to host). Stanley Ipkiss was this for sure, while Ray Tuttle from the "Hunt for Green October" arc had somewhat more heroic motivations. Most of the people affected by Big Head's actions are considerably less amused.
    
    **Lt. Kellaway**: Saving _lives?_ With a _chainsaw_? You think that's _funny?_
    
    (Big Head just looks at him with an ashamed expression)
    
-   In _Paperinik New Adventures_, the average low-caste Evronian is a bureaucratic, uptight goon who is easy to confuse and fool without someone from the higher castes around to explain the situation, leading to some amusing misunderstandings and hijinks. But when they get their orders, they demonstrate just why they're Planet Looters feared around the universe.
-   _Nnewts_: Despite their murderous tendencies and wicked plans being taken seriously, both the Lizzarks and the Snake Lord have surprisingly frequent funny moments. For example, the Snake Lord spends most of Book 2 and part of Book 3 trapped in the form of a _turnip_.
-   _Atomic Robo_: Recurring villain Dr. Dinosaur manages to be funny in all of his appearances, being a sapient dinosaur who considers himself an evil genius when his grasp of science qualifies more as technobabble gibberish at best.
-   _Hawkeye_: _Hawkeye (2012)_ introduces the Tracksuit Mafia. If the name isn't enough indicative, they add "bro" to every sentence to drive their comedic nature home.
-   _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (IDW)_ tends to have fairly serious villains, but a few of them do fit the trope...
    -   The IDW-verse's incarnation of The Rat King is an immortal trickster god who causes widespread chaos, death and destruction for fun and has taken over as the series' overall Big Bad but still gets all the best quips and one-liners.
    -   Bebop and Rocksteady are just as stupid as they were in the 1987 cartoon...while also being _incredibly_ dangerous and ultra-violent monsters capable of leveling whole city blocks. Wherever they go, Black Comedy ensues.

    Fan Works 

-   Dungeon Keeper Ami: The enormously popular character Mukrezar seems to engage in zany schemes mostly for the entertainment value. Included in his exploits is a long, long line of failed plans involving rings of power and bad baking. He tortures, he pillages, and he does it all as half of a two-man comedy act.
-   _The Boys: Real Justice_: The Joker makes his Earth-7 debut by hacking into Vought's security feed and learned about one of Homelander's...gross habits involving milk. He takes over a broadcasting station where he releases this footage publicly. While most of the League are stoic (or confused/disgusted), Green Lantern Guy Gardner bursts out laughing. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  After a few photoshopped pictures of Homelander dressed like a baby, he then tricks the "hero" into setting off a bomb in Times Square that kills sixty people. That's when the chapter stops being funny.
-   Chaos from the _Tamers Forever Series_. While he's not technically evil there's no denying that he's one of the most ruthless and hilarious characters in the series.
-   Loki from ''Hecate's Orphanage speaks with a friendly, often humorous tone. He frequently cracks jokes and makes wisecracks at the protagonists. But when he truly gets angry, he doesn't hesitate to slam his opponents into the dust.
-   _Fall of Starfleet, Rebirth of Friendship_ has Dark Conquest, who achieves this status by being so over the top about his villainy you can't help but laugh. This speech explains everything one needs to know about him:
    
    “And you think I am the bad guy in all of this! I mean, yeah, I rape, murder, commit genocide, rape, devastate worlds, write bad fanfiction about a show I hate, steal, rape, blow up planets on a whim, kill, murder children, cause wanton murder on a global scale, and rape animals,” he then looked down to the ground in tears, “poor Bambi’s mom, but at least I am **honest** about my evil!”
    

    Film — Animated 

-   _The Thief and the Cobbler:_ Zigzag, the Evil Chancellor, is usually amusing, but is introduced by a scene where he condemns a cobbler to death for spilling tacks he happened to step on, and only gets worse. It might also have something to do with the fact that he's voiced by _Vincent Price_.
-   The Disney Animated Canon provides us lots of Laughably Evil villains:
    -   Willie the Giant from the "Mickey and the Beanstalk" segment of _Fun and Fancy Free_. Great giant, can't pronounce the word "pistachio", also likes to be a cute, pink bunny rabbit. But he is also a violent kleptomaniac who wields a morning star the size of a two-story house.
    -   _Peter Pan_: Captain Hook is a vicious pirate who's eager to murder a group of children in cold blood, but he's also a foppish Large Ham whose battles against Peter always end with him on the receiving end of a Humiliation Conga, and he often ends up being comically chased by the crocodile.
    -   Cruella de Vil from _101 Dalmatians_. As ruthless as she and her goons are in stealing (and attempted murder of) the puppies, their overblown whimsy and bumbling make up a lot of the movie's humor.
    -   The magnificent, marvelous, mad Madam Mim from _The Sword in the Stone_, who embodies Bad Is Good and Good Is Bad, and is defeated by Merlin in a hilarious wizard's duel.
    -   Kaa from _The Jungle Book_, a silly, cowardly snake with a lisp, whose attempts to eat Mowgli always fail.
    -   Edgar from _The Aristocats_, a stupid Harmless Villain who plots against the cats but ends up being the Butt-Monkey all the time.
    -   Prince John from _Robin Hood (1973)_, a Dirty Coward who will suck his thumb whenever his mother is mentioned. The Sheriff of Nottingham is a cruel bastard, but gets a good number of amusing one-liners over the course of the film. Plus having the yokel voice of Pat Buttram adds extra entertainment value.
    -   Madame Medusa from _The Rescuers_ is basically a redheaded Cruella, an overly vain, hammy and over-the-top woman who Drives Like Crazy and is always yelling at her Bumbling Sidekick.
    -   _The Great Mouse Detective_: Ratigan, the world's greatest criminal mind, is an incredibly hammy Faux Affably Evil villain. It also helps that he's voiced by a man who plays laughably evil characters.
    -   Ursula from _The Little Mermaid_ is rather goofy. She's an over-the-top Large Ham (her appearance was based on a Drag Queen after all), complains about "wasting away to practically nothing" in a direct inverse to Weight Woe, spends the majority of her Villain Song providing endless Fan Disservice (or Fanservice, depending on the viewer) by playing up her sexuality in a very Chewing the Scenery style way. This is meant to encourage Ariel to take her deal and use those tactics herself (she doesn't). She later goes through a large number of Amusing Injuries when the heroes crash her wedding. She also calls her pet eels her "poopsies". Ultimately subverted at the very end when she gets serious and goes One-Winged Angel, and actually tries to kill the protagonists.
    -   Gaston, the vain, self-obsessed, Book Dumb suitor with Testosterone Poisoning in _Beauty and the Beast_. No one makes you laugh like Gaston! Until he pursues the Beast, that is.
    -   Hades from Disney's _Hercules_. Thanks to James Woods, he changed from being a stereotypical chilling villain to fast-talking, tempestuous and absolutely awesome. Easily the best part of the movie.
        -   He manages to carry on this trait to the TV series, _House of Mouse_, and even _video games_... really, _Kingdom Hearts_ cutscene featuring Hades are generally hilarious.
    -   Yzma and her minion Kronk from _The Emperor's New Groove_ are both marvelous examples. Yzma (voiced by Eartha Kitt) is a Card-Carrying Villain who's always Chewing the Scenery; Kronk combines Minion with an F in Evil with plenty of ham.
    -   The hyenas from _The Lion King_ are a constantly laughing and not too bright Terrible Trio. Despite this they are shown to be a menacing threat to a young Simba and Nala, and at the end of the movie they turn incredibly menacing as they attack and kill their former master Scar.
    -   Bowler Hat Guy from _Meet the Robinsons_ has a decent number of humorous moments. For starters, his initial revenge plan before meeting Doris amounted only to egging and T.P.-ing the sign to Robinson Industries. Also, keeps all his evil plans written in a binder with the picture of a rainbow unicorn. At another point, he considers turning his hated nemesis into a duck, only to quickly realize a few holes in this idea.
        
        **Bowler Hat Guy**: Oh...but I don't know how to do that...and I...I don't really _need_ a duck.
        
    -   King Candy from _Wreck-It Ralph_. He's a complete bastard but he's just so entertaining to watch. Until the climax at least...
    -   _Moana_: While Tamatoa the giant coconut crab monster is a very eerie and threatening character that gives Maui a run for his money, he's also very goofy, quirky, loves to crack jokes and has a _very_ catchy Villain Song.
        
        **Tamatoa:** _(stuck on his back as he watches the heroes flee)_ Did you like the song?
        
    -   Any sidekick to the Big Bad (except maybe Diablo, Flotsam and Jetsam, Roscoe and DeSoto, and Hayabusa) is guaranteed to be in here, regardless whether or not their master is threatening.
-   Pixar also often uses this trope just like their mother studio:
    -   Sid and Al from _Toy Story_ and _Toy Story 2_ respectively. The former is a child with a knack for destroying toys and some pretty weird habits, while the latter is a Fat Idiot who's even shown sleeping with cheese puffs scattered on the floor in one scene.
    -   In _The Incredibles_, Syndrome is another Disney villain who is both humorous and unnerving. Many of his lines will sound _very_ familiar to anyone who is a comicbook fanboy or knows one, and his goofy, hammy demeanour can almost make you forget that the guy is guilty of mass murder, would knowingly kill children, and is essentially plotting to start killing hundreds of innocent people and get hero-worshipped for _stopping_. Just as an example:
        
        _Elastigirl? You married Elastigirl? (notices the children) And got **bizzaaaay!**_
        
    -   Chef Skinner in _Ratatouille_, a Funny Foreigner whose Properly Paranoid tendencies are Played for Laughs.
-   The Storm King from _My Little Pony: The Movie (2017)_, he's laid back, charismatic, childish, quirky, switches between Buffy Speak and being unable to find the right direction to look at his subordinates but he's also a dangerous warlord who's capable of calling down giant thunderstorms and destroying Canterlot Castle.
-   Baron Ruber of _Quest for Camelot_ twitches, talks to himself, and does silly little dances during his Villain Song.
-   DreamWorks Animation is no slouch either:
    -   Megamind and later Titan aka Hal from the film _Megamind_. Titan is as hilarious as you would expect a dorky, idiotic supervillain, who can't tell apart a piranha in a fishbowl from a piranha in a fishbowl with a fake moustache, to be. Megamind, meanwhile, is best described as The Joker if he _wasn't_ a sociopathic murderer.
    -   The _Kung Fu Panda_ films have an interesting take on this. The first two Big Bads are very tragic and complex and Lord Shen, despite being considered the scariest villain of the three, has moments of levity that can make him fun to watch, but the bulk of the comedy still comes from the heroes. However, General Kai - the Big Bad of _Kung Fu Panda 3_ - is considered the funniest and most outwardly entertaining of the three, yet he's also the most vile of the three and lacks any of the previous two's depth and redeeming traits, so his only saving grace as a character is his sense of humour.
    -   Lord Farquaad from _Shrek_ is a very cruel and bigoted villain, but his height angst, Card-Carrying Villain tendencies and his Not So Above It All moments make him hilarious to watch. A prime example of how he can be so cruel and menacing yet also very silly and downright comedic is his interrogation of Gingy. See for yourself.
    -   Little (or, rather, "Big") Jack Horner from _Puss in Boots: The Last Wish_ is a hammy and cartoonishly evil would-be ruler of the world who wants it all and and absolutely REVELS in it (to the point that his only response to the Ethical Bug declaring him "an irredeemable monster" is to mockingly tell the bug "what took you so long, idiot?!"), and it makes him an absolute joy to watch from start to finish.
-   Most villains from _Cat City_: Mr. Teufel is a Faux Affably Evil Deadpan Snarker, Safranek is the Butt-Monkey, and the four rats are a bumbling Quirky Miniboss Squad.
-   Darla Dimple and her butler Max from _Cats Don't Dance_. Darla is a little girl with a fiery temper whose tantrums are both scary and funny. She's also very unhinged and even has a Twitchy Eye, but this just makes her more fun to watch. Her butler Max is a giant of a man much more reliant on brawn than brains, yet every word that comes out from his mouth is so hilariously deadpan it comes off as this. Even his dancing is enough to produce laughs.
-   Hunch from _Rock-A-Doodle_ is more aggressive than the usual example, but is far too stupid to pose any real threat. Patou even calls him "more of a hoot than he was horrible".

    Film — Live-Action 

-   Patrick Bateman from _American Psycho_. Christian Bale is clearly having an absolute _blast_ playing the character. While Bateman is written (both in film and the original novel) to be as irredeemable as possible, Patrick's Large Ham tendencies, awkward interactions with people, his overreactions to anything he doesn't like, his childish and downright _alien_ approach to the world around him (and his now iconic facial expressions and inner monologues) make him a master of Black Comedy.
-   Pennywise the Dancing Clown in _It (1990)_ is hilariously wacky when he's not sadistically killing children. Being played by Tim Curry will do that for you.
-   The Joker in _Batman (1989)_, best demonstrated when he lethally gases almost everyone in an art museum...so he and his goons can graffiti the place to the music of Prince.
-   The Joker in the _The Dark Knight_ is one of the most sadistic takes on the character, but still gets in his share of zingers at the expense of mob bosses and Batman himself.
-   Alan Rickman as the Sheriff of Nottingham in _Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves_
    
    **Guy of Gisborne:** Why a spoon, cousin? Why not an axe, or...  
    **Sherriff of Nottingham:** Because it's _dull,_ you twit. It'll HURT. MORE.
    
    -   Rickman's Hans Gruber from _Die Hard_ also occasionally slips into this.
-   _Austin Powers_: Dr. Evil, Number Two, Frau Farbissina and the rest of the gang. Dr. Evil's utter incompetence and sinister pinkie make him one of the prime examples of this. Then there's his hilariously traumatic childhood.
-   The Green Goblin is partially one of these in _Spider-Man_, mostly because the character itself is supposed to be that way, but also because he is so hammy.
-   In _Extremities_, the rapist gets all the funny lines.
-   Any film that's So Bad, It's Good. Particular examples are The Phantom of Krankor, Kobras, Torgo and The Master, Eros, and CrEEEEEdence Leeeeonorrre Gieeeellllgud.
-   _Four Lions_ centers around four aspiring British jihadists (suicide bombers) Omar, Faisal, Waj and Barry (a fifth named Hassan later joins them). While what they are _trying_ to do is portrayed as dangerous and deluded as it actually is, their constant blunders, ridiculous schemes, continuous setbacks and general incompetence makes them endlessly fun to watch. In fact, all four of them have their own quirks that make them hilarious:
    -   Omar has a tendency to rant and rave in Urdu, which often translates into some _very_ colorful insults. He also uses _The Lion King_ to indoctrinate his young son with some very inappropriate "true" versions of the Disney films. He's also the Only Sane Man and is clearly the most competent of them and even that leads to some moments of hilarity.
    -   Barry is so Ax-Crazy and blatantly racist that it's impossible not to laugh. While he can occasionally act as the Only Sane Man when Omar isn't around, he's also the first one to concoct some utterly ridiculous plans to further the cause and his use of Insane Troll Logic utterly hysterical to watch.
    -   Waj is a gigantic Manchild who equates suicide bombing with "Rubber Dinghy Rapids" and is often too stupid to realize what he's doing half the time.
    -   Faisal is also very dim-witted, but he's also very delusional and has some very strange quirks and some hilarious "disguises" he uses to protect his identity.
    -   Hassan loves Gratuitous Rap, records illegal behavior on purpose and blatantly fails his own security checks.
-   Adenoid Hynkel from Charlie Chaplin's _The Great Dictator_. He is portrayed as infantile and crazy from power. Some consider this version of reality to be too humorous.
-   Ray "Bones" Barboni in _Get Shorty_. He can spin on a dime between being menacingly brutal, intentionally funny, and humorously incompetent. In one scene, he beats a character half to death and almost gets his balls blown off in the process. When Dennis Farina plays villains, they are usually both funny and nasty at the same time.
    -   The same can be said of Farina's Jimmy Serrano in _Midnight Run_. Most of his lines are quite funny.
-   Not sure if that was intentional, but Komodo of _Warriors of Virtue_ IS the missing Looney Tune.
-   Tuco in _The Good, the Bad and the Ugly_ - it's debatable whether he's actually evil, because some consider him the most sympathetic and relatable character in the film, but he's far from a good guy and is absolutely hilarious.
-   Biff Tannen (and his relatives) from the _Back to the Future_ trilogy. He's a jerk and a bully, but his stupidity leads to hilarious moments.
-   Freddy Krueger in _A Nightmare on Elm Street_ sequels. Which is quite a feat from a rapist child-killer.
-   Large Ham Killer Doll Chucky in the _Child's Play_ films, mostly the sequels, especially the fourth and fifth films.
-   Not exactly evil, but the title characters in _The Usual Suspects_ have an empathic moment where they spontaneously burst out laughing in a police line-up— in fact, Bryan Singer lampshades this in an interview by saying that there's a certain humanity in a bunch of guys getting along and laughing together, even if they're horrible criminals. (The reality is that the actors themselves just couldn't get through the scene without breaking character and cracking up.)
-   Duamerthrax in the Dead Gentlemen's _Demon Hunter_ movies. The films as a whole are pretty goofy.
-   The Octopus in _The Spirit_. Gems include the line "I'm gonna kill you all kinds of dead!" and accidentally making a clone that was only a head and a foot.
-   Pam Ferris as The Trunchbull in _Matilda_. While _still_ managing to keep the character _scary_, no less.
-   Brick Top from _Snatch._, a murderous gangster who feeds people to pigs and drops hilariously snarky lines.
-   _Marvel Cinematic Universe_:
    -   Justin Hammer's particular flavor of Large Ham in _Iron Man 2_.
    -   Loki in _The Avengers_. There's something very amusing in the way he dances circles around the heroes, while gleefully mocking them at the same time.
    -   Trevor Slattery isn't really _evil_, but he is an actor (or "Ac-Torr" as he calls it) working for the Ten Rings except not really. But from his weird yet charming approach to crime, his constant allusion to his drug addiction (and the questionable things he did to get his next fix) and his utter cluelessness makes him endless fun to watch.
    -   Ultron from _Avengers: Age of Ultron._ His snark is comparable to his "fathers" Tony and J.A.R.V.I.S., so he's frequently spouting out hilarious one-liners.
    -   While the Grandmaster from _Thor: Ragnarok_ is an insane tyrant who delights in having his gladiator slaves fight to the death, he's also an eccentric and oddly affable goofball who utterly hams it up Jeff Goldblum\-style every time he's onscreen. Also, he prefers that you refer to his slaves as "prisoners with jobs".
    -   Ulysses Klaue from _Avengers: Age of Ultron_ and _Black Panther_ might be a hardened, ruthless mercenary and arms dealer, but he's also a jovial Large Ham with an almost juvenile sense of humor, and delights in messing with enemies and allies alike.
    -   Mysterio from _Spider-Man: Far From Home_ is an asshole endangering and killing lots of people to pass for a hero. And between Jake Gyllenhaal becoming a Large Ham once he embraces the villainy and how laughably petty he is, those atrocities are quite entertaining.
-   Shooter McGavin from _Happy Gilmore_. True, he's more of a massive Jerkass than outright evil, but seeing him constantly get humiliated on the golf course and outside of it with his poor choice of words when he tries to insult Happy is too funny.
-   Given Evil Is Hammy with James Bond villains, most end up providing laughs (including ones made deliberately funny such as Boris Grishenko, played by Alan Cumming, in _GoldenEye_ or Professor Joe Butcher in _Licence to Kill_) - but one that's both over-the-top comedic _and_ downright threatening is Silva from _Skyfall_.
-   Tommy Devito from _GoodFellas_. Though he's a complete psychopath who kills for the slightest offense, whether real or imagined, he's still a very funny guy. Just don't tell him that to his face. Not unless you want him to Troll you by pretending he's about to kill you for it.
    
    **Tommy DeVito:** I'm funny how? Funny like I'm a clown? I amuse you? I make you laugh? I'm here to fucking amuse you? What do you mean funny? Funny how? How am I funny?
    
-   Nicky Santoro from _Casino_ (another mob movie by Scorsese). Despite being your typical ill-tempered, foul-mouthed mobster played by Pesci much like DeVito (albeit with more standards) he has quite a few funny moments which usually are firmly in the Cluster F-Bomb territory when it comes to his insults.
-   Zartan has his moments in _G.I. Joe: Retaliation_ while disguised as the President. Including one scene where he plays _Angry Birds_ on his phone... after launching every single nuclear missile in America's arsenal..
-   Norman Stansfield in _The Professional_ is a ruthless and psychotic DEA agent who has no qualms about murdering children but it's not hard to laugh or be amused at some of his deranged outbursts. Luc Besson confirms that this was intentional since they wanted to give it some humor to keep it from being too bleak.
-   Another Besson example is Jean-Baptise Emmanuel Zorg from _The Fifth Element_ who is also played by the same actor as Stansfield (Gary Oldman). Every moment with him veneers into Chewing the Scenery, especially with his highly exaggerated Southern accent.
-   _Gamer_ includes the appropriately named Rick Rape, who ends up being almost impossibly over-the-top until he feels like a living cartoon.
-   Lloyd Hansen from _The Gray Man (2022)_ is a cheerfully sociopathic mercenary who never lets up on the wisecracking even when he's torturing and murdering people.
-   Jack Frost from the the horror-comedy film is a twisted and sadistic monster who can be funny in his lines.
-   Danny McBride in _This Is the End_ has shades of this, especially after his Face–Heel Turn. Some of the comments from Possessed!Jonah aren't far behind as well.
-   In _Ex Machina_, Nathan eventually turns out to be villainous or at least very morally dark, but he definitely has a sense of humour and continues to do some hilarious things even after he starts kicking dogs.
-   Lord John Whorfin/Dr. Emilio Lizardo in _The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai Across the 8th Dimension_. "Laugh-a while you can, monkey boy!"

-   Hannibal Lecter in _The Silence of the Lambs_ is utterly horrifying every second that he's on screen, but he sometimes takes Dissonant Serenity so far that he becomes The Comically Serious.
    
    _I'd love to stay and talk... but I'm having an old friend for dinner._
    
-   Just like the source material, Jim Carrey's Dr. Eggman in _Sonic the Hedgehog (2020)_ is a manic Large Ham who HATES that hedgehog. The films dial it up by making him a smug Insufferable Genius who insults everyone he comes across.
-   Ivan Ooze in _Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: The Movie_ brainwashes the parents of Angel Grove into being slave labour and orders them to commit mass suicide when they're done. He's also a gigantic ham who gets the best lines in the movie.
-   _Funny Man_: The Funny Man is essentially a British Freddy Krueger. He warps the environment to kill people in inventive ways while treating the whole thing as a joke.
-   _The Silence of the Hams_: As befits a parody. Dr. Animal Cannibal Pizza is an amiable psychopath played by Dom Deluise, and a practical jokester.
-   _Lord of War_: There's something alarmingly disarming about Andre Baptiste, an African warlord who might casually shoot one of his soldiers one moment then seconds later comment how MTV is setting a bad example for the new generation.
-   In _Scream_, there are typically two killers. The more dominant one is typically an utter Hate Sink. By contrast, their accomplice is typically so psychotic and hammy that they're hysterical and Practically Joker. Stu from _Scream (1996)_ and Mickey from _Scream 2_ are standout examples.
-   _No Escape (1994)_: Marek, a brutal gang leader, loves to joke and often does. His gang the Outsiders even laugh at all of these, though it could at least partly be from fear.
-   _M3GAN_ has its titular robot. She is vicious and cold-blooded, but she responds to Gemma's accusations of killing people with an irritated retort. When she is preparing to kill David, she does a goofy dance with little explanation.
-   _Muppet Treasure Island_: Long John Silver, also played by Tim Curry, is hilariously evil in this adaptation, and also well-aware about what sort of movie he's in ("Upstage, lads! This is my only number!").

    Literature 

-   The title devil from _The Screwtape Letters_, who has no sense of humor himself. Lampshaded at one point where he complains that the girl the Patient is falling in love with is "the sort who would find _me_ funny."
-   The _Ciaphas Cain_ series tends to draw from this trope for its humor, only instead of the source being an individual villain, it is the Darker and Edgier nature of the _Warhammer 40,000_ setting itself that provides the source.
-   The pigs from _Animal Farm_ can be this, especially Squealer. A case in point would be the morning after the pigs get wasted on booze and it is mawkishly announced that Napoleon (now suffering a hangover) is dying. Then: Great news! Our dear leader is going to be making a complete recovery. Anyway, I'm off to procure some books on brewing. Oink!
-   Croup and Vandemar from Neverwhere. Croup is a Large Ham who likes words far too much and Vandemar is a Big Eater who's very literal-minded and at one point pins his own hand to wall with a knife. They're entertaining, but they're also ruthless murderers who kill the heroine's family, play mind games with the main characters, and torture people to death for fun. Lampshaded by Croup himself.
    
    "Just because something is funny, doesn't mean it is not dangerous."
    
-   A Magnificent Bastard Shadowthrone from _Malazan Book of the Fallen_ might be, but his quirks also make him a pretty funny one. Like the fact that he has a very dry sense of humor concerning his mommy-issues and crippling fear of women.
-   Humbert Humbert in _Lolita_ is a classic example. The book deals with topics that should by all rights be utterly horrifying, but the constant absurdity and pretentiousness of the narrative Humbert concocts in order to convince the reader that he's Not Evil, Just Misunderstood turns the whole thing into a Black Comedy instead.
-   _A Song of Ice and Fire_, features the utterly Ax-Crazy Vargo Hoat. He's known as "The Crippler" due to his tendency to dismember his victims. He leads the Brave Companions, a Sellsword Company that seemingly are hired specifically to terrorize the smallfolk, with their flagrant love of rape, torture, and murder. He also has a slobbery lisp caused by a swollen tongue, leading to any time he speaks being amusing. In-universe even, he's mocked for both his lisp and slobbering behind his back. As if to emphasize the "evil" part of this however, this swollen tongue is due to STD...that he got from raping someone.
-   Mammon in _Magik Online_ is a far sillier foe than Shroud's previous villains with his Large Ham nature, Shameless Self-Promoter antics, along with his dynamic with his Girl Friday, Ace.

    Live-Action TV 

-   The Big Bad of _Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._ Season 1, John Garrett, is actually pretty hysterical. He's an unrepentant monster with no redeeming qualities whatsoever, but he has a pretty spot-on sense of humor.
    
    **Agents:** How did they (Hydra) know you were coming?  
    **John Garrett:** We told 'em!  
    _\[Grant Ward shoots the two agents in the head\]_
    
-   The Comedian in _The Amazing Extraordinary Friends_ is essentially a sane version of The Joker. Many of his jokes are actually pretty funny. It is a shame that he is also one of the most ruthless villains in the series, and doesn't care who gets hurt in his schemes, so long as the payoff is funny (to him).
-   _Arrow_: Damien Darhk is a Card-Carrying Villain and a highly dangerous Evil Sorcerer whose Evil Plan is to destroy the world, and his murder of Laurel makes him the first true Hero Killer of the show. He's also highly entertaining, largely due to the fact that he's visibly enjoying himself and various lines where he openly admits how evil he is.
    -   Due to a gradual Rogues' Gallery Transplant, he ended up being the Arch-Enemy to the _Legends of Tomorrow_. Darhk constantly popping up was a major factor in the show becoming more comedic, and towards the end of his arc he was more funny than menacing.
-   _Barry_: Fuches is an immoral, manipulative bottom feeder, but his relentless incompetence and Stephen Root's performance makes him a riot to watch.
-   All of the villains in the Adam West _Batman_ show fit, but the best examples are all of the one-shot villains that are unique to the show. And the Riddler, whose infamous riddles would continuously be solved by a Boy Wonder who was otherwise only good for getting kidnapped.
-   _Blackadder:_ The titular character Edmund Blackadder is a selfish, manipulative and Machiavellian figure, but his tendency to screw up, his Deadpan Snarker attitude, misadventures in the chaotic times he (or rather they) live(s) in and Magnificent Bastard moments make him one of the most iconic comedic characters in British television.
    -   The Witchsmeller Persuivant from Season One is a Large Ham who is constantly twisting the words of others to incriminate them so he can burn them at the stake.
    -   Elizabeth I from Season Two is a Psychopathic Manchild who has people executed for trivial reasons and can be a Mood-Swinger to hilarious degrees. Her girly crush on Blackadder also hypes up how she's essentially an inexperienced teen girl in a grown woman's body.
    -   Many incarnations of Melchett are scheming and lying (or just flat out Lethally Stupid), but his Cloud Cuckoolander tendencies make him endlessly fun to watch.
-   _Buffyverse_:
    -   Spike could be quite funny, such as when he passed out in Angel's backyard and woke up when the sun made his hand catch fire in the episode "Lovers' Walk". Also in the episode "In the Dark" where he watches from a roof-top while Angel saves a girl and provides sarcastic voice-over narration.
        
        **As Victim:** Oh, how can I thank you, you mysterious black-clad hunk of a night thing?  
        **As Angel:** No need, little lady, your tears of gratitude are enough for me. You see I was once a badass vampire, but love and a pesky curse defanged me, and now I'm just a biiiiiig fluffy puppy with bad teeth. No, not the hair, never the hair.  
        **As Victim:** But there must be some way I can... show my appreciation.  
        **As Angel:** No! Helping those in need's my job, and working up a load of sexual tension and prancing away like a magnificent poof is truly thanks enough.  
        **As Victim:** I understand. I have a nephew who's gay, so—  
        **As Angel:** Say no more. Evil's still afoot. And I'm almost out of that nancy-boy hair-gel I like so much. Quickly, to the Angel-mobile! Away!
        
        -   This little exchange was actually on the _Buffy_ spin-off _Angel_ and when we next see him on that show four seasons later, he's reformed his ways.
            
            **Cordelia:** Heard you weren't evil anymore. Which kinda makes the hair silly.
            
    -   Angelus is even funny sometimes, in a sick sort of way. ("Othello and Desdemona! My favorite couple. Only Desdemona didn't love the other guy.")
    -   Glory is the Alpha Bitch with apocalyptic plans.
    -   The Trio start out as a mix between this and Harmless Villain. Then one of the subjects of their wacky hijinks points out that their Black Comedy Rape plan wasn't quite as funny or as hot to her, retroactively pointing out the Moral Event Horizon was crossed much earlier in the ostensibly funny episode. The Trio reacts differently: Warren goes monster, Andrew becomes an Ineffectual Sympathetic Villain, and Jonathan tries desperately to do a Heel–Face Turn but is prevented by the other two.
    -   Before The Trio and Glory, there was the one and only chaos-worshipping Ethan Rayne. The guy is very cool and efficient in causing complete chaos, but his methods are downright _hilarious._ His grand entrance was in the episode "Halloween", where he opens up a costume shop. Anyone who puts on his costume _actually becomes the thing that they were dressing up as._ As Spike put it, was just plain neat. In "Band Candy", he spikes school band fund-raiser chocolate so that any adult that eats it turns into a stupid teenager. Best of all though, was turning Giles into a Fyarl demon. Ethan Rayne at best is a Deadpan Snarker, but his methods easily place him squarely into this territory.
    -   Mayor Wilkins, due to how completely consistent he is in his affable evilness to the point where his last words when he realizes he's about to be blown up are "well gosh..."
-   Basically all the villains in _El Chapulín Colorado_ are of this variety; even their names normally have puns or funny meanings. From the "Scooby-Doo" Hoax villains that dress as monsters to scare people away for some reason to the parodies of Gangsters, Pirates and Gunslingers. Also Kiko from sister series _El Chavo del ocho_.
-   _Dexter_ combines social awkwardness and constantly overthinking everything with the decidedly less relatable flaws of sociopathy and serial murder to create a character as hilarious as he is horrifying.
-   _Doctor Who_: The Master has been like this since the '70s. A well-written Master has the exact same wit and charisma as the Doctor — while regularly killing people for fun.
-   Like Kefka and The Joker, Alpha from _Dollhouse_ can make you laugh and cross the Moral Event Horizon at the same time.
-   Basil Fawlty of _Fawlty Towers_ is occasionally a Villain Protagonist with his haughty, high-and-mighty attitude. Basil desires to move up in social standing and attract a better class of customer to his hotel, but he's also verbally abusive to the help, only superficially nice to his guests, and his Hair-Trigger Temper and persistent zany schemes built on webs of lies keep getting him into all kinds of trouble. And when he's not the bad guy, he's a Jerk With A Heart Of Jerk who shows that he really is a nasty human being deep down. In some episodes, Basil's jerkass behaviour makes him out to be the episode's villain, such as when he begins to antagonize an American tourist because he's an American, or tells his staff to not mention "the war" when German guests are coming, only to fall into Nazi salutes and German stereotypes. All of this is Played for Laughs, as the slapstick done to Basil is because he's getting his comeuppance for being such a jerk.
-   _Game of Thrones_:
    -   Ramsay Snow/Bolton. In the books he's a humorless psychopath who flays people alive and is portrayed like a real-life Serial Killer in medieval times. The show version keeps all of the book character's nightmarish deeds, but adds a heaping dose of Faux Affably Evil and Black Comedy to them. During his season-long torture of Theon Greyjoy, he alternates between deeds like peeling the skin off his finger and blowing a horn to wake him up... which is actually a form of sleep deprivation torture, and bad enough it becomes a ptsd trigger for Theon. Another point has him castrating his victim then eating a suggestively shaped sausage in front of him.
    -   Bronn being a colossal asshole only serves to make him that much more entertaining, per contrast to most other evil characters on the show. Bronn wholeheartedly enjoys being a dick, and the victims of his harsher abuse generally tend to be even worse people than he is.
    -   Euron Greyjoy can come across as rather over-the-top when he's not trying to intimidate anyone, to the point of cracking macabre jokes and even bluntly asking Jaime for sex tips. It's eminent how Euron doesn't take anyone, including himself, too seriously.
-   _Gotham_: Jerome Valeska, unsurprisingly, considering who he is based on. Most of the things he finds funny are horrifying, like the time he doused cheerleaders in gasoline and then asked them if they had a lighter. Sometimes his sense of humor is (a little) more harmless, though, and he's also prone to making quips, even (rarely) self-deprecating ones. For example, he once characterized his identical twin brother, Jeremiah, as their mother's favorite because he cleaned his room, did his homework, and didn't try to kill everyone.
-   _Graceland_ gives us Ari Adamian, a sociopathic Armenian gangster who does absolutely deplorable things while making hilarious deadpan quips.
-   Mason Verger in _Hannibal_ is a truly monstrous human being who _literally drinks the tears of children_, but is incredibly entertaining to watch.
-   _It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia_: The Gang are a loathsome and despicable bunch, but their crazy antics are always hilarious to watch.
-   _Kamen Rider_:
    -   _Kamen Rider Fourze_ has the Cancer Zodiarts, who was the head of the high school's Rakugo club when he was recruited by the villains, and it still shows in his tendency to make puns mid-battle. Sometimes Cancer gets into Crosses the Line Twice territory, as with his "Open Mic from Hell", where he challenges people to make him laugh or lose their souls. When the Lovable Alpha Bitch starts a long joke, he zaps her mid-sentence and says "I never liked her anyway"; when The Stoic challenges him to a funny face contest, he gives a flat "no" and zaps him.
    -   _Kamen Rider OOO_: Dr. Maki truly is a dangerous villain, especially as the series goes on. His callous stoicism is underscored, however, by a bizarrely persistent Running Gag involving his protectiveness over his Creepy Doll. Anyone who touches, looks at, or so much as breathes near the doll has to endure Dr. Maki's hysterical, hammy freak-outs, which is a _complete_ 180 from the emotionless bastard Maki usually is. Even as the doll is treated to a Cerebus Retcon, they keep getting comedy out of it and Dr. Maki in increasingly weirder ways.
-   Lord Fear in _Knightmare_ was a hilariously snarky villain.
-   _LazyTown_: Robbie is the show's Big Bad, but his antics and dialogue are _hilarious_.
-   All of the villains on _The League of Gentlemen_. There are very few shows that could make a pair of incestuous corrupt hick Serial Killers hilarious.
-   _Lost_: Benjamin Linus is one ruthless, manipulative, and downright creepy motherfucker. He also has some of the best lines in the series.
-   El Ecoloco from _Odisea Burbujas_, his name means “Eco-Crazy” and he is basically like a homeless man made villain, his main goal is to pollute the world. He even has his own song, pretty catchy: _Amo el ruido y el smog_ \[I love nois and smog\].
-   _Only Fools and Horses_ has a number of villains who have funny moments, but oddly enough, many of them are treated with surprising seriousness. However, the robber who traps Del, Rodney and Uncle Albert in the supermarket overnight, who calls himself "the Shadow" aka Lennox Gilby from _The Longest Night_ is the standout example. He's treated with the same respect as other villains (such as Roy Slater), but that doesn't stop him from being quite possibly _the funniest one-shot character in the entire series._ His debonair attitude, his jumbling over his words and flat out stupidity and incompetence make for an unforgettable villain. Justified, as it turns out he's not really evil and only did what he did out of desperation. Doesn't make him any less funny. The fact that this is his only appearance in the whole show makes him all the more memorable.
    -   The Driscoll Brothers (an obvious parody of the Cray Twins) are also played with surprising seriousness, but that doesn't stop them from coming out with something stupid or attempt to maintain their sinister persona after something dumb happens. In fact, it works better than it should.
-   Power Rangers has a lot of these guys, really - ranging from Squatt and Baboo the Tagalong Kid monster henchmen of Rita Repulsa to Flit the fly Combat Commentator.
-   Paulie "Walnuts" Gualtieri from _The Sopranos_. A ridiculously rapacious and cheap bastard. Comically absurd like many of his shenanigans.
-   _Supernatural_:
    -   The Trickster/Gabriel always manages to deliver some sick and twisted poetic justice in a way that will make you laugh—maybe because it's completely ridiculous, extremely clever, or just funny.
    -   The main reason Cowley was around for as long as he was: He was always funny enough to pick up the same kind of Popularity Power Castiel had. He did lots of awful things, but he always managed to remain likable with his Deadpan Snarker attitude, the nicknames he gave everyone and unorthodox management methods like in "The Man Who Would Be King" which shows that after becoming King of Hell, he got rid of all the torture and turned it into an eternal DMV line. A lot of the people who were coming in were masochists who enjoyed being tormented, but _nobody_ likes waiting in line. He also gets a great Even Evil Has Standards rant in the otherwise-godawful "Season 7, Time For a Wedding":
        
        _This isn't Wall Street, this is_ Hell! _We have a little something called_ integrity!
        
    -   While Lucifer himself averts this, Sam's hallucination of Lucifer in S7 finds some rather amusing ways to torment Sam, like singing "Stairway to Heaven" 50 times in a row and yelling in his ear with a megaphone.
        
        _Pay attention to me, Sam! I'm_ bored!
        
    -   Soulless Sam's complete Lack of Empathy led to some pretty hilarious moments in Season 6. Take, for instance, "Clap Your Hands If You Believe", when an unnamed woman tells him it must have been horrible to have his brother abducted by aliens.
        
        **Sam**: No! I mean, I've had time to adjust.  
        **Unnamed woman**: Did it happen when you were kids?  
        **Sam**: No. Half an hour ago.
        
    -   Meg also got some pretty dark laughs. See her taunting Jo in "Born Under A Bad Sign" _My Daddy shot your daddy in the head~_ Also, after she's exorcised, Dean tells Sam "Dude, you full-on had a girl inside you for a whole _week_. That's pretty dirty."
    -   Madge and Edward Carrigan, the pagan gods from "A Very Supernatural Christmas", are another example.
    -   The shapeshifter in "Monster Movie" also gets some pretty great moments. Particularly the bit with the delivery guy.
        
        **Shapeshifter/"Dracula"**: Is there... _garlic_ on this pizza?  
        **Delivery Guy**: I don't know. Did you _order_ garlic?  
        **Shapeshifter/"Dracula"**: _\*horrified\*_ No!  
        **Delivery Guy**: _\*bored\*_ Then no, there isn't any garlic on it.
        
    -   Although his very presence on the screen was Nightmare Fuel, Alastair still had a bit of this.
    -   Zachariah at times due to being such an over-the-top asshole. This side of him shows most in "Dark Side of the Moon", from calling Mary a MILF to retorting to Dean's mocking his baldness with "in heaven I have six wings and four faces, one of which is a LION".
    -   Balthazar was also often this. A good example in "My Heart Will Go On" when he explains to Sam and Dean that he changed history to stop the _Titanic_ from sinking, which isn't supposed to be possible, just because he hated "that movie".. He was lying.
        
        **Dean:** What movie?  
        **Balthazar:** Exactly!
        
    -   The series' original Big Bad the Yellow-Eyed Demon/Azazel is often viewed as one of (if not _the_) most evil demons on the show. However, the fact that he never fails to mock the heroes also makes him highly entertaining.
        
        **John:** Hey. _\[aims the Colt at Azazel\]_ How stupid do you think I am?  
        **Azazel:** _\[grins\]_ You really want an honest answer to that?
        
-   _Super Sentai_:

-   Warz Gill is a Manchild General Failure who throws tantrum and gets into hijinx that makes him the butt of jokes and generally act like a Spoiled Brat. He still has some nasty tendencies of plots that makes even his more serious Dragon horrified enough.

-   _The Vampire Diaries_:
    -   Even when he's balls-to-the-wall evil and murdering innocent people, Damon still makes you laugh.
    -   Klaus. Being a Smug Snake, a Manipulative Bastard and one of the most selfish vampires in the world never get in the way of him being hilarious.
-   _WandaVision_ has Agnes a.k.a. Agatha Harkness, who gets lots of snarky one liners and, after the reveal, absolutely revels in how evil she is. She even hijacks the 'sitcom' of Westview to play her own Villain Song! She's absolutely awful, having steadily insinuated herself into Wanda's life while causing her more and more pain, all to get at Wanda's power... but she is great fun to watch.

    Music 

-   Eminem's Slim Shady persona is this. He raps about doing awful things, but plays them for laughs with snide comments about how scandalised the audience must be, quoting other characters in the scene with silly voices, cartoon sound effects made with his mouth, deliberately Painful Rhymes, using enjambment and end-line multirhymes for comic timing, and being willing to be the butt of his own jokes.

    Podcasts 

-   Quite a few of the villains from _The Adventure Zone: Balance_, but especially Magic Brian, the villain of the _Here There Be Gerblins_ arc, who has a ridiculous accent (similar to Taako's) and is ultimately disposed of when Magnus simply kicks him off of a ledge.

    Professional Wrestling 

-   Chris Jericho was one of these in WCW and in his early days in WWE as a dumb blonde muscle headed prima donna who thought he was a lot better than he really was. He beat Goldberg...or rather, a pale imitation in "Gilberg", and he _almost_ lost to that! He knew 1004 holds and they were almost all ARMBAR!
-   Rikishi during his "bad man" phase. Yes, he tried to run over "Stone Cold" Steve Austin with a motor vehicle but he was still the man whose most prominent feature was his ass. In fact, this little stretch of his WWF career is considered one of the worst heel runs ever because people weren't laughing in any way intended.
-   When the Knights of the UK were put on edge, bad things happened. In Britani's case though, it was almost adorable. She's tried to use unwilling wrestlers such as Cheerleader Melissa as ventriloquist dummies, for example.
-   Since no one has kicked out of Bryan Danielson's inside cradle all year, you may now refer to him as "**Mr.** Small Package!" Why are you laughing? What's so funny? You're all just jealous because you'll never rate on his manliness meter!
-   After Santino Marella failed to get over as the "Milan Miracle", he got over this way, typically throwing silly insults at his opponents. Usually he's a weak character who gets whipped on, to get the audience cheering for a big, strong hero.
-   "Broken Matt Hardy" is an amalgamation of insane rambling in fake accents, piano-playing, and flying drones (among other things, it's difficult to package his gimmick properly in a few words). The segments involving him have hit Memetic Mutation levels in the pro wrestling community due to their gloriously cheese execution that involves so many out-of-context moments.

    Radio 

-   _Old Harry's Game_: The main cast includes Thomas Crimp, a demented murder-rapist; Gary, a demon obsessed with torturing people; and Satan himself. It's a comedy.
-   The Whisperer, from the _Adventures in Odyssey_ episode "Accidental Dilemma", is treated as if he were incompetent, but between the lines, he _has_ formidable equipment, tricks, and overall villainous cunning on his side. However, he is so consistently played for laughs that it turns out to be one of the funniest episodes (of what was ostensibly a comedy-drama) in a while.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _In Nomine_: Kobal, the Demon Prince of Dark Humor, makes a point of playing this up. His jokes and comedy make it seem like he's not that bad a guy — which is entirely his plan. His sense of humour is monstrous — one of his favorite "pranks" was the Children's Crusade — he's just good at making it seem affable. There is also his "blood brother" Haagenti, the Demon Prince of Gluttony, who also holds purview over torture and sight gags (which many consider to be a form of torture).
-   _Magic: The Gathering_: Goblins in any given setting tend to be psychopathic, destructive, homicidal, genocidal, suicidal and absolutely hilarious.
-   _Pathfinder_ goblins, bless their psychopathic little hearts. Their culture honors pyromania, kleptomania, illiteracy, random slaughter and suicidal courage.
-   _Warhammer_:
    -   _Warhammer 40,000_: The Orks are a species of Psychopathic Manchildren who fill in as the _comic relief_ of the setting, in no small part due to crossing the line twice. Among other things, they're deliberately written as talking like Football Hooligans. Most factions in will wage genocidal war on you because they hate you with the burning fire of a thousand suns just because you exist. The Orks will wage genocidal war on you because they want a _larf!_ This is contrast to their Orc and Orruk counterparts in _Fantasy_ and _Age of Sigmar_, which share the violent mayhem but are played much less humorously.
    -   _Warhammer Fantasy_: The Skaven are, objectively, perhaps the most loathsome faction in the entire setting (and that's saying a lot), with nary a redeeming trait. They're vicious mass-murdering death-worshippers. Yet, between their omnipresent narcissism, often-fatal incompetence and sheer cowardice, they tend to come off as more of an Unsympathetic Comedy Protagonist instead. Special points go to Grey Seer Thanqquol, who is not unlike "Blackadder meets The Brain".

    Theatre 

-   The Shredder in _Coming Out of Their Shells_ will typically punctuate his monologuing with boats and hearty laughter.
-   William Shakespeare's villains tend toward this, since their extreme self-awareness and cynicism render them hilarious Deadpan Snarkers. Especially Iago in _Othello_ and Edmund in _King Lear_.
-   The Thenardiers in the musical version of _Les Misérables_, like in the book, are pimps, cheats, swindlers, thieves, grave robbers, extortionists and Abusive Parents and spouses. They're also the only source of anything approaching comic relief in the entire musical, with "Master of the House" standing out as the only genuinely upbeat song. Yeah, this is that kind of work.... This contrasts with the source material, where Mr. Thenardier is far from laughable, being an absolute ogre whom even Mme. Thenardier is scared of.

-   In _Hamilton_, King George III is hilariously malevolent every single time he appears. His sole functions in the story are to provide commentary for ongoing events in America at three points, each time to the exact same British music hall-style tune; witness America's devolution into partisanism under President John Adams (good luck!), and help pass out copies of the Reynolds pamphlet.

    Video Games 

-   Zorbak in _AdventureQuest_ has transcended evil. He's Ebil! Mwahahah!
    -   Escherion, the very first Lord of Chaos in _AdventureQuest Worlds_, becomes this trope at the end of the Chiral Valley saga when the hero reflects his inversion spell right back at him, inverting him and causing him to suffer the Humiliation Conga of ending up casting every spell he tries to cast on him/her on himself, and eventually turn himself into a harmless frog, which is a rather funny scene, to say the least.
        
        **Hero:** (after Escherion turns into a frog) Huh... I guess you inverted your powers. Every spell you try to cast on me, you actually cast on yourself.  
        **Escherion:** \*ribbit ribbit\*  
        **Hero:** ...I'm sure you just said something very rude in froggy.
        
-   _Alan Wake_: While the Dark Presence itself is a terrifying Eldritch Abomination from beyond perceivable reality, "Mr. Scratch," the Evil Twin of the titular protagonist that it creates to help it escape from its prison and who serves as the Big Bad of the Spin-Off _Alan Wake's American Nightmare_ is an utter riot from beginning to end, what with being a megalomaniacal, absurdly flamboyant, and sadistic Serial Killer. Really, one only needs to listen to less than five seconds of Mr. Scratch's Villain Song "The Happy Song" to tell that both Ilkka Villi (his live-action actor) and Matthew Porretta (his in-game voice actor) are having _the time of their lives_ playing him.
-   _Atlas Reactor_ has Isadora, a hamster with an IQ of 6,000 and ambitions to Take Over the World. Unlike Veigar, she's fully aware of her adorableness, and takes advantage of it every chance she gets.
-   _Baldur's Gate_:
    -   Token Evil Teammate Edwin from _Baldur's Gate_ and _Baldur's Gate II_ is a sociopathic, irritable Evil Sorcerer with a massive ego but is genuinely cranky to the point of amusement and bumbling enough to be this trope as his storyline in the sequel involves him getting himself turned into a woman. Half the laughter comes from him being sulky.
    -   Token Evil Teammate Astarion from _Baldur's Gate III_ is a Lovable Rogue vampire who's a flamboyant Large Ham and Lovable Sex Maniac.
-   The Joker again in the _Batman: Arkham_ series. His plans are always horrific, he kills many innocent people, kicks every dog he can, and indulges in Evil Gloating. He's also still very funny, even some of his Game-Over Man taunts are funny. His Villain Song "Can't Stop Laughing" in _Batman: Arkham Knight_ is a highlight of this, as he's taunting Batman over the grim events of the series, the Darkest Hour he's in, the deaths of Barbara and Talia, and how he's going to become a new Joker, and its _hysterical_.
    -   This is notably averted in _Batman: Arkham Origins_ where is his psychopathy is cranked up and he isn't funny _at all_, making him considerably more threatening and terrifying.
-   Yuuki Terumi of _BlazBlue_: most of the fun from watching him comes just from how he enjoys crossing the Moral Event Horizon at every given opportunity. Combine that with being an exceptional Large Ham, and a very efficient Manipulative Bastard, you have one villain you just can't help but laugh with even as he commits atrocity after atrocity.
-   Handsome Jack in _Borderlands 2_. He is _evil_. Absolutely, totally evil. And he is such an epic asshole that every conversation with him is side-splittingly hilarious.
    -   Many, many other antagonists and enemy mooks also fit the bill. Face McShooty, a Psycho who desperately _begs_ to get shot in the face (seriously) comes to mind. His mission even gets listed as "Shoot This Guy in the Face".
-   _Bulletstorm_: General Sarrano is an evil, manipulative, foul-mouthed bastard who delights in the suffering of others, gleefully betrays everyone around him, and is generally an all-around un-fun guy to be around. At the same time, he's a hilariously over-the-top jackass with a never-ending stream of creative invective to toss at anyone and everyone around him.
-   Foxbat from _Champions Online_. He's been described as an evil version of Adam West-era Batman.
-   _City of Heroes_'s Dr. Aeon. While he's one of the non-harmless examples of the trope, it's more because he's such a scatter-brained moron that he ends up posing as much of a danger to the world as to himself.
-   Every villain in the _Crash Bandicoot_ series.
    -   Dr. N. Gin, the Sycophantic Servant is portrayed as this in _Crash Tag Team Racing_, _Crash of the Titans_, and _Crash: Mind Over Mutant_ as a Cloudcuckoolander with No Indoor Voice who has a tendency to scream ridiculous things and go on bizarre rants.
        
        **N. Gin**: And when Cortex is triumphant, I will be rewarded! With glories and showers of presents like a million Kwanzaas! Ahha! And I, N. Gin, will be made King of Wumpa Island! Imma be like Serpentor!
        
    -   Dr. Cortex himself is also _very_ funny. For the best examples, look no further than _Crash Twinsanity_ or _Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped_. The way he switches between Card-Carrying Villain to Sissy Villain scaredy-cat in a split second (usually becuase he's run out of ammo) is endlessly entertaining to watch.
    -   Tiny - when he's voiced, or even when he's not - is usually the entertainingly simple minion of Dr. Cortex.
    -   Some versions portray Uka Uka as this. It works surprisingly well.
-   Caulder of _Days of Ruin_ fame is a fascinating example. Among other things, he releases a biological weapon and attacks civilians for the lulz. And he makes it funny.
    -   There's also Waylon, a greedy coward whose honesty about his selfishness gives him all of the game's best lines.
-   _Deltarune_ has Queen, an egomaniacle whackjob who uses Leet Speak while leaving Caps Lock on and completely foregoing punctuation Just Like This As If She Were Emphasizing Every Word As Its Own Sentence, but she can still prove terrifying when the moment calls for it, even while offering a battery acid pie.
-   Many of the demons in the _Disgaea_ series (except the psychopaths like fake/real Zenon, evil Adell, super evil Mao, etc) qualify for this trope.

-   _Dyztopia: Post-Human RPG_: Sho Sharker is a goofy show host who is introduced abruptly cutting to commercial because he accidentally mentioned Prime Minister Morgalia's age. However, he's also a ruthless advocate for Zetacorp and is willing to have dissidents killed on his show, all while cracking jokes at their expense. Even his Villainous Breakdown is humorous due to him declaring himself "uncancellable" while watching his anti-Akira campaign fall apart. In-universe, many viewers find him more obnoxious and gaudy than funny.

-   _The Elder Scrolls_:
    -   This is a trait of the Dark Brotherhood, an illegal organization of assassins whose membership mostly takes a sadistic glee in killing and who practice a Religion of Evil. Though horrifying in their occupation, the Dark Brotherhood is at times downright _hilarious_, in large part due to their Equal-Opportunity Evil Ragtag Bunch of Misfits approach to recruiting which brings a lot of distinct personalities together. Special mentions include Gogron gro-Bolmog, a heavy armor wearing and axe-wielding Orc who has a decidedly _non-stealthy_ approach to assassination, and Festus Krex, an elderly pyromaniac mage assassin who _strongly_ believes that There Is No Kill Like Overkill.
    -   _Skyrim_ adds Cicero, a jester who is a touch unstable, and who also happens to be the Night Mother's keeper, an important position in the Dark Brotherhood.
-   The player in _Evil Genius_. Think Dr. Evil.
-   Reaver from _Fable II_ and _III_ also qualifies. He's a hedonistic Depraved Bisexual who achieved immortality through some very unpleasant means and is out purely to serve his own interests. But he's also so incredibly Camp you can't help but like him. And he's voiced by Stephen Fry.
-   _Fallout_:
    -   _Fallout: New Vegas' Old World Blues_ DLC gave us the Think Tank, the _true_ antagonists of the DLC, although Dr. Klein and Dr. Borous are the most obvious examples therein. Despite them all being amoral Mad Scientists who parted ways with ethics and sanity a _loooong_ time ago, they're also all completely hilarious due to them being both cheerfully oblivious to right and wrong and batshit insane.
    -   _Fallout 4_'s _Vault-Tec Workshop_ DLC gives us Overseer Valery Barstow of Vault 88, who the Sole Survivor assists in creating a Vault to test on hapless Wastelanders For Science! (read: whatever completely pointless and often needlessly dangerous experiment that Vault\-Tec saw as the most entertaining to do at the moment). Despite some of her experiments actually being quite dangerous, the Sole Survivor can choose to alter them to make them actually beneficial, which irritates her to no end (but as she's no fighter, she can't respond with violence towards your actions). Combine her Comedic Sociopathy with her Insane Troll Logic (one of her experiments involves drugging the Vault's _soda fountains_ to make people absurdly cheerful for no real reason) and utter Lack of Empathy towards the sweet Butt-Monkey Clem that she tests all her experiments on (like giving him an electricity-producing exercise bike that gives him shocks that can throw halfway across the room), and she turns out to be quite hilarious. In fact, her last scene in the DLC (if the Survivor chooses only the positive options for her experiments) is for her to throw up her hands in disgust and leave your "cheery Purgatory."
-   _Final Fantasy_:
    -   _Final Fantasy VI_:
        -   Kefka, a rare example of a villain who can make you laugh, even when he's gleefully crossing the Moral Event Horizon. It also doesn't help that he's the _Final Fantasy_ equivalent of The Joker. Until he ends the world and becomes the God of Magic.
        -   Another example from that game might be the octopus Ultros. Ultros isn't really that threatening, truth be told, but he's a goldmine of hilarious one-liners. Even his cameos in other games are this trope.
    -   _Final Fantasy XV_ gives us Ardyn Izunia, a fabulous, scene-stealing villain modeled after Kefka by the developers. Noctis even calls him "Jester" on one occasion.
    -   Recurring villain Gilgamesh, a Large Ham prone to hilariously bizarre proclamations mid-battle.
-   It seems _Grand Theft Auto_ has a thing for this, so of course _Grand Theft Auto V_ upped the ante with player character Trevor. Abusive, psychopathic, and hilarious.
    -   In _Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas_, you have Mike Toreno, the paranoid government agent. Disrespecting dead women to a monologue on how all modern conspiracy theories are nowhere near the truth. There's also Ryder, who provides enough humor in almost every cutscene/mission he appears in in spite of his rude attitude.

-   _Guild Wars: Nightfall_:
    -   The Lich Palawa Joko once terrorised the _entirety_ of the continent of Elona, whose forces were the greatest threat said continent faced until the Charr invasion many centuries later. Being unable to die or be killed, he had to be sealed away at the location of his defeat, and there he would have remained... if the plot hadn't required that you release him from his imprisonment for several _very good_ reasons. But that's okay, all Joko wants is to reform his undead Army Of Darkness, which you've got to help him with as well. Astoundingly, he fails to be a threat for the remainder of the game, and while you're dealing with the Big Bad he's spending the rest of the time hilariously failing to get any sort of organisation from his mindless minions. What a guy. By the second game, he has gotten his act together, and how.
    -   Mad King Thorn is generally loved by players and seen as wacky and amusing. The fact that he and his minions will happily recall the horrors they inflicted on their subjects, such as once having _an entire village flayed alive_, makes this somewhat inexcusable.
-   King Bohan and Flying Fox from _Heavenly Sword_. King Bohan is voiced by Andy Serkis and is funny even when being a total bastard. Flying Fox has a very shrill voice and is even hammier than Bohan.
-   Deconstructed in _Injustice 2_. While he's capable of cracking jokes, it's also shown that The Joker's evil side far exceeds it, given that he's responsible for Superman's Face–Heel Turn by tricking Big Blue into murdering his own family and nuking Metropolis just For the Evulz, and that it's entirely possible for one aspect of this trope to be so horrific to cancel the other out. His attempts at Black Comedy are used to call attention on why tormenting people would be funny. His belief that life is just a "joke" also reveals how insane he is.
-   Hades from _Kid Icarus: Uprising_. The few times when they get dead serious, however, it's actually pretty terrifying.
-   Several members of Organization XIII from _Kingdom Hearts_ are this, especially Xigbar. Xigbar is there, casually tossing out surfer slang, wearing an eye patch, explaining (badly) what love is to Roxas, and is a lot of fun to watch. Until you play _Birth By Sleep_ and _Kingdom Hearts 3D_. Where it's revealed that he caused a lot of the problems in _Birth By Sleep_ and _KH3D_ because he willingly let himself become "Half Xehanort" and it's implied that -unlike several other members of the New Organization who were either forced, brainwashed, or a part of the original Xehanort (It Makes Sense in Context)- knew what would happen if Master Xehanort succeeds and went along with it anyway. Demyx is funnier, but he isn't evil enough to completely pull this off.
-   King Dedede from the _Kirby_ series. He is the villian of the first game and spin-offs, yet he is rarely taken seriously. As a silly penguin-like Big Eater with an egostical deposition, he's certainly played less of a threat than Bowser or Ganondorf.
-   Razurou in _Kishin Douji Zenki: Vajura Fight_ has multiple appearances that are mostly provided for comic relief. In his first appearance, he's blasted away by Shoukouga before he can fight Zenki/Chiaki. His second appearance has him falling out of the train, dizzy, and you can jump on him as many times as you want, especially if you're planning on getting the maximum amount of lives. His third appearance has him attempt to fight the heroic duo again only to be knocked away by Tetuhewreki, who survived the falling debris that crushed him. And to top it off, he's even known for having some bombastic lines. Of course, his fourth and final encounter is a good reason why you should Beware the Silly Ones, even if he was just being possessed and mutated by Fushushoku.
-   In _League of Legends_, a game notorious for its already enormous and ever-expanding playable roster, with villains included, running into at least a few of these is to be expected.
    -   Veigar, the Tiny Master of Evil, is a self-proclaimed Evil Overlord trying to follow in the footsteps of his _actual_ Evil Overlord master. He is also a yordle, i.e. less physically imposing than a Hobbit, has a high-pitched voice, is endearingly hammy, and ultimately has a hard time being taken seriously as a villain.
        
        **Veigar**: I am evil! Stop laughing!
        
    -   Dr. Mundo, the Madman of Zaun is such a goofy and obliviously thick-headed lunkhead that you almost forget the fact that he possesses the backstory and actions of a horror villain.
    -   Jinx, the Loose Canon was described by her creator as the Dark Knight saga's Joker if he was played by Helena Bonham Carter, and it shows. Psychopathic and pointlessly anarchic as she may be, she's also one of the game's most straight-up entertaining personalities.
    -   Tahm Kench, the River King, Beneath the Mask, is an utterly monstrous being who will give you retroactively terrible deals, feast on your despair, and cruelly taunt you as you lose everything. That being said, the fact his _many_ taunts are as hilarious as they are savage does significantly lighten the mood.
    -   Aatrox, the Darkin Blade flips between being this and horrifyingly evil. For the most part, he's a very wrathful and occasionally introspective nightmare demon warrior who wants to kill everyone and destroy the world... and he's also ridiculously sassy at those he challenges to the death. When you've been through what he's been through, you gotta get your catharsis whenever you can.
-   In _The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword_, Ghirahim manages to be both this _and_ a Knight of Cerebus. His flamboyant tendencies, disturbing threats, and lack of a sense of personal space leave many players unable to decide whether to laugh or to shudder. He stops being funny near the end, though.
-   _Loser Reborn_: Nya is a cruel god who erases anyone who points out the world's contradictions and later sends Gla'aki to the real world to start a zombie apocalypse there. They also have their share of sarcastic, fourth-wall breaking lines, especially in the fourth ending.
-   _Mass Effect_: "Evil" may be pushing it, but playing Commander Shepard as a Renegade can result in some truly hilarious moments and bouts of Insane Troll Logic.
-   The Roborobo/Rubberrobo Gang from _Medabots_ are an organization of total goofballs who dress in full-body rubber costumes with antennae sticking out of the head portion and shades covering their eyes. While their leaders tend to be competent (sometimes), their rank and file are such complete and total nitwits that it can be hard to take them seriously _at all_. In fact, the first time we see one of their members in the first game in the series, he's just stolen a rare medal (the heart and soul of the series' robotic Mons)... Only to lose it after being clocked in the head with a stray frisbee thrown by the protagonist and subsequently sent fleeing in panic when said protagonist's dog came to fetch it.
-   Dr. Wily, from the _Mega Man_ series. He pulls off evil plots like holding a Russian scientist's daughter hostage and spreading a robot virus, yet tends to use silly-looking robots, frequently wiggle his eyebrows, and beg for mercy upon his defeat. Every single time. The guy is a living paradox. The best example of this, is the time he stole the world's strongest robots, while wearing a rather flimsy disguise. This is quite subject to a Cerebus Retcon when you find out that the horrible, horrible robot war that took up most of _Mega Man X_'s story was his fault.
-   The Bonne family in _Mega Man Legends_, while they're tearing apart buildings, looting, and generally making nuisances of themselves they do it in an utterly hilarious way. Besides the accidents the servebots get into, Tiesel Bonne screaming at the servebots to close the hatch on his dangerous Humongous Mecha or even just the way Tronne Bonne gets chased up a lamppost by a small dog. It's perfectly summed up by one of the citizens on Saul Kada island which the Bonnes have taken over.
    
    **Citizen**: I don't know whether to laugh at the bonnes or run away from them!
    
-   _Metal Wolf Chaos_ has the evil Vice President Richard Hawk, who is hilarious when he melodramatically calls out the protagonist's name, makes bad similes, pronounces "darjeeling tea", and speaks with a smug and sarcastic tone. Even his worst act in the game is portrayed as Black Comedy, where he attempts to nuke America with a missile that's branded "Merry Christmas."
-   Murray, the demonic skele- errrr, the Mighty Demonic Skull from the _Monkey Island_ series. In this case, much of his laughableness derives from how over-the-top evil and hammy he acts despite being a disembodied skull incapable of harming anyone except through (very, very ineffectual) verbal abuse.
-   In the first _Mother_ game, Hippies will try to attack Ninten with rulers. They'll also try to shout into a bullhorn that Ninten's mother was looking for him.
-   Among the villainous characters in _Overwatch_, Jamison "Junkrat" Fawks holds the title. A Mad Bomber and international criminal, Junkrat is always laughing and comes off as very jovial. Many of his in-game emotes are comedic (dancing on his RIP Tire, accidentally giving himself a Groin Attack, etc.) but doesn't distract from the fact that he's murdered, stolen and caused perhaps _billions_ of dollars worth of property damage via arson.
-   _Pathfinder: Kingmaker_: Per the setting, the smaller Evil monsters, mainly mites, kobolds, and goblins, are generally Played for Laughs: tribes of small, idiosyncratic critters that talk in You No Take Candle and think they're a lot tougher than they actually are.
    -   There's a war between tribes of kobolds and mites in the first chapter in which you can intervene. The kobolds in particular are dupes of the Starter Villain Tartuccio, and if you treat them with mercy you gain the ability to construct a special "Kobold Quarter" building in any Town or City you own, which offers some nice boosts to your barony's Espionage stat.
    -   There's an entire subplot in the "Season of Bloom" chapter involving the local goblin tribes. They think the plague of magical parasites turning humanoids into monsters is a sign from Lamashtu and keep trying to domesticate the monsters—usually getting eaten for their troubles. One of them, Nok-Nok, can actually join your party and be a pretty effective Rogue, and you can get an achievement for partying with a tribe in a storybook event. At the same time, they _are_ kidnapping villagers and trying to force-feed the monster seeds to them, and unlike with the kobolds they got the idea in their heads all on their own.
-   Most of the minor villains from the _Pokémon Mystery Dungeon_ series. However, they are often phased out when the not-so-hilarious Big Bad shows up.
-   GLaDOS from _Portal_, Wheatley and Cave Johnson in the sequel. Completely lacking in any sort of ethics, whether business or moral, but certainly quick with a quip.
-   _Ratchet & Clank: Up Your Arsenal_ introduces us to Dr. Nefarious, who outright became a Breakout Villain because of this trope.

-   Lucas Baker from _Resident Evil 7: Biohazard_ is a sociopathic Jigsaw\-style Serial Killer... with a cheerful, chatty, and showmanly Faux Affably Evil streak and tendency to tease and lethally "prank" his victims as they navigate his trap-filled stomping grounds and deadly rigged games in a manner that comes off as equal parts horror bastardry and pitch-dark Black Comedy. He's as much the comic relief character as a major villain, outside of the _Not a Hero_ DLC chapter, in which he's the Big Bad of the scenario and has dropped most of the antics in a fit of pique after being outwitted in the main game.
-   Dokurubo from _Sakura Wars: So Long, My Love_ is a perfect example of this. When the New York Combat Revue challenge him the second time after comforting Rikaritta Aries, he responds to their appearance with "You guys!". But then, he ask who they are, much to the frustration of the team. Sagitta calls him out for stupidity as Rikaritta just announced who they are. In the boss battle, Dokurobu will also try to trick the team into doing a Victory Pose. Despite being dumbfounded at first, Shinjiro see though it and insults him for it. When Shinjiro also insulted Dokurobu's armour, he get angry and gives it a different name: "The Star Division is Stupid!" armour.
-   Kaos, the Big Bad of _Skylanders_. He's got the personality and voice of Invader Zim, Large Ham and all. Though it should be noted he's actually far more competent than his personality would imply. Doesn't make him any less fun to watch, however.
    
    **Kaos:** My head is awesome, I tell you! Fear it! Fear my _GIANT FLOATING HEAD!_
    
-   _Sonic the Hedgehog_ has Dr. Ivo "Eggman" Robotnik. While it varies Depending on the Writer, he is generally shown to be rather buffoonish and quite immature, often throwing comically-exaggerated tantrums when things aren't working out his way. His classic counterpart is more consistently depicted as laughable, with much more emphasis on his showmanship (building extravagant casinos and carnivals) and lack of competence (with some of his boss fights has him using rather questionable tactic to counter the heroes alongside _Sonic CD_ showing his robots broken down and malfunctioning in the bad futures); at least in _Generations_, though, even he is disturbed by his modern counterpart's crazed behavior.
-   _Super Mario Bros._:
    -   From Bowser's kidnapping of the princess turning out to be lovesickness, Wart being the tyrant of a dream world while critically weak to vegetables (he hates the taste), to even the names of many of the stage bosses (King Caliente's Spicy Return!). And some characters who are antagonists in an RPG or spinoff (\*Chunks Awaaaay!\* ) (I HAVE FURY!).
    -   Special mention also goes to Dimentio, who often has rather quirky behaviors that count as somewhat comical, and yet commits genuinely horrific actions while cracking jokes.
    -   However, Bowser is portrayed in a more serious manner in the main series platform games. Especially _Super Mario 64_ and _Super Mario Galaxy_. He's a more serious threat in terms of malice in said games, but is still a comical ham of the highest order personality wise, so fits this trope to a tee.
        
        **Bowser:** I'm HUUUUUUUUGE!!!!
        
    -   Bowser in _Mario Party_. Especially in _Mario Party 7_, where he'll take a picture of the characters and make you pay for it.
-   _Knights of the Old Republic_:
    -   Many of the player character's evil options in the games are hilarious. And then there's a certain over-eager assassin droid.
        
        "Definition: Love is making a shot to the knees of a target 120 kilometres away using an Aratech sniper rifle with a tri-light scope."
        
    -   HK-47's creator, Darth Revan, who programmed him to refer to all organic lifeforms as meatbags because he thought the robotic Psychopathy was hilarious and it annoyed one of his allies when HK called him that.
-   The dark sided Sith Inquisitor from _Star Wars: The Old Republic_ is quite a comedian. They seem to get the most opportunities to either crack jokes or outright mock their enemies (especially the Jedi) in the funniest way possible. This extends to photo-bombing victory speeches on the Holonet, wagging fingers at Jedi Knights for losing their cool during a battle, and even impersonating Republic officers.
    
    Inquisitor: "Master Ramos needs to brush up on his Jedi teachings. <3"
    
-   Hasta in _Tales of Innocence_, though more so in the Vita remake. His strange speech pattern and laid-back manner make it hard to take him seriously, even after he murders some innocents for the sake of getting the party's attention and stabs Luca after getting him to let his guard down.
-   Every evil deed done by the Mercs in _Team Fortress 2_ counts. They're the Ragtag Bunch of Misfits of hired killers.
-   Soren van Wyk and Colonel Hanse Castillo from _Terra Invicta_ are two of the most ruthless faction leaders in the game, but they also get some of the funniest lines from their personalities:
    -   Soren is a Corrupt Corporate Executive leading a faction whose response to an Alien Invasion is "how can we use this to profit and accumulate control over Earth?" He brags that he could "set a puppy on fire on live TV" and get away with it, and even any seeming "good" acts he does are pure Pragmatic Villainy. He's also upfront about what he wants in life, and his callous treatment of employees is Played for Laughs.
        
        "Unless you too want to be showered in liquid lead, make damn sure the coolant circuit doesn't break again. Oh, and see to it that these... statues of your predecessors are removed."
        
    -   Colonel Hanse Castillo is a fascist war criminal whose only redeeming aspect is that he's turned his ruthless methods against the invading aliens. His preferred method of interrogating aliens is Cold-Blooded Torture, and even then, he'd much rather annihilate them with More Dakka and only bothers to bring back anything more than a pile of meaty chunks when his scientists _insist_ they need something to work with. He also has amiable, down-to-earth quotes emphasizing his Combat Pragmatist nature.
-   _View from Below_: Bell is a snarky Jerkass thief who comes off as a comic relief character compared to the more menacing Crimson Skull cult. He introduces himself by stealing Ash's lighter and he has the audacity to set up a stall to try to sell it back to the latter for the money cap. He's also incredibly narcissistic, as shown when he locks Ash in a room where the only way out is to solve a tile puzzle in his image.
-   Uncle Jack of _We Happy Few_ is just meant to be a Non-Ironic Clown, but his tendency towards Black Comedy (especially jokes involving murdering Downers) means that he comes across more as this.
-   Sho Minamimoto from _The World Ends with You_, if only for how bizarre he is. Even when he's planning genocide and planning to Kill the God, he's somehow hilarious. A language or math certainly helps in that.
-   _World of Warcraft_ has Fandral Staghelm. While many bosses have some funny lines (often puns or pop culture references) Staghelm is such a Large Ham that it's nearly impossible to take him seriously. When you fight him, you've interrupted him at the end of a ritual which will grant him a very powerful firey form. He turns into a flaming cat, and does indeed proceed to almost murderize your raid: but his attacks have inherently silly names (because they are just standard druid abilities with the word "fire" added to the front), and he keeps yelling out the names as he casts. The firey cat form also looks kind of stupid (because of how low-rez the cat models are). He's a well-intentioned extremist with a bit of a Messiah Complex trying to get back the immortality for the Night Elves. But by the time the players go to kill him, they know he's been screwed over by Ragnaros the Firelord already: except he doesn't seem to realize that. Although very powerful, Staghelm is generally regarded as a joke by the players.
-   Kano in _Mortal Kombat 11_ is a Card-Carrying Villain, but compared to the other villains, he acts incredibly nonchalant and is hilariously crude. He seems to take delight in being told how evil he is and most of his intros have him making small talk or even attempting to flirt with other fighters. Though he’s still a ruthless and dangerous criminal, his false charm makes him much more laughable then the other villains, who are often Knight Of Cerebus.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Ace Attorney_ is a series known for having eccentric and hilarious characters. Given that it revolves around murder cases, the zaniness also extends to most of the culprits, especially for the ones who either maintain or exaggerate their quirks after being exposed. A good example is the phantom, a sociopathic master-of-disguise who is capable of doing darkly amusing impressions of other characters, to the point of imitating Phoenix in order to screw with the latter.
-   In _Danganronpa_ we have Monokuma, the self-proclaimed headmaster of the Despair Academy. His funny antics and quirks never quite manage to make up for the way he gleefully sets up the murders, watches everyone with cameras and his ability to violently self-destruct. His controller/true identity, Junko Enoshima, is an Ax-Crazy psychopath who experiences mood swings so violently that they might as well be different personalities. Her shifting her behaviour from a high and mighty Evil Overlord, to a Kawaiiko complete with Art Shift might seem amusing, if she didn't talk about how she randomly killed her sister out of boredom and her part in causing the collapse of human society _at the same time_.
-   Being a Monster Clown, this defines the title character of _Gore Screaming Show_. He will commit all kinds of atrocities while cracking all manner of jokes and sarcastic quips while engaging in pitch black comedy skits mixed in with his already pun laden dialogue. He is eventually revealed to be an embodiment of the series Arc Words "I wanna be happy", he is her desire for happiness twisted with her desire for revenge on those that wronged her. He exists solely to, in his own warped way, make the Cute Ghost Girl Yuka happy again. And in the true route she finally lets go of her bitterness and Gore cracks one final joke that is genuinly heartfelt before disappearing, his purpose fulfilled.

    Webcomics 

-   Most villains in _Sluggy Freelance_ are funny at some point, since the comic is so frequently toeing the line between serious stories and crazy comedy.
    -   Lord Horribus: One moment he's begging for his teddy bear (making him vice president to his empire, no less) and getting hit in the head with anvils in the middle of his Dramatic Entrance, the next he's killing off significant characters.
    -   Darksoul in the "Oceans Unmoving" storyline is a borderline example, whose humor mostly comes after you find out the plot twist; He is actually the present day Bun-bun, while the Bun-bun shown is from the past; present day Bun-bun (Darksoul) has Laser Guided Amnesia, and his pseudo-deadpan snarking is actually him ticked off on the fact that he has no idea what's going on; everything his past self is involved in is ridiculously random ("Leaf people?"), and he knows he should know what's going on.

-   Black Mage in _8-Bit Theater_ could be downright hilarious, whether plotting against his teammates or while suffering.
-   Richard from _Looking for Group_ is an evil undead warlock whose Comedic Sociopathy provides a lot of Black Comedy.
-   _The Order of the Stick_, being a humorous webcomic (even with its Cerebus Syndrome taken into account), provides a large number of hilarious evil characters.
    -   Lord Xykon may be a horrible threat to the safety of the world along with being a merciless sociopath, but he also gets some of the funniest lines and best comedic moments.
    -   The Monster in the Darkness is an all-powerful monster... and a Minion with an F in Evil at the same time.
    -   General Tarquin, a man of remarkably dry wit and a love of heroic tropes, celebrated his reunion with his heroic son Elan with a festival of lights... _made out of immolated prisoners_.
    -   Among the Linear Guild. there's both Nale and Thog. The former is an overdramatic Deadpan Snarker who often acts like a petty dick For the Evulz and whose bread and butter is coming up with absurdly overcomplicated Evil Plans. Meanwhile, the latter is a brutal and ruthless barbarian with the mind of a child, being afraid of both pretty girls (because Girls Have Cooties) and Teletubbies. Thog's case is even Lampshaded by Tarquin:
    -   And among the heroes we have the Token Evil Teammate Belkar Bitterleaf, who is a Deadpan Snarker and The Napoleon who often engages in Comedic Sociopathy and loves to kill anyone who even potentially slights him.
-   Zenith from _Commander Kitty_. She constantly forgets why her Mix-and-Match Critter boyfriend has elephant feet, mistakes unintelligible ferret speak for a language her target uses only to think with, and gets chased out of a restaurant by its overly eager staff.
-   Being a Gaslamp Fantasy based in a world where Mad Scientists rule the world (...terribly, mind you), _Girl Genius_ is naturally **full** of examples.
    -   First and foremost, we have Bangladesh DuPree, an Ax-Crazy pirate queen in the pay of Baron Klaus Wulfenbach. She's shown to be completely psychotic, enjoying murder to a level approaching fetishistic...and yet is an absolute riot, due in part to her rather childish demeanor and gleefully perky way in which she dispatches her enemies. As she herself points out, why should she play down what she does when she's _proud_ of what she does?
    -   Next in line is Captain Vole, the only Jäeger to ever be discharged from their order, as he tried killing the Heterodyne Boys for not being enough like their villainous ancestors. Suffice to say, he's a massive Blood Knight, verging to the point of Omnicidal Maniac (wanting to "burn Europa to the ground and gnaw the ashes"). However, he's still _very_ funny, in part due to his sarcastic intellect and habit of getting the crud kicked out of him whenever his more antagonistic qualities are highlighted.
    -   Then we have Castle Heterodyne, an Ax-Crazy Mad Scientist's Laboratory and Big Fancy Castle that has Gone Horribly Right, being the ancestral home of the Heterodyne family. Castle Heterodyne is presented as being psychotic even for the standards of the setting, smugly thinking of itself having a sense of humor as it horribly kills people in various booby traps or just acts like a massive Troll towards them. Of course, the Castle is one of the funniest characters in the entire comic, being in part that we (the readers) have the benefit of the fourth wall to understand the Castle's sense of humor.
    -   Both Dr. Mittlemind and Dr. Mezzasalma (two of the crazy Sparks imprisoned inside of the Castle by the Baron trying to repair it) count as this. Both are incredibly dangerous and crazy (even by Spark standards), but their (comparatively) low overall threat level and the fact that they act mostly like raving loons (especially the former, who was a nutty-enough social scientist to trap entire towns in order to turn them into mazes) puts them on this list.
    -   As of Volume 1 of Book 2, we can add the Beast of the Rails to this list. The Beast is an Ax-Crazy sapient train invented by the Heterodynes for the Corbettite Order (who operate a passenger rail line throughout Europa). Unfortunately, the Beast acts like a Spoiled Brat that simply devours all in sight, and is hilariously petty & childish when it is accidentally released from the Corbettite's prison. It helps that when the Beast is defeated, it is sealed into a small Dingbot and assists Agatha in her adventures, now having a role closer to that of a Backseat Driver than the omnicidal engine it used to be.
-   End from _End and Save_ manages to be completely hilarious and unpredictable, all while murdering his way through obstacles.
-   In _El Goonish Shive_, the comically over-the-top thief results from wanting an unsympathetic target for an army of Abominations and deciding to double down. He concocts a plan to burn down an orphanage as a distraction while he robs an ATM, use the money to buy a shotgun and ammo, use _that_ to rob the gun shop he buys it from, and then steal puppies, but _specifically puppies loved and owned by children_ to create a personal army of attack dogs.

    Web Original 

-   Tez On Toast in later episodes of _KateModern_, in a decidedly un-harmless way.

-   There will be blood / It might be yours / So go kill someone / Signed Bad Horse

-   Schlatt from _Dream SMP_ is a monstrous, tyrannical, and abusive dictator perfectly willing to slaughter anyone who opposes him. He's also a childishly petty, hammy, borderline insane moron who repeatedly insists he is the pinnacle of manhood in spite of the fact he sinks like a rock the second he steps into water and actually brags about how his alleged physical fitness is the result of rampant steroid abuse.
-   Psycho Gecko, the main character of _World Domination in Retrospect_ is dangerous and hilarious. He even weaponized the "Why did the chicken cross the road?" joke.
-   This is basically a recruitment must have for Sips and Sjin's company, Sipsco. Typically most recruits are amoral, show little concern for the well-being of others, and have brilliantly dark senses of humour. A textbook example would be Zips in _Sipsco Space Programme_, who is dangerously unstable as far as his mind is concerned, as well as a Mad Bomber and traitor. On top of all this, he's such a Cloudcuckoolander that his mental antics just become fantastically funny.
-   Hat Films are presenting themselves as this in "Hat Corp", where they are essentially the main antagonists. They are capable of being pointlessly cruel to others, such as Sjin and Lewis Brindley submitting entire groups of mobs to unnecessarily painful deaths, and basically being the biggest threat on the server. They are also funny in their cruelty, with acts so over-the-top that it's hard not to laugh.
-   Maximus Slade from _T.O.T._ is a murderous werewolf who has no problem preying on children or tormenting them for his own amusement. He's also a Psychopathic Manchild who acts like a Troll and frequently taunts his victims by joking with them.
-   _Ask That Guy with the Glasses_: Ask That Guy's solution to world hunger? Eat all hungry people. Oh, and vegetarians, because they won't help us eat the hungry people. And math teachers. Nobody likes math teachers.
-   When _Red vs. Blue_ doesn't have their villains being utterly terrifying, they're usually this (or sometimes both).
    -   O'Malley/Omega, the Big Bad of The Blood Gulch Chronicles and kinda\-ally of the Blood Gulch Crew during The Chorus Trilogy as a Split Personality of Doc. On the one hand, he's an Ax-Crazy A.I. fragment who wants to both conquer _and_ destroy the entire Milky Way galaxy. On the other hand, he's also ridiculously ineffectual due to him primarily being stuck in the mind of the completely useless and pacifistic Doc. Most of the time, his grandiose plans are foiled not by the competence of his foes (or lack thereof), but by his terrible luck and habit of spending too much time Chewing the Scenery. The version of him encountered during The Project Freelancer Saga, however... is another trope entirely.
        -   To a lesser extent, there's also the Red Zealot of the Battle Creek Zealots. While the rest of the Zealots are meant to serve as parodies of the traditional behavior of gamers in _Halo_ multiplayer matches, the Red Zealot stands out by being _completely bonkers_ because of his fanatical worship of the flags in their "Capture the Flag" games. Combining his ridiculously flowery way of speaking (which is often rich in comparisons to Biblical scripture) with his belief that Caboose is The Antichrist (or _"Anti-Flag"_, as he calls him), and he's often seen as the funniest villain out of the entire show.
    -   Felix and his interactions with Locus and Sharkface in The Chorus Trilogy. The rest of the Space Pirates also count as this to a lesser degree, what with their petty arguments baring more than a slight resemblance to those between the Blood Gulch Crew. Despite them all being ruthless mercenaries hired to wipe out an entire planet for a quick buck, they're surprisingly hilarious when talking to each other. Some of the funniest scenes in the trilogy are of Locus and Felix passive-aggressively arguing with each other, and of Felix constantly pushing the blame of events away from himself while acting more like an childish and obnoxious douche than a heartless killer. Locus, for his part, despite being a genuinely intimidating No-Nonsense Nemesis, still gets his funny moments when he's forced to act as the Only Sane Man/Straight Man for the antics of both Felix and Sharkface.
    -   A noticeably downplayed case, but the Big Bad of Season 15 (Mark Temple) still has his funny moments despite being a terrifyingly Ax-Crazy terrorist and anarchist with a pitch-dark tragic backstory. Most notably, the infamous reveal of his Wax Museum Morgue still has him over-dramatically rolling his "r"s during it. Also, later shots of his private computer show that among his Internet searches are "how to villain" and "Shakesphere monologues". He also childishly insults his underlings (he calls Loco a "fuckface" for not finishing the bomb he needed on time) and generally acts more like a little kid pretending to be a villain than an _actual_ villain. This is fully cemented in the season's penultimate episode, in which he gives a hysterically awful evil monologue to the armor-locked Reds and Blues that consists of an absurd string of half-forgotten song lyrics and Metaphorgotten old quotes - all of which is backed by an In-Universe "monologue mix."
    -   And now, courtesy of _The Shisno Paradox_ and _Singularity_, we can add both Genkins and Chrovos to this list. After the initial facade of being a ruthless Titan with mastery over time falls away, Chrovos turns out to be surprisingly hilarious, being both remarkably kooky and absurdly full of themselves while sporting a remarkably dry sense of humor. What certainly helps that the _Singularity_ iteration of Chrovos goes through a Gender Flip and becomes voiced by Lee Eddy, who has a voice practically _made_ for condescending snark. Meanwhile, after the other shoe drops, Genkins' absurdly theatrical demeanor and habit of Chewing the Scenery (while still peppered by some snark) makes him _very_ funny to watch.
-   _RWBY_: Roman Torchwick, a ruthless and sociopathic crime boss who serves as the Starter Villain for Ruby Rose throughout the first three Volumes. Torchwick quickly became a Breakout Villain and beloved by the fanbase due to his condescending and sarcastic wit, talking down to his younger allies like he's a parent to wayward children, and frequently becoming absurdly melodramatic whenever things turn against him. One of the definitive examples of the series' Cerebus Syndrome is Torchwick getting Eaten Alive by the Grimm at the end of Volume 3.

-   _Dr. Crafty_: While the titular character's villainy is more of an Informed Attribute than anything else, there's no denying his comedic antics are very entertaining.
-   _Supermarioglitchy4's Super Mario 64 Bloopers_ has Francis, the Otaku chameleon from _Super Paper Mario_ with his morals cranked even lower and his laughability cranked even higher; the Box Club, a Cargo Cult that takes the term _way_ too literally; and Waluigi, who's the same. That doesn't mean they're not dangerous, mind you. Waluigi started a Zombie Apocalypse with his rejection-fueled powers, Francis nearly commited Inkling genocide and killed Desti, and the Box Club were able to kidnap the SMGs despite the SMGs' ability to weaponize memes.
-   _Madness Combat_ has Tricky, a psychotic zombie demon clown and one of the most terrifyingly violent things in the setting, second only to Hank himself. There's no denying that he's a villain in the setting, but he manages to remain one of the funniest things in _Madness_ because his over-the-top antics lap past 'offensive' to dive straight back into 'comedic'. After all, there was that time he wore the decapitated head of Jebus Christ as a hat and attempted to use it to raise the dead.
    
    **Tricky:** (_shaking Jebus' head in frustration_) "Why does this _not work_?!!?!"
    
-   _SMPLive_: Schlatt & Co. are completely and utterly incompetent in achieving their goals, something that is played up in a very humorous way. This goes hand-in-hand with the company being modeled after SipsCo. from the Yogscast.

    Western Animation 

-   Bizarro is a creature with all the powers of the Man of Steel, and an intellect that insults egg plants by association. To be fair, he may actually be quite competent, especially in the DC Animated Universe where he is the only one to notice that something is wrong with Lex Luthor (namely that Lex and Flash are body swapped), but because he expresses himself in opposite action every time he speaks, no one gives him the time of day.
-   The Joker:
    -   The incarnation in the DC Animated Universe definitively qualifies. In fact, he even supplies the Trope Picture (more specifically, it was taken in his first scene in _Batman Beyond: Return of the Joker_ where he briefly fakes out Bonk with execution, shortly before doing so for real).
    -   _The Batman_ version. From his bizarrely eclectic outfit to his equally bizarre way of fighting, the man simply cannot pass on the opportunity to do _anything_ with a comedic twist. Naturally, some fans were not pleased. Others found him the funniest Joker yet and quite terrifying.
    -   His _Harley Quinn (2019)_ version is a sassy Politically Incorrect Villain with his Psychopathic Manchild tendencies dialed up and making him even _more_ outlandish than usual.
-   Lex Luthor in the _Superman_ movies is funny for many reasons, but it meshes well with the character. Luthor in _Superman: Brainiac Attacks_ is ridiculously campy, and it doesn't... work... well...
    
    -   Outside of his... regrettable... _Brainiac Attacks_ appearance, the DCAU Lex Luthor can fit this trope to the proverbial 'T', thanks to clever writing and Clancy Brown's brilliant voice acting.
    
    **Luthor:** "Goodbye, Grodd. It could have gone the other way."
    
    **Grodd:** "It really could have, couldn't it?"
    
    \*cue airlocking\*
    
-   Pete from the Classic Disney Shorts and _Goof Troop_, while his characterization is Depending on the Writer, is usually a comedic villain.
-   _Adventures of Sonic the Hedgehog_:
    -   Dr. Robotnik is depicted as bumbling and hilarious, aided by the stellar Large Hamming of the late Long John Baldry.
    -   Scratch and Grounder. Their loyalty to Robotnik and their idiocy know no bounds, and that's exactly why they're so funny.
-   Roger Smith from _American Dad!_. He's the Token Evil Teammate of the Smith family by a **wide** margin and is a Psychopathic Manchild _par excellance_, but is also one of the funniest characters out of the whole series.
-   Evil Emperor Zurg, sworn enemy of the Galactic Alliance from Buzz Lightyear of Star Command is a complete goofball whose constant antics render him the plucky comic relief but he’s also a mad scientist who subjects the LGMs to Cold-Blooded Torture, enslaved entire planets, engages in mind control and has at least once attempted to obliterating two entire planets and is someone whose schemes always Borden on success. He lives and breathes this trope.
-   _Beast Machines_:
    
    -   Jetstorm is Ax-Crazy even by _Transformers_ standards but his Large Ham personality and horrible sense of humour make him one of the most enjoyable villains in the entire franchise.
    
    "This is Captain Jetstorm speaking. Please feel free to run about the tarmac and flee for you miserable little lives."
    
    -   Inferno in _Beast Wars_, though mainly for his Large Ham, Undying Loyalty, Insistent Terminology, Ax-Crazy, etc. At least before his Villain Decay...
        
        "FFFOOOORRR TTTHHHEEE RRROOOYYYAAALLLTTTYYYYY!!!"
        

-   _Bob's Burgers_ has Louise, who takes Comedic Sociopathy to its logical extreme by _actually_ being a sociopath. She's described on The Other Wiki as being "manipulative and aggressive...more than willing to exploit people", not exactly terms usually used to describe a protagonist. Her actions aren't always even harmless to the other protagonists of the show, and she very seldom expresses anything approaching remorse, although ultimately she is shown to love her family. However, that doesn't keep her from being absolutely hilarious.
-   As a black comedy show, _The Boondocks_ has more than its fair share of funny villains:
    -   Uncle Ruckus is a hardcore white supremacist... who happens to be black. He usually appears Once per Episode to make outrageous comments.
    -   Colonel H. Stinkmeaner, an evil old man who likes to mess with other people for his own amusement. His personality and actions are so over-the-top that it's hard not to laugh along with him.
    -   Ed Wuncler III and Gin Rummy are a duo of stupid crooks who go around town robbing people, but most of the time they're too dim-witted to succeed with any of their crimes.
    -   Deborah Leevil is a hammy and card carrying supervillainess who who wants to destroy black people... through the mind-rotting power of a certain TV channel.
-   Mother Brain from _Captain N: The Game Master_. Her over-the-top personality and her voice make her impossible to take seriously.
-   _Clone High_: Principal Cinnamon J. Scudworth is a hammy Mad Scientist who provides a lot of humor because of his eccentric antics and being very loud and expressive when he gets peeved off.
-   The Red Guy from _Cow and Chicken_ may be Satan by another name, but his flamboyant personality, psychotic tendencies, and Large Ham also make him one of the show's funniest characters.
-   Dan in _Dan Vs._ is a criminal lunatic obsessed with revenge, but it's very amusing watching his flimsy attempts to justify his every immoral act, and his plans tend to derail hilariously.
-   All the villains in _Darkwing Duck_, with the possible exception of Knight of Cerebus Taurus Bulba. Negaduck is a good example of a villain who pulls off the neat trick of being both hilarious and dangerous at the same time.
    
    **Negaduck:** "When I throw... _**THE SWITCH!!!!!**"_
    
    -   Heck, even _Bulba_ has his moments:
        
        **Darkwing (taken by surprise after already doing his dramatic intro):** Er... I am the terror that flaps in the night. I am... the sur-surprise in your... cereal box...  
        **Bulba:** Yes, yes, I know. I heard.
        
    -   The villains in the Duck shows in general tend to be like this; Flintheart Glomgold, Magica de Spell, and the Beagle Boys in _DuckTales (1987)_ for example, plus _Count Duckula_ villains Dr. Von Goosewing and The Egg.
-   _Dave the Barbarian_'s Dark Lord Chuckles, The Silly Piggy. It's in the name. For bonus points, this is how he actually announces himself.
-   _The Fairly OddParents!_:
    -   Timmy Turner's cruel babysitter Vicky frequently comes off as funny because she is portrayed as cartoonishly evil, showing absolutely no restraint when gloating to Timmy how much she intends to make him suffer.
    -   Timmy's teacher Mr. Crocker provides a lot of the show's humor because of his deranged obsession with hunting fairies and proving they exist, helped immensely by his habit of going into wild seizures while yelling "fairy godparents!"
    -   Dark Laser is a Darth Vader Expy who frequently attempts to obliterate the Earth, but is kept from being too scary because of the hilarious detail that his best friend is a toy dog named Flipsy.
-   _Family Guy_:
    -   Stewie Griffin, starting with the very fact that he's a one-year-old baby who is an evil mastermind.
    -   Herbert the Pervert, an elderly paedophile who is too old and feeble to be an actual threat to anyone. Stewie puts it best in "Spies Reminiscent of Us":
        
        **Stewie:** Well, there's a paedophile up the street that nobody seems to be doing anything about, but it's mainly because he's so funny.
        
-   Prime Evil, from _Filmation's Ghostbusters_, was absolutely hilarious, thanks to a) the writing and b) Alan Oppenheimer's Large Ham acting.
-   Like everything else in _Freakazoid!_, the villains were hilarious.
-   _Futurama_:
    -   Bender. Only _Futurama_ could take a sleazy, amoral, egotistical, and vice-ridden criminal robot, and make him one of the funniest characters in Western Animation.
    -   Zapp Brannigan is more of the Nominal Hero variety as he's _technically_ on the side of good. However, he's also a smug, manipulative, crude, incompetent, deluded and self-absorbed jackass who's constantly hogging the glory and giving Kif a hard time. Yet when an episode makes him the focal point, you KNOW it'll make for some of the most hysterical moments in the show.
    -   Mom may be a Corrupt Corporate Executive and Abusive Parent With Good Publicity, but her foul temper and mouth has lent itself to a great deal of comedy gold.
    -   Richard Nixon's Head. He may exist largely to be a gigantic Take That! to the real Nixon, but damn if he isn't a hilariously over-the-top one. "AROOOO!"
    -   Roberto is essentially a robotic criminal who is prone to gibbering like a maniac and making violent threats toward people for the most trivial of offenses, which makes him yet another character on the show who's both evil and humorous.
-   _Generator Rex_: Recurring villain Gatlock is completely out of his gourd and frequently says something extremely ludicrous whenever he appears.
-   _Gravity Falls_:
    -   Bill Cipher is a powerful (and weirdly adorable) "dream demon" who combines bone-chilling sociopathy with a jovial, irreverent demeanor and a twisted sense of humor.
        
        **Bill:** _Deer teeth, for you kid! A ha ha ha!_  
        **Gideon:** AAAH! You're _insane_!  
        **Bill:** _Sure I am, what's your point?_
        
    -   Gideon himself often qualifies. Screaming _"I CAN BUY AND SELL YOU, OLD MAN!"_ at his own father is a bit dark, for example, but the sheer hamminess of the line—and the fact that it's a response to being told to clean his room—makes it hard not to laugh.
-   Skeletor from _Masters of the Universe_ became this in _He-Man and the Masters of the Universe (1983)_ —in the original minicomics he was a fairly serious villain, but since censors were constantly breathing down Filmation's neck about what they perceived to be a horribly violent cartoon about a sword-swinging barbarian, they decided to make the scary man with a Skull for a Head less scary by playing him for laughs. Though still an evil schemer, the cartoon Skeletor was turned into a Laughing Mad Deadpan Snarker who kept cracking one-liners in which he insulted the world in general and lamented how he was Surrounded by Idiots, with a ridiculous, non-menacing voice to boot. The 2002 remake of the show turned him a little more menacing and threatening, but kept his sarcasms and general tendency to get all the best lines in the show.
-   The titular protagonist of _Invader Zim_. Or just the Irkens in general, really. Who knew planet-scale genocide could be such a riot?
-   Doc Seismic in _Invincible (2021)_, an over-the-top Large Ham Mad Scientist who in his first appearance is shouting Straw Feminist talking points and cheesy one-liners. Even his abilities are Played for Laughs, as he lacks the Required Secondary Powers to use his earthquake gauntlets without giving himself brain damage and he's a Dance Battler despite being a short, portly old man.
-   _Jimmy Two-Shoes_:
    -   Heloise is an Ax-Crazy Enfant Terrible known for her yandere attraction to Jimmy, her dangerous and immoral inventions and experiments, and her love of injury, torture, and destruction. As you might guess, she's quite hilarious.
    -   Lucius is a ruthless, sadistic, narcissistic, megalomaniacal, and tyrannical expy of Satan whose favourite thing is making everyone as miserable as possible. He's also a bumbling, moronic, and ineffectual Large Ham who is constantly injured, humiliated, and given the short end of the stick in the show. As a result, many fans find him hilarious.
-   _Kaeloo_:
    -   Mr. Cat is an Ax-Crazy and sadistic psychopath who loves torturing Quack Quack, but he is also the source of quite a few funny moments, mostly thanks to his snarkiness, proneness to Blatant Lies and completely off the wall justifications for the terrible things he does. In the second episode, he was also the personification of the Evil Is Hammy trope, through that was mostly thanks to Early-Installment Weirdness.
    -   Olaf is a hammy and Harmless Villain whose sheer ineptitude at everything and failure to intimidate the main cast make him fairly entertaining to watch.

-   Most of the villains in _Kim Possible_ are laughable, especially Dr. Drakken (with Shego's running commentary serving to highlight his laughability). Even the Scary Dogmatic Aliens, who can't grasp English idioms and have a goddamn Off-button in their ship (except when they threaten to kill Kim and mount her in front of Ron).

-   _The Mask_: In "Shrink Rap": Dr Neuman was given the mask by Stanley who wanted to get rid of it so he agrees to keep it but however while inside his house he saw that the mask glows so he gets curious and puts it close which causes it to get attached to his face which turns him into a psychotic and insane madman who believes that there is a disorder called Ipkissa Maskosis so genuinely insane he goes out to cure the world from it but the way he does it is by putting people in wedgie straitjackets including a gorilla as well which he gets diapers out to do that, he uses a child bicycle, a flying book then finally a bouncy stick after his appointment alarm goes off on his watch, he meets with Pretorius who tells him about his plan which while Masked Dr Neuman agrees that Pretorius is insane decides to help him to do that, while with Pretorius Masked Dr Neuman begs him to tell him more of his plan but he refuses so Masked Dr Neuman reminds him he is in his care so Pretorius tricks him by telling him the cosmos are within reach and that Masked Dr Neuman can see them which when Masked Dr Neuman turns around to look for them he tells Pretorius that he does not see them but after being hit on the head by Pretorius, his head pops comes with his eyes rolling around, tongue sticking out and he is convinced that he can see them, after finally searching for Pretorius he shows himself to have childlike traits such as going on the ground and begging Pretorius to tell him what his plan is which he finally agrees to tell him and later on while chasing Stanley Masked Dr Neuman decides to put him in a bath partly to put him off guard but mostly because he decides to mess around with Stanley which shows Masked Dr Neuman to have a sense of humor like The Mask and the other benevolent mask personas which also shows that Masked Dr Neuman is terrifiying but can be funny at times with his insanity and his wackniess.

-   _OK K.O.! Let's Be Heroes_ has this with Lord Boxman and his robots Darrel, Shannon, and Raymond. Boxman has a comically petty hatred of Lakewood Plaza Turbo and tends to act like an ineffectual bully, while his robots often behave childishly and have a misfortune of constantly being beaten effortlessly by the heroes in spite of their best efforts.
-   _Phineas and Ferb_ has Dr. Heinz Doofenshmirtz. Yes, he wants to take over the entire Tri-State area, and has created everything from Killer Robots and mind-control helmets... but he's so bad at it, it's hilarious! Compared to his alternate universe self, Doof-2 from _Phineas and Ferb The Movie: Across the 2nd Dimension_, he's a pretty decent guy. Doof-2 was willing to kill complete innocents and his alternate-self, just for the sake of it. Though he still fills this trope by, among other things, announcing their doom with a sock-puppet. The other members of L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N count as well. Each spends their days building devices with distinctive suffixes (inator, izer, ator, ect.) and having their plans foiled by an animal agent.
-   Nearly every villain on _The Powerpuff Girls (1998)_ is this except for Femme Fatale, Dick Hardly, and the Gnome. Mostly Mojo Jojo and to a slight lesser extent HIM.
-   _Samurai Jack_:
    -   Aku is rather... goofy for being the embodiment of evil and all. It ultimately varies depending on the episode, as there are some that present him as a legitimately evil and threatening figure. Oftentimes, it's a bit of both.
    -   Scaramouche, the robot assassin in service of Aku introduced in Season 5. He may be insane, but _damn_ does he have a unique personality.
-   _The Simpsons_:
    -   Sideshow Bob has all the dry wit of a character voiced by Kelsey Grammer and the overriding goal of killing Bart Simpson.
    -   Mr. Burns is one of the most famous Corrupt Corporate Executives in cartoon history, as well as an unrepentant Card-Carrying Villain. Doesn't stop him from being very capable of being very funny.
-   _South Park_:
    -   Cartman. An individual whose antics can sometimes backfire and lead to his humiliation, but he shows that he's capable of this, for example being able to team up with Cthulhu.
    -   Saddam Hussein as well, particularly in the movie.
-   Empress Geela from _SpacePOP_ is a cruel dictator who took over the princesses' planets and kidnapped their parents, but she spends most of her time on vapid, self-promoting TV shows and reveling in her own evilness.
-   In _The Spectacular Spider Man_ the Green Goblin doesn't get annoyed by the Web-Head's quipping and mocking and still has the original version's wacky personality, manipulative planning, and amazing acrobatism. He is shown to crack sadistic jokes.
-   _SpongeBob SquarePants_: Given the show’s extremely comedic nature, pretty much EVERY villain in the series definitely fits this trope to an absolute tee.
    -   Plankton, the Big Bad of the show and the Arch-Enemy to both SpongeBob and Mr. Krabs, is a Diabolical Mastermind who is constantly plotting to steal the Krabby Patty secret formula, but he's usually ineffective and constantly set back by his own arrogance, lack of foresight and Genre Blind nature. Doesn't stop him from being one of the funniest characters in the show, especially in the earlier seasons.
    -   The adversaries of Mermaid Man and Barnacle Boy all qualify, though Man Ray and the Dirty Bubble are the standout examples. Man Ray in particular is a Large Ham to incalculable levels who can be almost _childishly_ evil in his antics, while the Dirty Bubble has some odd quirks (like making his enemies eat dirt) or likes to randomly have a lovely chat about the good old days just after a defeat. They even have a<small>◊</small> Cool Car with a license plate that reads "Mean 2 U".

-   Peridot in _Steven Universe_ was callous to the extreme, even towards members of her own species, and talked about nightmarishly cruel experiments in Gem fusion like she's recording the heights of soybeans, but at the same time her dorkiness, constant frustration, ridiculous facial expressions, and one particular scene where she soared away on a helicopter made from her own techno-fingers while giggling like a loon made her a source of constant amusement. She got even funnier following her Heel–Face Turn.
-   _TaleSpin_:
    -   Don Carnage is eccentric and flamboyant, has a funny accent and incompetent minions, but is still a ruthless pirate who thinks nothing of dropping a child twenty thousand feet to his death or setting a town on fire with a Lightning Gun.
    -   Colonel Ivanod Spigot is too; among other things suffers from Napoleonic complex and a speech impediment, and is always worry that is going to be executed. Though that's justified as he works for a totalitarian government.
-   _Tangled: The Series_ shows us Andrew, a guy so Pretty Boy Even the Guys Want Him who is from a separatist faction of the Kingdom of Corona called Saporia, who leads a band of Saporians who could be described as a New Age thugs. His real Embarrassing First Name is Hubert, and any mention that they could conquer Corona is meet with derisive laughter... until they do. He is also the first villain who tried to impale In the Back Cassandra, who let Varian, a teenage boy, drop to his death as punishment for betraying the Saporian cause, and who tried to reduce the whole Kingdom to ashes with all the population.
-   Bebop and Rocksteady from the 1980s _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles_ cartoon provide a lot of comedy due to being a Bumbling Henchmen Duo who are extremely stupid and prone to messing up Shredder and Krang's plans with their idiocy.
    -   87-Shredder in the crossover of _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2012)_ and _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (1987)_. Unlike his grim and serious 2012-counterpart of him, 87-Shredder is the kind of ham you'd expect from a 1980's Saturday-Morning Cartoon villain; throwing out colorfully alliterative insults to friends and enemies alike, emoting with exaggerated had motions and bursting into Evil Laughter at the drop of a hat.
-   _Teen Titans (2003)_ has quite a lot of humorous villains.
    -   Gizmo is a brat who tends to taunt the heroes immaturely and fly into comical fits of rage when things go bad for him.
    -   Mad Mod makes use of bizarre illusions in his schemes and happens to be an outlandishly over-the-top British stereotype.
    -   The Amazing Mumbo is a magician-themed villain prone to silly antics, such as attempting to saw Starfire in half while stating "It's only fair to warn you: I have no idea what I'm doing".
    -   Control Freak is essentially an overweight geek who desires to be seen by the Titans as a serious threat while oblivious of exactly how many foes the Titans have faced who are way more formidable and menacing than he is.
    -   Killer Moth's daughter Kitten is basically a Bratty Teenage Daughter whose heinous scheme is to make Robin take her to the prom just to make her boyfriend Fang jealous.
-   _Total Drama Pahkitew Island_ plays this up with ineffectual self-declared supervillain Max. He attempts to be evil and can actually produce things like a helmet that turns animals evil, but his lack of common sense and For the Evulz attitude makes him completely comical.
    -   For some viewers, series host Chris McLean is this. His rampant ego, shameless immorality, and general sleaziness combined with his casual attitude and chill Surfer Dude demeanour makes him one of the most beloved and most hateable characters on the show. He's been compared with the likes of Eric Cartman from _South Park_ and Bill Cipher from _Gravity Falls_.
-   _Transformers: Animated_:
    -   Blitzwing by himself is funny, particularly when his "random" personality is in control ("Ooh, I wanna see him turn into a fire truck, can I, can I, can I?"), but him and Lugnut sniping at each other is hilarious. Extra points for being a pretty competent and evil villain - one notable appearance includes tearing off Ratchet's _hand_ (and making a reference to _eating_ it some episodes later. Hilariously.)
    -   Other villains have their moments, too, some more than others. Swindle, for example, is an Arms Dealer who acts like nothing so much as an overly-excited infomercial host. (In fact, his mannerisms were based partly on Ron Popeil.) And, because this show is so Merchandise-Driven, you can have your own little plastic Swindle for just $10.99! But Wait, There's More!!
-   _Transformers: Prime_ Knock Out who has the most hilarious lines in the show, and is so vain about his appearance that he borders on being a parodic metrosexual.
-   Simon from _Trollz_ is a 3000-year-old gremlin who destroyed Trollzopolis once and wields powerful magic, but he looks and acts like a 9-year-old boy and has no aptitude for modern technology. He's also quite proud of being evil, as is his sidekick Snarf.
-   _T.U.F.F. Puppy_ has several humorous villains.
    -   The main villain Verminious Snaptrap is a Psychopathic Manchild whose schemes are often ridiculously childish, frequently has to be reminded by his henchman Ollie of his more serious plots and is prone to abusing his brother-in-law Larry in all sorts of comical and petty ways.
    -   The Chameleon often comes off as silly due to his disguises prioritizing looking like the person he is impersonating and rarely making an effort to copy the voice, instead feeling that randomly spouting out phrases that are even remotely related to his disguise will suffice. He also has great difficulty finding glasses that can fit his eyes.
    -   Bird Brain is an Evil Genius who is always frustrated by his henchmen misunderstanding his exclamations (not helped by several of them having names that are either homonyms of common exclamations, like Holey Cow, or are all too easy to interpret as a command to do a specific action, like Duck!).
    -   F.L.O.P.P. is a band of Harmless Villains who are more concerned with harmless pranks than actually being threatening, though they sometimes get their hands on one of Snaptrap's devices and formulate effective plans to use the contraption to cause trouble for Petropolis.
-   Essentially **all** the villains from _The Venture Bros._ have something hilarious about them, but The Monarch stands out due to regarding Dr. Venture as his Sitcom Arch-Nemesis and the humorous irony of theming himself after a flying insect when he's consistently shown to be not that knowledgeable in entomology.
-   Many villains from _Wander over Yonder_:
    -   Despite trying to act serious and tough, Lord Hater is pretty comical at times. While he is an Ineffectual Sympathetic Villain in his attempts at defeating Wander, most planets are terrified of him.
    -   Lord Hater's villainous rival, Emperor Awesome, is an Agent Peacock shark-man who lives to party and who will flirt with anything vaguely female, from Wander's partner/steed Sylvia to a possessed sandwich.
    -   Dr. Screwball Jones from "The Boy Wander" is a goofy-looking super-villain devoted to making people laugh, whether they like it or not.
-   _Xiaolin Showdown_: Jack Spicer is the least threatening of the main villains and he's mainly used as a comic relief.

___