There are subjectives, and then there are _these._ While _you_ may believe a work fits here, and you might be right, people tend to have rather vocal, differing opinions about this subject.  
Please keep these off of the work's page.

**Character Alignment**  
**Lawful Good** | Neutral Good | Chaotic Good  
Lawful Neutral | True Neutral | Chaotic Neutral  
Lawful Evil | Neutral Evil | Chaotic Evil

Truth, justice, and a better tomorrow.

_"Law is order, and good law is good order."_

The Character Alignment combining the concepts of Order and Goodness.

Lawful Good characters believe that laws exist to further the public good, and that fairness and equality before the law are necessary for good to truly exist. Order is a vital part of good, not for its own end, but because when people act arbitrarily, they will often harm each other, intentionally or unintentionally. To a lawful good character, no one is above the rules, not even themselves.

Along with order, justice is a very important concept to lawful good characters in every sense of the word. All people have to be treated justly, be it being justly rewarded for their services, punished for their ill deeds (and only to the appropriate amount), or being protected from harm. Depending on the interpretation, a Lawful Good person may weigh their mission more towards defending the weak, or more in punishing the wicked to deter future harm.

A Lawful Good character believes in the goodness inherent in all beings, in a code of conduct—be it a personal one or a set of laws—and that an ideal world comes from promoting this dualism of structure and benevolence. Differing interpretations of "good" may lead a Lawful Good character to become Lawful Stupid, as following the law to the letter, to the point where it defies basic decency and disproportionately punishes people, no longer becomes fair. A Lawful Good character typically believes that the law should serve and protect the people, and not the other way around, and that mercy should be granted to everyone, even enemies.

In most RPGs, it is compulsory for The Paladin to be Lawful Good. If they stop being Lawful Good, they run the risk of losing their powers (depending on how far they stray). Likely to take a theoretical approach to The Golden Rule, with lots of complex rules built around it to clarify how it is to be applied. Utopias tend to be composed entirely of good, honest Lawful Good citizens.

The Lawful Good alignment is often thought of as pertaining to the most blatantly good of the good guys, and is commonly stereotyped as such. Still, also Neutral Good and Chaotic Good characters can count as Incorruptible Pure Pureness. As alignments are broad categories, this is an oversimplification, but so is the opposite stereotype.

Lawful Good characters tend to come in three deliciously nice flavors:

-   **Lawful Over Good**: This type uses Good means to achieve Lawful ends. Essentially, a Lawful Neutral character that believes a morally Good society or way of life is more orderly or safer than any other, one that is perhaps less "pro-Good" than "anti-Evil" and "anti-Chaos". Though they strive to behave in a good and altruistic manner, when push comes to shove they are likely to choose to follow the rules or obey authority over sticking their own neck out to do the right thing. While they believe that law and order are ultimately more important than morality (although they may not admit it in public), they see doing good as the price to pay for this, and would ideally live in a morally upright environment than any other.
-   **Good Over Law**: This type uses Lawful means to achieve Good ends. They are altruistic and well-intentioned people who believe that following the rules and living an orderly or disciplined life is the best and most efficient way to achieve their moral goals. They differ from Neutral Good in that while the latter might follow the rules out of simple pragmatism or convenience, this type honestly believes that a structured approach is the best way to achieve righteous results, and hence are quicker to discard rules if they do not believe they serve a greater moral purpose than the other type and if doing so does not lead to manageable negative consequences.
-   **Balance Seeker**: This type seeks a balance between Lawful and Good, usually a character that struggles to differentiate between the two. They face the dilemma of To Be Lawful or Good often, and must consider the circumstances anew every time it comes up. They sincerely desire to be good, morally upstanding people but may struggle to operate outside of some kind of ruleset or structured system. They may bend or break the rules for the greater good in one moment, but feel guilty or ashamed of themselves for doing so and double down on the rules in another area of their life later on.

Characters who are Lawful Good but avoid becoming Lawful Stupid often end up being deliberately contrasted with one or more Lawful Stupid characters to show precisely what Lawful Good _ought_ to mean (in the eyes of the authors).

Alternatively, too much weight on the "Law" side and too little on the "Good" can easily inspire a Knight Templar, though those tend to be Lawful Evil. This leads to unceasing debates over whether these people are playing the alignment "right", or whether they should belong to one of the other lawful alignments.

While the key difference between Lawful Good and Neutral Good is the belief that upholding law/honor/social mores/etc. is required to set a proper example for others; the key difference between Lawful Good and Lawful Neutral is the recognition that laws/honor/social mores/etc. exist only to protect the Greater Good, and will consider whether those strict guidelines accomplish their tasks rather than enforcing the rule for the rule's own sake.

We apologize for any confusion, but Lawful Good is not Always Lawful Good. Always Lawful Good is named for its opposite, Always Chaotic Evil, and can refer to **any** of the Good alignments as long as that alignment is a species-wide characteristic within a setting.

**See Also**: Neutral Good, Chaotic Good, Lawful Neutral, True Neutral, Chaotic Neutral, Lawful Evil, Neutral Evil, Chaotic Evil

___

If you have a difficulty deciding which alignment a good-aligned character belongs to, remember that the vast majority of characters do not have one clear, constant alignment. Do not attempt to shoehorn characters into an alignment if you can't figure one out for them; if you have any doubts, they probably simply lack a clearly-defined alignment.

The main difference between Lawful Good, Neutral Good and Chaotic Good is not their devotion to good, but the methods they believe are best to promote it:

-   Even though there are some situations where they can't always use this method, Lawful Good characters believe the best way is to have a specific, strict code of conduct, whether self-imposed or codified as a law. Their first impulse when making a moral decision is to refer back to this code; those with externally imposed systems (codes of laws, hierarchies, etc.) will try to work within the system when those systems go wrong. Depending on whether they are more Lawful or more Good, they will either refuse to break the code even though it would hurt someone, or else break it only very reluctantly, and only when it would hurt someone if they kept their code. Lawful Good characters have to be very good at Taking a Third Option.
-   Neutral Good characters are indifferent to Order Versus Chaos, and their only interest is in doing good. They will use whatever means will promote the most good, whether that means tearing down a code of laws, following a code of laws, creating an orderly society, causing the breakdown of harmful kinds of order, or staying away from society altogether. Their only goal is to do good, full stop.
-   Most Chaotic Good characters don't constantly break the law, but they cannot see much value in laws. They believe that their own consciences are their best guides, and that tying themselves to any given code of conduct would be limiting their own ability to do good. They do not get along with anyone who tries to instill any kind of order over the Chaotic Good character or others, believing these people to be restricting their freedom and the freedom of others; however, most Chaotic Good characters will respect the right of others to impose strong codes of conduct on themselves. Chaotic Good characters often focus very strongly on individual rights and freedoms, and will strongly resist any form of oppression of themselves or anyone else.

___

## Character archetypes particularly prone to this alignment includes

-   All-Loving Hero, if not Neutral Good
-   The Badass Preacher
-   Heroic Battle Butlers
-   By-the-Book Cop (if not Lawful Neutral)
-   The Cape
-   The Captain
-   Captain Patriotic
-   Colonel Badass
-   More heroic and sympathetic versions of the Church Militant.
-   Crusading Lawyer
-   A kinder, caring and more sympathetic Deadly Doctor. (Because medicine isn't always nice.)
-   Exact Words (how a lawful good character might subvert oppressive laws)
-   Most heroic versions of The Fettered
-   Characters invoking For Great Justice.
-   In a heroic Four-Temperament Ensemble, the Phlegmatic and Melancholic usually.
-   Characters who strongly believe that Rousseau Was Right
-   Ideal Hero, if not Neutral Good
-   Knight in Shining Armor
-   MegaCorps (although rather rarely, given the typical stance of most others)
-   The Nice Guy, if not Neutral Good (or, rarely, True Neutral)
-   The Paladin
-   The Paragon
-   Heroic examples of My Country, Right or Wrong and Honor Before Reason
-   Reasonable Authority Figure and subtropes:
    -   The Patriarch
    -   The Good Chancellor
    -   The Good King
    -   The Emperor (when he's not a villain)
    -   The High Queen
    -   A Father to His Men
    -   Da Chief
    -   Benevolent Boss
    -   Good Shepherd
    -   The Wise Prince
    -   The Vicar
-   Rebellious Rebel, if he tries to appeal to his original superiors
-   The blue oni in a good Red Oni, Blue Oni duo
-   Rightly Self-Righteous
-   The Sheriff will generally fill this role in The Western, so long as he isn't corrupt.
-   If said Sheriff is corrupt, the U.S. Marshal is often the lawful good instead out to remedy the situation.
-   Heroic examples of The Spock / The Superego of a good-aligned Freudian Trio
-   Heroic examples of The Stoic
-   Supporting Leader
-   Sympathetic Inspector Antagonist
-   A character frequently forced to choose To Be Lawful or Good typically starts off as this, but is unlikely to end the story with the same alignment.

Others, such as Big Good, Good Is Not Nice, Ideal Hero, All-Loving Hero, Small Steps Hero, Knight in Sour Armor and Friend to All Living Things, can vary between Lawful Good, Neutral Good, and Chaotic Good. Generally, a lawful good government is The Republic.

Others, such as characters who is Obsessively Organized and Creature of Habit, can vary between Lawful Good, Lawful Neutral and Lawful Evil

___

## Examples

**When dealing with the examples of specific characters, remember that assigning an alignment to a character who doesn't come with one is pretty YMMV. If you've got a problem with a character being listed here, it probably belongs on the discussion page. There will be no Real Life examples under any circumstances; it just invites an Edit War. Plus, real people are far too complex and multi-dimensional to really be classified by such a straightforward alignment system.**

**On works pages: Character Alignment is only to be used in works where it is canonical, and only for characters who have alignments in-story. There is to be no arguing over canonical alignments, and no Real Life examples, ever.**

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   Rukia Kuchiki of _Bleach_ tends to believe that even Soul Society's harsher laws are for the good of all human souls, but often acts altruistically in matters unrelated to her duty. Her adoptive brother Byakuya leans toward this alignment after being defeated by Ichigo, after a lengthy period as Lawful Neutral....which was atonement for breaking a couple of Soul Society traditons, for love. So one could argue he's basically come full circle. Retsu Unohana and CAPTAIN Toshiro Hitsugaya are also of this alignment, as are Ukitake and Shunshui, all four of whom lean more towards the good as they rightly suspect that a lot of their recent orders are suspect.
-   Most of the crew of _Cowboy Bebop_ seem to be somewhere on the Chaotic spectrum, but Jet Black, the ship's owner, is a fairly realistic (if cynical) portrayal of Lawful Good. Dedicated, in his own way, to the pursuit of law and justice (the reason why he became a bounty hunter after quitting the force), he was known as an exemplary example of an honest cop during his days as the Black Dog of Ganymede.
-   Haran Banjou, main character of Yoshiyuki Tomino's _Daitarn 3_. More than once, despite his hatred for Meganoids, he spared those who showed themselves capable of love, or possessing some code of honour. He is possibly the most moral of all Tomino main characters.
-   Chief Yagami from _Death Note_. The ideal policeman, strictly holding himself to the law and proper police procedures, while at the same time dedicating everything, including his life, to the defeat of the serial killer Kira.
    -   Light, when he has no memory of being Kira. Combines Soichirou's moral core with Chessmaster tendencies. Given that the other choices at hand are a passionless kid who can't make his own flight plans and an emotionally volatile fourteen-year-old who's just plain _dangerous_, L's offer that said character become his successor may not have been _entirely_ a Mind Screw.
    -   Koki Tanakabara's one speech embodies this alignment. He says that the police are right to fight against Kira and uphold Japan's constitutional government, and he finishes by defiantly announcing his name on live TV, knowing that he's just given Kira all that he needs to kill him.

-   Kenshiro from _Fist of the North Star_ lives his life by the code of his martial arts school and unfailingly fights tyranny and helps people in need because he considers it the duty of the strong to help the weak. But if you dare to prey upon or visit suffering upon the innocent trying to survive in this post-apocalyptic hell, like so many gangs and evil warlords do in this series, Ken will _explode your body from the inside_, making him an almost textbook example of a hard-liner, uncompromising and utterly awesome Lawful Good so much that he's often cited as an example for this alignment.

-   Roy Mustang and his subordinates from _Fullmetal Alchemist_ are probably this, although it's not like they're unwilling to flaunt the law when they learn that the Amestris military is based on Lawful Evil. But Roy generally prefers to work within the system, in contrast to Ed and, even more so, Scar (who is arguably his Foil).
-   Chief Aramaki from _Ghost in the Shell_ knows that his position includes many duties and limitations he does not like, but follows without protest. He does however try everything within his limited power to protect his team from political intrigue and prevent the harming of innocent people for the personal interest of his superiors.
    -   Togusa is also lawful good, but being the eternal new guy, still lacks the understanding that quite often both taking the law in your own hands and letting criminals go free does the most good in the long run.
-   _Gundam_ has _many_ characters with this alignment:
    -   The Hero Amuro Ray himself, especially in _Mobile Suit Gundam: Char's Counterattack_, though he started out as True Neutral in the original series. By CCA it would be fair to say his main role is as defender of Earth and the status quo.
    -   Bright Noah the eternal captain of the Universal Century timeline and easily one the most dutiful and moral Reasonable Authority Figure of the franchise, not afraid of using a slap to set people straight and willing to join La Résistance to save The Federation from the corruption of the Titans.
    -   _Gundam 00_ has Reasonable Authority Figures Sergei Smirnov and Kati Mannequin. Sumeragi used to be this when she was still part of the AEU prior on joining CB. Starting off as Lawful Neutral and then Neutral Good, Tieria Erde sort-of, if not, shifts to this alignment in the end of the series when he recaptured and merged with Veda, fulfilling his purpose as an Innovade, which is to guide humanity through innovation.

-   _Hetalia: Axis Powers_:
    -   This is what America and England try to be. They tend to go more for Chaotic Good and Selfish Good instead.
    -   Ukraine seems to be this, considering she's among the sanest (for a sort-of measure) in the very screwed up Baltic corner.
    -   Don't forget about the rest of the Baltics. Especially Lithuania, who does his best to look after the others and is a sweet, hardworking person. Though they're mostly Lawful only out fear of their boss Russia, though...

-   Kimba from _Kimba the White Lion_ is a kind-hearted ruler who aims at creating a utopia for his jungle and will risk his life to save others he barely knows.
-   Inspector Zenigata from _Lupin III_ is typically this, although since the series is a Long Runner it can vary Depending on the Writer. He has good reason to try to catch the Chaotic Neutral protagonist, but never hesitates to change focus when a much worse criminal gets involved, and will even ally with his arch-nemesis in order to save lives (but never lets him off the hook for long, due to his Lawfulness). Notably NOT the case in the original manga, wherein he resorts to entrapment, sacrificing his own officers, and cold-blooded murder to get what he needs. He mellows out considerably over time, as Lupin backs off from his own more destructive tactics (probably because Monkey Punch finally noticed he had no sympathetic characters).
-   _Lyrical Nanoha_:
    -   Fate T. Harlaown works for an inter-dimensional police force, always attacks to subdue, and will go beyond her duty to save anyone that requires saving, even those that others consider as non-human. She also has a tendency to take in orphaned children and give them loving homes. Many of her lines literally scream Lawful Good.
    -   Her brother Chrono has a fairly stoic personality and tends to be by-the-book in most regards, but underneath his blunt demeanor, he cares deeply for others and seeks the best possible outcome while upholding the law.
    -   After she joins the TSAB, Signum turns out to be very much like Chrono in this regard. In _StrikerS_, she is temporarily placed under Fate's command, and the two get along splendidly, both professionally and personally, despite having been enemies previously.
-   Maria Graceburt from _My-Otome_. Like Haruka, Maria's purpose in life is to make sure that _everyone_ who steps through the gates of Garderobe Academy upholds the morals and traditions of their Otome predecessors, and tirelessly tries to hold herself to the same rules, as she was once an Otome herself.

-   Toru Muhyo in _Muhyo and Roji_ typically adheres to the law and is forced to be consistent when passing magical law judgments, but he typically finds the best outcome for the ghosts and the other people involved in cases while adhering to the laws.
-   Mawari of _My Bride is a Mermaid_. Plans to be a police officer and carries a whistle at all times, blowing it at any perceived infraction against morals/justice with the catchphrase (or variant) "Do you want Mawari to teach you about the rules of society?" Always convinced that she is right and interferes with everything without concern for herself, according to Nagasumi's childhood memories.
    -   San herself is pretty Lawful Good too, being always concerned with the "code of chivalry" and the fact that, barring the occasional Comedic Sociopathy moment, she wouldn't hurt a fly.
-   _My-HiME_:
    -   Akira Okuzaki, a teenage Ninja girl, has the utmost respect of her clan's traditions and rules. Still, she will occasionally go against them to do what she thinks is the right thing to do, such as saving Takumi's life instead of killing him for discovering her secret.
    -   Haruka Suzushiro acts more strict, but still adheres to this alignment... at least in the anime. Manga!Haruka is much more Lawful Neutral, but it's mostly played for laughs as she decides that certain laws (school rules) are more important than others (the laws against kidnapping people, for instance).
-   The Third Hokage of _Naruto_ enforces his village's laws fairly, but considers the villagers like his family and thinks of them first. Rock Lee is like this to some degree, typically being kind and honorable, and following Guy's orders to the letter, despite some Leeroy Jenkins moments. Sakura mostly follows this alignment, typically obeying orders and rules and trying to do the right thing, but occasionally covertly acts on her own (for example, sneaking out of the village during the timeskip to research the Akatsuki). Also, in the time between his defeat at Naruto's hands and the Timeskip, Gaara goes from Chaotic Evil all the way to Lawful Good, wanting to be accepted and protect the people of his village. At the Summit of the Five Kages, he comes off as less concerned about politics and more concerned about doing the right thing.
-   Queen Arika of _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_, the last Queen of Vespertatia who was much beloved by her people and served as the Big Good of Nagi's Ala Rubra. Between her and the Chaotic Good Nagi, it's probably not much of a surprise that their son Negi averaged out as Neutral Good.

-   Suzaku in the _Code Geass_ spinoff _Code Geass: Nightmare of Nunnally_ tries to keep order and support Euphemia in her quest to reform the empire without falling into the Lawful Neutral and Lawful Stupid behavior of the original series. He also starts out like this in his own spinoff manga, but shifts to Neutral Good while breaking Lelouch out of prison in order to save the world from Schneizel.
    -   And in the main series (as well as the aforementioned spinoff), Euphemia li Britannia and Nunnally vi Britannia, two Wide-Eyed Idealist Rebellious Princesses of the Lawful Evil Holy Britannian Empire. Two of the few indisputably good-aligned characters in a black-and-gray series.
-   Erza Scarlet from the _Fairy Tail_ Guild. She's strict, follows rules and often blames the other members. Lucy is Neutral Good and most other members are Chaotic Good.
-   In _One Piece_, the concept of "Moral Justice" among the Marines boils down to this, contrasting with the Lawful Evil "Absolute Justice." Many personal definitions of justice are also largely identical to Moral Justice.
    -   While Smoker and Tashigi are the Straw Hats' enemies, they are willing to work with them to deal with worse villains, and unlike other Marines, do not abuse their power or display Knight Templar tendencies in pursuing the Straw Hats or other pirates.
    -   Marine Captain T-Bone has a similar predilection, as he cares for his men and is almost obsessed with protecting the innocent.
    -   Nami and Nojiko's adoptive mother Bellemere, despite being a troublemaker in her youth, joined the Marines to fight against pirates who kill innocent people and tried to teach Nami not to steal.
    -   There is also Admiral Aokiji — although works for the Lawful Evil World Government, he practices "lazy justice," only going after those he deems to be threats, and objects to the more horrific actions the government takes, like Akainu blowing up a ship full of civilians to prevent any possibility of scholars escaping Ohara.
    -   Coby joins the Marines to bring justice to the people, but is purely moral and the one who finally speaks out against the Marines' actions when the battle at Marineford turns into a merciless massacre.
    -   Jinbe, though a pirate, also qualifies, as his intent in being a pirate at all is primarily to protect his home island, and he fights with the intention of ending the racial tension between humans and fishmen, and the creation of a better society for both. As he's now a member of the largely Chaotic Neutral Straw Hat Pirates, he borders on Token Good Teammate.
-   Ashitaka in _Princess Mononoke_. He always pleads with his enemies to stop attacking, but never hesitates to kill to save innocent people. He takes neither side in conflict between the people of the Ironworks and the spirits of the forest, and instead tries everything he can to prevent any further violence, while never compromising or backing away from what he thinks is the right thing to do.
-   Kenshin Himura from _Rurouni Kenshin_ goes by this trope quite well, to name a specially blatant time the whole Jinchu story arc, where he jumps to protect 2 guys who were trying to kill him (one of them shot him with a gun after his fight with Enishi!!) and the guy who tried to blow him up with a grenade. Why? Because killing is wrong and he has this oath of never killing nor letting anyone kill anyone before him. It's worth noting that Kenshin's master expelled him because this philosophy is against the principles of Hiten Mitsurugi-ryu (Kenshin's fighting style), which is basically a combination of True Neutral and Chaotic Good. The idea is that practitioners are supposed to protect the weak by using lethal force on aggressors while not concerning oneself with the actions and laws of society and its people.
-   Hino Rei of _Sailor Moon_ was a highly-disciplined miko before she started fighting evil in high heels and a miniskirt, and is generally the most serious-minded of all the Inner Senshi. The manga version — who swore a vow of chastity to Princess Serenity in her past life and intends to hold herself to it in her new one — fits this trope even better.

-   Leeron of _Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann_ becomes this after the time skip, working within the frameworks and rules set up by Rossiu to develop new technology and spacecraft. Rossiu tries to be this, but is less on the good side than he thought and only becomes this alignment after he's punched in the face by Chaotic Good Simon after trying to commit suicide when realizing how wrong he was. In the far finale, we see him as a benevolent president, proving he turned out a true Lawful Good individual after all.
-   Keith "Sky High" Goodman from _Tiger & Bunny_, who's driven by the desire to do the right thing and be a role model while doing it, definitely falls under this Alignment.
-   Akira Yuki in the _Virtua Fighter_ anime, who will involve himself in all kinds of trouble for his strong sense of justice, will defend his friends to the end and absolutely refuses to take a life, regardless of the circumstances. His game incarnation is probably Lawful Neutral, though.
-   Koenma in _YuYu Hakusho_ typically follows Spirit World's laws and fairly enforces them, but sometimes breaks them for the greater good, as he turns a blind eye to the Dark Tournament because it helps keep demons out of trouble. However, when he can, he will use legal means to deal with problems in Spirit World's hierarchy, like when he manages to get his father removed from office for sending demons into the human world to justify the barrier's existence.
-   Akane Tsunemori from _Psycho-Pass_ is an Inspector who, at first, firmly believes in the Sibyl System but not blindly so; while she believes that analysis of people's Crime Coefficient and mandatory arrest and therapy for people who score too high are a good thing, she also doesn't believe in executing a scared woman simply because she was kidnapped and raped into a highly stressed state. When Law and Good aren't on speaking terms, however, she will consistently choose Good (because in her mind, any such Law is illegitimate).
    
    _"The law doesn't protect people. People protect the law."_
    
-   There's a fair number of these characters in _Case Closed_, but Inspector Ninzaburou Shiratori turns out to be the biggest one since his desire to uphold and protect the law turns out to be quiiiite important to him ever since he was a child. It's clearly seen when he gives a killer a "The Reason You Suck" Speech that begins with Shiratori _reciting a specific law code word by word_.
-   Dot Pixis from _Attack on Titan_ is a reasonable example. He is in charge of the garrison regiment, and one of the few good leaders around. When Eren's transformation was revealed, it was Dot who stepped in to spare the young soldiers life from a brutal execution. During the announcement of his plan, Pixis made it very clear that those too weak or cowardly may leave, yet still be praised for their duty towards the cause.
-   Jonathan Joestar in _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Phantom Blood_. Educated to be a gentleman and a nice man by nature, his discipline helps him in learning and mastering the Ripple in an incredibly short time and he selflessly helps innocent people threatened by his arch-nemesis Dio Brando. Although pragmatic, he doesn't use underhanded tactics in combat and considers fighting evil his duty.
-   Surprisingly, Lilith in _Vampire Savior: Tamashii no Mayoigo_ after meeting John. While she initially started off as an Anti-Villain like her in-game & UDON counterparts (to the point where the manga begins the same way Lilith's Arcade Mode route in the _Vampire Savior_ game did with her betraying Jedah), this changes when she fights Morrigan in order to save John's life.
-   Though considered a maverick by the government organization backing her and operating on the personal belief she's selfish for prioritizing her friends and desires over the sake of the world, Chisato from _Lycoris Recoil_ demonstrates all the hallmarks of a breakaway benevolent entity with lawful ideals. She keeps herself to a _rigid_ code of conduct that informs every action she takes, only deviating from her code when to do otherwise puts her allies in danger, and even then still works to maintain that code. Though Chisato is considered a maverick by DA for refusing to kill, she nonetheless works with the institution and is used as their best agent when things are dire because she still believes in the safety they're trying to provide and recognizes that even on their worst days DA is trying to uphold peace.

    Card Games 

-   _Magic: The Gathering_:
    -   White at its most benevolent tends to be this, having both order and morality written into it's general description, so it gets easily stereotyped into this. Though far from all white characters apply for this, these characters still remain common in the Magic 'verse. For an individual example, we have Gideon Jura, who started off as a Lawful Neutral Knight Templar (still white, mind you), but turned himself to this after repeated clashes with his then enemy (and later ally), the red-aligned pyromancer Chandra Nalaar.
    -   In Ixalan's Planeshift Guide it is stated that this is the stereotypical alignment for Red-White, which fans otherwise have long assumed to be Chaotic Good (due to Red's emphasis on freedom). Emphasis on "stereotypical", of course; canon examples of Red-White characters include the Nobilis of War, which is Chaotic Evil, and the Boros Legion, which can be constructed as anything. Ixalan's own Red-White faction, the Sun Empire, vacilates somewhere between Lawful Good and Lawful Evil, with the dinosaurs that it controls being mindless.

    Comic Books 

-   Readers more familiar with Hal Jordan's more Chaotic Good\-ish modern persona often forget that for many years he was solidly Lawful Good, emphasis on the Lawful. This was especially true during the Green Lantern/Green Arrow series, with the very Chaotic Good Oliver Queen representing the 60s Counter-Culture and Hal representing the Establishment. John Stewart is more of the militantly law-before-good type. The Green Lanterns in general fit this, considering they're space cops.
-   She-Hulk fits into this trope in contrast with her cousin's Chaotic Good or Chaotic Neutral tendencies. Justified, though, she _is_ a lawyer after all.
-   The Linear Men of The DCU were a team of Lawful Good Superheros whose job was to be the Time Police. Sadly though they lost connection with humanity and became Knight Templars when Superman decided to Screw Destiny during the Our Worlds at War story line. Resulting in them being locked away because they couldn't deal with a world where there was no Because Destiny Says So. The team's position as the DCU Time Police has been filled by the Neutral Good Time Masters.
-   Vance Astrovik, aka "Marvel Boy" until he changed his superhero name to "Justice", from the New Warriors. When someone refuses to let his True Companions break him out of prison because he was convicted in a court of law, even if the crime he committed (negligent homicide) was an accident, then you know just how dedicated he is to upholding the laws of society.
    
    **Vance**: _I killed my father. Whether I meant it or not — and I didn't — I'm still responsible for the act. You can quibble about the law all you want, but I believe in the system, so I'm going to abide by it. Just because I have powers which would make it tempting to ignore the law — doesn't give me the right to._
    
-   Priam Agrivar from DC's _Advanced Dungeons & Dragons_ and _Forgotten Realms_ comics. Yes, a literal (A)D&D paladin. Also a former drunk who nonetheless managed to pull himself back out of the bottle and a generally likable character.
-   Batman's alignment has always been contrasting as he is lawful (because he follows a strict system of laws including his own personal code that abhors killing because he believes in the value of life) but also chaotic (because he breaks the law to do so). While Batman is _canonically_ Lawful Good (DnD canonical, not DC canonical), it’s very much Depending on the Writer what his actual alignment is.

-   The titular character of _Nodwick_ and Piffany, one of his employers, both by Word of God (the comic is D&D-inspired). The way they express their alignment differ, however: Nodwick is extremely snarky, cynical and resigned to a life of constant pain, but is nonetheless begrudgingly duty-bound and altruistic, while Piffany is more or less Stupid Good and Good Is Dumb incarnate.
-   _The Mighty Thor_: Balder the Brave is Asgard's resident Knight in Shining Armor and one of the most loyal warriors of Odin and the most noble and chivalrous of Thor's supporting characters.
-   The Mighty Thor himself mostly falls into this alignment, being the good-hearted guardian of Earth and Asgard, honorable and dutiful. His occasional disagreements with Odin might come from Odin being a sort of manipulative Neutral Good at times. This is in contrast with Thor's more hot-blooded and comedic Marvel Cinematic Universe depiction, where he is more Chaotic Good.
-   Richard Rider, aka _Nova_, the premier member of the Nova Corps (Marvel's answer to the Green Lantern Corps), is so much of a boy scout he seems like he fell straight from the Silver Age. His recently-ended series went from one big scene to another, with Richard refusing to compromise doing the right thing for _any_ reason. The guy even chooses to stay behind on a doomed planet to make sure that _everyone_ escapes before Galactus eats it, even if it means he would have to fight an impossible battle against Galactus and his herald, the Silver Surfer. He's also a good example of lawful good doesn't mean lawful nice as he will rip your insides out if you piss him off as Annihilus found out the hard way.
    -   Interestingly enough, when Richard Rider was a member of the New Warriors in th 1990s, he was impulsive and often was the member of the team that most rebelled against Night Thrasher's leadership, making an excellent case for Chaotic Good.
-   Captain Marvel, a.k.a. _Shazam!!_. He was created as another comic book company's answer to Superman. (In one episode of the _Justice League_ cartoon, Captain Marvel was the Boy Scout while Superman was the errant hero-gone-too-far.)
-   Dinah Laurel Lance, aka Black Canary, in some continuities a cop's daughter, and her Lawful leanings often lead to friction with fellow Bird of Prey, the decidedly Chaotic Good Helena Bertinelli, aka Huntress, and sometimes with her husband, the slightly less Chaotic Oliver Queen, aka Green Arrow.
-   _Spider-Man_ may be the poster child for Neutral Good, but really he's closer to this alignment. He does not value breaking the law for the Greater Good any more than most other costumed vigilantes, and will gladly use- and even seek out- the help of local law enforcement whenever its available, if not outright join them (_Civil War_ being a prime example). The problem for Spidey is more that he is a Hero with Bad Publicity, and due to decades of media persecution along with a couple of people suspecting him of certain murders (the deaths of Gwen and George Stacy, respectively), he can't play this trope straight. As a contrast, the main reason Batman is portayed as Lawful Good is due to his good relationship with the police (or the police commissioner, anyway), but Bats will drop the cops in a flash if he thinks he can't trust them to do their jobs right; Spidey simply doesn't have a Jim Gordon counterpart to trust in the first place (though there have been a couple of detective friends over the years).
-   _Superman_, in his more "Boy Scout" incarnations. Although when he originally debuted in the Golden Age and most of time Superman fluctuates between Chaotic Good and Neutral Good. Post-Flashpoint, he's become more like the original version, in some cases even making Batman look tame by comparison.
-   _The Avengers_:
    -   Captain America, though after the Marvel Civil War some would argue differently. Cap's the flavor of this alignment where far more weight is put on Good than Lawful, and is one of the few major characters in the Marvel Universe to dedicate himself to Good first above anything else, having gone so far to once even giving up the "America" part of his name, rather than having to unquestionably follow the government's word no matter what. His Ultimate Marvel incarnation, however, puts a little more emphasis on the Lawful part over the Good part than his main universe counterpart.
-   Characters like The Spectre and Doctor Fate are somewhat unique depictions of this alignment, as they represent amalgamations of two different characters whose different moralities blend together to create it:
    -   While his methods are extreme, the Spectre's purpose is to punish evil in all its forms in accordance with the will of the Almighty. However, the angel who makes up half the entity, Aztar, is too Lawful Neutral and is not very good at judging criminals reasonably—he'll deal out the same horrific punishment to a jaywalker as would seem more appropriate for a serial killer. He needs to be bound to more Good-aligned hosts to create the Lawful Good being known as the Spectre, who is able to properly judge the wicked.
    -   As a Lord of Order, Nabu is an unquestionable Lawful Neutral, obsessed with Order and its preservation. Due to his magical power, Nabu cannot operate on his own (at least, not for very long) and must remain contained within his mystical Helm of Fate until a human puts it on and becomes his host and, together, become the individual known as Doctor Fate. This human is almost always Good-aligned; depending on the level of influence that Nabu or the host has over Doctor Fate, this determines whether he is more Lawful or more Good, respectively. When they have a relatively balanced amount of both of them making him, Fate becomes a fairly standard Lawful Good superhero in terms of morality, and it's when that balance is tipped to one side that Fate can struggle with To Be Lawful or Good.
-   _Scalped_: Officer Falls Down might be the only truly honest cop on the reservation (for most of the comic, at least), as well as being the most consistently virtuous character in the series.
-   Empress Lilandra Neramani from X-Men, as opposed to her Chaotic Evil or Neutral Evil siblings D'Ken and Deathbyrd. She is pretty much the only recurring Shi'ar character who is openly altruistic and supportive towards Earth's heroes but will always put the laws and safety of her empire above all else, even if it puts her in conflict with the X-Men. Her former bodyguard and current emperor, Gladiator, switches between this alignment and Lawful Neutral or Lawful Stupid, Depending on the Writer.
-   This was original alignment of _Cyclops_, as well especially when he was butting heads with Wolverine. Around the early 2010s, however, he started slipping...

    Film 

-   André Matias in _The Elite Squad_. He tries to do the right thing almost all the time at the point of putting himself and his best friend in danger to give spectacles to a poor boy in The Elite Squad 1. Unfortunately, the reality of Rio de Janeiro portrayed in the movie sometimes forced him to do extreme things. Justified. If it had any other options it would be too dangerous and too unrealistic to be done specially in the way that the entire situation and state of things was exposed in the movie. After all, even an Anti-Hero can be Lawful Good.
-   Marge Gunderson from the Coen Brothers' _Fargo_, a By-the-Book Cop whose decency, courage, and kindness are contrasted vividly with the selfishness, greed, and brutality of the criminals she is pursuing. Her "The Reason You Suck" Speech to Grimsrud is the embodiment of the Lawful Good trope.
    
    **Marge**: So that was Mrs. Lundegaard on the floor in there. And I guess that was your accomplice in the wood chipper. And those three people in Brainerd. And for what? For a little bit of money. There's more to life than a little money, you know. Don't you know that? And here ya are, and it's a beautiful day. Well, I just don't understand it.
    
-   When pushed, Nicholas Angel from _Hot Fuzz_ is not afraid of busting a conspiracy wide open with all necessary (but not excessive) force. He is also not afraid of the small mountain of paperwork that will be necessary afterwards.

-   Marta Cabrera, the family nurse to the Thornberrys, of _Knives Out_, is so noble that even when jeopardized with the possibility of being held culpable in the death of the family patriarch Harlan, she will stop to save someone else's life without a second thought, and also so honest she cannot tell a lie without vomiting. She is rewarded for all of this after the real culprit is arrested and she is given Harlan's publishing empire.
-   Jack Valentine of _Lord of War_, an incorruptible Interpol agent Hero Antagonist whose goal is to bring Neutral Evil Villain Protagonist Arms Dealer Yuri Orlov to justice. He even passes a What You Are in the Dark moment when he has a chance to disappear Yuri on an isolated stretch of dirt road in Africa. Instead he uses the letter of the law to punish him as much as he is able by "detaining" him for 24 hours (leaving him tied up on the road and coming back for him the next day).
-   _Pirates of the Caribbean_
    -   Commodore Norrington, particularly in the first film. He at first looks like the typical white male Disney authority-figure villain, but turns out to be a dedicated and loyal officer of the Crown who will gladly risk his life and his career for no reward to do what's right, and manages to leave the ever-witty Jack Sparrow speechless simply by explaining that he serves _others_, not merely himself. In later films, he edges away from this due to a Heroic BSoD, becoming more chaotic and self-centered in a desperate attempt to rebuild his ruined career, but proves that this is his natural alignment by covering for Will and Elizabeth in a Heroic Sacrifice, and proving to Davy Jones that no, he does not fear death.
    -   Will Turner _tries_ to be this through most of the series, but since piracy is In the Blood, he pretty much realizes by the end that trying a lawful approach isn't going to do him any good in the long run, since pirates have a natural drive towards chaos.
    -   In fourth film, we get the Spanish, and this is a possible alignment for them. They're on a mission to destroy the Fountain of Youth, an Artifact of Death that prolongs one person's life at the expense of another's, and the only person they kill on the way was directly in their path. Other than that, they're not even impolite to their adversaries. Still, they edge more towards the lawful side of this trope, as their _reasoning_ is that the only eternal life that men can get is through Jesus Christ, and pagan magic must be destroyed because it's not that.
-   _RoboCop_, whose sense of duty is exemplified by his prime directives:
    
    _1) SERVE THE PUBLIC TRUST._  
    _2) PROTECT THE INNOCENT._  
    _3) UPHOLD THE LAW._
    
-   Detective John Hartigan of _Sin City_ devotes his life to protecting the innocent and bringing criminals to justice. He's definitely of the Knight in Sour Armor variety (not surprising given the kind of place Basin City is).
-   _Star Trek (2009)_: Mr. Spock. He wants to do what's right, but he has to go the proper Starfleet protocol in order to do so. Captain Kirk, however, is Chaotic Good.
-   At the beginning of _The Dark Knight_, Harvey Dent, as an honest district attorney determined to clean up Gotham within the law, fits this alignment perfectly before certain unfortunate events. Fortunately, Commissioner Jim Gordon retains this philosophy until the end of the film. His job pretty much speaks out this alignment.
-   _The Lion King (1994)_: Mufasa honors the traditions of his kind and the Circle of Life as a wise and just king.
-   _TRON_ has a strong moral code expressed in his catchphrase: "I fight for the Users!" His counterpart / creator Alan Bradley is also of this alignment, not even doing his banking on company time. Alan does make a To Be Lawful or Good call early in the film by throwing his lot in with Flynn's plan, though. After what happened to Tron at Dyson's hands, it's a pretty safe bet that he's down to Lawful Neutral in _TRON: Uprising_. And in _TRON: Legacy_ even more torture and brainwashing twisted him into the Lawful Evil Rinzler.
-   Captain America, as a superhero who was created by and works for the government, is this, but he leans towards good rather than lawful to the point that in _The Winter Soldier_ he insists (after some small hesitation) on following his personal code and scrapping S.H.I.E.L.D., which was starting to become Lawful Evil, rather than just doing what he was told.
-   _Star Wars_:
    -   Obi-Wan Kenobi is a kind-hearted and righteous man devoted to upholding law and order within the Republic. The amount of times he's ever shown rebelling against legitimate authority can be counted on one hand; he insists on taking Anakin as an apprentice in order to uphold a vow he made to his dying master Qui-Gon, and he defies orders to rescue his love interest Satine in _Star Wars: The Clone Wars_.
    -   Princess Leia is this trope, as a major leader of the Rebel Alliance, wanting to restore the just Republic from the evil Galactic Empire.
    -   In the Prequel Trilogy, her mother Padme, as a senator working within the system for the good of her people, started as Lawful Good, but as the Clone Wars went on, she became critical of how authoritarian the Republic was becoming, and became Neutral Good in opposition to this development.
-   Chris Adams of _The Magnificent Seven_ is a Nice Guy gunslinger who doesn't take all that much convincing to help out an improverished Mexican village with their bandit problem. Even when the going gets tough, he never once considers abandoning them, despite the fact that the pay for the job is rather poor (twenty dollars plus room and board) and he makes it clear that, when he promised to protect those farmers, he _meant_ it.
    
    **Harry**: Well, there comes a time to turn Mother's picture to the wall and get out. The village will be no worse off than it was before we came.  
    **Chris**: You forget one thing. We took a contract.  
    **Vin**: Not the kind any court would enforce.  
    **Chris**: That's just the kind you've got to keep.
    
-   _Marvel Cinematic Universe_
    -   Captain America is the clear standardbearer of this trope for the MCU, as he is unquestioningly dedicated in his quest to defeat evil, defend his country, and save the world. His later films do pose the To Be Lawful or Good conundrum, when he has to fight corrupt elements within his own government and later an international bureaucratic coalition seeking to limit his autonomy.
    -   Karl Mordo of _Doctor Strange (2016)_ is a very firm believer in respecting the natural order of things and that they shouldn't be tampered with. This leads to a Broken Pedestal moment and a flirt with Lawful Stupid when he learns the Ancient One used the powers of the Dark Dimension to extend her lifespan and Dr. Strange using the Eye of Agamotto to stop Dormammu by violating the rules about time manipulation. He ends up leaving the order as he can't accept the idea of compromising the rules for the greater good. This ends up setting him on the path to Lawful Evil by deciding the best way to stop sorcerers from messing with the laws of the universe is to get rid of the sorcerers.
    -   War Machine is a mostly clear-cut example, being an Air Force Colonel-turned-superhero. He often is responsible for trying to reign in Iron Man's more Chaotic Good approach, and later on is one of the strongest supporters for the Sokovia Accords.
    -   Tony Stark himself ends up somewhere around here, after a rollercoaster ride around the alignment spectrum following _Avengers: Age of Ultron_. _Avengers: Endgame_ sees him more emotionally settled than he's ever been with a family he's devoted to, and a honest reluctance to challenge the new status quo. He nonetheless joins the plan to reverse the Snap out of sheer duty, and ends up sacrificing himself without much hesitation to save everyone else.
-   _Barbarella_: Barbarella herself belongs in this alignment. She's beholden to the One World Order that Earth will have become in the 41st century and she believes in upholding its values, which consist of peace, equality and efficiency. Her mission is specifically to find a rogue scientist whose inventions could lead to chaos, which she finds appalling. This forms an interesting contrast with her comic book self, a free-spirited drifter who answers to no one but herself.
-   The Super Hero Metro Man from _Megamind_. Of course, this being a deconstructive parody, it doesn't work out the way you'd expect. You'd expect a Superman Captain Ersatz to be totally Lawful and Good, but he's just _fairly_ Lawful and Good; a Parody Sue, not an Ideal Hero. Sure, he's dedicated himself to protecting law and order in Metro City, but he's kind of full of himself and insensitive. In a sense, his Arch-Nemesis Megamind has better personality qualities for being a hero, except that _he_ chooses to be evil. Metro Man is basically Lawful Good because it's easy for him to be so. He also chooses to fake his own death in order to get away from the endless cycle of fighting against Megamind. It would be understandable except for the fact that it means abandoning Metro City to utter chaos. He switches to True Neutral when he does this — again, he was Lawful Good only as long as it was easy.
-   In _Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves_, this is Xenk Yendar's official alignment. He is an honorable and devout paladin who strongly believes in oaths and the word of law and actively encourages people to be their best selves.

    Literature 

-   Liu Bei in Romance of the Three Kingdoms is a perfect example of Confucian morality and goodness.
-   This is the preferred alignment of House Stark in _A Song of Ice and Fire_. It's also their Fatal Flaw, and so far most of them who've tried to uphold it have died..
    -   Davos Seaworth is also Lawful Good, being unquestioningly loyal to his Lawful Neutral lord but also shown to be personally interested in his well-being, and is willing to go against his superior if it means keeping said lord clean from doing evil.
    -   Another example of a Lawful Good character from this series is Brienne of Tarth, a female Knight in Shining Armor who is willing to risk life and limb to fulfill an oath she has taken or to protect innocent people, despite the fact that she lives in a Crapsack World dominated by dishonorable or even outright evil men and gets little respect or glory for it.
-   Amara in _Codex Alera_ is an unfailingly lawful individual, who honors her word, possesses Undying Loyalty to her liege and the Realm of Alera <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , and exceptionally just and kind, to the point where upon learning an enemy spy's daughter is being held hostage by said spy's ruler, Amara immediately offers to help rescue the child, on the grounds that it is the right thing to do. Making this especially interesting is that Amara is a Cursor (read: spy and assassin) but manages to prove that one can be such while still remaining Lawful Good.
-   _Discworld_:
    -   Carrot Ironfoundersson embodies this trope with every fiber of his being; treating the law as gospel and implicitly believing that nobody is above it. Thanks to his almost supernatural charisma, everyone around him ends up self-consciously slipping this way too, which is a sight to see in the Wretched Hive of Ankh-Morpork.
    -   As a prime example of how Character Alignment is only part of character, rather than the whole of it, Samuel Vimes is also Lawful Good, albeit of a very different sort than Carrot's. Despite being arguably the most cynical and misanthropic bastard in the series, Samuel Vimes is also one of the most moral. The law is the rock to which Vimes clings in a world that makes no sense to him — when a million-year old supernatural _thing_ of vengeance possessed him, he kicked it out of his mind by creating the Guarding Dark, an entity of pure Heroic Willpower and Lawful good. He does things by the book (well, mostly) and gives people their due process.
        -   And when he _does_ "bend" (or ignore) the law, it's because he believes the **point** of the law is to protect people, even in situations allowed by current law: _Snuff_ has him arrest someone involved in enslaving goblins, despite the fact that the law doesn't consider them legally equal to most other races on the Disc, because they're people in _his_ mind. Vetinari has the slaver marked to be assassinated, but that's because one goblin proved to be an amazing musician; otherwise he wouldn't have cared, and would have let Vimes deal with the political fallout. This is partially why Vimes is Lawful _Good_...
    -   The Librarian is another example of a Lawful Good Discworld character. The fact that he knows when to exploit the loophole that apes are seldom mentioned in Lawful codes of behavior, or to fudge the rules of the Librarians of Time and Space for a good cause, is one of the reasons he's the most popular member of the UU faculty.
-   From _Harry Potter_:
    -   The Hufflepuff House fits this to a tee. Their core values are loyalty, friendship, and fairness.
    -   Hermione starts off as this, but becomes more Neutral Good with time.
    -   Kingsley Shacklebolt is also this for the most part, as he uses his position within the Ministry of Magic to help the Order of the Phoenix. Rufus Scrimgoeur is a clearer example. He believes very strongly in the Ministry and is occasionally distrusting of Neutral Good Harry and Chaotic Good Dumbledore, but unlike Fudge, he clearly sees Voldemort and his minions as a problem and uses his position to fight the Death Eaters to the best of his ability — often going a little too far, in fact.

-   The core attribute of the _Heralds of Valdemar_ as an organization (individual Heralds are often Neutral Good or Chaotic Good, however). The Kingdom of Valdemar is very strongly lawful, but also absolutely committed to benevolence. One of their core axioms, especially as regards religion, is "There is no One True Way". The primary function of the Companions is to help prevent any drift into Lawful Stupid and they have been pretty successful at it for centuries. The Heralds themselves, while not Paladins in the classic sense, often behave in a similar manner. More recently, the formerly villainous nation of Karse has also been dragged back in this direction by their Lawful Good god, who got fed up with his worshipers and needed them to get back into shape on a tight timetable due to an impending disaster.
-   The tellingly-named _Honor Harrington_. Trends toward Lawful-Before-Good, and much of her Character Development is in her attempting to strike a balance. Very likely to accept personal suffering to protect what she considers the greater good.
-   Hector from _The Iliad_ is generally seen as this. Especially the case in the Eric Bana film _Troy_ when he might as well serve as the standard bearer for this alignment. However, the actual epic shows him more as Lawful Neutral, adhering to a stricter sense of honour than any other character but nevertheless being just as willing to Kick the Dog.
-   Eve Dallas from _In Death_ tends toward the Lawful Good side, as a way of dealing with her Dark and Troubled Past. She considers her duty of "standing for the dead" as sacred, no matter the victim. Her husband Roarke tends more towards the chaotic, considering justice to be separate and distinct from the law, as best illustrated when he hunts down and kills the murderers of Summerset's daughter.).
-   _Judge Dee_ is definitely of this alignment. Indeed, in his dedication to the Law and Confucian morality he may well incarnate it. The ambiguities of the real world sadden him but do nothing to change his alignment.
-   Horace from the _Ranger's Apprentice_ series starts out at this, always following orders carefully and never deviating from the Knight's Code of Chivalry. Eventually this fades somewhat.
-   William Laurence in Naomi Novik's _Temeraire_ series. You can make a drinking game out of the number of times he says "duty" in any context, but while he's loyal to Britain no matter what it does, he consistently picks "good" whenever To Be Lawful or Good comes up, even if it requires going against the orders of his superiors. In "Empire of Ivory", he commits treason in order to amend a particularly terrible thing his government has done — and then, despite Napoleon being entirely willing to give him and Temeraire a nice house and a herd of cattle and require nothing of them beyond simply not interfering, he deliberately heads right back to England to face trial and likely execution for his actions.
-   Roland Deschain of _The Dark Tower_ novels sees himself as this, and does try to live up to the standards of Lawful Good, though in practice he often strays into Neutral or even Chaotic territory if faced with a situation which demands that he set aside his morals in order to achieve a goal. He always regrets the need to act outside of the Lawful Good alignment, but this never stops him from doing it when he deems it necessary.
-   From _The Dresden Files_, we have two sides of the Lawful Good coin, the somewhat disillusioned cop Karrin Murphy who takes her oath to serve and protect the population of Chicago very seriously, and the honest-to-God holy-sword wielding paladin Michael Carpenter.
    -   The Archangel Uriel is lawful good, but never goes against law since violating the law would make him Fall. He also tends to follow a higher form of "good" in respect for free will. But he is rather good at getting around the rules to be good.
-   Some of the main characters in _The Lord of the Rings_: the Fellowship of the Ring are Lawful Good: Aragorn, who is dedicated to the good of Middle Earth and his duties as the heir to the throne of Gondor, and Boromir, as an honorable warrior dedicated to protecting his homeland and fighting evil (a desire the One Ring exploits to corrupt him) are both examples. Gimli who is devoted to his clan and the traditions of the dwarves most probably is, too.

-   _The Name of the Rose_: Although he is seen as a rogue by most other monks, Brother William of Baskerville is clearly Lawful Good, observing his religious duties and also making a strong case for Good that sets him apart from Lawful Evil Bernard Gui and Jorge of Burgos.
-   Dalinar Kholin of _The Stormlight Archive_ is a Lawful Good aristocrat in a society where almost all aristocrats are corrupt and self serving. He follows the ancient Codes of leadership which have otherwise been forgotten and ultimately gives up his (extremely valuable) magic sword in order to buy the freedom of a bunch of slaves because he'd promised he'd free them.
-   Galad Damodred in _The Wheel of Time series_ continually puts good in front of every other motivation, even going so far as to join the Children of the Light, believing that this is the best way to help people see the Light.

-   Notable subversion: the Seanchan see themselves as very lawful and very good, but it's hard to agree with the good part, considering the rampant and fairly brutal slavery. Egeanin is a bit of an exception though.

-   Atticus Finch from _To Kill a Mockingbird_ represents the moral ideal of both a lawyer and a human being: he is brutally honest, highly moral, a tireless crusader for good causes (even hopeless ones), and a virtual pacifist. He gets double points for maintaining his alignment despite being a lawyer in a society that is anything _but_ Lawful Good. The American Legal Society chose this as the best law movie ever made because of him. Superman's favorite book is To Kill A Mockingbird even.
-   _The Deed of Paksenarrion_: It's a book about 'Paladin done _right_. and a strong aversion of Lawful Stupid. In addition to Paks, Kieri, Dorrin, and Stammel also fit this Alignment.
    -   In many ways, the whole series is a study in multiple flavors of this. Gird is different from Falk. Kieri, Paks, Dorrin, Stammel, and Arcolin are all different flavors of this.

-   From _Xanth_ we have Trent, at least after his banishment. He considers his word to be his bond no matter how personally inconvenient, never harms anyone unless absolutely necessary, and rules as a benevolent monarch. Most Xanth protagonists arguably have this as their alignment, with only occasional Chaotic examples like Metria. They are typically very noble, honest, kind, and will keep their word no matter what. In fact, their adherance to keeping bargains has caused a couple of them to verge on Lawful Stupid territory. The most notable example is probably Grey Murphy, who found himself bound to serve the evil Reality Warper Com Pewter simply because of a vow _his parents_ made. And he was going to go through with it! Some comments from the author have suggested this is actually what he believes is right.
-   _Good Omens_: Aziraphale, at least initially, though he's closer to Neutral Good by the end. While, as the book puts it, he "can't resist the opportunity to do good", he doesn't view himself as having free will and obeys whatever orders Heaven gives him. His having to make the choice To Be Lawful or Good when the forces of Heaven try to end the world is a major plot point, and while he does choose to be good and try to save the world in the end, he first has to convince himself that he's actually following Heaven's rules in doing so.
-   Archangel Gabriel from _Samaria_ is known to be the most compassionate and honorable of all angels, with a firm sense of right and wrong, hatred of the institution of slavery that the Archangel Raphael imposed on Samaria, and unshakable faith in the god Jovah and his decrees. He's willing to tolerate the existence of slavery only because the corrupt Raphael is the Archangel, and that for only twenty years; he knows that once it's his turn in the hot seat, he _will_ be able to make some changes and enforce them by flood, wind and drought. He's not very nice about it, however, and doesn't really take anyone else's opinion into account — a trait which Jovah attempts to correct by arranging his marriage to Rachel.
-   _Beowulf_ is a classic example of a Lawful Good character, a noble king whose honour and commitment to punishing evil is matched only by his devotion to God.
-   _The Faraway Paladin_: Its right there in the title. William G. Maryblood is absolutely a Paladin in the Dungeons & Dragons mold. A Holy warrior-priest sworn to upload the cycle of life and death in opposition to a god of the undead, always seeking to see and act on the good in others, and inspiring others to be better than they are.
-   _Azoth Express_: Professor Volfram Volkov is both a very orderly science professor and the improvised detective who starts investigating on the titular train after another traveler is murdered. He presents himself as a model Soviet citizen and abhors swearwords even in tense situations. Ironically, he only gets upset when one of the guests gets the definition of chaos theory wrong.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Babylon 5_:
    -   Captain Sheridan repeatedly does what's right regardless of the personal consequences. Some major plot-centric examples: seceding the station from Earth, leading the war against the Shadows (and later the Vorlons too), and leading a civil war to remove the President from power for his illegal actions. He's also fond of using the Law to _uphold_ the Good, mainly using Loophole Abuse to legally justify doing the right thing (see providing sanctuary to an escaped Narn ship against the Centauri on grounds that he is required to respond to distress signals, arresting the Nightwatch members of his crew based on a chain-of-command irregularity when they try to seize control of the station, and justifying his breaking of the blockade of Proxima III at the start of his war with Clark due to the illegality of Clark's orders).
    -   The original Kosh, although more or less Lawful Neutral like the Vorlons on average, is definitely one of the Vorlons who leans towards the "good" side of the spectrum. Lorien also implies that the Vorlons were _originally_ this, thousands or millions of years ago, before they got too interested in proving themselves right rather than working in secret concert with the Shadows to help societies find a balance between Order and Chaos.
-   Apollo, in _Battlestar Galactica_, holds his superiors to the letter of the law.

-   Duncan Macleod of the clan Macleod is lawful good in _Highlander: The Series_. He has a strong sense of honor and morality. He repeatedly will tell mortals who come to him for help to see the police but when he does end up helping, he will help even complete strangers. He displays Honor Before Reason as he will always make the right and honorable choice, even if it pains him or puts himself in harm's way. He is jealous of his honor and will always fight to defend it unless it means helping out someone else. He is an example of Good Is Not Soft as he assassinated the President of another country because that President was above the law and broke their agreement to let an innocent man live. Duncan would rather talk his way out of a situation rather than fight his way out.
-   SSA Aaron "Hotch" Hotchner from _Criminal Minds_. Hotch is the by the book, rule-following leader who almost never takes his tie off, in contrast to the brilliant but off-kilter Gideon, and later the Cowboy Cop David Rossi. When Elle shot William Lee under questionable circumstances, Hotch didn't let her off the hook, but told her to either go get counseling, or hand in her badge and gun. (She did the latter.) Committed to Lawful Good even at the expense of his marriage and his own personal well-being. To clarify, his wife wanted him to switch jobs and thus spend more time with his family; Hotch really did want to spend time with his family, but loved his job and was proud of the difference he made, especially since his young son was so proud of what he did thinking that he was some kind of superhero. His wife left (with his son) because she couldn't handle it, though they still stayed in touch and loved each other. As for Elle, there wasn't enough evidence to prove what happened one way or the other (though the audience saw- she murdered Lee in cold blood), and he might have taken tougher action if there was, especially since the perp was out on the streets solely because she stuffed his arrest up.

-   Lt. Debra Morgan from _Dexter_ has been described as the "conscience of the series", and had a strong, morally correct sense of justice. Though her actions in the 7th season finale might count against that.

-   Inara Serra from _Firefly_ fits this, gladly following the rules and conventions of the Companion Guild (and using them to her advantage when necessary) while at the same time being quite clearly an altruistic character who cares about her friends and crewmates. Shepherd Derrial Book from the same series also fits this alignment.
-   _Justified_:
    -   Chief Deputy Art Mullen. He is loyal and devoted to his fellow Marshals, and while he tolerates Raylan's many indiscretions, it's clear that they chafe at him. He is also willing to take a bullet to protect an innocent under his protection, which he does during Season 5.
    -   An unlikely example exists in the person of Constable Bob Sweeney. In a county full of drug addicts, small-time crooks, petty swindlers, and otherwise deceitful folk, Bob is darn near incorruptible. He goes above and beyond to assist and protect his fellow law enforcement officers. While he may seem bumbling and ineffectual, his help often proves invaluable.
        
        **Bob**: (during the course of an arrest) Ava, get on your knees! ...Sorry if that sounded untoward.
        
-   Christopher Foyle from _Foyle's War_ is a Lawful Good detective doing his best to uphold the law in a time when both individuals and institutions were prone to bending the rules if not outright breaking them.
-   The title character of _Frasier_ and his brother and father all fit this alignment, Martin is a former cop who bends the rules on occasion but never breaks them, and Frasier and Nile's lifelong devotion to ethical conduct (personal and medical) is one of their major character traits.
-   _Get Smart_: Maxwell Smart lives to thwart evil and promote niceness. He's loyal to the law and his country, and is a stickler for the regulations, but is not above occasionally ignoring them to help his friends.
-   Mr Feeny from _Boy Meets World_ is the Epitome of Lawful Good, Always upholding laws and rules of any kind. He even ends up becoming Principal of the School, but is dedicated to helping people first and foremost.
-   Not too surprisingly given his nickname, Paladin from _Have Gun – Will Travel_ is a quite good example of this alignment. A major purpose of his Bounty Hunter role is to avoid unneeded violence, which includes a hatred of vigilantism and an unwillingness to kill in any situation except absolute necessity. He's more of the good-over-law type of this, since in most situations, he will follow through with what he was hired for/keep any promise he makes. In some instances, his employer turned out to be the villain, and he therefore changed allegiance to their victim.
-   The detectives and district attorneys in the _Law & Order_ shows generally live up to the series title: They often struggle with the temptation to bend the rules to nail the bad guy, but they can never do so readily, or without remorse; and they are painfully aware the bad guys, and usually the defense attorneys, have no such compunctions. More importantly, they never lose sight of their first duty, which is not to punish the guilty but to protect the innocent, even if that means letting the bad guy get away. All these tendencies are even more marked in the DAs, who, unlike the cops, rarely have to deal with chaotic situations in the field.

-   Turk from _Scrubs_ is a bit of a slacker with a frat boy personality in his personal life, but as a surgeon he is an absolute stickler for the rules and puts procedure ahead of compassion, making him a solid example in contrast to the Neutral Good JD and Elliot, and the Chaotic Good Doctor Cox. For instance, he once denied a liver transplant to a man who had been on the transplant list for almost ten years since he drank alcohol at his daughter's wedding. When Dr Cox confronts him for penalizing such a minor infraction, Turk maintains that with donor organs in short supply, he can't justify giving one to somebody who has demonstrated that they won't follow the rules needed to be approved for one.
-   _Star Trek: The Next Generation_:
    -   Captain Picard and Worf, being both two of the most benevolent characters and two of the most beholden to Starfleet regulations.
    -   Data, being an android, is well suited to this alignment, even failing a Starfleet Academy course due to not being able to take the "con" position for the argument that life is always sacred. But unlike most depictions of androids that aren't Lawful Evil or Lawful Neutral, he tends to place Good above Lawful when they come into conflict. Several episodes show him violating orders, and even the laws of The Federation to do what's right, such as breaking the Prime Directive to save the planet of a young girl he had befriended ("Pen Pals"), disobeying Captain Picard to expose an enemy invader (then submitting himself to be punished, which Picard declines) ("Redemption, Pt. 2"), and disobeying him _again_ for the crew's own protection ("Clues"). After getting his emotion chip, Data goes even more into a edges near Neutral Good. His Evil Twin brother Lore, on the other hand, is straight-up Chaotic Evil.
    -   Odo starts out seemingly obsessively Lawful Neutral, but he does not care about specific laws or regulations at all. Rules change as new people come into power, but justice is always justice. He is willing to cooperate with almost anyone regardless of their past, when it helps solving crimes, and he does not care who the victims or suspects are. However, when he has reason to believe that the expected punishment is significantly too harsh and would be even more unjust than the original crime, he sometimes lies to his superiors and let criminals go free. He also is more interested in solving conflicts and preventing crime than in seeing criminals punished, and often goes easy on minor offenses if he thinks it will do more good in the long run than a full punishment according to the law. His rigid adherence to this personal code rather than external rules is somewhat of a bone of contention with Starfleet's brass.
-   Agent Dana Scully from _The X-Files_ fits this alignment, as she strives to do good and unearth the truth while adhering to what is rational by the laws of science. She serves as a lawful counterpart to her partner Mulder's Chaotic Good.
-   Teal'c from _Stargate SG-1_, while leading the Jaffa rebellion against tha Goa'uld, lives by strict codes of honor of his race, and while he does sometimes question the orders he's given, he rarely goes against them. General Hammond as well.
-   Detective Claudette Wyms from _The Shield_. Illustrated perfectly when she discovers that a recently-deceased public defender had been abusing prescription drugs for the last several years, and therefore some of her clients may not have received adequate legal counsel. Despite abuse from her coworkers and pressure from her superiors, she went on a self-appointed crusade to investigate the matter. Despite the fact that countless convictions would be overturned as a result of her investigation, she pressed on due to the possibility that innocent people had been sent to prison. In retaliation, the Chief of Police passed her up for a promotion that she had previously been all but guaranteed.

-   Cedric Daniels from _The Wire_, who balances between doing "good police work" and what Baltimore PD management demands. An example of Lawful Good in a system which is not Good. Kima Greggs, with her rigid sense of ethics and insistence on proper policework, is also Lawful Good, and Ellis Carver eventually matures into it as he begins to take his responsibility to his community and his professional code of ethics more seriously.
-   _Breaking Bad's_ Hank Schrader may come off as a bit of a jerk sometimes, but he also has the strongest moral compass of any character in the show, and absolutely abhors criminals. He is willing to dedicate his whole life to taking down "Heisenberg", even at constant risk to his own life.

-   _White Collar's_ Peter Burke is a straitlaced FBI agent who will not break the law in pursuit of his goals no matter what.
-   Reconstruction by the Body of the Week on a late episode of _CSI: Miami_, an accountant by trade. On the one hand, his lawfulness and attention to detail made his son think he was a bit of a jerk and got him killed after he called a "How am I driving?" tipline and got a tow truck driver fired. On the other hand, the same qualities also helped the Miami-Dade Police break up a human trafficking ring and put away a crooked real estate developer trying to build houses on what should've been a Superfund site.
-   Mac Taylor from _CSI: NY_. He has a strict code of honor and integrity, helped along by being a Marine before he joined the force. He is sworn to uphold the law but doesn't mind speaking his mind and going his own way if he feels he has to.
-   Marshall Eriksen from _How I Met Your Mother_ is an environmental lawyer. His goal of saving the earth through legal means is constantly set back by the enemy, forcing him more into the Lawful aspect than the Good.
-   Jim Gordon from _Gotham_, being a By-the-Book Cop who shows by his actions that he thinks even crooks and vigilantes deserve to be arrested and tried rather than dealt with summarily outside of the code of law or subjected to some Laser-Guided Karma.
-   For all his quirks and odd mannerisms, agent Dale Cooper in _Twin Peaks_ is still one of the most moral and in the same time nicest characters of the series.
-   _Madam Secretary_: Dr. Henry McCord, Secretary of State Elizabeth McCord's husband, is a former Marine and a professor of theology and ethics with a _very_ strong code of personal conduct that he will not compromise lightly: in one case he balks at giving the Russian foreign minister's daughter an A for C work even when it will help his wife rescue a captured US spy from death row (instead giving her an incomplete so she can retake the course). In season two he moves from Georgetown to the National War College, teaching military ethics to promising officers from several countries while also watching foreign officers to see which ones can be made into intelligence assets. He refuses to blackmail an Armored Closet Gay Russian officer, instead providing cancer treatment to the sister of a young man with anti-Russian nationalist political views.
-   Dustin Henderson of _Stranger Things_ is of this alignment; determined that his friends adhere to the code of the RPG party.
-   The entire principal cast of _The West Wing_ are incredibly moral and compassionate to all their fellow countrymen, but none moreso than the President himself. When he's about to be investigated for hiding a debilitating illness during an election, he tells his personal assistant to never lie on his behalf, on pain of losing their friendship and respect.

    Myth and Religion 

-   Many religions have had one or more figures who would fall into this category. This may be due to people generally preferring order.
    -   Tyr and Forseti were both gods associated with law, oaths, and justice. Both were viewed highly favorable with the former being famous for being invoked before punishment of a criminal and sacrificing his hand to honor a vow.
    -   God as viewed by the monotheistic religions. He is firm about his laws and their punishments, but is also believed to be very merciful and forgiving of transgressions who overall works for the good of mankind. Other interpetations paint Him as Lawful Neutral.
    -   Ra and Horus are strongly associated with the Pharaohs and upholders of Ma'at, or order. Ra punished Geb and Nut after they broke his commands despite the threat their disobedience was to him. He sent Sekmet to punish humanity for its sins, but stopped her from exterminating them. Horus was dubbed "The Avenger" for avenging the murder of his father and often invoked for just vengeance.
    -   Athena has this general characteristic; she is definitely "Law before Good", if only because the laws she upholds are the laws of the gods, which are always just (unlike most of the gods themselves; Exhibit A: Papa Zeus). She is also very much Good Is Not Nice; those who violate divine law are subject to her merciless wrath. (Of course, in order to violate _divine_ law in Greece in a manner attracting Athena's attention, you had to do something particularly egregious, so you kinda deserved it.)
        -   Take the case of Arachne, the first spider (depending on the version, anyway). Sometimes she totally deserves it (challenging Athena and weaving scenes that mock the gods), while other times she gets stiffed because she's just better. Or, in the most good/most lawful, interpretation, she begrudgingly punished Arachne for criticising the gods by sentencing her to an eternity of doing what she loved: weaving.
-   King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table, being Trope Codifiers for the Knight in Shining Armor, universally aspired to be this, with some of them, such as the legendarily gallant and pure Galahad, embodying it.
-   Santa Claus in his many depictions is this. After all he only rewards good people with presents once a year, while bad folk receive coal. He does his job often with the aid of a list, which has the names of every good or evil human on the planet. Damn, can he be inspiring to do the right thing.

    Newspaper Comics 

-   _Calvin and Hobbes_:
    -   Susie Derkins is a model student who plays by the rules and would be nice to everyone if Calvin didn't drive her crazy.
    -   When Calvin clones only his good side to get someone to do schoolwork and other duties for him, the clone is a similar goody two-shoes as Susie. In fact, he starts to openly display Calvin's hidden attraction to Susie. She can only take it as sarcasm, causing the clone to finally get fed up with Calvin too — and vanish in a Puff of Logic for having mean thoughts when he was supposed to be completely good.
-   _Dick Tracy_ has the titular character, designed as a direct counter to the gangsters and corruption which permeated the 1930's. Dick Tracy is thoroughly incorruptible by any means, fearless and cool-headed in the face of danger, compassionate toward innocent patsies and regretful criminals, and a brilliant detective who uses cutting-edge forensics technology to prove both guilt and innocence. Although Tracy has a reputation for killing his foes, this is limited to those who present a clear danger, and he's risked his own life on numerous occasions to try and save the lives of criminals in dangerous situations.

    Professional Wrestling 

-   The classic pro wrestling babyface is usually Lawful Good, in that he plays by the rules, enjoys fair competition, gets along well with the other faces, and tries to be a positive role model for the kids watching at home. Not every face fits this classic mold (indeed, these days, most don't), but it was popular enough pre-ECW to make an exhaustive list of examples nearly impossible. For perhaps the best known example of this character type, see Hulk Hogan in the '80s. More modern examples include John Cena and Rey Mysterio Jr..

    Radio 

-   _The Lone Ranger_, who followed an amazingly strict code of honor and behavior, even for a hero.
-   _Riders Radio Theater_ has Ranger Doug, who has turned doing things the right way ("the Cowboy Way") instead of the easy way into a catchphrase.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Cardfight!! Vanguard_: Prior to the Overdress era, Lawful Good was pretty much the whole identity of Royal Paladin and Gold Paladin, paragons of virtue and slayers of evil who win with the power of friendship that they are. However, special mention goes to Bastion, because he lives in an era that's coming out of a 3000-year dark age where their nation expects them to lean more on the Lawful Neutral side. He does display some of those tendencies, as he'll never disobey a direct order and in his own words "The Law is Absolute", but he clearly feels conflicted on some level when given an order that is actively detrimental to the common good. It might be more accurate that his lawful neutral tendencies come from a misguided belief that upholding the law and upholding the common good are one and the same.
-   _Dungeons & Dragons_:
    -   Paladins in the first through third editions lose all their powers if they don't follow their code of conduct, which essentially means they must be Lawful Good at all times. The fourth edition got rid of this, due in part to the unceasing debates mentioned above, and now has paladins' alignments dependent on what gods they serve, with straying from the path a matter left to the church and other paladins.
        -   3.5 introduced the Gray Guard prestige class. They're cynical elite paladins doing what they can to combat evil in any way they deem necessary and can eventually smite opponents of any alignment, as anyone can overstep themselves and become dangerous.
        -   As of fifth edition, the requirement is partly back in place. While nominally a paladin can be any alignment mechanically, they have a unique 'oath' requirement where they're given a specific code that they cannot violate on penalty of losing most of their abilities, which can be problematic since the 3 oaths presented in the core rulebook are created to follow the 3 good alignments, which makes playing them as non-good difficult, although Vengeance paladins have a bit easier time with this, not counting Oathbreakers. Some later Oaths are easier to be played for non-good alignments, however, especially with things like Oath of Conquest that's heavily suited for Lawful Evil characters, or Oath of Treachery for Neutral or Chaotic Evil characters.
    -   Hill and mountain dwarves (the two most common subraces) are in listed in 3rd Edition as _often_ Lawful Good (as opposed to _usually_ as is the case of other races, leaving open the option for Lawful Neutral hardasses and chaotic berserkers) because their society places great emphasis on taking care of each others' needs. In fact, the World of Greyhawk includes a dwarven socialist state that runs without a hitch thanks to their natural inclination toward cooperation.
    -   In the first and second editions, halflings were listed as Lawful Good, drawing on Tolkien's description of them as close-knit, kindhearted country folk.
    -   Fourth edition redefines Lawful Good as "believing equally in law and good; true good comes through the following of fair and just codes that emphasize the value of life, the protection of the weak, and the uplifting of the downtrodden". Though still called upon to oppose the exploitation of power and to stand up against tyranny, a lawful good character is the type who would prefer to work within the system and bring a change for the better, rather than simply overthrowing whichever corrupt figure has earned their ire. The defining quote of a Lawful Good character, in this edition, is "An ordered society protects us from evil", and their moral stance heavily prioritizes civilization, order, and the spreading of those things.
    -   Metallic dragons are always some flavor of good. In particular, bronze dragons, silver dragons, and gold dragons are all said to explicitly be Lawful Good. Bronze dragons are scholarly hermits who, once they give their word, would rather die than break it. Silver dragons are the paladins and crusaders of dragonkind, who routinely live under incredibly strict moral and ethical codes because they genuinely crave the stability they bring. Gold dragons are altruistic, mentorly sorts and paragons of dragonkind, but known to let their focus on the big picture cloud their ability to see details.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_:
    -   With their society revolving around serving the Greater Good, the Tau Empire attempt to be this, and often do achieve it on occasion, but are more commonly repressive Lawful Neutral with a dash of necessary Lawful Evil.
        
        It should be noted that the reports of repression all come by way of Imperial sources. This was done intentionally by Games Workshop after some players complained that the Tau were wrecking the GRIMDARK. Now the interpretation is back in player hands.
        
    -   Although things have gone strongly downhill following the Horus Heresy, some Space Marine chapters, such as the Salamanders, the Ultramarines, the Blood Angels, the Imperial Fists, and the Grey Knights can be solidly put in this position, being in strong support of the Codex Astartes combat doctrines, and being generally nicer than many other chapters.

-   High Elves in _Warhammer Fantasy_. Stress on Lawful, as they are a hallmark of Good Is Not Nice, and High Elves are a haughty, elitist, uppity and arrogant lot who patronize Humans, disdain Dwarves, shun Wood Elves and hate almost all other races. Despite this, they are a Dying Race not simply because of their arrogance, but because they are constantly trying to save the world from destruction at the hands of any given villain group in its Big Bad Ensemble. They consider it their sacred duty to do so, because in their eyes no other race can be trusted to replace them, though the more virtuous among them gladly intervene on behalf of and form Enemy Mine agreements with those races they know they can trust. Their army also places a heavy emphasis on discipline and focus during battle.
-   _Nobilis_: Surolam, the dog-headed goddess of ordinary things, in third edition. She's definitely more inclined to the Lawful end of the scale, but is still the last hope for those afflicted with dementia animus.
    
    _She is kind, you see, and loves us more the more we are broken-hearted. But she is also a creature of Law and a creature of precedent, and so she is very careful not to commit to more than she can give all of us, and each of us, forever. The decisions she makes, the promises she gives, bind her for centuries or even millennia._  
    — _Nobilis: the Essentials_, p22.
    

-   _Pathfinder_:
    -   Lawful Good outsiders include the archons, dutiful, benevolent and honorable but also strict and judgmental; and the manasaputras, natives of the positive energy plane who seek to foster the developments of mortal species towards civilization and enlightenment.
    -   Paladins also have to be Lawful Good, but are almost always the second type (good over law).

    Video Games 

-   _Ace Attorney_:
    -   Despite having Kleptomaniac Hero tendencies, Phoenix has got to be either this or Neutral Good. His successor Apollo Justice, focusing more on the lawful part of the equation than Phoenix did, is _definitely_ Lawful Good. Post-Character Development Edgeworth also counts; he clearly shows his pursuit of justice comes first and his desire to "win" second — unlike in Franziska and Manfred von Karma's case. Also, Mia Fey, who is more collected and rational than Phoenix, eventually becoming his mentor before _and_ after being murdered. Phoenix himself defends not only his clients, but anyone else that he believes are truly innocent. Not only this, but Phoenix has shown on a few occasions that he will _object_ to his own not guilty verdict on his client when he feels the real killer hasn't been found yet or when the verdict isn't fully just (for example, the defendant is innocent, but someone else, who is also innocent, would be seen as guilty).
    -   Klavier Gavin from the fourth game, the only prosecutor to unequivocally claim this alignment from his first appearance. He _completely_ averts Amoral Attorney, being warm, friendly, and much more concerned with finding the truth than racking up wins.
    -   The judge is an honorable old gentleman dedicated to upholding justice and the law within his courtroom. He delivers a fine speech at the end of _Apollo Justice_ where he espouses the viewpoint that it is humanity's duty to maintain and nurture the law so that it can always protect the innocent.
-   Bloodhound from _Apex Legends_ is an honorable hunter with a deep conviction towards their people, and their homeland. Despite what has to be done, Bloodhound kills in the name of their ancestors and the Old Ways. Bloodhound takes no thanks nor gratitude for their victories, believing their gods are owed in their triumphs. This makes them seem unselfish but conflicted about the actions, of less moralistic characters.
-   Shay Cormac from _Assassin's Creed Rogue_ is staunchly this, believe it or not. Shay initially followed the Colonial Assassins, believing they where doing good for the young Canadian regions. But that all changed, following the events of the Lisbon Earthquake that he was deceived into starting. The Assassins were very clearly in the wrong, and did nothing to convince Shay otherwise. This led to his betrayal and defecting to the Templars, who were the lesser evil at the time. Shay only joined his former archenemies, because they sort rightful ways towards order, particularly with Colonel Monro who he got along well with. Later, Haytham taught Shay that sometimes ruthlessness is necessary towards their goals, something both thoroughly would practice, for the greater good.
-   Jorge Garcia of _Backyard Sports_ tries to help the other kids have better morals for the greater good, a genuine Lawful Good character.
-   Bang Shishigami from _BlazBlue_ is this. His drive is to protect his homeland Ikaruga and its townspeople (now taking residence in Ronin-Gai) and is a strict follower of Thou Shall Not Kill, even against his worst nemesis Jin Kisaragi (unless he got too consumed in anger), preferring to make him reflect on his sins after beating him up. Even Jin's future self Hakumen qualifies in this category.
-   Reverend Ray McCall of _Call of Juarez_ is a Badass Preacher / The Atoner who sees himself as an incarnation of divine wrath upon evildoers. Although initially chases after Billy Candle to avenge his brother's death, upon learning that Billy is innocent, he becomes horrified at his actions and sets out to do everything he can to save his step-nephew and the girl that has been taken hostage as a result of their actions.

-   Anyone from the Belmont clan in _Castlevania_ (save for Gabriel, who is totally unrelated and is Neutral Good) can be categorized as Lawful Good, as they carry their duty from the vampire killer bloodline to hunt down Dracula to protect mankind. Alucard fits as well, as he fights in part because of his loyalty to his mother and her people.

-   Sam Carter of _Deus Ex_ believes that UNATCO serves a fundamentally good purpose and that it can only be saved if the good people stay, even if he allows JC Denton to escape, and loot the armory on the way out.
-   Tyrael the Angel of Justice in the _Diablo_ series is firmly on the side of good and is compassionate towards humans, in contrast to his Lawful Stupid brethren. The Paladin from D2, the Monk and the Templar from D3 are also LG.
-   Sereph Lamington from _Disgaea: Hour of Darkness_ is of this alignment, but in a society of Knight Templars he ends up flirting with chaos. He is determined, however, to accept the punishment due him for the rules that he breaks — a characteristic he shares with Flonne. Adell from the second game is also Lawful Good. He adheres to his rigid code of honesty and fairness even when it puts him at a disadvantage. He refuses to break promises, despises lying and deception, and his motivation for fighting is saving people.
    -   Valvatorez deserves credit for being the first Lawful Good Demon in the series. He has a habit of making poorly considered promises that lead to him taking on the most powerful forces in the Netherworld rather than break them, and though he's a little Good Is Not Nice he's still endlessly supportive and loyal to his minions. Some of the other characters seem to consider this some sort of mental illness, even Valvatorez himself at times.

-   In _Dragon Age: Origins_, there is Wynne, a Circle Mage who strongly believes in both good and justice and also holds that the rules and laws of both the Circle Tower and the Chantry are necessary to control the dangerous power of mages.
    -   Also, Alistair is a Knight in Sour Armor version of this. No matter how much he personally disapproves of the Grey Warden's actions, he will follow you to the ends of the earth because you need to work together to save the world from the Blight. The only thing that will make him desert you is sparing Loghain Mac Tir at the Landsmeet.
    -   The Spirit of Justice in _Dragon Age: Origins – Awakening_ is, as the name implies, a Fade spirit who aspires to the ideal of Justice, and is physically incapable of being anything _but_ Lawful Good .
    -   Aveline from _Dragon Age II_ is another example; as a guardswoman she always tries to use the law to make people's lives in Kirkwall better, and she'll speak up if Hawke acts particularly chaotically or callously. It takes something pretty horrific (like a Serial Killer preying on elf girls human society doesn't care about) for her to condone outright execution.

-   Games based on the _Dungeons & Dragons_ system naturally have characters whose alignments are _right there for you to see_. Such as...
    -   Aerie, a naive young elven spellcaster who's compassionate to anyone in need and whose timid exterior hides a determination to fight against injustice. (_Baldur's Gate II_.)
    -   Ajantis Ilvstarr, the youthful, idealistic but somewhat unstable paladin. (_Baldur's Gate_.)
    -   Dynaheir, an honest, forthright, and scrupulously moral wizard from a nation where spellcasters like her are expected to become leaders one day. (_Baldur's Gate_.)
    -   Rasaad yn Bashir, a kind and good-hearted monk concerned with justice and proper conduct.(_Baldur's Gate Enhanced Edition_.)
    -   Keldorn, the aged veteran paladin who generally has much wisdom and compassion, but can be confused about what to do when questions of ethics morality affect _him_ directly. (_Baldur's Gate II_.)
    -   Mazzy Fentan, a fierce and honorable halfling warrior, paladin in all but name. (_Baldur's Gate II_.)
    -   Yeslick Orothiar, a dwarven warrior-priest. Surprisingly laid-back for a Lawful Good character who was, until you rescued him, a slave in his own family's ancestral mine. (_Baldur's Gate_.)
    -   Anomen, a Fighter/Cleric squire, starts out as a Lawful Neutral Jerkass with dreams of knighthood. If you help him do the right and lawful thing in his Personal Quest, he will pass his test of knighthood with flying colors and become Lawful Good. His improved character is reflected in his stats by a +4 bonus to Wisdom. Otherwise, he will fail his test and become Chaotic Neutral, having lost his purpose in life. (_Baldur's Gate II_.)
    -   Balthazar, the hidden Token Good Teammate of the Five is a **dark** example. The Lawful part comes with being a Monk and the Good comes with him actually wanting to prevent Bhaal's ressurection, but he's such a Well-Intentioned Extremist about it that he becomes a Anti-Villain and must be stopped. (_Baldur's Gate II_.)
    -   Casavir, a paladin who left the service of Neverwinter to serve what he thought was "the greater good". (_Neverwinter Nights 2_)
    -   Khelgar Ironfist, a drunken brawler who likes a fight too much starts out Chaotic Good, but can be encouraged through Character Development to obtain enlightenment as a monk and becomes this. (_Neverwinter Nights 2_)
    -   Ekundayo, a stoic ranger who hunts trolls and other beasts for revenge and to keep innocents safe from their predations. During the game he decides which one of the two motivations is his main one and may change alignment as a result. (_Pathfinder: Kingmaker_)
-   The only _Fate/stay night_ character that is listed as being of the Lawful Good territority is Saber. Considering she's King Arthur, it is only obvious. However, when she becomes Saber Alter, she becomes Lawful Evil.
    -   Shirou Emiya also starts out Lawful Good but converts to Neutral Good in the _Unlimited Blade Works_ route after several Breaking Speeches from Archer, his Fallen Hero future self cause him to re-think his stance on trying to save everybody simply because it's "right" and to Chaotic Good in _Heaven' Feel_ when he chooses Sakura over his ideals.
-   _Final Fantasy_ generally has at least one character representing this alignment in every installment:
    -   Cecil Harvey of _Final Fantasy IV_, while he begins the game as a Lawful Neutral soldier whose first instinct is to serve his king, becomes torn between following orders and doing the right thing; eventually, he becomes a paladin and devotes himself to doing good.
    -   _Final Fantasy VI_: Sabin Figaro, the heroic and brave martial artist dedicated to the ideals of his deceased master, and Cyan Garamonde, the honorable, noble, and kindhearted samurai, are this to begin with, and Celes Chere, a former imperial soldier haunted by her past misdeeds who atones by becoming a Knight in Shining Armor, grows into it.
    -   Aerith Gainsborough from _Final Fantasy VII_. Even her powers such as Great Gospel demonstrates her nigh saintliness. Too bad about her fate. Red XIII is also this, due to his high respect towards his elders and ancestors (at least eventually), and initially only follows the party to get back home to his adoptive grandfather.
    -   Adelbert Steiner of _Final Fantasy IX_ is this almost to a fault, as his devotion to the ideals of knighthood borders on Lawful Stupid to begin with; as the game goes along he mellows out a bit. His rival and love interest Beatrix also ends up here after starting the game as Lawful Neutral; much like Cecil she's a dutiful soldier at first, who eventually rebels when the orders the ruler she serves give her become too immoral.
    -   _Final Fantasy X_: Wakka, Lulu and Yuna, as the party's most avid followers of Yevon (who governs law in Spira), are this at the beginning of the game. A big part of their Character Development (in particular, Wakka's) is crossing the line into Neutral Good.
    -   Larsa Solidor of _Final Fantasy XII_ is a deeply-idealistic Lawful Good: throughout the game, he strives to bring about peace through diplomacy rather than intimidation and subterfuge. This of course stands in stark contrast to his elder brother's Lawful Evil.
    -   Lightning may have become this in _Final Fantasy XIII-2_. Given her paladin status in that game.
    -   Wiegraf from _Final Fantasy Tactics_ starts out this way. He's a principled warrior who rebelled against the Crown because the realm was bankrupt and refused to pay their volunteer army, but even in the rebellion, he sticks to his principles and refuses to allow his troops to engage in kidnapping; he wants his and his men's rightful due, not just a ransom. When his sister is killed, however, he starts sliding down the slippery slope, until he accepts the power of a Zodiac Stone with what would have been his dying breath and becomes Chaotic Evil.
-   In the _Fire Emblem_ series:
    -   In _Fire Emblem: The Binding Blade_, we have Perceval and Douglas, high-ranked military leaders of Etruria with lots of responsibility who are very loyal to a king who's a good person, but has his will overridden by treacherous advisors after falling into despair due to the death of his son and heir. They're balanced by their fellow leader Cecilia and the high-ranked sniper Klein, who fall more into Neutral Good.
    -   In _Fire Emblem: The Blazing Blade_:
        -   Eliwood starts as this, then settles slowly but surely into Neutral Good.
        -   Hector's Lancer Oswin and Eliwood's retainer Marcus remain mostly Lawful Good, with Oswin even reaching the extreme of hiding Uther's upcoming death from Hector despite the inner conflicts it brings him, since Uther had asked him to do so.
        -   Fiora, the eldest of the three Pegasus Knight sisters (balancing Farina's Chaotic Good and Florina's Neutral Good). She's very kind and gentle, but she also seems to believe that Eliwood's interest in her can't be reciprocated due to her being a mercenary from Ilia, and discusses possible separation by gender with Kent to avoid emotional attachments until the end of the war.
    -   In _Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance_ and _Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn_, the following fall into this alignment: Sigrun, Tanith, Geoffery, Bastian, Lucia, Kieran, Oscar, Titania, Lethe, Mordecai, Kyza, Janaff, and Ulki, who gain this status by being loyal, upright servants of solidly good authority figures. The healers and characters with the "Spirit of Order," qualify as well; Rhys, Laura, Mist, Sanaki, and the three Herons.
    -   _Fire Emblem Fates_
        -   Corrin/The Avatar is Lawful Good by default, strongly valuing ideals such as peace, justice and compassion. Interestingly for a Lawful Good protagonist, what part of the alignment s/he prioritizes more depends on which route s/he takes; in _Birthright,_ s/he's more Good than Lawful, deciding to rebel against a tyrannical king. In _Conquest,_ s/he's more Lawful than Good, choosing to attempt to reform Nohr than destroy it. In _Revelations,_ s/he balances both of these alignments rather nicely.
        -   Xander and Ryoma also qualify. Both are just, honorable leaders of their country who value peace and justice hand-in-hand, though similarly to the Avatar, Xander is more Lawful than Good, while Ryoma is more Good than Lawful.
        -   Arthur is also _definitely_ this. Being a self-styled "hero of justice", Arthur is an exceptionally kind and heroic young man, valuing peace and happiness above all else. Unlike most examples of The Paladin, however, he is _not_ Lawful Stupid; he averts it enough that he lies to a bunch of Nohrian knights so that Azura as a child doesn't have to be punished, taking the consequences instead.
    -   Dimitri in _Fire Emblem: Three Houses_ is a deconstruction of this alignment, as he has a strong sense of justice with virtues of chivalry and honor. At the same time, however, he also has to battle his own inner demons due to him being a Sole Survivor of Tragedy of Duscur and dealing with his own Sanity Slippage. Post-timeskip, he ends up degenerating into Chaotic Neutral, as he still maintains his belief that the innocent should be protected from evil and still wants to protect the Church of Seiros, but his mental state is driven by hatred to the point that he commits brutal atrocities in order to exact his revenge on Edelgard. However, he rebounds back into Lawful good again on the Azure Moon route.

-   A Lawful Good character alignment is possible in the sandbox game _inFAMOUS_, and whether the player chooses to be Lawful Good or Chaotic Evil has a major influence on game play. If the player chooses to play the role of the hero, then he helps the police restore order to the city, gains powers exclusive to the heroic end of the spectrum, and is generally loved by the people, to the extent that they eventually plaster the city with posters of him standing triumphant and heroic, holding a lightning bolt.
-   _Halo_: The Master Chief and the other Spartans. While Chief and his fellow IIs started off as Lawful Neutral in their morally nebulous beginnings, their trainer taught them about honor, and Halsey taught them of the value of each and every life. Even before training was complete, the Chief showed exceptional care for the people under his command, and is willing to put himself at risk so no one else has to. After _Halo 4_, he starts veering more towards Neutral Good, becoming more willing to disobey orders if he thinks he has a better way to do good.
-   Pit. Sure, he tends to insult things a bit more than most Lawfuls, but it's usually by accident. He's considerably more naive and focused on unending justice than anyone else in the game.

-   In _L.A. Noire_, Cole Phelps seems to be one of the few detectives who cares about doing the right thing and clearing his cases. This naturally puts him at odds with almost every other Dirty Cop in the LAPD. Just to add this up, the cops he is partnered with aren't crooked except Roy Earle.
-   _Mass Effect_: Legion is probably the strongest example in the game, despite being from the once thought to be Always Chaotic Evil Geth. When making choices he always refers back to a code of rules, such as making sure his programs reach mutual consensus, and that all sentient beings have a right to freedom. While his lack of emotion would supposedly make him Lawful Neutral, his Shadow Broker Dossier reveals that he donated money to rebuilding Eden Prime, suggesting his values are closer to Good than Neutral. And then sliding back to neutral when he muses on how interesting it will be to watch Ronald Taylor's men deliver retribution.

-   Harpuia from the _Mega Man Zero_ series falls between Lawful Good and Lawful Neutral because of his Hero Antagonist nature. He opposes the resistance, but is saddened by the war (see his comments about 1/3 into the second game), would rather die than be possessed by a manifestation of evil (the second fight in MMZ 2), and believes protecting the innocent is more important than fighting the resistance when faced with Chaotic Evil Omega. His prime motivation for fighting Zero is protecting humanity.

-   From _Persona 4_, we have Ryotaro Dojima. He's an honest cop working the beat in Inaba, and he manages to prove his Lawful Good cred when he sits down and realizes there are inconsistencies with the possibility of Taro Namatame being the killer despite having every reason by this point to go on a Roaring Rampage of Revenge after Nanako is abducted and temporarily killed. After learning the killer's identity, he even gives medical assistance to Tohru Adachi and remains friends with him after he is imprisoned.

-   Tokugawa Ieyasu in _Sengoku Basara_, being a Messianic Archetype, fights for the good of the people and strengthening their bonds and always sought to help his friends, former or not... all under the Tokugawa banner.
-   Kura from _Shogo: Mobile Armor Division_ is willing to help Sanjuro convince Admiral Akkaraju that he's being used by Shogo and that Toshiro is merely a puppet for Cothineal, but rather than openly defy him, seeks evidence to help prove the case.
-   Despite his Good Is Not Nice attitude, Knuckles the Echidna from _Sonic The Hedgehog_ is unerringly, thick-headedly Lawful Good, his absolute devotion to his duty of guarding the Master Emerald often clashing with his desire to fight evil. It's also one of the reasons he clashes so often with the far more free-spirited Chaotic Good Sonic.
    -   Silver The Hedgehog is also another example. He's a young hedgehog who has devoted himself to carry the world on his shoulders. He has a strong sense of justice and will not hesitate to bring it to those who would harm his future, which proves that he would even go as far as to kill anyone whom he believes is responsible for destroying the future (i.e., attempting to kill Sonic for being The Iblis Trigger).
    -   Blaze The Cat counts as well, being the guardian of the Sol Emeralds (basically her dimension's version of the Chaos Emeralds)

-   While most good _Soul Series_ characters seem to fall into Neutral Good territory, Sophitia is a definite Lawful. She's on a heaven-mandated mission to destroy Soul Edge. She only breaks this under pressure of a direct threat to her daughter, after she's been deceived into thinking that her life and that of Soul Edge are linked. She still arguably maintains this Lawful stance, only now, her loyalty is to her family, rather than the gods.

-   Carth Onasi in _Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic_ is a staunch Republic loyalist, takes it upon himself to steer you to light side actions, and is _higher on the Karma Meter than the party's Jedi._ Juhani (after her Heel–Face Turn) is also this, struggling to live up to not only the lofty ideal of the Order, but her own interpetation of those ideals, which are even _more_ stringent. Bastila (before her Face–Heel Turn and after her Heel–Face Turn if you turn her back) also falls here, and is even more adamant than Carth about trying to steer you to light-side actions.

-   In the MMO _Star Wars: The Old Republic_ you have several examples as well. Grand Master Satele Shan (yes, descended from the above) is the one giving players their missions and marching orders, especially on the Jedi classes. Aric Jorgan (Trooper Companion) is a bit tightly-wound, but when it seems like the Republic military is crawling with Do Unto Others Before They Do Unto Us, Lawful Stupid, traitors, and the kind of asshats who would torture a civilian just for being _related_ to a Imperial sympathizer? Well, he responds favorably when your Trooper refuses to play into any of that.
    -   Elara Dorne, another of the Trooper's crew, is also of this alignment; sweet woman, defected to the Republic due to her frustration with Imperial corruption, and is a stickler for doing the paperwork correctly. This conversation probably best describes her personality:
        
        **Dorne**: Sir! I have excellent news! I've secured permission to use form 859-RA for our after action reports, instead of the older 859-R.  
        **Trooper**: How's is the new one different?  
        **Dorne**: The form has been significantly streamlined for ease of completion. A full one-sixth shorter! This should result in a cumulative time savings of more than ninety minutes within four weeks. It should be quite pleasant!
        
    -   And then there's M1-4X, a combat droid with an unmatched patriotic spirit. His battle cries are things like, "For freedom!" and "Thus to all who threaten galactic liberty!" And in his spare time between missions, he hunts down big name imperial bad guys, not to put notches on his rifle, but because he thinks it's the best way to boost morale within the ranks of the Republic's troops.
-   Guy from _Final Fight_ and _Street Fighter_, specially in the latter. Yes, he beats up the bad guys outside the law, but he does so to _uphold_ said law, and he endlessly seeks both to bring Cody back to the side of good _and_ make sure Rose realizes she shouldn't be a Death Seeker.
    -   Plus, Chun-Li also deserves credit for being the most foremost example in the _Street Fighter_ franchise. She works hard to bring M. Bison and Shadaloo to justice, adopted several children, and hates inflicting harm on her opponents.
-   Most of the characters in the Hagane-Hiryuu team in _Super Robot Wars Original Generation_ are mostly Lawful Good. Otherwise, they wouldn't be so easily forgiving to almost every villains they come across. Except to those who are completely too stubborn and irredeemable.
-   In _Tales of the Abyss_, Jade Curtiss (of all people) clearly demonstrates this alignment if you delve into the game's numerous sidequests. He even gets a title calling him "Lawman". An interesting example because despite being both Lawful and Good, he does not remotely fit the classic stereotypes associated with the alignment; it's been suggested that he clings to the law because his past has made him afraid to trust his conscience as a guide.
    -   A more conventional example would be Princess Natalia, who has a somewhat similar ideology to Flynn (mentioned below) and is shown to be a much more competent ruler than her father. This makes her a target for the resident Corrupt Church.
    -   And also Emperor Peony, a Reasonable Authority Figure and all round Nice Guy who was largely responsible for setting Jade down the path of Lawful Goodness in the first place.

-   Kim Kaphwan, the Korean Taekwondo champion from _Fatal Fury_ and _The King of Fighters_. He even has a "for truth, justice and the Korean way" Victory Quote in '95. Not to mention his "I won't tolerate evil" catchphrase when dealing with criminals.
-   _Touhou Project_'s Reimu may act crabby or indifferent at times, but when push comes to shove, she will act as the dutiful hero.
    -   Shiki Eiki, Yamaxanadu, the local Judge of The Dead. She's Lawful by definition and she's definitely Good; she tries to dissuade other characters from their (many, many) vices.
-   The Way of White in _Dark Souls_ is the covenant of Lord Gwyn. Those who are a part of this covenant seek to aid one another and ward off Dark Spirits. They search for the Rite of Kindling, which is believed to grant great powers, and wish to continue the Age of Fire by Linking the Bonfires.
-   _Warcraft_:
    -   Uther Lightbringer, the quintessential paladin of the _Warcraft_ universe.
    -   And, to balance things out, Thrall<small>◊</small>, the creator of the modern (Chaotic Good) Horde. He's a brilliant strategist, a fairly good diplomat and politician and, above all else, a very strict traditionalist.

-   Arthas Menethil and Sylvanas Windrunner start out as this in _Warcraft 3_ (the former a Paladin, the latter a noble, if rather vain, defender of her homeland. Unfortunately, this doesn't last long, as Frostmourne steals Arthas' soul and pretty much turns him into a Chaotic Evil sociopath incapable of feeling compassion or remorse. After he kills Sylvanas he turns her into his undead slave and forces her to help carry out his evil plans, and even once she breaks free it's clear she will never be the same again.

-   In the _Shin Megami Tensei_ video games, the Law faction as a whole is headed by a Jerkass variation of God with the angels being hardly better, so'd you'd _think_ they would be a textbook example of Always Lawful Evil. But given the moral ambiguity of the series, there's more than a fair share of heroic Law-aligned characters.
    -   Amane and Remiel from _Devil Survivor_ are pretty blatant examples of this. Despite aligning with YHVH, both of them genuinely care for humanity, and really do want to create world of peace and justice for all. And in the remake, if the player so desires, they have the honor of partaking in the first unambiguously heroic Law Ending in the _series_.
        -   The Protagonist also fits this alignment on Amane's 8th day. While he seeks peace through worship of the Lord, he also prefers to redeem sinners rather than kill them outright and is generally more moderate than the Lawful Neutral angels.
    -   Despite his flaws and the Irony associated with a rebellious Law Hero, Ronaldo Kuriki is firmly in this camp. He's fighting against Yamato Hotsuin for very noble reasons (i.e., he absolutely _refuses_ to accept a world of meritocracy, and genuinely wants everybody to have an equal chance) and is overall a pretty Nice Guy. That said, he doesn't exactly take losing to the Chaos faction all too well, but given what they advocate for, is it really unjustified?
    -   Similarly, Jonathan from _Shin Megami Tensei IV_ is this, and is unique amongst classical Law Heroes in the sense that he's still heroic even after choosing to side with Law. Despite being a blue-blood by birth in a kingdom set in the apocalyptic 21st century, he firmly believes in equality and respect regardless of class, and despite hating demons with a passion, it isn't entirely unjustified given what they do. It's telling that he's the only Law Hero from a mainline SMT game to question the ethical nature of sacrificing himself to effectively annihilate Tokyo, and goes along with it less out of blind devotion, but because he wants a future of peace for all he cares about, effectively making him similar to Neutral Flynn.
        -   From the same game, this incarnation of Mastema also counts. He follows a far more moderate and benevolent interpretation of God's will than the Archangels, and even sees the Chaos route as a way to learn more about the Lord by straying from His path.
    -   In _Shin Megami Tensei: Strange Journey Redux_, this happens in the extended Law ending. Alex explains that anyone who isn't arbitrarily chosen by God is mercilessly slaughtered and convinces Zelenin to create a world where all humans can have peace and harmony by using her song to remove the human drive towards competition. Zelenin has her faith in humanity restored, and even turns against Mastema and the Three Wise Men to create a world of Law in her own way.
    -   Really, it's possible to interpret any Lawful protagonist as this. Given the Grey-and-Gray Morality of the games and the fact that there's a good reason to side with any of the factions, it isn't an entirely outlandish concept to see a Lawful protagonist as a Well-Intentioned Extremist.
-   Kyle Crane, the protagonist of _Dying Light_, is an exploration of this concept. Crane is willing to follow the orders of the humanitarian GRE but also acting within his own personal morality as a nice guy who doesn't want to fight and feels horrible for having to threaten people. This leads to Rais, who views the world as a pit of chaos with order as a joke and hopes to spread that chaos around Harran and further beyond, i.e a textbook Chaotic Evil Unfettered, to disparage him as nothing more than a puppet or a dog, claiming that a real man follows his own instincts and doesn't let silly things like duty hold him back. However, he's wrong, as there's more to Crane than Rais thinks, as Crane more than once calls out his GRE employers for ordering him to work with Rais, refusing to assist the Tower survivors and halting the Antizen drops because it isn't "politically advantageous", and ultimately he betrays them when he finds out that the GRE were responsible for the whole mess in Harran and are just out to cover their own arses. Crane follows orders, but does so dutifully, not mindlessly.
-   Trias in _Planescape: Torment_ is lawful good by nature, being an angel. He is also an extremely _twisted_ version of Lawful Good — believing that the Blood War is itself driving the planes towards evil (something that seems to be true given what you hear of it), he wanted the angels and the forces of good to take an active hand and intercede in it and became a Necessarily Evil Fallen Angel as a result.
-   The New California Republic from _Fallout: New Vegas_ try their best to uphold this alignment, but their incompetent leadership, rampant corruption and harsh treatment of locals in the wastes push them a bit towards Lawful Neutral.

    Webcomics 

-   White Mage from _8-Bit Theater_ always mentions bringing order to a dying world.

-   Florence Ambrose of _Freefall_ tries to work within the system where possible and insists on being held accountable for her actions when she inevitably picks "good" on the To Be Lawful or Good question. When she's "jailed" in the dog pound, she refuses to leave until she hears about Sam's plan to break her out.
-   Gilgamesh Wulfenbach of _Girl Genius_ seems to be leaning this way, after taking over the Empire when his father Klaus is injured, even delivering a kickass speech (and a righteous asskicking) to one of his more overzealous underlings about how tired he is of "mercy" being seen as "weakness."
    -   At the start of his empire, Baron Klaus was, as well. He is certainly a fairly reasonable authority and when he started, people flocked to him for guidance and leadership. He stopped the war ravaging Europa, set up simple rules for everyone to comply by and frequently spent money and labor on building roads, hospitals and schools. In some ways, he could still be Lawful Good, given the time and setting he lives in. To the modern reader on the other hand, he is either Lawful Neutral, Lawful Evil, or Lawful Stupid, but he is certainly not a bad person altogether.
-   Big Ears from _Goblins_ is a paladin, so that's a given. However, he is the author representation of what a paladin should be: loyal, kind-hearted and in all general good. He completely averts the Lawful Stupid, but sometimes fails to Honor Before Reason.
-   Eva Wilson, a secondary character from _Our Little Adventure_. She is also a Paladin, and is often a Knight in Sour Armor due to her rigid adherance to her alignment. This is what eventually gets her killed.
-   Cloud from _Sandra and Woo_ is lawful good. For example, he dreams of bringing peace and justice to his mother's home country Burma, gives school bullies a proper punishment and spends a lot of time to help his cousin.

-   Princess Voluptua in _The Inexplicable Adventures of Bob!_ takes her job and responsibilities very seriously, such that she is willing to sacrifice her chance for personal happiness for them. Even Beleaguered Bureaucrat Zippobic, who _hates_ the government she represents, grudgingly concedes that he respects and trusts _her_ (even if he does think she talks too much.)
-   _The Order of the Stick_:
    -   Roy Greenhilt is explicitly stated to be Lawful Good, because his is a D&D-run continuity. In fact, when he was judged by a being of pure Law and Good, she makes particular note of his failings — his tendency to use Chaotic means to achieve Lawful ends, his occasional disrespect for local ordinances in favor of a more familiar set of rules, and most especially his association with Chaotic Evil Belkar. In the end she judged that he was Lawful Good because he _kept trying_ to be. He's human, after all, and it's unreasonable to expect him to live up to the standards of Pure Law and Good perfectly. A perfect example of Roy's alignment was dealing with orcs in _On the Origin of PCs_; he negotiated a peaceful solution (they were there to get early seat tickets for a heavy metal band) rather than just kill them, even though said orcs were evil and technically could be killed without alignment shift.
    -   Miko Miyazaki, meanwhile, is also Lawful Good — she being a paladin, it's the only possible option. However, she downplays the "Good" part about as much as possible while still following the strict requirements for a paladin. It's all about judging people and following rules for her, with compassion toned down to a minimum. She's rather quick to pigeonhole people everyone who doesn't conform to her black and white standards as being part of some great Evil conspiracy only she can stop. This view continues unabated until (and, indeed, even after) she finally pushes herself into unambiguously non-Good territory and falls from Paladinhood.
        
        **Roy**: You're not Good, at least not any definition of Good that I would want to follow. You follow the letter of the alignment description while ignoring its intent. Sure, you fight Evil, but when was the last time you showed a "concern for the dignity of sentient beings"? You're just a mean socially inept bully who hides behind a badge and her holier-than-thou morality as excuses to treat other people like crap.
        
    -   Durkon the dwarven cleric also, by all means and actions, comes off as Lawful Good, with a near-obsessive dedication to the way of Dwarven life (despite eventually fitting in quite well with humans) but also dedicated to his friends and allies, and often functioning as the moral compass of the team when even Roy has doubts. His deity of choice, Thor, is Chaotic Good, which would be odd except for the fact that dwarves don't seem to have much choice in terms of gods. Roy's aforementioned dealing with the heavy metal orcs convinced Durkon that Roy was _truly_ lawful good and became the start of their friendship.
    -   Of course, all the Sapphire Guard paladins are Lawful Good by default (except the above example), while each in their own small way averts the Lawful Stupid tendencies paladins are often stuck with. Special mention must go to the righteously badass O-Chul, who's transcended goodness completely and ascended into Lawful Awesome, and is the series' version of Captain America. Author Rich Burlew specifically stated that he intended to portray O-Chul as everything good about the paladin, and Miko Miyazaki to be a demonstration of the wrong way to go about it.
    -   Additionally, playgrounder Zrak wrote a handy guide for Lawful Good, _To March Into Hell for a Heavenly Cause: A Lawful Good Handbook_, that's designed to help players come up with their own ways of playing LG without falling into Lawful Stupid.
-   _Wondermark_ brings us The Adventures of Jack Bulletproof: The Cop Who Plays By All The Rules.
-   In _El Goonish Shive_, when Dan requested his fans to weigh in on the alignment of Grace, at least one response claimed that Grace would be Neutral Good, Ellen would be Chaotic Good, and Elliot would be Lawful Good. Dan said that at the time he was still reading the responses and would need to think on it, but he liked the sound of that.

-   The cartoonist has identified the titular Kevin & Kell, as well as their daughter Coney, as Lawful Good: they're genuinely nice people who don't let society's prejudices get to them. Kevin and Kell both are Honest Corporate Executives to their respective companies, especially compared to Herd Thinners, and Coney is the peacemaker in her peer group.
-   _Homestuck_: The exiles in general are this. They either were or aspire to be public servants.
    -   PM believes in the mail system as a force for good.
    -   WV wants to rebuild society from the wastelands.
    -   AR was a law enforcement officer who gave up his chance of escaping a crashing meteor to save a civilian. A civilian who, mind you, was a member of the enemy faction.
-   Yeon Ehwa from _Tower of God_ is a bit immature, but she at least grows towards Lawful Good. When she's shown that her family was involved in dishonest dealings, she's shocked at first but then resolves to gain power to right such wrongs — taking on responsibility for changing the system while never questioning that she'd work within it.

    Web Original 

-   _Neopets_: Jeran, a noble knight who protects the people of Meridell in spite of serving the selfish fatass king Skarl; also, King Altador, the honorable king of the city named after him, is a perfect example of this trope.
-   In the _Whateley Universe_, Stormwolf, leader of the Wild Pack, is so Lawful Good that he refuses to "take the law into his own hands" to stop the sociopath Don Sebastiano from ruling the campus and attacking other students.

    Western Animation 

-   _Adventure Time_: Princess Bubblegum. Fun game: take a drink every time she says that "according to Candy Kingdom law" or "according to the Candy Kingdom-\[other country\] treaty" the heroes can't accomplish their goals in the most expedient fashion available... even when that law or treaty is presumably something she made up herself and could change just as easily. Would verge on Lawful Stupid, except that she always manages to Take a Third Option and accomplish her goals without breaking the letter of the law. Later episodes (especially in the fifth and sixth seasons) begin to deconstruct this. Princess Bubblegum loves the Candy people and will do anything to protect them. Unfortunately, this love is spread out... somewhat thinly and she clearly believes that only she can decide what's best for her sweet citizens. (Not that they're really capable of independence...) Added to this is her willingness to screw over other kingdoms and people (especially the Fire Kingdom) if there's even a small chance this will protect/benefit the candy people, and her being Lawful more often than Good pushes her closer towards being a Moral Sociopathic Hero than you would initially think...

-   _Batman: The Animated Series_: While Batman's characterization in general tends to be all over the map, this version is definitely counts as this alignment, and is a borderline All-Loving Hero, as, in addition to his Thou Shalt Not Kill rule, he pretty much always at least tries to Save the Villain, and shows compassion towards the more sympathetic villains, such as Harley Quinn or Mary Dahl. Furthermore, his "The Reason You Suck" Speech to Lock Up implies he has at least some compassion towards all but the most horrible criminals.
-   Another Disney example is SHUSH from _Darkwing Duck_. Very by the book, especially senior agent Grizzlikov. (J Gander Hooter is a little more willing to bring in outside help—like, say, Darkwing.) Still, despite how he can appear (especially to Darkwing) as Lawful Stupid, the big bear is still on the side of good. By the book.
-   _Dungeons & Dragons (1983)_: Hank the Ranger is quicker to point out the law and rules of the party's location, and also the one who is least likely to argue or question the Dungeonmaster.
-   Joe Swanson from _Family Guy_ is a police officer that always follows the law and expects his friends to do the same, even going as far as arresting them should they break the law. However, Joe has made a few exceptions when the circumstances call for it and is willing to bend a few rules for it. It's occasionally dialed up to Lawful Stupid for laughs, such as when James Woods stole Peter's identity, and Joe kept calling Woods as "Peter" because Woods got a hold of Peter's driver's license, or when he told Quagmire that "The law says the police can't get involved until it's too late" when talking about Quagmire's sister and her abusive boyfriend.
-   Likewise, Stan Smith of _American Dad!_ tends to follow either an extreme personal code or the law to the letter. While this often has devastating immediate effects, most of the time Stan's good intentions are genuine and he always strives to make himself, his family, or his community better in the long run.
-   Turanga Leela of _Futurama_ is about as morally upright as a character can get on this series. She definitely follows a moral code, and often insists others (particularly the Chaotic Evil Bender) appeal to decency and live by some sort of ethics and standards.

-   _Samurai Jack_ combines a burning urge to do good with a deep respect for traditions and a desire to help others. This is pretty much the reason his goal of returning to the past has yet to be fulfilled until he finally did — he refuses to take advantage of the possibilities he's found to do so when someone in need of help is in his midst.

-   Tom Dubois from _The Boondocks_ always follows the law, and has a strong sense of justice that led to him becoming an attorney. Admittedly feels this way partially out of a strong fear of prison rape, but he's nonetheless idealistic and a good (but somewhat clueless) person.

-   _Transformers_: Optimus Prime is Lawful Good in every incarnation, all the way from Optimus Prime the Mighty Leader of the Autobots, to Optimus Prime the Elite Guard Washout, to Optimus Prime the last Prime. Except, rather obviously, in the _Shattered Glass_ Mirror Universe; there, Megatron fills the role generally played by Optimus and vice-versa.
    -   In the IDW comics, particularly _The Transformers: More than Meets the Eye_, Ultra Magnus is portrayed as being LG with the emphasis on _lawful_: while he's stoic and humourless to a nearly lethal degree, and is so anal about minor infractions that he views a misplaced apostrophe or a skewed badge as mutiny, he's also the guy who calls out Rodimus for assuming without evidence that Cyclonus attacked Red Alert, who actually attempted suicide, and is the only person to consistently treat Ten and the penitent Megatron with some measure of respect.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_
    -   Twilight Sparkle has a very strong sense of duty to her friends, her mentor, and her country. She is endlessly helpful and believes that going about things in an orderly fashion is very important, and constantly acts as an organizer and leader. She constantly volunteers to help out those who are in need, be it her friends or her community, and puts herself in harm's way to protect others without a second thought, and will fight evil no matter the odds.
    -   Spike shows extreme loyalty to his friends and a duty in doing the right thing. He is utterly devoted to being Twilight's assistant, while also helping to reign her back in mentally whenever she starts to lose control of herself. After Applejack saved his life, he declares that he owes his life to serving her citing his own "dragon code" as the reason.
    -   Applejack, like Twilight, has a very strong sense of duty to her community, her friends, and her family, and is constantly pitching in. She volunteered to donate all her winnings from a competition to the town and, when she failed to win the competition, took a job working at a cherry orchard so that she wouldn't let the town down. She has a very strongly developed sense of honor and fair play, and dislikes it when people break the rules or behave in a dishonorable fashion. She is a Bad Liar, and is visibly uncomfortable whenever she has to be deceptive in any way.
    -   Rarity is a much less extreme version of this trope. She believes strongly in rules and is very generous, but ironically has the flaw of being self-centered and egotistical, though she invariably feels bad when she hurts others to advance herself. While she may appear finicky and dainty on the outside, when the situation is dire, she will dirty her hooves and fight to the death to protect those she cares about, and deep down has a strong sense of responsibility towards others like her friends, even if at times her affected persona obscures it somewhat.
    -   Starlight Glimmer straddles the line between this and Lawful Neutral after her Heel–Face Turn. She tries her best and always has good intentions, but still retains a dislike for The Evils of Free Will that can occasionally push her into far more ambiguous territory.
    -   Starswirl the Bearded is a more extreme, Knight Templar\-ish take on this trope. He is something of a moral zealot, firmly believing in justice, duty and the need to make sacrifices for the greater good — and he was entirely willing to sacrifice himself, in the past, when he needed to seal a powerful villain away. However, he is also strict and unforgiving and has little empathy for villains — if someone else gives themselves over to evil, then he sees it as his duty to stop them by any means necessary and has little patience for trying to reform them or talk them down. Once a villain, always a villain.
-   Garnet from _Steven Universe_ is a silent, stoic badass, very organised, controlled and patient. Though quick to jump into a fight her combat style tends to be very mechanical and precise, and she often seems pretty machine-like in general. It becomes clear over time however that she’s also the one most in tune with saving the world because it's the _right thing to do_, and her lack of open emotion conceals the fact that she’s the most empathetic and kind hearted of the three.
    -   Mayor Dewey could (if you're feeling sympathetic) be considered this too. He at least talks a good game, outright admitting that while objectively useless, his authority, constant reassurances that everything is ok and distracting political theater serve to make the citizens of the town feel just a little safer.
    -   Steven Quartz Universe himself is still a child but is still pretty openly this, absurdly kind hearted, devoted to his family and community, and very loyal to his caregivers. Even his rule breaking tends to be structured and organised, Steven often insisting on going about even the most minor of wrong doing in an absurdly stereotypical way because 'that's how it's supposed to be done'. His character development has brought him even closer to this, to the point of edging towards a "Stop Having Fun" Guy before his friends forced him to add a little more chaos to his life.
-   _Star Wars: The Clone Wars_ has Captain Rex. He's an upstanding soldier who values his duty to the Republic just as much as he values the lives of his clone brethren. It's best shown during the Umbara arc where he openly questions General Pong Krell's ruthless orders that get his men killed and stands up for the soldiers who go on an unauthorized mission behind enemy lines, but doesn't cross the line into outright rebellion and mutiny until it becomes unquestionable that Krell is a traitor who is actively orchestrating the murder of his own soldiers.
-   _Regular Show_: Pops Maellerd is a literal embodiment of pure good. That's why he is a Lawful Good. In season one of the show he's an incredibly kind guy who is always in a good mood. He does not care that Mordecai and Rigby are slackers and even slacks off with them sometimes like in the season 2 episode, Go Viral. He would not harm anyone on purpose and is very patient with everyone. He had his fair share of causing trouble like forcing Benson to Manage his anger in the season 3 episode Think Positive. Which almost causes the destruction of the park. That instance was a result of his pure childlike innocence and desire for everyone to be happy and get along. He goes through great lengths to helps others like in the season 2 episode Really Real Wrestling. Being a chosen one Pops is destined to fight Anti-Pops. In the final episode, Regular Epic Final Battle Part 3: The Power he defeats Anti-Pops by killing him with kindness. In it he hugs his evil twin and sacrifices himself so he can save the universe even Anti-Pops learns the error of his ways from this hug.
    -   Skips is another character that falls into this alignment. He is stoic who has worked at the park for a long time due to his immortality. Because of this he is very smarter than all of the characters combined. Mordecai and Rigby turn to him for advice on their various wacky adventures. Even when it's not his thing he still tries to help. In the season 5 episode, "Skip's Story". He has been expelled from many other schools and gets into a fight with Clorkbane. Walks meets and falls in Love with Mona and vows to never fight again to show his love for her. Mona dies during prom night. He meets the Guardians of Eternal Youth and tey tell him he will return and grant him immortality to see can protect the Earth from Clorkbane's wrath. He changed his name to Skips in memory of how they skiped together and stayed true to his name ever since. He lives the burden that he will outlive his loved ones. But chosed to live this way because he already lost his lover and believes that this is his duty to the universe. He does have a checkered past and killed Rigby in an Arm Wrestling match and rectified it by arm wrestling Death.
-   _Castlevania_: Sypha's main motives are compassion and protection, fueled by her duty as a speaker. Speakers travel between towns promoting education and charity. She joins Trevor and Alucard mainly to save people and she is the moral compass of the trio.

___

**IT'S LAWFUL GOOD NOT LAWFUL NICE!**