_Y'all can do the treading  
Swing energy machete  
If combination’s ready,  
**I'll form the head!**_

— **MC Frontalot** (feat. Dr. Awkward and ZeaLouS1): "I'll Form the Head"

Combining Mecha tend to combine in a humanoid form. It's easier for people to follow, and it's easier for the guys to get fitting rubber suits. When mecha combine, the parts will more or less match up with limbs, and it doesn't really matter what goes where.

Except when it does.

The "face" and/or torso are special parts of the combined form. They're the most identifiable, and they're generally where the cockpit is. It's why we have special importance for the locations of our brain and heart. So with mecha, the part that is most important will be formed by the personal mecha of the most important character, generally The Leader, The Hero, or a spotlight stealing variety of Sixth Ranger. Because the position is special but can only be handed to one, expect Headbutting Heroes or Vitriolic Best Buds to compete for the lead position.

At this trope's strongest, the mecha of this special character can be humanoid on its own, and the others will form a larger body by way of a Mecha Expansion Pack, thus an overlap with Meta Mecha. At its strangest, they _don't_ form the head, but it gets double subverted by having the part that does look suspiciously matching to their mecha.

Because Red Is Heroic, this leads to a lot of ensemble mechas being a bit red in the face. Also, compare the color patterns on an All Your Colors Combined attack. The main character's color illogically in the middle? This will probably be in effect when the robots show up.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

_Super Sentai_ and _Power Rangers_ 

All over the place in _Super Sentai_ and _Power Rangers_, where the Red Ranger is usually the one to get the head- or torso-forming privileges - and even when the head is formed by someone else, it's often colored red anyway. Since it happens so often, we'll only include aversions, exaggerations, and cases that are more unique than simply making the head or torso (and mind you it's _still_ a long list). And just for clarity's sake, we'll use the _Rangers_ terms of "Zord" for an individual component and "Megazord" for a combination, though proper names will be used from both series:

___

-   In extreme situations, the red Zord makes up almost the entire Megazord by itself, making the others seem purely cosmetic. This happens in:
    -   _Hyakujuu Sentai Gaoranger_/_Power Rangers Wild Force_: GaoKentaurus/the Pegasus Megazord is a one-time combination where Red's Falcon Zord is used as the head and torso and his Lion is the legs. Other Rangers supplied only the arms.
    -   _Bakuryuu Sentai Abaranger_/_Power Rangers: Dino Thunder_: Red's Tyrannosaurus Zord makes up most of Abarenoh/the Thundersaurus Megazord, with Blue providing an arm, and Yellow giving the chestplate and helmet. It was even shown once that Red and Blue could combine _without_ Yellow, though the result wouldn't be as strong.
    -   _Juken Sentai Gekiranger_/_Power Rangers Jungle Fury_: _Both_ of the main teams' Megazords have Red providing everything above the waist while Yellow and Blue are legs.
    -   _Zyuden Sentai Kyoryuger_/_Power Rangers Dino Charge_: The only parts of Kyoryuzin/the Dino Charge Megazord that Red doesn't provide are the arms, and the other Zords take turns forming these.
    -   For _Doubutsu Sentai Zyuohger_'s Wild Tousai Dodeka King, non-Red Rangers make the legs, and unlike previous examples, each individual Ranger only gets to make _part_ of a limb instead of the whole thing.
    -   _Kishiryu Sentai Ryusoulger_/_Power Rangers Dino Fury_: Red makes a whole Megazord all by himself; and most combinations are just "Red with some extra bits of armor". Only the late-series super combinations start to pull away from this, as they split Red's Zord equally with a second and sometimes third Zord.
    -   _Mashin Sentai Kiramager_: While Green technically forms the head of Kiramazin, Red forms nearly everything else below the neck save for one arm which is Yellow's. Pink is mainly cosmetic as a chestplate and Blue's Zord is used as a sword.
    -   _Avataro Sentai Donbrothers_: Don Zenkaioh is composed of one Zord belonging to the Red Ranger, and one Zord on loan from the Red Ranger of the _previous_ team, _Kikai Sentai Zenkaiger_. The rest of the Donbrothers don't even _have_ Zords of their own for some time.
-   Zigzagged in other series, where another team member's Zord makes the bulk of the Megazord (as much as the previous examples), but the Red Ranger still steals head privileges by having their Zord on the top of the formation:
    -   _Ninpuu Sentai Hurricaneger_/_Power Rangers Ninja Storm_: Yellow forms the entire body, legs, and one arm of Senpuujin/the Ninja Storm Megazord, and Blue is the other arm, but Red is the head.
    -   _Mahou Sentai Magiranger_/_Power Rangers Mystic Force_: Green forms nearly all of MagiKing/the Mystic Titan Megazord, but Red slots into the center of the chest. All the other Rangers form are feet and shinguards (Blue), back and wings (Yellow), and a small part of the chestplate (Pink).
    -   _GoGo Sentai Boukenger_/_Power Rangers Operation Overdrive_: Black forms the main body and legs of GoGo Voyager/the Battlefleet Megazord and the rest form the arms and chestplate, while Red is the head.
    -   The two teams of _Kaitou Sentai Lupinranger VS Keisatsu Sentai Patranger_ both use a neutral Zord called the Good Striker to form the majority of their Megazord (Lupin Kaiser and Pat Kaiser, respectively). In both combinations, it's the Red Zord that forms the head and chestplate while the other two form the arms. The arrangement is similar when both teams come together to form Good Cool Kaiser VSX; the main Megazord is made of both Good Striker and the Zord of the Sixth Ranger (who is a member of both teams), while the Reds _share_ the "head" role by one making the helmet and the other the chestplate (meanwhile, the other Rangers attach themselves to the arms and feet).
-   And outright subverted with a couple of secondary Megazords, where one Zord makes the bulk of the combination but the Red Ranger (or nearest equivalent) does _not_ take a position of prominence:
    -   In _Hyakujuu Sentai Gaoranger_/_Power Rangers Wild Force_, the Sixth Ranger's theme animal was the wolf, but Gao Hunter/the Predazord was formed mostly from an alligator Zord and the wolf Zord was only an arm (though said Zord's head resembles a wolf nonetheless).
    -   Abarekiller/the White Ranger in _Abaranger_/_Dino Thunder_ is an interesting case where his personal Zord only formed the limbs and weapon of KillerOh/the Dino Stegazord. The body and head on the other hand are formed by a Stegosaurus Zord, a Mecha Expansion Pack that he stole from the other Rangers. In _Abaranger_, this is justified by the fact that his Zord can theoretically create a battle formation with any potential other Zord so he could have nabbed any of them, the Stegosaur just happened to be the one that he ran into first. In _Dino Thunder_ it was seemingly just dumb luck that he grabbed something compatible.
    -   _Magiranger_/_Mystic Force_ had MagiLegend/the Manticore Megazord, where the main component was made from a Zord that jointly belonged to the other four Rangers, and the Red Ranger's Zord only formed a set of wings.
    -   _Gekiranger_'s GekiViolet/_Jungle Fury_'s Wolf Ranger only had a leg Zord. The closest he got to his own Megazord was by attaching his piece to the main team's Gekitohja/Jungle Pride Megazord and piloting it solo.
    -   _Engine Sentai Go-onger_/_Power Rangers RPM_ had two Megazords where Rangers' Zords only made the arms, with the rest of each Megazord being an _unpiloted_ Zord that didn't belong to any specific Ranger.
    -   In _Kikai Sentai Zenkaiger_, Sixth Ranger Twokaizer's Megazord TwokaiOh is mostly made up of his personal Zord, but the head can be formed by either of his two allies — in fact, its different modes are chiefly determined by _which_ ally makes its head. Later, both Twokaizer and main character Zenkaizer get Super Modes that let them turn into Humongous Mecha themselves; this finally lets Twokaizer form his _own_ TwokaiOh head and play the trope straight there, but they can also combine with each other into ZenKaijuOh, where Zenkaizer makes most of the body while Twokaizer is the head.
-   _Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger_, _Gosei Sentai Dairanger_, and _Tokumei Sentai Go-Busters_/the first two seasons of _Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers_ and _Power Rangers Beast Morphers_ all had combinations that completely excluded the Red Zord from the formation and had the rest of the team combine with a separate head/torso component. The first two (Goryujin/Dragonzord Battle Mode and Kiba Dai-Oh/Mega Tigerzord) were still straight examples, since the new piece belonged to the Sixth Ranger and gave them prominence; but Go-Buster LiOh and Go-Buster King/Beast-X King Megazord and Ultrazord from the latter are subversions since Red's replacement wasn't designated to any specific team member and _nobody_ got the rights to "form the head".
-   _Gosei Sentai Dairanger_/_Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers_ Season 2 plays the usual formation a little differently; rather than forming the torso and head of Dairen-oh/the Thunder Megazord, the Red Ranger gets his own transforming dragon/humanoid Zord and the other Rangers' Zords just form armor elements for it (though the completeness of the armor makes it still look like a true team formation, rather than "Red with enhancements").
-   Played with regarding both Megazords in _Ninja Sentai Kakuranger_ and the third season of _Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers_, as while the Red Ranger was The Hero as usual, he wasn't actually the team leader for once:
    -   Muteki Shogun/the Shogun Megazord had the Red Ranger form the head and torso, while the actual leaders were White Rangers who formed an arm. (And things got messy in _Power Rangers_ since the White Zord was co-piloted by the Pink Ranger and the toy was recolored to match _her_ — and these toys were used in some shots in the show, clashing badly with the existing _Kakuranger_ footage and leaving the actual team leader's color out entirely.)
    -   Kakure Daishogun/the Ninja Megazord had the White Ranger form the head and Yellow Ranger form the torso, while Red was just an arm. A straight example of the trope in _Kakuranger_, but a total aversion in _Power Rangers_ where the Pink Ranger took White's place.
-   Played with in _Chouriki Sentai Ohranger_/_Power Rangers Zeo_, as while the head of Ohranger Robo/the Zeo Megazord was made by the Red Zord, it wore interchangeable helmets: the Red Phoenix helmet would usually be on top, but when another team member had a feature episode, _they'd_ take the lead and equip the robot with the helmet from their own Zord to finish off the enemy. _Kishiryu Sentai Ryusoulger_/_Power Rangers Dino Fury_ has something similar, where KishiRyuuOh Three Knights/the Dino Fury Megazord has alternate forms for each of the five Rangers where they form the head and chestplate.
-   Averted with the Mega Voyager from _Power Rangers in Space_, where Red formed the lower abdomen; the head came from the Black Zord and the torso was a combination of Blue and Yellow. Played straighter in _Denji Sentai Megaranger_, as Black was The Leader, even if the show didn't make it obvious.
-   Averted in _Rescue Sentai GoGoFive_/_Power Rangers Lightspeed Rescue_ with the second 5-piece combination Grand Liner/Supertrain Megazord, with the Green Ranger forming the head and torso, though this was due to it being the middle train car, which allowed for an easier transition when the cars split up to combine.
-   In _Hyakujuu Sentai Gaoranger_/_Power Rangers Wild Force_, _Doubutsu Sentai Zyuohger_, and _Uchu Sentai Kyuranger_, Zords have a standardized combination scheme where each Zord transforms into a specific body part (divided torso/arms/legs in _Gaoranger_/_Wild Force_, torso/midsection/feet in _Zyuohger_, and torso/limbs in _Kyuranger_) and can be freely exchanged with other Zords of the same part. Aside from the Zords of the Sixth Rangers, all the "torso" pieces belong to the Red Rangers, while the other Rangers hold other parts.
-   A few series have a different version of the trope; where the Rangers draw power from a series of collectible Transformation Trinkets and those trinkets are highlighted by having them grow in size and form the heads of the Megazords. Series featuring this include _Tensou Sentai Goseiger_/_Power Rangers Megaforce_, _Shuriken Sentai Ninninger_/_Power Rangers Ninja Steel_, and _Kishiryu Sentai Ryusoulger_/_Power Rangers Dino Fury_. _Uchu Sentai Kyuranger_ also has its own trinkets embedded in the Megazord chestplates.
-   Building on the previous example of using the trinkets as the heads, _Goseiger_/_Megaforce_ takes things to a logical conclusion with the robotic Gosei Knight/Robo Knight _himself_ transforming into a giant head and mounting himself on the body of his Zord. The Silver Ranger of _Mashin Sentai Kiramager_ similarly becomes his own Megazord's headpiece via magical means.
-   _Shuriken Sentai Ninninger_/_Power Rangers Ninja Steel_ has a unique variation, as Shurikenjin/the Ninja Steel Megazord is a Meta Mecha with a cockpit "throne" set in the chest that the Red Zord sits in. However, other Zords can sit in the throne instead in other combinations, in which case the Red Zord becomes an arm; one of these alternate formations features the _Blue_ Zord front-and-center and the others are Mecha Expansion Packs.
    -   _Avataro Sentai DonBrothers_ has a similar setup for ToraDragonJin, but in this case it's the _outer_ Zord that's dominant. It represents the Sixth Ranger's primary dragon theme, while the tiger Zord strapped in the center reflects his secondary theme and isn't portrayed as the dragon's pilot, but its _captive_.
-   Averted in _Kikai Sentai Zenkaiger_. Team leader Zenkaizer (a White Ranger in this case) doesn't have a Zord of his own at the beginning and instead pilots combinations formed by the other Rangers. These combinations are split exactly down the middle and no Ranger is featured more than another. Even when he gets his own Zord form, he can only combine with the others by making his own half of the formation (a slightly more elaborate half, but half nonetheless). It's only in the last third of the show where he gets a new Zord that finally plays things straight, forming the head and chest while the others make the arms and legs.
-   Played for Laughs when some _Sentai_ characters guest star in _Kamen Rider Taisen_. The Ressha Sentai ToQger team shows up and forms ToQ-Oh to aid the Kamen Riders, and Kamen Rider Den-O moves to combine his Cool Train with it. He docks it in the "head" position where the Red Ranger's Zord usually is, only for Kyoryu Red to show up as well, declare "No, that's wrong!", and literally _ram_ Den-O out and take his spot; forcing Den-O to form the feet instead. Den-O spends the entire time complaining about why he has to be the feet.
-   Parodied in the comic book crossover _Mighty Morphin Power Rangers/Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles_, where the Turtles borrow the Rangers' powers and equipment, but they adopt the Ranger colors closest to their own _without_ adjusting their team roles. This means that Raphael gets the Tyrannosaurus Zord because he's the Red Ranger, and ends up being the main pilot of the Megazord even though he's not the Turtles' leader... and also not particularly good at driving Humongous Mecha.

_Transformers_ 

This is the most prominent form of combining in _Transformers_ across all its media.

___

-   Actually averted with The Constructicons, the _first_ of the combiners. Scrapper, the leader front-end loader of the six warriors actually forms the _right leg_ of Devastator, whereas it is actually Hook the crane who forms the head instead. This discrepancy in placement is actually played out cleverly in Transformers fiction: Scrapper is actually a modest individual who dismisses actual well-deserved praise in favor of being a very capable and completely psychotic engineer. Hook, on the other hand, is a Glory Hound and Insufferable Genius with a massive ego, and demands attention the same way black holes demand nearby matter. With personalities like these, it is only natural the work-a-day Scrapper is a leg and the self-important Hook is the chest and head.
    -   Played straight in the later IDW comics. Following Scrapper's death in the aftermath of _Transformers: All Hail Megatron_, Devastator was eventually modified so that that Hook (the former head) took his place as the right leg while a Brainwashed and Crazy Prowl took over as the head (while it was possible for Devastator to form even with Scrapper dead, the resulting combiner was not as powerful). After Prowl was removed from the team, Hook returned to being the head while newcomer Scoop (who also turned into a front-end loader) took Scrapper's place in time for _The Transformers: Combiner Wars_.
-   The other major aversion is the Dinoforce from _Transformers Victory_. Goryu, the leader tyrannosaurus forms the right leg while the cowardly triceratops Kakuryu forms the head. This is because the Dinoforce were based on the Pretender Monsters, with Goryu and Kakuryu being based on Icepick (the right leg) and Slog (the head) respectively.
    -   Played straight in _Unite Warriors_, wherein Kakuryu (who had pulled a Heel–Face Turn and became the Autobot Grimmaster) forms the torso and head of his own combiner (albeit using non-sentient drones).
-   In the Unicron Trilogy, Powerlinx has whichever Transformer is on top be in control.
-   _Beast Wars_ Magnaboss has Prowl, the lion (whole bunch of leader archetype imagery there) form the face and center of the torso. Silverbolt, a horribly out of scale eagle, wraps around prowl and forms the wings. Pretty much every other visible part, including the arms, legs, and rest of the torso, comes from Ironhide, a downsized elephant, to compensate for this. This results in Ironhide being rather confusingly built and prone to damage in his standalone form and Silverbolt being excessively simple. The same applied to the _Beast Wars II_ version of the combiner.
-   In _The Beast Within_ comic, G1's Dinobots force a combiner out of themselves, Beast, which is intentionally poorly designed, with everyone else just grafted on to Grimlock's beast mode form. This, however, is a Toyless Toyline Character that only exists in a one-off microcontinuity. The _Power of the Primes_ toyline introduced a mainstream Dinobot combiner, Volcanicus, which forms like a more traditional combiner, and is not a completely insane murder machine like the Beast. The _Legacy_ version of Volcanicus averts this with the head being formed by Slug rather than Grimlock, even though the gestalt's head has always been based on the Dinobot leader's.
-   Zig-zagged with the "Scramble City type" Combiners<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , where the hands, feet and head _may_ come from extra parts in the toy (out of nowhere in the cartoon). The leader of most teams is the torso. Limbs are thus completely interchangeable, between arrangement and even whole transformers (Scramble Power). In some cases, the leader of a team may actually be in one of those limbs, and thus the combined form could be configured without them.
    -   The _Combiner Wars_<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  versions of the "Scramble City" characters do have the combiner head integrated into the torso-forming team leader's body. There are also several torso-forming characters who are _not_ established leaders of specific sub-teams. The _Power of the Primes_ line adds even more new combiner torso-forming characters (fully compatible with _Combiner Wars_) without defined sub-teams.
-   For some versions of Menasor<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , the leader Motormaster forms the _entire body_, with the other Stunticons merely being attached to the combined form's arms and legs, making Menasor being a Combining Mecha seem unnecessary. The _Legacy_ toy accomplishes this unusual setup by forming the bulk of Menasor's body from Motormaster's trailer, though his main body does form the combiner's head.

    Anime and Manga 

-   This trope dates back to _Getter Robo_, the first Combining Mecha, where each of the Getter Machines' combined forms were controlled primarily by the pilot of the upper body. Getter-1, the form belonging to group leader Ryouma Nagare, was the most commonly used form.
-   _Voltron_ codified this for USA audiences along with many other Combining Mecha tropes; its Transformation Sequence (played, of course, Once an Episode) comes with a voice-over of the team leader ordering each step of the process, ending with "...AND I'LL FORM THE HEAD!" (Naturally, this was also played straight in the shows _Voltron_ was adapted from, _GoLion_ and _Dairugger XV_.)
    -   Played with in _Voltron Force_, where Voltron has different forms depending on which lion forms the torso and head.
    -   _Voltron: Legendary Defender_ not only has the team leader forming the head of Voltron with the Black Lion, it highlights the symbolism of other team members forming Voltron's other parts:
        -   Hunk is disappointed that his Yellow Lion is merely Voltron's leg, but he's assured that it's an important role that provides stability for the team. When the Paladins later celebrate forming Voltron for the first time, Hunk shouts "I'm a leg!", which becomes a Running Gag.
        -   But in the next episode, when the Paladins are trying to figure out how to combine their Lions _reliably_, Hunk unconvincingly claims to have formed the head the last time they did it successfully. Despite specifically having said "I'm a leg".
        -   Season 3 emphasizes how the Red Lion is the right hand of Voltron, with its assigned pilots being the faithful Lancers to their respective team leaders.
-   Played with in _Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann_. Supporting Leader Kamina makes Simon's Ganmen the (second) head. All along, Kamina had been setting Simon up to be a true hero. However, as Kamina was still the leader at this point, his ganmen forms everything _but_ the head of the combined ganmen, has its own head on its torso, and the combined ganmen has his trademark sunglasses on both faces.
    -   Simon, The Hero, takes the head position in his mini-mech, while the torso is taken by his Lancer, whoever that is at the time. In larger combinations, when Lagann takes over a larger mech such as the Dai-Gunzen or the Cathedral Terra, his original mech is always located within the head of the resulting gigantic mech.
-   _The Big O_ episode 18 "The Greatest Villain". When Beck and his henchmen form their giant mecha RX3, the part Beck is controlling becomes the head.
-   One of the few series that averts this is _The Brave Express Might Gaine_, where the title mech is mostly formed from the remote-controlled supertrain Locomorizer while the Kid Hero's vehicle and his transforming Robot Buddy form the arms.
-   _Digimon_ goes all over the place with this trope in its Fusion Dances - Omegamon, the first identifiable example, has a unique head unrelated to its components, as does Susanoomon. On the opposite end of the spectrum, Imperialdramon's head is pretty distinctly based on that of V-mon, the Bond Creature of The Hero; its contemporaries Silphymon and Shakkoumon are both of the unique head variety. The big Combining Mecha example, _Digimon Fusion_, is also all over the place - on most of Shoutmon's Combining Mecha forms, the head is a unique one which sometimes comes from Shoutmon but is not obviously connected to him design-wise;<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  on others, like Shoutmon DX, he is distinctly the head.
    -   It is however consistent that Shoutmon's V-shaped head crest always becomes the chest piece of the Shoutmon X series, and even during the DigiXros sequences we can see his head "merging" into the chest to form that V crest.
-   _Genesis of Aquarion_ used three fighter craft. Often the team would fight over whose craft would become the central head-body leader.
    -   Same with the sequel. That being said although both main characters formed the most powerful and most used form, neither of them were the team leader. That is Gen/Zen Fudo, who calls the shots on who deploys and who forms what version of the Aquarion's. In Evol main character Amata isn't even the highest ranking pilot, and would often find himself under the command of senior members Cayanne or Shrade.
-   In _Gravion_, our protagonist actually fills the role of The Lancer for the team and thus his vessel forms one of the titular mecha's legs.
-   _Combattler V_ plays the trope straight. The Leader forms the head, The Lancer is the chest and arms, The Big Guy is the rest of the torso, The Heart forms the legs, and The Smart Guy makes up the feet.
    -   Cut from the same cloth so to speak, this trope also applies to _Voltes V_.
-   As a massive reference to classic Combining Mecha series, this had to happen with El Dorado V in _GUN×SWORD_. Nero, the one who's most enthusiastic about the whole "giant robot heroism" thing and the de facto leader of the group, pilots the mecha that turns into the El Dorado V's head.

    Comic Books 

-   Parodied in a back-up feature in _Squee_ The series creator, Jhonen Vasquez, fought belligerent fans. The fans joined together in a grotesque humanoid version of this trope with the leader forming the ass instead of the head.
-   _The Transformers: Robots in Disguise_:
    -   Megatron altered Devastator so that he could be remotely controlled by the Insecticon Bombshell. When Bombshell is taken out of commission, he reveals that he can simply take control of the combiner by transforming into its head and replacing its current rage-driven head.
    -   Very bizarre example when Prowl, pro team leader of the Autobots after Optimus Prime stepped down (Bumblebee was allegedly in charge, but everyone followed Prowl's orders over his), is cerebro-shelled by the Insecticon Bombshell and forced to act as the head of _Devastator_, who had been believed permanently out of action ever since the Constructicons' former leader Scrapper was executed by humans after he had surrendered while injured. He later takes this role in a more willing capacity when he takes over the Constructicons following their defection from the Decepticons.

    Fan Works 

-   _Code Prime_: In the chapter "Valley of Kings and Titans", the Enigma of Combination, working in tandem with Lelia’s Geass, turns the Black Wyverns’ Alexanders into combiners, with Lelia’s Alexander forming the main body of the Hercules.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _Mega Monster Battle: Ultra Galaxy Legends_: The uber-kaiju Beryudora who shows up at the end of the film, created by Belial resurrecting 300 kaijus and fusing them into a massive monster form, with Belial himself as the head (or brain) of the monster.

    Live-Action TV 

-   In _Tomica Hero Rescue Force_, the heroes gain a combining mecha about halfway into the series. Rescue Striker, the fire truck belonging to R1 turns into the torso and head, while Rescue Saver, belonging to R2 turns into the limbs. It is even made into a minor plot point that R2's cockpit is located inside the mech's foot.

    Toys 

-   In _BIONICLE_, of the two known Toa Kaita combo-configurations (Akamai and Wairuha, both made up of three individual Toa), Akamai's Kanohi mask is that of Tahu, the leader of the group (Tahu's true head - or rather, the head piece with his eye colors - actually ends up on his left hand). Wairuha's mask, however, is Lewa's, who is just about the bottom of the command chain, but his Kanohi was the most generic-looking, thus the most suitable for a combo model. As a subversion, in the storyline, these aren't really the masks of Tahu and Lewa specifically, nor are they a Kanohi Hau and a Kanohi Miru in general, but other types of masks that happen to look like a Hau and a Miru — out of sheer necessity, as the designers only had these pieces to work with. They're actually called Kanohi Aki and Rua, respectively. But as a Double Subversion (for Wairuha, at least), a special edition chromed Rua was at one point made available for purchase... and it used the mold of a Kanohi Hau, Tahu's mask type!
    -   The Turaga Nui figure also has Vakama's head for its real head (the other five are built into various parts of its body). Vakama is often considered the "main" Turaga of the initial six.

    Video Games 

-   Played with in the _Dungeons & Dragons Online_ raid, "The Chronoscope." Player characters get a bit of time travel to an earlier version of the city of Stormreach, back when it's invaded by devils from another plane. After your party lays the smackdown against five flying Abishi demons at end-game (each with an elemental mastery), they retreat and take to the air to regroup. Each demon describes their contributing attack. The last, black in color, says "And I'll form the head!" as they magically combine into a nasty dragon-like demon.
-   Barbaracle from _Pokémon X and Y_ is a humanoid being made up of seven barnacles. Although its legs and hands have minds of their own and can move independently, they usually follow the head's orders.
    -   Introduced in _Pokémon Sword and Shield_, Falinks (which appears to be based on an ancient Roman legion) are formed of six entities that operate as a unit: five troopers and one 'brass'. The brass, the de facto leader, is the largest and most intelligent of the group, and issues orders to the others from the head of whatever formations they take. Falinks are most often found in single file, and the brass always leads from the front.
-   Played with in _Super Robot Wars_: the R-1 is the head of the SRX, but its pilot is not the leader of the SRX Team. However, once the SRX combines, control of the machine is performed by him.
-   In _Strider (Arcade)_, General Mikiel forms the head of the mechanical centipede Ouroboros, with the other members of the Kazakh governing council as its body.

    Web Animation 

-   POWER RANGERS x POKEMON x TRANSFORMERS x VOLTRON x GURREN LAGANN : COMBINE!

    Western Animation 

-   _Megas XLR_
    -   As expected, the show parodies this. The Glorft's UMD is a combining mecha made from other combining mecha, repeated for a couple of cycles. At its final stage, It is completed by Gorrath's personal mech docking in the center. Without Gorrath's part, it doesn't seem to be useable at all, enforced when he leaves the battlefield, and the dozens to hundreds of mechs and pilots that also made up the UMD. Gorrath having a Never My Fault mentality, all of this to be expected.
    -   In Sentai parody episode "The Bad Guy", the "S-Force Super Ultra Dimensional Magno Extreme Robotoid Power Zorp" is equal parts Voltron (combining) and Super Sentai (theme), with the Red Falcon at the head. Later, Coop literally forms a new mecha by sliding/smashing Megas' limbs into their robots and slapping the bird on his back. When in fights, it becomes noticeable how uncomfortable it would be to be in a limb. The actual episode's bad guy finds this treatment disrespectful to his nemeses, and of course loves it.
-   In _The Venture Brothers_, when JJ Venture's team spoofed _Voltron_ with the "Ventronic." Complete with the "I form the " exclamations. The combined form had _two_ heads, the one formed from JJ's robot, and the "left arm" clown head, shaped in a way to be recognizable and comfortable to its pilot, Sally Impossible's mentally handicapped cousin Ned. Instead of just putting the clown head on top, they wound up with a stubby, useless arm, not too dissimilar to JJ himself.
-   In _Super Robot Monkey Team Hyperforce Go!_, the head of the eponymous Super Robot is formed with the Brain Scrambler 2, piloted by the second-in-command, Antauri. Chiro instead pilots the Torso Tank 1, which serves as the "heart" of the robot, as it's the main center of operations and is connected to all of the other combining vehicles.
-   One episode of _Dexter's Laboratory_ had Dexter and his family piloting vehicles that combined to form a giant robot. Dad tries to claim the head, as he is the "head" of the household, but Dexter complained to Mom (on the grounds that it was his robot) and got to keep the spot. Dad was miffed at first, but warmed up to controlling one of the arms since he used to pitch for his college's baseball team.
-   Subverted in one episode of _Teen Titans Go!_ involving a giant Mecha. Robin expects, as leader, that he will be controlling the head. Only to be told by Cyborg (y'know, the guy who created the giant robot and knows how it works) that Robin is to control the left leg. The Boy Wonder is not happy, and the episode has him learning to accept the position.
-   Taken to its logical conclusion in the Grand Finale of _Generator Rex_. Black Knight, who acts as the leader of the Consortium, not only forms the head but the _entire body_ of the Humongous Mecha is based on her design. This is justified because she has the power to create the Mecha in the first place but needs everyone else to actually form it.
-   Played with in the Rick and Morty episode Gotron Jerrysis Rickvangelion where the Sanchez Family(ies) starts getting hold of giant Combining Mechas across various universes. When the episode goes from a Mecha Anime parody to a gangster story, the position of each member in the Go-go-go-Tron mirrors their position in the Family's hierarchy, with the one Rick who started the business in the head's head.

    Other Media 

-   As seen in the page quote, this was parodied by MC Frontalot in a song entitled (naturally) _I'll Form The Head_, in which Turquoise and "Lightish Red" argue why they should be the ones to form the head: Pink because he's the most qualified and Turquoise for... other reasons. Gold actually offers them turns later, as long as they get the current job done. They don't.
-   In the picture book _Swimmy_ by Leo Lionni, Swimmy is a small fish who convinces his school to swim around in the shape of a much bigger fish to ward off predators. Being a different color from the rest of the school, he plays the eye.

___