Not multiplication, division.

**Slipstream:** Each of us clones represents one aspect of your personality. (Points to the other clones, Skywarp, Thundercracker, Sundowner, and Ramjet respectively) He's a coward, he's an egomaniac, he's a suck-up, he's a liar.  
**Ramjet:** I am not!  
**Starscream:** So... which part of me did _you_ come from?  
**Slipstream (The only female):** _Don't ask._

A character gets split into two or more copies of themself, each of which reflects some facet of their personality. This can be similar to Evil Twin, but the split need not be along the good/evil axis. Sometimes seen as part of a Journey to the Center of the Mind. When this is not the case, it's usually an effect of the Applied Phlebotinum of the week.

Often the parts have to work together, as none of them is individually capable of what the original character was. Sometimes, as they spend more time together, they start to become more like each other. Ultimately, they may come back together through a Fusion Dance that is also a Split-Personality Merge.

Compare Enemy Without, but the components are not necessarily enemies, and unlike in Enemy Without none has any particular claim on being the "original" version. Compare I Hate Past Me, Future Me Scares Me, and Alternate Self, where instances of the same character might have different personalities. Also compare Self-Duplication, which is similar in appearance, if nothing else. Contrast Fusion Dance, where two or more beings become one being.

Not to be confused with Half the Man He Used to Be.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   In _Ah! My Goddess_, Urd gets split into her Goddess and Demon halves, with the former acting much more like Belldandy and the latter more like her mother (not to mention Demon-Urd taking the Stripperiffic outfits of regular-Urd to extremes). They eventually realize that neither Urd is the true Urd and recombine.
-   Shino Aizawa, the title character of _Aizawa-san Multiplies_, does this, with the emerging clones based primarily on the emotion she was feeling at the time.
-   In _Anpanman_, Baikinman created a power-up machine that he _meant_ to give him enough strength to easily defeat Anpanman. However, thanks to various complications, other characters have a tendency to fall into it and instead gain two clones, most commonly a sensitive (or feminine) one and a tough (or masculine) one. They still follow some of the same motives as the original (like Mushibaikinman's clones still want to defeat Hamigakiman and Horrorman's still have a crush on Dokinchan). In the end of these episodes, the original and their clones will end up landing in the machine again, shorting it out, yet merging the clones back into the original character.
    -   Dr. Hiyari once created a serum for Rollpanna so it can split her evil counterpart to defeat Anpanman. Unfortunately, it didn't went well as the evil Rollpanna causes mass destruction. This also weakens the real Rollpanna since she needs the two halves together.
-   _Ayakashi Triangle_: When someone creates an omokage, it's possible for part of their spirit to split off with it and form a fully self-aware entity. When the previous ayakashi medium Mei Hirasawka was dying, her hatred for humanity formed Shadow Mei. Years after the ayakashi medium spirit split Suzu off from herself, she got tired of being Suzu's Spirit Advisor and made an omokage to leave her body.
-   _Battle Angel Alita_ has Den, the cybernetic warlord and resistance leader who is actually a rage-driven split personality of radio star Kaos, given independent existence with a remote-controlled robotic body created by Mad Scientist Desty Nova.
-   _Bleach_:
    -   Starrk has the power to split his soul into other beings, including creating an entire pack of wolves to function as his army. Starrk and Lilinette don't know which of them was the original or whether identifying an original even matters. They were originally one being who created the other as a companion to escape their desperate loneliness.
    -   Ichigo's inner Hollow tells Ichigo that he and Old Man Zangetsu were originally one being that became split in two. Ichigo dismisses the inner Hollow's rant because he regards Zangetsu as a mentor figure and the inner Hollow as an enemy that has to be beaten down and controlled. Ichigo's real Shinigami power is the Hollow, whose name _also_ is Zangetsu. The Old Man is his Quincy power, which fought a losing battle against the ever-strengthening Hollow to prevent Ichigo from becoming a Shinigami. Ichigo embraces both Zangetsus equally, thus earning two swords.
-   In _Castle Town Dandelion_, Misaki has this as her Royalty Superpower. _All For One_, allows her to make seven copies of herself. Each copy reflects a facet of Misaki's personality (along the lines of Seven Deadly Sins), and each is _really really_ good at one subject, which annoys Misaki to no end, as Misaki herself is otherwise bland and doesn't excel in anything in particular—except being The Social Expert for dealing with all of them.
-   In _Date A Live_, Kurumi Tokisaki can make clones of herself. While they are usually just extensions of her, some manifest their own personality. The regular Kurumi is an Ax-Crazy murderer and Yandere. One of her clones is sweet and genuinely falls in love with Shido. Even if her clones are destroyed, they can eventually manifest again.
-   _Denjin N_: Tadahiro splits himself into two before the confrontation with Sudou, and the other half gets to rescue the other after it gets captured. The split proves to affect their mentality, as the "laptop Tadahiro" calls himself exclusively as Electric Man N and is obsessed with making Misaki number 1 idol with no regard of her well-being, while the "doll Tadahiro" is protective of her and agrees to cooperate with Sudou to stop his other half.
-   D'Arcmon and HippoGryphomon in the _Digimon Frontier_ movie _Island of Lost Digimon_. It turns out that they were actually two halves of the villainous Murmuxmon, who was posing as leaders of the rival factions in order to resurrect Ornismon. Although it should be noted that the American dub implies it to be Voluntary Shapeshifting instead of this, which kind of makes more sense.
    -   In _Digimon Adventure: (2020)_, Devimon is eventually revealed to be one for Takeru's Angemon.
-   In _Dokidoki Precure_, Marie-Ange literally split her heart in two with her own hands and sent each half off to be reborn as a person. Her "good" side embodying her selflessness and sense of duty became Aguri Madoka/Cure Ace, while her selfish side embodying her love for her father became Regina.
-   _Dragon Ball_:
    -   _Dragon Ball_: When the nameless Namekian wanted to become God of the Earth, he expelled all of his evil, which took on a life of its own as the Great Demon King Piccolo. After being sealed for hundreds of years, being released, and eventually dying at Goku's hand, Piccolo reincarnates himself as his own son. Piccolo Jr. eventually undergoes a Heel–Face Turn and re-merges with God.
    -   _Dragon Ball Z_: Majin Buu goes through something similar. After the pink bubblegum demon goes through a Heel–Face Turn thanks to the local Fake Ultimate Hero befriending him, said Fake Ultimate Hero nearly being killed provokes Buu's wrath. Not wanting to lose control and go back to his evil ways, Buu expels all his evil, which takes the form of a second, purely evil Buu. The two Buus come to blows and the battle ends with the evil Buu absorbing the good Buu. Eventually, they're separated again and the evil Buu is destroyed, allowing the good Buu to live happily ever after.
-   _Fate/Zero_: Assassin, Hassan of the Hundred Faces, was in life a man with multiple personalities, some of them women and children. His Noble Phantasm, Zabaniya: Delusional Illusion, allows him give each of his personalities their own body. Though contrary to his name, he only has eighty of them. If any of them are killed, they are gone for good, but all of them need to be killed to truly end him. Unfortunately for him, his strength is divided between each body, so they are relatively easy to defeat in straight up combat.
-   _Fairy Tail_: In the Avatar arc, Gray fights Briar, a woman who uses Clone Magic that allows her to split into four copies of herself, each one embodying a different emotion: Angry Briar, who is enraged at Gray being The Mole in their cult; Smiling Briar, who is amused because Gray is trying to face them with "measly powers"; Sorrowful Briar, who is sad because she has to kill him; and Lovestruck Briar, who reveals that she'd fallen in love with him. Gray is quite shocked upon learning this.
-   In Chapter 60 of _Franken Fran_, Fran gets split into two copies of herself, each with half her personality. Left Fran turns into an amoral, unpleasant, calculating Jerkass, while Right Fran turns into a big-hearted but hopelessly naive person who goes to work at a legitimate hospital, but winds up with her career collapsing after she inadvertently forges medical details for patients. In the end, they agree that they can't act on logic or emotion alone and agree to marge back together.
-   _Fullmetal Alchemist_: Father can do this at will. He expels aspects of his own personality that he doesn't like, and with these discarded traits (and the Philosopher's Stones which house them) forms separate individuals, the Homunculi, who typically become his minions. To a certain extent, he regards them as his children, but that's mostly because he has family issues.
-   In _The Legend of Zelda: Four Swords (2004)_ manga, each Link (aside from Green Link, who retains the original Link's complete personality) embodies a different part of his personality. For example, the blue Link is rather aggressive and hotblooded, the red Link is gentle and optimistic, and the purple Link is calm and crafty.
-   Sort-of happened in _Madlax_. The Action Girl Madlax and the Lonely Doll Girl Laetitia are parts of The Ojou Margaret Burton, who "split herself" to kill her Brainwashed and Crazy father in self-defense: Madlax is her "survival instinct" while Laetitia is the "keeper of \[Margaret's\] memories". At the end of the story Madlax is willing to sacrifice her existence for Margaret's sake, but Margaret releases Madlax so she can live her own life and adopts Laetitia as her younger sister.
-   Sasha and Misha Necron of _The Misfit of Demon King Academy_ are initially introduced as twin sisters but are actually the forcibly split halves of Sasha, the original.
-   One possible explanation for The Medicine Seller in _Mononoke_. Specifically, the character has a 'default' form and an alternate, demon-slaying form that appears when he draws his sword. However, the transformation sequences between, and some of their interactions, shows them as separate bodies- though they have the same voice and, to a great extent, demeanor.
    -   Often, while transitioning between the two, both bodies are present, but the markings on his face and clothes disappear, moving onto his other form.
    -   During the Umi-Bozu arc, the default form appears briefly to hand his mirror to the demon-slaying form.
-   _Naruto_:
    -   Zetsu is a plant-man hybrid where half of his body is black, and the other half is white. Both represent a different personality: the black half is serious while the white half is more easygoing. They can split apart, with the white half being able to make copies of itself. This is because they were originally separate beings, with Black Zetsu being a much older entity (he is the physical representation of Kaguya Otsutsuki's will), while White Zetsu was a human changed by his time in the Infinite Tsukuyomi.
    -   An episode from one of the second anime's filler arc called "Revenge of the Shadow Clones" has Naruto held hostage by 4 of his shadow clones. He has 4 personalities; The gloomy one represents his sadness and loneliness, the angry one represents his rough and proud attitude, the happy one represents his joyful side and how he cares about everyone and the feminine girly type represents his overuse of his sexy jutsu. However the whole thing turns out to be a dream by one of his clones who saved him from a falling rope pulley.
-   _One Piece:_ Dr. Vegapunk is revealed to have resorted to this, _surgically_ rather than supernaturally, because he believed just a single lifetime wasn't anywhere near enough to get everything he wanted to achieve done. That and he had more than enough brain for six more people, which was both convenient and cumbersome as hell. As a result, he has now six entirely different people working together alongside him.
-   In _Pokémon: The Series_, Sabrina's shunning of her emotions in favor of focusing solely on training her psychic powers eventually caused her emotional side to split off into a Creepy Doll\-like body. When a Haunter Ash had befriended got her to laugh she underwent a Split-Personality Merge and learned to embrace her emotions.
-   Amamiya Sakurako of _Psyren_ gains one, Abyss, who she learns to fight alongside.
-   A Filler story of the _Ranma ½_ anime had Happosai use a special incense to duplicate Ranma's female form in a separate, independent entity to do his bidding. Problem is, it was _pure evil_, had phenomenal Psychic Powers, and kept trying to seduce the original Ranma to drain his Life Energy.
-   _Return to Labyrinth_: Mizumi, the Queen of Cups, has the power to create ablations, carving off one of a person's aspects into a new being. Moppet is an ablation of Sarah's dreams. Moulin and Drumlin are ablations of Mizumi herself, respectively her regret and hope.
-   The main premise of the manga _Rokuhime wa Kami Goei ni Koi wo Suru_ is about the reincarnated guardian Lloyd seeking out his empress Arsmelia after a thousand year promise to reunite. Lloyd found out in chapter 4 that Arsmelia's soul was split into six people, and his best chance to find them is to enroll into the magic academy. Although Lloyd does not know their identities, the manga heavily indicated that the six princesses that Lloyd met in the academy are indeed Arsmelia's reincarnation, and the six princesses eventually fall for Lloyd as the story progresses.
-   In _Rosario + Vampire Capu2_, the Lilith Mirror splits Moka into her Outer and Inner forms. Both of them are unstable apart, and since the Lilith Mirror's magic needed to be reversed, they rejoin shortly after they split, much to Kokoa's disappointment.
-   _Sailor Moon_:
    -   In an anime-only arc, Mamoru loses his memories of Usagi and of being Tuxedo Mask, but a part of him subconsciously still wanted to protect her. That part of him came to life as the Moonlight Knight. He eventually merges back with Mamoru to restore his memories.
    -   Enemies Cyprine and Ptiol. They are the same being that uses two bodies to increase her fighting abilities. The strongest of the Witches 5, is defeated by Making both sides fight against each other.
    -   Zirconia, in the original anime, is a manifestation of Nehelenia's fears of turning old and desire for eternal beauty, and disappears when Nehelenia leaves her mirror. In the manga and _Eternal_, while they are shown talking to each other on opposite sides of the mirror, Zirconia is not seen again after Nehelenia confronts the Sailor Guardians herself in Elysion, and before Nehelenia is destroyed, she ages into a form identical to Zirconia, implying they are the same person.
-   Nana Suzuki from _Seven of Seven_, who was split into seven by a Freak Lab Accident involving a secret experiment of her scientist grandfather.
-   _Sgt. Frog_ has a few examples.
    -   In Episode 15, resident Yandere Momoka split into her shy, retiring side and her aggressive, angry side (who normally co-exist and switch depending on the situation) thanks to a Keronian G-force simulator and an ill-timed lightning strike.
    -   The Keroro episode "Giroro: The Man with Seven Faces (De Arimasu)" is a direct parody of _Seven of Seven_, and features Giroro being accidentally split into his 7 selves: evil American soldier Giroppe, shy child Girorin, housewife Girocchi, poetic girl Giroko, suave romantic Giropon, normal Giroro, and cool-looking Girosama, the one with the nice laugh.
-   _Shinzo_: The three male protagonists are revealed to actually be different components of the Enterran overlord Mushrambo, whose soul was split into several parts by Yakumo when he tried to kill her.
-   _Hoshin Engi_: Downplayed in Otenkun's case. While he has the power to split himself into several parts, his personality remains rather consistent when he does so. But as he himself notices, each Otenkun is more focused on one part of his personality: His resentment towards Yozen and Tsuuten Kyoushu for the first one, taking revenge on Genshi Tenson for the second and finding back the missing part of his soul for the third (and likely the "main" Otenkun if there is one). It's played straight with The Reveal in the final arc that Taikobo and Otenkun were initially the same being.
-   In _To Love Ru_ _Darkness_, Ren and Run have literally split into two separate individuals as a result of achieving a metamorphosis simply described as "reaching adulthood". Naturally, both have something to be happy about.
-   In the episode 21 of _Urusei Yatsura_, after eating a lollipop that Lum makes for him and a bun Cherry intended to bury as it is evil, Ataru splits into two. One of them has positive behaviour while the other is the opposite. The two continue to fight all day.
-   _The World God Only Knows_: When Kusunoki Kasuga gets possessed by a spirit, her personality splits between her normal self and her cute side, which starts manifesting whenever she sees something cute and fights reacting to it.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh! ARC-V_: The climatic battle between Ray and Z-ARC resulted in each of them splitting into four people while the Original Dimension got also split into four different dimensions. The Professor's Evil Plan is to fuse the four parts of his daughter Ray back into one, which also has the side effect of fusing the four dimensions together. The four parts of Z-ARC have an inherit desire to become one again. The story of the anime is continued in _Yu-Gi-Oh! Duel Links_, where each of the parts are slowly getting separated from the main personalities, since each personality has already become their own person with their own life and relationships, which is why fusing them together is considered a great mistake in-universe. In the anime, Kurosaki falls into despair after he has lost his sister Ruri and his best friend Yuto due to them fusing with the main personalities Yuya and Yuzu and having vanished in his life. _Duel Links_ gives him hope, as his Yuto has managed to separate himself from Yuya, with the two of them finally reuniting after a long time.

    Asian Animation 

-   In _BoBoiBoy_, the eponymous character has the ability to create duplicates of himself with different Elemental Powers and distinct personalities coinciding with each of their powers:
    -   Lightning/Thunderstorm: The most serious and aggressive in battle, tends to be a loner.
    -   Wind/Cyclone: Cheerful, playful and quite carefree.
    -   Earth/Quake: A calm and wise leader of all the forms, noted as the closest to the original BoBoiBoy's personality.
    -   Fire/Blaze: A loony Mood-Swinger, he can switch from fun-loving and playful to violently aggressive when provoked.
    -   Water/Ice: Calm, carefree and easy-going, almost to the point of being very lazy.
    -   Leaf/Thorn: A naive, cheerful Cloudcuckoolander. Unlike Fire/Blaze and Wind/Cyclone, he is also close to being a Manchild.
    -   Light/Solar: The Ace of all forms, he is shown to be prideful, intellectual and strong.
-   In _Happy Heroes_, Careful S. has the ability to duplicate himself as his main superpower. In one episode of Season 3, it's shown that four of the clones he can produce this way have very distinct personalities, and according to Doctor H. they're all a part of the main Careful S.'s personality. Evidently, Careful S. is very good at hiding it.

    Audio Plays 

-   _Big Finish Doctor Who_ has this happening to the Eighth Doctor in the episode "Caerdroia", where he gets split up into the three main sides of his personality, resulting in a passionate and easily distracted Cloudcuckoolander version, a compassionate, rational version, and a gloomy, pragmatic, Deadpan Snarker version. In response, his companion, Charley, nicknames the goofy one "Tigger" and the grumpy one "Eeyore". At the climax of the story, the villain, Kro'ka, captures the goofy Doctor and the rational Doctor with the intent of Mind Probing them, but before he can do so, he is confronted by the grumpy Doctor, who threatens to use a Mind Probe of his own on Kro'ka in order to find out who the Man Behind the Man he is working for actually is. When Kro'ka tries to talk him down, pointing out that a part of the Doctor or not, he is _still_ the Doctor, and the Doctor is too merciful to forcibly invade the mind of another living being, the grumpy Doctor in turn points out that, unfortunately for Kro'ka, while the compassionate sides of his personality would indeed normally hold him back from such questionable acts, he is the Doctor's more "nasty" and pragmatic sides made flesh and doesn't have the other sides to mediate him, so therefore he has no such scruples and then invades Kro'ka's mind, despite his pleas, without a second thought. When the grumpy Doctor is reunited with the goofy and rational ones, just before they are recombined back to a whole person again, they both figure out what he did are none too happy about it.

    Comic Books 

-   _All-Out Avengers_: The second issue begins In Medias Res, with Doctor Doom allying with the Avengers... against Doctor Doom. The good and evil sides of his personality have been separated into their own bodies. They're recombined by the end of the issue.
-   _Dial H for Hero_:
    -   The 1980s version that appeared in _Adventure Comics_ and subsequently served as backup material in _New Adventures of Superboy_ ended with the revelation that the Wizard and the Master were actually Robby Reed, protagonist of the original 1960s series that appeared in the pages of _House of Mystery_, split into good and evil halves. The squabble between the two led to the original H-Dial disappearing, which led to the Wizard creating a new pair of dials and trusting Chris King and Vicki Grant to use them while the Master created villains to try and take the dials fom Chris and Vicki.
    -   The 2019 series features a Y-Dial that causes transformations at the cost of the bearer being split into two beings in the process. In a similar manner to the 1980s series, it is revealed that the Operator and Mr. Thunderbolt are actually the original dial-bearer Robby Reed split into two beings from using the dial. The current bearer Miguel Montez also ends up using the Y-Dial to become a Superman Substitute named Supermiguel and a Shazam-inspired hero named Thunder Montez, the latter ending up siding with Mr. Thunderbolt's scheme.
-   _Disney Ducks Comic Universe_: One Donald Duck comic had featured him getting split into the seven sins by an Ancient Artifact, even being Colour-Coded for Your Convenience. It all seems easy enough as only Wrath/Anger, Envy and Greed are causing trouble (with Sloth don't even trying to run and Gluttony as well as Lust being ridiculously easy to lure into a trap). That is, until they fuse back together, but in the wrong way.
-   The villainess Array, from Fred Perry's _Gold Digger_ comic, had the ability to create custom-built alternate personalities while splitting them into their own bodies (which could be crafted to look like anyone or anything she wanted). However, when she reabsorbed her duplicates into herself, the personalities remained permanently distinct from the original, giving her a massive MPD. Fortunately for her, they generally get along, and allow her to be a one-woman conspiracy in the process.
-   In the _Green Lantern_ comics of the mid-1980s, a vigilante/villain character named Predator showed up mysteriously to protect Carol Ferris while Green Lantern Hal Jordan had to spend some time in outer space due to the command of the Guardians. After Hal Jordan decided to quit the Green Lantern Corps, giving John Stewart permission to take his place as the protector of Sector 2814, Predator kidnapped Carol Ferris and performed a Fusion Dance with her that changed them into Star Sapphire right before Hal's eyes. Hal later learned that during his time in space, after Carol had transformed into Star Sapphire due to not being able to cope with the loss of Hal being anywhere that she could reach him, she had split into two beings — Predator, which represented "the male side of her", and Carol herself, who was the normal "female side" that loved Hal. Years later, this was given a retcon in that Predator was actually the entity of the violet light of the emotional spectrum, namely love.
-   _The Incredible Hulk_:
    -   This has happened to the Hulk on occasion, usually separating Bruce Banner and the Savage Hulk, commonly reducing the Hulk to a rampaging 'beast' without Banner's intellect to keep him in check. Paul Jenkins' run saw a number of journeys into Banner's mind with various Hulks showing up representing different aspects of Banner's psyche.
    -   Jason Aaron's run on _The Incredible Hulk (2011)_ kicks off with the Green Scar Hulk (a smarter version of the Savage) getting himself split from Banner. Banner doesn't take it at all well, to the point that Banner irradiates an entire island trying to turn himself back into a Hulk.
-   _Justice League of America_:
    -   One _JLA (1997)_ storyline did this to the League's entire roster — splitting Superman and Clark Kent, Batman and Bruce Wayne, etc. Hilarity spectacularly failed to ensue as things went on: Clark was scared of heights while Superman was losing his humanity, Bruce Wayne had no outlet for his rage at the criminal element while Batman lost his motivation, the Flash lost his connection to his human past while Wally West became lethargic and missed his dates with his wife, and Kyle Rayner was faced with a psychological breakdown without the ring to vent his creativity while Green Lantern lacked any imagination and just shot things. Martian Manhunter and John Jones were actually not too badly off, with the Manhunter simply becoming more distant from humanity while Jones enjoyed the freedom from his old grief at being the last of his race, but Plastic Man got split into Plas, who literally _could not_ be serious, and Eel O'Brian, the ruthless and manipulative ex-career criminal. Only Wonder Woman and Aquaman were immune, and then only until they got hit with a second blast: Aquaman got split into fish and human, and Diana was split into clay statue and disembodied spirit... which was exactly what she wanted to happen.
    -   Worth noting, this wasn't intended to be a bad thing; some aliens did it because they wanted to help the heroes by giving them the chance to have a break without having to worry about crime. Or so they claimed. Then we found out their motives weren't quite so altruistic.
    -   Appears to be happening to the Enchantress in the first issue of _Justice League Dark_. Her original self lies withered in an isolated cabin, surrounded by baleful spells. Meanwhile a wide-eyed June Moone wanders the streets surveying the weirdness.
-   Triplicate Girl's "Triad" incarnation from the first _Legion of Super-Heroes_ reboot was portrayed this way, with her three split selves portrayed as The Three Faces of Eve. Since most of the other inhabitants of her homeworld were (or forced to behave as) Single Minded Duplicates, she left after a traumatizing stay at Bedlam House barely failed to "cure" her of her mental disorder.
-   _The Mighty Thor_ has had Don Blake fissioned off from himself a couple of times. Don always winds up with Thor's sense of humility (after all, that was the reason Odin created the Don Blake persona to begin with), and without that part of his personality, Thor becomes a conceited jerk. However, this changed when Thor 'died' during the war against the Serpent, with Blake existing as a separate entity despite Thor's loss; when Thor returned there was no significant shift in his personality, but Blake went so far as to make a deal with the Enchantress to try and become a god himself out of bitterness at his complete lack of an identity without Thor.
-   _Spider-Man_:
    -   Sandman had this happen to him once, in _Peter Parker: Spider-Man_, by some plot. He got split into his core, his childhood self, his feminine side, and unfortunately, his evil side in order to handwave why he stayed a crook.
    -   A _The Amazing Spider-Man (2018)_ storyline saw Peter and Spider-Man split into separate entities, with Peter basically possessing all of the responsibility while Spider-Man only had his sense of humour, to the point that Spider-Man actually asked Peter who 'Uncle Ben' was and thought it was a good idea to reprogram the Tri-Sentinel as a means of transport, until Peter was able to reverse the process after confirming that the two would die if not brought back together.
-   _Superman_:
    -   In _Adventure Comics_ #313 _The Condemned Legionnaires_, Supergirl had an evil half created by a piece of red Kryptonite. She came out wearing a black cowl and full bodysuit.
    -   _Girl Power_ is the modern version of that story. This time, Supergirl's evil clone -properly named Dark Supergirl- was spawned by black Kryptonite and wore a black version of Kara's normal outfit.
    -   In the 90's, Superman once was an energy being; he then became two energy beings: Superman Red and Blue.
    -   That storyline was inspired by _Superman (Volume 1) 162: The Amazing Story of Superman Red and Superman Blue_, where the two were more or less identical (except for their costumes). This was an alternate universe story in which the two wound up unbottling Kandor, rebuilding Krypton (eliminating kryptonite in the process), curing all evil on Earth with an "anti-evil ray" (as a side benefit, Reformed!Luthor came up with a cure for all disease), and marrying both Lois Lane and Lana Lang (one each, it wasn't _that_ weird).
    -   _Superman Reborn_ reveals Flashpoint caused Superman to be separated into his New Earth and _Prime Earth_ selves. It's also a reference to the Red and Blue era, given the lights used to represent the two. At the end of the story, they merge into a single, complete version of Superman.
    -   He's also been split into Superman and Clark Kent numerous times. The moral is usually that it's the "ordinary guy" part of his personality that gives Supes his heart and sense of perspective—and without those qualities he's is at best arrogant or detached and at worst a terrifying, ruthless alien.
-   _Darkwing Duck_: Happens to Negaduck at the end of "Crisis On Infinite Darkwings". To the n-th degree, it turns out.
-   _Tharg's Future Shocks_: A writer who imagines himself as various different personas as he writes different series, goes to a doctor as he is experiencing Writer's Block. The doctor takes him to a machine that will allow the various personalities to be given their own bodies. However, after this, the writer still can't think of any new stories as his other personas all type away at their own, so he creates a new one.
-   In _Wizards of Mickey_, the Darker and Edgier Fantasy Alternate Universe of Disney comics, Yen Sid was originally the evil Supreme Warlock and also the teacher of Master Nereus and the Phantom Blot. However, during a magical battle against the Dragons, he was split in seven hooded ghosts, embodying his seven main personality traits, as per this trope. The six evil ones became known as the Guild of Diaphans. The good one, meanwhile, was banished to Another Dimension where he lives a scholarly life in a small house in the middle of a snow-covered plain. At the end of the series, the heroes succeed in bringing the Good!Yen Sid back, and he fuses back together with the Diaphans. Thanks to the knowledge he has gained, he is now able to get the upper hand over his less virtuous sides and this leads the complete Yen Sid to pull a Heel–Face Turn.
-   _World of Warcraft_ has this with Varian Wrynn, who was split into two parts: King Varian, a royal puppet under the control of Lady Katrana Prestor (Onyxia), and Lo'Gosh (a nickname given to him by orcs), amnesiac arena champion.
-   Jamie Madrox from the _X-Men_ comics has a mutant power that creates duplicates of himself upon physical impact. Each tends to manifest some aspect of his personality. Originally, it (usually) didn't work that way, with dupes being exactly identical to the original unless outside forces screwed with his powers (which happened at least twice). But now, dupes always have their own personalities to varying degrees. And can come back out when he doesn't want them to, sometimes.

    Comic Strips 

-   In _Calvin and Hobbes,_ Calvin successfully clones only the _good_ aspects of his personality with his trademark cardboard box technology. This leads to a lot of people cracking "you'd be a lot smaller if that were true," remarks. This is eventually subverted: since even Calvin's best qualities are still inherently his own, the "good" clone threatens to clobber his creator, vanishing in a Puff of Logic for having done something evil.

    Fan Works 

-   In _The Chronicles of Narnia_ fic _Across the Worlds_, after the Pevensies are displaced across various alternate worlds by the Great Darkness, Susan, Peter and Edmund eventually find a world which is essentially ruled by three identical versions of Lucy, each representing a corrupted version of one of her siblings; Empress Lucille the Gentle is fixated on her own beauty, General Lucia the Magnificent refuses to listen to the input of others due to her belief in her own power, and High Inquisitor Lucinda the Just is a ruthless strategist.
-   The _Danny Phantom_ fic _Benediction_ sees Danny facing his 'future self' once again by using the Fenton Ghost Catcher to split the other ghost back into his separate identities of Danny's ghost-half and Vlad's severed ghost-half. While they eventually have to recombine back into one entity or 'die', while split the two personas are less violently destructive than the whole, allowing Jazz to give the Danny aspect of the split some psychological therapy. After she deduces that the older Danny was 'coping' with his grief and pain at the loss of his family by 'hiding' under Vlad's rage after the split, Jazz is able to help him acknowledge that he didn't always fail and encourage him to focus on the positives, with the result that the recombined ghost is less interested in pointless destruction. The sequel, "Indemnification", sees Dark Danny return to his future, where he occasionally interacts with the ghost of his deceased human side, the two acknowledging that the two aren't quite complete even if they recognise that they are now two distinct people.
-   In _Calvin & Hobbes: The Series_, when the protagonists journey into Socrates' mind, they find various aspects of his personality — his happiness, sneakiness, nobility, and ultimately his negativity (who _made_ the whole dimension in the first place to rule over the other aspects).
-   _Dæmorphing_: Humans and daemons are described as two halves of the same mind, and frequently have inner conflicts when making difficult decisions.
-   _Doctor Who in the Multiverse of Madness_ sees a spiritual version of this; when the Thirteenth Doctor (_Doctor Who_) finds herself, Dan and Yaz in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Wong decides to question the Doctor by expelling her astral form from her body, only for this to result in the Doctor's past incarnations manifesting as well.
-   _Fall of Starfleet, Rebirth of Friendship_ has Twilight Sparkle being split into Belle Amie and Shining Spark, the former representing her heart and emotions and the latter embodying her magic and logic. At least, that's what it appears at first — the truth is slightly more complicated.
-   _From Fake Dreams_: The Edefelt sisters' summoning of Medea results in this. Luvia has the nicer Princess incarnation, Marjatta the more cruel Witch incarnation. This is reflected in their Noble Phantasms and skills.
-   In the _The Ghost and Molly McGee_ fanfic "Split Persona-Libby", Molly's best friend (and recently girlfriend) Libby gets split into five clones of herself, each representing an aspect of her personality: there's a Smart Libby who's logical but unemotional; a Sarcastic Libby who's snarky and bad-tempered, a Shy Libby who's nervous and bashful, a Lovestruck Libby who's touchy-feely and optimistic, and a Creative Libby who's melodramatic, imaginative, and prone to acting like a Film Noir detective.
-   In _Hellsister Trilogy_, Legion's nemesis Mordru uses her magic to resurrect Satan Girl, Supergirl's evil clone fashioned from her inner darkness.
-   A variation occurs in _Hogyoku ex Machina_ when Ichigo figures out how to manifest Zangetsu and his hollow self in the real world. The latter and Zaraki end up getting along swimmingly.
-   In the _Infinity Crisis_ spin-off _Of Kryptonians and Queens_, black kryptonite is used to split Lena Luthor and Morgana Pendragon— Lena being a second identity magically created by Morgana —into separate entities, with Lena retaining some of Morgana's magical ability as a bonus.
-   In _Mega Man Reawakened_, Gemini Man's Gemini Duality mode splits his personalities into two bodies.
-   _A Mighty Demon Slayer Grooms Some Ponies_: All the ponies of Dream Valley were created as representations of some part of their creator's personality. This is also why there are so few stallions—their creator, Queen Majesty, did what she could with what little masculine aspects her mind had within her.
-   _Mischief (MHA)_: Whenever Izuku loses control of his emotions, his Decoys, each one representing an aspect of his personality, manifest. So far the revealed personas are: Two, Confidence; Three, Logic; Four, the Prankster; Five, Guilt; Six, Hunger, or more accurately, Ambition; Eight, Anxiety; Nine, Deprerssion; Eleven, Self-Sacrifice; Twelve, the Analyst; and Thirteen, Love, more specifically his love for Ochako.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fanfiction:
    -   Discord does this to Twilight in _Becoming Ponies_. Unusually, her mind itself isn't split, exactly; only her magical power and ability is removed and installed in a new body.
    -   _The MLP Loops_: Nyx from _Past Sins_ (see below) ends up being activated as a looper, to Twilight's immense relief—she had thought she would never have a chance to see her daughter again in her infinite life. Nyx's connection to Luna ends up causing much weirdness; often she won't Awaken until after Nightmare Moon is defeated, but sometimes she'll Wake up early and just leave Luna behind, short-circuiting the whole evil plot. There have also been loops where she and Luna both Awaken at the same time, Sharing a Body. In any situation where a vote comes up, Luna inevitably tries to bring Nyx in as a ringer on her side.
    -   _Past Sins_: Cultists enact a ritual to revive Nightmare Moon, Luna's Superpowered Evil Side. She was supposed to end up with all of Luna's power and memories, but due to mistakes she ended up as a filly (though still an alicorn) with no memories who goes by the name Nyx. Twilight ends up raising her as a daughter, and despite many problems along the way, she becomes a much better pony than the cult expected.
    -   The central conflict of _A Piece of Pie_ occurs when Twilight Sparkle's experiment results in four aspects of Pinkie Pie's personality taking form and running amok.
    -   _Sunsplit Saga_: _Sunscarred_ has an experiment put together by Sunset Shimmer and Starlight Glimmer, which resulted in Sunset Shimmer, as a highly magical person splitting in seven constructs that represent seven parts of her personality.
    -   _Zecoroota_: Wherein Zecora is split into her two different stripe colors, each representing a separate facet of her. Neither are particularly concerned.
-   _Naru-Hina Chronicles Mini-sodes_: One arc focuses on Naruto's Shadow Clones becoming real with different personalities. They include a female version, a smart one, an aggressive one, a flirty one, and one who keeps eating ramen.
-   _One step backwards and Three forwards_: As a result of the reality-altering Wishes made by Hawkmoth and his supporters, Adrien is split into two individuals in the new world: Felix Agreste, who remembers his past life, and his younger brother Adrien, who exists to fulfill Lila's Wish of having him as her Meal Ticket.
-   The _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_ fic _The One With The Angelic Face_ sees Angela (the female version of Angel in this series) split into the female human and male vampire identity after Drusilla borrows Toth's weapon. However, as the two halves literally need each other to exist in this dimension, eventually Angela will revert to her 'natural' state of a two-centuries-plus corpse while Angelus will become a pure vampire demon and be unable to exist on this plane, forcing the gang to merge the two identities back together before Angela dies.
-   Basically applies in "Pokemon: Dark Multiverse" when the Dark Knights attack the _Pokemon_ world; an attack by Arceus splits the Red Death back into his separate personas of Bruce Wayne and Barry Allen, prompting Barry to join the heroes opposing the other Knights and the Bruce that had been part of the Red Death finally accepting that he was wrong when confronted by his prime reality counterpart.
-   In _Prism_, Kenshin is split into a thirty year old version of himself, a teenage self, and a child self. Some different aspects of his personality end up split among them as well, such as the teenage version having a short temper and little self-control, most of which went to the adult version.
-   "The Sister in the Door" is based on the premise that Seeley Booth (_Bones_) is the human identity of Angel (_Angel_) after he achieved Shanshu. However, Booth's tumour is revealed to have been the work of the First Evil, with the operation to remove the tumour from Booth's brain allowing the First's agents to arrange for the part of Booth that is still Angelus to manifest as a separate entity.
-   Flandre from _Touhou Project_ is a mentally unstable little sister locked in a basement. She can split herself into four using her spellcard Four Of A Kind, and fan works often depict the clones as expressions of different aspects of her psyche. For an example, Aozora Market created a doujin where she asked permission to go shopping in the village, and used Four of a Kind to spread the unstable parts of her personality around. One of them manages to buy the thing she wants, but not before the rest of them create chaos in the mansion.
-   Many YouTube Poops have Luigi with split personalities, most often Gay Luigi and Mama Luigi. Heck, even the split personalities have split personalities. They've had a few encounters. In "Final Hours", _all of his forms_ were together witnessing the end of the world. However, the end didn't happen.
-   _The Palaververse_: _Second Sun_: The titular second Celestia is a result of this situation, splitting into Red Oni, Blue Oni.

    Film — Animation 

-   Word of God says that Iago from _Aladdin_ is actually a part of Jafar's personality that he deliberately split off from himself and transferred into a parrot with magic in order to get rid of the personality traits he felt were holding him back.
-   In _Final Fantasy VII: Advent Children_, Kadaj, Loz and Yazoo are "remnants" of Sephiroth, who, having died but still existing in The Lifestream, was unable to create a complete avatar of himself. Instead he created these puppets, who were separate persons (and nowhere near as cool) but each embodied some part of his personality. Apparently, Kadaj represents his anger and rage, Loz his speed, strength and attachment to Jenova, and Yazoo his charisma and aloof demeanor.
-   Bad Cop/Good Cop from _The LEGO Movie_. He's one of those minifigures whose head has two faces with different expressions and rotates to change them, the "inactive" face being obscured by the helmet.
    
    **Emmet:** Look, um, I watch a lot of cop shows on TV. Isn't there supposed to also be... Isn't there supposed to be a good cop?  
    **Bad Cop:** Oh, yes. But we're not done yet.  
    _(Bad Cop's head swivels around to become Good Cop.)_  
    **Good Cop:** Hi, buddy! I'm your friendly neighborhood police officer. Would you like a glass of water?  
    **Emmet:** Yeah, actually, that sounds—  
    **Bad Cop:** _(head switches back to Bad Cop)_ Too bad! _(punches glass across the room)_
    
    -   Both are voiced by Liam Neeson, but Good Cop sounds nothing like him.

    Film — Live-Action 

-   _The Cell_: Inside his mind, Carl is divided into three separate personas: Carl as a young boy before he committed his crimes; Carl as an adult, aware of who and what he is in the present but unable to stop; and the Demon King, a monstrous figure who dominates the other two personalities.
-   _Cult of Chucky_ reveals that thanks to a spell from voodoofordummies.com, Chucky has found the means to split his soul into other dolls, the titular cult. One of these clones ends up body-surfing into the body of Nica Pierce. It seems he's taught his accomplice Tiffany Valentine on how to do this, as the ending reveals she's successfully split her soul into at least one Tiffany doll.
-   The Skeksis and the UrRu (Mystics) of _The Dark Crystal_ and _The Dark Crystal: Age of Resistance_ are respectively the evil and good halves of the UrSkeks, separated by accident when the titular crystal was cracked during one of their experiments on it. The only way they return to their UrSkek state is to make the crystal whole again, so not even skekGra and urGoh, a Skeksis and a Mystic who _want_ to merge back together, are able to do so.
-   A bizarre variation of this happens to Jack Sparrow in _Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End_. Naturally, considering the character, this is taken to extremes with an entire _crew_ of dozens of Jack Sparrows, each one supposedly reflecting one aspect of his character (although this appears to have been a hallucination rather than any of them actually manifesting as physically independent entities).
-   The movie version of Sadako Yamamura, from _The Ring_. Originally a child with unbelievably powerful Psychic Powers, her father somehow split her into an innocent side and an evil, supernatural one. The former was sent off to live a (semi) normal life, grew up, and went to college. The latter was imprisoned and subjected to drug treatments that stunted her growth —but did little to assuage either her malevolence or her powers, which she used to contact ( and revive) her adult half halfway across the country. Their reunion... resulted in tragedy for everyone involved.
-   In _Silent Hill_, the psychic little girl Alessa Gillespie split apart after enduring terrible trauma, as with the games, although rather than two beings, she split into three: the innocent Sharon Da Silva, adopted daughter of the film's protagonists; the menacing Creepy Child "Dark Alessa"; and her original body, stored in Silent Hill's hospital. According to the filmmakers, the split echoes the Holy Trinity (Sharon is Jesus, Dark Alessa is the Holy Ghost, and the original Alessa is God), which fits the theme of Alessa being the "God" of Silent Hill. This trope is still present in the sequel _Silent Hill: Revelation 3D_, where Sharon and her adoptive father have renamed themselves (she's now Heather Mason).
-   In _Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over_, the Toymaker was advised by three holographic characters with his face: a Sociopathic Soldier, a Corrupt Corporate Executive and a New-Age Retro Hippie.
    
    **The Toymaker**: I don't mind talking to 'myself', but when you guys start to cut me out of the conversation, that's when it gets a little strange.
    
-   In _Superman III_, Supes gets exposed to some "artificial" Kryptonite that turns him evil, then splits him into an evil Superman and a good Clark Kent.
-   In _Transformers: Revenge of The Fallen_, Arcee is composed of three motorcycles. Each body has the same personality, though. In the comics, all speak at once, similar to _Transformers: Generation 1_ character Reflector.

    Literature 

### **By Author:**

-   A story by Robert Sheckley involves a man who got a schizophrenia cure in his childhood by getting the other personalities siphoned into artificial bodies. He spends the story searching for them around the Solar System.

### **By Work:**

-   In _Anansi Boys_ by Neil Gaiman, Anansi's son gets split into Fat Charlie (the uncool, apparently nonmagical one) and Spider (the god). The analogy with starfish is made explicit, using the former trope name.
-   One of the _Animorphs_ books had Rachel, shapeshifted into a starfish, get cut in half with a spade. The two starfish halves regenerated into Nice and Mean Rachel, both quite explicitly called that in the text. However, it wasn't just good and evil: in a situation inspired by the _Trek_ version, the kind Rachel could plan complex scenarios but was incapable of focusing in the moment, and the violent one was the opposite, incapable of thinking beyond the moment. They had to work together because neither alone could function well enough to do what she wanted.
-   In _Coiling Dragon_, when a Saint passes the threshold in their understanding of the Laws or Edicts and becomes a god, a divine spark is created. If the Saint takes the spark into their body, that body is their divine body. They can, however, form a new divine body around the spark and retain their original body. The primary benefit of this choice is that a divine body is typically limited to using only one type of magic, but the god's other magics remain usable with the original body.
-   In _The Cosmere_, each of the sixteen Shards that act as gods for various worlds is a fragment of an original uber-god called Adonalsium. When Adonalsium shattered, each Shard of its personality and power was taken up by a human Shardholder, becoming deities such as Honor, Cultivation and Odium, Ruin and Preservation, Devotion and Dominion and Endowment.
-   _Daughter of the Sun_: Orsina deals with a wraith in a town named Aola that turns out to be this. Due to the influence of Xera, Goddess of Melancholy, a man who'd just lost his son and couldn't properly grieve manifested this way. After he and his husband finally deal with their grief, it fades away.
-   In the second book of _The Dark Tower_ series, Roland splits apart Odetta and Detta into two separate people whereas before, they had been two personalities in the same body. The two are then theoretically recombined to make Susanna, but Detta keeps showing up on her own anyway.
-   _Doctor Who_ Expanded Universe: In the _Past Doctor Adventures_ book _Managra_, three clones of Lord Byron are featured, each one reflecting a different part of the description "mad, bad and dangerous to know".
-   William Sleator's young adult novel _The Duplicate_ features this, or so the duplicates think. They're wrong, even if they manage to convince the original for a while.
-   _Franny K. Stein_: The tenth book 'Mood Science'' has Franny upset her dog Igor by accidentally ruining a jigsaw puzzle he was working on and making things worse when her attempt at restitution was simply to make him a two-piece puzzle. Deciding that she'd be better off without emotions, she uses her Mixer-Upper to remove her feelings and put them in separate bodies, resulting in personifications of Franny's anger, sadness, silliness and fear. Without emotions, Franny becomes apathetic to the point that she doesn't care to do anything when events lead to a virus spreading throughout the town and turning everyone into toads. It takes persuasion from the personification of Franny's sense of duty (who had the door to the Mixer-Upper shut on her before the situation escalated to requiring her intervention) and her grandmother to get Franny to focus on restoring her emotions and finding a way to cure everyone.
-   By _The Heroes of Olympus_, it's revealed that most if not all of the Greek gods from the previous series have Roman counterparts that differ from the original depending on what Roman ideals are placed on them. It's hinted that these counterparts are separate from each other and can combine. The renewed conflict between Camp Half-Blood and Camp Jupiter causes them to exhibit constant split personality disorder, one of the reasons why they don't assist the battle against the Giants directly (the other is because Olympus is sealed off by Zeus/Jupiter, so no one can).
-   It's eventually revealed in Volume 29 of the light novel _INVADERS of the ROKUJYOUMA!?_ that the Goddess of Dawn split herself into nine individual females who end up becoming the protagonist Kotarou's love interests. All nine girls possess parts of the Goddess's powers, abilities and worries. The Goddess did it out of loneliness, hoping that Kotarou could accept her for who she is as everyone else who came before Kotarou failed to meet her expectations. Kotarou accepted all of her and the Goddess followed Kotarou's request to become human and erase everyone else's memories, including her own, to lead a normal human life.
-   In the light novel _I Was Caught Up In A Hero Summoning, But That World Is At Peace_, Shallow Vernal, aka Shiro, split herself into two, with the other half being the main heroine Kuromueina. Despite both having different personalities, both end up loving the MC Kaito.
-   In _The Nekropolis Archives_, the beings called the Watchers were originally a single entity with no concept of "self" or "other". When it first encountered other life and gained an understanding of the concept that multiple perspectives could exist, its mind divided into multiple entities embodying conflicting aspects of its personality. Gregor and Shamika are parts of it which are respectively repulsed and fascinated by the concept of "otherness".
-   _Old Kingdom_: At the climax of _Goldenhand_, Chlorr's Soul Jar is revealed to have what's left of her original human self, Clariel, bound in stasis in the River of Death. When awakened, Clariel is horrified at the Undead Abomination Chlorr has become, and helps Lirael lay them both to rest for good.
-   In _Pact_, Rose and Blake Thorburn initially appear to be each other's Distaff Counterpart, the same person born a different gender, with one being the original and the other created by magic. However, it is revealed later that they are in fact two pieces of the same person, a progenitor of unknown gender and name, who were split into pieces by magic, with each getting parts of the original's personality-Blake got the strong moral compass, Rose got the deep-rooted cynicism, and they both got enough mutual antagonism that it's a real danger that they'll destroy each other before their numerous enemies manage to do so.

-   In _The Secrets of Droon_, this happens to Sparr, though at first they think he's just been de-aged. It turns out he was split into a young version (who was learning to be good) and a very old version (who was entirely evil). The evil old version forcibly re-combines them and brings him back to his "middle aged" form.
-   Robin Hobb seems to have discovered a new use for this in _The Soldier Son_ trilogy — it can solve Love Triangles.
-   _Third Time Lucky: And Other Stories of the Most Powerful Wizard in the World_: In "We Two May Meet" Magdelene discovers she's been split into two people. One is her carefree, promiscuous, relaxed self. The other (Magdelene two) is her nagging, prudish and reserved aspects which don't usually show at all. Naturally, they get along poorly, but team up to learn what happened.
-   Happens near the end of _Xenocide_. Jane, Ender, and company make the first journey outside of spacetime and back in, in which the travelers keep or alter themselves and their possessions by imagining them so. The purpose of the trip succeeds: Ela creates a safe replacement for the descolada with her mind. The trip also brings surprises. Ender's fractured psyche forms two extra persons: Peter and Valentine as he remembers them from his adolescence. They all share Ender's soul.

    Live-Action TV 

-   In one episode of _The Amazing Extraordinary Friends_, the heroes get split into separate beings embodying their good and evil sides (although their 'evil' selves tend to be selfish more than anything else).
-   Darrin of _Bewitched_ gets split into his fun-loving side and his workaholic side by his mother-in-law.
-   _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_: In the episode "The Replacement", a hostile demon's spell intended to separate Buffy's personality from her Slayer abilities hits Xander instead, separating him into an "aggressive" Xander (charming, well-groomed, and confident; but hot-headed and impetuous) and a "passive" Xander (awkward, clumsy, paranoid, and insecure; but with Xander's trademark sense of humor and good spirit). Note that despite the passive Xander's suspicions, neither half is actually evil, and they actually get along very well once they meet each other. Both Xanders also refer to _Star Trek_'s "The Enemy Within" (see below) during the episode. Once the group learn what the spell did, they speculate that the demon's intention was to split Buffy into the purely human 'Buffy-Buffy' and the ruthless Slayer 'Slayer-Buffy' and then use the existing connection between the two to kill the more vulnerable 'Buffy-Buffy' in order to kill both of them.
-   _Charmed (1998)_:
    -   In a season 1 episode "Which Prue Is It Anyway?", Prue casts a spell that accidentally creates two clones of her. One of the clones represents her fun, wild side, while the other clone exhibits her take-charge, business-like side.
    -   The same thing happens to Piper in one of the books when she inadvertently makes a wish, with one persona being more flippant about her abilities and responsibilities than the true Piper.
-   _Charmed (2018)_: Unlike in the original series, where they were an entirely separate type of magical creature, in this version Darklighters are a case of this trope. As revealed in Season 2, when Elders create Whitelighters, they purge them of all negative aspects, which manifest as an Evil Twin that is then sealed in a magic bottle.
-   In season 2 of _Cloak & Dagger (2018)_, it turns out that this happened to Bridget O'Reilly at the end of season 1. The Bridget who returned to the police found that she couldn't shoot straight any more and lacked the drive she normally had, while the other Bridget became a killer vigilante with razor-sharp Femme Fatalons. According to Mina, who found similar results on mice affected by the chemicals, the "aggressive" will eventually kill the "docile". However, the two Bridgets do a successful Fusion Dance while inside the Darkforce dimension instead.
-   _Doctor Who_: In "Journey's End", in a variant, the Doctor's severed hand grows into a duplicate of him due to Donna Noble's unintended interference. He becomes half-human and apparently somewhat more callous in his strategies than the original, reminiscent of the Ninth Doctor's more desperate methods.
-   _Dollhouse_ has several interesting takes on this; the person is never "split" in any way, but they're in a room with a copy of their mind in someone else's body talking to them. The first case has an abused rebellious younger girl's brainscan tweaked so that the copy has grown up to become "well-adjusted" and put in Echo's adult body to mentor the real girl into possibly getting over her traumas. In the second (hilarious) instance, Topher puts an exact copy of his mind into Victor. The Tophers get along great until they're actually in the same room as each other.
-   _Farscape_: Seen in "My Three Crichtons", wherein John is split into a Power Trio: the original (ego), an animalistic version that acts purely on emotion (id), and a hyperevolved version that acts purely on the basis of logic and self-preservation (superego). Interestingly, the id is the most heroic of the trio.
-   _The Flash (2014)_: Sometime after Caitlyn Snow's Superpowered Evil Side, Killer Frost, made a Heel–Face Turn, the two are split into separate bodies after being exposed to Mirror Monarch's powers. They treat each other as sisters.
-   In an episode of _Goodnight Sweetheart_, the protagonist Gary gets hit by lightning at the exact instant he walks through a time-portal. He wakes up on one side of the portal, and later discovers that an unscrupulous, sex-obsessed version of himself appeared on the other side. Hilarity Ensues. Doubly applies as it is later revealed that Gary isn't actually the good side... a third version of him, a very camp, charitable man, shows up at the end of the episode, explaining that he'd been busy helping out in an air-raid shelter.
-   _Haven_:
    -   In "Friend or Faux", Cornell Stamoran creates a copy of himself to clean up his messes and do the things he's scared to do. While he's an insecure Dirty Coward, his copy is a homicidal badass.
        
        **Copy**: He's so easy to imitate, you know. I just do me and take out the cool parts.  
        **Audrey**: So how does all of this work? You know what's in his head?  
        **Copy**: I have all of his memories, but the balls are mine.
        
    -   In Season 5, Audrey's _original_ evil self Mara resumes control of her body, but Audrey is eventually separated from her. Only Mara kept their abilities.
-   _Kamen Rider_:
    -   In _Kamen Rider Fourze_, the Gemini Zodiarts' Transformation Trinket causes the user's dark side to manifest as a separate entity the first time it's activated. The dark side then attempts to strengthen its own existence by making people hate and distrust the original, making the "weaker" one become more fake (such as its face becoming a white mask); after 24 hours, whichever side is stronger becomes permanent while the weaker fades from existence forever. Unfortunately, this happens to Yuuki when the bad guys force her to use the Gemini Switch, but our heroes manage to save her just in time.
    -   In _Kamen Rider Ex-Aid_, the protagonist Emu is a compassionate medical intern who used to be a Hot-Blooded professional gamer when he was younger, and reverts to that personality whenever he transforms into Ex-Aid. His Mid-Season Upgrade, Mighty Brothers XX (Double X), splits him into two separate bodies that each possess one of the personalities. Eventually it's revealed that recurring enemy Parado is the Bugster born from Emu, which is also the reason for his apparent split personality; after this revelation, Parado stops pretending to be Emu when they use Mighty Brothers, and starts using his own voice and mannerisms as the "gamer" half. Near the end of the series Parado pulls a Heel–Face Turn and the two become a more permanent version of this trope, existing as separate but inextricably linked beings.
    -   In _Kamen Rider Zi-O_, Sougo is briefly pulled into the Mirror World from _Kamen Rider Ryuki_ where he has to fight the mirror version of himself, who outwardly expresses the Manipulative Bastard tendencies that Sougo tries to repress. At the conclusion of this arc he accepts what he sees in the reflection as part of himself, unlocking his real Time Master powers in the process.
    -   In _Kamen Rider Revice_, Daiji's relationship with his inner demon Kagero causes their shared belt to transform to match whoever's in control, as the heroic Kamen Rider Live or the villainous Kamen Rider Evil. They eventually acquire an upgrade which will kill off the weaker personality to strengthen the other, and temporarily split into separate bodies so that they can fight it out to decide who gets to survive. Daiji wins, but shooting his evil half in the head instead of resolving his issues proves immensely damaging to his psyche and turns him into an unstable Knight Templar who becomes a far worse villain than Kagero ever was.
-   Kahlan in the _Legend of the Seeker_ episode "Torn". The reason for the split is a magical talisman that is used to transport the casting wizard and the Confessor to Idendrill. However, the talisman is partly guided by the Confessor's desires. In Kahlan's case, her Confessor side wanted to go to Idendrill to help the people there, but her emotional side did not want to leave Richard's side. The talisman resolved this conflict by splitting one person into two. Confessor!Kahlan ends up becoming the iron-fisted ruler of Idendrill, handing out harsh, logical punishments without regard for emotional content. The other Kahlan acts only in accordance with her emotions without any reason to temper them. Which means she can go from a loving partner to a Clingy Jealous Girl in a heartbeat. Both end up having sex (Emotional!Kahlan finally has sex with Richard, while Confessor!Kahlan uses a prince in hopes of procreating) and use that as grounds to refuse reintegration for fear of harming any unborn child either of them might be carrying. Zedd confirms that neither is pregnant, claiming that only a "real" person can do that, and uses the talisman to put them back.
-   _Logan's Run_: In "Half Life", everyone in the Adventure Town are put through the Process which splits them into a peaceful version, called Positives, and a violent version, called Castoffs, on their sixth birthday. The Positives live in luxury in their city while the Castoffs are exiled to the surrounding area, where they are forced to eke out a meagre living.
-   Rudy of _Misfits_ divides into crass, selfish Rudy One and sensitive, compassionate Rudy Two. They used to have a Rudy Three, who was murderously violent, but they had to kill him.
-   Zigzagged on _Mr. Robot_. The titular Mr. Robot (Christian Slater) turns out to be a hallucination of Elliot's (Rami Malek) Split Personality. While Elliot is a socially anxious nervous wreck, his alter ego Mr. Robot is confident, aggressive and borderline violent at times. Played with because while Elliot and the audience see Mr. Robot, others don't and any interactions others had with Mr. Robot were actually with Elliot as far as they were concerned.
-   Happens with Emma in _Mutant X_. She's split into her aggressive side and her passive side. They can't live without each other.
-   In _My Favorite Martian_, one of Uncle Martin's machines gets struck by lightning, splitting him into triplets, one who agrees with everything, one who disagrees with everything, and one who can never make up his mind. The Animated Adaptation used the same plot with Martin's nephew Andromeda.
-   In _Port Charles_, _General Hospital_'s Supernatural Soap Opera spinoff, Livvie is split in two by her vampire lover Caleb. The bad half continues to live as Livvie. The good half has amnesia and is named Tess.
-   Trey of Triforia, the first "Gold Ranger" from _Power Rangers Zeo_, had the alien ability to split into 3 parts, representing Wisdom, Courage, and Power...uh, I mean Heart. When he was injured, he was stuck as three beings, locking him out of using his Ranger powers and forcing their temporary transfer to someone else. They had to wait until the stars were right to recombine him and give him his powers back.
-   _Red Dwarf_:
    -   "Demons and Angels" features a triplication device, which creates a Good Ship with crew (who exist in the starship equivalent of Crystal Spires and Togas, and can even make Pot Noodles edible), an Evil Ship with crew (where Rimmer's H has fallen sideways and... yeah) and a Neutral Ship with crew (i.e., the original gang). The Neutral Ship duly explodes, and it requires a polarity reversal to recreate it from the others.
    -   There's also "Confidence and Paranoia" in one of the early series, except that these were just manifestations of aspects of Lister's personality caused by his highly evolved pneumonia rather than Lister splitting himself.
-   Occurred in an episode of _Sabrina the Teenage Witch_. When everyone was pressuring Sabrina to go to a different college (or in Aunt Hilda's case, to go backpacking), she ended up splitting herself into four different versions of herself without anyone knowing. Apparently even she didn't know about it herself until all four Sabrinas met up towards the end of the episode and reintegrated, realizing they had to do what Sabrina wanted to do.
-   _Smallville_:
    -   The opening episode of Season Four introduces black kryptonite. Martha uses it on Clark in order to try and deprogram him (long story) and it causes him to split into his good and evil sides, "Clark" and "Kal-El" (all of this most likely a Mythology Gag in reference to _Superman III_). Unfortunately, the "fight" is very, very brief, with Kal starting to choke Clark only for Martha to toss the kryptonite to Clark, who smashes it into Kal's chest and fuses them back together. _Lex_ got the black kryptonite treatment (here, it's created from _heating_ regular kryptonite) in a later episode, with the good version being sweet (but not the crybaby many "good twins" are when this trope is used) and the evil version being... _Lex Luthor_.
    -   In the Season Eight finale, Clark uses black kryptonite to separate Davis Bloome's human half from his Doomsday side, so that he could fight him without having to worry about what he was doing to the innocent human half. Unfortunately, we then find out human Davis isn't so nice after all — apparently, the things he had to do to keep Doomsday under control (namely becoming a Serial Killer) drove him crazy, and madly jealous over Chloe's relationship with Jimmy and the fact that she ran away with him just to protect Clark, he kills Jimmy.
-   Happens to Captain Kirk, in the _Star Trek_ episode "The Enemy Within", where a transporter accident splits him into a seemingly "evil" Kirk and a "good" Kirk. It is learned that the "evil" side proved to be the side with the aggression, determination, and willpower that allows Kirk to make tough decisions, but in turn the seemingly passive, indecisive, and meek "good" side proves to have more courage than the other, whose angry defiance hides terror of losing independent existence. In the end, the passive Kirk points out to the aggressive Kirk that they both are needed for the whole to work, convincing him to merge back with him again.
    
    _"Can half a man live?"_
    
-   In the _Star Trek: Voyager_ episode "Faces", B'Elanna Torres is split into her Klingon and human halves by the Vidiians: the Klingon is a barely contained rage factory, the human is a simpering wimp. However, considering the circumstances (namely, being imprisoned by a race of Body Horror organ thieves), the Klingon side of B'Elanna actually manages to escape and rescue her human side later, who was content with simply keeping her head down and hoping that they wouldn't dissect her later. When the separation is reversed, this causes B'Elanna to contemplate that her Klingon heritage is an integral part of her.
-   In the season 6 finale of _Supernatural_, Sam is stuck in a Mental World where his identity has split into three personalities: original Sam, soulless Sam, and the mentally broken Sam who's been tortured in Lucifer's cage. Finding his way out of there requires the other two to merge back into him. Unfortunately, soulless Sam is trying to murder original Sam to keep that from happening, and the broken Sam's memories are so traumatic that Sam has to be admitted to a psychiatric hospital in season 7.
-   _Super Sentai_:
    -   _Uchu Sentai Kyuranger_ has a spin on this with recurring antagonist Maadako, an octopus-woman who can regenerate From a Single Cell; however, every time she regenerates she develops a new personality; the only constant is her trademark insult, "_Kono tako!_"<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . She starts off as a hot-headed Blood Knight, then becomes a subservient secretary type for Scorpio, then The Vamp, then a Love Freak. Her fifth (and thus far final) regeneration is implied to be a case of Came Back Wrong, since she has two wildly different personality types at the same time (Moe-obsessed Otaku and Samurai) and loses her incredible combat prowess, making her easy pickings for the Kyurangers.
    -   _Mashin Sentai Kiramager_: The Dragon Yodonna has the power to split entities into five clones, with each clone representing a different aspect of their personality. In one episode the green ranger Sena is affected by this attack. While four of them quickly rejoin into a single entity, her pessimistic aspect stays separate, thinking she is holding back the rest. However, it is soon learnt that the pessimistic aspect is actually causing Sena to rethink her plans, as the incomplete Sena is dangerously reckless because without her pessimism she can't imagine anything going wrong. The Evil Genius Kurantula is also hit with this attack in order to fool the rangers into thinking they destroyed him. However, it is his evil aspect that gets destroyed, causing him to perform a Heel–Face Turn. Later in the series it is revealed that Emperor Yodon has multiple personalities that he can switch between at will. All of his extra personalities are destroyed before Yodon himself dies but his Yodonna personality returns as a ghost independent from Yodon in a trilogy of spinoff episodes.
    -   _Avataro Sentai Donbrothers_: Jiro has an evil second personality dubbed "Dangerous Jiro" that emerges when his ego is wounded and wants to murder Taro. Dangerous Jiro later gains the ability to split off into a separate body from Jiro. The two of them have to recombine in their Robotaro forms in order to form their Combining Mecha. The two of them are only able to cooperate because they both share the same obsession with being a hero. It is later revealed that his evil side is actually the original personality and he created his good side so that he could fit in with other people.
-   _Warehouse 13_:
    -   In the episode "13.1", it's revealed that Hugo Miller used an artifact to try to create an AI based on his own brain patterns. The result was that his right-brain was uploaded to the computer and became a logical, unimaginative version of himself, while his left-brain was left in his body and became a Talkative Loon who was institutionalised. The Warehouse agents and Hugo 2.0 both agree that the two halves need to be reintegrated, they just disagree about _where_...
    -   In the episode "Savage Seduction", the B-plot involves a college fraternity that uses Edna St Vincent Millay's candle (as in "my candle burns at both ends") to split the side of themselves that wants to party from the side that wants to study, so they can do everything. When the frat leader uses it on Straight Gay Deadpan Snarker Steve, the "party" version is a Camp Gay and the "dedicated" version is The Comically Serious (i.e., the camp one got the snark, leaving him as just deadpan).
-   _Weird Science_: In "A Tale of Two Lisas", Gary wants Lisa to take him to Mardi Gras and Wyatt wants her to help him study for his biology test the next day. As she was programmed to please both of them, Lisa cannot choose between them and she splits into two. Gary's Lisa is wild and impulsive while Wyatt's Lisa is reliable and responsible. Both boys are initially happy with their respective Lisas but it turns out that things have Gone Horribly Right: Gary's Lisa is so impulsive that she is uncontrollable and Wyatt's Lisa is so responsible that she won't allow him to have any fun. As such, each Lisa possesses an exaggerated version of the relevant boy's personality. Gary's Lisa also has a more pronounced version of the normal Lisa's mean streak, turning first Gary and then Wyatt into trolls. The two Lisa recombine when Gary and Wyatt patch up their friendship.

    Music 

-   The music video for Kylie Minogue's "Did It Again" involves Cute Kylie, Sexy Kylie, Indie Kylie and Dance Kylie sometimes helping each other out, but mostly fighting one another, as a metaphor for the different directions she was being pulled in as an artist.

    Myths & Religion 

-   Hindu Mythology: Brahma, Shiva and Vishnu
-   The Triple Goddess of Neo-Paganism: Maid, Mother and Crone.
-   Subverted by Christianity, as a common misconception is that the Holy Trinity is God divided into the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. In reality, what we consider to be God is the result of the three working in tandem to guide mankind. In essence they are one God, despite being three equal persons with no divisions in power.
-   Pandeism and many versions of Pantheism has all beings being Literal Split Personalities of God.

    Podcasts 

-   _The Fallen Gods_: Missandere and Delilah are two halves of the same soul split in half by their mother in an attempt to protect them. It didn't work as well as she'd like.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Dungeons & Dragons_:
    -   In 4th Edition, the dragon god Io was cut in two by the King of Terror, Erek-Hus. The two halves then rose up as a pair of new deities, Bahamut and Tiamat, who then killed Erek-Hus. All Io's evil qualities, his hubris, arrogance, and envy, were embodied in Tiamat, while his good qualities, his desire to protect and his sense of equality, were embodied in Bahamut. Both gods inherited Io's preference for working alone, and became bitter enemies after the battle. In previous editions, Bahamut and Tiamat were instead the children of Io.
    -   The halflings' patron deity Yondalla is known as a squeaky-clean, Lawful Good goddess of family and protection, but one of the race's biggest secrets is that she has a dark twin of sorts. Yondalla waited to create her race until she'd seen the other deities make their own, and was so impressed that she borrowed some of what made them each special to put into her halflings — a bit of the elves' grace and speed, a pinch of the dwarves' devotion to community, some of the humans' ambition, and so forth. The other gods were annoyed, but were willing to let Yondalla's offense slide if she got rid of her larcenous streak. When she did so, these darker impulses coalesced into the Chaotic Neutral goddess Dallah Thaun, a deity of secrets and trickery. Rather than an Enemy Without, Dallah Thaun complements Yondalla as a separate aspect of the same whole — they can hear each others' prayers and have the same dedication to the halflings' well-being, they just differ in their methods. When a halfling needs healing or a plentiful harvest he prays to Yondalla, but when it's time to relieve others of their wealth or seek vengeance against those that would harm the little folk, halflings pray to Dallah Thaun.
-   _Warhammer_ has Naestra and Arahan, the Sisters of Twilight. These two Wood Elf maidens represent the light and dark sides of the Wood Elf people, and were originally a single elf called Naestrahan, split apart by fey forest magic for some unfathomable purpose. At least, that was their original origin story — the 2014 Wood Elf army book made things a lot less certain, suggesting that they may instead just be regular elves of peculiarly opposite natures, the magically bound together children of Queen Ariel, or even the light and dark aspects of Ariel's personality given physical form during one of her absences from the world.
-   The Other playbook from _Interstitial: Our Hearts Intertwined_ is based off of Nobodies from _Kingdom Hearts_, so can easily be some manner of replica of another player or NPC.

    Theatre 

-   In the opera _Eurydice_, Orpheus has a double that adds emphasis to several of his songs that represents his heroic quest, contrasting with the regular-guy Orpheus.
-   Done as a metaphor in _The Lady In The Van_, Alan Bennett is portrayed as two separate characters (played by different actors on stage, since they interact, but both played by Alex Jennings in the film): Alan, the writer who has a detached view of events, and A.B., the person they're actually happening to. (And the film is also narrated by the real Alan Bennett.)
-   _Three Tall Women_: The three tall women in question, named only A, B, and C, are actually the same woman at three different ages: 92, 52, and 26, respectively. C is not happy at all at the prospect of turning into either A or B, who are mostly bitter and angry.
-   In Bo Burnham's Stand-up comedy show "what.", Burnham is split into two characters, the left brain and the right brain, for the purpose of solving his mental distress. The two halves of his brain offer various views on how to flirt, fight with each other on what they did wrong and why Bo is unhappy, and then eventually decide to do comedy in order to allow both halves of the brain to work together. With this decision made, the two halves of the brain are then re-attached.

    Toys 

-   In _BIONICLE_, Vezok got hit with a fusion ray set in reverse, causing his strategic cunning side to be split off. Notably, this was not an equal split, the double (named Vezon, the Matoran word for "double") had _only_ Vezok's head for tactics; not his powers, not much of his appearance, not even his sanity. And unfortunately for Vezok, the split was permanent (even after getting a hold of the fusion device again, his teammates wrecked it out of annoyance and because him being smart again would make him harder to backstab).
-   In the _Transformers: Timelines_ fiction, Nexus Prime is a large Cybertronian who split his mind and body to form a combiner made of five individuals to help hide the pieces of a vital artifact from enemy hands. The individuals in question are unaware of this for the longest time, making some of their interpersonal dynamics (especially Skyfall and Landquake's Odd Friendship) Hilarious (or at least weirder) in Hindsight. There's also no clear way to classify which person represents which side of Nexus' personality, as they're all fairly three-dimensional personalities. This also makes recombining a Heroic Sacrifice: Becoming Nexus again means the end of all of them as individuals.

    Video Games 

-   In _3D Dot Game Heroes_, Princess Iris is secretly split into three fairies, Ai, Lee, and Sue (Lee is your Fairy Companion for the adventure, Ai and Sue can be discovered in caves.
-   _Bayonetta 2_ gives us Loki and Loptr, the good and evil halves of Aesir, the God of Chaos. When Aesir split his power into the Eyes of the World, he split his soul into two incarnations. By the end of the game, however, Loptr forcibly takes both Eyes and Loki's Sovereign Power, taking over the body of Aesir and becoming the game's Final Boss.
-   _Bomberman 64: The Second Attack!_ has the Angel of Light and Shadow, who created the universe, split into a goddess named Mihaele and a demon named Sthertoth. Sthertoth acts as the main villain of the game until he is forcibly reunited with Mihaele, who is dominant as the Angel and takes over as final antagonist.
-   _Breath of Fire_:
    -   In _Breath of Fire I_, the party enters the mind of Mogu, who is in a coma, to find his personality fractured. They have to find his missing Courage in order to bring them together and wake Mogu up.
    -   _Breath of Fire IV_: Ryu (the protagonist) and Fou-lu (the antagonist) are actually two halves of the same god, the Yorae Dragon/Arukai no Ryuu, that was summoned 600 years ago on the western continent in a desperate attempt to stop a massive civil war. Unfortunately, the summoning was botched; only half the god made it across straightaway (becoming the first emperor of the Fou Empire), the other half ending up landing 600 years in the future and literally halfway across the world. (The Fou Empire and its precessor do _not_ have a good track record at successful summonings.) It should be noted the original split isn't good/evil here, but rather along Yin/Yang aspects. Fou-lu is the yin/water/cold aligned half, while Ryu is the yang/fire/heat aligned half). Fou-lu is actually neutral at first; he ends up going to Omnicidal Maniac thanks to having his girlfriend used as a Tactical Thermonuclear Curse Peasant in a deliberate attempt to kill him by the very empire he founded (which does _not_ want to give up its regency to him).
-   _Brutal Orchestra_ has Nowak and Bosch being revealed to be the same person, and their personality is split between their innocent side and their cynicalism respectively as a result of being Driven to Suicide. While Bosch starts off antagonistic, the two eventually put aside their differences enough to work together.
-   _Control_ plays with the trope, with a Hiss-possessed Dylan tells his sister Jesse about a dream he had where he was an only child, a girl named Jesse Dylan Faden. He then notes how "interesting" it is that both he and Jesse have unisex names. The Hiss incantation also notes that "You've always been here, the only child. A copy of a copy of a copy." and "You've always been the new you. You want this to be true." Whether Dylan and Jesse are in fact a literal split personality, or this was just the Hiss messing with them, is never resolved in the game.
-   The Children of the Dark in _Dark Souls II_ are a group of five women who are actually the physical embodiments of the Eldritch Abomination Manus' shattered soul, who almost instinctively spread the Dark and seek power no matter the cost. Three of the five became Omnicidal Maniacs while the other two are rather benign.
-   In _Devil May Cry 5_, playable character V and Big Bad Urizen are two halves of the same guy — namely, Dante's Evil Twin Vergil, who separated his human and his demonic halves using Yamato in hopes of saving his life from the various damage he'd taken from Mundus' torture and his multiple duels to the death with Dante. V is Vergil's human side, who has almost none of Vergil's demonic power, and primarily fights using his familiars Griffon, Shadow and Nightmare, who represent the Shell-Shocked Veteran parts of his personality from when he was Nelo Angelo, the slave of Mundus. Urizen, on the other hand, is an unholy terror who wields Vergil's demonic power and utter ruthlessness without the humanity to temper it. This leads him to plant a Qliphoth tree in Redgrave City, causing untold devastation in exchange for power surpassing even Mundus himself.
-   In chapters 2 and 4 of _Disgaea 3_, Mao has various palette-swapped Maos inside his own heart.
-   _Dragon Quest_:
    -   In _Dragon Quest IX_, the Guardian Angel Celestrians are suffering from a bad case of Have You Seen My God?, and it's revealed that their Top God Zenus was fractured into pieces by the Big Bad Corvus, each one becoming postgame bosses. After defeating each of them, they disappear to parts unknown and Zenus is not seen back on his throne so it is presumed they still remain separate or Zenus chose not to return to his position.
    -   In _Dragon Quest XI_, it's revealed that the Red Oni, Blue Oni identical twins Veronica & Serena are the split reincarnation of one of the original Luminary's companions.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_:
    -   Mannimarco, an Altmer necromancer known as the "King of Worms" who makes several appearances in the series, had this occur to him. As an Immortality Seeker who wished to become a god, he first became the first mortal to become a Lich. After his attempt to usurp Molag Bal, the Daedric Prince of Domination and Corruption, during the events of _Online_ failed, he hatched another plan to seize the Mantella, an unimaginably powerful soul gem and power source for the reality-warping Numidium during the events of _Daggerfall_. This plan succeeded...sort of. Due to an event known as the "Warp in the West", all of _Daggerfall_'s mutually exclusive endings happened at once, and none to the same extent they would have individually. This seemingly created two beings out of Mannimarco, the "God of Worms" who ascended to divinity and the "King of Worms", a powerful lich who leads a cult which worships the God of Worms. These two now seem to be treated as separate entities.
    -   _Oblivion_:
        -   The main plot of the _Shivering Isles_ expansion revolves around Jyggalag, the Daedric Prince of Order, attempting to pull this off. Deep in the backstory, in a time before recorded history, Jyggalag grew powerful. The other (chaotic-leaning) Daedric Princes grew fearful and jealous of this power, so they came together and cursed Jyggalag into becoming his own antithesis — Sheogorath, the Daedric Prince of Madness. However, at the end of every Era, he is allowed to return to his true form in an event known as the Greymarch. During this time, he retakes and destroys the Shivering Isles (Sheogorath's and formerly his own realm), only to return to the form of Sheogorath at the end. After enlisting the aid of the Champion of Cyrodiil, Jyggalag is finally able to break this Vicious Cycle once and for all by passing the mantle of Sheogorath onto the Champion, splitting them into two separate deities.
        -   Also in the _Shivering Isles_ expansion, there is the town of Split; an entire _community_ made up of literally split personalities. Some explanation: The Shivering Isles is a literal Realm of Madness, which is split environmentally down the middle between two facets of madness: Mania and Dementia. One day, a wizard hypothesized that every person had both a Manic side and a Demented side to their mind, and, to test this, cast a spell on the town to divide all of its original residents into two separate beings. Unfortunately, everyone on either side detests their counterpart, so both sides each ask you, an outsider, to resolve the dilemma for them. Sadly, there is no way to reunite the two sides and you can only "fix" things by completely wiping out one side for the other.
-   In _Drakengard 3_, Zero suspects this is the case of the other Intoners. They were spawned by the Flower when it resurrected her, modeling them off other women Zero knew in life, while shaping their personalities around aspects of her own. Five represents her materialism, Four her Madonna-Whore Complex, Three her insanity, Two her dreams for a happier life, and One her efforts to rationalize the Crapsack World she lived in. The fact that none of the other Intoners is a complete individual helps explain their psychological instability.
-   _Fallen London:_ _Weaponized_ in order to subdivide a creature normally unkillable to humans into multiple formidable but killable beings. In the Bag a Legend ambition, this is what the Chorister Bomb truly does: Split up the Vake/Mr. Veils into its myriad components and representations; most of them are too small to last, but three remain that you must kill (though you can keep one for yourself): Surface Veils, his Chessmaster side that must be Out-Gambitted to death, Curator Veils, the hunter from beyond the stars that must be Slaughtered following a strict calendar, and Veils of the Third City, who represents his particularly involved and near-deific reign in the Third City and must be killed with a weapon that can reach through time.
-   _Fatal Frame_ has it occur to Kirie, whose soul split into two after her ritual failed. The corrupted, hostile form of her spirit that has been possessed by the Malice, who is the Big Bad of the game. And into a younger, non-hostile version of herself that helps Miku to save the other half of Kirie. After the Holy Mirror removes the corruption from Kirie's spirit, she and her younger version become one again.
-   _Final Fantasy_:
    -   In _Final Fantasy IV: The After Years_, this happens with Kain. The part of him that is jealous of Cecil getting Rosa got his own body and stole the crystals in order to kill Cecil. The other half of him took on a disguise and went on as the Hooded Man to help out Ceodore.
    -   The end of _Lightning Returns: Final Fantasy XIII_ reveals that Lumina is actually the living embodiment of Lightning's repressed childhood emotions, which split off from her while Lightning was in crystal stasis.
    -   In _Final Fantasy XIV_, this is done very cleverly. At the start of the Dark Knight Job quest line during _Heavensward_, you're met with a man named Fray, who seemed to be a man who ended up on the wrong end of Ishgard's Temple Knights but then appeared healthy and whole and leads you into using your new Dark Knight powers. By the time the _Heavensward_ quest line ends, it's revealed that while there was a man named Fray, the one you met was a corpse and the one running around with you is actually the manifestation of the frustration of you always being The Hero and given nothing more than just a thank you, a frustration that becomes even worse after the events of Patch 2.55. In the _Stormblood_ missions, you encounter Myste, who ends up being revealed as the embodiment of the sorrow and desire for forgiveness due to their fighting. Both entities try to take over your body, but you end up fighting them off, Fray aiding you against Myste.
-   _Galaxy Angel II_: The final videogame of the trilogy, Eigou Kaiki no Toki, has this happening to Kahlua and Tequila on their route when they accidentally get in contact with Cookie (a nanomachine organism the heroes discovered in planet Femto). The nanomachines end up creating a separate physical body for Tequila, and she tells Kazuya that now she has to take care of both of them. Things start getting complicated when Kahlua starts becoming a little possessive of Kazuya, and the two end up merging back together.
-   _Granblue Fantasy_: Yurius and the Primal Beast of the Astral Void Lacrima were split into three parts: the Celestial Eye looming over Levin, Yurius's body, which has turned into a monster over the years, and an Astral Projection of Yurius representing all the "good" traits about him.
-   _Guild Wars 2 Path of Fire_: The final battle against Kralkatorrik takes place inside his body. While the Dragon himself does not resist, his Torment, a manifestation of all of his pain, forms a body and attacks the Commander and Aurene.
-   _Hyrule Warriors_: At the midway point of the game, it's revealed that Lana is the Anthropomorphic Personification of Cia's good side, having split off from Cia when she was corrupted.
-   _Killer Instinct_ has Eyedol, whose head was split in half by the demonic tyrant Gargos after he lost in a battle. The right part of the head is calm and intelligent while the left part is moody and short-tempered.
-   _Kingdom Hearts_:
    -   It's established at the beginning of _II_ that, generally speaking, if someone with a strong will becomes a Heartless, their body will persist on its own as a Nobody. Slaying both halves causes the process to reverse, essentially bringing that character Back from the Dead.
    -   Sora is split several times: Roxas is his Nobody born during the brief time Sora lost his heart, while Xion is made out of memories extracted from his mind, looking similar to Kairi because she was his strongest memory. Both get reintegrated with Sora, then split back out later on in the franchise.
    -   _Birth by Sleep_ goes the Enemy Without route with Ventus and Vanitas. Like with Sora's incarnations, they're rejoined and then split, although in their case it's rather more violently.
    -   Xehanort's scheme spanning the first nine games is reliant on this, using splitting his personality, Grand Theft Me, and time travel in equal measure to achieve the eventual goal of being in thirteen places at once. Because of the body surfing, how much any given incarnation's personality or appearance actually resembles Xehanort's varies wildly.
-   _League of Legends_ does this to _The Grim Reaper_, manifest as a dual entity of Lamb and Wolf, collectively known as Kindred. The apocryphal story was that there was once "a pale man" who was very lonely because everyone was terrified at having to meet him at the end of their lives, so he split himself into two selves so he would always have a friend. Lamb is a stoic, absolute, but serene version of Death who invites mortals to a peaceful passing, while Wolf is an aggressive, primal version of Death that hunts those trying to avoid their fate until he inevitably wins.
-   _The Longest Journey_ features a character who was split into his logical and emotional halves. His logical side is a cold, amoral human; his emotional side is a Chaos Vortex that nearly kills the player character. When his two sides are reunited, he turns out to be a decent guy.
    -   Happens with the entire _world_ in the backstory, with one Earth split up into the magical Arcadia and scientific Stark with the intention of reuniting them at a later date. This also creates several other pocket worlds.
-   This is a key aspect to the big plot twists in _Lunarosse_. The reason Corlia and Yliandra are similar is because they're both halves of the real Corlia's personality, subconsciously split into two when she created Lunarosse. A willing example was Naamari, who split himself into Zevhan, Bellahan and himself in order to spy on everyone and make sure his plans were working.
-   _Mega Man_:
    -   The _Mega Man X_ series has a few examples. According to supplementary materials, Colonel and Iris were the result of a failed attempt to create a second Mega Man X, but the part of the AI representing X's compassion rejected the part responsible for his martial prowess, or vice versa, so they had to be split off into sperate bodies. There's also the obscure manga and trading card series character IX (Irregular X, presumably he'd be called MaX if he ever showed up in the English version), an evil clone of X made up of all his negative emotions created by parasitic Nano Machines. And then in _Mega Man Zero_ it turns out that the title character himself is one of these, being a cheap knockoff of the real Zero's body that was used by the evil Dr. Weil to siphon off all the good personality traits that Dr. Cain implanted in him, leaving behind the raging psychopath, known as Omega Zero, that Dr. Wily intended him to be.
    -   In _Mega Man Star Force_, Pat has a split personality, Rey. Gemini becomes his EM wave partner. When he EM Wave Changes and becomes Gemini Spark, Gemini splits into two, and the two personalities split. Gemini Spark White merges with Pat. The dominant one (the one you hit to damage), Gemini Spark Black, merges with Rey. Thank Capcom for small blessings; in _Star Force 2_, both of them are damageable separately.
-   In _Mugen Souls_, the protagonist, Chou-Chou, is capable of splitting up her personality _and_ how the personality looks like into _eight_ different types which are Egocentric (default personality), Natural, Vigour, Sadist, Beauty, Tsundere, Masochist, and Cool. Unusual for this trope, this is also a _game mechanic_ in which to convince enemies to become your slaves, you must be at an appropriate personality to get them to join you so that they can power up your Energy Ball and your ship, the Gcastle.
-   In _Neverwinter Nights 2: Mask of the Betrayer_, Safiya, Nefris, and Lienna are all aspects of The Founder, AKA The Red Woman, deliberately split off into separate bodies.
-   In _No More Heroes_, Travis sliced Destroyman along his line of symmetry to kill him. Destroyman returns in _No More Heroes 2: Desperate Struggle_, with each half now gaining a robotic other half, effectively making him two people. Both are still the murderous jerks they were before, but now they have a Red Oni, Blue Oni dynamic: One of the Destroymen is hot-tempered and easily angered, while the other one is calm and polite in an Affably Evil way.
-   _Onmyōji (2016)_: In the past, Abe no Seimei performed a spell that split himself into a Yang personality that is the Seimei we know and a Yin personality known as Kuro Seimei, effectively creating the Big Bad.
-   _Persona_:
    -   In _Persona 4_ _Golden_, it's revealed that Marie was once the goddess Izanami-no-Mikoto but her existence was fractured by mankind's changing nature and she was split into Marie, Kunino-sagiri, Ameno-sagiri, and Izanami-no-Okami. In the Golden Ending she regains her power and uses it to create ideal weather for Inaba.
    -   In _Persona 5_, this is what twins Caroline and Justine really are. Yaldabaoth split _Lavenza_ into Caroline and Justine so she didn't realize he disguises himself as Igor.
-   _Planescape: Torment_: In the penultimate scene , the Nameless protagonist meets some of his earlier incarnations in person — the good incarnation, the practical incarnation, and the paranoid incarnation.
-   _Pokémon:_
    -   In the backstory of _Pokémon Black and White_, there was a great dragon that two brothers used to protect Unova. But when the brothers began arguing with each other, the dragon split its yin into Zekrom and its yang into Reshiram, who would fight endlessly. The sequels reveal that another dragon, Kyurem, is the Empty Shell of the original dragon, and it seeks a hero that will fill its body with truth or ideals (and it does this quite literally by absorbing them to become Black/White Kyurem).
    -   Legends in _Pokémon Diamond and Pearl_ claim that "the Original One" (read: Arceus) created Dialga, Palkia, Giratina, Uxie, Mesprit, and Azelf from itself.
-   _Saints Row: The Third_ has Josh Birk, an in-universe famous actor who becomes available as a follower once you go far enough in the storyline. Once unlocked as a follower, you can summon him either as himself, or in-character as Nyte Blade (a character he plays in the eponymous in-universe show). Josh Birk and "Nyte Blade" being considered by the game as two distinct followers, you can somehow have both at the same time.
-   In _Saints Row IV_, Shaundi's _Saints Row 2_ incarnation, dubbed "Fun Shaundi," ends up splitting up from her and becomes her own entity in the virtual simulation. The "present" Shaundi hates her.
-   Twice in _Sam & Max_:
    -   In _Sam And Max Save The World_, Hugh Bliss 'separates Max's bliss' by symbolically cutting off body parts connected to his sins — his violent hand, gluttonous stomach, and slothful tail. These body parts are then animated into a Violent Max mindlessly blasting at everything with his gun, a Gluttonous Max mindlessly consuming everything that comes near and a Slothful Max too depressed even to move, while the rest of Max's body wonders around in a blunted, blissed-out, terrifying daze with huge chunks carved out of his body.
    -   In _Sam & Max: The Devil's Playhouse_, after Max becomes an Eldritch Abomination, he creates Spores — flaming floating heads which carry an aspect of his personality each. These include Trademark Favorite Food\-obsessed Max, Drill Sergeant Nasty Max, Brooklyn Rage Nostalgia Level Max, Ship Tease Ho Yay\-with-Sam Max...
-   Lore entries in _The Secret World_ reveal that the three assassins known collectively as the White Rabbit began as this: Uta Bloody Valentine was born as the result of embryonic cannibalism, and grew up with two additional personalities crammed into her skull, fighting for dominance. However, everything changed when Lilith found her: taking pity on the troubled young girl, the legendary Mother of Monsters took Uta to a laboratory and "split her like a flatworm" into three separate bodies — one for each personality.
-   Miku in _Singular Stone_ become two different entities when the alien fleet accidentally split her crystal body to half when taking the Singular Stone. One of the Mikus has power over magma and trying to cause mass eruption that renders the entire planet uninhabitable, while another one has ice powers and join forces with the other Guardians.
-   Cheryl Mason of _Silent Hill_ is really the innocent part of the dark and mysterious Alessa Gillespie's personality given a separate body. In the best ending, Cheryl's adoptive father receives a recombined form of Cheryl/Alessa who becomes Heather Mason, the protagonist of _Silent Hill 3_.
-   In _Sonic the Hedgehog (2006)_, two of the big villains of the game — Iblis, a mindlessly destructive fire demon, and Mephiles, a cunning, manipulative creature of darkness — are actually split aspects of Solaris, a god of light and time who "eats dimensions for lunch". Naturally, they recombine for the True Final Boss of the game.
-   In the _Star Wars: The Old Republic_ expansion _Shadow of Revan_, it's revealed that after Darth Revan went mad and was put down by Imperial players in the base game, his soul was fractured into two sides following opposite polarities of the Force. The light side half left his body and became one with the Force as a Spirit Advisor, while the Dark Side half stayed behind, keeping his body alive and taking control of it. The "dark" Revan then came up with an Evil Plan to cripple both The Empire and Republic and resurrect the Sith Emperor to try to kill him himself (which would have very likely failed had the Player Character not intervened).
-   In _Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World_, the true ending involves Ratatosk creating a separate body for his fabricated alter ego, Emil, so he can live happily together with Marta.
-   In _Warcraft III_, the Pandaren Brewmaster's ultimate ability Storm, Earth, and Fire turns him into three separate lesser pandarens, each with their own distinct abilities: Storm is a Squishy Wizard, Earth is a Stone Wall, and Fire is a Lightning Bruiser. While tough, none of them are hero units, and can be killed with relative ease, but if even one escapes, the Brewmaster is returned at the end of the spell (and Storm can turn invisible...).
-   In _Twisted Metal: Head-On_, split-personalities Marcus and Needles Kane AKA Sweet Tooth get separated and confront each other for the first time, before finding a new vehicle called Tower Tooth and form a Split-Personality Team to serve as the Final Boss.
-   Jason Stryker in the video game of _X2: X-Men United_ uses his powers to project an evil adult side and a good child side.
-   _Xenoblade Chronicles 2_:
    -   It is revealed that Zanza is the evil half of Klaus and can be nothing but evil and The Architect is the good half of Klaus. Zanza was sent to another dimension due to the experiment Klaus worked on with the Conduit which is how the original game formed. The Architect later went on to recreate life from the world he destroyed, creating the Titans.
    -   There's also Pyra and Mythra. Pyra is a split personality created by Mythra before she was sealed to ensure that on the off-chance she was found, her new wielder wouldn't immediately have access to her apocalyptic power. Despite there being a clear distinction between the original and split personality, there's never any question over Pyra's right to personhood, and the two consider each other sisters who happen to be Sharing a Body, and appear side by side in a few dream sequences and hallucinations. In the game's final moments, they're rewarded for all they've done by being given separate bodies.
    -   It happens for a third time in _Xenoblade Chronicles 3: Future Redeemed_ with Alvis/Ontos being split into two beings; Alpha, who has Alvis' physical appearance and voice but without Alvis' personality and morality, and A, who carries the aforementioned personality and morality, as well as Alvis' memories of the events of _Xenoblade Chronicles 1_.

    Visual Novels 

-   Fuuko from _CLANNAD_ might count. After the car accident there is the Fuuko in the hospital and the one in the school that everybody seems to be forgetting.
    -   And by extension, Ayu Tsukimiya, as Fuuko is an expy of her.
-   In _DRAMAtical Murder_, Ren was originally part of Aoba's personality (his "restraint" facet, or his superego) but was forced to split from him and occupy his Allmate's dog-like body when the third facet of Aoba's personality (his "evil" side, or more accurately his id) threatened to overtake him completely. His consciousness then gets passed down to Sei's human body in the true ending so that he and Aoba can actually get romantically involved.
-   In _The House in Fata Morgana_, Morgana was told she was a saint since birth and tried to live up to the title until her Trauma Conga Line, by the end of which she had shoved all her saintly, self-sacrificing qualities into half her mind and begun speaking to this half to cope with her torment. Centuries later, while Morgana continued to haunt the titular house where she died, her saintly half (which she didn't remember existed) went on to become a full soul and reincarnated several times without her, even marrying the reincarnation of the man who'd been in love with Morgana in their first life.
-   M and Baron in _Shikkoku no Sharnoth_, as part of Moriarty's experiment. Also, only one of them is ever treated like the character that was originally split.
-   _SHUFFLE!_ has Sia's more aggressive split personality, Kikyou, take over when Sia was being too indecisive in what to do about Rin. Kikyou is actually Sia's dead little sister who made a pact with Sia when they were still unborn, enabling her soul to share Sia's body.
    -   They can literally split in one of game's endings.
    -   Also, Lycoris can take over Nerine at times, as shown in anime and _Essence+_ bonus scene.
-   In _Silver Crisis_, the titular Silver is this to Lucario. He was created by Ganondorf from the darkest parts of Lucario’s Aura, which harbors his anger and bitterness towards his former Master and Humanity as a whole, fueling Silver’s goal of destroying all of existance.
    -   This also happens to Link midway through the story, courtesy of Ganondorf once again. He creates his own variation of Dark Link, though his existence is very short lived.
    -   Towards the end of the story, Lucario has a Heroic BSoD, which has him encounter all of his different emotions/facets of his personalty as actual people in his own mind, who are trying to help him resolve the inner conflict deep within himself.
    -   Silver, using Ganondorf’s absorbed power, creates Dark Versions of everyone to attack them during the final battle.
-   Chinatsu and Ojou in _Suika_. The former is the love and memories of the latter.
-   _Tsukihime_: Len had part of personality split into White Len and then bolstered with magic (or something) giving her an evil twin of sorts. The most notable thing besides being, you know, evil, is that White Len speaks a great deal while Len has only spoken two or three times in total.
-   _When They Cry_:
    -   Word of God for the series is that Bernkastel from _Umineko: When They Cry_ is a collection of _Higurashi: When They Cry_'s Rika's memories of all the Fragments where she died.
    -   Not really a case of a split personality but more of imaginary friends and personas is Sayo Yasuda from the same franchise, who dresses up as servants Shannon, Kanon and the witch Beatrice, who sometimes 'talk' to one another to represent Sayo's internal struggles with her controversial decisions.
-   Pigu Geliciam in the visual novel _Rance IX_ has the ability to split her body into smaller copies of herself, maximum up to eight copies.
-   In _Galzoo Island_, if you choose to make love to Nekomatamata and impregnate her, she will end up getting split into five children version of herself, unlike all the other girls in the harem. Kusushi explains that eventually, the five children will combine back into one once Nekomatamata grows back to adulthood in a few days time.

    Web Animation 

-   Test Tube ends up splitting Yin-Yang into his two split personalities in episode 3 of _Inanimate Insanity II_. Yang ends up causing more harm to the group when he's split like this than when he is with Yin, and since Status Quo Is God, Yin and Yang end up coming back together as one by the end of the episode.
-   In _Red vs. Blue: Reconstruction_, we learn that Project Freelancer, a military program implanting Artificial Intelligences into elite soldiers, was only given a single AI to work with by the \[\[Franchise/Halo UNSC\]\] which was based off of a cloned brain of the programs' Director. So they subjected this Alpha AI to stress and psychological torture until it started breaking apart, producing fragmented consciousnesses based on one aspect of the Alpha — Delta represented its logic, Gamma its deceit, Omega its rage, and so on. The problem was that Sigma the fragment embodying both creativity and ambition got the idea of becoming a "true" AI and achieving Metastability by attacking the other Freelancers and absorbing its siblings, giving rise to the Meta. The Alpha itself is revealed to be Leonard Church of Blue Team; having been stripped of too much of its original personality and capabilities that it was simply sent away for it's own safety, while his "Girlfriend" Texas is actually another fragment of Alpha known as "Beta": a manifestation of the feelings that the Director had felt for his late wife Allison.
-   Near the end of _The Strangerhood_, it's revealed that an accident occurred when Tovar was transported to the Strangerhood, which split him into two different people, one that was pure evil and one that was pure moron.

    Webcomics 

-   In _The Adventures of Dr. McNinja_, when the good Doctor finds himself at death's doorway, his soul splits into two figures: his rational, scientific side, dressed in a doctor's scrubs; and his Hot-Blooded, justice-obsessed side, dressed in full Ninja garb. Both sides have to cooperate to... _persuade_ The Grim Reaper to allow McNinja to live.
    -   In the "Army Of One" arc, there is a sort of inversion, where the doctor has a bunch of clones of him made, they all go to college for eight years, taking different degrees, and then merge _back_ into the original McNinja, which justifies his vast scientific knowledge and also helps explain some things in past stories (how he has a Universal Driver's License, why he occasionally argues with his Inner Monologue, etc).
-   In _At Arm's Length_, Ally spent most of the "Splitting Hares" arc divided into two versions of herself, one loyally staying by her husband Peter's side while they other half commits to her friends Sheila and Reece. Both claimed to be the "true" Ally and fought it out, each accusing the other of being inferior and making irresponsible choices. It took the threat of being erased from existence due to the instability of the split to get them to put aside their differences and come together again.
-   _Blood is Mine_: Jane's red is a mental representation of her powers and alien heritage. At first it looks like skin with massive teeth stretched over a wall, then as a blood-splattered version of Jane with inhumanly long limbs. After Jane accepts it, her red turns into a copy of her, only with red hair. When Jane overcharges her astral projection through Incident F, she encounters other fragments of her personality, such as her inner child or the embodiment of her fears.
-   In this _Dresden Codak_ strip, Kimiko suddenly, somehow has a red-coloured, extroverted copy of herself split off from her. Extrovert Kimiko then proceeds to run off with the guy that Introvert Kimiko was spying on.
-   In _He Is a Good Boy_, when Crange is insulting himself in a mirror at a bar, the planets align and he splits into his depressed half and his moral half. Moral!Crange goes on a massive euphoria trip while Depressed!Crange is able to drink without inhibition and gets _very_ pissed when Moral!Crange knocks the crown that he won in a drinking contest off his head. They eventually make up and agree to go their separate ways, but as soon as they do, the planets come out of alignment again and they merge back together.
-   Sollux Captor from _Homestuck_ is a semi-example: he's got two "dream selves" (most main characters have only one dream self: a duplicate who lives in a tower in Another Dimension and which they temporarily become when they go to sleep.) Each dream self apparently accounts for one of the two sides of his bipolar personality, so when one of his dream selves dies, he goes from manic-depressive to just permanently depressive.
    -   Theoretically all character's dreamselves should qualify, but Jade is the only other character who actually shows a major difference in personality between her dream and waking selves. Her dream self is goofier and more impulsive than her waking self. And is a blubbering pansy when brought back from the dead as Jadesprite.
    -   Dave and Davesprite also reflect this to a lesser extent. The latter went through a Bad Future in which he lost two of his friends and had to face down an inevitable death. As a result he's not as stoic as Dave.
    -   Heroes of Heart rule over an Aspect governing the self and identity. Their myth arc often involve "a journey of splintered self." Dirk has this in spades between himself and his auto-responder. Ironically, he doesn't have it with his dream self, since he runs both bodies at once with the same mind.
    -   Calliope and Caliborn also count. While they're more like two beings who share the same body, they have separate dream selves.
-   The titular character of _Jix_ has multiple personalities; in one arc she was cloned and her "Remula" personality was seemingly transferred to the clone. Unfortunately it turned out that the device only copied her.
-   _Lookism_: This is the best trope to describe what happened to Park Hyung Suk, a chubby and unattractive teenager. After being bullied most of his life, he shuts himself into his new apartment. After having fallen asleep from crying so much he wakes up because of a Potty Emergency. When he's done and is going to wash his hands, he sees himself as a Bishōnen in the mirror, but when he goes back to the bedroom his usual body is there sleeping. Turns out he got another body and changes between them each time he sleeps.
-   _Medic Pics_: Several chapters split the author into his thoughts as an artist and his thoughts as a student, and their conflicting goals.
-   Spoofed with a duplication ray (the "Dupe-O-Matic") in _Melonpool_ in which Ralph is first split to form his good twin Ralphie, then Ralph was split again to form his even eviler twin Fauntleroy so in essence Ralph was being distilled. Interestingly, Melonpool instead gets split into his usual moron self and a twin who is a genius.
    -   The Dupe-O-Matic is also used in a cross-over with _It's Walky!_ to duplicate Joyce, who already had a Split Personality, creating an Evil Twin who continued to have effects far down the plot.
-   _The Non-Adventures of Wonderella_ featured "Orgy Biv's Chromasplitter", which divided Wonderella into her two most dominate personalities: Passive and Aggressive.
-   While rendered incomprehensible for a good stretch of the series, Haley from _The Order of the Stick_ often got into arguments within herself, with mental versions of herself that represented fragments of her psyche. Her self-loathing was usually the one she spoke with, but she sometimes met with other parts of her, such as her optimism, her vanity, her mistrust, her latent bisexuality, and the new side of her that's sick of the emo stuff and wants to get back to comedy.
-   One _Philler Space_ arc has Philler split into three beings: his id, ego, and superego.
-   _The Wotch_: In the 2003 "SchizophrANNEia" arc, Anne tries to fulfill multiple commitments by using a spell to make identical copies of herself. Turns out that each copy represents a different emotion, and furthermore each new copy diminishes the original incrementally. Needless to say much Hilarity Ensues before Anne is finally able to pull herself together.

    Web Original 

-   The _Bandwidth Theatre_ episode "Microsoft: The Verdict" sees an antitrust judge order Microsoft split into its good and evil sides. The use of the classic transporter sound effect makes this a Shout-Out to "The Enemy Within", which for many is the archetypal example.
-   Chad/Chaddy/Merry/Mai/Paige/Petra of the Whateley Universe. Currently in three parts: Paige, Petra, and Chaddy. Paige is at Whateley, Petra is in Italy, and Chaddy is running around in Sara's head.
-   _Brawl Universe_ has Sheik being split from Zelda thanks to Ganondorf's Magic and she becomes this. Since she was initially part of Zelda, she vies for Link's affections like Zelda does, but otherwise she seems to be her own person.
-   In _Film Conscience_, Kinley Mochrie uses Phillip, his Inner Pessimist, and Ringo, his Inner Optimist, to point out the good and the bad qualities of a film being reviewed. Sometimes, she'll even have other Inners pop in every once in a while to show their perspective along with Phillip and Ringo.
-   In _Books Vs Movies_, the Matt Hatter who reviews the movie versions of books is said to represent the more rational, objective side of Matt Guion and it's eventually established (via Double Vision) that he and the "regular" Matt are separate people. Later events create further literal split personalities from Regular Matt, including the Scottish Reviewer who's knowledgeable about theater, Evil Twin who's a Card-Carrying Villain, and a seeming Captain Obvious who turns out to be more of an Empathic Shapeshifter.
-   _Destroy the Godmodder_ has lots of this, almost always combined with Author Avatar, since players use it to spawn mini plot points and summon themselves as entities. And then the GM got one too...
-   Jordan from _Jordan Underneath_ is seen interacting with various other versions of himself throughout his videos, usually representing parts of his personality.
    -   Sad Jordan is a perpetually sad Jordan that represents Jordan's sadness and depression. He is characterized by the black tear streaks coming from his eyes, his friendship with the scary Mr. Whiskers, his habit of saying depressing things and his compulsion to remind Jordan constantly of those depressing things.
    -   Skele-Jordan is Jordan. And a skeleton. He might also be insane and a representation of his inner Nightmare Fetishist.
    -   Evil Jordan is Jordan's evil side who tries taking over as the dominant personality in the _Silent Hill 3_ review. Half of his face (and hand) is painted black with one red eye.
    -   Anxiety Jordan represents Jordan's anxiety. He has swirly eyes, a cracked face and wears a white hoody, and usually mutters all of the little things that bother him.
-   Thomas Sanders has a web series titled _Sanders Sides_ where he has long conversations and debates with personifications of the different aspects of his personality, who try to help him find solutions to his personal or existential issues in his daily life.
    -   Logan, Thomas' logical side, is a symbol of Thomas' logical thinking, his acquired knowledge, and has the shape of a high school teacher, with a black shirt, an indigo necktie and glasses. He always sports a serious attitude, has trouble understanding slang words or double meaning expressions, and despises dad jokes. He becomes frustrated when he thinks the other Sides are ignoring him or aren't being serious enough.
    -   Patton, Thomas' morality, also known as Dad, represents Thomas' sense of right or wrong, his emotions and feelings, and also his inner child, something that makes him behave like a goofy little child, something ironic as he has the appearance of the average American family man, with a blue polo shirt, a gray cardigan wrapped around his shoulders, and glasses. Appropriately, he's always telling dad jokes that exasperate Logan. He has a habit of using jokes to hide his negative emotions, and of pushing Thomas too hard to be selfless at the expense of his mental health.
    -   Prince Roman, Thomas' creativity, also known as Princey, represents Thomas' creative thoughts, his hopes and dreams, his fantasy in general, and also his love for singing. Appropriately, he has the shape of a Disney prince, with a white royal outfit and a red strip crossing his chest. He has a huge ego, always wants to be the center of attention and clashes often with Virgil, always creating new inventive insulting nicknames for him. Because of his desire to be the center of attention, Roman also has a fragile ego and becomes upset easily when he feels he is not being listened to.
    -   Virgil, Thomas' anxiety, represents Thomas' fears, his anxiousness, his self-deprecating thoughts, and his fight-or-flight instincts. He has the appearance of an emo teenager, always wearing a dark hoodie and heavy eyeshadow under his eyes. He speaks with a soft, monotone voice, making cynical remarks to Thomas and the other Sides, especially Roman. Virgil may seem like a negative part of Thomas' personality, but without him, Thomas can't function. After Accepting Anxiety Part 2, Virgil starts to be less obtrusive and contributes more helpfully to the Sides' discussions. He still kicks in full force when Thomas needs him to, though.

    Western Animation 

-   _101 Dalmatians: The Series_: The episode "Good Neighbor Cruella" has Cruella DeVil split herself in two in order to improve her public image by having her good side do good deeds for her. The good-Cruella ended up being more obnoxious and intolerable than the evil-Cruella, due to her overbearingness and naivety. The puppies end up fusing her back together, since both her halves are even harder to handle than a single Cruella.
-   Jimmy from _The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron, Boy Genius_ creates several several clones<small>◊</small> of himself in order to try and get his chores done faster. They all adopted one personality (and took it to the extreme, mind you). At the end of the episode Jimmy gets rid of the clones by freezing them, although the evil one escaped and appeared again as the villain in another episode before getting trapped in another dimension seemingly for good.
-   In _The Adventures of Puss in Boots_, it is revealed that the wizard and founder of San Lorenzo, Sino, split himself in two, his light side and dark side, and imprisoned his dark side. His light side? Has been in the show from the very beginning as Artephius.
-   _Aladdin: The Series_:
    -   Genie had an episode dedicated to this, where he was split into seven parts of his personality: Laughter, Wisdom, Kindness, Anger, Courage, Fear and Weirdness.
    -   As did Aladdin himself: in another episode his logical head was split from his emotional body.
-   In an _All Dogs Go to Heaven_ series episode, Charlie B. Barkin split himself into multiple dogs by using a magical box in order to be in multiple appointments at once.
-   In _American Dad!_'s non-canon 200th episode, when Roger steps inside a hadron collider he gets hit with a barrage of bosons that splits his alter egos from across the series into 200 clones, while also causing his fart at the same time to turn into a mushroom cloud that destroys most of the world.
-   _Avengers Assemble:_ When the Beyonder declares he will "tear the Avengers apart" he proves it by physically separating the Hulk and Bruce Banner, rendering the Hulk nearly mindless. Banner, meanwhile, becomes quite determined to _not_ go back.
-   In the _Batman: The Brave and the Bold_ episode "A Bat Divided!", a nuclear accident splits Batman into the three sides of his personality: an intellectual scientific detective, an angry bruiser... and a laid-back, nacho-munching slacker. Apparently, it's Slacker Batman's heart that allows the other two conflicting sides of his personality to work together.
-   In one episode of the _Beetlejuice_ cartoon, BJ gets so mad about being stiffed on a reward for breaking up a Wild Teen Party on Halloween night, he literally becomes "beside himself", splitting into a good side (an easy-going Lovable Coward with a fondness for bad puns) and an evil side (a crude, slovenly prankster).
-   In the _Ben 10: Ultimate Alien_ episode "Duped", Ben as Echo Echo splits into three Echo Echo clones, before each one turns human. Each of the Ben's represent a core aspect of Ben's personality, including: logical Ben, sensitive Ben, and arrogant Ben. Upon recombining, Ben has the memories of all his clones.
-   Happens in _Bounty Hamster_. An Applied Phlebotinum machine able to separate things into their component parts gets used on Marion, creating an assortment of copies based on various aspects of his personality. The copies go off to get jobs, the idea being that the more of him there are, the more money they can earn. All of the different Marions are different colors, and are suspiciously reminiscent of the dwarfs from _Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs_.
-   _Captain Planet and the Planeteers_: In one episode, Dr. Blight develops a device that creates evil clones of whatever is put in it. The villains capture and clone all of the Planeteer rings to create pollution-causing counterparts (Super Radiation, Deforestation, Smog, Toxics, and Hate). Just like Captain Planet is formed from the power of the Planeteer's five rings, Dr. Blight's rings combine to form Captain Pollution.
-   _Centaurworld_ It turns out that the beast that would become The Nowhere King was created this way. An Elktaur engineer who worked on the portal between the human world and Centaurworld fell in love with a human and decides to make himself human so she would love him back, so he separated his human half from his elk half, but his elk side was still intelligent and became jealous of his human half and wanted to merge back together. After the human half refused to merge back together with the elk half, the elk half started merging humans and animals together in an attempt to create a family for himself but repeated exposure to the magic he used warped him into a monster. Interestingly, Word of God states that the split actually didn't divide his personality. The two were identical in everything except body when they first split, so the two halves each felt like they were the original and acted exactly as the original would have in their respective circumstances.
-   _Danny Phantom_: In "Identity Crisis", Danny tries to use the Fenton Ghost Catcher — a dreamcatcher-like device originally intended to separate ghosts from humans they'd possessed — in order to split his ghost half from his human half. It works, but naturally turns out to have been a bad idea. The human half is quickly nicknamed "Fun Danny" due to being, well, fun-loving, but is also kind of apathetic; the ghost half is obsessed with crime fighting, but has trouble reining in the "boy scout" side of himself. And in addition to the problems caused by the two halves each only having half of the original's personality, they also lose all of the advantages of being a Half-Human Hybrid, with disastrous results: one can't defend himself due to lacking his powers, and the other has all the weaknesses of a regular ghost, _without_ the backup option of temporarily switching to human form in order to bypass some of said weaknesses (which, naturally, he eventually needs). They try to fix things by going through the dreamcatcher again, but this just divides their powers amongst each other. They discover that they went through the 'split' side twice, and at the end of the episode they finally go through the 'merge' side, which sets everything right.
    -   A case of a similar bit of Applied Phlebotinum having wildly different results: in "The Ultimate Enemy", after seeing all his friends and family blown up in front of his eyes, Danny ends up going to his Arch-Enemy Vlad, and asks him to "make the pain go away". Vlad agrees, and rips out Danny's humanity. This splits Danny into a ghost half and a human half, like the example above; however, having been split in a different manner, this time the ghost half is completely insane and very violent. We don't really get to find out what the human half was like, because before we get a chance to get to know that Danny, the ghost Danny splits Vlad into ghost-Vlad and human-Vlad, and fuses with the ghost-Vlad; this amalgamation of ghostly badness then turns on human-Danny, and brutally murders him so gruesomely that human-Vlad, a decade later, is unwilling to talk about it.
-   _Darkwing Duck_:
    -   In the episode "Negaduck", the eponymous crimefighter is split into good and evil sides, which are later enhanced into super-good and super-evil sides. This is _not_ the origin of the show's popular recurring villain called Negaduck. The creators just liked the concept of an evil Darkwing Duck as a villain so much that they sought to bring him back by introducing a Mirror Universe Negaduck that acted just like the aforementioned evil side.
    -   Later something similar would happen to Gosalyn in "The Frequency Fiends", leaving the original unaffected but creating three superpowered duplicates with single personality traits.
-   In the Missing Episode of _Dexter's Laboratory_, "Rude Removal", Dexter's latest invention causes Dexter and Dee-Dee to split into nice and rude halves. The nice versions are friendly and speak with British accents while the rude versions swear and speak in tough east-side accents.
-   Happens to Gemma in the _Dogstar_ episode "Twice the Excitement", with one embodying all of Gemma's positive personality traits, and the other all of her negative traits. And neither can throw a rock with the skill that the original Gemma possessed.
-   _Family Guy_ had an episode in which Stewie created a clone of his evil side (a failed attempt to enhance his own evilness).
-   In the _Fangbone!_ episode "The Fred of Bone", Fangbone uses the Toe's magic to split off his artistic side into a second Fangbone named Fred Bone (who has previously appeared in "The Necktie of Change" when Fangbone was Not Himself) so that he can concentrate on fighting Venomous Drool's monsters while Fred Bone attends school in his place.
-   _The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy_: Word of God confirmed if _Underfist_ had actually became a series, Eris would split herself into two different versions of herself (a good version and an evil version) after being heartbroken from her break up with Hoss Delgado as the two versions of Eris attempt to win back Hoss's love each in their own crazy and chaotic ways. Both Nice Eris and Naughty Eris (along with other characters and ideas that are supposed to in the series) never came to fruition as the series was never greenlight, however they appear as cameos at the end credits of _Underfist: Halloween Bash_.
-   In _Infinity Train_, One-One is a ball-robot with two personalities: Glad-One, the eternal optimist; and Sad-One, the eternal pessimist. The two can split down the middle to function independently.
-   The Tiger Talisman from _Jackie Chan Adventures_ has the power to divide anyone into two different beings: yin (good) and yang (bad). For example, Jackie Chan gets split in half by it in three different episodes; Yin Jackie is an exaggeration of his usual niceness to the point of being a wimpy pushover, while Yang Jackie is his repressed inner jerk who's very rude and willing to fight for the bad guys.
-   In the episode called "The Good, The Bad, and the Johnny" of _Johnny Test_, Susan and Mary split Johnny into his good side and his bad side. Good Johnny acted really annoying and sweet. Bad Johnny kept on doing bad stuff and got much stronger.
-   In season 3 of _Justice League Unlimited_, it's revealed that the Shadow Thief is Hawkman's darker desires given semi-physical form.
-   In the _Monsters vs. Aliens_ series, Dr. Cockroach's teleportation device splits him in two: his serious "scientist" half and his hard-partying "mad" half.
-   In _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_, seemingly Luna is corrupted by her own bitterness and transforms into Nightmare Moon, and she and others speak as though they are the same pony. However, Word of God implied Nightmare Moon may be a separate entity manifested from said bitterness and jealousy, though still using the same body as Luna (further implied by Luna saying to Celestia "I've missed you so much" implying she was trapped inside Nightmare Moon, who had nothing but resentment towards Celestia, even though she still held herself responsible for Nightmare Moon's actions due to having essentially created her and attempted to overthrow Celestia herself before transformation).
-   In _The Penguins of Madagascar_, Marlene, who was raised in captivity, turns into a feral form when she leaves the boundaries of the zoo. In the episode "Littlefoot" Kowalski attempts to get rid of her feral side, but it ends up taking on a life of its own.
-   In the _Phineas and Ferb_ episode aptly titled "Split Personality", the boys' molecular separator accidentally gets Candace split into her two strongest emotions: her desire to bust her brothers, and her crush on Jeremy. At the end of the episode, the separator falls down the entrance to Perry's lair and fires at Monogram, creating a split copy of him that really loves singing.
-   Spoofed in an episode of _The Ren & Stimpy Show_. Ren gets split in two, but instead of getting split into a good and evil side, he gets split into an evil side, and an _indifferent_ side. Later, Evil Ren tries to clone himself, but only gets split again into Evil Ren, and _Hideously_ Evil Ren. Who, for some reason, is female. And the two evil Rens fell in love and promptly got married. And they expressed their love by constantly punching each other.
-   In _Star Trek: Lower Decks_ episode "A Few Badgies More", Rutherford realizes that Badgey's rage and anger is caused by the lack of love he gave it, so Rutherford wants to rebuild their relationship, calling him his son. While Badgey accepts this, his evil side can't handle it and he splits off the good side into "Goodgey". When Rutherford attempts to invoke Vengeance Feels Empty, the evil side reacts poorly again and casts off his logic side, creating "Logic-y".
-   _Steven Universe_: Fifth season finale "Change Your Mind" has some instances of this:
    -   It's heavily implied that the Diamonds (Steven included) are actually sentient embodiments of White Diamond's personality traits, which she separated from herself in an attempt to remove her flaws and become perfect. Since all the other gems are made (at least partially) from the Diamonds' sweat, _all_ Gems could be considered splinters from White Diamond.
    -   Steven's gemstone is pulled from his body, and it forms its own Hard Light copy of Steven. "Human" Steven's personality is not affected, but he's left horribly weakened, probably dying. "Gem" Steven is a super-powered Creepy Child with a single-minded focus on getting back together as quickly as possible.
-   In the _Rick and Morty_ episode "Rest and Ricklaxation", Rick and Morty get a detox at an alien spa. Unbeknownst to them, the detox machine creates "toxic" versions of Rick and Morty.
-   Raven in _Teen Titans (2003)_. Not only did she occasionally split into lots of different personalities, their cloaks were even color-coded for convenience. They include: Pink Raven (Happy), Grey Raven (Timidity), Green Raven (Bravery), Orange Raven (Rudeness), Purple Raven (Passion), Yellow Raven (Knowledge), Brown Raven (Laziness), and Red Raven (Rage).
    -   Revisited in _Teen Titans Go!_ when she is accidentally split apart into 5 different personalities via a gem, this time only including Passion, Rage, Happy, Laziness (now Orange), and Timidity.
    -   Revisited yet again in "Some of Their Parts" when Silkie swallows the gem, splitting into five different personalities. This gives Robin the idea to split the rest of the team in the same manner and just use the best aspects of each for crime-fighting (Cyborg's robotic logic, Raven's demonic rage, Starfire's warrior side, and... a slightly hungry Beast Boy as a human shield).
-   _Tigtone_: In "Tigtone and the Chromatic Crossage", a mishap with a magic prism splits Kalidrascoptor, who was already an androgynous figure who alternated between male and female voices at random, into a rainbow-colored "Brain-Bow" with the male voice and "Rain-Bone" with the female voice. Merging them back together results in them becoming an Eldritch Abomination that is easily defeated in under a minute.
-   _Tiny Toon Adventures_ had a short where Babs' sense of humor was accidentally removed from her body, so while the humor side was borderline insane and ran around causing trouble, Babs was turned into a stuffy, humorless nerd. Cue all sorts of wacky hijinx as Hamton and Calamity try to catch Babs' sense of humor and merge the two halves back together before sundown, when the separation would become permanent.
-   _Transformers_:
    -   Starscream's clones in _Transformers: Animated_ all embody an aspect of their creator, although he doesn't have to give up anything to create them. They represent his arrogance (Thundercracker), sycophancy (that is, kiss-ass-iness, Sunstorm), deception (compulsive lying, Ramjet), and cowardice (Skywarp), along with a female clone, Slipstream, who tells Starscream not to ask what she represents. (His feminine side, perhaps?)
        -   Expanded Universe clones include Dirge (greed), Thrust (envy), and "Clone Black" (his lack of originality? Basically, he's an all-black toy with no bio — not even a name).
    -   An even better example from _Transformers_ is the G1 Combiners, like the Constructicons' Devastator, the Combaticons' Bruticus, and the Predacons' Predaking—inverted because the separated parts are the originals, but then they combine into one giant robot that has the combined mind of the five/six/seven components. With the bad guys, this tends to mean they destroy everything; the good guys protect everything. Usually. The Technobots' Computron has a problem with thinking things out too much and sometimes gets beaten by the primal-instinct Decepticons. The questionably-canonical explanation is that the combined form only has the traits all five have in common, hence urge to smash other side being about all there is to them. Predaking is the sole exception to the Hulk-smashiness of combiners because the Predacons work together just that well.
    -   There's another case of splitting among the Transformers: In _Beast Machines,_ Megatron's organic and machine sides are split between the wolf Maximal, Noble, and his base, which eventually transforms into a giant Megatron-head. Noble has a Jekyll & Hyde thing going, but it turns out that's _all_ Megs stringing the Maximals along and he has full control of both forms.
-   In the _Trollhunters_ episode "Hero with a Thousand Faces", Jim adds a Power Crystal to his amulet that supposedly grants the user "the power of a thousand", thinking it means Super-Strength. Him and his friends only learn the true power is Self-Duplication when he accidentally splits himself into nine Jims at a barbecue.
-   The _Unikitty!_ episode "Fire and Nice" has Unikitty, ashamed that her angry side became destructive after being legit angry at something, deciding to remove it from her. Unfortunately, her angry side is still partly connected to her standard body, which causes it to grow bigger and bigger the more she holds in her anger.
-   In the _Wander over Yonder_ episode "The Wanders", a cave full of magic crystals causes Wander to be split up into _four-hundred and twenty-two_ clones of himself, each representing a different aspect of his personality. Sylvia must round up all the Wander duplicates and return them to the original Wander before he fades away forever.
-   One episode of _World of Quest_ had the title character split into pacifistic Good Quest who irritated the Questers with his talking about group hugs and sociopathic Evil Quest who turned Lord Spite into his butler. Upon recombining, Quest declared that he hated the good him.
-   _Xiaolin Showdown_
    -   Omi did this when he used the Ring of the Nine Dragons in season 1. Notably, the alter-versions became more flanderized the more of them that exist since the ring explicitly splits the original personality among the copies, as when he split into "just" three the "main" Omi was more or less normal, but when all nine come out none of them could be mistaken for his usual self.
    -   Jack does this too. Unlike Omi, he seems to be able to split himself into alter-versions without losing his rather eccentric "genius", instead making rather unusual duplicates of himself (including a donkey-man hybrid); granted, he does this so he can play four-on-four basketball with himself while he referees the game, but still...

___