**EMT:** Ma'am? Did someone order an ambulance for The Littlest Cancer Patient?  
**LUCY:** OH MY GOD I LOVE YOU.  
**HEARTSTRING #79:** \*does not tug\*  
**SCREENWRITERS:** What?  
**AUDIENCE:** Oh, whatever. Like you were going to kill off The Littlest Cancer Patient.

A particularly risky form of The Woobie, which is much more likely (though not certain) to fail than be successful with the audience. The Littlest Cancer Patient, as you may have guessed from the title, is a small child, rarely over the age of nine, with some form of terminal disease — although they may be in recovery. Cancer couldn't kill them, and neither can a small apocalypse. This character's sole reason for existence is to tug your heartstrings so hard they're torn from your chest.

The Littlest Cancer Patient has a rather specific form of Contractual Immortality. They may find themselves on a plane that gets hijacked by terrorists, menaced by the Monster of the Week, in the path of a huge tidal wave, or in any other form of danger, but rest assured — the only thing allowed to kill them is their illness. And that will rarely happen in the course of the story unless the writer(s) really wanna punch you in the gut. If he appears in a sports movie as the protagonist motivation (or alternatively the maverick player's Morality Chain), the only cure to his disease is the Ragtag Bunch of Misfits somehow managing to win the Big Game.

Often we find Littlest Cancer Patients to be Wise Beyond Their Years. Occasionally they are used to give a Pet the Dog moment to The Big Guy, The Lancer, or sometimes even a Dirty Coward. Another common use is for an athlete to swear to win a game or match for the sake of this poor, sick child, never taking to mind the possible repercussions if they _fail_ to do this. As this trope developed, cruel subversions became common. (Hilarious subversions work too.)

See also Soap Opera Disease, Victorian Novel Disease, Delicate and Sickly, Inspirationally Disadvantaged.

Often overlaps with Death of a Child. Compare Morality Pet and Too Good for This Sinful Earth. Often the target of Kids Are Cruel. If someone works to earn money (legally or not) to pay for the poor child's treatment, this is a Healthcare Motivation.

**No Real Life Examples, Please!**

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

-   Of course, every single ad from a foundation for kids with cancer. _Every. Single. Ad._ Though to be fair, it's hard to see how they could make an ad for such a foundation and _not_ have a Littlest Cancer Patient.
-   Common bait-and-switch scam on Facebook. The likes that users are told will "let this girl know you support her" will become apparent endorsements of a quack remedy or a get-rich-quick scheme as soon as the scammer decides to change the page content.

    Anime and Manga 

-   Subverted in an episode of _Monster Rancher_, where Gentle Giant Golem meets a young girl with a terminal illness and enters a combat tournament to raise money for her treatment. Turns out she and her father are con artists, and in a further subversion, they even get away with it. (Though she at least mentions to her father that she thinks they should retire as they leave.)
    
    "Golem wanted girl to get better. Girl is better. Golem happy."
    
-   _Ojamajo Doremi_: Naisho's twelfth episode had a leukemia patient, Nozomi or "Non-chan", who lived out her dream of becoming a witch for a day thanks to the girls, but died before the Witch World could make it a reality in the future a day later. There was a patient younger than her who was allowed to go out of the hospital in the end though.
-   This is the primary basis for _Full Moon_, in which the main character is a child with throat cancer who dreams of becoming a singer. She repeatedly refuses the operation that would save her life because it would require the removal of her vocal cords.
-   _Naruto_: In a filler arc, a group of Genin from the Hidden Star village use a special meteorite to train, which amplifies their chakra but puts a great strain on their bodies. The youngest of these is one of the unfortunate ones whose body cannot handle the strain, and after looking at his damaged chakra network with his Byakugan, Neji states that the boy doesn't have long to live. It doesn't need to be said that he makes a full recovery, right? Hooray for Tsunade.
-   A surprisingly well-done and heartbreaking case in _Shadow Star_. Action Mom Jane Franklin teams up with Shiina to rescue her son Robert, the LCP of the story, who is also a Dragon Bearer, and who's been kidnapped by the Japanese government so they can use him for their purposes. The child even dies in her arms peacefully after they rescue him.
-   Hayate in _Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha A's_. That the villains were doing what they did because they thought it would save her life placed them in the Hero Antagonist side of the morality scale.
    -   If by the villains you mean the Wolkenritter. The _actual_ villains were Well Intentioned Extremists who intended that she would be killed as a necessary sacrifice to stop the Book of Darkness, because she was Conveniently an Orphan, and there wouldn't be anyone to grieve for her when she died, which is in some ways an inversion of this trope.
-   Yuuya, the cute boy from the seventh and eighth volumes of CLAMP's _Tokyo Babylon_ qualifies, although he has a rare kidney disease rather than cancer. Not only does he rack up massive Moe points with the audience, he's also the indirect cause of Seishirou's eye being destroyed, as his mother crossed the Despair Event Horizon, then went batshit crazy and tried to tear Subaru's kidney out, and instead ended up gouging his Seishirou's eye out right in front of him... resulting in even more angst and woe.
    -   For worse, Yuuya had a twin sister named Maya. She was this in the past, and then she died.
-   In _Angel Beats!_, Otonashi's little sister Hatsune dies young from an unspecified illness that left her in the hospital for much of her childhood.
-   _Gunslinger Girl_. The Social Welfare Agency ostensibly rehabilitates female children who have been disabled or traumatized due to disease or criminal atrocities. However a few are secretly reconditioned as brainwashed cyborg assassins for the Italian government. This trope is used to recruit The Handlers of these girls; they're shown a little girl in a hospital bed who has lost everything, and told they can give her a second chance at life. In truth the conditioning shortens their lifespan, but by the time that sinks in their handler feels too morally compromised to refuse, which would mean abandoning the girl anyway as she can't be reconditioned to another handler.
-   In one episode of _Vandread_, while tending to one planet where the residents are largely ill due to bad conditions in their atmosphere, Bart strikes an Inter Generational Friendship with a little girl named Shirley who loves to hear his exaggerated tales of what they've gone through up till this point. She is happy to hear all that and begins working on a doll bearing his resemblance, which lets people know they existed and left something behind. When a Harvester Fleet shows up to try and kidnap some of the population, Bart goes into Papa Wolf mode and does a You Shall Not Pass! on them. Unfortunately, Shirley dies from her illness while he was protecting the planet, and was never able to sew the doll's hair on... so Bart instead shaves his head bald to match the doll she made, which he subsequently wears around his neck as a charm.
-   _Subaru_ has the titular character's brother Kazuma, who is suffering from a brain tumor.
-   _Tokyo Ghoul:Re_ provides an example that is as heartbreaking as it is horrifying. While Ginshi Shirazu initially seems to just be greedy, it turns out his obsession with money is because his little sister is hospitalized with an incurable and ultimately fatal condition. The only method of treatment is prohibitively expensive, but really only slows the progression of the disease. The disease not only causes her to regress into a childlike state but creates a monstrous tumor growing out of the side of her face. She's unable to move and barely able to speak, but tells her brother she wants to be beautiful like a Princess.
-   Shows up in _Monster Musume_ with the character Yuuhi, and her illness is dealt with in the series' usual off-the-wall manner: Lala "cures" her with one of Zombina's stolen teeth, killing her and turning her into a zombie. It works out fairly well, all things considered (she certainly doesn't have to worry about diseases any more), but is a bureaucratic nightmare.

    Comic Books 

-   _Spider-Man_:
    -   _Amazing Spider-Man #248: "The Kid Who Collects Spider-Man"_, features one of these. The story itself was re-written and adapted for an episode of _Spider-Man: The Animated Series_.
    -   _Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man_ #5 has Spider-Man visit a children's cancer ward, playing make-believe with the patients.
-   Yes, one showed up in _Empowered_. Yes, the title character gets sent over by the local "Make-A-Wish" people. Yes, he always wanted to be a supervillain. Yes, he actually becomes one.
-   The entire plot of a Jack Chick tract called "The Little Princess". Heidi is dying of an unknown disease but manages to go out for Halloween one last time, connected to an oxygen tank. After meeting the new neighbors, who give her a tract, she is converted to Christianity along with her family.
-   _Transmetropolitan_ has like twenty of these, including a kid who's being used as a growth bed for cancer-preventing genetic plug-ins (guess how that works), a kid who has to pawn off her doll for appetite reducing medication, a kid with mutated necrotizing fasciitis, a kid being sexually abused by her older brother and several child prostitutes. There's even "victimbots" in the shape of sad children released into crowds to make disasters more tragic and TV-friendly. By the way, most of these kids are used to illustrate just what a Crapsack World The City is and don't really get much better. The child prostitute one is particularly jarring because the issue makes very clear that these kids are already broken, on a fundamental level, and nobody will be able to give them the help they need because it's already too late.
-   _Superman_:
    -   In the 2008 storyline _Way of the World_, Supergirl tries to save Thomas Price, a little boy who suffers from terminal cancer. She goes so far to promise she will cure him. Subverted because she _fails_.
    -   Issue ten of _All-Star Superman_ features these, with it being mentioned that Superman makes regular trips to hospitals to try and give some comfort to terminally ill children. As the story deals with Superman facing his own approaching death, the issue also features attempts made to cure his own condition. When this ultimately fails, he's not at all bothered, explaining that the unsuccessful attempts to repair his Kryptonian body would easily cure any human illness. The issue ends with Superman returning to the hospital and apologizing that he won't be able to make it for the next trip... but the children would all be going home before then anyway.
-   During a run of _Thunderbolts_, Dr. Chen Lu, the Radioactive Man, poisons some Atlantean Terrorists due to their recent attacks on China, with the intent of punishing all Atlanteans for their actions, which naturally leads to some tension between Atlantis and the surface world. When Namor invites the whole team to Atlantis to show the damage Chen Lu has caused and persuade him to undo the damage, he carries a dying Atlantean child in his arms and asks if "they would allow this child to die". Chen Lu dryly thinks to himself that Namor is "playing what the Americans call 'the child card'."

    Fan Works 

-   Part of a plot device in JLA Watchtower. A fund-raiser for a San Francisco children's hospital had some rare Titans action figures and memorabilia up for sale, with her heroes themselves guarding the memorabilia and interacting with fans. One of the action figures goes missing turns out it was the older brother of Littlest Cancer Patient, trying to get the ultimate Christmas gift for what was likely to be her last Christmas.
-   A _The Powerpuff Girls_ fan fiction, "Death Of A Powerpuff Girl", dealt with a classmate nicknamed "Blueberrie" (as her mother baked blueberry muffins for the class) who had leukemia. At a sleepover with the girls, Bubbles sneaks some Chemical X in Blueberrie's water, which winds up giving her Powerpuff superpowers, but it doesn't cure her. She becomes a fourth Powerpuff Girl member, helping them on their daily activities but starts suffering spells of dizziness. One day, a powerful alien monster attacks Townsville, its ray felling the girls. Blueberrie flies up and takes the full force of the alien's ray. The girls defeat the monster (with Bubbles going through Unstoppable Rage during it), but Blueberrie dies at the end (most likely from her injuries). At her funeral, Blueberrie's parents give Bubbles the comfort of knowing that as a Powerpuff Girl, Blueberrie had been at her happiest in many months.
-   In the _The Loud House_ fanfic _Requiem for a Loud_, after passing out while playing with Lynn, Lincoln is diagnosed with brain tumors. They are already in such an advanced state that there is no cure, and the doctors only give him 2 to 3 weeks left to live. While his sister Lisa tries to find a cure anyway, Lincoln, his family, and his friends have to cope with the sad fact that he will die very soon, leading to quite a _lot_ of tearjerker moments.
-   In many interpretations of the Ed Edd n Eddy theory, Jimmy is the last of the mortal children to die because of succumbing to cancer in the early 2000s.
-   _Dragon Ball Z Abridged_ has this discussed in "Christmas Tree of Might"; one of Turles' minions, a reject mall Santa named Slay, is reminded of a person embodying this trope by looking at Krillin, and recounts the encounter. When the obvious wish to be rid of their cancer is made, Slay obeys the wish to the letter... and blows the kid up.
    
    **Krillin:** God, you are one of the worst mall Santas _ever_! ...Right behind the ones that molest kids.
    
-   _Opalescent_: Opal's cousin, Libby, is suffering from leukemia but is doing better after a recent blood transplant. When she was diagnosed, however, Opal was forced to send money to her loved ones to pay for treatment, putting her further back from her dream of buying a bike.

    Films — Animation 

-   In _Magic Gift of the Snowman_, Emery-Elizabeth is a little girl suffering from a mysterious illness that leaves her too weak to walk, eat, and at risk of death if she doesn't get better by Christmas.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   For a change, the protagonist of _Morbius (2022)_ is one who grows up, though still suffering from the congenital blood disease. Played straight with his best friend Lucien when both are young and at the same hospital; Lucien's IV drip stops working and he nearly dies except for Michael saving him with a creative repair job.
-   Sandman's daughter in _Spider-Man 3_, whose illness provides the impetus for his criminal activities.
-   _Kids in the Hall: Brain Candy_ features Cancer Boy, a tragically afflicted child who was played for laughs. His inclusion in the film was one reason why it was buried by the studio. He also appeared in one of the sketches "they wouldn't let us show" in the series finale.
-   Played completely straight in _The Day After Tomorrow_. Figuring out what happens to him after the total destruction of all medical infrastructure in the US will be an exercise left to the viewer.
-   Subverted in _Quarantine (2008)_ when the sick little girl who fits most of the markers of this trope has The Virus. "It's just bronchitis!" screams her mom, right before being messily devoured.
    -   And thus, subverted as well in _\[REC\]_, the Spanish horror movie Quarantine is based on. "¡Son anginas!" says the mother... And then the girl bites her face and runs away.
-   Bethan in _Very Annie Mary_ is an older than usual example (she's sixteen). Part of the film's plot revolves around the efforts of the people of her small Welsh hometown to raise the money to send her to Disneyland when she'd rather have a new sound system.
-   Parodied in _Cecil B. Demented_, where the adorable cancer patient at a benefit is shown to be an annoying little jerk who probably deserves to die. He does, a few minutes later, when the charity worker he was tormenting shuts off his respirator while everyone else is distracted by Cecil's kidnapping of a Hollywood star present at the benefit. Then again, did you expect anything less from John Waters?
-   Parodied once again by the character of Lisa Davis in _Airplane!_; her IV keeps getting ripped out and she has to reattach it herself before she flatlines.
    -   This is based on a character played by Linda Blair in _Airport 1975_.
-   In _Thank You for Smoking_, the anti-smoking Moral Guardians attempt to use "Cancer Boy" as a trump card in a television appearance against tobacco lobbyist Nick Naylor. This move ends up backfiring — Naylor manages to convince audiences _and the patient himself_ that the Moral Guardians ultimately want him to die because it'd help their cause, while swaying favor towards the tobacco industry by claiming that — despite him supposedly getting lung cancer from smoking — they pragmatically would want to keep him around and healthy as they don't want to lose a valuable customer. Senator Finistirre complains to his aide for screwing up by getting a bald, but otherwise healthy-looking teenager to make their point, and that they lost to Naylor because the Littlest Cancer Patient they picked wasn't sick _enough_.
    
    **Sen. Finistirre**: When you're looking for a cancer kid, he should be hopeless. He should have a wheelchair, he should have trouble talking, he should have a little pet goldfish in a Zip-lock bag. Hopeless!
    
-   Half of the plot of _The Ultimate Gift_ revolved around an arguably not littlest cancer patient. However, the writers do use her to the fullest heart string yank effect possible.
-   The Kevin Costner film _Dragonfly_ has several of these. The drawings they churn out illustrating their nearly-identical dreams border on Room Full of Crazy, but Costner tracks down the symbols to realize the kids aren't just hallucinating on meds.
-   In the film version of _1408_, it's shown in flashbacks that Mike Enslin's daughter Katie died due to an unspecified disease before the movie, an event that caused him to start investigating haunted houses... and hotel rooms. At one point in the room, Mike sees a vision of her, hugs her... and she dies in his arms, driving him over the Despair Event Horizon.
-   _Gojira_: After Godzilla devastates Tokyo, there's a closeup of a little boy with a Geiger counter waved around his face.
-   Everywhere in _Patch Adams_.
-   Sam, the twelve-year-old main character from _Ways to Live Forever_.
-   Fuzzy in _The Cider House Rules_ has fetal alcohol syndrome, along with a deformed heart and severe asthma, and is confined to an oxygen tent. When he dies, Dr. Larch tells the other orphans that he was "adopted".
-   _The X-Files: I Want to Believe_ has a B-plot concerning Scully's attempts to save a Littlest Cancer Patient with Sandhoff disease, resulting in a conflict between her religious faith and her faith in science. If this sounds a bit too subtle for you, the kid is even named _Christian_.
-   The legendarily bad American remake of Hong Kong horror _The Eye_ has a cute little cancer patient, played by... Chloë Grace Moretz??
-   _Elysium_: Leukemia, specifically. Part of the reason why Max is going on his mission.
-   _The Distinguished Gentleman_: The protagonist, Thomas Jefferson Johnson, is a con man who scams his way into Congress, expecting to get handed a ton of money for his votes. What he doesn't count on is having actual constituents with actual problems. When his staff tries to kick out a mother and child, the child's wig falls off, shocking Johnson enough to listen to their story. It turns out that the little girl contracted cancer from high voltage power lines located too close to her house, and there's a bill pending that would regulate them. This triggers Johnson's conscience.
-   _Shallow Hal_ uses a variation on this. Hal and Rosemary visit a Pediatric Ward at a hospital and spend time cheering up the kids. When Hal later returns after the hypnotic spell on him that allowed him to see people's inner beauty is lifted, he sees a little girl again whom he had previously met — _she's a burn victim_. Emotionally overwhelmed by this reveal, he hugs her in comfort.
-   The Trope Codifiers for the sports movie version would probably be either the 1948 film _The Babe Ruth Story_, loosely based on the famous anecdote of Babe Ruth hitting a home run in the 1926 World Series for osteomyelitis patient Johnny Sylvester, or the 1942 film _The Pride of the Yankees_, which features Lou Gehrig swearing he'll make two home runs in the World Series for a sick boy named Billy.
-   In _World War Z_, when the walls topple in Jerusalem and the zombies swarm in, they are shown to specifically avoid two people — a sickly old man, and the Littlest AIDS Patient, a small, bald boy who stands there in shock. The virus that turns people to zombies detects and ignores those already sick as being bad hosts.
-   An Invoked Trope in _The Assignment_ (1997). A Manipulative Bastard played by Donald Sutherland is trying to recruit the protagonist for a CIA mission to take down terrorist Carlos the Jackal. He tries a number of tactics, but the one that works involves taking him to see one of Carlos' victims, a young boy injured in a terrorist bombing, and introducing the protagonist to her family as a doctor who's going to 'fix' her problem. Later the protagonist realises the whole thing had been faked.
-   _SHAZAM! (2019)_: Played for laughs. When Billy first meets his foster sister Mary, she is doing a phone interview with a college. When she gets stymied, her foster father shamelessly says "Tell them you're a foster kid. They eat that up." It works.
-   _Season of Miracles_ has an autistic baseball prodigy dying of a blood disease.
-   _The Broken Circle Breakdown_: Maybelle, a cute little six-year-old girl, gets cancer. Unlike many examples of this trope Maybelle actually dies, and the second half of the film follows her parents as their grief and recriminations wreck their marriage.
-   In _Satan's Triangle_, Father Martin was on a boat transporting a seriously ill boy named Miguel to a hospital where he could receive life-saving surgery. Unfortunately, as soon as they were in The Bermuda Triangle they were struck by a mysterious storm that destroyed the ship and killed almost everyone aboard, including Miguel.
-   In _Event Horizon_, Medical Technician Peters is shown to have a son back on Earth who is disabled by a medical condition that affects his legs. The ship exploits this by haunting her with visions of the boy and eventually, using them to lure her to her death via falling.

    Literature 

-   Akkie, the 12-year-old girl from the Dutch book _Achtste-groepers huilen niet_ (Sixth Graders don't cry) by Jacques Vriens, as well as the movie adaption. She doesn't survive.
-   In _Always Coming Home_, the narrator of "The Visionary" describes marrying a man who has two sons, the younger of them being vedet (a terminal illness akin to Alzheimer in symptoms but much more painful).
-   _Jessi's Wish_ in _The Baby-Sitters Club_ series. Other books had children with deafness, Down's Syndrome and autism. In one of the Super Specials, Stacey befriended a wheelchair-bound boy who was about to have surgery for a heart condition. May extend to Stacey herself, who was diabetic. In another book, a babysitting charge has to adjust to blindness.
-   Tiny Tim in _A Christmas Carol_ by Charles Dickens is an Unbuilt Trope version. Unlike most examples, his illness is not _necessarily_ fatal, it is just that the Cratchits are too poor to afford treatment, which is why he dies in the alternate future. So when Scrooge has his change of heart and increases Bob's salary, Tim doesn't succumb to his illness after all.
-   Toby in James Morrow's _City of Truth_. In which nearly everything is played for laughs, but the illness of the protagonist's son is truly heart-breaking. Morrow loves this sort of Mind Screw.
-   The protagonist in the short story "Daddy's World" is a combination of this and And I Must Scream.
-   _The Fault in Our Stars_ subverts this to hell and back. The three main protagonists, Hazel, Gus, and Isaac all have some form of cancer, but they do not exist to tug at heartstrings. Hazel especially calls out all the cancer cliches that exist within this trope. YMMV on whether it goes back to relying on this trope in the end though.
-   Helen Burns from _Jane Eyre_ seems to embody this trope along with Too Good for This Sinful Earth.
-   Dinah the little blind girl in _The Langoliers_ isn't terminal per se, although she is on the flight to get an operation to fix her eyes. And then she gets stabbed in the heart.
-   Laura and Eileen from _Laura und der Silberwolf_ ("Laura and the Silver Wolf") by Antonia Michaelis.
-   Beth March from _Little Women_. Played heartbreakingly well.
-   The half-Clan boy Rydag in Jean Auel's _The Mammoth Hunters_ exemplifies this trope. Oh, and Kids Are Cruel, too.
-   Deconstructed with the titular Oskar from _Oskar and the Lady in Pink_, who is diagnosed with Leukemia and is expected to die very soon. However, he hates being treated differently than other children because of his condition, feels more like he's a burden than a person and calls his parents "cowards" when they are scared of meeting him face-to-face. The movie expands on this, by changing Oskar's dynamic with the Lady in Pink, <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  he takes an instant liking to her since she is the only adult who doesn't patronize him.
-   Orlando Gardiner in Tad Williams' _Otherland_ is dying of progeria, yet maintains an active online life in The Metaverse until his disease takes a turn for the worse, which conveniently coincides with him becoming trapped in the Grail Network. Subject to a lot of Wangst, naturally, although it's also subverted when after his body dies, the Other makes a virtual copy of him.
-   Connie Willis' novel _Passage_ has Maisie, on the list for a heart transplant, but she is a tough kid; she reads as many books as she can get about _disasters_, to remind herself that death happens to everyone. Her mother, on the other hand, is in deepest denial. None of this affects her status as The Woobie.
-   One of the patients in the hospital ward that the protagonist of _Penny from Heaven_ stays in is a little girl with blood cancer. She doesn't survive.
-   Jodi Picoult:
    -   _My Sister's Keeper_ deals with a Littlest (well, Teenage) Cancer Patient, Kate, and her relationship with her little sister, Anna, who was born specifically to be her blood donor. Eventually, Kate needs a kidney and Anna wants control over her own body. In the end Anna gets medical independence... and is promptly hit by a car, thus giving Kate her kidney anyway. Kate actually encouraged her sister to get independence in the first place, not wanting the other girl to be just her donor.
    -   _Handle with Care_ revolves around a Wise Beyond Their Years girl with brittle bone syndrome.
-   _The Radix_: Subverted. Andrea Starr, a pretty 4-year-old girl with spastic cerebral palsy, is mentioned in the beginning. Since the focus of the story is a search for Panacea, you could expect her to play some role in it. However, she's never mentioned again.
-   Subverted in Tom Clancy's _Rainbow Six_. Terrorists taking over a Spanish theme park take a group of tourists hostage, including a contingent of terminally ill children, one of whom is the very incarnation of the trope, the little girl cancer patient in a wheelchair who's just so damned "nice". Then when their demands are refused, they shoot her in the back and leave her corpse to wheel out the front gate, still in the wheelchair. Needless to say, while the other terrorists are taken out quickly and cleanly, the executioner receives a rifle bullet to the spleen (courtesy of the sniper who watched him kill the LCP) An extremely slow and painful death follows. To be fair, the squad's leader (Ding Chavez) makes his displeasure known to the sniper after the mission... but no one _really_ is displeased.
-   _Sharp Objects_: Camille's younger sister Marian was described as constantly ill and frail, Too Good for This Sinful Earth, and died in childhood. Subverted when it's revealed that Marian died not from disease but instead from her mother poisoning her to as a result of Munchausen by proxy.
-   Bailey Graffman in _The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants_, though she is a bit snarkier than the typical version of this trope.
-   Star Trek Expanded Universe:
    -   In Peter David's _Deep Space Nine_ novel, _The Siege_. One of the beings stranded on Deep Space Nine is a pre-teen alien boy with a terminal disease, but the parents won't let Dr. Bashir (easily) cure him because it's against their religious beliefs. Bashir traumatizes the mother into giving consent, whereupon the father (who's a supreme religious leader) condemns them for heresy and banishes them from ever returning home.
    -   Subverted by Peter David again in _Star Trek: The Next Generation_ novel, _Strike Zone_: the "cancer" patient is an older teenage alien with pheromones or something and influences Wesley Crusher, pretty young at this point, to spend most of the book exhausting himself researching the fatal disease ("The Rot"). Then on a promise of a cure, the CP betrays Starship Enterprise to other aliens, who promptly shoot him dead. Oh, and Wesley doesn't find a cure anyway.
-   The book and movie _Thank You for Smoking_ has its main character deliberately set up to share a talk show stage with a Littlest Cancer Patient and thus be ruined; he manages to actually get out of it with better publicity than before. Parodied in that afterwards, he is revealed as a hired actor.
-   _Two Weeks with the Queen_ has Luke, Colin's brother.
-   Older Than Radio: Although it's consumption she has, little Eva in _Uncle Tom's Cabin_ definitely qualifies. When she dies a peaceful and saintly death, all the slaves present convert.
-   Sam, the eleven-year-old main character from _Ways to Live Forever_ (twelve in the film adaptation).

    Live-Action TV 

-   A Littlest Cancer Patient died in "Angels and Blimps", an episode of _Ally McBeal_, but he was played by Haley Joel Osment, so it wasn't really that sad. He was a tough lil' guy who decided to sue God and thought Ling was his Guardian Angel.
-   Parodied on _Arrested Development_, where Maeby assumes the identity of a teenage girl with a terminal disease called "B.S." in order to make some quick cash. Nobody realizes that "Surely Fünke" (Surely, as in the opposite of Maybe...) isn't a real person.
-   _Babylon 5_:
    -   Viciously subverted in the episode "Believers" as part of J. Michael Straczynski's personal war on (former trope) "Cute Kids And Robots": when an alien family's religious beliefs forbid surgery on their critically ill son, Dr. Franklin goes ahead and performs it anyway — only to have the family calmly and ritually kill the boy afterward because according to their beliefs opening his body up allowed his spirit to leave it.
    -   And in the second season episode "Confessions and Lamentations", where a whole race has a terminal disease and Delenn encourages a small child to believe everything will be all right. Dr. Franklin finds the cure and dramatically bursts in on the quarantine zone... to find it full of cute little corpses. The epilogue includes a newscast mentioning that the plague wiped out _the entire race_, and, indeed, that type of alien is never seen again in the series. There were comments on set about holding a mass burial for the race's prosthetics. They even later blow up the Jump Gate to that race's star system, since nobody (except pirates and raiders coming to loot the now uninhabited world) is using it anyway...
-   Averted on _Breaking Bad_. While Walter Jr has cerebral palsy, it is not his defining characteristic or even mentioned very often. He is portrayed on occasion as bitter about having the condition and has not hesitated about giving out to Walt about his apparent self-pity. In a further, crueller subversion, Walt is subtly implied to be resentful of his son for forcing him into a job he hates.
-   A parody in the _Chappelle's Show_ sketch "Make a Wish," where the little kid's dying wish is to meet Dave Chappelle, who arrives and proceeds to beat the pants off the kid at Street Hoops, all while enthusiastically taunting him?
    
    **Dave:** Haha, GAME! In your face! In your FACE! Feel better.  
    **Billy:** _\[just before flatlining\]_ _Half Baked_ sucked anyway.
    
-   _The Commish_ arranged for a young boy dying of cancer, who had wanted to be a police officer, to ride along in a squad car, and he even helps make an arrest (though we see the 'criminal' is actually a police officer in disguise).
-   In _Complications_, Dr. Ellison's daughter Becky was one of these. She didn't make it, and Dr. Ellison has not been taking it well.
-   _Criminal Minds_ uses one in "The Bittersweet Science", which kind of provides a continually running string of Pet the Dog moments for the Unsub (intercut, of course, with him brutally killing people).
-   _CSI: Miami_: Horatio is forced to divulge the existence of his brother's illegitimate daughter (and her mother) to the widow when the daughter requires a bone marrow transplant and neither himself nor the mother is a match.
-   Lampooned on _The Drew Carey Show_: In an epic "fuck you" to the voters for the Emmys, who had never once nominated the show prior to that point, they devoted an entire episode to squeezing in _every Emmy-bait trope they could fit_ into a single episode, including a Littlest Cancer Patient. Who wins the Emmy.
-   _ER_:
    -   It had a Story Arc dedicated to one of these, the head doctor's son.
    -   Dakota Fanning also had a role as a kid with leukemia who'd been in a car accident.
-   In the episode "Peter" from _Fringe_ we see Peter as one, made worse by the fact that he actually dies a quarter of the way through the episode and the rest showing how far one man would go to save him.
-   _Garth Marenghis Darkplace_ regularly parodies this trope by having Dr. Rick Dagless pay a visit to "a very special friend of mine" mid-episode — a sick child who exists solely to tell Dagless how wonderful he is and provide a little angst. Particularly hilarious was the one that was addicted to smack.
-   The Episode "Comeback" in _Glee_ has Will and Sue sing to an entire ward of these in order to give Sue a Pet the Dog moment before going back to her usual Jerkass self.
-   Abused frequently on _Grey's Anatomy_, especially since the addition of Arizona's pediatric surgeon character, most egregiously in the episode "Sweet Surrender": the little girl actually has Tay-Sachs and has made it to six years old (which is rare), and her desperate father spends most of the day running around searching for miracle cures in Mexico, which results in Bailey basically cuddling the girl all day. Finally, she takes a turn for the worse and Bailey and Arizona gently tell the father to stop and just hold her as she dies, which he does, tearfully promising her that they'll go to Mexico soon and describing its beautiful beaches to her. Oh, and she has giant eyes and an adorable beanie.
-   Molly in _Heroes_ has a life-threatening anti-supers virus at the end of Season 1. She is cured by Mohinder.
-   _House_:
    -   House shows little sympathy towards his Littlest Cancer Patient and is cynical about everyone else's reactions. Of course, that's the point of the character. It should also be noted that this episode provided some good mockery of Chase when the twelve-year-old girl talked him into kissing her. However, House was substantially nicer to her (at least to her face) than most of his patients, and when she explained to him why she didn't want to die yet by asking, "Who would take care of my Mom?" he looked the closest he's ever come on the show to crying. A bit of a case of using the trope for a Pet the Dog moment - it showed that House is human after all. He just refuses to patronize the kids by treating them any differently because of their illness, which probably stems from his own experience with being disabled.
    -   There are Wilson's patients. "Bald-headed cancer kids" is probably the kindest thing House has said about them...
    -   Played for Laughs rather amusingly lately when Wilson was caring for an LCP whose mother wasn't allowed into the hospital because of a CDC-related lockdown; despite his sweet, well-meaning attempts, he kind of fails at comforting her, and gets a stuffed lamb in the face for his trouble.
    -   Mocked in the episode "Here Kitty" where there is a cat that appears to have the ability to predict a person's imminent death by seeking out that person's company. House tests this by bringing the "therapy cat" into the hospital's child pediatric ward and sets the cat amongst the children.
-   Averted on _The Inbetweeners_ as a student now popular for having beaten his illness is an erratic, violent attention-seeker who is hated by the protagonists.
-   _Knight Rider_ pulls this with Becky, a child who even KITT will surrender his dignity for, and who requires a bone marrow transplant. Of course, the only match is a street kid fighting a turf war on the other side of the country...
-   _The Last of Us (2023)_: Henry was already motivated by the protection of his kid brother in the game, but this show adds that Sam is also a deaf leukemia patient. Henry sold out Kathleen's brother in exchange for some life-changing drugs, which is why she is hunting him. Tragically, Sam is bitten and Henry has to kill him. He's so devastated he then kills himself.
-   A horrifying one is in the _Law & Order_ episode "Smoke". In this case, the Littlest Cancer Patient is a peripheral character, as the story centers around his brother who was molested by a Michael Jackson expy and it was never reported because the parents had been paid off in exchange for their silence, which they agreed to because they desperately needed the money to treat their other son's illness. Then it's revealed that it's even worse than it originally looked; McCoy notices the payment for the older boy's molestation was made _before_ the act took place, meaning the parents didn't just agree to an arrangement after the fact in an attempt to salvage some good from the bad situation, which is what they had claimed to everyone including the victim (which was the reason he wouldn't cooperate with the cops), but rather had intentionally set their kid up to be molested to get the money to save his brother.
    -   Cruelly twisted in the _Law & Order: Special Victims Unit_ episode "Sick", their Ripped from the Headlines take on the second round of child molestation allegations against Michael Jackson. After the detectives begin investigating the Jacko-surrogate (who has bribed a family of a victim, a now-dangerously disturbed boy, to shut up), one of these comes forward saying she was also molested at a charity gathering. It turns out that first, she was not molested but forced to say this by her grandmother/guardian so they could get a similar settlement so the girl could live. Second is even worse: she doesn't have cancer; her grandmother is secretly _poisoning her_ to profit off her ill state. What's really sad is that this is Truth in Television, and known as Munchausen by Proxy — making someone in one's care intentionally sick to garner respect, sympathy, and money; while this is intended as the grandmother's defense, she is told that no one will be "that stupid" as to believe it — she's just greedy. Indeed, Novak decides to prosecute her for fraud for all the hundreds of thousands of dollars she's scammed off of people for the "sickness.".
    -   A related story from _Law & Order: Criminal Intent_, "Faith", has similar motivations: The Littlest Cancer Patient whose blogs, phone interviews and autobiography brought the nation to tears turned out to be a complete hoax: her "guardian" wrote the book and blog herself, faked the phone calls, and even accepted donations of home medical equipment to stockpile for future sale on eBay. The truth only came out when a would-be benefactor insisted on meeting the girl in person.
-   Ben Stone's son Cal on _Manifest_ suffers from leukemia. Before the fateful plane ride Cal's prognosis didn't look good, but luckily for him after time traveling five and a half years in the future cancer research has progressed enough that Cal is a perfect match for an experimental treatment that could save him.
-   Emily from the _Midnight Caller_ episode "Do You Believe in Miracles?" After a statue of Baby Jesus at the nearby church starts crying, her father steals it in the hopes that it will heal her, inadvertently kicking off the episode's plot.
-   _Monday Mornings_:
    -   In the pilot, there was this extremely cute boy with big brown eyes, who was a Cheerful Child and a future soccer star. He was brought to Chelsie General by his mum just as a precaution because he collapsed during a match. Unfortunately, he has a tumour in his brain. He dies on Dr. Ty Wilson's table, and it is a major screw-up for him. It causes him a haunting Heroic BSoD experience.
    -   One thirteen-year-old girl is a talented pianist and determined not to get treatment because she wants to live her life to the fullest and not to deal with the pain of brain surgery and chemotherapy. Her parents want to do what she wishes, but the doctors disagree. They are able to persuade her that she should not consider only mathematical statistics and chances of survival, but medical miracles as well. It's actually quite touching.
    -   Exaggerated with Chloe, who is a two-month-old baby and has a tumour growing in a vital part of her brain. She has seizures nearly constantly but her parents thought she was just an extremely happy baby. It didn't occur to them that constant laughter in a baby is not normal.
-   _Oz_. An unseen version of this trope serves to humanise lifer Rebadow, who tries raising money to first send his dying grandson to Disneyland, later to get him treatment. He finally gets the money by winning the lottery, only to have his partner (a prison guard) refuse to give Rebadow his half. The guard later feels guilty and changes his mind, but by then it's too late.
-   _Power Rangers RPM_ has an entire _orphanage_ full of them in Corinth, the Last City on Earth. One of the Rangers stole five million dollars worth of medical supplies to help them.
-   Subverted in the _Pushing Daisies_ episode "Corpsicle": The littlest cancer patient (well, littlest heart condition patient) is a complete Jerkass who takes out his bitterness about his condition on everyone else. When the Wish-A-Wish Foundation lady comes by, his wish is "for those insurance company jerks who rejected my transplant application to keel over and die."
    -   The Wish-a-Wish lady grants his wish.
-   Subverted on _The Riches_ when Dahlia sees a young boy in a wheelchair and bald head holding a sign asking for donations for his cancer treatments. A group of women talk about how brave the kid is and giving him some money. After they leave, Dahila (a con artist herself) softly tells the kid he's "doing a good job" but needs to shave his head more often to avoid fuzz and gives tips on acting more sickly. The boy smiles back, proving he's perfectly okay and just scamming people.
-   _SCTV_ had a parody of "The Babe Ruth Story", where the Babe (John Candy) promises to hit a home run for a sick kid. The kid starts making more and more requests, like an inside-the-park home run, and an autographed ball from every player in the league, and when Babe even suggests it may not be possible the kid starts whimpering and hyperventilating. When the kid gets Babe eating fifty hot dogs while spinning around on one foot, the Babe finally snaps.
    -   Likewise, _Saturday Night Live_ did a similar sketch starring John Belushi. In the SNL version, the little boy goes into cardiac arrest after a fat, drunk and over the hill Babe strikes out.
-   _Seinfeld_:
    -   The show plays this one for laughs. In "The Wink", Kramer accidentally sells George Steinbrenner's birthday card to a sports memorabilia shop, who then gives it to a terminally ill kid. Paul O'Neill then has to hit two home runs in order to get it back.
        
        **Kramer:** Two? Sure kid, yeah. But then you gotta promise you'll do something for me.  
        **Bobby:** I know. Get out of this bed one day and walk again.  
        **Kramer:** Yeah, that would be nice. But I really just need the card.
        
    -   Also subverted with Donald the Bubble Boy. Lacking an immune system and forced to live in a plastic bubble, he's a bitter and rude boy who's still completely beloved by his community.
-   One _Stargate SG-1_ episode had a bald little kid genetically engineered by the Reetou to communicate with Stargate Command without panicking them. They were pretty rushed and he ended up in a hospital bed suffering the effects of imminent organ failure in multiple systems and ended up being taken off by the Tok'ra to become a host; he was a much more understated and reasonably done example than most on this page.
-   _Stranger Things_: In his flashbacks, Hopper's daughter Sara is depicted with no hair in her hospital bed during chemo. Some characters suspect Eleven to also be an example, but that's not the case.
-   Used with a twist in _Strong Medicine_. A little girl needs a marrow transplant and the mother isn't compatible, so Lu Delgado tries to convince the (as always) Jerkass father to donate (he had left them because he believed the girl wasn't his daughter and the wife had cheated on him, _despite_ knowing the LCP was sick). After convincing the dad into trying anyway, Lu finds out that he's _really_ not compatible either. And after snooping around some more, it turns out the kid had been a victim of a Twin Switch after her birth, hence why the "parents" weren't able to donate: she wasn't _their_ daughter to start with.
-   Subverted in the _Supernatural_ episode "Appointment in Samarra". When Death challenges Dean to act as a Reaper for one day in exchange for freeing Sam's soul from Lucifer's cage, he initially refuses to kill the Littlest Cancer Patient, resulting in her miraculous recovery. Due to this, however, a nurse who was attending her goes home early and is killed in a car crash she would not have otherwise been in. Another Reaper, Tessa, explains that this is because the girl's survival goes against the natural order, and is changing people's destinies as a result. Dean is eventually forced to throw the bet in order to save the nurse's husband from a similar death. Even though he's lost, he decides to go back and reap the little girl to set the natural order straight. Luckily for him, this was a Secret Test of Character and Death decides to restore Sam's soul anyway.
-   In the _Torchwood_ episode "Dead Man Walking", Owen has a Pet the Dog moment with the Littlest Leukemia Patient, who explicitly states that he's gonna die anyway and doesn't want the second shot of chemo the mean old doctors are giving him. Owen then goes on to save the kid, denying him the chance to die with his eyebrows intact by wrestling with Death himself. Way to go, Owen.
-   _The Twilight Zone (1985)_:
    -   In "Grace Note", Mary Miletti, who is in her early teens, is dying of leukemia but she is resigned to her fate. She is more concerned about her elder sister Rosemarie achieving her dream of becoming an opera star than her own impending death. When she sees a shooting star, she selflessly wishes for Rosemarie to see the success that she will become in the future.
    -   In "There Was an Old Woman", Brian Harris, who is about seven or eight, is dying of an unspecified disease. He is a kind-hearted and happy boy who loves the books of Hallie Parker, especially _Creatures in the Closet_. Brian is delighted when Hallie visits him with a signed copy of the book and then reads it to him. The following week, he dies and his ghost appears to Hallie. He asks her to read to him and his friends, a group of about dozen other child ghosts.
-   _The Young Riders_ had a particularly heinous example of this in the otherwise decent episode "The Littlest Cowboy" (yes, that's the real title). To make it worse, the child actor used was _extremely_ untalented.

    Music 

-   The title character of Conor Oberst's song "Danny Callahan" (on his 2008 self-titled album) is a Littlest Cancer Patient. Subverted: "Even Western medicine/It couldn't save Danny Callahan/Bad bone marrow, a bald little boy." Ouch.
-   "Carry You Home" by James Blunt, although Word of God states that it's about a war-buddy of Blunt's.
-   A popular theme in Christian pop and country music; Sherrie Austin's "Streets of Heaven," for instance, with the Glurge-tastic lyrics:
    
    _She's much too young to be on her own:  
    Barely just turned seven.  
    So who will hold her hand when she crosses the streets of Heaven?_
    
-   The Our Lady Peace song "Thief" is about a real-life young girl who died of a brain tumor. The music video states: "Each year, terminal illness steals the lives of thousands of children. Mina Kim was one."
-   Vanessa Carlton's song "Annie" is inspired by an encounter with a little girl who had cancer, and yet she was still a very positive and strong-willed individual.
-   Ryan Dan's song "Tears of an Angel" is a poignant tribute to their four-year-old niece, who died of leukemia while they were recording their 2007 album.
-   The little black Sara of the Finnish spiritual song _Musta Sara_ ("Black Sara") who sings "There is no threat of death in Heaven, no tears and no night" on her sickbed in a missionary hospital.
-   Mystery Jets' "Little Bag of Hair" is a painful Deconstruction of the trope based on the experience of the band's lead singer-songwriter, Blaine Harrison: Harrison was born with the condition spina bifida, which while not terminal with modern medicine still requires extensive and painful hospitalisation and surgery to manage during childhood. The song is an intensely autobiographical reflection on how none of this gave him any particular wisdom, insight, or strength of character; the disease and its treatments were merely something to be endured with flights of fancy and morphine.

    Music Videos 

-   The Music Video for We Are Scientists' song "It's a Hit" features a particularly gut-wrenching subversion of the "win the game for me" trope: lead singer Keith Murray as a 1920s boxer is approached by his "biggest fan", a young boy with a terminal disease, and promises to win the match for him. Unfortunately, Keith is then paired up with a heavyweight who punches him so hard that he is killed in the ring - and the blood splatter hits the Littlest Cancer Patient, who has a ringside seat.
-   The Music Video for Katy Perry's song "Firework" features an LCP who can see the fireworks exploding from KP's magical breasts. Later in the video. Later he sees fireworks coming out of a woman giving birth. Later, when he steps outside the hospital. He is not featured in the jubilant spiral dance at the end.
-   The music video for Modest Mouse's Little Motel features one of these.

    Professional Wrestling 

-   In a rare adult version (and not televised in the hospital), professional wrestler Zach Gowan lost one of his legs as a kid (and met Hulk Hogan in the process), but gained a contract in both the WWE and TNA on separate occasions. He does an impressive moonsault, which he used on—of all wrestlers—Big Show to earn his WWE contract storyline-wise. Never really took off in the burying, a combination of Vince McMahon and the booking crew forcing him into a Jobber role, and Gowan apparently being a jerkass with a severe entitlement complex behind the scenes. Still... _one-legged moonsaults_!
-   Zack Ryder was this trope, beating an aggressive form of cancer in high school. However, he never makes mention of it, as he usually plays the heel.

    Tabletop Games 

-   In the _Savage Worlds_ Adventure Edition core rulebook, the players of the iconic characters Emily and Nate who play Red and Gabe respectively are shown on the last page as actually being children in a cancer ward playing a game of savage worlds with a volunteer GM.

    Theater 

-   In _13_, this is subverted with Archie, the kid with Muscular Dystrophy who uses it to manipulate everyone around him into getting him what he wants
-   Averted in Martin McDonagh's _The Cripple of Inishmaan_. Billy is young and sympathetic, but gets precious little special treatment for it. Not even from the author.
-   Discussed in _Fangirls_. The boys in True Connection have a habit of bringing sick female fans up on stage during their concerts, and there is a viral video of a cancer patient fainting on stage and being caught by Harry. Edna hatches a plan to get close enough to Harry to pass him a note by shaving her head and making herself look deathly ill. This plan is thwarted when she is unable to obtain a ticket.
-   _John Lennon and Me_ is set in a hospital ward for seriously ill children, so basically all of the children in the show qualify as this with the exception of Julie, who is only a visitor there to see her friend Courtney, a patient.

    Video Games 

-   _Breath of Fire III_ has an enemy tournament participant claim falsely that his daughter is ill and needs the prize money for an operation. The heroes try to beat him anyway. After the Time Skip, you learn his daughter's still embarrassed about it.
-   _Trauma Center Second Opinion_ has Tyler's younger sister who is afflicted by a rare disease caused by the GUILT, as parodied by the _Awesome Series_.
    
    **Tyler:** Doctor, my sister has cancer. _\[Derek stares angrily\]_ ZOMBIE CANCER!  
    **Derek:** Hahaha, yeah! _\[high five\]_  
    — "Awesome Center: Under the Awesome"
    
-   _Mega Man Battle Network 3_ had Mamoru, the Littlest Heart Disease Patient as part of an arc. In a bit of a subversion, it's implied that he is actually in control of the superboss, Serenade.EXE - the only other character that can match Bass.EXE, Protoman.EXE, and MegaMan.exe.
-   Polka in _Eternal Sonata_. She's a fourteen-year-old girl dying of a terminal illness. Only she's not. She's actually fated to sacrifice herself to save the world. Though the game is never entirely clear on this. It seems to suggest that she actually does exhibit signs of illness at times, and in the Play Station 3 Updated Re-release, she collapses at one point and has to be brought back from a coma by having the Agogo Queen Mother absorb some of her astra, which glows more brightly than anyone else's in the world.
-   Parodied in _Sam & Max Beyond Time and Space_, where Timmy Two-Teeth is dying of terminal Tourette's. It's implied in the season finale that what's doing him harm isn't actually the tourette's in itself, but the constant ringing in his ears.
-   Sierra's _Lighthouse: The Dark Being_ has Lyril, guardian of the Temple of Ancient Machines. She's been bound to a life support chair since the age of four due to a mysterious accident that required amputation of her legs. Worse, her companions, the temple's priests, had failed to return from a mission sometime before your arrival in her world, and her life support has started to fall into disrepair, hindering her speech, but Lyril was also trained in memorizing histories and does provide a fair amount of explanation for what's going on in her world.
-   _Panzer Dragoon Orta_ viciously deconstructs this with the story of Iva Demilcol, who, despite his illness (and not even being ten years old!), is fully expected to perform as a soldier of the Empire. He doesn't get better, either.
-   _Dead Rising 2_ has the protagonist's daughter Katie, whose need for a zombie infection suppressant is Chuck's main motivation. She's an example of this done right, sympathetic enough to inspire Video Game Caring Potential, but avoids being over-the-top or a pain to look after. It helps that she _hates_ being one of them, continually apologizing to Chuck for what he has to do for her. Self-awareness counts for a lot.

-   _Sonic the Hedgehog_ has Maria, a young girl suffering from a fictional auto-immune disease called NIDS. Shadow was created to help find a cure for her. Shadow and Maria became Like Brother and Sister and during the GUN-raid, Maria was shot and killed while helping Shadow escape to Earth.
-   _AFK Arena_ has a rare playable example in Daimon, a 12-year-old boy with an unspecified but excruciatingly painful terminal illness—on top of shouldering concern about his grieving mother and Disappeared Dad. His illness did kill him, but even then, things did turn out better for him eventually, as he has since reunited with his family as Graveborn.
-   The Boy in _Rakuen_ is suffering from cancer, but still has enough energy to go on an adventure in the magical world of Morizora's Forest. We later learn that the doctors' prognosis isn't looking good, and the ending has him come to terms with his fate while being assured that his Mom will remain strong without him.

    Visual Novels 

-   Hikaru in _LifeSigns: Surgical Unit_ — at least in the first game. By the second she's perfectly fine thanks to a bone marrow transplant from the main character in the first.

    Webcomics 

-   _MegaTokyo_: Miho may be deliberately invoking this trope for her own amusement or as part of a "game". She's certainly actually sick, but with what and how bad is in question.
-   Spoofed in a two-page guest comic of _The Adventures of Dr. McNinja_, when a cancer-afflicted child uses the Make-A-Wish Foundation to wish to become a villain who could beat the titular doctor.
-   Perhaps not used for a sympathy ploy, but Chemo Kid of the Emo Kid and Chemo Kid duo is a cancer-patient/superhero in _Head Trip_. He's bald and wears a hospital gown, but he seems pretty limber when he's fighting crime.
-   In _Fans!_, one of them stands up to Keith. Keith lights him on fire with an offhand backhand while yawning. This pretty much says all you need to know about Keith. One of the few cases where the limited Contractual Immortality does not apply.
-   Cub in _Fite!_ (the disease isn't specified, but the idea is the same).
-   In _Drowtales_, Naal'suul has a slowly progressing case of Demonic Possession. And now she's full-on possessed.
-   In _User Friendly_, Sid is in for chemo for a mild cancer, and he befriends a Littlest Cancer Patient. When he comes in to exclaim that he's in full remission, he finds the bed empty... and goes deathly silent.
-   _Kick the Football, Chuck._ presents a version of _Peanuts_ where Charlie Brown is one of these, resulting in Black Comedy.
-   _Awful Hospital_: Fern's baby is terribly ill with a disease that only seems to get worse. Despite all the chaos befalling the world, he never dies. This is because he is the conduit for the Parliament of the Old Flesh's multiverse-ending plan, and his death would result in their failure.

    Web Original 

    Western Animation 

-   In the _Sealab 2021_ episode "Little Orphan Angry", a young con artist kept on pretending to be ill, faking his death and changing his identity and disease to constantly get free stuff from the Make a Wish Foundation. He eventually gets his comeuppance by being eaten by a shark.
-   _South Park_:
    -   The "win the game" variation was very cruelly subverted in the episode "Stanley's Cup", where the kid with leukemia was depending on his little league hockey team to win for him. The team, composed of kindergarteners who don't know how to play hockey, tie their first game 0-0, subsequently, the doctor says the boy's health has neither improved nor degraded, rather it is "tied". They were supposed to play at halftime during a professional game, but when their peewee opponents don't show, the professional team lets the kids sub in so they could win for their cancer-ridden friend. Instead, the kindergarteners are _very savagely (and literally)_ beaten by their professional opponents. When news of his team's defeat reaches the boy, he gives up all hope and dies right there. The episode ends with the camera focused on the dead little boy, with just the sound of his flat-lined monitor in the background.
    -   Occurs when they finally decided to kill Kenny forever. "He said his wish is not to die." Instead, he got Madonna... whom he railed against (translated by Kyle) as being "irrelevant" - all with her outside the door, and apparently not having heard.
-   _The Simpsons_ parodies this with Patches and Poor Violet, two pale, perpetually-dying orphans. They have been swindled of their "vitamin money" by Bart, chased away from Old Jewish Man's storefront with him exhorting them to "Come back when you get some parents!", been kicked them out of the hospital to make room for a plastic surgery wing and been violently knocked away from a leaky gas line by Homer and Ned. Quoth Poor Violet after the last one: "I taste bwood."
    -   The pair's first appearance illustrates their place in the world when Lisa introduces them to (an already guilt-wracked) Bart:
        
        **Lisa**: Bart, this is Patches and this is Poor Violet.  
        **Bart**: Ughh..I don't like where _this_ is going.
        
    -   In "Homer Loves Flanders", Mr. Burns is telling the football team that there's a little crippled boy in the hospital who wants them to win; he goes on to say that he knows this because he crippled the kid himself to inspire them. Cue a cutaway to the hospital where Milhouse lies in a bed with a broken leg:
        
        **Milhouse:** I hope they win... or Mr. Burns said he's coming back.
        
-   _Family Guy_ parodies this and the Make-A-Wish Foundation when they had a kid ask the smiling spokeswoman "Can you cure my cancer?" to which she cheerfully replied "No!"
    -   In another episode, the "Grant A Dream" Foundation has a dying leukemia patient whose wish was to play quarterback for the New England Patriots. Cue the opposing football players all piling on top of him, even as the announcer quips that "little Johnny should have wished for some blocking."
        -   This episode's A-plot is about Peter scamming the system in order to revive a cancelled TV show he likes; when the Foundation comes back expecting a dead kid for publicity, Peter claims he healed Chris and the B-plot comes into play.
-   Such a character appears in an episode of _Metalocalypse_. In keeping with the Contractual Immortality, she dies naturally rather than by any of the contrived accidents that usually fell those associated with Dethklok, but unusually for this trope, the death happens on screen.
    -   The whole episode "Deth Kids" is essentially a subversion of this trope. The LCP appears in a television ad stating that she wants most to meet Toki Wartooth; Toki, in protest of his child-friendly image, refuses and goes on a psychotic (demonic?) rampage around Mordhaus. When Charles Foster Ofdenson presents him a DVD of the LCP singing a song about how brutal and metal life is, he changes his mind and rushes to meet her at the last second, only to find that it was a last second too much. The episode ends as he sees her body decay and become maggot-infested and hears her voice saying that he killed her.
-   _Superjail!_: In "Mr. Grumpy-Pants," Jailbot accidentally picks up a little girl from a children's hospital and brings her back to the jail. One of the inmates protects her, and mistakes the word on her hospital bracelet ("Cancer") for her name (which he pronounces "Sanser"). The cast of depraved inmates who usually spend an episode inflicting Slapstick violence on each other immediately become Sanser's doting protectors, playing games and reading her bedtime stories. The Contractual Immortality is played partially straight. She dies (sort of) on-screen from organ failure as a result of cancer, not by the violence typical of this Sadist Show. The other characters' usual Comedic Sociopathy is jarringly replaced by expressions of genuine grief. Except for The Warden, of course.
    -   By the end, this becomes a Baby Morph Episode thanks to misuse of "Chinese Mystery Butter." Everyone is transformed into children. They have a chaotic, gruesome fight to the death as usual. The only child untouched by violence is Sanser.
    -   Sanser returns in brief scenes as a ghost. Often seen with Ash, the inmate that took care of her.
-   An episode of _Spiderman The Animated Series_ was based on the comic book story mentioned above.
-   Dot played this type of character in the _Animaniacs_ movie _Wakko's Wish_. And she was such a cute little terminally ill kid! Unsurprisingly subverted, given the source material. It turns out she was just acting the entire time, and the "surgery" she was trying to get the entire film was having a beauty mark added.
-   In the _E.T._ episode of _Code Monkeys_, one of the first buyers of the notorious video game is a child cancer patient who, upon experiencing its awfulness, proclaims "This game is giving me even _more_ cancer!" and dies.
-   _Archer_:
    -   Subverted with Ruth, who is an old woman with terminal breast cancer who befriends Sterling Archer. Archer's heartstrings are pulled when the chemo drugs the two were given were fake, and she dies. Archer shoots the bad guy who switched the drugs quoting one of her lines. Ruth is a bit of an odd subversion, as she's sweet to Archer, but mouthy to nurses and encourages his crude behavior.
    -   Referenced in the episode's Cold Open, when Dr. Krieger tells Archer his chemo drugs are fake.
        
        **Archer:** I've been treating my cancer with sugar pills?!?  
        **Krieger:** You didn't think it was weird your chemo drugs were chewable?  
        **Archer:** Little kids get cancer.  
        **Krieger:** Aw, that's right, they do.
        
-   _American Dad!_: In "Tears Of A Clooney", Hayley apparently battles a form of cancer while Stan and Francine are away. She's seen on the line with the Make-A-Wish foundation, talking to George Clooney, who is driving next to Stan. Stan asks who it was, and Clooney replies "some sick chick", lampshading how shallow and pointless many people think the Make-A-Wish Foundation really is. Don't worry, Hayley gets better.
-   The _Peanuts_ special _Why, Charlie Brown, Why?_ plays this trope full stop with Linus's friend Janice, who has leukemia.
-   Played with in _The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy_ in which a slug playing baseball (It Makes Sense in Context), and a child asks if he'll hit a home run for him, to which the slug responds "That depends, are you sick and/or dying?"
-   _The Ghost And Molly Mcgee_: In "The (Un)Natural", Molly has second doubts about cheating to win the softball championship, and Scratch points to all the people of Brighton who have gotten their hopes up. Among them is a sickly girl hooked up to an IV drip sitting next to a nurse.
-   _Young Justice (2010)_. Kid Flash isn't happy when he has to miss out on their first team-up with the Justice League because he has to race a donor heart across the entire country (which is snowbound thanks to An Ice Person) for a young girl in hospital. Turns out the entire thing is an Evil Plan by Count Vertigo to stop her getting the heart, as the girl is Queen Perdita.

___