_"I plan to live forever, of course, but barring that I'd settle for a couple thousand years. Even five hundred would be pretty nice."_

— **CEO Nwabudike Morgan, MorganLink 3DVision Live Interview**, "Longevity Vaccine," _Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri_

In many science-fiction works, both Cyberpunk and Space Opera, it's not uncommon for humans, or at least the upper classes, to live for centuries. Most often the reason for this is some form of technology ranging from alien substances to gene therapy to nanomachines.

A subtrope of Immortality Inducer, usually results in Long-Lived or The Ageless. Brain Uploading counts when the brain is downloaded into a clone or other biological body, but not if into a machine. Compare with Fountain of Youth, which _regresses_ one's biological age to a younger stage rather than extend one's maximum lifespan (which does not necessarily go hand in hand with this trope).

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   Magma Energy in _DARLING in the FRANXX_ acts like this when injected into humans, halting the aging process but coming with a veritable laundry list of side effects: the extraction process not only destroys soil fertility and causes rapid desertification, but also attracts Klaxosaurs because Magma Energy is essentially the liquefied Energy Being form of the Precursors who made them, which forced humanity to relocate into moving cities. The treatment also renders the subject sterile and prevents them from piloting a Franxx, forcing the latter job to be done by vat-grown Child Soldiers who did not undergo the treatment.
-   Juraians and Galaxy Police officers in the _Tenchi Muyo!_ franchise get a treatment involving Nanomachines that gives them Super-Strength and lets them live for thousands of years.

    Comic Books 

-   In one _The Adventures of Barry Ween, Boy Genius_ story, Barry remarks off-hand that he's been secretly sneaking supplements into his parents' food that will ensure they at least make it to 100.
-   _Batman_: The Lazarus Pits used by Ra's al Ghul rejuvenate him, allowing him to live for centuries. Various adaptations depict the process as having diminishing returns, putting more pressure on him to find a "worthy heir" before it stops working and/or he goes totally feral.
-   The non-canon _The End (Marvel Comics)_ story for the Fantastic Four takes place in a distant future where Reed Richards' genius has finally ushered in a utopia. One of his inventions was the "Methuselah Treatment", which has extended everyone's life expectancy into centuries.
-   _Judge Dredd_: Aging has been slowed down quite a bit after most diseases have been eradicated and anti-aging drugs and skin grafting have become more advanced. Judge Dredd, for instance, is chronologically in his 70s, but still looks like a 40-something.
-   One _Wolverine_ story involves Wolverine helping out a caveman who was one of three abducted and experimented on by a Deviant scientist attempting to discover a way to extend Deviant lifespans. The process worked, but he never gets to see it as he dies when their civilization is destroyed just after he finishes the procedure. That was thousands of years before recorded human history and the caveman is visibly aged but still perfectly well.

    Film 

-   In _In Time_, the aging gene has been "shut down", freezing aging at 25. However, to prevent overpopulation and present an anvilicious message about income disparity, people are programmed to die at a certain time and use their remaining time as currency.
-   In _Jupiter Ascending_, "Recode" rejuvenates people when they bathe in it. Kalique Abrasax is 14,004 years old and her mother was starting her 91st millennium when she was murdered. It's made from human cells, harvested a planet at a time.
-   Played with in _Self/Less_; a procedure allows people to upload their consciousness into another body, extending their lives in some way.
-   In _Tomorrowland_, Governor Nix looks exactly the same in 2015 as he did in 1964, apparently thanks to some kind of shake he drinks every morning.

    Literature 

-   _After the Revolution_ has the JuvEn treatment, a relatively cheap treatment available in most of the world, which suppresses most visible signs of ageing. As a result of JuvEn's ubiquity, the POV characters always expresses surprise whenever they encounter a person who actually looks old.
-   Rejuv in the _Alliance/Union_ universe is made from a lifeform native to Cyteen and delays aging up to a century. Side effects include sterility and loss of hair color. Plus, less frequently mentioned but more dangerous, _total dependence_ on the drug, which must be taken on a regular schedule.
-   In _Bug Jack Barron_, an investigative reporter and consumer advocate begins investigating an organization that provides rejuvenation treatments to the rich and powerful, and finds far more than he bargained for.
-   In _Captain French, or the Quest for Paradise_, the Cellular Regeneration treatment available on most worlds has, effectively, turned humanity into The Ageless. People choose when to "freeze" their age with most picking sometime in their 20s, although some wait until 30 in order to look "more mature". The only people who die of old age are either criminals on worlds where capital crime is punished by aging (reversing the treatment) and on recently settled worlds where CR machines have not yet been set up. It's mentioned by the titular protagonist that, even before CR, various treatments (including cloned organs and blood vessel cleansing) have extended expected lifespans to centuries.
-   In the _Children of Steel_ series, it's mentioned that humans can take life extension treatments that make the age of some of the executives hard to discern. There's no indication whether it's possible for animorphs to use them.
-   In _Creatures of Light and Darkness_, the technologically advanced world of Blis has more-or-less eliminated death by old age. Death is so rare that the few who volunteer for suicide can leave their heirs a legacy by selling tickets to watch the death.
-   Citizens of _The Culture_ are genetically engineered to live for centuries — longer if they feel like it.
-   The Dystopian setting for _The Declaration_ by Gemma Malley has the "Longevity" treatment, which starts at 16 years old when the user signs the titular Declaration in exchange for a regular supply of pills and renouncing to ever have children (to avoid overpopulation). Not only the second volume reveals it needs fetal cells, the formula is _incomplete_, as shown in the third volume when people go senile and suddenly die because their treatment doesn't work anymore.
-   The spice melange in _Dune_ can extend lifespans up to 300 years.
    -   The prequels reveal that the Old Empire had a treatment that could extend lifespans even longer, and without causing a drug dependency. When one of the characters receives it (allowing him to stick around for the next few books), it's mentioned to be extremely painful.
    -   The Bene Gesserit can also alter their own body chemistry to stop aging altogether if they choose to. They deliberately don't choose this because people would notice the resulting ageless women and conflict would result. That Alia has broken the taboo against it in _Children of Dune_ is one of many things her mother Jessica takes issue with.
-   In Robert A. Heinlein's _Future History_ series, particularly _Methuselah's Children_ and _Time Enough for Love_, humanity develops a form of rejuvenation through blood replacement after a group of naturally Long-Lived people reveal themselves and then hijack a starship when the rest of the species demand they reveal their "secret". Later more advanced methods including complete body replacement are developed.
-   In _Gor_, the Caste of Physicians developed a treatment called the Stabilization Serums, which allowed the recipient to live for hundreds of years.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  The Priest-Kings, the Physical Gods of the setting, have a similar treatment, the oldest being about 5,000,000 years old.
-   The _Honor Harrington_ universe includes a set of treatments called "prolong," which are Exactly What It Says on the Tin. Once you're past a certain age prolong doesn't work, so most people who get it, get it young. How long it extends the human lifespan isn't clear, but with advanced prolong, it seems that humans adopted by treecats can live as long as their furry partners do, which is around 200 years. Honor's mother, Allison, is 90 years old at the time of the main series, and she's still very attractive and capable of bearing children. And since Honor received a more advanced version of the treatment, she's likely to live even longer. Also, people not only look very young for decades, they also have the hormonal levels corresponding with the apparent age _for decades_.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  In the later books, prolong becomes a key indicator of how socially and economically evolved a planet is: if you look old, it likely means you're poor. When the Star Empire of Manticore is created, receiving prolong is made a fundamental, inalienable right of every citizen.
-   Poulsen treatments in the _Hyperion Cantos_ series extend one's life to a few centuries — one person lived to close to a thousand years, although it also included a lot of time as a Human Popsicle. However, after a few times, the skin starts literally glowing blue, and it is of limited use on old people. Androids are built with the process being constant in their bodies, and can live for six or more centuries without visible signs of aging.
-   _Known Space_:
    -   Boosterspice (a drug derived from genetically engineered ragweed) can tremendously extend the human lifespan.
    -   In _Ringworld_, there is an equivalent to boosterspice available on the title space construct.
-   _Lilith's Brood_: The Oankali alien species can extend human lifetimes to several centuries through their powers of Biomanipulation. It's less effective the older the human is when they receive the treatment, but, as of the second book, the entire human species has it.
-   In _Lord of Light_, the so-called "Gods" (actually mutant humans) have mind-transfer technology that they use to reward or punish people. Be good, and you may end up with a bright, shiny new young body. Be bad, and you may end up with the old, worn-out body left by someone who was good.
-   In the final part of _The Man Who Awoke_, scientists have perfected the treatment to restore a person to youth, with the result that humanity effectively becomes immortal.
-   In _Neogicia_, this is one of the applications of the Empire's Bio-Augmentation technology. The ruling family keeps it mostly for itself. A character suspects they do this because too many people with access to this treatment may cause the Immortal Procreation Clause to kick in and it may not make everyone happy.
-   In _Old Man's War_, rejuvenation treatment via consciousness transfer to a genetically enhanced body is only available to military personnel — and the minimum age for joining the military is 75.
-   The setting of _The Princes of the Air_ has a longevity treatment which is only available to the rich and powerful. When we first meet the protagonist, he's running a con where the bait is illicit access to the longevity treatment.
-   In Wil McCarthy's _The Queendom of Sol_ series, you can "print" a new body for yourself, and then have your mind transferred into it. In the golden years of the queendom, everyone travels _everywhere_ by fax, and so has their body reset to a healthy 25 on pretty much a daily basis.
-   In _Rainbows End_, the Venn-Kurasawa treatments only work for one in a thousand, but for those they do work for, they can restore the appearance of youth, and add many years of actual lifespan. Robert Gu is one of the lucky few who respond to the treatments.
-   In _Ranks of Bronze_, the alien trade guild that purchases Crassus' legions as slave-warriors give them longevity treatments to keep them fighting for roughly two thousand years.
-   The _Red Mars Trilogy_ features a specialized gene therapy referred to as a "gerontological treatment". The books span over two hundred years and most the major characters, many of whom were _already_ in their 40s and 50s at the start of the series, are alive and active that entire time due to repeated use of the treatment. However, the treatment cannot overcome The Fog of Ages. In the final book, a separate treatment is created for this, giving them nigh-eidetic memory. The increasing age of the characters leads to many dying of old age in their 200s despite the gerontological treatments.
-   In Robert Reed's novel _The Remarkables_, Poulsen treatments can greatly expand one's life (beyond the already genetically enhanced ~150-year lifespan), though the treatment leaves visible marks — one of the characters who has had extensive treatments has an almost young face, but wrinkled hands and oddly colored skin.
-   _The Speed of Dark_ has LifeTime, an expensive new brain therapy. Some of the autistics demand it if they go through with the cure, but they don't get it.
-   In the _Takeshi Kovacs_ series, people are implanted with "cortical stacks" at birth that record one's brain state so that when they die, they can be "resleeved" in a new body.
-   In _This Immortal_, there is the so-called S-S treatment that's never specified but is said to be able to prolong a human's lifespan to 150 years and above.
-   In _Turnabout_ by Margaret Peterson Haddix, the government is working on a top-secret experiment in 2000 to reverse the aging process. It works — the main characters, who were extremely elderly and would have died before long, are given the chance to grow young again. Unfortunately, they haven't figured out a working way to _stop_ the un-aging. Within a few years, the subjects start to notice a few memory-related side effects...
-   _Vorkosigan Saga_:
    -   The Betans a rumored to have one, which people assume is the reason that Admiral Naismith commands a mercenary fleet while appearing to be in his early twenties. In truth, there is no such treatment, and Admiral Naismith really is in his early twenties.
    -   The Jacksonians have a highly unethical treatment in which the brain of a wealthy client is transferred into the body of a younger clone. Mark Vorkosigan has made it his life's work to eliminate that practice, and as of the chronologically latest book was about to begin testing of a treatment that could potentially revert someone from 'old' to 'middle aged'.
-   The _Well World_ series includes "rejuvenation", usually called "rejuve", which seems to take about fifty or sixty years off the recipient's physical age. Not everyone can tolerate the rejuve treatment, and no one can take an infinite number of rejuves.
-   _A World Out of Time_ has an immortality treatment for adults that involves removing impurities from the body.
-   In the _Xandri Corelel_ series, the characters have genetic modifications for life extension. One character in _Tone of Voice_ has worked as a field anthropologist for almost a century.
-   In the _Xeelee Sequence_ novels, humanity invents Anti-Senescence technology which repairs genetic damage due to age via nanobots. The treatment has a 99% success rate, though treatment failures typically end with a terminal illness. Lifespan with AS treatments theoretically has no upper limit, though in practice the treatments begin to break down at 400-500 years; in the novella _Mayflower II_, after 40,000 years of flight the captain of a Generation Ship is little more than a Brain in a Jar, with his desiccated body permanently wired into a life support chair.

    Live-Action TV 

-   In the _Red Dwarf_ episode "Lemons", the guys find a Rejuvenation Shower that's supposed to turn old people young again and was common enough to be sold in IKEA. But the Dwarfers end up putting it together wrong and it becomes a time machine.
-   _Stargate SG-1_ has several examples, all with severe side effects:
    -   The sarcophagus can extend the life of a human without a Goa'uld for 700 years or so, and a human that is a host to Goa'uld for millennia. Unfortunately, it makes the user megalomaniacal. Because reasons. A later episode eventually reveals that even a sarcophagus has its limits for a Goa'uld symbiote. Lord Yu is, apparently, one of the oldest symbiotes in existence. He spends most of his time in a sarcophagus, but still has fits of senility (such as ordering his fleet to a system half a galaxy away in order to fight a battle that was already fought years ago). His First Prime knows all this and covers it up, loyally following his master's orders even if they are the result of his senility.
    -   In the episode "2010", the Aschen give earth a life-extension drug that serves to explain why SG-1 hadn't aged at all in ten years. It also turned out to cause sterility, as part of an Aschen plot to depopulate earth so they could turn it into an agricultural colony, necessitating Time Travel to prevent the earth-Aschen alliance.
-   _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_: Parodied in the episode "In The Cards". Dr. Giger believes that people die because their cells get bored of doing the same thing day in and day out, literally boring them to death. His invention intends to provide stimulating entertainment to the user's cells to entice them into immortality. After listening to this spiel, the protagonists decide that — even given the miraculous science of the _Star Trek_ universe — this guy's a loon.
-   A less sci-fi example in _Torchwood_ with Angelo Colasanto. After witnessing Jack's immortality in 1927, he starts researching ways of prolonging his life, which appear to be grounded in Real Life techniques (e.g., going vegetarian, slowing down one's metabolism), and manages to live until 2011.
-   _The Twilight Zone (1959)_: In the episode "The Trade-Ins", an elderly couple go to a clinic that can give them new, younger bodies. Unfortunately, they only have enough money for one of them.

    Tabletop Games 

-   In _Ars Magica_, Hermetic Magi are able to create a longevity ritual that can drastically slow the aging process. The _Mysteries_ sourcebook provides a significantly more powerful version in the form of an alchemical Elixir of Life.
-   _Blue Planet_: One of the more famous applications of Xenosilicates is reversing the aging process, hence the common nickname Longevity Ore or "Long John".
-   _Eclipse Phase_ mentions longevity treatments as part of the backstory. Though they're apparently obsolete now (outside the Junta) since longevity is included in most Basic Biomods and Brain Uploading is commonplace.
-   In _Hc Svnt Dracones_, the Mega Corps don't want immortal customers, even though they have the technology for it. Pulse and Progenitus do offer "graceful aging" treatments that keep a client healthy and active through their nineties, but include a "termination date" somewhere around age 100. Still, some very valuable employees manage to secure long-term contracts that include body replacement at the end of their natural lifespan.
-   The CCG _Illuminati_ has the "immortality serum" card that makes a personality indestructible and can also cause an opponent's personality to defect.
-   Longevity treatments exist in the _Mutant Chronicles_ setting, but between the astronomic expense, the invasive surgery and the extremely strict regimen of diet and exercise required for the treatment to be effective, very few people bother.
-   _Shadowrun_ features a number of age rejuvenation treatments. Leonization, the most expensive, restores physical age to approximately 21, a life span extension is a one-time procedure that adds 10 years to your life, while physical vigor simply counters the physical side effects of aging.
-   A couple of nanosymbionts in _Transhuman Space_ extend life expectancy by 10 years and expensive "rejuvenation" treatments can actually reverse the aging process.
-   Anagathic drugs in _Traveller_ allow characters to extend their lifespan but are frequently banned or controlled, and extremely expensive. Require monthly doses or the character is forced to make an aging roll. Worse, Going Cold Turkey can cause serious Rapid Aging issues as well.
-   The Space Marines' biological enhancements in _Warhammer 40,000_ setting allow them to live a millennium or more. Unenhanced human nobles and dignitaries have "rejuvenat" or simply "juveant" treatments, enabling them to live several centuries longer than ordinary humans. Some sources imply that certain variants of these procedures use raw materials from living children.

    Video Games 

-   In _Cyberpunk 2077_, this is used to explain how a number of characters from the original 2013/2020-timeframe are still around. It's also very well done in that characters' respective wealth, and accompanying access to treatment, is shown in their appearance; Saburo Arasaka, owner of most of the Pacific Rim and most powerful man in the world, is 156, but looks like an active and healthy 70 (and somehow managed to recover from a crippling stroke). In contrast, Nancy (a successful music journalist), is in her early 90s but looks like a worn 55-year-old. Averted in the case of Santiago Aldecaldo; the devs couldn't find a reasonable excuse for a mercenary and smuggler to be able to afford longevity treatment, so he was replaced with an Suspiciously Similar Substitute and quietly mentioned to have died of old age during the Time Skip.
-   _Fallout_:
    -   Radiation under very specific conditions<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  can render a person effectively immortal, turning them into a 'ghoul'. Ghouls do not age and even heal from radiation, but lose most of their skin and hair as it flakes off in big chunks, suffer the long-term effects of age leading to severe cataracts and arthritis, and become infertile. However, those exposed to too much radiation during ghoulification — but not enough to outright kill them — lose their mind and become 'feral', essentially mindless zombies. Ghouls who receive even more radiation can become Glowing Ones, ghouls that have a Sickly Green Glow and can erupt in a burst of radiation to harm and heal. While most Glowing One ghouls are feral, one Jason Bright is a Glowing One who hasn't become feral and leads a cult in a rocket facility in Henderson. In _Fallout 4_, Eddie Winters, a Pre-War crime lord, underwent an experimental radiation regime months before the Great War. He's still kicking 220 years later. Other people got ghoulified the hard way — gamma radiation from nuclear bombs.
    -   The Super Mutants altered by the Forced Evolution Virus in the original _Fallout_ are still around and at full fighting strength over a century later. Super Mutant bodies have increased healing, durability, and strength, but are infertile due to said healing<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and lack secondary sexual characteristics. Of course, becoming a Super Mutant isn't easy, painless, or safe. It involves being dipped in a massive vat of FEV or having direct injections to force the change and only humans from Vaults have the minimum damage to their DNA to allow themselves to keep their intelligence afterwards before long-term Stealth Boy usage rots their minds. The East Coast Mutants in the Capital and Boston Wastelands are the result of leftover FEV found in Vault 87 in the former and used by the Institute in the latter.
    -   Another element of "feralization" in ghouls is socialization or general willpower/mental fortitude. Those that don't immediately go crazy may still decline over time if they're weak-willed or hide away in isolation and slowly go crazy.
-   The water of planet Eden in _Heavy Metal F.A.K.K.²_ has increased the human colonists' lifespan far beyond its natural length, possibly even rendering them virtually immortal.
-   In the _Mass Effect_ series, humans commonly live to 150 or so due to gene therapies and drugs. This puts us in the mid-range for lifespans in that universe.
-   In _Moon Chronicles_, an alien installation is discovered on the moon. Further investigation shows that the aliens have been harvesting humans for centuries in order to make a substance that restores health and prolongs life.
-   The _Ideology_ DLC from _RimWorld_ has the biosculpter pod, which does wonderful things such as healing injuries and diseases, granting pleasure buffs, and the most significant feature: reversing the age of colonists. It requires a few amount of nutrients to have it work and once a colonist is inside a pod, the cycle process can range from a few days to a whole week depending on the treatment. The pod is especially important for those whose ideoligion is centered towards transhumanism as they seek to stay young and essentially become biologically immortal, though it can be built by anyone without transhumanist beliefs. Unfortunately, the pod cannot treat certain diseases such as dementia/Alzheimer's or restore missing body parts, so unless you have access to the extraordinarily rare healer mech serum, you're out of luck.
-   In _Scarlet Nexus_, all members of the Other Suppression Force (OSF) receive a special drug that slows their aging. Precise extent of the drug's efficiency seems to vary from person to person, and may leave the recipient looking anywhere from ten to thirty years old. However, after about 40 years of usage the drug stops being effective, and the person starts to age again, at which point they usually retire.
-   _Sentinel: Descendants In Time_ (based on Terry Dowling's short story "The Dormeuse and the Ichneumon") is set 1900 years in the future, where genetic treatments allowed mankind to live several times longer than a regular human. The main character Beni is 78 years old, but sounds like a 20-year-old man, which Dormeuse finds amusing when he enters her Tastan tomb. It turns out that said tomb is meant to trap people, out of spite from the Tastans who couldn't achieve longevity because the treatments didn't affect them.
-   Several forms appear in _Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri_:
    -   There is a secret project called 'The Longevity Vaccine' and another called 'Clinical Immortality'. The former is a simple injection, the latter involves removing the brain, spine, and eyes and placing them in a glass machine, giving the user Clinical Immortality.
    -   It is mentioned that the Player Character goes through some sort of gene therapy on a regular basis to explain how he stays alive for the full five centuries of the game.
    -   One of the other characters is said to have kept a strict 'longevity regimen'.
-   _The Sims_:
    -   _The Sims 2_ features a carnivorous plant (the cowplant) that produces a substance that, when drunk, gives a Sim an extra day of life.
    -   _The Sims 3_ has a plant called **life fruit**, which expand at least one day of a sim's life. Said fruit is a critical ingredient in the Ambrosia recipe that resets a Sim to the start of their current life stage.
-   _Stellaris_:
    -   There's a variety of technologies that add extra years to your Leaders' life expectancies. It's also possible for certain leaders to become immortal through events or other special conditions.
    -   It's possible to use gene tailoring to add the Enduring (+20 years) or Venerable (+80) traits to one or more of your species.
    -   There's also an event where you find a tree floating in space with sap that can extend your leaders' lifespans, or be distributed to the whole population for a boost in morale.
-   In _Sword of the Stars II_, anagathics technologies extend the lifespans of your admirals.

    Webcomics 

-   _The Dragon Doctors_: The effects of a Fountain of Youth were reverse-engineered about a century earlier. The Fountain itself is a deadly lake that regresses everything to nothing within its radius, but learning its magic has allowed other characters to get regular rejuvenation treatments. In Mori's backstory, it is shown that she helped discover it and was rather old before someone tried to kill her by dunking her head in the lake, whereupon she went from about 60 to 20. She also adopted the sole survivor of the previous team to the area, who had been regressed to a baby.
-   In _Escape from Terra_, rejuvenation treatments are one of many examples of bio- and nanotechnology that are officially banned on Earth. Reggie King and Babbette the elder undergo the treatment on Mars, and the first man on Mars is a great-great-great-grandfather who looks no older than 30.
-   In _Freefall_, life extension drugs are apparently available over the counter. At one point, Florence (an uplifted red wolf) states that her projected lifespan of 160 years is slightly shorter than that of a human.
-   In _Genocide Man_, the titular Genocide Men had a variety of procedures done that allowed them to continue operating well into their 90s or 100s — artificial glands to stabilize hormones, nanotube-laced skeletons to prevent broken bones, and telomerase to prevent cancer. The former two sets of augmentations have other bonuses as well. Jacob is 98, but thanks to his mods, he is still one of the deadliest men in the world.
-   In _Quantum Vibe_, rejuvenation treatments are even more readily available. One of the main characters is reportedly in his third century, but there's evidence that he's _over 500 years old_.
-   _Schlock Mercenary_:
    -   A plot point is "Project Laz'r'us", which was intended to circumvent humanity's short lifespans in comparison to many other sophonts using hyper-advanced nanotechnology. The nannies are also capable of repairing a clinically dead host and even making internal backups of the brain.
    -   The species from whose computer equipment carbosilicate amorphs has evolved already made themselves immortal and ran into several layers of problems. Still, there's a few remaining individuals alive and sane after their twelve million Terran years, "give or take a little bit."
    -   Petey, via the Neofan, begins distributing for free a nanotech longevity treatment based on Laz'r'us, but without its transformative drawbacks and hardened against interference to prevent a repetition of Redhack. Even poor people can live forever as long as their skin and bone backups aren't compromised.
-   In the future of _S.S.D.D._, the wealthy are able to afford implants that extend lifespans until an accident kills them. At least two of Maytec's board of directors are in their fifties and appear to be twenty.

    Web Original 

-   One of the very rare dungeon loot drops in _The Daily Grind_ can add months to your total lifespan.
-   In _Mahu_'s "Second Chance", humanity's great technological advances allow them to live well beyond the 100 year mark while keeping their health. It reaches a point where they are nearly the most long-lived race in the whole galaxy.
-   In _Orion's Arm_, most nearbaselines are genetically engineered to live about 500 years. But due to medical nanotechnology and Brain Uploading, most in the Sephirotic Empires live to 3,000 before succumbing to ennui or transcending.

    Western Animation 

-   _Batman: The Animated Series_: In the episode "Eternal Youth", Poison Ivy (under the guise of Dr. Demeter) offers this treatment to rich industrialists, but in reality is turning them into trees as karmic justice for their environmental destruction. She has no qualms about going after their friends or loved ones as well.
-   In _Gargoyles_, the Illuminati provides life extending drugs to its senior members such as Mace Malone, who is in remarkably good health for a man in his nineties. When Matt Bluestone remarks on this, Mace wryly responds that Matt should see their dental plan, flashing a smile full of perfect white, even, natural teeth.

    Real Life  

-   While life extension systems which would prolong your life by decades do not exist (yet), certain measures can be taken to prolong your life at best, or avert major maladies _at least_ with proper hygiene, nutrition, regular exercise and barring any serious illness or injury, you can expect to live to a ripe old age.

___