_"Do be careful! Don't lose any of that stuff. That's concentrated evil. One drop of that could turn you all into hermit crabs."_

The bad guys aren't just bad, they _are_ Bad! The concentrated, physical manifestation of it to be precise.

Somehow, the villain's physical body is made up of a tangible form of Evil. If you cut them, they will "bleed" Evil, and severed limbs or cuts to the torso won't reveal skin, muscle, bone and organs but a uniform dark material. These villains are, unsurprisingly, not human; or at least, not anymore. They may be an Anthropomorphic Personification of Evil, a God of Evil that is made up of their portfolio rather than an organic/'divine' being in control of it, or be Energy Beings made of The Dark Side. Normal humans can become Made Of Evil if they spend years being _really_ evil and get dosed with Phlebotinum. An everyday good person may have the darkness in their heart forcibly ejected to make The Heartless, or an Enemy Without. Commonly, they are Emotion Eaters who feed on negative emotions, perhaps even being a God of Evil who runs off of / is the source of these negative emotions. A subcategory of this is when the villain is the personification of any single certain aspect of evil, he or she is an Embodiment of Vice. He could also be the personification of one ugly aspect of life for example, of war as a War God. Their motivation will invariably be For the Evulz, but note the distinction: a Made of Evil entity is compelled by their nature to do evil for the sake of it.

When we say "Evil", we don't just mean "Made of immorality", but just about any not-nice emotion, concept, and elemental power, such as: Darkness, Death, Decay, Hate, Sin, and Unholiness. This makes them very similar to physical ghosts; they form a kind of "negative energy" Ectoplasm (of evil) that is nonetheless completely tangible and is completely, indivisibly evil to its smallest fermion (of evil). Unlike physical ghosts, this "evil" tends to remain tangible until (and sometimes after) the Made Of Evil being is killed. Understandably, because Good Hurts Evil, expect them to be _highly_ vulnerable to Depleted Phlebotinum Shells, scream "It Burns!" and suffer Glamour Failure in the face of holy relics, and at times have a Weaksauce Weakness to The Power of Love and The Power of Friendship... unless they are _so_ evil they create a Cross-Melting Aura, of course.

When killed, they usually "decompose" into a black, oily substance (of evil) or thick black smoke (of evil) before fading away. If they were a Walking Wasteland (of evil), expect there to be No Ontological Inertia as flowers spring and the world lights up at their death; though the specific spot they die or are interred will become a cursed, haunted place. That said, killing them is often easier said than done, since they're the Evil equivalent of Jello, they don't have any vital organs (of evil) to hit, and can sometimes even regenerate From a Single Cell (of evil). Characters are strongly advised that even the ashes of Evil are not a toy, because touching, eating, drinking, or wearing anything made from _pure evil_ will not end well. May be an example of As Long as There Is Evil, or a Residual Evil Entity.

Contrast Complete Monster, a character who is consciously purely immoral instead of being physically composed of immorality — by definition, characters that are Made of Evil lack the agency required for moral judgement, and thus usually cannot become a Complete Monster. The only exceptions are when other characters in the same Made of Evil situation show themselves to be capable of making a successful Heel–Face Turn. Also contrast Evil Is Sterile, which implies that something being "made of evil" is a logical contradiction. The Good Counterpart is Made of Good.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   In _Bakugan_, Mag Mel's armor is revealed to be this. Code Eve created it from the evil of former Big Bad Emperor Barodius and sealed him inside of it.
-   _Berserk_:
    -   The Idea of Evil is the reason the _Berserk_ universe is such a crappy place to live. It exists because people want something to be responsible for their suffering; the alternative, that their suffering is random and meaningless, is too much for humanity to bear.
    -   Trolls and the other monsters from Qliphoth, are literally formed from the nightmares and fears of humanity, making them Always Chaotic Evil.
-   _Digimon:_
    -   According to the lore, some Digimon are this, either from negative human emotions (so literally born out of internet hate) or their own.
    -   Lucemon Satan Mode of Digimon Frontier is made of data that couldn't be purified following Lucemon's defeat.
-   _Dragon Ball_:
    -   Janemba, the Big Bad of _Dragon Ball Z: Fusion Reborn_, is made out of all the evil that was sucked out of the residents of Hell in order to purify their souls.
    -   The Shadow Dragons, the final villains of _Dragon Ball GT_, are the living embodiments of all of the negative energy that the Dragon Balls had accumulated over the years.
    -   Demon King Piccolo, the Big Bad of _Dragon Ball_ was formed when the Namek who would become Kami cast off his evil. While the Demon King was pure evil, for unknown reasons when he was killed and reincarnated himself into his son, the resulting Piccolo Jr. was not and eventually made a Heel–Face Turn.
-   In _Inuyasha_: The Shikon Jewel is a balance between this and Made of Good — hundreds of demon souls and one priestess soul are sealed within it.
-   _Majin Tantei Nougami Neuro_: The True Bloodline, as Sicks puts it, are the products of generations of natural selection where the most "evil" are chosen. Despite being humans, their sheer malice is so strong it gives them superpowers to match an actual demon in combat. Sicks himself managed to kill every baby in the hospital and hide the evidence shortly after being born, which made his short-lived parents overjoyed.
-   Witches in _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_, born from the despair of Magical Girls and able only to kill and destroy.
-   In _QQ Sweeper_ negative emotions in people's minds take the form of insects, with Jerk Jock Sakaguchi having a huge centipede reside in his mind.
-   _The Rising of the Shield Hero_(Web Novel only): Princess Malty Melromarc (a.k.a. Myne Sophia) is revealed to be an Artificial Human reality-warped into existence by the truly despicable Medea Pideth Machina, intentionally programmed to cause as much evil as humanly possible. Averted in the other versions, as she's just a spoiled sociopath.
-   The mazoku in _Slayers_ are beings of pure chaos that, as in the trope, feed on negative emotion, power black magic, and want to see the world returned to the Sea of Chaos. Fantasy RPGs like _Dungeons & Dragons_ are an admitted influence on the setting, so it's possible they draw inspiration from that game's demons, etc.
-   In _Tales of Wedding Rings_, the Abyssal beasts are unholy monsters formed of the substance of the Abyss itself, able to manifest wherever there is sufficient darkness.
-   Depending on interpretation, the Minotaur in _Tekkonkinkreet_ embodies Black's inner darkness.
-   The Evil AI in _Tomica Hyper Rescue Drive Head Kidou Kyuukyuu Keisatsu_. It's actually a mass of negative human emotion, that gains power by absorbing even more negativity.
-   _Umi Monogatari_ has Sedna, though not so much evil as sadness. She was born from the islanders' collective sorrow, which they cast into the sea rather than dealt with.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh!_:
    -   In the dub, Ghost Kaiba claims to be the embodiment of Kaiba's dark side, which Yami had previously purged from him. In the original version, this isn't the case, although where he truly came from is questionable.
    -   Dark Marik, the Big Bad of the Battle City arc, is the embodiment of the hatred, jealousy, and resentment Marik held against the Pharaoh, held inside for years until given physical form.

    Comic Books 

-   _Final Crisis_ finally confirms, after many years of it being implied, that Darkseid is the Abstract Apotheosis of evil in the DC universe. Grant Morrison's Arc Welding during their run on Batman further explains it, showing that Darkseid is a higher dimensional platonic concept of pure evil, and that when any character in the DCU acts evil, they're just letting themselves be possessed by a fraction of Darkseid's power.
-   _The Avengers:_ Kurt Busiek's run has an alien pyramid made of the tiniest fragment of the cast off evil of a trio of otherdimensional gods, which has been travelling through the universe sucking the life out of anything it finds. Fortunately the universe responded to it by creating a trio of prisms of pure good to destroy it.
-   _Mazeworld_: The Big Bad of this 2000AD comic is a demonic entity who describes himself as the embodiment of evil who relies on people's fears to exist.
-   _Marvel Universe_: Mephisto once took an interest in Christ's Crown, New York, a horrible place with a dark and bloody history. Mephisto gathered power from the accumulated evil in Christ's Crown and used it to create his "son" Blackheart.
-   Super Sonic in _Sonic the Comic_ is made of the pure evil Chaos Energy of the Chaos Emeralds.
-   The Guardians of the Universe (masters of the Green Lantern Corps) expelled all the evil from themselves in a similar manner to the race that created Armus in the _Star Trek_ example below. Eventually, it took over the body of the guy who trained three different Golden Age heroes.

    Fan Works 

-   _Dungeon Keeper Ami_: The gods of evil of Adushul seem to be made of being evil since for them, Evil Can Not Comprehend Good, plus they can split off pieces of themselves that are therefore themselves made of evil.
-   _Past Sins_: The Corruption in Chapter 17 is defined as evil due to being just an embodiment of jealousy, anger and hatred.
-   _RainbowDoubleDash's Lunaverse_: The Dark And Omnipotent Antithesis is literally made out of the hatred and dissension between the four Elements of Magic. And since Friendship is Magic in this setting, anti-friendship is also Anti-Magic, giving Antithesis the ability to create "null pockets" in which magic doesn't exist.
-   _Rosario Vampire: Brightest Darkness_: Shadow demons such as Dark Kuyumaya are described as being forged of nothing but hate and evil, born from the pits of Hell.

    Films — Animation 

-   Downplayed with Xibalba of _The Book of Life_. He is made out of tar, slime and everything icky in the world and while he is the antagonist of the movie, he is an Anti-Villain and does a Heel–Face Turn at the end.
-   Sephiroth in _Final Fantasy VII: Advent Children_. When he appears at the end of the movie, he is literally MADE of Jenova cells. He even bleeds it when cut. And when Cloud defeats him the excess Jenova cells making him up discorporate, leaving a beaten Kadaj behind.
-   _Heavy Metal_ had the Loc-Nar as a connecting theme between stories. It could (at will? only sometimes?\*) kill on touch, reanimate the dead, and cause volcanoes to erupt... in addition to tormenting teenage girls.
-   _The Phantom Toll Booth_ The Movie has the Demons Of Ignorance combining into a blue demonic chimera of all the worst evils known to man.
-   _The Swan Princess: A Royal Family Tale_: The Forbidden Arts is the living embodiment of Black Magic.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   The 'Mathmos' in the movie _Barbarella_ is a seething psychedelic lake of slimy evil beneath the city Sogo.
-   Azrael in _Dogma_ has his chest smashed in to reveal a chewy centre of seething black ichor. Of course, he _is_ a "fucking demon", so it kinda makes sense...
-   "Mr. Shadow" in _The Fifth Element_ is pure evil in the form of a burning planet.
-   In the 1980s _Flash Gordon_ movie, the henchwoman General Kala's corpse _visibly deflates_ and smokes as it turns into an oil spill. Her superior Klytus likewise melts after being Impaled with Extreme Prejudice.
-   The "mood slime" in _Ghostbusters II_ is composed of negative human emotion. However, the fact that it feeds off emotion allows the Busters to convert several batches of the stuff into positive mood slime that is Made of Good.
-   _Halloween's_ Dr. Loomis believes Michael Myers is this. It would explain his ability to come back from each increasingly over-the-top death.
-   The Evil Overlord Darkness from Ridley Scott's _Legend (1985)_ is literally made of darkness, portrayed as the equivalent of evil. He's quite literally the devil and wants to bring about an eternal night (even though it means the end of the world) because he needs it to thrive. Before his ultimate defeat, he also taunts the hero that darkness can't exist without him.
-   _The Neverending Story_: The Nothing is made up of children's losing of imagination and unwillingness to believe in Fairy Tales (at least in the film version).
-   _Time Bandits_ by Terry Gilliam has Evil as the main antagonist. Once destroyed, a single piece/rock of him is overlooked in the cleanup, when Kevin's parents pick it up (after he warns them not to) they get vaporized.
-   Garmonbozia, in the David Lynch film _Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me_ is a substance in the Black Lodge described as being made of pure pain and suffering. Garmonbozia, in typical surreal Lynch fashion, manifests itself as creamed corn.

    Literature 

-   Isaac Asimov's "Hell-Fire (1956)": One of the scientists insists that all atomic bombs are Hellfire; power that is innately evil because it comes from Fire and Brimstone Hell.
-   In the _Confessions_, the Manichees believed that all physical matter was made from the "evil body" that caused all suffering. As such, if a Manichee were to lie or whore around, they couldn't be blamed for it, it was just their evil matter taking over from their squeaky clean soul. The way this idea diminishes moral responsibility attracts the youthful and selfish Augustine to the Manichees, at least until he realizes they're full of shit.
-   The Big Bads in _The Death Gate Cycle_ by Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman were living avatars of evil who grew stronger in the presence of despair, rage and so forth. "I grow fat on your fear" isn't just a metaphor with them.
-   The Shadows in the _Firebird Trilogy_ gain their name from their appearance (when not possessing a human): they are dark, nearly invisible, representing the fact that they are evil given form. Unlike many other forms of this, they are insubstantial and thus unkillable, although they can be kept at bay by prayer.
-   Dementors in the _Harry Potter_ series are embodiments of negative emotion in general. Where they come from isn't quite explained, but they exist to suck all happiness out of the vicinity in a fashion specifically based on depression.
-   _The History of Middle-earth_:
    -   Tolkien explains that Morgoth is not only the God of Evil but is responsible for diffusing his essence into all parts of the physical world, thereby giving an elemental evil spin to all particles of matter and creating the problem of, well, evil. By weakening himself and corrupting ordinary matter to serve his purposes, "all of Middle Earth itself is Morgoth's Ring". Fortunately, his own body is not Made Of Evil; he is merely trapped in it.
    -   In earlier conceptions of the Orcs it was claimed they had hearts made from pure hate. And Thu, who eventually became Sauron, was _all_ hate. Tolkien is said to have changed this due to his own Christian belief system, which states that _nothing_ starts out evil, and there can be no such thing as "pure evil". One of the major sticking points he had with his own work, even up to the end, was how the orcs, trolls, and other "evil races" seemingly contradict this.
    -   The One Ring was forged from Sauron’s distilled hatred and obsessive need to dominate the world. It’s about as close to Tolkien ever got to justifying pure evil in his mythology, simply because it came from raw negative emotions made physical.
-   _The Stormlight Archive_:
    -   _The Way of Kings (2010)_: Although we don't have much information about them, the monsters that Dalinar confronts in one of his visions of the past bleed black smoke when wounded and dissolve once dead. They certainly sound like they're made of evil.
    -   And in _Words of Radiance_ we encounter the stormspren, which are literally made out of hatred.
-   _The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde_: Mr. Hyde is all of Jekyll's internalized evil given a physical form by a potion. Everyone he meets notices, and it gives him the impression of being deformed without having anything physically wrong with him.
-   The titular mini-black-hole in _Angelmass_ balances the 'angel' particles it emits by becoming demonic itself.
-   The _Warrior Cats_ series has many evil cats, but this trope can most effectively be applied to Brokenstar. Not only was the cat nasty from the day he was born and a piece of work (to the point that the description of Evil Overlord basically describes his personality perfectly), but getting good traits during his nine lives ceremony outright caused him physical pain. When he was born, his mother outright noted his face was twisted with rage and hatred.

    Live-Action TV 

-   On _Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._, apparently evil is energetic. Agent Coulson's views may be more Magic Is Evil though.
-   _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_, the First Evil is more or less the personification of evil itself. As Jonathan puts it in "Storyteller".
-   Subverted in _Charmed_. For the first four seasons, the Big Bad behind just about every evil being the Charmed Ones went up against was called The Source Of All Evil. Four years of Villain Decay later, however, and it turns out that "Source Of All Evil" is really just a title, and anyone in charge of the demonic underworld gets to call themselves that. The _actual_ Source isn't the demon leader in question, but rather an amorphous force that gets inherited by whoever is currently in charge of the Underworld at the time, and gradually takes them over from the inside out.
-   _Doctor Who_: The Doctor emphasizes over and over again that Daleks ("little green blobs in polycarbine armour!") are a distilled form of evil which sweeps through the cosmos. If this logic holds, the Doctor can't kill them in "Genesis of the Daleks" because without the looming Dalek threat, most planetary systems would destroy themselves and never find solidarity with each other. Pretty morbid.
-   The Big Bad of _Lost_ is said to be this. One character describes him as "evil incarnate."
-   Apparently just about every enemy the Power Rangers used to fight was this trope. When purified of evil at the end of the sixth season, most simply crumbled to dust.
-   _Star Trek: The Next Generation_: Armus, the eponymous skin in the episode _Skin of Evil_, is a being made up of an entire civilization's discarded negative thoughts and emotions. He killed Tasha Yar and was one of the few beings that the emotionless android Data felt should be destroyed without question.
-   _Uchu Sentai Kyuranger_: The final episode reveals that Don Armage was born from the anger, sorrow, and despair of the universe.
-   Similar to the above is Dahak from _Hercules_ and _Xena_.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Dungeons & Dragons_:
    -   Just as the Inner Planes are home to Elemental Embodiments of the forces of Air, Earth, Fire and Water (and Positive and Negative Energy, depending on the cosmology), creatures from the Outer Planes, sometimes categorized as "Outsiders," physically embody the ethical philosophies of the Character Alignment spectrum. So Fiends in general are Made of Evil, Celestials are Made of Good, Modrons are Made of Order, and Slaadi are Made of Chaos. Outsiders can embody more than one of these forces, so Devils for example are Made of Lawful Evil, while Demons are Made of Chaotic Evil. If an Outsider changes their individual alignment, they still retain the "(Good)," "(Lawful)," etc. subtypes from their original alignment. This means that a Fallen Angel would still register as "good" under the effect of Detect Evil, while an Ascended Demon would still take extra damage from a Smite Evil attack, _and_ would also count as Lawful and Good for the purposes of effects that deal extra damage to those alignments.
    -   The cosmology and lore of Fourth Edition state that the Abyss of the Elemental Chaos originates from a shard of pure evil, possibly the last remaining fragment of the previous universe that survived its destruction and the creation of the new one. The Abyss itself is also said to be a manifestation of chaotic evil. The Abyss was created when the dark god Tharizdun attempted to take the shard for himself but got warped into a being of chaos himself. Of all deities in the setting, he is both the most chaotic and most evil, constantly spawning new aberrations and the layers of the Abyss through his power while also seeking the destruction of all things in the cosmos. Fortunately, his plans haven't gotten very far because his actions are more or less random, and his insanity prevents him from actually making conscious decisions.
-   _Exalted_:
    -   Many of the Yozis fit, being both physical abominations (all the shadows in Hell, a desert of silver sand) and metaphysical concepts that tend to be inimical to humanity (respectively, the cosmic principle of betrayal and a mockery of all virtue, and injustice and spiritual desolation).
    -   Five Days Darkness is a subversion. The first shadow cast by the Unconquered Sun and a being that is inherently a creature of darkness (as opposed to one made so by the judgment of the Unconquered Sun), he is in fact one of the most decent gods in Yu-Shan.
-   Every Dragon in _Iron Kingdoms_ is completely and utterly evil. Radiating a taint that slowly twists and corrupts any creatures around them.
-   Demons in _Pathfinder_ are born from the sins of evil souls, in contrast to the Devils, which is what those evil souls become when they die.
-   _Princess: The Hopeful_: Both the animalistic Darkspawn and the intelligent Cataphractoi are animate Darkness, in contrast to the Mnemosynes (those who welcomed the Darkness in without a fight, meaning it didn't need to destroy their human bodies and minds to remake them into its servants).
-   The Warp in _Warhammer 40,000_ is made of all the emotions in the galaxy good and bad, but there's more bad than good. The Chaos gods have "good" traits that have been warped and amplified so much that to human sensibilities they become evil. For instance, Nurgle is a Friend to All Living Things— heavy emphasis on the ALL; Papa Nurgle loves his cute little parasites and pathogens, yes he does!

    Video Games 

-   The "Dark Presence" in _Alan Wake_ qualifies for this; it's mysterious, almost unknowable, and has to attach itself to human shapes in order to be perceived at all.
-   Sabata from the _Boktai_ series is a rare _heroic_ example of this. He was raised by the Queen of the Immortals Hel, an experience that left him with a body made of Dark Matter. Even before his Heel–Face Turn he wasn't evil so much as merely a fatalist who believes it's humanity's destiny to perish so why not help it along, and it doesn't take much more than witnessing his brother's Heroic Resolve to push him over to the good guy's side.
-   The Lords of Shadow in _Castlevania: Lords of Shadow_. While their bodies started out physically human, they are being animated by the evil their original selves left behind when they ascended to Heaven. Having pure evil in place of a true soul seems to have had a detrimental effect on their bodies as well — only one of them seems to be able to maintain a fully human-looking disguise and all three have monstrous true forms.
-   The Dark Star in _Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story_ is a being of incredible dark energy. It can lend that energy to any villain who sets it free, however.
-   In Both _Dark Cloud_ games the Big Bads have this feature and were created by The hate of a particular person due to war and Discrimination.
-   The Inkies in _de Blob_ are made from, and gleefully spread, Ink, which turns out to be made from the concentrated misery of the Raydians they enslave.
-   All of the Prime Evils and the Lesser Evils of _Diablo_. No exceptions! Hell, the Big Bad himself became the game's equivalent to Satan.
-   The "Forgotten Truths" event from _Dragalia Lost_ reveals that Morsayati manifested from the hatred of Mordecai into a separate being after Elysium seemingly killed Ilia.
-   _Doom (2016)_: The UAC discovered a rift to Hell on Mars, and used it to tap Hell like an oil well, extracting Hell energy and refining it into Argent energy. Shockingly, Argent energy seems to work great; it's limitless, easy to use, and has no side effects. Everything went sideways because Olivia Pierce went insane made a deal with the demons. Although admittedly part of her motivation was to find a way to get _more_ Hell energy, the energy itself was fine. This seems to be due to the ultimate origins of Hell energy. Hell once tried to invade a world called Argent D'nur, which used its mastery of Argent energy (provided by the god-like Wraiths) to push them back. One of the Night Sentinels, the protectors of the Wraiths, made a deal with the demons, and the world fell. The Wraiths were corrupted, and Argent energy became Hell energy.
-   The dragons in _Dragon Valor_ are the evil in the world, and if a human has enough evil in his heart, he will turn into a dragon.
-   The Nasuverse has an odd example with its incarnation of Angra Mainyu. He was originally a normal man whose fellow villagers wanted evil to have a physical form which they could blame for their own sinful urges, so they sacrificed him and began treating him as a God of Evil. Thus he's Made Of Evil without actually _being_ evil. When someone summoned him as "Avenger" in the Third Holy Grail War, his death and subsequent reabsorption by the Grail caused it to begin granting the wish he embodied, resulting in its corrupted state during the events of _Fate/stay night_ and _Fate/Zero_. _Fate/hollow ataraxia_ actually features Avenger fighting his own physical manifestation.
    -   The black mud which pours out of the Grail is a physical manifestation of Angra Mainyu's curses. Contact with the mud can kill humans and even destroy or corrupt Servants. Gilgamesh's body and Kirei's heart are both made of it.
-   In _EarthBound Beginnings_, Giygas was a grey alien with psychic powers and a particularly sharp hatred of humanity. By the time _EarthBound (1994)_ rolls around though, his hatred and power has grown to such a degree that it literally destroys his physical body and turns him into a floating, indistinct entity of _pure evil_.
-   Magmatite in _Evolution 2: Battle for Utopia_ is actually the physical byproduct of the resident Eldritch Abomination Xi's psionic influence on Utopia, which is why it is the only planet with Magmatite. Its rarer more potent Black Magmatite form can only be found by destroying Altars of Xi, where Xi's influence is at its strongest.
-   _Final Fantasy_:
    -   _Final Fantasy IV_ has the final boss Zeromus, the embodiment of Zemus's rage and hatred that emerges after he is slain.
    -   _Final Fantasy V_ gives us X-Death/Exdeath/Exodus/whatever they're calling him this week. He's what happens when one demon too many is sealed within a tree and said tree somehow transforms into an ambulatory would-be world conqueror.
    -   Whenever "Sephiroth" from _Final Fantasy VII_ shows up in the game before the Final Battle, it's actually a clone made of JENOVA cells, which is as close to being Made Of Evil as one can get in the setting. The actual Sephiroth is also made entirely of JENOVA cells when he appears near the end, since his original mostly (he was infused with JENOVA cells as a fetus) human body was destroyed when he fell into the Lifestream in the backstory.
    -   The Primals in _Final Fantasy XIV_ are god-like beings given physical form by worship, prayer, and crystallized aether. The one exception is Shinryu, who was not summoned as a thinking being, but the representation of the desire to cause calamity and destruction to his summoner's enemies. Because of this and the unique method of summoning, Shinryu has no real sense of self and exists as a creature of pure rage and violence.
    -   The Big Bad of _Final Fantasy XV_ looks human, but his body is actually made of the Starscourge plaguing Eos with daemons and lengthening the nights. This is because, long ago, he cured people of the Starscourge by absorbing it into his body.
-   One questline in _Genshin Impact_ has a Miko request you to help purify the land of accumulated filth. At the end of the quest, the Miko reveals that she herself is made of the same filth, but infused with the will of the previous Miko to cleanse the land, even if that means losing her life.
-   _Get in the Car, Loser!_: The Machine Devil started as an unstoppable flame created for the sole purpose of burning away overgrown plant life, but in the present, it claims to be a "meme" representing the idea of chaos, and that it'll come back as long as people seek this idea.
-   _Kingdom Hearts_:
    -   The Heartless, particularly the Pureblood variants, are just walking bags of malevolence without any true minds of their own.
    -   Vanitas fits this even better than the Heartless. He's literally made from darkness - specifically, the darkness Xehanort cut out of Ven.
    -   The Unversed are made entirely of Vanitas' negative emotions. And a new one spawns with EVERY NEGATIVE EMOTION that he feels.
    -   Sephiroth appears to be made of evil as well. Specifically, Cloud's evil.
    -   The Tremaines and Prince Hans are made of evil to the point where they were detected as such by the protagonists. Both cases would nearly cause the forging of the χ-Blade when they attacked a Princess of Heart (_two_ in Hans' case), endangering the whole _universe_ in the process.
-   This is the defining characteristsic of demons in _League of Legends_. They are sapient manifestations of a certain sin or dark emotion, taking physical form in order to indulge and spread it (though they Must Be Invited, usually by someone feeling their associated emotion). Evelynn is Lust, Tahm Kench is Gluttony, Nocturne is Wrath/Nightmares, and Fiddlesticks is Fear.
-   _The Legend of Zelda_:
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword_: It's revealed in the end that Ganondorf is the physical manifestation of Demon King Demise's hatred for Link and Zelda, existing solely to plague their incarnations for all of eternity.
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_: Some areas are coated in a purple-black substance known as Malice, out which grow eyes and mouths and which harms any non-evil being that touches it. It's implied to be Ganon's evil power and hatred given physical form. Ganon himself constructs an _enormous_ boar body out of the stuff for the final confrontation with Link, although assuming this form robs him of whatever scraps of sanity and intelligence he had left, leaving him a pure force of destruction. To drive the point home, this Dark Beast has the Boss Subtitle of "Hatred and Malice Incarnate".
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom_: Replacing Malice from _Breath of the Wild_ is "Gloom", a similar black substance except with orange-red highlights instead of purple. It's more potent than Malice: not content with just harming non-evil beings, it now semi-permanently saps their strength and vitality, making them deathly ill with no obvious way to recover. It also instantly rusts and decays all weapons in Hyrule upon being released. And it can take gaseous form, spreading more quickly and easily. Ganondorf is once again the source, so it's implied to be the same stuff as Malice, just in a different form and now more directly under Ganondorf's control.
-   In _Luigi's Mansion_, the mansion's fear and despair created a Living Shadow creature called Bogmire, who serves as the boss for area 2 of the game.
-   _MARDEK_:
    -   All monsters are made up of a dark, insubstantial material known as "miasma".
    -   The elemental in Chapter 3 include a Dark version. Due to the Sorting Algorithm of Evil, these are actually the _least_ powerful elementals you encounter. The bestiary says that they don't _attack_ so much as _leak energy when disrupted_, and that if they sit around too long they may crystallize and become Onyxes.
-   _Mari and the Black Tower_: All living things have an energy in them called "chaos," and humans have more of it than most other beings, which explains their inclination towards violence. The Miasma released by the Black Tower comes from humans. Originally, humanity's essence of chaos was balanced, but Zamas destroyed that balance in order to cause humanity to destroy themselves.
-   The main antagonist of the _Soulcalibur_ series is not a man but rather a spirit of the cursed weapon Soul Edge. After being taken into battle time and again, all the bloodshed imbued what was a normal sword with a wicked, sentient spirit that would corrupt anyone who touched it into becoming a soul-draining slave for the sword. The sword's spirit, Inferno, is Made Of Evil but is bound by the restriction of only existing within a separate plane of existence called "Astral Chaos". To accomplish its ends, it uses Demonic Possession to bind people to its will via a process called "Malfestation". Eventually, it's forced to reside in the living world thanks to circumstances in _III_ that result in him becoming the new Nightmare.
    -   The counterpart to Inferno, Elysium, that resides in Soul Calibur isn't any better morally. It's simply the opposite extreme on the Order Versus Chaos scale.
-   Dark Chips and Nebula Gray from _Mega Man Battle Network_ are made entirely of negative emotions somehow encoded as data.
-   _Mega Man ZX_ has Model W. Made of the soul of Dr. Weil, it corrupts anyone who fuses with it.
-   Noob Saibot from _Mortal Kombat_ is the leftovers of when the first Sub-Zero (from the original game and _Mythologies_) died and had his soul hurled into the Netherrealm, turning him into a wraith. His whole existence is entirely defined by hatred and scheming, as anything honorable that the original Sub-Zero might have had (which wasn't much to begin with) was purged.
-   In _Ōkami_, every villain disperses into a dark, malevolent cloud (with glowing evil eyes) once beaten, and flows back to the Final Boss. Which is pretty fitting, considering Yami _is_ the source of all Evil/Darkness in the setting. Interestingly, one sub-boss, Red Helm, has it in his backstory as having spontaneously sprung from the spilled blood of Orochi, a bigger bad.
-   _Persona_ series:
    -   The _Persona 2_ version of Nyarlathotep is an Eldritch Abomination literally born of Humanity's collective evil, absorbing every evil ("evil" defined as "with the intent of causing any form of harm to anyone, even yourself") act, thought and desire. As Long as There Is Evil, he is an undefeatable mass of concentrated madness, woe, and discord, eternally hungering for more power.
    -   In _Eternal Punishment_, there is also a toxic liquid named Kegare - the ancient Japanese word for "sin" or "filth", extracted by the New World Order from their followers in their seminars. Supposedly the process "purifies" the attendees. It is _literally_ concentrated evil.
    -   All Shadows in the series, be they the random mooks or the character-specific ones, are pretty much this: They're all born from the dark desires and repressed side of humans, the difference is while the Shadow mooks are simply spawned from the collective unconcious, character-specific Shadows are literally a part of them, so you can't destroy them or reject them, as trying to do either will lead to the death to the human it represents.
    -   From _Persona 3_, Erebus is an Eldritch Abomination that, similiarly to Nyarlathotep, is made up of the destructive desires of humanity. However, while Nyarlathotep is a Manipulative Bastard, Erebus is a completely mindless beast that resides in the Sea of Souls and, essentially, tries to kill itself by summoning another, even more powerful Eldritch Abomination to wipe out humanity.
    -   For most of the time in the series, the Big Bad is literally Made of Evil, usually described as "a being born from human desires". It gets used to the point where there are fans that are unamused by it.
-   Dark Falz/Force from the _Phantasy Star_ series is an entity created from pure hatred. Its progenitor, the Profound Darkness, is also pure evil.
-   _Primal Rage_: Diablo has been described as "Evil in its purest form".
-   The protagonist of _\[PROTOTYPE\]_ is composed entirely of biomass infused with the Blacklight virus. It's the main reason he can take so much punishment: he has no bones to break or organs to rupture. Taken even further when it's revealed that he _is_ the Blacklight virus and his identity as a human is engineered.
-   Rafisol in _Puyo Puyo Chronicle_ is this, being described as a manifestation of hatred spawned from Ally's amulet and only desiring destruction. Strangely, unlike the other examples on this page, she actually pulls a Heel–Face Turn after her defeat.
-   The Soulless God Oumagatsu in _Raidou Kuzunoha vs. The Soulless Army_ is a monstrous battleship/Evangelion hybrid designed to feed upon the rage, fear and hate of the entire Capital. Later on, a single soul full of hate would prove enough to power the machine.
-   _Seraphic Blue_ has its Big Bad Er, the Refuse Seraphic Blue, who is a Physical Goddess and embodiment all of nihilism and chaos. She later becomes Final Boss called Death Seraph, a being whose purpose to destroy the world. She also embodies Vene's negative emotions.
-   The monsters of _Silent Hill_ are literally physical manifestations of different aspects of negative emotions (or events) created by the town itself, or Alessa, while she was still around.
-   Most of the Dark Gaia creatures in _Sonic Unleashed_ seem to qualify. They're an ancient evil that seems to be the embodiment of negative emotion, causing sadness and anger everywhere, and when defeated, they dissolve into some kind of black-purple stuff and disappear. The exceptions are creatures possessed by Dark Gaia, such as the Dark Gaia Phoenix and Sonic himself, as they had a physical body to begin with.
-   M. Bison from _Street Fighter_ himself isn't really Made of Evil but the power he uses (Psycho Power) is described as being pure negativity as energy. Negative thoughts, emotions, and general hatred manifests itself as this force.
    -   The _Satsui no Hadou_ (Surge of Murderous Intent) is like the ki-equivalent of Psycho Power. Primarily channeled by Akuma and a constant source of struggle/temptation for Ryu, it is a malevolent and bloodthirsty ki that can give its users a great deal of strength in battle but only at the expense of one's mercy and humanity (i.e. drawing on this ki for strength means the user will show no restraint in battle and kill their opponents if it comes to that). Akuma's alter-ego Oni from _Super Street Fighter IV: Arcade Edition_ is the zenith of the dangerous potential it holds and, aside from using Akuma's body as a vessel, is as much the literal interpretation of the trope as Bison's Psycho Power. _Street Fighter V_ also has "Kage", a sentient mass of malevolent ki created from Ryu overcoming the temptation of the _Satsui no Hadou_ and expelling it from his body.
-   Dark Brain of the _Compati Hero Series_, at least until it appears in _Super Robot Wars: Original Generation_, where it states it's the sum of all negative emotions and energies in the multiverse. Even if its body is destroyed, its essence will linger on, so long as there's an ounce of negativity present anywhere.
-   It's not certain how _much_ of Azazel from _Tekken_ is tangible hatred and malice, but it's definitely the vast majority of its form, seeing how inciting worldwide strife and horror was Jin's desperate gambit to give Azazel enough of a physical form to become killable.
-   In _World of Warcraft: Mists of Pandaria_, the Sha fit this to a T. They are manifestations of negative emotion found in various places around the continent of Pandaria.
    -   The Ashbringer (an incredibly powerful holy sword) was created from a crystal that was originally so evil that merely touching it turned a paladin's hand into a withered husk.
    -   Likewise, Saronite is essentially this as it's the hardened blood of Yogg-Saron.
-   _Xenoblade Chronicles 3_: As the Anthropomorphic Personification of people's fear of change, Z (No relation to Zanza) is entirely comprised of just that. This is shown by darkness literally cracking from his skin and his ultimate form being made of pure dark energy.

    Web Animation 

-   _RWBY_: In her backstory, Salem is cursed with Complete Immortality for upsetting the gods. After leaping into the Pools of Annihilation so she can end her curse, she instead transforms into a Grimm-like being of pure destruction. Over time, she develops reddish-black Tainted Veins, implying that her blood runs black with Grimm ooze. Volume 8 confirms this when Hazel fights her; every time he pulverises her, she "bleeds" Grimm ooze instead of blood.
-   Kajet, aka The Forbidden Power, in _TOME_. It was created by SOFDTI when she was exposed to negative emotions that she could not handle. Interestingly, Kajet itself appears to experience pain and suffering as a result of being this, which is why it wants to spread pain and suffering onto as many actual human beings as it can. Alpha is able to convince it to team up with him in the Final Battle because he knows it wants to Face Death with Dignity and experience peace.

    Webcomics 

    Web Original 

-   _BIONICLE_: As depicted in 2001, Makuta was this, or at least claimed to be. He's not, actually, as later lore reveals, but then again, being reduced to a pure gaseous state because one has shed such pesky things as conscience and compassion really does put some points in the "Made of Evil" column. On the other hand, his dialogue implies that the original plan of the development team was to invoke this trope literally, especially because early comments stated that he was meant to represent the destructive impulse kids feel after building with LEGOS (the "building" part represented by Makuta's counterpart and metaphorical brother, Mata Nui).
-   _DSBT InsaniT_: The Darkness counterparts are formed by the darkness and negative feelings inside of the target's heart.
-   In the Sonic fanimation _Nazo Unleashed_, Nazo is stated to be the embodiment of the negative energy of the Chaos Emeralds.
-   The entity that possessed Nella's body in _The Nostalgia Chick_'s "Dark Nella Saga" self-identified as a "quasi-demonic force of evil".
-   In _Sailor Nothing_, the Monster of the Weeks are created by pulling out the evil inside a person's heart and physically manifesting it. It's noted that the nicer a person is, the less evil they let out, and the nastier the demon created is. The demons are also highly influenced by the original's personality. This mechanic is explored thoroughly. When it gets turned on the series' titular heroine, however... Well, it's not good.
-   _TV Tropes itself_ can be considered to be Made of Evil. It ruins your life, and it draws you into its legion of tropers. Every single electron that makes up the data in TV Tropes is a sacrifice of some poor guys' time. Theoretically, it will never stop growing unless people stop making works of fiction. Of course, some will say that TV Tropes is Made of Win... but that sounds like something TV Tropes would say, doesn't it?

    Western Animation 

-   In _Aladdin: The Series_, Mirage is referred to as "Evil Incarnate" multiple times, and honestly doesn't seem to have a single bit of good in her, though her wicked deeds range from the trivial to the horrific extremes. Possibly subverted, however, in that the mysterious "blind seer" that shows up occasionally hints that she used to not be quite so evil and they were once lovers before she got this way... And that dangling idea was promptly forgotten about and not referenced for the brief remainder of the show's run.
-   Margaret Robinson from _The Amazing World of Gumball_; on top of being needlessly cruel for the sake of it, according to a tag that Gumball found on her head, she's 70% cotton, 30% polyester, and made in the fiery pits of the underworld.
-   Roger is revealed to be this in the _American Dad!_ episode, "Frannie 911"; Fed up with Roger acting like a bratty Manchild all the time, Francine gives him an ultimatum: Either start being nice or she's kicking him out. And surprisingly enough, Roger agrees to... But the nicer he is, the sicker he gets, and before long, he's dying. Roger reveals on his deathbed that his race _needs_ to act like assholes, or their bodies start poisoning themselves, and admits he didn't tell the family because they loved how nice he became. So to save his life, Francine convinces him to be mean again.
-   In the _Aqua Teen Hunger Force_ episode "Broodwich", the titular demonic sandwich is described as this in its ingredient list: bread baked by Beelzebub with wheat harvested from Hell's half-acre, mayonnaise made from the evil eggs of a powerful dark chicken and beaten into sauce by the hands of a one-eyed madman, cheese made from the milk of a three-headed fanged cow, and layered with 666 separate meats from an animal which has maggots for blood.
-   Darkwing Duck's evil side in "Negaduck" is both this and an Enemy Without, and presumably has both a sort of normal physical structure as well as being made of evil, because it's created when Darkwing is split into his "good and evil elemental particles" that they made up for that episode. Galvanized Negaduck in that episode is even more so, as becoming supercharged immediately turns him into a destructive Omnicidal Maniac and frankly admits how evil he is.
-   In _Family Guy_, Peter Griffin once purchased a Catholic toilet training book titled _You're a Naughty Child, and That's Concentrated Evil Coming Out the Back of You_.
-   The infamous imaginary friend from _Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends_, Bendy, could be seen as this considering he was imagined from the mind of a child who created an imaginary friend whose only personality trait is that he gets everyone else in trouble for his own amusement.
-   _Futurama:_ Project Satan, an attempt by 21st century scientists to make an evil car out of the most evil cars in all the world (the steering wheel of Hitler's staff car, the left turn signal of Charles Manson's VW, Ed Begley Junior's electric motor - the most evil propulsion system ever conceived! - and the windshield wipers of the Knight Rider prop car). Of course, once they turned it on, they discovered it was pure _evil_. Whodathunkit?
-   Lockjaw from _Mighty Max_ is literally the physical incarnation of the concept of physical violence which also makes him a big example of the God of Evil.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_:
    -   Discord is the antagonist of the second season. He seemed to be the embodiment of strife between ponies (duh), and he has quite the ability to engender it. He re-appears in Season 3, where it's eventually revealed to simply be a case of What Is This Thing You Call "Love"?: He has existed for so long without ever having a friend that he simply didn't understand what love and friendship were, and had never once considered using his immense power for anything but his own childish amusement. He gets better thanks to The Power of Friendship. Then the season 7 episode "Discordant Harmony" reveals that, while Discord may not be made of Evil, he certainly is made of Chaos: when he tries to become more orderly to impress Fluttershy, he starts fading from existence, and only gets better when Fluttershy herself makes his house a chaotic mess again.
    -   In Season 5, Episode 13 ("Do Princesses Dream of Magic Sheep?"), Princess Luna's Tantabus is composed of distilled nightmare energy that Luna uses to punish herself for becoming Nightmare Moon. Since it feeds off fear and guilt, it is consuming negative emotions to grow stronger.
    -   The finale of Season 7, "Shadow Play", introduces the Pony of Shadows, a creature hinted at in the past but making its full debut in the season finale. Formed from a scorned unicorn named "Stygian" who, after being cast out by a group of heroic ponies for a misunderstanding, turns to a dark energy that grants him power in exchange for his rage and jealousy. The Pony of Shadows went on a rampage until it was sealed by the group along with themselves. Twilight Sparkle undoes this seal, brings everyone back to reality, and then finally breaks the bond the shadow energy has on its host.
-   _The New Adventures of Superman_: In "The Wisp of Wickedness", the body of an alien warlord is destroyed by an explosion. All that is left is a wisp consisting of his concentrated evilness. The wisp travels to Earth where it inhabits a hat and compels anyone who dons it to commit evil acts. Superman eventually traps the wisp and flings it into the sun.
-   In the _Phineas and Ferb_ episode "Are You My Mummy?", Dr. Doofenshmirtz uses a ray to seal Perry in a seemingly impenetrable green bubble that he claims is made out of pure evil... and a blend of space-age polymers.
-   _The Pirates of Dark Water_ had the black, oily Dark Water as an Extreme Omnivore and oozing wasteland. It's so evil it had to be sealed with the Thirteen Treasure of Rule (each of which could individually frighten it away a bit). Later, it's revealed to be sentient.
-   Him in _The Powerpuff Girls_ is the living embodiment of evil. He's implied to be the Devil or at least some type of demon, and is so powerful and monstrous that the other villains shake in fear and respect whenever he gives them a phone call.
-   _Samurai Jack_:
    -   In the third season two-parter "The Birth of Evil", an immense black essense roamed across the cosmos. A pantheon of gods managed to near-incinerate the... thing, but a (relatively) tiny piece survives, plummets to Earth, killing anything that comes close. Aeons later, it crystallizes into the series' main antagonist Aku, due to the efforts of Jack's father. Whoops.
    -   Aku himself is this as well. It even serves as his weakness: He's completely incapable of doing anything remotely good, to the point that it makes him predictable and even bites him in the behind a couple of times when doing good would have benefited him more yet he still couldn't help but be evil.
    -   In season 5, the Daughters of Aku raise assassins with the sole purpose of destroying Jack. Ashi, the only one who survives against him, is convinced by Jack's actions to pull a Heel–Face Turn and help him defeat Aku. Unfortunately, it turns out she and her sisters were all this; Aku blessed the Daughters with a chalice of his liquefied essence, which the High Priestess drank before giving birth to the seven girls that would be set against Jack, and when the time comes for Jack and Aku's Final Battle, Aku uses Ashi's connection to him to make her fight Jack against her will. This works against Aku in the finale, where Jack helps Ashi break free from Aku's control while retaining his powers, and she uses his power of time travel to take Jack back to the past to destroy Aku before his rise to power.
-   The Christmas Critters from _South Park_. They are the most twisted things ever imagined, and everything from Cartman's mind.
-   Parodied with Plankton on _SpongeBob SquarePants_. When he falls into a device that analyzes what things are made of, it declares that he is "1% Evil, 99% Hot Gas".
-   In _Star Wars: The Clone Wars_, the Son is the Dark Side incarnate.
-   In _Teen Titans (2003)_, the demon Trigon the Terrible is referred to as the "incarnation of evil" and "source of all darkness".
-   Unicron, particularly in _Transformers: Prime_, lives to bring about the end of everything else. Exposure to his "blood," Dark Energon, has side effects that range from zombification to death.

___