_"Hah! You see? The contract's legal, binding, and completely unbreakable, even for you."_

In fiction, particularly fantasy fiction and Deal with the Devil plots, normal Leonine Contracts just don't cut it. Part of the reason for this is that it's usually pretty vague what kind of government most fantasy cultures use, so nobody really knows how contracts would work anyway. What do you do if the other party decides to welch on their end? Besides, we have contracts in Real Life, and they're usually pretty boring Walls of Text. So one sure way to get some excitement is to have a character sign one that is magically binding. There's a good chance that the contract may also be a Comically Wordy Contract.

Where a normal contract is bound by regular laws, this one is bound by the laws of magic. Rather than being enforced by threat of punishment by a lawful governing body, this contract is simply physically impossible to break. Sometimes it is implied that the magic punishment for breaking a clause is somehow contingent on the permission being given by the one who signed the contract.

Really, the easier explanation most of the time is that A Wizard Did It. The basic idea here is that magic is the law, and will punish anyone who tries to go back on a contract. In other cases, the question of punishment doesn't even arise — the magic compels signatories to abide by the terms whether they want to or not. Even the person who receives the benefits may be unable to release them.

Any character who makes such a contract — even if it's a Leonine Contract — has no choice but to fulfill it somehow. Loopholes are, as always, still permitted, and there may be a Curse Escape Clause. Physically destroying a contract can also absolve the penalties. In some cases, magic apparently only works with the magicee's permission. Even Releasing from the Promise may require such trickery; the other character often can't just let you go, even should he want to.

Most of the time this is how the Deal with the Devil works. In all likelihood, this started out as a subtrope of Deal with the Devil but branched out as writers found they could apply the same basic concept to any magically-empowered contract-maker, not just Satan.

Warning! Contradictory oaths may lead to Puff of Logic or other Reality-Breaking Paradox.

Note that another sub-trope of Deal with the Devil, the Faustian Rebellion, is rarely if ever presented as viable countermand to a Magically Binding Contract. However, should the person accomplish whatever Impossible Task was provided in the contract, then the The Devil has to follow his part too. In this trope, you gotta beat 'em at their own game. Characters who break one of these can become The Oath-Breaker. Compare Geas, which is more of a spell or curse.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   In _Ah! My Goddess_, Keiichi unwittingly puts himself under one of these he half-jokingly wishes a goddess like Belldandy would stay with him forever. Much Hilarity Ensues follows as various people, demons, and deities try their best to rend these two asunder only to find themselves unequal to the task.
-   _Beauty and the Beast of Paradise Lost_: Beast made a contract with the demon La Vouivre in exchange for some magic he could control because the super-strength he gained from the curse is too destructive. In return, he was forced to give one of his blue eyes, gaining a replacement and a scar in the process. Also, he has until the clock tower of his castle strikes midnight to defeat La Medium and break the curse or the castle will be engulfed by a void and La Vouivre will devour his boy and soul.
-   In _Black Butler_ Ciel has a contract with his demon butler, Sebastian, which basically means that when he has accomplished all of his endeavors his soul will be devoured by said demon. In the meantime, Ciel gets a multi-talented butler and bodyguard who will follow his every command.
-   Pilots in _Bokurano_ are normally contracted by them placing their hand on a metallic scanner-like pedestal and stating their names. The contract is unbreakable and unvoidable; once contracted, your only way out is either dying or getting killed. The fun part of this particular contract is that the only being that knows it fully and is able to enforce it is Dung Beetle; the game is actually booby-trapped so that the pilots automatically lose the whole game if anybody from their home world (including themselves) gets hold of any information contained within the contract outside of what little information Dung Beetle is allowed to (or is willing to) disclose. So far, the closest to a loophole the contract has is that people are not limited to one battle, so you can spare a pilot if you get chosen as the pilot twice in a row and win both battles. Good luck pulling that off with the current set of rules, though.
-   _Chainsaw Man_: Devils, as you might expect, can make a Deal with the Devil with humans, known as "contracts". Contracts are Serious Business, because, should a Devil refuse to uphold their end, they will be killed and sent back to Hell. However, should the deal somehow be reversed by a third party after it's completed (say you wanted a Devil to kill someone, and after killing this person, they are brought back to life), the human does _not_ get a refund, and Devils have a tendency to uphold their end by the letter of the request, and not the spirit...
-   One of these is exploited ruthlessly by Emiya Kiritsugu in _Fate/Zero_. He holds the fiancée of another master hostage and agrees to let her go if Kayneth signs a geas with the terms that he will use his command spell to force his Servant to commit suicide and withdraw from the Grail War, and in return, Kiritsugu will be unable to harm him or have someone else do so. Kayneth signs the contract and makes Lancer kill himself — and then Kiritsugu's _accomplice_ Maiya follows the orders she had been given _before the contract was signed_ and shoots Kayneth and his fiancée Sola-Ui. To top things off, while Sola-Ui is killed instantly, Kayneth is left bleeding out and begging for a Mercy Kill. Kiritsugu replies he can't do that... because he signed the contract. Kayneth ends up being put out of his misery by Saber.

-   _Jujutsu Kaisen_: Binding Vows work like this. Once a Sorcerer or Curse User makes one, they become liable to being punished if they break it. Breaking vows made to oneself results in, at worst, losing what power was gained by making it; vows made to another person, on the other hand, can carry vastly more severe punishments (to the point that even Sukuna wouldn't dare break such a vow).
-   In _Log Horizon_, when Rudy dies, Shiroe writes up a magical contract that will grant Rudy all the benefits of an Adventurer (which he would retain even if the contract is later nullified) so he will respawn at a cathedral instead of dying.
-   A requirement for Familiars on _Lyrical Nanoha_. The contents of Linith's contract, which stipulated for her to be erased after she had trained Fate as a first-class mage and completed Bardiche, was the reason why she was dead before the start of the series.
    -   In a reversal of the usual bindings, Fate's Contract with Arf is much more open-ended. Arf is contracted with Fate to "live her life in any way that she pleases, for as long as they both live."
-   _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_ had a magical item that makes contracts magically bound so that they _have_ to be followed through. Fate attempted to use it: he nearly got Negi to promise not to interfere with his plans, in such a way that Fate himself would not be bound to what he proposed in exchange. The girls later use it against Dynamis, making him promise to stop trying to interfere with _their_ plans. Dynamis only agreed because he thought he'd already won anyway, and because while conductive to the Fatettes, it wasn't conductive to the Averrunci.
-   _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_:
    -   Kyubey makes contracts with girls to become Magical Girls. Notably, his contracts are entirely verbal and are without any form of fine print mentioning the downsides and side-effects, meaning that they aren't actually _legally_ binding under most systems of law, despite being _magically_ binding. There is no compulsion but not doing as the contract states leads to dire consequences. Contract?
    -   Also, Kyubey will always follow through on his end of the contract. _Always_. Unfortunately, while he gives the girls exactly what they wanted with no Literal Genie side-effects, the girls don't wish for the right thing in the first place. Given that one of the anime's main themes is that a truly Selfless Wish doesn't exist, this isn't surprising.
-   In _No Game No Life_, war has been replaced with games where anything, great or small, up to and including _global_ matters, is decided by the outcome. In the backstory, the gods of that world had had a war that left it in ruin, leaving the only one who'd stayed out of it — the god of play — as Top God, and he instituted a new system, enforced by magic. Bets made by two parties who formally agree to both the game and the wagers will be upheld _no matter what._ (This means you shouldn't bet, say, a single favor. Stephanie Dora, Crown-Princess of Elchea did that, was told "Fall in love with me" by Sora, the winner, and spent the rest of the story as the most justified Tsundere ever.)
-   _Reincarnated as a Sword_: Slaves are bound with one that forces them to obey all their master's orders. When Teacher destroys Fran's contract, her collar and cuffs immediately crumble to dust, meaning she is truly free.
-   _So, I Can't Play H!_: The shinigami of Grimwald form contracts with humans that allow them to remain in their world by periodically feeding off their contractee's energy. But to establish the contract, the shinigami stabs them through the chest with a ceremonial sword that's attached to a soul-binding chain. Ryosuke tried to hit on Lisara, shortly after meeting her, which she mistook as an offer to form a contract. She accepted.
-   _Undertaker Riddle_: The main protagonist Hayato had to do one with Riddle to save his life. Now, half of Riddle's soul is bond to Hayato's in change of Hayato becoming Riddle's assistant and fellow Undertaker. The trick is, Riddle needs to be close to him to be at the whole capacity of his power and if Riddle dies so does Hayato.

    Asian Animation 

-   _Happy Heroes_: In Season 8 episode 16, Little M. makes a deal with a talking book that allows him to freely wish four times for whatever he wants, and he decides to use this ability to impress Big M. so that he doesn't think he's useless. He signs a contract that this is the case under two conditions: Firstly, he must not tell anyone about the contract, and secondly, if he uses up all of his wishes but still isn't able to impress Big M., the book will take one thing from him.

    Card Games 

-   _Magic: The Gathering_:
    -   The background of the plane of Ravnica includes probably the largest example on the list: the Guildpact, a magical contract between the ten Guilds that essentially governs the entirety of the plane. The main plot of the novels turns out to be a convoluted attempt to break the Guildpact. Which eventually works due to a loophole. Also they have advokists and lawmages. Yes, ''lawyer mages". "Law Magic" is basically used to do two things: make the witness tell the truth, and memorize the code of laws, no matter how convoluted. The plot of the "Return to Ravnica", "Gatecrash", and "Dragon's Maze" block revolves around the consequences of breaking the Guildpact and a contingency plan to restore it.
    -   Geth, Lord of the Vault, specializes in making magical tablets into which contracts can be willed. If they break the contract, Geth controls them forever. These are actually very popular, and his agents take them all over New Phyrexia so that two parties who don't trust each other can use one of Geth's tablets and be assured that neither of them would dare break the agreement.

    Comic Books 

-   _Amethyst, Princess of Gemworld_: Dark Opal talks Sardonyx into signing one for him; it doesn't turn out very well for him.

    Fan Works 

-   In _Cinderjuice_, Beetlejuice has to sign one of these with the Fairy Godfather; naturally, he doesn't read the fine print.
    
    **Beetlejuice:** _"Who actually_ reads _a Terms of Service Agreement?"_
    
-   _Coby's Choice_: Madam Finwaters ate the Deal-Deal Fruit, which allows her to make binding contracts with non-standard collateral such as Kaku's voice or magically enforcing loyalty (or at least, preventing treason) from Hyouzou when King Neptune decides to allow a different form of punishment for him.
-   Presented to the protagonist of _Fair Vote_, a _Dresden Files_ fic, by a literal Devil's Advocate.
-   _Fate Revelation Online_: Part of the reason that Ilya doesn't just break out of Aincrad with her magic is that Kayaba bound everyone with a Contract at the same level as a Command Seal. It's not explained exactly how he bound them, but the most likely possibility is that he slipped it into the game's Terms of Service. Of course, Ilya is powerful enough and skilled enough that she _could_ still break out, so Kayaba bribes her by promising to attempt to fix her flawed body and give her a full lifespan.
-   _Harry Potter_: Several Triwizard Tournament fics involve Harry deliberately defying the "magically binding contract" enforced by the Goblet of Fire, despite the strong possibility of losing his magic.
-   _My Little Animaniacs_: The contract that all of the Animaniacs signed (but only Yakko and Slappy actually read) for their own show. It requires them to help out whoever summons them to another world.
-   _Queen of All Oni_ has one of these show up when Blankman forces Verde into submission and makes him sign into servitude. Notably, aside from the signature, it's totally blank, with the binding terms to be filled in later.
-   _Read the Fine Print (Evangelion)_: Asuka finds a soul-selling contract on the internet. Believing it to be a silly hoax, Shinji sells his soul to Asuka in exchange for chocolate. After coming to Nerv, Shinji finds out that Asuka now truly owns his soul. When they try to alter the contract, a demon shows up to reiterate their contract is legally binding and cannot be broken or altered even if the paper it is printed on was destroyed.
-   _The Rigel Black Chronicles_ has both magically-_enforced_ and magically-_unbreakable_ contracts:
    -   Harry and Riddle use the Unbreakable Vow to ensure that their deals are kept. Any time Harry contemplates a course of action that threatens to break the Vow, she can feel her blood start to heat up; actually breaking the Vow would result in the blood boiling in her veins.
    -   Harry uses a sealing curse to ensure that Marcus Flint literally _can't_ tell her secrets (and thus has Plausible Deniability if someone asks about it afterward). She has to make a Vow of Undisclosed Debt in exchange, but she considers it a good trade.
-   In _Robb Returns_, a fanfiction based on _A Song of Ice and Fire_, any oath sworn on the Fist of Winter is magically enforced on penalty of death. According to Roose Bolton, a Bolton once broke an oath on the Fist and died shortly after. When Willem Bootle falsely swears his innocence in the death of Torgen Surestone on it, its magic immediately kills him.
-   In _Touhou Ibunshu_, Ran swore her loyalty to Yukari this way via the Shikigami Rite. The terms bind both participants in such a way that while some leeway in violating the _letter_ is permissible, the _spirit_ of the orders is inviolable. When they confront each other over Yukari's plan to destroy Gensokyo in an attempt at suicide, Yukari attempts to use spoken orders to deprive Ran of the magic she's receiving from her. Instead, the Rite allows her to ignore those orders and gives her _more_ energy, since despite her verbal commands, Yukari _really_ wants to die.

    Films — Animation 

-   Disney Animated Canon:
    -   Even the power of Triton's trident has no effect upon the contract Ursula makes Ariel sign in _The Little Mermaid (1989)_, implying that there must be some source of power in the ocean greater even than his. Ursula even uses it as a shield to keep King Triton from killing her on the spot. Though the contract's power disappears as soon as Ursula dies.
    -   _Hercules_: A similar unwritten contract stating that his deal with Hades is forfeit if Meg is hurt in any way. It's part of Disney's larger theme with Hades and his propensity for Deals with the Devil: Hades may be a sleazy, double-dealing scumbag who will do everything short of murder to get you to sign, but the one thing he will never do is welch on a deal.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _Ghost Rider (2007)_:
    -   The Devil presents Johnny with a contract for his soul in exchange for his father's health. Where this moves beyond Deal with the Devil is that Johnny cuts himself on the contract while reading it, and the Devil takes his blood on the deal as agreement. But because he never actually agreed, Johnny eventually is able to resist Lucifer and keep the Rider's powers.
    -   The MacGuffin of the movie is a contract that the previous Rider had obtain from the Wretched Hive of San Venganza, which was worth the souls of all 1,000 of the town's evil citizens. Blackheart, a wayward son of the Devil, appears in the present to find the contract and claim the power it would give.
-   In _Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire_, Harry finds himself entered into the Triwizard Tournament when his name is selected from The Goblet of Fire. The thing is, Harry never entered his name for the contest, nor could he have as it was age-restricted; the Hidden Villain sabotaged the Goblet so it would spit out him as a fourth participant. Ever the Reluctant Warrior, Harry expresses his disinclination to take part in the tournament. Alas, "The Goblet of Fire constitutes a Binding Magical Contract," says one of the grown-ups, so Harry has no choice but to participate.
-   In _Phantom of the Paradise_, the music mogul Swan uses magical contracts on the talent working under him that give him near-complete dominion over them, most notably in making them immortal so long as they are under contract to him... and he's under contract too.
-   In _Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest_, Davy Jones is under a Magically Binding Contract to ferry souls to the afterlife (he can also draft dead sailors using contracts of his own). His neglect of this duty is the reason he and his crew look like Fish People.

    Literature 

-   _All The Skills - A Deckbuilding LitRPG_: Arthur's father swore an oath "on the king's own Card" to never leave the village without express permission. Most of the adults made similar oaths, though usually to lesser cards or with fewer restrictions. This is one of the main reasons that Calvan can't leave the village, and Arthur tries to find a way around it.
-   _Ascendance of a Bookworm_ happens in the sort of setting where status holds such a big role that the law will almost always favor the person of highest status, reaching a point where in most cases, commoners who defy nobles run the risk of being executed on the spot. Because of this, sufficiently important business deals tend involve magic contracts that carry penalties that can be as serious as death for being broken, to keep the side with the highest status from breaking them at a later time just because they can get away with it. Such contracts can be anywhere from city-wide to country-wide and need to be stamped in blood if at least one of the people involved isn't part of the Supernatural Elite. It's also a good idea to have a non-magical copy of them made, as the real thing tends to seemingly spontaneously combust once it's completed.
-   In the _Apprentice Adept_ series, any promise accompanied by the Splash of Truth (a flash of rainbow light, signifying the speaker is speaking absolute, heartfelt truth), is treated as absolutely binding. The consequences of going back on one's word (or even not giving one's all towards said promise) are never spelled out past "there are some."
-   _The Assassins of Tamurin_: The heroine learns towards the end that a character has been bound by this all along.
-   In _Chronicles of Ancient Darkness_, Torak swears revenge for Bale's death on his three souls. Of course, this is in the book titled _Oath Breaker_, so you can guess how it turns out. In the next book, Renn mentions that this may have weakened the bond between his souls and made him vulnerable to Eostra. In an earlier book, during his exile, Torak tries to get Renn to swear on her souls _and_ her bow, her most prized possession, not to follow him.
-   Graydon Saunders’ _Commonweal_ has built its overarching mechanisms of government into a vast enchantment called the Shape of the Peace. Formal legal testimony cannot lie, for example; and being a sorcerer requires agreeing to be bound by the Shape, on pain of death should the sorcerer attempt to circumvent its strictures.
-   In _Counselors and Kings_, if a Halruaan wizard-lord swears to do (or not do) something "by wind and word" they are compelled to follow through, though they can interpret the Exact Words rather creatively to find loopholes. For example, when Basel Indoulur promises under such an oath to "deal appropriately" with his apprentice after she humiliates a rival wizard, Basel actually _rewards_ her instead of punishing her, as he felt the other man had it coming. More seriously, supporting villain Dhamari is under an oath to never summon "any creature he doesn't understand and can't control", which means he has to find an Unwitting Pawn to conjure the malevolent fairies his plans require, as he'd be physically incapable of doing so himself.
-   _Cradle Series_: Sacred artists can make vows on their souls; the more powerful they are, the more damage they do to themselves if they break the vow. The vow is purely verbal, and the exact words unimportant. The vow can be for anything, and can even be used for things that should be impossible (such as someone sealing themselves at a lower power level). The only real caveat is that the vow needs to be between two people. Even if the vow is completely unbalanced in one side's favor, it still counts, and the vow is closed off and both sides have to abide by what they agreed.
    -   Early on, Lindon vows to help Yerin against the Heaven's Glory school, while she vows to help him escape Sacred Valley and protect him until they're out. This oath is rendered moot within a couple days once they're out of Sacred Valley and in semi-civilized country, but they stick together regardless. Lindon also mentions that the specific wording they use is sometimes used for marriage ceremonies in his clan. Yerin doesn't notice.
        
        **Yerin:** You were all shiny and polished about it, but you didn't have to be. Say what you want to say, and your soul will do the rest.
        
    -   When Jai Long is killing his way through the Jai clan, the patriarch Jai Daishou defeats him and forces him to swear a lopsided oath—Jai Long will protect the clan, while Jai Daishou will protect Jai Long and his sister as long as their loyalty remains true. It was very much a Join or Die situation, and Jai Long is locked into essentially slavery. Jai Daishou makes the mistake of activating a weapon within range of both Jai Long and his sister; the patriarch dies, and Jai Long is free to just walk away because Jai Daishou broke the oath first.
        
        **Jai Daishou:** You will only guard the clan in my absence, of course, you will not succeed it. You are a stopgap measure, a deterrent to keep the jackals at bay until a true heir can be raised from the Path of the Stellar Spear. Swear your soul to my control, utterly and completely, and you are a tool that can be used.
        
    -   Naru Gwei, captain of the Skysworn, _hates_ Eithan and nearly kills Lindon and Yerin several times because he is absolutely convinced that they are secret weapons that Eithan is planning to use against the Empire. Once Eithan has finally had enough, he swears an oath that Lindon and Yerin are being trained for the good of the Empire, and Eithan will obey all lawful orders if he is allowed to join the Skysworn to continue their training. But what finally gets Naru Gwei to agree? Eithan swears not to bother him unless it's an emergency.
        
        **Naru Gwei:** _Done!_
        
    -   Interestingly, unlike many examples of this trope, soul oaths are based on the spirit, not the letter. Loophole Abuse is still possible to a certain extent, but it relies on the one bound convincing themself rather than exploiting poor wording. At one point, Lindon accidentally breaks an oath and is only affected once he realizes what happened.
-   _Craft Sequence_: The Craft and Practical Theology are both powerfully rooted in these. It plays out to the extent that "powerful magic requires as much lawyerly skill as sorcerous ability" can be called a key conceit of the series. It's _definitely_ a key conceit of _Three Parts Dead_, the first book of the series, in which a contract coming due at just the wrong time kills a God and sets off a high-intensity legal wrangle over His estate.
-   _A Dearth of Choice_: Dungeons can offer Rules that bind both themselves and the adventurers who come inside. The protagonist uses them to encourage cooperation, by offering a selection of Rules, rewarding those who promise not to harm the core, and punishing those who refuse to make that promise. Rules technically _can_ be broken, but even those who enter with malicious intent know that you shouldn't try. "Nothing _ever_ good came about because of that."
-   In _The Dresden Files_, it's frequently mentioned by Harry that a wizard who swears an oath "by their power" must hold to it. If it's broken, the wizard loses a portion of their power, to the point that a serial oathbreaker may lose the ability to work magic entirely.
    -   Oaths and bonds issued by the Sidhe are also binding, and if they break a promise it causes them intense physical pain. However, they are only bound to the exact wording of a contract, and they subsequently abuse the hell out that.
        -   In _Cold Days_, Harry finds he is now bound by Winter Law himself, so when he tries to break it (something the Fae cannot even conceive of doing), there are immediate, serious consequences. His Winter Knight Mantle vanishes, leaving him paralyzed as he was in _Changes_.
    -   These contracts are so binding that not even Michael, who wields a holy sword and serves God Himself, can do anything against a valid contract, as such an act would be dishonest and break his power if he tried.
-   Isaac Asimov's "Gimmicks Three": Isidore Welby signed a contract with demons to gain a decade of good living, but exactly ten years later, he must pay the price. He suddenly appears in a perfect cube made of metal, and if he cannot escape before noon, his soul will be damned.
-   In _The Guardians_, if bargains and wagers are broken, that person or demon is damned to the field of frozen faces when they die.
-   _Harry Potter_:
    -   _Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire_: When the Goblet selects Harry to compete in the Triwizard Tournament, Harry has to compete, and the characters refer to it specifically as a "magically binding contract." However, Harry didn't enter himself, nor does he even want to compete; someone else magically confused the Goblet to accept a fourth school and then submitted Harry as the only candidate for the school, ensuring he'd be picked and forced to compete. The consequences of breaking the contract, however, are not explained.
    -   Introduced in _Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince_ is the "Unbreakable Vow." One witch or wizard makes a vow to another, while a third uses their magic to bind the promise. Breaking the vow results in death.
    -   After Sirius dies, he officially leaves Harry everything, but there's still concern that control of his house and property (including Kreacher) might magically pass to his next living relative, Bellatrix. Dumbledore and Harry field-test this by giving Kreacher an order — when he has to recognize Harry as his new master, it confirms Sirius knew what he was doing, magically speaking, when he made his will.
-   _The Heartstrikers_ has a few. Dragons are bound by blood contracts (exactly what it sounds like, binding all signatories to the terms as written), and by oaths sworn on their fire. The former compels obedience; the latter either does the same or snuffs out the fire of a dragon who breaks their word. Humans have the unbreakable curse called the Sword of Damocles, which is inscribed on skin and _cuts off_ the relevant body part (heads are most popular) if they break their word.
-   _Hero Series_: Lee and Taro sign one when they join the troupe in _Heroes Adrift_, though they don't seem to really "get" that things would rebound on them badly if they ran away.
-   In _The Hexslinger Series_, it transpires that the "hexes", or magicians, of the series can get around their otherwise-irresistible urge to parasitically devour each other's magic (and ultimately life) in a variety of different ways by swearing a binding oath with their magic — although depending on what you swear to and whom, this can have a variety of much nastier consequences as well.
-   _Inheritance Cycle_: Anything someone swears to do in the Ancient Language _will_ be done, because it compels them. The only out is if they become physically or mentally incapable of fulfilling the oath, be it by drastic personality change or death. Or if the ancient language's word for _itself_ is invoked, which gives the speaker full control over the language and anything spoken in it, including nullifying said contracts.
-   Freya Marske's _The Last Binding_ series has contracts built into the magic system. The ones used most often are blood oaths that force the swearers to comply, but the most important is the Last Contract, the one the magicians of Britain made with the Fae for magical power in exchange for preserving the land. The overarching story is the protagonists discovering it exists and racing against the antagonists to find the pieces of the contract before they can be manipulated to bind all of England's magicians.
-   In the _Malediction Trilogy_, any promise made to or by a troll is absolutely binding. That is, unless you find a loophole in its wording, or the person to whom the promise is made dies.

-   _Mother of Learning_: Zorian eventually realizes that Zach is under such a contract, with the angels, which is why he can't talk about certain things. Worse, if people still know about the time loop at the end of the month, or if the Sealed Evil in a Can is breached, then the contract will kill Zach. Since Zach isn't willing to kill all his friends to save his life, he just accepts that he's going to die. Zorian gets a copy of the contract and is surprised that it uses entirely modern legal jargon; he realizes that these kinds of contracts are probably a lot more common than he thought, and the "don't talk about it" clause is probably standard. He eventually saves Zach because the "kill anyone who knows about the time loop" clause is based entirely on Zach's perception. Zorian traps Zach in a Lotus-Eater Machine (while Zach is under an effect that _should_ render him Immune to Mind Control), then gives him a vision of everyone being mind-wiped, and the especially dangerous people such as Zorian himself being killed. Once the month is officially over, the contract dissolves, and the truth is revealed to Zach without consequence.
-   In _Pact_ and its spinoffs _Poke_ and _Pale_, such contracts are usually made between powerful Others and human practitioners, and are a source of great power-in fact, most all human practitioners rely to one extent or another on deals with Others for their power. And if someone breaks one of these deals, becoming "forsworn"? Let's just say death would be far kinder than many of the probable fates in store for them.
-   The main story of _Oto × Maho_ is kickstarted when Kanata is forced by his mother to become a Magical Girl, a position that's bound by contract, and to his chagrin, he inadvertently ends up "signing" it by placing his thumbprint on it. While this wasn't imposed on Kanata with malice — his mother genuinely believes he'd be good at the job, which is also convenient as it means she can go on vacation for a while — it still puts him in an awkward Morton's Fork: "be a part-time magical girl, or — facing divine judgement from unilaterally breaking contract — get turned into an actual girl."
-   _Percy Jackson and the Olympians_ and its sequel series features swearing on the River Styx. Nobody knows what happens when you break this vow but apparently it's bad. Apollo breaks one in The Trials of Apollo and he's had worse luck than even the unluckiest of protagonists ever since.
-   In _The Quest of the Unaligned_, eight hundred years before the story started, Cohilt magically bound himself and all his descendants to the land of Caederan. This turned them into the first natural unaligned, born with access to all four Elemental Powers instead of just one. The contract also came at a cost, for if the royal family ever favor one of the elements over the others, the magic of Caederan itself will become imbalanced, unleashing hurricanes, wildfires, earthquakes, and floods.
-   _The Reluctant King_: Wizards force demons who they summon to swear oaths that make them perform services under compulsion.
-   In _Septimus Heap_, wizard apprentices seal their bond with their master by eating an "Apprentice Supper" within a day of making the agreement, which magically binds them for seven years and a day. Alther mentions that his was just a cheese sandwich, but he regretted eating that sandwich for the next seven years since it bound him to DomDaniel. Merrin didn't even get a meal when he was kidnapped as a baby, which made his bond with DomDaniel and his magical talent be much weaker than otherwise (he didn't have much magic to begin with anyway).
-   _Schooled in Magic_: A person who swears a magical oath but refuses to fulfill it, or deliberately puts themselves in a situation so they cannot, will die. If they're unable to fulfill it because of something beyond their control, though, it won't kill them. It's discussed by name at greater length in book 3 when Emily starts taking a class in Law.
-   _Spells, Swords, & Stealth_: Promises made by the gods are absolutely inviolable. A god who makes a promise _can not_ break it, even if circumstances change. In the fourth book, _Siege Tactics_, this is exploited by the dark god Kalizdar to take revenge against Grumble, god of the minions, and Thistle the gnome, Grumble's paladin, for destroying a piece of his very divinity in the second book. When Thistle became a paladin, his one condition was that, upon his death, he be allowed to be Together in Death with his late wife Madroria rather than go to the afterlife generally reserved for paladins. Grumble agreed. In _Siege Tactics_, Kalzidar uses the confusion caused by his plots to steal Madroria's soul from the gnomish afterlife. Because Grumble _must_ uphold his word Thistle's soul _will_ reunite with Madroria's when he dies and, if Kalzidar still has her when that happens, he gets Thistle, too.
-   _Sweet & Bitter Magic_: After they make their contract, Tamsin conjures up a black ribbon which goes on Wren's neck, warning that if she breaks it she'll be strangled.
-   _Third Time Lucky: And Other Stories of the Most Powerful Wizard in the World_: In "Mirror, Mirror on the Lam" Ciro can't tell Magdelene anything about who hired him to steal her mirror since he made a blood oath not to, which is unbreakable.
-   Tamora Pierce's _Tortall Universe_: In the _Trickster's Duet_, breaking an oath signed in blood will result in one's blood boiling in one's veins (it applies across the 'verse, but we see it most in that series.)
-   Dennis Wheatley's horror novel _To the Devil a Daughter_ hinges on the need to find and retrieve a Faustian contract signed in blood; the novel hinges on the signee's sincere repentance not being enough; the physical contract has to be located and destroyed by burning, leaving no trace. This has its basis in some old Christian polemics.
-   The _Warrior and Witch_ series has these where a witch forms a pact with somebody. The ritual involves making a lethal cut on the wrist, and then magically sealing it up. If the person does not meet their end of the deal, then the cut will reopen, letting the person bleed to death. Once the deal is over, the wound permanently heals over and can become a badge of pride. The ritual is intended for deals that are met, such as discovering the culprit in a murder, or hunting a bounty. One witch in the sequel uses it to hold others to secrecy, a deal that never ends, and thus never permanently seals, and thus they will be in danger of it reopening for as long as they live. This is considered a gross perversion of the ritual by the witch's peers.
-   In _The Wheel of Time_, any oath taken by a mage while passing her magic through a tool called "the Oath Rod" is magically binding, though it can be removed by the same object. When created in the Age of Legends the rod was simply called a "binder", and was only used against intractably criminal mages (understandably, given the side effects — also now forgotten) to seal their powers.
-   In _The Witchlands_, Wordwitched documents, most notably the Twenty Year Truce, are this. Each copy is identical to the other, even if one is modified, and when someone breaks the rules established in the document, their signature disappears and no one else is bound by the contract anymore.
-   _A Wizard in Rhyme_: If a wizard swears to do something, fate will force them to follow through on it. This applies even when the wizard is a new arrival from another world who didn't know about the rule and makes the idle boast that he'll topple an enemy Sorcerous Overlord and her country personally — his next spell misfires to teleport him deep into enemy territory.

-   The _Young Wizards_ series has the "Binding Oath", which if broken permanently strips you of all supernatural energy. This version of the Magically Binding Contract is interestingly different in that:
    -   The person extracting the Oath can only do it once in their lifetime.
    -   The person extracting the Oath will eventually suffer a backlash from the Oath, with the backlash being worse the more powerful the Oath is.
    -   The Wizards Oath itself is one in that if you break the oath, you will invariably lose your wizardry. Many spells also effectively end up like contracts where a wizard promises to pay later for an effect now, and spells are transacted in a Language of Magic which is also a Language of Truth.

    Live-Action TV 

-   In _The 10th Kingdom_, Wolf binds himself to do the queen's bidding, in return for his release from prison. He first accepts the contract eagerly, only later getting second thoughts, after it's too late to renege.
-   In _Angel_, contracts with Wolfram and Hart are often magically enforced. High-level employees sign away their lives _and afterlives_ to work for the firm. After being killed by Darla, Holland Manners continues to serve the Senior Partners, and the same happens to Lilah Morgan after being killed by Jasmine. Wesley attempts to free Lilah from her contract by retrieving it and burning it. It simply reappears back where he found it.
    -   In the fifth season, Angel is forced by members of the Blackthorn to sign a contract in which he refuses to fulfill a prophecy that would make him human again.
-   In the _Charmed_ episode "Soul Survivor" (episode 7 of Season 6), a demon makes Faustian deals using magical contracts. They have a special clause that says the souls are to burn forever if he himself is killed, to discourage people from trying to break the contract by killing him. The main characters manage to deal with him by locating the vault and burning all the contracts, **then** killing the demon!
-   _The Magicians_: Quentin agrees to make a contract with Alice as a niffin which is subject to "Word as bond", which neither of them can break. She finds ways to circumvent the contract's restrictions despite this.
-   On _Motherland: Fort Salem_, the Salem Accord among other things binds U.S. witches to be conscripted to serve as the army for the U.S. government. The specifics have not been explained, but it is said to be more than mere legal words on paper. Sarah Alder is said to have defied certain terms of it only at great personal cost.
-   _Once Upon a Time_: Magic will severely punish anyone who breaks one of Rumplestiltskin's contracts, which is made even more dangerous by the fact that he's a master of exact words and his victims often fail to Read the Fine Print.
-   _Supernatural_ is positively drowning in these, most often made with demons, notably Dean's deal with a crossroads demon to bring Sam Back from the Dead, which he can't break or else Sam's life will be taken away again. Played for Laughs when the demon Crowley proposes a deal with the Leviathan Dick Roman and pulls out a comically long scroll of Latin legalese, which they're still amending in minute detail in their next scene.
-   _The Twilight Zone (1959)_ episode "Escape Clause". A hypochondriac signs a Deal with the Devil to live forever. Then he kills his wife, is not afraid of the death penalty obviously so mocks the proceedings, but his smart lawyer manages to get a life sentence. The man is horrified by the prospect of an eternity (literally) in prison and uses the "escape clause" from the contract, dying of a heart attack in his cell. He should have known The Devil has ways of subverting contracts.
-   In the _Xena: Warrior Princess_ episode "Soul Possession", there is a magical contract saying Xena had to marry Ares. Xena escapes from him, so Ares later troubles Xena's modern-day reincarnation Annie, since they look identical. Since the contract can only be destroyed by Ares, Xena/Annie tricks him into hitting it with a fireball.

    Music 

-   Trans-Siberian Orchestra's Rock Opera _Beethoven's Last Night_ features such a contract between Beethoven and Mephistopholes, "which even Mephisto dare not violate." (This is not mentioned in the songs themselves, but explained in the album liner notes, which tell the story in greater detail.) They accomplished this by making the contract on the back of a page from the Bible. When in doubt, use Holy© for all your binding contract needs!

    Myths & Religion 

-   Faust's contract with Mephistopheles has to be signed with blood, and can't be broken.
-   A famous but downplayed example in Classical Mythology: the gods swear unbreakable oaths on the River Styx, one of the rivers of the underworld. But it's not entirely clear what the enforcement mechanism is. Hesiod provides a punishment for breaking the oath (the god in question will be trapped in a coma for a year and then banished from Olympus for nine years), but even there it's unclear whether this will automatically happen, or whether the other gods or some other entity will overpower the oathbreaker and inflict it on them. Either way, it's sufficiently horrible that the gods are never portrayed as deciding that breaking an oath will be worth it.

    Podcasts 

-   The _Jade Regent_ RPG Actual Play podcasts from RPGMP3 feature a weapon called Oathtaker. During their travels, the adventurers stumbled across this magical _tetsubo_ (a huge Oriental bludgeoning weapon). Apart from its obvious uses, it can also force people under a Blood Geas. It's currently wielded by Harold Shinken, who discovered that the Viking women of the Linnorm Kingdoms were very impressed by the weapon's... craftsmanship.
-   One of the victims of Oathtaker's powers, in the RPGMP3 podcasts, is a character called Skygni. He's a magically Awakened frost\-breathing Winter Wolf. He swore a Blood Oath (under duress) to not eat people. Well, at least not the ones travelling with the heroes' caravan, anyway.

    Tabletop Games 

-   In _Castle Falkenstein_ the Adversary and the rest of the Unseelie are bound by the Second Compact _even though they were tricked into signing it_ by Auberon.
-   _Dungeons & Dragons_:
    -   The 2nd Edition _Tome of Magic_ sourcebook had the Contracts of Nepthas. Anyone who breaks such a contract is struck deaf, dumb, and blind. Ambiguities in the contract's language can be exploited.

-   Take care when signing a contract with a Devil; depending on the contract, once you sign, you're either going to Baator when you die OR you're going to have to make increasingly evil acts just to keep the benefits. Tearing up the contract isn't an option; there are _always_ clauses that lead to the signer getting harmed if they do this.

-   _Exalted_:
    -   Eclipse Caste Solars can sanctify any sort of agreement to be magically enforced by Heaven.
    -   Moonshadow Caste Abyssals and Fiend Caste Infernals can do similar things — for the Moonshadows, it's enforced by the Neverborn, while for the Fiends it's enforced by the Yozis. This isn't entirely surprising, as both Moonshadows and Fiends are corrupted Eclipse Exaltations.
    -   The Yozis themselves were forced into magically binding oaths when they lost the war against the Gods and their Exalted. This includes an oath to stay in Malfeas (Hell), but they think they'll be able to escape this one if they create Hell on Earth first.
    -   The Perfect of Paragon can make these contracts as well. In fact, he requires them of anyone who wants to live in his city.
    -   The raksha, thanks to a quirk in their nature, must abide by their sworn word, or be cursed. They know this full well and are very, _very_ good at exploiting loopholes. The raksha can also make adjurations, oaths that empower a raksha who swears to them, so long as the raksha fulfills their conditions.
-   In _GURPS_, if you manage to summon a demon (fairly easy) and control it (_not_ so easy), you can order it to do one task lasting up to one hour. The demon is bound to obey, but it will use any loopholes it is smart enough to think of, _and_ get into as much trouble as possible along the way. Remember how we said Evil Is Not a Toy.
-   _In Nomine_ has the Lilim, demons with the ability to read people's Needs (which really means wants most often) by looking into their eyes; if the Lilim can fulfill a target's Need she (Lilim are almost always female) gets a "hook" which she can later use to place a Geas on that person, forcing them to do a return favour or else suffer dissonance (for celestials) or physical harm (for humans). It is possible for a strong-willed person to resist the Geas at the time when the Lilim tries to call in the return favour. They can also place a Geas on a willing target (including on themselves). Their Mother, Lilith, has the same abilities but her Geases cannot be resisted.
-   _In Nomine Satanis / Magna Veritas_ has Marc, archangel of trade, whose angels can sign a binding contract. Breaching the contract causes direct damage to the breacher. This is also present in the American version.
-   _Pathfinder_ has a number of "contract" items that provide benefits to the undersigned but give another party some power over them. There's also the Phistophilus or "contract devil", which specializes in writing contracts that grant wishes but consign your soul to Hell once you die.
-   _World of Darkness_
    -   _Changeling: The Lost_ has a borderline case with Pledges, supernaturally-enforced deals Changelings (and the True Fae) can strike with others. While the Pledge doesn't supernaturally force others to obey, most Pledges offer significant penalties, called Sanctions, which afflict an oathbreaker. These Sanctions can range from a -1 to all rolls, to owing the other party a favor, to death.
    -   If you're lost in Arcadia, land of the True Fae, and you're cold, and you start a fire, the fire won't warm you. You don't have a contract for that. Water won't quench your thirst, because it doesn't know what it'll get in return. True Fae can use these contracts — and more importantly, the loopholes therein — to make things normal-ish for themselves.

-   The Old World of Darkness' predecessor game, _Changeling: The Dreaming_, had a similar mechanic. Characters could willingly swear Oaths to each other. An Oathbreaker not only was a pariah but suffered serious game-mechanic-based penalties as well. The Oaths functioned as magically binding verbal contracts.
-   _Mage: The Ascension_ has a flaw called Geas or Imperative, which first gives something that the mage can or cannot do and the result of the mage breaking that condition, the relative difficulty of abiding the contract and how bad the punishment is determining how big the flaw is in terms of freebies returned. So you can have an easy geas that asks that you go outside at least once per day and turns your hair rainbow if you don't, or one as horrifying as being unable to leave a particular spot or your avatar shatters. Obviously, the high end of these imperatives are downright unplayable barring very, very creative players who might use their spheres to abuse loopholes (astral projection not counting as their body had not left the spot or sending out clones as the original is still in the required spot), though these are usually high-level sphere effects that a starting character cannot possibly access with normal building rules.
-   In _Mage: The Awakening_, Mages can use Fate magic to bind a person to their word. Such Oaths are permanent unless their terms are fulfilled or fairly powerful magic is used to break them. The Oath does have the advantage that it confers the benefit of giving the person so bound a potential boost of will to overcome anything that might prevent them from fulfilling it. However, if they break the Oath, they are permanently blighted with a curse whose power is proportional to that of the mage who cast it. At higher levels, mages can bind people to Oaths that they didn't actually make.

    Video Games 

-   While _Baldur's Gate_ doesn't have the standard _Dungeons & Dragons_ _geas_ as a usable spell, the enchantment shows up a few times as a plot point.
    -   In the first game, there is a special quest where an assassin called Lothander shows up and informs you that if you help him get rid of the _geas_ by which he is bound to serve the Iron Throne, he'll tell you how to heal the poison he and his partner have given your whole party that was meant to kill you in a few days to get you out of the Throne's way. The _geas_ prevents him from looking for a way to opt out of it himself, but not asking his "enemies" to get it for him.
    -   In _Shadows of Amn_, it turns out Yoshimo is under a _geas_ that obliges him to betray you to the Big Bad, having agreed to the contract earlier when he didn't know what he was getting into.
    -   In _Throne of Bhaal_, Sarevok tells you that, in exchange for getting to join you, he can swear a special oath to stay loyal, which done in the Demiplane would due to the nature of the place act like a _geas_.
    -   In _Baldur's Gate III_, warlock party member/Player Character Wyll has one of these in his Deal with the Devil with his patron Mizora, and if he fails her severely enough he's automatically Dragged Off to Hell.
-   Renon's contract from _Castlevania 64_ contains a clause that if you spend more than $30,000 on merchandise from him he gains ownership of your soul. Of course, it's on him to actually _enforce_ the contract so when he comes looking for your soul you can just kick his ass and not pay up. Be warned though, he's no pushover.
-   In _Disgaea 2: Cursed Memories_, demon summoning rituals are magically binding contracts that require an equivalent price to pay. This is how after the attempt to summon Overlord Zenon supposedly goes bad, Adell is stuck with Rozalin as a party member.
-   In Thage's path in _Eternal Poison_, she forces a magical contract upon adventurer-hunter Retica, preventing him from disobeying her wishes as she searches for the game's namesake MacGuffin.
-   The infamous Blood Pact in _Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn_ is a contract between a ruler and another party. The ruler can do whatever they please, but the other party can invoke the pact at any time, killing one person under the ruler's, um, rule on the first day, two on the second, and so on until they decide to stop. It can be broken, though. Rip up the contract and kill one of the people who made it.

-   In _Food Fantasy_, summoning a Food Soul automatically forms a contract between the Soul and summoner, and the Food Souls must obey the Attendant they are contacted with.
-   In _Granblue Fantasy_, Mithra's power forces any promise or contract made within its domain to be carried out to the letter, regardless of situation or laws of reality. This becomes a problem during the Golonzo Island arc when the Grandcypher is incapable of leaving the island until Rackam fulfills his promise.

-   _Guild Wars 2_: In Living World Season 3, we learn that all members of the Shining Blade above the rank of "recruit" are bound by the Oath of Confidence to keep the Blade's secrets. The spell-oath will kill anyone who talks (though simply saying the oath _exists_ won't trigger it). When the Commander needs help from the Shining Blade, they end up having to take the Oath of Confidence themselves as the only way the Blade can give them the information.
-   _Pilgrim (RPG Maker)_: Master Alice's deals with people must be followed to the letter and cannot be broken, no matter how much Alice herself would like to break them (which is why she constantly looks for Loophole Abuse and Exact Words).
-   In _Planescape: Torment_, Fhjull Forked-Tongue is a Cornugon (a medium-high ranking Devil) who signed such a contract with the angel, Trias, thinking he'd be getting a great deal. As it turns out, Trias lied to him and Fhjull wound up being forced to do charity for all who ask him. Naturally, as a being of Lawful Evil, he hates this with every fiber of his being and is a pariah among his own kind.
-   A staple in the main _Shin Megami Tensei_ series. Generally, when a demon decides to join a summoner as an ally during negotiations, a contract between the demon and the summoner is formed that can usually be broken upon the summoner's death. Note that the contract is _binding_ on the fact that a contracted demon is Incapable of Disobeying the summoner. Demons summoned through fusion are also placed under a similar contract.
-   _Twisted Wonderland_: Azul Ashengrotto is directly based on Ursula, as such he can use golden contracts to grant powers or other qualities in exchange for qualities the victim has, and mete out punishment if the victim doesn't fulfill their end of the bargain. The actual nature of this magic is power absorption; if he uses it without contracts to limit it to specific terms, he'll just drain the victim of all powers and overload himself. The contracts are also not unbreakable, unlike in the original film; destroying them will void the contracts, release the spell and return the powers he stole to their owners.
-   In _World of Warcraft_'s "Legion" expansion, the Player Character gets trapped in Helheim. The player bargains with Helheim's ruler, the fallen Val'kyr Helya, to be allowed to leave if they can defeat Helya's champion. When the player succeeds in fulfilling their side of the bargain, Helya tries to renege on the deal, but is powerless to stop the player's ascension from Helheim.
-   In _Pathfinder: Wrath of the Righteous_ the lich Zacharius is under one to remain in his chapel until a crusader finds and returns his wand to him, then aid them. He placed it on himself because he feared his transformation into a lich would cause him to stop caring about the crusade to end the demonic invasion, and now bitterly resents what he considers the foolishness of his former self because that's exactly what happened.

    Visual Novels 

-   Used in the third route of _Fate/stay night_, although agreeing to it leads to a bad end a while down the route.
    -   In the prequel _Fate/Zero_, Kiritsugu forces Kayneth to sign a self-geas scroll to force Lancer to kill himself, otherwise Kiritsugu will execute Sola-Ui. Although the contract also prevents Kiritsugu from killing Kayneth and Sola-Ui, he uses Loophole Abuse and has Maiya snipe them from afar once the deed has been done.
-   In _Juniper's Knot_, there is a magical effect that echoes off the chamber when the boy strikes a **deal** with the Fiend.
-   In _Magical Diary_, the promise of a witch is _always_ binding — break your word and you lose your magic.

    Web Animation 

-   _Helluva Boss_: In "Oops", the crime lord Crimson captures Fizzarolli and tries to use him to blackmail Asmodeus, the archdevil of Lust, to signing over a lot of his property to him. Stolas points out that Asmodeus had better read the contract, because "A deal made with a sin like yourself would be everlastingly binding" (giving no further details). This may explain how Crimson expects to get away with the whole thing afterwards.

    Webcomics 

-   _Blood is Mine_:
    -   If you agree to a bargain with the tradesmen, you will be physically unable to break the deal. It's done to prevent anyone from accidentally or unwillingly breaking the bargain. (Trying to _intentionally_ scam the tradesmen is a very bad idea.)
    -   After taking a book from a living library, Dr. Finch wonders how they are going to return it since the library will be gone once they leave it. The library assures him that they will return the book when they are done with it. Then it clarifies that this wasn't a command or a suggestion, it was a statement of a fact: when they are done with the book, they _will_ return it.
-   In _Champions of Far'aus_, Champions of deities have some sort of magic contract with them. While most of them do whatever their deity tells them to, Champions seem to be able to enable Loophole Abuse just by talking to their deity and changing their mind, although in #3, Daryl wonders what the punishment for outright disobeying an order is. The short story “Spheres” shows that disobeying an order creates a spherical . . . thing inside of their deity that, upon coming into contact with the Champion, causes “Unimaginable pain and suffering” that only their deity can dispel. The protagonist’s deities, Leilusa and Hyperion, have no intention of using the spheres to enforce cooperation and destroy them almost as fast as they form. Unless it’s the rare occasion they want to count how many times they were disobeyed for kicks.
-   _El Goonish Shive_: When Immortals make a promise, they're bound to that promise, even in their subsequent lives. An Immortal who breaks a promise has what amounts to forcible, unavoidable, screaming intrusive thoughts until they fix it — thus, such a contract is effectively magically _self-enforced_ for an Immortal. This is why Voltaire is _incredibly careful_ with what he promises...
-   _Erfworld_ has literal magical contracts, complete with lawyer-speak and magically enforced clauses. A non-disclosure agreement literally prevents you from talking about which you are forbidden.
-   _The Great Wizard Transcendent_, when two wizards enter a deal, they have to follow the terms of the deal or they would lose their magic.
-   _#Blessed_: The contract bound both Joanna and the gods when she swiped right on a dating app. While she theoretically had a choice, the gods didn't and were chosen by fate. Turns out the contract itself is intelligent, and this is the third time it has tried to fulfill the prophecy.
-   _Kill Six Billion Demons_: Devil contracts. They _can_ be broken by the devil in question, but doing so also breaks the binding that lets them stay in the physical world. Their mask shatters, and they turn into an Eldritch Abomination, though the only time we see this happen, the devil is re-bound with a new mask before it progresses any further than this (and trying to kill everyone and everything else present).
-   _Sluggy Freelance_
    -   Spoofed in the Torg Potter parody of _Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire_
        -   Anything the Goblet says is magically binding. Even when the commands are completely irrational and have nothing to do with the Tournament. Once Torg figures out how to manipulate the Goblet with Muggle methods, he's able to get it to apparently say that Gandledorf has to sit on a cactus for the tournament's entire duration. The only visible power the contracts have is that everyone obeys them, so a fake one works as well as a real one.
        -   Worse yet, a wizard's name in itself is a magically binding contract, compelling the wizard in question to do whatever their name implies, which is why many wizards tend to change their name. Gandeldorf's name was allegedly Grad-fondle.
    -   Played straight (in "The Circle") with the contract between Lysinda Circle and Strakoi vampires: the Strakoi have a magically binding contract that without Lysinda's direct permission, no more than one of them can set foot in the New World. If they try to come within more than a few feet of land, the magic will repulse them.
-   In _Tower of God_, the Tower is full of magical contracts that are mostly enforced on people when they enter a given area, or even because they were born anywhere in it. For example, anyone entering the Name Hunt Station is compelled to be the slave of anyone who steals their name by the Station's rules, and not to attack the ruler, Kaiser, unless they fulfill specific conditions. In such a case, the contract is enforced by the fact that the local Administrator, a minor Cosmic Being, will smack you if you don't follow it. When someone tries to attack Kaiser without permission, he just vanishes into nothingness, presumably by the Administrator's direct intervention. Other contracts are just physically impossible to break; that's why God-Emperor Jahad is impossible to kill for anyone from within the Tower. (He and others have a contract with the Administrators in a different sense: they make the contract, and it's enforced on other people and external reality.)
-   In _Wake The Sleepers_, the Assassin Madoc enters into a contract to assassinate Locke, which when bound by a _Blood Oath_ binds him to complete the task.

    Web Original 

-   _SCP Foundation_, SCP-2221 ("A Friendly Agreement"). SCP-2221 is a EULA (End User License Agreement) that causes people who agree to it to become religious extremists. It does not affect anyone who is legally unable to form a contract (young children, mentally incompetent, slaves, and D-Class personnel).
-   _Whateley Universe_:
    -   Reneging on "sorcerer's contracts" is possible for humans, just with unknown consequences. For more magical beings, it's literally unbreakable. They're even binding when the agreement is extracted from an unaware party through trickery or coercion, with some students not above using such tactics against others. However, there are loopholes in the system. Carmilla wriggles out of another student's attempt to hold her to a similar contract because what she signed with wasn't her actual signature, and was in fact a disguised "Hell No". Note that Carmilla's was actually the related "Deal with the Devil" trope, and it's repeatedly pointed out that Jobe should have gotten someone else to look over the contract. It's stated he got LUCKY in regard to dealing with a demon. Sorcerers' contracts can be formed by literally just shaking hands and can be verbal.
    -   There is also the Fool's Circle: a magical circle that traps you inside it if you willingly enter. You do not have to agree to what is going to happen to you: you might do so because the magician is lying about the spell they will cast, or you might enter with a friend held at gunpoint. It doesn't matter. You voluntarily entered, case closed. Which is why students who learn about magic are told of the dangers.

    Western Animation 

-   _The Fairly OddParents!_:
    -   Fairy Mason helps Timmy make Norm the Genie sign one so he'll grant Timmy's last wish without any loopholes.
    -   Flappy Bob signs a contract with the Pixies to restore the Learn-a-torium and make the world dull and boring while the Pixies take over Fairy World. When Flappy learns the Pixies were manipulating him all along, he exploits a loophole in the contract to make everything back to normal. The contract states that Earth should be safe and happy "as defined by Flappy Bob," so Flappy changes his definition to "everything being the way it's supposed to be". The Pixies then have no choice but to remove the boredom from everywhere in Dimmsdale (except the school, which was already boring to begin with) and return Fairy World to fairy control.
    -   All fairies are also magically bound by _Da Rules_ — a huge, Federal Code-sized book of, as its titles say, rules that fairies (ex. can only grant wishes to kids) and their kids (ex. lose your godparents if you ever tell anyone about them) must follow. Fairies are incapable of granting any wish forbidden by Da Rules, such as killing someone, making someone fall in love with you, or free money/document copies (because stealing and counterfeiting are crimes) — if they try, their wands sputter out. If a wish ever screws the world up badly enough, a new rule against granting such a wish can be created. On the flip side, unless it violates Da Rules, fairies are also bound to do _anything_ their kid prefaces with the words "I wish," no matter how ill-advised. One episode has Timmy making wishes in his sleep, with Cosmo and Wanda forced to oblige; another has his wish cut off before he can finish, forcing Cosmo and Wanda to grant his Exact Words instead of his actual intention. If certain wishes have absolute conditions attached to them, like Timmy stating he _never_ wants to be "freakishly huge" _again_ after he gets the money to replace his broken video game console, then the kid is permanently barred from making the same wish again, and likely the fairies wouldn't be able to get around it if they did so willingly.
-   _Star vs. the Forces of Evil_: As a teenager, the then-newly-crowned Queen Moon enters into a magical contract with one of Rhombulus' prisoners, the dark Queen Eclipsa, in order to defeat Toffee<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . Eclipsa would give Moon a spell that could permanently kill him<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , and Eclipsa would be freed from her prison as soon as Toffee was dead. Both parties end up able to exploit some form of Loophole Abuse: Moon deliberately avoids killing Toffee to prevent the contract from being completely fulfilled, so she basically got the spell for nothing. However, when Star and Ludo manage to kill Toffee for good without using the spell, the contract is fulfilled anyway, since the agreement was only that Eclipsa goes free when Toffee is dead. They never specified that Moon had to be the one to kill him, or even that Eclipsa's spell had to be used to do it.
-   In the _DuckTales (2017)_ Grand Finale "The Last Adventure!" Bradford puts into motion a plan to get rid of adventuring forever and puts Scrooge McDuck in one of these, forcing him to give up adventuring for his family. He thinks it is iron-tight as he spent 30 years refining it to get rid of any loopholes. Webby and the triplets realize that there is a loophole — Scrooge can't give up adventuring for his family because "Family is the greatest adventure of all!" Bradford thinks this is stupid, but the Papyrus of Binding, previously established as rather fickle in how it interprets what is written on it and taking its subjects' personal definitions of terms into account, accepts it as a valid technicality that renders the contract void.

___