_"You don't know of the illusion that the whole world could perish in an instant.  
That is what it means to see death.  
These eyes, this power isn't something you can boast about like you did."_

One or both of a character's eyes have great supernatural power. Usually, the eye grants the user power over perception, either the target's (illusion, mind control) or the user's (telepathy, premonitions, clairvoyance, etc). In most cases, direct eye contact or at the very least line-of-sight is required. Other restrictions may apply.

If only one eye has magical abilities, an Eyepatch of Power is very likely, especially if this eye possesses a distinct look, like color or shape (which might only appear during active use). The Magical Eye is often used as an excuse to apply certain patterns or symbols to a particular power, therefore making it Cool and Symbolic. Even more symbolic, the eye possessing the power is almost always the character's left eye (the left eye is considered the "sinister" eye, as "sinister" was once a word for "left"), though it can be the right eye and/or both eyes as well. Furthermore, the "uniqueness" of the Magical Eye compared to its more mundane non-magical counterpart can serve as a Duality Motif, symbolically highlighting a contrast in its bearer's own character. Closely related to the Red Right Hand.

Magical eyes can be any color, but are usually glowing unusual colors like Red Eyes, Take Warning or two colors at once.

See also Eye Beams for a more directly offensive use of eyes. A Third Eye is usually magical as part of its symbolism. If the magical eye can cause hypnosis, it's a Hypnotic Eye. Do not confuse with Faceless Eye or the more mundane Death Glare. Compare Excessive Evil Eyeshadow. Compare Deadly Gaze for a lethal version. The technological equivalent is Electronic Eyes. No relation to Magic Eye, that autostereogram thing where if you look at it _just right_, you can see a cat or a dolphin or whatever.

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   Kakeru, the protagonist of _11eyes_, has a golden eye that gives him precognition.
-   The hero and heroine of _Basilisk_ both have magic eye abilities, hence the Market-Based Title of the series. The hero, Gennosuke, can turn the murderous impulses of others against them, filling them with pain and fear and driving them to suicide. The heroine, Oboro, has eyes that give her an Anti-Magic ability that disables the powers of anyone she looks at.
-   _Black Butler_ has Ciel whose right eye has a pentagram on it. The design makes his eye lighter and more of a purple color than his normal blue eye. He wears an Eyepatch of Power to cover his eye unless its power is needed. The pentagram is proof of his contract with Sebastian, his demon butler. Putting the mark in your eye isn't actually a _requirement_ in the deal, but it _is_ the rule that, the more visible the spot you place the mark, the more power you are granted - and Ciel asked for as much power as he could possibly have.
-   Sven Vollfied's Vision Eye in _Black Cat_ has the power to see a few seconds in the future, although this is apparently severely fatiguing. It later upgrades into the less energy consuming "Grasper Eye" that slows down what he looks at, enabling him feats like avoiding bullets fired at him (though from the point of vue of the others, he seems to be the one whose movements are being accelerated).
-   In _Brave10_, behind his Eyepatch of Power, Rokuro hides a magical eye that is somehow passed down through his family, the Water Crest eye. It strips out memories and records information. And then after it's destroyed by The Mole, he replaces it with the God's Jewel which becomes yet _another_ magical eye.
-   Tsubame Akifuji of _Cat Paradise_ has the "Eyes of the Symbol", which allow him see every detail of anything he observes, even the ones that normal humans couldn't see, whether he wants to or not. They also allow him to remain aware of his surroundings even while he's possessed.
-   _Code Geass_: Lelouch possesses a "Geass" in one eye that allows him to compel absolute obedience to his commands. Requires direct eye contact (can be blocked by visors or bounced off mirrors) and can only be used once per person. Eventually, he ends up with the Geass in both eyes and can no longer turn it off, which is the standard evolution of a Geass. Other characters in the series have magical eyes that let them read minds, paralyze people, see the future, rewrite memories, steal bodies, etc. Later on, Jeremiah Gottwald gets an "anti-Geass" that allows him to cancel the effects of ANY Geass in a certain radius. It even looks like an inverted version of the standard Magic Eye. Given that he was given this eye during his second Cyborg upgrade, Jeremiah's Geass Canceller can probably be most accurately described as a Magitek Eye.
-   Contractors in _Darker than Black_ have their eyes glow red when activating their abilities. One of the Contractors can violently kill a person when looking at them.
-   In _Death Note_, characters with a Death Note could make a deal with Shinigami haunting the book — granting them Shinigami Eyes, which have the ability to know both the true name and the date of death of anyone whose face they can see. This makes it much easier to kill using the note — and all for the low, low price of half of one's remaining lifespan. Several characters made the trade (one of them _twice_), but Light steadfastly refused, trusting his skills as The Chessmaster to see him through. Beyond Birthday is unique in this regard in that he was apparently _born_ with those eyes.
-   In _Death Parade_, Psychopomp-like Arbiters have mystical eyes with a pale cross around the pupil. When they receive memories of dead people, their eyes rapidly spin around. As it turns out, the cross is a seal blocking off the Arbiter’s emotions.
-   In _Digimon Adventure 02: The Beginning_, Lui's eye covered by his hair and an eyepatch turn out to be a distinctive green Digimon eye, transplanted by Ukkomon after Lui had attempted to smash his Digivice in a fit of rage and the shattering glass from the screen damaged his.
-   _D.Gray-Man_:
    -   Wisely, one of the Noahs has _three_ evil eyes in his forehead. In his first appearance, he makes heads explode.
    -   The hero, whose left eye can see the souls powering Akuma due to his eye being cut by an Akuma. The eye can also regenerate if it is damaged. After the eye evolves into a new form it can also make Akuma souls visible to other people. This ability is both a blessing and a curse because it allows him to detect Akumas that are in disguise, and the eye activates automatically when one is near, but it also isn't a pleasant ability to have because he can see the suffering that Akuma souls are in, the sight of an Akuma soul being destroy makes his eye bleed and the sight of a Level 4 Akuma soul causes him to vomit.
-   In _Dragon Ball_, General Blue has evil eyes which paralyze anyone who looks into them, glowing blue in the process. Like Medusa, but without the petrification. It's Played With; Blue's powers are more akin to Psychic Powers, given that at one point he was able to tie Goku and his friends by manipulating several ropes with psychokinesis. On the other hand, he apparently needs to focus said powers through his eyes; something which Goku took advantage of with his "JanKenPon" technique.
-   _Dragon Ball Super_, introduces the Cerealians, an alien race who had right eyes give them sniping capabilities, however they aren’t always accurate. Granolah after becoming the strongest in the universe, gained an another evolved eye during his fight with Vegeta.
-   In _EDENS ZERO_, the guildmaster of Shooting Starlight, Noah Glenfield, has the Ether Gear "Eye of God" which allows him to observe the exact position of anyone in the universe via his left eye. He initially viewed this as a pointless power since technology in this universe has already advanced to a similar level, but then he realized it doesn't just refer to a person's "physical" position but also their _temporal_ one, which is how he discovered that Rebecca Bluegarden has Mental Time Travel powers years before she ever did and how many times it's activated.
-   _Fairy Tail_:
    -   The Raijin Tribe/Thunder Legion all have this ability. Evergreen can turn you into stone, Bixlow has the ability to take people souls and put them into dolls, and Fried's ability hasn't been explained but it's presumably tied to his magic because his eyes change color when he's casting particular spells.
    -   Erza is another example. Her artificial eye lets hrt weaken or outright negate the effects of any ability that attacks through visual contact. This includes weakening Evergreen's stone eyes (and would likely do the same to Bixlow and Fried), see through and ignore illusions, and even weaken the effects of a Mind Rape.
    -   Hades has one hidden under his Eyepatch of Power that amplifies his magic to terrifying levels and allows him to create demons from rubble.
-   _Fantastic Detective Labyrinth_ has the Shingan. It is what allows one to obtain the Knowledge of the Gods, and proof of who inherits the powerful Hyuuga clan.
-   _Fullmetal Alchemist_: Fuhrer King Bradley, aka the Homunculus Wrath, possesses the "Ultimate Eye", which is normally covered by an Eyepatch of Power. This is his left eye, which holds his Ouroboros that gives him the foresight to see all possible outcomes of a given situation, allowing him to predict the moves of any opponent before they happen. It only grants that foresight with regard to things within a direct line of sight of the Ultimate Eye, but given that he still has Super-Reflexes even _without_ using the eye, good luck trying to exploit that flaw.
-   A rather mundane example by comparison appears in _Gamaran_: According to Toujo Shungaku, both Gama and his father Jinsuke have the "Eyes of Divine Sight". As he puts it, said eyes are far more keen and perceptive than those of other warriors, allowing them to "read" the opponent's body language and anticipate their moves.
-   Mido Ban of _Get Backers_ inherited _his_ jagan (see above) from his grandmother. If he makes direct eye contact with someone, he can induce a hallucination (most often in the form of Mind Rape) that lasts for exactly one minute of real-world time. Limited by the fact that he can only use it three times a day, once per person per day.
-   _Iris Zero_'s titular Irises are powers that 99% of kids are born with that allow kids to see things others don't. For example, Asahi sees devil tails grow out of people when they are lying, and Hijiri sees black butterflies gathering around people/animals that will soon die.
-   _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Steel Ball Run_:
    -   After Gyro Zeppeli gains the Saint AKA Jesus corpse's right eye, he gains X-Ray vision and the ability to see with his steel ball weapons.
    -   Diego gets the corpse's left eye and gains the ability to transform into a were-raptor.
-   _Mekakucity Actors_ (the anime-adaptation of the _Kagerou Project_) is about a group of teenagers with abilities related to their eyes, dubbed 'Eye-Powers'. This includes the ability to become invisible, read minds, change others' perception of oneself, freeze people in place (or go the full gamut and turn them to stone), attract other peoples' attention (or, their eyes), immortality, clairvoyance, remaking one's body, photographic memory and, perhaps most importantly, the ability to 'combine-eyes', used to attract other ability holders to the 'Queen'.
-   Shota Aizawa from _My Hero Academia_ is known as Eraserhead for his quirk “Erasure” that lets him cancel other people’s quirks when it’s active. It only works on quirks that require activation and ends if he has to blink. He often gets severe dry eye from it and it’s quite shaky after he loses an eye late in the series.
-   Several exist in the _Naruto_ franchise, but they only naturally manifest in a handful of clans whose members inherit them genetically:
    -   The Sharingan, exclusive to the Uchiha Clan, grants the user enhanced vision, precognition, eidetic memory and the ability to perceive chakra patterns. The upgraded form, the Mangekyo Sharingan, can only be unlocked by seeing one's best friend die, and grants the user Story-Breaker Powers in the form of Susano'o (a nigh-invincible spectral armor), and that's just the one that's universal to all Mangekyo Sharingan users. Some of the Mangekyo Sharingan's other tricks (typically unique to a specific pair of Sharingan) are varied upon the user and very extravagant, such as Amaterasu (black flames that cannot be quenched by conventional means), and Tsukuyomi (a hard-to-break, time-distorting illusion technique), Kamui (which can send a target (or just a part of them) into another dimension and allows the user to both teleport and become intangible), and Kotoamatsukami, which inflicts powerful but subtle-to-the-point-of-being-nigh-undetectable brainwashing. However, overuse of the Mangekyo's powers will eventually cause permanent blindness unless the user can transplant the Mangekyo Sharingan of another Uchiha with strong blood ties; doing so forms an Eternal Mangekyo Sharingan that will never succumb to blindness. The protagonist's sensei, Kakashi Hatake, is a non-Uchiha who possesses a Sharingan thanks to a dying (well, Not Quite Dead) comrade who willingly donated his eye; since Kakashi is not an Uchiha, his Sharingan is constantly active and depletes his chakra supply rapidly when uncovered, and he also possesses the upgraded form in the Mangekyo.
    -   The Byakugan, exclusive to the Hyuga Clan, gives three-hundred-fifty-nine-degree telescopic x-ray vision, allowing the user to perceive everything around them and see chakra points on a ninja and strike accordingly, and also allows the user to easily see through illusions. The Byakugan has a one-degree blind spot that can be exploited, but doing so requires massive amounts of skill. Plus, the Hyuga know all about this weakness, and can mostly nullify it simply by keeping their body in motion so that no one spot reminds out of sight for more than a second.
    -   The Rinnegan is a Superpower Lottery that not only enhances vision to the point where anything can be seen, but grants the ability to use all five elemental chakras, kill liars, resurrect the dead, absorb chakra at will, summon Animalistic Abominations, read minds, rip out souls, access an Anatomy Arsenal, deflect attacks and enemies, control gravity, and warp reality. It was possessed by the Sage of the Six Paths, the man believed to the first ninja, but subsequently disappeared from history until it manifested eons later in Pain, the leader of the international terrorist/mercenary organization Akatsuki. It's later revealed that the Rinnegan can evolve from a Sharingan if the user gains access to Six Paths chakra; Pain's Rinnegan were actually given to him by Madara Uchiha, who was able to access Six Paths chakra and develop the Rinnegan after incorporating Hashirama Senju's DNA into himself. Near the end, Sasuke Uchiha also develops the Rinnegan after receiving chakra directly from the Sage's spirit.
    -   In _The Last: Naruto the Movie_, it's revealed that when someone of pure Otsutsuki bloodline replaces their original Byakugan with someone else's, it can evolve into the Tenseigan. It has only a couple of the abilities of the Rinnegan, but it gets the best ones for direct combat: ability to use all five elements and gravity manipulation, along with greatly enhancing the wielder's chakra capacity, it even gives the user a Chakra Mode similar to the Nine-Tails Chakra Mode in appearance, but it’s different in color.
    -   The eponymous protagonist of _Boruto_ has a mysterious magical right eye which so far allows him to see various things invisible to the naked eye, like chakra pathways and inter-dimensional barriers. If this sounds similar to the Byakugan, that's because Boruto's mother is a Hyuga (though it's been emphasized that Boruto's eye is _not_ quite the same thing as the Byakugan and it's distinct from the Tenseigan as well).
        -   Word of God has named this eye the Jōgan ("Pure Eye").
    -   The above magical eyes all come from the same source: Kaguya Otsutsuki, the first being to wield chakra on Earth, the earliest known ancestor of the Uchiha and Hyuga clans, and the Sage of Six Paths' mother. She herself possesses the Byakugan (the most commonly possessed magical eye among Otsutsuki in general) and the Rinne-Sharingan, the latter being a Third Eye in her forehead which allows Kaguya to cast a world-wide Lotus-Eater Illusion, create and manipulate entire realities and dimensions, and think up portals through which she can transport herself and others to her various dimensions.
        -   The Ten-Tails (who is Kaguya and the God Tree combined) also has the Rinne-Sharingan, although it rarely uses it. Later Madara Uchiha awakens this Dojutsu as well after absorbing the God Tree, and regaining both his Rinnegan, with it he casts the Infinite Tsukuyomi on the entire world to place them in an eternal illusionary dream world.
    -   It is later revealed that a variety of eye abilities are common among the Otsutsuki clan that Kaguya came from. Isshiki Otsutsuki has a Byakugan in one eye and an unnamed eye in the other that gives him several unusual abilities including being able to shrink non living objects and store them in another dimension, and can also shrink himself. Another eye called the Senrigan, allows the user to remotely view things over long distances and even look into the past up to the moment of their birth.
    -   The anime also includes several more special eyes that were not in the manga that may or may not be canon. The Ketsuryūgan has illusion powers and also allows the user to manipulate liquids that contain a high amount of iron such as their own blood. Ranmaru has glowing red eyes that have abilities similar to the Byakugan such as X-Ray Vision, and are also capable of fooling the Byakugan with illusions that include chakra networks. Yome has vision that is so sharp that she can see things that are kilometers away using reflections on water droplets. Shion has special eyes that can predict people's deaths. Kagemasa, a character in a in-universe movie, has a fictional eye power called the Magan that can paralyze people.
-   In _O-Parts Hunter_, the Cyclops who have a birthmark in the middle of their forehead. This is, in fact, a closed third eye which grants them the ability to "program" movement into inanimate objects. They can make, for example, projectiles miss the Cyclops, have lying debris suddenly hurl itself at an opponent, turn about any sharp objects into deadly projectiles, etc. Shown Cyclops using this ability are: Kirin, Mei, Tsubame and Kirin's father.
-   In _Project ARMS_, Kei Kuruma's nanomachine implant "Queen of Hearts" is a sensor array in her eyes that allows her to see in Bullet Time.
-   Rokudo Mukuro from _Reborn! (2004)_ has a red eye with kanji as the pupil, ranging from one to six. Each kanji represents a different "state" in the Buddhist Samsara cycle of reincarnation, and gives him a different power. His spirit medium/possessed girl/Morality Pet/etc., Chrome Dokuro, wears an Eyepatch of Power on the same eye Mukuro does, and when it's removed, it's implied that he materializes through the power of illusions and takes over for her.
-   In _Rurouni Kenshin_, the man-slayer Udô Jin-e uses a sword style that possesses a technique unique to it known as Shin no Ippô, in which he uses his ki to immobilize people with a glance of his eyes. He can even use his Blade Reflection to perform the Hyoki no Jutsu, in which he hypnotises _himself_ to bring out his full strength.
-   Mihoko's blue eye in _Saki_, which allows her to perfectly analyze a game to the point of clairvoyance and seems to have a side-effect of disrupting other people's abilities, as Jun found out.
-   _Soul Eater_ has an immortal werewolf named Free (original name long since forgotten) who stole the Witch Queen Mabaa's eye and replaced one of his own with it, granting him the ability to use spatial magic.
-   In _Star Driver_ Ryousuke has one that grants him X-Ray Vision in conjunction with his First Phase. It makes him see his fiancée's love affair with his friend Tokio (aka Head) and he takes his own eye out.
-   In _Strike Witches_, Mio's right eye allows her to see the core of a Neuroi. She covers it with an eyepatch when not in battle.
-   Dominique the Cyclops from _Trigun_ has a demonic-looking eye, complete with snake pupil, hidden behind a mechanical eyepatch/shutter, that allows her to disrupt her opponent's senses, paralyzing/hypnotizing them temporarily. Because her victims are unaware that any time has passed during which they were paralyzed, it gives the false impression that she's using a Flash Step technique.
-   _Tsubasa -RESERVoir CHRoNiCLE-_:
    -   Fay D. Fluorite's blue eyes are the source of his magical powers. Later on, he gives the color up after becoming a vampire.
    -   Syaoran eats Fay's left eye in order to gain the magic inside it.
-   In _Tsukuyomi: Moon Phase_, vampires can "charm" (read: enslave) people with their eyes.
-   Two Negators from _Undead Unluck_ have abilities primarily activated based on line of sight are Shen with Untruth and Chikara with Unmove. Untruth negates any conscious thought his target has, causing them to do the opposite of what they are trying to do. His power only works if he's subconsciously fond of his target and he can see them. and Unmove negates the movement of anything he looks at as long as he stays still. Chiakara can however be moved by anything while using his ability.
-   In _Unlimited Psychic Squad_, Andy has an impressively (implied-to-be-) multi-tasking one. It allows him to block out others' psychic powers as well as contact via _pseudo-video_ his boss to report on his infiltration of Kyousuke's mafia-like group, PANDRA.
-   Lucia in _Venus Versus Virus_ inherited a golden left eye from her demonic father but hides it under an Eyepatch of Power. She has a special "vision" to see Viruses, which are usually invisible to humans, that is very strong. She had trouble living a normal life until getting the eyepatch. Without the eyepatch she sees darkness in her left eye but it is a different type of darkness from not being able to see.
-   Lord Darcia in _Wolf's Rain_ is cursed with a yellow wolf's eye (his left) which can render people unconscious. Usually covered by a mask. After he attempts to enter paradise and is destroyed, his yellow eye is all that's left of him. While the world's ecology is regenerated by the lunar flowers, his eye turns some of them black, tainting the world with its evil.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh!_:
    -   Pegasus J. Crawford was given the Millennium Eye, previously owned 3,000 years ago by the Turn Coat Akunadin. It granted him the power to read minds, steal souls and (like the other Millennium Items) probably possessed other sinister powers if one knew how to tap into them.
    -   Dartz, the Big Bad of Season 4, had an eye that turned green from the power of the Orichalcos.
-   Each member of Team Ragnarok from _Yu-Gi-Oh! 5Ds_ has a magical eye that connects him with his Aesir card.
-   Jim "Crocodile" Cook from _Yu-Gi-Oh! GX_ had the Eye of Orichalcum covered by a bandage.
-   In _Yu-Gi-Oh! ZEXAL_, beings from the Astral and Barian worlds and Duel Spirits as well as Tron and Yuma has this in his Zexal II and Zexal III forms thanks to Astral have heterochromia, bypassing the need for a Duel Gazer, though their eyes light up instead. Barians in their human forms have their eyes turn red, and some humans have magic tattoos around their eyes.
-   Berry from _Yurei Deco_ has a glitch in her right Electronic Eye that allows her to see things Invisible to Normals in Augmented Reality, such as things covered up by the Hypernet's moderation team or hackers like the Ghost Detectives. Downplayed in that it is ultimately just a glitch she picked up at random, and could be fixed in five minutes by replacing the defective implant.
-   Hiei from _YuYu Hakusho_ had a "Jagan" (lit. "evil eye") eye in the middle of his forehead, which bestows vaguely-defined psychic powers and a huge power boost when activated. The trauma of this implantation actually made him vastly weaker at first, but over the next few arcs he recovers all of his old power and can use the jagan on top of it. His Eyepatch of Power came in headband form.

    Comic Books 

-   Rayek in _ElfQuest_ can paralyze with his stare - elves, trolls, animals - nobody's immune. Fortunately he turns out to be an Anti-Hero rather than an outright villain.
-   _Ghost Rider_'s Penance Stare is an eye _socket_ variant.
-   Tommy Monaghan from _Hitman_ had solid black eyes (no pupil, iris, or white, just black). His powers were x-ray vision and mind-reading anyone in his line of sight (he didn't mind-read too much - it gave him migraines). This made him very difficult to sneak up on.
-   The Justice League villain Despero gets vast Psychic Powers from a third eye. It was even removed once by surgery, but it grew back.
-   The Emerald Empress & the Emerald Eye of Ekron, in _Legion of Super-Heroes_. In one memorable scene, she grows to giant size, tears out her own eye, and sticks the Emerald Eye in the socket.
-   _Wildguard: Casting Call_ featured the literally evil eye Wandering Eye, who attempted to use his hypnosis powers to force his will onto the team. Failing that, he hypnotized other rejected applicants and forced them to serve his agenda of enslaving the entire world to his will, allowing him to finally be somewhat accepted by society. He was accidentally killed when Exploding Girl went critical.

    Comic Strips 

-   _Li'l Abner_ featured the character "Evil Eye Fleegle", a zoot-suited New Yorker whose eyes could zap people with destructive whammies of varying degrees of power. He turned up in the movie adaptation of the strip as well.

    Fan Works 

-   _Avance Wars 3: Yelow Commet Defence_ has the main character, Dusk, use a Mind Control Geass, represented by one of his eyes being purple. He seemingly does not require eye contact, since he does take control of an Assault Fighter's pilot from halfway across the battlefield, but it seems he needs to charge it up in return.
-   Nu-13 in _BlazBlue Alternative: Remnant_ receives a mythical right eye after the events of Chapter 70. More specifically than that, her new eye is a silver eye capable of freezing Grimm solid and incapacitating the Black Beast...and it used to belong to _Ruby Rose_.
-   In the _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fanfic _Movie Magic_, Twilight Sparkle gets True Sight and super-vision in her right eye after a Freak Lab Accident involving a rainbow-powered rocket and a magitek movie camera.
-   _Soul Eater: Troubled Souls_: The Enchanted Eyes. In Chapter 17, Stein gives a brief overview about them. It’s a dangerous bloodline skill that grants the owner a Demonic Wavelength upon activation. It is said a person with it loses a small part of his or her humanity in exchange for power. The eyes are normally dormant and requires a person to be in a state of extreme duress in order to first awaken it. Features include Hellish Pupils, Black Eyes of Crazy, and Glowing Eyes of Doom. The subplot of the Chicago Gang Arc focuses on the Eyes in more depth and explains the lore behind them. Presently, four characters are revealed to have them — Noel, Tsuji, Shannon, and Left.
-   In the _Stardew Valley_ fic ''Elysian, the wizard Rasmodius lost his eye in an unspecified accident caused by his arrogance. He replaced it with an eye carved out of fairy stone, which enables him to see the malignant influences poisoning the valley.

    Films — Animation 

-   Professor Screweyes from _We're Back! A Dinosaur's Story_. True, its actually a screw buried deep on his eye socket, but it pretty much acts as a magical eye, as he seems to be able to make magic with it (not to mention that the screw's slit is in a vertical position, giving it a Hellish Pupils look). In a deleted scene where we learn he lost his left eye thanks to a crow that pecked it out, he claims he can "watch" his biggest fear, the crows, with a "real eye and a steel eye", implying that his screw eye is far from being just a scary decoration.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   In the "Eye" segment of _Body Bags_, Brent, a star baseball player, gets a new right eye after he loses his original one in a car accident. He subsequently becomes plagued by nightmarish visions of murder and rape and finds out that it belonged to an executed serial killer named John Randall, whose personality is starting to overtake his own.
-   Richard B. Riddick, the Anti-Hero of _The Chronicles of Riddick_ has hypersensitive eyes which require him to wear special goggles during daytime. They allow him to see in the dark, and when he takes off his goggles, his eyes are shown to glow. In _Pitch Black_, he claims that they were surgically enhanced, but _Escape from Butcher Bay_ suggests that his special eye powers may actually be a result of being the last surviving Furyan.
-   _The Eye_ centers around a blind woman who receives a cornea transplant to restore her sight. Unfortunately, she also starts seeing ghosts and other visions. Turns out the "donor" was a girl who could see the future, especially people's deaths, and was murdered because of it. The power came along with the eyes.
-   In _Push_, mind-influencing telepaths need to make eye contact with their targets. The so-called "pusher's" pupils dilate drastically when they use their powers.
-   In _Shinobi Heart Under Blade_, Oboro has a technique called Hagen no Do—literally "pupil of annihilation", and also translated as "Piercing Eyes". She only uses it once. It basically let her do something to the effect of causing her foe's nervous and circulatory systems to break down and explosively hemmhorage, leaving him bloody and helpless on the ground, by just _looking_ at him.
-   The Dark Side in the _Star Wars_ movies is usually represented by yellow eyes, starting with Emperor Palpatine in _Return of the Jedi_ and continued by Darth Maul in _The Phantom Menace_. Anakin's change with his mood in the last act of _Revenge of the Sith_ (probably because they were still blue after his Heroic Sacrifice in _Jedi_).

    Folklore 

-   A widespread European folk belief was that envy physically changed the eye and caused it to inflict misfortune on those whom the person envied. Note that this was held to be out of the person's control.

    Literature 

-   The Pythia, in _Cat's Cradle: Time's Crucible_, steals the eye from a decapitated sphinx and substitutes it for one of her own, in an attempt to regain her waning prophetic powers.
-   In Edgar Rice Burroughs's _The Chessmen of Mars_, the kuldane's mind control depends on it; Tara learns if she looks away, she can not be controlled.
-   Michael Moorcock's Eternal Champion series includes Corum Jhaelen Irsei, who for the first portion of his career wields the eye and hand of a god in place of his own. By lifting the eyepatch he wears over this eye, he can see into a spectral place, where a creature dwells. He can then draw it out, where it will fight for him. Then the next time he lifts the eyepatch, whatever was killed by the creature has taken its place, and now IT can be summoned to fight, apparantly at a greater power level than it possessed before.
-   Kurumi, of _Date A Live_, has a clock for her left eye, representing her "time" (basically her lifespan and a measure of her power). It goes with her theme as a Time Master. When she uses her power, it winds forward, and when she's stealing other people's time, it goes backwards, but it's unknown what direction it goes most of the time.
-   In the _Deryni_ works, these are attributed to Barrett de Laney by a panicky human priest. After Barrett surrenders himself in exchange for twenty-three children, the priest hisses, "His eyes! Evil! Evil! Beware his eyes my lord!" The gathered crowd takes up the cry and his captors take the hint; they blind Barrett with a hot iron as a precaution, despite their intention to kill him anyway.
-   Mr. Teatime of Terry Pratchett's _Discworld_ has a grey glass eye—which some of his associates claim is in fact a scrying crystal—that seems to give him the ability to perform such feats as moving faster than the normal human eye can see and doing backflips on thin air, and may also be how he can see what's really there (an unusual ability on the Disc), although being a Psychopathic Manchild could also explain that, since children "lack filters". Also interesting is that the other characters refer to his remaining eye as the scary one. His pinprick pupil is said to see into one's soul. If the crystal rumor is true, the fact that he has some of the Discworld's notoriously chaotic and unreliable magic implanted in his head might explain why he is so deranged.
-   In _The Dresden Files_, Rashid the Gatekeeper has a steel eye that lets him see into potential futures. It's actually a disguised piece of the Outer Gates at the edge of reality, with powers of perception that detects the influence of Eldritch Abominations among other things.
-   _Durarara!!_: Saika wielders have red eyes while using Saika. This can either happen voluntarily or if Saika is beginning to control them, as shown with Anri when speaking with Izaya. The same thing happens with Saika Children as well when they are being possessed.
-   Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody of _Harry Potter_ has a glass eye that can spin in its socket to face any direction, has X-Ray Vision, and can see through most illusions.
-   _Journey to Chaos_: _Evil Eye_ is a spiritual technique that can paralyze the target through eye contact. Unlike magic it cannot be taught, only be developed through periods of intense fear, hatred, and/or sorrow. When Eric sees that Tahart has restrained and is about to rape Annala, he develops this ability.

.\* Ryner Lute of _The Legend of the Legendary Heroes_ possesses the Alpha Stigma, strange eyes that give him incredible magic skill.

-   In _Love, Chunibyo & Other Delusions!_, Rikka was under the delusion that she has that for the right eye, explaining her eye patch.
-   The Gerard witches from _Magical Annals_ have Magic Eyes passed down genetically. Their eyes are black with white slits. Theirs allows them immunity from illusions and a deciphering ability; they can read languages they do not know. The second ability takes time and concentration and it only applies to written languages.
-   In _Mermaid Moon_, the witch Thyrla's right eye has two irises and two pupils. One can see the past, and the other the future. Discomfort in the eye can also warn her of things to come. She keeps it covered with an eyepatch so the townspeople don't know there's anything special about it.
-   Boris Dragonasi, the big bad in Brian Lumley's _Necroscope_ gains the power of the evil eye in the second half of the story. Earlier there was a legend told of the evil eye and how it can backfire on the user with gruesome results if it is used on someone who is already dead. Guess what happens to Dragonasi at the end of the book.
-   In Poul Anderson's _Operation Chaos_, the narrator hears of a technique used on infection: they culture some of the bacteria, and then get a man with the Evil Eye to look at them through a microscope. Later, he mentions the wonders a corporation has produced, including contact lenses that allow people with the Evil Eye to live normal lives.
-   Early in the _Otherside Picnic_ series, Sorawo's right eye is left permanently altered after an encounter with the kunekune. It grants her the ability to perceive the various aspects of the different phenomena in the Otherside. If used on humans it has the chance to affect their mental state, which is why she's reluctant to use her abilities on other people... until Volume 3, where she uses that aspect deliberately when she has to escape from Runa's cult. Sorawo uses her eye to drive one captor insane, and upon getting into an extended firefight with the cultists, her eye once again proves useful in distracting a few of them long enough for Migawa to shoot them.
-   In Robert E. Howard's _The Phoenix on the Sword_, it is looking in the monster's eyes that lets it attack Conan the Barbarian's soul; fortunately for Conan, this makes him angry rather than destroying his soul like it did to Ascalante.
-   In Susan Dexter's _The Prince Of Ill Luck_, the protagonist has mismatched eyes; his left eye is magical, and allows him to see through spells. Unfortunately, the fact that his eyes show him different things also creates a magical imbalance that turns him into The Jinx.
-   In the _Psalms Of Isaak_, the ancient wizard-king Ahm Y'Zir had one of his eyes replaced by a magical one that (supposedly) allowed him to see into the underworld, and thereby aided him in making bargains for his Blood Magic. He was known to history as the "One-Eyed Wizard King" and Vlad Li Tam is able to identify the monstrous magitek cyborg that has projected itself into his dreams as Ahm via this feature.
-   Yakumo and many others from _Psychic Detective Yakumo_ possess a red eye that allows them to see ghosts. Yakumo was a particular target of prejudice because of it.
-   _Qualia the Purple_:
    -   Yukari's purple eyes see the world differently than everyone else. She sees all living beings as robots, and as a consequence, her perspective is imposed on the world, leading to humans working as robots to her - she's able to fix them using mechanical parts, dismantle them (which would be the equivalent of cutting someone up for anyone else's eyes) without even any bleeding and change the programming in their brain.
    -   Alice sees equations as pictures, which makes it possible for her to understand university-level mathematics at the age of 11.
    -   Subverted with the culprit to the Tokyo Dismembering Murders. She claims to see people as lumps of meat, but as pointed out by Yukari, she's apparently just a sociopath, fitting the definition almost to perfection.
-   Itsuki in _Rental Magica_ has Glam Sight in his right eye. When his eyepatch is removed, he can see through anything magical and command very competently... at the cost of his sanity.
-   In Myke Cole's _The Sacred Throne_ trilogy, the Order claims to be able to find wizards by looking at a person's left eye for a portal to hell - the sign of the wizard's compact with devils. This isn't exactly true, a wizard is a person who knows how to manipulate supernatural forces in the world and are indistinguishable from normal people plus there's no compact with Hell. But if they use too much magic, it causes a portal to open in their left eye and let's through a devil. Of course, the wizard doesn't survive this experience.
-   _So I'm a Spider, So What?_:
    -   There are several Evil Eye skills that grant different effects when used, from draining stamina to destroying the target. As a spider, the main character aspires to have one Evil Eye skill for each of her eight eyes.
    -   Shiraori usually keeps her eyes closed; the first time she opens them, she obliterates the Hero and his entire party. She's actually the main character having obtained a human body and still favoring Evil Eye-style attacks.
-   Euron "Crow's Eye" Greyjoy of _A Song of Ice and Fire_ is strongly hinted to have one. Exactly what's under his Eyepatch of Power hasn't been revealed yet, but just the prospect of seeing it unnerves his fellow Ironborn. (Who, lest we forget, are manly Viking expies.) Given that he's been known to consort with warlocks and that he flies a personal standard that shows a red eye, it all works together to imply that something very unusual is hiding beneath the eyepatch.
-   Jagang, the main antagonist of most of the _Sword of Truth_ series, has eyes which have been describes as "twin windows into nightmare". It is not surprising that his powers are essentially mind reading and possession.
-   The title Anti-Hero of William Beckford's Gothic novel _Vathek_ is described as "pleasing and majestic; but when he was angry one of his eyes became so terrible that no person could bear to behold it, and the wretch upon whom it was fixed instantly fell backward, and sometimes expired." The _History_ was first published in 1782.
-   Some _Warhammer 40,000_ psykers use eye contract in Mind Probe.
    -   In Graham McNeill's Ultramarines novel _The Killing Grounds_, Uriel meet Leodegarius's ice-blue eyes and finds them filling his sight as the Mind Probe overwhelms his mental defenses.
    -   In James Swallow's novel _Deus Sanguinius_, when Rafen subjects himself to Mephiston's Mind Probe, it seems to him that the light behind his eyes overwhelms him.
-   Demise from the _Wild Cards_ series has the power to inflict the experience of his own death (he got better) on anyone by making eye contact with them, killing them.
-   In _A Wrinkle in Time_, when Charles Wallace stares into the eyes of The Man With Red Eyes, he goes under the telepathic mind control of IT. To make things creepier, Charles Wallace's own eyes change so that his pupils are swallowed up by the iris, giving him disturbing all-iris eyes.

    Live-Action TV 

-   In _Farscape_, Nooranti has a third eye that _changes color_ and intermittently opens when she uses her powers.
-   In _The Lost Room_ miniseries, the Glass Eye is a powerful artifact that can restore/heal or destroy all flesh. Karl Kreutzfeld had to take his own eye out to use it, as the Glass Eye must be inside the eye socket of the wearer to function.

    Music 

-   LOONA has the Odd Eye Circle, comprised of members JinSoul, Kim Lip and Choerry, whose powers manifest as a cresent in their eyes. Choerry's odd eye is her right, as opposed to Kim Lip and JinSoul's left. Kim Lip's power is time-travel, JinSoul's is teleportation, and Choerry has the power to travel between dimensions, namely yyxy's and 1/3's.

    Myths & Religion 

-   Irish Mythology: As told in _The Battle of Magh Tuireadh_, Balor "of the Evil Eye" absorbed the poison of his father's druids as they were casting spells. This gave him an eye of death, which killed whoever he looked at. His eye was harnessed to bow strings so that he could open his eye properly and used it as a weapon.
-   The evil eye goes far back in the mythology of several countries in the Middle East, though that evil eye has more in common with a Death Glare that simply brings whoever it is given to bad luck and misfortune. Evil eye charms which ward off the effects of the evil eye are still popular in Armenia, Israel, Turkey, and a host of other countries.
-   There are legends of an Armenian king who was able to break boulders with his evil eye.
-   In Ancient Rome either a bulla or a fascinum would be worn as a Protective Charm to ward off the malevolent evil that could arise from the jealousy of men, sometimes literally called "Evil Eye".
-   Shiva, the Lord of Destruction, was forever blasting things out of existence with his third eye. Usually it was Eye Beams.
-   This trope is goes back to at least the New Kingdom of Ancient Egypt, when the Eldritch Abomination serpent Apopi/Apep (Apophis) was believed to have a destructive or harmful gaze. People wore and recited charms and spells to protect themselves from him. The Pharaoh also performed a ritual in which he whacked at a ball that symbolized Apopi's eyeball.
-   In Greek Mythology the gaze of witches could bring harm to chosen victims due the solar power in them. As the granddaughter of the sun god, Medea had it so powerful that she could kill the unkillable bronze giant Talos, either by hypnotizing it into pulling the nail that kept his ichor or causing him so much pain he preferred to kill himself.

    Roleplay 

-   The play-by-post forum _Fate/Nuovo Guerra_, which is basically an _Alternate Universe_ of _Fate/stay night_, has quite a good number of Mystic Eyes users.
-   In _The Gamer's Alliance_, the mage Dante's eye can control a person and put a geas on his victim which forces the victim to subconsciously obey his orders. Leon learned this the hard way when he found out that all his actions during the Yamatian Invasion arc had in fact been Dante's all along.
-   Kris from _We Are Our Avatars_ has multiple ways of seeing the world around him, which is his gift from Guertena, at the cost of making him paranoid.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Dungeons & Dragons_:
    -   The Eye of Vecna, from the _Greyhawk_ setting, is a powerful Artifact of Doom that requires the would-be user to remove his own eye and insert it into the socket.
    -   _D&D_ also has the beholder monsters, which possess many eyes with various powers (including at-will telekinesis to make up for their lack of limbs). Certain variants had a class for cultists of various monstrous races that started to take on characteristics of the races they worshiped, and the beholder-worshipers grew eye stalks of their own.
    -   4e _D&D_ has Cyclopes and Fomorians that both use their Evil Eyes for various purposes, such as paralysis, mind domination, eye beams, etc.
-   _Hunter: The Vigil_ has the Cheiron Corporation and it's thaumatechnology. It involves taking bits and pieces of supernatural creatures and implanting them into humans. Among other things, there is a pair of eyes stolen from some sort of otherworldly creature. The're yellow, faceted, and provide the owner with Aura Vision.
-   Urza's powerstone eyes, from _Magic: The Gathering_.
-   In _Vampire: The Masquerade_ the vampire clan Salubri derived healing, fighting, and perception based supernatural powers from their third eye. Naturally it made them stick out like sore thumbs, and being the least evil group of vampires they were almost all wiped out because it couldn't be easily hidden. One of the survivors decided "Enough is enough!" and joined up with the Sabbat. His branch of the bloodline follows a different set of powers than the others, and their third eye looks angrier as a result. And since they aren't nearly as nice as the rest, they aren't so easily killed, so they don't care about hiding it.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_:
    -   This universe has Navigators: mutants with a Third Eye, called the Warp Eye in the middle of their forehead. Apart from letting them steer ships through the Warp, these eyes kill anyone who looks into them. As a result, they have to wear a bandana when not navigating.
    -   In addition, most Eldar tabletop psychic powers require line of sight. Mind War comes to mind; it's essentially a Farseer staring down an opponent with such intensity that it can literally wound and even _kill_ them. On the tabletop this is translated as the opponent taking unsaveable wounds.

    Toys 

-   Keetongu of _BIONICLE_ has one large eye for a face. In-universe, his true eyes are hidden behind it, and his big central eye lets him sense good and evil intent.
-   The titular _Jewelpets_' magic comes from their eyes, called Jewel Eyes.

    Video Games 

-   Lieselotte of _Arcana Heart_ has her Crimson Gaze move, where she looks straight into the eyes of her opponent to smack them with a confusion status that switches up their controls.
-   In _Baldur's Gate III_, famous Gentleman Adventurer and Doom Magnet Volothamp Geddarm's Comically Inept Healing results in him accidentally removing the Player Character's eye. To make up for it, he gives them a magitek one that lets them See the Invisible.
-   _Bloodborne_'s Blacksky Eye gives your character the power to fire Optic Blasts of Star Power that deal arcane damage. It's not implanted, but rather held and rubbed as an arcane tool.
-   _Born Under the Rain_: The Eye of Bastet makes mirrors into Magic Mirror\-type Cool Gates:
    
    Crystal eye of a cat god. Allows you to see the truth behind mirrors. Skill: Mirror Image
    
-   In _Dark Souls_, there are special "Eye Orbs" used to invade other players and engage in PvP. The Red Eye Orb allows players to invade and kill others, while the Eyes of Death let players curse others' worlds and generate stronger versions of typical enemies. The Ring of the Evil Eye is also said to contain a demon of the name. It lets you heal by killing people.
-   _Final Fantasy_:
    -   In _Final Fantasy X_, Seymour's aeon, Anima, has an attack where she gives an enemy an _instantly fatal_ dose of this trope.
    -   Dragons in _Final Fantasy XIV_ are unique in Hydaelyn because their innate aether builds up over time, making dragons Stronger with Age. The aether is stored in their eyes, making them the source of their vast power and longevity. If removed from a dragon, others can use the vast stores of aether for all matter of magic purposes.
-   _Fire Emblem_:
    -   _Radiant Dawn_'s Nailah has a covered eye and an exclusive skill called "Glare" which immobilizes an enemy for the whole chapter. Seems she's got her own Magical Eye.
    -   _Fire Emblem: The Sacred Stones_ has enemies called Mogalls, which are big, floating eyes. Their basic attack is fittingly called 'Evil Eye'.
    -   In _Fire Emblem: Awakening_, the Brand of the Exalt/Mark of Naga is inherited by the Halidom of Ylisse's royal family, and it serves as an indicator to who can wield Falchion and awaken its true powers via the Awakening ritual. While the brand normally appears on a mundane body part (Chrom and his nephew Owain have the brand on their arms, while Chrom's sister Emmeryn has the brand on her forehead), Lucina's brand is on her left eye, and it appears as a lighter shade of blue. If Chrom is his father, Inigo has the brand in the right eye.
-   In _Heroes of Might and Magic_ V and VI, the Cyclops units can be upgraded with Evil Eyes that grant them ranged attacks. Worse, unlike most ranged units, upgraded Cyclops don't suffer a melee penalty — on the contrary, they deal even more damage in melee. In the fifth game, their Evil Eyes also reduce their targets' luck.
-   In _Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II_, dark Jedi can learn a force power called Force Deadly Sight. With it activated, anyone the player sees in his vision takes damage and dies.
-   In _Meteos_, the planet Meteo is basically a giant yellow space eye. Now, guess where all the planet-destroying meteors that you fend off in the game are coming from.
-   Jubei Akane Yagyu and her uncle Munonori from _Onimusha: Dawn of Dreams_ both have the Oni-eyes, complete with the Eyepatch of Power. When activated, allows extremely hightened reflexes (to the extent that time feels slowed down), illusion control (the ability to both use and see through illusions) and lethal counter-techinques (especially useful with heightened reflexes).
-   _Physical Exorcism Series_: Most evil spirits and some undead have the Evil Eye ability that allows them to stun their opponents. There are methods to defend against it, such as a nazar that resembles the Evil Eye, another Evil Eye, and the middle finger gesture. In _Case 03: True Cannibal Boy_, Sally becomes a zombie and gains the ability to use the Evil Eye, which allows her to counter the Cannibal Boy's Evil Eye after Marty's nazar breaks.
-   The main character in _Planescape: Torment_, being a regenerating immortal, can equip magical eyes in place of one of his original eyes. There is also a bar, at which the barkeep is holding for you an eye removed by one of your past incarnations that you don't remember-replacing one of your eyes with that one gives you an experience bonus and lets you remember part of his life.
-   Some _Pokémon_ attacks, such as Mean Look and Miracle Eye, qualify.
    -   Generation V introduces a move _actually called_ Evil Eye (which was translated as Hex in the English version).
-   Zasalamel in _Soulcalibur 3_ has one gold eye, which contains his soul.
-   While 99% of its moves just scream _Fist of the North Star_, the Apotheosized form of Ialdabaoth from _Super Robot Wars Original Generations_ has one move that starts with this, leaving even the most humongous of mecha _frozen in terror_ before being pummeled into dust. (Even zanier: this is its weakest attack.)
-   Jade in _Tales of the Abyss_ has fonic sight, which allows him to use upper-level spells with ease. He got it by applying an extremely dangerous forbidden spell on his eyes back when he was still a kid, if the picture of his bespectacled childhood self is an accurate indication.
-   Reisen Udongein Inaba of the _Touhou Project_ series is a moon rabbit whose eyes can cause lunacy.
-   _Trials of Mana_ has a villain who has the title of Earl of the Evil Eye in Japanese. His name in English, Malocchio, means "evil eye" in Italian.
-   Sans the skeleton of _Undertale_ has one of these, a glowing blue and yellow eye that rapidly switches between the two colors, to be specific. You only see it at the end of the very worst possible route, where it signifies that one of several devastatingly powerful abilities is going to ruin your day. At that point though, you deserve what happens.
-   Zeke of _Xenoblade Chronicles 2_ claims to bear 'The Eye of Shining Justice' behind the eyepatch he wears, though his Blade Pandoria remarks that he's just using it as an excuse to cheap out on contact lenses. With that said, however, one of new New Game Plus abilities involves him using it to temporarily increase his attack speed and damage output to frankly ludicrous levels.

    Visual Novels 

-   In _Dra+Koi_ a dragon's eyes are called enchanting and the protagonist slowly seems to fall under the dragon's control. Not really. He's just falling in love with her.
-   In the Nasuverse these are typically referred to as "Mystic Eyes", resulting from a mutation of the magic circuits around a person's eyes. Most vampires naturally possess a variant while skilled magi can artificially create them. Other naturally occurring examples tend to be rare but with more powerful and varied abilities.
    -   As demonstrated in the page quote, Shiki Tohno has these in _Tsukihime_. They enable him to see the lines that represent a person's or object's lifespan, and he can cut along those lines to make that thing "die" — and as shown during his battle with Nrvnsqr Chaos, once Shiki kills you like this, you aren't coming back. Ciel has eyes that can make you accept whatever she's saying unless you know it isn't true. Arcueid and Satsuki have hypnotic eyes. Sidestories introduce more eyes, such as ones that see the past or future.
    -   _The Garden of Sinners_ also features several characters possessing Mystic Eyes, chief among them being the protagonist, Shiki Ryougi, who has an essentially enhanced version of Shiki Tohno's Mystic Eyes.
    -   Servant Rider of _Fate/stay night_ has the Mystic Eyes of Petrification, as her true identity is Medusa. They are exactly what they sound like, though enemies with high magic resistance (such as Saber Alter) can temporarily resist the effect.
    -   There are also what are referred to as 'Pure Eyes', which allow one to see what is otherwise invisible. Shiki Tohno's Mystic Eyes of Death Perception were originally Pure Eyes that could see spiritual energy such as Akiha's Origami and (maybe) ghosts. They were forcibly set to seeing death<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  after his near-death experience, although they retained their original abilities as well. His father, Kiri Nanaya, had Pure Eyes that could see _thoughts_.
    -   Several powerful fairies introduced in _Fate/Grand Order_ have Fae Eyes, granting them the ability to see through deception and interpret the true intentions of people. Nonetheless, they can still be deceived by Pretenders.
-   Mary's golden eye in _Shikkoku no Sharnoth_ gives her the ability to detect lies and see the truth, no matter how it is being hidden. It also gives her amazing intuition.
-   In _Sunrider_, Sola di Ryuvia’s right eye glows a greenish blue whenever she makes use of the superhuman abilities tied to her royal bloodline. These abilities include enhanced perception, enhanced reflexes, and enhanced piloting skills. The glowing eye and superpowers are the result of genetic engineering rather than magic, but the principle is the same. Her distant relative Asaga di Ryuvia unlocks the same ability by the end of the first game.

    Web Animation 

-   _Broken Saints_: One of the show's main symbols is a circular red eye with a black cat-like slit for a pupil—basically, it's a simplified version of the Eye of Sauron from _The Lord of the Rings_ movies, although the series started before the first film was released. However, in keeping with the multi-layered nature of the series, the eye is not just an eye.
-   _Magical Border Patrol_: Jake Harrier has the ability to see spirits and, when wearing his Glamour, his irises are purple, contrasting with the more natural eyes of his teammates.
-   _RWBY_: Legend states that people with silver eyes are destined to become the greatest warriors, with power to defeat the Grimm. It's said that a Silver-Eyed Warrior can kill the Grimm with just a look. Ruby learns about this legend at the end of Volume 3. She accidentally uses the power for the first time during the Battle of Beacon to freeze a Wyvern to stone, but doesn't begin mastering the power until she meets an experienced Silver-Eyed Warrior in Volume 6. Together, they realise that their power comes from the God of Light, who could also destroy the Grimm with his silver eyes. Although they don't notice, the Relic of Knowledge quietly implies all Silver-Eyed Warriors are descended from Professor Ozpin, who sired two silver-eyed children in a previous incarnation. His immortality was granted by the God of the Light, where he shares a body with a host and their eyes glow with golden light whenever they switch control.

    Webcomics 

-   _Dominic Deegan_: While not a evil eye, per se, Miranda Deegan has a glare that has been referred to as an "evil eye". It basically makes someone's willpower erode and derails trains of thought. Given what others in the comic have experienced, she is capable of giving someone the eye from nearly _half a mile away_, as well as _around corners,_ and even _from another dimension._
    -   Dominic himself may have an example of this, shown early on, when Gregory first refers to their brother, Jacob.
-   Inverted in _Savestate_, everybody but Kade is initially able to see Harvey until Kade removes his blue-colored contact lens.

    Web Original 

-   The superpowered character Sahar (literally "Evil Eye" in Arabic) in the _Whateley Universe_. Her main psychic power is the ability to make a person _believe_ that he has been cursed. Her secondary psychic power is WAY scarier. Her eyes have red rings: the folklore sign of one with the Evil Eye. Her original reputation was that of a hated and feared villain on the Whateley Academy campus, but she appears to be trying hard to become a good guy.

    Western Animation 

-   _Adventure Time_:
    -   In "Don't Look", Finn inherits a set of magical eyes from a dead hermit living atop Dead Mountain. The eyes turn whoever he looks at into what he perceives them as; for example, older-brother figure Jake turns into a Big Man on Campus, Shelby the worm (who's a bit of a know-it-all) turns into a nerd stereotype, and Starchy the gravedigger turns into a Blatant Burglar when he takes Finn's shades and Finn calls him a thief. When Finn accidentally turns NEPTR into a non-living microwave, Finn is overcome with guilt and turns himself into a monster when he looks at his own reflection.
    -   "Stakes" gives us The Empress, an evil vampire and enemy of Marceline. Normally her eyes are covered by her headgear, but when her pet snake pulls it up, she can use them to hypnotize (almost) anyone, including other vampires. Doesn't work on Ice King though, because his crown has made him too dense to be affected; he was only following the Empress's orders because she was a beautiful woman he thought was into him.
-   Whenever the sorceress Mara from _Blackstar_ used her magic powers, her eyes glowed, as did her hands.
-   _Blind Vaysha_: Vaysha has two magical eyes, one that sees only the future and one that sees only the past. It's a curse, as she never sees the present.
-   Duke Phillips, Jay Sherman's boss in _The Critic_ has an evil eye that hypnotizes people into his willing servants. It's only seen once, and played for laughs (Duke was launching a Presidential campaign at the time, and used it to get out of one reporter's question.) He even uses the trope name:
    
    **Duke:** Gaze into the hypnotic power of my Evil Eye!
    
-   One episode of _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ features a cockatrice, a resident of the Everfree Forest with the power to turn living things to stone by making eye contact with them. Not to be outdone, the same episode reveals that Fluttershy possesses an unconscious ability called "the Stare" that forces animals to obey her. The conflict is resolved via a supernatural staring contest between the two, which Fluttershy manages to win despite having already been half-turned to stone at that point.
-   Peekablue from _She-Ra: Princess of Power_ was an Oracle who could see over vast distances and even into other dimensions. She had a vibrant peacock's tail that opened, complete with eyespots that glowed whenever she used her powers.

    Real Life 

-   The common Robin can see magnetic fluctuation with its right eye. Its left eye however, functions as an ordinary eye. It uses this to navigate much like homing pigeons do. Other migratory birds also can see magnetic fluctuations, and these are how they can perceive when to migrate and where to do so toward, as if an internal GPS system.
    -   There is some evidence that other animals such as foxes may also have eyes that are sensitive to magnetic fields.

___