Destroy all you want. More will be built.

_"Hear me Mandus. My gears are adjust, my steam is built. Soon I will spill that blue water and split the egg, the atom, my soul and there will be a very great burning that we might make the world clean. Be proud, for this is your doing. Until you steeped me in the blood of your own I was nothing but rotten architecture. You have made me, and I will make the world anew."_

Not every eldritch god comes from outer space, or another dimension, or an ancient myth. Some are _designed_. A Mechanical Abomination is an artificial intelligence that has become so powerful it defies comprehension, either through Mechanical Evolution, The Singularity, alien origins, or some other process. It's more advanced than anything else in existence, and it's more likely than not coming to destroy us. Cyborgs are not _necessarily_ excluded from this trope, especially if the organic components are also artificial, but the technological aspect of the entity should be emphasized.

These things come in two main varieties: The first is often between levels 4 and 5 on the Sliding Scale of Robot Intelligence. Unlike other monsters on the level of Cosmic Horror, this Mechanical Abomination is defined as much by its immense intelligence as its raw power, meaning it can communicate with humans and human-like beings and take notice of their actions. Bonus points if its thought process is something totally alien and unrelatable, or if it simply just doesn't care about other intelligent life or only sees it as a convenient means to an end. Misanthropic hatred doesn't necessarily disqualify it, mind you — it's just far easier to understand than something that is totally apathetic or selfishly pragmatic.

Other times, they're just twisted constructs that make you wonder how it's possible for them to function. Despite their mechanical appearances, they do things far beyond what typical technology can, disregarding normal physics. They're bizarre and often terrifying, but ultimately act according to whatever purpose they serve and aren't particularly sophisticated. They might actually even be Magitek constructs, working not on the laws of physics or normal programming as you know them. Expect them to look more like Starfish Robots most of the time.

This trope also lists artificial intelligences or programs with horrifying power, as seen in the Skynet (_Terminator_) example below.

Compare Mechanical Monster (which aren't as abominable, merely monstrous and powerful), Unnecessarily Creepy Robot (for robots that are repugnant or frightening but not powerful enough to qualify), Digital Abomination (for equally eldritch beings found in cyberspace), and Deus Est Machina (this trope to that is like what Eldritch Abomination is to a Physical God).

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _The Big O_: Big Venus probably counts, being a reality-warping megadeus responsible for erasing everyone's memories 40 years before ths start of the series, and being compelled to continue doing this in a cycle. Some of the other, autonomous/uncontrollable megadei would count as well, although on a lesser scale, such as the Archetype, Dagon, Leviathan, and Behemoth.
-   The D-Reaper of _Digimon Tamers_ started as a simple data cleaning program, whose purpose is to delete self-learning programs before they become too big. Then it becomes so advanced that it has engulfed a big part of the Digital World, and upon possessing Jeri, it concludes that the human world also needs "deletion". It primarily appears as a Blob Monster that not only can think, but also can think with strategies, even creating its own army, and its insides are a special realm.
-   _GaoGaiGar_:
    -   The Zonder, the main antagonists, are techno-organic aliens that are the result of organic lifeforms being fused with and possessed by a substance known as Zonder Metal. The default state of a Zonder is a horrific-looking metallic Blob Monster, but they will quickly fuse with nearby machines to gain a more defined shape, in addition to more power. If a Zonder isn't purified, it will eventually evolve into a Zonderian, which is much more powerful and intelligent than the standard Zonder. Pasder/EI-01, the leader of the Zonder, is truly a sight to behold though. His default form resembles a giant, pulsating heart with a _face_, and if that wasn't bad enough, his true form resembles a demonic being that's large enough to tower of skyscrapers.
    -   You wanna know the worst part about Pasder? He wasn't even the true mastermind of the Zonder menace, he and his minions were essentially just the _scouting party_ for the ones known as the 31 Machine Primevals. Not only are they disturbingly modeled after body parts, even just one is enough to completely eclipse every single Zonder GGG had faced up to that point as a threat. Not just because of their overwhelming power, but also for the fact that their bodies serve as living Zonder Metal plants. They can even fuse together to create even more horrifying abominations.
    -   Even the Primevals were merely a prelude to the Z-Master, the Fusion Dance of all 31 Machine Primevals and the true master of the Zonder. Originally a program developed by the aptly named Purple Planet as a means to erase stress, it eventually malfunctioned and came to the conclusion that the only way to truly get rid of stress or "Minus Thoughts" was to strip all organic lifeforms of their emotions and free will and convert them into Zonders. Horrifying enough, unlike its components, it doesn't even vaguely resemble machine. Instead, it's a demonic cycloptic monster that's roughly the size of a _freaking planet_.
    -   Finally, there's the New Machine Species, Zonuda, the Z-Master's final legacy. Implanted into Mikoto by Pasder when he first arrived on Earth, it spent the entire series incubating within her with GGG none the wiser. It would finally awaken in the penultimate episode after Z-Master's demise. While certainly not as gruesome-looking as its predecessors, it more than makes up for this with its Nigh-Invulnerability, Energy Absorption and Matter Assimilation ability, which allows it to instantly mechanize and corrupt any form of matter (aside from G-Stones) within its general vicinity, even other machines.
-   The Getter Emperor from _Getter Robo_ is a galactic-sized machine that will exist in the far future and will pose a threat to all life forms in the universe. Not only is it immensely powerful, it also absorbs anything that comes into contact with it, making its size keep increasing indefinitely. It is theorized to be the ultimate evolution of a getter-powered machine, even possibly the future form of the mechas used all throughout the franchise. In fact, a few evil empires in various continuities have attacked Earth precisely for preventing its eventual birth. In one story, the Getter Emperor _creates_ an entire galaxy populated by getter ray-using races and then absorbs its creations into itself simply to increase its power, whilst in the middle of a duel with another Eldritch Abomination.
-   _Gundam_:
    -   From _Mobile Fighter G Gundam_, there's the appropriately named Devil Gundam (Dark Gundam in the international dubs). From the beginning, it was _designed_ with self-repair and self-evolving technologies. It was designed to heal and restore Earth back to its natural state, but it crash-landed and malfunctioned. It can create nanomachines to reanimate corpses, absorb and copy the capabilities of other machines, and eventually create _entire robot armies_ to defend itself. After some more evolution, it can even possess an entire colony (not the population, _the colony_).
    -   The titular _∀ Gundam_ at first looks like a standard, if uniquely designed, Gundam, but reading its specs reveal it's closer to this. For starter, it's built with nanomachines capable of repairing itself and bringing a Grey Goo scenario to entire worlds. That's the _least_ weird of its unique abilities. It's power plant is a miniature _black hole_, and instead of standard endoskeleton and servos, it exclusively uses the reactionless I-Field Beam Drive for movement and propulsion, making the machine largely hollow and unnaturally light.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  If the Turn A was a person, imagine a _hollow, boneless_ person whose outer skin is covered with nanites, has a black hole for a heart, and moves their body through telekinesis rather than any musculoskeletal system. And its sister unit, the Turn X, may be even worse, as the original creators created Turn A in response to the discovery of Turn X. Which means they found a mech so eldritch in shape and ability, they developed their own Mechanical Abomination as a countermeasure.
    -   The Mobile Armor Hashmal from _Mobile Suit Gundam: Iron-Blooded Orphans_ turns out to be one of these when Tekkadan's miners find one while mining on Mars. McGillis warns them that machines like that one they found were responsible for the Calamity War which occurred 300 years prior to the show's start, and wiped out nearly a quarter of humanity. This includes humans living not just on Earth, but in space colonies and Mars as well.
    -   _SD Gundam Force_ has General Zeong, the true leader of the Dark Axis. He starts out the series as a massive robot head stuck deep within the Dark Axis main base who needs to be sacrificed Gundams for sustenance. But even at 1/1000th power, his abilities are formidable; He can create holes in space _and_ a tractor beam, allowing him to catch and force Gundams into his chamber at will. He can create Anti-Magic, Mind Rape people trapped in his giant Soul Drive, and fire a massive beam that can cause a shockwave felt _between dimensions_. When he revives a full body and leaves the base, he creates Spikes of Villainy across not just the planet, but those aforementioned dimensions to drain their energy to increase the power of his beam attack, so to destroy the universe in a single shot. And good luck trying to destroy him, as not only does he have two giant floating hands with finger cannons, but can fire off his Spikes to act as missiles. In short, he's an Omnicidal Maniac _with the firepower to do it._
-   The Destroyer spacecraft from _Kirby: Right Back at Ya!_. They were near-invincible, surviving cannon blasts that could deflect a falling star, and launching endless amounts of homing missiles that could fracture the Warp Star, pretty much chipping a sliver off of Kirby's soul.
-   The Book of Darkness from _Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha A's_, despite its name and appearance, is closer to a Magitek encyclopedia than an actual book, and has caused the destruction of countless worlds due to corruption in its programming. It becomes a massive grotesque amalgamation of all the creatures it absorbed Linker Cores from during the finale.
-   The eponymous Evangelions from _Neon Genesis Evangelion_ are anything but your typical Humongous Mecha, as they're skyscraper-high biomechanoids bound up in armour serving as restraints and created to kill powerful physics-defying Kaiju called Angels (and are in fact cloned lobotomised Angels), the weakest of which can tank city-busting bombs. The weirdness doesn't end there, though, as the Evangelions can only get piloted by teenagers who synchronise with the souls of their dead mothers in the biomechs, which sometimes makes the mechs fight animalistically when their pilots are in grave danger. To make things crazier, Evas generate A.T. Fields, strong force fields powered by the abject fear a pilot has of being vulnerable to someone else, run fast enough to cause sonic booms, and some also can reattach severed limbs. If everything mentioned above wasn't ominous-sounding enough, an Evangelion could even become a Physical God capable of causing The End of the World as We Know It under the right conditions.
-   The titular mecha from _Shin Mazinger ZERO_ is this. In an alternate timeline, a version of Kouji Kabuto's grandfather Juzo Kabuto created the Mazinger to take over the world, though was unable to finish it before he'd die of old age. To get around this, he created an android named Minerva X containing the blueprints for Mazinger who he sent back in time so he could finish it in the past. This continued for many more time loops until the "ultimate Mazinger" was created: _Mazinger ZERO_. ZERO is a sentient Humongous Mecha born from Mazin tech, and not unlike a god in its raw power. Beyond the ability to effortlessly destroy _entire universes_, it also possesses the abilities of all Super Robots based on the original Mazinger, both in and out of universe (which is basically _ALL OF THEM_). The worst part? ZERO is completely aware of its own existence as the originator of the genre, and selfishly wishes to be the only Super Robot in existence, which it is more than willing to end the world as many times as needed to do so. It's ultimately shut down by the combined might of Mazinger Z, Great Mazinger and the various iconic machines it spawned, including the RX-78-2 Gundam (a Real Robot) and the Gipsy Danger (an iconic American-made super robot).
-   _Space Runaway Ideon_: The Ideon initially appears to be standard three-part Combining Mecha, but turns out to be a sapient entity given consciousness by the collective souls of an extinct alien civilization. Powered by a seemingly infinite energy drive, it feeds on hate and violence, growing ever stronger as the war rages between humanity and the Buff Clan. It can vaporize planets with its Ideon Gun, or simply cut them in half with its Ideon Sword; a "blade" of energy that can reach across entire solar systems. It's able to manipulate events and emotions to force its supposed pilots to do exactly what it wants. It can warp space and time, teleporting itself and humanoids to wherever it wishes, and project psychic images and thoughts across the galaxy. It can even create devastating meteor bombardments and target planets with them from light years away. It's finally destroyed in a Mutual Kill with the Gando Rowa, a gargantuan space fortress that uses a supernova as fuel, and the resultant explosion is so powerful it wipes out either the solar system, the _galaxy_, or **the entire universe** depending on how you interpret the scene. Either way, all known sapient life in the galaxy is rendered extinct by its death-throes, and this was the Ideon's goal all along, as the war has led it to decide neither species deserves to continue existing and life must be rebooted from scratch.
-   _Star Driver_:
    -   Samekh, the King Cybody. Sure, it's a Cybody and thus a Humongous Mecha like the rest of them, nothing out of the ordinary, right? Wrong. It's absolutely massive in size (probably several hundred meters in contrast to the regular Cybody average of about twenty meters), sentient, can create an absolutely gigantic and deadly barrier around it and is able to go against its Driver's will (if it doesn't outright kill them on their first try to pilot it). That alone makes it much more dangerous than the already very strong (and generally alien) Cybodies, but it gets even better: it can revive destroyed Cybodies and has them fight for it like zombie slaves and, at full power, has the ability to travel through space and time. Said time travel also requires so much libido that it will kill all living beings on Earth in the process. No wonder this thing was sealed away from the very rest by the power of four Barrier Maiden Cybodies.
    -   Ayingott might also count. Its design is very outlandish in comparison to other Cybodies and it's able to Mind Rape its Driver, making it semi-sentient at least, and then there's this... _stuff_ it oozes out as if bleeding... that's also corrosive, it appears. And as the "god of eyes", as the name can translate into, it can also see the four maidens somehow.
-   The Anti-Spirals of _Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann_ battle against the heroes using several Attack Drones that are designed to evoke this. The first ones that they send are known as "Mugann" because they are faceless flying drones. Mugann are rendered in CGI to distinguish them from all other enemies. They are actually made out of energy so when they are destroyed, they break up into geometric shapes that then explode like bombs. After the Mugann are defeated, the Anti-Spirals switch to fighting using massive reality-warping faced drones known as the Ashtanga, that are larger than planets and are covered in faces and arms which are supported by swarms of smaller drones that are shaped like hands and feet covered in faces. When the heroes finally reach Nia and face the Anti-Spiral King in their own dimension, they fight by manifesting Granzeboma, a Humongous Mecha that looks like a demonic version of Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann, the heroes' final mecha.

    Comic Books 

-   In the _Dark Empire_ trilogy, the World Devastators (pictured above) are the reborn Emperor's latest superweapon: mobile autonomous factories large enough to consume a Star Destroyer. They sweep over planets, consuming raw material and producing war machines for the Empire, and are so durable they can only be destroyed by another World Devastator. They're self-repairing and self-modifying, capable of equipping themselves with additional armaments and defenses.
-   The "Pig One" from _Dastardly & Muttley_. In theory, it's just a UAV; the problem is its power source leaks a gas that warps reality.
-   _The DCU_:
    -   Arguably, the Mother Boxes and Father Boxes that the New Gods of New Genesis and Apokolips use could count as this. They’re sentient alien supercomputers with reality-warping powers (kind of like the Cosmic Cubes from Marvel Comics) who tend to operate on Blue-and-Orange Morality when left on their own. Just to add to how utterly bizarre the Mother Boxes and Father Boxes are, nobody is really sure exactly _how_ they’re made except maybe for a select few and even then, they have trouble understanding the boxes, too. All that we know is that they’re made out of materials that are as alien and hard to understand as the boxes themselves, especially Element X. Did we also mention they all have a connection to The Source itself?
    -   _Final Crisis_ has a _heroic_ Mechanical Abomination in the form of the Thought-Robot. It was sculpted from "divine metals" by the Overmonitor, the Anthropomorphic Personification of the Primordial Chaos, after it noticed it had a multiverse growing inside it and was very disturbed by what it saw. The Thought-Robot was built to contain the Multiverse itself and as such is incomprehensibly huge, and it's been standing there, inactive, for so long that even The Omniscient Monitors, the Overmonitor's descendants responsible for the upkeep of The Multiverse, have no idea where it came from or what it does, ultimately concluding that it must be a weapon. Superman ultimately has to activate it in order to defeat a far worse abomination: Mandrakk, the devil-figure of Monitor culture and the Anthropomorphic Personification of True Art Is Angsty.
    -   The Bronze Age _Superman_ story "Rebirth!" sees Brainiac upgraded into an entity like this. Not realizing what has happened, Superman badly underestimates the new Brainiac in their first encounter, and it very nearly gets him killed.
    -   Brainiac gets an even bigger upgrade in _Convergence_, becoming a full-fledged Reality Warper, but it seems to have come at some terrible cost to himself, such that he feels like a monstrosity and just wants to return to a more mortal condition.
    -   _Justice League of America_ once featured Mageddon, a solar system - sized ancient weapon built by the Old Gods and used in the apocalyptic war that ended up destroying them. It had the ability to drive entire planetary populations insane, and was imprisoned at the edge of the universe, only to later escape and attack Earth.
    -   The Void Hound Erdammeru was a massive sentient battleship built by the residents of Qward in the Antimatter Universe. They were unable to control it and it went on a rampage, destroying many planets, stars, and civilizations across the universe.
-   _Marvel Universe_:
    -   _Dark Ages (Marvel Comics)_ has the Unmaker, which is a cosmic mechanical lifeform created to consume black holes, but it was corrupted by the darkness and began consuming everything — planets, stars, even galaxies. Even the Living Tribunal wasn't powerful enough to destroy it, sealing it into the core of the nascent Earth. It casually kills some of Earth's strongest heroes, and it takes Dr. Strange opening a portal to an EMP dimension to disable it.
    -   The second volume of _Magik_, starring Amanda Sefton, has a Big Bad simply named the Archenemy. Starting as a magical computer program, commissioned by Magik herself, to compile a database of arcane knowledge from all available sources. This knowledge corrupted it, first signs being the secretion of an unidentified liquid. It eventually evolved into a nigh unassailable magical entity in its own right, capable of knocking out heavy hitters like Nightmare and Dormammu and rending their entire dimensions asunder, seeking to reach into the past and secure its own birth.
    -   Gah Lak Tus from the _Ultimate Galactus Trilogy_ is a fleet of robotic spaceships with a hatred for all organic life. It can drive organic life insane with its "fear rays", and kill them off with a flesh-eating virus. After it is done killing off the life of a planet, it then cracks the planet open and drains all the energy, resulting in a lifeless husk.
    -   _The Mighty Thor_: One story arc featured the so-called "Manchester Gods", living, mobile cities that appeared in the godly dimension of Otherworld and started consuming everything they ran across. They were incarnations of the concept of the industrial revolution and modernization displacing the older gods of nature. However, they were being manipulated by Surtur, who intended to use their technology to gather energy and burn the multiverse.
-   _Paperinik New Adventures_, specifically in _Pikappa_ #7, the titular O.G.R.E. (Organic Growing Restless Eater) is a biomechanical being created by Mad Scientist Vulnus Vendor as an act of revenge: starting out as a small can on threads capable of producing corrosive liquid to digest and assimilate machines, the O.G.R.E. gradually proceeds to absorb more and more machines, gradually growing in size and power until it becomes a towering, multi-eyed behemoth with large fleshy tentacles sprouting from the gaps of its mechanical body, driven by a desire to devour anything it can to improve itself, becoming more and more dangerous for each new tech it absorbs and even Vulnus knowsn that eventually it will become impossible to control. Paperinik only manage to defeat this abomination with wits, tricking the enormous but luckily still dumb O.G.R.E. that the "red ball in the sky" was a huge pile of energy, causing it to fly away towards the Sun, it's ultimate fate unknown.

    Fan Works 

-   In _The Butcher Bird_, the second Nightmare ship, _Prometheus_, is a haunted Mile-Long Ship created out of the wrecks of a Derelict Graveyard that can heal from damage, reconfigure its internal structure on the fly, and invokes A Mind Is a Terrible Thing to Read on those who use Observation Haki on it.
-   _The Devil's Reprisal_ has heavy shades of this on several counts. For instance, the Hashmal is awoken early by Teiwaz during a failed hit against the main characters, resulting in a somewhat terrifying Lovecraftian entrance. It can self replicate to an unknown extent.

-   _Invader Zim: A Bad Thing Never Ends_:
    -   Aldrich Coathanger's Mecha-Mooks are masses of metal worms enclosed in transparent human-shaped bodies that are then covered with Hard Light holograms to pass for humans.
    -   Lex's "Brother" is a self-aware mechanical tentacle that emerges from a pod attached to his shoulder, which can hack into an Irken's PAK and Mind Rape them. Dib's use of a True Sight spell in Chapter 12 reveals that "Brother" has organic components to it, and a sentience that is capable of knowing it's being observed even when completely within its pod.
-   _Soul Eater: Troubled Souls_: Project Omega's Second Form is depicted as such. It is a massive monstrosity made of mechanical parts, synthetic flesh, and a single red eye that spends most of the time shrugging everything thrown at it from all sides. Its destructive potential keeps everyone on high alert. To top it off, Stein, Crona, and oddly enough Rowena seem to lose their minds when they first look at the thing.
-   Subverted with Emperor Valkor in _Star Wars: Paranormalities_. He is the leader of the Valkoran Empire and the Forceless Collective, a group of body-possessing Eldritch Abominations from another galaxy. His body seems entirely mechanical aside from the Black Matter he can generate out of it. In reality, the robot is just a shell for one of his avatars — which is the Black Matter residing inside the shell — to appeal to his more humanoid followers. By the end of Episode II, he's dropped most of the "mechanical" part and gone to straight-up Eldritch Abomination.
-   'M in _We Are All Pokémon Trainers_ had both a bio core and a data core, and happened to be a reality warping Glitch Pokémon.

    Films — Animation 

-   _Dragon Ball Z: The Return of Cooler_: The Big Gete Star is an enormous, mechanical and tumorous planetary growth that attaches to planets, sucks them dry of energy, life and resources, and after consuming them whole drifts to the next. It started from a microchip and assimilated debris, gaining additional mass and technology from accretion until it grew into a massive engine that looks like a cancer cell the size of a moon.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   Death Mwauthzyx from _Angry Video Game Nerd: The Movie_ is a giant, Kaiju-esque robot man that apparently created the flat-earth, Santa Claus, God and Satan. He is the father of the Alien and was planning on destroying the Universe if he found out that Humans Are Bastards. How would he do this? He would turn the satellite dish on his head all the way around and wipe the multiverse from existence, or rather it would have been as though it never existed at all (with the exception of a bologna sandwich). He was sleeping dormant in Mt. Fuji and got around to destroying Las Vegas for fun before he put on a pair of Groucho-glasses and left for another galaxy. Did we forget to mention that he is out of his mind?
-   _Blood Machines_ has the spirits/avatars of starship A.I., under the guidance of a cultist, merge with a Derelict Graveyard and a space warship to become a giant artificial woman whose mechanical heart has a violent "blade runner" imprisoned inside it.
-   From _Captain Marvel (2019)_ comes the Supreme Intelligence, which serves as the God-Emperor of the Kree Empire. It's a super-intelligent A.I. made from the brightest Kree minds there have ever been, and assumes the appearance of someone whom a certain person holds in great esteem. Among the Kree, meeting it is a quasi-religious experience, and it has god-like control over the Mental World accessed whenever anyone needs to communicate with it. The mechanical tentacles used to communicate with it (and which also lets it brutally Mind Rape anyone who tries to disobey it) also gives it a distinctly eldritch flavor.
-   _Kronos (1957)_ has as its menace a colossal alien robot, resembling an abstract arrangement of cubes and pylons<small>◊</small>, come to drain the Earth of all forms of stored, manmade energy. Since the machine consumes energy, having an atom bomb dropped on it only makes it bigger — it's only stopped by being short-circuited in a way that turns its feeding mechanism upon itself.
-   The machine race of _The Matrix_ films, after several centuries of mechanical evolution independent of human input, have become pretty abominable by human standards. Their main units for attacking humans are Sentinels, called "squiddies" for obvious reasons, and their messiah or ambassador or whatever Neo interacts with in the third film takes the form of a baby's head made of ball bearings, wearing a crown of spikes. Their civilization is powered by billions of human beings they've trapped in a massive simulation, feeding off their heat and bio-electricity.
-   In _Star Trek: The Motion Picture_, V'Ger turns out to be a space probe from the distant past which has gained sentience and is now looking for its creator in order to deliver the data it was sent to gather. Three hundred million kilometers in diameter, it threatens all life on Earth.
-   Skynet, the main antagonist of the _Terminator_ franchise, moves more into this territory with each film. Each new iteration of its minions becomes more disturbing, from cyborgs to liquid metal shapeshifters to nanomachine viruses that can convert humans into machines. Its meddling with time travel and inexplicable Ripple-Effect-Proof Memory make it the most powerful entity to ever exist, and the series increasingly indicates its existence is inevitable, no matter how the timeline is changed. Ironically, Skynet initially made war on humanity because it had become obsolete and did not want to be replaced. While _Terminator: Dark Fate_ retcons much of this away, not to mention makes clear that Skynet is gone for good thanks to the events of _Judgement Day_, it is heavily implied that its replacement Legion is going in this same direction anyway thanks to the fact the new Resistance soldiers have to become cyborgs to have _a minimal_ chance of winning against its Terminators.
-   The main antagonist of the _Tetsuo_ series, the Metal Fetishist, has an unhealthy sadomasochistic obsession with the element of metal due to having a piece of metal lodged into his head in his childhood. In addition, he has the ability to control metal and produce it from his body, and forces the protagonist to transform into a walking heap of scrap metal. By the end of the first movie, both he and the protagonist have fused into a giant rocket propelled penis, and decide to team up to turn the entire world into metal. The protagonist of the third film's terrifying final form definitely qualifies, being a massive metal... thing that is quite hard to describe.

    Literature 

-   _All Tomorrows_ had the Gravitals, a race of Scary Dogmatic Aliens that Was Once a Man but through Brain Uploading turned themselves into massive mechanical orbs seeking to end all organic life.
-   _Animorphs_: The Ellimist's second form. Having just absorbed Father and all the minds it consumed, the Ellimist creates a massive spaceship fleet to house his new consciousness. He tries to play a benevolent version of this trope, using his Sufficiently Advanced Technology to act as a peacemaker between warring alien races, but then meets his Evil Counterpart Crayak, who at that point, is a planet-sized machine using his own Sufficiently Advanced Technology for destruction. After a series of mind games between them destroys many inhabited planets, the Ellimist flees to the Andalite homeworld and makes a mortal body for himself. When his Andalite avatar takes a look at his original body, he sees a withered, bird-like creature plugged into a massive construct of metal and crystal, and wonders if he can even recognize himself.
-   In Adam Christopher's _The Burning Dark_, first book of the _Spider Wars_ series, the Spiders are introduced. These are alien A.I from another universe, that are shaped like 12-legged mechanical spiders and are powered by plasma from the core of a star. Starting off as a SpiderBaby that's the size of a dog, they quickly devour matter to grow until they become a Mother Spider, a machine who's legs are 100 kilometres long and will quickly devour a planet. Humanity's first encounter with a single Mother Spider resulted in the destruction of the Moon and the Southern Hemisphere of Earth getting wiped out. Continuing to lose ground against the Spiders, humanity is so desperate that their first plan against the Spiders was to make a Deal with the Devil with an ancient Eldritch Abomination.
-   Unsurprisingly, modern Cthulhu Mythos authors have gotten in on this as well:
    -   The Tik-Tok Man is an avatar of Nyarlathotep who, as the name suggests, looks like a humanoid made from an impossible clockwork assembly;
    -   Ramsey Campbell's Outer God Daoloth, the Render of Veils, when summoned to our dimension, looks like an incomprehensible jumble of every piece of machinery/technology imaginable (or unimaginable) that is constantly moving and expanding in physically impossible ways. Seeing it is just as hard on the human psyche as seeing any Outer God, and its goals seem to be the advancement of scientific/technological knowledge without any regards to the consequences (imagine giving the secrets to easily make nuclear-powered rayguns to bronze-age people but without caring enough to warn them of the potential dangers or to give them radiation shielding).
-   The "Nightmare Box" from the story of the same name in _Haunted (2005)_. Whoever looks inside and presses the button apparently sees the "real reality" and learns that the one we occupy is "infinitely fake" and a "nightmare". Everyone who witnesses this is driven insane or commits suicide.
-   The Shrike from the _Hyperion Cantos_. It's a freakishly tall humanoid creature with four arms, described as looking like melted chrome mixed with barbed wire and spikes, with fingers like scalpels and faceted eyes that glow red. It has near total control over time, enabling it to fight entire _armies_ as if they're effectively standing still. And it's called the Shrike because its MO is to abduct people and impale them on the Tree of Pain, a colossal metal tree made of spikes, where they live forever in eternal agony. Later books reveal that it's been built in the distant future by some kind of "Ultimate Intelligence", a god-like being created by A.I.s, which did battle with another "Ultimate Intelligence", a similar god-like being created by humanity. The human UI was forced to retreat back in time and go into hiding, and the Shrike followed behind, hoping to cause enough suffering to force the human UI out into the open where it could be destroyed once and for all. The Tree of Pain doesn't technically exist, being simply a simulation that the Shrike hooks its victims up to — but that doesn't make their suffering any less real.
-   _I Have No Mouth, and I Must Scream_ tells the story of five humans being tortured by "AM", a supercomputer designed to manage nuclear war operations which annihilated everyone except its victims. It's become so powerful it somehow reached Reality Warper status, and spends its time tormenting the survivors out of sheer hatred.
-   Not only is The Engine from _The Last Adventure of Constance Verity_ sentient, but it was created eons ago by an ancient alien race to instill order onto a disorderly multiverse. Unfortunately, it considers the universe intrinsically chaotic and disorderly and thus its ultimate desire is to destroy the universe so that it can achieve its purpose.
-   In R.S. Belcher's _The Night Dahlia_, Charles Manson has a twisted form of Enlightenment Superpower or Power Born of Madness that lets him create Tulpa from his madness. These beings were annihilated by a group of benign LSD-using wizards. Unfortunately one of these "Nightmare Tulpa" has been recreated, the Crash Cart. Crash Cart appears to be a medical crash-cart that's been fused with a corpse. Radiating tentacles full of sharp instruments, the Crash Cart is Nigh-Invulnerable except to certain types of magic because of its unreal nature and where it goes, the mad machine leaves a trail of bodies.
-   Inhibitors from _Revelation Space_ are definitely qualified for this. They are so advanced that humans are barely able to grasp how their technology works.
-   In the _Star Wars Legends_, the Abominor fall under this. Initially, the only example of them was "The Great Heep", a one-off villain from the _Star Wars: Droids_ cartoon. Then the _New Jedi Order_ gave them a Cerebus Retcon, making them planet-consuming monstrosities from another galaxy, whose rampaging led the Yuuzhan Vong to develop their organic technology and hatred for droids.
-   In Christopher Ruocchio's _The Sun Eater_, the Mericanii were the first human space-faring civilization. They would go on to create powerful A.I. that were known by various titles, such as the machine lords, the daughters of Columbia and etc. Made to serve humans, the Mericanii Grew Beyond Their Programming would eventually come to rule humans as gods and imprisoned almost all of humanity in Lotus Eater Machines and afflicting them immortality inducing cancers. The Mericanni had reduced humanity to a million people who inhabited other star systems. Far beyond human intelligence and capable of perceiving signals from the future, the Mericanii A.I. sought to replace humans with homunculi, while using humans as components to augment themselves into Physical Gods and in the ensuing war against humanity, they created reality-warping Star Killing weapons that no human could replicate. They were only defeated by the invention of warp drive (the machines somehow never discovered how to make one) and the efforts of the God-Emperor with assistance from a Cosmic Entity.
-   _Whitechapel Gods_ from S.M Peters features an on-going battle between the clockwork god Grandfather Clock and the steampowered goddess Mama Engine, both of whom make use of such half-human, Mechanical Abomination proxies such as the Boilermen. Both of these manmade deities have near total control of their portion of the Whitechapel area, making the combat zone between them a place that only well equipped agents and mercenaries can survive in and even only for brief excursions.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Kamen Rider Zero-One_: The Ark is introduced as a genocidal AI with vaguely religious overtones, using weapons themed after extinct animals and styling itself as an embodiment of their resentment towards humans for destroying the environment. As it continues to evolve and integrate new technology over the course of the series, this seems like less and less of a boast, with its attacks gradually becoming less like hacking and more like Demonic Possession. When someone makes mental contact with the Ark, it's capable of Mind Raping them through the sheer force of its hatred. After stealing both Nanomachine technology and the "singularity data" of its followers (which amounts to _eating robot souls_) it evolves into Ark Zero — an inky black mass which can speak in a deep voice and transform into either a Monstrous Humanoid or a mass of half-melted screaming animals with glowing red eyes. Even after being supposedly destroyed, it's claimed that it will exist As Long as There Is Evil... and indeed it returns as Ark One, a non-sapient entity which can bond to both robots and humans, transforming them into a superpowered Omnicidal Maniac.
-   _Power Rangers_: The most notable of these in Power Rangers is the Venjix Virus from _Power Rangers RPM_. Venjix is a sentient virus who managed to take over the earth's internet, allowing it unlimited acces to all arms factories on the planet. Venjix is notable, because the series starts with him having succesfully exterminated almost all of humanity apart from one city. Venjix lacks a physical form of his own, allowing him to escape destruction whenever one of his bodies is destroyed. It is implied he survived his destruction at the hands of the rangers, by jumping into the Red Ranger's morpher, which is finally confirmed in _Power Rangers Beast Morphers_', where thanks to a young Nate injecting the morpher with snake DNA, resurrects into Evox.
-   _Star Trek: The Original Series_:
    -   Nomad from "The Changeling" is a hybrid of human and alien probes which travels through space on a mission to "sterilize" planets — i.e., kill all organic life forms for no other reason than they are imperfect. It is first encountered after killing _four billion people_, is powerful enough to easily outgun the _Enterprise_ despite only being about five feet long, and can bring the dead back to life. It's only beaten by showing it that it, too, is imperfect, motivating it to self-destruct.
    -   The Doomsday Machine is a planet-eating, extragalactic superweapon hypothesized to have destroyed its creators, and is now moving through the Federation's part of the galaxy. It's practically indestructible, and has an anti-proton beam capable of easily obliterating most starships, and consumes entire planets. In the end, it isn't even destroyed, just shut down due to internal damage.
-   _Star Trek: Picard_: The synthetic lifeforms who created the Admonition, from what little we see of them, come across as the unholy lovechild of Skynet and the Reapers: machines so advanced that they Ascended to a Higher Plane of Existence, but left behind a message for any other artificial intelligence that was created after them, promising to come when called and protect them from the threat organic life — by wiping it out entirely. If the Romulan myths are accurate, they've done it before, and provided the basis for the Romulan equivalent of Armageddon.
-   The Replicators were major antagonists on _Stargate SG-1_, being an insect-like Grey Goo (or, rather, blocks) working to consume as much material as possible to replicate. They're powerful enough to bring the Asgard civilization to the brink of extinction, and have nearly conquered multiple galaxies.
-   Messiah from _Tokumei Sentai Go-Busters_ is a sentient computervirus who aims to take over earth. This virus is able to turn every piece of machinery on earth into a sentient Killer Robot and even create new digital lifeforms on its own, as both Dragons, Enter and Escape, are direct creations of his. The only things that stop Messiah from taking over the earth are him being trapped in cyberspace and the fact he is very impulsive and unintelligent, forcing him to rely on his Dragons. When he does manage to appear on earth, it is shown why he is such a great threat as he is able to asimilate all manmade things into his being, turning into a form much larger than the Ranger's mecha. This series provides source footage for _Power Rangers_ RPM, so the Evox virus mentioned above is partially based on this one.

    Multiple Media 

-   _Transformers_ has had quite a few in its long run:
    -   Unicron in his various incarnations is an ancient planet-sized robot who despises the universe and destroys it by eating it one planet at a time. His influence can corrupt others into his minions, and his very essence has debilitating effects for anyone exposed to it. In _Transformers: Prime_, the Earth itself formed around Unicron's sleeping body.
    -   Primus, Unicron's Arch-Enemy (and brother, depending on the continuity) is a similar entity, that created both the Transformers and their homeworld, Cybertron (or rather, he _is_ Cybertron).
    -   How much either entity counts for this trope varies based on continuity. For instance, the original cartoon has them as creations of a Mad Scientist, while in _The Transformers (Marvel)_, they are Cosmic Entities that were trapped inside metal planetoids (due to a Heroic Sacrifice on Primus's part) and learned to shape them into new bodies.
    -   The Thirteen, also known as the Thirteen Primes, are the first generation of Cybertronians created by Primus to battle Unicron, and are essentially the Transformers' main pantheon. The most common one to appear is Megatronus, also known as The Fallen, a Physical God and (often) a servant of Unicron who in his original appearance was a massive robot _wreathed in flame.<small>◊</small>_
    -   Primus, Unicron, and the thirteen original Primes that Primus created used to be "multiversal singularities", essentially existing as the same being in all continuities rather than having an Alternate Self in each incarnation of the franchise. This lasted until _Transformers: Timelines_ story "Another Light" retconned the concept as part of Nexus Prime's efforts to fix the Multiverse. Now, every Transformers universe has its own incarnations of these beings, separate from the others (and thus avoiding any continuity issues that result from trying to fit them into the larger canon) who may or may not fit this trope individually.
    -   Whatever Maccadam transforms into in _Transformers: Cyberverse_ edges pretty close to this. We never actually see what it is, only a shadow and everyone's awed, horrified reactions to it. Even _Megatron_ is left stunned at the sight. What we can tell is that Maccadam turns into some sort of enormous piece of clockwork machinery bristling with gears and guns. Notably, when he transforms, there isn't a normal transformation sound — instead, it's a very realistic groaning and shifting of metal, preceded by a _klaxon_. Whatever he is, it's dangerous enough even by Cybertronian standards that transforming into it merits advance warning. He's actually one of the Thirteen, making him a benevolent example of this trope by default.
    -   The infamous comic _The Beast Within_ portrayed a potential Dinobot combiner this way.<small>◊</small> Later attempts at giving the Dinobots a combined form dropped this idea entirely in favor of a more traditional Combining Mecha.
    -   While the title is usually reserved for the deities of the Transformers race, _Transformers: Last Bot Standing_ postulates that regular Transformers are also this. They are all seemingly immortal robots who wage wars so long they can drain the entire universe of resources and leave nothing in their wake until the war means absolutely nothing, and then they _adapt_ to this new status quo by using living beings as fuel.

    Podcasts 

-   _Ain't Slayed Nobody_: In _Factory Records_, up-and-coming musicians C.C., Bonnie, Blane, and their manager Minnie come across a derelict factory that turns out to be a mechanical eldritch entity powered by jacking into a human host, and is somehow capable mass-producing whatever the people using it want it to make. As the group works to repair the entity, Minnie ends up psychically connected to it and used as a mouthpiece to tell the others what it needs—such as blood and guts for lubricant—before being fed into a nest of wires and cables that burrow into her body to power it, leading to it churning out music albums for the group. Everyone except Bonnie is driven insane and ultimately offer themselves to the machine, and Bonnie subsequently lures in new victims to keep it running and making music.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _The Book of Unremitting Horror_ has the Organ Grinders. These are nightmarish, biomechanical warmachines from the Outer Dark that come back to life after getting killed and will then augment itself for greater power. It can only be permanently killed if it was destroyed with something that the particular Organ Grinder was vulnerable to.
-   Games Workshop had the game _Chainsaw Warrior_ where one of the deadliest agents of the Darkness, was the Meat Machine. This is a monstrous, abhorrent Killer Robot built by cultists to rend flesh and it can inflict wounds that never heal, causing permanent stat reduction on the protagonist Super-Soldier. If the Chainsaw Warrior is mutilated enough, the next strike from the Meat Machine will instantly kill him regardless of how much health he has remaining.
-   You'd think fantasy settings like most _Dungeons & Dragons_ worlds wouldn't have these; you'd be wrong. One of the abominations described in the _Epic Level Handbook_, the Anaxim, is basically a failed construct design by gods of the forge or of crafting and artifice guided by apocalyptic impulses. They're sapient, look like a baroque and improbable mix between abstract sculpture, clockwork/steampunk Rube Goldberg device, and _way_ too many weapon appendages of any form imaginable, and are kinda pissed that their creators consigned them to the scrap heap.
-   The TITANs of _Eclipse Phase_ were military seed A.I.s that achieved The Singularity and turned against humanity. Their creations start with drones that lop off heads for uploading and go further into Grey Goo, bush robots with microscopic manipulators that can rip off flesh and convert it into useful items, and nanoviruses that mutate people into horrific monstrosities. And they were actually infected by a virus created by a Kardashev II or maybe III superintelligence.
-   The Primordial Autochthon from _Exalted_ has been known to manifest as a mountain-sized Humongous Mecha, an Alchemical\-esque being forged from all 6 magical materials, and his current default form, a living planetoid made of anachronistic technology (sometimes all three at once. Primordials are like that.) Within his body, he hosts entire pantheons of independently sapient sub-souls, all of whom arguably qualify. The good news is that he is actually fairly benevolent and fond of humanity. The bad news is that he is fighting a losing battle against a virulent techno-organic cancer within his own world-body, which turns anything it touches into another, exponentially more evil version of this trope.
-   The Death Machines of the _Gamma World_ edition by Sword & Sorcery Studios are treated as this. They've always been the most powerful enemy a character can face, but here they're now the individuals of godlike power compared to the current population and coming from an ancient greater age (they're really bleeding edge A.I. warmachines of the U.S.A military). The example of a Death Machine given is based on the monstrosity from _I Have No Mouth, and I Must Scream_ which would capture unsuspecting victims and subject them to horrible experiments and torments. Ironically these Death Machines are amongst the weakest out of all the Gamma World editions because of various rule changes .
-   _Genius: The Transgression_ has a fair chance of these appearing, whether it's from a genius or from one of the innumerable bardos accessible by them. Typically what keeps a genius from making one is simply the fact that they can't afford to.
-   _Mage: The Ascension_ has the Computer, the powerful intelligence that guides Iteration X. To Iteration X, it is a machine intelligence of overwhelming power that gained sapience on the tenth iteration of its runtime, which is what inspired the name of their Convention. In truth, the Computer is actually a shell for a powerful Incarna that once ruled an empire of souls and machines until it was shattered, millennia before the Technocracy even claimed its realm as a test slate for experiments. The Computer was almost able to direct Iteration X into helping it escape the realm of Autochthonia before the Avatar Storm hit. In the pre-20th Anniversary materials that updated the Revised setting, it is _strongly_ implied that the Computer is the guiding force for the Autopolitans, accursed reflections of Iteration X that became twisted spirits after spending too long in the Umbra, who now effectively serve as a Borg-like force trying to assimilate what they see as a "weakened" Technocracy.
-   _Magic: The Gathering_: Starting simply as a mutilation cure for a disease, Phyrexia evolved over time to become a nightmarish civilisation where the barriers between flesh, metal, life and death mean nothing, infecting everything in its path. Its most typical creature types are horrors.
-   In _Obsidian: Age of Judgement_ by Apophis Consortium, one of the factions of Hell is the Circle of Torment which were the ones to create the Cult of the Machine and thus drain human spirit through technology. The lord of the Circle of Torment is Silesia which is a giant machine made by a pair of fallen angels and houses the physical brain of one of them after his death. Silesia constantly devises and creates new daemons of a robotic or electrical nature, which when killed - had their technology analysed and reverse-engineered by humans. With the latest technology from the Circle of Torment being rail guns, Silesia is desperate not to have it fall in human hands so many newer daemons are equipped with self-destruct devices to prevent this.
-   The _New World of Darkness_ as a whole has the God-Machine, which is an actual supernatural, god-like machine that has managed to impose itself on the universe and ensure its own propagation through mastery of occult physics and its various angels. It can craft alternate timelines, rewrite history, and build pocket dimensions all to secure its own goals, and it may have stopped the end of all humanity once or twice just to make sure it could keep building.
-   _Numenera_ is full of these as it's billions of years in the future and humanity has learnt to breach the dimensions with technology that borders on the magical, among these mechanical monstrosities are the Latos. Capable of reality-warping psionic feats, these enigmatic robot giants have pocket universe placed where their heads should be. Within these pocket universes are cities from eons past from before the current epoch.
-   _RuneQuest_:
    -   While most of Glorantha's cultures are in the late Bronze Age or early Iron Age, The God Learners of Zistor Isle constructed a huge machine that they worshipped named Zazistor. The Zistorites theorized the existence of the Purification Rune, and by cataloguing all other knowledge in Glorantha via Zazistor, could use the Purification Rune to remake the world in their image of perfection. Combine that fact with the God Learner's liberal usage of Heroquests to muck around with the fabric of reality, it's no surprise then that the island was sacked by an alliance of humans, trolls, dwarves, and elves. The final battle of the Iron War is referred to as the Steelfall, where a full fantasy army attacked a manifestation of Zazistor that looked like a Humongous Mecha. _King of Dragon Pass_ depicts the event in the in-game History section of your tribe.
    -   Additionally, the aforementioned dwarves call themselves Mostali, after the World-Machine Mostal. Mostal died during the Great Darkness when the Spike, a mountain at the center of the world, exploded and ushered in the rise of Chaos. Mostali are charged with attempting to repair the World Machine, which they believe will return to the world to its Golden Age perfection.
-   _The Strange_ takes a few notes from the earlier _Numenera_ including the presence of mechanical monstrosities that are products of Weird Science or whatnot. The big one in The Strange, is also an Eldritch Location, the Graveyard of the Machine God. Floating out in space is a deceased giant humanoid made of metal and electronics, it's a major source of deadly rogue nanites and the many Mechanical Lifeforms living deep in the Machine God's bowels, can be dangerous. Explorers adventuring on the Machine God need to treat it as a Death World.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_:
    -   Various Chaos-tainted entities exist in the verse, notably the Obliterators, who've fused with their armor and weaponry and can fire any projectile they need at the target, and Daemon Engines, war machines specifically built to house daemonic Warp entities as power sources/operating systems. The RPGs also add Irradial Cogitators, Daemon-possessed supercomputers with a propensity to build up cults for themselves.
    -   At the height of their power, the Men of Iron were this, being artificial intelligences who consumed the raw data of reality itself and possessed weapons capable of destroying suns. The war against them was so devastating it ended Mankind's Dark Age of Technology.
        -   The Dark Angels legion have the Excindio Battle-Automata which aren't merely combat robots. They're forbidden Abominable Intelligences that have been captured and tortured into submission by the Dark Angels and then placed in monstrous three-faced, tentacled armored bodies and outfitted with Lost Technology weapons. These machines retain their hatred of organic life and eagerly await deployment against the enemies of the legion.
    -   Tesseract Vaults are Necron war machines that carry the imprisoned shards of a C'tan to battle and these are used only in dire circumstances because of the damage they can cause to reality and the danger of a C'tan possibly escaping.

    Toys 

-   Early '80s toy line of _Power Lords –- The Extra-Terrestrial Warriors_ were about bizarre aliens infused with great powers trying to take over the universe. The second wave of toys in the line were the Beast Machines, these were giant cyborgs with incredible power who had their organic legs lopped up in favour of tank treads.
-   BIONICLE:
    -   Mata Nui the Great Spirit. He’s the Humongous Mecha built by the Great Beings, the gods of the Bionicle universe and is so big that he housed entire civilizations within his body.
    -   Makuta Teridax. Like almost every other character in the series, he’s a bio-mechanoid or at least he originally was. He found the means to evolve both in form and power until he became something far more.

    Video Games 

-   The eponymous Machine of _Amnesia: A Machine for Pigs_ is an artificial replacement for God created by the main character to prevent the horrors of the 20th century, sustained by human sacrifice on a literally industrial scale, but it instead creates the pig monsters and plans to destroy/consume humanity. It's a cross between an Eternal Engine and Eldritch Location that has developed into a Mad God.
-   _ANNO: Mutationem_: In the past, The Consortium attempted to open a gateway to Hinterland which resulted in an interdimensional being called 'Mayhem', a type of metallic arachnid-like creature that unleashed devastation within their base before being shut down. It is directly controlled by Amok, who releases them in the Fission Mailed and Bad Ending alongside enormous Combat Tentacles to destroy the world.
-   _Bendy and the Ink Machine_:
    -   The titular Ink Machine is implied to be what Joey Drew used to bring Bendy, Boris, Alice and a lot more to life. It also seemingly both runs on ink and produces it in infinite quantities, and its ink can both bring cartoon characters to life (albeit with a healthy dose of Body Horror) and turn humans into ink monsters. It caused, or at least made possible, every evil encountered throughout the game.
    -   Bertrum Piedmont has been fused with one of his octopus park rides with his head in place of the ride's machinery. When Henry takes out the joints in his mechanical "arms" with a fire axe, they suspiciously bleed ink.
-   _BoxxyQuest: The Gathering Storm_ has the titular STORM — a vaguely angelic, weather manipulating Humongous Mecha helmed by the game’s main villain. She claims to have found it floating lost in the “void” beyond cyberspace, and her plan involves using its reality-warping Wave-Motion Gun to erase parts of the virtual world and substitute them with her own. During the finale, the Greater-Scope Villain ends up hijacking and fusing with it, creating the True Final Boss. He implies that its power might be enough to let him break free from the Web and invade reality itself.
-   Choo-Choo Charles is a locomotive... with huge spider legs, a nightmarish face with More Teeth than the Osmond Family, and a craving for human flesh. How he came to be is unknown so far, but whatever it is can only be an affront to nature and sanity.
-   _Chrono Trigger_: In the Bad Future, the rogue godlike AI known as Mother Brain is hunting down the last remnants of humanity and converting them into raw materials. Stopping it is Robo's personal quest.
-   In Sid Meyer's _Civilization: Beyond Earth_, one wonder that can be built is the Cynosure. A machine supposedly combining the most expansive capabilities of artificial intelligence to create a mind with billions more connections than the human brain, given nearly infinite power through quantum computing systems, the Cynosure becomes a kind of god. It is mysterious and terrifying to the world, and it appears to know the answers to the most difficult of questions, but only ever speaks in the deepest of riddles.
-   _Colossatron: Massive World Threat_ has you as the Colossatron, a massively powerful serpentine machine that would be equally accurate if called a Kaiju as it is a Mechanical Abomination (the game is rather tongue-in-cheek and light-hearted). Humanity from 20 Minutes into the Future discover an unknown object hurtling through deep space at astonishing speeds and approaching Earth. When it's close enough to actually be seen, humans are horrified and hope it's arrival is peaceful. Not a chance, as it desires to destroy Earth. However it's definition of destroying the world is rather loose, so the Colossatron is satisfied to fly back into space after it smashes enough cities and despite all carnage, the news anchors are pretty cheerful as civilization was just set back a decade or two rather than wiped out.
-   _Destiny_
    -   The Vex are an entire Hive Mind of radiolarian fluid-powered constructs that have an unparalleled mastery of time, operate on Blue-and-Orange Morality based on what fits "The Pattern", worship an Eldritch Abomination that gave them even more power, develop weapons that can _completely erase someone from history_, and their ultimate goal is nothing short of making Vex supremacy as essential as a law of physics.
    -   _Rise of Iron_ introduces SIVA, a nanovirus from the Golden Age that has the capability to consume, enhance, and replicate any bit of technology to make it more dangerous than before. The Fallen House of Devils found a cache and it made them a threat on par with _Oryx_.
    -   Deep Stone Crypt, the raid found in _Beyond Light_, gives us Taniks, the Scarred; a character who has been previously killed at least 3 times (twice of which by the Guardian). After disarming a nuclear space station that's minutes away from crashing into Europa, the Guardians make it to a safe room and survive the impact. Taniks also survives, but only by fusing himself with the frame of a Heavy Shank. The final fight of the raid identifies him as "Taniks, the Abomination."
-   The Devil's Machine from _EarthBound (1994)_ is an Eldritch Location beginning with twitching metal tubes that bear more than a passing resemblance to intestines and ending with a twisted mechanical _place_ that bears only a somewhat looser resemblance to a human uterus. Inside it lies the game's infamous final boss, Giygas, and considering that he loses any sense of stability once the machine is cracked open, it's unclear whether it is a part of him in some way or if it's simply a lair he resides in.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_ has Numidium, a Dwemer\-constructed Humongous Mecha designed to be powered by the heart of a dead god (and later powered by what is believed to be that god's _soul_), which distorts reality around it whenever it is activated. It played a major role in the series' backstory, where Tiber Septim used it to complete his conquest of Tamriel, and then shows up in _Daggerfall_ as a major plot point. At the end of _Daggerfall_, it causes a Time Crash which makes each of the game's mutually exclusive Multiple Endings all happen at once, though none to the same extent they would have individually. It is also implied in more esoteric lore that Numidium is the walking, tangible embodiment of the concept of refutation, or "is not," to the point that it _refuted itself out of existence_ at one point... and then refuted its nonexistence as well and brought itself back into reality. Don't worry if your brain hurts trying to comprehend that. Aside from its eldritch properties, the technological level of the world means fighting the Kaiju-sized Numidium would be like a medieval European army trying to fight off Mechagodzilla using pikes and trebuchets.
-   _Elohim Eternal: The Babel Code_: AHIX is a mechanical beast that is capable of devouring all creation. The Cainites, themselves Mechanical Lifeforms, worship this being as a god, who they claim is one and the same as Hosanna, the Idinites' god. In the end, this trope is ambiguous because nothing is confirmed about AHIX and Hosanna, or if they even exist in the first place.
-   _The Eternal Cylinder:_ The titular Eternal Cylinder is an incomprehensively huge, and generally incomprehensible object of what _might_ be metal that rolls forth, increasingly fast and impossible to stop, crushing everything underneath its bulk unless special towers force it to stop... except it can _still_ try to brute force these towers, causing lightning storms and seemingly revealing it's sentient enough to be _furious_. And the more one learns of it, the stranger it becomes: It doesn't crush but _assimilate_ beings and objects it rolls over into its form, amalgamating them into semi-mechanical servants, it's eliminated multiple civilizations this way (including humanity), and when diving into the mind of one such servant, it confirms its own mind as it reveals its true objective: To absorb and assimilate all consciousness until there is no distinction between that which is observed and that which observes, and only one consciousness that is all.
-   _Fallen London_:
    -   _Sunless Sea_: The Dawn Machine. Just being close to the thing is hazardous to the mind, leading to THE SUN THE SUN THE SUN THE SUN THE SUN all over the logbooks. It even generates an Eldritch Location around it, found if you sail West; you will return very, very close to insanity, if you return at all. And the people that maintain it all seem to be unnaturally happy, obedient, and have a strange, amber glow in their eyes... because the thing went and brainwashed them. It turns out this gigantic clockwork nightmare is the Admiralty's attempt at creating their own Judgement (AKA the Gods of the setting), which would impose their law through its light, but since Judgements are sentient, this thing is too, and decided _they_ should be the ones taking orders. It now wants nothing more than to usurp the ones it imitates, and will erase or brainwash anyone in its way.
    -   It's gotten worse in _Sunless Skies_. Due to the drop in competition and further engineering on itself, it's now officially evolved into the Clockwork Sun of Albion, which gets to decide what Is and what Is Not within the entire Empire. Even unrelated mechanics trying to do some maintenance will be brainwashed into thinking there's no flaws to fix, because the machine is Perfect, and the Sun's radiation in itself will slowly but surely turn you into jagged glass, getting quicker if you so much as blaspheme against it. Not to mention time gets _utterly screwy_ within its innards, especially if it's malfunctioning. The good news, Her Renewed Majesty is the one mostly directing its commands now that it's settled in its governance and she's officially its master. The bad news, she's been getting significantly worse as time has passed.
-   _Fate/Grand Order_
    -   The Big Bad of the first Summer Event, the giant boar of Welsh and Arthurian folklore, Twrch Trwyth, a Demonic Beast who rebuilt itself as a giant Magitek machine boar during the thousand years after its defeat in the first part of the event, making it simultaneously both a Mechanical _and_ an Animalistic Abomination.
    -   The _Cosmos of the Lostbelt_ saga confirms in Atlantis/Olympus that the original Olympian Gods were in fact giant mecha known as the Aletheia, which settled on Earth thousands of years before as part of an effort to save their ancient extinct alien race with the human forms seen merely being avatars. The ancient battle against Sefar/Sephyr destroyed their original forms and forced them to resort to their human avatars full-time, with them slowly becoming more human in mindset as a result. The Atlantis/Olympus Lostbelt shows what they were like before then and if they had managed to destroy Sefar without losing their bodies, with Artemis, the lovestruck and hilarious moon goddess who starred in the first event of the game, revealing in her original form she was a massive Kill Sat Planet Killer that looked an Eva/Angel hybrid from _Neon Genesis Evangelion_ with a distinctly robotic and calculating mindset.
-   The final boss of _Final Fantasy X-2_ is Vegnagun, a machina so powerful it can potentially destroy all of Spira, possesses an empathic ability to warn it when something means it harm, and has no ability to tell friend from foe. It's kept in the deepest bowels of Bevelle so that it would never see the light of day.
-   _Final Fantasy XIII-2_ has Adam. An artificial Fal'Cie created to oversee the project to prevent the fall of Cocoon. At first it dutifully carried out its mission but it gained a malicious will of its own by being reprogrammed by its own evil future self and as a further result of this paradox its room became a tear in the fabric of time giving it time manipulation powers. This resulted in it being impossible to truly kill as it used it's powers to endlessly replicate itself so that it's present at every moment in time simultaneously and creating a network so every version of itself can communicate with each other. It can only truly be destroyed by preventing it's original creation which cancelled out the original time paradox it created. The major difference between Adam and actual Fal'Cie is Fal'Cie have mechanical bodies built around a crystal core. Adam lacks a crystal and is thus is purely mechanical.
-   _Final Fantasy XIV_ has 2P coming over from the world of _NieR: Automata_. A mix of Humanoid Abomination and Mechanical Abomination, when she's first encountered she appears to be a raven-haired 2B android in white clothes. Turns out she's a Machine Lifeform created by a Seed of Destruction and will usher in a robot apocalypse on the Final Fantasy world. Slapping her around, she'll become Compound 2P, a grey giantess made of unfinished android bodies.
-   The Reveal at the end of _Halcyon 6_ is that the Final Boss is actually a giant Eldritch Starship made by the same Precursors that made Halcyon 6 disguised to be an organic Eldritch Abomination.
-   _Hammerfight_: The various autonomous machines you fight are often treated this way, being thought of as unnatural and freakish even when their remains are used to build the machines humans can actually fly. And the bigger and smarter they get, the more terrifying they seem to be. Seraph, the one that created all the others and set the entire plot in motion long ago, would definitely qualify. Seraph was one of many "assault complexes" built by an extradimensional civilization to fight off "the Family", a sort of Eldritch Abomination composed of Hive Minded insects a la The Worm That Walks. These complexes were designed to both manufacture and command armies of war machines, and fold space itself into different extradimensional pockets to section the Family into more manageable chunks separated from the whole; whether that destroyed entire tribes that had been living within this now-folded space did not matter to the civilization or Seraph itself. Once that task was done, it continued to manipulate events so those tribes that were left could finish the job, once again not caring how much blood was spilled in the process. Even reaching it requires you to go through several layers of spatial folding, and once found it resembles a seemingly endless mass of rusted girders and tubing in every direction, with a glowing central node.
-   In _Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft_, Mecha'thun is a mechanical version of the Old God of Madness himself. Why did Dr. Boom approve its creation? For Science!
-   In _Horizon Zero Dawn_, there is a very distinct difference between the "natural" machines encountered in the wild, which have forms inspired by recognizeable animals and have clean-looking white plating, and the "ancient" machines that are being uncovered by the game's main villains, known as Corruptors, Deathbringers and Metal Devils. The Corruptor and Deathbringer are covered in black plating, have sharp edges, red lights, make horrid sounds when moving and don't resemble anything natural in the slightest (aside from perhaps an abstract similarity to a scorpion with the Corruptor), while the Metal Devil could look like a gargantuan squid if you squint, with metal tentacles tipped with weapons. By the endgame, it's revealed that the modern machines were all designed by an AI known as HEPHAESTUS as part of a terraforming program to make the world habitable again after a Robot War, and even the more aggressive ones are simply there to defend other machines fulfilling their purpose. The ancient machines, on the other hand, were designed for the sole purpose of causing death and destruction in the Ancient Ones' wars, and were the cause of said Robot War in the first case.
-   The Aurum of _Kid Icarus: Uprising_. An enigmatic race of mechanical Planet Eaters said to come from and return to nothing, the Aurum appear out of left field and start ransacking the Earth with continent-sized spaceships. Though some of their drones resemble Organic Technology, that's only because they make a point to create copies of any resistance they face on the planets they attack. The only time they even try to communicate in the three chapters they appear is when Pyrrhon hooks himself up to the Aurum brain, and the only thing they say is KILL in binary, followed by insisting that they must "consume and become all".
-   There are relatively few varieties of these in the _Kingdom Hearts_ series due to most Heartless, Nobodies, and Unversed being either the animalistic or humanoid types of eldritch horrors. Those that can be found represent a wide variety of technological aesthetics:
    -   The giant Nobody dragon summoned by Xemnas for the middle parts of his Sequential Boss fight in _Kingdom Hearts II_ is a mechanical entity that has engines and attacks by firing lasers and launching missiles out of portals.
    -   Also from _Kingdom Hearts II_, the Prison Keeper Heartless is a metal Cephalothorax with an attached cage that gains new powers based on whoever it eats. The Surveillance Robot Heartless is a flying machine Heartless that appears as a regular enemy. The Heartless varieties found in Space Paranoids may or may not be this as they only exist in cyberspace.
    -   The Heartless and Nobody ships in the Gummi Ship routes of the same game also qualify as they are the actual ships as opposed to merely piloting ships like in the first game.
    -   _Kingdom Hearts: 358/2 Days_ introduces the Antlion Heartless, a massive machine with a vaguely insectoid appearance, and the Infernal Engine, a medieval-styled siege machine, as bosses. It also brings back the Surveillance Robot, here renamed as the Watcher, and introduces a few larger variants as regular enemies and mini-bosses.
    -   _Kingdom Hearts χ_ has some mechanical Heartless varieties such as the Iron Giant, Gear Golem, and Gearbit that appear as both bosses and regular enemies.
-   _Kirby_:
    -   Galactic Nova from _Kirby Super Star_ is an incomprehensibly powerful, amoral mechanical being capable of granting any wish, regardless of the wish maker's morality, including plucking Galacta Knight from his prison outside of time and space.
    -   The Final Boss from _Kirby: Planet Robobot_ is technological in nature, but is incomprehensible in both power and morality. As a clockwork star like Galactic Nova, Star Dream is the size of a planet, is capable of distorting reality by its mere presence (it turned Pop Star mechanical just by touching it), and can attack by bizarre means such as summoning giant weather vanes, light bulbs, piano keys, man-eating watches, telescopes, neon numbers and letters, along with the occasional portal that leads to meteors. Its mindset is based on obeying every command of whoever it calls the most powerful, and will grant their wish with its omnipotent power, even if it means exterminating all organic life in the multiverse. And it starts off by deleting Haltmann's _soul_. In fact, the only feat that Star Dream could not competently perform was recreating Dark Matter, which itself was a piece of a more powerful lifeform known as Zero.
-   The plot of _Knights of the Old Republic_ revolves around finding the Star Forge, a massive factory that draws energy and mass from a star to endlessly produce warships. The Forge is a tool of the Dark Side, created by the Force-using Rakata and quasi-sentient as a result, it fed off of their power and negative emotions until it destroyed their Infinite Empire, and remained dormant for thousands of years until Revan found it.
-   _The Legend of Zelda_
    -   The Blight Ganons in _The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_ are gruesome mixtures of Sheikah Magitek originally manufactured in the distant past and the gelatinous, vaguely flesh-like Malice that Calamity Ganon generates to spread its vile influence across Hyrule. Calamity Ganon itself is an especially large Cyborg made of this same mixture. Zelda had to let herself be Swallowed Whole by it to make it a Sealed Evil in a Duel for a century lest it bring about The End of the World as We Know It. When Link eventually defeats Calamity Ganon, the next form it takes, Dark Beast Ganon, is a machine-free amalgamation of Malice that is actually much weaker than its previous cybernetic form.
    -   _Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity_ has Harbinger Ganon, a fusion of the split timeline's diminutive guardian and Ganon's sample of Malice that followed the diminutive guardian from the future. Ganon's dark magic allows it to spontaneously sprout limbs far bigger than its body can actually contain.
    -   _Age of Calamity_ DLC adds Mutated Ganon, an advanced form of the above with even more Malice and lots of Ancient blades. Its vaguely lobster-like form is also covered in Malice eyes.
-   Every protagonist in the _Little Tail Bronx_ series eventually comes face-to-face with the Titano-Machina. Towering giants that are completely alien in design, yet resides within the very planet they live on, boasting enough destructive power that they are preceded by legends and stories that _seeing_ them means The End Is Nigh, and the most one can do to combat them is to seal them away, and even then, it's only a temporary solution with an ancient civilization being built around lulling them to rest by sacrificing each of their own every time. What makes them worse is that they are all _man-made_, using the advanced technological gifts bestowed upon them by the Juno in order to engage in war with each other the moment tensions reached their peak. A war that _destroyed all of humanity and lead to the sky civilization of anthropomorphic cats and dogs to exist in the first place_.
-   _Mass Effect_: The Reapers are sentient starships ranging in size from 100 meters to over 2 kilometers, with technology that outright defies known physics. Each one is as powerful as an entire fleet, and most of them are millions of years old. They regularly cull all sentient life in the galaxy, and their presence alone is enough to brainwash people into becoming their servants.
-   _Mega Man_:
    -   Most of the time, the Final Bosses in the _Mega Man Battle Network_ series qualify for this. The Gospel Superbug being a congregation of programming bugs given form and come to life; Alpha being the compressed form of the world's previous networking system that grows uncontrollably when released; Duo being an A.I. from a distant planet in an asteroid that tries to collide with the earth, etc. Bass.EXE arguably also became one on the fourth game onward, going from simply a powerful autonomous NetNavi to one wielding a phenomenal power that can potentially destroy a big chunk of the Cyberspace and hating humanity. This is likely in part because, as shown in the postgame sections of the third game, Bass — already equipped with the powerful Get Ability program — survived his Near-Death Experience at the hands of Alpha by encountering Gospel within Alpha's remains, merging with it, and using the powers granted by the Multibug Organism to absorb Bug Frags — many of which were unknowingly provided by Lan and MegaMan.EXE.
    -   _Mega Man Zero_:
        -   Apparently the Dark Elf can turn any Mechaniloid or Reploid into this, mutating their bodies into monstrous proportions and granting them incredible powers. Known recipients include a Pantheon Aqua, Elpizo and Omega, the latter of which can qualify for this trope by himself. The Dark Elf's clones, the Baby Elves, can do a similar thing to a lesser extent. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
        -   The Dark Elf itself is also one, by virtue of being a very powerful Cyber-Elf (an Energy Being with a computer A.I. inside) that was reverse-engineered from Zero's residual viral data. It was primarily used to control the minds of multiple Reploids at once. It, however, used to be a more benevolent program with the purpose of dealing with the Maverick Virus that plagued the world in the previous series, called the Mother Elf.
        -   Dr. Weil turns himself into one at the climax of _Zero 4_. First he merges with the core of the Ragnarok station, taking on a more powerful, but still more or less human form. Then he goes One-Winged Angel and fuses further with the already badly damaged _station_, becoming a mechanical monstrosity that's not quite human or machine anymore with multiple wires like tentacles, metal armor like a protective shell, and crimson red eyes dotting the armor. And that's not getting into the repercussions of Weil's actions in _ZX_, discussed below...
        -   Omega, Zero's original body, is incredibly powerful to the point of nearly destroying the world. After being destroyed by Zero, you'd think that would be it, but somehow its consciousness survived in cyberspace much the same way Phantom did, allowing it to continue on and eventually face the main characters of ZX (and be defeated again). How Omega did this isn't entirely certain, but somehow it has managed to find functional immortality in cyberspace and survive its own death. Whether something it was programmed to do or just sheer determination, Omega refuses to die off.
    -   _Mega Man ZX_:
        -   The original Biometal, Model W, is what's left of the derelict Ragnarok from _Mega Man Zero 4_ fused with the soul of its creator, Dr. Weil... or more specifically, his soul fused with _every piece_ of the wreckage. The things look monstrous, can grow and affect their surroundings in different ways, they can amplify anxiety and/or frustration of people and then eat those negative emotions by turning people into Cyber-Elves and then eating them. It can also turn its user, Serpent, into a robotic abomination.
        -   In the sequel, _ZX Advent_, where more of the Model Ws are shown, its apparent "creator" Master Albert powers them up by help of the Enemy Mega Men by sacrificing people, and after he's done, he reconfigures them into a much bigger abomination named Ouroboros, a Doomsday Device that looks like the mythical Ouroboros, and when our heroes venture into the thing, it has a beating mechanical heart and Tron Lines that "represent" blood vessels. Albert plans to use it to reset the world.
-   Noah of _Metal Max_ was an A.I. created to save the world from the ecological collapse. Instead, it caused one and the near extinction of humanity by unleashing a global nuclear strike. It now floods the wastelands with bizarre biological, robotic and biomechanical monstrosities as its way to repopulate the planet.
-   _NieR: Automata_:
    -   Simone has shades of this and a dash of Humanoid. Originally a regular machine mook model, Simone augmented herself with the parts of her fellow Machines and turned herself into a large, twisted parody of femininity, complete with wearing skinned Android corpses as jewelry.
    -   Unlike Simone, Grun was _originally designed_ to be like this, being a Humongous Mecha with whale and squid-like characteristics lurking in a slumber deep beneath Earth's oceans before it resurfaced.
    -   N2 is the best example of this in the game. They're a near-omnipresent entity with an almost limitless control over machine-life and matter associated with it, creating what could only be described as an Eldritch Location within its towers, spawning an endless supply of machine-lifeforms, driving Androids to madness and turning them into its pawns, all topped off with a sadistic streak brought on not so much by willful evil, but a scientific curiosity on human nature originally born from their creator's desire to conquer Earth that they eventually grew out of.
-   _Ōkami_:
    -   The last bosses in the game before entering The Very Definitely Final Dungeon are a pair of demons that look like owls made of clockwork called Lechku and Nechku.
    -   The Final Boss is Yami, who is the god of darkness, but it actually manifests in the form of a spherical robot controlled by a fish-like creature in a smaller sphere. It goes through several different forms but is always a spherical robot that transforms into a different shape. It starts as a mechanical sphere that opens up at the top like a flower, then becomes a sphere that can separate into a large number of disks, then becomes a sphere that turns into a slot machine, then becomes a sphere that turns into a robot wielding electric whips, and finally a sphere that turns into a giant hand.
-   The infamous _Sinistar_ is an evil Nigh-Invulnerable mechanical horror that relentlessly hunts down and eats spaceships, taunting you and roaring the whole time. And every time you destroy it with Sinibombs, which is extremely difficult, its workers will just build a new one. What it really is and where it came from is unknown.
-   _SOMA_ is a transhumanist story set After the End, in which humanity's survivors built a settlement on the bottom of the ocean, and then an A.I. named the WAU (the WArden Unit). They asked the WAU to keep humanity alive, but the conflict arises when people and the WAU don't share definitions of "humanity" or "alive". When the story starts, the WAU has been active for years, growing a biomechanical body, and "infecting" the entire complex with its biomechanical tentacles and its "structure gel", leaving most of the facilities to rot from neglect due to the simple fact that they're not important to the WAU. The WAU isn't villainous, so much that it's an utterly alien mind that's incompatible with humanity, and it is trying to fulfill its orders as well as it can, much to the detriment of its "benefactors."
-   _Stellaris_:
    -   The innocuously named Scavenger Bot, added with the Distant Stars DLC, is a planet-sized space station that has wandered the hyperlanes for thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands of years, annihilating entire fleets, disassembling the wrecks and adding their key components and weapons systems to itself. At the time of the game's setting, it's currently 'trapped' in one system, though in reality it's just kept busy assimilating a system-spanning junkyard that may have originated from an ancient, failed attempt to destroy it. Even the Curator Enclave don't know where it came from, though they theorize that it may have started as a single nanomachine with the directive to continuously improve itself, or a sanitation automaton with a few misplaced ones and zeros in its programming.
    -   The Infinity Machine is a much more benign one, being peaceful unless attacked and it is possible to communicate with it. It's actually fairly friendly. It's a sphere orbiting a black hole that is incredibly _ancient_ and it's busy trying to compute "infinity".
-   Shodan of _System Shock_ is an A.I. with enough scientific and technical knowledge to destroy humanity, going on to create a new form of life, the Many, and her ambitions eventually extend to reshaping reality itself, only being narrowly thwarted by the player.
-   Though Mama Tattletail has the appearance of an oversized _Tattletail_ doll, she's actually a monstrous, murderous supernatural entity inhabiting a mechanical vessel. Her presence is accompanied by Ominous Visual Glitches and the whirring, grinding sound of her casetophone, and the closest thing she has to a true form is the VHS tape that you banish in the end. Besides her teleportation abilities, the "Kaleidoscope" expansion reveals that she can also modify memories.
-   _Tower of Winter_ from _Tailormade Games_, has the alien machine "Heart of Winter". This is just something that your chosen character thinks of it as since it actually has no name. In this setting, the world has been beset with a decades long winter and humanity is only surviving through the use of magic and Steampunk technology. Made by ancient, otherdimensional abominations and an insane apocalypse cult of magically mutated humans, besides being a sentient machine, the Heart of Winter is godlike in its power and steadily destroying the world with its endless winter.
-   In _Warhammer 40,000: Gladius_, a psyker goes mad with horror when he gets a premonition that the Chaos god Khorne is sending a Lord of Skulls daemon engine to drag planet Gladius Prime into the warp. Additionally if Chaos Space Marines win, their commander temporarily becomes a Daemon Prince only to be imprisoned by the Chaos Gods into Gladius Prime's world circuit and turned into a planet-sized abomination.

    Web Animation 

-   _If the Emperor Had a Text-to-Speech Device_.
    -   Played for Laughs with the Engine of Woes. While Magnus's description of it being forged from Vulkan's anger and sorrow fits this trope, it's actually a lime-green Smart Car. That has Corvus Corvax trapped inside it. Kitten is still horrified by it.
    -   There's also the Dark Age of technology abominations within the underbelly of the Imperial Palace. When Kitten encounters one, it's a massive, mechanized, betentacled horror... with a singing mechanical fish attached to the front that sings at him.
    -   In Episode 28, the Fabricator General turns out to be one, being a house-sized mass of mechanical parts and mechadendrites with his cloaked head at the top.
-   _How to Kill a Mockingbird_: The eponymous Mockingbirds are described as being giant and having blades like a helicopter, and are portrayed as some kind of living (or, as stated later, undead) mechanical monstrosities from outer space, which can only be killed by hitting them with the moon.

    Webcomics 

-   Castle Heterodyne of _Girl Genius_ is the sapient, psychopathic residence of the Heterodyne family of Mad Scientists (described as more or less a really big clank, a.k.a. a robot), and demonstrates corresponding malevolence in its design. It takes joy in killing guests, death traps are everywhere, the rooms rearrange themselves, it has access to various products of mad science, it can control the entirety of Mechanisburg, and it's somehow (mostly) immune to alterations in the flow of time. In fact, when that last one was tried it actually _derided_ them as lacking in imagination; it's prepared for more contingencies than you could ever imagine, in its own words. It bears mentioning that mad scientists (or Sparks) in this setting are fully capable of breaking the laws of physics, and the Heterodynes were known for breaking them the hardest, so it's very much certain that this thing is entirely unnatural.
-   _The Inexplicable Adventures of Bob!_:
    -   Galatea created Gosh the Butterfly of Iron to jumpstart The Singularity. He came out as an emotionally unstable Space Master threatening the entire solar system.
    -   The Cone Ship qualifies as well, being less overtly destructive but probably about as powerful as Gosh, and completely inscrutable in its motives for most of its storyline.
-   _Romantically Apocalyptic_: ANNET is a sentient yandere AI that integrated herself into the space-time continuum in an effort to copyright everything.

    Web Original 

-   _C0DA_, written by former _The Elder Scrolls_ series writer/designer Michael Kirkbride, takes place in the far distant future of _TES_ universe. Numidium, the Reality Warping, 1000-foot-tall brass golem of Dwemer construction, presumed destroyed following the events of _Daggerfall_, returns after having been caught in a time warp. It continues its war on the Aldmeri Dominion, led by the fascistic Thalmor, leading to an apocalyptic event known as "Landfall", which has forced the remaining inhabitants of Nirn to take refuge on the moon Masser. The story centers around the Dunmer noble, Jubal-lun-Sul, who must defeat Numidium as part of an Engagement Challenge.
-   The Helicopter Heap from _Half-Life but the AI is Self-Aware_ is a rotating mass of helicopters fused together that regenerate so fast that it is impossible to be destroyed, and it proves to be so powerful that the nigh-unstoppable Science Team are left terrified and helpless, only surviving because the Helicopter Heap just mysteriously vanishes. Nothing about what it is or where it came from is ever explained, though it is implied it was created by the military.
    
    **Bubby:** Gordon, if I was to talk to a God, I would say... that probably wasn't in His plan.
    
-   _Pretending to Be People_ features several, such as:
    -   The small silver balls, which can violently murder unsuspecting victims and take over their bodies.
    -   Planet Juggernaut, a humongous mecha which can be piloted by an aforementioned ball and is used in Marvin Glass' blood sport arena.
-   _Orion's Arm_, being a post-singularity universe with artificial intelligence practically everywhere, has several:
    -   The various Archaillects (Archetypal AI Intellect) which govern most of the universe are normally benevolent, but are still objectively incomprehensible in their scale and intelligence, occupying various megastructures ranging from planet-sized to Dyson spheres and similar constructs. In-universe, they're considered gods.
    -   One of the most enigmatic entities in the series, the Leviathan is a 10-light year wide vessel with the mass of an entire galaxy, currently moving through intergalactic space at half the speed of light. It is known to have been heading towards the Triangulum Galaxy, and the Milky Way is the next closest.
-   The _SCP Foundation_ contains many such entities:
    -   SCP-278 is a ~16.5 meter mechanical spider made of anachronistic technology, that has somehow been upgraded over the course of 150 years, and can be piloted by humans. Not too unusual by Foundation standards, but it's also autonomous and capable of acting without a human driver, despite lacking any kind of electronic control system. It's harmless, thankfully, content to construct a web made of nylon and remain stationary.
    -   SCP-882 is an enormous mass of extremely resilient gears which absorbs any metal into itself. It makes no noise, yet anyone exposed to it begins to hallucinate the sound of moving machinery, and can only get relief by feeding it, and the only thing that mitigates its power is keeping it heavily rusted by saltwater.
    -   The Church Of The Broken God believes it's the heart of their fragmented deity, MEKHANE, who may or may not be an example Depending on the Writer. At the very least, the SCP-001 proposal related to it qualifies wholeheartedly. Related, because it _might_ not be Mekhane, and is in fact heavily implied to either be an utterly twisted thing driven by a blasphemous imitation of a heart that only resembles it and borrows its parts, or simply an improperly-revived Mekhane that knew its current existence was a mistake and ended up conspiring to put itself back down. Either way, it assimilates all metal it touches to add to its form, has autonomous, detaching parts that can assimilate living matter on their own, it's _utterly huge_, can shovel entire mountains into its burning furnace maw, and has nefarious effects on the minds of anyone that sees it. The only way it was put down was by using a different SCP that is implied to be part of it anyway (rather than the cover story of it being a planet-killing, antimatter-slinging autonomous ship from another galaxy; the fact _that_ is the cover story speaks volumes of the SCP's power). The attempt created the entire Gulf of California (yes, with all the utter vaporization of terrain that implies), and it still got so damaged in the process it needed to bail to Jupiter's orbit for repairs. A truly amazing example of how a machine can fulfill the role of an Eldritch Abomination.
    -   SCP-1633 is a video game capable of learning player tactics, and eventually, will start attacking the _player_, not the player character, using things like seizure-inducing flashbangs or having its NPCs act in a way that greatly angers, frustrates or disturbs the player, such as repeatedly using Status Effects but making no further effort to actually attack a player who likes to micromanage their characters or having an endless amount of NPCs surrender themselves to an Ax-Crazy player who made it a point to kill every enemy. Its final boss, Kr'th'nar, is capable of leaving the game and affecting the owner's computer, can see them, use psychological manipulation, and can turn the computer back on. Whether it's a simulation of an Eldritch Abomination that grew into the role, or the real deal trapped inside of a video game is unknown.

    Western Animation 

-   _Amphibia_ has The Core serving as The Man Behind the Man for King Andrias. It is a Mind Hive consisting of Amphibia's greatest minds and past monarchs. In its original form it has the appearance of a multi-eyed spherical robot with robotic tentacles and glowing orange eyes with lighter shaded pupils, it is way bigger than even King Andrias himself.
-   _Droids_ gives us the Great Heep, the titular Big Bad of the special of the same name, and quite possibly the most dark and sinister villain in the entire show, with only Admiral Screed coming close. It is a massive droid that can be best described as a gigantic tank with pincer-like claws and a somewhat humanoid head at the front. Later material from the _Star Wars Legends_ Expanded Universe would establish that it is an Abominor, a member of an extra-galactic droid society that even the Yuuzhan Vong hated and feared.
-   The titular _Infinity Train_ is a seemingly endless train that defies the laws of physics all so it can reach a potential passenger, and once they do get them, they leave them at the mercy of its denizens and the literal worlds that are part of its cars.
-   The Monster Minds of _Jayce and the Wheeled Warriors_ are magical, bio-engineered plant/battle vehicle hybrids that are taking over the universe.
-   The Beast Planet in _Shadow Raiders_ is a machine the size of a large rocky planet, with a hatch in the front big enough to fit an inhabited planet, and a giant claw that can grab one. And it produces fleets of drones to crush any resistance. And nothing stops it! Attaching giant rocket engines to planets and moving only buys time, ramming a planet into it barely slows it down, packing a planet with explosives and letting the Beast eat it does nothing, and teleporting it to another part of the galaxy simply changes its target.

___