_The zombies were having fun  
The party had just begun  
The guests included Wolf Man  
Dracula and his son  
The scene was rockin', all were digging the sounds  
Igor on chains, backed by his baying hounds  
The coffin-bangers were about to arrive  
With their vocal group, the Crypt-Kicker Five_

— **Bobby "Boris" Pickett and the Crypt-Kickers**, "Monster Mash"

Hey, wouldn't it be cool if Dracula (or another Classical Movie Vampire), the Wolf Man, the Mummy, Frankenstein's Monster, Gillman, and all those other classic monsters hung out together in the Haunted Castle or Creepy Cemetery?

Short answer: Yes. Yes, it would.

Most commonly found in a setting where the heroes live in a World of Weirdness as part of a Fantasy Kitchen Sink with a sprawling Crossover Cosmology, especially if they themselves are supernatural. The creatures, rather than becoming shut-ins who never leave their designated niche or dark corner of the world... _socialize_. Vampires and werewolves, usually antagonistic, agree to keep up a mutual Masquerade against humans. Fairies and ghosts work together to scare local homeowners. And the wizards work with all of them to Save Both Worlds.

This is a common subtrope of Cast of Expies, in which many characters in a specific work are lifted from earlier works.

On a personal level, individuals from these groups might form loose bands (of Player Characters, usually) that work towards common goals, hang out, or terrorize humans for fun and profit. Or, if the setting permits, are all in on a secret, ancient conspiracy to control, manipulate, or convert humanity, eventually taking over and enslaving us all! Bla-hahahaha!

Named after the 1962 novelty song by Bobby "Boris" Pickett and the Crypt-Kickers (quoted above), which topped the charts on its release and later became famous after being played on Dr. Demento's show. The song was also the basis for a 1995 musical comedy-horror film called _Monster Mash: The Movie_, which starred Pickett as Dr. Frankenstein.

Common guests include:

-   Vampires, often Dracula or some other Classical Movie Vampire, perhaps accompanied by a Renfield.
-   Werewolves, and other werebeasts.
-   Frankenstein's Monster, possibly with Bride.
-   Mad Scientist. Sometimes Victor Frankenstein himself, a descendant or Dr. Fakenstein.
-   Mummy. Usually once a pharaoh or his trusted advisor and/or High Priest.
-   Fish Person. Usually an Expy of the Creature from the Black Lagoon, if not the creature himself.
-   Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde
-   The Invisible Man
-   The Phantom of the Opera, or an imitation.
-   Igor, or sometimes Quasimodo.
-   Witch Classic, especially if she's one as a species rather than as a profession. May have green skin in reference to the Wicked Witch of the West in _The Wizard of Oz_.
-   Ghosts, especially ones in white sheets.
-   Ghouls or Zombies, depending which side of the 1960s the fiction is from.
-   Botanical Abomination, often a Man-Eating Plant, à la Audrey II.
-   Gorgons from Classical Mythology.
-   Pumpkin creatures are a must-have if Halloween factors into the plot.
-   Skeletons
-   Demons
-   Gargoyles
-   Goblins and/or Imps
-   Slashers, kudos if they don a hockey mask and wield a chainsaw.
-   Aliens
-   Kaiju and Youkai, if this happens in Japan.
-   Cryptids

You can also expect all this fraternizing and canoodling to result in a Hybrid Monster sooner or later.

Sub-Trope of Massive Multiplayer Crossover. Super-Trope to All-Ghouls School, where the monsters' children (or their own younger selves) all go to class together. Possibly denizens of a Halloweentown. If they're related to each other, they may be a Creepy Family.

Compare with Fairy Tale Free-for-All, for the fairy tale equivalent, and Crossover Cosmology, for the religious/mythological equivalent. See Standard Fantasy Races for another typical array of fantastic creatures. Not to be confused with Monster Munch.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

-   General Mills notably has a line of "Monster Cereals" that consist of breakfast cereals that each have a monster as the mascot. The three most famous brands are a chocolate-flavored cereal with the mascot being a vampire named Count Chocula, a strawberry-flavored cereal associated with a Frankenstein monster named Frankenberry and a blueberry-flavored cereal that has a ghost named Boo Berry as its mascot. Two other cereals that are now discontinued (save for limited relaunches) are Frute Brute (a fruit-flavored cereal with lime-flavored marshmallows that was changed to cherry-flavored cereal for the relaunch and has a werewolf mascot) and Yummy Mummy (a fruit-flavored cereal with vanilla-flavored marshmallows that was changed to orange-cream-flavored cereal for the relaunch and has a mummy mascot). In 2021, General Mills celebrated the 50th anniversary of the Monster Cereals by launching a limited edition amalgam of the five cereals that was fittingly enough called "Monster Mash" and had promotional material portraying the five monsters as a defunct band that chose to return for a reunion. 2023 would see an addition to the group with Carmella Creeper, a zombie with a caramel apple-flavored cereal.
-   This old Pepsi Halloween commercial features Frankenstein's monster bringing Pepsi and Doritos to a party of monsters hosted by Dracula.
-   2017/2018 commercials for Spectrum (a cable provider in the eastern United States) feature a group of creatures who try to live normal lives...except they constantly run into problems with their satellite television. So far, we've seen a demon, a mad scientist, a mummy, husband and wife vampires, a werewolf, the Grim Reaper, and even a possessed ventriloquist's dummy.

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Cowa!_ is set in a world where humans, monsters and other Mix-and-Match Critters coexist. The main characters are a half vampire/half koala-man hybrid, a shapeshifting ghost, another creature that resembles Gillman and a human sumo wrestler.
-   _Crescent Moon_: The Moonlight Bandits are a group of thieves made up of a vampire, a werewolf a Kitsune, and a tengu.
-   One _Doraemon_ story had Nobita — after being laughed at by everyone for being scared by an amusement park's haunted house, which his friends Gian, Suneo and Shizuka all thought are "for scaring toddlers" — asking Doraemon for a gadget to turn his house into "Japan's scariest haunted house" in an attempt to get back at his friends. Said gadget is a monster dispenser that release robots depicting various classical monsters, from Japanese Youkai-themed creatures like kappa, oni and hitodama to Westernized ones like ghosts, vampires, werewolves, and a Frankenstein's Monster. Predictably, the gadget goes out of control (as usual) causing the various robotic monsters to trap Nobita, Doraemon and everyone else in Nobita's house until Nobita's mother suddenly comes home from shopping and let out a loud, "Who made this mess in the house?"... cue all the monsters retreating in shock into the dispenser.
-   In _Dragon Ball_ Goku and his friends had to fight Uranai Baba's champions, which consisted of parody versions of a vampire, an invisible man, a mummy, a devil and a ghost (actually Grandpa Gohan's spirit). The old man Gohan is usually not part of Uranai Baba's main roster of fighters, so you only see four of her five actual warriors, but the 22nd Budokai featured Man-Wolf (a Wolf Man who transforms into a human at full moon) who wouldn't be out of place within her roster. A lot of early _Dragon Ball_ notably focused more on demons, monsters and spirits instead of aliens and gods like later on in the series. _Dragon Ball: Sleeping Princess in Devil's Castle_ for instance is full of demons, monsters and has the vampire-like Big Bad called Lucifer.
-   _Fairy Tail_: The Monster Academy present in Edolas.
-   _Fate/Apocrypha_: As in all _Fate_ media, Heroic Spirits are essentially "ghosts from the past", famous heroes who are summoned to participate in Holy Grail Wars. The Black Faction of the Holy Grail Great War has Vlad III, the inspiration of Dracula who can also transform into a vampire, a genderbent Frankenstein's Monster (who is actually the bride who was completed before her mate), a genderbent Jack the Ripper (who is just one of the possible versions of the killer), and Cheiron the centaur (who hides his horse legs most of the time and assumes human legs instead). The four are also summonable in _Fate/Grand Order_.
-   _GeGeGe no Kitarō_, in addition to featuring the most known Yokai of folklore plus the "Mizuki-original" Yokai, features the classical monsters you would expect (such as Dracula, Frankenstein, a Werewolf, and a Witch as the most recurring ones), known as "The Western Youkai" led by Backbeard (who is partially based in Bugbear) in the Great Youkai War arc in both the original manga and its anime adaptations almost religiously in some way or another; though in the third anime it was made into a movie, it was loosely adapted in the fourth, and the sixth features Backbeard and a new set of Western Yokai (a willfully-shapeshifting Werewolf, an amalgamation of Dr. Frankenstein and the monster -as a Dual Mode-, Carmilla -yes, because she even predates Dracula in date of origin-, and a beautiful witch -and the sister of this arc's deuteragonist-) as the antagonists of a full-fledged 11-episode long story arc, as well in the Youkai World Rally in both the manga and some of the anime (barring the fourth, and as a theme park video for the fifth).
-   _Hell's Angels_ and its Animated Adaptation _Hells_ are set, surprise surprise, in Hell, where the recently deceased (?) main character attends an All-Ghouls School. Among her classmates there are a vampire, a four-armed mummy, gillwoman, a witch and a female Phantom of the Opera based upon _Phantom of the Paradise_.
-   in _Hellsing_, Millennium — the bad guys — are a Nazi army turned into vampires by a Mad Scientist, whose leadership includes a cyborg, a werewolf, a catboy with quantum-related powers, a Master of Illusion witch and a magical sharpshooter. Dracula is there too, but he's _the good guy_.
-   In _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Stardust Crusaders_, most of the enemy Stands and their users are based on classic and slasher horror movie monsters/antagonists, which is appropriate since their leader, DIO, is a vampire. Dark Blue Moon is a Black Lagoon-esque fish person, Ebony Devil takes the form of a Creepy Doll, Yellow Temperance is a Blob Monster, J. Geil Looks Like Orlok while the Hanged Man resembles a grave-rotted mummy, Enya Geil is a witch while Justice is a ghost with a Skull for a Head, Death 13 is a Grim Reaper Monster Clown with Dream Weaver powers, Osiris resembles a troll or ogre, Horus resembles an undead dinosaur, and Vanilla Ice is a vampire whose Stand, Cream, resembles a wraith.
-   _Kaibutsu-kun_, another one of Fujiko Fujio's works, is about a young shapeshifting prince accompanied by Dracula, Frankenstein's Monster (here called Franken), and Wolfman living out in the human world and meeting other monsters.
-   _Legendz_ is a Mons series where all the creatures are based on monsters of folklore, myth, and urban legend.
-   _Magetsukan Kitan_: Koudaira has just moved to the city in search of a job, but to do so, he also needs somewhere to stay. Sadly, he doesn't have tons of cash and all the offers he finds at the estate agent's are out of his budget. Except for one, a room for 9000 yen. It seems like a good deal but the room is actually in a monster mansion. So he goes there, falls in love with the landlady, freaks out, tries to leave then stays for good when he realizes than these monsters aren't out to get him.
-   _Magical Pokaan_ has a vampire, a werewolf, a witch and a Robot Girl as flatmates. And they're Cute Monster Girls, to boot. They also have a caretaker of sorts — an invisible ghost named Cammy. In one of the special episodes, she appears as a nurse wrapped in bandages, so possibly invoking The Mummy or The Invisible Man.
-   With a name like _Monster Soul_, one would say it's about oh um...monsters?
-   The villains of _My Hero Academia: Heroes: Rising_ aren't actually monsters, but certainly have this as a motif; Mummy is obvious, and Chimera is visually a wolfman, while Slice's powers are a Shout-Out to Marvel's Medusa (as in the Gorgon), and Big Bad Nine is The Juggernaut affiliated with electricity and multiple grafted Quirks, invocative of Frankenstein's Monster.
-   _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_ has a vampire, a Cute Ghost Girl, a Robot Girl, and a half-bird demon in Negi's class, as well as a half-dog demon as his closest male friend. As of Chapter 294 you can add another half-demon and a demon.
-   _Nurse Hitomi's Monster Infirmary_: Chapter 43 is a parody of several slasher films, including Friday the 13th and Halloween. On the last page, students who look like Hellraiser, Freddy Krueger, and a humanoid xenomorph appear. The class also includes a Friendly Zombie girl, a "vampire" (actually a leech girl), an invisible girl, and a Cat Boy.
-   _One Piece_:
    -   The Thriller Bark arc has a mansion filled with Zombies that do double duty as Frankenstein's Monsters, an invisible Mix and Match Critter, an Invisible Man, a Cute Ghost Girl who controls ghosts instead of being one, a Mad Scientist, and their leader, who bears a striking resemblance to a Vampire and has a special ability that renders its targets unable to touch sunlight without burning up.
    -   The Punk Hazard arc adds a new roster of monsters: Centaurs, satyrs, dragons, a harpy and a Blob Monster.
-   _Princess Resurrection_ has vampires, werewolves, robot girls and a demonic princess as the main cast. Most of the above are living in the same house.
-   _Rosario + Vampire_ has a vampire, two witches, a yuki-onna, and a succubus as part of the Unwanted Harem and a werewolf as their sempai, with just about every other monster you can think of as antagonists. There's even a Shout-Out to a famous monster _hunter_: at one point Unlucky Everydude Tsukune is given a whip that apparently was owned by Simon Belmont himself.
-   _Symphogear XV_: The Noble Red are a trio of villains whose bodies and powers are references to Frankenstein's monster, werewolves and vampires.
-   Much of the cast of _Witch Watch_ is a mix of youkai and horror movie monsters, all of which are able to pass as human. The main two characters are a witch and an ogre, while later additions include a werewolf and vampire. Several of them are the descendants of humanoid familiars witches made from animals.

    Card Games 

-   While _Magic: The Gathering_ has always had its share of vampires, ghosts, zombies, and other things that go bump in the night, the _Innistrad_ block takes place on a plane directly inspired by Gothic Horror.
-   _Monsters Party: Voodoo Madness_ an internationally distributed card game made by Costa Ricans is based on the Monster Mash motif including the basic classic monsters like a Vampire Girl, Frankenstein's Monster, a Mummy, a Zombie and a were-wolf.
-   _Smash Up_ featured, as one of its numerous expansions, the very appropriately named _Monster Smash_, starring Werewolves, Vampires, Mad Scientists (guest starring Frankenstein's Monster and Igor), and Giant Ants as new factions. The base game already had Aliens and Zombies, and other expansions added in Ghosts, Kaiju, Dragons and Innsmouth's Fish People inhabitants.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh!_ offers a huge selection of cards and archetypes all based on different kinds of monsters to choose from. But one specific archetype focused on this trope is ''Ghostrick'', a group of cute and friendly Halloween monsters.

    Comedy 

-   In the "9th Street Bridge" routine on his _Revenge_ album, Bill Cosby describes going to the movies as a kid with his pal Old Weird Harold and seeing one particular film that featured "Frankenstein, Wolf Man, Dracula, the Hunchback, the Mummy... _everybody_ was in it." Slightly averted in that we don't know whether the monsters actually teamed up onscreen, since — despite sitting in the theater for several showings of the movie — Bill and Harold never got up from hiding on the floor to actually look at the screen and see what happened.

    Comic Books 

-   In _All-Ghouls School_, sophomore Becca Norman is caught in a huge cheating scandal and her only chance of redeeming herself is by spending the summer at a creepy old boarding school called Darkmoor Academy—but what Becca doesn't realize is that her new school is actually a finishing school for young female monsters...and she's been selected as the school's first human student.
-   Used in the recently reprinted comic strip "Number 13" in _The Beano_ and in the one-off strip "Phone-a-Fiend".
-   _The Bojeffries Saga_:
    -   Raoul is a werewolf.
    -   Festus is a vampire.
    -   Ginda is a Jerkass Straw Feminist with Super-Strength and super-genius.
    -   Grandpa is a plant-like Eldritch Abomination with reality-warping powers.
    -   "The baby" is a never-seen radioactive monster kept locked in the cellar.
-   _Boneyard_ features a vampire, a gillwoman, a Frankenstein's monster, a werewolf, a demon, a skeleton, and some normal dude. Yeah.
-   Brazilian comic _Bug-a-Booo_ is set in a graveyard inhabited by among others<small>◊</small> the title Bedsheet Ghost character, a clumsy vampire, and Lady McDeath.
-   DC also had several groups under the name _Creature Commandos_: the first group (an extreme experiment in psychological warfare during World War II) was made up of Lt. Matthew Shrieve (normal), Warren Griffith (Werewolf), Sgt. Vincent Velcro (Vampire), Pvt. Elliot "Lucky" Taylor (Frankenstein's monster) and Dr. Myrra Rhodes (Medusa). They often teamed up with fellow _Weird War Tales_ headliner GI Robot. Of some note is the fact that though Shrieve was "normal", he was quite explicitly the worst of the bunch. A reboot in 2000 also featured a gillman, and a new crew introduced in 2003 and never seen again finally added a mummy.
    -   In the _Flashpoint_ timeline, the equivalent group is headed by the Frankenstein monster himself, with Velcoro as the vampire (the spelling of his name changes in modern versions), Griffith as the werewolf, and Nina Mazursky as a gillwoman. Lt. Shrieve fights alongside them in the war.
    -   DC's 2011 reboot has a modern-day version of the team, featuring Frankenstein, Velcoro, Griffith, Mazursky, Frankenstein's Bride, and Khalis, a mummy.
-   DCU's miniseries _Gotham City Monsters_ features Frankenstein along with Killer Croc, Andrew Bennett, Orca, Lady Clay and Red Phantom teaming up in order to stop Mr. Melmoth.
-   _I Hunt Monsters_...what do you think?
-   In a parody one-shot story _Illegal Aliens_ (not related in any way to the book of the same name), a group of underemployed monsters from classic Universal Studios’ films forms an alliance to wipe out new amazingly popular alien creatures, because they took away their jobs in the movie industry. The comic ends with all monsters being smashed by... Godzilla.
-   The original line-up of _The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen_ included The Invisible Man and Mr. Hyde. Various other monsters have appeared throughout the series as well, including vampires and Eldritch Abominations.
-   This also fills out the rest of the cast of the Slave Labor Graphics comic (which also ran in _Disney Adventures_) called Little Gloomy (alternately titled "The Super Scary Monster Show")
-   Occurs in several forms in Marvel Comics:
    -   _Marvel Zombies 4_ revolves around Morbius the Living Vampire, Werewolf by Night, Jennifer Kale, Daimon Hellstrom, Man-Thing, Dormammu, and eventually The Hood teaming up to fight against Piranha, The Zombie, and Deadpool's severed head, which, by the way, is the most dangerous entity in the series. Yes, a severed head racks up one of the largest bodycounts in a Zombie Apocalypse.
    -   The Fin Fang Four is made up of classic Marvel monsters who represent cornerstones of _giant_ monster movies. Fin Fang Foom (giant reptile/dragon), Googam (alien conqueror), Gorgilla (giant ape/gillman), and Elektro (giant robot).
    -   In the universe known as Earth-666 The Avengers comprise Capwolf, Frankencastle, Wolverine Lord of Vampires, Ice Mummy Thor, Big Creepy-Crawlies Spider-Man and Black Widow, Demonic Daredevil, hawkheaded Hawkeye and the ghost of Brother Voodoo. They follow the will of an undead Celestial.
    -   The Howling Commandos have existed in several forms:
        -   _Nick Furys Howling Commandos_ featured a werewolf, a half-vampire and half-werewolf, a mummy, a clone of the Frankenstein monster, a gorilla with a human brain, and a zombie. Brother Voodoo and Satanna also join in on the fun. These are just the main, active members; the Howlers are indicated to employ just about every monster in the Marvel universe, including Lilith, daughter of Dracula, and _both_ Abominable Snowmen (the cursed prospector and the representative of an entire yeti species, of course). A _Werewolf by Night_ letter column featured a fan post in which the author made a joke about a Nick Fury/Jack Russell team-up called "Sgt. Furry and His Growling Commandos". Funny how that joke later became reality, in some sense of the word: Nick Fury actually never appeared in _Nick Fury's Howling Commandos_; it was more a Mythology Gag name and a pun on the monstrous nature of the team.
        -   The _Secret Wars (2015)_ event features the title _Mrs Deadpool And The Howling Commandos_, which is made up of Shiklah, Werewolf by Night, N'Kantu the Living Mummy, the Invisible Man, Frankenstein's Monster, Man-Thing, and Marcus the minotaur with a symbiote trying to overthrow Dracula.
        -   One of the titles of _All-New, All-Different Marvel_ is _Howling Commandos Of SHIELD_ and features Warwolf, Vampire by Night, Hit Monkey, Teen Abomination, zombie Jasper Sitwell, Manphibian, robot Dum Dum Dugan, Orrgo, and Man-Thing.
    -   The group known as the Legion of Monsters has also gone through several incarnations:
        -   The name was first used as the title of a '70s comic and featured swamp monster Man-Thing, demon Ghost Rider, vampire Morbius, and Werewolf by Night. This group didn't exactly work together, however, and mostly just fought each other.
        -   The name made a comeback with the new Legion of Monsters introduced in the 2010s, in which every original member but Ghost Rider returns, in addition to N'Kantu the Living Mummy, gillman Manphibian, Mole Men\-like Moloids, classic Marvel monster Orggo, and The Punisher as a Frankenstein's Monster.
        -   A later version of the Legion of Monsters appeared in _Daredevil_ and featured Satanna, N'Kantu, Werewolf by Night, the original Frankenstein's Monster, and the zombie Simon Garth. The term "Monster Mash" is even used to describe them in the recap page of _Daredevil_ #33.
    -   In _Spider Island 2_, a tie-in to _Secret Wars III_, Agent Venom turns the spider versions of Captain America into a werewolf, Captain Marvel into a vampire, Hulk into a lizardman, and Iron Man into a Green Goblin to free them from Spider Queen's control.
-   _Mélusine_: From the get-go, the castle where the eponymous witch works. The Count is a vampire, his wife is a ghost, the majordomo Winston is a Frankentstein monster, and the place hosts a mummy, animated armors, plenty other ghosts (mostly of the bedsheet kind) and various other undead and monsters. Plus, Mélusine is dating a werewolf, and her aunt Adrazelle is a Witch Classic. Later in the series, Doctor Kartoffeln adds a Mad Scientist to the mix.
-   The eponymous _Monster Plus_ is a one-man Monster Mash, being a vampire werewolf mummy zombie Frankenstein's Monster witch doctor. One of his teen sidekicks happens to be Kid Dracula (the other two are normal humans).
-   Top Cow crossover _Monster War_ featured Mr. Hyde, Count Dracula and Frankenstein's monster as the main villains trying to unleash Hell on Earth. Werewolves were also featured but as minor villains.
-   _Perky_: A vampire, a werewolf, and Frankenstein’s Monster all make an appearance in "Horror House".
-   _The Perhapanauts_ is set in a secret agency to deal with otherworldly things, and includes on the team we follow a super-intelligent sasquatch, a ghost, a mothman and a chupacabra.
-   _Requiem Vampire Knight_ takes place in a hellish dimension populated by all sorts of monsters such as vampires, werewolves, ghouls, mummies, ogres, reptilians, twisted mutants and tortured ghosts among others with Dracula ruling this world as its Evil Overlord. Recent chapters also feature a titanic Frankenstein-like monster being created by mad scientists. The twist is that pretty much all of these monsters were humans that reincarnated in this afterlife in different forms according to their sins, except for the ghosts, who had the misfortune of being killed and victimized by evil people but still get trapped in Hell even if they are innocent, and they can only leave after they kill their tormentor.
-   _Santa Versus Dracula_ features this as Dracula's main force which include his three vampire brides, an army of undead kids, a werewolf, Igor, The Invisible Man, Frankenstein's Monster and Mr. Hyde. He did have a witch in his group, but she annoys him so he sprays her with beer to make her melt.
-   The eponymous rock band in the DCU comic _Scare Tactics (DC Comics)_ had a vampire lead singer, a werewolf on lead guitar, a snake-boy on bass guitar, and a walking pile of sludge for a drummer.
-   Fleetway comic strip _Scream Inn_ and its later spinoff _The Spooktacular 7_ revolved around a vampiric innkeeper, a zombie maid, a witch, a ghost, a headless man, a skeleton, a devil and a talking spider.
-   The Event Horizon clique that goes by the "Corpse Corps" from _Superboy and the Ravers_ includes a vampire, a green alien who has been stitched together and reanimated Frankenstein's monster style, a girl who is a ghost or spirit of some type, a walking skeleton and a short extraterrestrial zombie even before they recruited Half-life, a greaser who got age stopped as a teen in the '50s when a spaceship horribly mangled him and left over half his body as transparent oozing green down to the bone.
-   Archie's _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Adventures_ comic has a one-off villain named Monsterex, who is a fusion of the Wolf Man, the Gill Man, Frankenstein's Monster, and a vampire.
-   Also from Brazil, A Turma do Arrepio<small>◊</small>, which uses cutesy designs for its cast: a witch, a vampire, the monster from Frankenstein, a mummy and a werewolf. Later it was adapted as a Live-Action TV series in 1995.
-   _Urban Monsters_ stars a fishman, a zombie, a satyr, and a sasquatch, in a world with no apparent Masquerade.

    Comic Strips 

-   The title panel for the Halloween 1993 strip of _Garfield_ shows Garfield sitting in a movie theater with various monsters, including the Frankenstein monster and his bride, a werewolf, a mummy, the Gill-man and a vampire trying to reach for Garfield's popcorn.

    Fan Works 

-   In the Discworld of A.A. Pessimal, the Ankh-Morpork City Air Watch is _mainly_ composed of Witches with a passion for flight who _mainly_ fly high-Magitek-enhanced broomsticks. They also boast Pegasi and a Heavy Squadron of flying elephants. Associate members of the Air Watch include pilots who can fly without needing a broomstick — a vampire and a banshee. The latest phase of the story will end with their getting unit mascots to take on parade — a flying sheep and, inevitably, an air-capable K'holli dog.
-   Dracula's council from _Joys of the Parenthood - The Țepeș Edition_ is composed primarily of the leaders of their own respective species, including an Orlok-inspired vampire (Olrox), The Grim Reaper (Death), an Alpha male werewolf (Grimmane), a succubus (Liliana) and a merman.
-   _Werehog's Roommate_ by GothNebula stars Sonic the Werewolf Hedgehog<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , Amy the Vegetarian Werewolf Hedgehog, Tails the Frankenstein's Fox, Knuckles the Ghost Echidna, Rouge the Witch Bat, Shadow the Werewolf Hedgehog, Silver the Zombie Hedgehog, Blaze the Mummy Cat, Espio the Poltergeist Chameleon, Scourge the Werehog, Sticks the Wendigo Badger, Nebula the Dhampyr Hedgehog, and Hex the Genie Cobra. And they all live in the _Monster High_\-esque Monster City.
    -   _Vampire Wind and the Innocent Rose_, by the same author, stars Sonic the (King) Vampire Hedgehog, Tails the Frankenstein's Fox, Knuckles the Mummy Echidna, Shadow the Werewolf Hedgehog, Silver the Ghost Hedgehog, Blaze the Witch Cat, Rouge the Gargoyle-Bat, Cream the Boogeyrabbit, Scourge the Vampire Zombie Hedgehog, Fiona the Evil Sorceress Fox, Rosy the Grim Reaper's daughter, Nebula the Werecat-Hedgehog Hybrid, and Amy the Mortal (later Vampire) Hedgehog.
-   _There's More Magic Out There_ is where the supporting characters of _Miraculous Ladybug_ are monsters or magic users, and deal with the various magical elements in their lives. The first seven monsters of the main cast consist of a vampire (Juleka), a fox selkie (Alya), a fae changeling (Sabrina), a witch (Alix), a werewolf (Chloe), a succubus (Aurore), and a nekomata (Kagami).
    -   Later additions to the cast include a gargoyle (Nino), a reluctant Hunter of Monsters with a snarky spirit attached to him (Nathaniel), a Grim Dog born from her grave (Rose), a siren with osprey wings (Kim), a Druid (Mylene), and an Incubus (Mirielle).
-   The quest _Where Nightmares Fear To Tread_ has several monsters wandering around town, each with their own adventures in protecting a child now under their care. The main character is a boogieman (Dule), who comes into frequent contact with a vampire (Alex), a werewolf (Gunnolf), an angel (Elijah), an Eldritch Abomination (the Songsmith), and a Wendigo (the Beast), with a Grey alien mentioned in the background.
-   SlifofinaDragon's _Sengoku Basara_ fanfics already updates the franchise's trope (see below in Video Games) with Katakura Kojuro becoming a werewolf (though he can change at will), Toyotomi Hideyoshi's daughter Kagehime, another witch, demonic entities Kuroryuko, Kuroiryu, and Kuraitora, and Date Masamune and Sanada Yukimura's son Masa's Hyde-like Split Personality Sei.

    Films — Animation 

-   In _Frankenweenie_, the children turn their pets into expies of various classic horror monsters: a vampire-cat, a kaiju-turtle, a werewolf-rat, a mummy-hamster, a bunch of gillman-like sea monkeys, an invisible fish, and of course the main character, a dog resurrected like Frankenstein's Monster.
-   _Hotel Transylvania_. The main characters are Dracula and his daughter; their friends and guests include a mummy, a werewolf, Frankenstein, witches, an invisible man, a blob, and more. Justified by the title setting being, well, a hotel for monsters.
-   _The LEGO Batman Movie_ has a Villain Team-Up of movie monsters including: Dracula, the Mummy, living skeletons, the Kraken, the Gremlins, the Wicked Witch of the West and King Kong, among others.
-   The groovy Rankin Bass film _Mad Monster Party?_ has Baron von Frankenstein inviting Dracula, the Werewolf, the Invisible Man, Quasimodo, Dr. Jekyll and the Creature from the Black Lagoon to his private island in order to announce his retirement and appoint his successor as head of the Worldwide Organization of Monsters. Tim Burton claims it as an influence on his later works. The film also has a prequel of sorts in _Mad Mad Mad Monsters_, which had Baron von Frankenstein inviting the other monsters to the wedding of his monster and his new bride.
-   The direct-to-video animated movie _Monster Mash (2000)_ lives up to its name — Dracula, Frankenstein, and the Wolfman have to prove that they are still scary while going up against parodies of "modern" monsters: spaghetti-based Freddie de Spaghetti, killer wind-up doll Chicky and the otherworldly Alien Eater.
-   _Monster Family_ is about a family who are inflicted with a Becoming the Costume curse by Baba Yaga on the orders of Dracula, transforming them into a vampire mother, Frankenstein father, mummy daughter and werewolf son.
-   _Monsters vs. Aliens_: Captain Ersatz versions of the Fifty-Foot Woman, the Fly, the Blob, the Creature from the Black Lagoon, and Mothra are gathered together to whoop alien butt. The Invisible Man also used to be a member of the team.
-   The citizens of Halloween Town in _The Nightmare Before Christmas_ include living skeletons, ghosts, zombies, witches, vampires, a werewolf, a Big Red Devil, a Monster Clown and a Mad Scientist with his stitched-together creation, along with many original monsters.
-   Two of the Made-for-TV _Scooby-Doo_ films from the late 1980's used this trope.
    -   _Scooby-Doo and the Ghoul School_ had Shaggy, Scooby, and Scrappy volunteer to teach at a school for monster girls, the students being a vampire named Sibella, a Frankenstein monster named Elsa Frankenteen, a werewolf named Winnie, a ghost named Phantasma, and a mummy named Tanis.
    -   _Scooby-Doo! and the Reluctant Werewolf_ has Shaggy turned into a werewolf against his will by a pair of hunchbacks called the Hunch Bunch so that Dracula can have him replace the recently retired werewolf racer in the Monster Road Rally. The other racers involved include Frankenstein's Monster, a dragon/fly hybrid named Dragonfly, a swamp monster addressed as Swamp Thing (no apparent connection to the DC Comics character of the same name), a living skeleton named Mr. Bonejangles, a mummy, a pair of witches known as the Witch Sisters, and a mild-mannered gentleman named Dr. Jackal who has constant and involuntary transformations into a hideous madman named Mr. Snide.
-   _Scooby-Doo on Zombie Island_ has ghosts, zombies and witches/were-cats.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _The Cabin in the Woods_: The third act involves Dana and Marty unleashing all of the Controllers' monsters — which include, among other things, zombies, a Giant Spider, a giant cobra, ghosts, a Captain Ersatz of Pinhead, killer robots, a werewolf, masked killers, and a merman — into their base. Special mention goes to the evil unicorn, and the Angry Molesting Tree. Try learning the full list. It gets even more ridiculous when you see others, such as a group of three Klansmen.
-   _The Creeps_: The movie is about a Mad Scientist bringing Dracula, Frankenstein's Monster, a Mummy, and a werewolf into the real world. However, thanks to a flaw, they're only three feet tall.
-   In the 1940s, Universal hit on the idea of pairing up their most popular horror movie characters in a series of so-called "monster rally" pictures. The first of these, _Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man_, had, well, Frankenstein's Monster meeting the Wolf Man. This was followed by _House of Frankenstein_ and _House of Dracula_, both of which added Count Dracula to the mix (albeit in separate storylines, with no interaction with the other two). The series ended — nay, _climaxed_ — with the brilliant horror comedy _Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein_, in which Bud and Lou stumble into the House of Dracula and run into not just the Frankenstein Monster but also Dracula, the Wolf Man, a brain-swapping mad scientist, _and_ (in a surprise cameo) the Invisible Man! Today, the interconnected "Universal Monsters" films of the 1930s and '40s are officially considered to be a forerunner of today's "cinematic universe" franchises, such as the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
-   _Freaks of Nature_ features a town of humans, vampires, zombies and a werewolf family facing off against an alien invasion.
-   _Goosebumps (2015)_ and _Goosebumps 2: Haunted Halloween_ had monsters from the _Goosebumps_ books that were released.
-   _Gorilla, Interrupted_ features a Mad Scientist, a Killer Gorilla, a Quincy Punk with a nuclear guitar and a Gentleman Adventurer facing an alien invasion and Satan.
-   _House of the Wolf Man_ is an attempt at a Monster Mash in the vein of the classic Universal films.
-   _House on Bare Mountain_ has Krakow the Wolfman, Dracula, and Frankenstein's Monster all spying on, and eventually invading, a secluded girls' finishing school (although Dracula and Frankenstein's parts in this scheme are comparatively minor.)
-   _I, Frankenstein_ has the Frankenstein monster getting mixed up in a war between gargoyles and demons.
-   Everybody’s favourite Monster Clown Pennywise aka IT is one-man Monster Mash in both the 1990 and 2017 versions. Pennywise can turn into a werewolf, a mummy, a headless child corpse, a leper, a skeleton, a bunch of dead children, a naked witch lady, a scary flute lady, a scary librarian, a creepy father and a Giant Spider. Ironically Pennywise’s normal clown form is probably more terrifying than all his transformations combined. Interestingly, the 2017 film would have featured Pennywise turning into Freddy Krueger in a scene set in the 80s (since both that film and the _Nightmare_ franchise were produced by New Line Cinema), but they later decided against it.
-   _The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen_, due to the presence of Mr. Hyde and a few others.
-   Several legendary creatures decide get together to beat the shit out of each other in a wrestling-style tournament in _Monster Brawl_.
-   The 1980 British horror film _The Monster Club_, which starred Vincent Price as a vampire named Eramus who takes a fictional incarnation of horror author R. Chetwynd-Hayes with him to the eponymous club. He tells him stories about a hybrid monster's encounter with a Gold Digger, a son finding out that his father is a vampire, and a film director meeting a group of ghouls. The film ends with Eramus giving a speech on how Humans Are the Real Monsters, which impresses the patrons so much that Eramus' human guest is declared an honorary monster and club member.
-   _Monster Mash (1995)_ featured several monsters, which was appropriate given that the film was based on the Bobby "Boris" Pickett song of the same name. The monsters included were Mad Scientist Dr. Frankenstein, his monster, a hunchbacked assistant named Igor, Count Dracula and his wife Natasha, a werewolf and Elvis Presley reincarnated as a mummy.
-   _The Monster Squad_ has Count Dracula attempting to raise an army of darkness with the assistance of Frankenstein's Monster, a werewolf, a mummy, and a gill-man.
-   A recurring staple of the _El Santo_ series and other Masked Luchador films.
-   Downplayed in _Saturday the 14th_, as while many of the classic horror movie monsters are present (vampires, werewolves, aliens, mummies, fish people, etc.), only the vampires have any direct effect on the plot (being there to obtain a book), with the alien and the fish-monster each being a One-Scene Wonder and the rest appearing as background extras.
-   _Stan Helsing_ has parodies of Jason Voorhees, Pinhead, Freddy Krueger, Chucky, Michael Myers, and Leatherface.
-   The 1985 farce _Transylvania 6-5000_ has two tabloid reporters journey to Transylvania to seek out the truth behind reports of Frankenstein's monster roaming a town. After some false starts they wind up encountering not only it but also The Igor and his similarly hunchbacked wife, a seductive female vampire, a Wolf Man, a swamp creature, and a Mad Scientist who is keeping all of them in check and also keeps a mummy on the premises of the local castle. Subverted in that none of them are actually monsters, just misfit humans the scientist is helping — "Frankenstein's monster" is a car accident victim rebuilt with what the scientist could afford due to corrupt officials, the "wolf man" has hypertrichosis, the "mummy" is an ugly woman recovering from extensive plastic surgery, the "swamp creature" is a contortionist, and the "vampire" is a lovesick woman who adopted the persona to compensate for insecurity. The "hunchbacks" have the postures they do because they're constantly subservient to others.
-   _Trick 'r Treat_ tells a series of interconnected stories set in a small town over Halloween Night. The stories include undead children, a Serial Killer, a vampire (actually the above Serial Killer pulling a "Scooby-Doo" Hoax), werewolves, and the whole thing is orchestrated by a Creepy Child dressed like a scarecrow who turns out to be a Pumpkin Person.
-   _Van Helsing_ includes Dr. Frankenstein, his monster, Dracula, his brides, several werewolves, Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, and a certain hunchback thrown in for good measure. Van Helsing mentions having fought gargoyles and warlocks in the past, and a deleted scene features a gillman-like creature living in Dracula's castle. Made by Universal, all this was an attempt at doing a throwback to the Universal Monsters "shared universe", though it never went beyond the one film.
-   The _Waxwork_ films do this, and also incorporate Real Life baddies like the Marquis de Sade. The second flick steps outside the horror genre to include a fantasy Evil Overlord, although horror characters remain in the majority.

    Literature 

-   _Bored of the Rings_ has this in the army emerging from the Black Gate of Fordor:
    
    Forth from the gate burst a hundred thousand rabid narcs swinging bicycle chains and tire irons, followed by drooling divisions of pop-eyed changelings, deranged zombies and distempered werewolves. At their shoulders marched eight score heavily armored griffins, three thousand goose-stepping mummies, and a column of abominable snowmen on motorized bobsleds; at their flanks tramped six companies of slavering ghouls, eighty parched vampires in white tie, and the Phantom of the Opera. Above them the sky was blackened by the dark shapes of vicious pelicans, houseflies the size of two-car garages, and Rodan the Flying Monster. Through the portals streamed more foes of various forms and descriptions, including a six-legged diplodocus, the Loch Ness Monster, King Kong, Godzilla, the Creature from the Black Lagoon, the Beast with 1,000,000 Eyes, the Brain from Planet Arous, three different subphyla of giant insects, the Thing, It, She, Them!, and the Blob. The great tumult of their charge could have waked the dead, were they not already bringing up the rear.
    
-   Clive Barker's short novel _Cabal_, later filmed as _Nightbreed_. The monsters live in Midian in Canada. In the book Clive Barker's Nightbreed Chronicles, Barker explains the origins of many of these monsters, indicating that they did not share a common origin. One monster had its origin as a mutant engineered by the Central Powers during World War I (reminiscent of the G-8 series, which often featured paranormal entities devised by Central Powers researchers) and another a person mutated by a meteor (similar to Doc Savage's foe Mo-Gwei, Vandal Savage, Meteor Man, and L?Île aux trente cercueils by Maurice LeBlanc).
-   _City of Devils_, _Fifty Feet of Trouble_, and _Wolfman Confidential_ take place in a world in which every Universal, b-movie, and legendary monster comprise the ordinary John and Jane Does of the world.
-   Kevin J. Anderson's _Dan Shamble, Zombie P.I._ novels take place in the Unnatural Quarter, a neighborhood set aside for undead, fairy-tale beings, and other supernatural folk generated by or emerged in the wake of the Big Uneasy.
-   _Department 19_ features werewolves, vampires and Frankenstein's Monster.
-   _The Devil’s League_ has near-perfect attendance: Vampires, goblins, a mad scientist, a ghost, a gargoyle, an invisible man, witches, sorcerers, fish people, human-beast hybrids, zombies, multiple monster hunters, a living mummy and his scorpion man, and featuring a werewolf protagonist (who later becomes a triple-hybrid-monster). Now _that’s_ a graveyard smash.
-   _Discworld_:
    -   As of _I Shall Wear Midnight_, the Ankh-Morpork Police Department has, in addition to various humans: a werewolf, a vampire, a zombie, some gargoyles, a golem, an imp-based PDA, a gnome, an Igor, a King Incognito, a Medusa, many trolls, many dwarves, a Nac Mac Feegle raised by gnomes and Cpl. Nobby Nobbs.
    -   And for those of you who haven't read the books, Nobby really does deserve a place on that list. He carries a card, signed by the Patrician of Ankh-Morpork and a local midwife of some skill, stating that, on the balance of probability, Nobby really is a human being. That's all you really need to know about him.
    -   In _Reaper Man_, before all the monsters started joining the Watch, the Fresh Start Club included two zombies, one banshee, one bogeyman, a vampire, the vampire's wife who isn't a vampire but insists on acting like one, a ghoul (retired), and a wolf who turns into a Wolf Man at full moon.
    -   And of course there is Biers, the bar where _everybody knows your shape_, which is _literally_ where Ankh-Morpork's monsters and Undead go to unwind over a drink.
-   The _Donal Riordan_ a.k.a _Tristopolis_ novels by British sci-fi writer John Meaney are set in another dimension where necromancy and other magic is just part of the local 20 Minutes in the Future technology and humans co-exist with banshees, zombies, hellhounds, ghosts and other things that bump in the night.
-   _The Dresden Files_. The main character is a wizard and frequently teams up with an incubus, which in this setting is the most humanlike kind of vampire. Other occasional assistants/sidekicks include werewolves, faeries and Knights in Shining Armor. In addition, a few villains resemble this trope, particularly the phobophages (shapeshifting faeries that feed on fear) that disguised themselves as movie monsters to use their reputations for horror, including Captain Ersatz versions of Freddy, Jason, and a Xenomorph. And Chucky.
-   _Extreme Monsters_ was a book series published by Penny Candy Press about preteen monsters who enjoyed playing extreme sports. The main group consisted of a skateboarding vampire named Val, a street luging witch named Jinx, an in-line skating werewolf named Wulf, a BMX biking Frankenstein monster named Steiner, a speed climbing mummy named Mumford and their mad scientist coach Doc.
-   The novel _Family Bites_ by Lisa Williams is about a family of friendly neighborhood werewolves whose new neighbors turn out to be Friendly Neighborhood Vampires.
-   S.A. Sidor's Weird West adventure _Fury From The Tomb_ features mummies, ghouls, vaguely-Lovecraftian shape-changing worms, jiangshi, weird monastic death cultists, a portal to the afterlife, and a voodoo witch. The sequel, _The Beast Of Nightfall Lodge_, adds jaguar shape-changers, a ghost-summoning spirit medium, a decapitated alien head in a keg of booze, the chemically-revived corpse of Billy the Kid, a talking mastiff, and a nigh-unstoppable wendigo to the roster of weird.
-   Neil Gaiman's _The Graveyard Book_ not only features a boy raised by ghosts, but also an organisation called the Honour Guard consisting of a vampire, a werewolf, a mummy and some sort of djinn.
-   Norman Bridwell wrote _How to Care for Your Monster_ and _Monster Holidays_, in which children were shown how to treat classic monsters as essentially pets.
-   _InCryptid_:
    -   The Baker family is a homage to _The Munsters_, with a Frankenstein Monster/Revenant Zombie as the dad, a Johrlac<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  as the mom, and their three adopted children: A human, a bogeyman, and another Johrlac.
    -   Dave's Fish and Strips, the bogeyman-run strip club Verity works at in the first book (later renamed The Freakshow) is staffed almost entirely by cryptids. Species working there include gorgons, tanuki, and waheela.
-   _Wayward Children_ has the world of The Moors, a Gothic Horror setting where power is divided up between the vampire aristocrats, human Mad Scientists who can raise the dead by harnessing the power of lightning, werewolves, and the Lovecraftian Old Gods. The four groups are all antagonistic to each other and serve to act as a balancing force for each other: if a vampire lord starts becoming too cruel and destructive, a mad scientist is likely to attack him with an army of his reanimated victims, for example.
-   The eponymous _IT_ can become the heroes worst fears i.e The Mummy, Wolf Man (the teenage Werewolf), Dracula, Frankenstein's Monster, Creature from the Black Lagoon, Rodan, and a witch (specifically the one from Hansel and Gretel). IT also has less iconic forms such as The Crawling Eye and a Paul Bunyan statue. It’s more than likely that The Loser’s Club watching Horror Movies at cinema as children played part in the eponymous antagonist’s Shapeshifting especially since IT generally looks different to each member of the club. And of course its default appearance is a Monster Clown and while You Cannot Grasp the True Form, the closest we get is a Giant Spider.
-   _Kitty Norville_, likewise, features both friendly and unfriendly werewolves and vampires. As the ironically named main character is a werewolf, you'd expect most of the bloodsuckers to be villains, but she's allied to more than she's made enemies. The werewolf packs and nearest vampire families usually keep a cooperative connection. The best example of a Monster Mash in this series is _Kitty's House of Horrors_, where the premise is a reality show starring all the B-list celebrities who are or claim to be supernatural: Kitty the werewolf talk radio host, a werewolf pro wrestler, a were-seal state legislator, a TV medium and stage magician who are both the real thing, a vampire beauty pageant winner, and a psychic supernatural debunker TV show star.
-   The _Mercy Thompson_ series has both friendly and unfriendly fae, werewolves, vampires, witches, sorcerers and walkers (Native American shapeshifters) so far. Wizards, druids and angels are mentioned, and Charles' mother gave him Native American magic similar to shamanism. The various species don't _like_ each other — we are talking The Fair Folk and Always Chaotic Evil vamps whose best defector gleefully shoots and kicks the dog — but there are nastier things out in the night. Like demons or politicians.
-   _The Monster Club_ by R. Chetwynd-Hayes. Hidden beneath the streets of London is a dark and dreadful establishment known as The Monster Club, where vampires indulge in a rather different kind of Bloody Mary and ghouls tear into their gruesome repasts. Here, along with the usual monsters — vampires, werewolves, ghouls, and some of Dr Frankenstein's more freakish creations — you'll find other, less familiar ones. You'll meet the frightening Fly-by-Night, the hideous shaddy, the horrible mock, and the dreaded shadmock, perhaps the most terrible of all. Later made into a film.
-   _A Night in the Lonesome October_ by Roger Zelazny features versions of Dracula, Frankenstein, The Wolf Man (who's American), Sherlock Holmes, Jack the Ripper, and Rasputin, as well as a Cute Witch, a pair of Evil Sorcerers, a Druid, a Sinister Minister, and their Talking Animal Familiars.
-   With the possible exception of Godzilla, anything on the list above is likely to be found drinking in Strangefellows in one _Nightside_ book or another.
-   Daniel Gonzalez's _Ravencraft_ series has Laura Talbot (a werewolf), Lucilla (a vampire), Abigail Valdemar (a zombie/Frankenstein-like creature) and Donovan Fort (a monster hunter) as main characters. Also Dracula, the Frankenstein Monster and other many evil werewolves, vampires and other monsters as villains.
-   The _Shivers (M. D. Spenser)_ entry, "Watch 'em Kill", where the protagonist unesxpectedly comes into posession of a bunch of pills turning out to be compressed monsters, growing on contact with water. All the monsters are the stock variety lifted from Universal Horror films, ranging from a mummy to a werewolf and a vampire.
-   _Tales of MU_ initially appears to be based on this to most readers, though it is not exactly on a voluntary basis — the Wizarding School, Magisterius University, has _graciously_ established a separate dorm for the non-humans and part-humans, supposedly to make them feel less pressured to conform to human ways but in actuality at least in part to keep the freaks out of sight. The characters' foibles, both personal and racial, make up a significant part of the series.
-   Kelley Armstrong wrote a novel with only werewolves. She then called the series _Women of the Otherworld_ and included witches, demons, and other supernaturals to be able to not be stuck only writing about werewolves.
-   _Monster of the Year_: The basic premise of the entire novel. The cast includes a Frankenstein's monster, a vampire, a gill man, a wolfman, a mummy, two hunchbacks (Quasimodo and Igor), a miniature Godzilla expy, and a Phantom of the Opera in a "Blink-And-You'll-Miss-It" cameo.

    Live-Action TV 

-   A 1983 failed TV pilot _1313th Avenue_ had a group of monsters and supernatural beings sharing an apartment building while trying to maintain a Masquerade.
-   _Akumaizer 3_: The Akuma Clan's ranks include walking skeletons, western monsters like Dracula and Frankenstein's Monster, Wicked Witchs, Oni brothers, other Youkai, dragons and other Japanese mythological monsters like Namazu.
-   In the _A.N.T. Farm_ episode, "MutANT Farm", while the older students are humans, all of the ANTs Are Monsters:
    -   Chyna: Medusa
    -   Olive: Mad scientist
    -   Fletcher: Vampire
    -   Gibson: Mummy
    -   Angus: Zombie
    -   Wacky: Werewolf
-   The BBC 3 show _Being Human_ (and its Syfy remake) have a vampire, a werewolf and a female ghost as flatmates.
-   _Big Bad Beetleborgs_ had a mummy, a vampire, a Frankenstein-style monster, a group of pixies, a ghoul, a living statue, and a "phantasm" all sharing a haunted house. Surprisingly, while _they_ were real, the heroes and villains of the show were _not_: the Beetleborg powers were pulled out of the world of fiction by a spell the phantasm cast, and the villains were also pulled out of that world as a Gone Horribly Wrong side effect.
-   _Big Wolf on Campus_ certainly counts to a degree. The main character, a werewolf is routinely tasked with fighting many supernatural threats, which range from traditional monsters like demons, vampires and other werewolves, to fantastical beings like warlocks, spider people and a genie, to the more esoteric like robots, a Freddie Krueger analogue with cable-based powers, an imaginary friend and even a greaser pulled out of a fictional 50s movie.
-   The _Buffyverse_ is a big ol’ Monster Mash having abundance of Vampires, Witches, Werewolves, Frankenstein Monsters, Ghosts, Mummies, Dragons, Zombies, living ventriloquist dolls, a shit load of demons, cyborg ninja assassins and more than a couple Eldritch Abomination(s).
    -   In Season 4 of _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_, Adam attempts to create an alliance between vampires and demons to fight humans.
        
        **Giles:** ...And yet you say that the, the vampire went to the demon's aid. The two of them were working as a team?  
        **Buffy:** Everything except giving each other little pats on the behind.
        
    -   Buffy's own group of friends is a bit like a monster mash, too. There are Slayers (Buffy and Faith), Vampires (Angel and Spike), Witches (Willow, Tara and Giles), a Werewolf (Oz), an ex-Demon (Anya), a Demon (Clem), with a couple of normal humans thrown in the mix.
-   A _Chappelle's Show_ sketch had a mummy, werewolf, and Frankenstein's monster who were roommates and all victims of Fantastic Racism.
-   _Dark Shadows_ had witches, vampires, a werewolf, a Frankenstein's Monster, ghosts, Captain Ersatzes of Dorian Gray and Jekyll and Hyde, and even an Eldritch Abomination. They managed to miss mummies, though. If it had lasted long enough, they might have gotten mummies and a robot. _Kolchak: The Night Stalker_ (original version, also produced by Dan Curtis) made up for the lack.
-   The 1965 _Doctor Who_ serial "The Chase" had a cameo by Frankenstein's monster, Dracula and a ghost called the Grey Lady or rather, androids based on them.
-   The 1979 Halloween Special _The Halloween That Almost Wasn't_, released on video as _The Year Dracula Saved The World_, in which Denser and Wackier versions of Count Dracula (played by Judd Hirsch), Igor, the Werewolf, the Frankenstein Monster, the Zombie and the Mummy all try to convince The Witch to not quit her job in order to save Halloween.
-   The 1970s Canadian Saturday Morning children's show _The Hilarious House Of Frightenstein_ is basically this, with a Mad Scientist Dracula expy named Count Frightenstein (He's supposed to be the 13th son of Dracula) and his sidekick, Igor, their incapacitated Frankenstein's Monster expy named "Brucie" (which they could never revive) and a host of other kooky, classic-horror-themed characters <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> .
-   _Kamen Rider Kiva_ has an overall horror theme, specifically based on the Universal Monsters. As a result, the villains are vampires and the main character is a Dhampyr whose Rider powers come from a talking bat and include alternate forms based on a werewolf, gillman and a Frankenstein Monster, as well as a base of operations which is a dragon bonded to the mold of a castle. The Movie introduces two villainous Riders with powers based off of demons and Yeti, as well as another monster race whose members include a Gorgon, a Mandragora, a Gargoyle and a Mummy.
-   There was a short lived 70s TV series called _Monster Squad_ (unrelated to the movie pictured above) that is too campy to be believed. About a wax museum security guard whose "Crime Computer" brings the replicas of Frankenstein's Monster, Dracula and The Wolf Man to life. They solve crimes to make up for their namesakes' past misdeeds.
-   From _Mr. Show_: Monster Parties: Fact or Fiction?
-   _The Munsters_ as a case of a Creepy Family, has the father Herman (a Frankenstein's Monster), the mother Lily (a vampire), the grandfather Sam "Grandpa" Dracula (a vampire/werewolf), the only son Eddie (a werewolf with some vampiric tendencies), the niece Marilyn (the Damsel in Distress), Spot (the Godzilla-like dragon pet) and a black cat that roars like a lion, all similar in looks (albeit not in behavior) to the classic Universal Monsters.
-   _Penny Dreadful_ is a megacrossover of famous Victorian horror literature that features characters from _Dracula_, _Frankenstein_, _The Picture of Dorian Gray_, and in the final season _The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde_, as well as less work-specifically witches, a werewolf, and Satan himself.
-   _Supernatural_ is a veritable Fantasy Kitchen Sink, but this trope is explicitly invoked in one episode during Season 4, "Monster Movie", where the Winchesters investigate killings apparently perpetrated by the famous silver-screen monsters (See header picture above) themselves. It turns out to be a Shapeshifter who specifically tries to emulate them. The entire episode is a Shout-Out to classic horror movies.
-   _Super Sentai_ and _Power Rangers_:
    -   In an episode of _Power Rangers Zeo_, Adam has a dream where his friends are a vampire, a werewolf, a mummy, a witch, a mad scientist, The Igor, and a Bride of Frankenstein\-like monster.
    -   The villains of _Mahou Sentai Magiranger_/_Power Rangers Mystic Force_ had this kind of horror motif, starting with a Frankensteinish cyborg, a vampiress, a Wolf Man (actually a knight in wolf-themed armor, but the reference is there), and zombie-like Mooks. The Frankenstein later got replaced by a mummy, then a whole other group came in led by a gillman, and they all worked for a Cthulhu-like Eldritch Abomination.
    -   The summer vacation arc of _Shuriken Sentai Ninninger_ feature a trio of "Western Youkai" based on Dracula, Frankenstein's Monster and the Wolf Man, summoned by Ariake-no-Kata. They all got adapted into _Power Rangers Ninja Steel_, but they don't appear together even in the Halloween episode (in fact, only the Dracula-based one appears in it!).

    Music 

-   The Trope Namer is "Monster Mash", a classic 1962 novelty hit by Bobby "Boris" Pickett and the Crypt-Kickers. Narrated by a Mad Scientist with a Boris Karloff\-type voice, it mentions his monster, vampires (including Dracula and his son), the Wolf Man, Igor, zombies and ghouls. Pickett would record several additional tunes in the same vein, most notably the Christmas-themed "Monster's Holiday".
-   Die Ärzte has a song called "Monsterparty" which has the protagonist attending a party at Dracula's castle where he meets The Invisible Man, King Kong, Frankenstein's Monster, The Wolfman, a skeleton, the Great White Shark, The Mummy and ET.
-   "Purple People Eater Meets Witch Doctor" by The Big Bopper, released as the B-side to his 1958 hit "Chantilly Lace".
-   The spoken preamble to "A Gorey Demise", by Creature Feature, is a group of undead monsters having a dinner party.
-   The song "Crasher-vania" from _Starbomb_, released by the Game Grumps, tells of Dracula throwing a big party for himself and all of his monster friends, when Simon Belmont crashes the party (twice) and kills everyone except Dracula under the misguided assumption that they were all up to no good. Although when Dracula asks what Simon's deal is, Simon admits that it was because he never gets invited to parties.
-   On Halloween 2013, Megadeth performed for Jimmy Kimmel as classic monsters: Dave Mustaine hid all his hair under Frankenstein's head, bassist David Ellefson was a werewolf, Chris Broderick dressed as the Phantom of the Opera (though he removed the mask fairly early) and drummer Shawn Drover became Dracula.
-   Ookla the Mok's "Bride of the Wolfman" starts out with the Wolf Man angsting about how he feels unloved. Then the mummy comes to cheer him up. Dracula and Frankenstein are mentioned as mutual acquaintances.
-   Buck Owens had a 1974 single called "(It's a) Monster's Holiday" (no relation to the Bobby "Boris" Pickett Christmas tune mentioned above). Incidentally, it was one of the last songs to feature the talents of Don Rich, who died in a motorcycle accident shortly after this song was recorded:
    
    _Frankenstein was first in line  
    And the Wolf Man came up next  
    Dracula was doing his stuff  
    Breathing down my neck..._
    
-   In 1973 the all-female dance troupe Pan's People made a video to the original song in which they dressed as Cute Monster Girl versions of a vampire, a bat, a mummy, King Kong and an alien. Only one of these monsters was mentioned in the song, but top marks for originality.
-   Paul and Storm's "Lame Monster Party", which parodies the theme (but not the tune) of "Monster Mash".
-   Adam WarRock's "Zombie Girl": It's implied that the eponymous character's friends are Dracula, Frankenstein's Monster, and The Wolfman.

    Music Videos 

-   The music video of Backstreet Boys' song "Everybody (Backstreet's Back)" features each band member as a different monster (Brian is a werewolf, Howie is Dracula, Nick is a mummy, A.J. is the Phantom of the Opera, and Kevin is Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde with half of his face covered in makeup).
-   China Anne McClain's music video "Calling All the Monsters" features all sorts of monsters.
-   Low bass cover by Geoff(s) Castellucci(s) of the Voice Play acapella group.

    Pinballs 

-   _Elvira and the Party Monsters_ is centered around one of these, in the form of a barbecue party.
-   The pinball machine _Monster Bash_ requires the player to gather the Universal Horror mainstays Dracula, Frankenstein's Monster, Bride of Frankenstein, the Wolfman, the Mummy, and the Creature From The Black Lagoon so they can re-form their rock band.

    Podcasts 

-   The fine folks of the Amnesty lodge in _The Adventure Zone: Amnesty_. Aubrey is a magician (who can use actual magic), Dani is not a vampire, Moira and Dewey, now are ghosts, and the Lodge's chef is a(?) Bigfoot named Barclay. Indrid Cold/Mothman and two different species of goat-people (one being a bureaucrat living on another planet named Vincent, and the other being a defected minion who looks exactly like Ryan Gosling and can only say "Duck", "pizza", and "grow" named Billy) also appear.
-   The dimension-hopping Gemini arc of _Sequinox_ takes the girls to a Gothic Horror world where _they_ become the classic monsters. Summer's a Frankenstein, Autumn's a werewolf, Spring's an invisible woman, Winter's a gillman, and Vivaldi's the Phantom of the Opera. Later on they find that Ethan and his mother are vampires, and Harmony developed a Hyde-esque potion.

    Pro Wrestling 

-   Invoked by the Dungeon of Doom in WCW in 1995, as the Master (King Curtis Iaukea) and "The Taskmaster" Kevin Sullivan assembled the initial group of giants, monsters and oddballs such as the Zodiac, the Shark, and the Yeti for the purpose of destroying Hulkamania.

    Puppet Shows 

-   _Li'l Horrors_ is set in an All-Ghouls School with a student body consisting of a vampire; a Frankenstein's Monster; a Mummy; a gill man; a Gorgeous Gorgon; a werewolf; a hunchback; and two grotesques/gargoyles.
-   The Halloween Episode of _Under the Umbrella Tree_ has an Imagine Spot song with Holly as a witch, Jacob as Frankenstein's Monster, Gloria as a Mad Scientist, and Iggy as a ghost.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Big Eyes, Small Mouth_ had a sourcebook more or less revolving around this: "Cold Hands, Dark Hearts". In a twist rather like Buffy the Vampire Slayer, almost all modern monsters are actually 'watered down' descendents of the real big nasties who once dominated the world before being sealed away. Vampires, Ghosts, Oni (the descendents of humans who bred with demons), Nephelim (their angelic counterparts), several types of animal spirit (including Minotaurs and Tengu) and Revenents (basic "dead body walking" type monsters that could, among others, resemble zombies, liches, or Frankenstein's Monster) are some of the creatures covered. For an extra twist, these were your _player races_.
-   In chess, the Frankenstein-Dracula Variation of the Vienna Game was named by Tim Harding as the answer to the question, "If the Frankenstein Monster and Count Dracula were to sit down to a game of chess, what would happen?" This is an insanely unorthodox opening in which a White Knight fork forces Black to sacrifice a whole Rook. The December 1978 issue of _Chess_ included a Frankenstein-Dracula game supposedly from a deleted chapter of _Dracula_ (which followed the Real Life game of Hansen-Nunn, Students' Olympiad, Teesside 1974).
-   _Creature Feature_, a supplement for the _Chill_ RPG, may have been the first to do this for player characters. Unlike WoD or _NightLife_, it kept the monsters as inherently evil, and gave points for killing heroes and scaring the crap out of hapless human victims.
-   Even plain ol' _Dungeons & Dragons_ has the potential for this.
    -   Especially _Ravenloft_, the gothic horror setting. And even more so in "Masque of the Red Death", set in 19th century Earth, complete with stats for Dracula and Frankenstein.
    -   The _Mystara_ supplement _Night Howlers_, while it focused specifically on lycanthropes, had more than enough different strains of werebeast in it to constitute a Monster Mash.
    -   5th Edition's player races include a few watered-down versions of classic monsters, including dhampir, shifters (minor lycanthropes that are only a Little Bit Beastly), hexblood (children of hags or The Fair Folk), and reborn (who can either be Frankenstein's Monster type constructs or more conventional undead). There's also the locathah Fish People, although they look less like the Creature from the Black Lagoon than they did in previous editions. Dhampirs, reborn, and hexbloods were all added in the same book, _Van Richten's Guide to Ravenloft_, so the Monster Mash potential is likely deliberate.
-   The _raison d'etre_ of the cooperative board game _Horrified_ is to pit the players against horror's greatest hits: Dracula, the Wolf Man, Frankenstein and his Bride, the Mummy, the Invisible Man and the Creature from the Black Lagoon.
-   _Pathfinder_ makes it quite easy to build a Monster Mash party, with its own playable dhampirs, skinwalkers and changelings (equivalent to _D&D_'s shifters and hexblood, respectively), and Deep One Hybrids straight out of _The Shadow Over Innsmouth_. The Alchemist class is also well-suited to making a Jekyll & Hyde type character, and there is an entire host of sinister options available to heroic characters.
-   _Must Be Tuesday_ has a list of 20 playable monsters. Vampires? Yup. Angels? Sure. Robots? Cool. Blob Monsters? Go wild.
-   This is basically the entire premise behind the game _Night Life_, which features a bewildering array of monsters (many of them usable as player characters) trying to maintain a common masquerade viz. a humanity that still has them horribly outnumbered while _also_ keeping themselves both fed and sane.
-   In the _Trail of Cthulhu_ adventure book _Shadows Over Filmland_, the player characters have the opportunity to battle Captain Ersatz versions of Frankenstein ('Doctor Gravenhurst'), The Invisible Man ('the Non-Euclidean Man'), and Dracula (a vampiric dream-spirit of the historical Vlad the Impaler) in individual adventures. In the the adventure "The Preserve", all three are lured to an island where they can face off against their old foes, the player characters, in exchange for the Necronomicon.
-   _The World of Darkness:_
    -   In both the old and new versions of the WoD, PCs play any one of a number of horror movie mainstays, and at the behest of the Storyteller, can encounter and (most likely) try to kill each other.
    -   The original _World of Darkness_ was specifically built to make crossover games a bad idea, so _After Sundown_ started as a homebrew fix tailored to allow players to actually play "Monster Mash" type games. After finishing the ruleset, the author decided to strip out the IP for public domain stuff and make it a stand alone game.
    -   _Chronicles of Darkness_, what _New World Of Darkness_ was renamed to after the Second Edition, has a more flexible ruleset that allows crossovers, providing rules and books specifically for it. The "Dark Eras" series focuses on supernatural crossovers at various different time periods: "The Contagion Chronicles" focuses on an entire _organization_ of supernaturals working together, and _Beast: The Primordial_ posits a possible meta-origin for _all_ brands of monsters via a mythical Monster Progenitor.

    Theatre 

-   Older Than Radio: August Strindberg's _The Ghost Sonata_ (1907) includes a mummy, two vampires, a ghost, and a walking dead man.
-   _House of Frankenstein_ by Martin Downing has this as its central premise. Dracula, the Wolfman, and the latest girl stalked by the Phantom of the Opera come to Dr. Frankenstein to have their problems solved by him. Hilarity Ensues. This is really the template for most of the scripts he's put out.
-   _I'm Sorry the Bridge Is Out, You'll Have to Spend the Night_ was written by Bobby Pickett who wrote the Trope Namer song and has Dracula, Dr Frankenstein, his monster, a werewolf and a mummy living together. Was adapted into _Monster Mash (1995)_.

    Theme Parks 

-   Promotional material for the Disney Theme Parks during the Halloween season often features Mickey Mouse and his associates as classic monsters. Mickey as a vampire, Minnie as a witch, Donald Duck as a Wolf Duck or devil, and Goofy as a Frankenstein monster seem to be the most common.
-   The Haunted Mansion has ghosts, zombies, and a mummy throwing a raucous party in a seemingly abandoned (and very haunted) mansion. The _Haunted Mansion Holiday_ adds the citizens of Halloweentown to the mix.

    Toys 

-   LEGO did it three times with the _LEGO Studios_ line<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , the _LEGO Minifigures_ line<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , and the _Monster Fighters_ line<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . The Scooby-Doo line also invoked this, just with costumed people from the show.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and LEGO VIDIYO featured the "Monster Metal" genre of musicians.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   _Monster High_ springs from this concept, with the main and supporting cast including children of all of the classic Universal monsters and many more mythological and classic horror monsters besides serving as the parents of the freaky characters.
-   The very concept of _Monster in My Pocket_ was that the toyline consisted of pocket-size figurines of various monsters from a variety of sources. These include iconic ones such as the Vampire and Frankenstein's Monster, mythological creatures like the hydra and cockatrice, obscure cryptids like the Haniver and the Catoblepas, and even religious beings such as Behemoth and the Great Beast.
-   An old discontinued toyline called Titanium 'Monsters of Rock' was pretty much this as a rock band, with the members being a vampire vocalist and lead guitarist named Brooklyn Von Doom, a werewolf named DJ "Wolfgang" Bones on the turntables, a Frankenstein monster drummer named Franklinstein Fright, and a mummy bassist named Skinny Gawz.
-   A cancelled _Transformers_ subline of _Transformers: Generation 1_ was to consist of Transformers based on horror movie monsters, the only specific figures planned being Count Dracula (who turned into a bat), the Gill-Man (who turned into a fish) and The Fly (who turned into a giant fly). It is widely believed that the subline was cancelled because of copyright issues (while Dracula is a Public Domain Character, _Creature from the Black Lagoon_ was a Universal film and the rights to _The Fly_ were owned by 20th Century Fox).
-   The defunct Xevoz line had an undead faction (the "Unnaturals") that included vampires, ghosts, skeletons, mummies, and Frankenstein monsters in their ranks (the wolfman ended up in the "Meta-Beast" faction). And this isn't counting the insects, cyborg/robots, dragons, _elemental forces of nature personified..._

    Video Games 

-   The arcade Light Gun Game _After Dark_ has you playing as two bounty hunters going after various monsters.
-   _Barnyard Blast_ have you playing as an andromorphic pig Hunter of Monsters who goes around shooting all sorts of supernatural creatures, including mummies, zombies, pumpkin-headed monsters, and assorted creeps. The game itself is an Affectionate Parody of old-school horror-action games like _Castlevania_ and _Ghosts 'n Goblins_.
-   _Bloody Paws: Passion Unleashed_ have you playing as a werewolf, and your enemies being classic monsters, including mummies, zombies, the invisible men, the Grim Reaper, and a Frankenstein's Monster who tries electrocuting you with lightning coils.
-   _Battle Monsters_, a Japanese Mortal Kombat-clone is a fighting game where monsters like a dullahan, a tengu, a gorgon and a Frankenstein's Monster are fighting to win rulership of the monster kingdom which had been held for millennia by a being made of 4 classical elementals.
-   _Boo Party_ is a Steam game that is essentially _Frank's Adventure_ with monster girls. The photographer main character is asked by a parapsychologist to take pictures of, among others, a vampire, a witch, a mummy, a mermaid, a werewolf, a plant girl, a demon, a gorgon, a bakeneko (Japanese cat spirit) and even a couple of Octopoid Aliens masquerading as human(oid) girls.
-   _Brain Dead 13_ has a young man named Lance Galahad hired by a Brain in a Jar named Dr. Nero Neurosis to fix his computer. To get out of paying for his services, Neurosis has his psychotic hunchbacked assistant Fritz try and kill Lance. Lance then must avoid Fritz's attempts at killing him and thwart Neurosis' scheme for world conquest while exploring Neurosis' castle and ends up running into other monsters along the way, including a Frankenstein's Monster named Moose, a pair of witches, and a curvaceous vampire named Vivi.
-   _Castlevania_ practically runs on this trope, with demons and mythical monsters thrown in for extra variety.
    -   Hell, even Cthulhu makes an appearance, as does Leatherface (in _Castlevania: Order of Ecclesia_). The first game had almost all of the Universal Studios monsters (Wolfman didn't show up until _Castlevania II: Simon's Quest_).
    -   The last four paintings in _Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin_ all feature the classic movie monsters as the bosses of each area: a buried pyramid for Mummy Man, a chaotic circus for Medusa, the streets of London for the Werewolf, and a haunted academy for Frankenstein's Monster.
-   The Council in _City of Heroes_ have _scientifically created_ (somehow) vampires and werewolves that can work together (though are rarely seen together at the same time). During the Halloween event, generic vampires, werewolves, zombies, ghosts, witches and pumpkin people are all about as likely to spawn from Trick or Treating. Really.
-   _Darkstalkers_ is essentially a Monster Mash in fighting game form. Many classic Universal monsters are represented, including Felicia as one of the fairly obscure Cat People, in addition to later horror movie mainstays like Lord Raptor (zombie), Bishamon (ghostly samurai) and Pyron (alien) — Morrigan was redone as a succubus (originally she was going to be another vampire and still retains those vampire elements). And then, introduced in one of the sequels was B. B. Hood, a girl who is a regular human, and also an amoral and sociopathic professional monster hunter. She was introduced, in part, to contrast against the monsters, to show that humans have the potential to be as bad, or worse by comparison.
-   In the Data East game _Death Brade_, the fighters include a werewolf, a minotaur, a golem and even a fire-breathing dragon.
-   _Demon's World_ is an arcade shooter where your enemies are all classical monsters, from zombies to skeletons and Frankenstein monsters and ghosts. There are also stages which takes you to Asia, where you fight Yōkai for a change.
-   The _Disgaea_ series include a variety of fantasy staples like succubi, dragons, zombies, ghosts, and cat girls, many of which have class ranks named after various mythological creatures. Made more amusing in _Disgaea 3_ and _Disgaea 4_, where said monsters can be your school classmates or members of your political party, respectively.
-   In _Dracula: Crazy Vampire_ for the Game Boy Color, the player controls Count Dracula. The main objective is to ally himself with other vampire leaders and recruit them for the final battle (but they only appear in a single screenshot before the last boss). In one stage, Dracula rescues Frankenstein for his bride, and fights a werewolf and a mummy as bosses of their respective stages.
-   _Fate/Grand Order_:
    -   Among the hundreds of Heroic Spirits you can summon, they also include Vlad III (two versions) (the inspiration of the vampire Dracula), Yu Mei-ren (an Elemental, who is pretty close to a vampire) Frankenstein's Monster (she's the bride, but completed first and otherwise has the same story as the groom), Hessian Lobo (the Hessian is the Headless Horseman), several Oni and yokai, Kheiron the centaur, Asterios the minotaur, serial killers (which include Jack the Ripper, the Phantom of the Opera, Gilles de Rais who is the inspiration of Bluebeard), Dr. Jekyll & Mr. Hyde, witches (including Medea and Circe), Medusa and her monstrous version called Gorgon, Mephistopheles who is also a Monster Clown, girls who got powers from Eldritch Abominations from the Cthulu mythos, giants, robots, etc.
    -   Enemies are usually monsters like werewolves, wyverns, dragons, ghosts, living snowmen, golems, zombies, skeletons, ghouls, killer birds, killer insects, killer crabs, killer robots, murder dolls, demon boars, demons, homunculi, giants, possessed samurai armor, sphinxes, Eldritch Abominations, sentient seed-monsters, sentient alien trees, etc.
-   _Frankenstein_ (or _Frankenstein: The Monster Returns_) for the NES features part of the gallery of classic film monsters as bosses: the forest stage has a Merman as an avoidable encounter in a lagoon and a Medusa as the stage boss, and the Manwolf, the Vampire and Frankenstein as bosses in the final stage (surprisingly for the game, the vampire is **not** the final boss, but Frankenstein's monster is).
-   _Haunted Castle_, a lesser known _Castlevania_ game, operates with a similar Monster Mash logic just like its parent series: mummies and zombies are common mooks; Medusa, a Golem, and Frankenstein are stage bosses, and Dracula is the last boss.
-   All the members from the Occult Team in _Inazuma Eleven_ are based on popular horror characters. There's a slasher villain, a werewolf, a vampire, a mummy, a Frankenstein monster, a creepy child, a jiang-shi, a killer doll, an alien, two witches, two zombies, three ghosts, and a Dr. Jekyll Expy as their coach. But in a subverted case, none of them are real monsters, just weird kids who like the everything supernatural.
-   The fifth release of _The Jackbox Party Pack_ features a dating game with this premise called _Monster Seeking Monster_.
-   _Killing Zone_ is a monster-themed Fighting Game featuring various classic monsters. The protagonist is a muscular wolfman named Gush, and the assorted combatants includes a mummy, a Frankenstein's monster, a living skeleton and inexplicably a gorgon, a harpy and a minotaur.
-   In the _Kingdom Hearts_ series, Sora, Donald and Goofy take on the form of monsters in Halloween Town. Of the trio, Sora becomes a vampire with an orange eyepatch, Donald becomes a mummy, and Goofy becomes a parody of Frankenstein's Monster. Their forms are very popular with the fandom. So much, that a second set of forms for Monstropolis was added in _Kingdom Hearts III_, although only Sora's appearance is drastic, in that he becomes a werecat, with his right eye covered by his hair as a nod to his Halloween Town form.
-   _MadWorld_ has the Mad Castle level for this. The Mooks are zombies (but bandaged up like mummies); the first area's bosses are the Shamans, a pack of werewolves; the second area's boss is Frank, Frankenstein's Monster; and the last area's boss is Elise, somewhere between a succubus and a vampire.
-   The Edutainment Game _Math Blaster Mystery: The Great Brain Robbery_ has a Mad Scientist named Big Bad Dr. Dabble as the Big Bad. His mansion contains monsters who give you puzzles and word problems to solve. They include a bald vampire named Fang, an an Igor-esque hunchback technician, a witch known as Granny, a Creature from the Black Lagoon knockoff named Scales, a hooded fellow who looks like The Grim Reaper and two characters called Mummy Lady and Frankenbunny.
    -   _Reading Blaster Mystery_ has a cycloptic alien (?) hero trying to foil Dr. Dabble's plot with the help of a ghost.
-   The PC game _Monster Bash_ features several different horror-themed mooks, including but not limited to zombies, skeletons, severed hands, possessed rocking horses...
-   _Monster Bash (1982)_ has the hero using the power of a magic sword to defeat first Dracula, then Frankenstein's Monster, and finally Chameleon Man; defeat all three, and you get to do it again, at increased difficulty...
-   The Game Boy Advance game _Monster Force_ had the main characters consisting of a vampire named Drac, a werewolf named Wolfie and a Frankenstein monster named Frank, with a mummy named Mina and a female vampire named Drew being included as unlockable characters.
-   _Monster Hunter (PC)_ have its enemies being classic monsters lifted from Hammer Horror, including vampires, ghosts, werewolves, the Lagoon Creature (looking exactly like the one from the film) right up to mummies, blobs, and the Grim Reaper (who serves as a boss). For some odd reason, the game have Man Eating Plants as The Goomba.
-   The NES game _Monster Party_ had a boy named Mark team up with a gargoyle named Bert to fight an assortment of monsters, including ghosts, dancing zombies, a minotaur, a gorgon, a man-eating plant, and a Giant Spider.
-   The obscure PlayStation Racing Game, _Monster Racer_, which recycles the format from _Mario Kart_ but adapts it in a monster world. You can play as a Frankenstein's monster, a vampire, a floating skeleton, an Igor-esque Mad Scientist, a witch (on a Flying Broomstick, of course) among other public-domain monsters.
-   In _Muppet Monster Adventure_, The Muppets are transformed into classic monsters. Gonzo becomes Nose-feratu the Vampire, Kermit becomes Ker-Monster (Frankenstein's Monster), Piggy becomes the Ghoulfriend of Ker-Monster (the Bride), Fozzie becomes a Wocka-Wocka Werebear and Clifford becomes a Muck Monster. There's also a Final Boss who is meant to be the Phantom of the Opera.
-   _Night Slashers_ is an arcade Beat 'em Up with various movie monsters as enemies. The boss fights include a Mad Scientist, a Frankenstein's Monster, an Evil Puppeteer and his living puppet, a rock monster, a vampire, a mummy, The Grim Reaper, and a robotic skeletal demon named King Zarutz as the final boss.
-   _Nosferatu_: Imagine Castlevania but set in modern times and the whip was exchanged for kickboxing. You get _Nosferatu_ where you try and rescue your girlfriend from the vampire Nosferatu and his minions — elite and otherwise such as wolfman, golem, mummies, zombies and etc.
-   _Omen of Sorrow_ is a horror Fighting Game featuring Dracula (as a Tragic Monster), a werewolf, a mummy, a Frakenstein-kind golem, Quasimodo the Hunchback, Mr. Hyde having completely taken over Jekyll's body, a succubus, a headless horseman and an chaos goddess. The only human playable character is not fully human himself and risks becoming a monster.
-   _Planescape: Torment_ has a party that includes a hideously scarred immortal/regenerating human, a floating talking skull which is actually a damned soul, a part-demon girl with a tail, a succubus with pink bat wings, a githzerai (tall, thin, pointy-eared extraplanar humanoid), a malfunctioning clockwork robot, a perpetually burning man who is a living conduit to the Elemental Plane of Fire, and a ghost in a suit of armor.
-   The band Deuil from _Popn Music_ consists of a vampire, a werewolf, and a mummy.
-   _Resident Evil Village_, set in Überwald with the villains being heavily inspired by Universal Horror monsters. Mother Miranda is a somewhat a mix of a Fallen Angel and a Wicked Witch, Alcina Dimitrescu and her "daughters" are about as close to Classical Movie Vampires as you can get in a game that's still technically Sci-Fi Horror rather than supernatural, Donna Beneviento is an Evil Puppeteer with an army of Creepy Dolls and a strong ghost motif, Salvatore Moreau resembles a cross between the Creature from the Black Lagoon and Quasimodo, and Karl Heisenberg is a steampunk Mad Scientist in the mold of Victor Frankenstein. The monsters you face in the village itself, meanwhile, strongly resemble werewolves.
-   _Savage Halloween_ have monsters from the afterlife escaping after Halloween,with you battling assorted enemies from Frankensteins Monsters to ghosts to vampires and the Grim Reaper throughout. You notably get to play as three monsters yourself; a Stingy Jack named James, a witch named Dominika, and a werewolf named Lulu.
-   In the _Sengoku Basara_ series, there are characters that have some attributes to certain spooks from horror fiction; like Oichi and her sister-in-law Kyogoku Maria are both Hot Witches (with Oichi having some ghostly vibes), Oichi's older brother Oda Nobunaga having much in common with demons, Akechi Mitsuhide and Goto Matabei both behave like Ax-Crazy slashers, Otani Yoshitsugu being all bandaged up resembling a mummy, and Sen no Rikyu with a Dr. Jekyll (Wabisuke) and Mr. Hyde (Sabisuke) Split Personality.
-   With the right expansion packs — particularly the Supernatural pack —, you can turn _The Sims_ into this. Your Sim family can be populated with vampires, werewolves, witches, fairies, and even mermaids.
-   _Splatterhouse_ eschews classical movie monsters for those of '80s slasher movies and splatterpunk novels. Rick take on poltergeists, fishmen, zombies, worm things, Eldritch Abominations, unclean spirits, chainsaw wackos, gorier versions of Frankenstein's monster and a Mad Scientist. Heck, with his Terror Mask, Rick himself is like an Expy of Jason Voorhees.
-   During a Solar Eclipse in _Terraria_, hordes of classical monsters attack on the surface, such as Reapers, Swamp Things, Frankenstein's Monsters, Vampires, and Cyclops Zombies. Pity there are no werewolves or skeletons, as they can only appear at night or underground respectively. In the 1.3 update, various monsters based on horror monsters were added, such as Psycho, Creature From the Deep, Butcher, Dr. ManFly, Mothron, The Possessed, Nailhead, Deadly Spheres, and Fritz.
-   _Touhou Project_: Gensokyo, being pretty much the definition of a Fantasy Kitchen Sink, hosts plenty of tea parties between witches, vampires, miko, ghosts, fairies, aliens, oni, goddesses, and more.
-   _The Ultimate Haunted House_ features a ghost (based on and voiced by the game's creator Gahan Wilson) with a Split Personality, a Mad Scientist (whose assistant is also named Igor), a vampire woman, a Frankenstein's Monster, a two-headed monster, a living skeleton who's under a curse, and various other monsters such as a zombie and a Blob Monster all living in the titular haunted house. Furthermore, the game's soundtrack includes the Trope Namer.
-   _Urban Rivals_: The Nightmare clan is are expy's on half of the examples above, others are based off horror movie characters.
-   _Vampire Survivors_ has hordes of zombies, skeletons, mummies, werewolves, ghosts, carnivorous plants, medusae, witches, warlocks, cockatrices, chimeras, minotaurs, lizardmen, even Biblically-accurate angels... but not a single vampire. The bestiary is very specific that the swarms of bats are simply animals, "and nothing more."
-   The Undead Scourge from _Warcraft_ has waking skeletons, zombies, mummies, vampiric demons, Frankensteins Monsterish abominations armed with hooks and meat cleavers, magic devourers, gargoyles, undead dragons, necromancers, cultists, and fallen paladins make up its ranks. Not to mention worgen opposing them come the release of the Cataclysm expansion for _World of Warcraft_.
-   _Zombies Ate My Neighbors_ apart from the eponymous zombies, has killer dolls, chainsaw psychos, mummies, aliens, blobs, fishmen, vampires, werewolves and giant babies.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Fate/stay night_: The Fifth Holy Grail War has three Greek heroes, two of them being Medusa and the witch Medea. The former isn't portrayed as the typical monster you would imagine, due to the fact that she isn't summoned as Gorgon.
-   _Monster Prom_ and its sequel, naturally given its premise. Players play as either a Living Shadow, a djinn, an Attractive Zombie, and a Frankenstein's Monster. The main romance options of the first game consist of a Big Red Devil, a vampire, a mermaid, a Cute Ghost Girl, a werewolf, and a Gorgeous Gorgon. The Second Term DLC adds an Adorable Abomination and a Artificial Intelligence to the main romances — characters who were secret romances before the DLC. That's not getting into all the side characters and secret romances!

    Web Animation 

    Webcomics 

-   _All Saints Street_ is the story of monsters from around the world — a demon, a vampire, a werewolf, a mummy and his raven familiar, a zombie, their angel landlord, and the drunk cat youkai that lives by — all sharing a Chinese apartment.
-   _Bloody Urban_ has a main cast featuring a werewolf, a ghoul, and a vampire. Among the supporting characters are a Frankenstein, a mad scientist and her dinosaur sidekick, an invisible man, and a blob monster.
-   The original concept of the comic _Charby the Vampirate_ was to play with this particular trope. Living in the same cabin in the woods are a vampire, a werewolf, an alp, two zombies (one is a witch, the other a hoodoo practitioner) a bipedal merboy (basically a Gillman), a wizard, a demon and a patchwork monster pet/servant.
-   During the Storm of Souls arc in _Dominic Deegan_, the main characters are witness to a fight between an infernomancer and a werewolf. Donovan Deegan mentions that, in his day, they had a name for such fights: A Monster Mash.
-   _Eerie Cuties_ has a mishmash of different monsters going to an All-Ghouls School.
-   _Girl Genius_ is full of Mad Scientists and their Igors. Some of said madboys managed to create zombies (revenants), werewolves (Tweedle's knights), dragons (Franz), and Frankenstein Monsters. Also, though not _strictly_ a demon, the Other does _behave_ like one.
-   _The Glass Scientists_ is a Gaslamp Fantasy setting wherein Dr.Jekyll/Mr.Hyde runs a Society (or more like a sort of refugee center) for mad scientists and supernatural creatures, who have been persecuted since the time of Frankenstein's Monster. Aside from the aforementioned Dr.Jekyll, the story so far features appearances from werewolves, Dr.Moreau from _The Island of Doctor Moreau_, _Frankenstein_ and her monster, as well as _The Invisible Man_ among others.
-   _Gunnerkrigg Court_ features a fox demon, a Living Shadow, a ghost, and a Minotaur.
-   _Hanna Is Not a Boy's Name_ has thus far had a zombie Supporting Protagonist, a werewolf, some vampires, a half-selkie, and a ghost. And it's barely into its third chapter.
    -   Pretty much every main character seems to have _something_ paranormal about them. We don't even know what's up with Hanna or Ples yet, but at best even they are only Ambiguously Human.
-   In _The Inexplicable Adventures of Bob!_, it turns out that reclusive Bigfeet like to ride Unicorns because Bigfeet leave big obvious tracks, while Unicorns leave no tracks at all.
-   _Monsterful_ has a world full of monsters of all kinds, from classic undead ones (zombies, vampires, ghosts) to mythological ones (gorgons, Loch Ness monsters, mummies), uncommon ones like ragdolls, golems and homunculi, and even some hybrid monsters (Zombpyre). The first chapter focuses on the Addams High All-Ghouls School.
-   _Nightmarish_ features alternate versions of Dracula, Frankenstein's Monster, The Phantom of the Opera, Jekyll and Hyde, Medusa, the Wolf Man, the Mummy, and the Headless Horseman engaging in comedic acts that often border onto Black Comedy.
-   _Ow, my sanity_ is a pastiche of the Unwanted Harem set in the Chtulhu mythos, with the hapless guy getting the attention of several lovecraftian ladies. So far he has encountered the kuudere Servitor Nancy, an unnamed shoggoth in the form of a young girl with hand mouths, the Sleeper of N'Kai (a Yandere frog-girl) and Cool Big Sis neighbour "Shubby".
-   _Port Sherry_: "That's no moon": Dracula, Frankenstein, and the Mummy give their Werewolf friend a moon lamp as a gag gift.
-   _Sluggy Freelance_. The main character is currently a mook in the service of a supervillain, and has a sword powered by the blood of the innocent. He's good friends with an alien from a species that reproduces by destroying the host planet, a vampire, a witch, a psychotic Killer Rabbit, and a mad scientist. He also owns a zombie head on a stick. And he's one of the good guys. Ostensibly.
-   _Zebra Girl_: The initial group is composed of one normal human (Crystal), a sorcerer (Jack), a demon (Sandra), an anthropomorphic rabbit (Sam), a werewolf (Wally), and a talking book (Tomie) who got a human form at some point. Later in the comic, Sandra's hometown attracts a lot of monsters, with now vampires, ghouls and other kinds of creatures roaming in the streets.

    Web Original 

    Web Videos 

-   The CollegeHumor sketch "The Six Monsters You'll Have for Roommates" personifies college roommates as these. The Neat Freak is the Robot, He Who Must Not Be Seen is the Ghost, The Casanova is the Vampire, the Cloudcuckoolander is the Alien, and The Slacker is the Zombie. The Mummy apparently has his own place off-campus.
-   _The Key of Awesome_ parodied the Trope Namer with the "Modern Monster Mash", with the singer aghast at the modern monsters he'd recruited to appear using visceral and gory violence as opposed to the original song's monsters' lighter antics.

    Western Animation 

-   _The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron, Boy Genius_ had this happen in the Halloween Episode "Nightmare in Retroville", where he creates a machine that makes people look like monsters and uses it to turn Carl into a vampire and Sheen into a werewolf. Things go awry when Jimmy's dad Hugh later uses the machine to accidentally turn himself into Frankenstein's monster and Sheen and Carl's personalities become more like an actual werewolf and vampire and manage to turn Libby and Cindy (the latter who went as a Buffy the Vampire Slayer expy). Jimmy saves the day by using his machine to turn into Hugh's favorite monster Octopus Man.
-   _Ben 10_:
    -   In the third season of _Ben 10_ we are introduced to monster-themed alien villains: a mummy, a werewolf, a Frankenstein monster, and a ghost. Of course, Ben gained the ability to turn into each of these himself (he actually had the ghost all along, but this was when the others debuted and were all made a group). These guys are all from the same star system — and at the end of _Secret of the Omnitrix_ zombies from another planet in the same system (Anur Ormeron) are mentioned.
    -   _Ben 10: Omniverse_ devotes a plot arc to revisiting the premise, with the return of the Anurian villains and Ben's alien versions (including a new fifth monster alien, a vampire), unrelated horror villains and shoutouts to additional works.
-   The _Buzz Lightyear of Star Command_ episode "Revenge of the Monsters" featured a team-up between robotic vampire NOS-4-A2, cyborg werewolf the Wirewolf, and the Frankenstein's Monster-esque Psycho Prototype XL.
-   _Casper's Scare School_ featured an Academy of Adventure filled with all sorts of different monsters, including a werewolf, a zombie, a mummy, and of course a ghost.
-   _Castlevania_ of course has plenty of monsters with obvious examples of Vampires, a Dhampyr and Dracula, then there’s also gargoyles, zombies, a crow woman, Cyclops, the Minotaur and assorted demons. There’s also a witch— er, female magic user Sypha.
-   Camp Mini-Mon, in the show _Mini Monsters_ (part of the Animated Anthology _The Comic Strip_), is filled with kids of various monsters, ghosts and ghouls.
-   One episode of _Count Duckula_ has the titular Count and co. being chased by a Mummy he inadvertently brought back to life, a Frankenstein's Monster Expy accidentally resurrected by Igor, a Wolf Man who came to the castle to escape from the full moon but got exposed and transformed due to Nanny's interference, a space invader taking the form of a cabbage, and Goosewing. At the end, Duckula gets all the monsters outside the castle then transports it to a lagoon ... which turns out to contain a Sea Monster. The episode is appropriately named "The Return of the Curse of the Secret of the Mummy's Tomb Meets Frankenduckula's Monster and the Wolf-Man and the Intergalactic Cabbage...".
-   In the _Darkwing Duck_ episode "Monsters R Us", the trope is demonstrated twofold. Morgana Macawber's family is introduced in the episode, with her relatives including an aunt who is a hunchbacked witch, a green blob monster cousin named Blobby, and another cousin who is a cyclops. The other group of monsters comes when Morgana's father Moloculo turns Darkwing into a werewolf, Gosalyn into a Frankenstein's Monster and Launchpad into a vampire bat to try and prove that monsters are superior to "normals".
-   _Dr. Zitbag's Transylvania Pet Shop_ is about a Mad Scientist named Dr. Sidney Zitbag who runs a pet shop specializing in monster pets. He is assisted by a skeletal dog named Horrifido as well as a zombie bunny named Zombunny and frequently tries to win the affections of the vampire twins the Exorsisters.
-   _Drak Pack_, a short-lived Saturday-Morning Cartoon from the 80s, features the teenaged descendants of Dracula, Frankenstein's Monster and the Wolf Man joining forces to fight a Vincent Price-esque criminal mastermind and his henchpersons: a female vampire, a mummy, a toad-like hunchback and a fly/human hybrid.
-   _DuckTales (1987)_ episode "The Ducky Horror Picture Show" had a collection of classic monsters (Wolfman, Dracula, Frankenstein's monster and Bride, Quasimodo, Creature from the Black Lagoon, The Blob, The Mummy, and Ping Pong) booking a get-together at Scrooge's mansion before protesting a movie theater that Scrooge owned which played monster movies, saying that the movies gave them a bad name. Fortunately it turned out that the movies instead made them popular, and they happily accepted jobs as actors in more monster movies.
-   _DuckTales (2017)_ episode "The Trickening" has a Vampire, a Werewolf, a Frankenstein Monster and a Witch impersonating more modern movie monsters like Pennywise and Samara in order to scare children out of candy.
-   In the _Ed, Edd n Eddy_ Halloween Episode _Ed, Edd n Eddy's Boo Haw Haw_, Ed, after watching too many horror movies, hallucinates seeing the cul-de-sac kids as monsters of a different variety:
    -   Kanker Sisters: A trio of witches
    -   Jimmy: An alien
    -   Sarah: A vampiress
    -   Nazz: A gorgon
    -   Kevin: A Headless Horseman
    -   Jonny: A spider monster
    -   Rolf: A one-eyed troll
    -   Plank: FrankenPlank
-   The _Filmation's Ghostbusters_ Rogues Gallery is a team of monsters including Big Bad Prime Evil (some sort of skeleton cyborg ghost wizard), a living skeleton, a werewolf, a mummy, a Morticia Addams-looking Vain Sorceress, a banshee and what seems to be the ghosts of a safari hunter, medieval knight and a pirate.
-   The _Garfield and Friends_ episode "The Horror Hostess" had a woman named Vivacia kidnap Jon Arbuckle and shrink him down along with other men so they could play in a baseball game with rodents to entertain her guests. Vivacia's guests are a vampire, a werewolf, a ghost, a slug monster, a hunchback, a mummy, a skeleton and a Frankenstein monster.
-   The short-lived series _Gravedale High_ had a vampire, a werewolf, a zombie, a gorgon, a mummy, a Frankenstein's monster, an invisible boy, and some sort of Igor-type being going to a monsters' high-school where one of the teachers is a human. Humorously enough, the vampire's name is Vinnie Stoker (His last name being a Shout-Out to _Dracula_ author Bram Stoker) and the gorgon's name is Doozer (Short for "Medusa").
-   _The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy_ has featured quite a few monsters. The Grim Reaper himself is one of the main protagonists, his rival is The Boogeyman, and one Halloween Episode had a pumpkin-headed prankster. There's Jeff the giant spider, an Underworld creature named Fred Fredburger (among other Underworld creatures), and a demon named Nergal and his Half-Human Hybrid son Nergal Jr. There was even an episode that had a retirement home for monsters, with the episode focusing on the Bride of Frankenstein, the Wolfman, and Dracula! Dracula would later be a recurring character. And as it turns out, his son married a Mummy, and the two had Irwin, making him a mummy-vampire.
-   The _Dingbat and the Creeps_ segments of _The Heathcliff and Dingbat Show_ feature a vampire dog, a living skeleton and a talking jack o'lantern.
-   The _Justice League Action_ Halloween Episode "Trick or Threat" has Klarion summon a bunch of monsters, the group consisting of two vampires, a werewolf, a Frankenstein's Monster, a pair of demons and a being with a flaming jack-o-lantern for a head.
-   The latter-day _Looney Tunes_ cartoon "Night of the Living Duck" had Daffy Duck dreaming that he was a lounge singer in a club full of classic movie monsters, including Dracula, Frankenstein's monster (with Bride), Wolfman, the Mummy, the Fly and Godzilla (all names changed to be protected against the most terrifying of them all, copyright, of course). He ends up singing (with the voice of Mel Torme) "Monsters Lead Such Interesting Lives".
-   _Mary Shelley's Frankenhole_ included Dr. Frankenstein and his monster as main characters with the supporting cast including the Invisible Man, Count Dracula, Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, a werewolf named Stewart Lawrence and a mummy.
-   _Mega Man (Ruby-Spears)_ had "Night of the Living Monster-Bots". Dr. Wily creates a bunch of classic horror movie-inspired robots to terrorize the English countryside; a Mummy, a Werewolf, a Vampire, and a Frankenstein-esque monster.
-   The obscure Fox Family show _Monster Farm_ was about a young man named Jack Haylee inheriting a farm inhabited by monster animals. The monsters are a vampire rooster named Count Cluckula, a goat Kaiju named Goatasarus Rex, a werewolf dog named Scare-Woof, a Frankenstein's Monster pig named Frankenswine, a zombie cow named Zombeef, a mummy cow named Cowapatra and a meek bespectacled sheep named Dr. Woolly who transforms into a deranged brute named Mr. Ewwe whenever he gets wet.
-   _Monster Tails_ (an animated section inside the live action show _Wake, Rattle, and Roll_) have animal versions of the classic Universal Horror monsters like Dracula's cat Catula, Frankenstein's Monster's dog Frankenmutt, the Bride of Frankenstein's she-dog Elsa, Dr. Jekyll's dog Veenie, the Mummy's dog Mummfrey and the Creature from the Black Lagoon's gold fish.
-   The _OK K.O.! Let's Be Heroes_ episode "Parents Day": reveals that Enid is part of a family of monsters, with herself being a witch, her father being a werewolf, her mother being a vampire, and younger twin brothers who are a Frankenstein's Monster and a Pumpkin Person. The Season 2 episode "Monster Party" guest-stars the Ghoul School girls mentioned above in the "Films — Animation" folder, who happen to be old friends of Enid.
-   _Oscar's Orchestra_: Halloween Episode "Fangs But No Fangs" features... a vampire (as you might be able to guess from the title), the vampire's Familiar-esque bat companion, The Igor as the vampire's servant, and last but not least three other movie monsters (a werewolf, a mummy, and Frankenstein's Monster) who were, uh, "guests" in the vampire's castle.
-   _Popeye and Son_ episode "There Goes the Neighborhood" has a Monster Mash mix with Creepy Family. A new family in town ends to be made of a vampire Dracula-like father, a mummy mother, a Frankenstein monster-like grandpa and their only werewolf son. How this makes sense genetically... who knows?
-   _Quack Pack_ did this in the episode "The Boy Who Cried Ghost", which featured a vampire, a werewolf, a Frankenstein's monster Valkyrie, and a ghost.
-   The _Random! Cartoons_ short "6 Monsters" stars a Pumpkin Person named Cathy, a ghost named Gaillard, a black cat named Buck, an ape-man named Roy, a demon named Lulu and Lulu's skeleton grandfather who works as a janitor.
-   _Sabrina and The Groovie Goolies_: A teenage Hot Witch hanging out and playing music with werewolves, vampires, Frankenstein's Monster and the likes.
-   _Scary Larry_ is about a band consisting of a vampire vocalist, a wolfman guitarist, a Frankenstein's Monster drummer, a mummy bassist, and an alien keyboardist.
-   _Scooby-Doo_:
    -   The _Scooby-Doo, Where Are You!_ episode "A Gaggle of Galloping Ghosts" has the gang dealing with Dracula, Frankenstein's monster and a Wolfman in a creepy Transylvanian castle. All three monsters turn out to be the same Villain of the Week.
    -   _The New Scooby-Doo and Scrappy-Doo Show_ episode "Who's Minding the Monster?" had Scooby, Shaggy, and Scrappy tasked with babysitting a werewolf baby for his vampire parents when the baby's usual Frankenstein monster babysitter wandered off.
    -   _The New Scooby-Doo Mysteries_ episode "A Halloween Hassle in Dracula's Castle" had the gang find themselves at a Halloween party for real monsters (such as Frankenstein's monster, a werewolf, and the Invisible Man) being hosted by Dracula and his wife. The traditional "Scooby-Doo" Hoax was also inverted to an extent in that Scooby and the gang were hired by the monsters to defend them from the ghost of Van Helsing, who turns out to be Igor in disguise trying to scare away the monsters so he'd have the castle to himself.
-   _Scream Street_ focuses on Luke Watson, a young boy who used to live a normal life with his parents. But after he starts turning into a werewolf, Luke and his parents are relocated to Scream Street, a town inhabited by monsters. Luke befriends two other residents of Scream Street, a vampire named Resus Negative and a mummy named Cleo Farr.
-   _The Simpsons_:
    -   Briefly featured in a parody of _The Shining_, when Homer is released from the pantry. Unlike in the original film (which kept things somewhat ambiguous), Homer is blatantly dragged out by Moe's ghost, the Mummy, the Wolf Man, Dracula, Jason Voorhees, Pinhead, and Freddy Krueger. They also appeared in a deleted scene showing them hiding in the rooms watching Bart as he explored the house.
    -   The Trope Namer song gets played in universe on the radio once... on Valentines Day:
        
        **DJ Bill:** Marty, why did you play that song today? There must be thousands of love songs.  
        **DJ Marty:** Well, it's— it's kind of a love song, all the monsters, enjoying each other's company, dancing... holding their evil in check.  
        **DJ Bill:** You played the wrong record, didn't you?  
        **DJ Marty:** Why are you doing this to me?
        
        -   Then when the episode ends:
            
            **DJ Bill:** Hey, hey! Bill and Marty here... wrapping up a beautiful Presidents' Day.  
            **DJ Marty:** To George and Abe and all the rest, here's a special song just for you!  
            _♪ I was working in the lab, late one night, when my eyes beheld, an eerie sight. ♪_  
            **DJ Marty:** Doggone it!
            
-   Spider-Man:
    -   The _Spider-Man and His Amazing Friends_ episode "The Bride of Dracula!" pitted Spider-Man, Iceman, and Firestar against Dracula, a robotic Frankenstein monster, and a werewolf butler.
    -   In _Ultimate Spider-Man_, the Howling Commandoes consisted of Werewolf by Night, Frankenstein's monster, the Living Mummy, Man-Thing, and Max the Invisible Man.
-   The _Spider-Woman_ episode "Dracula's Revenge" had Spider-Woman fight Dracula, the Wolfman, and Frankenstein's Monster.
-   _The Superhero Squad Show_ had this in the episode "This Man-Thing, This Monster!", where Iron Man worked with the Supernatural Hero Squad (whose members included Werewolf by Night and Man-Thing) and fought against Dracula and an army of Living Mummies. Cameos are also made by Frankenstein's Monster and the Zombie.
-   _Super Monsters_: The Super Monsters and their families are comprised of werewolves, mummies, Frankenmonsters, vampires, witches, zombies, dragons, and gargoyles.
-   _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2012)_: A four-episode arc in season 5 has Savanti Romero travelling across time to recruit Dracula, a werewolf, an Egyptian mummy and Frankenstein's Monster to aid him.

    Real Life 

-   Halloween parties and cosplay events where there are "monsters" and paranormal creatures of all sorts represented. Really, Halloween in general could count.
-   While far short of a _genuine_ threat, the live herp-and-arthropod sections of pet stores, nocturnal or reptile houses at zoos, and the home of anyone with varied tastes in exotic creepy-crawly companion animals can come across as this to those with phobias about snakes, spiders, cockroaches, lizards, scorpions, toads, etc.

___