**The Operative:** Do you know what your sin is, Mal?  
**Malcolm Reynolds:** Ah, hell, I'm a fan of all seven... _\[gains the upper hand\]_ but right now, I'm going to have to go with **wrath**.

An ultimately heroic or good character nonetheless associated with an obvious vice.

Mr. Vice Guy avoids being an Unsympathetic Comedy Protagonist or Villain Protagonist in that while they have obvious greed, lust, pride, wrath, etc. it never completely outweighs their good qualities or sense of right. In some instances, it weighs equally and they feel justified making minor exploitations of their co-stars.

An easy way to create an Arch-Enemy for this character is to make an Evil Counterpart that embodies the exact same vice but doesn't have the morals that Mr. Vice Guy has to keep it in check.

Beware! If he ever has to get over his addiction or make a Face–Heel Turn, then it's "No more Mr. Vice Guy..!"

A Mr. Vice Guy with more prominent vices will overlap somewhat with Anti-Hero in that, while they have obvious flaws, they are still ultimately good.

-   **Apathy**. Having personal stakes can make you unpredictable when The Plan needs you to cooperate. With lives at stake, forsake your passion and stop caring about the outcome and you just might achieve something miraculous.
-   **Cowardice**. They'll avoid a fight with chattering teeth and Inelegant Blubbering and half the time their fears are irrational. But threaten their friends and family and a little thing like uncertain doom won't stop them from stepping up to face the danger.
-   **Cynicism**. Just because they aren't idealistic doesn't mean they're bad people. Even if they don't believe things will turn out for the better, they still won't stop doing what's right, because someone has to.
-   **Dishonesty**. If you refuse to lie when telling the truth can endanger the ones you love, then sometimes doing the honorable thing is best left to the idiots.
-   **Envy**. Sometimes the good guys can take on the Green-Eyed Monster as their companion, whether it's the new guy showing that they can slay monsters more efficiently or if the helpless civilians find him or her more charming than them. While villains would try and drag that other guy down, a hero can take their resentment of their peers and channel it into a zeal for self-improvement.
-   **Foolishness**. What they lack in brains, they make up for in heart. Being kind-hearted has its benefits just as much as being smart is, especially in the case of Insufferable Geniuses. Being foolish also has the benefit of making them Too Dumb to Fool, allowing them to avoid misdirection and temptation. Of course, just because they aren't intelligent doesn't mean they aren't capable of wisdom.
-   **Gluttony**. They just can't keep their hands off of the cookie jar, but maybe it is a coping mechanism they use to keep themselves from falling apart. Their gluttony can be weaponized to make them Acrofatic and can be integral when the Super Team needs someone to win the eating contest.
-   **Greed**. Money can be an excellent motivator for a hero, giving them the right kind of work ethic to get the job done and accumulate skills necessary to thrive in good times and bad for themselves and the community. No hero would want to be broke, after all.
-   **Hedonism**. They love having fun and highly prioritize taking pleasure when and where they can with whatever means possible. This character doesn’t need to be selfish either and is often surprisingly generous since happiness loves company and pleasure isn’t a zero-sum game. A Martyr Without a Cause, The Eeyore, The Cynic, loners, and the Knight in Sour Armor could learn a thing or two from this character. There’s also a reason they’re on the team, as the bad guys find out once the party’s over.
-   **Lust**. Some men just can't keep it in their pants and women have needs too, but that doesn't make them a bad person. They won't take advantage of you when you're drunk and vulnerable, and they refuse to ruin a preexisting relationship for their own needs, at least not on purpose anyway. It's all free love for them. Safe, Sane, and Consensual. Tends to be a Chivalrous Pervert or a Lovable Sex Maniac.
-   **Machiavellianism**. Provided it's directed at the right people and not taken too far, being manipulative can serve the hero well. Tricking the enemy by taking advantage of their flaws shows just how cunning the hero can be on the field.
-   **Mischief**. They may not believe in following the rules, but that doesn't necessarily mean they're bad people. They can be Karmic Tricksters if the people they trick or prank truly deserve it. A Trickster Mentor, despite their methods, do genuinely believe in teaching someone a lesson and helping them to grow as a person through unusual methods.
-   **Paranoia**. Some heroes can't bring themselves to trust others or relax. Yet at the same time, their paranoia isn't unjustified, since they have been Taught by Experience not to let their guard down, and they still have people they can trust.
-   **Pride**. The hero can be a real Attention Whore, doing it all for the glamour and fame and army of fans, but highly publicized heroics with all of the authenticity of a wrestling match is better than no heroics at all. In some cases, their bravado is completely justified. Alternatively, the confident hero thinking themselves as superior to other people may very well be the motivation for them to work hard, to be ahead of the curve, and to become the person they want to be.
-   **Recklessness**. They'll throw themselves at danger with reckless abandon for the sheer thrill of it, which can be a serious problem when faced with a danger that won't go down without a serious fight.
-   **Rudeness**. They're definitely not the most friendly of people, but the fact they still fight for what is right should say something about them. And sometimes, they may not actually be so mean, showing a heart they reserve only for the people they are close to the most.
-   **Selfishness**. They struggle to think of anyone but themselves and their own needs, no matter how much they fake it, but when push comes to shove they'll come through for you in the end. More pragmatic ones with this vice would tell you that benefiting others can be a means of benefiting oneself.
-   **Sloth**. It takes them a while to get out of bed to save your life and they try to do it the easy way first and foremost, but in a stressful world of action and danger sometimes the hero has to take it easy and abide for the rest of the sinners out there.
-   **Solitude**. Some heroes usually work by themselves and have refused help. This can hinder them at times when teamwork is necessary, though some things have to be done alone, either to learn independence or because it's personal. The hero may prefer to do things themselves, but they aren't above helping others or receiving help at times, even if they aren't willing to join a group or mingle with others.
-   **Stubborness**. Some heroes just refuse to quit or lie down. Their determination and willpower to stick with what they believe in is just that strong. This can work with people who have determination or confidence, but this can also backfire if they have Detrimental Determination or misplaced confidence.
-   **Vanity**. Sometimes a hero is so confident in himself - both as a fighter and a lover - that it can take them to places they are desperate to leave but unable to escape. But that unearned confidence can be incredibly useful if nudged in the right direction. Just because they're vain, doesn't mean they aren't willing to get their hands dirty, nor does it mean they are incapable of acknowledging other people.
-   **Wrath**. A short-tempered hero can be a sloppy one, but that rage gives them the focus to face a world of danger without fear. After all, when faced with threats that seek to harm the peace, safety, and tranquility of your loved ones, what's there to be serene about?

Compare Fatal Flaw, Good Is Not Nice, Good Is Not Soft, Jerk with a Heart of Gold, Noble Bigot (with or without a Badge). Contrast Evil Virtues, for a villainous character with one or more obvious virtues, and Straight Edge Evil, for a villain who abstains from many vices. Consider also Compressed Vice and Compressed Abstinence.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Cesare - Il Creatore che ha distrutto_ isn't for kids and doesn't throw "hero" and "villain" labels onto the characters, most of whom were real people and therefore more complicated than such labels. But it does play with this in its characterization of protagonist Cesare Borgia, while counteracting the Historical Villain Upgrade that his whole family is usually subject to. Main character Angelo meets Cesare and admires him from the beginning, but soon comes to question his violent and dishonest methods, even though Cesare does seem intent on making the world a better place. Cesare's loyal right-hand companion Miguel tells Angelo that even when Cesare looks heroic (like when he defended Miguel, who's Jewish, from racist bullies), he only ever really acts for himself, and that if Angelo lets himself see Cesare as a hero, he'll end up with a Broken Pedestal really fast. Later, when Angelo is about to leave for the important and sensitive political position Cesare set him up with (essentially as Cesare's spy), Miguel reminds him of that warning, and Angelo replies by showing all the good that has come of a plan that Cesare enacted, even though Cesare's stated reasons were purely selfish. As Angelo rides away, Miguel remarks to no one that Angelo's smarter than he looks.
-   _Code Geass:_ Lelouch vi Britannia initially seems to be consumed by his desire to avenge the murder of his mother and crippling/blinding of his sister Nunnally, but it quickly becomes apparent that his true fatal flaw is his Complexity Addiction. Not only does his need to be dramatic at every given circumstance place him in multiple bad situations but his Pride in his abilities also gets him into hot water. Ultimately, his secret identity as a Fallen Prince of the empire as well as a Cassandra Gambit by his big brother Schneizel has his soldiers turn on him and attempt to assassinate him. Having recently suffered a Despair Event Horizon, he attempts to ensure his death through taunting them about their stupidity and not even trying to defend himself. Ultimately, he gives himself up as a Sacrificial Lion for the Zero Requiem.
-   Mr. Kimura from _Azumanga Daioh_ doesn't even bother hiding that he's a teacher with a high school girl fetish. However, aside from his sleazy behavior towards his students, he's implied to be a model citizen.
-   Rosette Christopher from _Chrono Crusade_ is so Hot-Blooded that she causes massive damage on her missions, is revealed to be quite fond of gambling, and one time got so drunk she knocked over a nearly priceless vase—and she's a _nun_ living during Prohibition! But despite all this, she's kind-hearted, a genuinely good person, and lives life to the fullest even knowing her Deal with the Devil will cause her to die a young death.
-   Mr. Satan of _Dragon Ball Z_ is addicted to the fame brought to him by legitimately winning the 24th World Martial Arts Tournament (the main cast didn't compete in this one) to the point where he cheats and deals his way into winning subsequent tournaments where the Z fighters _do_ enter. That said, he's a genuinely heroic character, making contributions towards beating Cell and Buu. He carried Android 16's head through the battlefield so 16 could give Gohan the pep talk he needed to overpower Cell. When everyone else had written off Buu as a monster, Satan recognized that Buu simply didn't understand his own actions, and was able to convince Buu to stop killing by teaching him right and wrong. Later, Satan used his fame to convince the people of earth to lend their energy to Goku's Spirit Bomb.
    -   Krillin and Master Roshi both display the vice of lust, but Krillin also display cowardice in some episodes, but are still focused on doing what is right.
-   Cross Marian of _D.Gray-Man_ may fit. He has a habit of gambling to make money, and/or spending money he may not have. He's greatly in debt. He makes very extravagant bets, but if he loses, he doesn't pay and will run off, leaving someone else to pay, usually his 15-year-old apprentice. At one point, he is even shown leaving bills for his enemies to pay, which reached up into millions of dollars, for housing, alcohol, and women. He's a complete alcoholic, but it's implied he's Drowning His Sorrows. He also always has cigarettes handy. He's known as a womanizer by other characters in the series, and one of his hobbies is visiting red-light districts, but his actions show him as the Chivalrous Pervert, rather than The Casanova. We have yet to see him mistreat or abuse a woman. One of his lovers, Anita, hates mean people, but she was crazy about Cross, and so was her mother. Cross had relations with both women, who only supported the Black Order due to its association with Cross. He's also said to have many keepsakes from his lovers under his bed at Mother's house—an old friend of his. So, while Cross appears to be a big hedonist with his gambling, smoking, drinking, and philandering, he is not without goodness. His character profile by the author even states he hates "dirty bastards".
-   _Fullmetal Alchemist_:
    -   Ling is a Big Eater who is constantly mooching off of and charging his meals to the other characters. He ultimately shows a noble streak, as he will do anything to protect his loyal bodyguards.
    -   Despite being the hero, Ed himself is arrogant and prone to flipping out at perceived insults, and recklessly overestimating his abilities.
    -   Winry is a kind, compassionate person who routinely beats the shit out of people with a wrench for some pretty trivial reasons. Her struggle with wrath gets a lot more serious when she learns Scar killed her parents; the only reason she doesn't kill him is that Ed begs her not to.
    -   Greed goes so far as make his vice his main virtue. Greed wants to "possess" people, forming a group of allies in both of his incarnations, but once someone is part of his orbit he's unfailingly loyal towards them and tries to do right by them, meaning that he tends to inspire Undying Loyalty. Additionally, unlike the other homunculi, Greed is not loyal to Father; his focus on himself allows him to spot that Father's plans are ultimately for the benefit of Father alone and leads to him striking out on his own. Greed eventually comes to the conclusion that ultimately, he is greedy for _friendship_, rather than power, and he sacrifices his life to protect his friends. It's no wonder he and Ling form such a stable partnership.
    -   Scar is driven by wrath, waging a brutal campaign of vengeance against Amestris, but also has a sense of honor and compassion, looking after tiny and naive May Chang and battling against Father with the same drive - although far messier methods - than Ed and Al.
    -   Double Subverted with Roy Mustang, who seems to struggle with lust (or, more accurately, dive headlong into it) in multiple ways: he seems to be lustful for power, and is also a notorious horndog who has to keep detailed schedules to keep track of his dating life. It's all an elaborate ruse. His ambition isn't because he's power-hungry; it's because he's driven by _guilt_ and the only way to ensure the things he's done are punished is to rebuild the entire military dictatorship from the top down. As for his skirt-chasing, it's an Urban Legend Love Life; the brothel he frequents is a way for him to get intel from his aunt, his dating schedules are code for his alchemy research, and he seems entirely loyal to Riza - he's just using the cover of a womanising suck-up to make people underestimate him. Then Maes Hughes is murdered and we find out that his _actual_ vice is Wrath - the sense of justice that fuels his politicking twists itself into a thirst for vengeance, and when he has reason to believe someone was involved in Hughes's death, painful, fiery things tend to happen to them. At one point it takes both Ed and Riza to talk him down from sadistically burning Envy to death over and over again.
-   Great Teacher Onizuka smokes, drinks, gets into fights all the time, and is a Lovable Sex Maniac (despite being a virgin), but just try and harm one of his students or friends. He'll introduce you to a new world of hurt. This even extends to people he personally loathes or doesn't even know, as seen in the several times he rescues Vice Principal Uchiyamada. Additionally, despite becoming a teacher in the first place to hook up with Joshikousei, when he has the chance he consistently shows himself to be Above the Influence, even _knocking himself out_ to avoid kissing his student.
-   Stunk in _Interspecies Reviewers_ is constantly shown smoking, drinking, and acting extremely perverted but he has a good heart underneath it all.
-   Miroku in _Inuyasha_ is a good and heroic person who is also an inveterate skirt-chaser and unrepentant con artist, in spite of the fact that he's a Buddhist monk. Miroku's vices are, notably, documented vices of real monks of the time period, and all things considered, he manages to come across better than many accounts of the same.
-   _Kamisama Kiss_: Tomoe used to regularly visit the Red Light District, tends to transform and threaten to _cook_ opponents, is very vicious in battle even _without_ that, easily made jealous and very rude. However, he is firmly on Nanami's side and honestly cares for her, not to mention very loyal and at times awkwardly kind. And his sadistic tendencies in battle tend to come out mostly by people threatening the most important thing for him - Nanami.
-   _Master Of Mosquiton_'s Inaho is an unrepentant obsessive treasure hunter who often puts her friends in danger. Nonetheless, one of her catchphrases is "Life is more important than money." (Which she can always get more of later...)
-   Quetzalcoatl A.K.A. Lucoa from _Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid_ is already viewed as sinful by the other characters because she keeps offering her body to the barely-pubescent mage Shouta, being treated by the story as a Comedic Shotacon, but this got exacerbated further when the _Lucoa is my XX_ spinoff eventually revealed she genuinely wants to have sex with him and eventually bear his children. Despite all this, she's the most genuine Nice Girl out of all the dragons, and she is _very_ adamant about getting his genuine consent before she even thinks of getting it on with him, sticking with just being The Tease in hopes that he'll eventually reciprocate, even if that means waiting until he's an adult, which for a Time Abyss former-goddess isn't too much of a problem.
-   _Monster Rancher_:
    -   Tiger is a good guy even though he prefers not to show his softer side. However, he is very prideful and his temper can get the best of him at times.
    -   Hare is a trickster and enjoys conning people, but can be fiercely protective of his friends. Being The Smart Guy of the group, his overconfidence and arrogance work against him sometimes.
-   Katsuki Bakugo in _My Hero Academia_ has a Hair-Trigger Temper and an inflated sense of entitlement that makes him a Jerkass and a Bully, but he _desperately_ wants to be a superhero. He is so passionate about it, the League of Villains had no chance of recruiting him into their ranks after they kidnapped him just as his teacher Aizawa predicted.
-   _Naruto_: Jiraiya is a notorious Handsome Lech and Chivalrous Pervert, who writes erotic novels for a living. He's also fiercely protective of those he cares about, like Naruto and Tsunade.
-   _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_ has Saotome Haruna. Yes, she helps the hero with almost unstoppable enthusiasm and bravery. Yes, she is capable to show unlimited affection to her closest friends Nodoka and Yue. BUT she also is a damn busybody who could not resist exposing the triangle between said closest friends and the hero, AND forcefully stole a kiss from said hero only to achieve a magical power, AND is really capable of going to extreme lengths for things that she deems "exciting", no matter the risk (for others). And she is a mangaka too...
-   Mako in _Nerima Daikon Brothers_ is basically the personification of the "attractive girl obsessed with money" version of this trope. Claiming to be a former pop idol, Mako has an expensive taste in wine and constantly complains about the poverty she and her two cousins find themselves in. While all of them are willing to cheat and steal for cash (in order to fulfill their dream of building a dome and making a living off of concerts instead of farming), Mako's the worst and tends to put the brothers in even _bigger_ debt because of her spending habits.
-   _One Piece_:
    -   Zoro is a Blood Knight all too eager to test his sword against something but remains a Jerk with a Heart of Gold who will put others first.
    -   Nami is a decent person but remains obsessed with treasure even after she manages to save her hometown (she was originally trying to free the town from pirate rule by paying off a literal Loan Shark).
    -   Usopp is both a coward and a braggart, but as the series goes on, he becomes willing to stop fooling around and fight when the chips are down.
    -   Sanji is a loyal friend, a world-class chef, and an almost unstoppable fighter — but will always be known primarily as the crew's resident pervert. Sanji always was and probably will remain a Jerk with a Heart of Gold to his male friends.
    -   Brook, the other pervert in the crew, is actually a very nice person who just happened to forget a few of his manners due to 50 years of isolation from other living beings.
-   _Soul Eater_:
    -   Death the Kid would be the Only Sane Man of the group if it weren't for his OCD.
    -   Black☆Star has a very large ego but will storm the enemy's headquarters if his friend has been harmed.
-   _Haruhi Suzumiya_: Haruhi and Kyon. Haruhi starts out as a jerkass Genki Girl and eventually becomes, well, a selfish jerk who means well and values her friends more than making the world exciting. Kyon is a Deadpan Snarker who risks his life for the SOS Brigade.
-   _Tokyo Mew Mew_ has FIVE Vice Guys/Girls: Ichigo, the protagonist, is such a glutton she accepted the cover job for her superheroing when she was told she'd have free sweets; her boyfriend Aoyama is a sloth, and never fights for what he believes into (unless it endangers Ichigo); Zakuro is so full of wrath she usually scares the customers of the cafe, and has a tendency to react with violence (physical and psychological) to every problem, even screwing up with her companions' minds and making a mock attempt at killing a saddened Minto; Minto is a textbook example of Pride, often treating Ichigo like a servant and mocking her just for fun, and doubles her value as a Miss Vice Girl by being the one with an even more prideful rival; and to ice the cake we have Shirogane, the mentor, is a textbook example of greed, shown by the low pays he gives the girls (actually high for working in a cafe, but quite low for battling aliens), his tendency to go to the Tokyo Dome without paying the ticket and even asking to be paid for helping Ichigo do her homework. We'd have envy and lust too, but Pie (envy) and Kisshu (lust) are villains, so...
-   _Wagnaria!!_: Souta Takanashi is capable, diligent, upright, caring, smart. But his extreme appreciation of anything small and urges to openly and heartily advocate such views ruins his image with his colleague restaurant worker. He compliments girls on-screen by comparing them with water fleas.
-   _Ouran High School Host Club_: The members of the host club do all genuinely care about each other, and all have their heroic moments. However, pretty much all of them have their own particular vices:
    -   Tamaki is vapid and vain.
    -   Kyouya is manipulative to the point of getting the nickname "Shadow King."
    -   Hikaru and Kaoru are mischievous and think very little of people in general.
    -   Honey is practically addicted to sweets, to the point where being deprived of them brings out the unstoppable monster within.
    -   Mori won't tell people what he's thinking and goes to extreme lengths, as shown when Honey got a cavity.
-   In _The Kawai Complex Guide to Manors and Hostel Behavior_, Shirosaki is a raging pervert and consummate masochist, but generally a very good-hearted person, with more moral restraint than one might expect.
-   Miu Furinji of _Kenichi: The Mightiest Disciple_ is a very sweet and gentle girl, but given the financial troubles the Ryouzanpaku dojo is constantly facing, she can be very greedy when she sees the chance to get a good amount of money, such as pushing the masters to teach young children, asking Kenichi to sell the platinum medals he earned from defeating the Yomi members, and repeatedly trying to pilfer Rimi's pure gold weighted training shoes as "spoils of war".
-   _Dr. STONE_: When Ryusei Nanami, an experienced sea captain and the heir of the extinct Nanami Conglomerate, is unpetrified, the first thing he proclaims is that the world will be his. And once he learns that civilization has collapsed, he states he is willing to take it for himself. He has strong greed for luxury, but his greed is so strong he wants luxury for himself _and_ for everyone around him, essentially being greedy on the behalf of others. His own debauchery lifestyle was all funded through his earnings from competition, gambling, and stock exchanges. Ryusei is also a Chivalrous Pervert towards beautiful women, but he considers _all_ women regardless of age or looks as beautiful, and seeing one of the elders of Ishigami village sadly remember a famine from the past makes him want to establish a stable food supply so another famine will never happen.

    Asian Animation 

-   In _Happy Heroes_, Mr. Lightbulb is greedy but the end of any episode featuring this always shows him redeeming himself in some way. He's also a good parent to his child, Lightbulb Jr.

    Comic Books 

-   Disney Ducks Comic Universe:
    -   Scrooge McDuck (written by Carl Barks and Don Rosa) used to be the Trope Namer: Scrooge is a greedy, money-obsessed, and ruthless businessman who has been depicted cheerfully committing fraud, extortion, or even flat-out theft. He openly despises the concept of a minimum wage, and always plans to get any money he pays as wages back as payments for loans, compensation for tools, travel expenses, or other "services rendered". Scrooge's sister once calls him out on the fact that it was far from "that one time" that he overstepped the bounds of decency. (He was originally created as an antagonist, before characterization marched on.) However, Scrooge shows affection for his family and a strong work ethic. In his _DuckTales (1987)_ incarnation especially, he is a warm, caring father figure. He worked hard for his money. And he made it **square.** Indeed, Scrooge is a saint compared to his rivals: Flintheart Glomgold, who's a cheating, amoral scoundrel, and John D. Rockerduck, a grown-up Spoiled Brat who inherited all of his money.
    -   Xadhoom from _Paperinik New Adventures_ is a nice and generous person who also happens to hold a _genocidal_ amount of wrath against the Evronians (who wiped out her homeworld, and couldn't have pulled it off she hadn't believed their claims of wanting a trading relationship and allowed their "merchant ships" to land unopposed), and even when Evronians aren't involved she still has a short temper. In fact she's _far_ angrier and full of self-loathing than she appears, it's just that her self-control and mental discipline are amazing and she doesn't really show it.
-   Booster Gold, late of the _Justice League International_, who fights crime, rights wrongs, and has multiple smokin' endorsement deals.
-   _The Incredible Hulk_:
    -   The Hulk has Wrath down pat—without it, he's just a scientist, rather than a superhero.
    -   The Joe Fixit, or Gray Hulk, personality is a straighter example of this, he wears fine, personally tailored suits, eats the finest food (and a lot of it), and of course, heaping helpings of pleasurable company, but is shown to have a certain honor, mostly taught to him by his former employer, Mr. Berengetti.
    -   Recent interpretations of the character have indicated that Banner is just as much Wrath as the Hulk. The difference is that Banner's is much more focused, and therefore even more dangerous, with characters thinking that of the two _Banner_ is the more dangerous. This gets backed up by the fact that the Hulk is scariest when he's closest to Banner in personality and intellect.
-   Hulk's cousin, She-Hulk, on the other hand, is occasionally Lust in a big, green totally hot form.
-   Tony Stark is a superhero, but has two major vices: Alcoholism and womanizing. He's also (Depending on the Writer) an arrogant control freak.
-   Double Subverted in _Moonshadow_. The title character thinks Ira seems like a good fellow despite his sex addiction, bad attitude, and self-centeredness, but the careful reader will notice that in the beginning he mostly does things for Moonshadow when they also benefit him. It turns out he really _is_ that much of a Jerkass, and treacherous to boot. However, he undergoes a lot of karmic retribution, and it leads him to Character Development and a true place on this list.
-   Jack Point, an undercover Judge from the _Judge Dredd_ Spinoff _The Simping Detective_, has well exceeded his lawful limitations for blending in with the normal citizens of Mega-City One. He has a strong affinity for whiskey, smokes, is a womanizer, and to top it all off, all three of those are highly illegal for any city Judge.
-   Pointed out in _Sonic the Hedgehog (Archie Comics)_, where Scourge, one of Sonic's many, many antagonists, observes that they share the same arrogance and vanity, though that he lacks what he describes as a "limiting factor" - Sonic's moral compunction.
-   Marvel's version of Hercules is a boisterous, big-eating, big-drinking, self-promoting skirt-chasing party animal, but still a hero.
-   _My Little Pony: Legends of Magic_ introduces us to Rockhoof, a genuinely brave and heroic earth pony whose gluttony and pride nearly prove his undoing.
-   _Ultimate Marvel_:
    -   A side trait of Ultimate Hulk, due to his being Banner's unrestrained Id. Most notably, when Wolverine tracks him down in _Ultimate Wolverine vs Hulk_, he's surrounded by a huge harem of scantily-clad Tibetan women and makes it obvious he's been having sex with them.
-   _X-Men_: Wolverine is a stubborn, often selfish Jerkass with an explosive temper and a bad tendency to refuse to own up to his mistakes. He’s also a chain-smoking, barbiturate-addicted alcoholic who never even bothers to try and quit. But in the end, he always at least _tries_ to do the right thing and help people, even when it comes at great cost to himself, and beneath all the rudeness and cynicism is a man with a big heart who truly cares for those around him.

    Fan Works 

-   Greed is a big one for Dawn in the _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_/_Stargate SG-1_ crossover story _All Your Base are Belong to Her_; she sees nothing wrong with taking anything that isn't nailed down, if it's shiny, fashionable, or valuable. Likewise, she's never met a mirror she didn't like, being enormously vain. Seems to consider her hotness a superpower right alongside her Teleportation and Unlocking abilities.
-   _Equestrylvania_ has Roaring Yawn. He's a prideful and egotistical scholar who acts like a total jerk to Twilight when they first meet, but becomes surprisingly supportive of her when she's dealing with her brother being infected by the Great Bat.
-   In the _Getting Back on Your Hooves_ universe, Trixie is still prideful and an attention seeker after her Heel–Face Turn, as well as having moments where her jealousy gets the better of her. However, she's still a good friend and is part of the mane six's True Companions, and her negative traits have lessened considerably.
-   Lelouch in _Justice League of the Rebellion_ might have some Adaptational Heroism thanks to being Batman, but he can't help but feel envious of his super-powered teammates, making him vulnerable to Envy's possession until he injects himself with a knock-out concoction. He later invokes this trope with the help of the Spectre to pull the Seven Deadly Sins into himself<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , turning himself into Sabbac to give the League a fighting chance against the Kaiju-size Mr. Mind.
-   In _The Night Unfurls_, Kyril Sutherland's several vices are tempered by his professionalism, hence his sense of right and reason. He's cynical, but driven to do good. He's brutal, but that's directed to his enemies, not innocent people. He's paranoid, but he has been Taught by Experience not to lower his guard, and he still has at least one person he can trust. Last but not least, he's very dispassionate to the point of being seemingly uncaring of anybody and anything, but he is capable of empathy.
-   Alexandra Harris, the protagonist of the _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_/_Power Girl_ fanfic _Origin Story_ sometimes seems to have a flexible set of morals. While she's heroic in that she saves people and fights crime, she's also not above committing the occasional crime herself if she thinks the crime needs committing (including the murder of a government official who was endangering her loved ones, and the theft of over ten billion dollars from a corrupt corporation, and strangling Squirrel Girl into unconsciousness while snarling her hatred of her as a Marvel "joke" character when Doreen tries one badly-timed "Let's You and Him Fight" too many). If you asked her, she'd probably describe herself as "pragmatic" rather than "criminal," though, and she does seem to regret what she sees as the necessity of the crimes in question.
-   Probably goes without saying with the four in _With Strings Attached_ and _The Keys Stand Alone_, given who they are in Real Life, though they're not in a position to act on some of their known impulses (lust is a good example). Still, their vices come into play with some frequency, particularly jealousy, addiction, manipulativeness, and vengefulness. They also make no bones about disliking people, which heroes are not supposed to do. (Ask them what they think of the C'hovites in _Strings_ or the Geddies in _Keys_, for example.) Yet they're fiercely protective of and loyal to one another, staunch Actual Pacifists, and genuinely sympathetic to people who deserve it (notably the Svenjaya).
    -   Played for laughs in _Keys_ when Trelayna of the Rock, thoroughly crazy telepathic leader of the Angels, has an extremely one-sided interview with John. She had believed the four to be as pure as the driven snow, but discovered otherwise upon plumbing John's mind: AND AS I LOOK DEEPER, I SEE HOW WRONG MY SERVANTS WERE ABOUT your ESSENTIAL GOODNESS. IT IS ALL ON THE SURFACE. BELOW, I SEE A LIFETIME OF PROFANITY, HEDONISM, FORNICATION, INTOXICATION, AND LITTLE REGRET OR GUILT FOR ANY OF IT... SHAME! SHAME ON you!
-   While Madarame and Kunikazu share the same vices as their canon selves (desire for fame from art and disdain for commoners respectively), in _Persona 5 Adult Confidant AU_ they show genuine care and concern for their parents Yusuke and Haru respectively.
-   _The Seventh Player_: Machaira Mekhit is this. She's a Religious Bruiser who honors a good-aligned War Goddess and simultaneously a Bruiser with a Soft Center with a compassionate, nurturing soul, but she's also incredibly temperamental and quite sultry and sexually eager for someone of her age, although she doesn't act as much on these latter vices of hers. At least, not anymore.

    Films — Animated 

-   Hiccup Horrendous Haddock III from the _How to Train Your Dragon_ series is shown to have a massive recklessness streak. While Hiccup's biggest strengths are his capacity for compassion and his intelligence, Hiccup was raised in a Viking village that lived under the idea that one's physical strength, skills in weapons, and ability to kill dragons are more important and thus he did not value these skills as much as he should have, causing him to act without thinking ahead. When he tried using his natural skill in inventing to take down dragons his own way, not only did it earn him the scorn of the village (mainly because it accidentally caused a net full of dragons to escape and destroy half of the village in the process), but when it gives him the opportunity to actually kill a dragon, he empathized with the dragon too much to go through with it and freed it instead, a move that could have gotten himself killed. After his compassion was proven to be a good thing (leading to peace between them and the dragons), he would place too much confidence in his diplomatic abilities and leaves him too trusting of strangers, something that has caused more problems in the long run; not suspecting Heather having ulterior motives when she was acting as a spy for Alvin, thinking Torch is harmless when he is causing massive amounts of mischief and leads his mother to the village, thinking he can reason with Drago leading to his father's death and his village nearly being obliterated, etc.
-   _The Incredibles_:
    -   The first film gives us Bob Parr, better known as Mister Incredible. He's a genuine hero with Super-Strength and enhanced reflexes—but after superheroism is made illegal due to frivolous lawsuits, he and every other "Cape" in the world is forced into retirement. Despite the new laws and the pressures of his own family, though, Bob can't resist sneaking out at night and doing anonymous hero work. It's partially because he genuinely wants to help people, but also clear that his motives are somewhat selfish, as he misses the glory of being Mr. Incredible and having fun in the spotlight.
    -   His vice shifts towards envy in the second film, with his clear resentment and jealousy that his wife is the chosen candidate to restore the superheroes' PR while he has to stay home and mind the kids, which he doesn't have much experience at. His attempt to force out his statement of support for his wife is aptly described as "excruciating", and the news report about her big return to the spotlight clearly makes him feel like he's chewing glass. At the same time, even when he's staying at home, he's a good enough man that when he doesn't understand his son's homework enough to help, he claws himself out of bed in the early hours of the morning to go over the textbook and figure it out.
-   Woody in _Toy Story_ is a heroic character, but becomes intensely jealous when it seems Buzz Lightyear has upstaged him- his flaw is always needing to be the center of attention, which also drives _Toy Story 2_.
-   The title character of _Wreck-It Ralph_ is a short-tempered brute who has the natural ability to destroy anything he touches. He's also rather short-sighted and selfish and, as such, easily duped into helping villains or hurting the people he cares about. But despite that, Ralph has a genuinely heroic, protective, and kind side that he ultimately uses to save not just himself, but everyone around him.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   Oskar Schindler, as least as he is depicted in _Schindler's List_. A glad handling, womanizing opportunist who went on to save over a thousand Jewish lives during World War II. He even destroyed his own fortune (made by slave labor) by making defective shells for the Nazis.
-   The Hong Kong film _Millionaire's Express_ stars Sammo Hung as one of its main heroes, a brave, clever and determined man who fights off marauding bandits with his Acrofatic skills... so that he can achieve his life's goal, which is to run his brothel in peace.
-   The Dude from _The Big Lebowski_, the vice being Sloth. His laziness is his defining characteristic, but when dragged by events into dealing with a mystery, he reluctantly tries to do the right thing— although he would be even happier if he could uninvolve himself.
-   James Bond is a heavy smoker, drinker, and womanizer, but still saves the world from Nebulous Evil Organisations.
-   Charlie Wilson in _Charlie Wilson's War_ discovers his cause while sitting naked in a hot tub with a couple of naked ladies.
-   'Uncle' Max from _The Sound of Music_ is a fame-seeking hedonist friend of the Captain, but he's also a true Austrian nationalist and in the end he faces down a possible death in order for the Von Trapp family to escape.
-   In _To Be or Not to Be_ Joseph Tura is an egotistical ham of an actor and his wife Maria is a somewhat shallow probable adultress. However, both of them are extremely brave when roped into the Polish Resistance.
-   While Max Renn in _Videodrome_ is mostly a good person, he is quite a sleazy guy, whose vices are mostly associated with lust.
-   Charlie Bucket in _Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory_: He is a decent kid, but it's clear he wants more than what life gave him, seeing the Wonka bar contest as a means to achieve it. He is tempted by a rival of Wonka's to give away one of his inventions. At one point Charlie does give into temptation, sampling some of Wonka's Fizzy Lifting Drinks, which nearly does him in, as it did the other bratty children. But even when this costs him his prize of a lifetime supply of chocolate, he still won't give away his gobstopper, proving to Wonka he is a good kid at heart.
    -   The 1971 version of one of the "Bratty Kids", Augustus Gloop, is actually presented as a very quiet, polite, well-dressed, and groomed kid. Apart from his (implied) massive gluttony, he doesn't seem to be a bad kid at all. The book and latter adaptation, make him a horrid bullying slob, however.
-   John Hammond, founder of InGen and creator of Jurassic Park, is a genuinely good person, a kind employer, and a wonderful grandfather. The downfall of Jurassic Park was in part because of his pride and well-meaning ambition: all he wanted to do was show the world something real, not an illusion like his first business venture, the flea circus Petticoat Lane, and didn't quite care enough how he got there, breeding dangerous dinosaurs such as the velociraptors, stocking the visitor areas with poisonous plants because they look nice, and his reliance on automation to maintain the park being the main reason the disaster could even take place thanks to his corrupt head programmer Dennis Nedry. In the end, after numerous deaths and serious threats to the lives of his grandchildren, Hammond agrees with cynical Ian Malcolm and initially optimistic Alan Grant that Jurassic Park shouldn't be and abandons his dream. This is in contrast to how Hammond was portrayed in the original novel, where he was a Jerkass Corrupt Corporate Executive who blamed everyone but himself for the park's failure and was planning to try again even after the disaster there, which claimed far more lives than in the film.
    -   Hammond's spiritual successor Simon Masrani claims to have sworn to Hammond on his deathbed that he would make his dream a reality and do it right, creating Jurassic World, which becomes a massive success possibly beyond even Hammond's vision. He's essentially a modern Hammond, just as kind-hearted and well-meaning, caring more for the happiness of the guests and animals than for his profit margins, and generally sees the good in everyone. Unfortunately, he's a little _too_ trusting, leaving head geneticist Henry Wu and chief of security Vic Hoskins to their devices and ultimately leading to the creation of the hybrid dinosaur _Indominus rex_ which causes another disaster on the island.
-   _Marvel Cinematic Universe_:
    -   Tony Stark drinks, gambles, womanizes and suffers Create Your Own Villain at least _three times_ thanks to his sheer obnoxiousness and egotism, but he respects his employees, is horrified when his company's weapons are used by terrorists, mentors two surrogate sons, and eventually makes a Heroic Sacrifice to save the world from Thanos.
    -   Steve Rogers is often seen as a boy scout and a role model for his selflessness, but he is also incredibly reckless, often throwing himself into the thick of things with the idea that either he either martyrs himself or stands by and watch injustice happening, never considering that he could Take a Third Option. This extends to loyalties to his country (being Married to the Job) and to his friends (his Undying Loyalty to Bucky causing him to basically commit treason by harboring him, the Avengers dissolving from the schism it causes).
    -   Thor is a Proud Warrior Race Guy. Emphasis on the "proud". He takes great pride in his skills as a warrior and Asgard's position of power in the Nine Realms, but a lot of this tends to fall into arrogance. He reignites a war between Asgard and Jotunnheim over a perceived insult and yells at his father for his "weakness" for not wanting to fight, comes across as condescending to "tiny" humans at times, and is a Big Eater and a drinker taken to gluttonous extremes in _Avengers: Endgame_ to cope with his failures. In spite of all that, he is very approachable. He is loyal to his family (including Loki despite the various betrayals), loyal to his friends, was implied to have helped along a feminist movement on Asgard, has no quarrel with most other aliens (including humans), and abdicates his throne when he realizes that Valkyrie is much more suited to the job.
-   While his Wrath is cold and efficient, John Wick from the _John Wick_ franchise is The Dreaded because he is the world's greatest assassin. Crossing him in any way is a death wish, but when he is seeking revenge, the rampage often causes more problems along the way that makes his life harder. In the first film, he completely upends the Tarasov Crime Family, leaving a massive trail of bodies, when the bratty Mafiya prince Iosef stole his car and killed his dog. This is seen as John officially coming out of retirement, leading to Santino hiring him to kill his own sister in the second film. In order to cover his tracks after John succeeds in his mission, Santino has a bounty put on John that leads to half of the criminal underworld going after him. By the time he has Santino cornered, he kills him, breaking the ultimate taboo by spilling blood on Continental Ground. Not only does this make him excommunicado from the criminal underworld, but because he killed two members of the High Table, he becomes the criminal underworld's #1 most wanted. This leads to John going to incredible lengths in the third film to make it stop, including selling himself as a willing slave to the High Table, _cutting off his own ring-finger_ and then being sent to kill Winston as his first official job for them.
-   _xXx: State of the Union_: Darius Stone is going to save the country, but not before he gets his hands on a good hamburger. And throw in some fries and a shake while you're at it.
-   Roger East from _Balibo_, at least after going through his Character Development. He's a scruffy, aging coward who is still genuinely dedicated to bringing awareness to East Timor's plight.

    Literature 

-   Sherlock Holmes is a brilliant man and a gifted detective - and he's also a heavy user of cocaine.
    -   With the partial subversion that his _real_ addiction is to the mental stimulation of solving mysteries, and the cocaine is just the poor substitute he settles for when no mystery is available. (Or at least, that's how he rationalizes it. The newer the portrayal, the less likely this rationale is to be taken at face value.) He seems like a callous man who only cares about his own entertainment, but he does deeply care and wants to help all those who need him.
-   Nero Wolfe is arrogant, lazy, greedy, gluttonous, and rude, but he always ends up having done some good.
-   Coulter Dixon in _Fablehaven_ retains a heavy amount of "misguided-chivalry-style" sexism, and won't put a woman in danger or ask for one's help on a dangerous mission. This irritates heroine Kendra to no end. Notably, he does get better, especially with some exposure to Kendra and Cool Old Lady Ruth.
-   Anthony Bourdain described himself as this, especially early in his career as detailed in _Kitchen Confidential_: Serially addicted to cocaine, heroin, and other drugs - and still drinking heavily in his 60s - Bourdain spent his 20s and early 30s on a steady downward trajectory before stabilizing himself in the early 1990s and starting to pull back from the brink. Unfortunately, a number of would-be chefs saw his memoir and only saw the rock-star glamour and easy access to sex and drugs Bourdain described, and decided they wanted on. Bourdain saw those chefs and would-be chefs as poseurs.
-   _Harry Potter_:
    -   Horace Slughorn is gluttonous and lazy—he likes to mentor promising young witches and wizards so that when they become famous, he can name-drop them and seek out favors from them. Still, he's a nice guy and pretty much the only unambiguously good Slytherin depicted in the series. He has a lot less Fantastic Racism than the other Slytherins (he still holds prejudices, but only until he has had a chance to meet the person and judge them as an individual) and has no interest in joining the villains—even spending _a year in hiding_ to avoid joining them, knowing his life was at stake. In the end, he was one of three wizards willing to personally fight with Voldemort. This doubles as a demonstration that he's not just 'famous for being famous', or for his potion skills, but that he is an incredibly talented and well-rounded wizard.
    -   Harry himself is the hero of the entire series. However, his most glaring vice is Wrath, or at least lack of control over his anger and other emotional outbursts. He's also _way_ too foolishly stubborn for anyone's good, including his own, making it easy for other characters to accuse him of occasional arrogance.
    -   There was no denying that Dumbledore was a good guy. However, he had a glaring flaw of Pride, which led to the death of his sister, Ariana. He was also a chessmaster who manipulated other characters to fulfill his (fortunately benevolent) plans. Indeed, Dumbledore recognized his vice and acted accordingly—he knew the worst he could do and was terrified of who he could have been, as revealed when he opened up to Harry. The reason he never became Minister of Magic is primarily that he did not trust himself in the position. His old slogan "For The Greater Good" taught him that he could easily become a Well-Intentioned Extremist, without even noticing. Some of the most touching parts of his final conversation with Harry was asking whether or not he had gone too far, whether or not he had slipped and once again become the tyrant under the banner of the 'Greater Good'.
    -   Ron Weasley is one of the nicest characters in the books and a major help to Harry in saving the world. However, he also gets jealous very easily, a weakness that threatened to tear apart the trio on several occasions.
    -   Hermione is not exempt from this. Her perfectionist attitude and her drive to be as best as she can causes her to somewhat feel threatened whenever someone manages to surpass her, such as Harry scoring higher than her in the Defense Against the Dark Arts OWL, or the potions class in the sixth year.
-   Ciaphas Cain (HERO OF THE IMPERIUM!) is a Dirty Coward, but very good at pretending not to be...or he's tremendously brave but incredibly self-abasing. There's arguments for both.
-   Crowley of _Good Omens_ is literally on Earth for the sole purpose of making people miserable, and he does so quite happily. He also has a lot of pride and vanity—he likes looking sharp and driving an _extremely_ nice car. However, he is mostly a Punch-Clock Villain who recognizes that he'll never do anything that humans don't do to themselves far more effectively than hell ever could, and he's even willing to do an occasional good deed on behalf of his angelic buddy Aziraphale (who would in turn do a bad deed for him). In the end, he's one of the most sympathetic characters in the book and wants to avert the apocalypse simply because he likes Earth and humanity.
-   Henry Bacon of _The Last Dragon Chronicles_ is staid, grumpy, and old-fashioned to the point of being stifling. He's not exactly a Friend to All Children. He's even the primary antagonist of the first book in the series. However, as the later books prove, he is nonetheless a loyal neighbor who truly does care about his neighbors and their friends. Even if he does think they're a little loopy.

-   _Discworld_:
    -   Samuel Vimes is alcoholic and pessimistic, but still intentionally sympathetic, honorable, and serious about being a cop, in his own way. By the second book he appears in, he stops drinking, but nothing can shake the pessimism.
    -   Tiffany Aching recognizes that she's selfish, but she uses her selfishness as a weapon to protect her friends and family, in a "how dare you take these people away, they're _mine_" way.
-   Li Kao of _Bridge of Birds_ is fond of introducing himself as a sage "with a slight flaw in my character". Said "slight flaw" includes alcoholism and a perfect willingness to lie to, rob, and kill people to achieve his ends without batting an eyelash. He even freely acknowledges to his much more pure-hearted companion Number Ten Ox that the only reason he didn't become a criminal instead of a crime-solving wise man was that he found committing crimes to be so easy that it became too boring for him. In spite of all of this, he's an unambiguously good guy whose morally questionable actions are done solely to find the ginseng root that will cure the dying children of Ten Ox's village and he isn't shy about expressing his disgust at the reprehensible deeds of the villains they meet during their quest.
-   _Gautrek's Saga_: Gautrek's friend Jarl Neri is a brave warrior, a clever advisor, and a reliable ally to his friends and relations, but he is absurdly stingy. Yet he is very open about it and is very reluctant to accept gifts because he just cannot bring himself to give something in return, and yet does not want to rip people off.
-   _James Bond_ is a cynical, womanizing alcoholic, swears frequently, and is little more than a government-sponsored assassin, but he saves the world regularly, tries to prevent innocent people from being hurt in his adventures, and cares deeply for his friends.
-   In _The Stormlight Archive_, Highprince Sebarial is openly indulgent in his creature comforts in a society that preaches Stoicism as a propriety, to the extent that some of his peers believe that he would literally bring a massage table to a state meeting, but is an unusually thoughtful, competent, and grounded leader who looks after his people.
-   In _The Supervillainy Saga_ the protagonists are all associated with various vices. Gary is associated with Pride (usually the worst sin), Cindy with Lust as well as Greed, and Diabloman was once synonymous with Wrath. They're all Antihero protagonists (or Antivillain depending on your point of view) that ultimately do the right thing.
-   _The Belgariad_: The Nadrak king Drosta Lek Thun is more often found in brothels than in his own palace, even unabashedly "holding court" while in bed with a pair of escorts. However, he's a savvy and conscientious ruler who plays up his image as a debauched sybarite — which, as he'll happily admit, he is — to throw off his enemies and keep the local divinely mandated Religion of Evil off-balance.
-   _A Song of Ice and Fire_'s Stannis Baratheon is an ultimately good person and almost the epitome of what a king should be. He's also stubborn, openly dismissive of anyone who fails to live up to his exceedingly high standards, and vindictive to the point of holding onto grudges for decades.
-   _The Bone Maker_: The Retired Badass Zera lives in a palatial estate with more casual lovers than she can even name. She's also one of the legendary Heroes of Vos, one of the most proficient and respected bone wizards on the continent, and even _more_ capable than she was in her glory days.
-   _The Daevabad Trilogy_ has the pleasure-loving, promiscuous socialite prince Muntadhir. The hedonism is definitely real, but he uses his image and the information he obtains this way to try and keep his city politically stable and protect his younger siblings, and he's known as a skilful and caring partner. Somewhat subverted when he falls in love for real and the need to keep up this image (along with his arranged marriage to the protagonist) put a serious strain on the relationship. And further subverted when he feels wronged and develops some indiscriminate Beware the Nice Ones tendencies.
-   Aramis and Porthos of _Musketeer Space_ are both hard-drinking, bar-brawling, shenanigan-prone EthicalSluts. Porthos is a problem gambler, and Aramis devotes herself to having affairs with married women. They're also hotshot pilots, devoted patriots, and deeply loyal to their friends, just like their originals in _The Three Musketeers_.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   Captain Jack Harkness of _Doctor Who_ and _Torchwood_ fame is definitely one of these. You can't help but love him even though he flirts with _literally_ everyone he meets because he's just such a good guy. Then, in _Torchwood_, he was (unwittingly) put in charge of Torchwood Cardiff, and his vices expand from merely flirting with everyone to also being in charge, dammit! Of course, he will forgive you. But first he will shoot whatever you thought you could get away with having in his base, or outside of it, or possibly teleport it into the sun or erase its existence entirely. Just don't mess with him, okay? Don't. Oh, and nobody knows who he is and he ain't telling. His vice of lust is actually the status quo of his era. In the 51st century, omnisexuality is the norm.
    -   Depending on the Writer, the Doctor himself is sometimes written as a Mr. Vice Guy. He's capable of amazing heroism, but occasionally shows a hideous streak of pride, occasionally bordering on (and in at least one episode, crossing into) A God Am I territory. Pride and the occasional dash of Hubris are constants for all Doctors, but individual incarnations have their glaring character flaws as well. Even after the First Doctor gets some character development and stops being a Sociopathic Hero, he remains naturally rude and surly, even making several racist comments. The Third Doctor is condescending and his casual sexism is remarked upon by other characters fairly often. The Fourth Doctor has an Awesome Ego and tends to use an amiable, cheery persona to conceal a rather selfish, flippant, and thoughtless streak, but he still has a strong moral sense and a belief in doing good. The Sixth Doctor is similar, but doesn't bother with the cute and harmless exterior and ramps up the abrasiveness and violence tenfold. The Seventh Doctor has a Machiavellian streak and tends to manipulate people in almost cruel ways at times to ensure his preferred outcomes, but these outcomes are almost always still well-meaning and intended to help as many people as possible. The Ninth Doctor's surliness and anger are exaggerated by a boatload of Time War trauma.
        
        All Doctors tend to be unbelievably vain, though the precise mechanism of this changes with the Doctor. Some take pleasure in fussy, expensive outfits; others take pleasure in fussy, expensive outfits that they then wear in a deliberately scruffy way so they don't look too fussy and expensive; others take pleasure in dressing in outrageous clothes in the misguided belief that they are so gorgeous they can pull off anything; some love being the centre of attention; others feel _entitled_ to being the centre of attention and whine if they aren't; some make a habit of lying about their age to flatter themselves.
        
    -   Vastra murders and _eats_ other murderers and is overtly sexist and racist (referring to men as 'monkeys' and humans in general as 'apes') but because she is played with such charm and poise and her relationship with her human wife is so adorable she's never treated as anything other than a heroic individual. It helps that she is non-human, making her gruesome eating habits technically not cannibalistic, and that they are kept safely offscreen.
-   Rygel on _Farscape_. Gluttonous, greedy, prideful, lecherous, lazy, and when sufficiently provoked, more than capable of wrath. (A borderline case, as he _does_ try to sell out the others on occasion in the early season, so he's not _that_ heroic.) However, you will almost never find him _envious_—what's there to envy? He's perfect.
    -   Chiana, meanwhile, is Lusty McFuck.
-   Malcolm Reynolds from _Firefly_ will happily admit that he's a fan of all seven deadly sins. He's a criminal by trade, but he also has Chronic Hero Syndrome, which he does his best to hide.
-   _Game of Thrones_: Tyrion Lannister is a notorious whoremonger and party animal. He settles down considerably after hooking up with Shae. Tyrion's penchant for whores later comes to be used to paint Tyrion in a negative light during Tyrion's trial for Joffrey's murder.
    
    **Tyrion:** Drinking and lust; no man can match me in these things. I am the god of tits and wine.
    
-   Emerson Cod in _Pushing Daisies_ is obsessed with money, but he's a good friend and does have principles, even being able to occasionally call out other characters on _their_ misbehaviour.
-   _Star Trek: The Next Generation_; Worf's is Wrath. Despite being raised by humans, he can't lose the Klingon blood, and it tends to give him a Hair-Trigger Temper at times.
-   Quark from _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine._ For all his greed, he does have morals... usually.
    -   Arguably the entire Ferengi race on their better days have this as their hat. Remember Rule of Acquisition 57: Good Customers are as rare as latinum. Treasure them.
        -   By Ferengi standards, Quark's big sin is Pride; he frequently flubs business deals or makes rash decisions by refusing to bend. Rule of Acquisition 109 states "Dignity and an empty sack is worth the sack", after all.
    -   Kira's big vice is Wrath; after a lifetime as a resistance fighter, she tends to snap at people rather easily, even if she knows they're trying to help. Even other Bajorans find her intimidating.
-   David Lister of _Red Dwarf_ fame is a total slob (Sloth) who also resorts to pulling some dirty tricks on Rimmer but he's also capable of greatly heroic acts.
    -   Likewise, Rimmer is a prickly egotistical smeghead who blames all of his problems on others (Pride), but when the chips are down, he'd rather be dead than smeg.
    -   And The Cat screeches back and forth from Lust to Gluttony to Pride to Greed to Sloth (...just like a real cat), but he's also a great pilot, and ends up being one of the more dedicated (if not intelligent) members of the team.
    -   At first, Kryten seemed to be immune to sin, being a robot programmed to follow instructions, which he generally did, even after he broke his programming. Then Kochanski was introduced, and Kryten's Envy of Lister's relationship with her began to dominate his characterization. In series 8, he overcame this and became a Shipper on Deck—unfortunately, by then the crew were no longer in a situation where his attitude mattered.
-   Samantha Jones of _Sex and the City_ lives life according to her many vices (most notably sex and fashion), unsentimental, and more than a little arrogant yet comes through and supports her friends in the end.
    -   To the point of _hand-feeding_ one of the other characters who had fallen into a deep (if temporary) depression.
-   DCI Gene Hunt from _Life On Mars_ and _Ashes to Ashes (2008)_ drinks, smokes, gambles, plants evidence, steals from crime scenes, takes bribes, assaults suspects, and never ceases to amaze the protagonist with his casual and tactless displays of bigotry. But his heart's in the right place and he's a big enough Magnificent Bastard to not just get away with it, but make it look awesome.
-   Dean Winchester from _Supernatural_ is a thief, a conman, and a habitual liar. He's also crude, flippant, promiscuous, and violently cynical. He still manages to be pretty damn heroic on a regular basis.
-   Barney Stinson of _How I Met Your Mother_ is a greedy, narcissistic womanizer, but he has proven on numerous occasions to have a hidden heart of gold.
-   Nathan Ford of _Leverage_ is a vengeful alcoholic, but also compassionate, brave, and genuinely loyal to his team.
    -   This also applies to the rest of the team as well. Eliot Spencer, whose vice is physical violence, and Alec Hardison, whose vice is being kind of a dick (and a hefty dose of pride.) Parker is an unapologetic thief who loves money and lacks basic empathy and Sophie is a manipulative con artist who even manipulates the rest of the team on occasion. All of them are just as reliable, trustworthy, and caring as Ford, if you can get them to show it.
-   Chief of security on _Babylon 5_ Michael Garibaldi and chief of the Medical section Stephen Franklin are both highly competent professionals, resourceful, valiant, persistent, dedicated, and loyal to their friends. They are, however, prone to resorting to unhealthy substances (alcohol and stimulators respectively) at hard times.
    -   G'Kar turns out to be one of the wisest and self-sacrificing members of the cast, but remains a pervert with a human fetish. Not just humans either - he expresses an interest in Centari women, though that might be just to piss off their Ambassador (who he hates - most of the time).
    -   Londo is this on his best days - a drunken, womanizing gambler who schemes to gain power and glory (and to get one over on his rival G'Kar). That being said, he's still capable of incredibly heroic acts such as piloting a shuttle through a roaring space battle to save the day or putting all his considerable talents for scheming towards saving his homeworld from the insane Emperor Cartagia.
-   Gabrielle of _Desperate Housewives_ is vain, materialistic, and adulterous but she is also a good friend and (in later seasons) a loving wife and mother.
-   Face of _The A-Team_ uses his charisma to get whatever the team needs. But even between missions, he flat-out manipulates people just to get a taste of luxury, he's a huge womanizer who's only loved one woman in his life, he doesn't like taking jobs pro-bono, and it's pretty clear that of all the members of the group, he's the one who would most like to drop the soldier of fortune lifestyle to live a life of glamour, and does so without hesitation in one episode.
-   _Dad's Army_: Captain Mainwaring may be amazingly egotistical and very jealous in some ways of Sergeant Wilson but he's also an amazingly brave man who would do anything for the Walmington on Sea platoon and his country. Wilson occasionally shows similar vices, as well as an angry streak if someone pushes him too far or does something to Mrs. Pike.
-   It's sometimes suggested that each of the castaways on _Gilligan's Island_ represented one of the Seven Deadly Sins; Mr. Howell was greedy, the Skipper was wrathful, Ginger was vain, etc. But in spite of their flaws, they all come off as more or less sympathetic, likeable people.
-   _Kaizoku Sentai Gokaiger_ has Luka/Gokai Yellow, who's a debatable Expy of _One Piece_'s Nami (see above). Money is always the first thought on her mind, she gets extremely upset when she has to part with any (as seen in the first episode when an attack torches some of her bills), and she has her own reasons for her greed: She used to be the Cool Big Sis of a group of young orphans and wants enough money to buy a planet that she can use as a home for them. Not to mention, her dead little sister was part of said group, resulting in her getting somewhat overprotective with Ahim/Gokai Pink.
-   Insubordinate detective Jimmy McNulty from _The Wire_ is a womanizer drunkard and a derailed human being in general, but also natural police, as good as they come.
-   Faith in _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_ is portrayed in this light to show she's bad in comparison to the main character. Before her Face–Heel Turn, and after her Heel–Face Turn (surprisingly when evil these traits barely came up) she smokes (season seven, comics;) drinks (season seven, Buffy the Vampire Slayer: Chaos Bleeds;) sleeps around, treats men like crap (season three, season seven, comics;) and uses stakes as dildos (Buffy the Vampire Slayer: Chaos Bleeds, comics.) As she grew older she drops most of these habits, except for masturbation if the comics are anything to go by.
-   Alan from _Two and a Half Men_. A deeply loving father and brother and a staunchly good friend to Walden, his virtues are usually overshadowed by his stinginess and cowardice.
-   Patrick Jane from _The Mentalist_ was a greedy conman whose pride led to the death of his family. Then all his actions, including his work with the CBI, were ultimately driven by the desire for deadly revenge on the killer Red John. Yet he is obviously a very competent case solver, and likeable enough that his co-workers easily forgive him when he has endangered them again.
-   _Sesame Street_ gives us Oscar the Grouch, who, as his name implies, is perpetually grumpy. He's also extremely selfish, prone to playing mean jokes on others, and will very loudly complain about anything "non-grouchy." But he can, on very rare occasions, show a kindly side (not that he'd ever admit it, as being nasty and short-tempered is _expected_ of his species) and help out his neighbors on the block.
    -   There's also Cookie Monster, who will devour not just his favorite sweets, but anything in his path—edible or otherwise—if he's hungry enough. Despite his gluttonous actions, though, he's a sweethearted pile of fuzz who genuinely loves his friends and family, and will often end up doing the right thing even if it means sacrificing cookies.
-   On LazyTown, despite Stingy being, well, stingy, he ultimately is still friends with the other kids, and takes part in their activities.
-   Dex Parios in _Stumptown_ drinks heavily, gambles frequently, and has a wide jealous streak. But she'll do anything for her friends, clients, and especially for her special-needs brother Ansel.
-   The four humans that make up the main group in _The Good Place_ each have a Fatal Flaw that landed each of them in the Bad Place to be tortured for eternity, the crux of their Character Development being each of them realizing this and working to become better with each other's help.
    -   Eleanor Shellstrop is best defined by her Selfishness. In life, she was proven to be a leech who repeatedly ignored the general needs of other people, routinely breaking her promises for short-term pleasures and starting drama unprovoked under the cynical assumption that the world is looking down on her, a mindset she learned at a young age because her parents were both selfish people who routinely ignored her needs. Michael's torture of her involved her believing that she was mistaken for an objectively better person with who she shares a name with, forcing her to put up with Chidi in order to blend into a neighborhood full of people tailor-made to exacerbate her insecurities. Since her selfishness comes from self-enmity instead of pride, she is fully aware that she isn't a good person, giving her a sobering clarity that the rest of the group seem to lack, with most of the reboots Michael puts them through showing that she is usually the one who finds out that they are actually in the Bad Place.
    -   While Chidi is one of the most genuinely nice members of the group and had dedicated his life to learning the perfect moral standard of living through careful research, consistently weighing options and finding the objective truth with no heart to give it direction can create the perfect ethical life, but this has also left him with a crippling fear of inducing moral consequences of his actions. This level of cowardice landed him in the Bad Place because while his intentions were good, all they ever did was make the people around him miserable. Michael's method of torturing him was by pairing him up with Eleanor, a "utilitarian nightmare" that gives him an endless list of conflicting ethical quandaries. Ironically, Season 3 reveals that he was Properly Paranoid in his dithering, the archaic nature of the moral point system clashing with the interconnected nature of modern times making it impossible for anyone to get into the Good Place for over five hundred years.
    -   Tahani has dedicated her life to raising money for charity and good causes, but she only ever did it out of envy for her sister Kamilah, who was always loved more by their Abusive Parents and by the general public. While she did a lot of good that should have earned her points, her selfish desire for attention made all of her actions worthless. In Michael's neighborhood, she would be constantly tormented by the thought that she was second best at everything; she would notice that she had been at the bottom of the points list and become self-conscious about it, she would think that her soulmate Jianyu does not care about her, she would fall in love with Chidi when he preferred Eleanor/Real!Eleanor, etc.
    -   Jason is a genuinely Nice Guy and has been dealt a rough hand in life by being born in poverty, but most of his problems are caused by his reckless inability to think anything through, usually for short-term immediate rewards. This led to him living a life of street crime and generally being a stain on society as a whole, with his death (suffocating in a large safe in an attempt to rob a restaurant) being a direct by-product of his idiocy. Michael would weaponize his impatience in his Good Place experiment by "confusing" him for a silent Taiwanese Buddhist monk Jianyu, forcing him to control his impulses and generally not allowing him to express himself the way he wants.
-   Vila of _Blake's 7_ is an unrepentant Lovable Coward, but do 'anything' to threaten or harm his friends and crewmates, well, you'll taste the wrath of Vila!

    Newspaper Comics 

-   Calvin of _Calvin and Hobbes_ is a selfish, short-tempered, arrogant powder keg that makes his parents and teachers reach for Maalox by the quart... but also intelligent, insightful, imaginative, and demonstrates a true love of animals and nature in his dear friend and Morality Pet Hobbes. Hobbes may also qualify, considering how he constantly attempts to attack and needle Calvin, just as often as he demonstrates his friendship.
-   _Garfield_ is infamously gluttonous and lazy, and often extremely mischievous and grouchy while not eating or sleeping. He devours massive portions of food (including every bite in the _whole house_ on more than one occasion) nearly non-stop and is known as the "fat cat" in merchandise, is so lazy that he once hammered the television to the ceiling above his bed so he wouldn't have to get up at all, and delights in all manner of practical jokes on anyone in the vicinity (such as constantly mailing Nermal to Abu Dhabi). Despite all that, though, he occasionally does good deeds, loves his owner Jon and best friend Odie deep down, and will generally stay away from any prank that could seriously hurt someone.

    Professional Wrestling 

-   Los Guerreros. We lie, we cheat, we steal, but at least we're honest about it.
-   The Sandman and "Stone Cold" Steve Austin in regards to alcoholism. The former has admitted to wrestling at least one match with a buzz and the latter once had a gimmick revolving around Drunk Driving, which ultimately left him unable to face Goldust and Big Van Vader after an accident.

    Radio 

-   Jack Benny, throughout every incarnation, is always defined by his intense desire to hold onto as much of his hard-earned money as he can. His most famous gag is being held up by a mugger and vacillating endlessly as to whether \[Benny\] should give the mugger "your money or your life".

    Tabletop RPG 

-   Any high Morality (or Wisdom, or Humanity, or Obligation) World of Darkness character can fall into this trope; the mechanics actually _force_ you to choose a flaw.
    -   The Daeva from _Vampire: The Requiem_ get it twice over, good guys and bad guys alike. The game system awards characters a small amount of Willpower for acting on their Vice. If a Daeva actively _refuses_ to indulge in their Vice, they _lose_ a fair bit of Willpower. Most players act on the "succubus" image of the Daeva and choose Lust as a Vice, but a Daeva with Wrath is... well, something to behold. Daeva with Envy, on the other hand, quite literally have Chronic Backstabbing Disorder - if they don't screw over their enemies and rivals at every opportunity, they become severely depressed because of the Willpower loss.
    -   The Ravnos in the Old World of Darkness Vampire line had this as their clan hat, essentially forcing all players to have a vice that they must try to avoid indulging in if they can. Since vices weren't required for Old World of Darkness characters in general, the Ravnos stand out as one example where you actually _had_ to pick a vice.
-   Sesus Nagezzer, AKA "the Slug," from _Exalted_. He wallows in the sins of lust and gluttony and is viewed as a fat, blitzed-out dope by most of the Realm...but he's _basically_ a patriotic Jerk with a Heart of Gold and one of the _many_ examples of The Chessmaster in the setting.
    -   Some Limit Break can force an otherwise Temperate exalt to indulge in decadent pleasure. It's quite disturbing to watch a wise martial art guru turn into a violent madman or a crazed sex fiend.
    -   Some other Limit Breaks from other Virtues can produce similarly vice-heavy results: a noble warrior with a tendency towards Wrath, for example.
-   This is the hat of the various raises of mephit in _Dungeons & Dragons_. In addition to the overwhelming self-importance inherent to the species, each type of mephit has a vice it specializes in; for example, a dust mephit's personality is about 80% maudlin self-pity. The catch is that mephits are among the most hapless, ineffectual creatures in the setting, to the point of verging on adorable, and the most common reason for summoning one is to send it as an insulting gift to the summoner's enemies.

    Video Games 

-   Mr. Vice Guy characters with hearts of gold underneath are a staple of the _Lunar_ series.
    -   _Lunar: The Silver Star_ has Kyle, an overconfident bandit/barbarian who might party a bit too hard and definitely loves to boast about doing so.
    -   Lemina Ausa in _Lunar: Eternal Blue_ is the very model of a money-grubbing pretty girl - she even has a character portrait with dollar signs in her eyes. It turns out her motive is to restore the Magic Guild, run by her family for generations, to its former glory. However, the nobility of her goal is diminished by the fact that it's sort of her pet project; no one else actually cares. This is balanced because she does genuinely want to help save the world, and she has good intentions. Even when she grows out of being so money-grubbing, she makes jokes about it like in the epilogue, where she asks a large amount of money in return for help in reaching Lucia but is surprised when Hiro takes the demand seriously.
    -   Ronfar from the same game is a drunken, lecherous gambler... as a result of a deep depression stemming from a great personal failure of his. Once he gets back on track, he's a loyal friend and an extremely devoted boyfriend.
-   Cayde-6 from _Destiny_ is such a charismatic and likable person that it's quite easy to forget his _many_ character flaws; he's an arrogant, reckless, and easily irritated gambling addict who constantly shirks his duties, often plays fast and loose with the law, and can be downright ruthless towards those who wrong him. When the Young Wolf is hesitating to kill the already-defeated Uldren, both Uldren and Petra rather openly acknowledge that Cayde would've probably just murdered him in cold blood if he were there.
-   Gredy Miser of _Mega Man Star Force_ is Exactly What It Says on the Tin. The bottom line is always on his mind, and he can't stand seeing one of his investments fail, which they tend to. He's also an all-around nice guy and gives the cast free tickets to his projects on multiple occasions.
-   _Touhou Project_ is notable for featuring many nice but nonetheless sinful characters, with the two lead characters, Reimu, who's slothful and greedy, and Marisa, who's a compulsive liar and kleptomaniac, taking the spotlight. Aside from them, virtually every character is self-serving and a little too keen on using violence to solve their problems, which may just be the norm in Gensokyo.
    -   A more glaring, non-human example is Suika. She is firmly on Reimu's side and is one of the few people who are genuinely kind, doesn't rope Reimu into a scheme, and is close to the traditional idea of innocence. The catch: she's never been seen _sober_.
        -   And she kinda wants to rope other people into her parties...
    -   It's so bad that one character's issue is pointing out that everyone else deserves to go to hell.

-   _Sonic The Hedgehog_:
    -   Sonic is very prideful, making him cocky or reckless in the face of danger, but is an easy-going All-Loving Hero in every other area.
    -   Rouge the Bat is a government spy with a bad habit of being greedy and obsessive with jewels.
    -   Despite being helpful to the heroes and being dedicated to guarding the Master Emerald, Knuckles suffers about three vices. One, he's quite prideful about his strength. Two, he's envious of Sonic's freedom and carefree nature. And three, he has a very short temper which can make him difficult for others to get along with him.
    -   Tails is very intelligent, but retains a very childish demeanor, making him impudent or over-excitable.
    -   The Chaotix are basically this personified, a misfit gang of so-called detectives who ultimately have good intentions at heart. Vector is extremely brash and rough around the edges and is horrible with money, but notices things others don't and offers his services free of charge to those that deserve them. Charmy is incredibly hyperactive and childish, yet is only occasionally mischievous. Espio often fails to successfully reign in the excesses of his two partners, but is otherwise extremely competent and dedicated to whatever mission he's assigned to.
-   One of the four characters you have the option to play as in _Left 4 Dead_ are these. Both are in it solely to survive, one is a biker gang member who wants to take advantage of the lack of rule of law so he can cause as much destruction as possible, and the other is a riverboat gambler who will also use the anarchy for his advantage, such as emptying out a cash register in a pawn shop his band stopped in or stealing a very expensive and fancy suit. Both of them do develop some affection for their teams but undoubtedly stick to their vices of wrath and greed.
-   The President of Hocotate Freight from _Pikmin 2_ is quite greedy and his treatment of his employees is questionable. But when one of his employees gets left behind on an alien world, he's more than willing to help find and rescue him.
-   Garrus Vakarian in _Mass Effect_ is ultimately a good person but has problems with Wrath - he is easily moved to a kind of calculating Tranquil Fury that ends with dead people when he sees the prospect of some bastard getting away scot-free.
-   This is an option for the heroes in the _Fable_ games: you can play as a gluttonous lech who's earned a Holy Halo as well as a pot-belly. In _Fable II_ it's codified in the Corruption meter: a hero who's Good but also highly self-indulgent earns the title of _Decadent_.
-   _Fallout 4_
    -   MacCready is, as an adult, a rough-and-tumble mercenary who's fine with theft and finagling out extra money from quests. He's also a good-hearted and friendly chap who's great with kids.
    -   Hancock, the ghoul mayor of Goodneighbor also falls into this: he's a _heavy_ chem user, approves of the Sole Survivor using chems themselves, and sleeps around pretty casually, but is also a Reasonable Authority Figure fond of helping the little guys, opposing tyranny and doesn't mind getting his hands dirty in the process.
-   _League of Legends:_ Jayce, hextech inventor extraordinaire, spends the majority of his time fighting crime and enforcing justice in his hometown Piltover, armed only with his own invention, the cannon-hammer hybrid called the Mercury Hammer. He's extremely popular among Piltover's general citizenry, who see him as the 'face' of their city-state and an Ideal Hero. However, the man falls victim to his own overblown sense of pride about his inventing skills and intelligence, to the point that he looks down upon all those he considers less intelligent or capable than him (in other words, most other people), and it's noted that the rest of his colleagues cannot stomach his attitude.
-   _Cuphead_'s titular protagonist may be greedy and shortsighted, but he, along with Mugman, frees the souls they collected for the Devil after beating him up.
-   Inspector Carmelita Montoya Fox from _Sly Cooper_ is confident, quick to anger, and has tunnel vision in regards to capturing Sly Cooper. She may be a cop and he is a master thief, but her obsession tends to make her miss key details, thinking that Sly was the one who stole the Clockwerk parts in _Sly 2: Band of Thieves_ when all of the evidence (according to Neyla) pointed to the Klaww Gang instead. If anything, the only reason she has such a good track record is that she was chasing after Sly and she happens to find other high-profile criminals after the Cooper Gang had dismantled their operations and beaten them up beforehand. Not only that, but she is also a terrible shot with her shock pistol and tends to fire it wildly, often causing an ambiguous amount of damage in the process. That being said, she is righteous in her motives, she is harsh but not cruel, and is capable of seeing reason, often joins up with the Cooper Gang when she is out of options or when there is a bigger threat that they can work together in beating.
-   _Duke Nukem_'s titular hero is a violent hedonist who drinks, takes steroids, and enjoys strippers. His arrogance is also something of a cartoonish Running Gag, to the point that he named his autobiography "_Why I'm So Great._" Nonetheless, he still acts in defense of humanity whenever necessary, even opening one level with a declaration of "Nobody steals our chicks... and lives."

    Visual Novels 

-   The protagonist of _Double Homework_ is a very proud character, in part due to his decent shot at qualifying for - and winning - the Olympic skiing competition. This leads him to possibly kill twelve people by causing an avalanche while trying to be a hero and lie about his whereabouts to all his friends (and to have Johanna lie for him) when he’s in his room playing video games for three months (he gets caught). Nevertheless, his classmates are always sympathetic to him.

    Web Animation 

-   _Red vs. Blue_: Caboose is a Nice Guy through and through and would probably be a more heroic character if he wasn't an idiot with an inability to take responsibility for his actions.
-   Yang from _RWBY_. Sure, she lacks the heroic motives that her friends share, she's possibly vain and a bit of a Sore Loser, and she definitely enjoys fighting too much, but unless you provoke her in some way or another she's a Nice Girl through and through. Unfortunately, this trope comes back to bite her in the ass.
    -   Weiss is initially a victim of Pride, at first believing she's too good for most people and then certainly better than her partner, Ruby. Character development kicks in fairly quickly and she gets over it.
    -   In Volume 4, Blake shows that she's a victim of selfishness. She thinks she's protecting her friends from danger by leaving them behind (especially when Adam swore to kill everyone she loves), but Sun points out that turning away from people who want to help her only hurts them more.
    -   James Ironwood is also a victim of Pride, assuming that he's the one in the right and making the correct decisions. While harsh in his ruling, he does everything for the sake of protecting Atlas and the world at large from monsters like Salem.

    Webcomics 

-   Protagonist Muko Bunburger of _Furry Fight Chronicles_ has a _lot_ of vices going against her: sloth (cutting corners to become a Combagal immediately instead of taking out two years of schooling), lust (her very frequent and _very_ perverted behavior towards other attractive women), recklessness (her general impulsivity and undisciplined nature), foolishness (she's a high school dropout who has No Social Skills and a minimal grasp on logic at best) and gluttony (she has a long-time junk food addiction). It should come as no surprise that she alienates many of the people around her _on a good day_, with even her sister being skeptical of her choices at times. That being said, Muko is also a kind, sweet and caring girl to her friends with no intent to actually harm anyone, believes strongly in justice, forgiveness, and redemption, and eventually works to grow out of a few of these vices over the course of the story regardless.
-   _Keychain of Creation_: The Warrior Monk Ten Winds is a Functional Addict who's never without a flask at hand while he works to prevent the forces of evil from assembling a Dismantled MacGuffin that would let them unleash undead Eldritch Abominations on Creation. As a side bonus, his drinking habits have given him a hell of an Acquired Poison Immunity.
-   Rayne from _Least I Could Do_. One wouldn't think an arrogant womanizer could be such a likable character, but some people think he pulls it off through a combination of sheer charisma and being a big softie on the inside.
-   _Mob Psycho 100_ gives us Reigen Arataka: a shifty con man who lies and manipulates people in order to maintain his image as a powerful psychic. Not even his pupil Mob is above his manipulations. Thankfully, his heart is in the right place as he does provide Mob and others with meaningful lessons on how to live a good and respectable life. He also uses his tricks and lies when it comes to putting actual con artists or super-powered adults with inflated egos in their place.
-   Logan of _Not Drunk Enough_ qualifies as this, seeing as he is your average anti-hero but is often seen with a flask in hand.
-   _The Order of the Stick_:
    -   Self-proclaimed "Chaotic Good-ish" thief Haley Starshine is sneaky and greedy, but ultimately good-hearted and even prone to surprising moments of charity. Though she's always been avaricious, part of the reason she glomps so fiercely onto money during the comic is that she needs to pay off an enormous ransom to save a family member.
    -   Roy Greenhilt also qualifies. He is a bit of an asshole sometimes and is mean and deadpan to most people he meets. But this doesn't stop him from being an essentially honorable, decent young man who wants nothing more than to defeat the forces of evil, even at the cost of his own life, albeit temporarily. This is best shown when he is being judged for entering Lawful Good heaven, and gets in, but is told off for being a compulsive Deadpan Snarker.
    -   Belkar is a kind of reversed trope. He'll stand up for his party members and is capable of great feats of heroism, but ultimately he's a homicidal sociopath who's only adventuring because it lets him commit atrocities he'd be arrested for otherwise. Played to the hilt with this comic when he REALIZES IT'S TRUE.

    Western Animation 

-   _Aaahh!!! Real Monsters_: Ickis had a whole slew of issues. Having a father as famous and skilled as Slickis gave him a lot to live up to, and he frequently flipped between resenting this and trying to exploit it. He could go from insanely arrogant and cocky to an insecure nervous wreck in a heartbeat, was naïve and endlessly curious about the human world, but also cynical and snarky at times. To top it all off, he had image issues thanks to being an Ugly Cute monster that constantly got mistaken for a rabbit. Of course, in a way, he _was_...
-   Plastic Man in _Batman: The Brave and the Bold_ is learning to be a hero since becoming Plastic Man, but he _was_ a Super villain henchman before, and is still as greedy as back then. Batman often has to correct Plastic Man when he tries to make off with the villain's previously stolen money.
-   _Bojack Horseman_ runs on this trope. Every single character has severe personal issues, especially Bojack himself, being a narcissist, a heavy drinker and drug user, and a womanizer. Diane has a compulsive need to inject her opinions into everything, even at the expense of her loved ones; Todd is a professional slacker, and something of a doormat; Princess Carolyn has been shown to be manipulative and greedy to get what she wants; and Mr. Peanutbutter has problems with boundaries and is prone to making rash impulsive decisions (often with Todd's help.) Still though, with the exception of Bojack, most everyone usually tries to help each other, and find great happiness in each other's success.
-   _Buzz Lightyear of Star Command_, XR is cowardly, selfish, lazy, perverted, impatient, and greedy. But despite all his flaws, he will always pull through and has proven himself as a Space Ranger multiple times.
-   The various The Disney Afternoon series use this to great effect.
    -   In _DuckTales (1987)_, Scrooge McDuck is, well, The Scrooge to sometimes absurd levels, but always honors his deals, does not resort to criminal means, and genuinely cares about his nephews and his staff/friends.
    -   _Darkwing Duck_ was less caught up on avarice than Pride - he was supremely arrogant, leading him to alienate allies and boast like a Bond villain... but there's a _reason_ he named Let's Get Dangerous!: that pride was almost all justified when he actually took problems seriously.
    -   Finally, Baloo from _TaleSpin_ was a kind and heroic figure in the most Crapsack World of the three, but cripplingly lazy, constantly causing himself and others problems by being short-sighted and looking for quick and easy ways out. Rebecca is arguably even closer to the trope than Baloo. Her more educated, ambitious, and hard-working nature brought new life to his all-but-dead cargo business, but also caused new problems due to being overzealous and stubborn once she's chosen a particular plan of action. Contrast to Shere Khan, who is ruthless to the point of near-criminality in his business dealings, with the only redeeming quality being he has enough personal power to crush you _above board_.
    -   All three were accompanied by child sidekicks who existed largely to tell their caretakers when the vice was getting out of hand and to create trouble through their own vice (overwhelming curiosity in all cases) which brought out the protagonist's moments of clarity.
-   _DuckTales (2017)_ has even more of a cast of these. Scrooge has his miserly traits and his 'kind' traits evened out a little. Donald is a loving father figure to his triplet nephews but is pretty overprotective of them and he still has his defining flaw of Wrath (on the upside, he's specifically noted as having learned to channel it into his protective instincts for the boys). The nephews EACH have their own flaws; Huey is a stickler for the rules to the point where he either freezes up or freaks out when he's pushed too far outside his comfort zone. Dewey is extremely impulsive to the point where he often endangers himself and others and is a major attention seeker. Louie is a greedy Lazy Bum who inherited his great-uncle's obsession with money and isn't above lying to others to get what he wants. Even Gyro Gearloose has a vice of not-entirely-deserved arrogance.
-   Gwizdo of _Dragon Hunters_ usually haggles with desperate villagers over the price of the Hunters' services or actually tries to swindle them. However, his schemes either go wrong or his good nature prevails, effectively preventing the team from getting rich and settling down.
-   _Gravity Falls_:
    -   Stan is a greedy showman who makes a living by conning tourists, and often drags Dipper and Mabel into his schemes. But he will still be there to defend them from supernatural threats.
    -   Wendy is a lazy delinquent, but she deeply cares for both Dipper and Mabel as well.
-   The Flash from _Justice League_ despite being a hero isn't ashamed to turn his own image into a merchandise brand and is definitely lecherous (constantly hitting on every woman he finds). This is in _marked_ contrast to the usual depiction of the character in the comics, where he's generally made of Incorruptible Pure Pureness.
-   The title character of _Lloyd in Space_ can be prideful and full of himself, while also using schemes to have a chance at becoming popular, but he cares a lot for his friends and family, even his Bratty Half-Pint of a sister, Francine.
-   Speedy Gonzales, the fastest mouse in all of Mexico, is one of the smartest characters in all of _Looney Tunes_ with altruism being his main focus, and he outwits nearly all of his opponents with very little qualms. However, he's a little _too_ nice to women, to the point that he flirts with nearly every attractive woman he comes across. The stupor he's left in during this lustful daze can be enough for a foe to gain the upper hand, though not for very long.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_
    -   Rarity is vain, very concerned about outer appearances and superficially impressing people, and neurotically concerned with cleanliness to the point that it limits her. Yet, like all the other main characters, she's willing to do almost anything if it's obvious it's right or her friends need it. Besides, her concern with appearances is not just superficial or selfish, as it's an artistic career for her, and she's always willing to help others look fabulous as well.
    -   Rainbow Dash is insensitive and overconfident, and lazy on top of that. She normally doesn't really stop to consider how her actions or words affect others. In spite of their different styles, she's also like Rarity in going rather far in wanting to be admired; both have had Acquired Situational Narcissism episodes. But, again much like Rarity, she'll put her friends first when the chips are really down, and her brashness extends to being brave and heroic.
-   In _She-Ra and the Princesses of Power_, Entrapta is a basically nice person suffering from the classical vice of hubris. She'll do virtually anything For Science!, figuring she can handle it and that she can still learn something from a disaster. She doesn't care how any of her discoveries might be used, either, as long as she can make them. The only prospect that even gives her pause is complete planetary annihilation.
-   _The Simpsons_:
    -   Homer Simpsons is an alcoholic, temperamental, lazy glutton. But his heart is in the right place, and he'll go to incredible lengths to protect his family.
    -   Marge is normally a loving wife and mother but suffers from a gambling addiction, which can occasionally pop up every now and then. More commonly she is also something of a finicky wet blanket, often unwilling to break from her standard comfort zone, which can make her rather overbearing and humourless. It says something that as often as the kids feel more comfortable around Marge than Homer, they actually find the latter's antics more tolerable than her fussy moods.
    -   Lisa is intellectually gifted, philosophical, and compassionate, and all at the age of eight years old. Perhaps because of the awareness of her gifts, however, she can sometimes be incredibly egomaniacal and self-righteous, with an over-insistence on being the centre of attention and pushing her beliefs down others' throats, and often insensitively dismissing others as stupider or less significant than her.
-   The heroic hedgehog siblings on _Sonic Underground_ each has their own shortcomings: Sonic is the bravest of the three, and therefore the most brash. Sonia is whiny and overly concerned with petty things like dirt and dust but has a host of technical and social abilities to make up for it. Manic, meanwhile, struggles with the kleptomaniac impulses he learned growing up (he was raised by a thief), but otherwise is the most laid-back and approachable of the bunch.
-   _SpongeBob SquarePants_:
    -   Mr. Krabs has a single-minded obsession with money but is shown to care for his employees and his daughter. Unfortunately, he fell victim to Flanderization starting with Season 4 and lost all of his positive qualities. He still displays some kindness every now and then, especially in the episodes made after Stephen Hillenburg returned to the show's helm.
    -   Sandy is arguably the one character who has maintained this trait. She is a scientific genius, physically robust to superhuman levels, and thoroughly optimistic and friendly on top of that. However, perhaps because of her many strengths and talents, she often displays an ego problem, which can lead her to be very aggressive and competitive when someone challenges her.
-   Most of the engines are depicted this way in _Thomas & Friends_, particularly in the later Lighter and Softer episodes. As Sir Topham Hatt constantly emphasizes, all of his engines are "really useful" and competent at their specific job on his railway, but nearly each and every one has a heavy shortcoming that causes problems and hinders their work. Thomas for example is optimistic and altruistic but is also impatient and easily forgets his duties to focus on some task he finds more important. James meanwhile (though originally more of a Jerkass) is an extremely headstrong mixed traffic engine, making him versatile for numerous tasks, but sometimes unwilling or easily distracted due to his vanity.
-   Both Buck Tuddrussel and Larry 3000 in _Time Squad_ are Vice Guys: Tuddrussel tends toward aggressive and childish flaws, whereas Larry's are hedonistic and lustful. Luckily, they have Otto to keep them in line.
-   _The Transformers_:
    -   Sunstreaker is as brave and heroic as any of the Autobots, but his defining characteristic is his ego. Powerglide and Sky Lynx have hefty egos as well, but they're generally less obnoxious about it than Sunstreaker. Tracks, on the other hand, has a heftier ego and is _more_ obnoxious about it...
    -   The Dinobots all have anger and self-control issues, but this just makes them seem childlike and therefore comes across as endearing. Unless you're a Decepticon, then it's scary.
    -   Blurr has a problem with impatience.
    -   Rattrap is insubordinate, cowardly (though less so than he may appear), sleazy, and obnoxious enough to irritate all of his comrades. When the chips are down, though, he's as much a hero as any other Maximal. He'll rush in to save the day, guns blazing... and complaining all the while.
-   Dr. Thaddeus Venture of _The Venture Brothers_, despite being mostly portrayed as a cynical, emotionally crippled, amoral slime ball, does occasionally show that deep down he is a decent human being, major examples including stopping Brock from murdering his brother at the end of season one, refusing to become the super villain Dr. Killinger had been grooming him to become in season three, and again in season three when he decides to study the super-powerful ORB rather than use it for his own personal gain.
    -   But then again we are talking about a man who creates the Joycan, a fully interactive virtual environment powered by the heart of a dead orphan, resurrects dead people to make them into suicide bombers- (note that said resurrectees are not mindless zombies) and orders his bodyguard to go kill people so he has more corpses to make said Suicide Bomber Zombies. Dr. Venture's decent and humane moments are few and far between, making him alternate between this and Hero with an F in Good.
        -   Keep in mind, too, that one of the overreaching arcs of the show has been the slow redemption of dear old Rusty. The first season featured loads of jerkass moments for him, but these have toned down as time went on. By season 3, he's just more of an insensitive Jerkass, with his 'worst' crime that season probably being when he covered up the death of one of his daycamp kids with a sloppily made clone made from DNA in the dead kid's shoe. Better than the Joycan, at least.
        -   And he cured some genetic diseases the kid had, too.
    -   Now Brock Sampson on the other hand is closer to an unambiguous example... he definitely puts the heroic in "heroic" and the sociopath in "sociopath".
-   Ruel Stroud in _Wakfu_ is a treasure-hunter with an obvious attachment to money, but when his traveling companions are in danger (especially his best friend's adoptive son) he'll rush to their defense.

___