_"Honor. I used to be as sure as you that I knew what it was. One kept one's word. One obeyed one's lord. But then my lord ordered me to do what was dishonorable. I decided the shame was his alone and did as he commanded. I was wrong. But that was my choice, and I must stand by it. That is my honor now, for as long as I live. May I die soon."_

The follower or henchman with Undying Loyalty to their master/leader, despite said leader's incompetence, immorality, or even cruelty.

The trope is mostly used in vaguely medieval settings. Feudalism, after all, is based on _personal_ obligations to a liege-lord (in other structures, the loyalty is more impersonal, usually based on a community or an ideology). The underling usually is a minor noble of a warrior caste, a knight or samurai or such.

To make certain that the public understands that this character is not following out of Blind Obedience or sadism and in fact disagrees, he will get a lot of Pet the Dog moments, appeal to his liege to re-think a decision, beg for the lives of others, angst visibly when he's alone, and try to twist his orders a little if possible. He often doesn't even consider the heroes his enemy and is an honorable opponent. Also, he might be seen as suffering as much under his lord as the next subject, for sympathy points.

These types tend to be The Fettered who have sworn an oath to unreliable leaders and refuse to break their word. Such characters are prone to Heel–Face Turn because all they need is to broaden their ethical horizon a bit. It's also popular for some Deliberate Values Dissonance, presenting feudal ideals and showing the modern public how an obviously compassionate man can be made to freely follow obviously cruel orders. (However, their actions can also be interpreted as the way of The Unfettered: their goal is clear, remaining loyal to their master and doing whatever they want, ranging from recycling garbage to mass genocide, even though their hearts may not be into it).

If The Heroes call someone out for playing this trope, he might attempt to justify this as Just Following Orders.

Of course, in many real feudal systems, trying to force a vassal to act dishonorably—or making him jeopardize the value of the land-grant that secured his service in the first place, e.g. by overworking his serfs — could jeopardize his vassalage itself. In "High" Medieval Western Europe, also, a vassal could hardly be said to have a "master"; vassals were obligated to _show up_ with troops when their liege asked, and stay for a term (usually 90 days or so). After that term, they could leave, and while they were obligated to generally assist their liege they were (in theory) their liege's equals — hence why nobles are called "peers" — and thus _didn't_ have to take orders, so battle-planning involved negotiations over who would do what. Therefore this trope applied primarily to personal retainers who had sworn homage and \*not\* to nobles who had sworn vassalage.

This deals with such questions as: What is an oath worth? What are wrong and right, personal mercy or abstract principles? What is honor? The lord is evil, how evil is the servant?

Especially tragic when the liegeman is also more competent than the liege. Very similar to My Country, Right or Wrong, only more personal. A common characterization of The Dragon, particularly the Noble Top Enforcer. Contrast Rebellious Rebel, Mook–Face Turn, Mistreatment-Induced Betrayal, Secret Test of Character. Compare Blind Obedience, where the character follows their liege because of a belief they _can't_ be wrong and shouldn't be questioned, and Loyal to the Position, where someone loyally does his job no matter who the boss is. See also Punch-Clock Villain, whose willingness to obey an evil master lasts as long as they're on the clock.

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Ajin_: A majority of the Ajin Resistance decides to no longer follow Sato when they learn his actions were not for ensuring equality for Ajin, but to start a war between them and humanity just for the hell of it. The only one to stay by his side is his Dragon Tanaka, who remains loyal to Sato.
-   _Attack on Titan_: This is basically what is wrong with Armin. Eren is an angry, spite-filled killer with a noble dream and not much else. But since Eren is the boss, every time he orders Armin to come up with a way to get revenge or kill droves of people, Armin calmly thinks things over and calculates the best strategy to do whatever Eren said, and then the Survey Corps always follows through with these orders and _always_ 'wins', horrific casualties notwithstanding. By the time Armin finally snaps out of it, Eren has already found a new minion who can get things done through sheer cosmic power. Armin ultimately proves he never needed Eren and has to live with the guilt of indirectly radicalizing an entire country and getting 80% of the world killed.
-   In _Berserk_, part of Guts still feels this way towards Griffith, despite everything that's happened.
-   _Bleach_: In the Bount arc, Arc Villain Kariya has Maki Ichinose (who is a shinigami) working for him. Ichinose in question embodies this trope so well that Kenpachi compares him to a vine that can't grow without something to cling to.
    -   Starrk, while extremely powerful, does not enjoy fighting or hurting others. He admits that he dislikes what Aizen orders him to do, but he obeys him out of eternal gratitude for ending his loneliness.
-   _Code Geass_ reveals in the second season this is Jeremiah Gottwald's real state of mind. He's loyal to _Lelouch_'s mother Marianne and sees failing to protect her and her children all those years ago as My Greatest Failure. When he confirms that Lelouch is Zero, he happily (Manly Tears included) does a Heel–Face Turn to his side and obeys him without any question, no matter what he needs him for.
-   Allen Walker of _D.Gray-Man_ may fit this trope to a point. He is our All-Loving Hero, who loves and wants to save everyone, even Akuma. Two of his comrades have scolded him about his naive attitude. His master is Cross Marian. Cross is one of the protagonists and seems to be on the side of saving humanity and ending the Holy War. But he is not above Dirty Business now and again to accomplish a goal or to get more favorable results. Allen comes face-to-face with Apocryphos, a sentient Innocence who is responsible for attempting to assassinate his master. As far as Allen knew, his master had been killed. When he finds out about Apocyphos' attack on his master, he attacks him in rage. Apocyphos tells Allen that Cross was just using him as a sacrifice to awaken the 14th Noah — while attempting to merge with him. Allen just replies that he is Cross Marian's apprentice and that the thought of merging with the one who killed his master makes him want to puke.
-   In _Digimon Adventure_ MetalGarurumon challenges WarGreymon to a fight on Yamato's orders. He even pretty much says this trope, though it was more like "my friend needs to know _somebody's_ on his side, so it's gotta be this way."
    -   In _Digimon Adventure 02_, Wormmon has this approach to the Digimon Emperor. Unusually for this trope, the Digimon Emperor has nothing but contempt for him, but when he sacrifices himself to save the Emperor's life, it prompts a Heel Realization.
    -   Renamon from _Digimon Tamers_ is this in the early part of the series. She kept a soldier-like nobility despite being treated as a soulless fighting machine by her Tamer, and it's eventually revealed that _Renamon_ chose _Ruki_ and not the other way around. Both had to undergo Character Development and learn there was more to life than becoming stronger, but it didn't happen to them at the same time or in the same way.
    -   Gaomon in _Digimon Data Squad_ is depicted as _very_ servile to his partner; "Sir, yes sir!" can be his entire dialogue in some episodes, and in the Japanese version, his catchphrase was "Yes, Master." However, when his partner temporarily joined the Big Bad because only he could save his sister, it seemed like Gaomon was finally going to have to act with a will of his own for the first time ever to prevent some true horrors from taking place. In the end, Touma was only pretending and Gaomon had long since worked it out.
    -   The biggest example in the Digimon franchise is the Royal Knights. They are the elite protectors of the Digital World and absolutely loyal to their leader, no matter who sits on the throne. When that's the Big Bad, or a misguided computer that's decided that that "free will" stuff was a bad idea, that means they'll be The Dragon to an Omnicidal Maniac as readily as they once fought to protect the same world.
-   _Dragon Ball Super: Broly_: Paragus spent decades abusing his son Broly, doing things like fitting him with a shock collar, chasing away an animal he had befriended, and eventually using the young man as a living instrument of Revenge against the Vegeta dynasty. Even though he's painfully aware of what a terrible person his father is, Broly is still loyal to him because "He is my dad"; he even tries to _defend_ Paragus when sympathetic parties call him out on his actions. His devotion is so strong that Freeza killing Paragus is what triggers Broly's first Super Saiyan transformation.
-   Freed, from _Fairy Tail_, is willing to do whatever Laxus Dreyar tells him to, up to and including killing members of Fairy Tail. This doesn't stop him from questioning Laxus, which usually doesn't go well. Fortunately, Mirajane stops him before there's any fatalities.
    -   Later, Azuma does whatever Hades tells him to do and points out that he dislikes it.
-   _Ginga Densetsu Weed_: Jerome. In episode 5 he informs Kaibutsu how wrong the latter was to attack and flee from the humans that had been torturing him for 5 years because "it's a dog's duty to obey his master and endure any pain he should put you through." Oddly enough he then averts this at the beginning of episode 6 where he "tells" the humans about to land with a helicopter that he won't obey to their cruel ways anymore and that they should stay away, or he'll attack them the minute they set foot on the ground.
-   In the "Little Army" prequel manga of _Girls und Panzer_ Miho asks Sakuyo, one of her family's maids, about her opinion on her mother's approach to tank combat. Sakuyo sadly refuses to answer, saying that she's "indebted" to the Nishizumi school and can't give her opinion on her mistress.
-   _Heaven's Lost Property_: All the Angeloids are subservient android girls with wings, built for specific purposes and completely devoted to following their master's orders, even when the Big Bad orders them to Kick the Dog just For the Evulz.
-   In the anime/manga _The Heroic Legend of Arslan_, this comes up often as there are decent people serving those in power who don't deserve it.
    -   Mahendra doesn't hide the fact that he knows Gadhevi is an unworthy successor to the Sindhurian throne but continues to serve him. The fact that his daughter Selma is married to Gadhevi adds further pressure to obey Gadhevi.
    -   Similarly, Jaswant doesn't like either Gadhevi or Rajendra as he is well aware neither are good people but continues to stay in service of Gadhevi because he is devoted to Mahendra.
    -   Kishward genuinely likes and respects Arslan as an individual and commander but when Andragoras returns and effectively exiles Arslan, Kishward has to obey the king's command to not follow Arslan and stop anyone who tries to. This forces him to reluctantly fight against Daryun.
-   Seems to be the case with the Nations, in _Hetalia: Axis Powers_. Several points show that the Nations follow orders that they don't understand (Russia digging a trench with no tools or food, Germany looking for the Holy Grail, America having to say the Roswell UFO was a weather balloon, etc) or don't like (Ukraine crying because her boss forbids her to see Russia). One comic also has Russia say that he can befriend the Italies only now that his boss and their boss have become allies. Exactly how strict this is not made certain, although fanfiction writers like to speculate.
-   Happens quite a bit in _Lone Wolf and Cub_, for differing values of Lords.
-   The Wolkenritter from _Lyrical Nanoha_ were forced to follow any order given to them by the Master or Mistress of the Book of Darkness. Fortunately, this only applies to the backstory, since the current (and final) owner is the Big Good and treats them as her family. Now it's just Undying Loyalty.
    -   Fate also acted this way for her mother Preica, even after Preica told her she had despised her since the day she was born. In her case, there was a strong overlap with Love Martyr.
-   _Mayo Chiki!_: Subaru regreted abducting Jiro in Episode 13 but, as a butler, she'd never disobey her master.
-   In _The Mysterious Cities of Gold_ the Indian guards are loyal to the Raja and will not disobey any of his orders, even if they're visibly uncomfortable with them. Unfortunately, they haven't noticed that the Raja has been drugged into becoming someone else's puppet.
-   _Naruto_:
    -   Haku is this to Zabuza. A rather strange example, in that he hates every moment he's hurting people, but is still loyal, actually likes Zabuza, and not a subversion.
    -   Kimimaro serves the Mad Scientist Orochimaru loyally, even on his death bed, because Orochimaru gave him a purpose — being his next body. It doesn't matter how evil Orochimaru is, he gave him a purpose.
    -   Even further, many unnamed shinobi probably have been forced to do things for their village that they thought were immoral, like slaughter another, smaller village's people in an enemy land. But as a ninja, you are no longer in control of your free will. Like soldiers, you are trained to do what your masters tell you to do and to do it well. Emotions just get in the way, which is why the ninjas are taught over and over throughout the anime and manga to be emotionless and cold and to not feel anything for their victims (which is something the above-mentioned Haku sorely lacks).
    -   There are also Danzo's ROOT, who have at least in theory had their ability to 'care'' whether their master is right or wrong trained out of them. Sai at least regains it, due to the Naruto factor.
    -   Itachi Uchiha turned out to be an interesting variation on this. He was one of Danzo's, but (as the heir to a great house and all) he didn't have as heavy an indoctrination as ROOT members, and it wasn't his loyalty to Danzo specifically that was played on, but to his village; he was also laboring under the expectations of his clan and a split sense of duty along with apparently a kind heart, and got used into to ground. In this case, though, he actively chose one loyalty over another when 'both'' were demanding this of him, though since our information is largely third-hand it's unclear whether the deciding factor was that he felt the Uchiha were more wrong than the village or that siding with the Uchiha would just cause more casualties.
-   Chachamaru of _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_ is fully loyal to Evangeline (and, to a lesser extent, her co-creators, Chao and Hakase). It never really becomes much of an issue after Eva's one token attempt at forcing her way to freedom, though, as Eva turns out to be a Noble Demon at worst, and she usually allows Chachamaru a degree of freedom.
-   Abelia towards King Hamdo in _Now and Then, Here and There_. She gets better.
-   _One Piece_
    -   During the Baratie arc, Gin obeys Don Krieg's orders to the letter, even if he doesn't want to, and even if it involves killing himself. The only time he can't obey an order is when he's told to kill Sanji, the only person who ever showed him kindness by feeding him when he was starving.
    -   Even after Bellamy learns what kind of man his master Doflamingo is, he still continues to fight for him because he can't make himself give up the reverence he's held despite seeing firsthand how little Doflamingo cares for him, internally begging Luffy to finish him off.
    -   When Raizo demands to know how Fukurokuju could keep working for a man as utterly and openly despicable as Orochi, Fukurokuji states that the Oniwabanshu are duty-bound to service the shogun regardless of his personal character.
    -   As a whole, this is the attitude Cipher Pol Aigis 0 takes towards the World Nobles. No matter what orders they are given, they will follow it to the letter, personal feelings and consequences be damned. If they should be given conflicting orders by two or more World Nobles, they will simply follow the latest order issued and leave the World Nobles to sort out the rest by themselves.
-   In _PandoraHearts_, Glen Baskerville apparently told his servants to kill everyone gathered in his mansion during the chain transferring ceremony. Lotti was startled and asked if he was serious but committed the act nonetheless. Much later, she admits that she never knew _why_ he ordered the slaughter that started off the Tragedy of Sablier but that since he was her master, she would not disobey him.
-   _Peter Grill and the Philosopher's Time_: John Goodman is very uncomfortable with Guildmaster Albatross Sanctus' schemes to destroy Peter Grill. Aside from some token attempts to dissuade him, he helps his boss with his schemes.
-   _Pokémon: The Series_:
    -   Entei to Molly in the movie, _Pokémon 3: Spell of the Unown_. He actually says, "Whether it is right or wrong, I will do as she wishes!"
    -   _Pokémon: The Original Series_: In the episode "Island of the Giant Pokémon", Jessie's Ekans and James's Koffing explain to Meowth that they're not necessarily bad Pokémon, and go so far as to assert that no Pokémon is truly bad; Ekans and Koffing, for example, just do what Jessie and James tell them to do. Granted, trained Pokémon in general seem to follow this trope, since the point of capturing a Pokémon is to gain a faithful companion. Meowth, however, is baffled by this logic because he's a Pokémon as well and yet does evil things out of his free volition.
        -   This pretty much flies out the window in later seasons though, where many wild Pokémon have been introduced who do bad things because they're jerks and some of them being outright evil, like the Spiritomb in "The Keystone Pops!" from _Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl_, and the recurring Malamar in _Pokémon the Series: XY_.
    -   _Pokémon the Series: Ruby and Sapphire_:
        -   In the episode "Sweet Baby James", Cacnea follows James's orders as he acts against Jessie to protect Nanny and Pop-Pop, who were trying to heal Chimecho.
        -   In "Battling the Enemy Within!", Ash gets possessed by an ancient spirit right before battling Pyramid King Brandon. He orders Sceptile to use some questionable tactics during the fight, and while Sceptile is clearly shocked by each command, he still follows them.
-   Played for Laughs with the (Anime only) character of Sasuke in _Ranma ½_, who serves the Kunou's every whim, no matter how deranged or unpleasant.
-   _Rebuild World_: When Tsubaki tries to talk Akira into abandoning his Virtual Sidekick Alpha, trying to tell him all about her, Akira responds by interrupting and saying a list of extremely manipulative and deceitful things he knows Alpha has done to him. And then he makes an argument based on I Owe You My Life and I Gave My Word for why he won’t abandon her. Akira earns Tsubaki’s Villain Respect for this.
-   Arguably, Souseiseki from _Rozen Maiden_ is subject to this trope. She is loyal to her original master and does whatever he asks of her, no matter how heinous, but it is pretty clear that she doesn't like doing such acts and only does it to help her master become a better person.
-   Done several times in _Saint Seiya_. One such instance occurred with the Leo Saint realizing that his master was not acting in the interest of Athena but actually against her and deciding to confront him before being brainwashed back into his service. The Sagittarius Saint went rogue and broke into the Sanctuary to saving baby Athena from being killed by the Pope, the ruler of the Sanctuary.
    -   It also happens the other way around in the Asgard arc, in which, no matter if their princess is right or wrong, her warriors decide to fight for her until their death, even if they do acknowledge that she has changed. Yet in another variation, near the end of this arc, Siegfried disobeyed his princess' orders when he realized that the ones he was fighting against were not the real enemies and were, in fact, trying to free his princess from the mind control ring she was subjected to. He actually gave them the last MacGuffin required to free her and sacrificed himself by turning on the emissary of his true enemy. In this case, he refused to serve his Lady for her own good in spite of the consequence, his death.
-   Played with with Goku in _Saiyuki_, who starts the series as this towards Sanzo, and through the power of character development, realizes that he will continue west not for Sanzo, but for his own reasons. It helps that Sanzo prefers people live for their own reasons anyway, and thinks living for others is stupid (probably something to do with the fact that he once lived for the sake of his master, and was left with quite a conundrum when said master died).
-   In _Samurai Champloo_, one such samurai has the misfortune of serving a lord who has hired a Mad Scientist to revive her daughter. Said scientist tries to accomplish this by kidnapping beautiful young maidens and chopping up their parts to create a flesh golem.
-   More or less, Crona to Medusa in _Soul Eater_, their mother. She tells them to spy on the DWMA after they had made friends with them...and they reluctantly agree.
-   Benawi of _Utawarerumono_ hates his orders, and yet stays loyal until the end. The heroes surround the castle, and before he lets them kill his lord, he first urges him to commit Seppuku, and when the lord doesn't, he kills him himself. Not out of his clear contempt, anger, or hate, but as his second.
-   In _Yu-Gi-Oh!_, Rishid was a top-ranked member of his master Marik's Rare Hunters, even though he knew Marik's plans were evil. Rishid stayed by his side because he was the only one who could keep Marik's darker side at bay.

    Comic Books 

-   Two Amazons in _Amazons Attack!_ spent a lot of time discussing Hippolyta's insane actions and how they should stop her. They ended up doing nothing.
-   Batman has never liked fighting his enemies' animal minions since they're only as evil as their masters.
-   In _Fables_, it turns out that Faithful John's master is working for the Big Bad and, since his fable is all about loyalty, he has no choice but to be The Mole.
-   _The Incredible Hulk_: It's revealed in a flashback in _Skaar Son Of Hulk_ that Caiera's obedience disk was removed when she was still a child; her oath to be the tyrannical Red King's shadow was all that bound her to his service.
-   _Judge Dredd_: When it's apparent that the Apocalypse War is lost, War Marshal 'Mad Dog' Kazan refuses to admit defeat and executes one of his generals for so much as bringing it up. His subordinates realize that they need Dredd to kill Kazan for them because they still have an oath of loyalty to their War Marshal.
-   There have been a couple of times where The Punisher has said that he dislikes killing animals because animals can't truly be guilty.
-   In the _Sonic the Hedgehog (Archie Comics)_ comics Spio's obediently followed orders ever since the Iron Queen took control of his clan, even though he doesn't seem to want to since he has to attack his former friends.
    -   Though he does explain a lot of things we already know while holding his friend at knife-point by his dreadlocks over the edge of a floating island. I wonder what tricky situations he has in store for everyone else.
    -   As we eventually find out, while Espio's loyalty was still to his clan, his clan only served the Iron Dominion out of fear. When they eventually turned against the Dominion — a decision Espio himself helped the clan leader to reach — Espio was allowed to side with his friends once more. Notably, while he's shown to still be haunted by the guilt of his previous actions, his friends have forgiven him.
-   In _Superman_ stories:
    -   In _Superman Unchained_, Wraith destroyed Nagasaki as a fake Fat Man nuke despite his misgivings because he was told to do so.
    -   In _Who is Superwoman?_, Alura In-Ze, leader of _New Krypton_, orders her daughter Kara to apprehend Reactron, her husband's murderer, and bring him to her. Kara has many issues with the idea of getting someone illegally and forcefully extradited to a planet where everyone is out for his blood but she reluctantly agrees, unlike her friend Thara who is her mother's Chief of Security and quits in disgust because Alura wants revenge, not justice.
-   _The Transformers (Marvel)_: In the UK story "State Games" both subverts and plays this trope straight; the last Autobot Overlord, an old and enfeebled robot, and his compatriots are pinned down by a battalion of mechs that he had personally pissed off by trying to curb their civil war with a neighboring city with gladiatorial bloodsport. His comrades' only chance of survival is to ditch him and make a run for it since his geriatric skidplate would only slow them down. One of the Overlord's two bodyguards sacrifices himself in a kamikaze run against the battalion instead of breaking his pact to protect the guy to the end. The other bodyguard, though, leaves the Overlord to rust, allying himself with a then little-known soldier accompanying them as a better choice of leadership of the planet. The latter bodyguard would go on to pull his own version of this trope during a _Beast Wars_ storyline. His name? _Ravage_.
-   Captain Torame in _Usagi Yojimbo_ lives this axiom. In "The Dragon Bellow Conspiracy", Usagi infiltrates the army of a lord planning a coup against the Shogun, who has Torame as an honorable second in command. In the climax of the story, when Usagi reveals his hand and fights to stop the lord, he confronts Torame who refuses to switch sides. Usagi admits that he understands when the two recall something they talked about earlier.
    
    **Usagi**: You would die for a madman who vilifies you? He doesn't deserve your loyalty!  
    **Torame**: I am a devotee of Bushido, the Samurai's code. Do you remember the warrior riddle I told you?  
    **Usagi**: "Which more exemplifies Bushido: He who is loyal to a fair and kind lord or he who is loyal to his wicked lord?"  
    **Torame**: "The Samurai who is loyal to his unprincipled master because he who remains faithful even in adversity has the greatest warrior spirit." After all, "Samurai" means "one who serves" and devotion to a master is paramount.  
    **Usagi**: I understand. I would never have left my own Lord Mifune though the odds were against him. I have much respect for you, Captain Torame.  
    **Torame**: Under other circumstances, Usagi, we could have been friends.
    
-   _X-Men_: The Shi'Ar Empire has had some real prizes on the Imperial Throne...D'Ken, Deathbird, and Vulcan, among others. Through it all, Gladiator, Praetor of the Imperial Guard, remained loyal to whomever was in charge...until he wasn't. This is something of a recurring theme in Shi'Ar storylines.

    Fan Works 

-   _Boldores And Boomsticks_: Wicke does not believe for a second that the Grimm aren't malevolent. She only goes along with the Aether Foundation in sheltering them because she trusts Lusamine enough to try to ignore her fears.
-   _Chasing Dragons_: Joren Potts is a devout follower of the Baelorite (traditionalist) branch of the Faith of the Seven, yet despite this remains firmly loyal in his service to Lyn Corbray, the most prominent supporter of the Jonothorian (reformist) branch of the Faith in the Kingdom of Myr. This is partly because he's holding to his vows of service, and partly because Lyn is worth the loyalty.
-   In the final act of _Guilty Sparks_, every ODST (except Lieutenant McKay, Buck, Romeo, and Dutch) sides with Major Silva when he mutinies against Colonel Holland ordering him to take part in the alliance with Batarian and Covenant deserters.
-   _A New Chance Series_: Lance's Dragonite sees the shortsightedness in trying to attack and take Latios but goes with his trainer's plan anyway. He even apologizes to Latios before attacking him.\]\]
-   In _The Night Unfurls_, Lily acknowledges that her master, Kyril, has to occasionally do terrible things, and hence hates himself as much as the enemy. Nonetheless, she declares that he has earned her loyalty, because he would protect the people even if they were to hate him for it.
-   _Pokéumans_: the minions of Pokextinction are fanatically loyal to Mr. X and his ideals thanks to a little mind control.
-   _Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Planes of Existence_: Team Static's underlings avert this once it's clear their boss has gone so crazy that he won't listen when he's told that the Everstones he plans to launch into Pocketurn's atmosphere are laced with naturally poisonous elements.
-   In the _Pony POV Series_, this trope is the _only_ reason General Hercules Beetle is a villain at all. He follows Chrysalis because she saved the Changelings from extinction by overthrowing the incompetent and insane Queen Cocoon, not because he actually _agrees_ with anything the Changelings are doing. He's well aware that the Changelings' Fantastic Racism is false and that ponies are _completely_ in the right to fight back.
-   In _A Prize for Three Empires_, the Shi'ar Imperial Guard captures Carol Danvers in order to bring her to Deathbird. When Carol points out that Deathbird will kill her out of revenge, they reply Deathbird's presently the Queen and they're loyal to the Shi'ar's throne, regardless of the morality of the ruler.
-   _Savior of Demons:_ All of Kooler's henchmen have this mentality, but Sauza is easily the most loyal, even having the courage to stand between his master and Frieza.
-   _Shinji And Warhammer 40 K:_ subverted. Shinji is _extremely_ kind and compassionate, as befits his station. Doesn't mean that Rei wouldn't do anything, including grand larceny or cold-blooded murder, at the snap of his finger.
-   _What Might Have Been:_ After Rose Quartz publicly reveals she's really Pink Diamond, all the Gems in the Pink Court (even Jasper) willingly join the rebellion, since their loyalty to her outweighs the fact that they don't support her cause, at least initially.

    Films — Animation 

-   _Arjun: The Warrior Prince_: Acharya Drona's compelled to protect his king Duryudhan even though he did so many atrocities. His indebted servitude to him and his unwavering commitment to fight for Hastinapur irrespective of who the ruler is and whether or not the cause was just.

    Films — Live Action 

-   In _Black Panther (2018)_ Okoye and the rest of the Dora Milaje, and others in the Wakandan government, dutifully serve the King of Wakanda. When Erik "Killmonger" Stevens, cousin to T'Challa, the titular hero and king, defeats T'Challa in ritual combat and seemingly kills him, Okoye continues doing her duty and serves loyally. The caretakers of the heart-shaped plant which gifts a person the power of the Black Panther dutifully burn the plants because the new King ordered it. It is only later when T'Challa returns and challenges Erik once more, and Erik refuses to accept the honorable combat, that Okoye and her Dora Milaje rebel to fight by T'Challa's side.
-   In the Holocaust drama _Conspiracy (2001)_, Major Lange is briefly mentored by General Heydrich after Lange notes how disturbed he is by all the massacres in the east. When Heydrich later asks Lange for his opinion at the table, he simply submits to the chain of command and states that he has no other gods before it.
-   In _Downfall_, Goebbel goes to Traudl and starts sobbing that Hitler ordered him and his family to leave Berlin and save themselves. While every single member of Hitler's army, from low soldiers to high officers, gets executed instantly if they even just think of running, Hitler grants Goebbels a legit chance to survive the end of the Nazi regime. And Goebbels is _heartbroken_ that he shall not die with his idol and master Hitler. Traudl can't understand it for obvious reasons. In a very warped way of Screw the Rules, I'm Doing What's Right!, he disobeys this order; he makes his wife drug and then poison their six children, then kills his wife and himself like every other high officer in the bunker.
-   _Gladiator_: Quintus is in charge of the Praetorian Guard and obeys Caesar's order to have Maximus, his friend and respected General, killed along with his family. In his words, "I'm a soldier. I obey." Maximus (a career soldier in his own right) understands but later manages to talk Quintus into a Heel–Face Turn for the final battle.
    -   In the original ending he faced his own death with dignity instead.
-   _The Man in the Iron Mask_ has one of the musketeers be blindly loyal to Louis, despite his evil and capricious nature, because he is Louis' father. Eventually, he comes around to the other musketeers' viewpoint that he's gotta go, when he learns that their look-alike for the king is his twin brother.
-   General Glozelle in _Prince Caspian_, but in the film only. He's got this squeamish but helpless look, has some dialogue with Lord Sopesian to the effect of "watch your butt, or Miraz'll kill you", and looks utterly devastated when King Miraz orders him to kill some of his soldiers to make it look like Caspian is bloodthirsty...which he does. He seems relieved when Aslan offers the Telmarines a fresh start someplace else.
-   Darth Vader of _Star Wars_ displays traits of this with his master Palpatine...when he's not actively trying to subvert him.
-   Hanbei from _13 Assassins_ knows that his master is probably the most evil person in Japan, but thinks that a samurai must always stay loyal to their lord. He and the hero have a Worthy Opponent thing going since they're both only doing what they think is right.
-   _X-Men: The Last Stand_: Wolverine becomes angry at Xavier after learning about the psychic blocks in Jean's mind, yet despite his disgust, he still reassures her that the Professor can help and fix her mental instability. Instead of going on his own, Logan accompanies Charles to Jean's childhood home, and he's devastated when Xavier is murdered. It's on a subconscious level, but Wolverine was beginning to develop Undying Loyalty towards Professor X.

    Literature 

-   _Ani-Droids_: The titular robots have their programming restricted by the Behavior Code, but the Code doesn't care about human laws that don't contradict it. In addition they are programmed to exhibit unshakeable loyalty to their owners, even if they can circumvent the Code. A privately-owned ani-droid will help their owner committ a crime, while a police ani-droid owned by the government will arrest a human officer they suspect of committing a crime. Million is probably the most prominent example, the sole reason she works with the protagonists is they have a chance of finding a cure for her terminally ill owner and she betrays them the moment she finds what seems like a faster route.
-   _The Black Arrow_:
    -   Subverted. When Dick tries to reassure the folk of Tunstall hamlet that they will be paid if they join the effort of war, one woman points out "If they survive". Dick replies they would surely be honored to die for their natural lord, and one man sarcastically asks who that person would be, since he has followed many "natural lords" since the war broke out.
        
        **Woman:** _"If they live, that may very well be; but how if they die, my master?"_  
        **Dick: _"They cannot better die than for their natural lord."_  
        **Man:_'_ "No natural lord of mine. I followed the Walsinghams; so we all did down Brierly way, till two years ago, come Candlemas. And now I must side with Brackley! It was the law that did it; call ye that natural? But now, what with Sir Daniel and what with Sir Oliver—that knows more of law than honesty—I have no natural lord but poor King Harry the Sixt, God bless him!—the poor innocent that cannot tell his right hand from his left."''
        
    -   Subverted with Dick. He tries to defend Sir Daniel until the evidence that he killed his father become too blatant to ignore.
    -   At one point, Dick questions John Carter, one of Sir Daniel's spearmen, about his father's death, as insisting that he will not hold anything against Carter because he does not expect him to disobey his lord.
        
        **Dick Shelton:** _"Carter, mistake me not. I know ye were but an instrument in the hands of others; a churl must obey his lord; I would not bear heavily on such an one."_
        
-   _Brother Cadfael_: Olivier is a paragon of knightly virtue who sees all the faults of Empress Maud. She isn't evil, but she and King Stephen are locked in a stalemate of a civil war that is devastating the country. For a good part of _Brother Cadfael's Penance_, Olivier deeply despises a former friend who switched sides to Stephen in the hope of the war finally being decided. (It doesn't work.) Olivier wishes for peace but clearly values staying true to one's merciless liege higher than ending the war.
-   P.C. Hodgell's _Chronicles of the Kencyrath_: One of the main themes. Among the Kencyr people, obedience to one's Lord is considered a foundation of honor; if one's Lord orders one to do something dishonorable, the feeling goes, the dishonor rests on his head, not one's own. However, the whole system is set up with the expectation that such occasions will be few, minor, and moderated by the priests and the judges. Then a situation comes up that wasn't expected; the Highlord of the Kencyrath, the highest authority in the Kencyr people, decides to betray his people to their ancient enemy in return for personal immortality, but he needs the co-operation of others, particularly those close to him in his own House, to pull this betrayal off. Do the rules of honor still apply? When the order is not simply mildly dishonorable but utter betrayal, does honor still compel obedience? Some decide that it does, and, with a heavy heart, commit atrocity. Some decide that it does not, and struggle against him. Others decide that suicide is the only honorable option, while yet others don't know the full extent of what they're asked to do until it's too late. However, honor only requires obedience to the Lord's Exact Words; some decide to obey their orders in as unhelpful a way as they can possibly get away with.
-   An interesting subversion in _Crusade_: long in the past, the war leader Cranaa'tolnatha was ordered by the leader of an allied clan — overall commander of a combined force — to obey a battle plan that he knew would result in the forces of all the joined clans except the traitorous warlord's being killed. But he didn't have any actual proof, so he had to choose between obeying his orders and dooming his clan, or disobeying orders and being stripped of all honor and banished from all inhabited lands. He chose to save his people and was disgraced. But centuries later, Cranaa'tolnatha, the warrior who had the courage to dishonor himself in order to save his people, was remembered as the single greatest hero of the Orion Khanate, while _nobody_ remembered the name of the treacherous warlord he betrayed, not even the clan he once led. His name had been removed from the clan rolls out of shame.
-   Dara of _The Daevabad Trilogy_ practically runs on this, to the Nahids in general and Manizheh in particular. Even he eventually hits his limit, though.
-   _Discworld_:
    
    -   In _Wyrd Sisters,_ the Fool hates his job and knows that the Duke and Duchess are ruining Lancre, but notes that a Fool is obligated to serve their patron until death. He overcomes this at the end, revealing that he witnessed King Verence's murder. Meanwhile, he tries to help the witches and nudge the ruling couple in a less murderous direction.
    
    **Fool:** I hate \[being a Fool\]. But that's got nothing to do with it. If I've got to be a Fool, I'll do it properly.  
    **Magrat:** That's really stupid.  
    **Fool:** Foolish, I'd prefer.
    
    -   _The Fifth Elephant_ had a scene that pointed out how _stupid_ this line of thinking is, by having Vimes order Sergeant Detritus to shoot Captain Tantony in cold blood. The sergeant's (quite sensible!) response was to tell Vimes to stick it where the sun doesn't shine. (This was the point on Vimes' part as well.)
    -   Igors have this as something of a clan policy. They maintain that it's "a pleasure to be commanded in a clear, firm voithe" and will follow any directions their master gives to the best of their ability. If the mob actually manages to break the door down, the Igor in question will have fled by his own private back ways long beforehand and will be safe (loyalty to Igorhood comes before loyalty to their master), but they will still follow an order even if it's guaranteed to bring the mob to their doors. The only time an Igor is ever seen to rebel in the Discworld books is in _Carpe Jugulum_, when his master has been consistently mistreating him and, interestingly, trying to modernize by not giving these kinds of orders. The betrayal culminated in reverting to a previous master and pulling him out of his crypt because the Old Count knew these "modernization" techniques would only piss off the populace<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and would be the difference between being seen as an evil that is known and can be lived with if dispatched every generation or so versus someone they hate to the point they stake the vampire, collect the dust in a jar, and drop the jar off the world.
-   _The Dresden Files_:
    -   The faerie retainers of the Summer and Winter Courts are bound to obey the orders of their Queens, whether they agree with them or not. They must serve the Court and Queen. This becomes important in _Small Favor_, where Harry is being hunted by the gruffs, powerful retainers of Summer. When confronted by Eldest Brother Gruff, the guy turns out to be a friendly sort who's fully aware that killing Harry is not the right thing to do, but that's what Titania commanded, so that's what he has to do. He's very happy when Harry manages to Take a Third Option by using a different favor he was granted earlier (which couldn't be used to call off the mission directly) to stall Eldest Gruff until the plot was over and Gruff's orders had expired. He also finds it hilarious that Harry's method of stalling him was to ask for a donut- real, and from a bakery.
    -   Also the Wardens, perhaps most notable with Morgan. In _Proven Guilty_, Harry makes such a convincing argument for Molly to be granted clemency that even Morgan is horrified when the Merlin sentences her to death, but he nevertheless moves to carry out the sentence, looking sickened the whole while.
-   J. R. R. Tolkien's _The Fall of Númenor_: Played with. During the rule of Tar-Atanamir, the Númenoreans split into two groups; the King's Men who envied and hated the Elves and the Valar, and the Elendili (_Elf-friends_) who remained faithful to the Valar and friends with the Elves. Nonetheless, the Elendili did not wish to rebel against the royal family even though the kings had no objection to persecute them as enemies of the state, claiming they were traitors and spies. When King Ar-Pharazôn begins making plans to conquest Valinor, though, Amandil -the head of the Elendili- reveals his son that he plans to sail towards Valinor and tell the Valar about Ar-Pharazón's scheme. Elendil asks his father if he is willing to betray the king, thusly proving the slanderous King's Men's right. Amandil retorts that he WOULD betray Pharazôn without a second thought if he truly believed his insane scheme has the slightest chance of succeeding, since the king is not who commands his absolute loyalty.
-   _Harry Potter_: Percy Weasley was loyal to the Ministry over his own family thanks to his personal ambition and sense of order. This is corrected by the end of the last book when he rejoins the forces of good.
-   _Honor Harrington_: In the twilight of the People's Republic of Haven, this was a common issue amongst many in the Havenite military, then many, many more when the Pierre regime took control.
-   _Hurog_:
    -   Oreg is forced by ancient magic to do anything his master orders him to do. As his current master is Ward, the protagonist, we don't see him do something he hates to do on-screen, but it is heavily implied that he was used as an assassin by Ward's ancestors.
    -   There is also Haverness of Callis, a nobleman who takes the oaths he swore to the high king Jakoven very seriously. Tragically, he is the only one to do so; the king himself would betray him in a heartbeat. When Jakoven does betray him, this doesn't end well, as Haverness can now justify his actions with the fact that Jakoven broke the oath first...
-   _The Initiate Brother_ has the guard officer Jaku Tadamoto stay rigidly loyal to Emperor Akantsu, even though he increasingly sees that Akantsu is both petty and incompetent. This brings Tadamoto into conflict with his brother, whose loyalty was rather less durable. They end up dueling when neither will give way.
-   Marcus Antonius, in _The Light Bearer_, is cast by his "friend", the Emperor Domitian, as Chief Advisor — he soon realizes that Domitian has crossed the Moral Event Horizon, but takes years carefully planning his death to prevent a revolt.
-   _The Lord of Bembibre_: Subverted. All of Don Alonso's servants criticize his decision to break up his daughter and her fiancé Álvaro's engagement to marry Beatriz to the awful Count of Lemos...all of them except Don Alonso's horse-groomer Mendo, who fervently supports his lord's actions. However, Mendo is driven by pragmatism rather than loyalty: he thinks that his employer developing ties to a powerful count instead of a mere hidalgo like Don Álvaro will benefit him.
-   Ulfin from _The Merlin Trilogy_, a servant of King Arthur's. While he's not directly responsible for the massacre of the innocents of Dunpeldyr — that's Lot and Morgause — he does mislead Merlin so that they're too late to stop it. And all because he believes it would be to his master's good if his child with Morgause, the one Lot really meant to kill, were to die.
-   _Nightfall (Series)_: Tristan is completely devoted to Vladimir, so much that many call him the Prince’s puppy.
-   _The Reynard Cycle_: Isengrim is prone to this throughout _Defender of the Crown_. Eventually, he realizes that he can no longer go along with the program, and performs an abrupt Heel–Face Turn.
-   In _The Saga of Darren Shan_, Gannen Harst follows Steve Leonard, the prophesied Lord who will supposedly save his people, regardless of how often the latter dreams up some of the cruelest ways to torture their enemies, not to mention how he defies the laws of their kind, ruins carefully made plans and mistreats Gannen personally. They are incredibly superstitious, and the risks are too great to risk defying the prophecy, so he thinks.
-   A central theme in Nobel laureate Henryk Sienkiewicz's _Sienkiewicz Trilogy_ novel _The Deluge_. The warrior Kmicic becomes very impressed by Prince Radziwiłł and swears fealty to him. When he later finds out that Radziwiłł is actually a traitor who made a deal with the invading Swedes, he is shocked. He finds the Prince's actions to be dishonorable and appalling. However, he finds his vows to be sacred and continues serving The Evil Prince, even though he knows it is wrong. Later on, after much internal conflict, he uses an opportunity to fake his death and breaks his vows. He takes up a new identity, Babinicz, and loyally serves his country to atone for his sins.
-   _A Song of Ice and Fire_:
    -   The Kingsguard are supposed to be this, defending the king and executing his orders no matter what they are. Most of Mad King Aerys' Kingsguard died defending him against Robert Baratheon's rebellion. Famously defied by the youngest member, Jaime Lannister, who got fed up with the insanity and murdered Aerys shortly before Robert took King's Landing. It's later revealed that he did it because Aerys had made plans to burn down the entire city and everyone in it. This is also highlighted in how Aerys would rape his sister-wife Rhaella so viciously that Jaime claimed her screams were worse than those of men who were _burning alive_, but whilst Jaime wanted to barge in and stop the Mad King, the other Kingsguard wouldn't let him due to their oaths. The fact that they were remembered as noble knights whilst Jaime is reviled is an Oathbreaker and Kingslayer has made him bitter and disillusioned with the idea of a heroic knight and Kingsguard.
    -   Subverted by The Hound. At first, he's set up as being unquestioningly obedient to the Lannisters, but it's implied later on that, even if Joffrey told him to, he won't hit Sansa. Also, he later abandons his post and leaves King's Landing, and asks Sansa to go with him.
    -   Former Kingsguard member Barristan Selmy used to be like this and condemned Jaime for betraying his oath. As of _A Dance with Dragons_, he's starting to believe Jaime had been right all along.
-   In _The Sorcerer's Daughter_, there's Frederick Rimvolt, captain of Princess Odette's palace guard. He obeys her orders, however outrageous, without a shadow of doubt, and is always suspiciously watching out for any displeased murmurs, ready to make a bloodbath of any potential rebels. Fortunately for everyone, Odette is a fair enough Hidden Heart of Gold ruler.
-   A truly terrifying example in Szeth-son-son-Vallano of _The Stormlight Archive_. His status as Truthless binds him to do _anything_ his master commands him to do. And we do mean anything. The only two orders he won't follow are orders to kill himself or orders to surrender his Shardblade.
    -   Even more terrifying, one of his viewpoints makes it clear that he is still considered fully responsible for every evil act he performs under his master's orders.
-   In _Warrior Cats_, Clan Leaders have supreme authority, and their orders are followed, no matter how insane or evil they are. It is, in fact, one of the laws of the warrior code.
-   In "A Witch Shall Be Born", Valerius, despite Tamaris' sudden transformation into The Caligula, is deeply troubled by the thought of revolt.
    
    _"We hardly knew what we were fighting for, but it was against Constantius and his devils — not against Taramis, I swear it! Constantius shouted to cut the traitors down. We were not traitors!"_
    

    Live-Action TV 

-   In the 2000 TV version of _Arabian Nights_, one of Scheherazade's stories concerns a capricious Sultan with a taste for cruel practical jokes; his courtiers don't like him or his jokes, but they always assist him when ordered. They're quite relieved when one of his jokes backfires on him fatally and they end up with a sane and competent replacement.
-   _Babylon 5_: Vir Cotto is deeply troubled with the decisions made by his boss, Ambassador Londo Molari, with good reason, but is extremely loyal nonetheless. He tends to be The Conscience for Londo, calling him out in private whenever he does something morally questionable (often) and from time to time convincing Londo to do the right thing (rarely). He does find ways to undermine or atone for some of the Centauri Republic's more atrocious deeds when he thinks he can do it without Londo losing face.
    -   To a lesser degree, Lennier has this same thing going on with _his_ boss, Ambassador Delenn, best summed up with one of his introductory lines: "Understanding is not required, only obedience." Lennier is implied to be far less idealistic than Delenn and also devoted to protecting that same idealism, and ultimately the only thing to threaten his loyalty to her is, ironically enough, his unrequited love for her and jealousy towards John Sheridan.
-   _The Barrier_: Rosa is shown to be like this towards Alma, whose worse traits she's shown to be very much aware of. A lot of Rosa's sternness consists of keeping her subordinates from doing things that might set Alma off and she's always surprised when Hugo and Julia do forbidden things without getting Alma angry. Yet, even after the entire rest of the family has joined the rebellion and Rosa has gone as far as helping Luis take a child Alma has kidnapped and passed off as an orphaned relative with him, Rosa can't bring herself to leave Alma's side.
-   Dakota Bob in _The Boys_ is a Puppet King for the Evil, Inc. Vought who allows them to bankroll his presidential campaign and toes the line, but quietly disagrees with their more extreme actions like trying to put superheroes in the military or spreading Blatant Lies. Whilst supportive of Vought to the public, he seems to be very uncomfortable around Stan Edgar and Homelander (for very good reason) and as a result makes no real effort to defy them.
-   In the _Burn Notice_ episode "Comrades", the team capture a Russian Mobster who, among his many amiable qualities, was an enforcer, a murderer, and a sex-slaver. They subject him to intense Perp Sweating which involves trying to convince him that his world has collapsed, that he is all alone surrounded by The Men in Black, and that he is quite likely to be subjected to the Jack Bauer Interrogation Technique. And yet he never yields and has to be deceived into thinking that he has escaped so he can be followed. In a curious sort of way, you have to admire him.
    -   His master does not; just having been interrogated is unforgivable. Paranoia trumps gratitude, apparently.
-   _Game of Thrones_:
    -   Jaime Lannister is widely despised as an oathbreaker for _not_ following this trope.
    -   Ned's sense of duty and honour means he will _not_ refuse a direct order from his King. When Cersei demands the execution of Lady in lieu of the direwolf that bit Joffrey, Ned looks about ready to tell her where she and the other Lannisters can shove it. He only eventually acquiesces when Robert gives him a "get it done" look before storming out. However, as shown by his initial refusal to partake in the conspiracy to assassinate Daenerys Targaryen, his loyalty to Robert _does_ have its limits.
    -   Davos tells his son emphatically that he doesn't believe in _any_ God, but if he _had_ to choose one, then as far as he's concerned, Stannis would be it. He plays this off against Maester Cressen as well.
    -   Melisandre tries to use this to excuse the burning of Shireen Baratheon. Davos explains why this trope is bad.
        
        **Davos**: If he commands you to burn children, your lord is evil!
        
    -   Steelshanks is very loyal to Roose Bolton, and won't take any bribes. Following different orders from Bolton might even entail Steelshanks and Locke dueling each other to death...
    -   Maester Wolkan. He's bound to serve the realm, regardless of the actions of House Bolton.
    -   Kevan is the first Hand since Ned to have this attitude towards his King (rather than manipulate him).
    -   As Kingsguard, Barristan Selmy is sworn to serve the ruling king. In effect, this meant he once served the Targaryens, and following their defeat, accepted a pardon from Robert Baratheon and served him loyally. Despite his misgivings about Joffrey, he would have served him loyally had he not been dismissed. Later, he tells Jorah that being freed of his vows by Cersei and Joffrey actually made him want him to serve someone truly deserving. This is also the reason why he did nothing to aid Rickard and Brandon Stark when they were cruelly and unjustly executed by the Mad King, even though he considered it a horrific crime. Ned Stark, being honor-bound himself, understands this and doesn't hold it against Barristan at all.
    -   Rakharo is visibly hesitant about the decisions Dany makes, especially when she goes against Dothraki culture, but remains loyal nonetheless.
    -   Like Rakharo, Irri seems often less than thrilled with Daenerys' decisions, but still remains faithfully at her side.
-   _JAG_: In "Contemptuous Words", Harm is accused of writing an article that contains a harsh opinion against then-President Clinton, going well beyond insubordination. To help defend him, a lobbyist group helps pay for a private lawyer. During a mock-cross, the lawyer forces Harm into a corner when he cannot say he would condone a higher ranking officer to play loose with the truth and having sexual relationships with subordinates as President Clinton did.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  When the truth comes out, Harm tells one of the group's leaders that while he may have personal issues with President Clinton's actions, he's his Commander-in-Chief and he would take a bullet for him if need be.
-   _The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power_: Waldreg romanticizes so much the times his ancestors were in alliance with the Orcs and serving Morgoth that he allies himself with Adar and unflinchingly obeys his orders only to see those times coming back, whether this means killing a child or decimating his own village.
-   Arguably, Arthur is this to Uther Pendragon in _Merlin_. Increasingly through Character Development he comes to realize how many of the things Uther does are wrong; on the other hand, he also goes against his father's express orders sometimes, generally by sneaking out condemned persons he doesn't believe deserve it. Though come to think of it, it rarely occurs to Uther to specifically _say_, "Arthur, don't release my prisoners from the dungeon."
-   Lucius Vorenus on _Rome_. Once he swears loyalty to someone, he remains loyal until that person relieves him of his promise or dies, no matter how much he hates it or how morally wrong he feels his master is behaving.
-   Backstory reveals that Teal'c was like this before his Heel–Face Turn in the first episode of _Stargate SG-1_. His faith in Apophis broke when he was ordered to murder his blood brother<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , but he couldn't imagine a world where his _god_ could die. When O'Neill gives him a real chance of freedom from Apophis, he defects immediately.
    -   Oshu, First Prime to Lord Yu, is a more extreme example. Not only does he know that Yu is not a god, but he knows that he's going senile. Despite this, he remains loyal to Yu until both are killed by RepliCarter.
-   _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_ episode "Rocks and Shoals". Both Sisko's team and a Jem'Hadar unit (led by Third Ramata'clan) are stranded on a planet along with an injured Vorta. Unfortunately, the Vorta is nearly running out of Ketracel White, which is necessary to prevent the Jem'Hadar from going berserk and killing everyone they see. The Vorta arranges to be healed by Doctor Bashir and offers his surrender and a comm unit to ensure the Federation's rescue in exchange for the Federation killing off the Jem'Hadar unit. That way he gets to spend the rest of the war in the comfort of a Federation prison (known to treat prisoners fairly, especially compared to the alternatives in other cultures) instead of risking his neck for the Dominion. He plans on sending the Jem'Hadar to attack whether or not Sisko agrees, leaving Sisko with no choice but to agree. Sickened by the thought of ambushing soldiers who are just following orders, Sisko tells the Third about the Vorta's betrayal. It turns out the Third already knew. And, despite having questioned the Vorta's decisions in the past, it doesn't change his commitment to carry out his orders because that is what it means to be Jem'Hadar.
    
    **Sisko**: Kievan doesn't deserve the unwavering loyalty you're giving him.  
    **Third**: He does not have to earn my loyalty, Captain. He has had it, from the moment I was conceived. I am a Jem'Hadar. He is the Vorta. It is the order of things.  
    **Sisko**: Do you really want to give up your life for "the order of things?"  
    **Third**: It is not my life to give up, Captain. It never was.
    
-   _Supernatural_: Archangel Michael in Season 5 is determined to go through with the Apocalypse no matter what, not just because of the greater good, but also because he believes it's what his father wants, and is determined to be what he believes to be a good son to God, regardless of the damage done.
-   You get the feeling that Thomas Cromwell is this in _The Tudors_, and Charles Brandon almost certainly is. Though Brandon is also Henry's friend, so it may go beyond this trope.
-   _The Umbrella Academy (2019)_: Pogo was uplifted and effectively given life by Sir Reginald Hargreeves, leaving Pogo feeling that he owes literally everything to Hargreeves... so much so that he couldn’t even bring himself to stop Hargreeves’ constant emotional abuse of his adoptive children, despite clearly objecting to it. Tellingly, even as Vanya goes completely insane because of what Hargreeves did to her, Pogo _still_ can't bring himself to act against or even criticize the man; all he can say is that Hargreeves had his reasons, which proves to be absolutely the wrong thing to say and causes Vanya to brutally kill him.

    Music 

-   The whole tragedy of mothy's "Aku no Monogatari"/"Story of Evil" could have very likely been avoided if the queen's servant had just put his foot down and stopped spoiling her like he did. He goes so far as to commit a Gendercide of the Green Country, in the process killing the girl that he loved - all because the Prince of Blue, with whom the queen was in love, also loved that woman:
    
    _"With her gentle voice and tender smile,  
    I fell in love with her at first sight.  
    However, if the queen wishes for that girl to be erased from this world,  
    then I will fulfill your wish."_
    

    Mythology 

-   "The Tale of the Loyal Samurai" comes up quite often in, obviously, Samurai stories. The gist of it is that loyalty is the most important tenet of Bushido, even if you're loyal to a wicked master. Even if your lord went headlong past the Moral Event Horizon, to rebel would be an unpardonable loss of honor.

    Tabletop Games 

-   In _Exalted_, the Immaculate Philosophy commands mortals to take this view of their Dragon-Blooded masters. It is always morally right for a mortal to obey a Dragon-Blooded's commands no matter what; if the commands are wicked, then the sin is the Dragon-Blooded's, not the mortal's. Conversely, it is always morally wrong for a mortal to disobey or oppose a Dragon-Blooded.
-   This trope is the reason Hantei XVI was able to reign for so long over Rokugan. His reign was presaged by evil portents, he continually purged his court of imaginary conspiracies and assassins, he deployed a Secret Police force with the sole intention of quashing political dissidents, and arranged for the deaths of all of his siblings to eliminate all other heirs to the throne... but the Lion Clan still remained loyal through it all, even when he publicly shamed their Clan Champion and arbitrarily executed other loyal samurai.
    -   Subverted with Hida Tsuneo — he did many horrible things while working as the Right Hand of Hantei XVI, partly because he was loyal to the Emperor, partly because he was Hantei's childhood friend, and partly because he enjoyed his work.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_: Most of the original Traitor Astartes during the Horus Heresy didn't really have any grievance with the Imperium, they just respected their Primarch's choice. In the end, the Astartes' Undying Loyalty to their Primarchs turned into a Fatal Flaw. However, ten thousand years in the service of Chaos has really eroded their original reasonings.

    Video Games 

-   In _Assassin's Creed_, most of the Assassins do whatever their Mentor Al Mualim tells them almost religiously, which is why player character Altair is considered a maverick. This lack of blind devotion by Altair is exactly why he is such an effective Assassin, and Al Mualim turns out to be the Big Bad manipulating the Assassins — including Altair — so that he can claim the Piece of Eden for himself. It's because of this that Altair, as the new Mentor of the Assassins after killing Al Mualim, reforms them into a much less monolithic organization no longer averse to underhanded tactics like poison for the sake of honor and promoting more individuality among them.
-   _Assassin's Creed Rogue:_ One of the first things we hear an Assassin say is that one of their duties is to obey their mentor _without question_, showing the Assassins of this game are not the clear-cut good guys. It's this attitude that causes Shay to turn on them (and them against him) since Shay _does_ question what the Assassins are doing. And at the end of the game, it's a sign of how far Shay has fallen that he's adopted this attitude to the Templars.
-   Galahad from _Atelier Iris 2: The Azoth of Destiny_. He despises Consul Theovore and his policies, but he is a servant of the Emperor, and Theovore is the Emperor's representative in Slaith, so he has to obey. Later on, Theovore ends up firing Galahad, thus releasing him from the constraints of his honor. Big mistake.
-   Inverted in _Aveyond 3_. Yemite the darkling doesn't understand why her mistress Mel doesn't want to Take Over the World and encourages her to become a Dark Messiah, but she follows Mel's orders to bring a rescue party anyway.
-   In _Breath of Fire II_, Ray (the guy we've been led to believe is The Dragon to this point) has just witnessed first hand his leader and adopted father Habaraku (who is the real Dragon) publicly and brutally murder a helpless prisoner (and the man who tried to save her). And he brainwashed a church full of witnesses into watching the whole thing and cheering. Yet immediately afterwards, he makes a Last Stand to keep the protagonists away from Habaraku out of a sense of both duty (to his church) and loyalty (to the man who raised and trained him). Although it also turns out to be a Thanatos Gambit as well, since forcing Ryu to fight him in his dragon-form unlocks Ryu's strongest dragon transformation. With his Last Words, Ray admits he could never bring himself to stand against Habaraku and St. Eva, but hopes that Ryu will be able to stop them.
-   _Conviction (SRPG)_: Generals Grace and Stan are honorable warriors, but they both follow Emperor Abyss despite the evidence showing that their liege is responsible for the recent monster attacks. Subverted for Grace in the B route, who joins the party to fight both the emperor and Landar Kingdom.
-   In _Cyberpunk 2077_, Corporate Samurai Goro Takemura is the Noble Top Enforcer of Corrupt Corporate Executive Saburo Arasaka, and has an extreme case of Moral Myopia. His code of honor and affection for the family he's sworn to protect would be a lot more admirable if they and the corporation they run weren't amongst the biggest blights on the planet, and if he were capable of acknowledging that most of the population of Night City (and the world at large) has excellent reasons for hating Arasaka. Instead, he's a walking demonstration of the yawning void between honor and morality.
-   In the _Digimon_ game series, Knightmon is described as a deeply loyal knight who will serve his master as best as he can whether they're good or evil, even if he might feel conflicted in the latter case.
-   _Dragon Age_:
    -   Ser Cauthrien, the knight who serves Loghain Mac Tir in _Dragon Age: Origins_, remains zealously loyal to Loghain despite knowing full well that he abandoned Cailan at Ostagar and has committed terrible acts since then. She attempts to waylay the Warden twice: once at Arl Howe's estate and a second time at the Landsmeet. However, she may be persuaded to allow the Warden to pass on the second occasion if the Warden successfully convinces her that what Loghain is doing is wrong.
    -   Alistair will continue to follow you even if you do things he disapproves of, due to wanting to end the Blight above all else. The only way he'll leave for good is if you recruit Loghain.
    -   Knight-Captain Cullen in _Dragon Age II_ has a similar attitude to Cauthrien's with regards to Knight-Commander Meredith. Early in the game, they have very similar views when it comes to mages; but as the story moves forward, Meredith's hatred for them takes on a whole new fanaticism, disturbing Cullen and making him wonder if Meredith's ideals and the ideals of the Templars are still the same. He still follows her until finally, she orders the execution of Hawke, either out of paranoia or because they support the mages (Cullen thought they would only arrest Hawke). This leads to him finally turning on her, realizing just how mad she has become.
-   Charon, a potential companion in _Fallout 3_, is brainwashed to obey anyone who owns his contract, regardless of alignment (although he refuses certain actions and turns hostile if you attack him). If you purchase the contract, he will pointedly take a moment to have a "private conversation" with his former owner. Naturally, this can apply to you too, if the player happens to be an evil bastard and you decide to release him from your duty.
-   _Fallout: New Vegas_ has Yes Man, an AI who is programmed to be incapable of disobeying anyone and is instrumental to the Wild Card mission path where you take over Vegas for yourself. In said path, no matter your actions, Yes Man cannot disobey you and will be forced to proceed with the plan. This includes blowing up the Hidden Securitron Bunker, which is absolutely vital to the plan or if you elect not to deal with certain potentially troublesome factions. However, Yes Man is capable of pointing out the problems of your actions in an intensely passive-aggressive manner and will note that you sure are brave trying to conquer Vegas with no standing army whatsoever.
    
    **Yes Man**: _This is going to be great! I'm going to help you accomplish so much, whether I want to or not!_
    
-   Cecil and Kain in _Final Fantasy IV_ both struggle with this, though more visibly so with Cecil, since he's the viewpoint character. It takes the burning of a peaceful village and the implied order to kill a child to get the pair to disobey the king. Turns out, the king really was a noble and decent human being, but he was killed and replaced by a monster sometime prior to the start of the game.
-   General Leo of _Final Fantasy VI_ is seen as an honorable and fair figure to both The Empire and the Returners, whereas Celes is first encountered being held captive due to her wavering allegiance, and the first Kefka sighting involves _ordering a brainwashed Terra to vaporize his own men_ (followed by setting Castle Figaro on fire and _poisoning everyone in Doma Castle, including Imperial prisoners_). Leo is trying his hardest to follow his emperor's orders with minimal casualties and suffering. Leo cannot bring himself to quit working for The Empire until the Thamasa mission, where Kefka starts killing espers left and right, prompting Leo to try to stop him.
-   Beatrix in _Final Fantasy IX_ turns on Queen Brahne halfway through the game, after the Queen uses Odin to destroy Cleyra, and then proceeds to order Princess Garnet's death. The party still has to fight her one more time after she starts doubting her liege, though.
    -   Steiner's character arc is explicitly stated in the opening scroll as choosing between what's lawful or right. He also has this issue initially and is very unhappy that Garnet willingly went with her kidnappers. Like his counterpart, he starts doubting his faith in Brahne after handing Garnet back over to the queen's men and eventually turns on her entirely around the same time Beatrix starts having doubts (in fact, he's the one that puts the discontent in her head).
-   In _Final Fantasy XII_, Judge Zargabaath followed the orders of Lord Vayne. He repeatedly begged him to spare lives and lamented how, in his own words, "The empires debts grow legion". But when Vayne invariably ignored or rejected his pleas, Zargabaath followed the orders anyway.
-   _Fire Emblem_ has a few people in its own right; this is a defining trope for the Camus archetype.
    -   Camus from _Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon & the Blade of Light_ is _Fire Emblem_'s Trope Codifier for this character trait. Despite having no ill will towards Marth and his army, he still goes to war against them because that's what his country is doing. When he returns in _Fire Emblem Gaiden_ as the amnesiac Zeke, he again fights for a cause he doesn't believe in because he owes his life to Emperor Rudolf; he only defects to your side because Rudolf told him to follow the guy with a brand on his hand, even if it brought him into conflict with Rudolf himself.
    -   In _Fire Emblem: Genealogy of the Holy War_, Eldigan knows the crimes King Chagaal has caused, and yet he saves him from death, as he is "all that Augustria has left". Unfortunately, Chagaal has him killed anyway. Likewise, many of the lords oppose the child hunts in the second half of the game, including Emperor Arvis himself, by this point little more than a figurehead for Prince Julius/Loptyr and the prince's girlfriend, Ishtar, and while they try to stop them behind the scenes, none of them ever turn on the Empire.
    -   In _Fire Emblem: The Sacred Stones_, Selena knows that what Vigarde is doing is not just, but she loves him and fights Ephraim's army anyways. What she doesn't know is that Vigarde was Dead All Along and was merely a puppet of the Demon King-possessed Prince Lyon.
    -   There's a big whopping chain of this in _Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn_, pretty much all of it spoilers. General Levail follows Zelgius unquestioningly, Zelgius follows Sephiran unquestioningly, and Sephiran follows Ashera unquestioningly.
    -   _Fire Emblem: Three Houses_:
        -   Dedue would do _anything_ Dimitri asked of him, no matter how heinous, even if that meant killing women or children. This is explained by his backstory — everything and everyone he ever knew or loved were destroyed in the Duscur genocide, so when Dimitri saved him he became the only meaningful or positive thing left in his life, and he has few positive feelings towards the rest of Faerghus, who participated in the genocide and now look down on any surviving Duscur people as untrustworthy. There are only two major exceptions to this: he will leave Dimitri's service to marry a female Byleth on Azure Moon, viewing it as An Act Of True Love for her sake; and on Crimson Flower he goes behind Dimitri's back to give members of the Faerghus army Crest Stones to turn into Demonic Beasts, including himself because he sees it as the only way to defeat the Empire.
        -   Catherine reveals in support conversations that she wouldn't hesitate to kill children if Rhea ordered her to. This also stems from a past incident: Rhea saved her life when she was critically wounded in battle. That said, she was and still is conflicted about having to hand over her best friend to be executed when he was found plotting an assassination. This is shown in full on Crimson Flower when Rhea, now completely insane, orders her to torch the city of Fhirdiad, condemning hundreds if not thousands of innocents who sheltered the Knights of Seiros, just to kill as many of the Empire's soldiers as they can before the end. Despite her misgivings, she still goes through with it.
-   _God of War Ragnarök_: Gna's Fatal Flaw. She was chosen as replacement Valkyrie queen because the original Valkyries led by Sigrun would have balked at Odin's more evil orders. Gna, on the other hand, believes in loyalty for its own sake, and serves Odin simply because he is her commander, even when it's very clear he's a madman and tyrant who has no loyalty to his people in turn. Even Odin corrupting the Valkyries into monsters and cursing their first leader, Freya, is not enough to shake Gna's loyalty. She even continues fighting for his cause in the postgame... despite knowing damn well that it was pointless as Odin's only real concern was always himself, and he'd died in Ragnarok, leaving nothing for her except spiteful terrorism against the war's victors.
-   Gauldoth from _Heroes of Might and Magic IV_ displays this attitude towards his master Kalibarr, most notably in the fourth chapter of his campaign, when he's forced to betray a powerful and trustworthy ally because Kalibarr covets an artefact in the ally's possession. He finally turns on Kalibarr in the fifth chapter, when he learns his master is in league with an Omnicidal Maniac and between them, they are planning to cause the extinction of all life on Axeoth.
-   _Infernax_: In co-op mode, if Alcedor decides to go down the path of wickedness, his squire Cervul will follow him without any questions to whatever bitter end awaits them.
-   _Insanity_: Played with in Yanase's case. He remained a loyal butler to Shigeki for years even though his actions horrified him, although some of this was partly from fear than just loyalty. However, when Yanase learned Shigeki was intending to kill a group of innocent teenagers out of a deluded belief they would steal his research, Yanase couldn't stand by any longer and announced he was going to the police. This didn't end too well for him.
-   Elliot from _Jagged Alliance 2_. He works for an evil queen, and _must_ realize that she's a cruel dictator after she keeps threatening her own citizenry. She slaps him around and bloodies his face every time he brings bad news, eventually becoming angry enough to shoot him in the head (he survives). And yet, he's still willing to pull out a gun and start firing at _your_ team when you finally confront him.
-   Captain Saladin and the other Guard Dogs in _King's Quest VI: Heir Today, Gone Tomorrow_ are fiercely loyal to whoever is currently ruling the Land of the Green Isles. Unfortunately, the current ruler happens to be the Evil Vizier. Needless to say, they are not on your side.
-   Visas in _Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords_ serves Darth Nihilus out of gratitude for him sparing her when he destroyed every other living being on her homeworld, and out of despair that no one will ever be able to defeat him. When she is defeated by the Exile, however, she gains a flicker of hope that Nihilus might meet his match and promptly turns to your side.
-   You can become this kind of Master in _Mass Effect 2_ to Samara, who swears an oath to serve you even if you commit horrific crimes. However, it's slightly subverted in that she knows she's doing evil in your name and tells you upfront that she intends to kill you once the terms of her oath are fulfilled.
-   Knightman.EXE from _Mega Man Battle Network 2_ exhibits this trait, up to his deletion.
    -   And also Protoman.EXE from Battle Network 1, until Lan and Megaman.EXE defeats him in a net battle, that is. After that, he asks Megaman what Lan means to him. Megaman's response is that Lan is his best friend, and Protoman becomes nicer. Chaud, on the other hand, takes a bit longer to get through to.
-   The Four Guardians in _Mega Man Zero_ are all fiercely loyal to Copy-X, a Knight Templar who persecutes innocent Reploids in the name of building a utopia for humans. But after Copy-X dies, they quickly transfer their loyalty to the real X (even Phantom, who tried to defend "Master X" with a suicide attack).
-   Gray Fox in _Metal Gear 2: Solid Snake_ was loyal to Big Boss even with the latter's Blood Knight tendencies and dreams of a Warrior Heaven. Justified in that Big Boss had saved him twice (three to four times counting the events of _Portable Ops_ and depending on whether Big Boss was still involved in saving Gray Fox's hide in Vietnam). It also had something to do with the fact that he needs the battlefield.
-   Oswald in _Odin Sphere_ pretty much admits that he does whatever his adopted father Melvin tells him to do because he Desperately Craves Affection and doesn't concern himself with whether or not it's morally or ethically right, save for a few brief moments such as when Brom (one of the few people in the Fairy Kingdom who treats him well and actually cares about his well-being) is being taken to the Netherworld unjustly. Once a dying Melvin tells him to his face that he was just a tool for his ambitions, only then does Oswald begin to decide for himself what he wants and the morality of his actions.
-   The Soviet soldiers fighting for General Guba in _Operation Flashpoint_, especially Colonel Eusev. Notable exceptions include Dimitri Lukin.
-   The Shadow Triad acts as this toward Ghetsis in _Pokémon Black and White_. Even when Ghetsis's real plan comes out at the end of the main storyline and everyone in Team Plasma, including the other 6 sages, turns against him, the Triad stays loyal to him, because he saved their lives long ago.
    -   Pokémon themselves subscribe to this, as they will fight for their trainer even if they're a megalomaniac trying to destroy the world.
-   _Red Dead Redemption II_: Undying Loyalty is Arthur Morgan's best trait and worst flaw. He genuinely cares for his friends and will go through hell for them, but he never considers leaving Dutch's gang even after it ruins his relationship with Mary and it becomes increasingly clear that Dutch is going through Sanity Slippage and is leading the gang to ruin. He only manages to shake this off after getting a diagnosed with a terminal illness in chapter 6, after which he dedicates himself to helping John and Abigail escape and warns the other gang members to get away.
-   Muneshige Tachibana is this to Sorin Otomo in _Sengoku Basara_. He's a humane, honorable, and reasonable man who would rather stay home, drink tea, and read books who is forced by his oath to follow the orders of a foppish, fanatically religious brat who mistreats him at every turn.
-   The Knights in _Sonic and the Black Knight_. Lancelot (Shadow) is convinced that whatever King Arthur orders is right, because the King ordered it and therefore it must be right, while Gawain and Percival (Knuckles and Blaze) follow orders on the basis that it's their job, but don't necessarily agree with them.
-   In _Star Wars: The Old Republic_, the Imperial Agent can be played as resentful of their Sith rulers for their habits of mucking up Imperial Intelligence operations. Keeper warns you to never let them hear you say that, but never actually disagrees with you.
-   _Tales of the Tempest_ gives us Lukius, the Pope's right-hand man and son. He's been told casting Life Magic is the only way to undo a massacre that occurred 14 years ago, as well as resurrect his mom and exorcise a Spot from his partner. So he rounds up Leimen and herds them into an area to use their souls to cast this magic. Even when it's shown the Pope is wrong about what Life Magic actually does, he fights against the heroes. Though after his brother defeats him, he joins his brother instead.
-   Appears repeatedly in _Touhou Project_: Sakuya towards Remilia, Youmu towards Yuyuko, Ran towards Yukari, Reisen towards Eirin, Eirin towards Kaguya...It helps that none of them do anything particularly bad (with the possible exception of Youmu). However, it is clear that though they will never disobey their respective masters, they would much rather not be performing whatever absurd task they have planned this time.
-   _Wanderers.io_: The followers are absolutely devout to the totem that you drag around to lead them, as they consider it a representation of you. The only conditions to make one do an action is for the totem to be in range of the item involved and for the right tool to be equipped (e.g., a bow is needed to shoot rabbits, any tool can be a weapon to attack an enemy in range, etc.) They even loot from the corpses of their fellow comrades (as well as their enemies), although they cry when they take from their own.
-   In _World of Warcraft_'s Siege of Orgrimmar raid, fan-favorite Nazgrim is a boss due to his loyalty to Garrosh Hellscream. As the in-game Dungeon Journal puts it:
    
    _"Fiercely loyal to the Horde and bound by a rigorous code of honor and duty, Nazgrim will hold the line for his Warchief until his dying breath."_
    

    Visual Novels 

-   In the _Danganronpa_ franchise, the Fatal Flaw of Mukuro Ikusaba is her subservience. Mukuro is an Extreme Doormat thanks to her sister Junko's constant manipulations, insults, and abuse. As the Ultimate Soldier, she's also been taught to follow orders without question. This means that even if Mukuro thinks a plan is a bad idea, she'll still do it anyway just because Junko told her to. Mukuro also never expected that Junko would kill her just for the sake of feeling despair at her sister dying, allowing Mukuro to be caught offguard and die an Undignified Death.
-   Lancer in _Fate/stay night_ and Lancer in _Fate/Zero_. It doesn't end well either time, but in at least one case, it ends in a spectacularly awesome fashion.
    -   Rider in _Fate/stay night_, too. More in the sense of 'I don't care what happens to anyone else so long as Sakura is alive. And happy, preferably.'
        -   Although she _does_ turn against Sakura in the end, when she's corrupted. However, she only does so in order to save her from the corruption, so...
    -   Saber also had a case of this back when she served under Kiritsugu in _Fate/Zero_, although this was Teeth-Clenched Teamwork _at best_ due to their clashing ideologies and in part due to Irisviel.
    -   The Saber serving under Leo Harwey, Sir Gawain in _Fate/EXTRA_ is an interesting examination of this. He is completely devoted to his lord and Master, even though he knows Leo lacks something necessary to be a good king: failure, and the ability to learn from it. He is grateful the protagonist is able to help Leo realize this, though it comes just before Leo and Gawain’s deaths…
        -   Gawain follows this trope yet again in _Fate/Grand Order_, where he serves the Lion King loyally even though this means slaughtering the vast majority of those inhabiting the Holy Land. He clarifies during the climax that his loyalty is virtually all he has left after helping to kill the members of the Round Table who refused to support the Lion King, so he’s damned either way.
-   Genji, Shannon, and Kanon from _Umineko: When They Cry_ seems rather okay and uncaring in the face of Kinzo's actions and all the murders that occur. In reality, Kinzo is already dead, Shannon and Kanon are the same person, Yasu, who is Kinzo's illegitimate child with his daughter Beatrice the second and is the one Genji considers his new master. Yasu then plan the murders without any protest from Genji who even helps with covering them up.

    Web Animation 

-   _Dreamscape_: Mechellies have no alignment, they merely act in the best interest of their Link.
-   In _RWBY_, this is the core difference between Atlesian Specialists, like Winter and the Ace-Ops, and more traditional Hunstsmen and Huntresses like Team RWBY: The former are soldiers first and Huntsmen second, and will follow the orders of General Ironwood unquestioningly, while Team RWBY and their allies are more questioning about _why_ they're doing things, causing a lot of tension when the two groups work together in Volume 7. Things come to boiling point when Ironwood's fear of Salem drive him from being a Well-Intentioned Extremist into a Face–Heel Turn; the Atlesians continue to follow despite their misgivings, while the Huntresses turn on him, driving the conflict of the following Volume. Ultimately subverted when Ironwood's increasing extremism finally becomes too much, and even Winter and the Ace-Ops turn against him.

    Webcomics 

-   _The Dreamland Chronicles_: The king of the dwarves is loyal to the king of Dreamland.
-   Izor, from _Dubious Company_, is torn between this and My Country, Right or Wrong. Even when he reveals his plot, he needs serious convincing by Future High Priestess Sal to assassinate the Emperor instead of using him as a Puppet King.
    -   Played for laughs with the royal guards of the Elven Kingdom. When the King and Queen order each other's arrest, it leads the guards to obey whoever spoke last until they collapse from exhaustion.
-   Vlad from El Goonish Shive was completely loyal to Damien, to the point of externally agreeing with his methods until after Damien was quite safely dead.
-   Units in _Erfworld_ are compelled to obey leaders by a loyalty mechanic. This shocks Parson as much as his notion of "free will" shocks the Erfworlders.
-   Florence Ambrose of _Freefall_ invokes the fable of the Loyal Samurai (above) in explaining why she continues to work for a known kleptomaniac and all-around antisocial alien.
    -   Aside from technically being Florence's CO, Sam might qualify thanks to his Blue-and-Orange Morality — many of the traits that make Florence adhere to this trope in serving Sam are actually considered virtues in Sam's culture (on account of the fact that they're a society of scavengers who don't know where their next meal is coming from, let alone anything else), while the honesty, altruism, and integrity she tries to teach him are considered foolish quirks at best and suicidal liabilities at worst.
-   In _Girl Genius_, this is the default morality of the Heterodyne family's creations.
    -   For the Castle, a more accurate phrase would be, "My Master, Wrong or Right (But Preferably Wrong)". It exists for the sole purpose of serving the Heterodyne, even if they're a hero like Bill or Agatha.
    -   The only real moral alignment of the Jägers is "Loyal". They served the Heterodynes for centuries, and they'll serve the Heterodyne centuries more.

    Western Animation 

-   _Avatar: The Last Airbender_
    -   Zuko in the first half of Season 3 does not say anything when his father orders his generals to _commit genocide_ on the Earth Kingdom by _raining fire on everything_. To be fair though, you can't really blame him for not wanting to speak out in a war meeting again.
    -   It's rather a subversion because he was probably quietly thinking about the best way to prevent it from the very moment he heard of it. It is pure Fridge Brilliance because Zuko's Heel–Face Turn in _The Day of the Black Sun_ looks very inconsistent when you think about how nice his father is to him at this point and how Zuko acted in the Season 2 finale. Then, in the Grand Finale, you learn what they said during this meeting. Oh, Crap!.
    -   Azula as well. By the end of the series, she is so desperate for her father's approval that she'll accept an assignment from him which takes her away from an opportunity for power, glory, and the chance to be at his side. The toll this (as well as the fear that Ozai doesn't think she's good enough and a few other things) has on her psyche is not pretty.
    -   Season 1 Zuko actually _was_ like this, though it's not so much that he believes it's honorable to obey an evil master, it's that a) he's been sheltered for most of his life and raised on Fire Nation propaganda, and b) just as he was of age to start deciding his own ethics, his father, Fire Lord Ozai punished him with exile and burning off a good chunk of his face for speaking up against a suggested war crime. Zuko loved his father and wanted to believe he was right, so he's convinced himself that his honor depended on obeying Ozai's orders (because of his dad had to have a good reason for sending him away and would never have sent his son on a Snipe Hunt, right?) and has spent the last three years policing himself for thoughtcrime. When he returns to the palace for the first half of season 3, he finds that he's miserable because he can't reconcile the propaganda he learned as a kid with what he now knows of what the war meant for the Earth Kingdom. He then completes his Heel–Face Turn when Ozai does something so horrible he can't explain it away no matter what mental gymnastics he uses: plot to end the war with a Final Solution.
-   In _The Fairly Oddparents_, Juandissimo does evil things simply because his godchild Remy orders him to. When Remy's not around, he's quite friendly.
-   Kif is this to Zapp Branagan in _Futurama_, replete with eye rolls and groans when Zapp does something idiotic. Granted, this is implied to be not out of loyalty or respect for Zapp, but because he has gotten stuck under his recruitment somehow. His self-esteem has withered to such a point that he is still subordinate to Zapp's orders even when both are temporarily fired, and he becomes absolutely giddy at the thought of getting another employer.
-   In _Justice League Unlimited_, the trope is discussed in an episode where Shining Knight (a time-displaced Arthurian knight) tries to convince General Wade Eiling (who's turned into a giant unstoppable monster) to stand down. He recounts a tale from his past where Arthur ordered him to massacre a village, and Shining Knight refused. Eiling _thinks_ this trope was in play and told him he should've obeyed orders, only for Shining Knight to point out it was a Secret Test of Character and Arthur _wanted_ to know that his knights would disobey him if he wasn't a worthy leader.
-   An unintentional and terribly done example occurs in the much-maligned _Spongebob Square Pants_ episode "One Coarse Meal", where, after having spent the majority of the episode terrifying Plankton to the point of driving him to suicide, it seems like Mr. Krabs is finally going to get his comeuppance; but Spongebob intervenes to save him, letting him get off scot-free, despite how badly Spongebob himself is treated by Mr. Krabs.
-   This is the struggle Karai faces in the second and third seasons of _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2003)_, as the character's loyalty to her adoptive father, the Shredder, clashes with her more noble instincts. One of the forms this clash takes is in her reluctance to kill the turtles, who had agreed to help her restore the New York Foot in exchange for ending the syndicate's vendetta against them. While the agreement was made under false pretenses — it was made under the assumption that the Shredder was dead and that Karai would be leading the Foot, which Karai knew was not the case — she still felt compelled to keep it, despite her father's wishes.
    -   Following the Shredder's exile into space, Karai takes up his mantle and decides to avenge him, so she ultimately does pick him over the turtles...
        -   ...until he returns in the _Turtles Forever_ movie, now as an Omnicidal Maniac. This proves to be too much for her, and she sides with the turtles against him.
-   _Transformers_:
    -   Since Megatron is the undisputed Leader of All Decepticons, Always, anyone wearing the purple has to murmur this phrase if they want to stay sane. The least loyal of Megatron's troops have used excuses for staying under him ranging from "It's still better than the Autobots" to "I get to live how I want", but some 'Cons just say "He's the boss." All except one.
    -   Cyclonus in Season 3 of Generation One is a particularly good example of this, to Galvatron.
    -   _Beast Machines_:
        -   Played with. The generals Strika and Obsidian are loyal to Cybertron, first, foremost, and always...and, by their own Insane Troll Logic, whoever is _in_ control of Cybertron, at the time — _regardless_ of who that individual is, or what his plans are — _is_ Cybertron, and will shift their allegiances accordingly. This means, as their fellow Vehicon Thrust points out, that they're perfectly willing to sacrifice the sanctity of the planet itself, if that is what its current despot deems necessary (which, yes, _does_ in fact render their "loyalty" to Cybertron moot).
        -   Thrust himself: twice during the second season (once at the beginning and again near the end), when it seems as though Megatron has been killed, he refuses to bury the hatchet with the Maximals, deciding, instead, to await Megatron's inevitable return. He stays loyal to the very end, despite knowing that completing Megatron's plans will involve having his own spark ripped out and absorbed.
    -   Ravage pulls this off in _Beast Wars_, abandoning his mission to kill Megatron after learning that the guy was following the orders of the _original_ Megatron, whom Ravage was still loyal to...even though said plan involved changing the future by assassinating Prime in the past, the consequences of which he should've been around long enough to figure out on his own (read: involuntary Apocalypse How).
    -   Lugnut is like this out of blind loyalty. If his **GLORIOUS** master commands it, he will carry it out.
        
        **Lugnut**: STASIS LOCK ITSELF WILL NOT DETER ME FROM YOUR **GRAND** AND _GLORIOUS_ PLAN, OH WISE AND NOBLE MEGATRON!  
        **Megatron**: \*twitch\* Just... go...
        

    Real Life 

-   This is a defining trait of a Samurai, being basically a Japanese knight that serves unwielding fealty to their lord. In fact, the primary difference between a Samurai and a Ronin is that the Ronin can be described as a Samurai with no lord.
-   Dogs tend to be like this, which is why even big dogs don't kill their abusive owners.
-   Centurion Sempronius Densus entered history as the sole centurion who didn't abandon Emperor Galba when the rest of the praetorian guard betrayed him and died along with the emperor trying to defend him. Galba was far from the most popular Roman emperor, but Roman historians highly praised Densus's loyalty all the same, with Plutarch writing, "No man resisted or offered to stand up in his defence, save one only, a centurion, Sempronius Densus, the single man among so many thousands that the sun beheld that day to act worthily of the Roman empire, who, though he had never received any favour from Galba, yet out of bravery and allegiance endeavoured to defend him."
-   The Varangian Guard of the Byzantine Empire is an interesting case as they were noted to show Undying Loyalty, not to a particular Emperor, but to the _position_ of Emperor regardless of who they were. Accounts from their time state one such instance when John Tzimiskes usurped the position of Emperor from Nikephoros II. Instead of avenging the their fallen Emperor, the Varangian Guard immediately swore fealty to their new master because... well, he was now in charge.

___