**Agatha:** Victor! What are you doing without your trousers on?!  
**Vic:** Ah, you can talk, I must say!  
**Agatha:** Eh? Oh, OH! AHH! OH NO!

A character, through some nonsensical circumstances, is publicly stripped or caught in their underwear or less. The stripped character, rather than running off to hide, might be shown as temporarily losing their senses, such as standing like a statue, loud screaming, blushing, steaming or resorting to Hand-or-Object Underwear by shooting their hands all over their body to try to cover every naughty part they can at once. Sometimes this is a Delayed Reaction, with the character only realizing their state of undress once pointed out or noting the stares that they're getting. A Skyward Scream, Running Away to Cry, or Unprovoked Pervert Payback are common ways for the scene to end.

Frequently the scene is also accompanied by a Reaction Shot from the gawker(s). Who the gawker is can differ, but it's often multiple people or even a crowd. They can vary from complete strangers to someone the victim _really_ doesn't want to be seen naked by, such as a family member, a Love Interest, a rival, co-workers, colleagues, etc. The gawker reactions can also vary from sympathy, appreciation, mockery, or disgust. A particular sympathetic person may even offer some kind of covering or even their own clothing.

While being embarrassed about being seen naked is Truth in Television, media not only tends to give characters much more absurd, or even supernatural reactions than in real life but they also may play the humiliation in different ways. If played for fanservice, it's used to indicate the character is a Cute Clumsy Girl or a Reluctant Fanservice Girl. If Played for Laughs it's usually a case of Naked People Are Funny, usually targeted at a Butt-Monkey and The Chew Toy, suffering from a case of Defeat by Modesty or as part of a Humiliation Conga of an unsympathetic character. If Played for Drama, this is used as a deeply humiliating event that severely impacts the character, usually done to someone who is extremely shy, socially awkward, has Appearance Angst, or is culturally conservative. The character may be so humiliated they may consider themselves Defiled Forever and even be driven to self-harm or worse. Values Dissonance may be involved.

While this may happen to any gender, this trope can be used to show that the man is "unmanly" by his reaction. He might, for example, shriek and try to cover his pectoral muscles. This trope is also a common gag and Ship Tease method in the Romantic Comedy genre, especially for couples who have a Belligerent Sexual Tension.

Note that in order to meet the ramifications of this trope the scenario has to involve a person getting seen naked _through no fault of their own_, either by accident or through the malice of another. The exposure is often sudden and the person has to panic as soon as the exposure is discovered. This can involve tropes like Wardrobe Malfunction, Stripping Snag, Slippery Swimsuit, Clothing Damage, Shapeshifting Excludes Clothing, The Nudifier, etc. If the character is _forced_ to expose themselves, then it's a case of Shameful Strip, and a character doing a deliberate striptease it's a case of You Can Leave Your Hat On.

Often coincides with situations such Accidental Pervert, Birthday Suit Surprise Party, Chained to a Bed, Gone Swimming, Clothes Stolen, Naked First Impression, Naked People Trapped Outside, Shower of Awkward, Shower Shy, and Undressing the Unconscious. Similar to Comedic Underwear Exposure and Marilyn Maneuver. See Defiant Strip for when a character _refuses_ to have this reaction. For use of this as a _combat tactic_, see Defeat by Modesty. See Fully-Clothed Nudity and Our Nudity Is Different for when this reaction occurs but a character isn't actually naked. A "Not Wearing Pants" Dream often ends with a character having such a reaction.

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   Subverted by Fanzell in _Black Clover_ who ends up naked in front of people on a regular basis and doesn't see to mind. This leads one of his students to accuse him of doing it on purpose, which he denies.
-   Subverted in the _Cyborg 009_ story "Heart of the Machine". Nana, a teenage girl who's a mix of Broken Bird and Fille Fatale, shows up naked save for her stepmother's lacey robe and hits on Albert/004, who is twice her age, and strips naked when he doesn't take her bait. Despite how Nana willingly took her robe off in an attempt to taunt him, since he _still_ refuses to concede, she covers herself and breaks down crying.
-   _Don't Toy with Me, Miss Nagatoro_ has a slight variation. Nagatoro is taking a bath and decides to call her Senpai to tease him. While she's busy laughing about him fantasizing about her, she accidentally presses the video call button, and he sees her (thankfully with the water covering her naughty bits), and only after a while does he inform her that he can see her. Cue Nagatoro turning red and screaming.
-   _Full Metal Panic? Fumoffu_: The last episode has everyone in the classroom freaking out over what's apparently a dangerous bioweapon that's going to kill everyone in a few hours, but it turns out to be just a bacteria that dissolves synthetic clothing. Naturally everyone pretty much who got exposed to it suffers this, before turning their anger on Sousuke for scaring them for nothing.
-   _My Dress-Up Darling_: When Gojo accidentally gets a Naked First Impression of Sajuna "Juju" Inui in his bathroom, she panics so much that she ends up tripping while trying to cover herself and ends up falling in a way that exposes herself even more. The scene ends in a panning shot as we hear her muffled screams of embarrassment.
-   In _Fairy Tail_, during the Grand Magic Games arc, The dragon Zirconis, uses his clothes-destroying magic to strip the entire army of soldiers who all run away in embarrassment and then strips Lucy after she insults him, she is then thrown around naked for the proceeding fight, screaming and trying to cover herself the whole time.
-   In _Freezing_, Attia convinces Satellizer to put on a one-piece that looks like a bunch of white straps. She reluctantly agrees, and the boys go wild. They go even wilder when Attia's prank is revealed: the suit's material turns transparent in bright light. Poor Satellizer, undestandably, ends up swearing by this trope.
-   Himiko Kudo from _Get Backers_ falls victim to this _twice_ during Limitless Fortress arc.
    -   The first time is when she is betrayed by Kazuki (actually Akame Kogenta in disguise), who traps her with his string. When Himiko insults him for his betrayal, the fake Kazuki responds her by shredding her clothes with his strings, rendering her almost nude. Cue Himiko screaming "KYAA!".
    -   The second time is when she fights Kagami, this time wearing a new set of clothes. During that fight, Kagami's shards of mirrors shred her clothes, rendering her almost nude again. Poor Himiko can't catch a break.
-   In _High School D×D_, Rossweisse attempts to stop Issei from entering the girls' locker room while in Kyoto. When Issei inadvertently presses her Berserk Button regarding her lack of boyfriend, it gives him the perfect opportunity to use his Dress Break on her. Then, Rossweisse has an understandable Oh, Crap! after realizing that she's naked and covers herself before lecturing him about how his Dress Break isn't good for the environment.
-   This happens in _Miss Machiko_ whenever the main character ends up naked. Considering this happens Once an Episode, it has featured many subsequent freak outs. Although as Machiko is a Genki Plucky Girl, her freakouts tend to be a cute pose, her saying "maicchingu!" ("Oh, how embarrassing!"), and either smiling or beating the everloving crap out of someone.
-   Centorea from _Monster Musume_ meets Nighdrem the Night Mare, a subspecies of centaur. Nighdrem asks Centorea to help her find someone who will allow her to give nightmares to. Centorea asks to sample these nightmares. She wakes up screaming every time, and it’s revealed each time was from a dream where Centorea was caught naked in compromising positions in public.
-   Happens in _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_, especially to Takane. Although some of the girls manage to get over this due to the sheer amount of Clothing Damage to which they're subjected.
-   This happens to Nepgear, Uni, Rom and Ram in one chapter of the manga version of _Neptunia_: Because their clothes didn't shrink along with them when they were transformed into babies, they were obviously naked when they returned to their normal ages.
-   When Akane walks in on (male) Ranma in the bath in the first episode/chapter of _Ranma ½_, both simply freeze in place staring at each other's partially nude bodies for several moments before Akane calmly returns to the outer bath room, puts her robe back on, steps out into the hall, closes the door behind her... and _then_ screams her head off.
-   _Seven Mortal Sins_: Maria Totsuka gets forced to strip by Lucifer, gets water splashed on her to make her clothes transparent, and gets her clothes erased by Belphegor. Each time, she shrieks and covers herself.
-   _Seven Heavenly Virtues_: In an OVA, the angels all play with water guns that dissolve clothing, relying on a device to make them invisible. After they have all been rendered naked, the device breaks and exposes them to a gawking crowd. They cover themselves and scream at the people to stop looking at them.
-   A non-nude example occurs in _Sgt. Frog_: During the physical exam episode, Fuyuki, while getting dressed, gets knocked outside in his briefs in front of his classmates by Keroro. Fuyuki's reaction is what you'd expect.
-   This happens to Yoko in _Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann_ in a Hot Springs Episode episode where she has at the end a wardrobe malfunction. Seen here.
-   _Those Who Hunt Elves_: the main characters strip elven females and the elves get a Naked Freakout. In fact, the above image is from Episode 3, where Dihal, the aformentioned elf, is tricked into drinking a magic growth potion dubbed "The Water of the Giants" by Airi. Considering Dihal was needlessly putting the town at risk just to win a bet between herself and Airi, it's practically karmic.
-   Happen to Sakura in episode 13 of _Urusei Yatsura_. The girls' swimsuits are stolen during a Hawaiian vacation, and everyone suspects Cherry (the actual culprit was an octopus). Also Sakura's swimsuit is being pulled off while she is in the sea. Ataru, Megane and Perm nobly swim out to help, but she swims away from them, crying as she stands like Venus in the waves. Ataru remarks that this is the first time they’ve seen her feminine side, which earns him a pounding.
-   Happens in the animated adaption of _Utawarerumono: Mask of Deception_. During a bath scene, Kuon senses someone is peeping. She tries to chase after the intruder, but fails to do so. Hearing her annoyed shriek, Haku, who was told not to peek comes out and asks what happened. Kuon, seems to forget that she still has no clothes on, asks if Haku saw something to which he replies that he wouldn't say he saw something before flatly adding, "I see it now," a moment later, causing her to freak out in embarrassment.
-   Played for Laughs in _ViVid Strike!_ when Fuka uses Adult Mode for the first time. While she did manage to successfully age up her body, her tracksuit remains the same size and disintegrates from the strain, causing her to run screaming to the locker room for a change of clothes with nothing but residual magic particles from the outfit protecting her modesty.

    Comic Books 

-   _Fantastic Four_: The Human Torch once flamed on in a waterpark, forgetting that his trunks weren't unstable molecules. Hilarity Ensues.
-   This happens to Plastique when Firestorm vaporized her clothes to get the bombs she was intending to use to blow up innocent people. Although her reaction was mostly off camera, you get the general idea from a single word balloon.
-   Flare has one after Damian Pomegranate spritzes her with a green liquid that dissolves her entire costume, including her gloves, cape and boots. He mistakenly believed that her powers came from her costume; since that wasn't the case, all he achieved was to get an eyeful before Flare recovered her composure and knocked him out.
-   _Robin: Son of Batman_: Talia orders some maids to bathe her unconscious son Damian after he got injured in a fight. When he wakes up with a bunch of strangers bathing him and his mom in the room, he's quite pissed off and quite embarrassed.
-   Happens to _She-Hulk_ of all people during _Secret Invasion (2008)_ when Jazinda once tried teleport Jen to her ship, but only succeeded in teleporting her clothes, leaving Jen completely naked in front of a cheering crowd.

    Fan Works 

-   In many fan works featuring non-human(oid) characters undergoing Humanity Ensues, these characters may undergo this trope, although it's less from being naked (if whatever turned them didn't grant clothes to them) and more from shock at their new forms.
-   In the _Empath: The Luckiest Smurf_ story "Who's That Smurfette?", which retells Smurfette's origin, Smurfette has one when she is changed into a real Smurf by Papa Smurf, but then realizes that she's no longer wearing any clothes in her new form. Empath in his younger years has a milder one when he first sees himself in a hat and pants in the novel and "The Grouchiest Friendship", and a bigger one when he first sees Wild Smurf wearing only a bush for clothes in "A Wild Winter Solstice".
-   In _OSMU: Fanfiction Friction_, Oswald, along with Oscar, Oren and Owen, is teleported to the Lab while in the midst of taking a shower. Given that he's naked at the time, is in full view of everyone that walks in the bullpen, and earlier expressed fear of a fanfic he read involving a magical shower teleporting naked agents coming true, he begins to panic while the other three boys are blissfully unaware of what's happening.
-   In the short _Invader Zim_ fic _What Goes Around_, a fight between Zim and Dib during a school field trip to a lake results in Dib accidentally snagging and ripping off Gaz's bikini top. Understandably humiliated by this, Gaz flees and hides in a bathroom.

    Films — Animated 

-   This is Played for Laughs in _Brave_. Elinor's transformation into a bear results in none of her clothes fitting her anymore, being a 10-ft-tall, 500-lb beast and all. Bear!Elinor, still a Proper Lady on the inside, is bereaved by this and desperately tries to cover herself with a bedsheet. When Merida offends her by yanking it away to get her to stop going the wrong way when escaping the castle, Merida angrily hisses "You're covered with fur! You're not naked!". After she turns back into a human, her reaction is somewhat similar, but justified this time. She didn't have any clothes on as a bear, so now she doesn't have any clothes on as a human. Good thing Merida has draped that tapestry over her bear self prior to her retransformation because that piece of cloth is all that covers her now. Oh, and she's surrounded by a bunch of rowdy men.
-   _Mulan_: Played With and Justified when Mulan is taking an outdoor bath but is joined by her fellow soldiers, who have no idea she's actually a woman. She's obviously mortified, not only for her modesty but for blowing her cover which might get her _executed_. She manages to barely control her freak out, obviously sinking into the water as deep as she can and trying to keep her back to them the whole time. They somehow don't notice anything is wrong, and she manages to sneak away without issue.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   Babs Jansen (Martha Smith) in her final scene in _Animal House_. Especially funny because the "YEAH!" Shot for Babs's segment in the "Where Are They Now?" Epilogue freezes her in that state of undress, thereby leaving her stuck on the street in her underwear _forever_!

-   Kirsten Dunst has a nightmare in the opening of _Bring It On_ where she suddenly becomes naked in front of her entire school during a cheerleader performance, with only her pom-poms to cover her while the other students alternate between laughing at her and admiring her.
-   Subverted in The Movie of _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_. Pike accidentally rips off part of Buffy's ball gown as she runs off to fight the vampires, exposing almost all of her white-stockinged legs. But Buffy is so focused on the vampires that she doesn't notice at first — and doesn't care too much when she _does_ notice.
-   Barbara Windsor got this in just about every _Carry On_ movie she was in. Also Patsy Rowlands in _Carry On Matron_. One of the many nurses in _Carry On Nurse_ was stripped by the drunken men in her ward and tied to a bed.
-   When an almost completely naked Plenty O'Toole is being given an unfriendly escort out in _Diamonds Are Forever_, her screaming objection does not go unnoticed.
-   _Fantastic Four Duology_:
    
    -   In 2005's _Fantastic Four_, Sue Storm removes her clothes in order to sneak past the crowd on the bridge while invisible, but still learning to use her powers accidentally turns visible again in her underwear in front of everyone. Notably, this is purely an invention of the film, since in the comics Sue had the ability to also turn her clothes invisible from day one.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   In _Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer_, after switching powers with Johnny, Sue's clothes burn off, leaving her naked in front of a crowd of bystanders before she turns invisible to hide.
    
    **Sue:** Why does this always happen to _me_?
    
-   _Holiday on the Buses_:
    -   After Joyce's breasts are exposed in front of the depot, she reacts in embarrassment and tries to cover them.
    -   Olive panics after she loses her bikini bottoms in the indoor pool.
-   Played for Drama in _Horse Girl_. Sarah is in the middle of a Shower of Angst, when all of a sudden she finds herself standing in the middle of the craft store where she works, completely naked. Rather than covering herself, she just stands there catatonically trying to figure out what's going on. This is the latest in a series of incidents of her having missing memories and showing up in places without knowing how she got there, but this one triggers others' notice, and she is sent to a psychiatric hospital after this incident.
-   Julia Roberts had a bit of this when she was caught skinny dipping by Nick Nolte and some Boy Scouts in 1994's _I Love Trouble_.
-   Laura Griffin (Dee Wallace) has a mild one in _Invisible Mom 2_ when she is hiding behind a chair. When she sees that her invisibility has worn off, she covers herself with the blanket from the back of the chair.
-   Jane Sibbett plays the Rich Bitch in both _It Takes Two_ and _Au Pair_, and suffers the freak out in both films. _It Takes Two_ had Jane lose her dress during a wedding ceremony (this happened right after she was outed for a slew of dastardly deeds, so this is also a version of a Shameful Strip). In _Au Pair_, a couple of diabolical kids Booby Trap a banquet table, hoping to humiliate the Misunderstood Loner with a Heart of Gold. Jane is the Asshole Victim in the wrong place at the wrong time, and sits at the table. Minutes later, her dress is destroyed in front of everyone.
-   Appeared in some of the Jerry Lewis comedies of the 1950s and early '60s, within the limitations of that era's censorship rules, of course.
-   Played for Drama in the "out, damned spot" scene of Roman Polański's version of _Macbeth_ (though it had less to do with Lady Macbeth's nudity as it merely served as a reflection of her nervous breakdown).
-   Margaret "Hot Lips" Houlihan (Sally Kellerman) had an especially memorable one in _M\*A\*S\*H_, when she went to take a shower in the shower tent and the heroes (and other nurses) pranked her, dropping the tent to wall to reveal her naked and ironically applauding as she tried to cover herself. After putting on a robe she runs off to bawl at Colonel Blake about the lack of discipline in the unit, and Kellerman played Hot Lips's humiliation absolutely straight, prompting director Robert Altman to expand her role (because that was going to have been her final scene in the film.)
-   _Mulan (2020)_: Played With and Justified. Mulan is obviously mortified when she's joined by Chen when she's bathing in a lake, not only for her modesty but out of fear that her Sweet Polly Oliver disguise as Hua Jun might be discovered. She dives further into the water, covers her chest, and keeps her back to him, all while he's trying to be friendly, which makes her come off as awfully rude to him.
-   _The Mummy (2017)_ has Nick waking up in the morgue to meet his now Zombie friend, Vail. Once he is gone, some other people walk in and Nick realises that he is naked and makes a hasty exit while covering his bit.
-   _My Fellow Americans_ had former presidents James Garner and Jack Lemmon cornering an evil White House henchman while he's in bed with his beautiful blond girlfriend — and she storms off into the bathroom whimpering while trying to cover herself with the sheets.
-   _Psycho Beach Party_: After Marvel Ann's swimwear suffers from a humorous Stripping Snag, she runs away screaming while covering herself with her hands.
-   _Robot_: Played for Drama. Chitti rescues a girl from a burning building while she was in the middle of a bath, and since he's an Artificial Human who has No Social Skills and thus has no regard for her modesty, he simply dumps her outside the building, right in front of a crowd of reporters with nothing to cover, obviously leaving the girl humiliated. The scene takes a turn for Black Humor when the humiliated girl then runs away screaming into the street and is run over by the traffic. The incident illustrates how Chitti will remain an inadequate hero unless he can understand human emotions.
-   _Scandal_ (1989): Christine Keeler has stripped off for a pool party and is doing a mock 'fan dance', hiding her naughty bits with a couple of ferns, only to realise that some other people are standing directly behind her, causing Keeler to shriek and run off.
-   In _The Scorpion King_, during an attempt to abduct the Sorceress Cassandra during her bath, both she and Mathyus get sucked into her giant bath drain and end up in one of the city's fountains. Cassandra has this reaction once she emerges naked in the middle of the public fountain.
-   Subversion in _A Shot in the Dark_ as Clouseau and Maria are in a nudist colony but need to make a hasty retreat in a car... when they get stuck in a city traffic jam they both freak out.
-   _Slaughter House Five_ features one when Montana Wildhack first discovers herself on Tralfalmadore.
-   In the Italian comedy _Le Comiche 2_ we see a male example applied to a particularly unmanly man. This unfortunate character receives an undesired breast augmentation earlier in the movie. Later on he is a passenger on a plane and through rather nonsensical circumstances he is stripped to his underwear that comprehend a black bra. He starts to panic and scream until he is approached by a male flight attendant. Despite initially trying to help, the attendant reaches the poor man’s bosom and starts to squeeze, visibly aroused (subverting the more common disgusted reaction). With the conversation going this way:
    
    **Stripped Man:** Don't touch me... I'm a lawyer!  
    **Flight Attendant:** But... a lady lawyer...
    
-   _Up Pompeii_ films:
    -   _Up Pompeii_: When Lurcio steals a girl's towel in the steam bath, she screams and runs away fully nude.
    -   The Buttercup Girls from _Up the Front_ have one when Colonel von Gutz walks in on them getting changed.

    Literature 

-   One of the illustrations for Dave Barry's _Babies and Other Hazards of Sex_ parodies a common picture from sex-ed textbooks by showing the people in the picture as doing this.
-   In _Forrest Gump_, Rachel Welch ends up this way on the Sunset Boulevard.
-   _My Teacher Is an Alien:_ Peter, having chosen to Stay with the Aliens, has a mild one when he gets to the space station and is put in The Nudifier for "decontamination." After a moment he forces himself to calm down, figuring that he's representing the entire human race right now, he's been naked at the doctor's before and the aliens are _probably_ be more mature than his classmates in the school locker room.

    Live-Action TV 

-   This happened at least once on _America's Funniest Home Videos_. Someone slipped on the floor and grabbed a curtain to try to break his fall, pulling the curtain all the way down to reveal that a group of young women were changing their clothes behind it.
-   _Being Human (UK)_: Lampshaded in "Cure and Contagion" when Daisy happens upon the werewolf George naked next to the bloody carcass of a deer. He freaks out in embarrassment and covers himself and she promptly mocks that a werewolf would be worried about modesty in such a situation.
    
    **Daisy:** Ah, that's sweet. You might tear someone's throat out but God forbid anyone should see your winky.
    

-   An episode of _Bewitched_ has Samantha befriend a beleagured magician who is being exploited by his scheming, vain assistant. On learning how the assistant plans to use him, Samantha magics the assistant's gown to rip off in front of the audience, revealing that the assistant wears a girdle.
-   _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_: when everyone's nightmares started coming true, Xander enters a classroom and finds himself in only boxer shorts and freaks out royally. To a lesser degree in a later episode, he joins the school swim team, and when encountering the girls while wearing a speedo suit, he goes into a horrified crouch and covers himself with a paddleboard.
-   _Eastwick_: On the 11th episode, Kat has this reaction when her boyfriend's son walks in on her right after she dropped her Modesty Towel, shrinking in embarrassment and trying to fully cover herself for a few seconds before diving for the towel.
-   On an episode of _Family Matters_, Steve Urkel was up to his usual bumbling antics and lurched around a classroom wreaking havoc. He eventually ripped the dress off a Hollywood Homely teacher, leaving her in "granny nightshirt"-type underwear.
-   _Friends_:
    -   This trope causes an Escalating War gag in "The One with the Boobies". It starts when Chandler accidentally sees Rachel topless as she exits the shower, causing her to freak out. When the group discusses this, they conclude Rachel must now see Chandler naked so they can be "even", so Rachel then tries to walk in on Chandler as payback but sees Joey naked instead, who also freaks out. Joey then tries to get even by walking in on Rachel but gets a mortified Monica instead. Monica then tries to catch Joey, but instead walks in on Joey's dad, bringing the Zany Scheme Chicken to a screeching halt, as Joey's father is completely unfazed.
    -   Happens a couple of times in "The One In Vegas Part One".
        
        -   The first time is when dressed in a bathrobe at her apartment, Rachel slightly freaks out for a moment when it accidentally comes open. Realizing that no-one's around to see her, and remembering Phoebe encouraging her earlier about becoming a Home Nudist, she takes the robe off completely and spends the evening naked in her apartment. The second time she does it, she invokes this as she strips, roleplaying that she's pretending to freak out a little.
        
        **Rachel:** _\[after dropping her bath robe\]_ _\[mock gasp\]_ Oh, look what happened!
        
        -   The third example occurs when Ross reveals that he saw her through the window. She's only mildly embarrassed, partly because she's already re-dressed by this point, and partly because he's seen her naked before.

-   One scene in the opening montage for _The Man Show_ had a yard worker using his leaf blower to blow off a woman's dress, causing her to assume this pose.
-   _Ned & Stacey_: The season one finale featured Stacy walking out of her bedroom completely naked after a passionate day of lovemaking with her boy toy — only to be caught by her husband, Ned, and his bosses. She stands there for a second before gasping in horror and running back to her bedroom.
-   _Star Trek: Voyager_:
    -   In "Drone", B'Elanna Torres is not amused when the EMH calls on the Video Phone while she's having a shower. She hurriedly covers herself with a Modesty Towel while the Doctor nonchalantly replies he's a doctor and she has nothing he hasn't seen before. She promptly throws the towel on the Video Phone in annoyance.
    -   In "Q2", Q's son Q tries to invoke this with Seven of Nine, but she refuses to play along.
-   _Van Helsing (2016)_: In the episode "Help Me", Vanessa has a minor one when Axel walks in on her while she's showering. He merely shrugs it off as necessary to save water, and points out that after three years keeping guard on her comatose body, he's already seen everything anyway. Clearly uncomfortable at this point, Vanessa covers herself and quickly leaves.

    Pro Wrestling 

-   A regular reaction by women (especially Heels) who lose a Bra and Panties Match), although their underwear is often less revealing than the average bikini. And the winner will likely as not rip the rest of her clothes off anyway.
    -   Subverted all around at the 2005 _Great American Bash_. Melina Perez won the match by stripping off Torrie Wilson's pants and top. She then punched Special Guest Referee Candice Michelle in a Kick the Dog moment, prompting Torrie to retaliate on her friend's behalf by knocking Melina on her ass. Torrie and Candice then stripped off Melina's pants, causing _her_ to run from the arena in a panic in her bright orange bra and panties. Candice then stripped off _her_ referee's uniform for no reason, and then she and Torrie both left the arena in their underwear and smiling, despite Torrie having lost the match!
-   Professional Wrestling is unusual where this trope is concerned in that its victims have tended to be male as often as not. At the WWF/WCW _inVasion_ pay-per-view in 2001, someone (probably a plant) showed up at a fan event wearing a WCW T-shirt. One of the WWF wrestlers, indignant, ripped the shirt off — leaving the now topless guy running off and covering his man-boobs.
-   Something like this happened to Rick Rude once. He started up a gimmick where at every event he'd wear a pair of tights with a different image airbrushed on them, and one time that image was the face of Jake "The Snake" Roberts' wife (Rude's character was a notorious womanizer). Roberts angrily ripped the tights off, causing Rude to run off "bare naked." (Actually, he was wearing flesh-colored panty hose.)
-   A particularly infamous male example was Howard "The Fink" Finkel's exposure in 2002. He was competing against Lilian Garcia in a Tuxedo vs. Evening Gown Match for the right to announce the matches on _Monday Night Raw_. Any hopes of seeing Garcia in her underwear were cruelly — and I mean _cruelly_ — dashed when Trish Stratus and Stacy Keibler interrupted the match, prompting Finkel to insult them. Bad idea: one dropkick to the crotch from Stacy later, and the Fink was writhing on the mat in agony as all three women worked together to strip off his tuxedo; he was left running from the arena in nothing but revealing red bikini briefs, prompting every mortified observer to reach for the nearest carton of Brain Bleach.
-   Garcia's panties were finally put before the public view on the episode of _Monday Night Raw_ immediately after _WrestleMania 23_ in 2007 — and yes, the fandom rejoiced, having complained about Garcia's prudery countless times in the past. It actually happened because Vince McMahon had gotten his head shaved by Bobby Lashley and Donald Trump in front of the entire world the night before, forcing him to go everywhere wearing a hat or some other form of headgear. Lashley showed up on the program to snatch off Vince's hat, prompting Vince to desperately look around for something to cover his bald head — and he settled, fatefully, on sticking his head up Lilian Garcia's skirt. This wouldn't necessarily have led to anything if Lilian hadn't stood there helplessly and let Vince get away with it and if Lashley hadn't _ripped the skirt right off_, giving the whole world a good look at the spectacle of Vince's chrome dome wedged between Lilian's black-pantied thighs. It was a rare case of a face wrestler acting like a total dick (since Lilian herself has always been a face), as well as of a non-wrestling female face being hurt or humiliated for the audience's entertainment. Just try to imagine _that_ being aired on WWE programming nowadays!
-   TNA Knockouts Champion Madison Rayne was stripped of her evening gown by Mickie James in a recent episode of _Thursday Night Impact_.
-   Distressingly, this seems to happen regularly to Ric Flair, of all people, usually when he's a heel. The basic setup is Flair coming the ring in an Armani suit to taunt another wrestler. The other guy more often than not snap and deliver a No-Holds-Barred Beatdown on Flair. Being a Dirty Coward, Flair will then try to flee only to have his suit ripped down almost to the underwear level (and generally G-rated underwear at that, such as a white tank top and boxer shorts) — and if his opponent is feeling especially vicious, Flair will be made to shed blood as well. Absurdly large amounts of it.

    Roleplay 

-   Played for Laughs in _Dawn of a New Age: Oldport Blues_. In order to kidnap Crispin, Jenna has to ditch her clothes so that her bug swarm can work at full effectiveness. Once they're back at Vivian's house, she realises that she's naked, and screams and tries to cover herself up. Since she's made of bugs, and doesn't have a human body, the others don't understand what she's freaking out about and continue to stare at her in confusion.

    Theatre 

-   In the musical _Best Foot Forward_, when the Hollywood actress arrives at the High-School Dance, she is stripped of her clothes by the souvenir-seeking preps.

    Video Games 

-   In _Dead or Alive Xtreme 3_ Owner Mode, the player can gift a swimsuit to a girl, and if their "satisfaction level" is high enough, they may be willing to do a "Raw Outfit Change", meaning they'll change right then and there in front of you, but they will ask you to close their eyes and not peek. The player can still try to peek, but doing so will usually cause the girl to scream and freak out in embarrassment, and will also severely drop their satisfaction.
-   _Gravity Rush_: Played for laughs and fanservice at the end of "Letting Old Ghosts Die". Syd visits Kat's sewer home just as she finished showering and is only wearing a Modesty Towel. She only notices her state of undress when he points it out, and in her embarrassment ends up moving in such a way the towel comes undone and falls off, which causes her to freak out even more, screaming and covering herself with her hands. Cue the end of the episode.
-   _Lunar: Eternal Blue_: This trope is actually used to showcase Lucia's Character Development. At first, she's an Emotionless Girl with No Social Skills that has no concept of modesty, not caring that Hiro saw her naked in the Hot Springs Episode. Much later in the narrative, Hiro accidentally walks in on her while she's bathing in a lake and she reacts with embarrassment, screaming, covering herself, and quickly diving underwater, thus illustrating that she's now a more normal human girl.
-   _Mega Man Legends_: Offscreen example in the second game. In one of the boss battles against Tron Bonne, her Gustav explodes and the camera then pans to show Mega Man looking flustered and shocked. Only when Tron asks why his face is all red do the Servbots inform her that her clothes were destroyed, and she screams and berates them for not telling her sooner before calling for a retreat.
-   _Muramasa: The Demon Blade_: Both Momohime and Kisuke can visit hot springs during their levels, and it's notably the only place Kisuke and Momohime can meet in the game. If Kisuke meets the NPC Momohime, she will act mortified by him encountering her while all she has on is a Modesty Towel, lamenting that he has "seen what she hasn't even shown her lord."
-   In the '80s classic _Rampage_, you play as one of three gigantic monsters who go about smashing up various cities around North America. If you're shot too many times, though, your character turns back into a naked human who sheepishly tiptoes down the street while striking this pose. (That is, in the arcade version. In the home entertainment version, the transformed monster is left in his or her underwear.)
-   _Tales of Arise_: During the Hot Springs Episode, Alphen leaves the springs to talk to the girls, not noticing that his Modesty Towel came undone until the girls start screaming or covering their eyes. When he notices his state of undress, he promptly freaks out and has a girly The Scream.
-   _Ys VIII: Lacrimosa of Dana_: Adol gets a Naked First Impression of Laxia in a fairly standard Accidental Pervert scenario where he walks in on her just after she finished bathing and has only a Modesty Towel on. She's somewhat embarrassed about being found in such a state, and reaches for her nearby rapier to threaten him, but the sudden movement only makes matter worse as her towel comes loose and she forgets all about self-defense and starts to freak out about her modesty, with the scene ends with a pan up to the sky as she lets out The Scream which is followed by a slap sound.

    Webcomics 

    Web Original 

-   _Garnet and Gure_: This short features a regular character scrambling to hide when her calendar shoot is invaded by an unwanted admirer.
-   _The Grossery Gang webseries_:
    -   In the "Mount Yuck" arc, Pizza Face is already so frozen from his newfound fear of heights, that he actually _becomes_ naked from his freak-out, which does nothing to quell his fear that he's in.
    -   In the "Lifestyles of the Rich & Famous" arc, Ricardo freaks out after losing his peel during a clothing swap and panics about being in his "banana birthday suit".
-   _Happy Tree Friends_: In "You're Bakin' Me Crazy!", when Lumpy's towel is blown away in front of Giggles, he freaks out and stumbles around his trailer trying to find something to cover himself up with. This inadvertently leads to Giggles getting hit in the face with an iron and having her eyes drilled out with an egg beater.
-   Being a Reluctant Fanservice Guy, The Nostalgia Critic has had this a couple of times, like in the "Is Eyes Wide Shut Artsy Porn" title card, where he's naked and trying to hide himself from the masked men in the movie.

    Western Animation 

-   An odd variation of this occurs in _Adventure Time_. In the episode "You Made Me," the character Lemongrab is having an emotional breakdown. He freaks out and defenestrates himself. When he lands on the ground unharmed he immediately opts for dramatically ripping off his clothes, letting them fly away in tattered shreds as he runs wailing into the night, clad only in his undies.
    -   Happens earlier with the same character in "Too Young." When he was first created by Princess Bubblegum in her laboratory, he was naked. The first thing he did when he came to life was go bonkers, screaming and flapping his arms.
-   _Chip 'n Dale: Rescue Rangers_: In the episode "A Fly in the Ointment", the Rangers get head-to-body swapped by Prof. Nimnul's latest invention. Gadget's head gets swapped with Dale's and she reacts calmly... until she realizes Dale doesn't wear pants. She spends the rest of the episode wearing a paper cup as an improvised skirt afterwards.
-   In _The Mummy: The Animated Series_ episode "Fear Itself", a demon causes several characters to experience their greatest fears. It causes Colin Weasler's clothes to disappear, making him scream and hide.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_:
    -   In the episode "Make New Friends and Keep Discord", Rarity undergoes one of these when Discord vacuums her dress off after she gets Covered in Gunge. Naturally, given that ponies don't normally wear clothes anyway, the joke is mainly about her overreaction to being stripped.
    -   A similar joke takes place in "The Super Speedy Cider Squeezy 6000" when Rainbow Dash rips the bed covers off Fluttershy, causing her to blush and quickly cover herself.
-   _The Simpsons_: Homer is caught shirtless in an intimate moment with Marge in the episode "Natural Born Kissers". He shrieks and covers his nipples with a pair of teacups.
-   _SpongeBob SquarePants_
    -   In the episode "Feral Friends", Mr. Krabs, Mrs. Puff, Squidward, and Pearl run away screaming while using their hands to cover themselves after ending up nude because of spending two hours transformed into non-sapient sea life. While SpongeBob, Patrick, and Larry the Lobster go through the same things, it is averted with them because SpongeBob and Patrick don't appear to be concerned about their sudden nudity and Larry is able to keep his cool after using a flower to cover himself.
    -   At the end of "Survival of the Idiots", Sandy screams after she realizes SpongeBob and Patrick stripped her of all of her fur. She then becomes enraged and forces _them_ to be her "fur" until it grows back.
-   Happens to Kabuto at the end of ''Tokyo Mater'', which is an extremely embarrassing defeat for a mean Japanese race car who enjoyed stripping other cars of their modifications after losing to him.

___