At least Death was nice enough to ring the doorbell.

“This has been KSWD Los Angeles. This is the Sound, and this dream will self-destruct in three, two...”

The end of your network has arrived. Network Death is imminent. Some networks have just a brief or abrupt sign-off with little to no fanfare, but some do go the extra mile to pay tribute to their history before turning off the transmitter for good. They likely will also decide to herald the arrival of a replacement moments after.

This is the trope for when networks decide to go out with a real tribute to themselves, or at least a carefully-chosen final program.

See Grand Finale for when this happens for an individual franchise.

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

     Broadcast TV Channels 

-   British movie channel Carlton Cinema folded with the rest of the short-lived ITV Digital operation in 2003: its closedown included a montage of film scenes set to Alice Faye's "You'll Never Know" from the 1943 film _Hello, Frisco, Hello_.
-   During the transition to digital television in the UK, Northern Ireland was the final region to perform the analogue shutdown. BBC One Northern Ireland's final sign-off culminated with the blue and yellow mirror globe ident from the 70s, followed by a scene of a control room with a plush of Digit Al (the mascot used in campaigns informing viewers of the transition) on top of a screen with said mirror globe, and the monitors behind it showing a series of classic BBC One idents from each subsequent era (beginning with the Computer Originated World) and an obituary for Ceefax (which also shut down due to the transition), followed by the then-current BBC logo on a black screen. BBC Two Northern Ireland had a similar sign-off done over the classic BBC 2 animated stripes of the early 80s, which animated off-screen in reverse.
    -   For the same occasion, BBC One Wales showed a black and white version of the mirror globe, slowly zooming out and fading into the darkness.
-   While not a sign-off, BBC Three's final ident starts out normal, with the two announcers stating that this was their last continuity announcement, and said that they'd see the viewer tomorrow on the BBC iPlayer for the opening of their new online home. The final programme — an episode of _Gavin & Stacey_ — was introduced by co-creator James Corden from the Los Angeles studio of _The Late Late Show_, wishing the channel good luck before it moved online.
-   Australia's Seven Network had some unique sign-offs for its analogue switchoffs too, with ATN 7 Sydney featuring a reprisal of the station's former sign-off sequence (including a music video to Tommy Leonetti's "My City of Sydney", followed by an animation of a kangaroo turning the "ATN Channel 7" logo into a bed for her joey before pulling down a shade, revealing the word "Goodbye"<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> ), HSV 7 Melbourne featuring a montage of the programs produced at the station (with the conclusion set to its classic "Hello Melbourne" jingle from the mid-1980s, followed by an old clip of a newsreader telling viewers that HSV 7 would be signing off, then the HSV 7 clock animation shown before overnight sign-off, and lastly, an old HSV 7 station identification slide set to a test card tone before the analogue signal is permanently cut), and BTQ 7 Brisbane featuring a quick montage of clips and classic Seven Network idents before ending on an old test card.
-   Certain U.S. network stations pulled out the stops for their analog shutdowns. KDKA in Pittsburgh dusted off the old "High Flight" video they used to show when signing off for the night, followed by a unique national anthem montage showing their old in-house programming, moving backwards from the then-present to the station's early days. KADN in Lafayette did something similar, showing some old bumpers followed by their old national anthem video. Other stations also dusted off their old sign-offs one last time for the occasion.
    -   This blog found video of seemingly every analog signoff in the US, as well as a few in Japan and Australia. Some went out with anchors counting down live, some used an old sign-off, some created a farewell montage, some botched it, and some simply cut to black.
-   The last night of The WB (before its merger with UPN to form The CW) featured a "Night of Favorites and Farewells" — with airings of the pilot episodes of _Felicity_, _Angel_, _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_, and _Dawson's Creek_, peppered with flashbacks of the network's history (and promos for the DVD sets and the cable channels showing off-network reruns of said series), concluding with a final montage which ended with a shadowed Michigan J. Frog (the network's former mascot, who had been retired a few years before) bowing to the audience as their curtain fell. WPIX, the network's New York City station, followed it up with a montage of their past logos (with music from that era accompanying each one) before officially rebranding as CW 11 for the 10 o'clock news.
-   When the Brazilian MTV shut down as a terrestrial broadcast channel in 2013 (before changing to satellite/cable channel), they aired O Ultimo Programa do Mundo ("The Last Program in the World"). The last two VJs who talked before a montage were also the first two in the initial broadcast in 1990.
-   In 2014, the Israeli government approved the closure of its state broadcaster, the Israel Broadcasting Authority (IBA), which would be reformed as the Israeli Public Broadcasting Corporation. It was originally scheduled to launch in 2016, but ran into issues between members of the government, as well as the European Broadcasting Union over parts of its structure (including a plan for news and public affairs programmes to be assigned to a separate broadcaster). The launch was later set for 15 May 2017.
    -   On 9 May 2017, the IBA told its employees that its main newscast, _Mabat LaHadashot_, would end after that night's broadcast — only two hours before they went to air. The atmosphere during the resulting program was devastating, to the point that several of the reporters ended up crying during the broadcast.
    -   The IBA's Channel 33 shut down at that time, but Channel 1 carried on with regular programming (besides news) through 14 May, with a skeleton staff of 20 employees to televise the 2017 Eurovision Song Contest — which went out on TV with no commentary. Before delivering the result of the Israeli's jury vote, spokesperson Ofer Nachshon acknowledged the closure on-air and bid the IBA farewell.
    -   After Eurovision, Channel 1 broadcast a music video recalling some of the most important moments of the channel, sung by Marina Maximilian Blumin. The song is called _The ballad about Hedva and Shlomik (הבלדה על חדווה ושלומיק)_. Finally, the IBA broadcast the final part of the newscast ''Mabat LaHadashot'', with the entire staff tearfully singing the national anthem of Israel ''(Hatikvah)''. The IBPC's new channels, Kan 11 (Hebrew) and Makan 33 (Arabic), launched the following Monday.
    -   As a side note, the IPBC became responsible for Israel's Eurovision entries beginning in 2018. In their very first Eurovision as Israel's delegation, Netta's song "Toy" would win the contest.
-   Southern Television (a broadcasting license holder for ITV in the South and South-East of England), before changing over to TVS, aired a final program (_And It's Goodbye From Us_) on New Year's Day 1982 and ended with a special version of its logo spinning into the night sky, complete with a deep echo of its signature acoustic guitar jingle.
    -   On the same day, Associated Television (ATV) ended a little over half an hour after midnight, after Scottish Television's nationally televised Hogmanay Show, with a brief tribute from original announcer Shaw Taylor before an organ recording of "God Save the Queen" was played, initiated by the then-current announcer. Central officially began roughly nine hours after that.
    -   When Southern and Associated Television ended, Westward ended on the same day as well, and they chose to end at midnight with a brief message from Roger Shaw saying goodbye and looking forward to TSW. Notably, whilst in the final segment done by Westward, he was wearing a dinner jacket at an antique wooden desk (with his staff wearing formal suits), the succeeding segment done by TSW had him decked in more modern attire and on top of a modern chair (with the staff wearing TSW t-shirts) to emphasize the new style of the network.
    -   When TWW, the Wales license-holder for ITV in the 1960s, closed prematurely in 1968, they aired the program _Come To An End_, featuring John Betjeman paying tribute to it. It ended with a camera shot at the EXIT sign at the Granville Theatre in London before closing for good.
    -   Thames Television, a staple of British television in the 70s and 80s, signed off for good on New Year's Eve 1992 with an on-air tribute and a music video of past personalities set to a cover of "I Only Want To Be With You".
    -   On the same day as Thames ended, TVS chose to opt-out and air their own final programming, "Goodbye to All That", before changing hands with Meridian. It ended with an altered version of the TVS ident accompanied by a "Thanks for Watching" message.
    -   Finally, all regional ITV-owned stations were rebranded as ITV 1 in October 2002. Several of the stations went out in style, but London Weekend Television in particular went the extra mile, using a recreation of its classic sign-on sequence from the 1970's, and leading into _The South Bank Show_ with a recreation of its famous "river" Station Ident. At the end of the day, long-time announcers Glen Thompsett and Trish Bertram made an appearance from the control room to bid the broadcaster farewell, followed by a closing montage featuring many of its classic idents.
-   WKBS-TV, an independent station in Philadelphia, signed off for good in 1983, airing a montage of the station's workers waving goodbye themed to Simon & Garfunkel's "The Sound of Silence".
-   The Philippines' ABC followed a similar formula to The WB upon its closure on August 8, 2008. At the end of their final program _Sentro_, Martin Andanar said this:
    
    "Philippines and our viewers in Mabuhay Channel, thank you for watching. This is not goodbye, this is hello to a great bold way of delivering the news. It's more to what's happening in this country than what we are used to hearing in the news. As we know it, _nagbabago ang kwento ng Pilipinas at nagbago na rin ang pananaw ng mga Pilipino. Magkita-kita na lang po tayo sa Lunes 10:30, pag nagsimula na ang mas masaya at mas makakatotohanang gabi sa ating lahat._ In behalf of the gallant men and women of ABC News, I'm Martin Andanar, and that was ABC."
    
    -   After the program, the montage of their previous programs is played, set to Leona Lewis' "Footprints in the Sand" before Michael Knight says "Thank you for watching. This is ABC5, signing off", before heading to the countdown of its successor TV5.
-   Due to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the Russian news network TV Rain decided not to take censorship from the Kremlin, instead choosing to end its final broadcast by playing the ballet ''Swan Lake'' after its staff stormed off the set in a huff. The usage of _Swan Lake_ was a symbolic choice, as it was often played by the former Soviet state broadcaster in states of turmoil such as the death of the Soviet leader or during the 1991 coup d'état attempt.
-   Forces TV, a channel in the UK that aired a mix of military and vintage programming, ended its final day on the 30th of June 2022 with a montage of its programming, a "Thank You for Watching" message, and a rousing performance of the National Anthem.
-   BSB Galaxy had a more direct sign-off where the logo "fell to darkness" shortly after their logo ident, with the thud made as the logo fell from view.

     Cable/Satellite TV Channels 

-   The original G4TV ended its original run with a game of Pong - a bit of Book Ends as the channel launched with a Pong marathon - that slowly shrunk and filled with a grey color, followed by a sound clip of a Comic-Con attendee shouting "I'M AT COMIC-CON!!!" (a possible allusion to G4 dying and going to "nerd heaven") as the dot shut off like an analog TV alongside Donkey Kong's death bloops from the Atari 2600 and the Game Boy start-up chime.
    -   When the channel ceased again years later, it ended with a Call-Back to the original shutdown, with a zoom-out of a still picture of Pong engraved on the forehead of _Attack of the Show!_ host Gina Darling along with the words "G4" and "Thanks 4 watching!" followed by a droning, deadpan voice saying "I'm at Comic-Con!" and then a "Thank you for watching!" screen. Interestingly, Fios, the last cable provider with G4, cut off the transmission halfway through.
-   Fox Soccer shut down with a clip of soccer footage being interrupted by that one _It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia_ scene where a couch gives birth to Frank Reynolds, hailing the official launch of its replacement, the comedy-oriented FX spin-off FXX.
-   Likewise Speed Channel ended with former NASCAR play-by-play announcer Mike Joy making a statement marking the channel's end by announcing it was "time to switch off the ignition and turn in the keys", then reassuring the viewers that much of its live programming including NASCAR would still be seen on the channel's successor, Fox Sports 1.
    
    So now, it's goodnight and farewell to America's motorsports authority, SPEED.
    
-   Film Zone, belonging to FOX Latin America (before being bought by Disney) underwent some changes in its programming after the changes of its parent company LAPTV. Among these was the elimination of the soft porn that were shown at night, in addition to new graphics. Despite this, Film Zone was one of the most-watched and loved channels. In 2017, FOX Latin America made the biggest change of all: introducing the FXM brand to the Latin market. This meant Film Zone had to close to make way for the new channel. FOX Latin America, in order to put an end to the channel, decided to launch some promos with the Film Zone logo in mourning and giving some references to some of the films that were shown on the channel. On September 18, 2017, after showing its last film with the Film Zone brand, Richard Gere's _The Double_, the Film Zone logo mourned his loss, saying that he felt like Truman in _The Truman Show_, and quoting said character's catchphrase. Finally, a tombstone appears with the start and end dates of the channel with an epitaph that says: "good stories never die".
-   Fine Living Network ended to make way for Cooking Channel on May 31, 2010. To mark the transition, the network played an ident where The Grim Reaper arrives at a house, presumably the address of Fine Living Network, and rings the doorbell, implying the network is literally dead.
-   The final day of UK Jetix's programming ended with a montage of some of the shows that had been displayed on the channel, before cutting to Jetix's mascot, Jay, lying asleep in a lawnchair, finally able to rest now that Jetix was finished. The channel then switched over to Disney XD (though Jay snoring was briefly heard for a moment longer over XD's first bumper due to an audio glitch).
-   Disney XD Australia ended with a back-to-back airing of the entire High School Musical trilogy.
-   Disney XD Japan, unlike its other iterations, managed to cease operations in style. After airing their final program of _Pickle and Peanut_ (their signature show), they capped things off with their last XD podcast followed by:
    
    11年半ありがとうございました! (Thank you for eleven-and-a-half years!)
    
-   Also in Japan, the Disney-owned satellite channel Dlife was shut down on March 31, 2020. After the broadcast of the series _Criminal Minds_, the last ten minutes consisted of a marquee naming each and every one of the series and films the channel showed for eight years, finally thanking and saying goodbye to their viewers. The signal was officially shut down an hour later.
-   Disney Channel Asia apparently created a quick advert showcasing how their franchises affect the lives around them. Multiple fans here are convinced that this is their goodbye advert, noting the somber music and performance here.
-   Toonami, originally a block on Cartoon Network, aired its final bumper before signing off in 2008 (Toonami returned in 2012 on \[adult swim\], first as an April Fools' Day prank and then for real that May):
-   Downplayed with Chiller ending its final broadcast day with an airing of The Babadook and then a simple message of "Thank you for watching Chiller. Good night!"
-   The CBC's Newsworld International stopped broadcasting in 2005, ending with a special farewell message from their Toronto offices before switching to Current TV.
    -   The final item to air on Current TV before its end in 2013 was a short documentary titled "Jumper," which was also the first thing to air upon Current's launch on August 1, 2005, thus "bookending" the network.
    -   Current was replaced with Al Jazeera America, which itself ended on April 12, 2016, with a three-hour retrospective film named "Your Stories" that played twice back-to-back as the final program. Antonio Mora and Richelle Carey, who were the first anchors on the air when the network launched, were the last two to appear when it went off the air.
-   Activism-oriented Pivot ended with **five** consecutive showings of the movie _Good Night, and Good Luck._. This may have been a tribute to the predecessor Documentary Channel, which ended with an airing of Edward R. Murrow's famous "Wires and Lights in a Box" speech, ending with those exact words, before transitioning to Pivot.
-   CNN has had plans since the beginning to only go off the air if the world ends, and they have the footage in their system ready to play in case that should ever happen. In another case of Book Ends, it's footage of the mixed-military band that played the American National Anthem when they first signed on playing "Nearer My God to Thee." The copy of it linked here was leaked by a former intern in 2015.
    -   _Gremlins 2: The New Batch_: In a reference to the rumored existence of this tape, when Clamp learns that he will have to shut down his automated skyscraper, which includes a cable network, he reveals that he had a tape prepared, one that would be a final farewell to their audience. He never thought it would ever be used.
-   On December 15, 2020, WarnerMedia shut down its premium movie channels in India, HBO India, HBO HD India, and Warner Brothers India. During the days leading up to the closure, all channels ran a notice celebrating the channels' 20 years on the air and rolling credits to thank the channels' staff. Both HBO and WB ran "Best Of" marathons, and shortly before the shutdown, HBO aired a montage of movie clips while thanking the viewer for loving the network.
-   The final night of broadcasting for attempted CNN rival Satellite News Channel saw the anchormen say goodbye and giving the channel's life story as the network drew to a close, alongside a repeating message reading "THE SATELLITE NEWS CHANNEL WILL CEASE OPERATIONS TODAY AT 3 PM" occurring frequently. There were even credits rolled with the names of everyone who worked at the network in alphabetical order.
-   HERO TV (Philippines) signed off with a glimpse of a worker's desk, when the screen turned on loading something (later revealed to be the digital platform of the same name). Then, this text followed:
    
    Sa loob ng 12- na taon, kami ay inyong sinamahan at sinuportahan upang maipahatid sa inyo ang mga Pinakamalulupet na Filipino-dubbed anime na ating nakagisnan at nakalakihan. Ito ay lubos naming ikinagagalak at habang-buhay naming dadalhin ito sa aming alaala. Aming lubos na ikanalulungkot na kami ay mamamaalam na. Maraming, maraming salamat sa inyong lahat.
    
    (For 12 years, you have tuned in and supported us to deliver you the most awesome Filipino-dubbed animes we've grown to know and love. We'll cherish them immensely and remember them forever in our memories. We deeply regret to announce our \[channel's\] closure. Thank you so much to all of you.)
    
-   2nd Avenue follows this by airing their farewell promo with the indicated date of closure. Eventually, when it signs off for RJTV, its successor, it's in the **middle** of _Million Matchmakers II_.
-   Boomerang Latin America became Cartoonito on December 1, 2021. Before the channel became Cartoonito, it was acknowledged by the network, thanking them for everything before Cartoonito came.
-   Children's television channel TiiN, owned by Televisa Network, ceased operations on July 15, 2019, with the last chapter of the telenovela ''Atrévete a Soñar''. When the channel had started on September 5, 2011, the channel began with the first chapter of the same series. This coincidence bookended the network as a result.
-   Though unintentional, Boomerang Russia ceased broadcasting abruptly while airing an episode of _Mr. Bean: The Animated Series_, at the time the blue car crashed down the subway. One YouTube viewer thought it to be symbolism on the channel itself, and stated the following:
    
    **YouTube comment:** might as well think that the blue car was the way that the channel was airing since when it crashed... BOOM! channel closed temporarily.
    
-   When the original incarnation of the German edition of Nickelodeon closed down due to competition from Der Kinderkanal (now KiKA), they had Nick Club share their memories on Nick, then sing a song about having to say goodbye. This was followed by an announcer stating that even though they were closing, they hoped the Nicktoons and other Nickelodeon programs would find new homes on TV, and thanked the viewers for watching for those three years. Nickelodeon would return to Germany in the mid-2000s, and it's stayed on the air since.
-   Turner Broadcasting's Cable Music Channel — a short-lived (and by that we mean, it was literally only on for about a month) 1984 attempt to compete with MTV — signed off with a final sign-off by its off-screen VJs, followed by a playing of the first video it played — "I Love L.A." by Randy Newman — interspersed with a credits roll with footage of the channel's staff.

     Radio Stations 

-   In 2019, New York City adult contemporary station WPLJ was sold to a Christian radio network and ended a 71-year run as a commercial station. Their final days on-air in May 2019 were met with much fanfare, including a promotion in which the station would play songs from 1971 (the station's first year under the WPLJ calls) to the present to "clean out" its music library, while there were also on-air reunions of past personalities, and a final toast to the station at around 7:00 p.m. on May 30, after which the station flipped to the K-Love network.
-   Around the same time, Washington variety/top 40 station WRQX was also sold to K-Love. The switchover happened on the same day as WPLJ's, but after Jack Diamond's morning show concluded. Diamond specifically chose The Association's "Cherish" as the send-off song, as it was the song he always played at the end of his last day with every radio station he'd ever worked for.
-   In 2018, longtime Chicago album-rock station WLUP-FM ("The Loop") was also sold to the K-Love network. On March 10 of that year, The Loop created a special playlist for its final hour; this included a couple of classic rock staples ("Stairway to Heaven", "Freebird") and some aptly titled songs ("The Final Countdown", "It's the End of the World As We Know It (And I Feel Fine)", "For Whom the Bell Tolls"). The last block of songs were an obvious Take That! to the new format, starting with "Number of the Beast" and "Shout at the Devil" before bringing everything to a close with "Highway to Hell" (it's worth noting that longtime station DJ Steve Dahl, when asked about the sale, openly suggested that that last song be the station's final one.)
-   The page quote comes from yet another station that was sold to K-Love, album rock station KWSD in Los Angeles. Those words were immediately preceded by the entirety of side two of The Beatles' _Abbey Road_ album<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , and played on an original pressing vinyl to boot. "Golden Slumbers/Carry That Weight/The End" in particular made for a fitting coda to the station.
-   The Format Change Archive is a site dedicated entirely to recordings of radio station format changes.
-   There are a few songs commonly used for the last play of a dying station, depending on its format. These include, but are not limited to: Boyz II Men's "End Of The Road" (Urban), Garth Brooks's "The Dance" (Country), Semisonic's "Closing Time" or R.E.M.'s "It's the End of the World As We Know It (And I Feel Fine)" (Alternative), Metallica's "Fade to Black" (Rock), and \*NSYNC's “Bye Bye Bye” (Top 40/Hot AC).
    -   And if it fits well enough, there's always the song it started out with. For instance, Australian station _Magic 693_ signed off in 2006 with "Magic Moments" by Perry Como, the first song that was played when the _Magic_ format replaced _693 3EE_ in 1994.
-   Radio Disney rarely, if ever, played any song more than a few months old. This was until it was announced to be closing down in early 2021. After the deejays were retired on New Year's Eve, Radio Disney played a shuffled selection of hits from across its 24-year history. Their last terrestrial radio station in Los Angeles, which had been playing their Country station since 2017, also flipped back to the pop feed for the final weeks. Radio Disney was finally silenced without fanfare on April 14th, 2021, the last song allegedly being Natasha Bedingfield's "Unwritten,"<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  after which AM 1110 switched to a "burner" simulcast of sister station KSPN's sports talk format.
-   While Israeli Broadcasting Authority's TV channel shut down was very sad, the shut down of its radio station was not. 88FM, the only radio station that was active during the shut down (again, due to Eurovision), shut down the following day. Their last show was _Progressive and Other Animals_, a radio show that presented rock music, hosted by Boaz Cohen. During the show, all the radio staff was present that day, singing and dancing. Their last song was Pink Floyd's "Shine On You Crazy Diamond", with all the staff singing along.
-   On WCBS-FM New York City's last day of its traditional oldies/greatest hits format, the changeover wasn't communicated to the staff until a little over an hour until it happened. Bill Brown ended his show with Fontella Bass' "Rescue Me", hinting at the change, before a medley of songs related to change began (with "Hit The Road Jack" having "Jack" removed as the station was switching to Jack FM), ending with Frank Sinatra's "Summer Wind". Two years (and a trip to the bottom of the NYC Arbitrons) later, Jack FM would end on the station with a special final bumper, with "Jack" receiving a call letting him know he was done at the station, stopping the call for a moment to give one final liner as "Jack FM" before playing Journey's "Don't Stop Believing", stopping at the _exact_ point it stopped on the finale of _The Sopranos_. The CBS-FM classic hits era would then begin with the resumption of "Summer Wind".
-   97.1 FM in Los Angeles would have two notable flips for their execution:
    -   The first came in February 2009, when as KLSX-FM, they were ready to drop their longtime FM talk radio format after 15 years; their final show would ultimately be the final terrestrial show for longtime CBS Radio show host Tom Leykis; after reminiscing on his career the whole afternoon, he ended his show _and_ the format with his slogan "Blow me up, Tom!" followed by an explosion sound effect; the audience could be heard applauding for Leykis for some moment longer, before fading out. After a brief stunt montage of pop music snippets, they then launched a Top 40 format as KAMP-FM, "AMP Radio".
    -   After carrying the format for 12 years (the last 8 months as KNOU, "97.1 Now!") the station, in December of 2021, abruptly announced the format would sign off within just 2 hours in favor of a simulcast of news station KNX 1070. The last hour in particular was full of hints at the end of the format, but the very last song in particular, "Sunflower" by Post Malone and Swae Lee, was abruptly cut off by the launch of the simulcast. The last lyric it was on was "Then you're left in the dust"- a particular bit of irony as the song was known for its use in _Spider-Man: Into The Spider-Verse_, but of _all moments_ it ends on a spot that could be linked to Spider-Man as well... _in one of the worse ways possible._ (Even _more_ coincidental, the movie's sequel had its name and teaser trailer announced _the day prior_.)
-   In 2010, after 23 years of being the Philippines' premier rock station and serving as a launchpad for Filipino rock bands wanting to become successful, NU 107 announced that the station would reformat to a more contemporary station called Win Radio due to a lack of advertiser support and a declining listening audience. Its final day on air was met with support from longtime listeners, who gathered outside the station's studio in solidarity. Various Filipino bands even played some of NU 107's last songs live. After one last sign-off message, NU 107 would end its last day of broadcasting with The Eraserheads' "Ang Huling El Bimbo"<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , with the supporters outside singing along. Win Radio started the next day. However, four years later, Win Radio themselves would switch frequencies, leading to the rise of Wish 107.5, which became popular thanks to its presence on social media and the use of a roving radio bus.
-   On June 28, 2022, after Rogers Media fired DJ hosts Kevin Lim and Sonia Sidhu, Vancouver, British Columbia, radio station CKKS-FM dropped the KISS-FM format by playing _Killing in the Name_ by Rage Against the Machine for 30 hours straight. On the next day, the station flipped to Sonic Radio, an alternative-rock radio station. Their first song? ''Killing in the Name'', which was played one more time.
-   CineMagic, a Sirius XM station devoted to movie soundtracks, left radios at midnight on July 1, 2011 (before switching to an Internet-only station, a format it still holds to this day) with, appropriately enough, "So Long, Farewell" from _The Sound of Music_.
-   On March 2nd, 2023, Las Vegas radio stations KDWN 720 AM and KXST 1140 AM signed off one last time with SSTV transmissions that show pictures of the transmitter sites when decoded, followed by a series of Morse code messages.

___