_"I am an immortal entity with a large cue ball for a head, and no biological means of reproduction."_

Whenever any characters have no genitals or secondary sex characteristics. They may identify as masculine or feminine, or they may have an entirely different gender identity. This is frequently a trait of spirits and spiritual beings, who don't have physical bodies in the first place. Note that due to a lack of alternate phrases in the English language, referring to characters as "sexless" does not mean that they're Asexual, which instead deals with sexual orientation and attraction, nor does it mean that a character does not or cannot _have_ sex.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  If Everybody Wants the Hermaphrodite is in effect, they may, in fact, have a very active sex life.

Oddly, this trope seems to rarely apply to robots and Mechanical Lifeforms, who have bodies and personality chips designed around either male or female parameters even though, _by definition_, these beings have no biological sex. However, this can be chalked up to people wanting to avoid the Unintentional Uncanny Valley when designing artificial intelligences.

Finally, Intersex people _have_ sexual characteristics, but they may be ambiguous or mixed, not fitting into either sex category. Characters like this sometimes run into Pronoun Trouble if they don't identify with a specific gender (sometimes because options such as "zhe", "hir" have not yet reached mainstream penetration, though singular "they" has been documented in writing since 1375).

Sometimes a trait of a One-Gender Race. Not to be mistaken for G-Rated Sex, but can overlap. Often overlaps with Otherworldly and Sexually Ambiguous when a character is explicitly supernatural and this trait is used to emphasize it. Compare Ambiguous Gender, when the character does have a physical sex but the viewers/readers simply don't know what it is, and Barbie Doll Anatomy, when the body parts in question are presumably meant to be there but are not drawn for censorship reasons. Not to be confused with Purely Aesthetic Gender, when the gender of a video game character is completely irrelevant to the plot and/or gameplay. See also Bizarre Alien Sexes and Non-Humans Lack Attributes.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

Examples by creator:

-   CLAMP seems to like this trope.
    -   Ashura in _RG Veda_ is explicitly said to have no physical sex as part of a curse so that the bloodline of the Ashura clan ends. In addition to this, Ashura is also genderless.
    -   In _X/1999_, Nataku is similarly sexless as a result of cloning. In the manga, it's implied that their gender is female, likely due to the fact that their genetic source was a young girl named Kazuki.
    -   In _Wish_, all angels are explicitly genderless, although many international translations incorrectly used gendered pronouns. Some individuals do seem to lean to one gender or the other as far as personality goes. This applies nonetheless.
    -   Ruby Moon from _Cardcaptor Sakura_ is genderless (despite posing as a teenage girl, she has a completely flat chest), but chooses to present herself as female because, as she puts it, girls get to wear cuter clothes and uniforms.
    -   Hana from _Gate 7_ is strongly implied to be genderless—Sakura calls into question whether or not Hana is female, and then, in response to Chikahito's confusion, neither confirms or denies Hana's masculinity nor offers any form of clarification.
    -   A Shrug of God has also hinted that the Zashiki Warashi from _×××HOLiC_. who presents as a young girl, may not necessarily be male or female, playing off old portrayals of the spirits in mythology and artwork, where their gender was often unclear.
    -   Shrug of God also applies to the Mokona that appear in a few series. When asked what gender a Mokona is (in or out of universe) the response is generally "Mokona is a Mokona".

Examples by title:

-   The Shinigami of _Death Note_ do identify themselves as male or female (meaning that they do in fact have genders), but it is clearly stated that they cannot have sexual relations of any kind — odds are that they don't have any sexual organs, and even if they do, they're most likely non-functional.
-   _Digimon_ are technically sexless, being mere data, but their manifestations often take the form of specific creatures with genders for purely aesthetic reasons, something Renamon explains to Rika in _Digimon Tamers_. Either way, they do not reproduce sexually. Apparently not the case in _Digimon Fusion_, which doesn't hold back with the implications of sexual relationships between Digimon. One of the supporting mons in Taiki's team even has parents who appear on-screen, and the Big Bad Duumvirate are _brothers_. Ironically, Lilithmon is made fun of at one point for not having a boyfriend.
-   Namekians in _Dragon Ball_ are often assumed to be all male, but their method of reproduction places them pretty firmly into this category.
-   In _Fullmetal Alchemist_, the true form of Envy is a large lizard-like thing with the head and shoulders of the people of Xerxes sticking out. It doesn't seem to have genitals of any sort. Picture here,<small>◊</small> if you're brave enough to see, and their depowered true form is what can best be described as a fetus.
-   _Ghost in the Shell: Stand Alone Complex_: When the show was translated to English, the Tachikomas (AI tanks) were addressed differently. In the original Japanese, they were addressed (even amongst themselves) in the masculine. In English, this was changed to refer to them in the _neuter_ (in other words, from "him" to "it").
-   The gems in _Land of the Lustrous_ have their bodies composed of their namesake minerals, and thus are sexless. In the original Japanese, they refer to each other using male pronouns, despite each their behavior ranging from masculine to feminine. The official English translation just tries not using gendered pronouns instead.
-   In _Pokémon: The Series_, the situation with Legendary Pokémon can be rather confusing. Supposedly, most have no gender, but many of them speak with voices that suggest male or female. Lugia actually had a hatchling, a baby Lugia (which is impossible in the video game) suggesting the adult Lugia was female, but exactly what its mate was, nobody ever discovered (or even _tried_ to discover).
-   _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_ has Kyubey. Characters and fans generally refer to it as male since it uses Japanese speech patterns and pronouns that suggest a male identity, but it really doesn't seem to be either one, since it is a Starfish Alien Hive Mind whose true form is hinted to be something entirely different than what we see on screen. Being an alien, it likely thinks of gender as one of those "silly human things", like emotions and empathy.
-   Ranban, the initial Big Bad of _Space Pirate Mito_, has no biological sex (though he seems to personally identify as male) due a birth defect involving his species' Bizarre Alien Biology; their bodies start off as sexless or shifting between sexes before settling on one gender when they hit puberty, but Ranban never experienced puberty. This is a major problem for him, because the Magitek royal sword is designed to only be wieldable by adults which, for his species, means someone who has a concrete gender. Thus, Ranban has been stripped of his legitimacy for the throne, a fact he is understandably unhappy about.
-   According to the song Pleakley makes up while doing laundry in the third episode of the _Stitch!_ anime's English dub, Plorgonarians are genderless... even though _Lilo & Stitch: The Series_ showed that he has a sister and a brother. The anime even contradicts the claims of his species having no gender as in one episode, his parents come back to Earth to once again berate him for cross-dressing and force him to marry a girl.
-   _UQ Holder!_: Kuromaru is a member of the yatagarasu tribe of demihumans, who have no physical sex until the age of sixteen. His gender identity is a bit uncertain, but he definitely presents himself as male.

    Comic Books 

-   In the _Buck Godot: Zap Gun for Hire_ storyline "The Gallimaufry", a male alien Pog member named Qvakk states that he loved Oort, another male of his species/race, and was "gonna take him home, make lots of eggs"; Pogs appear to be reptilian-like evolved turtles (with the subsequent cloacal implications included), and no other or female members of their species are shown, which implies this trope.
-   The Preservers of _ElfQuest_ explicitly have no physical sex.
-   The Venom symbiote from _Spider-Man_ counts as this. Venom is a sapient mass of black, blob-like alien matter, which envelops the flesh of its host and bonds with them mentally and physically. This bonding manifests as a black coating on the outward exterior of its host, so in this sense the shape Venom takes can either be masculine or feminine depending on its host (there have been She-Venoms for when it took females as a host, so it's not just exclusive to males like Spider-Man or Brock). In its natural state, Venom has no sexual characteristics and identifies with no gender, and the default pronoun people use to describe Venom is "it". Though in Peter Parker's case, he has been known to mock Venom as acting like a "jealous girlfriend" when it comes to wanting to bond with him again and kill anyone who stands in its way but that's just him being snarky rather than any serious gender identification. In addition, Venom is capable of asexual reproduction, as it has independently produced other symbiotes such as Carnage.
-   All angels in the expanded Vertigo Comics universe, which means they've made several appearances in _Hellblazer_, _The Sandman (1989)_ and their respective spin-offs. This is especially confusing, as they are still somehow able to have sex.

    Fan Works 

-   Ranma ends up like this after a scam cure for his Gender Bender curse in _Gender Neutral_. The story focuses on the various reactions of the cast, in contrast to Ranma’s underreaction to his new state.
-   This is the case of the Flatwoods Monster in _The Mansionverse_, as far as anyone can determine, though he's referred to with male pronouns for simplicity's sake. Pragmatically, the Hatbox Ghost uses this as an opportunity to have Flatty try on both men and women's hat (not that either seem to really fit him).
-   _Truth and Consequences_: When Alya asks if Trixx is a girl kwami or a boy kwami, Trixx says it'd take at least one month to explain why the question makes no sense.

    Films — Animation 

-   _Wall E_: WALL•E and EVE are canonically without sexes, as are the other robots. The implication of the love scenes is that WALL•E is projecting the gender identities he saw in _Hello, Dolly!_.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   Metatron, the Voice of God, in _Dogma_. All the other angels also qualify as genderless, though it's implied that they did have physical sexes at one point before God gave them the physiques of Ken dolls as punishment. Serendipity — a muse — does not have one either, which is kind of funny since she's a stripper by profession. God is referred to with both male and female pronouns, and appears as an old, bearded man in the opening, and Alanis Morisette in the climax.
-   _Glorious_: Ghat speaks with a male voice, but admits that he's technically neither male nor female. He states that he has demigod "siblings" somewhere out there in the cosmos, but they were all formed out of pure thought by the primordial (and very angry) god.
-   Satan in _The Passion of the Christ_ is portrayed by a woman with a shaved head and a voice altered to sound more masculine in post-production. This fits in with Thomas Aquinas' writings, which specifically refer to angels, of which Satan is a (fallen) one as being pure spirits, and therefore not possessing a physical sex (see below).
-   In _Seed of Chucky_, Glen(da) was born a living doll with Barbie Doll Anatomy, and isn't sure which gender to favor, if any. Chucky and Tiffany spend most of the movie arguing over their kid's gender. Both of its parents are former humans whose souls were transferred into their dolls and so do not experience any confusion over what they consider themselves.
-   Throughout the _Terminator_ films, Skynet has appeared in both male and female avatars. As a sentient military artificial intelligence, it only adopts such a form when there is a need to interact with humans or to disguise itself.

    Literature 

Examples by creator:

-   Greg Egan:
    -   _Diaspora_ features a society of posthuman software people who rarely choose to be gendered, along with invented gender-neutral pronouns (ve, vis and ver) first used in _Distress_, in which meat-humans sometimes elect to become "asex". (Some others exaggerate their secondary sexual characteristics and become "umale" and "ufem". Still others make a sort of blue-and-orange gender binary called "imale" and "ifem", which uses nonstandard gender cues.)
    -   _Schild's Ladder_ features essentially genderless posthumans but retains both male and female pronouns.

Examples by title:

-   Implied in _Animorphs_. When the future Visser One first sees humans, "she" describes them as "gender-differentiated, like Andalites and Hork-Bajir," thus seemingly to indicate that Yeerks, Taxxons and Gedds aren't. From what we know of Yeerks, this makes some sense (they reproduce by three individuals merging together, then dissolving into hundreds of babies), but they're always referred to with gendered pronouns, either of their host or of whatever gender the (usually human) narrator thinks of them as.
-   Very scary example from _The Bad Place_: the villain (child of a hermaphrodite with him/herself) has four undescended testicles (with a bony shelf in the way) and no external genitalia. He channels his necessarily repressed sexuality into homicidal rages.
-   In _Bone Dance_, Sparrow is revealed to be this, due to having been created as an all-purpose vessel for a group of Body Snatchers.
-   The trope is lampshaded in the original book of _The Brave Little Toaster_ in regard to its title character. The movie never outright addresses the question of gender, and occasionally uses masculine pronouns for the toaster, but the toaster's sex, at least, can be assumed to be neutral.
-   In _A Certain Magical Index_, angels technically have no gender, and in practice have features of both men and women to further up the strangeness of their forms. This of course only applies to _natural_ angels, artificial ones and espers who achieve the power needed for that level can still technically be known by their original genders. There was also that time that Archangel Gabriel ended being forcibly and accidentally brought down to earth and incarnated into a female form, but that didn't do the angel's sanity any favors.
-   The ur-viles (and their Defector from Decadence offshoots, the waynhim) from _The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant_ have neither biological sex nor gender identity and are always referred to as "it". Justified, because they are artificial beings created by the demondim, who were in turn created by the Viles<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> ; ur-viles can't reproduce by natural means, instead apparently growing new ur-viles in vats.
-   _Chrysalis (RinoZ)_: Dungeon monsters don't use sexual reproduction, but simply appear periodically at spawn points; even in the rare species, like ants, that are able to independently reproduce, the Queen simply converts biomass into eggs with no male involvement. Anthony remembers at one point that Earth ants are technically sterile females, and is startled at the realisation, but there's no indication that Pangera monster ants — or any other Pangeran monsters — have any genitalia or libido at all.
-   _Cthulhu Mythos_: The Elder Things and the Yithians are explicitly sexless in the stories they feature in (_At the Mountains of Madness_ and _The Shadow Out of Time_, respectively). Despite frequently being referred to as "he", Eldritch Abominations such as Cthulhu are either neuter or have Ambiguous Genders.
-   Chieri, the dominant native race of _Darkover_, are hermaphroditic, but some of their hybrid offspring with humans are "emmasca" or neuter.
-   _Discworld_: Most golems are referred to with male pronouns, for the usual reasons. In _Going Postal_, one was arbitrarily declared female (and named Gladys) because Ms. Macclariat took exception to anything called "he" cleaning the lady's bathrooms. When questioned about this in _Making Money_, Moist points out that the 'default' golems aren't any more male than Gladys is female.
-   Comes part and parcel along with Easy Sex Change in the _Eight Worlds_ series. Some people will always pick "none of the above" if given the chance to choose. For some it's permanent, for others it's temporary. One character describes it as a "vacation from sexuality".
-   In the _Feline Wizards_ series, spayed and neutered cats are considered to be the same gender and not the same as toms or queens. However, they're still referred to with male or female pronouns and most other gender markers, although this could be the Translation Convention at work.
-   Angels in _Good Omens_ are specifically stated as being sexless and asexual (fanon usually ignores this completely). It can be inferred they take on masculine/feminine appearances to cut down on confusion with the mortals, or just out of habit.
-   _Halfway Human_: On Gammadis, the modified-human inhabitants have no sex until puberty. Some people never go through puberty and remain unsexed all their lives, being known as "blands". Blands are considered to be not fully human and are widely believed to be mentally deficient (the reader knows this isn't true because the protagonist is one); they live segregated and work as servants.
-   _Kyree_, an intelligent wolf-like species in the _Heralds of Valdemar_ 'Verse, can be male, female, or neuter. Since the neuters lack reproductive responsibilities to the pack, they tend to be the ones that go out and have adventures, and are therefore most often encountered by others. The famous neuter _kyree_ Warrl goes by male pronouns, with the occasional note that this isn't technically accurate. His cousin Rris, who is also neuter, does the same.
-   The Gethenians from _The Left Hand of Darkness_ have no sex for most of the time, except for a few days each month when they go into kemmer and become male or female, returning to androgyny afterwards. The sex during kemmer can change from month to month — a father of one child could be the mother of another.
-   _Lensman_ takes this to the logical extreme with the Eddorians, an advanced, telepathic race that reproduces by binary fission, like bacteria. Nevertheless, they are addressed in-universe with the male pronoun, and second-in-command Gharlane's physical manifestations in human or near-human form are also all male.
-   The Oankali of _Lilith's Brood_ are this until adolescence, when they undergo a metamorphosis and gain genitalia. They even have a word, "eka," to indicate a pre-adult child (and it's often used as a term of endearment from the child's parents). The same is true of the Oankali/Human "construct" hybrids seen in the later books. That said, the change in metamorphosis is not random and most Oankali know what sex they will become before it occurs, meaning that they develop gender before biological sex. For an extra level of weirdness, Oankali and Constructs have _three_ sexes: male, female, and ooloi. Ooloi metamorphose twice, with the stage between eka and adult called "sub-adult." Sub-adult ooloi have some traits that are unique to ooloi but are not fertile. There is also a cultural component of sub-adulthood. Lilith's child Akin is referred to as a "sub-adult male," when "he" doesn't actually have any male genitalia yet, because he has chosen to be male and is the first human-born construct to do so.
-   MYCROFT from _The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress_ has no sex, as he's a computer. He developed his male personality under the guidance of Mannie, the protagonist. It took a woman to realize that a computer isn't in any way more male than female (Mannie was somewhat surprised by that), which led to Mike developing the alternate personality of MYCHELLE.
-   Constructs in the world of _The Murderbot Diaries_ aren't built with any gender or sex parts unless they’re sexbots. The main character is a security bot.

-   _Our Home's Fox Deity_'s Kuugen is a Kitsune and too old to remember their original sex, if they ever had one, and just switches between male and female forms on a whim. Justified in that Kitsune are spirits in the first place, and tied to the _kami_ Inari (see the Myth & Religion folder below).
-   In the _Paradox Trilogy_, Hyrek, the doctor on the _Glorious Fool_, has no biological sex. His race, the xith'cal, are born neuter and choose to become male or female when they mature; Hyrek chose to remain neuter.
-   _Planeswalker_: Xantcha has no sexual organs, physically mostly resembles a thirteen-year-old boy (despite being over 3000 years old) and identifies as female.
-   In _The Pride of Parahumans_, most parahumans have sexual characteristics, even though they're sterile, but a few, such as Argentum, were biofabbed without them. Ze also claims to have no sex drive, but some events in the novella suggest otherwise.
-   In _Rebuild World_, Alpha prefers to be referred to as a woman, but she has no real sex as an Artificial Intelligence and can freely change the way she appears to Akira as she pleases.
-   _A Song of Ice and Fire_: Dragons don't seem to have sex as other creatures do. Any dragon can lay an egg, though a dragon is generally referred to as a "he" until it lays an egg, at which point it is identified as a "she". High Valyrian (the language of the land where the dragons came from) is conveniently gender-neutral, so it has no comment regarding a dragon's sex.
-   In _The Space Trilogy_, the Oyarsa (basically guardian angels, Earth's being Lucifer) of Mars and Venus can be described as masculine and feminine, respectively, but only because these genders arose from intelligent life imitating them. The other Oyarsas do not conform to either, but each have their own genders, out of seven total.
-   Yime Nsokyi from _Surface Detail_ has deliberately had herself neutered. However, as everyone seems to identify her as female and the narration always does the same, it seems the purpose was more to eliminate sexuality than anything else.
-   Rimuru Tempest of _That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime_ has this, being a slime. He identifies as male mainly because his past life memories make him see himself as such. Even when Rimuru gets a human form, it is still genderless (being a case of Barbie Doll Anatomy in-universe), though it visually leans towards the feminine since it came from assimilating the dying female hero Shizue. He _could_ give himself actual sexual organs if he tried to (and in fact actually played around with making doppelgangers with more obvious masculine and feminine forms), but sees doing so full-time as a waste of time.
-   The alternate timeline Morlocks in _The Time Ships_ have no sex and reproduce artificially. The main Morlock character is still referred to as "he", though.
-   The Ainur of _Tolkien's Legendarium_. As pure spirits, they have no biological _sex_ beyond that of whatever form they've taken at the time, but explicitly do have gender identities (or at least, identify themselves in a way comparable to mortal gender). They are also capable of sexual reproduction with non-Ainur species in the standard biological manner appropriate to their body type.
-   In _Touch (2017)_, goblins are noted as looking like weirdly androgynous humans. It's eventually revealed that they're a weird offshoot of elves created from mushrooms, of all things, and that they have no genders, reproducing via spores.
-   The Mrdini of _Tower and the Hive_ lack sexes altogether, and prefer to be referred to by the pronoun "it". While they do require two individuals to reproduce, any two individuals will do.
-   _The Wheel of Time_:
    -   The Dark One is usually referred to as male (probably in part because Ishamael, who is a man, presented himself as the Dark One for millennia). However, when Rand finally confronts it directly in the last book, he sees it in its true form as a sentient void and realizes that the Dark One _has_ no sex and no gender. The remainder of their confrontation mostly uses "it" as the pronoun of choice.
    -   The Creator is similarly neither male nor female, though also usually referred to as "he". Figures of speech that would refer to either the Creator or the Dark One but are applied in a female context usually substitute "the Creator's sister" or "the Dark One's sister", since people erroneously think of both entities as male.

    Live-Action TV 

-   In the Amazon series _Annedroids_, the android Pal in the show lacks a biological sex. In the show Pal states that Pal identifies as "me" and usually uses the pronouns "Pal/Pal's."
-   The Daleks in _Doctor Who_. They all speak with electronically generated voices that _sound_ masculine and use the male title "Emperor" for their leader, but are actually genderless and seem to be only able to reproduce through cloning or genetic corruption of other species (particularly humans). They are always referred to with 'it' pronouns in Expanded Universe media. We only encounter males of their precursor race, the Kaleds, leading to some to speculate that they were a One-Gender Race, but the Doctor's statements about how close the Kaleds and humans are to one another biologically and the fact that the only Kaleds we've seen so far were in a Nazi-like military setting suggests female Kaleds did exist, but if any were converted into Daleks, their gender was erased. The only definitely female-identifying Dalek seen so far was in "Asylum of the Daleks", but she was the result from an unsuccessful conversion. She used to be a human woman to begin with and was able to maintain her identity due to her exceptional intelligence and willpower. Physically, she was a Dalek like any other.
-   In _Earth: Final Conflict_, the Taelons are said to be neither male nor female, though they are referred to using masculine pronouns for sake of simplicity.
-   Aziraphale, Crowley, the angels, demons, including the Horsemen of the Apocalypse from _Good Omens (2019)_. Confirmed by Word of God, despite the main duo being portrayed by male actors (Michael Sheen and David Tennant), they’re sexless/genderless, making them non-binary/genderqueer.
-   _The Good Place_: Janet, despite looking like a normal human woman and being played by a woman, is frequently stated to not be a girl, instead being an anthropomorphized vessel of knowledge.
-   In _Helix_, Arctic Biosystems' lab rats are genetically engineered to lack sex organs, which, according to its head of security, makes them more controllable.
-   Kaylon from _The Orville_ are a race of sentient, genderless robots, although the main Kaylon on the show, Isaac, uses male pronouns for convenience.
-   _Stargate SG-1_:
    -   Goa'uld and Tok'ra symbiotes (same species, different philosophies) are essentially aquatic snakes with Puppeteer Parasite abilities, and a Tok'ra character once states that the symbiote has no gender, though some prefer hosts of one sex or the other. This is not actually completely true: a small fraction of Goa'uld are "queens" who produce larval symbiotes apparently by parthenogenesis.
    -   Asgard are biologically sexless due to the cumulative effect of generations of genetic drift and alterations since they switched over entirely to cloning as their sole means of reproduction. They do exhibit personal gender though, as they are also all uploads of individuals who were born naturally, many thousands of years ago. Eventually, we are shown what they originally looked like (essentially pearlescent grey humans) and the contrast with their current existence as classic Roswell Greys is quite severe.
-   The character Q from _Star Trek: The Next Generation_ counts. The Q Continuum's ranks are filled with entities that lack organic bodies and live as Energy Beings with Reality Warping as their collective superpower. Because they lack bodies in their "true" forms, the Q can appear as anything they want, human, animals, objects, etc. The primary Q we follow in the story (played by John De Lancie) appears to Captain Picard (and his contemporaries Sisko and Janeway) as a middle-aged man but is not limited to that appearance. As far as gender is concerned Q points out to Picard at one point that he could have appeared as a woman in their earlier encounters had he wanted to, and muses that he might have had an easier time manipulating Picard if he had. In the novels, when told by female Starfleet officers that he doesn't know what it's like to be a woman so he shouldn't comment on their concerns... Q turns into a woman just to mess with them. Additionally, Q reproduction does exist but it's not like human sex at all but is rather about Q using their Energy Being forms to combine energy signatures from two parent Qs in order to create a new Q with traits from both. Though the Q are capable of reproduction as humans do it, thanks to their shapeshifting powers. Amanda Rogers is the product of two Q who turned into a male and a female respectively in order to give birth to her. However, this form of birth leaves the "human" Q vulnerable because their powers don't fully manifest until they're about 19 or 20. Amanda Rogers doesn't realize she's not human until these powers finally manifest.
-   The angels in _Supernatural_ are genderless beings, but when they come to Earth, they take on human vessels. Castiel is known to Sam and Dean as male because his vessel, Jimmy Novak, is male, but in season 4, he uses Claire Novak as an emergency temporary vessel and flashbacks to 1901 in the episode "Lily Sunder Has Some Regrets" show Castiel utilizing a long-term female vessel.

    Multiple Media 

-   Transformers are robots and as such have no sexes to speak of, although male seems to be the default where pronouns are concerned.
    -   Averted in an episode of _Beast Wars_ when a bioscan of Blackarachnia shows that she has a full set of reproductive organs. Rattrap also makes some off-color anatomical jokes pretty often.
    -   The IDW Publishing run of _Transformers_ comics started out with the concept that all Transformers were genderless. Male pronouns were used, but that was often justified as Translation Convention. Arcee's origin story introduced her as a genderless bot experimented on and made into a female (who went a little insane over the whole thing).
    -   Later comics (_The Transformers: Windblade_) would introduce "naturally" female Transformers who live on a Lost Colony; initially treated as a form of speciation, the comics revealed that female Transformers _used_ to live on Cybertron but went extinct for reasons unknown. In general, the writers are eager to move past this issue and its Broken Base and are now effectively treating the supposedly non-gendered Transformers as male retroactively.

    Myth & Religion 

-   _The Bible_:
    -   YHWH technically doesn't have or need a physical sex. Being an unfathomable entity, this is a given. In the past, God has been arbitrarily assigned male gender nouns and pronouns because "It" is disrespectful, and the Hebrew language has no neutral gender to begin with. However, feminine nouns are sometimes used in Jewish religious literature when God is credited with female gender characteristics such as nurturing and tenderness. The ancient Hebrews even used plural words for God sometimes. Christians are much more likely than Jews or Muslims to think of God as male since He got a woman pregnant and sired a male who was also Himself, in a way, but other Christians interpret God as neither male nor female too. However, the Christian interpretation technically averts this, since Jesus (who is part of the Trinity) is a man, regardless of what applies to the other parts of the trinity. It occasionally is given as one of the reasons why Catholics will only allow men to serve as priests.
        -   _The Prince of Egypt_ references the Jewish tradition of female pronouns being used to refer to God in some instances by having God as the burning bush speak with a primarily male voice (provided by Val Kilmer — the same person who voices the character God is talking to) with a whispery female voice layered into it. They had also originally planned to have a third voice, that of a child, added into the mix to further the ambiguity (the combination turned out to be way too demonic-sounding, so it was dropped).
    -   Angels are sometimes thought to be genderless beings, at least according to some interpretations of Jesus's statement: "At the resurrection people will neither marry nor be given in marriage; they will be like the angels in heaven." (Matthew 22:30). Technically, since angels have _no physical bodies_, it's not much of a surprise.
-   Inari Okami, the Shinto God of fertility, rice, agriculture, foxes, industry and worldly success, is generally considered to be neither male nor female, though, like YHWH, masculine or feminine aspects are often emphasized depending on the context and the region. This is true for many other _Kami_ as well.

    Podcasts 

-   The A.I. protagonists of _SAYER_ are canonically genderless, though their being voiced by a man has led to much Viewer Gender Confusion.
-   Because it's from space, Tellie from _Sequinox_ has no sex or gender, and it doesn't even know what those are.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Chronicles of Darkness_:
    -   Ephemeral beings in general (which as a broad category covers almost all immaterial entities, such as Ghosts, Spirits, Angels, Goetia and Abyssal Entities, among many others) typically do not have biological genders, since the large majority of them reproduce in abstract ways rather than the way humans do (Spirits and Goetia grow and develop sentience from the concepts they are based on developing in the material world, Angels are built by the God-Machine, ad so on), though some of them _might_ assume forms with defined genders if it fits (Angels if it's needed for their mission, Goetia if they are based on people with defined genders...). The only consistent exception is Ghosts, who, being based on dead mortals, retain the genders they had in life.
    -   _Werewolf: The Forsaken_: While Werewolves very much have defined genders, there _is_ a Wolf Gift allowing its user to switch gender at will, meaning it's entirely possible to become a functional hermaphrodite.
    -   _Changeling: The Lost_: A very complicated case with the True Fae; one the one hand, the forms they assume often (though not always) _do_ have defined genders and can have sex. On the other hand, this is tricky in that they can have multiple at once; each True Fae actually is a single entity with multiple "Titles" which each have their own appearance, bodies, and identities. As such, it's possible for a True Fae to for example simultaneously be a man, a woman, an animal, and a _mountain_.
    -   _Demon: The Descent_: Demons, being former Angels, obviously do not have defined genders. Their Covers (the human identities and appearance they use as disguises) _do_ have them, but a Demon can have multiple Cover at once, and will usually lose a few of them over the course of their life.
-   _Dungeons & Dragons_:
    -   Dromites are a race of short, psionic, mildly-Insectoid Aliens with no sexual characteristics or notion of gender, save for a city-hive's Grand Queen and Elected Consort, who are chosen on a yearly basis and take on sexual characteristics to produce eggs. Dromites still form emotional attachments with each other, however, and enter "life bonds" that are likened to marriages, though they commonly involve multiple people, with new members being brought in as older ones pass away.
    -   Warforged from the _Eberron_ campaign setting are sexless and often go along with whichever pronouns people use for them, though some do identify with a particular gender.
    -   Although Changelings have a "natural" sex, they are able to shift sexes or assume a sexless form just as easily. Since only high-level magic can pinpoint their original sex, it mostly only serves to fuel Fantastic Racism through fears of an Unsettling Gender-Reveal.
    -   Shardminds in 4<sup>th</sup> Edition are a human-shaped species whose bodies are made of psionically infused crystal. They have no biological means of reproduction and tend not to acknowledge genders, although some might have more masculine or feminine body shapes.
    -   The Cthulhumanoid Illithids are hermaphroditic and reproduce by spawning tadpoles, which they insert in the brains of helpless humanoids to metamorphose them into new Illithids.
-   Gods in _Exalted_ have whatever gender (if any) that most suits their nature, and can generally carry children or impregnate others regardless (although some may temporarily change their sexual characteristics to accommodate it). Demons are apparently more strictly codified.
-   Angels and demons in _In Nomine_ are technically neuter, although many that spend time on Earth end up acquiring a gender-bias, depending on which sex of vessel they most often have. Elohim don't acquire such biases (they are by nature supposed to avoid bias) and Kyriotates and Shedim switch bodies so often they usually don't imprint on any one gender, and Lilim generally identify as female.
-   _Magic: The Gathering_:
    -   The Phyrexian Newts were created to resemble humans, but the first generation was defective in certain aspects, including lacking a physical sex.
    -   Aetherborn on the Plane of Kaladesh are like this — their bodies are literally made of solidified aether, and they come into existence spontaneously as fully formed adults. All the Aetherborn seem to use "they" and "their" pronouns.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_:
    -   Orks are sentient fungus/algae hybrids that reproduce independently through spores.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  They _act_ extremely male, however.
    -   Necrons, being robot skeletons, are similar. The Necrontyr, the now-extinct species that was converted into the Necrons, evidently did have the usual two sexes as most sapient species do in-universe, but are now almost entirely mindless combat robots. The few that do still retain their sentience and memories identify with their original genders, even if they no longer have their original bodies.
    -   While they may behave otherwise, the daemons and gods of Chaos are all sexless entities. As they're effectively constructs of mortal thought, biological ideas like sexes are meaningless to them. Various cultures that venerate the Gods, knowingly or unknowingly, have attributed different genders to them in-universe. While most of the Chaos Gods are most often seen as male, Slaanesh, God(dess) of Excess and Lust, display this most blatantly. It's common for their daemons to be explicitly hermaphroditic, usually taking forms physically split down the middle with male characteristics on one side and female ones on the other.

    Toys 

-   Most _BIONICLE_ characters are meant to be biomechanical (that is, cyborgs), but it wasn't until the 2009 setline that the concept of biological gender was officially introduced (disregarding the occasional organic creatures like sea squids that we have seen before). The gender of Matoran Universe beings is defined solely by their personalities, whereas non-MU characters are organic by nature and their robotic parts are only implants. Thus, there is No Hugging, No Kissing in the MU either.

    Video Games 

-   The Atrox breed in _Anarchy Online_, who completely lack sexual organs owing to their origins as a tailor-made, genetically engineered workforce for Omni-Tek.
-   Due to being a sentient fungus, Miko from _Battleborn_ has no biological sex in the same sense as animals and above have.
-   In _Choice of the Dragon_, when given the choice of gender, you can choose neither, unknown, or simply refuse to answer.
-   _Borderlands 3_ Vault Hunter FL4K, being a robot of only vague humanoid form, lacks a biological gender. What makes them unique from other robots in the _Borderlands_ franchise, however, is that they explicitly define themselves as non-binary; even Claptrap, who is essentialy a dustbin on a wheel, goes by gendered pronouns.
-   The developers of _City of Titans_ have indicated there will be an option to make androgynous characters.
-   K1-B0, or Keebo, from _Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony_ is this as the Ultimate Robot. While the others refer to him with he/him/his pronouns from the start, Tenko asks him in Chapter 2 if he's male or female in order to gauge whether she can like him or not, and his response is that he honestly hasn't thought about it before and thus doesn't know. He appears to have Barbie Doll Anatomy, but he also still wears "underwear".
-   Itherael from _Diablo III_ is the only one of the angels who's specifically referred to as being sexless, though he has a rather masculine voice and is referred to with male pronouns by others.
-   _Dragon Age_:
    -   Spirits of the Fade are technically genderless. Even Desire Demons only appear to be female to make tempting mortals easier, and, while not seen in-game, they are mentioned to take male forms if that would work better on their targets.
    -   Shale and presumably any other golems from _Dragon Age: Origins_ due to their bodies being entirely artificial. Their souls, on the other hand, are implied to keep some concept of gender in some cases, and Shale is quite surprised to find out that she was originally a dwarven woman.
-   A couple examples in _Dwarf Fortress_:
    -   Randomly-generated monsters, such as titans, Forgotten Beasts, and a third category.
    -   Inorganic creatures, such as fire men, magma men, iron men, bronze colossi, and magma crabs. Yes, we know many of those have "man" in their names. Deal with it.
-   The two requisite wise mystic thingies in the _Ecco the Dolphin_ series, the Asterite and the Guardian, are a sexless giant strand of DNA and genderless giant psychic crystal, respectively.
-   In _The Elder Scrolls_, this is technically true of the series' various deities, crossing over with Otherworldly and Sexually Ambiguous. Though essentially genderless spirits, most will take A Form You Are Comfortable With when dealing with mortals, and most stick to presenting as just one sex. A few exceptions to note:
    -   Among the Daedric Princes, the et'Ada ("original spirits") who did not participate in the creation of Mundus, the mortal realm, several are known to change gender in different appearances. Boethiah, the Daedric Prince of Plots, has appeared variously as male or female. Even his/her followers will sometimes refer to Boethiah with different pronouns in the same sentence. Mephala, a Daedric Prince whose sphere is obscured to mortals but is associated with manipulation and lies, is said to be a hermaphrodite, but is typically referred to as female and speaks with a female voice. Hermaeus Mora, the Daedric Prince of Knowledge (specializing in _eldritch_ knowledge), forgoes even trying to resemble anything with a gender (although generally speaks with a deep male voice).
    -   Y'ffre, the Bosmeri "God of the Forest" and the "Spirit of the Now", was one of the strongest of the et'Ada and is said to be the first to transform into the Ehlnofey, the "Earth Bones", which allowed for the laws of physics, nature, and life on Nirn. Different stories refer to Y'ffre as variously male or female.
-   Fairies in _Eternal Eden_ are said to have no gender, although they appear feminine and the narrative generally treats them as females.
-   The monsters of _Evolve_ are genderless, though the humans refer to them with gendered pronouns. This is because, though they're organic and alive, the monsters are nothing more than physical bodies made by an extradimensional race and have no need to reproduce.
-   The Super Mutants in _Fallout 3_ appear and sound masculine, but were all rendered sexless by the FEV mutation process. Some of them were indeed female when they were human. This only applies to the Capital Wasteland Super Mutants; every other known example still has the primary genitalia, but the females do lack breasts.
-   Enkidu from _Fate/Grand Order_ (first appearing in _Fate/strange Fake_) is, technically speaking, a lump of clay given life by the gods who copied the appearance of the divine harlot Shamhat who was sent to teach him about the world, but with the form he took showing more physical ambiguity that makes telling his sex very difficult by sight alone, and he's described as being extremely beautiful and eerie at the same time. The English translation decided to use "they" as a pronoun to reflect this.
-   _Final Fantasy_:
    -   Cloud of Darkness, as seen in _Final Fantasy III_ and _Dissidia Final Fantasy_, appears female (particularly in the latter) and is referred to with female pronouns—but as the name implies, she's just the physical form of a literal cloud of darkness. She actually refers to herself with "We," apparently including sentient tentacles in that. Therefore, she can't be said to _be_ female.
    -   The dragons in _Final Fantasy XIV_ reproduce alone. Any adult dragon can have children without a partner, and while the only romantic pairings we see are male-pronoun-using/female-pronoun-using, it's eventually confirmed that the entire concept of gender and sex is something they go with to make the humans happy and it has no foundation in their society. The difference between a male dragon and a female dragon is literally just whether they want to be called "he" or "she" when dealing with humans.
-   _Fire Emblem: The Blazing Blade_:
    -   Bramimond lost his/her/its entire identity, including gender, as a result of practicing dark magic, so Athos refers to Bramimond as "it" rather than "he" or "she."
    -   According to the character guide, Limstella doesn't have a sex. She possesses a generally feminine figure but a noticeable lack of bosom (especially next to Sonia, who's implied to be her Flawed Prototype), but is referred to with female pronouns, uses a female sprite in battle, and generally accepted to have a female gender identity. Makes sense given she's a Morph. In the _Fire Emblem Cipher_ trading card game she's also the sole character to have no gender listed.
-   _Furcadia_ allows you to make characters who are "neuter," in addition to the standard males and females, who have their own portraits. All three sex options use the same sprites.
-   Vessels (including the player character) from _Hollow Knight_ have no biological sex or gender identity due to being artificial constructs created by the Pale King as an attempt to create a living thing with no mind or will, a being that is completely "empty" in order to contain the vengeful godlike entity known as The Radiance, who manifested in bugs minds and dreams and caused the infection that led to the eventual downfall of Hallownest.
-   _I Was a Teenage Exocolonist_: When Sol and their peers undergo puberty, it's possible for them to skip the physical changes entirely because they're "a doll down there".
-   Replicas in _Kingdom Hearts_ are Artificial Humans who are faceless, sexless dolls by default, but mimic the gender of those they are replicating, such as the male Riku Replica. Xion is a special case as she is designed to become a perfect copy of the male Sora, but changes in appearance depending on who sees her until then: Roxas sees a shadow of the female Kairi (giving her black hair), while others only see her as an "it". Since Roxas was the first person to interact with her as a person, however, his perception of her gender rubs off on her, leading her to identify as female even as her appearance changes into Sora.
-   Orochi of _The King of Fighters_, while commonly referred to as a "he", is technically sexless, as it's implied that the entity's appearance is determined by whichever follower of his Orochi decides to reincarnate into and that his true form is the eight-headed serpent dragon of Japanese folklore. His incarnation at the end of _KOF '97_, where he resurrects using Chris, is his most well-known depiction, but _The King of Fighters: KYO_ and official artwork viewable in _'98_ clearly portray Orochi as a woman during the fated battle that ended with Orochi's sealing.
-   According to Eiji Aonuma, Fi in _The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword_, is a feminine figure, but doesn't really have a sex _per se_. Fitting, since she's a sword. Given that Ghirahim is also revealed to be a Living Weapon akin to Fi as well, the same can most definitely be applied to "him."
-   _Märchen Forest: Mylne and the Forest Gift_: One of the mushroom being's quiz questions is, with the correct answer being true.
    
    Is it true that mushrooms have no gender?  
    \[Nope.\] \[It's true!\]
    
-   _Mari and the Black Tower_: Before Artificial Human Abbie is finalized, the scientists call Abbie "it" and the female scientist has to assign a gender. It's implied that Abbie was created without a sex, despite being cloned from a girl.
-   Artificial Intelligence program EDI of _Mass Effect 2_ technically has no gender but utilizes a voice in a range that listeners would categorize as feminine. In _Mass Effect 3_, EDI transfers into a Fembot body, and the crew identifies and interacts with the anthropomorphized program as a female being, referring to EDI as 'her' and 'she'.
-   _Monster Hunter: World_: Background lore establishes this for Nergigante. The species has no genitals but instead reproduces by implanting a specialized thorn into its prey. Over time, the thorn will develop into a genetic clone of the parent. This process requires a large amount of bio-energy, which is why Nergigante preys almost exclusively on other Elder Dragons.
-   The creator of _NiGHTS into Dreams…_, Yuji Naka, confirmed that all of the dream characters are sexless, and it's really up to the dreamer's idea as to what gender—if any—they are. NiGHTS is intentionally made to look androgynous, and in _NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams_, NiGHTS was given a voice actress who sounded both like a young boy and a slightly older girl at the same time, yet is referred to with masculine pronouns.
-   In the Konami series _Parodius_, the scoreboard asks your gender. They're prepared for boys, girls, everything in between AND everything neither here nor there.
-   Aigis of _Persona 3_ is an android who was only built to look human because it made her a more effective weapon and because it was necessary for her to channel a Persona (Personas are created from human thoughts and emotions, so if she didn't think of herself as a human, she couldn't use one), so anything that didn't serve that purpose wasn't added to her design. While she's considered female based on her appearance, she doesn't necessarily identify as such given that she's made of metal and has no sex organs, though with a female protagonist, she does worry about Incompatible Orientation and accepts being referred to as female.
-   Most _Pokémon_ from Generation II and beyond have sexes, but some do not. Some of these sexless Pokémon can breed with the shape-shifting Ditto. Most Legendary and Mythical Pokémon are genderless and cannot be bred, though; even Legends that do have a gender cannot breed. Non-legendary genderless Pokémon are usually artificial or extraterrestrial in origin. Manaphy is unusual in that it is genderless and a Mythical Pokémon, yet it is capable of producing offspring with Ditto — creating Phione, who is also sexless but unable to evolve into Manaphy.
-   Many of the viral monsters in _\[PROTOTYPE\]_ are sexless — Hunters are built to fight, not reproduce, for instance, and that extends to the Supreme Hunter despite it being humanoid (sometimes extremely humanoid). This also extends to _the player character_, Alex Mercer, who seems to identify as male, but is technically just a person-shaped virus and a shapeshifter with no truly fixed form or means of sexual reproduction. The Blackwatch persistently refer to him as "it".
-   The Dark One Avoozl from _Quest for Glory IV_ is always referred to as "it."
-   Luna of _Ratchet & Clank: Size Matters_. She's built to resemble a little girl but is actually a genderless warship/puppet built by the Big Bad to kidnap Ratchet. It helps that _Luna_ gets a male voice shortly before it's defeat.
-   In the _Resident Evil_ series, while the Tyrant line of monsters look predominantly like a male human, they are (according to an Apocalyptic Log) either cloned to be genderless outright or have had their reproductive organs surgically removed. If there's one _good_ thing the Umbrella Corporation did, it was making sure these often-naked creatures weren't going all Dr. Manhattan on us while we fought for our lives.
-   Chao in the _Sonic the Hedgehog_ franchise are a primarily genderless species, and any Chao can breed with any other Chao as long as they're both adults, suggesting absolutely no sexual dimorphism whatsoever. Some games feature Chao that have gendered presentation (i.e. the Doctor and Fortune Teller Chao in _Sonic Adventure 2_), and certain Chao have been referred to with gendered pronouns (such as siblings Cheese and Chocola); however, as of 2020, the series has switched to using "they/them" pronouns for all Chao to make it clear that they are genderless.
-   Although the non-human characters in _StarCraft_ have gender identities, they do not have any human sexual characteristics (quite realistically). Their genders are made clear via voice acting, which is in many cases intended to be telepathic communication. For the Zerg, their gender largely has to do with their function within the hive: and the default Zerglings are entirely sexless (and also have no voice). Brood Mothers like Zagara are a One-Gender Race, all female and capable of breeding with every other Zerg or parthenogenesis. Some have speculated there may be females of Abathur's species, but too little is known. Abathur himself seems to regard sex and gender as mostly useless concepts unless you actually intend to breed. So it's also possible that his species is sexless. For the Protoss, while they DO have sexes and sexual reproduction: they are not capable of doing it via the human method.
-   Although Seth from _Street Fighter_ has a male name and distinctly male voice, Capcom has stated that, as a robot, Seth cannot be said to be truly male or female. Whenever referring to Seth, official Capcom statements noticeably avoid using any gender pronouns.
-   According to Word of God, Toads from _Super Mario Bros._ are a biologically sexless species who adopt gender identities when they become adults. The majority of them present as male, but the existence of Toadette suggests at least some identify as female.
-   Summon spirits in the _Tales Series_ have no gender. Sheena in _Tales of Symphonia_ remarks during a Z-Skit that they intentionally adopted forms that exhibit gender so they could interact better with humanity.
-   Mimit from _Temtem_ is genderless, allowing it to breed with both males and females of other species.
-   The early _Ultima_ games had sex and gender on a slider, so you could be male, female, or anywhere between the two.
-   _World of Warcraft_:
    -   The Naaru are treated a bit like angels are in a religious context—they get referred to with male pronouns because calling them "it" would be insulting, but not being even humanoid, the few we've seen appear entirely sexless.
    -   As of _Legion_ at least one Naaru has been identified as 'she:' Xe'ra, also known as the Light Mother. Xe'ra speaks with a female voice and is said to have been the progenitor of the other Naaru (at least one, O'ros, is identified as being her descendant) but it's unlikely their genesis had anything in common with human biological reproduction.
-   Almost all aliens from _XCOM: Enemy Unknown_. Some are robots, but most are disposable clones grown in vats send to die against the titular XCOM. When sending cloned Cannon Fodder mooks genetically modified for combat, why bother giving them an obvious weak point like genital organs?

    Web Animation 

-   _Chikn Nuggit_: Two characters, Iscream and Fwench Fwy, are probably somewhere between this and Otherworldly and Sexually Ambiguous. Both are stated in their bios to be genderless and are referred to using they/them pronouns. When Hawt Saus asks them flat-out who the male and female are in their relationship, they essentially just give a Non-Answer.
-   Word of God confirms Camcordy from _Rush Hour Elimination_ to have no gender on the account of being a video camera.

    Webcomics 

-   Landorus of _Black Adventures_ says "I am no more female than I am male. And I don't have any -parts-, so... it's ironic that I was once worshipped as the 'Kami of Fertility.'" after Professor Juniper asks if Landorus is female due to their feminine appearance.
-   In _Commander Kitty_, Zenith plots to create an army of "perfect children" once she's constructed her "perfect mate"... but she doesn't realize until it's too late that her android nature means her plan was doomed from the beginning.
-   The Phoenix A species in _Dan and Mab's Furry Adventures_ refer to themselves as she and look externally feminine, but are actually this and don't reproduce sexually at all, instead using Reincarnation since there can only be 42 at them at any given time.
-   The biogolems created by the Val'Jaal'darya clan in _Drowtales_ do not have a physical sex and are all sterile, meaning that they're not technically even a species. Their sterility is implied to be on purpose to keep the Jaal's monopoly on the technology. Most of them appear externally female, but that's more Author Appeal on the part of the Jaal since they're a clan that Does Not Like Men. Despite this, Sata, one biogolem, is referred to using male pronouns by the author. Additionally, there are certain models that can act as Uterine Replicator and can carry babies to term, but these are implied to essentially be clones of the mother-to-be made from a blood sample (originally from taking a limb) and not actually female in any meaningful sense.
-   _El Goonish Shive_'s Uryuoms are shape-shifters who technically have no distinct sexes, but those who live on Earth often take up male or female identities to avoid confusing humans.
-   Played with in _Forward_, set in a Transhuman future. Everyone is still born with biological sex characteristics, but surgery has advanced so far that they can be removed or switched around more or less at will. Binary gender expectations have dropped out of the culture almost entirely, as seen when a masculine-appearing character introduces themself as Jasmine, and almost all humans use they/them pronouns. The protagonist Lee has both a functioning penis and breasts, and it's slightly implied they started out as female but not fully clear.
-   The Kliks in _Goblins_ are floating spheres, each formed of a specific type of matter or energy, who reproduce asexually by budding. Physical sex is meaningless to them, and two characters argue over gendered pronouns in front of one without any sign of interest from him/her/it.
-   Sanyiel from _Hero In Training_ has no physical sex, but passes for male.
-   _Homestuck_:
    -   Doc Scratch says, "I am an immortal entity with a large cue ball for a head, and no biological means of reproduction." Doesn't stop him from coming across as a creepy pedophile.
    -   This is also implied to be the case for Tavrisprite, a fusion of Tavros and Vriska, doubly so due to being a sprite and being a combination of two characters of the opposite gender.
    -   Caliborn and Calliope, two alien characters called Cherubs who share a body. While they identify as opposite genders their body is physically ambiguous, and it's later revealed that their entire species is like this, with the female and male halves battling for control over the body until one eventually wins, at which point the body takes on more secondary sex characteristics, but both genders are capable of getting pregnant. For bonus points, they are named after the main character of _Middlesex_, who was intersex.
    -   The trolls have _genders_ and secondary sexual characteristics (specifically: females have Non-Mammal Mammaries, or at least _something_ that appears to be that, while males don't) but how these relate to reproduction is, at best, ambiguous. It doesn't seem to matter whether Matesprits or Kismesises (the two "reproductive" troll relationships) are of opposite genders or not (one troll reacts to a human saying he's not a homosexual by first being confused and when it's explained asking "HOW IS THAT EVEN A THING?"). Trolls don't physically mate in person, and the process apparently involves pails of "mating fluid" from several individuals being mixed together, so perhaps there actually is a biological difference between the genders and the concupiscent relationships just make the goo "better" somehow. Many fanfics portray trolls as effectively being Hermaphrodites.
-   _Kill Six Billion Demons_: Angels and Devils are both spiritual creatures of primordial flame with no biological means of reproduction and, at most, cosmetic sexual characteristics. Angels' spiritual forms become more human-looking the closer they get to humanity, which most of them consider a moral failing at best and criminal at worst; White Chain rankles at being called female, but defends feeling "a little... feminine." Devils, on the other hand, are fine with adopting human gender identities and even swap them without much fanfare. They do seem to be predominately male, but that likely has something to do with the multiverse being excessively misogynistic.
-   Trolls in _PvP_ are asexual. Skull at one point tried to defend himself against (trumped-up charges) of sexual misconduct by stating trolls are asexual beings, only to have the press misquote him as "a sexual being".
-   _Questionable Content_: AIs have no biology whatsoever, but they tend towards the Ridiculously Human and often adopt human gender identities. Those who opt for human-looking robot bodies can have them designed to look male, female, or neuter, but there's a purposeful Shrug of God regarding how much detail they have under their clothes.
-   Carbosillicate amorphs like the titular Sergeant Schlock of _Schlock Mercenary_ reproduce by methods having nothing to do with the traditional concept of sex as practiced by humans. Reproduction can be accomplished by a form of asexual budding with the resulting new amorph's personality being based on the parent and a partner (who doesn't even have to be of the same species) that is imprinted at the budding stage. Alternatively, they can reproduce my mixing together parts of two separate amorphs in a form of pseudo-sexual reproduction. Those who hang around humanoids tend to identify with a gender but still don't attach any gender issues to reproduction.
-   Toby, a half-demon, from _The Settlers_. He has little to no concept of gender, either, but gets referred to as "he".
-   In _Shortpacked!_, Ultra-Car starts off as a sentient car, then gets put in a female-looking robot body. When other characters are surprised by the implication that Samus Is a Girl, "she" sarcastically replies that "she" never had a gender; everyone else just decided a sexless car was male (though it was more her aggressively obnoxious personality that led most to think of her as male). She now calls herself a "trans-chassis woman".
-   Gabe of _Skin Deep_ is a genderless angel.
-   None of the blob characters in _Webcomic Name_ have an explicit gender, in order to allow readers to imagine themselves in the many situations that the comics depict, often of things that occur in everyday life. Parodied in "life drawing", where someone poses nude for life art and they have the word "GENITALS" around their crotch in place of actual genitalia.
    
    **Blob 1:** "it is important to understand the human form. hmm." _(carefully examines the other blob's groin area)_ "understand understand..." _(writes the word "GENITALS" in their sketchbook)_  
    **Blob 2:** "oh no"
    
-   Some of the mutated dogs in _Wurr_, most notably Iralbe and Riega, have no genitalia and are known as 'whispering ones'. Most of them still use male pronouns for simplicity's sake.

    Web Original 

-   _The Kindness of Devils_: Most of the Great Old Ones and Outer Gods don't have a specific gender. Even Nyarlathotep, who usually takes a male form, is _technically_ genderless since he can shapeshift his body and anatomy to be either male or female.
-   _Mirror World_: The krylyrk is a deity that has no specific form and is more or less a force, and it also has no gender.

    Western Animation 

-   _Adventure Time_ has BMO (a.k.a. Beemo), a living video game console. Some characters refer to Beemo as female, while some refer to it as male. Word of God revealed Beemo to be genderless, though BMO seems to consider itself male, based on "BMO Noire" and the "Graybles" episodes. In the Gender Flipped universe, BMO looks completely identical. Oddly, the other robot in the series, NEPTR, is always referred to as male, likely because he has two dads.
-   _Futurama_: In "Neutopia", the characters meet a rock alien whose species has only one sex (nuchachos) — despite said alien saying, immediately before this, that their species has no concept of gender. Finding the idea of physical sex incomprehensible, the alien administers a series of tests to see which one is best, eventually deciding that gender only causes division and taking away the cast's sexual characteristics. In their neutral state, they find peace and harmony... until they realize they can't have sex ever again and demand their genitals back.
-   _Invader Zim_:
    -   Other than the use of the male pronoun for convenience, there's no gender baggage that GIR has to deal with. He already has enough problems to deal with.
    -   This also appears to be the case with Irkens, because they are so far past The Singularity that they are reproduced only by machines, and it's implied that said machines are the real Irkens, their physical bodies being just mindless Meat Puppets to carry said machines around, though they do have genders.
-   One episode of _Lloyd in Space_ features an alien with no sex. It gains one of its choosing once it hits alien puberty. The episode ends with it refusing to reveal which one it chose. The alien also says "you'll know when I get a crush on one of you".
-   The Smooze from _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ is confirmed to be genderless, yet it is sometimes referred to as male.
-   _Ready Jet Go!_: According to Craig Bartlett, the Bortronians are neither male nor female. Despite this, they use pronouns like he/him or she/her for convenience's sake. The only indication given in the series that Bortronians don't really have gender is when Jet calls Carrot and Celery "Parent 1 and 2" instead of "mom and dad" in "Jet Cooks Dinner", showing that he's attempting to adapt to Earth's gendered terms.
-   Aku, the demonic Big Bad of _Samurai Jack_, predominantly appears in a male form with a deep and imposing voice, but is really just a black mass literally Made of Evil older than the universe. He's appeared to Jack as a woman before and grew closer to the Samurai just to mess with him. It does turn out that he can procreate when the High Priestess of the Aku cult consumes his "essence", creating seven half-human, half-demon hybrids.
-   _The Smurfs (1981)_: Smoogle and the race of Smoogles seen in the episode "G'Day Smoogle" are creatures seen as having no biological sex.
-   The Crystal Gems in _Steven Universe_ technically have no sex, with the only exception being the half-human (and male) Steven, though they all look distinctly female and refer to each other with female pronouns. It's also stated by Word of God that Steven's mother Rose Quartz specifically had to shapeshift a womb to carry him in and this had never been done before, and his birth resulted in her "death" for all intents and purposes since he inherited her gem.

___