Please don't list this on a work's page as a trope.  
Examples can go on the work's YMMV tab.

_"Are you… Are you coming on to me?! Sweet Lord, I don't even have the words for how repugnantly wrong that is!"_

Subtext can be all kinds of fun. It can hint that those Heterosexual Life-Partners might not be so Hetero. Or those Bitter Enemies might not hate each other after all. Or, even if they do legitimately hate each other, there may be hints that the hatred in question isn't exactly platonic. Unfortunately, sometimes subtext can be used for a very different effect.

That's No Yay. Implied sexual tension, intentional or otherwise, between two (or more) characters to make the average fan reach for the Brain Bleach, for reasons such as Pedophilic overtones, incest, Unequal Pairings, or Sexual Harassment and Rape Tropes. If one half of the pairing is a Memetic Molester, this is likely to occur. Essentially, the shipping version of Fan Disservice.

Remember to note that an implied relationship between two consenting adults is _not_ No Yay. Simply being unattractive by conventional standards is not enough; the pairing must have at least one objectively unhealthy element. When adding examples, please be sure to explain _why_ that potential ship is a No Yay and what separates it from just regular Ho Yay or Foe Yay Shipping. Of course, one person's Squick is another person's Fetish, and this is a highly subjective trope. And if you're just here to complain about a pairing you don't like, please keep it off the main page.

See also Squick, Fan Disservice, Not What It Looks Like, Nightmare Fuel, Fetishes Are Weird, Brain Bleach, Sick and Wrong, "No. Just… No" Reaction, and This Is Wrong on So Many Levels!. Also tends to crop up when I Have You Now, My Pretty and its sister trope get played horrifyingly straight.

___

## Example subpages

-   Anime & Manga
-   Live-Action TV
-   Video Games
-   Western Animation

## Other examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Comic Books 

-   The _Superman_ comics provide quite a few examples; Clark Kent and Lori Lemaris (a mermaid), Superman and Supergirl, Supergirl and Comet the Super Horse (a centaur cursed to be a horse), _Lois Lane_ and Comet the Super Horse, and Krypto and Lana Lang in at least one story. Then there's the not infrequent subtext between Supes and Lex Luthor, which becomes even more blatant when you realize that Superboy was made of a combination of their DNA.
-   Batman:
    -   Batman and The Joker get some (or lots) of Foe Romance Subtext Depending on the Writer, with the Joker almost in love with Batman in his own twisted way. Canonically, the Joker wants to _sexually violate Batman's corpse_.
    -   _Batman Eternal_ tried to set up a relationship between Red Hood (Jason Todd) and Batgirl (Barbara Gordon). Fan reaction was _not_ good, with people citing how straight up _weird_ it is that Jason harbours a longtime crush on his adoptive brother's (Dick Grayson, the first Robin) longtime on-again off-again girlfriend, and, with Dick "dead" at the time, the implication that Babs is using Jason as a Replacement Goldfish if she reciprocated. Thankfully, she never did, and the plot thread was ended in that same series.
    -   Despite a lot of old jokes, fans tend to react very negatively to any hint of Batman and Robin being an item. Not because it's gay - both have a plethora of popular slash pairings - but because Robin is generally depicted as Bruce Wayne's surrogate son, with later Robins like Tim Drake and Damian Wayne being his adopted or biological son respectively. Thus, shipping Batman and Robin comes with serious Parental Incest overtones.
    -   Following on the examples above, Batman is occassionally shipped with Batgirl. Fans generally hate it, since Barbara Gordon generally has a major relationship with his adoptive son, is one of his students, is much younger than him, and is the daughter of one of Batman's closest friends. When _Batman: The Killing Joke_ had a Batman/Batgirl sex scene, the backlash overshadowed the entire film.
-   Johnny C. and Jimmy a.k.a. "Mmy". Jimmy is quite unattractive and has a rather unhealthy obsession with what Johnny does. Johnny hates his guts because Jimmy attempted to replicate his style of murder by _choosing_ his targets along with raping and killing a girl in Johnny's name.
-   In-universe in _Secret Six_: Black Alice and Ragdoll. Black Alice's attraction to Ragdoll and the lengths she goes to start a relationship with him squicks out everyone on the team. Including Ragdoll.
-   Ultimate Marvel
    -   _The Ultimates_ gets in- and out-of-universe No Yay by taking the Brother–Sister Incest Subtext between Quicksilver and Scarlet Witch from the main Marvel universe and making it official. When Captain America voiced his disgust and got chewed out by Wasp out for being behind the times, readers were apparently meant to side with Wasp. They did not.
    -   _Ultimate Spider-Man_: Bendis played up the Like Brother and Sister angle with Peter and Gwen so much that this was the reaction when they finally did hook up.
-   _The Judas Contract_ gets in-universe hebephilia with a canonical sexual relationship between Slade and Terra. Slade, a middle-aged man, and Terra, a 16-year-old.
-   In the _Angel_ comics, Illyria (an ancient God-King who stole the body of one of Angel's friends, killing her in the process) decides that Connor (Angel's 19-year-old son) would be an acceptable person to procreate with, since it's her mating season. Angel is not pleased and neither is Connor.
-   Mr Sinister has an obsession with Cyclops' genes that would normally lead to Foe Yay Shipping, except for the fact that Scott lived in Sinister's Orphanage of Fear as a young boy (from around the age of eleven) and underwent Mind Rape and experiments from the supervillain. As Sinister's treatment of Adult Cyclops is incredibly homoerotic, and a large amount of their interactions involve him touching his face and gazing at it admiringly, it becomes very hard not to think that he did the same when Scott was in his care.
-   _The Smurfs_: Papa Smurf and Smurfette. In the comic books and the cartoon show, the idea that Papa Smurf would have an amorous interest in Smurfette was just all levels of creepy and wrong. Thankfully averted in the Sony Pictures live-action film series, where Papa Smurf treats Smurfette as a step-daughter.
-   _Superior Spider-Man (2013)_: Doc Ock flirting with Aunt May while in the body of her nephew Peter Parker not only disgusts Peter's ghost, but likely the readers too.

    Fan Works 

-   _Abraxas (Hrodvitnon)_: In this _Godzilla_ MonsterVerse fanfiction, there's a lot of deliberately and effectively squicky, one-sided subtext concerning San's brothers' plans for Vivienne Graham. Ghidorah's regeneratied minds psychically stalking Viv and San seems quite staker-y, Ghidorah's end-goal to turn Vivienne into its fourth head after breaking her down has And Now You Must Marry Me connotations, even Ichi/Eldest Brother and Ni/Elder Brother's initial loathing and disgust towards Vivienne seems almost like a dark form of Belligerent Sexual Tension in hindsight.
-   In _Supergirl_ saga _Hellsister Trilogy_, Satan Girl -a Supergirl's<small>◊</small> evil duplicate- seduces Legion of Super-Heroes archenemy -and creepy, wrinkled, old lecher- Mordru.
-   _Luminosity_: The pedophilia inherent in the Addy/five-year-old Elspeth shipping meant the author actually changed the chapter break to avoid it in the future. The original ending line of chapter 14 was:
-   The _Supernatural_ fanfic _Deterioration of Reason_ has the demon Belial, who is not afraid to tell Castiel or anyone else how much he would love to ravish and devour Castiel. He clearly enjoys torturing Castiel and after injecting demon blood into him, Belial taunts him how he was _inside_ of him. Oh and Belial was once an archangel and hence Castiel's older brother.
-   _Imperfect Metamorphosis_ has Yuuka Kazami and her... _affections_ towards Team 9. Wriggle, who has apparently experienced it before, is horrified the entire time, but the others don't seem to understand the danger (aside from the obvious).
-   _Inner Demons_ has Twilight Sparkle acting this way towards her brother, Shining Armor, after she gets consumed by her darkness and becomes Queen!Twilight. This is hammered home when he rejects her advances and decides to rescue Princess Cadence instead.
-   Even the author/artist of _Legendary Destination_ is squicked by the amount of subtext some people see between Jazz Fenton and the older-evil-alternate-future-self of her little brother aka Dark Danny/Dan. To the point of prefacing all of the pictures with them both in it with "they are not a couple!"
-   _A Song of Ice and Fire_ Affectionate Parody _School Of Thrones_ emphasizes the Littlefinger Sansa subtext, playing Littlefinger as a creepy Memetic Molester.
-   Pretty much any fanfic with Sephiroth and Cloud as a pairing. Especially if the writer tries to make Sephiroth's Mind Rape and generally abusive behavior romantic. This goes double for stories set before the Nibelheim Incident, since Sephiroth was approximately 20 to 23 years old when he started pursuing a 14-year-old, emotionally fragile Cloud in _Crisis Core_.

    Films — Animation 

-   _Aladdin_: Jafar and Jasmine. Jafar is old and ugly and Jasmine is a young beautiful princess. Jafar wants to marry Jasmine (to gain the powers of the sultan but still...) and Jasmine has to _kiss him_ in one scene to try to keep him from discovering Aladdin. Jafar orders the Genie to make Jasmine fall in love with him, and calls her "pussycat" and "my dear". Iago (_who suggested_ the idea of Jafar marrying Jasmine in the first place) and Abu both make disgusted sounds when Jasmine kisses Jafar, and Aladdin also looks Squicked out.
-   _Despicable Me_: Vector's flirty attitude toward Gru and Gru's obsession with outclassing him crosses the line into this trope when Vector keeps up the behavior after he kidnaps Gru's children and holds them hostage.
-   _Frozen_: Hans' relationship with Anna and Elsa, which extends to shipping. Hans canonically made Anna fall in Love at First Sight with him so that he could manipulate her to take her kingdom, which he almost managed by trying to kill Elsa and letting Anna freeze to death by refusing to give her true love's kiss and mocking her with "Oh Anna, if only there was someone who loved you." (she got better after her Heroic Sacrifice). He also guilt trips Elsa into not defending herself while trying to capture her ("Don't be the monster they think you are!") which causes her to panic and hold still long enough for him to knock her out, chain her up, and lock her in a dungeon with the intention of putting her on trial and executing her in order to become a Villain with Good Publicity.
-   Frollo's sexual obsession with Esmerelda in _The Hunchback of Notre Dame_.
-   _The Iron Giant_: Kent Mansley's behavior towards Hogarth just screams of child grooming. Takes an undue interest in a child? Check. Gains the trust of the child's guardian to get close to the child? Check. Constantly follows the child around and gives them no privacy? Check. Uses a combination of persuasive and coercive tactics to get what he wants from the child? _Check mate_
-   _The Little Mermaid (1989)_: Ursula and Ariel. What with her calling Ariel things like "my child," "angelfish," "my dear sweet child," "sweet cakes," "poor little princess," and "my sweet," and her tendency to invade Ariel's personal space. As well as telling her if she can't get Prince Eric to kiss her on the third day, then as a consequence, she'll "belong to me"/"will be mine." And at one point in the 'Poor Unfortunate Souls' song she moves her tentacle across Ariel's chest, with Ariel having to push it off. She was originally intended to be Ariel's _aunt_, and was actually retconned to be such in the subsequent Screen-to-Stage Adaptation, which probably only makes it worse.
-   Scar and Nala in _The Lion King_, particularly in the Broadway rendition. In the song The Madness of King Scar, he all but tries to rape Nala and force her to give him heirs. Keep in mind that earlier in both versions, Nala was _still a cub_ while Scar was always clearly an adult right from the first scene he was in. So the age difference between them can't be small, even for natural lion-aging years.
-   There is some of this with Sally and Dr. Finklestein in _The Nightmare Before Christmas_ possibly. In the DVD Commentary, Tim Burton refers to Sally as a daughter — yet there's lines in-film like "You're mine, you know!" and "You can make _other_ creations!" that really doesn't sound like a rebellious-daughter/overprotective-dad relationship, but like something else entirely. Consider that the creation Dr. Finklestein makes to replace Sally looks awfully like a wife — that looks exactly like him — and that an alternate ending had Oogie Boogie be Dr. Finklestein, jealous that Sally chose Jack over him. In an earlier script, the father/daughter relationship was a lot more obvious with lines like "I'm grown up now. I'll have to leave sometime"... yet there are bits like _The scientist smiles, feeling Sally under his sway again_ that sounds rather creepy.
-   Devon and Cornwall, two heads of the same dragon, in _Quest for Camelot_, particularly at the very end of the movie. There's also the implication that their parents were _married cousins_.
    
    **Devon**: Frankly, we're the reason cousins shouldn't marry.
    
-   In _Rango_, Rattlesnake Jake disturbingly behaves in a somewhat molester-ish manner towards Beans, coiling around her and licking his face. That's really creepy.
-   _Rise of the Guardians_: Pitch's interactions with Jamie and the other children towards the end of the film can come across as molester-ish, especially the tone of voice with which he taunts and threatens them. This vibe is also present in the scene where he enters Cupcake's room and corrupts her dreams.
-   Throughout the _Toy Story_ series, most toys abandoned by their owners behave like rejected or jilted lovers. The song "When She Loved Me" in _Toy Story 2_ is, as the title suggests, a love song out of context (and just a bit _in_ context, too).
-   _A Troll in Central Park_ has Stanley, the titular troll, getting a kiss from a toddler girl named Rosie. He literally flies into the air screaming with joy and some green energy coming from his lower regions. Yeah...
-   _Turning Red_: Some people interpret Mei's giant red panda form narrowly as a metaphor for menstruation and her selling pictures of herself in that form as a metaphor for prostitution.
-   _Wreck-It Ralph_ and Vanellope were erroneously referred to as love interests in early media reports. Then it turned out she was a kid. And the size of his (very large) fist. And basically his sister/daughter character.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   Happens in-story in _Thirteen (2003)_, when Mason Freeland walks into a store with a friend, and the two of them see a pretty girl in low-rise jeans and visible thong panties leaning over the counter, facing away from them. Mason calls out to her: "Oh sweetie, back that ass up," while his friend adds "I'd like to see how that thong looks on my bedroom floor." When she turns around, they see that the girl is, in fact, Mason's little sister Tracy. Mason is clearly horrified, while his friend continues to hit on her.
-   _Alien: Resurrection_ features a scene where an Alien is holding Ripley in its arms and carrying her to the Queen's lair. She's not afraid of it, and embraces the creature. The sequence is shot and framed as if it were a love scene. Nevertheless, the xenomorphs are utterly inhuman monsters that face-rape people and have killed almost everyone that Ripley ever knew or loved.
-   In _Blank Check_, there are romantic overtones between a woman in her early thirties and a little boy who’s eleven. She’s an FBI agent working undercover at a bank and he’s a kid who gets a million dollars when a crook almost runs him over. He claims he works (at eleven) for an older man who wants to meet her. They go on a date and she kisses him on the mouth and tells him to look her up in a few years and it’s not played in a negative light.
-   _Blue Velvet_: Psycho drug-addicted gangster rapist Frank Booth/innocent wholesome college boy Jeffrey Beaumont. With Frank of course being the supplier of the depraved subtext.
    
    **Frank**: _(to Jeffrey)_ _Pretty... pretty... pretty... pretty..._ **Pretty!**
    
-   _Child's Play_: Chucky and Andy.
    -   May have started when Chucky tells his former voodoo teacher before killing him:
    -   There's also the fact that in the second film he bound and gagged Andy to a bed, and he laid on top of him in order to perform the soul transferring.
-   Marissa's obsession with _Hanna_. In addition, some of Hanna's interactions with Erik come off as romantic. For reference, Marissa is a CIA agent, Hanna is the teenage girl she is hunting down, and Erik is Hanna's _father_.
-   _Harry Potter_: During their "girl talk," Bellatrix pins Hermione to the floor and it looks like she's raping her. She also tortures her by carving the word "Mudblood" into her arm.
-   Nuada and Nuala in _Hellboy II: The Golden Army_. They're Half-Identical Twins with Twin Telepathy and Synchronization, which makes it nigh-impossible for Nuala to hide herself and the MacGuffin from her villainous brother, no matter how much she wants to. Then along came Nuada's "Father tried so hard to shield your heart from mine." The same father he murdered, forcing Nuala to go into hiding in the first place. Even worse, Word of God says that all that incestuous subtext was _intentional_. That sort of thing isn't unusual in real life Irish myth.
-   _The Interview_: David Skylark and Kim John-un kissing and becoming close friends is disturbing considering Kim is the leader of North Korea and is a crazy master manipulator.
-   _Halloween_ has some creepy interactions between Michael, a homicidal maniac, his two sisters, and other girls. With his one sister he caresses her leg when she's in an undressed state and pretends to be her boyfriend before killing her. His violent murder of the other girls occurs when they're also naked or in a state of undress and he's chasing them while brandishing a knife. Then there's the fixation he has with his sister Laurie.
-   _Kick-Ass 2_: Dave and Mindy kissing, to fans of the comic book where Mindy is still 12 years old while in the film she's 15. Invoked in-universe, when Katie and her friend think Mindy is breaking up with Dave, they both call him a pedophile.
-   Jareth/Sarah from _Labyrinth_. Nearly forty David Bowie in _criminally_ tight pants asking a fourteen-year-old Jennifer Connelly to stay with him forever. And a Freeze-Frame Bonus shows that Sarah's mother ran off with the _real_ David Bowie, adding some interesting subtext to the whole situation. And according to Jim Henson it was 100% intentional.
    
    David Bowie embodies a certain maturity, with his sexuality, his disturbing aspect, all sorts of things that characterize the adult world.
    
-   Annie Wilkes and Paul Sheldon in _Misery_, especially in the book. She's an ex-nurse Loony Fan of the disillusioned writer who saved him from a car crash and slowly nurses him back to health. It's eventually revealed that Annie has killed several of her patients, and her mood constantly swings between cheerful and psychotic. It culminates with Annie amputating Paul's foot.
    
    **Annie Wilkes:** I'm your number one fan...
    
-   Frank's sexual behavior with Jill in _Once Upon a Time in the West_, considering he killed her new family, including several children, and was going to kill her too had she not distracted him with her sexy.
-   In _Ophelia_, there's a predatory slant to Claudius's interactions with Ophelia that's all kinds of creepy. For starters, Claudius is decades older than Ophelia (he's in his forties/fifties, she's indicated to be in her late teens) and there's a _vast_ power difference between them, which he never lets her forget. He restrains her and invades her personal space several times; on one occasion he all but reaches down her bodice to pull out Hamlet's ring, which she's wearing around her neck on a ribbon. He has a weird interest in her relationship with Hamlet (for double-creepiness, Hamlet's his _nephew_), comments on her sexuality and tries to force her into a marriage. Ophelia feels intimidated by Claudius and can do little to stand up to him unless she's literally pretending to be insane.
-   The 2003 _Peter Pan_ film had several reviewers comment on the creepy chemistry/dynamic between Hook and Wendy. Word of God says it was unintentional, but even they acknowledge it's there. Incidentally, Hook and Wendy's father are played by the same actor (as recommended by the stage directions in the original play) for extra Freudian Squick value.
    -   Arguably the filmmakers got exactly what they paid for when they took a traditionally comic role, made it much more sinister, cast Jason Isaacs, then introduced him wearing literal leather pants and nothing else.
-   This song from _Pete's Dragon (1977)_ is undertone-a-riffic, between Pete and his enormous, unintelligible, animated dragon. A touching friendship ballad needn't be Ho Yay\-riffic, but the use of phrases like "Remember the night when you first confided" make the whole thing sound excessively romantic.
-   It depends how you feel about demons and the such, but the ending of _REC2_ has some Les Yay between the horribly mutated possessed girl, Medeiros, and Angela the reporter, when the former kisses the latter in order to transfer the worm demon.
-   Rippner and Lisa in _Red Eye_. Rippner is an Ax-Crazy murderer out to kill Lisa's father and other people and even Lisa herself. There's some sexual tension between the two and the scene in the airplane bathroom where he accosts her was dripping with rape metaphors. Word of God also says that Rippner developed feelings for Lisa in the entire time he was watching her and that he was jealous of the man who gave Lisa her scar and raped her.
-   _Schindler's List_: SS commandant Amon Goeth hints that he's attracted to his Jewish maid, Helen Hirsch, but refuses to sleep with her as it would be "beneath" him. He has complete control over a Nazi concentration camp, which he often uses as an outlet for his murderous and sadistic urges, while she's his terrified and battered prisoner. He clumsily comes on to her before blaming her for trying to "seduce" him and beating her. There's no Love Redeems here; he just sees her as a pet he can abuse at will.
-   _Star Wars_:
    -   Palpatine's interest in Anakin comes off a little... intense. He looks at the kid like he's this close to eating him, his manipulation of Anakin is quite like a seduction, and practically creams in his pantaloons when saying lines like "I can feeeeeeeeeel your anger!" Even Obi-Wan says Anakin was "seduced by the dark side". The novelization of _Revenge of the Sith_ takes this to the limit, with Palpatine purposefully distancing Anakin from Padme and Obi-Wan in order to have him all to himself.
    -   There's a bit of this between Palpatine and Luke, too. "Take your father's place at my side," indeed.
    -   While Leia's metal bikini is well loved by _Star Wars_ fans everywhere, most like to forget that she wears it because she was forced to by the colossal crime lord Jabba the Hutt, and the scene leading up to it has him _lick her face_ (Leia, for her part, is horrified and disgusted). The Expanded Universe mentions that even other Hutts think Jabba is a pervert for being attracted to humanoid women (and also, as one character implies, Han Solo.) Of course, after he became powerful and influential, a few Hutts tried to emulate him by keeping harems of slave girls. Opinions were mixed.
    -   Pre-_Return of the Jedi_, some fans had made arguments for Luke/Leia. Played with in that after she kisses him in _The Empire Strikes Back_, we find out that they are related. Cue mass Abandon Shipping.
    -   In the novelization of _The Force Awakens_ it's mentioned by Leia that she knew Big Bad Snoke had been watching her son Ben aka Kylo Ren since he was a baby, and the influence of Snoke on his mind is strongly implied to have twisted it. It comes off very much like a sexual predator grooming a child victim.
    -   _The Last Jedi_:
        -   The subtext between Rey and Snoke is incredibly creepy. It was Snoke who linked her mind with Kylo's. When she first meets him he drags her over to him with the Force, puts his hand on her face, and compliments her "spunk" in a rather creepy way.
-   _Tomorrowland_ has Frank and Athena, who fell in love with each other as kids and it's implied that they still have feelings for each other decades later, with Frank never getting over her. This would be fine if Athena wasn't a robot with the physical appearance of a preteen girl, while Frank is a human who aged normally, something that's reflected by their actors' forty-year age gap. It's made worse by Athena confirming that she still loves Frank as she dies in his arms. As such, many viewers were grossed-out about the romantic tension between a middle-aged man and a robot who looks like a child.
-   _Transformers: Dark of the Moon_ has this between Soundwave and Carly. He does exclusively assault _her_ with his menagerie of spiky, metallic tentacles, and lets them linger over her for a disturbingly long time before Sam agrees to Gould's terms...and this is _after_ masquerading as her car and having her ass on his seat for Primus-knows-how-long! And if that weren't enough, there's his declaration of, "You're mine!" once he transforms and reveals himself to her.
-   The Christof/Truman subtext from _The Truman Show_.
    
    **Christof**: (To Truman) You're afraid. That's why you can't leave. It's okay, Truman. I understand. I have been watching you your whole life. I was watching when you were born. I was watching when you took your first step. I watched you on your first day of school. Heh heh. The episode when you lost your first tooth, heh heh... You can't leave, Truman. You belong here... With me. Talk to me. Say something.
    
-   _Unbroken_: Watanabe is fixated on Zamperini, which includes beating him and trying to break his spirit. He even tells him that from the moment they met, he knew they were alike and that they could have been friends if not for their opposing sides. Zamperini mainly just seems creeped out by the attention.
-   The sheer number of times Albert stares into Joey the horse's eyes while touching his head in _War Horse_ has overtones of this. It's vaguely referenced within the movie.
    
    **David:** Are you writing a love letter to your horse?
    
-   In the movie version of _The Voyage of the Dawn Treader_:
    -   There is a scene where Edmund gets tempted by evil and glares darkly at Lucy, trying to lure her into becoming the most powerful person in the world along with him. Or as some fans put it: "he looks at her like he wants to do something else."
    -   The whole White Witch/Edmund and Tumnus/Lucy thing, both cases reminding some of child kidnappers/molesters' cases.
    -   In the third part, the White Witch tells Edmund she can make him _her king_.
    -   Jadis (or at least her spirit), in a very form-fitting dress as white as her skin, also tries to basically seduce both Caspian and Peter in quick succession in _Prince Caspian_.
-   _Chip 'n Dale: Rescue Rangers_: Gadget and Zipper have gotten this reaction almost immediately. Mostly because, despite this movie portraying every character as Animated Actors and Zipper clearly having an adult voice, Zipper has always been considered a child or a "pet". So, to pair him off with an anthropomorphic character like Gadget comes across as incredibly off-putting.
-   _Scream_: The hinted romance between Richie and Amber in the fifth film (which _Scream VI_ confirms to be the case) leaves a lot of fans uncomfortable due to their age difference, with Richie being in his late 20s and Amber being 17. Most fans simply choose to ignore it.

    Literature 

-   _The Catcher in the Rye_: The infamous passage in which Mr. Antolini strokes the forehead of a sleeping Holden. Even Holden himself is rather disturbed, fleeing Mr. Antolini's house right afterwards. Antolini's inquiries about Holden's girlfriends and calling Holden "handsome" as he wishes him goodnight could be read as flirtatious advances as well.
-   In Peter Moore's _Caught In The Act_ we have Lydia's Yandere obsession with Ethan.
-   The _Ciaphas Cain_ short story "The Beguiling" has the Slaaneshi Chaos witch Emeli attempt to psychically seduce Cain and eat his soul, which would have happened if Cain hadn't come to his senses in time and killed her. Except in _Traitor's Hand_ she comes back as a Daemon Princess of Slaanesh (For reference, here's an old daemon princess from the Horus Heresy named Ingethel<small>◊</small> who seems to be associated with Slaanesh) and _she still wants him_. Cain is predictably squicked out of his mind.
-   In Goethe's poem _The Erl-King_ quite a few of the Erlking's lines give strong child predator vibes, since he spends a lot of time whispering to the boy about how pretty he thinks he is. Special mention must go to the line "Ich liebe dich, mich reizt deine schöne Gestalt" (literally, "I love you, your beautiful form entices me"), which is rendered "I love you! Your beauty is stirring my lust" in the A. Z. Foreman translation and "I'm in love with your flesh and its human glow" in the John Frederick Nims translation. That last translation has equally disturbing implications... It is made even more explicit in _John Connolly_'s short story adaptation.
-   For whatever reason, Amos and Naomi in _The Expanse_. Partly because Holden and Naomi are the Official Couple, and partly because in Naomi's words, Amos' sexuality is "not a pleasant place to be."
-   Michael Grant loves using this trope with perverted sadist Drake Merwin in the _GONE_ series. Most of these never culminate in anything sexual, and some aren't even used in a sexual context, but he's made it pretty damn easy to take out of context.
    
    **Sam**: Me...You Want me! **Drake**: Yes Sam, I want you. And you're just going to lie there and take it! Because if you don't....
    
    **Drake**: I broke her legs so she couldn't run. She was screaming...But I think she liked it.
    
    **Drake**: Oh hey Astrid. Wait a sec, I'll be right back. Then I can come up and play.
    
    "He'd take his sweet time with Astrid. And even longer with Diana."
    
-   _Harry Potter_
    -   The title character and Voldemort. Their souls are connected, they share each other's dreams, memories and thoughts, Voldemort sometimes gets into Harry's head as a whispering voice of temptation, Voldemort's described as a very charismatic and seductive figure (who used to be physically dashing, before the dark arts corrupted his appearance) and a big deal's made about their fates being intertwined. It certainly doesn't help that Ralph Fiennes, who played Voldemort in The Film of the Book, is Mr. Fanservice beneath the makeup. Voldemort is also a sociopath who murdered Harry's parents and tried to kill him as a baby, that he looks and talks like a humanoid serpent and that he is, by most estimates, around 70 years old.
    -   It should also be noted that their wands are, ahem, connected. Harry's even makes Voldemort's spurt out magic when they have a duel with them.
    -   This is hinted at with Diary/Horcrux!Tom Riddle and Possessed!Ginny. There's certainly Mind Rape involved, and he forces her to tell him all her secrets and do things she doesn't want to do. As she mentions in _Order of the Phoenix_, the mental scars have remained with her. This has been picked up on by the fandom, who often point to the events of _Chamber of Secrets_ as one of the reasons for how she repeatedly Took a Level in Badass in the subsequent books.
-   _In Death_: Renee Obermann and William Garnet have a relationship that is just loaded with this. At one point, she tells him to walk her out like a good boy, sounding like she's treating him like a dog. Much later, he shows up at her place, looking all furious. He shoves her into her apartment and she tells him to not put his hands on her again. He responds that he'll do more than put his hands on her. It is revealed that she had sexual relationship with him at one time, and she broke it off, because that was her way to establish control over him.
-   _The Mysterious Benedict Society_: Mr. Benedict tells the children (through a riddle) that the reason Mr. Curtain keeps S.Q. around is "love." He then implies that the reason S.Q. is so forgetful is that Mr. Curtain is brainwashing him (which would remove memories of Mr. Curtain's cruelty and reduce S.Q. inhibitions). We eventually get a less Squick-y explanation, but the implications of a (probably non-con) relationship between the villain and his teenage follower are still disturbing. Plus, the explanation came from _Reynie_, not any of the adult characters, so it might not even be correct.
-   In the _Outlander_ series, there's Captain John Randall towards Jamie. At first, it consists mostly of Randall having a dreamy look on his face every time Jamie shows defiance and resistance towards him, culminating in Dougal describing Randall's look as a guy who's hot on a girl. And _then_, Randall shows that these impulses actually extend to being out-and-out sexual, revealing his desire for Jamie to "become his"... which eventually results in poor Jamie getting imprisoned, raped, and beaten (as part of certain scenario that Randall is into) repeatedly. It gets worse when Randall is actually revealed to have probably been genuinely in love with him, in his own messed up way.
-   Hannibal Lecter/Will Graham in _Red Dragon_. Hannibal of course is a cannibal serial killer who nearly made Will one of his victims before he was arrested. Made worse in the movie adaptation: "Do you dream much, Will? I think of you often."
-   Count Olaf/Violet from _A Series of Unfortunate Events_. The first book alone has _bucket loads_ of No Yay subtext, what with Count Olaf planning on marrying her and later _consummating his relationship_ with his **14-year-old adopted daughter**. While Olaf didn't seem to have anything sexual in mind primarily, he decides that he'll let her live even after he has the fortune and makes quite a few comments on how pretty she is. In the next book he has a knife to her THIGH under the table. There's the line "Violet imagined sleeping beside Count Olaf, and waking up each morning to look at this terrible man.", which shows the author must have known what that would imply to his older readers. And when the hook-handed man has Violet cornered in the tower during the rescue attempt for Sunny, he says into his walkie-talkie "Yes, boss. Yes, boss, of course I understand she's _yours_, boss." The emphasis is the author's.
-   _The Silmarillion_: There are hints that Fëanor had less-than-pure intentions toward Galadriel. It's creepy enough on its own, but then you take into account that Galadriel is his _niece_...
    -   Some people out there ship Fëanor and Morgoth, despite the fact that Morgoth murdered Fëanor's father and stole the Silmarils. Oh, and he's the source of all evil in the world.
-   _A Song of Ice and Fire_:
    -   Littlefinger spends all his interactions with Sansa in book one commenting on her attractiveness, stroking her face, comparing her to her mother, etc. She mentions later on that him even looking at her is uncomfortable. In books three and four, he's too obvious about his attraction to her for it to really be subtext, but, seeing as he's her uncle and adoptive father at that point, it's arguably creepier.
    -   Ramsay Bolton's relationship with his terrified "servants." And his relationship with his wives for that matter.
-   _The Vampire Chronicles_:
    -   Louis/Claudia. Claudia is trapped inside the body of a five-year-old (eleven-year-old in the movie), and one of Louis' first descriptions of her in the book as a vampire (while she is still mentally a child) talks of her appearance being slightly sensual.
    -   _The Vampire Lestat_: After turning his mother, Gabrielle, the nature of their relationship changed from parent/child to hinting they were lovers. There was more subtle subtext when they were still humans, but it got worse after the change. Lestat going on and on about how sexy she looked in men's clothing and them discussing the possibility of vampire sex didn't help matters.
-   _Wicked Lovely_ brings us this between Donia, the cursed Wintergirl, and Beira, the queen who left her that way. It's subtle, but Beira stroking Don's face while blackmailing her into killing Keenan is one of the creepiest things in the series... and given the places later books go, that's saying something.

    Music 

-   "Tag You're It" by Melanie Martinez is about a woman being kidnapped. It sounds heavily like rape was involved, though according to the Concept Album that is unlikely.

    Theatre 

-   In _Hamilton_, completely regardless of anything about the actual pairing or its potential historical accuracy, some people get really squicked out by Hamilton/Laurens due to the fact that Laurens' actor also plays Hamilton's son Phillip in act 2.
-   In the sequel to _The Phantom of the Opera_, _Love Never Dies_, the song "The Beauty Underneath" sounds like a Repo! cut song, features a lot of breathy moans of "yes!" and a lot of ambiguously romantic language. Despite the show's flaws, the song would be standard Phantom fetish appeal... if it weren't sung to the Phantom's ten-year-old son.
-   Stanley and Blanche of _A Streetcar Named Desire_. Blanche insults Stanley every chance she gets and Stanley equally hates her. Then you see how he deliberately tries to ruin her life and eventually rapes her to insanity.
-   Judge Turpin and Johanna Barker of _Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street_. Judge Turpin took Johanna in after she was a year old, after raping her mother who he had a serious lust for; and now that Johanna has gotten older, he's starting to get that same lust toward her, to the point of wanting to marry her in order to "shield her from the evils of the world." Johanna, for her part, wants _nothing_ to do with this plan, such that she wants to run away with Anthony Hope just to get the hell away from Turpin. And it doesn't help that when Turpin finds out about this, he has Johanna sent to a madhouse until she "reconsiders."

    Visual Novels 

-   For an in-universe example, in the _Ace Attorney_ series Edgeworth gets incredibly pissed off at anyone who tries to suggest the Edgeworth/Wendy Oldbag ship. Especially Oldbag herself.
-   _Fate/stay night_ has multiple cases with its main cast.
    -   Emiya Shirou's interactions with Ilya are half the time downright adorable and depending on the path, the two can get close for Illya to pull a Heel–Face Turn and in one of the endings makes a Heroic Sacrifice to keep Shirou from doing so. When they aren't, however, they are very disturbing. Illya's friendly behavior is often mixed with death threats, and her pursuing Shirou makes her come off as a stalker. It's at its worst when she kidnaps Shirou in the **Fate** route and tells him to "be mine" while sitting on his lap, with the hints that she is going to try to rape him. Ilya is actually older than Shirou but she has the body of a child, so the scene comes off as a child about to rape a teenager. She's also essentially the child of Shirou's adoptive father, making them kind-of siblings. Word of God is that there was originally a sex scene planned at that point but it was dropped, not that what Ilya actually does to Shirou if he says “yes” is much better where it turns out she was tricking him into handing over his soul.
    -   Gilgamesh towards Saber. Gilgamesh is already a horrible man who views everything the world as his property, including Saber. He's actually attracted by her revulsion to him, feeling that being denied something makes it all the more beautiful, but he still makes remarks about how he wants to molest her; knowing Gilgamesh, he is not exaggerating.
    -   Caster towards Saber in **Unlimited Blade Works**. Caster frequently shows a cruel side, and interest in Saber that almost seems perverted. In this route, she manages to sever Saber's connection to Shirou with her magic knife and starts forcing Saber to be her Servant, a process which leaves Saber magically tortured for over a day while Caster delights in her pain. She also puts Saber is a white frilly dress while thinking about turning her into a Sex Slave.
    -   Zouken Matou's evil plan revolves around torturing Sakura and when scheming he keeps bringing up her body in ways that make it sound like he's stalking her. He is revealed to have actually thrown Sakura to hordes of magic worms to be violated, for years, and planned to eventually take over Sakura's body to become immortal.
-   _Nurse Love Addiction_ has the main character, Asuka, mention many times over the game that she does _not_ want to end up romancing her sister, Nao, despite Nao's advances. Unfortunately for her, Nao is one of the game's four heroines, meaning there's a good chance she will. In fact, Nao is even the most popular heroine, at least according to the Vita's trophy stats.
-   Resident nerd and Fat Comic Relief, Hifumi Yamada in _Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc_ falls in love with... Alter-Ego, an advanced A.I. that was created by the recently deceased Chihiro Fujisaki in order to help the remaining students escape the Killing Game. Hifumi constantly claimed to only be interested in 2D Women, which goes far beyond what you might expect and falls head over heels with the A.I., even Kyoko mentions having found him hugging the laptop, even ignoring the fact that Alter-ego's main avatar looks exactly like Chihiro and that the real Chihro was male. He also gets biased with Kiyotaka Ishimaru when Alter-Ego adopts an avatar of Mondo Owada, Taka's first and Only Friend (Subverted if Makoto completed his Free Time Events) who was executed in the previous trial due to him being Chihiro's killer. Taka decides to use Alter-Ego as way of coping with Mondo's death, which triggers Hifumi's jealousy. Celestia Ludenberg, one of the people Hifumi was closest to, decides to take advantage of the situation and use Alter-Ego as a way of manipulating Hifumi into murdering Ishimaru only to finally kill him herself once his part was done. His relationship with Alter-Ego already sounds wrong to begin with, but what really crosses the line is the fact that he murdered an innocent man for a crime he did not commit without asking him for details (Celeste told Hifumi that Taka took Alter-Ego away and also made a False Rape Accusation against him, and Hifumi fell for all of that despite Celeste having no proof of either event whatsoever) and was willing to let everyone else get executed all for the sake of "his feelings".

    Web Animation 

-   Felix towards Locus in _Red vs. Blue_. Their partnership often resembles a very creepy abusive relationship, a fact which the writers have acknowledged.
-   _RWBY_: "Heroes and Monsters" does this for Blake and Adam. Adam plays the part of an abusive ex-boyfriend who feels betrayed by Blake leaving the White Fang and vows to make her suffer for it. In the following scene alone he demonstrates more on-screen cruelty than any other villain so far by torturing Blake by stabbing her through the belly, _slicing Yang's right arm off_, and then trying to _decapitate_ Blake when she places herself between him and an unconscious Yang. In the following livestream, Miles and Kerry revealed that Adam was abusive to Blake in the past. The sheer shock and horror of it all has led to people on the SS Tauradonna fleeing for the lifeboats en masse and the ship in question being renamed "Animal Abuse".
-   _SMG4_ has Mario and Meggy the Inkling. Playable Inklings are stated to be around 14, and Word of God confirms that Mario is in his mid-twenties.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  After Meggy was transformed into a human, the situation became even more problematic… but then less so over time, as Meggy is later shown having a driver's license<sup>*&nbsp;</sup>  and then attending university. In July 2021, Meggy claimed during a Q&A session she was 19. This has neither been confirmed nor denied by her creators who prefer keeping Meggy's age vague to try and stop the shipping.
    
    **Meggy:** "I met Mario when I was fifteen. Then I moved to the Mushroom Kingdom and… well… math."
    
-   Discussed between Folken and Dornkirk in _Vision of Escaflowne Abridged_, who want to break up 15-year-old Van and Hitomi and place Hitomi in a pairing _so_ unappealing to viewers that they can steal their screentime.
    
    **Folken:** My brother and that girl make a ridiculously cute couple. And the more time _they_ get to develop their little "relationship", the less time _we_ get to carry out our plans.  
    **Dornkirk:** Well, that _is_ a problem. What do we do?  
    **Folken:** Simple: We... break the two of them up and replace Vantomi with a couple so awkward, so totally lacking in chemistry, that once established, it will get no screentime whatsoever.  
    **Dornkirk:** You mean...?  
    **Folken:** Yes: _I_ shall seduce Hitomi.  
    _(Beat)_  
    **Dornkirk:** Don't be _stoopid_, Folken! You've never even had a scene together! Who'd believe a pairing like that?  
    **Folken:** Hm, perhaps you're right. Then we've got to find someone else to pair her up with. Someone _older_; just enough to be creepy, not enough to be unrealistic...  
    **Dornkirk:** If he's a Bishōnen, the male fans will hate him.  
    **Folken:** Yes, but the _female_ fans need a reason to hate him too. What if we chose a chronic womanizer who treats women like objects?  
    **Dilandau:** Oh, I know someone like what you just said! Allen Shezar!
    

    Webcomics 

-   An in-character example in _Bittersweet Candy Bowl_ - David ships Paulo with Daisy, but Paulo sees Daisy as "a kid" as well as having some rather siblingish feelings for her, though on the other hand, there might be something there. Still, he denies it, probably not in the least in part because she is the most physically underdeveloped character, despite being his age (and older than love interest Lucy).
-   _Drowtales_:
    -   There's some subtext between Snadhya'rune Vel'Sharen, the effective Big Bad of the story, and Ariel, the protagonist. This scene has Snadhya'rune talk about getting her claws into Ariel (who at the time is the physical equivalent of a 7-year-old child, just to add to the pedo vibes), and she recruits female agents at the school through sexual favors. Add to that Ariel is the biological daughter of Snadhya's lover Mel'arnach, who herself was recruited while Snadhya was her teacher and the subtext becomes _really_ unfortunate. When they actually meet for real much later in the story Snadhya acts civil enough, but this is clearly intended to get Ariel's guard down and had Kalki not ruined things by chopping off Ariel's arm it's a decent bet things would have gone further.
    -   Later on Snadhya gets this with another character who unfortunately for him _is_ in the same room, Jiaan, the bodyguard of Snadhya's niece Yami'ni who first got captured by her Empaths and Mind Raped for what's implied to be _weeks_ and then trotted out a completely broken man who is forced into a sadistic fight to the death as part of a deluded fool's Engagement Challenge, and while he manages to win his "reward" is nothing if not similar to being lobotomized and Snadhya's clearly predatory declaration that "he is mine" after receiving her "safe" taint is the icing on the Squick cake.
    -   Snadhya's (adopted) twin sister Khaless is no slouch to this trope, considering that she's a shapeshifting Eldritch Abomination Mind Hive made up of the souls of people she's absorbed over the years, including the original Khaless. As soon as it became clear that she had slept with Kharla'ggen, whose own unique form of Demonic Possession more or less leaves her with the mental capacity of a child the forum reacted with near universal DO NOT WANT.
-   _Girl Genius_:
    -   Lucrezia-In-Agatha/Klaus in Bad Future. Lucrezia takes over her own daughter's body and then mind-controls Klaus, her old lover and father of said daughter's Love Interest, to force him to marry her (still in Agatha's body!) and use him as a puppet.
    -   Lucrezia-In-Agatha with anyone. Even Mad Scientist characters in the story are squicked out by the very idea.
-   _El Goonish Shive_. This is Tedd's reaction to the thought of Nanase, his cousin, involved with _anyone_.
-   _The Order of the Stick_:
    -   Tsukiko is a necromancer who likes undead. LIKE likes undead. Even Xykon is squicked by this.
    -   Belkar can do this In-Universe thanks to taking the "craft distubing mental image" feat.
-   _Sluggy Freelance_ proudly presents you with Sam/Zombie-Head-On-A-Stick. Yes, that's a guy named Sam shipped with the rotting head of a zombie that's been stuck on the end of a stick.
-   _Unsounded_:
    -   Sessine smushes an unwilling Murkoph against her boobs, which have thorns coming out of them which snag on and tear Murkoph's skin.
    -   Bastion is made to stop questioning Lady Ilganyag by her manipulating memories of him having sex with his friends Rahm and Iori, who have just been erased from his actual memories, and then she tops it off with a memory of Delicieu forcing himself on Bastion while experimenting on him.

    Web Original 

-   _The Homestuck Epilogues_: Ultimate Dirk using his narrative powers to brainwash Rose in to joining his plan to leave everybody on Earth C and start the "most important Sburb session." His controlling actions would be bad enough on their own, but making matters worse is that Dirk is Rose's genetic father (although because they're from different timelines, they're the same age). Even though Incompatible Orientation is involved, the Epilogues still had subtext about this, like Dirk telling the reader to get their head out of the gutter after he narrated something that sounded dirty out of context, and Dave openly bringing up the incestuous undertones before Roxy tells him to change the subject.
-   _Touch (2017)_ has Father, a serial child molester with mind control powers, using said powers on Casper, a thirteen-year-old boy. The subtext of the scene is... very clear. Luckily, Casper is able to use his own powers to get out of there before things progress too far.

___