_"I have CDO. It's like OCD, but with the letters in alphabetical order — **like they're supposed to be.**"_

Someone who's obsessively organized requires _order_ in their life. They must adhere to the rules, and everything has to be perfectly organized. Stepping out of line isn't an option. Lines must be straight, angles must be just the right degree, and the numbers must absolutely match. Sometimes this translates into Good with Numbers or Hyper-Awareness.

Can be justified if the character has a career in chemistry or engineering etc., where it really _is_ crucial to have measurements just right, or a job such as bomb technician or infectious disease handler, where doing even _one_ thing even a little bit wrong could mean death for you and others.

Often a trait of the Defective Detective or the Mad Mathematician. See also Schedule Fanatic, a person who requires everything to be done precisely on time. For a less extreme version, see Neat Freak. When this becomes a superpower see Clock King. A certain type of character will act like this for no other reason than to annoy people.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Arata: The Legend_ has Yataka, who is obsessed with everything, especially himself, being absolutely spotless. He insists that his zokusho wear gloves at all times (and gets really pissed off when they touch him without gloves), he claims to take baths twice a day, refuses to allow anyone to get into the same hot spring as him, if his zokusho disobey him, he traps them in his domain's landfill until they "repent", he apparently has servants to sweep up even the smallest pile of dirt or trash the moment it appears, and whenever someone leaves or enters his palace, there's a machine that sanitizes them as they are going in or out.
-   Captain Levi, the leader of the Recon Corps in _Attack on Titan_, is a major neat freak: he dislikes blood (even though fighting Titans is an incredibly messy job) and goes to great lengths to keep himself clean while cleaning up around base. In one of the first scenes he's featured in, he wipes titan blood off of his hands and the handles to his blades while expressing disgust for the mess. Titan blood evaporates. Quickly.
-   Eiichiro, the protagonist from the sports manga _Baby Steps_, is a perfectionist, and obsessed with keeping things organized. He's known at his school for his ridiculously neat notes, which actually end up helping his tennis playing.
-   _Case Closed_ has an arc where Kogoro has to investigate the murder of a rich man, whose servants all have some sort of phobia or quirk. The butler, in particular, is a meticulous perfectionist who is constantly fixing the angles of tablecloths, paintings, etc. around the house.
-   In _Darker than Black_, every contractor has a remuneration for using their powers, sometimes an involuntary reaction (such as de-aging) but more often an overwhelming compulsion. The second enemy contractor we see in the series had to find things to arrange at equidistant points in a quadrilateral, which allows Hei to kill him effortlessly while he's doing it.
-   _Death Note_:
    -   Mikami's daily schedule is exact to the minute. It's part of what gets him caught when he willfully _breaks_ this habit temporarily to try and tie up a loose end himself.
    -   Light shows signs of being obsessively organized as well; he seems to be a Neat Freak with routines he HAS to go through i.e. he has to place his shoes _just_ so, doesn't leave the house much, _always_ locks the door and sets it up so he'll know if someone was in his room and messed with his stuff (it's implied he did this even _before_ he needed to), etc. (Insert joke about how just because you're paranoid doesn't mean they're not out to get you.)
-   Re-l Meyer from _Ergo Proxy_ is a straight-forward example. She's obsessed with both cleanliness and punctuality, and while investigating crime scenes has a habit of symmetrically rearranging some of the evidence.
-   Monster of the Week Mediator Botis of _Future Card Buddyfight_ appears on the set of a film and rants about how everything is just slightly off. He also has a perfectly symmetrical attack, which he brags about.
-   Yoshikage Kira, the Big Bad of _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Diamond is Unbreakable_. A simple businessman and a Serial Killer who has been secretly operating in Morioh for nearly 20 years. The trope is the reason why he's so obsessed with having a normal, predictable life. He even delays finishing off Koichi after noticing that his sock was inside out, and couldn't concentrate until he put his sock and shoe back on right, despite knowing that Josuke would be arriving to help in less than a minute.
-   _Moriarty the Patriot_: Albert is fixated on things being in proper order, but the focus is more on his discomfort with "distortions" to the way the world should be properly.
-   Chiri Kitsu from _Sayonara, Zetsubou-Sensei_. It's in her freakin' name! Not even having to kill will stop her from balancing the world. But it's that kind of show. She's so precise, when she speaks, the punctuation _shows up onscreen_. Also, her Cross-Popping Veins are perfectly symmetrical and located in the middle of her forehead (though not always, oddly enough).
-   Death the Kid from _Soul Eater_ is obsessed with symmetry.
    -   Pointing out he's naturally asymmetrical by virtue of only one side of his hair having white streaks in it makes him curl up in self-loathing.
    -   He was defeated after a blade cut off a couple of centimeters of his hair on one side and he freaked out. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   In the middle of a hunt, he abandoned his two sidekicks to go home and make sure a painting was hanging straight. It was; it _always_ is. When he saw a blatantly asymmetrical enemy he fought back with Unstoppable Rage.
    -   More than halfway through an exam, Kid was still trying to write _his name_, and had a complete psychological breakdown when he erased too hard and tore the paper.
    -   When his arm was cut off his first thought was that he was even less symmetrical than before.
    -   As it turns out, the reason he has such bad obsessive compulsive tendencies is that he's an Elder God representing the madness of Order.

    Comic Books 

-   _Damage Control_ with Edifice Rex, a cosmically-powered crewman. He declares his duty was to clean _the entire planet._ He later vows to clean the universe by putting everything back in the primordial cosmic egg.
    
    "A world where garbage bags have built-in handles. Where zip-lock stripes turn green, to assure proper sealage. Where spray cleaner comes in a bottle with setting both spray and stream. So many gifts they have, so untidy they are. Rejected though I am, I will leave them with this gift: a world of perpetual neatness. With a place for everything — and everything in its place!"
    
-   As mentioned under Western Animation, Twilight Sparkle suffers from this. So, naturally, it appears in _My Little Pony Micro Series_.
    -   Issue #1; shelving a book by its introductory subtitle rather than the larger-font main title, to Jade's annoyance.
        -   Later, Twilight gets caught up in reading a book she was meant to be shelving, but Jade also admits that she gets that way, hence why the library is cluttered with unshelved books.
    -   Issue #3; Twilight asks Spike to take a letter, he immediately objects since they're in Canterlot and Princess Celestia is literally 40 feet away. Twilight justifies the letter because it can be saved and properly indexed. Celestia comments, when reading the letter, that she was just right there and they could have told her then.
-   _Transformers: More than Meets the Eye_'s incarnation of Ultra Magnus seems to have O.C.D, to the point of considering an Autobot with his badge on crooked to be automatically disreputable, even prompting Tailgate to mock "\[...\] Ultra Magnus is an O.C.D. control freak who uses learning to hurt people" when Ultra Magnus' un-abridged teaching of the Autobot code bores him into sleep. Ultra Magnus' reaction to thinking said "graffiti" was a spec of dust further proves this.
    
    -   His attitude in issue 13 (especially in the shuttle) doesn't help his case either.
    
    "Look! The fifth rivet in that sequence - it's 30 degrees wide of the weld line! I knew there was something odd about this shuttle."
    
    -   Becomes something of a Cerebus Retcon when it turns out that he's like this because he's having a very drawn-out breakdown where he enforces all the rules with equal vigor, even the minor and stupid ones. He loosens up a fair bit once he has a chance to work through it.
-   In _Violine_, Violine's chauffeur constantly expresses things in minute details or splits numbers up into smaller units. Marushka is obsessed with hygiene and health, even analyzing Violine's stool to see if she eats healthily enough.

    Fan Works 

-   _Dragon Ball Z Abridged_ applies this to Mr.Perfect Cell, who makes _three_ different combat rings all because they weren't perfect like he was - the first one had a green tile, the second one was in the shape of a circle (and it had a green tile) and the last one, before he gave up, had half a tile. The following episode revealed that he patched it up, much to his annoyance.
-   _Infinity Train: Blossoming Trail_: Chloe Cerise is noted to dislike new things and has multiple routines: she always has the same lunches from home every day, she has her mother brush her hair 100 times, she dislikes it if a recipe isn't followed correctly, etc. Once she gets on the eponymous Infinity Train, she decides to break out of these habits and become much more daring.
-   In _Twilight's List_, Twilight Sparkle lives her life by checklists and freaking out when things don't go to plan. The plot is driven by an unchecked box on a checklist she made up when she was a filly, to go on a date and get a kiss. Rainbow Dash helps break her out of it, though Twilight does get both the date and the kiss.
-   In _Ultra Fast Pony_, Twilight Sparkle constantly corrects others (including the narrator) over minor mistakes. This gets lampshaded in "How to Control Freaks", where she flips out over not being able to write a journal entry for the day. Someone else says she's acting a bit OCD, and she shoots back:

    Films — Animation 

-   Wasabi in _Big Hero 6_: His workbench is meticulously organized, with a spot outlined in white for every tool he has. He even has an outline for his car keys and his coffee mug.
    
    **Wasabi:** I have a system. A place for everything, and everything in its place.  
    **GoGo:** Need this! _\[grabs a wrench and jostles the whole table\]_  
    **Wasabi:** You can't do that! This is anarchy! Society has rules!
    
-   The _Futurama_ movie "Bender's Game", Rosie makes a cameo in a mental institute saying "Must clean up! Everything must be clean! That's why the dog had to die! He was a dirty dog! Dirty! Dirty! And that boy Elroy! Dirty! Dirty!" Not only does she have Super OCD but she's a murderer!
-   Rabbit from _The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh_ is obsessed with keeping things clean, tidy, and in place and if someone — usually Tigger — messes with it, he goes nuts.
-   M-O from _Wall E_ stands for Microbe Obliterator, which is an apt name for a droid who is **dead serious** about cleaning anything remotely foreign-contaminated. Which could make perfect sense aboard a starship where people have lived for generations and might not have much resistance to infection. Of course, one wonders what happens once they return to Earth.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   Aubrey of _Anamorph_ is compelled to arrange things in just the right way. Based on the timing, he may be using it to ward off memories of the Uncle Eddie killings. His obsession with details helps him to spot clues in the case.
-   _As Good as It Gets_ plays this for drama, with Jack Nicholson's character showing several common obsessively organized fixations, like being unable to walk on the lines between paving stones and only using disposable forks, even in restaurants. And those are the pedestrian quirks. The really bad stuff is needing to have several _dozen_ pre-packaged soap bars to wash his hands with because he'll only use one for a few seconds before throwing it away. A new soap bar every trip to the bathroom? Sure, it cuts down on germ exposure. _Three or four_ every time you wash your hands? Holy crap.
-   _The Aviator_ is centered around Howard Hughes' (played by Leo DiCaprio) struggle with his obsessively organized tendencies. While the film treads familiar territory (task repetition, cleanliness, isolation), it also shows how Hughes was able to use the condition to become a famous billionaire. His manic attention to detail allows him to win Oscars, buy airlines, and fight the US Senate — and win.
-   Mr. Banks from _Mary Poppins_ is a Schedule Fanatic who insists on everything in his life being "run with precision", and when Mary Poppins shows up and causes little disruptions to his life, he sees it as chaos.
-   Roy Waller in _Matchstick Men_ can't stand to be outdoors, insists his visitors remove their shoes, opens and closes the front and back door three times, and spends an entire day cleaning the house out of fear it may be dirty.
-   Bruce Brazos from _Transformers: Dark of the Moon_. It's clear he already has a bit of a leaky faucet and he backs this up with the neurotic work environment in his company. The floors are color-coded, the staff and employees are erratic, the employee conduct manual is 500 pages long, a strict dress code, and doing something as harmless as bringing a red cup to the yellow floor is labeled a "visual and visceral betrayal" by Brazos and the offending employee is immediately dismissed.

    Literature 

-   Some portrayals of Hercule Poirot feature him wanting everything orderly and frequently complaining that eggs won't form neat little cubes. It sometimes helps him notice clues, because he notices _everything_ that's out of order. Then again, in some books, it's more of a quirk than a disability.
-   David Cusk in _The Pale King_. Thanks to his fear of being noticed for his sweating, he eventually develops the ability to keep track of a room's temperature, the locations and distances of the exits, sight lines, and proximity of every person in the room, and quickly strategize ways to avoid detection.
-   Anna in _The Mark of the Dragonfly_ gets upset that Piper is wearing clothes too big for her, because "It's all out of proportion".
-   Auri in _The Slow Regard of Silent Things_ shows signs of distress when she can't find exactly the right place for an object to go and has specific rituals she follows. This is most obvious in her description of her routines, and in the candle-making scene.
-   In _Another Note_, Beyond Birthday cleans _everything_ in his victims' homes, even things he did not touch, most notably the light sockets. He is also obsessive about L, letters and numbers, manga, and strawberry jam.
-   Isaac Asimov's _Foundation Series_: In "The Mule", Mayor Indbur III is described as a natural-born bookkeeper. He is exceptionally fastidious, and disrupting his routine can send him into paroxysms. In stressful situations, he calms himself down by drawing geometric shapes in geometric patterns, like rows of triangles or six squares in a hexagonal shape. Before he signs anything requiring his attention, he checks the page for grammatical mistakes and corrects them.

    Live-Action TV 

-   On _Being Human_ vampires who stop drinking blood try to develop daily patterns and routines so they can stop themselves from constantly thinking about blood and killing. Mitchell tried to build a 'normal' routine life for himself but kept failing. Hal managed to create complex daily rituals for himself and managed to suppress his vampire urges by religiously following them for over 50 years. However, this caused him to cut all contact with the outside world and when his routines are disrupted, he becomes violent and unstable.
-   Sheldon from _The Big Bang Theory_ has a cushion that was "his spot" on the sofa was stained and he spent the time in which the cushion was being cleaned slowly going crazy, eventually going to the point where he was crouching over the spot where he used to sit. Howard tries to solve the problem by grabbing Rajesh's cushion and placing it in Sheldon's spot. Rajesh starts to complain, giving us:
    
    **Howard:** Who cares where you sit? _You are not crazy!_
    
-   _Cheers:_ One episode portrays Diane as being neurotically obsessed about the contents of her pockets. Another has Lilith tease Frasier about being this, though it doesn't come up as much as it does in his own series.
-   Jon Richardson:
    -   He is the subject of fun across multiple British panel shows, particularly _8 Out of 10 Cats_ and _8 Out of 10 Cats Does Countdown_, for his obsessive need for cleanliness, order, and symmetry.
    -   In _A Little Bit OCD_, he explores his compulsions, such as the need to watch where he steps so his feet are "evened out", and reveals that he used to sleep in his car whenever his housemates' messiness became overwhelming. He also meets with OCD sufferers and treatment specialists and learns that some are so disordered that they struggle to maintain personal relationships while others become non-functional to the point of incontinence. In the end, he undergoes an assessment and is told that he exhibits some obsessive-compulsive traits but isn't disordered by them so he can't be diagnosed as actually having OCD.
-   Monica from _Friends_ can tell if the furniture has been moved even an inch, and will have a near panic attack at the thought of it. How bad she was was really Depending on the Writer. In one episode, Chandler cleans the apartment to make Monica happy. When Monica came home, she _did_ notice that things were moved, but she thought that the gesture was sweet.
-   While Danny Tanner in _Full House_ is generally just a Neat Freak, he reaches obsessively organized levels when his personal Christmas of Spring Cleaning time comes around. Another episode has the girls moving _every single item_ on Danny's wall a few inches to the side because he'd otherwise notice the one thing they had to move to cover a hole in the wall. There's finally a Heel Realization mixed with Surprisingly Realistic Outcome and a Freudian Excuse—when Danny goes overboard during the aforementioned Spring Cleaning, DJ drags the family into her room where they all spend several minutes complaining about him. After they leave, Danny emerges from the closet (he was installing shelf paper) and is clearly devastated at the realization of how out-of-control his behavior has gotten and that it's genuinely making everyone hate him. When he goes out for a drive to clear his head, he muses that he's always loved to clean, ever since his mother gave him cleaning supplies as a present—and instantly realizes that (a) that's probably the root of his problem and (b) that he's doing the same thing to Michelle and that one day she might drive _her_ family crazy.
-   Emma Pillsbury on _Glee_, a severe mysophobe with an irrational fear of germs. This has naturally made her one of the biggest Neat Freak ever, to the point that she cleans every grape individually before eating it and spends an hour cleaning a pencil sharpener. The depiction of OCD on the show did get better as it went on, although still not perfect. Emma was also shown ritualistically rubbing hand lotion into her hands while counting and was also shown to have anxiety and panic attacks. She eventually seeks help.
-   _Kamen Rider Fourze_:
    -   In episode 7, the Power Trio are in detention, along with the Jerk Jock and Goth girl. When they ask the Goth what she's in for, she explains that she hacked the school computer and deleted every single picture from a school event...because her hair ribbon was slightly off-kilter in _**one**_ of the pictures.
    -   a Monster of the Week is a painter who _really_ wants his painting to be perfect and will _petrify anyone who disturbs him_ to get his wish...which includes the sweet little girl trying to help the Glee Club with a cute song about a satellite.
-   Mr. Pitt, Elaine's condescending boss, in Season 6 of Seinfeld, could never find a pair of socks that properly fit. Jerry also has a dislike for germs which borders on OCD, and Elaine warns him that his odd "tendencies" can become this if he's not careful. One episode where he's faced with more germs than usual _does_ push him over the edge temporarily. A couple of characters also join a support group for germaphobes, which is Played for Laughs.
-   Odo in _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_ is obsessively organized, along with having a very deep sense of justice. It makes him an excellent chief of security, as he will follow a case doggedly, running down options and suspects very swiftly. It also means he won't indulge in such little things as police brutality, meaning his cells tend to be the safest place for a criminal to stay. Dax got a lot of fun out of sneaking into his quarters and moving things around just a couple centimeters. When he later discovered his people, the Founders, it turned out "establishing order" is kind of their hat. On the other hand, their idea of order and his idea of justice were completely incompatible. It probably relates to their biology: Shapeshifting must require superhuman attention to detail.
-   Very briefly comes up in _Supernatural_, when the brothers have to deal with The Fair Folk, one of the listed weaknesses that the faeries have is that if something is spilled in front of them (like grains of rice), they _have_ to count it. Naturally, this comes in handy when it's time to give the bastards the bum rush.
    
    **Fairy**: (As Sam is performing the un-summoning spell) One, two, three, four... _You \*ass\*._
    
-   _Whitechapel_: Joseph Chandler is a homicide detective who is incredibly obsessed with neatness, as well as things being clean. His behavior is bad enough that he often stays at the Homicide Department overnight, making everything neat for the next day...only for him to end up spending the entire night doing this. He also has counting rituals that can become so debilitating that he is stuck in place for hours going through them even as he becomes more distraught at not being able to stop. It should be noted, however, that while most of the examples are Played for Laughs, Chandler's OCD is shown as an illness and a serious issue, rather than something used for comedy.

    Video Games 

-   _Dicey Dungeons_: Before the Robot entered the dungeons, they were the kind of human who used color-coded charts to schedule their life down to the minute, which Lady Luck (who by her nature thrives on chaos) finds distasteful.
-   In _Dishonored_, the Lord Regent Hiram Burrows is obsessively organized, though it isn't stated outright. The Heart will mention that he has to count every flagstone he steps on and that he has to obsessively record all of his thoughts in order to keep everything organized (which allows Corvo to find his secret confession of his crimes) and if Corvo confronts him in his safe room he will ask if he's being punished for his imperfections.
-   In _The Elder Scrolls_, Jyggalag is the Daedric Prince of Order, and his fundamental nature is to order and catalogue _everything_. He once created the Library of Jyggalag, a massive repository that predicted the actions of every being in the universe which Jyggalag compiled by simple study and deduction. Jyggalag's extreme obsession with ordering things lead him to become the most powerful of the Daedric Princes until the others joined forces and cursed him to become his antithesis: the insane and unpredictable Mad God Sheogorath, who would then be locked into an endless cycle where he would shift between these two beings and destroy all he had built. Sotha Sil and his priesthood, who argue that the Daedric Princes are "flaws" in the structure of the universe, presented a theory that Jyggalag is a Mad God driven insane by the contradiction of being a Prince of pure Order while being a cosmic "error" at the same time.
-   _Hitman (2016)_: one of your targets, bioterrorist and militia leader Sean Rose, suffers from acute OCD, leading to an obsession with cleanliness and a compulsion to maintain order wherever he can, such as making sure all clocks are synchronized to his watch and arranging pencils on his desk in a neat and orderly fashion. This can be exploited, as stress from having his neatness and order disrupted will cause him to seek out cigarettes to smoke and calm his nerves, which you can lace with drugs beforehand to make him suffer a bad trip and isolate himself for an easy kill.
-   Each of the playable characters in _Mary Skelter: Nightmares_ have at least one obsession that is based upon their namesake Fairy Tale. For example, Jack is obsessed with climbing the Jail Tower, Red Riding Hood feels lightheaded and emotionally weak without something to wear near her head, Thumbelina feels comfortable in tightly-enclosed spaces, and Rapunzel throws a fit when someone casually suggests that she cut her hair. This is because they are Half Human Hybrids whose pregnant mothers were transformed into Marchens by the fairytale-themed Jail; they inherited just enough from their Marchen mothers for the Jail's desire for mimicry to affect their subconscious.
-   Symmetra from _Overwatch_ is obsessed with order and perfection, which is shown both in her dialogue and in one of her highlight intros, where she is annoyed when the camera goes askew and corrects it. Her comic short "A Better World" elaborates on this.
-   The Neurotic trait in _The Sims 3_. Sims who have it will worry about random objects, obsess about their hygiene, and check and re-check things like the stove and the fireplace. It doesn't make them a Neat Freak, though, so for a proper case of Super OCD, the player would have to combine it with the Neat trait.
-   _SWAT 4_ afflicts your AI teammates with this in single-player. If you order your squadmates to do anything to a door, they will neatly stack up on the door before doing anything else. So if you ordered all 4 of them over and one is being blocked from reaching his position (most often by you) they will incessantly tell you to move over and refuse to carry out their order until everyone is on the PIXEL.
-   In _Zeno Clash_, the Corwid of the Free each have their own obsession which they pursue single-mindedly. One guy's obsession is walking in a straight line, forever. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Another's obsession is killing and eating people. Then there's the guy who wants to be invisible and achieves this through rather unconventional methods.

    Web Animation 

-   Virgo from _AstroLOLogy_, to the point of absurdity; in "Virgo Da-Vinci", she resorts to _leveling a mountain_ with explosives to make the landscape look perfect enough for her to paint, while in "Parking Disorder", she takes some time before her flight out of town to rearrange several cars that are incorrectly parked (and then screams in frustration when the plane takes off and she sees that she missed one).
-   _Happy Tree Friends_: Petunia is obsessively organized. The episode "Wishy Washy" gratuitously showed us how bad it is with some serious panic attacks, at one point she brushes her teeth so hard that her gums start bleeding! It gets worse when she commits suicide with a POTATO PEELER just because her skin was dirty.

    Webcomics 

-   _Lackadaisy_: Mordecai has an impulse to clean everything and is hideously terrified of anything untidy, unclean, or unorganized. Mitzi knows right away that he's the one who cleared out their arsenal because he cleaned up the storeroom after stealing everything useful from it. Taken to comedic levels in a bonus comic where he freaks out on their hostage because he keeps moving to the side of the car and breaking the symmetry.

    Web Videos 

-   _SMPLive_: Cooper's chests and inventory are always organized, and he will spend a significant amount of time making sure to put everything in its proper place.

    Western Animation 

-   The Earl of Lemongrab of _Adventure Time_ displays many obsessively organized attributes on several occasions. According to Patrick Seery, a production assistant on the show, "he likes order." Which means that anything that's even REMOTELY un-orderly freaks him out. As soon as he walked into the candy castle, he saw candy people pillow-fighting, and Cinnamon Bun lying on the floor, which was covered in candy-muck. He screamed that the castle was in "UNACCEPTABLLLEE CONDITIIIOONN!!!" and sent everybody in the room to thirty days in the dungeon. "IF ANYONE NEEDS ME I'LL BE TAKING A NAP! A..a-a...and clean this place up or Dungeon! THREE HOURS DUNGEON!!!"
-   Mechanicles from _Aladdin: The Series_: All of his schemes in the show revolve around his need to keep things clean and tidy (melting desert sand to create flawless glass, wiping out a rainforest to destroy all the bugs, "steam-cleaning" the Earth by boiling the oceans, etc.). He also keeps an organized "things to do" list with him at all times. In his debut episode, Aladdin and co. press his Berserk Button by making a mess in his headquarters as a distraction.
-   Edd from _Ed, Edd n Eddy_ has a habit of labeling things around his bedroom and is obsessed with having everything immaculate and in the right order.
-   Breach of _Generator Rex_ teleported the city of Greenville, Ohio to a pocket dimension, where she turned it into a _Silent Hill_\-like "dollhouse". The whole place is creepily well-organized, with mopeds perfectly aligned in the streets and ice cream trucks carefully stacked on top of each other. Messing the place up is a good way to get her angry, and she wasn't exactly the most stable individual to begin with. Her OCD is actually so bad that she literally implodes if the destruction gets to be too much for her.
-   Amanda from _Milo Murphy's Law_ is a Schedule Fanatic who always wants everything to be as organized and predictable as possible. Milo has a crush on her, but he's Born Unlucky and The Jinx, so Amanda's need for order makes her even more nervous around him than most people.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_
    -   As an artistic genius, Rarity is obsessed with aesthetics. She has difficulty tearing herself away from fixing a messy bookcase despite the presence of a much bigger problem, namely the tree that crashed into Twilight's house (which happened to cause said messy bookcase). See also the bird's nest bit in "Winter Wrap-Up". Also, when she is temporarily given Rainbow Dash's cutie mark in "Magical Mystery Cure", she keeps the clouds organized in a checkerboard-like formation. And in the Bad Future of Sweetie Belle's Nightmare Sequence in "For Whom the Sweetie Belle Toils", she ends up spending the rest of her life as a mad recluse, obsessively checking and rechecking her work for mistakes.
    -   Twilight Sparkle's history of being a model student makes her an extreme by-the-book perfectionist. Her obsession with order causes a lot of trouble in "Lesson Zero", going crazy because she thinks she's going to be late with her weekly friendship report, which she thinks will cause her to be sent back to magic kindergarten for missing what amounts to one homework assignment. She's also extremely devoted to plans and timesheets, which is a personality trait often associated with this trope. She was once up at three o'clock in the morning, obsessing that her schedule didn't leave her any time to plan next month's schedule.
    -   Starlight Glimmer, Twilight's Evil Counterpart and the Arc Villain of the fifth season premiere, also has traits of this, such as stopping mid-song to make sure somepony's mane is identical to the rest, ensuring the entire town she controls is _completely_ identical in every way, and having an obsession with keeping things orderly and equal. However, unlike Twilight who's OCD tendencies, Starlight Glimmer applies hers to everyone else.
-   Foduck from _Theodore Tugboat_ likes doing certain things exactly the same way, and in "Foduck and the Rainbow", when little surprises change his routine, he feels all mixed up inside.
-   Porky Pig, in _The Looney Tunes Show_ episode "Gossamer is Awesomer!", is obsessed with having a "system", organizes _everything_ in Bugs' kitchen, makes sure _all_ of his soup cans are facing the exact same way, and is so Crazy-Prepared that he has a recycling bin dedicated to wet paper. Bugs can't stand it.
-   Sean Rafferty from _Ready Jet Go!_ is The Perfectionist of the cast, and is super neurotic and gets frustrated when things aren't _exactly_ right and mistakes are made. He especially shows this in "Eye in the Sky", where he has charts for every single situation that he could end up in...except for rain.
-   _SpongeBob SquarePants_: SpongeBob often behaves in an obsessively organized way in several later season episodes, some examples include the time he became afraid of the dark, he bought thousands of night lights to light up his house and freaked out at the slightest bit of darkness. The time he invited Squidward over to his house and copied the inside of Squidward's house down to the last detail including every crack in the walls and ceiling, every detail in his paintings, and the sewing in his mother's pillows. And when he thought everything in his house was sentimental and refused to throw anything out, he even collected jars of his sweat and grease from the grill. It got to the point where he became a hoarder and his house was covered in garbage.
-   _Work It Out Wombats!_: Malik is known to make lists of pros and cons for every situation. Also, Mr. E has a precise arrangement for all of his items, and he'll get angry if something is just a tiny bit off-kilter.

___