Follow

_"You know, I've been stuck in these cages watching the mogu a lot, but I'm pretty sure I've never seen a girl mogu. What's with that?_"

Not a tribe, but an entire race or group of humanoids inexplicably made up of one sex. Male is usually the default, but females under the Cute Monster Girl rules are becoming more common and more obvious. The lack of the other sex is Hand Waved briefly (or left unexplained altogether); disaster wiping out the other half, or voluntary separation are two common reasons, although sometimes it seems they just don't appear.

If the genetic stock is replenished by mingling with other 'races', you often get the strange explanation that Gender Equals Breed, rather than the offspring being actual hybrids; alternately you can get Bizarre Sexual Dimorphism where two One Gender Races are revealed to be the male and female versions of the same species.

This is really more about creating a unique culture without having to create an enormous amount of back story. For obvious reasons this used to be an easy device to soapbox gender issues, with all the associated political and social biases in place. Sufficiently old mythological creatures may be grandfathered in even in a series avoiding One Gender Races, because the alternative gender is rarely depicted or has no instantly recognizable version.

Tends to be on the High Fantasy of fantastical scale for reasons obvious to anyone with any concept of biology (with the exception of species that are actually Hermaphrodites, clones, or something more bizarre). Assuming sex is genetically determined in the usual way, sex ratios in animals tend to even out over time, even though sexual selection would suggest only a handful of males (traditionally the "unlimited", low-investment sex, at least among mammals — birds, for example, are often a totally different story) are actually needed or preferred for a population. Within a _population_ or an explicitly social group, however, sex may or may not play much of a role. For example, the concept of mammals (such as lions and certain species of seal) who have "harems" has been commonly reinterpreted as females tolerating a single male simply due to access to resources his leadership provides, while having more than one is simply bothersome to the group after a certain age. However, this doesn't mean fewer males contribute to the species; many live on their own or in bachelor groups, taking what they can get.

In real life, there do exist all-female fish and whiptail lizard species. Also, some species have sequential hermaphroditism: meaning they can change genders throughout their lives. This can mean that the species has a very lopsided but stable sex ratio.

In the right (or wrong) subculture, expect Fanon concerning hermaphroditism and various methods of Homosexual Reproduction, especially if the race is all-female.

Subtrope of Bizarre Alien Sexes. Supertrope of Monogender Monsters. See also Chromosome Casting, Gendercide, Hermaphrodite, One-Gender School, and Species Equals Gender.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   Invoked in _3×3 Eyes_: the Sacred Folk of Amara is made entirely and exclusively of women, since their creator Ushas got permanently scarred by one of her male creations and became resentful towards them, with her Wu Amara reacting to the wound by exterminating all male creations. This however is also Deconstructed, as when Negroni points out that they have to rely on the not-always working labs to create new beings and the Sacred Folk cannot procreate by themselves.
-   The Arume in _Blue Drop_ are all female and reproduce through technical means. They can even impregnate human women, which they find highly attractive, and actively steal from earth men, _whether the women like it or not_.
    -   Notably, they _used_ to be a two-gender race, but their men went extinct, and reproduce using technology similar to cloning (they give the females some of the genes from males to make recombination easier — they're genetic hermaphrodites, albeit not physical ones). They could technically become a regular two-gender race again if they would only mate with human males, but they like things just the way they are, thank you very much; i.e., guys weird them out.
    -   Certain parts of the manga actually do take a look at the consequences of this setup: the Arume initially invaded for the men but got cold feet, and apparently do so multiple times. Unless they buckle down and broaden their horizons, they're heading for societal collapse, either due to unrest on the occupied Earth, or due to Earth women not doing anything for their slowly degrading Y-chromosome supply (they'd find incorporating new ones icky).

-   Zigzagged in _Cells at Work!_; some types of cells have both male and female members (such as Red Blood Cells), some seem to only have males (e.g., Neutrophils), while others only have females (e.g., Macrophages). Depending on whose body we look at, these are also subject to change to represent blood type.
-   _Dragon Ball_:
    -   As described by Akira Toriyama, Namekians are designed after slugs, and in-show they reproduce asexually (by laying eggs with their mouth). That said, their secondary sexual characteristics are distinctly male (see the fellow in the moustache in the picture above, although that guy only appears in an Imagine Spot that Yajirobe had, even before they visited Namek).
    -   Frieza's race is also implied to be this, as Toriyama has stated that Frieza was born from his father only. Most notably, in the _Dragon Ball Xenoverse_ games, Namekians and the "Frieza Race" are the only ones with no gender sliders.
-   In the _Elfen Lied_ anime, all Diclonius shown are female. They reproduce by infecting humans with their virus, via their vectors, invisible arms they control with their mind. They age slower physically than humans too. The only exception is the main character, who can reproduce in the same way as a human and appears to have aged at a normal rate. However, there is one male Diclonius in the manga: Lucy's half-brother.
-   The Solnoids from _Gall Force_ are all female, and reproduce by cloning. Their enemies, the Palenoids/Paranoids, are androgynous but ostensibly male (as far as the viewer can tell; they look more like living suits of armor, but all the voices are male). The Half-Human Hybrid created from combining Solnoid and Paranoid DNA is a human boy, who is used to set up the ending of the original OVA.
-   _Magi: Labyrinth of Magic_ reveals about halfway through the story that some of the Djinns came from such races, including Paimon (member of a race of beautiful black-haired women, which also might explain her Lipstick Lesbian tendencies), Phenex (Garuda, a race composed of gigantic, Winged Humanoid women) and Amon (Hermits, a whole race of old codgers).
-   In _Marginal_, humans on Earth become an all-male race after a biological disaster. There is only one individual capable of reproduction (like a queen bee) revered as "Mother". However, it turns out to be part of an elaborate Ancient Conspiracy.
-   _Maze Megaburst Space_: Fairies are all female, and reproduce with human men on the one day when they're human-sized.
-   All mermaids in the original _Mermaid Melody Pichi Pichi Pitch_ are female. They can reproduce the normal way in their human forms with other races (although this is incredibly rare if not anathema, given their strained relations with anyone else; still, Hanon mentions that mermaid nations have a streamlined age of consent, and considering that some of them are straight and nobody sees anything wrong with that...
    -   The more usual way is by having their pearl placed in a giant magic shell when they die to create a successor. (Strangely enough, the only time we see this, it creates a _six-year-old_, both mentally and physically. It is assumed that they stay that way for the next six years and then age normally.) While this results in no net increase of mermaids, it also ends up in a mermaid longer-lived than usual.
    -   Averted in the sequel series _Aqua_, with the introduction of the antagonistic merman Laurent.
-   In _Monster Musume_, the Lamia, Harpies and Arachnes have no males. As such, they require human males to reproduce.
-   Angels, Seeds of Life (Adam/Lilith), and probably the Evas themselves by extension in _Neon Genesis Evangelion_ are strongly implied to be hermaphrodites: the genome analyses shows that they have 24 chromosome pairs, which includes both Y and X sex chromosomes (meaning they have the karyotype XXYY). The very existence of paired Y chromosomes generates a bit of Fridge Logic.
-   The Kuja in _One Piece_ may be this. It's not known for sure if they are merely a tribe on an isolated island, or if they are a race separate from regular humans. What makes them weird is that they do not have one-gendered reproduction, and they have to leave their island to get pregnant with a man. The child will then always turn out to be a girl. Furthermore, they seem to be better than other people to awaken and train their Haki, but appearance-wise they are similar to other human females.
-   More in the Manga: _Pet Shop of Horrors_, with the Count and family. The fandom makes it a business of figuring out how they truly do it...
-   _Project A-Ko_: The Alpha Cygnans are all female.
-   In _Saber Marionette J_, the human inhabitants of Terra II are all male, cloned descendants of the six male survivors of the colonization mission. The Marionettes are a 'race' of Robot Girls who serve as Replacement Goldfish because they are not apparently able to create females (having X-chromosomes apparently didn't help), though their owners tend to have an ironically non-sexual attitude towards them.
-   The titular Sekirei are overwhelmingly female (only two male ones have been seen so far, three if you count Homura).
-   The Zentradi in _Super Dimension Fortress Macross_ (and the first part of _Robotech_) segregate themselves into single-sex units and reproduce by cloning, but are generally seen as one species. In The Movie adaptation _Macross: Do You Remember Love?_, however, the two sexes see each other as entirely separate races, as they have different names (Zentradi and Meltrandi) and are even at war with one another. Both forms of this gender segregation have faded away in later _Macross_ series among Zentradi who have integrated into human society.
-   In the anime continuity of _Uma Musume_, horse girls have no male counterparts.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  The best descriptions their fathers have are "mysterious", and the method of being born a horse girl is mostly overlooked.
-   The Taraks (males) and the Mejare (females) from _Vandread_; both races (Humans that were deliberately separated by gender) reproduced by couples mixing DNA to create Designer Babies.
-   It's revealed late into _The World God Only Knows_ that the New Devils who inhabit Hell in the present day are all female. There are a few men left among the older generations, but none among the youngest, which is implied to have something to do with the civil war that tore Hell apart and turned it into a Childless Dystopia.
-   _World's End Harem_: It's later revealed that the MK Virus was part of a plan to turn humanity into this, killing all male population while also researching for possible methods of Homosexual Reproduction.
-   The Koorime, or ice maidens, from _YuYu Hakusho_. They usually give birth to an identical daughter every 100 years via parthenogenesis; however, they can have sex with various male demons, and, in that case, a boy will be born who looks like his father. This boy is called a "forbidden child," and will get dropped off of the floating island where the Koorime live, in the hopes that the fall will kill them. Hiei is just such a child.

    Art 

-   In the world of _Beast Fables_, some animals' chimera forms are sex-linked. For example, only stallions can become unicorns, and only mares can become diomedes.

    Comic Books 

-   The fairy-like Preservers in _ElfQuest_ are neither male nor female. Surprisingly, all the characters who encounter any given Preserver seem to know to automatically use the gender-neutral "it". The one known exception is from futuristic series _The Rebels_ which has an apparently female elf-sized Preserver named Rosie, who has some percentage of human DNA because the Preserver DNA was not complete enough to clone a real Preserver.
-   The Guardians of the Universe in _Green Lantern_ were all male, because the females of their race thought the whole "guardians of the universe" project was misguided, and took themselves off to found an all-female society somewhere else. (They were Sufficiently Advanced Aliens, and practically immortal, so the continuation of their race was not a consideration.) When they died and were resurrected by Kyle Rayner, he intentionally made half of them female, to give them back that perspective (it didn't really work).
-   In an _Omega Men_ side-story written by Alan Moore, "Vega: A Man's World" (issue #27), a female alien anthropologist discovers another alien race composed entirely of males, with a tribal culture. When she describes the fact that it's possible to procreate with a female like her, the young man who acts as her translator is eager to try it (and she's fairly receptive, too). Unfortunately, the way the beings of this species procreate is by stabbing a giant snail-like creature in a special purple membrane, which causes babies of the tribe's species to bud off the snail (and also increases the numbers of the snails). The young man then brags to one of his elders that he's finally become strong enough to perform the ritual, the proof being outside his hut: a spear covered in red gore, as opposed to the purplish ichor of the snails.
-   In _Pocket God_, the pygmy tribe originally had only six males, much like the video game it is based on. Subverted later on when a female pygmy is introduced and she reveals that she belongs to a tribe of six female pygmies. When the tribes meet, they decide to merge together to help each other out.
-   In _Sky Doll_, the Aquarians are an all-female race that reproduce through a cloning process utilizing genetic material from an object known as the "Holy Fish." While it is not explained further, it is implied that Gaia, the figurehead of the race, has had relations with Agape, and possibly Noa, as well.
-   In _Sonic the Hedgehog (Archie Comics)_, the Bem species from Argentium are an all-female alien race, presumably due to cloning.
-   While this is not true in all _Transformers_ comics, some (especially those written by Simon Furman) display the Transformer race as free of gender, with the only "females" being failed alterations or side projects. While this makes sense as they are sexless robots, they all look and act "male". This is because the fandom is male-directed.
-   The Amazons in _Wonder Woman_ avoided the question by making their race immortal.
    -   In the original versions, the Amazons were an all-female _society_, but still human (they just don't age on Paradise Island). Post-Crisis, this was changed to being a race created by the Greek goddesses out of clay (with the souls of murdered human women.)
    -   _Wonder Woman (1942)_: The Neptunians are an all-male extraterrestrial race.
    -   _Wonder Woman (1987)_: The kreel of the Sangtee Empire claim to be all male. Any kreel who develop as female in the uterine replicators is sequestered throughout childhood to be raised as male and is only allowed to enter society at large when they can convincingly pass as a man.
    -   _Wonder Woman (2006)_: Zeus decides to replace the Amazon with his own group that's been raised from the dead, the much more noticeably undead and entirely male Gargareans, whom he thinks will be slavishly loyal to him. He's wrong as several of the Gargareans are plotting to betray him immediately since they didn't want to leave Hades.
    -   _Wonder Woman (2011)_: In the New 52, Amazons apparently are Femme Fatales who have sex with passing sailors and then murder them. Any male children born are traded as slaves to Hephaestus in exchange for weapons.
    -   _Wonder Woman: Warbringer_: The Amazons are a society of immortal women who died fighting as women and were given the chance to come back as Amazons if they took up the Amazon's oath and kept the evils that might use Themyscira as a door to the wider world at bay. They are all tied by blood and can feel the pain of their sisters in arms regardless of distance.
-   Leprechauns in _Wormwood: Gentleman Corpse_ are all male, even the queen. We aren't given details on how they reproduce.
-   Nearly every mammal species on Earth becomes this in _Y: The Last Man_, after a strange event somehow kills off every male mammal on Earth except two, a human and a monkey. (The "on Earth" part becomes important later, as the International Space Station wasn't affected.)

    Fan Works 

Examples by creator:

-   The Nendo-kata are an all-female race first created for Frederick Dean Herriot's _Urusei Yatsura_ fanfic series _The Senior Year_. They first appeared in _Together the Outland_, then afterward. They've also showed up in _Urusei Yatsura - The Ishinomaki Years_, his _Ranma ½_ stories _Three Sisters_ and _Like A Phoenix from the Ashes_, plus his _Bubblegum Crisis_ series _Illusions_.

Examples by title:

-   _The Bridge (MLP)_:
    -   Mothra and Gyaos are both all-female species who reproduce asexually. Mothra Lea is an anomaly as she was born from a union between her mother and Battra.
    -   Mermares are all female and reproduce by mating with other races. Daughters are Mermares with some of the father's traits. Sons are the father's species with some Mermare traits. The three Sirens are born from such a union; their fathers are eventually revealed to be the Windigos.
-   _Date A Re:Live_:
    -   The Rinne arc reveals that the Spirits were an all-female race before their demise, hence why only girls can bond to a Sephira Crystal. Even Shido, who's the only boy with any Reiryoku, is stronger when he's transformed into Shiori.
    -   All of the Demons are shown to be male, in contrast to all of the above-mentioned Spirits being female.
-   Purposely subverted in _Empath: The Luckiest Smurf_, as there are (and were) naturally-born female Smurfs, but the ones in Papa Smurf's generation have all died, and most of the Smurfs in Empath's generation are male (Sassette being the sole exception).
-   _Fallout: Equestria_: All the artificial alicorns are female; when they begin regaining their minds, one mentions that she remembers she used to be a stallion. Because of the fact that the "templates" used to create the alicorns are all female, any newly created alicorn is female. Part of the reason they sided with Red Eye was because he promised them male alicorns so that they could breed. Red Eye's plan fails, but the alicorns bring his data to Velvet Remedy. She is eventually able to devise a way to change some of the alicorns back into stallions, and in the afterword, there are several newborn alicorn foals.
-   _Intelligence Factor_: Defied with Throh and Sawk; they were believed to be all male until the Federation started analysing their DNA.
-   In _The Return_, Succubae are all female regardless of what gender they were as a human.
-   Subverted in _The Smurfette Village_, which shows how both male and female Smurfs were created in the beginning and why they were separated into two single-gender villages.
-   In _Weres Harry?_, veela are all female. Any female children born from veela/human unions will themselves be veela, while the male children will be ordinary (if handsome) humans.

    Film — Animation 

-   The Minions in the _Despicable Me_ movies are often assumed to be an all-male race, due to having male names and such, though some of them aren't afraid of cross-dressing when disguising themselves. Though it is possible they have No Biological Sex and just have male names.
-   Downplayed in the _Disney Fairies_ movies, in which female fairies are more common than males.

    Film — Live-Action 

-   The Venusians met in _Abbott and Costello Go to Mars_ are all female, having banished the males and claiming to have perfected immortality. One or two small girls are seen, so it's possible that some form of procreation goes on.
-   Boogymen in _Don't Look Under the Bed_. This is revealed at the end when the Boogeyman turns into Frances' imaginary friend, Zoe, who insists on using the term 'boogeyperson'.
-   The Dracs from _Enemy Mine_ are masculine ("I... am _not_... _a woman!_"), but reproduce asexually. The books on which the movie is based state that yes, Draks _can_ have more than one child in their lifetime, but something has gone wrong with Jerry, resulting in his Death by Childbirth. The books also confirms that Dracs don't _always_ reproduce asexually, and that _falling in love_ can result in pregnancy all on its own.
-   Closely related to this trope: All the Immortals shown in the _Highlander_ movie are male. One theory is that since an Immortal must suffer a violent death to become... well, _immortal_, and that in past times women were less likely to suffer violent deaths, there would be fewer female Immortals. At the same time, women were less likely to have sword training at the time of their death, and would find themselves more likely to lose a duel, even discounting any physical disadvantage. There are a number of female Immortals on the TV show, most of whom are skilled, tough and clever enough to have at least survived a few duels.
-   In the entirety of _Jack the Giant Slayer_, there is not one single female giant seen. Even the giants' fortress is inhabited only by males. Though their fortress being occupied only by males could be justified, since it is most likely a military garrison. The filmmakers have mentioned in an interview that there was at one point female giants in early stages of the script, but were cut out mainly because the director didn't want to have Jack kill any of them.
-   _Jurassic Park (1993)_: While not exactly a single race or species, dinosaurs are all female to prevent uncontrolled reproduction. Or that's what they thought.
-   Krasnoludki in _Kingsajz_ are all male, which is part of why the Magic Potion that allows Sizeshifting (and meeting normal-sized women) is in such a high demand.
-   In _Kiss Me Quick!_, the inhabitants of the Buttless Galaxy are all of a single sex (seemingly male, but that might just be outward appearance) that reproduces by splitting like amoeba. Sterilox is astounded when he is told there exist races with two sexes. He is sent to earth to acquire a superior specimen of womanhood who can act as the progenitor for a servant race. Dr. Breedlove shows him a wide variety of examples of feminine pulchritude in varying stages of undress, but never having seen a woman before, Sterilox has no idea what he is looking at, or what he is supposed to be looking for.
-   _Kong: Skull Island_: According to the website, the monstrous spiders (called Mother Longlegs) are all female.
-   The 1995 film _Leapin Leprechauns_ present all leprechauns as male and all fairies as female. When a character asks if they marry each other, both sides react offended by the idea.
-   Vampires in _Perfect Creature_ are exclusively male, the result of a mysterious virus that causes normal women to give birth to vampires. No female was ever born, coupled with the fact they can't turn other people into vampires and are unable to breed with humans, their propagation hangs solely on more Brothers being born from this virus. The plot is kicked off when it's revealed that they haven't produced any new members in 70 years and they turn to genetic manipulation to fix this, unleashing one crazed vampire scientist in the process.
-   The Hutts of _Star Wars_ are hermaphroditic, but as a cultural thing, they alternate gender terminology between the periods when they are capable of reproduction and when they are not (as a result, we could consider them a _genderfluid_ race). At least, that was the case in the _Star Wars Legends_ continuity. The new Expanded Universe has made them dual sexed again, without the gender switching.
-   _The Time Machine (1960)_: The Morlocks here all seem to be males, or at least none shown look female. If any seen are female, they have no sexual dimorphism.
-   The vampires in _We Are the Night_ are all female. It's explained that the male vampires were too noticeable and were all killed off, so now there are only females left. This is also a more easily explained one, as they just only turn women.
-   In _What Planet Are You From?_, Harold is a member of an all-male alien race sent to Earth to procure a mate.

    Literature 

-   _Bas-Lag Cycle_: The Khepri are a version of this trope. Males and females both exist, but only females are sapient. Females resemble a red-skinned human woman with a scarab beetle for a head; males are just the scarab and are essentially mindless.
-   _The Belgariad_: Dryads are a female-only race that live as long as the tree to which they're bonded (sometimes hundreds or thousands of years). They reproduce by breeding with humans. Sons are human and sent to live in their father's world while daughters are dryad and raised by the dryads in the forest. The exception is the Tolnedran royal family. A dryad-human marriage means the royal males are human and the royal females are dryad, but the females remain in human society because one is destined by ancient treaty to become the wife of the Rivan King. It's strongly implied the original human-dryad marriage was a manipulation to ensure the Rivan King, who would have a sorcerer's unnatural lifespan, would be given a wife that was equal to him in both social status and lifespan, as such equalities in sorcerer marriages are very important to the gods.
-   In _The BFG_, all Giants are male; the BFG explains that giants simply come into being.
-   _Black Fleet Crisis_: The Fallanassi are a single-sex sect of Force users (only women).
-   _Cal Leandros_:
    -   Pucks are a male-only species. They boink anyone, but how they reproduce is left a mystery. Since all Pucks look _identical_, it's been implied that this is some kind of magical cloning (Hobgoblin remarks that Pucks only consider _themselves_ worth reproducing with).
        
        **Niko:** You breed with yourself, goat. I believe you have the corner on inbreeding.  
        **Hobgoblin:** Who else would be worthy?
        
    -   In _Trick of the Light_, which takes place in the same universe, the main character notes that Pucks are a clone species. How they reproduce is never stated, but in _Nightlife_, Darkling refers to Robin as a "Mitotic shithead". Also, Pucks are referred to in several places as goats, or mutated goats, or something else about goats, which leads one to wonder about the origin of the Puck species.
    -   The process is elaborated upon in _Doubletake_. Every thousand years or so, all the Pucks meet up, count how many remain and generally catch up before, naturally, engaging in an orgy with the only creatures not terrified of that many Pucks in one place. They then choose a number of Pucks by lot and order them to reproduce, which consists of somehow generating a clone completely identical to themselves, including all memory and experience. The cloning is strictly mandated, a death sentence is the alternative.
-   In Christine Feehan's _Carpathians_ series, the titular "pre-vampire" species have very few females, mostly due to them not being born very often, or not managing to survive the transition between drinking mother's milk and drinking blood. This leads to male Carpathians either fighting it out for the few females, or finding telepathic human females to mate with.
-   The humans in the _Celaeno_ series by Jane Fletcher are all female, as are (presumably) the domesticated animals. Only the animals indigenous to the planet reproduce naturally, the domesticated animals are cloned, while the humans have their genetic information imprinted from the gene-mother to the birth-mother.
-   _Consider Her Ways_ speculates how society would function after a male Gendercide. While the new society is technically human, the species has been biologically restructured along with society into four classes: the Mothers are enormously fat and only bear children, the Workers are extremely large and strong and do physical labour, the Servitors are small and do other menial work, and the Doctorate most closely resemble contemporary humans and are the ruling intellectual class.
-   The Arachosians in Cordwainer Smith's short story "The Crime and Glory of Commander Suzdal" are a Lost Colony consisting only of men, as the result of something unexplained about their star which "makes femininity carcinogenic". Oh, and they reproduce... the normal way.
-   _The Crimson Shadow_: Cyclopians and dwarves have no female members from what's seen, nor are they even mentioned. It's left unclear just how either species reproduces.
-   _Cthulhu Mythos_: All extraterrestrial species — not the unique Eldritch Abominations — are composed of neuter creatures that reproduce asexually. Though nothing is stated outright, the implication is that asexuality, in all possible senses, is a _necessity_ for technological advancement on the scale that the Mi-Go, the Elder Things, and the Great Race of Yith demonstrate. It's likely that the aforementioned unique beings have non-binary genders as well; the narrator of "The Call of Cthulhu" refers to Cthulhu as "he" sometimes, but it's the epicene "he", judging from the number of times that Cthulhu is also called "It".
-   In _The Dark Profit Saga_, the Dwarves are all male. This doesn't stop them from reproducing, although no one knows how. And trying to ask a Dwarf usually results in a beating. One day, a Dwarf is seen alone, and the next, there's a tiny, bearded Dwarf on his back, swinging around a toy hammer. For this reason, Dwarves tend to be very uncomfortable discussing romantic relationships, since they themselves don't have them. It often gets to TMI levels, with a Dwarf reacting the way a prudish person might react to a graphic description of a sex act.
-   The Vampires and Kurjans in _Dark Protectors_ lack the traditional X chromosome (having instead a VY chromosome) and are incapable of siring female children. As such, they get their mates by finding a compatible human female. However, any resulting children will be male.
-   _Discworld_:
    -   The golems, being created beings, are genderless — until _Going Postal_, when one of them gets named "Gladys" so the postmistress doesn't object to her cleaning the ladies' privies. Since golems believe what they've been told to, Gladys is subsequently female, and people think of her as such (and in _Making Money_, Moist notes that, somehow, this seems to make the "default" golems male).
    -   Subverted with the dwarfs, who seem to be an all-male species, but it turns out that female dwarfs just look — and traditionally _act_ — just like male dwarfs. (Later on, some of the female dwarfs start to push back on this a bit.) So, in a way, they _are_ a one-gender race, albeit in the socially-constructed definition of the term.
    -   The Nac mac Feegle are an _almost_ all-male race: females are very rare, and always become Keldas. The Kelda does the thinking for the clan, while the Big Man (either her husband or her eldest son) leads them in the fighting. The rest of the clan are her brothers, brothers-in-law or children. When a female child comes of age, she takes a few of her brothers to find a clan that lacks a Kelda.
-   Chelonians, in _Doctor Who Expanded Universe_ novels by Gareth Roberts, are a race of hermaphroditic humanoid cyborg turtles. They all self-identify as male, but parents and offspring are referred to as "mothers" and "daughters."
-   _A Door into Ocean_ is about an all-female race on the ocean world Shora who reproduce by parthenogenesis. They are master genetic engineers.
-   _The Draco Tavern_: The alien Chirpsithra are all female (or are said to appear so, though how you can tell when they're 11 feet tall with salmon-pink exoskeletons, deponent knoweth not). Males are never seen, and other races learn not to ask about them, because it offends the otherwise good-natured Chirps.
-   The Draconians from the _Dragonlance_ novels are all male in the earlier works. This is explained and expanded on in a later book, _The Doom Brigade_. Very short version: Draconians were a created race, and the creators decided at the last minute not to allow the draconians to breed and put the eggs containing the female draconians into magical stasis. They were eventually freed.
-   The Tleilaxu in the _Dune_ series are all-male, ahem, geneticists. It is later revealed that the "axlotl tanks" repeatedly mentioned throughout the series are semi-conscious Tleilaxu females hooked up to machines and used for the sole purpose of their genetic experiments, which include raising the dead by harvesting their DNA. Some of them manage to escape and are _not_ happy about it; they become the precursors to the Honored Matres of later stories.
-   _Empire from the Ashes_: The Achuultani are all male and reproduce via cloning because the evil A.I. running their culture won't allow female cloning or normal breeding.
-   _Evolution_: The last of humanity's descendants 500 million years in the future are all functionally female, there are no males anymore, and gender is meaningless.
-   _Fablehaven_ has a few of these. Fairies are always female because the male fairies were transformed into imps. Astrids are all male.
-   In _Faery Rebels_ by R. J. Anderson, faeries are an all-female race who leave an egg containing a new faery when they die. Later in the book, it is revealed that this isn't supposed to happen. Faeries would marry human men and have their children, then bring back any daughters they had to be raised in the wyld as faeries. In the second book, we find out this isn't the norm either. Male faeries do exist, and just as frequently as females. Mating with humans is unusual for their kind.
-   Part of _The Female Man_ is set on "Whileaway", a utopian alternate future Earth where the entire male population was killed off by a plague generations earlier, though it's implied in a couple places that the men may have in fact been killed off by the women in a worldwide war of the sexes. The novel explores what the ramifications of a single-sex society might actually be (well, when it's not in the middle of an Author Filibuster about how women are oppressed): on Whileaway, for instance, the greatest sexual taboo is cross-generation, getting involved with someone old enough to be your parent or your child.
-   Played for Horror in _Goblin Slayer_. Goblins are an entirely male species, but there's also a serious number of them. The reason is because whenever they attack a settlement, they will always try to kidnap females and imprison them in their nests to use them to breed. Every single Goblin out there is a Child by Rape _by default._ And that's only when they feel practical about it. Other times, they do it for the sake of Cold-Blooded Torture.
-   _Green (2011)_ downplays and justifies this trope. The majority of leprechauns are male, but there _are_ females. This is because leprechauns are a very long-lived species and the gender-imbalance serves as population control by stopping them from having too many babies.
    
    **Brownwyn:** We leprechauns live a long time, Lil. A very long time, indeed, by human standards. If our numbers were equal between the sexes, we'd have overrun you ages ago. But our lasses are born scarcely one to four lads. It's nature's little way o' keeping the folk in check.
    
-   _Hainish_:
    -   In _The Left Hand of Darkness_, the inhabitants of the planet Winter are humans that have been genetically engineered to spend most of their time in an androgynous, sexless form, with monthly periods of "kemmer" in which they develop sexual dimorphism (any individual can manifest either sex) and interest in intercourse. The alien impact this has on a biologically male outside observer is a major part of the plot.
    -   The short story "The Matter of Seggri" deals with a planet where males are a rarity, with something like 12 females for every one male. The story is written like a study about the anthropological quirks of such a species and how it affects the planet.
-   _Harry Potter_:
    -   The Veela are an ambiguous case. The Slavic fairies they're based on are all female, as are all the ones mentioned in the books. However, Half-veela humans are considered distinct from full Veela, and the ability to reproduce with humans (or wizards, at least) would imply the existance of male Veela as well, although given that they're explicitally magical it doesn't really require it. For what it's worth, Word of God does mention one part-veela male: Louis, the eighth-veela son of Fleur and Bill.
    -   All centaurs seen in the books are male. Word of God says that yes, they are a one-gender race.
    -   Hags are also mentioned at various points and seem to all be female.
    -   All the goblins mentioned are male. While there is no mention of female goblins in the books, _Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them_ features a female goblin night-club singer.
-   _Herland_ sort of fits this trope, as the inhabitants of Herland are perfectly normal human women but can somehow reproduce asexually, with only girls born.
-   The witches in the _His Dark Materials_ trilogy constitute a separate, entirely female species. They breed with human men, but generally don't get too emotionally attached, since — compared to the witches — humans have such very, very _short_ lifespans. The children of these witch/human couplings might be male or female, but only the daughters are the same species as the mothers, the sons are short-lived humans like the fathers. Witches from some other worlds had men amongst their ranks, although neither male nor female witch lived any longer than humans.
-   In James Tiptree Jr.'s novella _Houston, Houston, Do You Read?_, astronauts from the present (all male) accidentally travel through time to the future Earth. Eventually, they discover that plague wiped out most human life, including all the males. The surviving women reproduce through cloning and have no interest in bringing back males, though they do want some genetic material to produce a few more templates to clone _from_. They also have no intention of allowing the men to disrupt their way of life and aren't going to keep them prisoner; much more humane to simply kill them.
-   _Immortal Guardians_: Across 13 books, the Immortal Guardians have yet to encounter a female vampire. Seth, the Immortals' leader, explains that this is because it takes several feedings across several days to convert a human to a vampire and the sociopathic, sadistic male vampires tend to lose control and rape and murder any females they capture long before the conversion process can be completed. Female Immortals are also rare as most Immortals were humans, turned against their will only for their enhanced humans DNA allowed them to heal after being left for dead by the vampires who turned them. But again, the females tend not to survive long enough to begin the healing process. Immortals can turn Gifted Ones, but usually only do so for the person they intend to mate, preferring to allow humans to remain human.
-   Used painfully (and deconstructed) in _The Immortals_. All 'Immortals' — species which cannot die of old age or disease, but _can_ be killed by physical or magical means — are born in the Divine Realms as the product of human dreams or nightmares. One such species, the Tauros, is essentially a race of minotaurs who exist to rape and kill women. Daine, the protagonist of the story, asks the god of the 'duckmoles' (platypuses), if there even _are_ any female Tauroses. When he says no, she gets angry and basically says 'well no wonder they attack human women all the time! That's all they know to do without women of their own who can handle it!' Broadfoot, the duckmole, muses that she's right, and 'Someone should consult the Greater Gods about this...' Later works reveal that the Greater Gods did examine it and found the trope was enforced: because Tauroses are born out of women's fear of rape, they will continue to exist as long as rape does and can only target human women.
-   _Imperial Radch_: Played with, with the Radch being a One Gender Society. While the people are physically ordinary humans with two sexes, the Radchaai make very little distinction between them, with fashions, social opportunities, and everything else being equally applicable to both sexes. The Radchaai language doesn't even have pronouns to differentiate between them, with everyone defaulting to female, and their society is completely egalitarian with jobs determined by a standardized test called the Aptitudes that are taken some time before adulthood. Breq often laments about the difficulty of having to decide which pronoun to use to keep from looking foolish and how relieving not having to worry about it is after returning to Radch space.
-   _InCryptid_: In _Discount Armageddon_, the dragon princesses — women who hang out with dragons, or at least did until all the dragons were killed — are thought to be this, until the last **male** dragon turns up, and it's revealed that the dragon princesses are actually just female dragons. They can reproduce by parthenogenesis, which is why they all look so similar.
-   Amazons in _Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon?_ is a female-only race. They're cross-fertile with all mortals, but will only give birth to Amazons.
-   Played for Laughs in _KonoSuba_ with the Orcs. Konosuba orcs are a race of muscular (porcine) women who rely on men from other species to reproduce. The males of the species were wiped out and on the rare occasion one is born they're usually "overworked" to death before reaching sexual maturity. In their first appearance a mob of them chase Kazuma down and attempt to mate with him against his will.
-   The Lyranians in _Lensman_ have males for reproduction but they never appear and are described as short, stupid, and useful for only one thing.
-   _Looming Gaia_:
    -   Nymphs have No Biological Sex and cannot reproduce, but they are all created with a feminine appearance and are referred to by she/her pronouns by default. They can be female-to-male transgender or nonbinary, however.
    -   All arachne are female. They reproduce by mating with male silkbeasts.
    -   All skorpius are male. They reproduce by kidnapping women and impregnating them with their venom.
-   In _Loyal Enemies_, dryads are a female-only race, leading to their ruler being The High Queen and their army an Amazon Brigade. It's not really explored how new dryads are born, but seeing how they're nature spirits, they probably don't need men.
-   _Lyremouth Chronicles_ by Jane Fletcher solves the issue of dwarf women by making the dwarves hermaphrodites.
-   In _Marion Zimmer Bradley's Fantasy Magazine_, there's a story about a race of women who reproduce by parthenogenesis. They can interbreed with male humans, losing their "family quirk", and they think of themselves as humans. Or at least they did until one of them tried to give birth to a Vulcan son and almost succeeded.
-   _Mistborn_: In the original trilogy, the koloss are all male, though this is because they are an unnatural race and do not reproduce by normal means. Instead, they're created by binding five people together with a special skin and four hemalurgic spikes. This is why they're as strong as five people and are confused by conflicting memories. By _Wax and Wayne_, this has changed; Harmony made it so that they have natural genders and can reproduce. The child of a koloss is a "koloss-blooded," stronger and tougher than ordinary humans. Once they come of age, they can then choose to make the transformation into a full koloss or leave the clan. Ordinary humans can also choose to join the clan and make the transformation; no distinction is made from a koloss who was originally an ordinary human and one who was koloss-blooded.
-   _The Norby Chronicles_:
    -   The Jamyn dragons are all spoken about with female pronouns, but actually reproduce by budding, establishing that they reproduce asexually.
    -   The All-Purpose Pet are an intellectually simple species that is designed to reproduce by laying eggs. Norby announces that they’re supposed to be "she", just like the dragons. Oola is adopted by Mentor One, but the egg is given to Fargo so that he can have Oola Two.
-   The Fairies of the _Notting Cove_ series are all female.
-   In _Oceanic_, whether you're born with a penis ('bridge') isn't important; each time you copulate, it detaches and re-attaches itself to the other partner. Married couples take turns bearing children. This race of humans was artificially created, apparently because members of the uploaded human societies that appear in various of Greg Egan's other works (especially _Diaspora_) thought that giving up the flesh had been bad for their souls.
-   The Clayr in _Old Kingdom_ are mostly female. Male Clayr are mentioned in terms of their scarcity, but we never meet any. Children are typically fathered by casual lovers chosen from among the visitors to the Clayr's Glacier.
-   _The Otherworld_: Witches are always female, and sorcerers always male, and both reproduce with humans. These are explicitly stated not to be male and female version of the same race. (Until Savannah came along, that is. There are some hints that the characters may be mistaken about that "not the same race" idea...) The werewolf gene only passes down to sons. Werewolves reproduce with human women, but their daughters are human. Lycanthropy can be caught via infection/attack, though until recently the werewolves thought no woman could survive the Change. An infected werewolf will pass the trait down to his sons. At the end of _Broken_, Elena, the first and only female werewolf, gives birth to twins, a boy and a girl. Both of them are lycanthropes, though they will not change until adolescence. Since their father is also a werewolf, it is unclear whether sons inherit from fathers and daughters from mothers, or if mothers pass lycanthropy down to both genders.
-   _The Pentagon War_: Each Centaurian is both male and female. Being born with only male or female parts is considered a birth defect. They still require a partner to mate with, but both of them can get pregnant from the encounter.
-   _Perry Rhodan_: As far as anyone can tell, the Uleb and their various descendants are single-gendered (and the male pronoun is used throughout) yet clearly capable of reproduction — how exactly is never detailed, though the fact that in one issue the Halutian Icho Tolot managed to somehow produce (sadly short-lived) offspring after decades on a human generation ship with no other members of his species around suggests that either parthenogenesis is at least one option or that his species is capable of storing donated genetic material for considerable timespans. It's probably justified in that the original Uleb were an "artificial" species, intended to replace the extant "warrior" species of M 87's galactic caste system with a genetically engineered new and improved super soldier version.
-   _Princesses of the Pizza Parlor_: As said in _Princesses Don't Play Nice_, this is part of witch culture. They appear to be regular Blood Magic\-using humans otherwise, who fall into this trope due to a No Fathers Allowed society:
    
    _"I didn't know wi... your people had fathers." said Cassie. "You all seem to be girls." The cleric blushed with embarrassment.  
    "Oh, we got fathers," said Bianca. "We just don't have much to do with them. Our moms pick guys with good magic backgrounds, have us, and then they're gone."_
    
-   The _Rainbow Magic_ series has all-male goblins. A few books imply that females exist, but we never see them.
-   _Schild's Ladder_: Pronouns still have gender, determined not by physical sex (which is temporary anyway) but by the traditional and arbitrary gender of the given name. Some people like to tease earlier-model humans who show up out of the deep past (thanks to relativistic time compression) by telling them fanciful stories about sex.
-   _Second Apocalypse_: Due to a Gendercide called the Womb Plague, presumably caused as a side effect of the immortality granted to them by the treacherous Inchoroi, the Nonmen are a race of immortal males who have all been slowly succumbing to despair, madness and The Fog of Ages.
-   Discussed in _Space Cadet (Heinlein)_. The Venerians seen are all female, and Oscar is asked if they even have males or if they're this trope. He replies that they definitely have two sexes, but no human has ever seen a male.
-   _Space Captain Smith_: The M'Laks have No Biological Sex, but all identify as male. They reproduce by vomiting up a bucketload of frogspawn, which grow into froglike juveniles and eventually humanoid adults. As all offspring are genetically identical to their fathers, M'Lak ensure diversity by deliberately exposing infants to high levels of radiation to cause mutations.
-   _The Stars Are Legion_ is set on a series of worlds with all-female inhabitants. The women get pregnant according to the whims of the world and give birth to whatever the world needs. Not whoever, _whatever_.
-   Chief Engineer Burgoyne 172 in the _Star Trek: New Frontier_ novels is a member of a hermaphroditic race called the Hermat. S/he dismisses comparisons to the J'Naii by explaining "They are neither. We are _both_."
-   Justified with the Confessors in _Sword of Truth_, since male Confessors don't have the recovery time after using their powers that their female counterparts have, they turn into absolute tyrants. Male infanticide has been practiced since the last male Confessor was killed, and YMMV on whether it's made more or less horrifying by the Confessed lovers of Confessors having to do the killing.
-   _Tolkien's Legendarium_: Dwarves/Black Elves were originally described as spawning from stone. J. R. R. Tolkien eventually put a much-copied twist on this. Only about one female is born to every three males, and to untrained eyes, their women look very similar to men. They also dress in such a manner to add to the confusion. From _The History of Middle-earth Vol XI, The War of the Jewels_:
    
    _"No Man nor Elf has ever seen a beardless Dwarf unless he were shaven in mockery, and would then be more like to die of shame than of many other hurts that to us would seem more deadly. For the Naugrim have beards from the beginning of their lives, male and female alike."_
    
    -   Lampshaded in the extended edition of the movie:
        
        **Gimli:** It's true you don't see many dwarf women. And in fact, they are so alike in voice and appearance, that they are often mistaken for dwarf men.  
        **Aragorn:** _\[whispering\]_ It's the beards.  
        **Gimli:** ...and this in turn has given rise to the belief that there _are_ no dwarf women, and that dwarves just spring up out of holes in the ground! Which is, of course, ridiculous.
        
    -   The same movie presents the Uruk-Hai as all-male and being spawned fully formed from mud pits.
    -   The surviving long-lived ents in _The Lord of the Rings_ are all male, due to an estrangement with the entwives thousands of years ago (the ents tended deep forest, the entwives cultivated land) never to be seen again, despite the ents' best efforts to find them again over the millennia. It is heavily implied that the entwives still exist, but they are never found during the trilogy.
        
        **Treebeard:** We lost the entwives.  
        **Pippin:** I'm sorry. How did they die?  
        **Treebeard:** Die? No. We _lost_ them, and now we cannot find them!
        
-   _The True Meaning of Smekday_: The Gorg probably used to have females, but now they're all clones.
-   In _Victoria_, Azania is not yet there, but working hard to _become_ this. Ruled by Straw Feminist ideologues, it has outlawed natural births, hoping to breed a new, all-female humanity through eugenic cloning.
-   The _Vorkosigan Saga_ has a male one of these on the planet Athos, where Designer Babies are created from a bank of ovarian tissue from the initial settlement of the colony. Several generations later, the plot culminates in a representative (Ethan) leaving the planet for the first time, meeting women and the awkward diplomatic question "Would you care to donate an ovary to Athos?"
-   The _Well World_ novels (specifically _Quest for the Well of Souls_) include, among 779 alien species (not counting inorganic life), the Yaxa, a race of giant scary _butterflies_ of whom only females are sentient. (This helped make up for the presence of a different insect species in the first book which were severely patriarchal. Oh, and there are also the plant-people of Czill, who are completely genderless and reproduce by budding. He likes to play with these issues a lot.)
-   The Myrddraal in _The Wheel of Time_ are presumed to be this, as they're all male looking (though they're usually referred to as "it" rather than "he", suggesting that they simply don't have a gender). As Myrddraal are a mutant offshoot of Trollocs, they don't have to worry about reproduction — new ones will be born among the Trollocs as a matter of course. Averted with the Trollocs themselves — though none have been confirmed on-page, Word of God is that there _are_ female Trollocs.
-   Joanna Russ's short story "When It Changed" takes place in an all-female society after a plague killed all the men. They reproduce by combining their eggs and behave in traditionally male ways. Astronauts from Earth arrive and don't understand how the women could survive without men.
-   _The Witches_: All Witches are female (though they don't interbreed with humans and are all evil), but as they are demons and not humans, it doesn't particularly matter. The book also mentions barghests and ghouls to be all-male.
-   _World of Tiers_: The all-male Zebrillas are the males for the all-female Dryad. If the offsping is male, he will be a Zebrilla, else, she will be a Dryad. The Zebillas are tall, bipedal gorillas with human intelligence and the Dryads are a whole race of paragons of feminine beauty. The Thoan RPG even had a picture of a mating between a Zebrilla and a Dryad.
-   _Wraeththu_: The eponymous post-humans are hermaphrodites who appear male. In the first few books, they reproduce by transforming human males into Wraeththu via blood transfusion, then having sexual intercourse with the "initiate" to set the change. Like many other One Gender Races, the Wraeththu have a female (or, in this case, feminine hermaphrodite) counterpart; and, like many other One Gender Races, the two species don't get along very well.
-   _Xanth_: All-male satyrs mate with all-female dryads, and all-male fauns mate with all-female nymphs. Harpies were this for a while, forcing them to alternate vulture and human mates with each generation or die out (with such crosses always female), until a male harpy returned from suspended animation a long way into the series.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Babylon 5_: On-screen, all pak'ma'ra have just one gender, which is neither male nor female, reproducing asexually through parthenogenesis every five years or so. However, they do engage in carnal acts that would otherwise be viewed as sexual, including with other species (assisted by technology when necessary), though purely for recreation. Given this, they lack a concept of marriage, with most living alone, though some do have what are called "thought mates" which are more like a very close friend. Nevertheless, expanded material subverts this as other sources like the Role Playing Game guide says that actually their humps are their females (pak'ma'ra without humps are the equivalent of a single person).
-   The Venusians in _El Chapulín Colorado_ are all female and in Jungle Girl outfits.
-   In _Crusade_, the Drazi are mentioned to be hermaphroditic and all look and act like males in-universe. (Nevertheless, this might contradict the fact that in the mother series _Babylon 5_, Londo mocks the Drazi ambassador implying that his wife had an affair. Of course, whether this still means that they are hermaphrodites and still marry and one of them assumes the role of wife or Londo didn't know that they are hermaphrodites is up to you.)
-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   The history of the Time Lords is, as with so many things, muddled. Technically, the second Gallifreyan we ever saw was female, although Susan wasn't even around when the concept of Time Lord even existed in the show — the Doctor was Ambiguously Human during her tenure, and she was only said to be Gallifreyan retroactively. For about a decade, all the Time Lords seen after the introduction of the concept were male; even the name implies this. Tom Baker assumed the Time Lords were all male and purposely played his Doctor a little awkward around women to give the impression, with the Sisterhood of Karn even coming across as the Time Lords' Distaff Counterpart. However, 1970s _Doctor Who_ was rather unclear as to whether "Time Lord" was the name of the race, or a title for members of the Chapters, which would make Tom's portrayal more of an unworldly Oxbridge don from the days when women weren't allowed on campus except as housekeeping staff. Regardless, the introduction of Rodan in 1978 removed this assumption, and several Time Ladies have appeared since (notably Romana becoming a main cast member soon after). In fact, with the Master becoming the Mistress (and the General in "Hell Bent", and now Jodie Whittaker) it has been established that Time Lords(/Ladies) can change sex when regenerating. So they're not so much a one-gender race as an all-genderfluid one.
    -   Daleks are biologically genderless and reproduce by genetic engineering and cloning. They are usually referred to as "it", but occasionally people or the Daleks themselves use male pronouns to describe them.
    -   The Drahvins from "Galaxy 4" are a seemingly all-female race. They use the few males only for breeding. Their commanders are naturally born and their footsoldiers are clones.
    -   The original Cybermen were all male models.
    -   The Sontarans are a militant male-presenting race who reproduce through cloning. They have noticeable difficulty with the very idea of gender (e.g., two genders is "a bit further than they can count"). According to some of the Expanded Universe material their species originally reproduced normally and was far less war fixated until the day a horrendously narcissistic military man, one General Sontar, started cloning himself and slaughtered the rest of the population. The canonicity of this is disputed, however.
    -   According to Word of God, the original inhabitants of Telos, the Cryons, are an all-female race.
    -   The Sisterhood of Karn in "The Brain of Morbius" are all female and do not reproduce, being instead immortal. The Expanded Universe and revived series retconned them into a Time Lord faction instead of a distinct race.
    -   The Carrionites are all female from what we see of them, and can apparently engage in Homosexual Reproduction.
    -   TARDISes, apparently. In "The Doctor's Wife", the TARDIS herself said that House's planet was filled with the corpses of her sisters. Well of course — ships are always female.
-   _Earth: Final Conflict_: The Taelons are a single gender race, or perhaps a no gender race. It's mentioned in the first episode when one character questions another's use of the pronoun "he", which they use through the series. Although he was probably acting as an Audience Surrogate for anyone who knew they cast all the Taelons with female actors. In the final season, Howlyn asks Zo'or how "he" would handle becoming an Atavus (the original species, from which the Taelons and Jaridians were created), a two-gender race. Naturally, given who plays Zo'or, the Taelon ends up becoming a female Atavus. It's never made clear how the Taelons came to be this trope. The original Taelons were cultists, who drained the rest of the Atavus of their core energy to make themselves The Ageless, turning the rest into the short-lived Jaridians. They were flawed creations and nearly died out, until the Kimera came and corrected their genome (the Taelons thanked them by wiping them out).
-   The centaurs in _Hercules: The Legendary Journeys_ and _Xena: Warrior Princess_ are all male. They reproduce with human women.
-   _K9_ has the Ukkans, an all-female species of librarians.
-   Dwarfs in _Once Upon a Time_ are all male, and hatch fully grown (and clothed!) from eggs. Fairies are all female, and their origins have not been explored (although given that the All Myths Are True includes _Peter Pan_, the laughter of babies is a possibility).
-   _The Orville_: Moclans have only males. Turns out they do have females, but they're rare and Moclan society mandates that they be surgically reassigned as males, as Moclans consider the female gender a horrific birth defect that needs to be fixed. Later we learn of a hidden colony world in "Sanctuary" that is settled entirely by Moclan females, to spare them being forcibly "corrected" into males.
-   _The Outer Limits (1995)_: In the episode "Lithia", the world is now an all-female post-apocalyptic society in which almost all males were wiped off the planet due to war and a virus. They decide to not reintroduce the remaining men into the population because every time they took one out of stasis, it caused conflict in the society because the men pushed limits that the elders were not comfortable with, like building generators or stealing from other towns. Sucks to be male.
-   _Star Trek_:
    -   Tribbles from the _Star Trek: The Original Series_ episode "The Trouble with Tribbles" and onwards are one sex, seemingly born pregnant, according to Dr. McCoy. ("Seems to be a helluva time saver!")
    -   The _Star Trek: The Next Generation_ episode "The Outcast" introduces the J'Naii, who once had two genders but "evolved" into a species with one gender. Some members of their race secretly identify as male or female and face persecution for it. The episode is a thinly veiled Gay Aesop episode about homosexual acceptance. In spite of the plot, the episode isn't really attempting to comment on gender identity, which had yet to become a widely recognized part of the nascent LGBT+ movement in 1992. As such, it's a bit muddled to modern viewers.
    -   _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_:
        -   The Jem'Hadar, genetically engineered by the Founders to serve as soldiers. Weirdly, though they are also cloned, the Vorta are _not_ single-gender. Probably because the Vorta were adapted from a pre-existing species, while the Jem'Hadar seem to have been created out of whole cloth (it might also have something to do with the Vorta being intended as diplomats). Earlier in the series we were introduced to a never again seen Gamma Quadrant species that was awfully similar to the Jem'Hadar, except with more limited versions of their abilities.
        -   Word of God states that the Tosk were created by the Dominion as a gift to the race that hunts them.
    -   The Taresians of the _Star Trek: Voyager_ episode "Favorite Son" are a species consisting entirely of females that mate with males of other humanoid species to perpetuate themselves by implanting viruses in them that slowly turn them into male Taresians. As it turns out, the mating process (one male is given up to three females as his wives) is deadly toward males as they die after mating with their wives. Harry Kim was implanted with a virus that made him believe that he was secretly a Taresian, but eventually he and the Voyager crew find out the truth about the Taresians and rescue Kim before he became their next victim.
-   _Tidelands (Netflix)_: Sirens are all female, and they reproduce by mating with human men. Hybrids which result appear human, both male and female. It's left unclear where original sirens come from, though Bill says they've been in the waters forever.
-   _The Twilight Zone (1959)_: In "Mr. Dingle, the Strong", one Martian notes that one of the three planets on their itinerary after Earth seems particularly interesting, since it contains only females.
-   _Y: The Last Man (2021)_: With all the men gone, this is what the human race becomes (genetically — they also make a point of mentioning there are plenty of men, just all are trans men) — short-lived as it will last.

    Mythology and Religion 

-   In Chinese Mythology, dragons are often depicted as being always male, in contrast to the always female fenghuang (a mythical bird similar to The Phoenix).
-   Christianity/Islam:
    -   The subject of whether angels are all male in _The Bible_ has been subject to debate. The Bible itself never says that angels are all male, but this is assumed to be the case due all named angels having male forms of their names (For example, Michael and Gabriel) as well as male pronouns being exclusively used for angels. Some interpret "the sons of God" having children by women as meaning angels who _did_ have sex (and so presumably bodies, unless this involves possessing humans) while some apocrypha (like the Book of Enoch) supports the idea. Another line of thought is that angels are genderless and sexless, because they exist on a different plane than humans and thus cannot be perceived as being the same as us, with this supposedly being supported by the statement that angels in heaven did not marry. That being said, angels being genderless is never indicated in the Bible despite being a popular interpretation. Regardless, this hasn't stopped the depiction of female angels in artwork, and the named archangels themselves have been subject to some gender-bending in media.
    -   Angels are always male according to _The Qur'an_.
-   Older Than Feudalism: Classical Mythology has many humanoid beings that appear to be of a single sex, such as female harpies, male satyrs, male centaurs, and female nymphs (which are minor deities that can interbreed with human men). This has inspired many of the other examples on this page. In late Classical works, there were female centaurs and satyrs, but these are unusual cases; kentaurides (the female centaurs) were barely spoken of in ancient Greek literature and only one example, Hylonome, is mentioned by name, while the satyresses (the female satyrs) are Canon Immigrants from late 15th/early 16th century poems and art, and didn't exist at all in the ancient works.
    -   Originally, satyrs were depicted as human men with beards, bald foreheads, pug noses, pointed ears, horses tails, and constant erections. Technically, only the tails and ears set them apart from standard image of a 'wild man'.
    -   The original Greek depiction of the very human Amazon civilization variably implied they replenished their numbers the way most warrior cultures did, from invading villages. And depending on how charitable the writer was, any male children were either returned to be reared in those villages, or killed.
    -   Greek mythology also had the Gargareans, an all-male tribe and Spear Counterpart to the Amazons. The two tribes depended on one another for reproduction.
    -   Most bizarre of all, Hesiod apparently considered _humanity_ to be all male before the gods "cursed" men with the horror of living with women, ruining human society forever. Nope, no misogyny here.
-   The Valkyries in Norse Mythology are all female.
-   Some mythologies depict fairies as always female. The human-sized fairies in French fairy tales are always described as female (although similar male beings called genii, wizards, or enchanters appear in some stories, who might be their male counterparts). Several stories feature fairies marrying human princes.
-   In Western folklore, werewolves are almost always male, as human men tend to get hairy later on in their lives during puberty.

    Pinball 

-   The only creatures shown in _Barracora_ are female... or at least possess Non-Mammal Mammaries.

    Tabletop Games 

-   In _Castle Falkenstein_, Dwarves _are_, in fact, exclusively male. They mate with the females of other Faerie-kind (some varieties of which are all-female); male offspring are Dwarves, while female offspring are the same kind of Fae as their mother.
-   _Dungeons & Dragons_:
    -   All-male satyrs mate with all-female dryads, and all-male fauns mate with all-female nymphs. The two races are close enough to immortal that it doesn't much matter anyway; both can also mate with humans to create Half Human Hybrids.
    -   Hags are all women. They mate with male humans (no mention is made of the various other sentient races) and typically subsequently kill and eat them. A female offspring becomes another Hag, while a male becomes a Hagspawn, large, brutish creatures with no particular talent for magic that the Hags often abandon.
    -   _D&D_ medusas (based on gorgons) _aren't_ this; male medusas are called maedars, and are bald humanoids with an affinity for snakes and an intristic _stone to flesh_ ability. They're also extremely rare. In 4th edition, male medusa are just called that, look just like masculine counterparts to the medusa (still bald, though) and have traded the stone-to-flesh-by-touch power for a gaze attack lifted straight from the mythological basilisk. That is, if they look at you, their gaze is so venomous you die of poisoning if you meet their eye. This is the same edition that states there are male harpies, whereas the previous editions meandered between implying that harpies kidnapped human men to breed with and that they laid eggs parthenogenically. In 5th Edition there are no maedars; male medusae are exactly like the female ones.
    -   There are four species of sphinx, three of which are always male (evil hawk-headed heirocosphinxes, neutral but brutish ram-headed criosphinxes, and good human-headed androsphinxes) and one of which is always female (neutral human-headed gynosphinxes — they're the ones who like riddles). All three male sphinxes can mate with the gynosphinx and have offspring of their own type, but gynosphinxes can only be born of an androsphinx father. For this reason, and the temperament, gynosphinxes prefer androsphinxes.
    -   In _Advanced Dungeons & Dragons 2nd Edition_, the standard version of the minotaur is an all-male race. New minotaurs come into being when a human male is cursed to become one by the gods, or when a minotaur abducts and impregnates a human woman. This only applied to the "default" version, and minotaurs from specific game-settings such as _Dragonlance_ did come in two genders. (4th Edition averts the trope altogether.)
    -   _Forgotten Realms_: Song dragons are always female, and chiefly reproduce by mating with humans to produce song dragon offspring.
    -   _Mystara_: Nixies are an all-female race of water-spirits.
    -   _Oathbound_, a third-party setting, has aurads, who appear male and reproduce via circle-jerking. (No, really.)
-   While not technically a "race" in the usual sense, _Eclipse Phase_'s combat-tailored Fury biomorphs are almost all female, in order to reduce unnecessary aggression.
-   _GURPS_:
    -   The Medusas of _Banestorm_ are all female. They mate (carefully) with humans, elves, and orcs' males to produce offspring. The kids are usually medusas, but some are boys with a recessive medusa trait. Word of God says that the world of the Banestorm also has _Euryales,_ a small all-female reptilian race, whose eggs are fertilized by eating their dead; and _Sthenos,_ a much bigger all-female reptilian race, produced by a virus that infects human (or orc or elf) women, and spontaneously transforms them if they are violently injured.
    -   Lampshaded in _GURPS Dungeon Fantasy_: "there are female fauns, and bringing up the myth that fauns and nymphs are males and females of a single species is an excellent way to start a fight."
    -   _Transhuman Space_ features a few Straw Feminist geneticists trying to engineer an all-female human subrace.
-   _In Nomine_: While celestials usually tend to see gender roughly the same way humans see specific outfits (interesting and potentially appealing, but not usually something central to one's identity), the Archangel Zadkiel is firmly female, and roughly eighty percent of her angels of Protection choose to manifest as female; she will grant male vessels, but it takes some effort to convince her. This is interesting since she is a Muslim, a faith which specifically says that angels do not appear as female. This is a bone of contention between her and Khalid, who hews more strictly to the dogma of Islam then Zadkiel does; Zadkiel believes that bit of the Qur'an to have been a misintranslation from Angelic to Arabic.
-   _Magic: The Gathering_: Angels are always female. (There are two exceptions: one from an Alternate Universe, and another that predates the style guide). Likewise, demons are male when they have an identifiable sex. This is possible because they are not actually biological beings, they're manifestations of mana (white for angels and black for demons).
    -   The card art only shows females (Most Writers Are Male). The art directors once required an artist to redraw a card after he turned in a painting of a male angel. According to the books and text materials, there are plenty of male angels (Serra, at least, made sure of it for her realm).
    -   In the plane of Amonkhet, conversely, all angels are male. Demons are more bestial there; the one named is clearly male, but there are also Ammits, which are based off a female entity in Egyptian Mythology.
-   _Pathfinder_:
    -   Xills (a Captain Ersatz of the Ixtl from _The Voyage of the Space Beagle_) and thriae (inscrutable seers based off of bees) are all female. The Deep One\-inspired skum are all male.
    -   The first edition had a number of all-female monsters, many of whom reproduced by abducting, raping and devouring humanoid males. Second edition vastly cut down on the number of these, with many of these species, including lamias, harpies and mariliths now being explicitly stated as having both male and female members. Hags are some of the only remaining exceptions— they're still exclusively female.
    -   Hags in 1st Edition give birth to all-female changelings, who must be persuaded, tricked or coerced into undergoing a magical ritual to become hags in turn. Well, to be accurate, they have male offspring as well, but A: very rarely, and B: they kill them on birth. 2nd Edition has altered this to have male changelings as well, though they are much less likely to feel the psychic call that urges them to take part in the hag transformation ritual.
    -   _Starfinder_ gives us ramiyels and vilderaros, both of which seem to be hermaphroditic species that exclusively identify as female. (And, in the case of ramiyels, _present_ as female; vilderaros don't really _do_ any recognizable sort of gender presentation.)
-   Maerynians in _Sentinels of the Multiverse_ started out in Sentinel Comics, the fictional comic book publisher the game purports to be an adaptation of, as an alien race that just happened to all look like dudes. Later writers established that Maerynians engage in asexual reproduction and are all capable of it, and their gender identities are pretty different from human, with "he" therefore not being a _strictly_ accurate pronoun for Tempest but it works.
-   _Traveller_: Hivers don't have biological sexes; all Hivers are able to reproduce with any other. Because of the nature of their Bizarre Alien Reproduction (essentially, any time two Hivers meet, they create an offspring, but only a tiny fraction of those offspring will reach adulthood), gender as a concept is meaningless to them.
-   _Vampire: The Masquerade_:
    -   The modern Ahrimanes are all-female by choice, as the one Ahrimane who can create more of her kind isn't interested in changing men. Male Ahrimanes are possible in _V20 Dark Ages_, but they and their creator find themselves being hunted down. Trans women are accepted, as the Ahrimanes judge by spirit rather than body.
    -   The Daughters of Cacophony were all-female in Revised, again seemingly by choice, with no physical restrictions on Embracing men. Other editions have the bloodline female-dominated, with a few men as members.
-   The Lizardmen in _Warhammer_ are all males; they are born from spawning pools throughout Lustria, and were initially created by the Old Ones. Their war with the Skaven began when the Skaven poisoned one city's spawning pools.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_:
    -   The Orks (and possibly the Orcs in the original _Warhammer_) seem to be all ridiculously masculine, early non-canonical references to female Orks notwithstanding; however, since _Wh40k_ Orks are actually a hybridization of mammal and _fungus_ that reproduce via spores, attempting to assign a gender to them is an exercise in futility. _Blood Bowl_ has orc cheerleaders, which are female — then again, _Blood Bowl_ is essentially an alternate universe.
    -   In case you were wondering, the old fluff was such: On the battlefield, you _did_ have Female Orcs, but they were all in "War Mode", which made them all identical to the males. Once their numbers dropped enough however the Orcs would retreat and go home (or settle in if their conquest was successful), and their sexual characteristics would develop, allowing them to reproduce and replenish their numbers for the next war.
    -   According to one supplement, the Gene-Seed — the stuff that makes Space Marines grow to nine-foot-tall poison-drinking, car-lifting supermen — is only compatible with male genetics. This is probably due to several of the upgrades being essentially weaponized Testosterone Poisoning.
    -   Theoretically, all Tyranids are this, as there is no documentation on exactly how they "reproduce" (The Norn Queens require biomass to create new creatures but doesn't seem to need anything resembling a male to actually spawn them). Things get weird when you realize that, due to their symbiotic weapons, they _all_ technically qualify as females as their weapons spawn and gestate eggs, then spew them out via a muscle spasm.
    -   Chaos Daemons, aside those of Slaanesh, are generally mono-gendered because they're fragment representations of their respective Chaos Gods. This is because rather than being born biologically, they're created via other methods (Khornate and Tzeentchan Daemons are usually created by actions of their respective gods, while Plaguebearers are spawned from the departed souls of people who die from Nurgle's plagues). Slaanesh is a special case because he/she/it and all of his/her/its daemons tend to switch pronouns depending on who you ask (Eldar exclusively refer to Slaaneshi daemons with female pronouns) and technically Slaanesh is a hermaphrodite.
    -   Averted with the Necrons. While the rank-and-file soldiers have no discernible difference between male and female, there are Dynasties which are led by Phaeraks, such as the Ogdobekh Dynasty, the Rytak Dynasty, and the Maynark Dynasty.
-   _Werewolf: The Apocalypse_ features the Black Furies tribe that is just women Garou whose goals are to protect all women and children. Their characterization ranges from Amazon Brigade to Wife-Basher Basher to Straw Feminist stereotypes. The Black Furies however are not all female through magic or genetic means, but philosophical. Black Furies can still have sons who may as they grow up become Garou themselves, but they are cast out of the Tribe for being male (which is a step up from being ceremonially sacrificed). The only exception are male Metis (children of the forbidden union of two Garou) either to atone for the sin of breaking the Litany or because Metis are by and large even more discriminated against in Garou society.
-   _The Witcher Role Playing Game_:
    -   The Dryads employ an army entirely composed of naked Action Girl archers.
    -   Optionally defied with Witchers, as the book states plainly that while there is nothing in canon depicting female Witchers, Game Masters are free to allow it if a player wants it.

    Toys 

-   _BIONICLE_:
    -   There were different types of the Matoran (and Toa and Turaga) species, grouped by different Elemental Powers. Most elements are male only, including five of the six common elements. The only of the six most common elements to be all-female is water, along with some uncommon elements. The only co-ed element is light. As explained by writer Greg Farshtey, there originally weren't supposed to be any female characters in the series. A LEGO exec recommended marketing the toys to girls as well, so one of the six original tribes was made all-female, and then this setup just stuck, but only for the Matoran species. Justified in that Matoran gender differences are psychological and they weren't originally created to be sentient. They only gained sentience thanks to Velika's experiments.
    -   The element of psionics is an interesting case. The first Toa of psionics was male, and messed up horribly in the task assigned to him (he was supposed to pacify the Zyglaks, but threw a temper-tantrum so hard the Zyglaks are now known to be the _most vicious animals in the universe_), so the Great Beings decided to make every Toa of psionics after him female, as they believed Women Are Wiser (though this notion was disproven in-universe).
-   _XEVOZ_ gets hit hard with this one — six races, with two more added later on, and every single member is male, or at least lacking any distinct female traits (one race is Energy Beings, after all). Unless you consider that ony the drones in an insect colony are male, and the two character types under the Big Creepy-Crawlies race are heavily implied to be soldiers rather than drones.

    Video Games 

-   In the _Animal Crossing_ series, all of the lion villagers that can possibly live in the player's town are male. The kangaroo villagers used to be all-female, but two male kangaroos were introduced in _Animal Crossing: New Leaf_, finally averting this trope in the case of kangaroos.
-   In _Arcanum: Of Steamworks & Magick Obscura_, several of the playable races can only be male. This has an in-game justification of the females of certain races being deliberately sheltered and do not go adventuring. The real reason was technical; there was not enough room on one CD for all the sprites required to have females for all the races.
-   The varl in _The Banner Saga_ are a species of horned giants with seemingly limitless natural lifespans, each of whom otherwise looks exactly like a human man. Every varl was personally created by the now-dead god Hadrborg in an attempt to one-up the Loom-mother's creation of humanity, but since Hadrborg didn't create any varl women, no new varl have been "born" in the century since the gods' demise. While they still number in the tens of thousands, their warrior ethos is slowly driving them extinct.
-   The Kaka clan of _BlazBlue_ are at least close to being a genetically engineered one-gender race that reproduce via parthenogenesis. Kaka males are mentioned as being incredibly rare, and none are seen in game.
-   The fairies of _Bravely Default II_ are explicitly female-only, and have some reproductive cycle involving flowers. This may or may not extend to the other games in the Bravely series, as no male fairy has been seen.
-   _Breeding Season_ (an H game) treats all monster species as this, to the point that, for example, male Cat Folk or female werewolves are considered mutant strains. The sole exceptions are elves and humans (elves coming in male or female versions, and humans being NPC's).
-   In the _Creatures_ games, only male Grendels and either male (in _2_) or female (in _3_) Ettins occur without player intervention (or breeding, once you have both genders).
-   _Darkstalkers_: The Catgirls are all... well, girls, for Fanservice purposes.
-   Archers from _Disgaea_ were always female and created by their World Tree until the third game, but the males were referred to as "rangers" instead. Then there are the succubi and catgirls. Since each class is gender-specific, there are duplicate male and female counterparts of most classes. Since the "monster" classes are all gender-specific, as well, but monsters are, through Mediators, capable of marrying and producing offspring, it's safe to assume that Gender Equals Breed.
-   _Dragon Age_:
    -   This was widely believed of the Qunari in-universe until envoys came to Seheron. Only male qunari fight as soldiers, and soldiers were the only qunari seen until a peace was struck. No female qunari had been seen prior to _Inquisition_.
    -   The descendants of Andraste, the game's chief human deity, a Jesus/Mary/Mohammad/Joan of Arc analog, are speculated in universe to be exclusively women. She had two daughters with her mortal husband. Andraste's older daughter had one child, but that granddaughter died childless. Andraste's younger daughter had a large number of children. However, they were all girls, and _they_ only had girls, and so on. However, since these women married into other families, and because the Second Blight destroyed so many records, historians lost track of them through the ages. This means no one knows who the present-day Descendants of Andraste are, only that they're all women.
-   _Dungeon Siege_:
    -   Half-Giants are all male, though they can procreate with other races. A quest explains that they originated when a group of Agallan giants betrayed their kin and for this they and their offspring were cursed to be small. There were no women among the traitors, so all Half-Giants are male.
    -   The Dryads from _Dungeon Siege II_. Quoted from page 40 of the manual, "These creatures resembled Human females in many ways. (If there are male Dryads, they keep themselves well-hidden. None has ever been seen." Also, "No one knows how they reproduce (any enquiries on the subject are met with hostile silence)".
-   _The Elder Scrolls_:
    -   The Dremora, a race of lesser Daedra, are mistakenly believed to be the case by both mortals in-universe and players. There are rare female Dremora in _Oblivion_, but seeing as they only appear in one caste and don't have spoken lines, this was probably a mistake. _Online_ properly introduces female Dremora and gives them some characterization. (Dremora have a male dominated society and strong Stay in the Kitchen attitudes, believing females to be inferior in war, with females only serving in combat roles as support troop mages or skirmishers.)
    -   Golden Saints (Aureal) and Dark Seducers (Mazken), two other forms of lesser Daedra in service to Sheogorath (Daedric Prince of Madness), are almost entirely female. (There are more male Golden Saints and Dark Seducers than there are female Dremora.)
    -   Winged Twilights are a bat-like form of lesser Daedra with some harpy-like traits. All Winged Twilights encountered by mortals to date have been female.
    -   Similar to the lesser Daedra above, dragons, a form of divine Aedric entity, are not known to have sexes nor reproduce. All known dragons have spoken with male voices, however. According to supplementary materials there exists a subspecies of draconic females known as Jills tasked with mending the flow of time following a Dragon Break.
    -   Most denizens of Tamriel believe this to be the case for the giants, but they actually subvert it. There _are_ female giants, but they are very rarely ever seen by outsiders, leading many to mistakenly believe that this is the case for the Giants.
    -   Most denizens of Tamriel believe this to be the case for minotaurs. Like giants, it is actually subverted. Female minotaurs do exist, but they are just so rarely seen by outsiders that most believe all minotaurs to be male.
    -   This is played straight by hagravens, flightless harpies who were once mortal women who traded their humanity for access to powerful magic. All known hagravens have been female, but they get around any reproductive issues since hagravens aren't born, but are created by transforming mortal women.
    -   Nymphs, a type of nature spirit, also play this straight. All known nymphs take the form of beautiful, naked women.
    -   Similarly, spriggans are another type of nature spirit who take the forms of humanoid female tree-like Plant People. All known spriggans have taken a humanoid female form, including a noticeable bust.
-   _Ever Oasis_ has two: The Drauk are a Proud Warrior Race of all-female Lizard Folk, and the Serkah are a laid-back mining race of _scorpion_ men. The Drauk being lizards makes sense given the Real Life all-female lizard species.
-   One researcher in _EverQuest II_ spent his life carefully studying Orcs, lampshading the fact that female orcs are never seen. He theorizes that they are either indistinguishable from any other orcs, or are so rare that they're only used for breeding and never see the light of day.
-   _Final Fantasy_:
    -   The entries part of the "Ivalice Alliance" (aside from the all-human original _Final Fantasy Tactics_) feature the Viera. Except for humans, most other races are effectively all-male, as well, but it appears simply because they have no alternate gender appearance, and _Final Fantasy Tactics A2_ has a Luck Stick vendor and exchanger who are described in-game as male and female, respectively, in spite of appearing completely identical. The Seeq have an official female sprite, though it's just a Seeq Viking with a pink outfit and lipstick, and not playable.
        -   Officially there are male Viera, though none have been featured for a very long time until _FFXIV_. According to canon sources, they live separate from the female half of the species and the two populations only meet when it's babymaking time. A young, spoiled Viera appears in a series of missions in _TA2_, and wants the player to help her capture a Wyrm so that she can take it home and impress her father. So far, Gria have only appeared in one game of the Ivalice series, and their role was tertiary at best, so no word yet on how their society functions.
        -   _Tactics A2_ plays with your expectations a little, with the Duelhorn Boss, Night Dancer. From first appearances you might think she's the only female Bangaa character and therefore is safe for your Viera unit to hit under the "No Harming Opposite Gender" law. But no, she's got a pickle surprise.
        -   _Final Fantasy XII_ introduces the Garif. Like the Viera, all of the ones that you meet are a single gender, though in this case they're all males. Also like the Viera, canon sources outside the game state that the two genders live separately.
    -   Mithra and Galka in _Final Fantasy XI_:
        -   Galka are male-only, and "reproduce" by reincarnation. It is suggested that the number of Galka in the world is either fixed or slowly decreasing due to premature death.
        -   Players can only choose to play female Mithra, with the excuse that the number of male Mithra is so critically low that they have been forced into protective status while the females are the ones that venture outside their homeland to adventure and hunt. It is not exactly an enviable position as most males are forced into passionless sex for reproductive purposes, but a few certain males with intelligence and loose morals (like Lehko Habhoka) use their rarity to gain power and status.
        -   Later, an all-female enemy race called the Lamia was added to the game, though their status as one may be justified by the insinuation that they're actually an artificial race used as biological weapons... and because the mythical creatures they're based on are always depicted as female.
    -   _Final Fantasy XIV_:
        -   _XIV_ has races based on _XI_'s, so like the Galka and Mithra, the Roegadyn are only male and Miqo'te only female. The opposite sexes of the races _did_ exist; a prominent NPC, Merlwyb, was a female Roegadyn. However, as of _A Realm Reborn_, both males and females of all races are playable.
        -   The Ananta are an all-female beast tribe introduced in _Stormblood_ who are able to reproduce without the need of males, which they consider to be a blessing from their goddess Lakshmi.
        -   The _Shadowbringers_ expansion includes two playable monogender races: the all-female Viera from _FFXII_ (which also downplays this trope, since lore already established that there are males who never leave the homeland), and the all-male Hrothgar, a race of burly men who have furry characteristics that make them like like anthropmorphic big cats. Similar to the male Mithra lore, it's stated that female Hrothgar are incredibly low in numbers and are kept in their homeland to help populate their race. However, the following expansion, _Endwalker_, adds playable male Vieras to the game, making it their first ever depiction in the series (playable female Hrothgars are still pending).
-   Possibly the silliest example is _Gender Wars_, in which humanity has separated along gender lines into two warring factions of exaggerated stereotypes, both of which reproduce through technology, along with stealing _required genetic materials_ from the other side.
-   _Guild Wars_ contains two races that fit this category as of the Eye of the North expansion: Dwarves and Charr. In the case of the latter, it has been explained why this is the case, and in the case of the former it is lampshaded by one of the dwarf character's random lines.
    -   'How do you know you've never seen a female dwarf? Eh? Eh?'
    -   Similarly, the Harpies appear to be this, as all 3 humanoid forms are female, and while never directly explained it's implied the griffins that accompany them could possibly be their males.
    -   It's worth noting that female charr do exist in _Guild Wars 2_ as playable and non-playable characters, so this is only true of the original game. Background fluff explains the Flame Legion which controlled the Charr during the first game had traditional views on gender roles, which carries over to their faction's behavior in the sequel.
-   _Helltaker_ has only female demons. The angels, from what we see of them, also seem entirely female. The update "Examtaker" has a male demon/human hybrid, but no purebred demon males.
-   Female dwarves do not exist in _HEX_. It is explained that when a dwarf dies, they crumble into a pile of pebbles which are then used to make more dwarves. Also, the Vennen (a race of spider people) are all male and reproduce by capturing other races, (especially their sworn enemies the Orcs) tying them up in giant spiderwebs, and using them as incubation slaves.
-   In _A Hint of a Tint_, all of the species who inhabit the Sanctuary are all-female. Breeding is accomplished with the use of male "Tailless" (i.e., humans), who inevitably die after several days due to their inability to drink the local water.
-   The playable cast of _KanColle_ consists of female personifications of battleships.
-   _The Legend of Zelda_:
    -   The Gerudo are an entirely female human race of warrior-thieves, who are expected to leave the desert, usually temporarily, if they're inclined to find men to make more Gerudos. Oddly enough, though _Ocarina of Time_ states that one Gerudo male is born every hundred years, there is no special fanfare beyond being appointed king by tradition (the only one known is Ganondorf which doesn't work out too well...). The point may be moot, as the _Creating a Champion_ artbook states that by the time of _Breath of the Wild_, a male has not been born to the Gerudo for countless millennia (however, _Tears of the Kingdom_ shows that it was because Ganondorf was actually alive the whole time).
    -   Gorons all identify as male, referring to each other as "Brother." This could be the case of identity rather than biological sex or they could be Truly Single Parents, since all cases of child Gorons seen in the series only have fathers and mothers are never mentioned. The manga of _Ocarina of Time_ has a few female Gorons that are only visibly different due to long eyelashes. _Breath of the Wild_ references this ambiguity by showing that two Goron men have been allowed in the women-only Gerudo Town, and absolutely no one knows why this is, least of all the Gorons. A throwaway line in the Japanese version implies that the Gerudo consider the Gorons honorary women. _Tears of the Kingdom_ reveals that Gorons do not reproduce by conventional means, they are literally born from the earth.
    -   All of the Mogmas seen in the race's sole appearance in _Skyward Sword_ are male.
-   In the indie erotic VN _Long Live the Princess_, pixies (one of the various species of Fey) are all female, being born from flowers. This is actually addressed at length by your tiny sidekick Belle in an angry rant where she points out that, despite being an all-female race, pixies are _not_ all automatically lesbians. Given that she's a nymphomaniac, but far too tiny at about 5 inches tall to have sex with males of any other species (meaning that despite her unfathomably dirty mind she's technically a virgin), this leaves her _incredibly_ sexually frustrated, and very irate about it. When magic is used to shrink you down to her size later in the game, it's like a dream come true for her.
    
    **Belle:** Yeah, that's right. I'm straight! I'm from a species with only one gender, and I'm attracted to the one that doesn't exist!
    
-   No female dwarves exist anywhere in _The Lord of the Rings Online_. Not even the player can become one. That being said, in the source material it is specified that female dwarves do exist. The race has no visible sexual dimorphism due to being created by the Vala Aulë (who really likes beards). Whether any of the dwarves seen in the Legendarium are actually female or not is a matter of debate among fans. It seems like, due to their beards, all the other races just assume that all dwarves are male: and the dwarves don't ever bother to correct them. How, or whether, dwarves reproduce is also a matter of some debate among fans because it isn't completely clear.
-   _Mass Effect_:
    -   The asari are a single-sexed race that at least looks entirely female, who can reproduce either through parthenogenesis or via some complex partially psychic reproduction with each other.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  They're also among the wisest and most ancient races in the galaxy, powerful users of biotic techniques, and the founders of the Citadel Council, which governs 80% of known space. But the player is likely to be more interested in their ability to 'merge' with anyone, regardless of race and gender. The asari even have a Fantastic Self-Racism against asari who join with other asari. Partly because the race feels that nothing new is gained from merging with other asari, and partly because only "pureblooded" asari can be born with a genetic birth defect that causes them to be sterile, kill their partner when mating and quickly grow addicted to this sensation, becoming serial killer sex vampires. As such, everyone with this disorder is locked into convenes.
    -   There isn't as much focus on it, but most of the other non-human races are functionally one-gendered races as well, at least in the first two games. That is, females are either implied or stated to exist, but are never seen due to lack of an in-game model. A female krogan (just one) and a female turian are finally seen in _Mass Effect 3_. There are also two female salarians (one if you saved the Council in _Mass Effect_), but they look identical to the males. It's stated in the Codex that salarians have far fewer females than males and as a result of this most females stay on their homeworld and major colony worlds to stay safe and make sure the species can still reproduce. Female krogan and turians become much more common in _Andromeda_.
-   There is no gender in _Minecraft_. Any two individuals of a species can reproduce together, and in some races all members have female traits (all chickens lay eggs, despite having rooster wattles, and all cows give milk).
-   In _Monster Girl Quest_, all the monsters are female, and survive by raping human males. Early on, we find out that this isn't their fault: The humans' goddess has forbidden sexual intercourse with monsters. Again, they're all female, so it's just a slow form of genocide. This goes deeper than genetics to the spiritual "essence of monsterhood"; even artificial and spontaneously generated species are all female, and the rare male children of monsters are genetically human. This eventually gets explained: the goddess who created the first monsters wanted to force some degree of coexistence with humanity as a way of balancing the energies maintaining creation: if the monsters are dependent on human men for reproduction, they cannot ever genocide humanity without killing themselves at the same time. At other time periods it's worked out.
-   Generally Averted in _Monster Hunter_, where it's understood the differences between males and females are just too subtle to notice. There are a few interesting cases, though. Rathalos and Rathian are respectively males and females of the same species, but dimorphic enough to warrant separate names. Teostra and Lunastra are similar. There are some Elder Dragons that play the tropes straight, but these are an enigma in many other ways besides.
-   _Every_ race except Poms in _Neo Steam_, even the _Humans_. Humans are all male, with a female counterpart race in Taxn Humans. Lupine and Tarune are all male, with an all-female counterpart race in the Lyell. Elves are just plain all female, with no male counterpart. They're not actually stated to be all male or all female, but those are the only options available to PCs, and we don't see any NPCs contrary to this pattern, either.
-   The Elsen, the race which make up most of the generic NPC characters in _OFF_, are all male, and confirmed by Word of God to be unable to reproduce, somewhat justifying the fact that they're all Nervous Wrecks.
-   _Pico_: In _Love Conquers All_, Cassandra explains that Penillians are a one gender race and are thus all considered homosexual by default. That being said, different Penillians take on either "male" or "female" human disguises depending on personal preference, and they are implied to be hermaphroditic.
-   _Pokémon_:
    -   A number of Pokémon are all-male or all-female (for example, Jynx and Kangaskhan are all female while Hitmonlee and Hitmonchan are all male), while others are simply male and female versions of each other (Volbeat/Illumise and Nidoran family since their Eggs can hatch either of them,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  possibly Tauros/Miltank and Braviary/Mandibuzz), or evolutions that cut across gender lines. There's also a handful of species that have no apparent gender at all; the ones that can't breed at all would go under No Biological Sex, but quite a lot of them can only breed _with Ditto_, implying that they have _something_ that functions as a biological sex but is unusual enough to leave humans completely baffled as to how to classify it.
    -   While most Legendary Pokémon are genderless, a few of them do have gender. Latios and Latias are one of the first of those Legendary Pokémon with a gender, though Latios is always male while Latias is always female as they are implied to be members of the same "species". Three Forces of Nature (Tornadus, Thundurus and Landorus) are all male while the last one (Enamorus) is female.
    -   Burmy will evolve into Wormadam (female) or Mothim (male).
    -   Some Pokémon can only evolve if they are the correct gender. Combee and Salandit will only evolve to Vespiquen and Salazzle if they are female; males are out of luck.
    -   While both genders are capable of evolution, only male Kirlia and female Snorunt are capable of also evolving into a different Pokémon: Gallade and Froslass, courtesy of a Dawn Stone.
-   The Valkyries in _Ratchet & Clank_ are a female only race due to a long emigration from their home planet. It took them hundreds or thousands of years, and all the men were killed for failing to stop and ask for directions.
-   All the elk in _Red Dead Redemption_ are male, judging by the fact that they all have antlers and that only male elk have antlers. Averted with all the other animals though, even the other deer species.
-   Pixies in _Sable's Grimoire_ are all tiny beautiful butterfly-winged women living in isolated villages. Since they are generally only seen by humans when making use of Sizeshifter powers to breed with male humans to reproduce they have acquired a reputation for lasciviousness.
-   _Shantae and the Seven Sirens_: As said by the pink-haired tourist in Arena Town, "And all Half-Genies are women."
-   Neireids in _Soul Nomad & the World Eaters_ are all female, and reproduce with Human (and possibly Sepp, who can breed with humans) males, producing neireid offspring. All the Redflanks that appear in the game are males and all the Sky-people females, but in the case of the Redflanks it's mentioned by Grunzford that the Redflank females died out awhile ago, which is why there are fewer and fewer Redflank as time goes on, as well as why the current population always appears to be older.
-   _Spyro the Dragon_:
    -   You rescue eighty dragons in _Spyro the Dragon (1998)_, but every single one is male and female dragons are never mentioned. Averted in _Year of the Dragon_, which features female baby dragons, which means that the female dragons were off laying their eggs in solitude — Gnasty missed them completely.
    -   All fairies in the franchise are female. Although it's possible that male fairies do exist, and are just never seen.
-   In _Startopia_, all alien species are identical, except the sexy Dahanese Sirens — beautiful humanoids with angel wings whose role on the station is to "love" other beings. They have two models, one purple-haired woman in a racing swimsuit, and one blonde, shirtless man. Word of God is that it's a Bizarre Sexual Dimorphism: the males are the ones in swimsuits and the females are the shirtless ones.
-   _Star Trek Online_: Because Cryptic never bothered to design female Gorn, Letheans, or Nausicaans, they're one-gendered from a gameplay standpoint. This is a rather major pet peeve for the KDF fanbase. A later expansion added playable Jem'hadar, which are one-gendered even in-universe.
-   The Lochladies from _Super Mario Odyssey_ are all female. It's even indicated on their name.
-   _Temtem_ has a few single-sex species. Male Towly evolve into Owlhe, while females evolve into Barnshe; the Raiber line were all-male prior to the 0.3 update; and Chubee and Waspeen are always female because they're based on worker and queen bees, respectively.
-   In _Titan Quest_, all the various races of beastmen and demons are monogendered. The only possible exception is given by the always masked Dune Raiders: one of their heroes has a feminine name, though she's otherwise identical to the male ones.
-   The playable cast of _Touken Ranbu_ consists of male personifications of Japanese swords. There's a reason for this, as the characters are "tool kami", (called "Tsukumogami" in Japanese), tools, or in this case katana, that have been given a spirit after a period of at least 100 years following their creation. _Touken Ranbu_ confirmed via Houchou's voice lines that there aren't any female Touken Danshi, much to his disappointment. Some swords that were wielded by female owners or are considered "feminine weapons" (such as the Naginata) will have feminine looks, but that's as far as it's gone, and they are otherwise a race of pretty boys.
-   In _Trickster Online_, Cats, rabbits, foxes, and sheep are female, raccoons, dragons, lions, and bulls (well, duh) are male. Less so than most examples in that all the characters are really humans with costumes consisting of a headband and a tail.
-   In _Warcraft III_'s campaign, the Night Elves begin as a one-gender race, until the male Druids, who have apparently been hibernating for a long, long time, awaken. Even in _World of Warcraft_, there are many more female Night Elves than male. This is probably a Rule of Sexy choice by Blizzard and the players, and the (Hand Waved) reason for this is probably that many males are still trapped within the Emerald Dream. If players are ever allowed to visit the Emerald Dream, one can bet that there will be plenty of male Night Elves running around.
-   The Chua of _Wildstar_ are the only race without any gender options. According to Word of God, the Chua do indeed have two genders but both look identical either way.
-   _The Witches' Tea Party_: Witches are shown to be all-female, but it's clearly implied that they can breed with humans.
-   _World of Warcraft_:
    -   Oracles, Murlocs, and Kobolds seem rather one-gendery... though they maybe don't have any sexual dimorphism at all. Furbolgs are a good example of this. The one female furbolg seen looks exactly like every other furbolg out there.
    -   Several races have both genders according to the lore, but only one (male, with an exception being the succubus) is depicted in game. Ogres, Broken and Lost Ones, for example...although a half-finished female Broken model exists in the game source. Literally _half_\-finished. If the macro system's UnitSex() function is to believed, some of the 'all male races' such as Ogres do have female individuals in the game. Apparently, the player characters just can't tell the difference.
    -   The _Warcraft D20_ monster manual states explicitly that Harpies reproduce by raping a captured humanoid race, preferring elves and humans.
    -   The above quote is about the mogu, which had women at one point, but after their return to stone bodies and resulting lack of need for sexual reproduction, different sexes have been effectively outmoded and now all mogu appear "male". Lei Shen's Twin Consorts are rumored to be the only female-looking mogu in modern existence, and they suffer from the same Huge Guy, Tiny Girl syndrome as draenei, as a result of being built based on Lei Shen's personal specifications.
    -   The Tol'vir initially appeared to be an example of this trope but a "priestess" appeared in the "Visions of N'Zoth" patch and proved to be physically indistinguishable from the males. Presumably the same holds true for other females.
    -   _Hearthstone_ has had some cards which featured the first depictions of previously unseen opposite sex depictions, such as female kobolds and satyrs, but this being a spin-off the canonicity is up in the air.
-   In the _X_ series, the Teladi _do_ have males, but nearly all of them still live on the homeworld because the species discovered early in their space age that unfertilized eggs would always hatch females, and their homeworld was cut off from the Portal Network for 600 years. Even someone who deals with Teladi regularly will likely never meet a male, so this trope is the public perception.
-   _XCOM 2_ introduces the Vipers, a race of all-female Snake People with venom glands for breasts. In the "Alien Hunters" DLC, you encounter a Viper King, the only male instance of the species encountered, and Dr. Vahlen discovers that their species is like this as a result of genetic manipulation by the Ethereals.
-   _Xenoblade Chronicles X_:
    -   The Definians are an all-female species that feature a lot of cybernetics and serve as spies for the Ganglion coalition. They rely on cloning to reproduce.
    -   The Orpheans are all referred to as males despite having no concept of gender, and since they reproduce asexually, it's made clear there are no females... at first. A spontaneous mutation on Mira suddenly causes female Orpheans to start appearing, which confuses the hell out of the entire species.

    Webcomics 

-   In _Angels 2200_, the _Humans_ have become (almost) entirely female after a mysterious plague wipes out 99.5% of all males on Earth. The few surviving men are carefully protected to ensure the survival of the species.One of the major questions of the series is whether this affected the colonies as well, as it occurred during a major insurrection (and may have been a caused by a biological weapon).
-   _Bardsworth_: The faeries are all female and the demons all male. New faeries are born by combining magic and a tree.
-   The Phoenix A species of _Dan and Mab's Furry Adventures_ technically do not have a gender but appear (and refer to themselves) as female, and they don't reproduce conventionally since there are always a certain amount of them at any given time, and their method of "reproduction" is to essentially reincarnate.
-   In _Dangerously Chloe_, Succubi are a single-gendered species; there is no naturally occurring male equivalent (such as the Incubus). There _is_ a loophole though, Succubus are capable of changing their gender to male, but Chloe explains this is taboo even for demons, as once a Succubus becomes male not only do they become incredibly more dangerous, but it becomes nearly impossible for them to change back (Teddy becomes a male Succubus/sex demon at one point, and it seems in addition to increased power and strength, his sexual appetite becomes insatiable, more so than even the typical sex demon).
-   _Deviants_ (old continuity):
    -   Amazons have females and hermaphrodites. This is still a psychological gender, since they still consider themselves female regardless. And the floppy bit is retractable.
    -   Enforced with demons. While succubi (Always Female) usually contented themselves with each other and a human man or two, incubi (Always Male) would amass huge harems of succubi and human women, threatening the human population. Eventually, the Enforcers demanded that incubi be magically neutered and allowed to die out, or they'd launch a genocide and take the succubi with them. The protagonist, Jameson, is The Last of His Kind, although he seems to be a product of a Nebulous Evil Organization's pet project.
    -   Fairies seem to be all female, or at least, no male fairies appear on-camera.
    -   Werewolves and vampires have both sexes.
-   In _Draconia Chronicles_, dragons technically DO have males, but they left for parts unknown when the Forever War started. New dragons are created by way of cloned, um, seeds applied to an egg. However, Clone Degeneration is in effect, albeit slowed down due to their aeon-long lifespans. Princess Luminia, bred the good old-fashioned way (seeds, er, "from the tap" applied to an egg), is more powerful than the Royal Guards, who are all at least a century older than her.
-   Draconians from _Dragon Sanctuary_ but it's not so cut and dry. _Technically_ they're created male, but since they do not reproduce and their gender serves no biological purpose, they do not relate to the concept and their language is entirely gender-neutral. When interacting with other races, some of them adopt he/him pronouns to make things easier while others exclusively use they/them.
-   The Uryuoms in _El Goonish Shive_ don't normally have genders, per se; any two Uryuoms can form an egg together, and they can use DNA from _any_ living species to fertilize it, including Half Human Hybrids (surprisingly, they _aren't_ The Virus, being relatively benign and somewhat whimsical). Those living on worlds where gendered species are dominant will generally adapt to the local customs; on Earth, they generally choose their own gender at some point, though some have one chosen for them by their parents.
-   _The End_: Despite the fact that the only two to appear to far take on the appearance of a man and woman in order to blend in on Earth, the Fiah are revealed to all be of a single sex which reproduces by laying eggs parthenogenically.
-   _Erfworld_:
    -   Not surprisingly, Charlie's Archons are an all-female species. As this world lacks childbirth (or children), and sex appears completely disconnected from procreation, a number of races we've encountered might be all male (or possibly female for some elf variants); we're _sure_ about the archons.
    -   If you count unit classifications as racially distinct (this world runs on tabletop strategy physics), there are known all female-vampire subraces, although there are also regular female vampires.
-   The Elves of _Fetch Quest: Saga of the Twelve Artifacts_ are in danger of becoming this, especially with factors both genetic and historical.
-   Played with in _Forward_: Transhuman humans still have two _sexes_, but most of the concept of _gender_ is lost due to tech advances making body parts swap-out-able and sexism having been overcome, effectively creating a version of humanity where everyone is nonbinary.
-   For a very long time, _Freefall_ left it apparent that all of the robots (whose enormous population forms a major part of the cast) were considered male by default. Only in strip _#1,403_ does the question finally come up. Disappointingly, the explanation is as stereotypical as it is silly: the robots determine themselves to be male or female based on how much _talking_ they do.
-   _Heart of Keol_: All Elyeo are female. However, sometimes the otherwise Elyeo child of a human and an Elyeo can turn out male...
-   _Homestuck_: Leprechauns are an all-male species who reproduce homosexually.
-   _MSF High_ has the Legion, who are a race of Green Skinned Space Babes, who reproduce by converting other races into Legion. They used to be similar to the Borg, but now they act nicely, and retain free will. They're still a bit love-crazy, though.
-   _Not So Distant_'s Albategna (of which the main character Sadachbia is one) are hermaphroditic. In english the pronoun "he" is used to refer to Sadachbia simply as a default, because "it" would be rude and English hasn't used the pronoun "ou" since the 13th century.
-   _Schlock Mercenary_: Carbo-silicate amorphs are, for all intents and purposes, a one gender race, and their reproduction process is explained in some detail in the comic, but is an interesting example of how parthenogenesis could produce offspring which differ from the parent. Technically they don't have a gender at all; Sergeant Schlock is referred to as "he", but Schlock is kind of an odd duck, in that he is A) actually kind of violent, and B) not the result of normal amorph reproduction, but the result of a critical failure in the process of amorph-to-amorph combat.
-   _Vampire Cheerleaders_: There are no females among the mothmen, which was part of the reason they chose Stephanie to be their new Queen and abducted her. The main reason, however, was because they'd been hunted almost to the point of extinction, by the Reptilians. So they needed her to repopulate their species.
-   Faeries in _The Wolf at Weston Court_ are all female.

    Web Originals 

Examples by creator:

-   In the works of the (often) Rule 34 artist flick, orcs are an all-female race after a spell cast by the other non-orc species to save themselves (orcs being Explosive Breeders), being unable to bear male children. In response, the orcs cast their own spell which ensured that orcs would be able to mate with males of said other species, bearing orc women with some characteristics of the other parent.

Examples by title:

-   In the _Madness Combat_ setting, there are no known female Nevadeans. While Nevadeans seem to be largely male-presenting and primarly use masculine pronouns, series creator Krinkels has stated that technically they aren't males and are "their own thing".
-   In the _Monster Girl Encyclopedia_, all demons and monsters are either naturally female or turned female. What the encyclopedia classifies as "Incubi" are simply human men empowered by demonic energy.
-   _Neopets_ has numerous types of faeries with different elements and alignments, all of which are all female. No explanation is ever given. Apparently, if you try to get into the contests or "Neopian Times" (bi-weekly site newspaper) with a story about a male faerie, it will get rejected solely because of that — the staff doesn't seem to want to endorse any mention of male faeries at all.

    Western Animation 

-   All the evil races is _Adventures of the Gummi Bears_ seem to be like that; Carpies, Trolls, and Ogres. If there are female Ogres, for example, they are never on screen. Troggles (Lady Bane's dog-like minions) were apparently male, yet during the Wedding Episode in which she and Toady were going to marry (due to a Love Potion), Troggles are shown in striper outfit dancing for the Ogres, so... they probably are all female.
-   The grunts from _The Brothers Grunt_ all appear to be male.
-   _Droids_ just _might_ have _one_ female droid among the entire cast. The droid is pink, but the series consistently averts the Pink Means Feminine rule. If the droid isn't female, then all robots in this cartoon are male.
-   All the pixies in _The Fairly OddParents!_ are male.
-   The Amazonians from the _Futurama_ episode "Amazon Women in the Mood", who ousted their male population under the compulsion of the mysterious Femputer. The other men died from crushed pelvises from Snu-Snu.
-   The Gnomes in _Gravity Falls_ are all male, at least in their first appearance. They apparently are supposed to have a single female "queen", which the entire tribe is married to and is presumably the mother of the younger generation, as father-son pairs of gnomes exist, but this seems to usually be a kidnapped human woman or girl. However, a single gnome who appears to be female briefly appears (with no dialogue or plot significance) in "The Last Mabelcorn".
-   _My Little Pony_ actually made _more_ sense without the "big brother ponies", when the ponies appeared to be a one-gender race that reproduces via parthenogenesis, resulting in babies physically identical to their mothers. Instead, this seems to be only the case for unicorns and pegasi, as all the males seen in that episode are Earth ponies.
    -   According to one of the comics, little ponies reproduce by looking in a Magic Mirror and wishing for a baby, hence the identical babies. The real question is, where did the babies without an adult counterpart come from? The "old way", maybe?
    -   In _My Little Pony (G3)_ , with the exception of Twinkle Wish Adventure, the ponies are all female. It is even unknown how the G3 ponies would reproduce since there was no mention of it in the films. The only male character in the films was, of course, Spike the Dragon himself.
    -   Not surprisingly, when Lauren Faust (who watched the older cartoons growing up) came on board for _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_, she promptly made sure to avert this trope — Equestrian ponies come in both genders and reproduce the way Earth mammals do, no ifs, ands, or magic mirrors. Played straight, however, with Alicorns in that the audience only sees five of them throughout the entire series run, and outside of an episode taking place inside of a dream: not a single one of the Alicorns are _Stallions_.
-   _The Smurfs_:
    -   The Smurfs do have some females — three, in fact, but at least two of them weren't "natural" members of their species but rather the results of Gargamel creating golem-like beings to infiltrate the Smurfs, and Papa Smurf subsequently making them "real". Smurfs appear to reproduce by stork:
    -   Smurfette was made by Gargamel as a Femme Fatale.
    -   Sassette was made by the three male smurflings (themselves originally adults) wanting to make a companion for Smurfette after she complained about being "the only girl".
    -   The feature film _Smurfs: The Lost Village_ reveals the existence of a second Smurf tribe made up of all females, neither village aware that the other existed.
-   _Steven Universe_: Gems have No Biological Sex and reproduce asexually with machines, though all of them appear female and use "she/her" pronouns. The only exception is Steven, who's a Half-Human Hybrid. The show's supervising director Ian JQ went so far as to confirm this in a Tumblr post by _specifically_ linking to this TV Tropes page as a reference, citing the Namekians from _Dragon Ball_ as another example. Creator Rebecca Sugar has stated that Gems don't have a gender binary and are more or less genderless from their own perspective, but roll with being identified as female because they don't really mind or care. As the series has gone on, some of the gem types introduced are almost or completely androgynous, and a very small number of them even have male voice actors (Snowflake Obsidian and one of the Pebbles, along with one of Steven's fusions).
-   The rolling stock from _Thomas & Friends_. Passenger cars such as Annie and Clarabel, Henrietta, and Old Slow Coach are always female, while freight cars such as the Troublesome Trucks, the Spiteful Brakevan, Hector the hopper car, and Rocky the repair crane are always male.
-   While not a concrete example, female Transformers are exceedingly rare. In fact, in some continuities, they don't exist at all. Why a mechanical race even has genders is a frequently debated topic, as are... how to put this delicately?... other questions related to gender functions.
-   _Wander over Yonder_: Subverted with the Watchdogs, as only males are shown on-screen, but females do exist according to the creators.
-   The Pixies from _Winx Club_ are a female-only race. They don't need males since they are created by a magical tree in their village. Amore (the pixie of love) got really sad when this was pointed out to her by Jolly. Digit actually makes a few references to male relatives, but no male pixies are ever seen in the show. To make things more confusing, Livy and Jolly are said to be cousins, which makes no sense if pixies just come into existence.
    -   This is made more confusing by the presence of male pixies in their Spin-Off, though it's a different canon. It is also heavily implied that they reproduce... the old-fashioned way... since pixies are shown to have families, including parents, though it also possible that they are only structured into families.
    -   Male fairies are never seen or mentioned, indicating that they can't be fairies. Although, with Early-Installment Weirdness, some male background characters are shown to be able to cast spells in the first season.
    -   It is implied that paladins serve as some male equivalent to the fairies, especially Paladium (who even had wings), but this is never fully confirmed. Likewise, wizards (such as Valtor and the Wizards of the Black Circle) are heavily implied to serve as a male equivalent to witches, but this is also never explained.

    Real Life 

-   Aphids reproduce mainly by parthenogenesis, and they are indeed born pregnant. Some aphids do have males and sexually reproducing females at certain times, such as in the fall, so that they can produce eggs that can survive through the winter, but for the most part aphids are a one-gender race.
-   The barramundi is a species of fish where all start as male and slowly change to female throughout their lifecycle (resulting in the vast, vast majority of large fish being female).
-   The clown fish essentially does the opposite. Fish are either sexually immature males, mature males or females with one mature male and one female living in a given population of clown fish. When a female dies, the mature male becomes the female and an immature male becomes the mature male (the female is always the largest and the mature male the second-largest). This means that by the time Nemo met his father in Finding Nemo, he would have actually been his mother.
-   Bdelloids. They are all female and lay fully fertilized eggs.
-   The Brahminy blind snake is the only all-female snake species, reproducing by parthenogenesis. It's also known as the flowerpot snake as it has been accidentally introduced to many areas where it's not native in the soil of imported plants. Being parthenogenetic means it's quickly able to establish itself in new places.
-   Female stick insects reproduce asexually. Though males do exist in some species, they are extremely rare.
-   Marmorkrebs, or marbled crayfish, is an all-female crayfish that reproduces through parthenogenesis. It is a captive, mutated form of the slough crayfish, _Procambarus fallax_. The slough crayfish is an aversion, since it has both males and females.
-   _Mycocepurus smithii_, a species of ant, is entirely female, reproducing asexually.
-   Subverted with the Flabby Whalefish. The males, females, and juveniles were once though to be separate species (Big Nose, Flabby Whalefish, and Tape Tails respectively).
-   Snails, slugs and worms are all hermaphrodites; they do mate with others in order to reproduce but only one of the two can lay eggs.
-   Some species of rotifers are apparently 100% female, though it's possible that the males (which tend to be a lot smaller) just haven't been seen yet. Even rotifers that are capable of producing male offspring usually do so only if the puddle they're living in starts to freeze or dry up, as mating with males allows them to produce durable eggs that can endure harsh conditions. When conditions are good, rotifer populations go all-female, and the thin-shelled parthenogenetic eggs they lay contain clones of themselves.
-   Subverted with hyenas. Medieval scholars thought spotted hyenas were all male and reproduced homosexually. This probably happened because females have enlarged clitorises that look like penises before they give birth for the first time.
-   The Teiidae family of whiptail lizards includes many species that are either all-female or nearly so. This is made possible due to parthenogenesis induced by sexual stimulation. Yep, hot girl on girl action producing babies. How wicked can nature _not_ be? There are also lizard species that require sperm to reproduce, so they seduce males of other species.
-   There are some species of fish, such as the Amazon Molly Fish, that are only female, reproducing solely with the males of another certain species (one which has both males and females). These species work this way because either the act or the presence of sperm will stimulate egg production. Genetically, the offspring are the mother's.
-   There is a species of all male fish. Reproduction is a two-step process for them: first they mate with the females of another closely related species (which has both males and females), producing hybrids that also have both males and females. Purebred males are created when another purebred male mates with a hybrid female.
-   Tortoiseshell and calico cats are almost exclusively female, due to the requirement of two X chromosomes to make the orange and black coat combo. While males do exist, they are very rare, usually sterile, and are either chimeras (result of two eggs fusing together) or XXY males.
-   Triggerfish. Males are never born. Instead the biggest, baddest, strongest female undergoes a sex change to male.
-   While anglerfish have both males and females, in some species the males attach to females and fuse with them until the male is little more than a lump of flesh on the female used to fertilize eggs.
-   While there are female bees and male bees (drones), as a general rule the bees you'll see are female. Only the queen reproduces in a beehive, and she can choose whether to make sterile female workers (diploid), another queen (diploid individuals fed royal jelly for thirty days), or a drone. Drones are haploid, meaning they were not fertilized, and their sole purpose is to mate with another queen to give her a lifetime's supply of sperm. Once they mate, they are cast out of the hive and die, or die thanks to their genitals being ripped out of them after intercourse.
-   The wolbachia bacteria (right now confined to arthropods) kills all mature males, turns all other males female and allows females to have virgin births. Many species now have it incorporated into their sex-determination system permanently.

___

### **Alternative Title(s):** Single Gender Species, Single Gender Race, One Sex Race, Single Sex Species

-   Not Quite Human
-   Fantastic Sapient Species Tropes
-   Our Dwarves Are All the Same

-   Oculothorax
-   Index of Fictional Creatures
-   Oni

-   Oculothorax
-   Otherness Tropes
-   One-Winged Angel

-   Not Quite Dead
-   ImageSource/Dragon Ball
-   Anime & Manga

-   Omegaverse
-   Gender and Sexuality Tropes
-   One-Gender School

-   The Orville
-   Speculative Fiction LGBT
-   Free-Love Future

-   Non-Human Non-Binary
-   Alien Tropes
-   Abusive Alien Parents

-   Onee-sama
-   Yuri Genre
-   One-Gender School

-   Odd Organ Up Top
-   Bizarre Alien Biology
-   Otherworldly and Sexually Ambiguous

-   Missing Steps Plan
-   QuoteSource/Video Games
-   Our Minotaurs Are Different