_"At least Kimmy's just lost in the timestream and not staying out late with some boy."_

When a character spends a long time trying to think up a proper explanation/excuse/lie to tell his parents, he expects them either to be floored or to completely misunderstand. When he finally does, the parents already know about it and wonder what the big deal is. Occasionally, the person almost lied about shows up at the house with his own explanation, omitting certain truths.

Sometimes the parents actually knew a lot more than they were letting on. Or they genuinely just accept it with frightening ease, telling us they're pretty cool (if weird) people. Due to their overly receptive behavior and their innate parental philosophy to let their kids be themselves without too many rules to constrict them, they are often portrayed as Good Parents. They're not necessarily Hippie Parents, although being open-minded about their kids is a possible trait _of_ Hippie Parents.

Compare Hippie Parents, Teasing Parent, Doting Parent, Milholland Relationship Moment, Reasonable Authority Figure. Contrast Fantasy-Forbidding Parent, Helicopter Parents, Love-Obstructing Parents.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

-   Heineken lager used this as an example of their "How Refreshing. How Heineken" campaign. We see a Glaswegian man and his son playing pool. The younger man is looking nervous:
    
    **Son:** Dad, I'm gay.  
    **Dad:** That's alright, son. That's your decision. It is the '90s, after all. Your shot.
    
-   A Mexican commercial for Dorito's featured a father whose son brought home a boy "friend" from university, but that the father could see that they were just a bit too close to be friends, although his son seems to try to keep it hidden. The commercial is about the father asking how to prove to his son that he doesn't care, he still loves his son.

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Ah... and Mm... Are All She Says_:
    -   Seiko's mother. Despite acting a bit Tsundere, she is actually supportive of Seiko's unannounced move to Tokyo to draw...hentai. She is the reason why it takes a whole year for Tanaka to find out Seiko's real age; she _deliberately_ left Tanaka's calls unanswered.
    -   In the last chapter, Ishino nervously shows his mom that his eromanga won a contest as a runner-up. She's completely accepting, though she mentions she won't read it when he's around for the sake of avoiding Parental Sexuality Squick.
-   Shino Aizawa's mother, in _Aizawa-san Multiplies_, takes the fact that her daughter has divided into five different copies of herself with only the declaration that she's ready to make dinner for them all. She claims it's because the women in the family all develop a Puberty Superpower. In fact, she's more interested (and encouraging) that Shino finally brought her crush home.
-   _Anohana The Flower We Saw That Day_: Jintan's dad is very chill and permissive with his son's choices, letting him deal with his grief in his own way, even if that means becoming a Hikikomori.
-   In _Asteroid in Love_, Shiori Manaka listens to her daughter's Ao proposal to stay with Mira's family rather than move. She raises some legitimate objections, but after Ao continues to plead her case, she agrees to talk it over with Ao's father, and the family accepts Ao's proposal.
-   Shinichi's parents in _Case Closed_ don't seem to mind that he's staying as a child so he can be with his girlfriend more. Not exactly in the beginning though, where Yusaku and Yukiko played a Batman Gambit to try to force Shinichi/Conan to come with them to the USA, so he'd get his condition cured and then testify against the Black Organization. He had to talk with them quite a bit to convince them otherwise.
-   _Citrus_: Yuzu worries a lot about coming out as a lesbian to her parents and even apologizes to her mother for it when she tells her. But both of them are perfectly fine with it and offer their support and comfort.
-   Kyu's mother in _Detective School Q_. When Kyu is back home one day, she tells him a "cutie" (his childhood friend Kaoru) has come to meet him and wonders if she is Kyu's girlfriend. She then leaves the home to buy groceries to leave Kyu and Kaoru alone. Later, when she sees Kyu and Kaoru holding hands (for an entirely different reason), she apologises for disturbing them. It's later hinted that Mrs. Renjou is actually in a similar, but more down-to-earth situation as Sayuri Daimon. She married Satoru Renjou fully knowing that he was a policeman who lived constantly in danger, took it in stride even when Satoru had to almost completely disappear from her and little Kyuu's lives to protect them, and ever since his tragic death she's sensed that Kyuu will want to follow in his footsteps. Hence why she offered little resistance when Kyuu said he wanted to go to the DDS and supported him and his friends as much as she could. She even lets Ryu live with them for a while.
-   _Digimon_:
    -   In _Digimon Data Squad_, Daimon Sayuri was perfectly all right with her son bringing home a small dinosaur Digimon, calling him "Agu-chan" and scolding Masaru for fussing when he took the last of the fried eggs. She comes across as kind, but rather simple-minded, until she reveals that she knew about DATS and Digimon all along, as that was why Masaru's Disappeared Dad Suguru... well, disappeared. She had accepted long ago that Masaru would follow in his father's footsteps, and so was utterly unsurprised.
    -   Back in the original _Digimon_, Izzy's parents take well to Tentomon once they're introduced, and his mother even jumps into linking Cupid to a Digital World prophecy despite not knowing the Digital World existed until recently. The trope is oddly Inverted when Izzy himself finds out his parents' long-kept secret that he's adopted, and reveals he'd suspected it already, still loves them and considers them very much his real parents.
    -   _Digimon Tamers_:
        -   Ruki's grandmother was not the least bit surprised about Renamon; apparently she just assumed that she had picked up a _kitsune_ fox spirit protector.
        -   Takato's parents are quite okay with Guilmon's presence. Mrs. Matsuda is more apprehensive, but not reaching the other extreme.
-   Souji's mother in _Gonna Be the Twin-Tail!!_ is... special, for sure. For one, she's not only okay with this whole Tail Red gender-swapping heroine nonsense, but she's also fine with Twoearle converting the basement of the house into a secret base, never mind her complete blessing for Twoearle to jump Souji's bones. In the light novel, she admits that both she and Souji's father were stricken by a serious case of chuunibyou, which is why she was totally okay with her son being a hero by proxy, as he was living his parents' fondest dreams.
    
    **Miharu:** Souji, your mother grew up with an aggravated case of chuunibyou. I passed my days dreaming of becoming a heroine who protected the world, and it finally didn't come true and I became a mother of one. But, listen, I passed that dream down through the umbilical cord and entrusted it to you.  
    **Souji:** What are you doing to your kid before he's even born!!
    
-   Kagome's mom, grandpa, and brother are all very accepting of Kagome's time-traveling to fight demons in the feudal era in _Inuyasha_. They seemingly think it's better to accept and support Kagome's unavoidable destiny - Mrs. Higurashi is Genre Savvy enough to even buy presents for the rest of the group. They also don't have a problem with Inuyasha and notice early on that she has feelings for him. When her brother asks Inuyasha for romantic advice, he was shocked to learn that they had never told each other they were in love.
-   _I Think Our Son Is Gay_: The series viewpoint character is Tomoko, a housewife who suspects her teenage son Hiroki is probably gay. Her narration makes it perfectly clear that she's fine with this, even finding Hiroki's flustered reactions to various close calls cute. The only reason she doesn't tell Hiroki she knows is she is willing to wait for him to come out to her himself. In the meantime, she offers what support she can, such as running interference when her husband, who has no clue about his son's sexuality, makes Innocently Insensitive remarks about homosexuals.
-   _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Diamond is Unbreakable:_ Ryohei Higashikata, police officer of Morioh and the grandfather of main protagonist Josuke, unbridledly loves both his daughter and grandson, even considering the fact that his daughter had sex with a married man who's 42 years older than her, and his grandson is an illegitimate child, which is seen as a major sin in Japan.
-   Hazumu in _Kashimashi: Girl Meets Girl_ worries about the reaction to his accident, then finds his parents happily chatting with an alien in their kitchen.
-   The parents of the three main protagonists of _Kiss×sis_ are ridiculously understanding about Keita's love life. They are completely fine with both pseudo-incest and student-teacher romance (which even the teacher in question finds disturbing). They also permit (and sometimes even encourage) their children's not-so-innocent games. The only time they oppose their kids' decisions is when Keita talks about marrying both his step-sisters, which they don't do because they are morally opposed to it, but because of the Japanese legal status of polygamy.
-   In _Kyo Kara Maoh!_, Yuri is deeply worried about what will happen when he shows up at home with his entire boy harem, including his fiance, from another magical world where he is king. Much to his surprise, his parents already knew he was going to be king, and are merely disappointed that he didn't tell him sooner. His (male) fiance then proudly announces their engagement, despite all Yuri's protests, only for his mother and fiance to plan a shopping trip to buy a wedding gown, much to Yuri's horror.
-   _Lyrical Nanoha_
    -   When the time came for Nanoha to explain to her family that she's a mage and how she plans to officially join the Time-Space Administration Bureau, the only one who appeared even remotely shocked upon finding out that magic and different dimensions existed was Nanoha's sister, Miyuki. This might have more to do with the ferret she's been adoring as a pet turns out to be a guy. Even before that, during the first season, Nanoha has to join the TSAB for a few days to help out in their investigation, which necessitates missing school and staying onboard the Cool Ship rather than at her house. What exactly did she tell her parents she was doing during this time? Well, no one's really sure<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , but whatever she told them, it was enough for them to allow their nine-year-old girl to run around with people they've never met for a few days.
    -   This can be explained if one is familiar with the source material, where her father and older siblings are all ninja bodyguards who take on entire terrorist organizations by themselves. Not letting her run off on a potentially life-threatening mission would be downright hypocritical.
    -   This also applies to Nanoha when she becomes a parent herself as she allows her daughter Vivio to pursue any hobby she wants to have (which happens to be magical martial arts) and is fully supportive of her daughter's choice, even providing training sessions for her if she ever asks.
-   _Marmalade Boy_:
    -   In the anime, Miki and Yuu spend the _entire series_ worrying about their parents' reactions to the two of them dating, only to learn that all four parents knew about it the whole time and thought it was cute.
    -   In the manga, things aren't _that_ easy since they really didn't know and Yuu's father Youji even gave him a slap for not asking, but it ends up fine anyway. Yuu thought he was not Youji's son but Jin's (Miki's father, long story) and he felt forced to break up with Miki, as that would make them half-siblings by blood. He's really Youji's son. Youji felt vexed by this and angry that Yuu wouldn't just ask them, so he gets angry for the first time in the 8-volume manga.
-   Invoked in _Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid_. Mr. Magatsuchi has no problem with Lucoa staying in his house and sleeping naked in his 10-year-old son's bed because it's family tradition that everyone is responsible for their own familiars.
-   In _My Monster Secret_, Asahi's parents are stunningly open-minded, accepting not only the fact that their son's girlfriend is a half-vampire, but that she's already pregnant with their daughter thanks to how vampiric blood-drinking works in this setting. As for Youko's parents, her mother was a Shipper on Deck from the beginning, and while her father was a Boyfriend-Blocking Dad for a while, Asahi won him over with his honest and heartfelt devotion to Youko, and when he's told about the pregnancy he's perfectly calm and understanding.
-   The Fujiwara couple in _Natsume's Book of Friends_ are fairly reasonable when their foster son Natsume often shows up disheveled and in situations that he cannot fully explain to them. They are unaware of his spiritual abilities but are supportive and understanding regardless. One noteworthy example was Shigeru coming across a room that Natsume wrecked due to an exorcism spell to get rid of an evil spirit haunting the house. Since he had seen something like this before in the past, he knew Natsume didn't purposely destroy the room.
-   In _Nyaruko: Crawling with Love!_, Mahiro finds out that his mother Yoriko is coming home early and worries about her finding out about his Pretty Freeloaders Nyarko and Cuko, partly because he's afraid she'll think he's the type of son who brings girls home when his parents are away, but mostly because they're Eldritch Abominations straight out of the Cthulhu Mythos. When Yoriko does show up, she's fully aware of what they are because she's a part-time monster hunter and god-slayer (something Mahiro didn't know about) and is completely fine with them staying under her roof as long as they don't cause too much trouble or hurt her Hiro-kun. Later on, she declares that she's perfectly fine with Nyarko romantically pursuing Mahiro, but encourages her to take it slow, because "high schoolers should have a high school romance."
    
    Of course, Yoriko's initial reaction to hearing the names "Nyarlathotep" and "Cthuguha" is to pull out throwing forks and tell Mahiro to get away from them; after being convinced that they have no intention of hurting him (an impression aided by Nyarko's adorable pet shantak-bird), she softens and decides they can stay. Even THAT reaction is a sign that she's completely accepted the bizarre nature of the situation and is willing to go all Mama Bear on an Eldritch Abomination or two if that's what it takes to protect her son.
    
-   _One Piece_ has a downplayed example with Kaido of all people. His daughter Yamato is a huge Fanboy of Kozuki Oden and she tells Kaido she wants to be like Oden. Yamato means that literally and Oden was a man. Her father gave her a beating for this but apart from that Kaido apparently took it relatively in stride, considering that now he refers to her as "his son". So the father doesn't approve of his child's decision but he still acknowledges it.
-   _Pokémon_:
    -   _Pokémon: The Series_: Mrs. Ketchum has no problem with allowing her son Ash, age 10, to travel the world - with or without any traveling companions and amass a small personal army of creatures who protect him; it's a custom that borders on Rite of Passage, after all. Plus, his friends sometimes crash at his place for arbitrary lengths of time as well; again, she's cool with this and dotes on them almost as though they were her own children. In the second movie, she's slightly annoyed with him being right in the middle of the end of the world. But she loosens up later.
    -   In _Pokémon Adventures_, Gold's mom asks where her son is, but turns around and says "Oh well, he'll be back when he wants to." before getting an answer.
-   _Pretty Cure_:
    -   _Go! Princess Pretty Cure_: At the beginning of the series, Minami was prepared to follow in her family business. However, towards the end of the series, she decided she wanted to be a marine biologist. She was worried at first of her parents' reaction, but they completely understand and are supportive of her new dream.
    -   Similarly in _HuGtto! Pretty Cure_, when Saaya's mother Leila catches her daughter confessing that she now wants to be a doctor instead of chasing her original dream to be an actress, she is supportive of her daughter's new goal...though doesn't hide enough sadness about her child growing up to avoid becoming the Monster of the Week.
-   To a greater extreme, at the end of _Pretty Sammy_, it's revealed that not only did her parents know Sasami was Pretty Sammy, but so did her entire school class. They just collectively decided to go along with the whole secret identity thing, because Sasami seemed to want it that way.
-   _Sailor Moon_: Chibiusa's parents, Mamoru and Usagi Tsukino, are remarkably open-minded about letting their daughter fight with them in some extremely dangerous battles, and deliberately allow her to go back in time more than once after her initial time travel adventure to continue with it, which is even more impressive given that Chibiusa has the mind and size of a roughly 6= or 7-year-old child to begin with, and later on grows into something closer to 10 and 12 as the seasons go by. When Chibiusa stays with Kenji, Ikkuko, and Shingo, her grandparents and uncle are also rather happy to see her do largely whatever she wants to at whatever time and place with Usagi, Mamoru, and their friends who are twice as old as she is to start out.
-   In the first episode of _Sgt. Frog_, Aki Hinata encounters Keroro the moment she gets home from work, and not only accepts him into the Hinata home but uses him as inspiration for a new manga character.
-   _Tenchi Muyo!_:
    -   Tenchi's grandfather very quickly accepted a whole flock of strangers moving into his house, although this was related to _his_ secret identity, too. Rather the house belongs to Tenchi's father Nobuyuki, but then he probably likes the idea being surrounded by pretty women. And of course he's really aware of everything.
    -   Nobuyuki is also fairly open-minded regarding his son, too. When Nobuyuki sees Ryoko in Tenchi's room, he assumes that Tenchi snuck Ryoko in to sleep with her. Nobuyuki says that, as Tenchi's father, he should respect his son's privacy, and leaves them alone. Not that it stops him from trying to videotape it from outside "for posterity".
-   When Miyako, Kanon's mother in _Umi Monogatari_, finds out that a mystical talking turtle and two girls from the sea claiming to be her daughter's friends are going to be staying at her house, she's perfectly fine with it.
-   Mako's mother from _Wandering Son_ is the only parent depicted who takes their child coming out as transgender in stride; the others are either angry or confused. Mako expects her mom to be upset but she ends up being supportive.
-   Keima's mother Mari accepts Elsie relatively quickly in _The World God Only Knows_. However, she's quite pissed off at her husband as Elsie states that she's an illegitimate child of his.

    Comedy 

-   Comedian Phil Jupitus mentions that it's easy to say you'll be a "cool, understanding" parent when your kids are young, and quite another to uphold that promise when you're told that your teenage daughter's boyfriend is going to be...'staying over'.

    Comic Books 

-   Batwoman's father, Jacob Kane, immediately accepted her when she came out to him as a lesbian, right after she had informed him she had left the Army because of it. He was also rather quick to accept Kate as a vigilante when he understood how committed she was.
-   _Blue Beetle_: Bianca and Alberto Reyes, the parents of Jaime Reyes (the third Blue Beetle) are openly accepting of their son going into dangerous tasks of superheroism.
    
    **Bianca:** Homework done?  
    **Jamie:** Yes ma'am.  
    **Alberto:** Go. Be careful. And, let's say, when it's a natural disaster, not school hours, you can just go.  
    **Bianca:** But if you're going to be late, call.  
    **Jamie:** Thanks, dad.  
    **Bianca:** And no monster fighting unless they start it.
    
-   Most characters in _ElfQuest_, because the elves have Eternal Sexual Freedom. A nice example is when main character Cutter realizes that his virgin daughter Ember (aged 16-ish) is sexually frustrated, and asks his best friend Skywise to take care of it. (Skywise refuses, but mostly because he knows he's not really Ember's type.)
-   In the _Infinite_ miniseries of _Jem and the Holograms (IDW)_, Emmett Benton's counterpart in the alternate universe refers to the universe's counterparts of Kimber and Stormer as his "daughters", clearly showing that he is accepting of his surviving daughter's sexuality and is willing to welcome Kimber's girlfriend into the family.
-   _Katie the Catsitter_:
    -   Although Katie's mom is unaware that she's becoming a superhero's sidekick, the mom of Katie's friend Beth also turns out to secretly be in the superhero business, and is totally cool... with _Katie_ being a superhero's sidekick, but not her _own_ daughter! Though she later opens up to the idea of Beth doing training, but not actual sidekick action.
    -   When Katie's mom discovers she's been trained by the Mousetress, who is widely believed to be a supervillain, she is upset, though less so than most parents would be. After about a week, and a presentation by the Mousetress's cats, she warms up to the idea of Katie having sidekick training from a superhero, as long as she gets to see what the training is like.
-   Sort of, for Spider-Man. Aunt May is on her deathbed and reveals that she knew of and approved of Peter being Spider-Man for some time now. Then she dies. Of course, this later turns out to be a big Mind-Screw (she was... an actress?). When Aunt May does find out for real, she has a difficult time accepting this; once she does, though, she is Spider-Man's biggest fan. Having Mary-Jane to talk with helps. And of course, Peter isn't a kid anymore. Thanks to _One More Day_, the poor woman's back in the dark. In _Ultimate Spider-Man_, Aunt May has a much harder time dealing with Peter being Spider-Man. This was more because that was dropped on her at the same time she was informed that Gwen Stacy and her brother-in-law (Pete's father) turned out to be clones, the latter being an aged clone of Peter who later died.
-   The character Lacuna from the Peter Milligan run on _X-Force_ comes from non-mutant parents who love that she's a mutant and support whatever decisions she makes in life. This annoys her because she only wants to disappoint them like all children do. She finally achieves her goal by becoming a talk show host.
-   Played with in _Young Avengers_. Billy wanted to tell his parents that he was a superhero, but when the time comes, they reveal that they had already guessed that Billy was gay. They then welcome his boyfriend, there for support, to the family and offer breakfast. They don't learn about the superheroing until some time afterwards.

    Comic Strips 

-   _Calvin and Hobbes_:
    -   Calvin's parents turn out to be an example of this when he wrecks the car and runs away. Apparently when the kid takes a saw to the coffee table you're allowed to blow your top but when he puts himself in genuine danger, you have bigger things to worry about.
    -   After a visiting relative leaves some cigarettes where Calvin can find them, Mom tells him that if he's going to smoke, he should do it outside. She expects, rightly, that he'll hate the experience and never try it again.
-   _Liō_: While Lio's dad has been shown to get exasperated at his son's more macabre interests, it's clear that no matter what, he loves Lio, eccentricities and all.

    Fan Works 

-   _Ariel & Belle_ (a _The Little Mermaid (1989)_ and _Beauty and the Beast_ crossover): Early on, Belle confesses to her father that she isn't like other girls and wonders if there's something wrong with her; she admits that if most girls read the stories she did, they'd imagine themselves in the role of the princess, but _she_ pictures herself as the hero who comes to the princess's rescue. Maurice's response is to laugh and say, "That's _it_? Just as long as you don't imagine yourself as the villain, it's fine by me!" Later, after realizing how much she cares for Ariel, Maurice isn't bothered in the slightest; the second story says early on that while they haven't discussed Ariel and Belle's relationship in detail, he loves his daughter unconditionally and has quickly come to see Ariel almost as a second daughter.
-   _Friday Night Funkin': B3 Remixed_ downplays this with Shaya’s parents. While they do end up being supportive of their daughter, they aren’t so fond of her boyfriend.
-   In _Ghosts of Evangelion_ Shinji and Asuka do not mind their daughter's eccentricities and delinquent habits as long as Ryuko is happy.
-   _Hard Reset (Eakin)_ features Twilight dithering on whether or not to come out to her parents. She finally decides to see what would happen — after all, "Groundhog Day" Loop. She does ... and the response? They already knew and had talked about it, deciding to let her reveal it in her own time. 'We found out a few months after you moved to Ponyville. I was cleaning up in your room and I found a box under your bed. Full of...magazines.'
-   _Homophobia Isn't Real?_: Played With. Eda is more or less Luz’s surrogate mom and completely accepting of Amity’s relationship, but because Witches don’t have any concept of sexual discrimination.
-   In _Lincoln Gets Limber_, Lincoln discovers that he likes doing gymnastics, but he hides it from everybody, even his parents, except for his schoolmates who are also in his gymnastics class by claiming that he's actually doing dodgeball. Two weeks later, Rita finds out when she goes to pick him up from the Royal Woods sports center, which prompts Lincoln to also tell the truth to Lynn Sr. that same night. While both of them are a bit upset that Lincoln lied to them about what he was really doing, they allow him to continue gymnastics because they're glad that he found a sport that he likes doing for regular exercise. They also promise not to tell his sisters or anybody else about it until he's ready to tell them.
-   _One Girl with Ten Brothers:_ When Luke comes out as bisexual who's dating one of his male classmates to his parents, both of them are completely accepting and supportive of it. In fact, the only reason why they're initially shocked by the news is that it’s not Loni who’s admitting he’s in a same-sex relationship.
-   Played for "Even Evil Has Loved Ones" points in _Teen Titans: Witch-Hunt_: What Jackson finds most surreal about his father being Black Manta is how a ruthless butcher of anything Atlantean is simultaneously a dad accepting enough of his son coming out as gay to help plan a rainbow-themed party.
-   In the _Hannah Montana_ fic "Thirst", after Miley has spent time agonising over her self-realisation that she's in love with Lilly, when she finally gets the nerve to tell her father, Robbie Ray assures her that he recognises that Lilly is the most important thing in Miley's life, and he never wants Miley to feel as though she has to apologise for loving someone, giving Miley hope that she can weather how the rest of her family might react so long as her father's on her side.
-   _An Unpleasant Surprise_: Sharon has no problems with Molly dating Libby, a girl, noting at the end of story that their relationship was one of the best things that ever happened to her daughter, and to hell with anyone who thought otherwise. There's no reason to believe Pete wouldn't feel the same way.

    Films — Animation 

-   Ugga from _The Croods_ is a downplayed example. While she's open to newer things unlike her father Grug, it's only _slightly_ more than him, and she would usually (until Character Development) agree with his choices.
-   In _Hotel Transylvania 2_, Johnny becomes this for his and Mavis' son Dennis. Unlike the overprotective Mavis, Johnny is okay with letting Dracula help Dennis bring out his vampire powers.
-   Sosuke's mother in _Ponyo on the Cliff by the Sea_ is awfully quick, if flabbergasted, to accept the reality of Ponyo as a transforming goldfish girl, not to mention when the nursing home she works at is covered by the sea protected by a magic bubble and she has a heart-to-heart chat with the Queen of the Sea who wants her to adopt Ponyo if she chooses to become human.
-   Even though the Queen in _Shrek 2_ is shocked to see that her daughter Fiona has married Shrek instead of Prince Charming, she still does her best to be polite based on how happy Fiona appears to be with him.
    
    **King Harold:** I don't think you realize that our daughter has married a _monster!_  
    **Queen Lillian:** Oh, stop being such a drama king.
    
-   In _Turning Red_, for what it's worth, Jin is much more sensible than his wife when it comes to Mei's growing up. He encourages Mei to do her own stuff and accepts her choices, especially whether she wants to go through the red panda spirit ritual or not.
-   Shizuku's parents in _Whisper of the Heart_ are surprisingly open-minded about their daughter choosing to spend examination time writing her first novel instead of studying — especially when you consider that she _refused to tell them what she was up to._

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _Adam (2019)_: Gillian's parents were very accepting of her being a lesbian, suing after she was barred from entering prom in tow with her girlfriend. She says her mom is also really into her sexuality, having watched _The Incredibly True Adventure of Two Girls in Love_ "about a hundred times".
-   One can't help but get this impression from Jim's dad in the _American Pie_ series - every mishap Jim gets into, he's there to give a helping hand and a word of advice (whether Jim wants it or not).
-   _Antonia's Line_: Antonia wins a gold medal. Not only does she agree to Danielle's plan to get pregnant without a husband, but she also takes her to the city to find a man. And goes with her daughter and said man to the hotel. And _waits outside on the lawn_ while Danielle has sex twice. And asks Danielle if she had an orgasm as they leave.
-   _Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe_: Ari learns that his aunt Ophelia lived with her female lover, and his parents were the only relatives who did not disavow her for it, despite this being 1980s Texas. This fact helps him come to terms with his own sexuality.
-   _Attachment_: Lev tells Maja Chana's issues with her and Leah don't stem from their being lesbians. He doesn't care about it either, despite both him and Chana being Orthodox Jews. This appears to be true, since while Chana often nags Leah about things, she never mentions her sexuality as a problem, though it's hardly a secret (they're sharing a bed, while Chana's walked in before when they had sex). Leah never mentions this explicitly though, with her only telling Maja her mom's aware of her being with women.
-   _Badhaai Do_:
    -   Despite spending the whole film being a tender doormat towards her in-laws, Shardul's mother is the first person to accept him for being gay, while the rest of them either don't come around or are slower to do so.
    -   Discussed; Sumi tells her father that she had assumed homophobia from her mother if she were to come out, but figured that her father would be supportive. She's heartbroken when he isn't initially, but he comes around.
-   The live-action _Ben 10: Race Against Time_ movie characterizes Ben's parents this way to a creepy degree. To the point where Ben has to insist on referring to them as "Mom" and "Dad" rather than by their first names, which is what they want Ben to do.
-   Hunter in _Blockers_ is well aware that his daughter Sam is gay, even before she realises herself, and is completely OK with it. Of the three parents who try to stop the sex pact, Hunter is the only one doing it not because of his own flaws but because he doesn't want Sam to sleep with a boy just because she thinks she has to.
-   _Cassanova Was A Woman_: After being told by Cassanova that she's with a woman, her mom is a bit surprised but easily accepts this, so long as they love each other.
-   _Crush_: Angie is extremely so, instantly accepting Paige's being a lesbian and getting a little _too_ much for her taste sometimes, like offering her sex toys (because she's also very sex-positive generally).
-   _The Curiosity of Chance_: Chance's father is perfectly fine with the fact that his son is gay. Made surprising by the fact that his dad is in the Army and it's the 80s.
-   _Duck Butter_: Sergio's mother Susana is wholly fine with free love, even speaking fondly of life prior to AIDS where it was more carefree, and is totally fine that her daughter is seeing Nima, another woman. Nima is uncomfortable at just _how_ open-minded Susana is in fact.
-   Olive's parents in _Easy A_... almost to the point of being creepy. They're also Good Parents.
-   _Entre Nous (2021)_: Elodie's stepfather Roity is wholly accepting of her being a lesbian. He even encourages her to have a child with her fiancée Laetitia. She's very grateful for him, as many LGBT+ people (including Laetitia) don't have a straight relative like this supporting them in their lives.
-   _Juno_: Juno's father and stepmother are incredibly supportive when Juno reveals she's pregnant. While they're shocked, and Juno's dad grumbles about punching her boyfriend in the dick next time he sees him, they get over it remarkably quickly and immediately focus on figuring out what to do. When Juno reveals her intent to give the baby up for adoption, they get to work helping her prepare, meeting the prospective adoptive parents with her, and helping her set up a doctor's appointment. They're obviously not _happy_ with the situation, but never shame or scold Juno for it, and fully respect her choices and independence.
-   One of the big plot points in _Make the Yuletide Gay_ is Olaf hesitating to explain that Nathan, his roommate who comes into his family's Christmas party is his lover because he doesn't want to be disowned like his campus mate after coming out. When he finally does explain, though, the same thing as the trope image above happens except the parents' role is reversed. Shortly later on, Olaf's parents reveal that they have been suspicious of Olaf's sexuality for six years when he was still a sophomore in high school.
-   _Nina's Heavenly Delights_: Nina and Kary's mother Suman proves herself to be one. Kary married a white woman and has kept it secret. Nina has been in the closet about being a lesbian (she had fallen for Lisa, who's also white). Suman is just happy that her children have found love after she learns about this, despite them fearing that she'd react badly.
-   Chris' parents in _Rock Star_, from letting Chris stay at home well into his mid-twenties, to attending his shows and helping out, to loaning him makeup.

    Literature 

-   _The Change Room_: Binta's parents were fine with her having her girlfriend Sophie over, and even their having sex together, it's revealed.
-   _The Dresden Files_: Michael Carpenter, which is even more notable considering that he's also a devout churchgoing Christian. Upon seeing his daughter return home from running away with all her piercings, tattoos, and multicoloured hair, his first instinct is to hug her. Afterwards, he relays to the protagonist:
    
    **Michael:** Harry, am I just too old?
    
-   In the Maeve Binchy novel _Evening Class_, a young woman is explaining to her younger sister that she is actually her mother. She states that _her_ mother's reaction to her out-of-wedlock teen pregnancy was to say, "Won't it be grand to have another baby around the house." Already remarkable, but even more so considering that this was Ireland in the 1950s, where such a situation was a _major_ embarrassment.
-   In the _Franny K. Stein_ book series, Franny's parents do their best to be supportive of their daughter's dabbling in mad science.
-   _Hani and Ishu's Guide to Fake Dating_: Hani's parents accepted her bisexuality, with her mother even saying she understands Hani might marry a woman in the future, despite being Muslim and also from a traditionally conservative Bengali culture.
-   In _The Hearts We Sold_, Gremma's parents are fine with the fact that their daughter is a lesbian. Gremma reveals that briefly after she came out, she saw "how to be supportive of gay kid" in her mom's search history.
-   _Just Juliet_: Juliet's dad doesn't mind at all that his nephew's boyfriend stays over. He later says the same to Lena with Juliet, so long as they practice safe sex.
-   In _Rick_, the title character's mom reminds his dad that he might look for a "cute" girl _or boy_ when he starts middle school. Rick's dad tells him this after his first day, adding that he might just be a late bloomer, but neither him nor his mom realizes that he isn't interested in anyone because he's asexual.
-   _The Pale King_: Chris's mother defends her son's actions while dealing with her own issues with regard to feminism and individuality.
-   In _Please Don't Tell My Parents I'm a Supervillain_, Claire's mom, being a former villain herself, fully supports the trio's activities, just as long as they don't get in over their heads.
-   Peter Grant's parents in _Rivers of London_ are very accepting of the fact he's gone from junior copper to apprentice wizard copper. At one point he reflects that in his Mum's culture being a "witch smeller" is probably _more_ respectable than being a policeman.
-   In _Shadow of the Hegemon_, Peter is flabbergasted when his parents tell him how proud they are of his secret double life as a famous columnist. They then gently chide him for not realizing that his genius is genetic especially given the intellects of his own siblings.
-   Subverted in _Vampire Academy_. Daniella Ivashkov seems to accept the relationship of her son Adrian with dhampir Rose, though the Moroi in general and her husband Nathan look down on such relationships. She later has a private talk with Rose, revealing that she simply figures their relationship won't last. She is content to let it run its course.
-   The _Young Wizards_ series, Nita's parents seem to be awfully accepting of the fact that she's made herself a personal enemy of the Lone Power by becoming a foot soldier for the Cosmic Forces of Good. But then this might just be resignation in the face of the fact that there's absolutely nothing they can do to stop her: grounding your daughter is pretty futile when she can both walk through walls and teleport.
    -   Apparently, Kit's father took it amazingly well. "My son's a _brujo_....cool."
    -   Don't think that it was easy though. At the time they decided to come out to their parents (during _Deep Wizardry_), Nita had volunteered to take part in an undersea ritual with the whale wizards without fully understanding that the role she had taken required her to sacrifice herself to complete it. Telling your parents you're probably going to die in the course of your work never goes over well. However both the terms of the ritual and the Wizard's Oath entail that she can't go back on her commitment without serious consequences—at best, the surrender of her wizardry and a boost for the Lone Power, at worst, if the ritual fails, the destruction of the Atlantic seaboard. She makes it out alive because someone was able to Take a Third Option. By the same token, it's dishonorable at best to use wizardry to get out of something like being grounded, and Tom and Carl, the local Seniors, cooperate with parents in on The Masquerade and aren't above restricting the powers of a misbehaving wizard if they absolutely have to. (Nita's sister Dariane gets grounded from interplanetary travel in _A Wizard's Holiday_—worse than it sounds since she has close friends in parts of the universe too far away to observe using conventional astronomy.)
-   _Zara Hossain Is Here_: Zara's parents, though Muslims, accepted her being bisexual, although they were a bit surprised and worried after she'd told them.

    Live-Action TV 

-   Carlos Reyes' parents are a downplayed version of this, from what we know in _9-1-1: Lone Star_. After he came out to them as a teenager, they reacted with seeming support, telling him they loved him… and never broached the subject again for years, which made Carlos think they hadn’t meant what they said. While his father is the first to give his support for TK and Carlos’ relationship in season 2, Carlos’ mother in season 4 admits that not knowing how to talk about her son’s homosexuality during that time was “the greatest regret of her life”.
-   _Arrow_:
    -   Quentin Lance's reaction to finding out that one of his daughters is a trained assassin is worry and concern for her safety. Then he finds out the same daughter is bisexual and his only thought is that he's glad she managed to find some measure of happiness in five years of pain and death.
    -   In a similar example to the Spider-Man example above, Oliver's mother Moira reveals that she's both well aware that he is the Arrow, and is incredibly proud of him for it. What makes this especially open-minded is that Oliver, in his 'Hood' persona, had previously held Moira at bow-point for her links to The List.
    -   In a final season episode, William along with his half-sister Mia gets brought back to meet his father as Oliver is working towards the Crisis crossover. He takes Oliver aside and comes out to him, nervous that his dad will be upset. Oliver indicates to him that both he and his wife Felicity had suspected before William left to live with his mother's parents.
-   _Avocado Toast_: Molly's mother doesn't mind in the least that she's bisexual, and then drops her own bombshell that her parents have been in an open marriage for over forty years, freaking Molly out as she imagines them with other people after hearing this, running away.
-   _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_:
    -   Joyce Summers tries her absolute hardest to be one after finding out Buffy is The Slayer. She gets there in the end, but it takes her a full season! She attempts to tag along on Buffy's patrols and even brings snacks!
    -   Furthermore, Giles' role as Team Dad repeatedly has him being the best father any of the cast has ever had, from being fiercely, murderously protective of Buffy to going out of his way to make people happy, even intentionally trying to sacrifice himself to stop Dark Willow, rather than finding a way to kill her. In the comic continuation, he becomes a total Papa Wolf for Faith, too.
-   Richard Castle is one of these towards his daughter Alexis. Amusingly, Alexis is in any case actually far more mature and grounded than her father ever was, and perhaps even _over_\-responsible (on more than one occasion, he actually tries to push her into doing something crazy and irresponsible, believing she's spending the best years of her life wound a little too tight).
    
    **Castle:** When I was your age I... wait. I can't tell that story. It's wildly inappropriate. Which, oddly enough, is my point. Don't you want wildly inappropriate stories that you can't tell your children?
    
-   _The Catherine Tate Show_ has a recurring sketch where a young man is afraid of telling his parents and grandmother about his homosexuality, who end up being very open-minded to the point that it becomes very embarrassing, such as when he gets a chocolate candy in the shape of a penis and money to rent a prostitute as Christmas gifts.
-   _Euphoria_: It is casually shown Leslie doesn't care about Rue's being openly a lesbian at all.
-   _Gentleman Jack_: Despite the series taking place in the Regency Era, Anne's aunt and father are both fine with the fact that she's a lesbian. When Anne discusses the idea of having her lover Miss Walker come live at their estate as her "companion," her aunt says she'd be glad to see Anne happily settled down with somebody — her only concern is that Miss Walker is younger and extremely sheltered.
-   There's a quick moment in _The George Lopez Show_ episode "The Kidney Stays in the Picture" where George notices that his son Max is wearing cologne and correctly guesses that it's because he's trying to impress a crush. It's not strictly relevant, but George ends up displaying this trait anyway in his following remark:
    
    **George**: There's only two reasons a boy would want to smell nice: Either he likes a girl, or he likes a boy. You don't have the abs to get a boy, so what's her name?
    
-   Kurt from _Glee_ spends the beginning of season one working up the nerve to tell his single father Burt he's gay. It turns out Burt had known for years ("When you were three you wanted a pair of sensible heels for your birthday"). Since then, the two have had a heartwarmingly close relationship, with Burt being fiercely protective of Kurt's right to be Camp Gay.
-   Zig-zagged on _Gilmore Girls._ Lorelai tries for this trope, even saying in the pilot that she tries to run her home as a democracy and pull the "Mom" card as little as possible. However, as the series goes on, she proves that she and her mother (very much the opposite of this trope) are not so different from each other, when Rory goes off to Yale and cracks under the pressure, veering from the carefully cultivated path Lorelai has guided her on for her entire life. Lorelai freaks out and this causes a months-long estrangement between her and Rory.
-   On _Gossip Girl_, Lily is this with Chuck. She's a lot less open-minded when it comes to Eric and Serena though.
-   In season four of _Halt and Catch Fire_, it is revealed that the Clarks' daughter Haley is gay. While Gordon seems initially upset at this discovery, it's more about his not knowing something so important about his daughter rather than any homophobia. In the final episode, Donna and Cameron agree that Haley is gay without any hesitation, and Donna calls her "amazing".
-   In the "Bad Timing" episode of _The Hogan Family_, Valerie is stunned to realize that her oldest son David is preparing to have sex with his girlfriend when she finds the condoms he bought, but she still very calmly discusses it with him, assuring him that there's nothing wrong with what he's thinking about and even praising him for being responsible enough to think about birth control, while still gently warning him to be absolutely certain that he's ready for a sexual relationship.
-   _How I Met Your Mother_ has Marshall and Lily during the season 7 finale, talking to their newborn son.
    
    **Marshall:** You're gonna love the park buddy, it's a great place to meet chicks... or dudes... or both!  
    **Lily:** Oh, we're gonna love you no matter what.
    
-   A variant with a guardian occurs in _iCarly_: in "iWanna Stay With Spencer", Carly is at risk of getting taken away from her older brother Spencer by their granddad, who believes Spencer is too irresponsible and incapable of raising her. She attempts a stunt of suddenly getting Goth makeover (including hair dye and fake piercings) in the hopes that Spencer will blow up and discipline her in front of their granddad, but it backfires when he says he loves it. Their grandfather takes Spencer aside and asks him how he could possibly approve, only for him to reveal he _doesn't_ — he just sees Carly going through a typical teenage rebellious phase, and that it's more important to be supportive and encouraging than to punish her.
-   On _The King of Queens_, Doug and his best friend Deacon are both trying to have kids and Doug muses that if they end up being the same age they can "hang out, play football, have sex, whatever makes sense.". To which Deacon casually replies "Maybe all three.".
-   In _Little Britain_, Daffyd Thomas finally tells his parents that he's gay. Not only are they not surprised, but they also approve and want to hook him up.
-   _Party of Five_:
    -   Ella's mother Margaux offers to let Ella and Beto sleep in the master bed together.
    -   Gloria promises to Lucia that she'll be one, in spite of being taught homosexuality is wrong, as she's her child no matter what.
-   Johnny and Moira Rose from _Schitt's Creek_ range from neglectful to overly supportive when it comes to their adult children. Johnny does seem a little uncomfortable when it comes to Alexis's past teenage adventures, but he is non-judgemental in the present. He also tells his pansexual son that he supports all his sexual encounters regardless of gender. Moira gives her daughter advice on seducing men, and she's downright impressed when a hot, towel-clad man comes out of her son's bathroom.
-   _Sense8_: Grace Caplan is completely accepting of her daughter Amanita's relationship with trans woman Nomi Marks and happily takes them into her home when they're on the run. When Nomi reveals she's developing a Psychic Link and hearing other voices Grace takes it completely in stride and offers suggestions as to why it might be happening. She serves as a Foil to Nomi's own mother who's a bigoted, close-minded Rich Bitch who stubbornly refuses to accept Nomi's transition.
-   _Smallville_'s Jonathon and Martha Kent sometimes lean to the overprotective side, but mostly they are perfectly fine with their son racing around saving lives and fighting mutants. They also tend to be the ones who help him get a handle on his new powers.
-   _Special Ops: Lioness_: Neil turns out to be okay with Kate being felt up by a boy, so long as nothing else happens. Her mom Joe isn't happy to hear about this however. It turns out Kate had sex though, and got pregnant from him or some other boy, so it's somewhat deconstructed as being overly indulgent.
-   _Stargate SG-1_: In an episode of season 9, Cameron has to attend his high-school reunion, and Vala tags along. When they arrive at Cameron's parent's place, they find his mother has made up only one bed, saying she has no problem with them sharing it.
    
    **Cam's Mom:** I'm a child of the '60s, Cam. I could tell you some stories.
    
-   The recurring character Doug in MTV's sketch comedy _The State_ has a father who is a producer for a record company, and who is impossibly cool — to the point where Doug's friends prefer to hang out with him than with Doug.
    
    **Dad:** Doug, are these your cigarettes?  
    **Doug:** Yeah, and what if they are? You gonna send me out to Grandma's house so that she can teach me pinochle and make me bland?  
    **Dad:** No. Can I bum one?
    
-   The fourth season of _Transparent_ involves Maura Pfefferman, the titular trans parent, finding out that her father Moshe Pfefferman is still alive. After reuniting with him, Maura is surprised to learn that her father isn't upset about learning that she is trans.
-   _Twenties_: Hattie's mom Esther is very accepting of her sexuality, even watching some lesbian porn so she can understand her better (Hattie finds that embarrassing and asks her to stop it, while saying it's for straight men anyway).
-   _Ugly Betty_: Justin worries about coming out as gay to his Hispanic Catholic family, but all of them are supportive once they find out — too supportive, in fact. Marc has to warn them not to throw a surprise coming-out party for Justin, and instead let him come out when he's ready to.
-   _You Me Her_: Emma worries deeply at her conservative parents knowing she's bisexual and in a throuple with her husband and her girlfriend. However, after she's come out they both are surprisingly chill about it, saying they're deeper than she thinks.

    Video Games 

-   Gaige from _Borderlands 2_ is a Teen Genius anarchist who builds anti-bullying robots with laser claws For Science!, and her dad endorses her the whole way. When her Sitcom Arch-Nemesis stole her robot design, her dad asked her "You're gonna take that bitch down right?", and when Gaige's robot accidentally gibbed said Sitcom Arch-Nemesis, her dad helped her off-world by distracting the police with a gas tank and a golf cart. The only thing he wasn't cool with was when Gaige cut her arm off and built a robotic replacement, but even then he seemed to get over it pretty fast.
-   Saisyu Kusanagi from _The King of Fighters_, who apparently didn't notice that Kyo went missing for at least half a year after beating Orochi, and even then didn't bother to talk to him afterwards. The _KOF: Kyo_ manga and other side materials explain that Saisyu and Shizuka (his wife and Kyo's mother) have known for several years that their son was destined for BIG battles and accepted said fact since there's no way they can avoid it. They'd rather let him fight and help him out than actively oppose something no one can really escape from.
-   Mae's mom in _Night in the Woods_ tries to be this, and mostly succeeds. She's understanding and patient when Mae drops out of college abruptly and asks to come home, and doesn't push her too much, though she clearly wants to know what happened. When she briefly gets the wrong idea and thinks Mae came home because she's pregnant, she doesn't freak out or get angry, and immediately starts assuring Mae that she'll do whatever he can to help her and that she understands completely. She sometimes loses her patience with Mae and even gets in an argument with her over Mae dropping out, but afterwards, she almost immediately owns that she went too far, and assures Mae that she trusts she had a good reason.
-   Implied in _South Park: The Fractured but Whole_ where you can make the New Kid into someone who doesn't conform to gender norms. Their parents don't seem to have any real problem with that and it's stated that the reason they treated the Kid as a boy in the previous game was to hide them from the government.
-   Lee to foster daughter Clementine in _The Walking Dead (Telltale)_. In Clementine's dream from "Broken Toys", Lee shows support to Clem if she romanced Louis or Violet, saying she's got "a boy who thinks the world of you" or "a girl that loves her" in her life now.
-   In _Yandere Simulator_, Yan-chan's mother plays this straight. She will be completely supportive of her daughter if she finds a female partner. Her father downplays this; he initially subscribes to the Japanese cultural belief that homosexuality is bad, but will eventually come around after mulling it over for a bit and realizing this pairing will bring an end to the psychotic Aishi bloodline that has been abducting men and forcing them into marriage for _generations_.
-   _Yes, Your Grace_: In some routes, two female teenagers who fall in love with each other can elope with parental blessing on both sides. This is actually the best ending possible for the half of the couple who is the most directly affected by the Player Character's actions.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Ace Attorney Investigations: Miles Edgeworth_: Mr. Amano is surprisingly cool with the idea that his son faked his kidnapping, was in massive debt, and murdered Colin Devorae.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   In _Kanon_, Nayuki's mother Akiko approves of the presence of any haremettes in her home, much to Yuuichi's initial disbelief. The 2006 anime adds some light implications that she knows about the Mundane Fantastic nature of the world and the girls and realizes that they need her support and his.

    Webcomics 

-   _Check, Please!_ has Bad Bob, Jack's father. Despite the name, he is a very supportive father through his son's rehab and after that, ultimately during Jack's graduation even telling him to "go really say goodbye" to Bittle, whom he was in love with. He seems to be the only one to play it straight, though as Bittle's father is implied to be very conservative, and Shitty and his family do not agree on most ideas.
-   Mr. and Mrs. Dunkel from _El Goonish Shive_ are a perfect example. After Elliot is accidentally transformed into a girl, he breaks into a government facility looking for a cure and accidentally clones himself in the process. When he brings the resulting Opposite-Sex Clone back home, his punishment is to be allowed only one brownie after dinner (a punishment that ultimately goes unenforced), and that's only because he lied to his parents about his plans for the evening. Meanwhile, the clone goes unpunished because she wasn't created until AFTER Elliot lied and therefore can't be held accountable for his actions.
    -   This shows up again and is lampshaded by Elliot. Neither parent has shown more than a slight interest in the fact that Ellen has turned into a cat.
    -   They try to seriously get straight at least _some_ issues, though.
        
        **Mr. Dunkel:** If you're going to be out late fighting evil, you need to call home first!  
        **Mrs. Dunkel:** It affects our ability to plan supper and alibis.
        
    -   And again when Elliot has Ashley over at his house for a second date while everybody else will be out. Apparently he asked his parents whether they would be okay with that. At first, the idea of Elliot going too far with a girl he is just getting to know causes his father to break down laughing. But one Mood Whiplash later, the only thing both parents are worried about is that both teens keep things safe (implied to be because they themselves were quite young when Elliot was born).
    -   Other parents in the series zigzag this a bit:
        -   Tedd's father encourages his son to experiment with alien transformation tech and has no apparent objection to his studies of magic, gets along well with his girlfriend (a shapeshifting chimera of human, alien, and squirrel DNA) and eagerly accepted her as a member of the family, is the entire reason they even knew about the government lab Tedd and Elliot broke into, and his only problem with having all Tedd's friends over for an unchaperoned transformation-themed birthday party while he's away is the horrifying realization that he's paying for pizza for a house full of teenagers. And yet he's not all that keen on his son's habit of turning himself into a girl, though he hasn't shown any objection to Elliot's _involuntary_ gender-bending.
        -   And Nanase's homophobic mother is the primary reason so many of Nanase's spells involve hiding herself, as her daughter goes to great lengths to keep her in the dark both about her relationship with Ellen and the existence of magic. But apparently she knew all that somehow and is refusing to admit it to her daughter for whatever reasons. Their relationship is still strained and full of lies but in the end, she's just glad her daughter survived the encounter with the murderous wizard.
-   Most of the characters in _Homestuck_ have parents/guardians who are not only fairly accepting of whatever they're up to but seem to be actively preparing them for it. This may have something to do with the Mobius Double Reacharound nature of the timeline(s) there... or, put another way, it's heavily suggested that the guardians know about SBURB and the adventure the kids will be going on, as well as the fact that it's inevitable, so they don't bother trying to stop them.
-   In _The Inexplicable Adventures of Bob!,_ when Bob gets chased around by a deadly-looking robot lion that Molly built on a lark, he seems more annoyed than actually angry about it and doesn't tattle on her to Jean.
-   In _Inverloch_, Neirenn launches into a desperate spiel of how she needs to go on a quest away from home to find a couple of very dangerous mages only for her dad to immediately give her permission. As a Teen Genius there's not much she can learn at the Academy, she knows a lot of magic above her grade level, and he wants to know if there's any way to cure his terminally ill wife too.
-   P's parents in _Joe vs. Elan School_ gently chide P, Joe, and B for getting caught by the police with marijuana, laughing about it and explaining that they'd smoked grass as teens, too. Joe's narration points out that he didn't realize that parents could even _be_ that cool, as he contrasts them with his own Knight Templar Parents who mercilessly berate him and send him to the hellish Elan School.
-   Charlie's mother in _Khaos Komix_ is okay with her son dressing up in women's clothes, though she thinks they're a bit excessive.
-   _Magical Boy_: In contrast to his wife's attitude, Max's dad Kai readily accepts Max coming out as trans (though he admits he initially thought Max was a tomboy who preferred girls). A later chapter shows him reading books about being supportive of your trans child.
-   _Mob Psycho 100_: Mob is an extremely powerful esper with emotionally volatile powers and a Superpowered Evil Side that can cause mass destruction just by standing in place. The only problem his parents have with all of this is that he keeps accidentally wrecking the silverware at breakfast. His brother developing similar powers provokes the same mildly annoyed reaction.
-   Hasuki from _Moon Over June_ was sufficiently annoyed at her parents over her name that she got into lesbian porn for the express purpose of getting back at them. Given that her mother is the sort of person who, during a telephone conversation in the middle of a shoot, reminds her daughter to pace herself so her jaw does not get tired; it is clear that it did not work.
-   _The Order of the Stick_: Subverted with Tarquin. Sure, he absolutely LOVES the fact that his son is a hero determined to take down villains like him because it makes for a much more entertaining story (and he can exploit it to his advantage). Despite their differences, he's glad his son is doing something awesome with his life and has a hot girlfriend (to the point of hitting on his future daughter-in-law)... However, Tarquin is also a Politically Incorrect Villain who assumed that his son was The Leader of his party based solely upon the fact that he was the only white, human male on the team, qualifying Tarquin as a racist, a Fantastic Racist _and_ a sexist all at once. He also once referred to genderqueer elf Vaarsuvius as an "it" and attempted to frame Ian Starshine for murder simply because he had dared speak to Tarquin as if the two of them were equals... The final nail in the coffin for Tarquin's open-minded parent-ness came when it was revealed that he is _not_ okay with his son being perfectly content in his role as Plucky Comic Relief rather than the main character role that Tarquin wants to force upon him.
-   _Sabrina Online_: Sabrina first met RC's parents when they walked in on them sleeping together. RC's parents' only concern was whether or not their sex life was fulfilling.
-   Ye Thuza from _Sandra and Woo_ does not have a problem with her son Cloud exploring abandoned factories for treasure, unless he forgets to pack the rope. She named her son after an RPG Adventurer Protagonist after all.
-   In _Spinnerette_, Evil Spinnerette's parents seem entirely unperturbed by her becoming a supervillain, worshipping an evil goddess, or transforming herself into a half-human, half-spider drider.
-   Ace's mom in _Too Much Information (2005)_ is impossibly cool and open-minded. The fact that she doesn't have a problem with her son shacking up with a lesbian and a gay transvestite hardly even registers on this scale. This strip exemplifies it nicely — as here, Ace is frequently mortified by what his mom can get up to. (Note that there are certain things she's somewhat less open-minded about. She kicked Ace out of the house for camping the Quad in a Quake Deathmatch.)
    -   One, renting a room in a huge house is not the same as shacking up with people. Two, Ace's mom is far wilder than Ace is ever going to be: Ace doesn't have a last name because his unmarried mom got knocked up and didn't want to admit who the father was. And if you think that's wild, consider: risk-taker, Air Force sergeant, knows lots of languages, can't talk about what she does when she goes back into the Air Force, self-image is that of a superheroine... yep, you guessed it.
-   In _Tripping Over You_, Milo's father Dylan meets Liam for the first time smoking in front of his house, wearing Milo's shirt which gives a fairly good hint to their activities of the previous night. When after a friendly question Liam admits that he's indeed Milo's boyfriend, Dylan doesn't even bat an eye and instead invites Liam to stay for breakfast.
-   In _Umlaut House_ Jake spends a lot of time psyching himself up to come out to his parents, and Rick even dresses in drag (in his own, unique way) so he wouldn't have to, but it turns out they don't care that he's gay, his dad even claimed that he believed himself to be gay until he met Jake's mother. His boyfriend being a cyborg mad scientist though was a bit hard to swallow.
-   Mrs. Grey in _The Wotch_ doesn't know her son spends a good chunk of his time as a girl, but is perfectly fine with his owning girl's underwear. Other parents show little reaction to their sons abruptly becoming daughters here and here.

    Web Original 

-   Bob Null from _Beyond the Impossible_. Having his daughter become a super-genius and assembly a superhero team doesn’t change their relationship much. He also reminds Noriko several times that he’d be okay with her being a lesbian (despite her insisting that he doesn’t need to say it since she's straight).
-   Several of the top-rated stories on the website Not Always Related (Spin-Off website of _Not Always Right_) feature kids coming out of the closet to their parents, and having the parents be totally okay with it. One story, summed up nicely by the page picture, ends with the father revealing he'd bet his son's mother twenty dollars that their son was gay. Another has a daughter telling her father that she's gay and a vegetarian. The father is incredulous... that she's a vegetarian.
-   Falcon and Tabby Cat, Wallflower's parents in the _Whateley Universe_. Her father Falcon tells the whole student body that they should always try to make an original contribution to the world even if they intend to do it by becoming a supervillain. Neither is at all put off by their daughter's gender bent boyfriend. It turns out there's good reason for this, as Tabby Cat herself is a gender bent would-be supervillain.

    Web Videos 

-   Sherman Hollis from _Carmilla the Series_ is this to his daughter, Laura, despite his insane overprotective nature. He's completely fine with Laura being a lesbian, his issues with her dating Carmilla having more to do with the fact that Carmilla's an undead bloodsucker of ambiguous morality than with the fact that Carmilla's a girl. Even that, he gets over eventually. He's also immediately accepting of LaFontaine, Laura's friend who's non-binary, and makes an immediate effort to correct himself when he accidentally misgenders them.
-   In Episode 15 of _Korra Bridged_, Korra comes out of the closet... and her parents are completely supportive of her (they admit they had their suspicions due to her crushing on Azula when she was 8), with her father vowing to find proper-fitting hunting armor for her eventual lover while her mother invites her to her next hunter meeting to meet some nice women. They even warm up to Asami surprisingly quickly.
    
    **Korra:** But... why would you accept it so easily?  
    **Senna:** Because we're halfway decent people who love our daughter!
    
-   The _Noob_ franchise has a recurring subject matter of parents of some of the players or other people of older generations having a negative view of gaming. Arthéon's mother, already quite meddling in the first place, restricted his playing hours because of that view, which put him in a Can't Catch Up position to his guildmates and eventually led to his downfall. That makes Tenshirock look like an open-minded parent when, in the webseries, he turns out to be the father of another character and to have at some point reacted to his son playing MMORPG by creating an avatar on the same game.

    Western Animation 

-   Maddie's dad in _Amphibia_ is completely accepting of the fact that his oldest daughter is training to become a witch/Curse Master, as long as she cleans up after herself afterwards.
    
    **Maddie:** I swear, I'm going to kill them \[her little sisters\]!  
    **Maddie's Dad (cheerfully):** Make sure to resurrect them when you're done!
    
-   _Avatar: The Last Airbender_:
    -   Katara and Sokka are 14 and 15 at the start of the original series. Their mother, Kya, was killed by the Fire Nation 5 years prior, and their father, Hakoda, is off at war, so it is their grandmother, Kanna, who calmly wishes the kids well when they head off on a planet-spanning quest to aid the long-missing Avatar Aang in mastering his powers and help bring down the Evil Overlord. What people forget is that the _Avatar_ world is still basically medieval: 14- and 15-year-olds are young adults, not children. Further, when their father learns of it, he congratulates them on choosing to travel with Aang instead of him. In fact, he encourages it, seeing as they've already made a huge difference to the shape of the world and should be as well protected as they would be at home considering they're hanging out with a twelve-year-old Physical God.
    -   As shown in a comic for _The Legend of Korra_, Avatar Korra's parents Tonraq and Senna are fully supportive of their daughter's romantic relationship with Asami Sato — while they're obviously a little surprised upon first learning of it, they're very happy for the two, even going so far as to treat Asami like a second daughter. However, Korra's parents do make a point of warning her and Asami that not everyone may be as accepting of the relationship as they are. Avatar Aang is also depicted as such in this series, as he, because of his Air Nomad upbringing, has absolutely no problems with his daughter Kya II being a lesbian.
-   After an incident with Scarecrow, Barbara Gordon in _Batman: The Animated Series_ decides to come clean with her father, Commissioner Gordon, about being Batgirl. Before she can tell him, however, he interrupts her and explains that while he can't approve of what she does he's still proud of her in a way that heavily suggests he knows she is Batgirl.
-   This occurs in _Danny Phantom_ during the times when his Secret Identity has been revealed to his folks (before the Reset Button, that is). They're always shocked at first, but they happily and unquestionably accept that their son is both a hero and half ghost, despite their prejudice towards them. In the Grand Finale, Jack goes as far as claiming Danny should be his sidekick. Sam's parents however **inverts** this as they can't imagine _anything_ their daughter does is for her own good.
-   _Daria_:
    -   Jane's mom is open-minded to a potentially unhealthy degree. Examples of this behaviour include letting her youngest son live in a tent in the backyard for over a month, never punishing her children for ANY infraction<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , and remaining in her kiln room for weeks on end. However, repeated exposure to all her children and husband at once does fray her nerves a bit.
    -   Daria's own father Jake is a slightly saner example. When Trent's girlfriend showed up at Daria's house looking for him, Jake at first mistook her to be Quinn's date. He just shrugged and commented, "Huh. I guess I really _don't_ know my kids," clearly not bothered by the idea that his daughter may be bisexual or a lesbian.
-   Played for Laughs in _Drawn Together_, in an episode where Xandir is working up the nerve to tell his parents he's gay. Trouble is, it's so obvious that the other characters initially mock him for being in a Transparent Closet. They then enact what it would be like if Xandir's parents hated the idea, going so far as to adopt personas of Abusive Parents, even when Xandir's not there. When Xandir finally tells his actual parents he's gay, his parents mimic the first response given by his housemates.
-   Deconstructed with the parents of Goo from _Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends_. We never see them, but given they let Goo pick her own name when she was a baby and don't even try to discourage her constant and problem-causing friend creation, they seem to be _too_ open-minded.
-   Superman's adoptive parents, the Kents, are this in _Justice League_. Their response when J'onn comes to visit and announces he's a Martian? "Well, we're no strangers to aliens here. Come in."
-   _Kim Possible_'s parents are completely supportive of their daughter's supervillain-fighting activities and don't bat an eyelid over her flying halfway around the world to stop Dr. Drakken's latest scheme and risk life and limb in the process, so long as she's doing well on the home front. Dating boys, though, her father isn't so happy with. Despite his feelings, he's willing to accept it when Kim has a boyfriend. Kim's mom is completely supportive of her having a relationship with Ron, Kim's childhood friend and partner in crime-fighting, even encouraging their relationship. This also extends to Kim's younger twin brothers, Jim and Tim. Their parents are apparently completely okay with them blowing up the garage with their experiments (though it's somewhat justified in that Mr. Possible, their father, did just that when he was their age.)
-   While Hank is certainly _not_ this on _King of the Hill_, an episode called "The Peggy Horror Picture Show" introduced a drag queen named Caroline who becomes friends with Peggy. Caroline's mother is nothing but supportive of Caroline. In fact, her second line of dialog in the show was "Don't apologize for yourself not now or ever!" Although Caroline was just apologizing for being late. At one point, Caroline has to tell her mother to stop being supportive (i.e. shut up and listen to Caroline's complaints.)
-   O.G. Kennelly of _Martha Speaks_ is very open to the occasional weirdness that occurs in the show, as well as his own son's CloudCuckooLander tendencies. It helps that he's a bit of a CloudCuckooLander himself. Best seen in this conversation:
    
    **T.D:** Dad, can I buy something weird I saw on TV?  
    **O.G:** Merely weird or really weird?  
    **T.D:** Really weird.  
    **O.G:** Okay, as long as it's really weird.
    
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_: In the opener for "The Fault in Our Cutie Marks", the Cutie Mark Crusaders are speaking with a pony couple about their daughter's new cutie mark, as they are worried her skull-and-bones mark might mean she's meant to become a pirate. Though it's quickly revealed it's meant to symbolize archaeology, the pirate outfit that the parents quickly hide away seems to indicate that they wouldn't have minded if she _had_ become one.
-   In the third season of _The Owl House_, Luz officially comes out as bisexual to her mother Camila and introduces her girlfriend, Amity. Camila instantly gives them both a hug, begins wearing a rainbow heart pin in support of her daughter, and background assets show that she educates herself on how to better raise LGBTQ children. On the fantastical side of things, she let the basilisk Vee stay with her in Season 2 when she realized how much danger Vee would be in otherwise. When Gus, Willow, Amity, and Hunter end up stranded on Earth, she opens her home and heart to them, doing her best to understand their needs, magic, and culture.
-   In _Phineas and Ferb_, Ferb's father and all four grandparents have participated in their creations at some point or another, none of them even once questioning the massive, overdone creations they manage to put together. Their mom, on the other hand... Ferb's father is a special case. He thinks that the (step)mother gave them permission to do the things they do (which is true, only that she doesn't understand what they meant.)
-   _Steven Universe_:
    -   Greg is very open to Steven's desire to be part of the Crystal Gems, only expressing worry when he sees how dangerous things can be. This is deconstructed in sequel series _Steven Universe: Future_. Greg grew up with helicopter parents, who are shown to have controlled every aspect of his life. He didn't want Steven to grow up like he did, so he gave him near-total freedom. Steven expresses his anger over Greg's parenting style, as he spent the first 10 years of his life living in a van, never went to school, and never even saw a doctor until he went of his own volition. He grew up without structure in his life, which contributed to self-destructive habits, and a semi-official diagnosis of C-PTSD, since he was never forbidden from going on dangerous, traumatizing adventures. After Steven's outburst, Greg starts talking about how happy he is that Steven can talk to him about these things, and how Calling the Old Man Out would have ended badly for him, which Steven immediately tunes out.
    -   Connie Maheswaran's mother, when we first meet her, is very controlling and strict towards her daughter. In the episode "Nightmare Hospital", after Steven and Connie protect her from two gem mutants, she promises to not only be more open to Steven and the Gems' influence on Connie, but she will be less controlling as well. On Connie's first mission, in the episode "Gem Hunt", Connie's mother asks Steven to take pictures of Connie, showing her openness and willingness to allow Connie to aid Steven and Pearl.
    -   Barb Miller — mother of Sadie Miller — starts off as a mix of Stage Mom and My Beloved Smother but becomes more open to Sadie's wishes to live her own life once Sadie starts calling her out on her controlling behavior. However, we also see a more negative side to this in season 4. When Sadie doesn't come home one night, Barb waits until the next day to look for her, proclaiming that Sadie is old enough to decide whether she sleeps at home or not. This leads to a MAJOR Oh, Crap! when Steven tells her that Sadie was _already headed home_ when he saw her on the night of her disappearance.
-   The parents of Brainchild in _The Tick_ take this to an absurd degree, viewing their son's plan to crash the Moon into the Earth as "a phase he'll get over"... Hopefully within, say, the next five minutes or so.
-   _Transformers: Animated_: Professor Isaac Sumdac doesn't seem to mind his daughter having adventures with giant alien robots. Then again, he knows she's half-Cybertronian herself.
-   The dad of the titular protagonist of _Willa's Wild Life_ (as well as the book on which it's based, Dan Yaccarino's _An Octopus Followed Me Home_) seems to be okay with her keeping a zoo full of exotic animals at home, yet it's not clear of how dad is able to afford the upkeep. Willa's so dog-gone sweet that dad indulges her.

___