_"There was this crazy albino guy with a hook, and he lived in a mirror! And if you even look at him, you'd wake up a bathtub full of ice with your kidneys gone!"_

Organ Theft, as the name would imply, is the practice of stealing people's organs via surgery, which can then be used for further purposes such as transplants or sold on the Black Market.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  One particularly common variant of this trope is the "kidney theft" Urban Legend, in which the victim is conned somehow and drugged into unconsciousness, and then wakes up kidney-less, crudely stitched up in a bathtub full of ice in a cheap motel, often with a message attached telling them to go to a hospital.

At first glance, it may seem plausible because if the wealthy, powerful Big Bad is on death's door and needs an organ tomorrow, they do have a motive to get that kidney _by any means necessary_ and they have henchmen willing to kidnap a victim. But beyond that point, organ theft fails the logic test for a few reasons:

-   Organ transplant requires lots of specialized equipment to remove the organ and keep it viable for transplanting — equipment not generally found outside a hospital. Yes, bad guys can steal or buy basic medical equipment, but this is unusual gear. Theft or purchase would raise red flags.
-   How will The Syndicate assemble an entire surgical team? Yes, bad guys can force or pressure one down-on-their luck doctor (who owes money at the casino) to sew up a mook after a robbery, but getting a whole surgical team for an illegal, non-consensual transplant is implausible.
-   In the standard version, the perps display a monstrous disregard for the victim's human rights — yet they apparently still care enough to keep them alive. (To potentially file a police report no less).
-   Organ transporting containers are _huge_ due to the amount of dry ice needed — the thieves would stand out to any witnesses they passed.
-   Organs need to be checked for compatibility, both for blood chemistry and size. Also, the recipient would be highly vulnerable to any infectious disease the donor might be carrying. A random victim offers no guarantees on any account.
-   It takes a lot of surgical skill and medical knowledge to extract a living organ and keep it in a condition where it can be transplanted successfully to another patient. You'll be hard pressed to find a Hippocratic Oath-bound surgeon willing to do this. Not to mention they're generally too well paid to need to resort to crime.
-   It's the _organ_ that needs to be kept on ice, but the legend always seems to involve the _patient_ being left in a bath of the stuff, sedated — a great recipe for hypothermia.
-   Aside from cannibals (who are obviously far too small a demographic to profitably market to) and surgeons (who have too much to lose —their license and social status— to resort to kidnapping-based acquisition, done in league with The Syndicate), who on Earth would the alleged perps even be _selling_ these stolen, roughly-extracted organs to, and what potential customers would _want_ C-grade black market organs for?

This trope was popularized by, and originated with, Larry Niven's _Known Space_, in which Organ Theft is called "organlegging", a portmanteau of "organ" and "bootlegging". (The Niven variant makes more sense, though, since in the stories, they _do_ take everything useful and kill the donor during the procedure).

Needless to say, this trope is a potent source of Nightmare Fuel, Medical Horror, Rule of Scary and Fridge Logic (why not steal multiple organs and kill the victim instead of leaving a witness?). Sub-Trope of Human Resources. Super-Trope of Brain Theft.

In a science/sci-fi setting, this trope might occur if the person who loses their organ had it happen because of someone experimenting on them. Contrasts with Kidnapped for Experimentation: why bother performing a quick on-site surgery to when its easier to just take the whole person?

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Battle Angel Alita_ uses this early on, except with cyborg spines, which are probably much more removable than any human organ.
-   Defied in the first chapter of _Black Jack_. A Spoiled Brat crashes after reckless driving and is on the verge of death, so his influential father hires the legendary surgeon Black Jack. To provide the necessary organs, the father sentences an innocent boy to death so that Black Jack can harvest his organs in a simultaneous operation. Instead, Black Jack gives the innocent boy plastic surgery to look like the brat, along with enough money for him and his mother to flee the country.
-   _Cyberpunk: Edgerunners_:
    -   David almost finds himself on the receiving end of this when an unscrupulous EMT notices just how valuable his Sandevistan implant (which is essentially his _spine_ replacement) is and decides to take it for a payday while he's barely conscious and hooked up to a stretcher in no position to fight back due to overuse of said implant. Luckily for him, Lucy bails him out of that situation (and the ambulance). He almost finds himself on the end of it _again_ when Lucy's boss, Maine, shows up looking for that same Sandevistan since it was supposed to be _his_ in the first place (he even paid in advance), but they're able to hash things out into a job offer.
    -   This is heavily implied to be how David's mother Gloria managed to make ends meet for their struggling financial situation. Using her position as an EMT, she had easy access to steal cyberware from the corpses she works with. Maine, one of her more notable buyers, notes she was a good earner, and the military-grade Sandevistan David acquires and was supposed to go to Maine was scavenged off a dead Cyberpsycho that she herself zipped up and put in the back of the ambulance.
-   _Fabricant 100_: A MO for Fabricants is to kidnap humans and steal their high-grade body parts, normally killing the unfortunate. Some keep kids with them until they group up.
-   An episode of the _Get Backers_ anime features this, though in a more realistic manner. The organ, a heart, has already been extracted in a legitimate medical operation, but the ambulance transporting the organ is then intercepted and hijacked by mercenaries. Ban and Ginji are then contracted by the father of the heart's intended recipient, a sickly girl, to retrieve it in just a few hours since the refrigeration unit will not be able to keep the heart good for very long.
-   _Ghost in the Shell: Stand Alone Complex_:
    -   One episode features a trio of medical students who sell discarded organs on the black market. Major Motoko Kusanagi later threatens to sell their currently-in-use organs on the black market to Scare 'Em Straight by pretending to be a member of the Yakuza, who actually do sell organs on the black market.
    -   A later episode deals with girls being kidnapped so that their organs and cybernetics can be sold off, which was apparently based on a public scare blaming North Korea for doing this to Japanese people.
-   In _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Stone Ocean_, this is the Stand Marilyn Manson's modus operandi. In order to repay gambling debts, it will take valuable items from the loser, and considering how much organs sell for on the black market...
-   This happens to Plucky Girl Sakura Tomoe in an early episode of _Knight Hunters_. Because this is _Knight Hunters_, though, it isn't a bathtub that she wakes up in, it's an entire _swimming pool_ full of ice. Unfortunately for her, the organ thieves in question later decide that they're tired of doing things by halves.
-   The Wolkenritter hunting Linker Cores in _Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha A's_ is the magical equivalent, though they're being used to fuel an Artifact of Doom and they naturally grow back over time.
-   Genetically-transferred powers in _Naruto_ tend to be tied to specific organs that can be transplanted into others. Eyes, arms, hearts, entire bodies, you name a body part, ninja are stealing it from each other. There's even a whole clan that got powerups from stealing each other's eyes. Though many of them (though not all) are courteous enough to kill the person before stealing their body parts.
-   In _One Piece_, Trafalgar Law's Devil Fruit allows him to steal the hearts of people, either for a quick kill, to blackmail them into doing his business, or as an insurance that they won't attack him later on, as he does with Smoker, Tashigi, and Monet.
-   One episode of _Trigun_ features a town which deals in smuggling girls who sell their bodies as potential organ donors and as prostitutes.
-   In _Vandread_, the Harvesters raid human colonies for specific organs and tissues, such as the reproductive organs of the crew's homeworlds. The Harvesters were created by humans on Earth who, faced with a population collapse, became obsessed with lengthening their lifespans and came to view the colonies as organ banks.
-   In an episode of _Wolf's Rain_, some muggers tell our heroes there's a market for healthy young organs. Of course, our heroes are only disguised as humans and aren't about to part with their organs.

    Comic Books 

-   In the "Heart of Hush" arc of _Batman_, Mad Doctor Hush kidnaps Catwoman and removes her heart, keeping her alive by elaborate machinery and using her hostage heart to blackmail Batman.
-   _Clean Room_ invokes this as explanation for Anika Wells' abduction and medical experimentation. It's nowhere near the truth.
-   A two-part _Daredevil_ storyline revolves around organ trafficking, courtesy of a criminal who calls herself the Surgeon General.
-   One issue of Zenescope's _Grimm Tales of Terror_ features as its Villain Protagonist a woman who is part of an organ theft ring, acting as a Honey Trap at hotel bars to lure her targets up to a room where she gives them drugged drinks; once they're unconscious, she removes the organs she's been paid to collect and then leaves her victim in a bathtub full of ice. In the obligatory Karmic Twist Ending, she falls victim to this herself, as her latest mark is actually another organ thief, who drugs her and leaves her to wake up in an ice bath minus all her limbs, which are then delivered to a Corrupt Corporate Executive for his fetish collection.
-   One of _Howard the Duck_'s more persistent nuisances is "the Kidney Lady", an annoying old battleaxe who believes Howard to be the ringleader in a kidney-stealing conspiracy.
-   In Mega-City One from _Judge Dredd_, organ transplantation is illegal because it has advanced to the point that it can render an individual immortal. Organ selling is a prevalent crime throughout Mega-City One.
-   _Justice League of America_: In 'JLA: Year One'', the Brain comes into possession of a 'genegraft ray' which instantly and cleanly transplants organs of its targets. The Brain ends up pulling an All Your Powers Combined thanks to the Flash's legs, Green Lantern's arm, Martian Manhunter's eyes and Black Canary's vocal cords.
-   A two-part _JSA Classified_ story arc with Dr. Midnite features a villain harvesting super-powered body parts to sell to wealthy patrons in the black market. The gruesome part is that the heroes whose body parts are stolen are often left alive after the procedure and basically crippled. Midnight lampshades just how ridiculous it is that the urban legend has been made real, given how strange it is that any of the victims survive their unwanted surgery.
-   Organ theft (a.k.a. "organleggers") is a common crime in the original _Marvel 2099_ comic book line for victims who cannot afford to pay for police protection.
-   In _My Little Pony: Friends Forever_ #25, three thieves steal Rainbow Dash's wings with magic and attempt to use them to turn themselves into Alicorns. If the transfer could not be reversed in time, Dash would have lost her wings permanently, crippling her and potentially ruining her life. You know, for kids!
-   _New X-Men_ features a group of villains who call themselves the U-Men, humans with a _major_ fanboy affection for mutants... which drives them to "jump up the evolutionary ladder" by hijacking their superpower-oriented organs. This often leaves the mutants dead, and occasionally leads to the U-Men suffering organ rejection.
-   In the _Sin City_ yarn "Hell and Back", the protagonist finds that the Big Bad is into organ theft, among other things.
-   In _Transformers: More than Meets the Eye_, Tarn (the leader of the Decepticon Justice Division, a team of psychopaths — even by Decepticon standards — who hunt down Decepticons who betrayed the cause) is addicted to transformation. He made a deal with Pharma to provide him new T-cogs which are taken from other Transformers every time he burns out his own. He's gone through a _lot_ of T-cogs.
-   _Vampire: The Masquerade (Vault)_: A group of vampire hunters in _Winter's Teeth_ called the Wolves in Sheeps' Clothing hunt down the undead in order to do this. They surgically graft the vampires' organs to themselves and gain some of their powers.

    Fan Works 

-   Johnny is taken by an organ harvest ring in the _Emergency!_ fic "Invasion of the Body Snatchers"
-   In the _Turning Red_ fanfic _The Great Red Panda Rescue_, Mei is kidnapped and gets her appendix harvested for experimentation.
-   _Hidden Frontier_ cast member Rebecca Wood (posting under her character name) claimed this had happened to a friend of her cousin. She became _quite cross_ when forum friends gently pointed her to _Snopes.com_. After all, her mother and cousin wouldn't _lie_, would they?
-   Subverted in _Promstuck_. It seems that Snowman has done this to Jack in the epilogue, but then he remembers that he's a carapace and doesn't have any organs that could be called kidneys.
-   _Seventh Endmost Vision_: The Big Bad, Lucrecia, did this to Ifalna by stealing her eye... and _implanting it in her own skull_. She's made almost no attempt to hide the change; multiple characters have figured out a rough date for the change by looking at photographs of her, since there's photos of her before that show her with her two natural brown eyes, and all photos after show her having the one green eye. Ifalna, at least, thinks she did it to see as an Ancient would see.
-   In Spice Girls Fic, _Case of the Missing Technology_, if Unwilling Roboticisation wasn't enough, the narrator had to inform Simon after discovering what happened to Melanie's original organs apart from her brain, "Black market, I’m afraid. How else he makes his money to put innocent people through?" Melanie C had to get biomechanical replacements, via 3D printer.
-   At the end of _Spider-Ninja_, Raphael is unconscious in SHIELD's medical bay. Dr. Connors, believing that the Turtles' mutated DNA might hold a clue to genetic alteration, steals some of Raph's blood to further his experiments and possibly grow his arm back. Considering how the fic implies that the mutagen will be what turns him into the Lizard, this will probably come back to bite him.
-   _A Game of Cat and Cat_: "Doctor Dude" is an odd case. He has removed the appendixes - _just_ the appendixes - of many of his living patients, and takes all the organs of anyone who happens to die on his operating table - even though he does his best to treat them. It is unknown why he is taking people's organs, as there's no indication he is involved with the Black Market. When asked about it he more or less says that the body is nothing but a bag of meat after the spirit has departed for the next cycle or Karma. Though given what game he comes from...
-   In _Monkey's Paw of Doom_, Gaz uses her second wish to ask for a new house (after losing her old one as a result of a previous wish), and promptly wins a mansion in a housing lottery. Despite Dib's warning that it's an obvious scam, she goes to the "lottery" headquarters to collect, and is promptly chloroformed by the scammers, waking up awhile later in a bathtub full of ice and missing a kidney.

    Film — Animated 

-   The plot of _Batman & Mr. Freeze: SubZero_ revolves around Mr. Freeze kidnapping people who share the same blood type as his wife, which includes Barbara Gordon. She (correctly) points out that he could use any negative blood type to save her until it's revealed he's actually kidnapping them for this trope, and being as obsessive as he is is going after the same blood type to reduce the risks of rejection.

    Film — Live-Action 

-   In _12-Hour Shift_, nurse Mandy and her cousin Regina regularly deliver organs to a trafficking ring. One night, Regina delivers her boss a cooler with just a soda, thinking she had placed the organ bag in the cooler. The boss makes it clear: she either delivers a kidney or she will serve as donor.
-   In _Andhadhun_, Dr. Swami runs an organ harvesting operation.
-   _Art of the Dead_: While possessed by Envy, Donna murders the Alpha Bitch head cheerleader Tiffany, amputates her breasts, and gives herself a 'boob job' by transplanting them on to herself. She does the same thing with Tiffany's lips.
-   _Awake (2007)_: Clay and his mother joke about this as a solution to having to wait for his turn on the heart transplant list.
    
    **Lillith:** I'm serious this time. Let's go to China, try out luck on the black market.  
    **Clayton:** Why don't we just go outside, grab some random person, drag him in here and, y'know...  
    **Lillith:** Sounds good to me. Drag 'em in and cut 'em open! Hey, whatever it takes, right?
    
-   In the 2015 section of _Back to the Future Part II_, a headline reads "Thumb Bandits Strike Again". In The Future, all transactions are carried out via thumbprint ID. The filmmakers speculated that this could lead to a new type of crime, where thieves cut off the thumb of their victim and use it to make illegal purchases, like stealing a credit card.
-   _Central Station_: Dora the retired schoolteacher sells Josue, an orphan, to two people whom she thinks are running a black-market adoption racket, but who apparently are actually organleggers. She goes back and rescues the boy before he can be chopped up.
-   In _Cradle of Fear_, Nick Holland is an amputee who is unable to engage in sexual activity with his girlfriend Natalie due to his frustration with the loss of his left leg in a prior accident. Nick visits his old friend Thomas and shoots him in the head. He then removes Thomas' left leg, puts it on ice and has it transplanted to himself by his doctor overnight.
-   The Jason Statham action movie _Crank: High Voltage_ starts with the main character getting his heart stolen. He then proceeds to kick ridiculously large amounts of ass while trying to keep his replacement organ running.
-   Corrupt prison officials in _Death Warrant_ have prisoners killed to sell their organs for profit.
-   _Dirty Pretty Things_: the film revolves around illegal migrants yielding to terrible pressure and selling their kidneys to an organlegging outfit, and one Nigerian surgeon being strong-armed into working for them. The film ends with the protagonists stealing a kidney from the Big Bad who is running the operation, in order to give it to the client in place of the intended victim's. As you can see, this film has the trope all sewn up in a back room.
-   _Donor_ is a horror film about a government worker who registers homeless people with the authorities, only to get sucked into a horrifying conspiracy when it turns out the Disposable Vagrants are being murdered and their organs harvested by a Russian crime ring.
-   _Feeding Frenzy_: Mr. Plinkett is ultimately revealed to be killing people to harvest their organs and rebuild his family from their parts.
-   In the German made-for-television film _Fleisch_, also known as _Spare Parts_, a young couple are enjoying their honeymoon in the American Southwest, when suddenly the husband is kidnapped by armed men in an ambulance. The wife escapes at the last minute, and enlists the help of a local truck driver in helping her locate her missing husband. Together, the uncover the existence of a vast international smuggling ring supplying the world's wealthy elite with organs stolen from healthy young people.
-   _Hitchhiker Massacre_: The killer has an unseen boss that he converses with over his phone, who pays him for bringing him organs. At one point, the killer is seen sawing a victim's organ out.
-   _Hrudaya Geethe:_ Dr Prasad the Chief doctor of a mental hospital is harvesting his patients' organs. First, he is running an “involuntary confinement for pay” scam in which certain people who are an inconvenience are designated as mentally ill and confined for the right price. Those people are then “prescribed” a tonic which is actually a poison that causes them to have painful spasms. To “treat” this, they are sent to surgery where they die and their organs are semi-legitimately harvested.
-   In _The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus_ this turns out to be what Tony did to the _children of his charity_. He had previously claimed the reason for his disgrace was doing business with Russian gangsters in order to fund the charity.
-   _Iron Man 2_: Referenced and subverted when Tony Stark meets with Nick Fury and Black Widow at a donut shop. Widow injects him with a dose of lithium dioxide to counter the symptoms of his palladium poisoning and help him focus, but until they explain, Stark thinks this trope is in effect:
    
    **Tony Stark:** Oh, God, are you gonna steal my kidney and sell it?
    
-   Through a series of odd events in _Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back_, Jay and Silent Bob find themselves hitchhiking with Mystery Incorporated (just don't ask). After a dream sequence in which they all get high, it is revealed that Jay and Silent Bob have fallen asleep, whereupon the gang decide to "sell their kidneys on the black market and leave them in a seedy hotel on ice". Of course, that was also just a dream.
-   The creature from _Jeepers Creepers_ commits periodic fatal organ thefts, for reasons that had more to do with hunger than transplantation.
-   _Koma_'s plot revolves around a series of organ thefts.
-   The main bad guys of the Korean film _The Man from Nowhere_ are Triad gangsters operating in South Korea that engage in organ harvesting. When they kidnap a girl named So-Mi, the little neighbor of protagonist Cha Tae-Sik, to have her eyes harvested, things quickly turn out bad for them.
-   In _The Man Who Could Cheat Death_, Dr. Georges Bonnet has taking to attacking people in the street and extracting the glands he needs to manufacture his elixir.
-   Anderton buys a pair of black-market eyes in _Minority Report_, so he can get past the retinal scanners that are literally everywhere.
-   An unlucky fellow in _Monty Python's The Meaning of Life_ had some gentlemen come to collect his liver, on the grounds that someone needed it and he'd filled out a liver donor card. Too bad for him he wasn't done using it...
    
    **Mr. Brown:** Listen! I can't give it to you now. It says, "in the event of death"!  
    **Man:** Well, nobody who has ever had their liver taken out by us has survived.
    
-   _Muggers_ has a pair of students steal organs from the most hateful people in their lives, after they get the idea from taking a kidney that just happened to be compatible with a patient from a man who had jumped off a tall building. Worse, they run afoul of a gang led by a nurse and two ambulance officers at the hospital, who simply take organs indiscriminately and don't want any competition.
-   _The Pet_: The main antagonists are slavers who harvest organs.
-   _Repo Men_: The Union is a company that supplies cybernetic organs to people who need them, but unfortunately their contracts have the clause that if the recipient misses too many payments, the Union will send Repo Men to collect the organ even if that means the death of the recipient. The plot kicks into high gear when one of said repo men ((Remy, The Hero) falls behind in payments for his own artificial heart, leading to him becoming a target for repossession.
-   _Repo! The Genetic Opera_: GeneCo makes artificial organs, which they repossess if a customer misses too many payments. The Repo Man is in charge of doing the actual repossessing, which usually results in the customer's death. Not for nothing are they often considered "legal assassins."
    
    _"Ninety-day delinquent gets you Repo Treatment!"_
    
-   In _RoboCop (1987)_, is said that OCP Corporation owns the cadavers of their employees (even if the employee is not quite dead yet).
-   Discussed in _Saw_ when Adam looks over his body and tells Lawrence that they're in a typical organ theft situation where someone has kidnapped them, took their kidneys and put them on sale in eBay. Lawrence assures Adam that's impossible, because if he had lost his kidneys, he would be in extreme pain or already dead.
-   _Scream and Scream Again_ involves a Mad Scientist assembling a Master Race from body parts. At the start of the film, a jogger collapses from a heart attack. When he wakes at the hospital, he discovers his leg has been amputated. Every time the movie cuts back to him, another limb has been amputated.
-   In the 1998 Donnie Yen movie _Shanghai Affairs_, Donnie plays a doctor in a rural town who ends up investigating a series of mysterious murders involving children being found dead with their organs removed. Turns out Donnie's mentor (and one heck of a Broken Pedestal) is the mastermind behind an organ trafficking ring, and is specifically targeting the children of poor townspeople because "nobody will miss them".
-   The Thai horror film, _Sick Nurses_, revolves around a doctor and his nurses who secretly sells organs in the black market. The plot is kicked off when one of those nurses attempts to leave her organization and threatens to spill their activities to the public, which predictably leads to her ex-colleagues kidnapping and eliminating her for knowing too much; however her spirit comes back seeking revenge.
-   The Korean movie _Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance_ is about a man who sells his organs on the black market to get enough money to pay for his sister's hospital bills but is soon cheated out of his life savings.
-   A major plot point in _Toy Story 4_ is that the Big Bad has a voice box just like Woody, only hers is broken, so she seeks to steal his. The equivalence to organ theft is never stated outright, but the fact that the toys view their stuffing and other innards the same way we view our organs _is_. Woody is even knocked unconscious for the operation.
-   In _Trespass (2011)_, the robbers threaten to remove Avery's kidney if her father Kyle doesn't cooperate.
-   _Train_: Travelling aboard a Russian train, a college wrestler and her teammates fall victim to a gang of sadistic thieves harvesting human organs.
-   _Turistas_ and _Train_ turned out to be about this sort of thing.
-   _Urban Legends_
    -   One of the legends referenced by the serial killer in _Urban Legend_. Of course, the killer admits that they are not too good at anatomy and will probably just grab the first major organ they see.
    -   This is the first kill used in the sequel, _Urban Legends: Final Cut_, which was tagged on when it was realized that the film didn't have that much to do with actual urban legends.
-   _Vitals_ revolves around a man who wakes up to find that his kidney was removed by organ harvesters, led by a man called Kaliyah.

    Literature 

-   _Snakehead_, one of the later _Alex Rider_ books, uses this as a justification for the villain keeping Alex alive yet again. He has Alex taken to a hidden facility where his various organs will be removed one-at-a-time (finishing with the heart) and sold to wealthy customers, allowing him to recover what Alex has cost him. Alex doesn't stick around.
-   In _Animorphs_, a group of Andalites come to Earth to assassinate Visser Three (or so they claim). The actual sniper is a Boxed Crook named Aloth arrested for trying to sell the organs of warriors who fell in battle.
-   _Blood Books: Blood Debt_ deconstructs this as Vickie comments it is an incredibly weird and impractical trade due to how much trouble you'd get in for little financial gain. Also, you could get the organs from much easier sources.
-   _Bubbles in Space_: In the future with so much cybernetics and attempts to live longer, this is a thriving market. Bubbles comments that there's more bodies than missing persons. This is Foreshadowing that the organ traffickers have been targeting refugees from the Barrens.
-   In Rick Griffin's short story _Bravo Charli_ Charli's biker gang is coerced by a cartel boss to transport a sealed cooler to Santa Fe within seven hours. Halfway through the story she finds out it's a human heart.
-   _Burke_ mentions a Noodle Incident in which he acted as a go-between for a wealthy family seeking a heart for their dying child. He collects the heart, implied to have been taken from a child murdered for the purpose.
-   _Coma_ features a conspiracy of organ theft in the hospital system. Apparently, they started using hospital patients who were already comatose, but demand (and profits) is such that they start artificially inducing brain death in healthy patients undergoing surgery to get more victims, drawing the attention of the protagonist.
-   The Igor clan of _Discworld_ is known to harvest organs or limbs... but only postmortem, and mostly from people who have received a transplant performed by an Igor at some point in their lives. The Igors also practice this extensively upon themselves/other Igors, and when an Igor says he's got his father's eyes, he's _not_ being metaphorical.
-   _Doctor Who_
    -   In one of the Expanded Universe novels, this one is done rather weirdly. The Doctor is ill because something is the matter with one of his hearts. The villain thought transplanting a Time Lord's heart to himself would help him time travel, so he stole it, curing the decaying heart problem but creating a new, massive-hole-in-the-Doctor's-chest problem. Good Thing He Can Heal. One of his hearts was a link to Gallifrey, which he'd destroyed in "The Ancestor Cell" (different Time War).
    -   In the Big Finish Doctor Who audio play "Spare Parts", the Doctor encounters Thomas Dodd, a Back-Alley Doctor dealing in recycled organs that he gets from desperate people on Mondas who sell their own or that of recently deceased relatives. He can't resist when the perfectly healthy Doctor turns up and tries to lock him in his organ freezer. Later the Doctor gets his cooperation by promising one of his hearts (he doesn't have to pay because Dodd gets dragged away to be turned into a Cyberman).
-   In _Dream Park_'s South Seas Treasure Game, an early confrontation with the power of the Fore occurs when the villainous tribe launches a supernatural attack on the Daribi village. While conjured giant birds beset the Gamers, the aged Daribi chieftain's belly caves in on itself, his liver "eaten" by the Fore tribe's evil magic.
-   _Eveless Eden_ by Marianne Wiggins. An Intrepid Reporter discovers that the Romanian diplomat his girlfriend ran off with runs a company involved in selling blood products (everything from plasma to skin cream, as well as blood itself) taken from Ceausescu's hellish orphanage system. Thanks to the incompetent way the orphanages are run, HIV-tainted blood has long ago entered the system.
-   _Every Heart a Doorway_: When the murders start, the first victim has her hands taken - while she's still alive. The second loses her eyes in the same way. The third, her brain. The killer is trying to create a "skeleton key" - a girl who will allow her to open any of the Doors to otherworlds.
-   _Iron Widow_: Like other condemned prisoners in Huaxia, Li Shimin had one kidney and part of his liver taken for transplants. Zetian is aghast at how the damage could affect his Life Energy in the long term.
-   The concealed Evil Plan of the fourth _Journey to Chaos_, book, _Transcending Limitations_, centers on this trope. Kaiba Gunrai wants to kidnap Annala and extract everything from her, organs included, because she has been Touched By Volrons and he wants to replicate this for super soldiers that he can sell, in addition to boosting other industries, such as magical reagents. The victim isn't killed because her Healing Factor means she can't be killed, and more importantly for her captor, he can collect multiple copies of each organ.
-   Christopher Moore's _Island of the Sequined Love Nun_ has two Big Bads convincing an island full of people that they are the personification of the local Cargo Cult gods. It turns out they have a database composed of the natives' medical information and are running an on-demand black organ market, harvesting (among other things) kidneys, hearts, and corneas.
-   In _Kea's Flight_, this has been known to happen to women who go to back-alley abortionists.
-   Larry Niven's _Known Space_ series is the Trope Maker. Prior to the invention of cloned organs to replace failed ones, the demand for replacement organs is so high that lawmakers make more and more crimes punishable by death penalty, with the organs of the punished being harvested for use. Naturally, such a high demand makes it a high profit item, which attacts criminals who become as "organleggers" who are even _less_ picky than the legal system about whose organs are harvested. Eyes in particular are noted to be in high demand, for criminals who wish to fool retina scanners.
-   _Kronk_ has roving "Bounty Hunters" who harvest the bodies of anyone who can't fight back and resell the organs to hospitals.
-   In the _Legends of Dune_ prequels it is claimed that the Bene Tleilaxu were originally slavers and organ dealers. They claimed that the organs were cloned but during the Butlerian Jihad the vats couldn't meet demand so they ripped most of them from captured slaves too injured to work.
-   _The Malaussène Saga_: Protagonist Benjamin falls in a coma during _Write to Kill_ and a corrupt doctor takes advantage of it to explant all of his organs. He later gets better thanks to a massive case of Contrived Coincidence: the novel's Big Bad, who was just killed in the very same hospital room, incredibly happens to be histocompatible and his organs are used to replace Benjamin's.
-   In the English sci-fi drama _Never Let Me Go_, the protagonist and her fellow students willingly submit to having their organs removed — they're all cloned humans created for the specific purpose of organ harvesting.
-   Robert A. Heinlein's _The Number of the Beast_ has Lazarus Long mention how he'd never engage in killing people to strip them of their organs, _but_, he knows of several planets where you could point someone out, and a thug would quote you a price and ask which parts you want and "when and where did you want them delivered?" (He's giving the explanation to point out that there are some places where you can buy anything).
-   A government version occurs in _A Planet Named Shayol_ by Cordwainer Smith, in which criminals are made to grow extra limbs and organs for harvesting and use in transplants.
-   The novel _Raylan_ by Elmore Leonard features a couple crooks doing this, but in a variation they're not selling the organs to others, but essentially holding them hostage for money from the person they were taken from, bypassing the whole comparability issue.
-   _Unwind_ exaggerates this in the most horrific way possible — not only is the process _legal_, it's used as a way to get rid of unwanted children and supported and run by the government.
    -   Technically yes, although more reminiscent of the trope are the Parts Pirates, who capture kids not specifically marked for unwinding, basically kidnapping them and shipping them to private unwind facilities. It's stated that in China, they don't even take all of you at once, which the lead Parts Pirate in North America finds revolting.
-   The dictator assassinated in the opening scene of _Use of Weapons_ has used off-world technology to make himself young. There's a mention that his current heart once belonged to a young female anarchist, implying that dissidents executed by the state are being harvested.
-   In _The Wandering_, the "murders" on Neshi's homeworld are all for the sake of supplying the government with organs, and not just for organ replacements, as Neshi finds out.
-   In _World War Z_, Fernando Oliveira describes his participation in the transplant of a black market heart obtained from a "donor" in China. Unbeknownst to the recipient and the transplant team, China happened to be in the early stages of a Zombie Apocalypse at the time. The doctor goes on to suggest that this was the cause of many other Solanum outbreaks outside of China at the time.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Angel_: Wolfram & Hart's subsidiary health care operation, the Fairfield Clinic, operates a body parts bank where organs are harvested from still-living prisoners. As magic is involved, this naturally leads to an Evil Hand plot.
-   _The Aquabats! Super Show!_ features the "in transit" variant: the Aquabats are assigned to transport a replacement brain to Governor Robot, and the villainous Silver Skull is trying to steal it from them - with Governor Robot incapacitated, Silver Skull will be able to usurp his authority. In a twist, he _succeeds_ by impersonating the very general who gave the Aquabats the job in the first place.
-   _Blake's 7_: In "Powerplay", Cally and Vila are picked up by a hospital spacecraft from the neutral planet of Chenga, rescuing survivors from the battle against the Andromedans. Chengan society split into two factions, the Primitives who wanted to live the simple life, and the High-Techs who embrace it. Unfortunately, the Primitives are being hunted and captured by bounty hunters so their organs can be used for Human Resources, and it turns out the hospital ship isn't missing the opportunity provided by the wide-ranging battle. Only a last-minute Teleportation Rescue saves our heroes from being dissected.
-   Variant on _Bones_, where bone and other tissues were being stolen from corpses. Unfortunately one of those corpses had cancer, and Booth's boss was not amused when his daughter contracted said cancer from one of said grafts.
    -   A later episode had this as the suspected motive for a murder, as a body missing several organs was discovered. Turns out the victim was killed in a blind rage; the killer felt guilty but couldn't bring him back to life, thus brought his body to an "organ dealer" so he could possibly save someone else's life. They do explore the organ black market, but the organs there are either purchased from living but desperate people or taken from corpses at a funeral home.
-   _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_: The Gentlemen from "Hush" need to steal seven human hearts for reasons that are never explained. In order to harvest the organs they take the voices of the entire population of Sunnydale so their victims can't scream for help.

-   Shows up from time to time on _Charmed (1998)._
    -   In its classic form, one episode features a doctor gaining the sisters' powers via blood transfusion and losing his mind because of it. He uses the newfound powers to steal organs from criminals who had been treated at his hospital.
    -   Wendigoes are formed when one person steals and eats another's heart. They then transform into monsters on the "three nights of the full moon" to continue eating hearts.
    -   In possibly the weirdest (and least explained) version, the succubus kills men in order to drain them of their _testosterone._
-   The Teaser of the _CI5: The New Professionals_ episode "Choice Cuts" played the Urban Legend version entirely straight. The villains left the hotel room telephone right next to the ice-filled bathtub along with a note: _Call 911 or you will die!_, but the victim (an FBI agent) dies anyway thanks to having both kidneys removed.
-   _Criminal Minds_ likes this trope and its variations.
    -   There's Frank Breitkopf in Season Two, whose entire MO is sedating his victims and removing their organs while they were still alive, getting off on the fear on their faces as this was happening. It's unclear what he does with the rest of the organs once his victim is dead, but it is known that Breitkopf takes a rib from each of his victims to make a wind chime for his love interest.
    -   "Blood Hungry" has a killer taking organs which he believes house the human soul. He (or possibly his mother) _returns_ one of the organs to the crime scene in a Tupperware container. The victims were already dead when he took the organs, and he keeps them to eat (or maybe just to admire them), not to transplant. He's more than a little crazy.
    -   Then there was the man stealing his victims' eyes to use in _taxidermy_.
    -   Another episode features a Jack the Ripoff who is said to have taken the kidney from a victim, just like Jack himself.
    -   "God Complex" comes closest to the Urban Legend described in the trope (in _Criminal Minds_ classic, at least), only it's not internal organs the UnSub is stealing — it's _legs._ The first victim is left in a motel with his leg stolen, but no ice bath or note. The second victim gets a note, but is dropped off just outside the ER. _He's_ the one who dies, because the UnSub amputated his leg, sewed the wound closed (poorly), then opened it back up to _attach the first victim's stolen leg._ The UnSub at least has a sterile(-ish) facility to perform the... operations.
    -   There was also a variation, where instead of stealing the organs himself, one man started killing organ donors in the hopes that his daughter would get a liver. It nicely sidesteps the issue of transport and removal (he even dropped one victim off at the hospital and called 911 before committing the other murders so EMTs would get there on time), but it still didn't work out how he wanted.
    -   Each of the spin-offs has had its own take on the trope as well.
        -   _Criminal Minds: Suspect Behavior_ had an episode where a man was attempting to harvest women's _skin_ to graft onto his daughter's face. The team pointed out how futile this idea was, but he wasn't exactly stable.
        -   The _Criminal Minds: Beyond Borders_ episode "Harvested" plays out the Urban Legend from the description, with a healthy dose of Surprisingly Realistic Outcome, in that the victim dies. The killer wasn't even concerned about the organs' viability. His dead father had his liver, corneas, and heart donated (properly, by doctors in a hospital setting) and he believed he needed to replace them so that his father could be complete in the afterlife.
-   _CSI_:
    -   Organ-legging is mentioned in "Justice is Served" after a jogger turns up dead with his liver and a couple other organs removed. At the end of the episode, it turns out that the killer took the most blood-rich organs to make into a health elixir, convinced that that it's the only thing preventing her from becoming sick.
    -   Another episode has organs being taken from dead bodies that were processed in a specific crematorium.
    -   In the _CSI Trilogy_ crossover storyline, young women were abducted and smuggled cross-country by a network of criminal truckers. While most were forced into prostitution, those girls who fought back against their captors became salable body parts.
    -   Yet another case involved two brains stolen from cadavers. The first was that of a boxer who'd committed suicide due to neurological damage from repeated head trauma, and who'd asked that his brain be examined posthumously to diagnose this. The second was swiped from a freshly-entombed corpse to exchange it for the _first_ brain, by a trainer who didn't want the boxer's brain tested for steroids.
-   _CSI: Cyber_: In "Fit-and-Run", the motivation for a series of kidnappings and murder turns out to be a father and a husband desperate to find a replacement kidney for a dying woman. The episode ends in a The Bad Guy Wins situation - the team arrests the duo, but the older man, who was a recently retired surgeon, has already finished transplanting one of the final victim's kidney's into his daughter, with both said final victim and daughter having survived the transplant surgery.
-   _CSI: NY_:
    -   An episode had an organ being stolen _after_ it was legitimately removed, with a murder or two in the process. It turned out the transplant surgeon at the recipient's hospital was behind the theft because his wife was dying and needed it.
    -   Yet another episode had a corrupt ex-coroner who'd been stealing organs and tissues for a different reason - to process them for the drugs they contained; the victims were all dead drug addicts from cases that came through his morgue.
-   On _Desperate Housewives_, Katherine thought she'd found the perfect guy until she found out he'd been to prison for doing this. Of course, every adult living on Wisteria Lane has committed multiple felonies, but this was the one crime that was too much for them to accept.
-   _Doctor Who_: "The Brain of Morbius" is about a Mad Scientist trying to steal the Doctor's head, which he wants to finish off his Frankenstein's Monster.
-   The _Firefly_ episode "The Message" turns out to be about this. Tracy has to pretend to be dead to transport (and incubate) some super-viscera, and despite the stated cost of the organs, the guys who go to recollect _shoot to kill._ In a way, Tracy kind of does this to himself, because the way he's smuggling the organs is that he had all of his replaced. Then he decided to go for a better offer, forgetting that the other people STILL had his original organs.
-   _Forever Knight_ had an episode with an organ theft ring. The first body was found dead in a dumpster, and later, Natalie almost ends up getting her heart stolen when she goes in for knee surgery by a desperate surgeon whose daughter was dying. Averts some of the problems with this trope, but not the compatibility one.
-   In the _Fringe_ episode "Marionette", the villain of the week is stealing _back_ the donated organs of a girl he's obsessed with in an attempt to bring her Back from the Dead. The villain is actually something of an Apologetic Attacker who makes attempts to leave his victims alive long enough for emergency services to stabilize them once he's finished harvesting the organs.
-   In one episode of _Grimm_ ("Organ Grinder"), teenage runaways are kidnapped and their organs harvested to sell on the black market, as human organs are used to make illegal drugs for wesen.
-   An episode of _Hannibal_ has the Behavioural Sciences Unit hunting someone who is taking organs to sell on the black market and doing a dodgy job of keeping his victims alive. They initially think it might be the work of the Chesapeake Ripper, a notorious Serial Killer who removes organs from his victims before killing and mutilating them, but we already know who the Ripper really is and what he's doing with the organs. The Ripper winds up using the organ harvester's activities as a smokescreen to do some, ehem, grocery shopping.
-   The _Haven_ episode "The Farmer" had Harry Nix. His Trouble is that he suffers from progressive organ failure, so he must regularly steal organs to replace his own. He can sprout a tentacle that can suck the victim's organs out of their body and absorb it. He is aware of the problem with organ compatibility, so he targets his illegitimate children from when he donated to a sperm bank. To make matters worse, his children run the risk of developing the same condition and being forced to harvest organs as well.
-   On _Heroes_, Claire jokes that she has used her regeneration powers to sell a kidney for quick cash.
-   _Human Giant_: A hypno-therapist steals Aziz's kidney while he's under. Then the paramedic who finds him knocks him out and steals his hair (for wigs). _Then_ the the cop who finds him after that knocks him out and steals his ice from the bathtub and his right testicle.
-   Done slightly more realistically with the witness of the week on _In Plain Sight_. It was a doctor removing kidneys from gastric bypass patients, since they are operating in the same area and the patient is likely to write off any problems caused by loss of kidney to complications from surgery.
-   _Jessica Jones (2015)_: When Kilgrave got badly injured in a car accident on the night Jessica broke free of his control over her, he was left with crush syndrome where one of his kidneys was badly damaged. He wanted to be made whole again, so he made the ambulance driver give up his kidneys and ordered the transplant surgeon at the hospital to falsify a death certificate and give Kilgrave the new kidneys. The original donor had a stroke and is now confined to his home where he's hooked up to a dialysis machine (and writes out "KILL ME" when Jessica stops by to interview him), while Jessica learns from the transplant surgeon that Kilgrave will have to harvest a new set of kidneys in a couple of years.
-   _Iron Fist (2017)_: It's not outright organ theft, but a subtle hint that Joy Meachum is actually not quite as straight arrow as she seems is when her idea of convincing a businessman to sell a pier to Rand Enterprises is to bribe him by showing him a dying kid whose liver will be transplanted to the businessman's nephew and completely bypass the national donor list.
-   On _Justified_ a group of criminals sell organs on the black market. However, they primarily harvest the organs from the recent corpses of people who died in prison rather than then by stealing them from living people. They have access to the prisoners' medical records and use people trained in this type of operation. The one time they operate on a live person it is a ruse to make the victim think that they took his kidneys so he will steal for them. All they did was make a couple cuts and sutured them up.
-   An episode of _Las Vegas_ had a guest at the Montecito claim this had happened to him. He had a fresh scar and X-rays revealed he was short one kidney. It turns out that he'd already sold the kidney in an under-the-table deal with an ailing celebrity, and was trying to extort money from the casino for additional profit.
-   Played straight on _Law & Order_, which may actually have helped disseminate the "kidney theft" urban legend (_Snopes_ speculates that the plot, which Word of God claims a friend saw in a newspaper, was based on a false allegation published in the _Daily Telegraph_ in 1989). SVU's Captain Cragen (who appeared in the episode) later dismissed such stories as urban legends.
    -   A more realistic variant shows up in _Law & Order: SVU_, where a pediatric surgeon is revealed to illegally harvest organs from her braindead patients without their parents' consent. It's done in a hospital setting with all the proper staffing and equipment; the only thing missing is a signature on a form.
-   _Leverage_ features a bizarre version in that a heart is stolen in transit for a rich businessman who is dying. As it was stolen from its intended recipient, a 15-year-old kid, Nate commits everything to stealing it back.
-   _The Magician_: In "The Illusion of the Deadly Conglomerate", Tony initially believes believes the homeless men being abducted are being used as involuntary organ donors for illegal transplants. They are actually to abduct to provide corpse to an organisation that specialises in helping rich criminals to fake their deaths.
-   The Crapsack World of _Max Headroom_ has "body banks" which will pay for organs — or whole bodies — with no questions asked.
-   _Nip/Tuck_ has an entire story arc dedicate to an organ thieves, beginning in "Shari Noble" where Liz falls for a The Schlub Pub Seduction Deduction when going to a lesbian bar and getting the attention of what she considers a "10" and tragically, the Head-Turning Beauty woman turns out to be a Honey Trap who only brings Liz to her home in order to steal her kidney.
-   Happens in the _NUMB3RS_ episode "Harvest". Four Indian girls come into the US each intending to sell a kidney willingly on the black market to get money for their families. But when one of the girls dies from a surgical error, the doctor running the organ ring figures he's already crossed the Moral Event Horizon and decides to kill the two he has left (one of the surviving girls ran and hid inside another part of the hotel basement when the first surgery got botched and was taken into FBI protective custody) in order to harvest _all_ their organs for the money and to get rid of any potential witnesses. One of the girls is killed, but fortunately, the FBI interrupts just before the procedure on the second girl begins, and she is rescued unharmed.
-   _Red Dwarf_ features an episode where Lister and the Cat are captured and restrained by an apparently rogue medi-droid. After being rescued, Lister wakes up in medbay and is told by Kryten that his kidneys have been stolen. He ultimately ends up going back in time to steal his kidneys from his past self, which is why they had gone missing in the first place.
-   _Riverdale_: In Season 3, it is eventually revealed that Edgar Evernever runs a cult where he eventually harvests his followers organs to sell on the black market.
-   The _RoboCop: The Series_ episode "What Money Can't Buy" deals with this as Murphy goes against a black market organ ring when two people steal a pair of lungs meant to save a boy Murphy helped rescue in the prior episode ("Officer Down") after his body started to reject the lungs he was given in an earlier operation. The duo and their boss stole the lungs for a crime boss, and the boy's earlier lungs came from the same criminal ring and were taken from someone who died from tuberculosis.
-   One episode of _The Rockford Files_ featured an insane doctor who arranged "accidental" deaths in order to obtain and sell the victims' organs for his wealthy clients. He tended to target victims with rare blood types.
-   _Scrubs_ had one of JD's daydreams parodying the kidney theft legend.
-   What appears to be a people smuggling operation turns out to be this idea in _Sea Patrol_. The Big Bad of the episode wastes the only kidney aboard which matches a current order in the process of capturing two of the crew. One of them is the right blood type...
-   Gerry Anderson's _Space Precinct_ had criminals engaged in organlegging.
-   In _Squid Game_, Loser Protagonist Gi-hun was strongarmed by his Loan Shark into signing away his physical rights, with the threat of losing a kidney and eye should he miss another payment. After he joins the Deadly Game in the hopes of using the prize money to repay his debts, it's revealed that a group of the guards overseeing them was secretly harvesting the organs of dead players and selling them to the Chinese for extra money on the side, with the help of a player who was a former doctor.
-   _Star Trek: The Original Series_ has an example, in the infamous episode "Spock's Brain", with the autonomic brain functions that regulate breathing and blood circulation being used to circulate air, heat and water through an Underground City.
-   _Star Trek: Voyager_: The Vidiians. Only that this is not so much organ theft as organ _hijacking_: they literally _take away_ an organ from a person by _teleporting it_. When this happens to Neelix in "Phage", the Doctor gives him _Hard Light lungs_ until they can be replaced. In this case, the fact it's a _cross-species_ theft raises serious Fridge Logic issues, as there's no reason why medicine that's advanced enough to perform xenografts couldn't turn to non-sentient animals as donors instead. The "urban legend" aspect does come up in conversation between Janeway and Chakotay.
-   _Star Trek: Picard_ has this as a plot point in "Stardust City Rag", in which it is revealed that former Borg drones are targeted so that their Borg components can be harvested and sold on the black market. Icheb, one of the children rescued from the Borg by _Voyager_, was abducted and killed by such a group.
-   _White Collar_ had a multimillion dollar corporation involved in a conspiracy to sell body parts purchased in foreign countries to needy transplant patients, circumventing the organ transplant system and pocketing the "donations" from the grateful patients. Neal and Peter take them down, of course, when they try to sell to June's young granddaughter.
-   _Space: 1999_: In "Mission of the Darians", a Generation Ship suffered a radiation overload, and only fourteen crewmembers survived uncontaminated while the others eventually formed a primitive society that forgot its origins. The fourteen extend their lifespans via this trope, believing it's Necessarily Evil to get their spacecraft and its genetic bank to a new planet where their race can start anew. They use God Guise to convince the primitive outside to hand over sacrifices that get used for their organ bank.
-   _The X-Files_: Aside from several organ-eating monsters, which variously stalk victims for their livers, body fat, brains, pituitary glands, and even cancer tumors, the episode "Hell Money" features a Tong\-controlled Organ _Gambling Ring_ in which destitute Chinese laborers bet their body parts for the chance at a monetary prize. The operation is disrupted — at least, for that particular city — when the canister of tokens is tipped over, revealing that the game is rigged and _all_ the tokens mark the contestant for death by heart extraction.

    Music 

-   According to the old _Gorillaz_ website, Murdoc had most of his internal organs surgically exchanged with 2D's.
-   The second part of the That Handsome Devil song "Viva Discordia" has the 'stolen kidney' variation happening to a woman named Mona.

    Mythology and Folklore 

-   In the Andes region, there's the story of the Pishtaco, a cadaverous humanoid who murders people to steal their body fat and organs. What it does with the fat depends on the story; in some versions it eats the fat, while in others it sells the fat to corporations to use as machine lubricant. While the fat-stealing aspects are old, the idea about the Pishtaco stealing organs and working with corporations is new; folklorists attribute this to locals's beliefs that factories from the USA and other developed countries are exploiting them. This myth is more dangerous than it sounds; visitors to the regions have actually gotten _killed_ because the locals thought they were one of them.
-   According to a Cherokee legend, the shapeshifting cannibal ogress known as U'tlun'ta (or "Spearfinger") used her knife-like right forefinger to extract the livers out of her prey; her victims didn't notice until they rapidly sickened and died a few days later.
-   The kappa, a creature from Japanese mythology, were known not only for drowning people or animals that came across ponds where they were lurking, but because they were known to rip people's _shirikodama_ out in a very unpleasant way.

    Newspaper Comics 

-   Disturbingly, organ thieves appear in two _Dilbert_ stories:
    -   In comic, Dilbert's mom got her organs harvested by a store after she returned too many items.
        
        _"The company is not planning to steal your organs while you sleep at your desks and sell them on the black market... not at the prices we were quoted."_
        
    -   In one arc, Dilbert unwisely signs a contract that gives a company the right to harvest his organs. The company lawyer advises him to get a sworn affidavit from attractive female coworkers to prove he has cooties. (Much to his regret, he gets enough signatures rather quickly).

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Cyberpunk 2020_ has rules for selling organs, limbs included, to the Organ Banks. Officially you need the deceased donor card in order to donate the organs and get the reward, but in practice the paperwork can be easily faked and there's a thriving black market of _spare parts_, whose clients include corporates. There is also mention of a Organ lottery that runs in Night City.
    -   It is stated in _Cyberpunk RED_ that such activity has ceased to be profitable, as advances in cloning technology has allowed lost or damaged body parts to be regrown easily. That said harvesting of _cybernetic_ parts is another thing.
-   _GURPS: Bio-Tech_ has a template for a freelance organlegger. The Evisceration spell from _Magic_ is made for this exact purpose.
-   _Rifts_. While natural organs are generally not bandied about, it is mentioned that cyber-snatchers are a problem in crime-ridden areas, murdering people for their expensive cybernetic implants.
-   _Shadowrun_. Tamanous is a criminal syndicate that deals in organlegging. They kidnap and murder the homeless and will pay for recently-dead bodies, and among other things are known for stripping dead bodies of their cyberware to sell on the black market. Street doctors have been known to engage in Organ Theft as well, including patients who can't pay their medical bills. Tamanous even has a way to get rid of the leftovers once all the saleable parts are gone - they sell them to ghouls.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_:
    -   Ork rippadoks from the universe tend to do this to their patients as a form of 'payment' for their services. Orks, however, don't usually miss the stolen organs (being Orks), nor is comparability usually an issue (they can accept whole "donated" heads, for instance).
    -   Chaos Space Marines frequently raid their loyalist counterparts for gene-seed, as their own have been mutated beyond recovery by the Warp. How this is done tends to differ depending on the writer; either the Chaos Marines harvest the corpses of everyone on the battlefield, or they will make a raid on one of the genetic labs found on a Chapter Homeworld or a Forge World tasked with storage of gene-seed tithes.

    Video Games 

-   _Crypt of the NecroDancer_ opens with the villain stealing Cadence's heart after she takes a fatal tumble. He then resurrects her, and she sets out to learn what happened and find some way of breaking the curse.
-   _Cyberpunk 2077_ features the Scavengers, a gang that specializes in kidnapping people and harvesting their organs, both biological and cybernetic, for sale on the black market. Victims of this are often never found, because Scavs will strip _everything_ that can be sold off from them before dumping, burning, or leaving what's left for the rats in Night City's sewers. They are the one gang in Night City that everyone despises and no-one in the game has a kind word to say about them; even V, who's mostly a live-and-let-live sort, hates Scavs with a passion, especially since it's revealed that they also make and distribute XBDs (basically this universe's version of the Snuff Film), something only one other gang (the Tyger Claws that answer to Jotaro Shobo) deals in.
-   In _Dead Rising 3_, the Psychopath Albert Contiello is a greedy Mad Doctor who sees the Zombie Apocalypse as an opportunity to abduct survivors and harvest their organs for the Black Market. To make it even more horrific, he just straps them down and extracts the organs without using anesthetic, though he does sometimes inject them with hallucinogens, more for his own twisted amusement than to ease their pain.
-   _Deus Ex: Human Revolution_: The Harvester gang in Hengsha operate very similarly to this and have the same terrifying reputation. Just swap "augmented parts" for "internal organs".
-   _Digimon Story: Cyber Sleuth_: One case involves a criminal organization of humans and Digimon selling "ultra-realistic dolls" that serve the customers, but the customers have to agree that they mustn't leave their room ever. It turns out that while the customers' minds are actually in EDEN, the criminals kidnap their real bodies and steal their organs to sell them. While the customers live their lives unknowingly in the virtual world, they can't return to their original bodies. The organizations earn their profit not only from selling organs, but also with their dolls.
-   _Fallout_:
    -   A weird example from the _Fallout 3_ expansion _Point Lookout_: after (unknowingly and involuntarily) undergoing trepanning, your character wakes up with a chunk of brain missing. This wasn't sold on a black market or anything, but put in a jar and kept as some sort of souvenir by your surgeon. You can actually recover your bottled Lump of Brain, though looking at the item fills you with "a terrible sense of loss."
    -   The _Fallout: New Vegas_ expansion _Old World Blues_ goes even farther, with the Think Tank removing your entire brain, along with your spinal column and heart and replacing them with cybernetic components. It's up to the player whether to put your original organs back or keep the robotics (both options offer their own stat buffs).
-   In _Grand Theft Auto IV_, in order to get rid of the bodies of two people Elizabeta shot to death, Niko takes them to a back alley doctor who harvests organs. The doctor complains that she shot one of them in the eye, because he would've liked to have taken it.
-   _Headhunter_ is set in a world where the organ market is very profitable. Weapons are designed so they don't damage the target's precious organs. There was a massive black market of organs. The player gets to explore the cargo-ship which is the centre of the operation.
-   _Killer7_ has organ theft as part of its fourth chapter's plot (Encounter). Made even creepier because the organs are taken from immigrant children and children abducted from a creepy theme park. Plus the things Curtis Blackburn did with the bodies of the girls he killed.
-   In a Bad Moon run of _Kingdom of Loathing_, you can get your kidney stolen by a unicorn, and you can buy it back from the Black Market.
-   _The Lost Experience_ has a side-plot involving sold organs. It doesn't have much to do with anything other than adding to the general corruptness of the Hanso Foundation and providing Product Placement for Jeep. It also ties into Locke's backstory in _Lost_: his father, who he'd never known, found him and struck up a relationship for the sole purpose of getting him to donate a kidney, then tossed him out again.
-   An assignment in _Mass Effect_ requires the player to bring to justice (or just kill) a Back-Alley Doctor who manages a business of this sort... with a horrible, horrible twist: he pays homeless people to grow extra cloned organs _inside their own bodies_, with nightmarish medical implications. He then harvests the extra organs... _if_ they grow properly. Otherwise, he just leaves them to die a terrible and painful death with two stomachs.
-   In _Max Payne 3_, it turns out that the Cracha Preto and the UFE are working together to abduct the poor of Sao Paulo in order to murder them and harvest their organs for the black market. The revelation enrages Max to a degree that not even the murder of his family could match, and his rampage escalates rapidly.
-   In _Policenauts_, you eventually stumble upon a secret facility where hundreds of people are kept brain-dead, but otherwise still alive, so that their organs can be harvested whenever the organ traffickers need.
-   _RimWorld_ allows player to harvest organs like kidneys or hearts from prisoners and your fellow colonists. Organs can be used for replacing damaged, missing, or unhealthy organs, or making money by selling them.
-   Crops up in _The Secret World_ Halloween mission "The Organ Smugglers." Here, it's revealed that the Orochi Group have been singling out unique individuals for organ harvesting, using their contacts among the CDC to isolate the donors and provide the medical service. Most of the cliches inherent to the urban legend are lampshaded during Marianne Chen's confession, and are only fulfilled on explicit orders from the harvesters - apparently for no other reason than to further the legend. For good measure, Bong Cha warns Dragon players to avoid getting captured by the harvesters after you run into a pack of them, noting that with your abilities, they could harvest you for a virtual eternity. A visit to Orochi headquarters reveals that one unfortunate Bee has already been subjected to this.
-   _Sleeping Dogs (2012)_: One of the Police side missions ends up uncovering an organ harvesting ring preying on members of the Sun On Yee Triad, being run by their rivals, the 18K Triads. Sun On Yee foot soldiers are kidnapped off the streets and delivered to a surgeon on 18K's payroll, who harvests their organs and transplants them into 18K's paying customers, while the abducted gangster's corpse is dumped into the harbour. The 18K make a tidy profit while literally killing off their competition in the process, and since the victims are exclusively triad footsoldiers, the cops' apathy over the deaths of a few gangsters and thugs ensures the operation stays under the radar.
-   The Medic from _Team Fortress 2_ apparently lost his medical license after stealing a patient's _skeleton_. He also seem to deal in non-human organs as well, as we can only imagine what a "Mega Baboon" is supposed to be.
-   In _The Thrill Of Combat_ this is what you do for a living. Using a helicopter, stun beam and a rappelling surgeon to get the sweet, sweet organs and points.

    Web Animation 

-   Happens twice in _asdfmovie_. One gag has someone stealing another's lungs after tricking him to look up at the ceiling. Another has a Disproportionate Retribution Laser-Guided Karma hit a man who was being sarcastic over liking another's hat by having his _face_ stolen.
-   Used in the Twist Ending of _Charlie the Unicorn_.
    -   He gets it back (or at least manages to find it again) in the third installment.
    -   This received a Shout-Out in _Kingdom of Loathing_, where a Bad Moon adventure leads to you getting your kidney stolen by unicorns.
-   _Happy Tree Friends_: In "A Change of Heart", Lumpy steals a heart from Handy's dead body as a transplant for Disco Bear. He ends up smushing it and has to resort to stealing a _whale's_ heart instead.
-   _Homestar Runner_:
    -   In "Bug in Mouth Disease", Bubs tries to sell Homestar a new pancreas, which is kept in a cooler marked "EXHIBIT B", implying Bubs was caught up in organ trafficking.
    -   In episode 2 of _Strong Bad's Cool Game for Attractive People_, a puzzle involves convincing Strong Sad he has "acute aphasic pretendicitis" so he'll get his "pretendix" taken out, which Strong Bad will then steal and sell to Bubs in exchange for a Plot Coupon.
    -   In "Marzipan's Answering Machne 17.2", Bubs leaves a message announcing that, in response to Marzipan's demand for more "organic stuff" at the Concession Stand, he's now selling goods "pertaining to the illegal selling and trade of human organs".
        
        **Bubs:** I got ice packs, little Igloo coolers, scalpels, discounts on hotel rooms, bathtubs fulla ice, chloroform, and fifteen pass Econoline vans pre-lined with plastic sheeting! So come on down to Bubs' Organic Concession Stand! Where we're keepin' that one urban legend alive! You know the one I'm talkin' about?
        
-   Some _The Slender Man Mythos_ stories involve the titular character doing this. Although most of the time, it's organ stealing and haphazardly replacing with an extra item or two.
-   Used humorously in an episode of _Weebl & Bob_, in which Bob goes to France and ends up having his kidney stolen by a French stripper named Kevin. According to the voiceover at the end of the episode, "the French are notorious kidney thieves".

    Webcomics 

-   Lynn Tailor nearly lost her eggs (and more than likely her ovaries as well) due to a faulty Auto Doc in _Data Chasers_. A REAL doctor showed up and turned it off.
-   Right after The Big Damn Kiss of Nick and Ki in _General Protection Fault_ when they reach Ki's apartment, their friend and colleague Fooker calls her to explain he is in Mexico right now and ... would she know someone with a kidney to spare?
-   In _He Is a Good Boy_, Crange (who is an acorn, and came from a tree that also had organs) dreams that he's taking a hot bath, but is woken up by remembering the tree he came from being murdered, and finds himself in a tub full of ice, with a hole in his torso and _all_ of his organs gone. Before he sees the hole, he finds a note taped to his stalk that reads "Sorry we got a little carried away XOXO". Surprisingly, he finds that his organs _weren't_ stolen by the Mad Doctor/Artist spider that had been using organs as a medium.
-   Gets played with in the Space plotline of _Irregular Webcomic!_ Some of the crew get mugged and their organs stolen. So what do they do? Take the organs from their future selves who failed at going back in time and preventing their organs from being removed, and then later find their original organs and get those implanted inside themselves so that when their future selves get their organs removed, they'll have a spare set.
-   In this _Kevin & Kell_ strip, a rhino wakes up in a bath of ice with his _horn_ missing.
-   In _Something\*Positive_, Pepito did this to a guy to get the money for English lessons.
-   In _Super Stupor_, Claw-Frog doesn't bother with keeping his target alive. Then again, he's not selling it for transplant either...
-   _Super Effective_: Red blacks out after all his Pokémon are KO'd, and wakes up in ice with a pair of scars.
-   Inverted in this _xkcd_, where a guy's _ice_ is stolen and he wakes up in a bath full of KIDNEYS.

    Web Original 

-   _CollegeHumor_: In the "Urban Legend ER" video, a doctor is about to perform an organ transplant when a woman bursts into the ER claiming that the kidneys are actually hers and that she woke up in a bathtub full of ice that morning with two huge scars on her back. After she faints, the doctor tells the nurse to give the woman her kidneys back.
-   _The Onion_: Anonymous Philanthropist Donates 200 Human Kidneys To Hospital. Hospital staff are very happy at the great diversity of the kidneys (which were thrown all together in a big sack through the hospital doors), and are very hopeful to get more since the message attached was "This Is Only The Beginning".
-   _Oxventure_ _Dungeons & Dragons_ campaign:
    -   At one point, they're drugged unconscious and wake up in cells that drain their magic. Most of them are otherwise fine, but Egbert, a dragonborn, wakes up in a tub of ice missing one kidney. Notably, since most D&D settings aren't really places where black market organ trafficking works with any kind of effectiveness, since magical healing exists and is probably more effective, it's established that only Egbert's kidney was taken because dragonborn are rare and mystically significant and as such their internal organs are valuable in and of themselves; on top of that, "Rolling in the Deep" reveals the organ was stolen to create a Clone Army. (Upon learning this, Corazon began wondering why they hadn't been stealing organs from Egbert all along).
    -   More worryingly, Liliana has a tendency to order this for any subordinates that fail her.
-   Discussed for Laughs in Technoblade's only TikTok video (also reuploaded onto YouTube), where he assumes that someone allegedly impersonating him on the site is trying to trick his viewer-base and steal their organs, which he claims "just isn't right".
    
    **Techno:** I think we can all agree that people deserve to get their organs stolen by the _real_ Technoblade.
    

    Western Animation 

-   Subverted in _American Dad!_, Roger was planning to do this to Steve so he could sell the kidney for 50 million dollars to buy Dolly Land, but Steve woke up before he could and pointed out that Roger wouldn't get that much for a kidney. Roger gave up on the idea then.
    -   Roger once had an operating room in his attic that looked like he was going to use it to harvest Hayley and Jeff's organs; it was actually to remove his own, but he couldn't sell them because there wasn't a market for alien organs. When he collapses without them, his organs (which are autonomous) reinsert themselves anally.
-   On an episode of _Drawn Together_, Wooldoor does this to Toot.
-   This was one of the Urban Legends used in _Freaky Stories_, although they moved it into the future in an attempt to slightly reduce the Squick factor. In this version the guy's _entire body_ got stolen, leaving him a disembodied head connected to a portable life support unit.
-   _Family Guy_:
    -   In "Valentine's Day in Quahog", Meg's date turns out to be a black market dealer who takes her kidney. After spending the day together, he gives the kidney back to her in a jar, which she keeps on her shelf as a memento.
    -   In "Old World Harm", Joe lets Peter and Lois spend their vacation at his mom's condo in Florida, which turns out to be in a retirement community where the seniors harvest young peoples' organs. After the two escape and comment how Joe was in the dark about all this, it's revealed the whole thing was a scheme to replace his crippled legs with theirs; he decides to settle for Cleveland's black legs instead.
-   _Futurama_:
    -   Spoofed in "My Three Suns". A sleazy street vendor offers Fry some (supposedly) ill-gotten organs and almost operates on him ("I take lungs now. Gills come next week.") before Leela stops him.
    -   In "Anthology of Interest II", when Leela comes to after the Professor knocks her out pulling a lever on the What If machine, it's revealed that he planned to harvest her organs while she was out cold, but she woke up before he could, much to his disappointment. Hermes insists that he can try again next year.
    -   Spoofed again in "Spanish Fry" Fry loses his nose to alien poachers because "human horn" is considered an aphrodisiac. He gets it back, only for Bender to tell the aliens that, logically, they should want his "lower horn."
    -   Richard Nixon threatened to sell children's organs to zoos once.
    -   In "Murder on the Planet Express", Fry suspected Bender of using his toothbrush to polish his ass so he put up a camera in their apartment. Instead he caught Bender and a team of surgeons harvesting his kidney while he slept. Then Leela accidentally ate Fry's kidney after Bender stashed it in Hermes' lunch cooler, and the Professor got a manwich in place of a kidney transplant.
-   _Invader Zim_ has an entire episode about this, entitled "Dark Harvest". In the episode, Zim is afraid of being revealed as an alien by medical science, and decides that the solution to this issue is to _pack his torso with human organs_ from the children at the school and replace the stolen parts with random nearby objects. Oddly, this generally only seems to cause discomfort and severe fatigue, but it leaves _Zim_ a grotesquely obese sack of organs. In the end, this plan somehow works.
-   _Justice League Unlimited_: After Superman was brainwashed by Darkseid, Dr. Hamilton was scared enough that he stole Supergirl's DNA, went to CADMUS, and cloned Galatea (a Supergirl clone who was loyal to CADMUS alone). When the super cousins learn the truth, they're a little upset.
-   _The Loud House_: In "Garage Banned" Lisa tries to take Lincoln's kidney for an experiment.
    
    **Lincoln**: Lori, tell Lisa she can't have my kidneys!  
    **Lisa:** Tell Lincoln he only needs one!  
    **Lori**: Lisa, you already took out his appendix. Don't be greedy.
    
-   _Men in Black: The Series_:
    
    -   The first episode dealing with Alpha involved him stealing a Sintillian heart. The victim didn't die as his species has two hearts and can live just fine with one, leading J to think that there's no problem. K quickly corrects him:
    
    **K:** You have ten toes. You wake up one morning with one missing, how would you feel?
    
    -   Organ Theft is basically Alpha's hat. In his first appearances he had multiple alien body parts grafted to his body using Applied Phlebotinum. Notably the alien parts included heads which were still _fully conscious_, if under Alpha's control. He lost those in a Shapeshifter Swan Song, then reappeared with a _completely new set_ that coincided with an animation change. By the time the series ended Alpha didn't even resemble anything human, although by then he'd moved on to _robot_ parts.
-   A _Robot Chicken_ sketch involved a woman falling victim to this, and waking up just as the thief was leaving. She just laughs and points to the mirror, where she wrote "Welcome to the AIDS club!" They both have a chuckle over it.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    
    "Good luck selling _that_ organ!"
    
    -   Another sketch has a Troll doll steal the belly-button gem from a Treasure Troll in this fashion.
-   One episode of _Sherlock Holmes in the 22nd Century_ had an organ trafficking ring that turned out to be cloning their products... and cloning is considered illegal due to Clone Degeneration.
-   _The Simpsons_: In "Homer Simpson in: Kidney Trouble", Grampa's kidneys burst when Homer refuses to stop and let him use the bathroom, so Homer decides to give Grampa one of his kidneys. However, upon finding out from Moe that people with one kidney can't drink beer as well as people with two kidneys, Homer is reluctant to give his kidney to Grampa. Near the end of the episode, the operation is about to go underway, but Homer escapes before it can happen. However, he gets hit by a car that falls on top of him from Hans Moleman's car carrier trailer, and since he wasn't going to give up the kidney willingly, Dr. Hibbert took it from him and gave it to Grampa while nursing Homer back to his normal self.
-   In the _South Park_ episode "Cherokee Hair Tampons", Kyle became sick and needed a kidney, but the only person with his bloodtype was Cartman, who naturally refused to give up one of his. Stan and Kenny break into his house one night to try to steal the kidney, only to find Cartman had anticipated this and donned a 'Kidney Blocker 2000.' They later tricked Cartman into thinking that they had somehow bypassed the thing and took a kidney from him, and when he demanded that it be put back and willingly entered the operating room, the doctors removed a kidney for real and gave it to Kyle.
-   _Transformers: Animated_: Organ Theft among Mechanical Lifeforms is pretty common. How else can you explain Lockdown? He's in it for the upgrades, and seems especially fond of parts that come from another Transformer's body. The Autobots regard this practice like one would regard organ harvesting in real life, with Ratchet treating the whole thing with anger and disgust.
    
    **Lockdown:** "But don't worry... I got everything I wanted from you long ago."
    
-   _Transformers: Prime_:
    -   MECH has also stolen body parts from Transformers... leading to a scene explaining that certain parts of Transformers are more like biology than technology... and thus basically irreplaceable. When Bumblebee's T-Cog is stolen by them, it's treated very seriously, and Ratchet states that even ''Megatron'' wouldn't stoop that low.
    -   MECH has also gone to the point of using an _entire Decepticon robot cadaver_ (Breakdown) as a life-support system for their critically wounded leader, and it's every bit as horrible as it sounds. _Megatron_ reacts with horror and revulsion when he sees what's happened to his former soldier, and Knockout (who, according to Word of God, was Breakdown's boyfriend) repeatedly asks for permission to kill and dissect Cylas (which Megatron eventually grants).
    -   Starscream suffers from this trope when he underestimates his human allies and wakes up without his T-Cog. He spends most of a season _running_ around the woods bitterly complaining about his fate. He eventually gets a new one by harvesting it out of a dead clone he created after it tried to betray and kill him.
-   _The Venture Bros._ used the kidney theft variant in the episode "Dia De Los Dangerous." Better justified than many examples, since we know it was being done by a relatively poor doctor who Dr. Venture was going out of his way to be an ass toward. Yes, even more than usual.

    Real Life 

-   Largely averted in reality, as the logic-test at the top of the page would attest on its own. But also stealing organs from unwilling sources is a great way to infect your intended recipients with HIV, hepatitis, or other ailments. Illegal and/or for-profit kidney sales do happen in reality, but generally with the donors' willing participation (see _Dirty Pretty Things_, above).
-   The urban legend also fails on two facts that would make this implausible at best. First off, the stolen organ has to match sizes and be compatible to the donor, something you can't control with a randomly picked victim. Second, the large loss of blood from removing a kidney would make death of the victim a much more likely outcome. Another problem with this legend, though less a medical than a practical one, is that it would be much simpler to outright _kill_ the victim and remove _all_ their organs. They would then be unable to bear witness to the police, especially if their now much lighter body was disposed of permanently... And how do you even get enough ice cubes into a hotel room to fill a bathtub without drawing attention to yourself? Furthermore, the typical kidney theft urban legend is highly unlikely because motel rooms (or wherever the theft takes place) lack the sterility to conduct surgery. Although that doesn't necessarily make much difference, as any back-alley "plastic surgeon" worth the title can tell you.
-   There has been documented kidney theft among various poor people in India, who were then paid afterwards with "hush money" or threatened with death (Indian Victims Relate Horror of Kidney Theft -- ABC News).
-   Chinese government:
    -   They are believed to harvest organs from prisoners executed in the colorfully named "death vans" that provide capital punishment services to outlying regions.
    -   The Chinese government also executes Falun Gong prisoners (who are detained without trial) whenever wealthy foreign tourists place a demand for an organ transplant.
    -   All this could never be factually proven by anybody, although some time ago the government issued a statement that "they didn't perform that practice anymore."
    -   As of late 2019, these allegations are back in the news, this time regarding the Chinese government's mass imprisonment of Uyghur Muslims.
    -   The allegations were investigated and proven true in a 2019 Tribunal (link provided here).
-   In South Korea, loan sharks are known to strongarm debt defaulters into selling their organs to make up for missed payments.
-   There are urban legends regarding this trope, doctors, and malpractice. While these are generally true, there _have_ been some cases of supposedly brain dead patients waking up right before their organs were to be removed.
    -   In one variant, if a registered organ donor's life is ever in jeopardy, then they will be murdered by doctors through substandard medical treatment, except doctors in the United States don't check donor status until an individual has been declared dead. Furthermore, the doctors treating the living and the transplant teams work independently from one another. And where are all the medical malpractice lawsuits alleging this urban legend? If it were true, then litigation lawyers would have fortunes to make.  
        The usual variant goes thus: "If you have to go the ER, the doctors will not try as hard to save you if you are a donor. They don't consciously choose to do it, they just do." Aside from being an insult to doctors, it always fails to explain just how would the doctors treating you know that you are a donor. (And if you say, "By your driver's license or ID, of course!" — remember, they don't actually see that).
    -   This is also said of doctors treating patients in persistent vegetative states, which is probably similarly untrue; there have been cases where doctors have put pressure on relatives of someone in that condition to discontinue treatment, occasionally to the point of asking for a court order, but that's only done when the patient's chances of recovery are nonexistent and they are to all intents and purposes dead. This stems from the fact that those in permanent vegetative states make very practical organ donors, as the organs can be harvested in a very controlled setting rather than relying on the chance of an otherwise healthy organ donor dying. While no ethical doctor would pressure a family to end the life of a loved one simply for the organs, no ethical doctor would let someone in such a state die without bringing up organ donation, given that literally dozens of lives may depend on it. In fact, vacillating relatives uncomfortable with the notion of withdrawing a brain-dead loved one's life support are often the ones who _ask_ doctors about this option, feeling that organ donation will let the patient's passing be a worthwhile one, and/or that permitting organ recovery will help the survivors come to terms with the necessity of terminating support.
-   There is a story of an American missionary who went down to Nicaragua once, only to be confronted with rumors of him trying to kill children and harvest their organs. Locals responded by beating him into a persistent vegetative state. Similar stories exist of aid workers, tourists, and military personnel being attacked for the same reason. Verifying their authenticity is difficult.
-   The Israeli military was accused of killing Palestinian prisoners for their organs. Regardless of the accusation's validity, the Israeli military did admit to taking corneas, arteries and other tissue from dead Palestinians. This is not the same as executing prisoners for their organs, and the practice was discontinued over ten years previous. Dead Israelis were also "harvested."
    -   Israel has a chronic problem with a shortage of organs, as for whatever reason Israelis have a surprisingly low rate of organ donation (8% of Israelis are registered donors, while in most Western countries the level's closer to 35%). It's not entirely clear why. Unfortunately, people who don't like Israel or Jewish people have played this up when given the chance, and still more unfortunately, a small number of Jewish people have given them ammunition by engaging in organ trafficking (which is to say, taking _legitimately_ donated organs and then selling them rather than providing them free of charge) to Israel. The most famous incident is probably the 2009 bust of a ring in New Jersey which included five _rabbis_, three mayors, the Deputy Mayor of Jersey City, and two NJ State Assemblymen. Naturally, when this ring was exposed, many portrayed it as _stealing_ kidneys, when in fact what they did, while reprehensible and illegal, was not nearly as bad as that.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   There have been allegations of the Kosovo Liberation Army murdering prisoners, and murders occurring along the US-Mexico border, for the purpose of organ theft. However, there has been no evidence to support either allegation.
    -   However, in case of the organ trafficking in Kosovo, the Dick Marty report has been endorsed by the Council of Europe and the EULEX and there's a lot of evidence to back it up. It should also be noted that Albanian authorities have denied any cooperation.
-   In some countries, organ-harvesting is practiced under a policy of presumed consent, meaning that a deceased person's recoverable organs will be salvaged unless their survivors object and/or there's documentation saying that they didn't want it done. It's not "theft" because it's perfectly legal, but it can look like this to people from countries where _lack_ of consent is the default assumption.
-   Not strictly an organ, but back before they could synthesise erythropoietin, East Germany would allegedly kill people to harvest their natural EPO and feed it to athletes, thus stimulating their bone marrow to produce extra red cells and enhance performance. This is _probably_ just another urban legend, as you could get exactly the same performance advantage by blood-doping with ordinary donor blood and/or by sending your athletes for a few months of high-altitude training. Plus, erythropoietin from most other mammals is identical to that of humans, so they could get it more cheaply from sheep.

___

Please take a moment to fill out your organ donor cards.