_"Nothing tears us apart. In Greek mythology, the Titans were greater even than the gods. They ruled their universe with absolute power. Well, that football field out there, that's our universe. Let's rule it like titans."_

In Classical Mythology, the Titans were ancient godly beings that had ruled reality, until they were overthrown by the Olympians in the Titanomachy. The Titans were originally considered true gods, simply an earlier generation from the ones making up the current set. Later Classical writers started confusing them with Giants, but this was not the usual representation. Usually, the name Titan sometimes only refers to the first generation, although usually the non-nymph, non-Olympian children of Titans are also called Titans. The Titans were themselves depicted as the children of the Protogenoi or Primordials, such as Gaea and Ouranos, who were the first beings to emerge from Chaos and were usually depicted as being both the gods of broad, phyiscal concepts such as the Earth, sky, day or night and as also literally being those things.

Titans and primordials have since been featured in many works of fiction, and have several common traits among their varying depictions. These include:

-   Being incredibly huge. Usually even bigger than giants.
-   Having tremendous power, which often rivals, if not surpasses, the gods themselves.
-   Being extremely old. As in, they're the first things to ever exist, old. If this is the case, the Titans in question might be some kind of primordial entities, and may very well be Anthropomorphic Personifications or completely inhuman monsters. Due to their age, they often serve as Precursors to the gods.
-   As a consequence of the above two traits, the titans often have a rivalry/animosity/connection with the gods of the setting. This may have led to their doom. Many historians assume that the clash of Greek gods and Titans is a metaphor for the combat with pre-Hellene peoples of the region.
-   They probably created the world or universe the setting takes place in. Or _are_ the setting.
-   In many recent works they are often portrayed as Elemental Embodiments. This is based chiefly on the Primordials, who were varyingly depicted as the gods of certain things and as the personifications of those things, such as Gaea for the Earth, Ouranos for the sky, Okeanos for the ocean, Hemera for the day, or Nyx for the night.
-   They were usually imprisoned in some distant corner of the world or universe after losing a conflict with the modern gods. They may remain forever in their forgotten oubliettes, or they may escape and try to settle some scores.
-   The biggest variable would be their appearance. They often range from looking human-ish (if somewhat larger than normal), to something that can't be described by mere words.
-   Their other big variable is their morality. This generally goes along with their appearance, for if they look human, they'll probably act human. If they look monstrous, they will act like monsters. And if they do look like Eldritch Abominations, they'll act accordingly. Occasionally, a writer may switch the traits around.

Titans may also be equated with other mythological beings with similar roles or natures, such as the jötunn of Norse myth (which, also like the Titans, were not actually depicted as being all that large in the original mythology).

Compare Our Giants Are Bigger, Our Gods Are Different, and The Old Gods. For the moon by that name, see The Moons of Saturn.

Is not related to different versions of the Teen Titans.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   _Attack on Titan_: The titular monsters are called _Kyojin_ (lit. Giant People), which is usually translated "Giants", but the English version localizes it as "Titan". They are mysterious, giant (starting from 3 meters, to _60 meters_ tall), Nigh-Invulnerable<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Humanoid Abominations with a powerful Healing Factor and varying intelligence who eat humans (despite gaining no sustenance from it) and have been attacking humanity for just over a century.
-   _Little Witch Academia: The Enchanted Parade_: A Titan is buried beneath the town's stone circle; it gets woken up when the mayor tries to remove them, then powered up by the presence of the Shiny Rod. When it fully emerges it looks like a Rock Monster with exposed bits of skeleton, which it magically covers up with metal in the vicinity. Its powers include attacking the heroes with tendrils of darkness and bringing inanimate objects to life.
-   _That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime_: The Giant True Demon Lord Dagruel is known only to the oldest beings in the world as the great Titan whose duty was to protect the gates of Heaven itself. His duty was essentially superfluous once the angels themselves after Veldanava's death sealed off the gates, but he kept at his duty and so he chose to establish a dominion upon the earth because he needed to watch over one of his evil sealed brothers.

    Comic Books 

-   _The Incredible Hercules_: The Titans and Cronus are imprisoned behind sealed doors, and they break free when the Hulk accidentally breaks the seal. The exception is Atlas, who is placed at The Axis of the world (center of the world that sometimes moves, changing the political situation of the world, and can also serve as a nexus to all the mystical foundations of the world).
    -   There are also Eternals that live on the moon of Titan, Thanos being the most famous of them. Eternals were always mistaken for the traditional pantheons and those on Titan are no different.
    -   Another Marvel character who calls himself "the Titan" is Xemnu, a big white-furred alien with mind control powers. Admittedly, he originally used the epithet "the Hulk", which obviously won't do anymore.
-   _The Legend of Wonder Woman (2016)_: The Titan that the gods (falsely) claim destroyed the world outside of Themyscira turns out to be a giant from outer space whose consciousness is formed from the souls of a dead world and is this universe's version of the Manhunters created by the Guardians of the Universe.
-   _New Gods_ gives us the Source Titans or Promethean Giants. They're beings who tried to seek beyond the Source Wall and, for their trouble, wound up becoming part of it. They can't do anything but silently weep in humiliation.
-   _Teen Titans_: The Titans from "Who Is Wonder Girl?" (one of the earlier attempts to give Donna Troy an actual origin) were absolutely indistinguishable from their Greek and Roman children, falling on the "nice" end of the morality scale as a result by abducting random orphan baby girls throughout the cosmos, raising them to have super powers, then rewriting their memories to forget this before sending them back to their homeworlds (which somehow atones for the whole "eating their offspring" bit from myth). This also subconsciously influenced Donna to suggest the name "Teen Titans" via retcon.
-   _The Transformers: Robots in Disguise_: Titans are the largest of all Cybertronians. In robot mode, they stand multiple miles tall, while their alt-modes are actual cities. Metroplex functions as the capital city for Cybertron, while Metrotitan is Autobot City on Earth. They're also Shrouded in Myth, playing heavily into Cybertronian religious religion and so old that not even Alpha Trion, one of the original Thirteen Primes, knows their true origin.

    Fan Works 

-   _Codex Equus_:
    -   Deities who are between 100,000 and 1 million years old are classified as "Titans", and are older than recorded history and extremely powerful. Ispita, Luminiferous, Terraton, Pakak, Queen Mab II, and the Three Deaths are a few examples.
    -   Older than Titans but still fitting the definition of "primordial, immensely powerful deities" are Antecedent (1 million — 10 million years), Preeminent (10 million — 100 million years), and Primeval (anything older than that). These are typically extremely huge, extremely powerful, primordial entities. Golden Scepter, Isati, Mzazi, Canteros, Amarelthea, Ergaleía, Exosus, Skotádi, and the Shadowed Ones are a few examples.
    -   The Grand Primevals are the oldest of the old deities on Equus, being as old as the world itself. They are also the largest, most eldritch, and most powerful deities on the planet. Amareros, Kaos, Ordos, Ourophion, Adversus, and Symvíosi are a few examples.
-   _Paradoxus_: Not only the Great Dragon is presented as being a wayward _World of Warcraft_ Titan with all of it entails (being a creating entity rather than opposing some higher deities), but he's also lazier than should be allowed to a divine being. That's the true reason why nymphs and bearers of his power exist in the first place. He just won't bite the bullet and protect his creations nor care about their well-being beyond ensuring his Flame can only be wielded by non-malicious, non-power-hungry females. And that reincarnation won't spare his nymphs any suffering by amnesia if they happen to fail their assigned task. Unsurprisingly, people in Magix are all atheists or agnostics at best who can't bring themselves to profess faith in the Great Dragon.
-   _Pony POV Series_: Titans are, instead of primordial deities, mortals who have obtained the might and power of a God, but have not become true deities and lack the cosmic responsibility that comes with this. Lord Tirek, King Lavan, the Sirens, and Lilith the Witch Queen are all examples of Titans, being mortals who mutated into world threatening sapient cataclysms. However, there were also _good_ Titans, with the Moochick and Queen Majesty seeming to fall into this category. The _most_ powerful to ever exist was also good: _Apple Bloom_, after hijacking the Rumors to repair the damage Discord's endgame caused and for the duration of her time as one was The Omnipotent. According to Word of God, she was the most powerful who has ever or will ever exist.
-   _Under the Northern Lights_: The "aunts" and "uncles" (and, presumably, parents) of Luna and Celestia are vast elemental beings which created the world and its intelligent species (learning the latter from the much younger Luna and Celestia when their toys turned into the first ponies because the sisters loved them so much — so yeah, ponies originated as toys of two little girls). The one seen in the fic is the water being called Karhu-Akka by reindeer. She combines traits of bear, cow, squid and whale, and now sleeps in the shape of a huge glacier. If she awakes, horrible things will happen. Her rolling over in her sleep when Discord got free is one of the causes for the crisis in the fic, one which might kill all life in a country. Luna, however, remembers her as a kind aunt who played with her and Celestia by the sea and gave them wonderful toys. Their greatuncles and greataunts, however, are pure Eldritch Abomination, seen in a vision as "lights... sounds... patterns of magic in a black sphere that itched the brain and made the soul cry" who decided what the laws of reality would be. Discord is one of them.
-   _Uravitation_ uses " Titan" as a denomination for the 1% of the Quirk population, who are noted to have Quirks that are vastly stronger compared to the rest of the population.

    Film — Animation 

-   _Hercules_: The Titans are Always Chaotic Evil elemental beings (and one Classical Cyclops) that terrorized the world centuries ago before they were imprisoned by Zeus. Hades' Evil Plan is to free them and use them to storm Mount Olympus and take over.

    Film — Live-Action 

-   _Clash of the Titans (1981)_: The last of the titans is the Kraken, which is depicted as a giant fish-man monster rather than a traditional kraken. To defeat it, the Fates advise "a titan vs a titan" by using the head of Medusa the gorgon to turn it into stone.
-   _MonsterVerse_: Emma Russell refers to the Kaiju as the Titans and completes the metaphor by declaring them the rightful rulers of the world. While searching for Godzilla, spoiler:some of the characters discover vast sunken ruins within the Hollow Earth much older than even Egypt, and carved onto the monolithic walls, Godzilla being worshipped by ancient men, confirming that kaiju were "the first gods".
-   _Star Trek_: An early concept for the first movie, _Star Trek: Planet of The Titans_, would have focused on Starfleet and the Klingon Empire searching for the home planet of a race of Benevolent Precursors called the Titans. The end of the movie would have revealed that the Titans were Kirk's crew from the future.

    Literature 

-   _Discworld_: The mix-and-match approach to mythology means that while the Gods are mostly Greco-Roman in nature, the Titan-like figures they overthrew are the Ice Giants.
-   _The Dragon Crown War_ has the Oromise who fill the "titan" niche. The oldest intelligent beings in the universe, they were also the creators of many other races<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and were in general beings of tremendous magical power to the point of being essentially gods. However, they had a falling-out with their closest peers, the dragons, that ended with them getting imprisoned beneath the earth. By the time of the series, barely anyone remembers they existed, and even the eldest dragons can no longer recall what they looked like although Big Bad Chytrine — and possibly her predecessor, Kirun — works to restore them to power, in exchange for magic and arcane knowledge no other mortal possesses.
-   _Percy Jackson and the Olympians_: The Titans look are the previous generation of gods, and are essentially of the same nature as their children and grandchildren; like them, for instance, they are literally and absolutely immortal. Kronos, who was dismembered by Zeus, cannot manifest physically as long as his body is in pieces, but instead possesses Luke and so looks just like him except for having solid gold eyes. The Titans are about as tough as the Olympians, and Kronos is apparently even more so at his original level of power.
    -   Hyperion is also notably inhuman, possessing "eyes like miniature suns" and skin resembling "polished pennies" that is usually perpetually covered with fire. Oceanus is more of a sea serpent-man hybrid.
    -   _Percy Jackson's Greek Gods_ describes Kronos as being nine feet tall during ancient times, which is apparently quite short for a Titan.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Charmed (1998)_: The Titans are a group of supernatural beings who terrorized ancient Greece and were then imprisoned until the present day. They are certainly powerful enough to be worthy of the myths of the Titans, enough so to scale the heavens and kill almost all of the Elders (angels), but they don't seem to have the kind of cosmic significance you might expect from a creation myth.
-   _Supernatural_: An amnesiac Prometheus shows up in season eight.
-   _Xena: Warrior Princess_: Gabrielle once read a scroll and woke up three Titans, thirty-foot giants who repaired the town. The three Titans had a cunning plan to make Gabrielle read the second scroll which would awaken 1,000 other Titans and destroy the world.

    Mythology and Religion 

-   Classical Mythology, of course, is the Trope Namer for Titans, and their Protogenoi/Primordial parents count as well. It should be noted that there are a lot of common misconceptions about the Titans. First off, they were not the first generation of gods; that would be their parents the Primordials (of which Gaia and Ouranos are a part of. They aren't Titans either.) Second, the Titans were not gigantic. They were in fact about the same size as the gods. The reason that people continue to assume they were giant is because later writers started lumping them in with the giants (who actually were, you know, giant) which were an entirely different group of Olympian enemies.
-   The word 'Asura' in Indian Mythology (which includes Hinduism, Buddhism, and several other religions) is usually translated as demon, or "fighting fiend", but in actuality, "Titan" would be the closest equivalent. Their godly counterparts are the 'Devas'.
-   Inverted in Zoroastrianism, where the 'Ahuras' are the good guys and the 'Daeva' are 'false gods' . It helps to know that the two regions where they were worshiped are neighbors, so it's more a case of opposed cultures and pantheons, than direct succession. There's even etymological & behavioral links between the the Ahura/Asura and the Norse Aesir, further confusing the matter.
-   In Norse Mythology, the Vanir were a rival tribe of gods to the Aesir, and the two went to war that ended with the latter's triumph and ascendancy and the surviving Vanir joining the Aesir; the outcome evokes similarities to Greek mythology's Titanomachy, with the Vanir as the Titans to the Aesir's Olympians. Meanwhile, the Jotunn (often translated as "giants" despite some being fairly "normal" in proportions) are basically a mix of the Titans and Protogenoi.
-   Japanese Mythology: Izanagi, Izanami, and the obscure deities who appeared before them. The obscure deities no longer appear in the universe. Izanami died giving birth to god of fire Kagutsuchi, and Izanagi is too grief-stricken to have anything to do with the world. The current pantheon consists of Izanagi's three children (Amaterasu, Susano-o, and Tsukuyomi) and the rest of the gods in Takamagahara.

    Professional Wrestling 

-   At 6'6, when FMW regulars Atsushi Onita, Tarzan Goto, W\*ING Kanemura, Koji Nakagawa, Mr. Pogo and others were usually under 6', Big Titan (Rick "The Fake Razor Ramon"/"Ric Titan" Bogner) was a definite Type 2.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Ars Magica_: The Greek titans and Norse jotnar are powerful beings of the Magic Realm. More generally, the Kosmokrators and Protogonoi are immensely powerful magical beings governing cosmic principles such as time, love, or night. Very few magi are powerful enough to get involved with them.
-   _Dungeons & Dragons_: Titans are a race of outsiders (creatures native to the outer planes) who happen to be about 25 feet tall, so they're not only _celestial_ giants, they are taller than the tallest "normal" giants. Every aspect of them is perfect. In addition, they can cast powerful spells and speak several languages as standard abilities for the race. At a starting CR of 21, a titan with no other skills is equal to an epic-level Player Character in battle. In contrast to their usual portrayals, they're also (slightly) weaker than the gods and act as their servants. They are traditionally Chaotic Good and live on the plane of Arborea (also known as Olympus), although the Greek titans (Cronus, et al) are imprisoned in Carceri (Tartarus). In 5th edition, they are renamed Empyreans and given the Titan tag.
    -   There are also the Epic-Tier monsters known as Elder Titans, who have more Hit Dice than most deities, more spellcasting levels than most deities in both arcane and divine, have epic spellcasting as the rule rather than exception, and have all-round better stats. They lack the gods' divine salient abilities and maxed HP, but they could definitely throw down with the gods on a similar level, suggesting the above are the younger, weaker generation.
    -   The Primordials (also known as Dawn Titans) of the 4th Edition are a mix of this trope and Elemental Embodiment. The class of creatures known as titans are the Primordials' first creations, who sided with their parents in the war against the gods and in turn created the various races of giants.
    -   5th edition lacks any proper Titan monster, but the Titan tag is given to creatures directly created by, or related to, gods. The Tarrasque and krakens (both weapons created by gods), atropals (undead god-fetuses), astral dreadnoughts (created by Tharizdun) and empyreans (equivelant to titans of previous editions) all have this tag.
-   _Exalted_: The Primordials are eldritch beings of vast power who built Creation and then created the gods as their slave janitors. The gods got fed up with their cruddy jobs and had the Exalted overthrow the Primordials (while they stole their bosses' crack stash), but it turns out that killing some of them broke the universe.
    -   To elaborate, the death of several Primordials in the setting's equivalent of the Titanomachy is the reason The Underworld exists. And one of the Primordials who surrendered, as a parting shot before her imprisonment, _erased, by some estimates, ninety percent of Creation from existence down to a conceptual level._
    -   The two remaining Primordials, who sided with the gods, are: Gaia (the Earth Mother, creator of the Five Elemental Dragons, who is in some way connected to Creation) and Autochthon (the inventor of Exaltation and the patron of technology, who later fled to Elsewhere and became a planet made of Steampunk). Both of them also happen to be the kindest of the Primordials even prior to the war, with Gaia having an all-encompassing empathy and Autochthon being particularly fond of humans and their skill at technology.
    -   In 2e _you_ can become a Titan yourself, if you're a Green Sun Prince. This means you tie your personal legend into Creation, and exist forevermore barring serious disasters. Since one of the Titans destroyed 90% of Creation back then, the job vacancy of Titan-hood is always open.
-   _Magic: The Gathering_: Many creatures are referred to as Titans, typically Giants or Beasts, including a five-creature cycle from Magic 2011 — Sun Titan Frost Titan, Grave Titan, Inferno Titan and Primeval Titan — introduced in Magic 2011; the Titan of Eternal Fire, a direct homage to Prometheus; and certain large Giant creatures from the plane of Theros.
-   _Pathfinder_: In an almost precise inversion of the Greek model, the titans were the first creations of the gods, and were made to be tall, mighty and beautiful. They grew to covet their creators' power over life and matter, and plotted to take it for their own. Their first attempts ended in failure — they lacked the gods' inherent connection to the universe, and their attempts to replicate it only led them to create a few powerful but highly dangerous artifacts such as the Codex of the Infinite Planes. Eventually, driven by jealousy of the gods' worship by the mortal races, they rose in open rebellion and attempt to overthrow their creators and exterminate all mortals. The current titan kindreds are divided by what role they took in the war and what fate befell them afterwards.
    -   Elysian titans are those who remained loyal to the gods. They fought against their cousins and eventually retreated to the depths of Elysium's wilderness, where they still live. They mostly resemble beautiful humanoids seventy feet high.
    -   Thanatotic titans consist of the main bulk of the rebellious forces. They were thrown into the depths of the Abyss after their defeat, where they attempted to mimic the gods' creation of the mortal species. The result was the demodands, twisted and hideous mockeries of life who still serve and revere their thanatotic masters. These titans are still ruled by hatred of their makers, and believe themselves the only entities deserving of worship and adoration.
    -   Fomorian titans were also rebels, but their beauty was so great that gods could not bring themselves to mar it or act against it, and so they shackled the fomorians in blackened armor and imprisoned them across the universe.
    -   The hekatonkheires, resembling hulking humanoids with chests bristling with heads and arms, were even more powerful and dangerous than the other rebel titans and were imprisoned in the far corners of existence. The ones seen from time to time in the present are their descendants, who while only possessing a fraction of their progenitors' power are still immensely mighty beings.
    -   Danavas, who did not take part in the other titans' rebellion, were created to uphold and defend the laws of existence. They proved too severe and uncompromising in this role, however, and when they went to war with their younger, chaotic cousins the gods chained them in the depths of "endless seas at the cruxes of worlds" — potentially at the bottom of the Maelstrom, potentially somewhere far stranger.
    -   As the Elysian titans walked across the planes after the war, they left metaphysical footprints that became the gigas. Despite being far lesser in might than the titans, the gigas were still large and mighty beings. Each was also closely attuned in nature, powers and alignment to the plane that gave it birth. In time, the gigas would go on to produce their own lesser descendants, which would become the first true giants.
-   _Role Aids_: In the supplement _Giants_, the Titans were the first giants. They had godlike abilities and powers, including the ability to cast any spell at will, and have artistic abilities that outmatch those of any other culture.
-   _Scarred Lands_: The Titans held sway over the planet Scarn, treating it as their plaything, creating and destroying casually as they went. Their children, the major gods, objected to this, as the Titans were laying waste to the world and their worshippers, and went to war against them; since the Titans could not be truly killed, the gods imprisoned and/or crippled the Titans so they could no longer roam free. One Titan, Denev the Earth Mother, sided with the gods, and remained free after the war, bending her efforts towards restoring Scarn. The setting's present day is about 150 years after the war ended, and there's a _long_ way to go before Scarn is healed.
-   _Scion_: Titans are Eldritch Abominations, elemental embodiments of fundamental concepts such as Sky, Fire, Darkness, Time, and Chaos, who are free of human shaping, hard to comprehend, and shape reality simply by existing. The Titans spawned the earliest gods, who sought to avoid being devoured by their predatory parents by anchoring themselves to humanity. Doing so allowed the gods to rise up against the Titans and imprison them; unfortunately, in the last few decades, the Titans have broken free, and once more seek their children's destruction.

    Video Games 

-   _Age of Mythology: The Titans_: The Titan unit. In-game, Titans serve as the Pantheon of the Atlantean civilization, with Kronos, Oranos and Gaia as main gods, and others serving as minor ones. Barring Oceanus (who is blue-skinned, but otherwise human-looking) and Kronos (who is a giant rock demon), all of them look like Olympians. Furthermore, it's possible for each civilization to summon a gargantuan, city-destroying Titan to fight for them: Greeks have Cerberus, Egyptians have Horus, Norse have Ymir and Atlantineans have Perses. Yes, they took a little artistic license here and there....
-   _Brütal Legend_: The Titans were the second generation of living beings. Huge, tremendously powerful (party technological), long-lived (collectively) enough to have Ascended to a Higher Plane of Existence before the story begins, substantially reshaped the world (specifically modifying the trees and spiders, among other things), human-looking with human morality due to being humanity's ancestors... the only box they don't check is a rivalry with the gods, because the gods were dead before these Titans came around.
-   _Deltarune_: Titans are explained to be gigantic, multi-eyed world-ending creatures that will form in an event called the Roaring if too many Dark Fountains are created.
-   _Dota 2_: The world was forged by vaguely bull-like Precursors called Titans. Elder Titan, a playable character, is one of these. It should be noted that they aren't gods themselves, simply the first creatures in the universe.
-   _Dragon Age_: There are stories about mysterious, possibly mythical beings called Titans that live underground. As it turns out, the Titans have most of the usual titan traits; they're the largest and possibly the most powerful beings in the setting, they're extremely old, and they were defeated in a war similar to the Titanomachy. What sets them apart from many other examples is that they seem to have a symbiotic relationship with dwarves, which live in cities inside of them and are linked to their Titans and each other through some kind of Hive Mind. It also is revealed that Lyrium is their blood.
-   _Dwarf Fortress_:
    -   Titans are, essentially, ginormous randomized creatures spewing things like fire or random disease carrying clouds which can literally be made of anything. They're usually a bitch to kill, as they're immune to traps, temperature (including magma), pain, hunger, drowning, and a lot of other things. This varies significantly with _what_ material, though: ones made of metals rival Bronze Colossi for Nigh-Invulnerability, but you'll occasionally get one made of a liquid that breaks into pieces with a single strike. Forgotten Beasts are a similar class of creature except found underground instead of above-ground.
    -   In older versions however, they were merely large humanoids.
-   _Final Fantasy_: Titan is an Earth-elemental summon who originally caused a great earthquake to do damage to enemies, but in _Final Fantasy VII_, for example, he picks up the ground the enemies are standing on, flips it over, and smashes it down. This guy dwarfs half of said game's bosses. The other half aren't dwarfed _per se_, but they're still smaller.
-   _God of War_: Barring those who look like Olympians such as Helios, Prometheus and Rhea, all the other Titans are mountain-sized beings that look somewhat human-ish. Some also are Elemental Embodiment(s) like Perses (Lava), Oceanus (Water/Lightning), Epimetheus (Rock), Gaea (Nature) and Typhon (Wind), who wasn't even a Titan in the myths. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   _Hades_:
    -   Similar to the original myths, the Titans are long gone, with the Olympians now dominating Greece. Those that met them describe them as essentially horribly abusive parents (keeping up with the depiction of the Greek gods as one Big, Screwed-Up Family), but not that different from the Olympian and Chthonic gods in terms of power. Of note is that, like the other gods, they possessed a form of resurrective immortality. As a result, unlike other depictions where they were simply killed or imprisoned, in this version of the tale they were chopped up into a red paste and spread all across the pits of Tartarus so they couldn't regenerate. The result, Titan Blood, _is still alive_ and lusting for violence, so Zagreus can use it to awaken and improve his weapons.
    -   _Hades II_: Chronos has come back and is now the main antagonist.
-   _Heroes of Might and Magic_: Titans are powerful units, lightning-wielding-giants, on the Wizard/Academy side in the games.
    -   In the RPG games, _Might and Magic_, they are enemies inhabiting the toughest locations you should normally visit as the game draws near end. Their stats are high and their HP is usually a mile above that of an army of goblins. They still keep their air magic affinity, but some have supplementary effects to their attacks, such as the strongest variety can kill your party member in one hit. The initial setting's Titans are sentient, albeit violent and strange giants who are somehow coerced to serve the wizards of Bracada occasionally. In the RPG series, they are violent and cruel beings that like to hang around dragons and simply dominate a region and attack anything that comes near, and crumble to rock when killed. Heroes Of Might And Magic Ashan has them changed into mighty battle constructs similar to golems, albeit _huge_.
-   The Titans in _Hyper Light Drifter_ are four massive biomechanical abominations that destroyed the Precursors and their ancient civilization in the past, and are basically depicted as Expies of the God Warriors from _Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind_. The corpses of three of them now litter the ruined world in regions where they were defeated, which are the levels you visit. The fourth one is still alive, but pretty much on life support in an ancient facility in the southern region, which is supposedly where the Titans were created and started their rampage; apparently the fourth took severe damage in the initial battle of the apocalypse and stayed behind while its brethren went out to destroy everything.
-   _Mortal Kombat 11_: Kronika, the game's Big Bad, is a being older than the Elder Gods, seeing as she is _mother_ of two of them: Cetrion and Shinnok. She is actually called "Titan" at one point.
-   _Ogre Battle March Of The Black Queen_: The Titans are upgraded Giants, who are large, club-wielders, and are Wind/Lightning-aligned, and Palette Swap(s) of the other Giant upgrade classes like Frost/Fire Giants and vice versa.
-   _Rygar_: Titans are the main enemies. Some of them are living statues — some of them are apparently little worm-monsters.
-   _Smite_: Titans generally serve as the main objective of the game that a team has to destroy to win the game, one side is called Order Titan and the other being Chaos Titan. Some famous Titan-like deities that existed before the current age of deities also eventually became playable, but they take a smaller, more manage-able form. Some examples include Terra (the Roman counterpart of Gaia) and Atlas.
-   _Sonic Frontiers_: The main bosses of the games are the Titans, a group of Mechanical Abominations built by the Ancients that absolutely _tower_ over all the other robot enemies in the game, even the Guardians. Sonic is tasked with destroying them all to rescue his friends from Cyberspace, but they're so powerful that he can only beat them in his Super Mode from collecting all the Chaos Emeralds, and even _then_ they can still kill him if he acts too careless which is because they were created from and drew their power from the Chaos Emeralds as well. Unfortunately, destroying them also ends up releasing The End, which the Titans were created to fight and imprison in the first place, and it takes a combination of Super Sonic and the last Titan (piloted by Sage) to destroy it for good.
-   _Titan Quest_: there are the Telkines, eldritch-looking sorcerers with tentacles instead of legs that are said to be remnants of the Titans. In the last part of the game you have to defeat Typhon, a huge four-armored behemoth with tons of attacks.
-   _Warcraft_: Titans are a race of Magitek-using demi-gods who have the self-imposed duty of bringing order to the cosmos. They travel from world to world, terraforming them and populating them with seed races, usually golems or mechanical in nature though they were corrupted by the Old Gods to be made of flesh. After their work is done they depart for new worlds, leaving behind Watchers to maintain any facilities. At least, that was how it was until their strongest champion Sargeras went crazy after he had to kill an unborn Titan to prevent a greater threat and the others shunned him for it, then started a universe-destroying crusade to destroy everything his kind built to (in his mind) save the universe from said greater threat... and ended up killing all of them when they tried to stop him.
    -   A later retcon makes the Titans even bigger: they start out as ensouled planets that turn into humanoids of the same size when they awaken. That's why they mostly have to use servants to fight their enemies on a planet — for fear of breaking everything. According to _World of Warcraft: Chronicle_ volume 2, the Titan Aggramar passed by Draenor at one point and noticed that all life on it was going to be choked out by the rampant, sentient plant life. To stop this, he needed to partially destroy the plants, so he created a servant much smaller than himself to fight them. It was made from the largest mountain on the planet. A great many of the giants and humanoids on the planet in later ages, including the orcs, were descendants of this being.
    -   The Old Gods are also somewhat of a fit to this trope, chaotic beings who sowed the first forms of life on Azeroth, controlled the elements, and were eventually defeated by a new pantheon. Though defeated, the Old Gods are not gone and have been working to undermine the work of the Titans and reclaim Azeroth for themselves.
-   _Xenoblade Chronicles 1_ has the entire universe be composed of an endless sea where the two titans stand. These country-sized titans<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  are the organic Bionis and the mechanical Mechonis. It is said that they waged battle ages ago, before eventually reaching a stand-still. As the years passed, this lead to life growing in them, and the growth of a conflict between the people of Bionis and the Mechon from Mechonis. In reality, while the titans' physical shells are dormant, their spirits are very much alive. Also, the soul of Mechonis is the benevolent one who would like for her people to eventually grow independent of her, while the soul of Bionis views the life growing on him as food to grow stronger and stay alive.
-   _Xenoblade Chronicles 2_ continues this tradition. Titans are massive creatures (sometimes flying, sometimes swimming, occasionally both) that people inhabit and build cities on. They're also the final evolution that Blades eventually reach after multiple cycles of incarnation and storing up data from their various lives. However, while exceptionally Long-Lived they're _not_ immortal, and it's a plot point that imperialism and military tensions between various nations are rising because the Titans are slowly reaching the ends of their lifespans and dying off while fewer and fewer new Titans large enough to support life are being discovered. This is because Praetor Amalthus has been sabotaging the Core Crystal-Blade-Titan life-cycle by erasing the accumulated data within crystals "cleansed" by the Indoline Prateorium that would let them evolve. Also, the world the Titans inhabit is what's left of _our_ Earth after the universe-shattering experiment that created the world from the first game. And The Architect is the good half of the man who started that experiment and now sought to reseed life on Earth/Alrest, while his evil half became the soul of Bionis in the new universe.

    Webcomics 

-   _Deep Rise_: The 'Royals' are _living eldritch mountains_ that can fire laser beams, excrete acid fog, bleed lava, defy the laws of physics, explode with the force of a hydrogen bomb, and in-universe _nothing_ gets past their armor. Their one 'weakness' is that they're literally a suicidal species, so they intentionally let their guard down just so the protagonists can put them out of their misery, and it always results in mass destruction. And they're _everywhere_ in the galaxy, _especially space_.
-   _Erfworld_ was created by the Titans of Ark, who look like giant Elvis Impersonators.

    Western Animation 

-   _Class of the Titans_ isn't about a classroom of Titans. However, it does have Cronus as the Big Bad. He isn't depicted much different to the Olympians in terms of power; he's the same size as a human (most of the time), he's human-looking, and he's completely immortal just like them. Oh, and he's a Time Master too.
-   _Final Space_: The twelve Titans are ancient, eldritch and malevolent entities that were sealed away in Final Space because, when let loose, they destroy everything in their path. Lord Commander's plan is to free them because he believes that will turn him into one of them. The only Titan who is non-malevolent is one named Bolo. The reason the other Titans are all malevolent is because a purely evil entity named Invictus corrupted them all, with Bolo being the exception.
-   _Hercules_ has appearances by Prometheus and Atlas, who are more human-looking and considerably more benign than the Always Chaotic Evil Titans in the film, although Atlas is still a self-centered jerk.

-   _The Owl House_: The Boiling Isles are a Giant Corpse World inside a giant Titan skeleton, which is humanoid but for a pair of backwards-pointing horn. It was powerful enough that it caused the local Mage Species to develop magic and their emperor claims to be able to communicate with it and follow its will. Moreover, King's backstory reveals that, despite appearing humanoid and mammalian (albeit with a Skull for a Head), Titans lay eggs and start off no larger than a puppy.
-   _Regular Show_, as learned in Season 8, has the two titans Pops and Anti-Pops, who fight every 14 billion years. Every fight so far has ended in a draw, resulting in the destruction and rebirth of the universe.

___

### **Alternative Title(s):** Primordials, Titans, Our Titans Are Epic, Our Primordials Are Different, Primordial