There are subjectives, and then there are _these._ While _you_ may believe a work fits here, and you might be right, people tend to have rather vocal, differing opinions about this subject.  
Please keep these off of the work's page.

Follow

I hate you, you hate me,  
we're a screwed-up family!  
With a great big punch and a kick from me to you,  
all I'll say is "**Fuck you, too!**"

_"It’s easy enough for us as discerning adults to pick the whole game apart piece by piece, but sometimes we can forget the intended audience and historical context in the process."_

Periphery Hatedom is when a character or show receives scorn and hatred from groups to which it was never meant to appeal in the first place. It inspires an anti-Periphery Demographic, who respond to them in such a way that you'd think they had committed some unspeakable atrocity. This stems from some specific trait that draws ire in these groups: Acceptable Breaks from Reality they don't understand or appreciate, a trope that's designed exclusively for its Target Audience (e.g. the Kid-Appeal Character), or a notorious Fan Dumb that ruins the work's reputation.

This is not to say that the dislike is always undeserved. We live in a mass-media world now, and any major pop-culture phenomenon is going to make at least some in-roads into the mainstream and show up on our radar whether it's aimed at us or not. When a work's popularity reaches far beyond its Target Audience, it becomes susceptible to Hype Backlash as it draws in audiences it was never intended for. The hatedom is likely to be amplified if the work leaves a bad first impression upon first being announced, as they wouldn't have been as forgiving as the Target Audience in the first place.

In the worst case scenario, it may become inescapable, or prove so popular in its demographic that those attempting to Follow the Leader choke out any innovation in other programming for a period. Of course, a Periphery Hatedom can help make things even more inescapable, even well after the pop-culture phenomenon's popularity has died down. Given enough time, even an otherwise benign Periphery Hatedom can look fanatical to disinterested third parties, who are as likely to direct their pleas of "Will you just _shut up_ about it already?!" to the haters as to the fans.

Keep in mind that some of the stuff that was marketed towards you when _you_ were a kid had a Periphery Hatedom at the time, and the kids who love a kid-oriented work with a Periphery Hatedom may grow up to become the adults who hate some new kid-oriented work, while still viewing the stuff they themselves enjoyed as kids as pure quality. (Possibly after having briefly slipped into the Periphery Hatedom themselves as teenagers to prove that they weren't kids anymore.)

Also, keep in mind that just because something is intended for a specific audience that won't recognize the flaws of the work, that doesn't mean the creators have an excuse to be lazy. If the Periphery Hatedom proves that the work relies too heavily on Public Medium Ignorance and isn't good even for its intended audience, then they can have a point ("Just because something is made for kids, that doesn't mean they are free to treat them like idiots"). A work that isn't good enough to develop a Nostalgia Filter risks having its Fleeting Demographic join the Periphery Hatedom once they become of age, if they didn't already hate the work by then.

Compare Bile Fascination, a primary reason for people outside the target demographic to investigate. Contrast Hype Backlash, where a backlash occurs against something people have been told they'd like.

Many music examples overlap with Dead Horse Genre. Can lead to Condemned by History when a work's target demographic stops liking it and joins in on the bashing. See also Americans Hate Tingle for regional examples. Can be caused by What Do You Mean, It's for Kids? Moral Guardians are a specific type of Periphery Hatedom, who sometimes subvert the trope by directing their complaints at how they think the work will affect its _intended_ audience. However, they often play it straight by getting the target audience wrong, typically by assuming that everything of a particular genre must be kid-appropriate. Tangentially related are Straw Hypocrite (hating someone for not sincerely holding beliefs that the hater never admired in the first place) and Straw Affiliation (criticizing someone for not being a "true" exemplar of a group to which the critic does not belong). There's also the targeted race in cases of Acceptable Targets and National Stereotypes, who _all_ hate said subject matter, which is always justifiable.

Remember, this trope is specifically for examples where the hate comes from not pleasing a group that it never planned to reach in the first place. Complaining About Shows You Don't Watch when you're _within_ its intended audience is not this trope. And cases of former fans rejecting newer versions of their preferred work/genre almost _never_ fall here unless the work has a Fleeting Demographic (such as a lot of kids' shows, teen pop music, etc.) and the fan has grown out of it. Otherwise, move it to They Changed It, Now It Sucks!. Also, don't confuse this with the haters of a certain progressive metal band.

_Please do not use this page as a place for Complaining About Shows You Don't Like or Complaining About People Not Liking the Show. You have to explain which demographic hates it and why._

___

## Examples:

-   Live-Action TV
-   Video Games
-   Western Animation

    open/close all folders 

    In-Universe Examples 

-   Much of the content of _MAD_ harshly satirizes franchises, shows, and films that the target readership (mostly young teenage boys) could not be expected to have any real interest in, including soap operas, Hollywood dramas, and children's cartoons. The magazine's iconic comic strip parodies are always written with a tone of exasperated annoyance — even when mocking things that aren't really that omnipresent in the culture.
-   The nerds that make up the main male cast of _The Big Bang Theory_ are sometimes looked down on by Penny the non-nerd in playing tabletop RPGs, MMORPGs, card games, video games, and liking comic books, _Star Trek,_ and _Star Wars._ As Penny gets to know them better, she develops more respect for their hobbies, even participating in some of them.
-   _Arthur_:
    -   _Mary Moo Cow_, the Barney Captain Ersatz, is this to the titular character of the show — the theme song itself (which is sung To the Tune of... "Frere Jacques", a common trait of shows with Periphery Hatedom) is known to aggravate Arthur. The _Tina the Talking Tabby_ commercial in _Arthur's Perfect Christmas_ and _Vidiboobies_ (one of the many Captain Ersatzs of Teletubbies in the show's universe) has the same net effect on Arthur. As does Quacker's song.
    -   In "Arthur Meets Mister Rogers", Arthur is afraid that he'll get this reaction if his friends find out that Mister Rogers is staying at his house, since most of them think Mister Rogers' show is "for babies". However, after his plans ultimately fail, Mister Rogers talks some sense to him. Arthur's friends also treat Mister Rogers himself with a lot of respect when they finally meet him, even if they're older than his target audience.
    -   Subverted with the "Love Ducks" (a _Teletubbies_ parody). Arthur becomes a fan of the show despite his friends mocking him and saying that it's "a baby show". That is, until they start watching it as well and begin enjoying it for its surreal content.
    -   The _Hopla_/_Bananas in Pyjamas_ Captain Ersatz "Pumpkins In Pants" has this effect on the Tibble twins, who are avid fans of "Mary Moo Cow".
    -   Arthur, in an attempt in find a positive role model to cosplay as after an advertisement involving Darkbunny upsets him, turns to an Underdog pastiche he watched as a toddler. Francine responds to this decision by bringing him over to a group of kindergartners and asking them what _they_ think of the hero. Cue the kindergartners laughing at him and calling it a "baby show".
-   Baloney from _Animaniacs,_ a parody of _Barney & Friends_ who is known for inadvertently terrorizing the Warners.
-   _The Cinema Snob_ is this towards exploitation films, porn parodies, and anything else that isn't True Art. The character was created specifically to mock film critics that bash low-brow exploitation cinema despite it clearly having never been intended for them, specifically admitting he based it on Siskel and Ebert's reviews of _Friday the 13th_, which included actually doxing the producers, director and some of the cast, one of the first examples of doxing done on television. Ironically, the character also is used by Brad Jones for his own Periphery Hatedom situation, modern day Christploitation films like God's Not Dead and War Room. Still, he's never doxed them.
-   Bonky the Dragon from _Recess_ (though Mikey briefly went back into a Bonky phase when he was afraid of turning ten).
-   An early _For Better or for Worse_ story consists of Elly being disappointed with finding out Michael has been playing video games at the arcade, and forbids him from doing so at the end of it, tying into the real-life stigma video games faced. A person reading reruns of the story or reading it in a book collection might wonder what the fuss is about if they were born after the 1980s or early 1990s.
-   One _FoxTrot_ mini-arc has Jason freaking out because his mom bought him a Barney lunchbox instead of the _Jurassic Park_ one he wanted. Her logic: They're both dinosaurs. What's the difference? His response: Barney's not a dinosaur! He's a big sappy doofus who sings to little kids!
-   Blarney and Georgie, two Barney parodies from _Dinosaurs_, have this effect on Earl, Fran, Robbie, and Charlene. Baby seems to be on the verge of having a love-hate relationship with these two shows.
-   _Alvin and the Chipmunks: Chipwrecked_ had a scene where Theodore turns on the TV to a movie aimed at toddlers called "Hello Lolly". Alvin and Simon react in disgust and think Dave is treating them like babies. They then change it to a movie about a jungle monster.
-   _Rugrats_: The movie _The Dummi Bears in the Land Without Smiles_ from the episode "At the Movies", as throughout the episode, Grandpa Lou spends all his time complaining about the movie's saccharine tone and how he'd rather go bowling.
    
    **Grandpa:** "Land Without Brains" is more like it.
    
-   The Show Within a Show _Pootan_ to Yamaguchi from _Cromartie High School_. He finds the show stupid and trash, but everyone else likes it. Yamaguchi even attempts to watch the show until he finds what makes it so popular.
-   "Asses of Fire" from _South Park: Bigger, Longer & Uncut_ is hated by parents, causing them to murder Terrance and Phillip. The movie isn't even aimed for the main four's targeted audience, which is the main reason Shelia hates the movie.
-   In the Josh Radnor movie _Liberal Arts_, the 35-year-old protagonist, who has degree in literature, berates a 19-year-old college student for liking _The Twilight Saga_. He considers them to be one of the worst examples of English literature, despite not having actually read any of the books. This is subverted, though: he actually reads the first book, and even though he still hates it, by the end of the movie he ends up recommending it to another student, as he figures out not everything college kids read should be serious literature.
-   _The Simpsons_:
    -   In the episode, "Some Enchanted Evening" from the series' first season, while Lisa and Maggie are big fans of The Smurfs parody "The Happy Little Elves", Bart cannot stand it and refers to it as "The Crappy Little Elves". Grampa Abe isn't a big fan of them either. In the Christmas Episode pilot, "Simpsons Roasting on an Open Fire," he refers to them as "unadulterated pap."
    -   At the beginning of the season 7 episode, "Lisa the Vegetarian", the Simpson family goes to Storytown Village, a nursery rhyme theme park intended specifically for one to seven-and-a-half-year-olds, to go somewhere that one-year-old Maggie would like. Bart and Lisa are just above the theme park's target demographic, and while Bart doesn't have a lot of fun at the park, Lisa befriends the cutest lamb at the petting zoo, who inspires her to become a vegetarian.
    -   In the season 15 episode, "Marge vs. Singles, Seniors, Childless Couples, Teens, and Gays", Bart and Lisa fight over what show they want to watch on TV and accidentally change it to a children's show hosted by the Raffi Expy, Roofi. This starts Maggie's Roofi addiction. Things go From Bad to Worse for Bart, Lisa, and Homer when Marge buys Maggie a Roofi CD and plays it non-stop for her. It gets to the point where Bart actually begs for Mrs. Krabappel to make him stay after school and write something on the chalkboard a thousand times. Meanwhile, Lisa tries to turn off the CD player by unplugging it (only to find out it's backed up by batteries and a solar panel), and Homer tries to smash the CD player in the middle of the night with a hammer. Lisa's dislike of Roofi resurfaces in the season 22 episode, "Elementary School Musical", wherein Marge makes her listen to a Roofi Song on their way back from Arts Camp.
    -   Subverted by Sideshow Bob, who really hates the TV show _MacGyver_ — but this was while he was briefly married to Selma Bouvier, who is a big fan of the show, so he was semi-obligated to watch it.
-   In the _King of the Hill_ episode "Get Your Freak Off", Hank highly disapproves the contents in the musics Bobby listens to. (Let alone many other things he dislikes what Bobby likes.) He took Bobby to a boy band concert when he assumed the band was acceptable due to the subtle lyrics and conservative outfits...until he's disgusted when the band strips out of their suits and grab their crotches in front of the preteen crowd. He drags Bobby out of the concert when he is freak dancing with his friends.
-   In the short, "Ruffled Ruffee" from the _Tiny Toon Adventures_ episode, "Music Day", the Raffi Expy Ruffee fits this trope to a T, particularly towards Buster Bunny, who is part of the teenage rock n' roll crowd. Ruffee refuses to let Buster play his electric guitar, which inadvertently interrupts his concert for impressionable children. As a result, Buster gets back at him by attending the concert, dressed in a diaper and a green bonnet, and having to listen to his overly sappy songs simply for the purpose of sabotaging said songs, and the concert as a whole.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   In _Nine Months_, there is a Barney clone named Arnie that a mom attacks. The weirdest part? Her children, whom are fans of the show, appear to be in early elementary school, which is the age most people learn to hate the show.
-   _Rocko's Modern Life_ has their version of Barney, Bo-Bo the Friendly Bison. Bo-Bo is shown as a criminal by stealing Rocko's wallet.<small>◊</small> But despite that, Rocko stated everyone loves Bo-Bo.
-   In the _SML Movie_ "Christmas Special!", Bowser Junior gives Chef Pee-Pee a _SpongeBob SquarePants_ toy oven as a present, but he rejects it, claiming that the show the toy is based on teaches kids to be bums.
-   This is discussed in _The Nostalgia Critic_ review of _My Pet Monster_, which ends with the critic actually calling the director to complain about the video and tell him how much he hated it. We only hear the Critic's side of the conversation, but the director essentially asks him why he was watching a movie geared for young kids and, upon hearing that the Critic does this for a living, _takes pity on him_. The Critic does not take it well, spirals into a depression where he only wants to watch commercials, and finally has a Nightmare Before Christmas-style epiphany where he goes back to reviewing.
-   _Futurama_'s "Saturday Morning Fun Pit": "Mr. President. Our children are fat and dumb and WE BLAME CARTOONS!"
-   _Elf Gonna Make You Smile_ a Shallow Parody of _The Smurfs_ from _Sabrina: The Animated Series_. When going to a ride based on this program, Sabrina herself is disturbed by these little critters while Gem, on the other hand, actually likes them.
-   In _My Immortal_ Ebony Dark'ness Dementia Raven Way hates every musician she doesn't deem "goffic", dismissing them as "preppy" or "posers". Cited examples are as disparate as Avril Lavigne and \*NSYNC.
-   _Generic Man_ has Barney as the Big Bad The Master of Evil.
-   _Calvin and Hobbes_ has the book _Hamster Huey and the Gooey Kablooey_, Calvin's favorite bedtime story, which he insists his dad read to him every night. It's implied to be poorly written, repetitive, unbearably cutesy, and generally unappealing to anyone older than six. Calvin's dad hates it and is desperate to read him _anything_ else.
    
    **Dad:** Architects should be forced to live in the buildings they design, and children's book authors should be forced to read their stories aloud every single night of their rotten lives.
    

    Anime and Manga 

-   _Dragon Ball Z_ and _Sailor Moon_ qualify, as a truly amazing number of hate-sites appeared in the early days of the Internet, most of which were run by the demographic that the other appealed to.
-   _Pokémon: The Series_ infamously suffers from this trope:
    -   The anime in general has gotten a lot of flak today, mostly because it's been going on for years and years without being very imaginative, including recycled plots, while catering almost exclusively to young children, after Takeshi Shudo left the show. Even fans of the games and other aspects of the franchise also aren't too happy that Ash and Pikachu's repetitive adventures<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  define "Pokémon" in the public consciousness more than the games themselves, _the very reason why the franchise was created_. It was particularly popular to mock _Pokémon_ in the West during Generation III, which is widely considered even by fans to have been something of an Audience-Alienating Era for the franchise.
    -   Despite this, while the anime's reputation has zig-zagged over the years, it has at least somewhat improved since the first couple of generations. The first few seasons are well loved in Japan for Takeshi Shudo's trying to make the show for kids and their parents alike, and have a very active nostalgia-driven fanbase in the West. Additionally, a greater respect has developed for the tangible improvements made to the show's writing. The Battle Frontier and Sinnoh sagas are often seen nowadays as a vast improvement over Johto and Hoenn, particularly the latter for its high emphasis on story and drama. The Kalos saga is similarly well-loved by older fans (apart from its cop-out ending) for its superior plot and character development and Mega Evolution side stories.
    -   That being said, the anime's general reception is constantly shifting because of its own wildly changing writing style, with the fifth generation serving as an especially low point for its reputation due to its infamous reset of Ash and return to a more kid-oriented formula. This perceived Audience-Alienating Era extended to the movies as well, with _Pokémon: Genesect and the Legend Awakened_ heavily panned for retconning out a fan-favorite character with a Replacement Scrappy. The _Sun & Moon_ series also initially alienated fans by appearing to switch to a Denser and Wackier tone and aesthetic reminiscent of _Yo-kai Watch_, but did progressively grow its own dedicated fanbase for highlights such as returning Misty and Brock, dipping into some darker elements such as death (shown with Stoutland and Mallow's mother) or Lusamine being kidnapped by an Ultra Beast, and Ash _finally_ winning the Pokémon League. _Pokémon Journeys: The Series_, despite being divisive in its own right, quieted down the the "I hate the ashnime because it's kiddy and formulatic" crowd for its willingness to break old trends, depict Ash as more consistently competent than even _XY_, and explore the Pokémon world beyond the newest region (Galar).
    -   During the fad days, people over the demographic age often disliked the show. For instance, the cover<small>◊</small> of _MAD_ #386 asked readers to vote on ways of killing Pikachu. It was sensational amongst kids, but teens and adults would often mock it as a Merchandise-Driven fad, and nearly every American movie critic panned the first movie because they didn't understand it. While many of those kids have grown into adults and still love the show and/or franchise, the older adults of that era continued to hate it and be puzzled by its success as they aged further, often mocking said young adults for liking _Pokémon_.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh!_ has a Periphery Hatedom for the Bowdlerized English dub, mostly due to the dub turning the show into a simplistic Merchandise-Driven kids' cartoon. This caused it to become a target of mockery, allowing for the creation of the popular _Yu-Gi-Oh! The Abridged Series_, which plays all of the show's and dub's bizarre tropes for laughs.
-   _Hamtaro_:
-   _Anpanman_ has this in Japan, due to Hype Backlash, to the point where the videos on YouTube for the show have _more dislikes_ than likes.
-   _Free!_ gets flak from straight male anime fans who don't like the series' beefcake Fanservice and focus on cute boys bonding. Part of the backlash comes from Kyoto Animation's reputation for (supposedly) being a reliable source of anime about Cute Girls Doing Cute Things, so _Free!_ was seen as a betrayal of some sort by that particular crowd when the series was first announced.
-   _Pretty Cure_ gets this for how sweet and innocent it is, never mind how it's definitely one of the most action-packed Magical Girl franchises out there. It even got to the point where somebody threatened to bomb a theater showing one of the franchise's films.
-   The _Shizuku-chan_ manga and anime gets this for being a show for kids and too cutesy.
-   _Yo-kai Watch_ got this from multiple camps: those who are dismayed with its massive popularity in Japan, those put off by the humorous tone as opposed to Darker and Edgier anime with similar subject matter; and fans of the _Pokémon_ anime who don't take kindly to it being hailed as a "Pokémon killer". As a result, a rather nasty Fandom Rivalry has formed because of the series' debut in the US. Hatred from the _Pokémon_ side has further intensified due to changes to the _Sun & Moon_ anime (and games, to a lesser extent) that seem designed to make the franchise more similar to _Yo-Kai Watch_ in order to compete with it.
-   4Kids Entertainment get this treatment a lot. Mostly due to the frequent Bowdlerization that often delves into They Changed It, Now It Sucks! territory (though, in reality, these changes were few and in-between, plus they mostly stem from Values Dissonance between Japan and the rest of the world). There's people who've admitted to having a soft spot for the dubs, however.
-   _Beyblade_ gets a lot of mockery from people outside the target demographic. It's popular with kids, but a lot of adults are surprised that it's still on-going past the first anime. This is in part due to a Fandom Rivalry with _Pokémon_ and _Yu-Gi-Oh!_.
-   Anything related to Kawaisa and most of its subtropes (mainly Bishoujo and Moe). Mainly because of the cute artstyles, the fact that most of the characters are children or teenagers (or look like them), the belief that the characters are always sexualized, the idealization of femininity including in tomboys, and the belief that the creators and fans are always straight perverted males made them target of hatred from Moral Guardians, sex-negative and Real Women Don't Wear Dresses communities, who accuse them of promoting pedophilia, misogyny, sexual assaults, and objectification of young girls.
-   The Isekai genre of light novels and anime, where a human protagonist from our world is taken into an alternate universe modeled after fantasy RPGs (if it's not the actual world of an in-universe RPG or other work of fiction), usually gaining an overpowered special ability and some attractive female companions in the process, tends to be popular among their intended demographic (usually teenage boys or young men), but have a vocal hatedom from people who have outgrown the power fantasy aspect of such works, find the stories too formulaic, or object to the excessive use of fanservice and frequent glorification of slavery.

    Automotive 

-   Motorcycle manufacturer Harley-Davidson is known for its huge fanbase and has spawned a subculture of bikers cruising thousands of miles to Sturgis or some other venue, but owners of metric (read: non-American or non-Harley) motorcycles frequently mock or criticise Harley for either being "behind the times", unreliable or too underpowered for the price, relying more on brand image than on actual performance. The fact that H-D (or really the biker culture as a whole) has become associated with the alt-right movement isn't helping, especially with the younger demographic.

    Comic Books 

-   For several decades _Archie Comics_ has had an unsightly amount of hate amongst the comic book community. It's been mocked for being seen as too tame, too formulaic, and too "casual" compared to superhero comics. Archie as a protagonist gets a lot of hate personally, due to his fluctuating personality and people's inability to understand why such an average boy is a Chick Magnet, which never helped. In the 2010s much of the periphery hatedom is dying out thanks to various successful spinoffs and a more "modern" reboot that resonates well with comic readers.
-   Jack Chick's _Chick Tracts_ do a zig-zagging of this trope. The tracts are supposed to be aimed at non-Evangelicals, to bring them into the fold, but only an Evangelical could possibly take them seriously (and even most of them think they're absurd), while his target audience despises the contents. It is for this reason that his fanbase consists primarily of people who read his comics to make fun of them. It is also considered hate literature by American civil rights organization Southern Poverty Law Center.

    Comic Strips 

-   _The Family Circus_ has received a disproportionate amount of mockery over the years from people not in its kids-say-the-darndest-things-isn't-it-cute? demographic (though of course this could be more an expression of just wanting to poke fun at things than obsessive hatred).
-   _Marvin_ is written exclusively for new mothers. Everybody else seems to hate it.
-   _Garfield_ suffers from heavy Nostalgia Filter syndrome, and is often hated by people who believe it's "gotten worse" when in reality it's a strip best enjoyed by kids. It's also something of an Artifact of the late 1970s, so most of the complaints seem to come from Generation X'ers who enjoyed it as kids and have become too "sophisticated" for it, while many Baby Boomers (now in their fifties or older) don't read the comics much anymore and are too busy complaining about other things.

    Disney 

-   _Cars_. Kids _love_ _Cars_... but it's one of the few Pixar movies that doesn't have a lot of adult appeal. Some people hate _Cars_ because Disney absolutely adores it, despite that it was received among the _worst_ by critics and Pixar's usual adult fanbase. This is mostly because it's widely believed the only reason they made a sequel was for The Merch. It's because of this that despite _Up_ being one of Pixar's highest rated movies, their stock actually _dropped_. Why? Because stockholders knew it wasn't made for merchandising.
-   Disney Princess movies, especially Disney Animated Canon ones, tend to attract a male Periphery Hatedom despite being well-regarded by critics of both genders in most cases. Many of these haters are very young boys who simply hate the movies for being "stupid and girly", but older males can also develop some spite towards them for various reasons, mostly related to It's Popular, Now It Sucks!. Many tomboyish girls also hate the Disney Princess franchise for the same reasons that boys hate them. Feminists also make up a sizable percentage of the hatedom due to many of them finding the princesses to be bad role models for little girls. There are also those who dislike them because Disney is often synonymous with "Princess films" and they think they promote them at the expense of their other movies.
-   _Billy Dilley's Super Duper Subterranean Summer_ got this, with several adult viewers complaining that it feels like a "bad modern Nickelodeon cartoon". Some people have also accused the title character of being a selfish whiny moron with an ugly design. Because of the backlash, the show would only last 13 episodes, making it the shortest-lived series from Disney's television animation division.
-   _Frozen_ suffers from It's Popular, Now It Sucks! and Hype Backlash from males and tomboys who found the movie to be too "girly" (even for a female-led film) and overmarketed to little girls, especially since it outgrossed many other movies more suited to masculine tastes — including its male-oriented predecessor _Wreck-It Ralph_ and successor _Big Hero 6_, as well as every single superhero movie ever except the Avengers films, and isn't considered prestigious or groundbreaking enough compared to previous Disney films to justify it. Not helping matters is the movie's male characters and villains failing to draw a significant fanbase, with many thinking of Kristoff as insignificant and clueless compared to Anna or Elsa, Hans lacking the Evil is Cool factor of many past Disney villains, and Olaf being very entertaining but still being a Disney sidekick (not the type of character to attract fanboys). It also didn't help that the detractors were just absolutly sick of hearing "Let It Go" all the time. _Beauty and the Beast (2017)_ went through a near-identical reaction, but slightly less pronounced — with the added stigma of being seen as an unoriginal remake of a movie that didn't need to be tampered with. Several years after both films, a similar reaction occurred when _Encanto_ suddenly became a gigantic hit on par with _Frozen_'s initial popularity.
-   _Brave_ (Pixar's own Disney Princess film) got this reaction for Award Snub reasons. It got positive reviews that were nonetheless very mixed by Pixar standards and is widely considered one of Pixar's weaker original films, which caused it to attract a lot of bile from males when it won the Oscar for Best Animated Picture over better-reviewed (and coincidentally male-oriented) competition (_Wreck-It Ralph_, _The Pirates! In an Adventure with Scientists_, _Frankenweenie_, and _ParaNorman_). Because the common consensus was that _Ralph_ would win the Oscar, some believed that _Brave_'s win was simply a politically-motivated move to promote feminism rather than an actual measure of the movie's quality, with it being the first Pixar movie directed by a woman and starring a female protagonist. While this definitely upset those on the opposite side of the political spectrum, many other viewers (including some feminists and supporters thereof) noted the absurdity of the move. The same thing happened three years later with _Inside Out_'s wins at the Oscars and Annies, when some animation fans (most of them being fans of Studio Ghibli's _When Marnie Was There_) were angry that it took away awards from movies they preferred, and the fact that it won Annies in almost every category it was nominated in — although its case was _much_ less prominent because it got excellent reviews and was considered a return to form for Pixar.
-   _Home on the Range_ has gotten this from viewers who see it as the catalyst for Disney backing out of traditionally-animated films, if not killing off the commercial appeal of them altogether.
-   Despite being regarded as one of the best Disney movies of the past few years, _Zootopia_ has received a lot of hate... Because, due to its characters being Funny Animals in a tale of Fantastic Racism, it has a _huge_ popularity among the Furry Fandom. Some leftists also criticize the film for glorifying the police and for its sloppy racial metaphors.
-   _Descendants_ was a hit with its target demographic of preteens and younger teenagers. A lot of the older Disney Animated Canon fans absolutely hate it. The premise isn't disliked nearly as much as how the characters are written, the designs themselves, the music, and how the series presents itself is. It just irks many adults who enjoy Disney. There is also a sizable hatedom from fans of _Ever After High_ due to _Descendants_' premise and characters being similar to those of _Ever After High_. It's gotten to the point where those fans assume that the former's popularity is what caused Mattel to axe the franchise in 2018.
-   It appears that _Doc McStuffins_, despite its large Periphery Demographic, has somehow gathered a small number of haters as well. Most of them appear to be bored teens who harbor a dislike for the show's cuteness.
-   _The Lion Guard_ has quite a few haters who believe that Bunga is annoying, it has poor animation compared to the films upon which it was based, it was only made to cash in on the success of _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_, it overuses fart jokes, and that its nature as a simplistic preschool series is a disgrace to the emotionally deep and more demographically inclusive classic Disney movie that it's based on.
-   _Little Einsteins_ has very strong hatedom by exactly five schools of people: those who can't stand the inanity or shallowness of the story, those who don't like being treated like they have the memory of a goldfish, those who can't stand them shoehorning silly lyrics onto classical melodies, those who don't believe the claims made by the producers of the series that your child will end up smarter than Stephen Hawking just for watching the series, and longtime Disney Junior fans who miss the shows of the block's early days as Playhouse Disney. There are also people who hate it due to it bouncing back and forth between treating its target audience (children) like they are smarter than they look and treating them like they have the IQ of a rotten potato. One moment the characters could give an (albeit _extremely_ simplified) explanation of escape velocity, and the next they could ask the kids at home if they can count to three.
-   _Special Agent Oso_, like a lot of Preschool Shows featuring a great deal of repetition, has one with the usual Periphery Hatedom for those kinds of shows, who enjoy bashing the series for having the same thing happen every episode, its extremely bright (and somewhat dated) CGI animation, and for the main character being an idiot (never mind that _many_ animated series with significant Periphery Demographics or aimed at older audiences also have idiot protagonists).
-   Works involving the Classic Disney Shorts characters:
    -   _Mickey Mouse Clubhouse_, popular among the toddler set it's aimed at, has earned mixed reviews from critics and Disney fans alike for putting their mascot and company into a toddler show, but it's the several people on social networks who have a deep hate for it that tend to be most vocal about it. The fact that Disney kept this show running for 10 years straight doesn't help matters, nor does the fact that they market Mickey's _Clubhouse_ incarnation more aggressively childish than his earlier (and later), more Periphery Demographic\-friendly appearances. Some of this may be Condescending Compassion on the part of parents.
    -   Half of all modern works involving the cast, especially Mickey Mouse himself, are directly targeted towards children, tend to be cloyingly cute, and are mocked and hated by older audiences; in parodies, Mickey is frequently used as a simultaneous icon of saccharine family-friendliness _and_ corporate greed (being Disney's company mascot). The other half generally averts this trope, with works like _Mickey Mouse (2013)_, _Goof Troop_, both the 1987 and 2017 versions of _DuckTales_, and the _Kingdom Hearts_ and _Epic Mickey_ video games, but still suffer from this trope to a small extent by association.
-   _My Friends Tigger & Pooh_, in addition to dropping Owl entirely, replacing Christopher Robin with a new girl named Darby, which leads to understandable flak by fans of the movie and books. Which actually led to Disney restoring Christopher Robin back into the show in later seasons, although it still wasn't enough (Christopher Robin was still demoted to a minor character and only appeared in two episodes, which failed to impress some fans).
-   A lot of parents hate the earlier episodes of the Disney Junior short series _Nina Needs to Go!_ due to its Aesop Amnesia, how unrealistic the show is,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  because their kids misunderstood the show's message as a result, and the fact that the main character always has to use the bathroom no matter where she is. The fact that Pull-Ups Training Pants (or Pampers, depending on your region) is the show's primary sponsor only adds to the irk (Disney Junior is a premium network which costs extra on top of the basic kids package on some Pay TV providers. Understandably, parents were irked when they have to put up with advertising on a channel that they're already paying extra for). Some people believe that the show is worse than the Trope Codifier Barney.
-   _PB&J Otter_, to those who don't have fond memories of watching the show. Its overall brightness and cheeriness, combined with the overload of songs, induce Sweetness Aversion.
-   Whilst a majority of people (especially adults and teenagers, alongside its target audience) like _Sofia the First_, there are quite a few people who judge it without even watching a single episode just because it airs on the preschool-oriented Disney Junior. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  It also has a considerable amount of hate from Disney Princess fans who either dislike Sofia, dislike how the series portrays the princesses, or hates how they're drawn/voiced. Prior to release it got hate for "Sofia being too pale to be Latina" but that view has since died down. The spin-off _Elena of Avalor_ also gets this reaction occasionally.
-   _Chicken Little_ gets this for being a second-rate _Shrek_ ripoff with unlikable characters and very little adult appeal. Many adults consider it the worst entry in the Disney Animated Canon. Kids at the time, of course, liked it just fine.
-   Before _Nina Needs To Go!_, Disney Junior had _This is Daniel Cook_. People hated it because the titular character always acted excited no matter what the situation was. The hate has died down, however, now that the show hasn't been seen for plenty of years.
-   Both Disney series created by Noah Z. Jones fall into this. _Fish Hooks_ got a lot of flak for having every high school cliche in the book put underwater, but was ultimately deemed So Okay, It's Average by most older viewers of Disney. The same can't be said for his next Disney creation, _Pickle and Peanut_, which is even more despised, being considered as Disney's answer to _Breadwinners_ thanks to its overusage of stock photos (the title characters themselves are stock photos!), grossout humour, and similarities to the aforementioned _Breadwinners_ and _Regular Show_. It's generally considered by Disney's Periphery Demographic to be one of Disney Television Animation's worst original animated series besides possibly _Billy Dilley's Super Duper Subterranean Summer_.
-   _The 7D_ got a lot of backlash from fans of the 1937 Disney animated film _Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs_ for not only radically changing the character designs of the dwarfs themselves, but for also not even mentioning Snow White's existence, adding new characters called the Glooms, and going for a more childish tone (it _was_ originally planned for Disney Junior). The fact that Whoopi Goldberg voices the Magic Mirror doesn't help matters. Nonetheless, _The 7D_ still developed its own Periphery Demographic, including people from the _Animaniacs_ fandom since both shows have the same staff.
-   _Randy Cunningham: 9th Grade Ninja_ has been hit by this; largely from fans of _TRON: Uprising_ blaming the former for getting the latter Screwed by the Network.
-   _Hannah Montana_ and _High School Musical_ are often blamed for Disney Channel's Network Decay (possibly sans their animated series) for the non-teenage audience.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Straight males, females born before 1989, tomboys, feminists, and Moral Guardians make up a sizable hatedom to both franchises. That being said, this behavior died down tremendously as the target demographic grew up and became nostalgic for them. It also helps that many of the channel's biggest stars have grown up so fast that the guardians don't really bother with criticizing them anymore.
-   _Star Wars_: The series is infamous for introducing characters such as the Ewoks and Jar Jar Binks that serve as cutesy comic relief for the kids in the audience, but are near-universally hated with adult viewers.
-   The live-action adaptations of _Disney Animated Canon_ leave a bitter taste in the mouths of quite a few animation fans, feeling the movies are not only unnecessary rehashes of past movies but also fear they are reinforcing the Animation Age Ghetto. Others, especially fans of _TRON_ and _Star Wars_, resent these remakes because Disney has a habit of approving more whenever an unrelated Disney film becomes a Box Office Bomb, leading to concerns over favoritism. Though by 2019, _Dumbo_ would bomb as well.
-   _Phineas and Ferb_, though hugely popular, got some hate among teens and adults, mostly from Hype Backlash, and others who dislike its Strictly Formula nature (despite often playing with the latter). It doesn't help that the rise in backlash happened around the early-mid 2010s, when it would be frequently be unfavorably contrasted with _Gravity Falls_. However, since the late 2010s, it has seen a vast revival in memes and Internet culture, largely as a result of Gen Z members who grew up on the show, to the point that it even got a movie on Disney+ over 5 years after the end of the show.

    Eastern Animation 

-   _Crazy Candies_:
    -   This show has been criticized on the Internet of China (the country that produces the series). Many teenagers and young adults hate it for copying _SpongeBob SquarePants_ and its disgusting Toilet Humour.
    -   Some parents also don't like this animation for its Demographically Inappropriate Humour.
-   _Masha and the Bear_ might be a mix of Periphery Demographic and this, like _Doc McStuffins_. The reason some people hate this show is because they find the hyperactive Masha annoying or think the show is too slow (or conversely too fast-paced) and childish. It has gotten to the point where the Get Movies video of the 17th episode has 839,000 dislikes, making it the 16th most disliked video on YouTube at the tiem. And sadly for them, it is quite everywhere.
-   _Pleasant Goat and Big Big Wolf_ has an adult hatedom who criticizes the animation, writing, "lack of depth", and says that the show is childish. Those adults often claim that _Doraemon_ and other anime are more appealing.
-   _Colargol_ is a Polish-French puppet animation starting in 1969. Although a classic and well-regarded, among Polish Millenials it has a rather low reputation. One reason is that they have been growing up after the fall of communist rule, with plenty of access to more appealing entertainment than mom's and dad's puppet series which was nonetheless still aired on repeat by the public TV. The other reason is that Colargol, even compared to other Polish puppet animation, was a cuddly bear with a high-pitched voice who loved to sing and cried a lot, which wasn't exactly the kind of character who appealed to a kid in the Nineties. Now, add the Internet so all those who didn't like him as kids could share their thoughts, and you have plenty of "ironic" hate usually expressed in homophobic slurs.

    Films — Animation 

-   The _Ice Age_ sequels (the first film is generally well-regarded) tend to get criticized for being a little too cartoony and historically inaccurate by adults, and also for tending to have rather unoriginal stories. It doesn't help that they've made four sequels. The fourth sequel and overall fifth film in the franchise performed well overseas, but was a Box Office Bomb domestically amid competition from _Star Trek Beyond_ and _The Secret Life of Pets_.
-   _Despicable Me_: The Minions gained one of these over time. They have gotten many accusations of being annoying, over-promoted, and upstaging all of the other characters of the two movies over time, resulting in people just getting sick of them. The straw that broke the camel's back was when they got their own movie, which ironically outgrossed the first two _Despicable Me_ movies and became the second highest-grossing animated movie of all time, not helped by a _huge_ promotional campaign that made it so you couldn't step outside without seeing some _Minions_\-branded products and made it so people outside the film's target audience or Periphery Demographic couldn't just ignore it. The role of the minions had slightly decreased in the third film.
-   Speaking of _Despicable Me_, its studio Illumination and its other films (such as _The Secret Life of Pets_ and _Sing_) suffer from this mainly from animation fans. Despite their films mostly being targeted towards children, the studio itself is criticized for gaining mass profit (mainly through excessive marketing) from their films, which tend to have a low budget. Because of this, people consider their films as So Okay, It's Average.
-   _The Emoji Movie_ has received numerous attacks from the Internet (even before it was released), mainly because of the fact that it was made to cash in on a popular fad, including blatant Product Placement for _Candy Crush_ and _Just Dance_, among _many other apps_, being an unoriginal _The LEGO Movie_ clone that also steals plot points from _Wreck-It Ralph_ and _Inside Out_ and having a _Patrick Stewart_\-voiced pile of excrement as a character.
-   _The Nut Job_ got a lot of flack from critics because most of its characters are either Jerkasses (with protagonist Surly being among the worst in that regard), idiots, or just plain annoying. The Toilet Humour doesn't help its case either.
-   Certain animated film buffs despise the _Trolls_ movies for being colorful, optimistic, containing pop songs, and supposedly enforcing the Animation Age Ghetto. This ignores the fact that these specific movies are for kids and are quite well-liked by them.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   In the specific case of _Speed Racer_, a large portion of the original fanbase grew older and were likely expecting something _a bit_ Darker and Edgier for them (like the _Transformers_ movie).
-   The _Alvin and the Chipmunks_ movies are hugely popular with kids, but subjects of mockery and critical ire for adults. As a bonus, the "squeakquel" handily outpacing the effort on _The Princess and the Frog_ (intended to Win Back the Crowd for hand-drawn animation) at the box office has earned it a great deal of wrath from Disney fans who mourn for the tastes of children. The backlash had finally caught up with the box office, when it had opened along with _The Force Awakens_.
-   Adult Muppet fans have a history of forming Periphery Hatedoms towards movies that directly compete with, and outdraw, the newer Muppet movies. These movies usually aren't for their demographic and get much worse reviews than the well-reviewed Muppet movies. _The Muppets (2011)_, despite getting rave reviews, was outdrawn by _The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn - Part 1_ and _Alvin and the Chipmunks: Chipwrecked_, both of which got pretty bad reviews. Needless to say, _Muppets_ fans don't take very kindly to young-adult female novel adaptations or half live-action half-CGI kiddie movies based on old cartoon characters. _Muppets Most Wanted_ got this even worse; not only was it beaten by _Divergent_ (a YA adaptation) at the box office, but it was even turned into an Acclaimed Flop due to the competition.
-   Tyler Perry's movies have created a series of minor racism controversies based on the fact that they tend to be critically-drubbed by the vast majority of critics (most of whom are white), yet are extraordinarily popular in the black community, which has turned these movies into #1 hits. Roger Ebert seemed to be a particular target. On top of that, Perry also experiences this among black viewers. Perry got his start staging plays on what's sometimes called the "Chitlin' Circuit", a vaudeville-esque black theater circuit which primarily caters to older, more conservative, and more religious audiences. African American subcultures experience as much Values Dissonance with each other as they do with anyone else; someone who identifies with Reggie Watts or Aaron McGruder could find Perry quite tasteless, and vice-versa. Perry even threatened to pull some of his content from TBS after one episode of _The Boondocks_ made harsh fun of the Unfortunate Implications and Strictly Formula tendencies of Perry's movies. Either way, Perry caters to a very specific demographic with which many African Americans do not identify.
-   Minya (the "Son of Godzilla") was created specifically in 1967 in order to appeal to younger audiences (at the time, there were more kids that were going to see Godzilla movies than adults). Minya went on to be the single most-hated character in the _Godzilla_ franchise, with the possible exceptions of Jet Jaguar, Haruo Sakaki, and Emma Russell.
-   _The Oogieloves in the Big Balloon Adventure_ suffers hard from this trope according to several reviews. It doesn't help that it's essentially a combination of _Barney and Friends_ and _Teletubbies_ (two of the most notorious examples) as a feature film.
-   _The Smurfs_ Live-Action Adaptation gets this under similar conditions to the _Alvin and the Chipmunks_ movies. That and the fact that the CGI Smurfs look downright creepy.
-   _Transformers_: The movies are a big target for this kind of thing.
    -   The _Transformers_ movies in general, unlike the original cartoon, are aimed at teenage/young adult fanboys rather than children. They get a lot of hate from people outside that demographic (especially _Transformers: Revenge of The Fallen_) due to their shallow plotting, focus on the human characters, overt sexism and objectification of female characters and the overly complex designs for the robots.
    -   _Bumblebee_, a throwback to the original cartoon to cater to fans of other _Transformers_ media who disliked the previous films, gets hate from many fans of the previous films who consider its shift from action-focused to character-focused to make it boring.
-   _Punch-Drunk Love_, meant to be a semi-serious arthouse film, gathered a lot of ire when fans of Adam Sandler's previous work (silly, mostly low-brow comedies) didn't get what they expected out of it.
-   Siskel & Ebert somewhat infamously did a special episode about "Women in Danger" movies. To anyone particularly well-versed in horror the episode really seems quite ill-informed. The most obvious flaw is that they frequently assert that Slashers are rapists representing sexually-frustrated males mad at feminism. Bizarrely, they used clips from the original _Friday the 13th (1980)_, which has a female killer.
-   _The Lord of the Rings_ movies are disliked by some young children for their long running time and slow pacing resulting from their epic scale, and for being too difficult for them to understand compared to more family-friendly fantasy franchises like _Harry Potter_.

    Literature 

-   _Left Behind_ has a _huge_ Periphery Hatedom; anybody who doesn't subscribe to the authors' precise apocalyptic vision is a potential member. Ironically the most in-depth (by far) critique of the series is being produced by a (progressive) evangelical Christian.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  The hatred comes from several directions: those who aren't Christians and disagree with its message from the outset, those who _are_ Christians but think the authors are on the fringe and making the rest look bad, those from Christian denominations that don't believe in the Rapture (most of them), and those who _are_ Christian and who believe the Rapture is imminent, but think _Left Behind_ has got it all wrong. Some may feel it's an easy work of fiction to avoid due to limited mainstream marketing, though this depends on where you live, such as if you're in an area where typical _Left Behind_ readers are the majority (though even then, it's hardly on the level of _Twilight_). However, much like some of the _Twilight_ hatred, the criticism is sometimes about what the stories are indicative of, and what influence they have on the readers in the intended demographic. And then there are those people who just find apocalyptic (non)fiction creepy, and wish people would just keep their End of the World as We Know It fantasies — or beliefs — to themselves.
-   Despite the huge amount of adult fans of _Diary of a Wimpy Kid_ in the late 2000s and early 2010s, there was (and still is) a sizeable adult hatedom of the books due to the fact that they view the protagonist as being a not very respectful person that is a bad influence on children or the fact that the books are not "real literature" due to having cartoon illustrations.
-   _The Twilight Saga_ attracts both legions of fans even in this very wiki, and even larger legions of the Hatedom, some of whom have never read the books or seen the movies, and some who have. The hatred tends to be split between the direct hatred for the sparkly vampires / Purple Prose sex scenes/Unfortunate Implications allegations/ what have you, the Hype Aversion from all the Edward-or-Jacob Ship-to-Ship Combat that saturated the world, and the (sometimes fanatically) held belief that it's just not written very well. The hate for _Twilight_ among Goths seems to be particularly vitriolic. Anyone expressing love for _Twilight_ is generally met with an icy or hostile reception. Events specifically to bash _Twilight_ are common. The Hatedom got so big that it created a whole new fandom. The riffs off the film adaptations of this series on RiffTrax became the most popular and anticipated riffs.
-   _The Chronicles of Narnia_ gets this from two groups: non-Christians who dislike its overtly Christian themes and symbolism and see them as propaganda, and adult fantasy fans who dislike it for being Lighter and Fluffier than contemporary fantasy like the works of Tolkien. It was never made for either of these groups: Lewis wrote it for children who were _already_ Christian (not to convert those who weren't) to explore their faith through a more accessible framework than The Bible. He even got angry letters from some parents for his apparent blasphemy in supposedly turning Jesus into a lion; Lewis responded that children often see animals as people, so it's not blasphemous to _them_.
-   Almost all German students who had to read one of the works of Theodor Fontane (particularly _Effi Briest_) _hate_ it. This goes even beyond the disdain for being forced to read (and analyze) classics in school, as _Effi Briest_ was simply never aimed at a young adult audience. Even most teachers are able to admit that they themselves only learned to enjoy the book when they were well into middle age. And they _studied_ literature in college, so they _better_ enjoy German classics.
-   _Pride and Prejudice_ is often particularly hated by boys who have to read it in high school English. It's easy to see why; it is written in a dense 19th-century prose, features a group of sisters as its main characters, and has a plot that focuses on their efforts to get hitched. Not usual boy stuff.
-   According to The Other Wiki, _The Berenstain Bears_ has quite a bit of hatred that comes from parents who despise the books for being shallow, Strictly Formula stories that are so Anvilicious that they forget they're trying to tell a story at all. This isn't completely unjustified; first off, this comes from parents who are forced to read the books to their kids all the time because of course, their kids love them, but even those who don't completely hate the books will reluctantly admit these are genuine problems, especially evidenced by the serious cases of Compressed Vice. Some parents have also expressed disdain for the books featuring the two common sitcom parent stereotypes, the Bumbling Dad and the stern mother, with one news writer saying in reference to the 1980s Animated Adaptation that "some viewers may find it a genuine relief when the cubs break their mother's favorite lamp."
-   _Fifty Shades of Grey_ and its sequels are hated by segments of the BDSM community that interpret some of Christian’s behaviour to be stalking and abuse of power, rather than part of a healthy BDSM relationship. Hate from the BDSM community counts as periphery. Despite the BDSM themes and scenes in the novels the BDSM community is not the target audience. Its target audience is consumers of fantasy romance novels.
-   The books of Australian children's author Andy Griffiths, particularly _The Bum Trilogy_ and his _Just...!_ series, are very popular with their target audience and have sold very well worldwide, but that doesn't stop many adults (typically Moral Guardians, overprotective parents, and those who didn't grow up with his work) from hating on them for featuring large amounts of grossout humor. Same applies with the Animated Adaptations of his work.
-   To this day, _Captain Underpants_ is one of the most popular children's books worldwide with its target audience, but had a significant Periphery Hatedom with Moral Guardians who claim the books teach "bad morals" and hate them for their grossout and Toilet Humour. As a result, _Captain Underpants_ has become one of the most challenged children's books in the United States, being banned in many libraries by overprotective parents and outraged conservatives. However, this hatedom diminished as those who read the books as kids grew up, and the series now sports a pretty large Periphery Demographic.

    Music 

-   Boy bands in general. It is well-known that many of these bands are manufactured more for looks than for sound. It doesn't help that they traditionally don't write their own music and often have only vocalists in their official line-up, which costs them respect even with fans of the pop genre.
    -   This attitude goes back a long way. In The '70s, Johnnie Walker was famously fired by The BBC for the first time for his adamant refusal to play hits by the manufactured boy band of the day, The Bay City Rollers, on his prime-time show. Johnnie pointed out he only wanted to play quality music by _real_ groups. The BBC disagreed with his stance that the presenter should be free to pick his own playlist and sacked him. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   Boy band hatedom has been suggested by Carson Daly to be one of the reasons Woodstock '99 degenerated into a bloodbath. _TRL_, a music video vote-in show which often ended up playing a mixture of boy bands and rock/hip-hop acts, was assigned a stage right next to the rock stage, and anti-boyband sentiment was encouraged by the acts that played there (for example, The Offspring opened their set by battering a line of blowup dolls fitted with Backstreet Boys facemasks with a hot pink baseball bat). The result was Daly getting pelted with abuse and missiles objects by a drunk, belligerent crowd determined to express their hatred of Daly for 'ruining music'. A net was put up at the front of the stage to guard the presenters, which was taken down by someone hurling a watermelon. Daly ended up so cut up with broken glass that he had to perform to camera in a jacket to cover up the lacerations on his arms; eventually, Viacom pulled the presenters out as they could no longer guarantee their safety, which spared the _TRL_ staff from having to experience the riots and fires that occurred in the festival's last days. Producer Dave Holmes claimed he got PTSD from it and felt like he'd been covering a war zone.
    -   In-Universe, Slim Shady's hatred of Boy Bands and Teen Pop is an iconic part of his characterisation, but part of the joke is that a psychotic rapper cares so much about music aimed at preteen girls. Throughout _The Marshall Mathers LP_ he parodies the sound of boybands, sometimes with obvious affection, and in "Without Me" he geekishly namechecks Chris Kirkpatrick for an ass-kicking, a member of \*NSYNC who had not reached the household-name-recognition status of Justin Timberlake or Lance Bass. Eminem regretted this element of his act and dropped it other than Continuity Nods - in 2013's "Evil Twin", Slim is genuinely upset about running out of boy bands to insult. Eminem stated that he started dissing boybands because his Pretty Boy physical appearance led to people assuming he was a Pop Rap industry creation aimed at the teen girl market; despite all of his accomplishments as a songwriter, producer and vocalist, the stigma against boy bands was enough that he had to become a professional boy-band hater in order to maintain a career, simply because he looked cute. Eminem has, however, never been negative about acts due to them having a female audience; he's always stated that he styled his own presentation on his idol LL Cool J, legendary for his Estrogen Brigade. (Eminem's own fandom was, and still is, chiefly female.)
        -   Strangely, Donny Osmond stated that Eminem hugged him after meeting him at an awards show, saying he viewed him as a major inspiration. So the boybands Eminem grew up with were cool; not so much the boybands his female fans in 2000 might have liked.
    -   Hanson in particular, from the amount of bile it raised in the non-fan throat. Hanson wasn't even a boy band in the traditional sense, since they at least wrote their own songs and played the instruments themselves (as well as being actually, y'know, _related_ to each other instead of being manufactured according to some kind of "next, we need a dark-haired Bad Boy" list). Yet because they consisted of photogenic young men who made poppy music, they were lumped in with the rest.
    -   Backstreet Boys and \*NSYNC were notable because they tried to reach for a Periphery Demographic and were smacked down. Some people were even surprised to learn that these were different bands. To make things even more interesting, Justin Timberlake (from \*NSYNC) _did_ gain success outside the usual boy-band demographic.
    -   One Direction has one, but it's not nearly as large as the other ones. This is mostly because of Justin Bieber's hatedom being so big that instead of moving on to 1D they continued to hate Bieber. This was largely out of fear that he might continue to prosper without them trying to pull him down and/or they gave 1D a free pass solely so they can wipe Bieber Fever off the face of the planet. The ploy to wipe Bieber Fever off of the face of the planet worked. Bieber himself continues unabated, to the hatedom's disappointment.
    -   The Wanted and Big Time Rush, on the other hand, do not really have such hatedoms, as their fandoms aren't large enough to spawn one in the first place. Most of their haters are One Direction fans.
    -   It has been suggested that Mc Fly suffered from reflexive hatred of their boy-band-ness to the extent that their genuine musicianship, craft and geeky influence from 1950-1970 rock 'n' roll and pop was overlooked or explained away by critics.
-   This was also true of the Motown girls' groups (e.g. The Supremes), doo-wop, and a dozen other genres. In the old days, even classical musicians were hired as much for their looks as for their talent. The problem is really that these boys are being picked _for girls to ogle_, which is a Bad Thing because if girls are ogling them, they're not ogling the young men who make up this particular Periphery Hatedom.
-   Pop princesses, such as Britney Spears and Christina Aguilera, _may_ have moved out of this category if they managed to grow up with any grace or artistry. Christina Aguilera successfully transferred to other genres, but this resulted in her falling well out of the limelight, so her hatedom has died down a bit. Britney Spears started to die down, but then it flared back up again when Kevin Federline entered her life and the media debacle that surrounded that. She's calmed down since then, and is starting to gain a bit of respect again for moving on with her career.
-   Justin Bieber, another Teen Idol, had one of the biggest music periphery hatedoms in a long time. The huge media coverage (including being the focal point of one of Funnyordie.com's April Fools' Day pranks) didn't help. The hatred of Bieber became so widespread that about half of all YouTube videos, even those unrelated to Bieber, have someone complaining about him in the comments. In addition, Bieber was ranked #1 on the "2014's Most Annoying Celebrities" list. While there are valid reasons to dislike him based on his actions, he has yet to do anything that really seems heinous enough to justify being voted among the top ten most evil people in history alongside Adolf Hitler and Josef Stalin. The problem is so bad that Justin Bieber's Wikipedia entry is one of the most vandalized pages on the site, so much that it's listed twice in the Most Vandalized Pages list (though whether that was intentional or not is unclear) and listed as semi-protected on the French version of that list.
-   Taylor Swift has haters that think she is a soulless sellout. Then there are the people who think she's anti-feminist for singing stereotypical love songs and spending most of her time mooning over boys. She also gets bashed for portraying herself as a Purity Sue (which is especially ridiculous when you consider songs like "Picture To Burn", "Better Than Revenge", and "Sparks Fly"). Though, this has lessened a little bit after she recorded a song for _The Hunger Games_ movie, singing about something different.
-   Backlash against Disco during its heyday in the 70s was so great that there is a trope named after this backlash. Disco Demolition Night is a famous example of contemporary hatred toward the genre.
    -   Specifically targeted are The Bee Gees, who were the face of disco in the late 1970s. Many were celebrating in the early 1980s when their amazing hit streak of the late 1970s came to a sudden halt (after 1979's "Love You Inside Out"), but even though they no longer dominated the charts, the Bee Gees — always well-respected for their harmonies — continued to sell out concerts, its members (specifically, Barry Gibb) continued to write hit songs for other artists, and in time, their songs that hit during the peak of their popularity began to receive heavy airplay on oldies stations.
    -   One possible reason that disco continues to be intensely hated is that in one way it managed to remain ubiquitous even after it died out. By the time 1970s nostalgia swept America in the mid-'90s, disco had become so inextricably identified with the decade that spawned it that — for a while, at least — it effectively buried all other (usually more serious or "harder") pop music genres from that time period, from punk rock to prog rock to power pop to early metal. Genuine fans of '70s pop culture were not amused to see it reduced to a laughingstock by ignorant (and often younger) observers who naturally assumed that the '70s had given rise to only one, extremely obnoxious style of music. Think of it as a sort of retroactive Stop Being Stereotypical. (Many fans of '80s music loathe Hair Metal for the same reason.)
    -   To bring this example back to the literal meaning of the trope, disco, a genre that had largely been created and defined by and for blacks, Hispanics and gays, got its biggest hatred from the kind of working-class white kids who made Disco Demolition Night into what it was.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Yes, there was undeniably racism and homophobia in play, but as Steve Dahl noted long afterwards, disco culture was inherently expensive, in that you would have to buy nice clothes and learn how to dance in order to be socially successful in a future disco universe. It also isn't the kind of music you could (at the time anyway) get together a garage band and play on your own.
-   Pat Boone as a 1950s-'60s pop idol, since his career was built largely on making the more incendiary forms of popular music such as R&B "safe" for white listeners; and borrowing (stealing?) from black musicians white audiences wouldn't listen to. His later position as a Christian conservative commentator did nothing to help this. In fact, Little Richard's "Long Tall Sally" was written to be a song that Pat Boone would never cover. It backfired.
-   For a period, Michael Bolton received so much bashing that "_Kill Michael Bolton!_" jokes practically became a Dead Horse Trope of their own. And Ryan Stiles from _Whose Line Is It Anyway?_ continued to relentlessly make Bolton jokes even after his popularity had waned. _Office Space_ can't have helped (Die, motherfucker, die, motherfucker, die!). Granted, that was the printer, but Michael has similar feelings about the musician.
-   The Wiggles has a hatedom consisting of older children and adults, mostly because many of their songs are for younger children. Some also find the idea of men spending time with children creepy (before the new, young members, including one woman, replaced the old ones).
-   Lady Gaga gets this, for many reasons by many different demographics, but, specifically, by non-camp males because of her over-the-top refusal to be "conventional". Despite frequent Pandering to the Base, people wonder why she's not so widely celebrated outside her obvious target demographic. Given the calculated way she behaves and dresses "non-conventionally", it's almost like she's trying for this sort of reaction.
-   Rap music in general.
    -   The genre tends to inspire a generational divide between the MTV/BET-watching youth of its fans and their out-of-touch adult parents who take offense to lyrics thay consider to be violent and misogynistic. Rap is even the preferred punching bag of older Black leaders who accuse/scapegoat it for promoting stereotypes and instilling in its listeners distorted messages about Black culture. It also has a MASSIVE hatedom amongst fans of classic rock, mainly because it's effectively replaced most genres of rock in the mainstream these days. As with the NBA example mentioned in the sports folder, it's also a convenient dog whistle for racists, especially if they claim that all rappers are "thugs."
    -   Time killed this when the original "MTV Generation" (who were teens during the '80s and early '90s) turned into parents, though it's still an issue for the older teens and young adults who are the children of the Baby Boomers (who were teens during the '60s and '70s, before rap became mainstream).
    -   Of course, now that Generation Z have their own new styles of rap, old-school fans who grew up in the 80s and 90s turn into a periphery hatedom with the cries of They Changed It, Now It Sucks!.
    -   Reggaeton, being a derivative from rap and dancehall, has a hatedom in Latin America similar to the one towards rap, for the same demographics and for similar reasons. They also get fire from the heavy sexual content of several songs, which adds a lot of Moral Guardians of the Think of the Children! type to the hatedom.
    -   There's a substantial rivalry between metal and rap, though it's mostly one sided, since most rap fans are oblivious to it. This comes mostly from metal fans believing metal should be the biggest genre in the charts, and blame the popularity of rap for stopping this. They will lament the glory days of Nu Metal, but forget it was just as much a fad as anything else. (Ironically, when metal was at the peak of its popularity in The '80s, it was in the incarnation of Hair Metal, which most of these critics also despise.) In actual fact, many metal fans like rap music and vice versa.
    -   Fans of rock and metal both regard rap music as having trashy culture and requiring "no talent" simply because they don't emphasize instruments as much.
-   Crunk Core has the most storied Periphery Hatedom of any genre.
-   Kidz Bop, a series of covers of popular songs sung by little kids with more kid-appropriate lyrics. It is aimed at little kids, and universally despised and panned by everyone older than 10.
    -   The hatedom can also be spanned from the fact that ads for Kidz Bop play _all the time_ on networks like Cartoon Network and Nickelodeon.
    -   Musicspace gives the series surprisingly good reviews, but these are mostly parents who bought the CDs for their kids, plus the site is directly connected to its record label, Razor & Tie. All other sites trash the series mercilessly.
-   As white-hot as The Beatles were in the sixties, they weren't without their share of hatred. Some of it came from their target demographic, such as fans of other British Invasion groups such as Herman's Hermits and the Dave Clark Five or American groups like Frankie Valli And The Four Seasons. But much of it was from older adults who found their music to be more flash-in-the-pan disposable pop, and particularly, Moral Guardians (lampshaded in Allan Sherman's novelty tune "Pop Hates The Beatles"). Hatred from the latter would reach a fever pitch after John Lennon was quoted saying the Beatles were "more popular than Christ", prompting fundamentalist Christians to burn all Beatle memorabilia (Lennon would heavy-heartedly clarify, "I'm not saying we're _better_ than Christ or _greater_ than Christ. I'm just saying we're more popular.") But by the time the band had reached _Revolver_ and _Sgt. Pepper_, though, showing that they were more than just "yeah yeah"s, even adults had to sit up and took notice, and they began to be seen as the musical pioneers they're known as today. The hatedom even wanted to define the (at the time) recent term _beatlemania_ as a form of female hysteria in an attempt to show off that fangirls of The Beatles had a psychiatric illness that must be treated. Psychiatrists noted this and gave some of those a psychiatric test. The result was, predictably, that they did not suffer from any mental problems whatsoever and the term was redefined to maintain that being a fangirl is normal.
-   Elvis Presley is a pretty polarizing figure in Rock and Roll among blacks. Some are appreciative of the attention Elvis brought to the genre among the white community, creating openings for black artists. Others felt he had appropriated the genre to the detriment of black artists who had been doing it long before he did. Elvis gave credit many times to earlier black artists whose songs he covered (to a much greater degree than, say, The Rolling Stones or Led Zeppelin), but it didn't help that some of his fans believed he actually invented Rock and Roll. Elvis was also hated by some whites for being "too black", making him a Tragic Mulatto of sorts. And then, there were Moral Guardians who also hated his sound in general … and the fact that he swiveled his hips during his performances.
-   Harry Belafonte is a polarizing figure amongst fans of calypso music. Although he brought the music to the attention of an American audience, he's criticised for doing so by watering the music down and generally playing traditional songs, not competing in calypso tents, and crediting other people's songs to himself. However, Belafonte was in fact very respectful towards the musicians and the record company was mostly to blame for the credits issue. He did end up crediting them for his songs. He signed so many calypso artists to RCA that they started a Trinidad division, and he paid them well.
-   Céline Dion got a fair bit of this, principally due to the overexposure of her hit "My Heart Will Go On" from _Titanic_, but as her profile has diminished in the ensuing years, so has the hate, and many of those who were once part of the hatedom have changed their ways and now appreciate her music.
-   Country Music:
    -   In general. Most people who claim to "hate" country seem to hold it entirely to many Southern stereotypes which are far from universal.
    -   Music made after the early 1990s, in the eyes of classic country fans and more specifically, purists. Major complaints include the sound and the artistry being little more than bad pop/adult contemporary/arena rock music that has little to no resemblance to country music made prior to the 1980s, and the newer artists getting favor while classic artists who continued to write, record and release new material — including but not limited to Merle Haggard, George Jones, Loretta Lynn and dozens of others — began to be ignored by radio and ultimately, the mainstream media. Since rural America has gone from poor to rich, the shift is understandable but still disturbing to some. Meanwhile, younger fans frequently find the classic sounds and music recorded by such pioneers as Kitty Wells, Hank Williams, Webb Pierce and others outdated, unrefined, unrelatable and unlistenable.
    -   Bro-country music has earned a _huge_ hatedom from people who absolutely hate its generic lyrics about sex, tailgating and drinking (Cole Swindell, Florida Georgia Line, Luke Bryan, etc.), as well as certain modern country artists who eschew actual country production in favor of electronic beats and pure pop production (such as Sam Hunt). Female artists who have made songs that actually support bro-country stereotypes (RaeLynn, Maggie Rose) have also gotten trashing from bro-country haters as well. The hatedom gradually died down as bro-country fell out of favor.
    -   "Boyfriend country" came when artists like Thomas Rhett (a former purveyor of "bro-country"), Dan + Shay, Kane Brown, and Brett Young began pushing more romantic songs targeted at female audiences. While this served as one of the things to help "bro-country" fall out of favor and drew in young female fans of country music who had previously been repelled by "bro-country", it also created a Periphery Hatedom in the form of male fans of country to whom the songs are not directed in the first place.
-   In several countries, folkloric music, either from the own or from their neighboring countries, by people who are more into "mainstream" music (read: rock and pop). For example, at one time in Venezuela there is the trifecta hate from people of the capital and neighboring cities towards joropo (because of being perceived as backwards music from country simpletons, and for having been used as a filler during a period of obligatory 1:1 ratio of imported/local music), Zulian Gaita (because of saturation of the airwaves on Christmas time and extreme regional thematic) and vallenato (because of its association with Colombian immigration, often stereotyped as criminals and violent bus drivers who like to play music in their vehicles on an ear-damaging volume).
    -   In Mexico, "banda" music (a genre consisting of very loud brass instruments and percussions alongside some accordion) and "corridos" (like folk ballads but with the same loud brass and accordions, originally born during the Mexican Revolution to tell stories about folk heroes or notable historic characters, but which now focus mostly on narcos) are a divisive topic, as listening to them is associated with a very specific stereotype of low-income, poorly-educated people who think the only or best way to make money is the drug business, are usually alcoholics, ultraconservative and ignorant (a mix between rednecks and hillbillies who want to become druglords). Therefore, those two genres are derided as trashy, uncultred crap by half the country, especially by metal fans, who seem to harbor an almost animalistic hatred for them. However, this music is _very_ popular with the other half of the population, so it's borderline inescapable, particularly in the north, where radio stations that play banda/corridos and stations that play _anything else_ are on a 1:1 ratio; and where _any_ event, be it weddings, baptisms, house parties, etc. _will_ end up playing banda until unholy hours of the night at ear-destroying volume.
-   Soulja Boy managed to get this from _three_ demographics — Veteran rappers (most notably Ice-T) and their fans who felt his simple "how to do a dance" raps were ruining the genre, anime fans who were horrified by his terribly ill-informed attempt to make a song about how he was an anime fan himself, and ironically, actual veterans. Why the last? A song called "Let's Be Real," wherein he brags about how he got rich with his DIY approach to music and says "Fuck all the army troops."
-   The late Michael Jackson used to gather quite some flak in his time, mainly due to the scandals he got into, for being a Manchild in general, and for just being around kids. Notably, the haters often overlap with those who hate Barney as well (as noted on the documents at Jihad.net). This has mostly died down since his passing, but some people still have hate on him.
-   The Christian Rock genre is the pun of many jokes, except for certain bands like Skillet, even from Christians.
-   Metal gets a lot of hate from multiple camps, such as those who consider it Satanic or those who stereotype it as loud, angry screaming and loud noise. Then there's the intergenre rivalry, with "true" metal fans disdaining both the Hair Metal groups and their fans, expressing outrage that this pop garbage dares to call itself "metal." What they apparently forget is that "heavy metal" was a term coined by the critics, not by the fans or the band members themselves, and it just became generally appropriated. Furthermore, bands such as Mötley Crüe and Poison are increasingly no longer thought of as metal anyway, now that more extreme bands have gone mainstream.
-   Music in Brazil has a hatedom from all sides. People who enjoy rock (especially heavy metal) generally hate Brazilian music to the point of not considering it part of Brazilian culture, but just trash. People who enjoy Brazilian music generally hate rock (especially heavy metal), saying it's just people screaming and not singing, and think people who enjoy rock are just a bunch of nerds and virgins.
-   Kanye West's detractors can be split up into two groups: the first are general music listeners who think his music sucks and are appalled by his infamously jerkish, Attention Whore\-y behavior (indeed, his sudden and unexpected declaration that George Bush doesn't care about black people and interrupting Taylor Swift have become subject to serious Memetic Mutation, though it has died down after a while). The second are disgruntled longtime fans who think his _current_ music sucks and are appalled by his infamously jerkish, Attention Whore\-y behavior and miss when he used to be more agreeable and made more soulful-sounding beats instead of the darker, more experimental sound that his projects have taken on since _808s & Heartbreak_. Kanye's own "I Love Kanye" from _The Life of Pablo_ even lampshades the existence of the latter camp:
    
    _I miss the old Kanye_  
    _Straight-from-the-go Kanye_  
    _Chop-up-the-soul Kanye_  
    _Set-on-his-goals Kanye_  
    _I hate the new Kanye_  
    _The bad mood Kanye_  
    _The always rude Kanye_  
    _Spaz-in-the-news Kanye_
    
-   5 Seconds of Summer in the first few years of their mainstream popularity attracted a large hatedom. Much of this came from them coming off as a boy band thanks to their marketing and starting off as a YouTube cover band from Australia that got a \*massive\* lucky break due to One Direction bringing them on tour with them. This didn't do them favors with the pop punk/alt rock scene at the time, who saw them as a teeny bopper band who didn't pay their dues. Due to the 1D co-sign, they managed to skip putting out the amount of albums or doing the amount of touring that their contempories would have to get to the same point. Even the more positive comments towards them from the pop punk/alt rock scene had the undercurrent of them being good...for potentially getting people into "better", less popular bands.
    -   A major complaint at them was that a surprising amount of their early pop punk material was heavily derivative of older songs from bands both they and Pop Punk fans grew up listening to. Only Duran Duran recieved a direct credit on "Hey Everybody!", on advice from the band's legal team. This unfortunately mixed with less credible accusations towards the band. This includes a FUSE interview having to be edited after the Madden Brothers defended use of the "12-bar blues" chord progression in "She's Kinda Hot" after My Chemical Romance fans accused 5 Seconds of Summer of ripping off "Teenagers".
    -   The band's early career hatedom and accusations of plagarism largely died down as 5 Seconds of Summer swerved out of pop punk into 80s inspired radio pop rock with Youngblood and started taking more direct creative control over their own material. Pop punk fans who had originally bashed 5 Seconds of Summer in the mid-2010s largely moved onto bashing artists from the rapper-turned-rocker heavy 2020s pop punk revival. Some of these acts ended up being even _more_ deriviative of 90s-2000s pop punk than 5 Seconds of Summer, with an increasing amount of younger acts giving established pop punk groups pre-emptive or retroactive song credits to avoid plagarism accusations.
-   Pop punk itself gets frequent hate from fans of classic and hardcore punk, often being perceived as selling out the punk spirit while keeping the aesthetics to draw in more impressionable teenage consumers. This spawned the "defend pop punk" tagline, which itself is now being used against newer acts who are trying to piggyback off of the success of the 2020s pop punk revival, but are seen as being even bigger sellouts.
-   Post-grunge, a genre targeted to the aging Generation X crowd, received major backlash from younger millennial musicians and journalists, particularly fans of the original grunge,some of whom blamed it for the decline of rock's popularity in the 2010s.
-   The song "Ain't It Funny" by Jennifer Lopez and Ja Rule gets some hate from Linkin Park fans due to infamously keeping out "In The End" from reaching #1 on the Billboard _Hot 100_ in 2002.
-   K-pop, especially after its rise in popularity at the end of the 2010s, has seen a significant hatedom form over the years. Many K-pop detractors are those who are simply sick of the genre's "stans", who are notorious for hijacking random posts on social media (including those announcing the deaths of beloved figures) to post footage of their favorite artists singing or dancing, using bots to artificially inflate sales and play numbers on websites like Last.fm and Spotify, and overpraising their favorite artists which detractors view as little more than boy bands and girl groups (which are already known for their massive hatedoms) that aren't deserving of the hype.
-   Pinkfong's "Baby Shark" gets this from people older than the target demographic of toddlers because they find it mundane and repetitive.

    My Little Pony 

_My Little Pony_ has such a colorful history of hatedom that it has its own section:

-   The _My Little Pony_ franchise, even _Friendship is Magic_, being intentionally aimed at children, has a Periphery Hatedom; even _Friendship Is Magic_'s Periphery Demographic denies it.
-   Bizarrely, the show has ended up with not one, but _three_ periphery hatedoms:
    -   The first is directed towards the show itself. This is the standard hatedom, primarily composed of people who do not watch the show and hate it on principle just because it's _My Little Pony_. Even in any age range, adults who never actually watched it, tend to hate and deride the show for being too boring (the same goes for every single iteration of the franchise and _Friendship Is Magic_ is no exception).
    -   The second is targeted towards the show's own Periphery Demographic. _Friendship Is Magic_ is in a very strange situation where a show gains a hatedom because it's **better than expected**. Its wild success led to the creation of a massive (and vocal) fandom of adults and hence an even harder pushback from the Hatedom, with people joining in on the hatred simply because they're sick of seeing the show brought up everywhere. With a vast fandom invariably come bad apples, and even some "bronies" find themselves disapproving of some of the more... _questionable_ things their fellow bronies do. Oh yeah, and there's fanmade porn of the characters. Loads and loads of fanmade porn. This is another significant factor contributing towards the hatred of the fandom, especially from the anti-furry community, who tend to lump all bronies together with furries.
    -   The final periphery hatedom just lumps it all into one basket, hating everything about both.
-   Many adult collectors of the older _My Little Pony_ generations dislike the toyline for _Friendship is Magic_ due to their smaller size and perceived poorer quality, with many toys lacking brushable manes in favor of sculpted ones. There's also the fact that it focused overwhelmingly on characters from the cartoon instead of introducing new ponies in waves like previous generations, a complaint also thrown at the "Core 7" era of Gen 3. While there do exist Toyline Original Characters, they were mostly recolors and usually relegated to low quality blind bag figures at best.
-   Before FiM and the bronies, _My Little Pony Tales_ and _My Little Pony (G3)_ had hatedom from fans of _My Little Pony 'n Friends_ due to the genre switch to Slice of Life. **And then** even fans of _My Little Pony Tales_ usually **despise** _G3_ due to its significant drop in animation quality and the plots becoming increasingly insipid and boring, even for a Slice of Life _My Little Pony_ show.
-   Generation 3.5 is widely-hated by even the most hardcore fans. Particularly, the _Newborn Cuties_ line is almost universally despised outside of the target audience, mainly because of its childish writing and how the creatures that are supposed to be baby ponies look nothing like their namesake<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . Bad enough that G3.5 gathered flak among pony collectors for not looking like ponies, the Newborn Cuties somehow managed to take it several notches higher into Cartoon Creature.
-   _My Little Pony: Equestria Girls_ got an awful lot of flack from bronies before it even came out, simply because it's a High School AU When it came out, it created the Broken Base of the millennium over if it was good or not. It also got flack from parents because what used to be an innocent property for young girls was being changed into a hip, sexier line of teenage dolls, not unlike what happened years earlier with _Dora's Explorer Girls_.
-   When the first teaser for _My Little Pony: The Movie_ was released on Movie Clips, there was a 50/50 split down the middle in terms of likes and dislikes. A quick glance into the comment section reveals an overwhelming sense of apathy.

    Nickelodeon 

-   _All Grown Up!_ has its fans, but it gets a lot of flack from older fans of _Rugrats_ for its similarities to many of the Kid Coms Nickelodeon was producing at the time, changes to the characters' personalities, and/or simply being a bland Slice of Life series.
-   _Bella and the Bulldogs_ gets enough sexist and racist male hate for making a girl part of the football team...but the hatedom grew after it was discovered that one of the writers had also written and directed an adult movie about an interracial affair.
-   _Breadwinners_ received attacks from older Nickelodeon and Nicktoons fans for its very premise, use of dubstep, large amounts of Toilet Humour, and (deliberately videogame-styled) Limited Animation, _all before the show even aired._ Once it did air it got a lot worse, though it did develop a small Periphery Demographic who utterly adore the series and will fiercely defend it.
-   _The Brothers Flub_ falls into this due to its horrendous theme song, slow-pacing, stale and random humor, bland and plotless writing, ugly-looking characters, and especially the titular brothers', Guapo and Fraz, constant arguing. Didn't help that it premiered on the same time as _SpongeBob SquarePants_. Those reasons might have something to do with the show being so dang obscure.
-   _CatDog_ is a very much polarising show. It has plenty of adult fans and is still pretty well-regarded, but some people dislike its Sadist Show nature and it has gotten negative comparisons to _The Ren & Stimpy Show_.
-   Back when it first aired, _ChalkZone_ was often disliked for being too fluffy in comparison to edgier Nicktoons. There were also many fans of _Invader Zim_ who hated the show because they thought it was responsible for getting _Zim_ Screwed by the Network (despite the fact that _ChalkZone_ was treated just as badly if not worse). Nowadays, it's Vindicated by History and sports a decent-sized Periphery Demographic with those who grew up with the series.
-   _Dora the Explorer_: Particularly to those who hate being treated like they have the memory of a goldfish. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   Dora hate is played with in _Sherman's Lagoon_; the titular shark, a middle-aged male, loves the show because he's just that stupid.
    -   _Saturday Night Live_'s parody.
    -   The Stringini Bros. have a song entitled "Dora No More" which describes Dora being mauled in various ways.
    -   Dora is a _frequent_ parody target amongst GoAnimate, along with _Caillou_.
    -   The _Dora's Explorer Girls_ line got hate from parents **before it even came out** because they worried that the series would be turned into a clone of _Bratz_, with the belief that aging her up would taint the brand's image.
-   _Blue's Clues_, another pioneer of participation-based Edutainment, may get some of this, although **WAY** less than Dora because of teens and adults' liking of human narrator Steve's dorky charm and for the show having a lot of great Nostalgia Filter. There are more people who love the show than those who dislike it, though the episodes where Joe took the wheel are generally seen as inferior.
-   Nick Jr.'s new Cash-Cow Franchise, _PAW Patrol_, while being mostly loved by adults and parents, is a popular target of the Preschool Show hatedom (which mostly consists of teenagers trying to look cool and bored adults), if mainly for being very popular with very young children and thus being seen as "annoying". There are also parents who hate it because of the gender roles in the show, mainly having Skye being the sole female character of the titular group until the arrival of Everest. Said parents also aren't big fans of just how Merchandise-Driven it is, and how expensive several of the toys can get. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  That being said, the movie has received quite a few fans for the amped up scale, character development, and its brief moment of Self-Deprecation.
-   _Fanboy and Chum Chum_ developed this during its heyday in the late 2000s and early 2010s. If you checked out a thread asking for opinions on the official Nickelodeon message boards for this show during that time, they'll range from "it's good" to "very mediocre". IMDb and the TV.com website, on the other hand, provides us with much more scathing reviews from its largely adult userbase. Anything that's not an actual episode of the show, but, for example, the intro or some fan videos on YouTube will be _flooded_ with hate comments from fans of older Nickelodeon shows and Nicktoons. It has its fans, though, and its haters still generally agree that there's been worse on Nickelodeon since it ended. By 2020, the show had been Vindicated by History due to its unique artstyle, highly exaggerated animation (as opposed to the rather sterile look most televised CG cartoons go for), and the success of the creator’s second series _Glitch Techs_.
-   _The Fairly OddParents: Fairly Odder_ gets this from fans of _The Fairly OddParents!_, due to turning a beloved Nicktoon into a generic live-action Kid Com. Criticisms of the show include Cosmo and Wanda getting less screentime than the live-action characters, a lot of topical pop culture references, poor usage of special effects, the stilted animation for animated characters, especially during "Fairies Away, Pt 2", which also featured Mr. Crocker facing forward.
-   While still having a good-sized Periphery Demographic, _The Loud House_ has gotten some hate from fans of _Rise of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles_ who think that it caused the latter show to get cancelled. There are also some who dislike the show due to the behavior of its fanbase, believe the main cast are walking clichés, its predictable writing, its reliance on Toilet Humour, or think that some episodes get too mean-spirited toward its protagonist, Lincoln Loud<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . It doesn't help that the allegations on the show's creator pretty much soiled the show's reputation further. The show's growing Hatedom status may be a cause of the show running on for too long as cartoon fans haven't been too kind on the show lately as they fear the show might end up meeting the same fate as _The Fairly OddParents_.
-   _Marvin Marvin_, partly due to its Up to Eleven Toilet Humour, for being very unoriginal, and for being another Lucas Cruikshank vehicle. The huge backlash eventually led to it being canceled after one season as part of the network's continual executive foot-shooting to keep up with Disney. You could've practically heard the massive sigh of relief from the Hatedom when it was announced that this was Lucas Cruikshank's last project for Nickelodeon.
-   _Max and Ruby_ gets this from the usual Periphery Hatedom for preschool cartoons, who enjoy bashing the show to be annoying and "mean-spirited". It even appeared on _The Angry Grandpa_.
-   _The Penguins of Madagascar_ and _Kung Fu Panda: Legends of Awesomeness_ TV series are hated by some fans of the series of movies they originated from, though the former _does_ have a considerable fandom as well.
-   _Nick News with Linda Ellerbee_, a news show aimed at elementary through high school aged kids, gets a considerable amount of hate from people who consider it boring. Nevertheless it lasted over twenty years.
-   Of Nickelodeon shows, 2013's _Nick Studio 10_ received an irrational hatedom because of its un-traditional interruptions of programming (right in the middle of episodes with random videos that had no rhyme or reason, although the block was mainly made up of the usual _SpongeBob SquarePants_ marathons the network has been addicted to, so unless you're completely new to the show, you knew what was happening anyways), stunts and skits which wasted food, Toilet Humour, and some rather overheated accusations of animal abuse, though the actual audience either enjoyed it or rolled their eyes and waited them out because they were there to watch a show, not the continuity between. It may have developed into a sane block eventually, but a hacking of the show's Twitter account with racist content, social media harassment of the cast, YouTube videos criticizing it made by viewers well out of their demographic (The Archfiend was the most infamous hater of the block and was in his **thirties**), and the show's Facebook moderator just giving up made it too onerous for Nickelodeon to continue it. Although a Labor Day 'best-of' episode promised the return of the block, the block never returned and the cast moved onto projects outside the network. As of 2016, Nick has not launched any other live hosted blocks, likely scared off completely by the _Studio 10_ experience.
-   NickMom started out as a new block on the Nick Jr. channel in 2012 centered on mom-focused humor and such to give them a respite after having to tolerate their toddler's continuous _Peppa Pig_ obsession. To social media critics who don't understand that a new network's first schedule will never become permanent, it was like _Franklin_, _Dora_, and _Blue's Clues_ were taken out back and shot, replaced by inappropriate mom-focused humor despite multiple content warnings. Adding to the hatedom were several minor controversies, such as having an insensitive blog post about those affected by Hurricane Sandy, using photos of children without permission on their blog, and airing a skit titled "Bake Sale" which caused outrage among parents who felt the skit was mocking children with food allergies, successfully managing to get it pulled from both the block and its website (you can watch it here and judge for yourself.) The ratings (low as they were), however, eventually sorted things out; the funny stuff and movie reruns worked, the vulgar stuff didn't, and by 2014 NickMom became more benign (with only the occasional sex joke or edited R-rated romance movie here and there), with Disney Junior, Sprout, and Netflix easily happy to take the homes that don't want to watch NickMom. Eventually, though, those who were still dissatisfied with the block won; the block was discontinued to the relief of its (by then mostly faded) hatedom on September 28, 2015 (and by then if you wanted to take down 90's romance films and _Parenthood_ reruns, you just looked petty), with regular Nick Jr. programs taking its place.
-   _Planet Sheen_ gets attacks from people who grew up with _The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron, Boy Genius_ for Flanderizing Sheen from a relatively normal Ditz to a Too Dumb to Live one, removing his obsession with Ultra Lord (after "Cutting the Ultra Cord"), and having none of the other Jimmy Neutron characters appear (aside from Carl in the episode that introduces Doppy's character), having expies of them instead.
-   _Rabbids Invasion_, for supposedly being nothing but the Rabbids doing something and saying "BWAAA!" all the time. It's actually more than that; the Rabbids go into random places discovering new things, and they do say "BWAAA!", but not too much. For the most part, it's So Okay, It's Average, but it's been compared to _Teletubbies_. It's also hated by haters of the _Raving Rabbids_ games since the Rabbids managed to get a TV series over Rayman himself (though _Rayman_ actually did have a cartoon that was only four episodes long).
-   While _The Ren & Stimpy Show_ has a pretty big following, back in the 90s it was the scourge of many parents for having inappropriate humor that doesn't really belong in a children's cartoon and/or being too gross.
-   The Canadian import _Rocket Monkeys_ gets a lot of hate from adult Nickelodeon fans for its excessive grossout humour, unappealing visuals and animation, and having one of the worst cases of Designated Hero in Western Animation (to the point where it's thoroughly lampshaded in the theme song). This, along with being Screwed by the Network, contributed to the show initially lasting only a single season in the United States on Nick, but the series did well enough with viewers in Canada that it carried on for an additional 2 seasons that _did_ eventually air on KidsClick.
-   _Rocket Power_ is known to get some hate from people who don't have fond memories watching it for its dated and Totally Radical nature. The art style that comes with being a Klasky-Csupo cartoon and the fact that the protagonist, Otto Rocket, is an obnoxious Jerkass whether he wins or loses don't help much.
-   Initially, _Sanjay and Craig_ was accused by many people (typically older Nicktoon fans and the general Periphery Demographic of kid-oriented Western Animation) for being a rip-off of _Adventure Time_ and _Regular Show_ and upon premiering was berated for having too much toilet humor. (The first episode was notably about a _butt transplant_) Even before it premiered, it was hated for _actually interrupting shows_ ala the aforementioned _Nick Studio 10_ to show promos for it. However, the show eventually grew the beard and gradually gained a noticeable Periphery Demographic over time. People were even disappointed when it was cancelled. Many of the first season's episodes are now mostly seen as So Okay, It's Average. (Though some episodes, particularly the infamous and nonsensical "Fart Baby" episode are still widely disliked.) It still has a number of detractors, though, so it's not completely an aversion to this trope.
-   _SpongeBob SquarePants_:
    -   As popular as it is, it seems that the show (Mostly seasons 4-9, seasons 1-3 are well received) is here among older fans of Nickelodeon, and those who only liked the first three seasons, who are just sick of the show and wish it would be _cancelled_ to make room for many other better Nicktoons, and/or the first three seasons. Then there's the hatedom coming from Fandom Rivalry. Fans of _Rugrats_ are well-aware that the Executive Meddling that brought the sponge to popularity is also the crushing blow to their beloved show, and thus react accordingly with Hype Backlash. Though Seasons 6 and 7 get the most of it. While the show has managed to Win Back the Crowd over time, due to creator Stephen Hillenburg coming back (though it wouldn't last due to Stephen's death a few years later and the show's universe expanding by ordering spin-offs at the wrong time) and the characters getting their old characterizations back, there are still those who feel that it has overstayed its welcome and has outlasted "better" Nicktoons.
    -   A large number of people, mainly people who do not have children of their own, despise the show because they find the show's opening theme off-putting. The hatred for the theme song is so immense, that it is ranked third place in an IMDB user poll about songs from movies and TV that people despise, only beaten by "I Love You" from _Barney and Friends_ and "My Heart Will Go On" from _Titanic_, with 152 votes being cast against it.
-   _Wayside_ gets this from older fans of the original _Wayside School_ books heavily for Bowdlerising the source material (to the point of nearly being In Name Only) and making Todd a massive Butt-Monkey. It certainly didn't help that it aired around the same time as _El Tigre_, which despite having the same amount of episodes as _Wayside_, it was more positively received and still airs reruns on Nicktoons every now and then, while _Wayside_ became an Old Shame for Nick.

    Podcasts 

-   _Escape from Vault Disney!_:
    -   Acknowledged and ultimately downplayed with their episode on _High School Musical: The Musical: The Holiday Special_, with Tony saying that the special is immune to any of their criticism because it is tailor-made for people who enjoy the series it's based on.
    -   Discussed in their episode about _Fancy Nancy: Fancy It Yourself_: Their general opinion is while they personally dislike it, it’s not bad and the target demographics of femme girls and little boys would enjoy it.

    Professional Wrestling 

-   Professional wrestling in general gets this from those that understand that it's choreographed, but not why this is the case. The hatedom is significant enough that the entire Useful Notes page for Professional Wrestling is dedicated to addressing and debunking the myths that come from it.
    -   An offshoot of this is non-fans believing that fans _don't know it's a work_ and are therefore stupid, leading people to hate wrestling because they think it can only be enjoyed by people with low intelligence. This is obviously not the case; kayfabe has been completely dead for nearly 30 years and the overwhelming majority of today's wrestling fans are Smart Marks. Even when kayfabe was still alive everyone (outside of very young children and a handful of adults) knew what was going on, it's just that no one said it out loud.
-   Old school WWE fans (and many Attitude Era fans) seem to particularly loathe the character of Hornswoggle, whose matches border on slapstick comedy and seem to exist for the sole reason of attracting the attention of small children. The Great Khali is a similar example.
-   Characters regarded as overbooked supermen, primary and most controversial example being John Cena. Randy Orton and Sheamus are examples as well.
-   Many male fans find the Divas' matches boring. Well, unless you're at the event, you don't have to watch them — and even if you are, you could just go to the bathroom or get a hot dog<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . The arguments tend to stem from: the matches are too badly fought to entertain "purists", and the girls aren't slutty enough to drag in the "letches", so they usually end up in the "meh" zone.
-   Purists resent the fact the WWE has no real interest in making a legitimate female division, and find the current iteration of the Diva division to be reeking of Unfortunate Implications. That and the fact they insist on hiring models instead of athletes. TNA has started to get the same complaints as well. There are also disenfranchised Diva fans who remember its short Golden Age in the early 2000s, when the Divas started to get serious about wrestling, starting with Lita and Trish Stratus. Of course this is no longer an issue since WWE actually created a legitimate women's division back in 2016 (two, if you count WWE NXT as a separate promotion), there's now nearly as many female wrestlers employed by WWE as there are male ones and female wrestlers have main evented pay-per-views, including _WrestleMania 35_.
-   A different set of purists who will hold a former model's past career against her even if she becomes a good wrestler. Others will get this even when they've never done modelling before. Trish Stratus herself experienced this early on and had to start taking chair shots to shake off the haters. Kelly Kelly is an example as many people will read her name in a match and automatically label it as bad without even bothering to watch it. A lot of this might be due to the perception that the female championship has been cheapened since 2007 by putting it on a revolving door of Divas instead of having mainstays like it once did. There's also the argument that certain Divas get much more attention than they deserve, at the expense of Divas who are at least as good. Take Torrie Wilson, Stacy Keibler, and Jackie Gayda, for instance. They weren't the best in the ring, but they at least entered WWE with _some_ wrestling experience. Yet they barely got near the Women's Championship, much less won it, and all too quickly saw their careers slide into irrelevance. Then Kelly Kelly came to WWE with _no_ wrestling experience and gradually took over the entire division, much like Trish had a few years before.
-   Eva Marie is not unpopular with fans of _Total Divas_, but still reviled by actual wrestling fans. Eva Marie made it no secret on social media that she was more interested in launching an acting career than learning to wrestle, combined with Vince McMahon taking a liking to her and wanting to push her to the moon before she'd even learned to wrestle made her a Hate Sink among wrestling fans. WWE tried to fix things by rebranding her as a Fanservice-heavy character who kept having Wardrobe Malfunctions, preventing her from actually wrestling, but fans still hated her.
-   Then there are those — Stay in the Kitchen types, mostly — who are annoyed at the fact that women's wrestling exists at all, asserting that the only thing girls should be doing in the ring is holding up the round cards (which hasn't happened since wrestling made pains to distinguish itself from boxing) and deriding female wrestling as "just more modern/revisionist/politically correct crap of the '90s", etc. — apparently not realizing that there have been female professional wrestlers (1930s) for almost as long as there has been professional wrestling itself (1920s, at least in the form we are familiar with today)<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . The fact that WWE did not heavily promote its women's division until the late 1990s — and even then mostly for Fanservice — may have contributed to this attitude, especially among men who were only casual wrestling fans.

    Sports 

-   Golf. From those who aren't fans, it's regarded as monotonous, luck-based, aristocratic, unathletic (since some people just drive carts to wherever the ball is instead of walking), and associated with square old rich people in clown pants. Dave Barry joked about the little exertion it involved by breaking down the calories burned into various categories like "sauntering," "squinting," and "saying things like 'You certainly did double bogey that mashie niblick, Ted! Ha ha!'" For ironic points, there are rules strongly restricting the use of carts on the pro-circuit, resulting in most professionals walking the course. These were intended to make golf look more athletic, but it results in slowing down the games that are televised. Tiger Woods rising to become the face of the sport has done little to chip away its image as a form of conspicuous consumption for the elite.
-   Sailing. It's viewed as a very upper-class activity, due to the cost of owning and maintaining a boat, as well as associating "sailing" with cruise ship vacations, even though the two are nothing alike.
-   Equestrian sports. Like sailing, they're generally perceived as elitist and upper class. In the case of actor Christopher Reeve (who was permanently paralyzed after falling off a horse), the hatred got so intense that some people annoyed by his activism on the part of the handicapped implied that Reeve _deserved_ to have it happen to him. Animal rights people also complain, even if the horses are borderlined spoiled in how well they're treated, and giving a Mercy Kill to those who break their legs is justifiable.
-   Cricket, especially as it takes day to complete what is called a "test match". In the reverse though, the faster 20Twenty variant that intends to make the game relevant for the Internet generation is cited by traditional cricket fans as the sullying of the sport.
-   Motor sports in general. They are perceived as boorish, lower class, anti-intellectual sports which are dangerous, waste fuel, and pollute the environment.
    -   Or, depending on who you ask, are perceived as an elitist sport for rich white guys (racing can be very expensive, has had issues with racism, and is predominently male<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> ), much like the examples listed above
-   NASCAR, for detracting the athletic element from sports for part of it; and its common association with rednecks for the other. Others simply find it boring, since at bottom it's just a cluster of fancy cars driving around and around for hours — really not much more than what you'll see on a particularly busy freeway system.
-   Cardio kickboxing is one of the biggest crazes among fitness aficionados and shows no sign of dying down, but it continues to get a lot of hate from formal practitioners of martial arts for diluting the practice. While many pioneers of the craze, such as Billy Blanks and Chalene Johnson, _are_ in fact, legitimate martial artists, the fact that people started becoming instructors with no formal background means they risk teaching bad form to students that not only distracts them from effective fighting techniques should they ever need to defend themselves, but actually runs the risk of students _hurting_ themselves doing the moves as exercise.
-   _Competitive_ kickboxing has gotten hatred from some Moral Guardians. The most common accusations is that it has stripped martial arts of their once-typical hallmark of restraint and peaceful ideals, and turned the whole ordeal into a spectator sport dedicated to feeding the audience's love for violence. John McCain called it "human cockfighting." (He actually said that about what we now call Mixed Martial Arts, but to many people they're one in the same.) However, again, the opposition has done little to dampen the enthusiasm of its fans.
-   Sumo wrestling; usually because it epitomizes Manly Gay to some people, and to others because it inspires a lot of "fat-men-in-diapers" jokes. If you see any depiction of this sport outside Japan, it is likely to be parodic in nature.
-   Cheerleading, due to the amount of negative stereotypes associated with cheerleaders and because it is a stereotypically female sport (a criticism often raised by feminists, ironically enough). Many will even deny that it _is_ a sport, when in fact it requires mastery of a great many physical challenges and is actually more dangerous than most of the "jockier" sports.
-   The NBA attracts its fair share of hatedom from "purists" or old school fans who feel the league has been over-commercialized and is focused too much on its big name stars, people who think its gameplay is too one-dimensional (in the early 2000s the complaints were low scoring and over-emphasis on defense, now it's lack of defense and over-reliance on three-pointers), hockey fans who view basketball as the Spotlight-Stealing Squad of winter season sports, and racists who find the NBA to be a convenient way to side-vent their prejudices (if the person uses the word "thug" or any variation in describing why they don't like the NBA, they usually fall under the last category).
-   Ice Hockey, which is perceived as violent, dangerous and lionizing negative masculine stereotypes. The sport's popularity in Canada is also an automatic laugh line for more nationalistic types. It doesn't help that it's a winter sport popular in the coldest parts of North America.
-   American Football has this much more strongly than ice hockey; although the rules of American football do forbid fighting more strongly than ice hockey (in football, brawling causes an automatic ejection; in ice hockey, the punishment is five minutes in the penalty box), in football, the violence is baked right into the way the game is played. Tackling, blocking, and hitting the opponent with one's body, often at fairly high speed, is an essential part of playing football. Moreover, one of the best "weapons" a football player has is none other than his own helmeted head—which has led to a massive problem with concussions and sub-concussion brain damage that causes lasting neurological problems<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . Detractors, particularly fans of Association Football, point out that the only way players use their feet in the game is in kicking or running, and the ball also doesn't look much like a ball. This often goes hand-in-hand with negative perceptions of American culture. While not stereotyped as violent the way Football Hooligans are, there's still a perception that fans are Lower Class Louts. Nerdier types will snark about "sportsball" or "handegg." Many of these stereotypes seem to be held by people who aren't aware that football has moved beyond "three yards and a cloud of dust" and is much more based on complex strategy and physical finesse these days. Also, as a league where roughly 70% of the players are black the NFL is subject to the same racist dogwhistles mentioned above in the NBA entry.
-   Collegiate American Football (and college sports in general) gets knocked for having nothing to do with the mission of a school and wasting money that could be used for education (which are valid criticisms, but also very ignorant of how the functions of higher education in America evolved and the complexities of how institutions spend and acquire money).
-   Association Football (soccer for Americans), because of a reputation for violent, riot-happy fans (despite American football fans also destroying their own cities when they win the Super Bowl) and whiny, injury-faking players. Soccer also gets a lot of hate from fans (or proponents) of other sports in countries where it (soccer) is dominant, this ironically mirrors the attitude many US soccer fans have towards the "big four" (baseball, basketball, hockey, and American football). However, it does take away (usually limited) media attention and, more crucially, television money from other sports, such as handball.
-   Curling is the pun of numerous jokes from those who don't understand how it works or why it's a sport. This is especially common during the Olympics.
-   Major League Baseball, as with Cricket, has a reputation as a "boring" sport beloved of statistics-obsessed nerds, in contrast to the faster-paced sports of American football and basketball. The latter two are also seen as having a more heterogenous appeal than baseball in terms of fan demographics, which is still seen as an overwhelmingly white and middle class sport despite a visible contingent of MLB players from Latin America and the Caribbean. The sport is also still trying to recover from the steroid scandals of the '00s.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Candy Land_ (and similar Roll-and-Move games) is hated by people older than its target audience for being a mindless Luck-Based Mission with zero actual decisions to be made. Some members of the "serious" board-gamer crowd argue that it doesn't even deserve to be called a game.
-   _Cards Against Humanity_:
    -   It's a party game that attracts some hate from the "serious" board-gamer crowd for multiple reasons. Common complaints include its vulgar nature giving a poor impression of the hobby, the game's ability to shut down board game nights (someone drags out _CAH_, it grabs people's attention, it becomes impossible to play something else, and the _CAH_ game will probably go on past the point of being fun), low replayability, and feeling that the game doesn't encourage creative play because you're just assembling jokes from pre-made cards, and shocking answers will often beat clever answers.
    -   The target audience is people who enjoy edgy humour, and the game is (unsurprisingly) disliked by people who find its content offensive or at least tasteless.
-   _Fluxx_ is a light game that gets some hate from "serious" board-gamers who feel that it's too much of a random mess to be fun.
-   _Magic: The Gathering_:
    -   The _Universes Beyond_ crossover cards are intended to draw in new players, but also get considerable backlash from established players who feel that it waters down the flavour of _Magic_. It's argued that the people who hate the crossover cards don't have to buy or play them. They've argued back that they still have to play _against_ them, which is countered by saying that pretty much everyone has some types of cards they dislike playing against even outside of the crossovers.
    -   The target audience for the _30th Anniversary Edition_, a $999 collection of four boosters containing non-tournament-legal reprints of the game's oldest cards, was most likely well-enfranchised players with extra cash and deep nostalgia. The product is widely despised outside of this group, as most players think it's way too expensive for a nostalgic throwback, and point out that they're charging a grand for cards that aren't even tournament legal.
-   _Monopoly_ gets hate from multiple groups outside of its target audience:
    -   It's reviled by the Eurogamer and "serious" board-gamer crowd who view it as a poorly-aged design, too much of a luck-based Ameritrash Game, or both. Worse, hardly anyone actually plays it by the real rules, and most common house rules drag out the game, so even if the players are having fun initially, chances are that they won't by the end of it. That's bad enough, but it's also so ubiquitous that board-gamers (with some justification) fear anyone hearing "board game" is likely to first think "Monopoly" and then "I'd rather have a root canal without anesthetics." There's also some resentment over how _Monopoly_ is one of the most popular board games ever made when most hobby gamers would rate it somewhere between "terrible" and "mediocre".
    -   It has received backlash, both left-wing and right-wing, from people who know the original game was intended as a scathing satire on capitalism (though it was really only accurate to the late-19th century, pre-antitrust Robber Baron era). Right-wingers don't like it for having been a leftist caricature of a market economy and leftists don't like that it's now one of the biggest mass-marketed corporate products _ever_. The political hatedoms are especially odd because Monopoly was not intended to be a critique of the free market at all (which didn't even exist in its present form when the game was created), but of the old protectionist and consolidationist economic model that is despised by left-wingers and (most) right-wingers alike.
    -   Not helping is that Hasbro has found it to be a Cash-Cow Franchise and churns out dozens and dozens of themed _Monopoly_ games, including ones based on franchises mentioned here...
-   _Warhammer40K_ and related games used to get this _a lot_ from fans of the more traditional, historically-based War Gaming, who disdained gaming based on science-fiction and fantasy elements as debasing the real thing, as something vulgar and something just "for kids". <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  For a long time, model painting shows and exhibition events barred fantasy and sci-fi as unworthy of consideration, and the big modelling press names such as _Military Modelling_ refused to touch it. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  It's fair to say attitudes have mellowed since, and the big competitions today now allow full representation to the fantasy/scifi community.

    Toys 

-   The _Cabbage Patch Kids_ dolls were also pitched as a Christmas must-have and particularly reviled by people who were sick of seeing them everywhere. Film director Don Mancini was one of these people. His response? Chucky.
-   Beanie Babies, although most of the hate was directed at the Periphery Demographic of housewives who stored them in glass boxes as collectibles, not the little kids who just wanted to play with them as toys. Then again, there were also a lot of parents sick of shelling out so much money for the things. Even the people who _delivered_ Beanie Babies to retailers (often UPS employees) hated them due to being constantly harassed by collectors asking if they had any of the new releases. A semi-famous urban legend even stated that said delivery people had to wear tags that said "Please Don't Ask If We Have Beanie Babies" just so they wouldn't get harassed.
-   _Polly Pocket_, from the little boys for whom they were never intended.
-   The Tickle Me Elmo, a doll of Elmo from _Sesame Street_ that shook around and giggled when you squeezed it, received truly unhinged levels of hate:
-   _Hero Factory_ for many _BIONICLE_ fans, mostly since the sets and story don't cater to a Periphery Demographic in the same way its predecessor did. Bionicle itself has this in the form of thousands of adult fans of LEGO.
-   Barbie:
    -   Everyone loves to write all sorts of long essays about how she's "a freak of nature" <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and a "walking stereotype of what a woman is supposed to be" (somehow ignoring Barbie appearing in countless white collar or even blue-collar jobs), and people often refuse to buy their daughters or relatives Barbie dolls for fear that a doll will somehow instill a negative body image in them. (Like the doll itself is the sole cause in the first place, as lampshaded in _Baby Blues_.) Ask around the Internet and you'll probably find a lot of people, even girls (especially girls), who decapitated and mutilated Barbie dolls when they were little. Barbie _is_ a stereotype of what a woman is supposed to be. Just a different stereotype: specifically, some kind of blonde, tanned, superwoman.
    -   If you were a boy and played with a Barbie doll, then you immediately had to transfer schools. Unless, that is, you did stuff like strap her to a model rocket and attempted to launch her into outer space or did all sorts of violent acts to her such as dropping a bowling ball on her or trying to melt her with a magnifying glass.
    -   Poor Mattel. It seems that no matter what they do with the Barbie franchise, they'll end up getting flak for it. One scheme in giving Barbie a positive light is _Hello Barbie_, a doll that could do advanced speech recognition and speech synthesis to answer questions posed to her by the owner and connect to Mattel's server (for Moral Guardians filtering) over the Internet via Wi-Fi to get information. The intention here is to show that girls can be smart, allowing a child to look to Barbie for help with homework if no one else who can help is around. It immediately gathered flak for being a _privacy invader_ (despite Mattel assuring that no personally identifiable information on the owner will be stored on their server, and only certain non-critical information like the owner's name is stored in the doll itself) and white hats immediately started pointing out how the doll can be hacked to say things of their choice, not by hacking the doll itself, _but by hijacking the ISP's domain name server_ (which will allow them to take over _any_ Internet connected program, including the humble web browser, and that's assuming they managed to reverse engineer the doll's communications protocol first). Nevermind that Microsoft, Blackberry, Apple and Google have done this with Cortana, Assistant, Siri and Google Assistant respectively with no backlash whatsoever, and that toys like that are pretty common in Japan and had not have any issues in that country. And hobbyists all over the world, including in the US itself, have been hacking up dolls that do just that, _and those have no filtering whatsoever_. The fact that certain TV shows were hyping up the paranoia wasn't helping. And when they put that same technology into a different toy (a Fisher-Price stuffed bear), _the first batch of said toy sold out within days of launch_. It seems that the real problem here isn't about privacy or protecting little girls, but _Barbie can't be smart_.
-   The _Bratz_ doll line received lots of complaints. Like Barbie, a lot of them were from people concerned about its target demographic of little girls, and even more so given the Bratz dolls' revealing clothes and thick make-upped expressions. However, there were, once again, a lot of boys (and older or tomboyish girls) who just liked making fun of things little girls liked.
-   _Monster High_ has this reputation but mainly because of how its popularity has affected other series. Many copycats such as _DC Super Hero Girls_ and Disney's _Descendants_ riff off the formula. This leads to scorn from older fans in the respective fanbases, which ends up redirected as _Monster High_.
-   _Funko Pop!_ is very popular, but it has an extremely vocal hatedom online. The most common reason is that the franchise's designs of the figures are simpler, their Black Bead Eyes look creepy, and they're cheaper and lower quality than other collectible franchises such as Figma and Nendoroid.
-   _My Little Pony_ has gotten this treatment for decades from three different sides. On one side you have a majority of people who prefer realistic equine figures and scoff at the pastel, talking anthropomorphic ponies. This has caused a Fandom Rivalry with series like _Breyer_. On the other side you have very few people who hate it for being too cutesy. Then there's those who're in to colorful horses, but have defected and declared hate on G3.5 onwards due to those not looking anything like horses. Incidentally, those who decried G3.5 onwards defected to Dracco's _Filly_ line, who're now at war with the bronies because some of the latter lashed out at _Filly Funtasia_.
-   The _Poopsie_ surprise toys have disgusted many adult toy collectors and Moral Guardians alike for how the Gross-Out Show\-style Toilet Humour clashes with the cutesy aesthetic. The fact that the slime-pooping/vomiting unicorn/fairy/mermaid characters are portrayed as babies/toddlers wearing disturbingly skimpy outfits and decor inappropriate for their age<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and detailed eyelashes don't really help matters.

    Webcomics 

-   _Homestuck_ has a pretty substantial one, largely due to the fandom just one day suddenly showing up and invading anime cons in cosplay like an infestation of cockroaches, despite _Homestuck_ not being an anime <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . _Homestuck_ cosplay is outright banned from several smaller anime cons for substantially justifiable reasons<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and is considered the primary reason cosplay was banned at TCAF, a dedicated webcomic con. Otherwise, it's sometimes seen as a Love to Hate series often used as a punchline for a crazy fandom. It doesn't help anyone's case that the creator of the series himself won't allow for a dedicated Homestuck convention to exist.
-   _I Love Yoo_: Due to the fact that it is a drama stemming from a Subverted love-triangle, I Love Yoo drew in a large audience of romance readers who were disappointed when the comic was less romantic than anticipated.
-   _Natty Comics_ is about a woman dealing with everyday sexism... through cartoonishly-exaggerated Disproportionate Retribution. Catcalls, insults, Double Standards; etc. are met with violence from Natty and company, ranging from a Groin Attack to Ludicrous Gibs; those on the receiving end of these attacks will always proclaim that Natty and company are in the right and that they deserved what happened to them, provide they're even still alive. Needless to say, those that aren't left-leaning on feminist issues (and many who are) are horrified by the premise, and question whether or not this is meant to be a satire on Straw Feminists (it's not). The Periphery Hatedom for this comic manifests in "fan" edits, which either imply that Natty is similar to far-right hate groups by re-interpreting her as one of them, or depict her facing the consequences of her actions.
-   _Vegan Artbook_ has a massive hatedom among non-vegans for being extremely Anvilicious, treating violence against meat-eaters as a _good_ thing, having a cast filled with Designated Heroes, and frequently bashing its critics. It doesn't help that it began condemning non-extreme vegans (who hate the strip just as much) as well.

    Web Animation 

-   Alphabet Lore, though very popular among its target audience, gets a lot of flak from those older for its childish premise, Flat Characters and overly dark, yet anticlimaclic plot. Another reason for its large hatedom is the large amount of memes that have flooded the internet in a similar vein to the Mascot Horror example above, to the point where many have gotten sick of it and deemed it a soulless cashgrab intentionally meant to appease the internet.
-   Skibidi Toilet Series similarly gets a ton of hate from older audiences for its extreme randomness and large amount of appearances on Youtube Kids Channels, as well as being one of the first cultural touchstones of the "Ipad Kid" generation who are stereotyped as having been constantly exposed to overstimulation since birth, leading to vitrolic accusations that _Skibidi Toilet_ is the equivalent of setting a toddler in front of a screen playing disconnected loud noises and colors to keep them mindlessly entertained. It's _also_ disliked by _Half-Life_ fans for making Generation Alpha kids think that a game from twenty years before _Skibidi Toilet_ somehow ripped it off (even though the most prominent "example" of this was an obvious bait post made by a troll).

    Web Originals 

-   Zero Punctuation / Ben Croshaw: has a considerable hatedom from Nintendo fans - who hate his famous dislike of Mario and other classical Nintendo properties - anime and JRPG fans - who hate his similarly famous dislike for both genres - and just generally fans of popular games and genres that Yahtzee bashed at some point.
-   When _DEATH BATTLE!_ announced the _Meta vs. Carolina_ episode, a massive portion of the Death Battle fandom immediately took a disliking to the idea of this episode happening. The reasons for this backlash are that they're pitting 2 characters from the same series against each other (and not even in an ironic sense like Goomba vs. Koopa); Red Vs. Blue is nowhere near as popular as every other series of the characters that they've showcased<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> ; the episode is going to take 4 weeks to come out; hardly anyone in the DB fandom at large cares about Red vs. Blue; it's being given the 3D treatment when much more popular characters are only given 2D fights (in episodes that are well-hated by the fandom in-general)<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> ; and by how Ben responded to all of this<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , it wouldn't be surprising if some accuse this episode of being yet another attempt to appease to Rooster Teeth (which they're accused of doing twice already, so they were in hot water to begin with). Some fans thought they were just being irrational haters, and when the actual episode came out some of them changed their tune at the unique spin the episode took (due to being an in-universe Crossover with Red vs. Blue) and the gorgeous animation that resulted. The haters and fans still went at it in the comments.
    -   As this show is responsible for perpetuating certain Fandom Rivalries, another part of the Hate comes from those who are not willing to buckle to a single web comic which they describe "only serves to create tension", though only in certain cases.
-   _The Mysterious Mr. Enter_ and Vailskibum94 get a lot of hate from many cartoon fans, not because they are critical of cartoons, but because many of the cartoons they complain about are seen as easy targets.
-   _Ryan ToysReview_, one of the most prominent kid's YouTube channels, is outright hated by anyone who isn't below the age of six, because of the Crack is Cheaper nature, poor to mediocre editing, occasional (and sometimes unintentional) usage of clickbait, most of the characters' (most notably Ryan's parents and Combo Panda) annoying behaviors, and the seeming lack of value other than to stimulate children. Its Cash-Cow Franchise status and the fact he has his own **Nick Jr.** show doesn't help.
-   YouTube Kids Channels were never intended to be anything more than simple distractions for young children, and are successful at this goal, but are hated by people who are too old to have any business caring about such content, either due to having to hear younger siblings watch these videos all day, the site introducing new rules to make things safer for the influx of young users (some of which might affect even non-kids channels), worries about some of these videos containing inappropriate content (either due to Values Dissonance or creators being actually malicious), all the way to conspiracy theories alleging that some of the videos are made by child predators to either show off or attract victims.
-   Epic Games Store is getting a lot of flak from PC gamers for "bribing game studios into releasing timed exclusives" on the store as well as for lacking features on the store, even if they're giving away games for free. No one is really sure what is going on here, as the haters claim they hate Epic for making games exclusive to the EGS, but on the other hand they're fine with Steam, EA and Activision-Blizzard pulling off the same schtick.
-   _Become Jehovah's Friend_, a religious children's series, is despised by non-Jehovah's Witnesses, who frequently criticize it for having bad lessons and presenting the religion as very cult-like.
-   Mexican production company Badabun got a hatedom in English-speaking speedrunning communities after Karl Jobst exposed their "Passing Super Mario Bros. in five minutes" video as a shoddy fake that stole footage from runners who actually put in the time.
-   _Cocomelon_ is loathed by many parents for its repetitive nature and addictive quality it has on toddlers.

___

### **Alternative Title(s):** Shows That Were Not Meant For You, Complaining About Shows That Were Not Meant For You

-   Hate Dumb
-   Hatred Tropes
-   Hate Plague

-   Villain Sue
-   Flame Bait
-   Ruined FOREVER

-   Periphery Demographic
-   Unexpected Reactions to This Index
-   Pet Fad Starter

-   Once Original, Now Common
-   Reception Dissonance
-   Popularity Polynomial

-   Barney & Friends
-   ImageSource/Tabletop Games
-   Flying Seafood Special

-   People Sit on Chairs
-   SquarePegRoundTrope/L to P
-   Permanent Red Link Club

-   Perilous Power Source
-   RenamedTropes/L to P
-   Permadeath

-   Peer Pressure Makes You Evil
-   Cynicism Tropes
-   Persecuted Intellectuals