This is when tropes have their scary elements and/or possibilities brought up.

This can be done in several ways:

-   Simply adding horror elements to the trope.
-   Mixing non-horrific tropes with horrific ones.
-   A Deconstructed Trope that plays up the horrific consequences.
-   Characters In-Universe bringing up the Fridge Horror of the trope, i.e. Ascended Fridge Horror.
-   Going Faux Horrific with the trope.

This might even be inspired by one of the writers finding Accidental Nightmare Fuel in a trope and then applying it deliberately.

Now it's very rare to see actual horror tropes done this way, since they are technically played for horror by default, but it's not unheard of. Perhaps the horror is exaggerated, or the work finds new horrific implications of the trope.

Furthermore, this in _no way_ excludes horror works from having examples. In fact they can get plenty of scares by finding the scary elements in things that usually aren't.

Now keep in mind the absence of horrific elements doesn't count as Nothing Is Scarier, unless we're meant to be freaked out by something not happening.

A Sub-Trope of Playing with a Trope.

A Sister Trope to Played for Drama. Compare Fridge Horror, contrast Played for Laughs (though the two sometimes overlap) and Failed Attempt at Scaring.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   Wish Upon a Shooting Star is Played for Drama and horror in _Aldnoah.Zero_. Two children are ecstatic to see dozens of shooting stars flashing across the sky, and the younger brother happily tells his sister he wished for world peace — blissfully unaware that those "shooting stars" are actually huge alien spaceships descending to Earth at blinding speed, causing atomic bomb levels of devastation in the surrounding areas.
-   _Cannon God Exaxxion_: A Needle in a Stack of Needles situation gets rather dark. The Riofaldians theorize that the pilot of the Exaxxion mecha that is defying them is a Japanese teenager, but they don't know which… so they execute all Japanese male teenagers with a similar height, and build to the pilot. Scarier yet, they actually succeed — if not for Nano Machines in his body that brought him back to life, Hoichi Kano would have become a Decoy Protagonist.
-   _Devilman_ takes the Superpowered Evil Side trope to utterly horrifying and tragic extremes. In many ways, it feels like it would happen in a teenage superhero story (like _Spider-Man_) if absolutely everything went horribly wrong.
-   _Harem Royale - When the Game Ends -_ takes the concept of the Harem Genre and turns it into a Deadly Game where the girls must win the heart of the male lead, and the losers will be killed. This takes the romantic tension of most harem series and turns it into a thriller where the girls have not just their love, but their lives on the line, all while the male lead is oblivious to the fact that his eventual decision will doom several innocent lives.
-   _Neon Genesis Evangelion_ plays many tropes commonly associated with Humongous Mecha anime (more specifically the Super Robot Genre), using the usual premise of teenagers piloting giant robots to fight against monsters with much more darker undertones, showing how the Kid Heroes of those stories are basically Child Soldiers, and how traumatic it would be for them having to fight against Eldritch Abominations of unpredictable nature. Not to mention that their own robots are actually Eldritch Abominations themselves under their armor, which are heavily implied to have their own soul.
-   _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_ is basically the Magical Girl Warrior genre played for horror, showing how a lot of the innocently fun elements of typical Magical Girl stories could easily have a much darker purpose, and that if so, they would be _very_ good for manipulating young middle school girls. Among other things, the adorable girls with cute dresses fighting evil are Child Soldiers who die regularly, their Transformation Trinkets are their Soul Jars, the villains they fight are terrifying Eldritch Abominations who they themselves will become instead of generic Monster of the Week antagonists, and the Mentor Mascot is a Treacherous Advisor who set up an entire system of suffering and death to power the universe.
    -   There is an entire _sub-genre_ of these stories, detailed in Magical Girl Genre Deconstruction. Other examples include _Magical Girl Raising Project_ and _Magical Girl Site_, where the whole thing is presented as a Deadly Game, as well as _Yuki Yuna is a Hero_, where the Child Soldier aspect is brought up as the girls fight what seems like a Hopeless War against an evil god.
-   _Secret_ does this to the typically comedic My Sister Is Off-Limits by taking it to the logical extreme. Shinichi Mitomo, the mastermind, spends the series trying to manipulate the students into killing each other because one of them impregnated his sister, and it infuriates him that someone got to her first. His obsession with keeping his sister "pure" for himself is treated as creepy and deranged Yandere behavior.
-   Despite its innocent beginning, _Shadow Star_ plays the whole Mon genre for horror (and tragedy), showing everything that could possibly go wrong by giving real-life kids Olympus Mons. By the end of the series, almost every character is dead and humanity is wiped out from the face of earth.
-   _Uzumaki_:
    -   The manga is based around horrific things involving spirals, so some of the stories are about the various ways that Spectacular Spinning is not spectacular at all, including how a spiral-shaped scar spins into a black hole.
    -   One chapter uses a Spring Coil as a form of the omnipresent spiral shape, as well as a source of scares and Black Comedy. After Jack gets killed in a horrific car accident, Kirie and Shuichi dig up his grave to stake his corpse, only for it to suddenly come alive and _bouncing_ after them as _his entire lower half disintegrates_, using a spring stuck in his spine to chase after them. However, once he completely falls apart, the two realize the spring was part of the car suspension that wasn't removed from his body — it's left unclear if his corpse was merely propelled by escaping gas or if it was the result of something supernatural turning him into a literal Jack-in-the-box.

    Art 

-   _Nue Couchée_ takes the classic Reclining Venus pose and turns it into surrealist Body Horror.

    Comics 

-   _Arkham Asylum: A Serious House on Serious Earth_ takes many of the recurring villains from _Batman_, strips them of any kind of silliness, and plays their most notorious traits for horror: For example, Dr. Destiny is no longer a creepy but somewhat cartoonish man in a cloak and a skull face, but an emaciated, withered man trapped in a wheelchair. It's implied that he still posseses his terrifying dream powers as well, the Mad Hatter is hinted at being a pedophile, etc.
-   A really horrific example of Unreliable Voiceover is in the first issue of Vertigo's _House of Mystery_ series. The narration is a rather uneventful story about a girl who moves back to her hometown after her parents died, becomes a wife and mother, but doesn't love her children. None of this is actually untrue, but the art fills in minor gaps like the fact that the other residents of the city are all Big Creepy-Crawlies, and her children were loads of maggots that left a huge hole in her back that she still has.
-   _Ice Cream Man_ plays Confession Cam for horror in the chapter where a scriptwriter gets Trapped in TV Land by the eponymous Humanoid Abomination and finds himself in increasingly disturbing reality shows. Each time he shifts to another show, there are interludes like this where the guy details how he suddenly found himself in these shows, how disturbed he is by what's going on, and how desperate he is to leave. There are also interviews with the other show participants (like a mannequin woman in a dating show and three zombie women in a _Real Housewives_ sendup) who talk about their roles in the disturbing shows like nothing unusual is going on, as well as an interview with the scriptwriter's uncle who was also pulled into the shows, killed, and is now surprised that he's dead.
-   Death is Cheap is horrifically deconstructed in _Immortal Hulk_ when it's learned that the reason the Hulk and gamma mutates keep coming back is because death has a metaphorical revolving door for them to keep walking out of. Made worse is the fact that it's due to an Eldritch Abomination that is The Anti-God, which is only bringing them back so it has pawns it can use to enact its own plans. There's also the trauma of having to experience death in all of it's pain and terror only to come back repeatedly and realize it's going to keep happening again and again and that you may end up surviving thousands of years past the ends of your friends, loved ones and everything you ever held to be important.
-   _Nemesis_ by Mark Millar basically turns the Batman mythos by showing what would happen if a character very similar to Bruce Wayne turned out to be more like Patrick Bateman instead of Batman.
-   _The Unfunnies_: Emasculated Cuckold is played for horror. Pussywhisker loses both his testicles after being convinced by Dr. Despicable that he has testicular cancer. His wife Polly was outraged that they cannot have children and refusing to adopt, so she forces Pussywhisker to pick up men to get to sleep with her in order to get her pregnant. When she did not get pregnant from the first guy, Polly forced Pussywhisker to get more men. It's clearly damaging for Pussywhisker to do this. At the end of the issue, as Pussywhisker is forced to find another man for Polly, she reveals that she orchestrated her husband's castration so that she would be justified in her acts of adultery with copious partners, is on the pill, and enjoys that she has forced her husband to find these partners while she waits at home.
-   _Wonder Girl (Infinite Frontier)_: This story show a particularly _horrifying_ example of The Jailbait Wait. It's revealed that Eros has known Yara ever since she was a child because _he_ was the one who murdered her mother and led the siege that slaughtered her tribe. All so that he could have her all to himself as the perfect wife once Yara was finally of age.

    Fan Works 

-   A famed example is the "Scary Mary" recut trailer for Mary Poppins, which plays the well-known scenes of wonder and childhood whimsy of the original film with jarring music, much like a horror film would.
-   A common trend in fan art is to make "realistic" versions of cartoonish characters, often portraying them in a grotesque and sometimes horrifying manner.
-   A common element from darkfics is upping the darker aspects from fictional works, usually for drama, but also for horror as well.
-   Made of Iron turns dark in _At The Food Court_. Ash got an MRI scan after his psychotic break, and the test showed that he suffered ubiquitous hematomas and inflammation of the brain, and large parts of his brain were _straight-up dead_ from blunt-force trauma. The doctors had no idea how he was even still alive, since the injuries would normally have been enough to kill him several times over. It is not clear whether the healing spring let him survive or whether this is a Cerebus Retcon of Ash being able to survive Pikachu's and Charizard's attacks in canon. Either way, the damage is so great that his original personality and maturity cannot be recovered.
-   Moment of Weakness is used for horror in _Avenger of Steel_. Raven losing control of her emotions allowed Trigon to enter Azarath and destroy it.
-   _Fortune\_Lover\_(TGS Beta)(SARU\_rip)\[T+Eng0.75\_Sincere\].zip_ plays In Spite of a Nail for horror. The basic premise is the existence of a _Fortune Lover_ hack (implied to have been created by A-chan), in which the Alpha Bitch Katarina Claes of _Fortune Lover_ is replaced with the All-Loving Hero Katarina Claes of _My Next Life as a Villainess: All Routes Lead to Doom!_, while everyone else's dialogs and event flags are left unaltered. The result is that all of the latter Katarina's attempts to escape her doom are worthless: she is labeled a villainess despite doing nothing on-screen to deserve it, denounced for crimes that she never committed, and finally killed or exiled for no reason other than the immutable Plot.
-   _It All Started with an OSHA Violation_ uses Becoming the Costume to this effect. As Skid and Pump went down the elevator shaft in their respective costumes, Skid's skeleton costume fused with his bones while Pump's costume head fused with his head and became an actual pumpkin. Monster was revealed to have suffered the same fate once he fell down the same shaft; the lemon head of his mascot costume became his actual head.
-   Toon Transformation is used for horror in the _Pizza Tower_ fanfic _i was a middle-aged weretoon,_ where Peppino, after being bitten by a pair of wind-up teeth, undergoes an unpleasant, Body Horror\-laden transformation into a toon resembling his in-game form.
-   _Rediscovered Frontiers_ shows the darker effects of Ripple-Effect-Proof Memory. Silver's efforts to change the future are successful, and he always remembers the old timeline, but not the new one. This has resulted in places, people, friends and even _his own parents_ being outright erased or replaced from his perspective, and each time he has to refamiliarize himself with the new history, of both the world in general and his own personal life.
-   Your Mime Makes It Real is played for both scares and Black Comedy in the _Saw_ Fan Film "The Silent Treatment", where an overly-committed mime ends up in one of Jigsaw's ironic Death Traps... which to the viewer looks like a completely empty room. At first, it appears the mime is only _acting_ like he's up in chains and forced into a sadistic life-or-limb scenario, but once he "mimes" cutting himself and very real blood starts coming out of him, it's left really unclear just how imaginary the trap was.
-   Cry into Chest is used for horror in _Striker Strikes Back_. Moxxie weeps into Valentino’s shoulder after getting a No-Holds-Barred Beatdown and then locked inside a storage chest and forced to listen to Vox being Bludgeoned to Death. What makes this disturbing is that Valentino not only is Moxxie’s captor and abuser, but also the one who beat Vox to death in the first place and then pushed the blame on Moxxie. But the poor imp is so traumatized and desperate for comfort that he’s willing to accept it from any source.
-   Estee's _Triptych Continuum_ features a kind of In-Universe Flanderization with _falling into the mark_, an extremely common psychological disorder among ponies where the pony allows their special talent to dominate their lives to the point where there is _nothing_ outside the mark. In _A Mark Of Appeal_, there’s also the discovery of a disease that amplifies the mark magic until it renders the pony unable to do or think of anything that is not the exercise of their talent.
-   _What Goes Around Comes Around_ plays the Shipper on Deck trope for horror. The Agrestes both decide they're on board with Adrien hooking up with Marinette, but only on _their_ terms — to the point that they plan to make a reality-altering Wish that will merge Adrien and Felix into their idealized son, with Marinette forced to marry him.

    Films — Animated 

-   By the Lights of Their Eyes is used to show fear in _Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs_. When the title princess runs in panic into the forest, some yellow glowing eyes seem to stare at her. They actually belong to friendly cute animals, but Snow White's imagination makes them look evil and demonic.
-   The mini-adaptation of _The Mysterious Stranger_ included in _The Adventures of Mark Twain_ does this for the source material: While the dark elements were also present in the book, there was also a major Mood Dissonance in the way in which the story was told, making it closer to a whimsical fairy tale than a Cosmic Horror Story. Satan himself was often described as attractive and charming, but in the animated film he is given a creepy, sinister appearance, and the adapted passage (Which is actually one of the most _light-hearted moments_ from the original book) is given an eerie, nightmarish atmosphere which sharply contrasts with the rest of the movie.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _1BR_ uses a Close-Knit Community as a premise for a horror film. At first, the tenants of the apartment building Sarah moves into are a very friendly and sociable bunch. That said, it's soon revealed that they value their community to the point of Serious Business, practically brainwashing and psychologically torturing all new tenants into wanting to become permanent members of the community.
-   Jan Svankmajer's _Alice_ is an interesting case of this, adapting _Alice's Adventures in Wonderland_ into a dark, ominous film while at the same time being relatively faithful to the source material: The difference is that while in the original book the weirdness of the plot is used for Surreal Humor, in this movie the weirdness is played for Surreal Horror.
-   _Antebellum_, like Octavia Butler's _Kindred_, is a story about a Black female writer who travels back in time to a pre-Civil War plantation in the Deep South, a premise that is used to explore the violence of slavery. But whereas _Kindred_ is a dark Magic Realism drama, _Antebellum_ is a violent horror movie in which plantation slavery is the subject of Torture Porn.
-   What happens if you take the basic plot of _Rio Bravo_, in which a group of lawmen are besieged by a heavily armed gang, and give it a Setting Update to contemporary (1970s) Los Angeles and present the gangsters like a human version of the zombies from _Night of the Living Dead_? You get _Assault on Precinct 13_, the Action Horror film that put John Carpenter on the map as a filmmaker.
-   _The Autopsy of Jane Doe_ uses Beauty Is Never Tarnished for creepiness, as Jane Doe's body is unnaturally preserved and devoid of external bruises or marks. The "beauty" of the corpse contrasts even more with the discovery of the corpse's gruesome internal traumas. A final unnerving instance of it occurs when in the last moments of the movie, when the police investigate the morgue following the deaths of the Tildens and the corpse is shown to be perfectly intact, which we saw resulting from the transfer of her injuries to Tommy.
-   _The Banana Splits Movie_ adapts the original _The Banana Splits_ series, turning a comedy show for kids into a R-rated horror movie.
-   _Batman (1989)_ has an In-Universe example of Corpsing end with a literal corpse. Two anchors, one male and one female, report on mysterious deaths of models and beauty parlor customers. The female anchor starts laughing until she falls out of her chair, dead. It's then that the Joker interrupts the show with a fake commerical for his chemicals he used to poison beauty products. During this, there's a shot of the dead anchor with her face having turned into a copy of the Joker's perma-smile.
-   _Better Watch Out_ does this with "Home Alone" Antics. As it turns out, the famous paint can trap from that film will actually _kill somebody_. Also, the Kevin McCallister analogue here is every bit the budding psycho that the popular fan interpretation often paints him as.
-   _Brightburn_ makes it clear that it wants to do this to the Superman Substitute from the get-go by copying every possible beat from the trailers for Zack Snyder's _Man of Steel_ up until the kid learns that he's an alien with superpowers... and then the rest of the trailer showcases James Gunn's idea of what _really_ happens when a bullied, maladjusted kid finds out that he's potentially invincible.
-   The usually comedic Glass Smack and Slide trope is played for horror in _Carrie (2013)_. When Carrie snaps and starts her telekinetic rampage, a fleeing girl is hurled into the closed gym door, cracking the window and leaving a thick smear of blood when she slips down.
-   _Fantastic Four (2015)_ depicts the titular characters' superpowers as Body Horror, given that in this version, they gained them through a Teleporter Accident not unlike that of _The Fly (1986)_.
-   _Get Out (2017)_ does this with racial fetishization and the concept of “positive” discrimination, concepts that the film criticizes for objectifying the very people they supposedly compliment. Neither is too positive when it means white people kidnap Black people with the intent of hijacking their bodies for their stereotyped "positive" aspects. To make matters worse, the original people are still stuck as unwilling passengers in their own bodies.
-   _Ghostbusters: Afterlife_ does this with a number of famous scenes from the original _Ghostbusters_. Whereas that film did the opposite, taking supernatural horror movie scenarios and defanging them by mining humor out of them, this film injects the horror back into many of them. For instance, in the original, Peter Venkman reacts to Dana's possession by Zuul in classic Bill Murray fashion as he tries to handle the situation with cool-headed sarcasm. In _Afterlife_, on the other hand, Callie Spengler's possession by Zuul is staged like a scene straight out of _The Conjuring_, with the other characters terrified by the sight and The Reveal done as a Jump Scare.
-   _The Guest_ does this for Stale Beer Spy Fiction in the manner of _The Bourne Series_, showing how a genetically enhanced super-spy who's been programmed to kill anybody who might blow his cover would make for a terrifying horror movie villain if an ordinary family started to suspect who he was.
-   _Hereditary_: Head Desk is played for horror when Peter gets possessed in class and smashes his face into his desk twice with enough force to break his nose.
-   _The Howling_ does this for Urban Fantasy, showing what it would be like for Muggles living in something like The World of Darkness. Within werewolf society, all manner of internal politics are hinted at, particularly a philosophical divide between those who wish to harmonize their human and animal instincts and those who wish to fully give in to the latter... none of which matters to the protagonists, ordinary humans hunted by werewolves who seek to either transform them (as in the case of Karen and Bill) or kill them to cover up the truth (as with Chris and Terri). A lot of attention is given to how werewolves would operate in modern society... which is used here to highlight how They Look Just Like Everyone Else!. There is a sexy female werewolf in Marsha who seduces one of the male heroes... but her temptations are portrayed as purely villainous, without any redeeming qualities. Werewolves can transform at will rather than waiting for the full moon as per the classic portrayal, a feature that, in urban fantasy stories, is often used to make werewolves more sympathetic and/or badass by letting them control their "monster" side (or, in games specifically, give players easier access to all the cool werewolf powers)... but is used here to make them more dangerous foes for the protagonists, who aren't safe even during the day. When the heroine Karen is turned, she transforms into a werewolf on live TV in an attempt to break the masquerade... and people are too apathetic and cynical to buy it as anything more than a special effects-driven publicity stunt.
-   Slow and Steady Wins the Race gets dark in _The Hunt (2020)_. Crystal Creasy (the Anti-Hero and a Shell-Shocked Veteran) narrates a version of _The Tortoise and the Hare_ in which, as usual, this method lets the tortoise win the race... and then, much to the surprise of the fellow hunted she's talking to (who thought that she was telling him that's how they were going to play the game), she follows it with saying that the hare arrived that same night to the tortoise's home and got even by killing the tortoise and his entire family. The man is visibly nervous when Crystal finishes her tale.
-   _I'm Thinking of Ending Things_ uses the Roger Rabbit Effect for creepiness. Briefly, following a mental breakdown, the janitor seemingly hallucinates the animated maggot-infested pig and follows it into the school.
-   A Nosy Neighbor is the villain in _Karen_. Karen Drexler, a racist Obnoxious Entitled Housewife, gets more than a little upset at the fact that an African-American couple moved right next door. Installing cameras to keep watch of them 24/7 and interrogating them is just the beginning of a campaign to drive them out of the neighborhood that escalates to attempted murder.
-   Domestic Appliance Disaster is invoked and played for horror in the remake of _The Last House on the Left_: The main villain Krug gets killed by Mr. Collingwood by ramming his head through the door of a microwave oven and putting it to max power. Krug's head explodes.
-   _Leprechaun 3_ uses Gag Lips, Breast Expansion, and butt inflation for both horror and dark humor. A slender, aging casino worker wishes for a more voluptuous body. The Leprechaun kills her by making her lips, boobs, and butt rapidly expand until she blows up.
-   Only One Finds It Fun is played for horror in _The Loved Ones_. Lola throws an entire prom, in which her "date" is an unwilling participant, her mother is incapable of speaking or reacting, and her father is solely obsessed with her happiness.
-   _Men_ uses the Mister Seahorse trope in a gruesome way, where all the men that Harper previously faced are shown giving birth to each other in a series of extremely graphic bodily transformations that happen via increasingly insane orifices, leaving their bodies mutilated with much blood.
-   One of the scariest scenes in _Natural Born Killers_ is one that does this to the Dom Com, particularly the Dysfunctional Family sitcoms that got popular in the late '80s and '90s. Mallory's Dark and Troubled Past is shown to the audience through a flashback staged as a sitcom called _I Love Mallory_ that resembles _Married... with Children_, one in which, underneath the Laugh Track and the broad performances, Mallory's abusive, Al Bundy-esque father is presented as a terrifying figure who's straight-up raping his daughter.
-   _Nothing but Trouble_: The trope Cops Need the Vigilante is used for horror in a reveal: the state police knows perfectly well that J.P. Valkenheiser is a murderous Hanging Judge and not only do nothing about it but send him criminals to get rid of covertly. Chris and Diane discover this while surrounded by the army of cops that came to "arrest" the Judge after they first escaped and the Judge himself all acting chummy, and the massive collapse of Valkenvania happens just in time to interrupt what seemed to be our heroes being murdered to silence them.
-   _Rambo_:
    -   _First Blood_, the first film in the series, does this for the action movie premise unlike the following sequels would played it straight, instead being a From Bad to Worse situation that makes an action film like this one being a some sort of nightmarish Psychological Horror experience than some fun rollercoaster.
    -   One of the sequels, _Rambo IV_, has its Big Bad Major Tint who and his Kick the Dog actions are this, showing how much he is a Knight of Cerebus Viler New Villain whose misdeeds pulls no punches when is comes to their graphically horrifying outcomes unlike past villains' evil sins.
-   _The Secret Adventures of Tom Thumb_ turns the classic _Tom Thumb_ fairytale into a Surreal Horror Urban Fantasy film with harsh, squalid environments; giant bugs and creatures crawling everywhere; violence, death and experimentation as major plot points and a dark Mind Screw ending involving a nuclear reactor exploding and killing everyone. Also, Tom Thumb himself looks like a fetus.
-   _The Terminator_, the first film in the _Terminator_ series, does this for is premise that the sequels that would follow, depicting the premise as a Slasher Movie than a typical blockbuster action flick the franchise would be known for.
-   _Unedited Footage of a Bear_ does this for Youtube Ads that interrupt a video: The short starts with the footage of a grizzly bear while the cameraman comments on the size of the bear's ears, then the video suddenly gets interrupted by a commercial for a fictional drug called "Claridryl." But then, instead of ending, the seemingly light-hearted commercial slowly turns into a horror story about how said drug has a very negative impact, causing addiction and personality disorders to the protagonist Donna. And it is also heavily implied that said drug ultimately drove her into a murderous insanity.
-   _Unfriended_
    -   Annoying Pop Up Ads become dangerous obstacles. As it's set on Blaire's computer screen, she is annoyed by multiple ads all the way through, especially when she's trying to call for help or figure out what's going on. In a Rewatch Bonus, one of the pop-up "porn" ads is actually footage of Blaire and Adam having sex after she promised Mitch they didn't, an early hint that Laura is haunting Blaire's computer and taunting her.
    -   There's a dark example of the protagonists playing "Never Have I Ever". As Laura points out, "the loser doesn't drink, the loser dies".
-   The Straight and Arrow Path is used to emphasize evil in _We Need to Talk About Kevin_. Kevin goes through all the trouble of becoming an expert at archery so that when he unleashes a massacre on his school, the press will not try to file this under any hot-button issue like gun control or bullying — he wanted them all dead because they annoyed him, that's all there is to it.

    Literature 

-   Extreme Libido turns horrifying in _The Age of Desire_. A test subject is injected with a drug that boosts his libido exponentially. He becomes so possessed by lust he murders people with his bare hands in the course of trying to have sex with them.
-   The Stephen King short story "The Cat From Hell" goes to extreme levels with Cats Are Mean with a cat that is out for revenge on a guy who got his fortune from a drug tested unsafely on cats. This cat doesn't just go after that guy, it kills his immediate family and anyone who gets in the way of its vengeance, including killing a hitman by jumping into his mouth, causing him choke to death, then crawling all the way inside his body.
-   _The Island of Doctor Moreau_ depicts the Beast Man and Uplifted Animal tropes this way, and is an Unbuilt version of the latter. The titular doctor has used anesthetic-free vivisections to mold animals into human-like forms, and the main character is disturbed by how much the beast people hit Uncanny Valley for him.
-   Ass Shove is used for horror in _Moon (1985)_, in which a sadistic Serial Killer, in attempt to burn Jonathan Childes's internal organs, psychically projects into him the effects of a reaching hand, which becomes a ball of fire.
-   _The Mysterious Stranger_ uses the Abilene Paradox for this. It’s revealed that few of the villagers in Dung Ages Austria actually believe in witches, but they all allow witch hunts to happen because they are terrified that the rest of the village truly believes it and will assume that they themselves are witches if they defend the accused in any way, including by saying that witches don’t exist.
-   Cloudcuckooland is a trope that is often Played for Laughs, specially in media aimed at children. However, in _The Neverending Story_ this trope is played for pure horror with the City Of Old Emperors, a place where Former humans are trapped in Fantasia with no memories of who they are, or what they are, engaging in endless, nonsensical tasks over and over forever, showing how ending in a place like that would be a Fate Worse than Death.
-   _Nineteen Eighty-Four_ does this to the usually comedic How Many Fingers?. In the infamous torture scene (but before Room 101), an Inner Party member holds up four fingers, then asks Winston how many he is holding up. When Winston answers four, he puts Winston through Electric Torture to _force_ him to see five, and will not stop until Winston actually, truly believes that there are five fingers. The scene details Winston's incredible pain and the sheer horror of being coerced into accepting an obvious falsehood, and is one of the most chilling scenes in the story.
-   _NOS4A2_ by Joe Hill feels like a horror retelling of _The Polar Express_. Charlie Manx basically believes he's the train's conductor, taking children to the magical Christmas Land, only the train is a Rolls Royce Wraith. In fact, he's actually a deranged psychopath who uses the mystical properties of the car to drain the abducted children of their humanity and retain his youth. The story is told from the perspective of a parent who eventually has her child abducted by Manx.
-   "Snow, Glass, Apples" by Neil Gaiman is a very, very dark retelling of _Snow White_ (The original fairy tale, not the Disney film), turning the titular character into a Creepy Child (which is eventually revealed to be a vampire) and adding the same amount of violence and disturbing sexual content that one would expect from stuff like _Game of Thrones_.
-   The trope Plane Awful Flight turns nightmarish in _Station Eleven_. While none of the horrific flights are ever shown, the always-deadly Georgia Flu spreads extremely fast and it spreads especially quickly in confinement. As a result, it becomes completely commonplace once the flu originates for airplanes to ground and never open. Clark frequently hopes that everyone is dead.
    
    Don't think of that unspeakable decision, to keep the jet sealed rather than expose a packed airport to a fatal contagion. Don't think about what enforcing that decision may have required. Don't think about those last few hours on board.
    

    Live-Action TV 

-   _1000 Ways to Die_ uses Breast Expansion for squick. One episode covers the famous urban legend "woman with cheap breast implants has her implants explode during an airplane flight." The reenactment scenes depict the woman's breasts growing to absurd proportions within a short amount of time due to the implants themselves expanding because of a change in cabin pressure, and it ends with the woman dying in a bloody mess.
-   _Are You Afraid of the Dark?_
    -   "The Tale Of The Fire Ghost" uses Ash Face for horror. The titular ghost, in human form, appears as a charred policeman.
    -   "The Tale Of The Wisdom Glass" uses the Denser and Wackier trope for horror. Allan and Jimmy find themselves trapped in a realm where whimsically attired adults rigidly enforce whimsically bizarre rules.
-   _Criminal Minds_
    -   The episode "The Uncanny Valley" uses The Dreaded Pretend Tea-Party trope in a disturbing way. A woman was sexually abused as a child by her father who bought her dolls as an apology. Decades later, he took her dolls and gave them to other girls whom he abused. His daughter, desperate to have her dolls back, abducted women who happened to look like her dolls, sedated and force-fed them, dressed them up, _sewed a wig into a poor woman's scalp_ and forced them to attend a tea party. All while acting like a well-meaning little girl.
    -   In the episode "Profiling 202", it is revealed that David Rossi hates his birthday, and the reason why is a perfect example of the Birthday Hater trope turned horrific. The Whole Episode Flashback ends with a Serial Killer with a body count of at least one hundred dead women (none of them found yet) deciding, after being arrested, that he will only reveal one dead body per year exactly on Rossi's birthday and only to Rossi. He even goes through the whole macabre glee of writing down the name and location in a gift card and singing "Happy Birthday".
-   _Cruel Summer_ uses a Stargazing Scene to unsettling effect. On the night of the family hunting trip in 1993, a distressed Kate ends up sitting out and looking at the stars, having a sweet and emotional chat...with Martin, the same person who grooms and later kidnaps her for months. As this fate is already well-known, this scene is used to show how Martin manipulated her, turning a normally nice moment horrifying.
-   A horrific example of Hot Guy, Ugly Wife is found in a _CSI: Miami_ episode. A mousy, dowdy-looking woman was so jealous of the attention other women would pay her devoted and handsome husband, that she convinced him to seduce and lure women into their plot. She would go as far as to pretend to be one of the victims, and play up a rescue only to dash their hopes, by pulling back her hands while her husband would drag them to their deaths, all so she could see the look of terror in their eyes, while her husband would kill them with a loving gaze fixated on his wife.
-   Guns are commonplace weapons and a familiar sight in virtually any action setting, but Season 3 of _Daredevil (2015)_ is credited with making firearms scary in the person of Bullseye, who dispenses instant death to unsuspecting victims.
-   _Doctor Who_: Symbolic Wings are made frightening in "Village of the Angels" when Claire Brown looks in the mirror and sees a vision of herself with stone angel wings growing from her back. It shows she's been possessed by a Weeping Angel, an Eldritch Abomination that takes the form of an angel statue.
-   _Euphoria_ uses Bigot with a Crush this way. Nate Jacobs, who has extremely fucked-up ideas about how women should look and behave, becomes obsessed with trans girl Jules, who he knows would not meet his exacting standards, and sets about trying to force her to "reform" under threat of having her arrested for underage sexting.
-   _Gotham_: A Theseus' Ship Paradox is played for horror. The Dollmaker punished one of his subordinates by subjecting him to the Body Horror of replacing most of his body parts with incompatible pieces.
    
    **Dollmaker**: How much of you can be replaced before you're not you anymore?
    
-   _The Haunting Hour_: The Compliance Game is a nightmarish punishment in "Uncle Howee." The titular character, a creepy kiddie show host, comes into the real world to punish Jared, a Big Brother Bully who's been cruel to his little sister Cynthia. Uncle Howee makes Cynthia disappear and challenges Jared to locate her, but he calls the situation a game named "Find Your Sister Before Mom Gets Home and Grounds Ya for the Rest of Your Life!" Jared ultimately loses and, in a Karmic Transformation, is forced to become a puppet character on Uncle Howee's show forever.
    
    **Uncle Howee**: If you find her, you get to keep her—if you don't, well, I guess you'll have some explaining to do.
    
-   The _Masters of Horror_ episode "The Screwfly Solution" uses Girls vs. Boys Plot to terrifying effect. One day, men all over the world find themselves slowly succumbing to a Hate Plague that causes them to become violent and murderous toward every woman they find — up to and including their own wives, mothers, and _small children._ After the initial purges, the episode plays out like a dark version of this type of plot: the few women who avoid the first wave of attacks band together and do their best to survive, only to be slowly hunted down by the still-homicidal men, who do gruesome things like mutilate their victims' bodies and turn them into trophies (at one point, a man proudly walks around carrying a bag made from a woman's breast). The episode ends with one of the last women on Earth discovering that the plague was caused by aliens, who arranged a Gendercide to make the planet easier to conquer.
-   _Reservation Dogs_ plays a Language Barrier for horror. The children in "Deer Lady" don't speak English, so from _their_ perspective, the adults are speaking complete gibberish. It also makes their abusive attacks seem that much more random and unmotivated.
-   Evil Learns of Outside Context is made chilling in _Stranger Things_. The Mind Flayer, an entirely alien entity with initially no understanding of Earth, slowly gains more and more knowledge of human behaviour and the larger situation, employing increasingly intelligent tactics as a result. It's especially frightening when the creature figures out that El and The Party are its primary opposition, learning to single them out specifically and make the kids _suffer_.
-   The Cat Came Back is part of a horror plot in the _Tales from the Crypt_ episode "Loved to Death". In the episode, the main character gives a Love Potion to a beautiful woman who won't give him the time of day. It works far too well. Eventually, he kills himself to escape (albeit accidentally while trying to kill her), and on the escalator to Heaven, finds her right behind him, now hideously mangled because she killed herself by jumping out of a window.
-   _Tales from the Darkside_: "Love Hungry" plays Anthropomorphic Food for horror. A "revolutionary weight loss system" consists of a hearing aid and glasses that cause the woman who wears them to perceive (ordinary, inanimate) food as alive and desperate not to be eaten. And they don't come off...
-   _The Twilight Zone (1959)_:
    -   The Cat Came Back is played for horror in "The Hitch Hiker". Protagonist Nan finds the hitchhiker creepy from the start, but her panic builds as she notices him every time she stops, even when she's driven long distances.
    -   The episode "Stopover in a Quiet Town" features one of the most disturbing uses of The Dreaded Pretend Tea-Party trope. A couple who were drunk driving wake up to discover themselves alone in a town they can't seem to escape from. The Plot Twist is that they're in an alien child's dollhouse and surrounding toy town, and the child is just playing. After they ran off the road, the child's parents took them home to the child as playthings. Whether the child and parents are giant or there was a Shrink Ray involved is never explored. But the fear of the couple is genuine in this case given the owner of the dollhouse is at least 6 times their size.
-   _WandaVision_ works its way through a checklist of Sitcom Tropes — and any one of them can turn very wrong in a moment, as the audience learns to see this as a show about a Reality Warper having a nervous breakdown.
-   _The X-Files_ does this to the typically comedic Rubber Man trope in "Squeeze" with the _terrifying_ liver-eating mutant Eugene Victor Tooms. He likes to sneak through vents to reach victims in otherwise locked rooms.

    Music Videos 

-   The video for "Run" by Joji is a rare case where Absurdly-Long Limousine is horrific. It begins with Joji waking up in the back of a limo with no clue how he got there, surrounded by party-goers who show no concern for his confusion and distress. He tries to reach the exit, but no matter how far he runs, the limo just keeps going on and on and on…

    Podcasts 

-   _The Magnus Archives_ does this with Gluttonous Pig. In the episode "Cruelty Free" a farmer discovers a massive, 400 kilogram pig, which devours anything that gets in its pen, starting with the other pigs and eventually moving on to humans.
-   _On the Threshold_ takes Recurring Dreams to the Logical Extreme in an unsettling way. Dr. Applegate discovers her own work, she literally can't seem to dream about anything other than getting into a looping conversation with herself and wandering empty hallways. Breaking free of the cycle temporarily only makes it far worse.

    Theater 

-   In _The Guy Who Didn't Like Musicals,_ Musical Number Annoyance turns to Musical Number Fear. Paul gets annoyed at everyone in Hatchetfield singing "La Di Da Da Day," which eventually progresses to outright fear as they get progressively more pushy for him to join them. He's quite justified to be unnerved, as it's later revealed all the singing is the result of an alien infection.
-   _Heathers: The Musical_ does this with love songs during "Our Love is God", where J.D. continues to lovingly sing his worship to Veronica after he just murdered Kurt and Ram in cold blood. Veronica is clearly terrified. What starts as a romantic ballad quickly turns into J.D. and Veronica's Descent into Darkness Song.

    Urban Legends 

-   One urban legend uses Of Corpse He's Alive for horror. A woman riding a bus or subway feels disconcerted when she notices a man across from her staring at her continually. Shortly afterwards, one of her fellow riders pressures her into getting off the bus with him, which makes her even more nervous. However, the fellow rider explains he just wanted to get her to safety — the staring man had actually been murdered and the two killers were sitting on either side propping him up.

    Video Games 

-   _American McGee's Alice_ and its sequel _Alice: Madness Returns_ use the _Alice in Wonderland_ mythos for horror. An adult Alice struggles through post-traumatic stress and feelings of guilt over the fire that killed her family. Wonderland has become full of violence and its inhabitants are often grotesque, if not experiencing outright Body Horror.
-   _Baldi's Basics in Education and Learning_ takes the style of a crappy 1990’s Edutainment Game and turns it into a Survival Horror game where the title character chases you down merely for getting an unsolvable math problem wrong.
-   The monster-filled locations of _CarnEvil_ include a Christmas Town. Rickety Town is a fairground located between the Big Top and the Freak Show. The player explores most of the rides and attractions here, the only exception being a rocket next to the snowglobe ice rink. While the level is presented as a Christmas-themed theme park, the game's setting is presented as a Circus of Fear, including a monstrous Bad Santa/The Krampus boss battle on a skating-rink.
-   _Darkwood_ plays Absurdly Ineffective Barricade for drama and terror. Properly barricading a hideout is way more complicated than just closing a door and putting a wardrobe behind it – even _dogs_ can push furniture out of the way with considerable ease.
-   _Dead by Daylight_ makes an Idol Singer one of the killers. Ji-Woon Hak used to be part of a boy band called NO SPIN. Growing jealous of his bandmates' popularity, he commited Murder by Inaction by leaving them trapped inside of a recording studio when the building caught on fire. He then went on to accomplish a successful solo career as The Trickster, where he had a Darker and Edgier image... in part because he moonlighted as a Serial Killer, sampling the screams of his victims in his songs. Finally, after Executive Meddling stopped him from producing his own songs, he retaliated by torturing his record label's board members to death while forcing the talent scout who recruited him to watch.
-   _Divinity: Original Sin II_ plays Gods Need Prayer Badly for horror. The Seven Gods couldn't care less about mortals' prayers, because what they are really after is the Source they unwitting collect throughout their lives. When a mortal dies, vestiges of their identity and personality sublimate in the Source they've collected as a kind of "ghost", which is then guided by their belief to what they believe to be afterlife at the side of the god they worshipped in life. Except that said Gods then simply consume the "ghost" for its Source, literally feeding on their worshipers to replenish their divinity. In other words, the Seven "Gods" are nothing but Rivellon's oldest Source vampires, functionally no different from the protagonists of the game.
-   _Five Nights at Freddy's_:
    -   The series does this with Suck E. Cheese's. The restaurant franchise that the games focus on not only has homicidal robots who hunt the unfortunate night guards, but the backstory involves gruesome murders, with many of the victims being children. The upper management is also corrupt, showing little regard for the safety of their employees and caring about customer safety only as far as it matters for their reputation.
    -   The first game uses a Noodle Incident to disturb the player. Phone Guy mentions the animatronics used to roam during the day, but that ended after the Bite of '87. He remarks "It's amazing that the human body can live without the frontal lobe, y'know?"
    -   _Five Nights at Freddy's: Sister Location_ uses an Unreliable Voiceover to add to the frightening atmosphere. There are many beats where you ostensibly need to rely on the automated HandUnit guide to give you instructions on how to deal with the animatronics, but you'll quickly realize that it's not good at its job or keeping track of the things that are _supposed_ to be in its system. One example is where it'll ask you to shine a light on Circus Baby's stage, but it will "helpfully" announce that she's still there even though she very clearly isn't anymore.
-   _Half-Life_ does this with _Doom_ and the many FPS games that followed in its wake. Like _Doom_, you play as somebody who uses a prodigious arsenal to fight off hordes of monsters after an advanced physics experiment Gone Horribly Wrong, but unlike the Doomguy, Gordon Freeman is _not_ a soldier, and he will die quickly if he runs headlong into combat. And while _Doom_ used its Excuse Plot to leave as little as possible between the player and the action, _Half-Life_ used its lack of explanation to create mystery and shocking twists, ultimately revealing that Gordon is merely a pawn in something much bigger than himself that he can't hope to comprehend.
-   _Knights of the Old Republic_: I Owe You My Life is dark in terms of Zaalbar's life debt to the main character. For players of Dark-Sided alignment, it is in fact a form of slavery, as he will do _anything_ they tell him to if you remind him of the life debt. This includes _killing Mission_ if she angers you or gets in your way, even though he's extremely protective of her. However, he won't do it unless you use Force Persuade on him, and if you take him on the Star Forge afterwards he'll attack you.
-   _Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords_ deconstructs many Western RPG gameplay staples by giving them horrific in-story justifications. For instance, the Experience Points are revealed to be an expression of the Exile actually devouring the life force of the people and creatures s/he murders, while Relationship Values turn out to be an indicator of how successful s/he is at More Than Mind Controlling her traveling companions.
-   _League of Legends_ has variants on The Power of Love. Viego the Ruined King exploits a twisted, villainous version of it in that his power over the undead horde of the Black Mist is driven by his love for his fallen queen, with his vain attempts to bring her Back from the Dead forming the Shadow Isles and one of the biggest threats in the game. Even worse, he can use the Black Mist to corrupt and bend people to his will by exploiting what THEY love and value.
-   _Library of Ruina_ heavily and frighteningly exaggerates Capitalism Is Bad. While the game doesn't outright state it, the City doesn't have any non-corporate governors. In fact, it's _solely_ ruled by corporations known as Wings who basically run on _fanatical capitalism_; even the Head, supposedly being ruling authorities, are actually one such Corporation known as A Corp. It's not even a matter of pure greed; many of them seem to just make decisions that maximize bloodshed or violate all common sense either because they are integral for the Wing's survival, outright weirdness, malice or even any combination of the above. Standouts include former L Corp where the Manager deliberately gets his employees horribly killed by Abnormalities or W Corp forcing passengers of the Warp Train to suffer from a 2000 century torture only to undo them instantly. Commonfolks are thrown into backstreet slums that the Wings don't usually give a rat's ass about and everyone has to more or less, eat rats or kill other human beings to survive. Most people there actually have to earn enough money to go to metropolitan areas called Nests, where the Wings behind it can and will kick you out if you don't yield any produce or societal contribution.
-   _Life Is Strange_ has a few Camera Fiend characters, but one in particular turns out to be quite the literal fiend. He is the Big Bad drugging and kidnapping girls to take them to his Dark Room, where he photographs them in sexualized positions and tortures them, all to capture the moment where innocence becomes corrupted.
-   Lost in Character is used for horror in _NEEDY STREAMER OVERLOAD_. The "Internet Overdose" ending concludes with Ame having a psychotic breakdown from all her stress and losing herself in her KAngel streamer persona, to the point of holding a memorial picture of Ame in one stream as if holding a funeral for her original self.
-   _No More Heroes_ has a dark version of a Hard-Drinking Party Girl in the form of Bad Girl. She's first introduced gleefully smashing apart cloned gimps with a baseball bat (which, given she's Rank 2 of the United Assassins Association, is implied to be _her job_), then "unwinds" by cracking open a cold one and downing it within seconds. Combined with her young age (early twenties at the absolute maximum) and the fact that beer is the only thing in her fridge creates a very eerie display of who she is.
-   _Portal_ does this to the Excuse Plot common to Puzzle Games. You move through a series of rooms, solving the puzzles contained therein, whilst guided by a voice over a loudspeaker. However, the rooms have a creepy, oppressive atmosphere from the very beginning, the guide's contributions are unhelpful, bizarre, condescending or some combination of the three, and venturing out of bounds reveals that you aren't the first one to go through the rooms, with the previous participants ending up insane and/or dead. It all comes to a head when the guide throws off the pretense and tries to _flat-out murder you_.
-   As discussed in this article, what makes _Sinistar_ so frightening beyond the titular character himself is the way the game is structured. Like every other game of its era, _Sinistar_ is an Endless Game with Nintendo Hard difficulty, but uses these conventions to create a Cosmic Horror Story that instills hopelessness in the player: no matter how many times the player character destroys Sinistar, his followers will quickly resume in rebuilding him elsewhere in the galaxy, and so the player character is thus always doomed to fall at the hands of Sinistar.
-   _Super Mario 64_ ROM hack _SM64.z64_ does this with Game-Breaking Bug, crashing the game at the end of each loop and displaying the message "SOMETHING CHANGED SOMETHING CHANGED SO-" in the crash handler.
-   _Very Little Nightmares_ uses a Lonely Doll Girl as a villain. The main antagonist is a monster with the appearance of a prettied-up little girl who lives alone in a Old, Dark House. To keep her loneliness at bay, she collects life-size dolls made of the skin of actual children her servants capture and kill. She seems to believe they are actually living children.
-   _When The Darkness Comes_ does this with But Thou Must!. The game presents buttons at various points in the game, for the purposes of answering questions. However, the player is never allowed to actually make a choice; either they only get one answer, which invariably isn't the answer they'd typically want to choose, or the answer is nullified anyway because "they didn't mean it". A rather dark version comes near the end. The player is given a button and a woman asking them questions, but they aren't allowed to move. As the woman tries in vain to make you respond, you can do nothing but stand there and fail her.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony_ uses Breaking the Fourth Wall to dark effect, by revealing that the various fourth wall breaks of Monokuma are actually because the series have been turned into a reality TV show. When the characters discover this, they are utterly shocked as they realize all of their memories and emotions were fiction. This reveal psychologically devastates the surviving members, until Shuichi comes to the realization that even if everything is fictional, their experiences and pain are real. The final battle is against the embodiment of the TV audience itself.

    Web Animation 

-   While in theory _Happy Tree Friends_ tends to subvert the Amusing Injuries trope for Black Comedy, the incredibly gruesome deaths of the cute and cuddly cast in some episodes ends being more disturbing rather than comical in plenty of occasions, often indulging in Body Horror and Gorn.
-   _Lacey Games_
    -   _Lacey's Diner_ plays Lethal Chef and Revenge Is a Dish Best Served for horror in the bad ending. In her Sanity Slippage and anger towards her customers, Lacey serves food made of _cigarette butts, dead roaches, porn magazines, meth, used condoms, broken glass, and human flesh_. It's unclear if the customers survive this.
-   The Floating Limbs trope is used for horror in the _Madness Combat_ animation, _An Experiment_. It answers the question of what happens when those floating hands are then put as far away from a Nevadeans body as possible. Turns out that it would be extremely painful for the test subject, and would cause them to glitch out, even being driven insane to the point that their faces are scraped against the wall over and over until the only thing that can be seen is their bloodied skull and scraped off flesh. And when they get their hands back, the world starts to distort and glitch out, culminating in the lab exploding once the subject dies.
-   This episode of Something About is a legitimately tense short with an engineer being pursued by horrifying, Necromorph-like ghosts...then you get a glimpse of the engineer and realise it's a sci-fi horror take on Pac-Man. It even has a human version of Ms. Pac-Man, who happens to be a Ripley-esque Action Girl.

    Webcomics 

-   _The Bikini Bottom Horror_ takes the show _SpongeBob SquarePants_ and uses it for horror. It starts with Patrick Star graphically killing and eating SpongeBob and escalates from there. Multiple memes from the show's fanbase make it into the comic as well, usually with rather dark context.
    -   The line "No, this is Patrick" goes from a joke about Patrick's ditziness to a terrifying statement.
        
        **Mr. Krabs:** Wait... Please... This is insane! This is evil!  
        **Patrick:** No... This is Patrick.
        
    -   The comic does this with Healing Factor. Patrick's regenerative abilities allow him not only to withstand all types of damage, but also to _multiply_... which is what empowers him to go on a deadly rampage upon learning the awful truth. However, hitting certain "nerve clusters" can negate this ability, killing a Patrick outright.
-   _Knights of Buena Vista_ plays up some parts in _Frozen (2013)_ as if it was horror (this is a Campaign Comic):
    -   Weselton talks about how he heard people in the palace over the years said they sometimes felt rooms become as cold as the grave. Mary even compliments Walter on making Elsa's powers seem spooky. Then she's genuinely spooked out by Weselton further interrogating her.
        
        **Walter:** And he leans close, almost like he's trying to see the darkness in your pupils.
        
    -   When darker ice appears within the ice of Elsa's palace after she finds out she caused an Endless Winter in her kingdom, Dick describes the effect as something like a Japanese horror film. Mary has as much of a genuinely freaked out look as Anna, and says if anything starts coming out of the ice she's quitting the campaign.

    Web Original 

-   _Alien Abduction Role Play_ uses the Alien Catnip trope to add horror. Acktreal Domma feels a strong, irrational desire to eat her human test subjects, even after working to redeem herself. It's later revealed that human blood has an intoxicating, even addictive, effect on her species.
-   For a while, there was a copypasta/creepypasta floating around the internet about "the scariest video game ever". According to the story, you play as a madman with an insatiable appetite that compels him to devour everything he touches, and he is trapped in a dark labyrinth where he is hunted by terrifying spirits that graphically tear him apart if they catch him. The twist at the end (for readers who have not caught onto the joke yet) is that "the scariest game" is _Pac-Man_.
-   _Creepypasta Cookoff_:
    -   Christmas Carolers are horrific monsters in "A Christmas Peril" by Vague1. A group of Victorian looking carolers are Humanoid Abominations that attack the protagonist.
-   _Dream SMP_: And There Was Much Rejoicing is Played for Drama and Horror in the aftermath of Tommy's death, as the Eggpire throw a party in the victim's house — and after getting kicked out, rent a room in the victim's hotel to continue their revelries. Do bear in mind that the leader of the Eggpire, BadBoyHalo, confirmed by Word of God that his character would be horrified and in mourning if he weren't Brainwashed and Crazy.
-   _I'm a therapist, and my patient is going to be the next school shooter_:
    -   The Influencer Files story line uses Instant Humiliation: Just Add YouTube! to gruesome effect. The Chicken live-streams himself torturing someone in the most painful and humiliating way possible.
    -   Asshole Victim is used for horror. Someone with a history of making bigoted and otherwise offensive comments online is kidnapped and tortured in internet videos. While some of the comments hope the victim will be saved, others believe her past awful behavior means she deserves it. Some people outright express pleasure that she's suffering, one calling it the best stream of the year and another asking if anyone else was getting a boner.
-   _Pirates SMP_:
    -   Big Eater becomes Horrific during the "Captain Golden Beard" quest subplot, where the curse on the treasure inflicts Shep and Owen with insatiable hunger to the point their full in-game Hunger bars can drop to zero in mere _seconds_. Owen's case is alleviated with the use of an automatic feeding upgrade on her backpack with sufficient food stocks to withstand the curse, while Shep's _isn't_ and while he treats it with a Major Injury Underreaction, he nearly depletes his entire food supply over the course of the curse's effects.
    -   Broken Pedestal goes Horrific (but equally Awesome) in Kuervo's backstory, as he went from idolizing the commanders of Naya and aspiring to become one of them to learning Big Brother Is Employing You and they had sent his older brother to a preventable death by Unfriendly Fire and did not care for their soldiers at all, and proceeded to commit mass Tyrannicide and be sent on the run after being violently caught in the act — complete with audio gore in the animatic. Mind you, he was sixteen when this all happened.
    -   Surprisingly Normal Backstory is implicitly Played for Horror in that a late event implies Guqqie Got Volunteered and was targeted as a Human Sacrifice by the main antagonists _because_ of their relatively normal upbringing.
    -   "Well Done, Son" Guy is also implicitly Played for Horror with Shep in his backstory, who tried so relentlessly to earn the approval of the man he saw as a Parental Substitute (but was more of an Evil Mentor) that he committed murder in the past for him, while no older than the age of 21 (his age in the canon era).
-   _r/nosleep_:
    -   The Creepypasta "My Neighbor won't stop singing Christmas carols" does this to the "annoying Christmas Carolers" trope. The titular neighbors- the wife and daughter specifically- sing carols for days on end, never stopping, and will not respond to anything, even as they are peeing and crying, making it clear that something is _wrong_. They are being forced to sing by a race of goblins resembling pine trees, and anyone caught in a specific radius from one is magically compelled to join in the caroling forever- eventually, nearly the entire town joins in, with hordes of people forced to sing against their will before being devoured by the pine goblins.
    -   Time Dissonance is played for horror in "If you're armed and at the Glenmont Metro, please shoot me". The narrator participates in a clinical trial for a drug that accelerates his brain functions, causing him to perceive time more slowly. At first, the downsides are only annoying and boring, with minutes feeling like hours and his 30-minute ride home feeling like days. As time goes on and the effects of the drug keep intensifying, to the point that turning the pages of a book takes longer than reading it and he can see the individual frames on TV, boredom gets the better of him he eventually decides to take an Ambien to try and sleep the effects off. The sleeping pill interacts with the drug and begins _severely_ magnifying its effects, hitting him right as he was running down the stairs at the metro station, causing him to lose his footing from the sudden change and get locked into a fall down the steps that, from his perspective, takes days. The impact dislocates his shoulder and he discovers, while his senses are slowed down, the pain never subsides because his body is still working in real-time, and he decides it's too much and tries to throw himself onto the tracks. His perception of time eventually slows to the point that simply _blinking_ plunges him into darkness for centuries. After enduring what feels like thousands of years of pain and boredom over the course of a few minutes, he posts online, begging for someone to put him out of his misery. A shot to the temple should only take a few decades.
-   _SCP Foundation_:
    -   SCP-3520 turns Chubby Chaser horrific, where an unknown force takes sado-masochistic glee in watching humanity become this as they destroy Earth's environment to make way for industrial farms to make more snack food.
    -   SCP-3344 uses I Have No Son! to this effect. The SCP causes Site 24 Director Carter (and anyone with whom he interacts) to believe that his adult son Niklas, who is living in Site 24 and desperate to contact his family, does not exist and to be completely unable to perceive any evidence to the contrary.
    -   The Foundation has several none too pleasant examples of Immortality Field.
        -   Any person placed inside SCP-762 enters a state of suspended animation and they would no longer need food, water, or even air and they are immune to disease and injury (when it was found, it contained someone who was probably stuck inside for centuries)... except those caused by its own spikes, because it's an Iron Maiden, in a subversion. As a torture device, its primary purpose is likely not to keep people alive but to prolong the victim's suffering. The person inside is conscious the whole time and the experience is described to be very painful. This is double subverted afterward, as even those wounds heal completely after the person is released.
        -   There's also SCP-135, a girl with an aura that makes her and any other organic matter within a 10 cm radius immortal, while causing rapid and uncontrolled cell growth — AKA _cancer_— within 2.25 meters. Having developed this aura _in utero_, she is stuck in a fetal position and permanently encrusted in a constantly growing mass of plants, fungi, and microorganisms. The most that can be done for her is to have robots cut off some of the excess matter when it gets too big. _She has full brain activity._
    -   SCP-3512 ("The More You Know") is a satirical take on pick-up artists that uses their misogyny and Quest for Sex to disturbing effect. Through body-mutilation rituals (like cutting off their own fingers) and creating a sentient doll-like construct from human fat and bones to take control of the person one desires, instances of the SCP turn women they want to fuck into living sex dolls. The affected victims undergo complete personality changes that leave them eager to please their brainwashers, and are completely aware of this outside force taking them over, but can only express it in bouts of screaming that eventually fade away as it takes complete control. The process is detailed in a book written by a pickup artist, excerpts of which are in the report, and advises readers to stop thinking of hot women as people and think of them as instruments to be controlled.
    -   SCP-3004 is a horrific form of Interfaith Smoothie. An old cicada-based nature deity that found itself syncretized with the Christian God by missionaries to win over its cult. Unfortunately, this worked too well, as this meant the cicada god _itself_ was convinced it was the Christian God, and is essentially trying to replace God as the central figure of Christianity—and it doesn't help that it also conflated the idea of venerating Jesus's sacrifice with just venerating pain and torture in general. This manifests in abrupt and inexplicable instances of staunch Christians and churchgoers performing bizarre sacrificial rituals that usually end in live cicadas crawling out of someone's orifices.
    -   A Christmas Town is used for horror. SCP-784 - Christmas Cheer is a town somewhere in Texas, that is decorated with Christmas all year round regardless of the weather. It is an anomalous location where the inhabitants are Ambiguously Human and assimilate those who do not exhibit the right level of Christmas cheer. This includes things as minor as wishing someone “Happy Holidays” rather than “Merry Christmas”, singing the wrong lyrics to a carol, or not showing enough enthusiasm for a gift.
    -   SCP-752 is a "utopian" society that turns Good Feels Good and The Needs of the Many unsettling. The inhabitants, collectively called SCP 752-1, were built to rationally and willingly be unselfish and devoted to the needs of others over their own private good… which just means that the monstrous things their society does to itself are all perpetrated upon fully-willing people. This includes things like disabled people being murdered or Driven to Suicide and people willingly working themselves to death at a relatively young age.
    -   Christmas Every Day is weaponized in the alternate world of SCP-5000. The Foundation is mentioned to have utilized various temporal anomalies to make it Christmas everyday… so that SCP-4666 will remain active and keep murdering families all year as part of their plan to exterminate humanity.

    Web Videos 

-   _CollegeHumor_ did this with their fake trailer for a film adaptation of _The Sims_, which does this with Video Game Cruelty Potential by showing how horrifying it would be to live under the whims of a Cruel Player-Character God.
-   _Don't Hug Me I'm Scared_ takes many cues from cutesy Edutainment shows aimed at little kids (Such as _Sesame Street_) and use them for a surreal and terrifying Psychological Horror series.
-   _Empires SMP_ Season 1 plays Sitcom Arch-Nemesis and Animal Jingoism for Horror. Jimmy and fWhip initially appear to be rivals/enemies to each other due to the two's conflicts of cod versus salmon, but this "species rivalry" later proves to be much more dangerous and sinister — when the two team up to try to create a new Codfather head, a prophecy ends up rearing its ugly head. Specifically, the prophecy stated, "The resolution of a neverending feud brings unimaginable chaos that will destroy the world", and it rings true: the machine they used for their experiment overloads from combining cod and salmon, obliterating the Grimlands (fWhip's empire) in a huge explosion that almost killed fWhip, and the various natural disasters following or caused by the catastrophe leads to at least three of their fellow rulers and friends being _Killed Off for Real_.
-   Done with Banging for Help in Danny Gonzalez's "The Truth About Jake Paul and Team 10". Danny and a friend hear some kids tell them they heard banging coming from the Team 10 house, all adding to their fear that something bad is going on.
-   Gus Johnson uses Knuckle Cracking for horror and morbid laughs in the sketch "Crack". Two guys crack their knuckles and soon snap other body parts in increasingly painful and unpleasant looking ways.
-   The _ＬＯＣＡＬ５８_ episode "Skywatching" uses Gigantic Moon for this. The extremely large moon brainwashes the camera man into worshiping it.
-   _Mario Party DS Anti Piracy_ does this with Unwinnable Joke Game.
    -   Triggering the Monty Mole anti-piracy routine forces the player into a minigame called "Run", in which they are ostensibly tasked with fleeing a giant Monty Mole, but have no controls with which to do so.
    -   "Host Hoedown", a fictitious minigame where you are forced to apologize to a personalized host (in Joey's case, D.J. Hallyboo, an expy of M.C. Ballyhoo) for pirating the game by tracing the word on the bottom screen. During the third phase, the word moves around, effectively rendering the game this. While it's technically possible to beat the game via TAS, this'll result in your own life being unwinnable.
-   A Description Cut is the first overt scare in the Analog Horror short _MEAT PRODUCT: LIFE MEAT_, which is about a meat substitute made with no meat called "Life Meat". As the narrator describes how much healthier it is than regular meat, the short immediatly cuts to a Dead-Hand Shot of someone after eating Life Meat, followed then by a commercial stating that Life Meat has been recalled after an outbreak of an unknown pathogen.
-   The Groin Attacks done to both genders in Episode 3, "Women in Prison", of _Missing Reel_ are treated this way.
-   When _SF Debris_ reviewed the _Star Trek: The Next Generation_ episode "Captain's Holiday", Chuck started it by mocking Picard's Screw Gun Safety attitude with a kid finding the tossed phaser and accidentally shooting himself. The scene is also Played for Laughs, but still doesn't shy away from how dangerous such an action was.
-   _Smile Tapes_ has a devastating Fantastic Drug called SMILE. It is made from an unknown fungus, is distributed through the black market and has utterly horrific effects on the human body.
-   _Winter of '83_
    -   Evil Is Deathly Cold is played for horror with the monsters, which can control and spread through snow.
    -   We Are Experiencing Technical Difficulties is used for scares during the emergency weather broadcast. The weatherman is murdered and replaced, a stilted voice telling viewers to join them out in the cold.

    Western Animation 

-   _Adventure Time_ uses Flat Character to make its villain the Lich even more horrifying. His backstory is vague, he doesn't speak much, and his entire character revolves around destroying the normally whimsical land of Ooo. The Lich is an absolute force of destruction, and at the end of the day that's all he wants to be.
-   _Batman: The Animated Series_:
    -   Evil Is Petty is part of what makes The Joker scary. His plots include ruining Christmas for Batman and Gotham by taking hostages, ruining the mayor's son's birthday party by planning to blow it up, ruining a party in honor of Commissioner Gordon with the help of an average guy he obsessively stalked and threatened, all because the guy cussed at him while driving, and attempting to patent something that legally cannot be patented, and then gassing the guy at the patent office who told him so.
-   The _Gravity Falls_ episode "Weirdmageddon" does this with Clothing Appendage. An off-center shot from Ford's Wave-Motion Gun hits Bill Cipher's "hat", creating a gaping hole that exposes a mess of fleshy innards before regenerating.
-   Trainstopping is used to gory and horrifying effect in the _Invincible (2021)_ episode "Where I Really Come From". Omni-Man picks up a battered Mark and holds him in front of an oncoming subway train, causing Mark's invulnerable body to tear through the train—and its hundreds of passengers—like a bullet through Styrofoam. By the time it ends, Mark is covered in blood and thoroughly traumatized.
-   _Primal (2019)_ uses Even the Rats Won't Touch It for horror in the episode "Plague of Madness". The corpses of creatures infected by or killed by victims of the titular plague give off such an air of _wrongness_ that even the flies won't touch them. Fang, a T. rex who usually doesn't care about what she eats, approaches one such corpse and _recoils_.
-   _Rick and Morty_ uses many common fantasy/sci-fi tropes that tend to be played in a rather light-hearted manner in other works, taking their horrifying implications to the deep end: A Love Potion? It causes the entirety of humanity to be horribly mutated into monsters obsessed with Morty. An Expendable Alternate Universe? When he has to leave his dimension by the first time, Morty is clearly traumatized by the notion that his friends and family are all doomed and he will spend the rest of his life with identical strangers.
-   _Star Trek: Lower Decks_: Ascend to a Higher Plane of Existence is played for horror. After lying about ascending all episode, O'Connor finally does so near the end. It results in terror and agony for him, and the episode is vague over whether he actually _survived_ in any meaningful sense.
-   _Star vs. the Forces of Evil_ has the Princess Classic and Royal School tropes played for horror. Rebellious princesses are sent to the St. Olga's Reform School for Wayward Princesses, where students are psychologically broken down and stripped of their identities, slowly being brainwashed into becoming perfect princesses.
-   The Tape Knew You Would Say That is used for horror in _Transformers: War for Cybertron Trilogy_. Starscream steals the Golden Disk, containing the information from the future, along with sample of Megatron's energon, and sees the recording of Megatron getting reformatted into Galvatron to be enslaved by Unicron. He reacts in amusement...until Unicron in the recording starts speaking directly to him, revealing that he's aware that Starscream is listening and goes as far as to leave direct instructions for him on how to earn his safety as Unicron's herald.
    
    **Unicron:** Starscream... _(Starscream gasps in shock)_ Starscream... I know you're there. I know everything.
    

___