Rather than being able to take insane amounts of punishment, someone is able to carry on in a more mundane manner as long as the Rule of Cool, Rule of Drama, or Rule of Funny dictates. For example, police officers in most police procedurals who seem to be able to stay awake for several nights and still chase the Villain of the Week. In games it is an Acceptable Break From Reality to keep the game from getting bogged down.

Drugs to do this are Bottled Heroic Resolve. If this is a character in general avoiding biological functions, it's Bottomless Bladder. When super heroes don't seem to need sleep, it's a Triple Shifter. If your mounted creature can do this, then it's one of those Automaton Horses. See also Angst? What Angst? for characters who display improbable _emotional_ durability.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Naruto_:
    -   Kakashi Hatake was established as having poor stamina, and yet he's been fighting for days in the war arc. Although, to be fair, there are medical ninjas running around the divisions to heal him off-screen, and he has had the entirety of the manga's run (almost three years in-universe) to work out of that handicap. But even when he gets a recharge from the Nine-Tails's chakra, that's only after he and Gai went up against several mind-controlled Tailed Beasts and two of the Big Bads alongside Naruto. And he just keeps on going throughout the remainder of the Final Battle like it's nothing even when that supply starts to run out.
    -   Regardless of the fact that he's consistently considered to have some of the highest levels of stamina in the series, on top of having the powers of the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox to fall back upon, the fact that Naruto fought for about 160 chapters/two days more or less non-stop and with more than half of that time being spent fighting the Big Bads _after having just completed some pretty rough training_ and still not running out of juice until he and Sasuke had their final showdown puts Naruto himself smack dab the middle of this trope.
-   Tohma of _Magical Record Lyrical Nanoha Force_. This was given a Lampshade Hanging in the third chapter when he realized how he's not tired at all despite running so long while carrying someone on piggyback and using high-level magic. It is later revealed to be an early foreshadowing of his Eclipse infection, which he unwittingly contracted in chapter one and which eventually turns him into a self-repairing Living Weapon.
-   _Eyeshield 21_: Kongo Agon, being naturally gifted thanks to inhuman time reaction means he is a perfect football player and so he doesn't bother training, instead he goes around drinking and partying with girls. But he is also gifted with unlimited stamina as one of the protagonist explains he never saw him tired himself even after fighting a bunch of delinquents.
-   Kagami's Zone on _Kuroko's Basketball_
-   In Dragon Ball, Frieza is established to have poor stamina when fighting at full power during the Namek Arc. Since the anime infamously added a ton of Padding to this part of the battle, the original _Z_ run never really makes it apparent as Goku and Frieza duke it out for a grand total of _19_ episodes.
    -   In _Dragon Ball Super_, around the halfway point of the Tournament of Power, Goku after unlocking and subsequently losing his Ultra Instinct form while fighting Jiren is moderately injured with his stamina especially low enough that other, weaker fighters, who all watched how amazingly powerful he is, are confident that they can take him out early. Yet despite this, Goku immediately starts fighting again, accesses his super modes regularly, including the above Ultra Instinct form again, which are said to take energy just to _activate_, and performs feats such as fighting a fused, super-powerful saiyan and shooting a Kamehameha _while being crushed by the equivalent of a black hole_. By the time the latter fight happened, it was not _5 minutes_ after he lost most of his stamina to begin with.

    Comic Books 

-   _Judge Dredd_ is usually able to go for days without sleep. Of course, sleep machines allow for a full night's sleep in five minutes. It's implied that this can be detrimental to a judge's health and judges must stand down every two weeks and get a full night of natural sleep.
-   _Batman_ is patrolling almost every night, still has an active day life and tiring himself during a fight is a case of Worf Had the Flu instead of what would naturally happen if you jump in a fight twenty to one after jumping from rooftops. Bane used most of the rogues gallery to tire Batman when he had a bad flu before beating him.

    Film 

-   The excellent running skills of _Forrest Gump_ nets him a spot on Bear Bryant's team and earns him a Medal of Honor in Vietnam when he rescues his entire unit (except for Bubba); after Jenny ditches him, he decides to go jogging and inadvertently starts a national trend, not stopping until quite some time later. (In his narrative, he claims to have stopped for food, water, rest, and bathroom breaks, but in the film edits it together so it looks like he just keeps going...and going...and going...)
    
    "That day, for no particular reason, I decided to go for a little run. So I ran to the end of the road. And when I got there, I thought maybe I'd run to the end of town. And when I got there, I thought maybe I'd just run across Greenbow County. And I figured, since I run this far, maybe I'd just run across the great state of Alabama. And that's what I did. I ran clear across Alabama. For no particular reason I just kept on going. I ran clear to the ocean. And when I got there, I figured, since I'd gone this far, I might as well turn around, just keep on going. When I got to another ocean, I figured, since I'd gone this far, I might as well just turn back, keep right on going."
    
-   This is said to be true of aboriginals in _The Gods Must Be Crazy 2_, where they can keep moving at a decent clip across long distances where Westerners would have stopped after less than an hour.
-   In _The Graduate_, Ben spends the last portion of the movie running like hell to stop his beloved's wedding, basically power-jogging nonstop for ages with only a pause to make a phone call. Nicely led up to throughout the film with repeated mentions of Ben's position in college as captain of the track team.
-   In _The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers_, Aragorn and Legolas seem to be sprinting non-stop across miles and miles of land to chase down the kidnapped Hobbits, with Gimli barely keeping up and heavily winded. In the book, at least, it is mentioned that this is in fact abnormal and not just something they can all do all the time. It is apparently named "The Deed Of The Three Friends" and ballads are sung about it. The book also lets them rest a bit more than the movie, where Gimli states that it's been three days pursuit with no food, water or rest. In the book they at least pause so that Gimli and Aragorn can sleep while Legolas keeps guard, since his Elvish superpowers include the lack of a need to sleep.
-   J in the beginning of _Men in Black_ runs down an alien known for its speed, across blocks up a building, and is not winded at all after the chase that left the alien a little tired (somewhat justified by J taking some shortcuts like a bus and a freight elevator). This is part of what gets him into the MIB in the first place.
-   Toshiro Mifune's character in the Charles Bronson movie _Red Sun_ spends all day walking across the desert, then says he'll keep watch overnight. When Bronson asks him why he's not going to sleep, he says he's already slept - "While walking". (Bronson does observe the following morning that for a man on watch, he did snore a bit.)
-   In _Run Fatboy Run_, this is how unathletic, heavy smoker Dennis finishes the marathon on a sprained ankle, though it took him about 12 hours longer than everybody else. Fueled by the fact that he had something to prove to himself, to his ex-girlfriend, and pretty much everyone else in his life _except_ his son, who believed in him the entire time.

    Literature 

-   In _Dragon Bones_, Ward stays awake for some two days after a battle, as things keep happening and someone has to keep watch. The other characters lampshade it, and are a bit concerned, as he's just an ordinary human being. Except for a bit of dragon blood He himself knows that it's no good to exhaust himself, but still does.
-   In _Ranger's Apprentice_, there's a note at least once a book that Ranger ponies (and dogs, in one particular case) can keep up the pace all day and not get tired. This is actually justified, given that the horses are bred for stamina as much as, if not more than, strength and speed. It's also played realistically-they do tire themselves out given sufficient exercise, as seen in Books 2 and 7, for example.
-   This is the Aiel's hat in the _The Wheel of Time_. They can keep up with a horse while on foot and can do so for quite a while. (Trained humans can chase an unburdened horse until it dies of exhaustion. Keeping up with a warhorse carrying an armored knight is plausible, though badass, especially for an entire army with supply lines and logistics to worry about.)
-   Robert Langdon from _The Da Vinci Code_ apparently stays awake during the entire length of the book, finally crashing to sleep at the end.
-   In addition to his strength and fighting prowess, Fezzik of the novel _The Princess Bride_ has _arms_ that have inexhaustible stamina; the rest of his body can wear out, but his arms are always as fresh as ever.
-   _The Dresden Files_: Harry Dresden seems to fall into this trope under a certain interpretation of it. Most of the books involve him being slowly damaged far past the point normal people would be falling to pieces, and still fighting. By the end of most books he's a wreck, but with the bad guys defeated. He generally recovers but some wounds don't go away. In one book, a physician points out how Dresden's body seems to not retain the wear and tear of his activities the way a normal person's would. Dresden concludes that a wizard's power gives them a very limited Healing Factor, which is probably responsible for their centuries-long lifespan. He can be injured, and doesn't heal any faster than normal, but his injuries can heal _completely_ given enough time; his scar tissue heals at the same rate as normal injury, rather than staying static. The neat bit is that this is biologically plausible; there is a lab-mouse genetic line (known as MRL) that does the same thing (though presumably it's for a different reason).
-   The sons and daughters of Oberon in _The Chronicles of Amber_ by Roger Zelazny. For example, Corwin and Random once fenced to exhaustion. Most people can fence at full pelt for a handful of minutes. Corwin and Random were still going strong twenty-six hours later. Corwin gave up so he could keep a hot date he had lined up.
-   In _Romance of the Three Kingdoms_, the top tier generals are noted for having jaw-dropping levels of endurance. One of the most famous instances is Zhang Fei's duel with Ma Chao—they duel for _hours_, even calling for torches once it falls dark. They keep going for so long that their seconds in command gets worried and has the armies pull back, at which point both complain that they could have continued fighting.
-   Beowulf is remarked as being able to swim for three days and nights underwater to reach the lair of Grendel's mother. This is just one of the hyperbolic superhuman feats attributed to him throughout the poem.
-   Justified in _The Elenium_. After a long day of travel, the knights discover that they are being followed by those who are seeking to kill them. Sephrenia uses her magic to cast a dangerous spell that simulates the effects of a full night's sleep. This allows them all to get to an inn where they can sleep safely. The spell is dangerous because it doesn't actually provide the rest that it simulates, so if used too often it can cause the caster to die from exhaustion.
-   In _Catching Fire_ Johanna Mason apparently goes over two days without sleeping at the start of the Quarter Quell.
-   In the X-Wing novel _Starfighters of Adumar_, Wedge Antilles is the senior Ambadassador -slash-celebrity-Ace Pilot of the New Republic to the eponymous world. His normal duties involve mock dueling with Adumari pilots for several hours, followed by postmortem discussions about their tactics, skills, and concept of honor, followed by politicking over dinner. One day, he goes through this schedule until, at a dinner meeting with the _perator_ (emperor) of Cartaan, he insults the emperor and his plan to Take Over the World, which earns him exile "by gauntlet". He proceeds, along with three of his pilots, to run, sneak, and shoot through half the city to reach a friendly airbase. He goes up in the air and encounters enemy pilots — thirty, against the four New Republic fliers, who are using inferior and unfamiliar equipment — and _vapes them all_. After that, his fighter too heavily damaged to escape, he sneaks _back_ into the city, links up with a friend of his who happens to be a New Republic spy, is smuggled out of the country, meets with the _perator_ of his new host nation, agrees to help them in their new war against Cartaan, and is fully prepared to plan an invasion in twelve hours and then roar off in his fighter _again_. Tycho promptly tells him to go to bed.
-   In the novelization of _Betrayal at Krondor_ in The Riftwar Cycle, Jimmy and Locklear go for days with little to no sleep thanks to a powder provided to them by a priest. This allows them to ride from Northwarden to the Dimwood at an insane pace and then fight two battles in rapid succession. Shortly after the second battle they collapse from exhaustion. Jimmy later notes that even after he woke up, he was still so tired that he was effectively useless for the next week.
-   Shasta of _The Horse and His Boy_ manages a truly impressive miles-long sprint to warn Archenland of an invasion. He was given extra motivation by being chased by the local Jesus-lion (Shasta had no way of knowing that he wasn't hostile).
-   In _Graceling Realm_ one of the signs of Katsa's true Grace is that she can do this.
-   The first ten _Chrono Hustle_ stories take place over the course of a few days (from the characters perspectives anyway), but food and sleep are only occasionally mentioned.
-   The early Star Trek novels often take advantage of Spock's ability to stay awake for days on end.
-   The golden trio from _Harry Potter_ stay awake through pretty much the second half of the last book, which, admittedly, only comprises a day (from one dawn to the next) but, throughout that day, they do quite a lot of stuff. Only the storming of Gringotts would have been enough to leave them, or any normal person/wizard, exhausted in normal circumstances.
-   In _The Belgariad_ and its related stories by David Eddings, Belgarath is said to be able to go without sleep for way longer than should be humanly possible if he's really focused on something. His daughter, a physician, reflects on this, and considers it to be Achievements in Ignorance—he doesn't _'know_ it's impossible, so he does it. Mind you, this being Belgarath, it's entirely possible he knows it's impossible and just doesn't care.

    Live Action TV 

-   In _The X-Files_, Mulder often spends several days doing a stakeout by himself, and the like. He's a chronic insomniac and is rarely seen sleeping in the show's nine seasons. He often goes several days without sleep. The cause for his insomnia is never given, though it likely has something to do with the high amount of stress in his life, his obsessive nature about his cases, and recurring nightmares about his sister's abduction. After Scullly is abducted in season 2, he spends the whole next episode not sleeping (at least a few days). In fact, when a detective suggests he finds a hotel in the area, Mulder says it isn't needed, as he "doesn't sleep anymore". His apartment doesn't even have a bedroom (or bed for that matter) until season 6.
-   _Law & Order_ is inconsistent about this. Sometimes the detectives seem to stay up for an abnormally long time; other times, their boss insists they go home and get some rest. Generally speaking, they appear back to back, such that the detectives are up for days and then told to get some rest. In the situations where they are up for abnormally long times, they are (depending on the writers) usually portraying the effects of sleep deprivation accurately: short tempers, lack of ability to focus, and so on.
    -   Explicitly averted in some episodes where the Title Cards will show the date various scenes are taking place and they show that the episode spans weeks or months (which is much more consistent with the reality of police work) so a few long days/late nights over that stretch wouldn't be anything especially noteworthy (and also consistent with the reality of police work).
-   The characters of _24_ manage without sleep just fine for twenty-four hours plus however long they'd already been up. Speaking of which, season one started at midnight, meaning they were up for more like _two_ days without sleep the first time around.
    -   In season one, Jack Bauer does find enough time to get a catnap at roughly the seventh episode (when he's holed up in a building with a waitress he's taken hostage). He also finds time to eat a frozen dinner during his debriefing at CTU (in fact, the only other time he's shown eating is at the beginning of the fifth season). Aside from this, however, Jack and every other character on the show can function overnight or forego eating for extended periods of time. This appears to be the reason why most later seasons begin at 7 or 8 AM (making it so that the characters are really only staying up overnight) instead of late hour season starts.
-   It's canon in _Star Trek_ that fresh, healthy Vulcans can charge their systems to go for weeks without sleeping. Used in the novels a lot when the crisis lasts for a long time.
    -   Denobulans (e.g. Phlox in _Star Trek: Enterprise_) hibernate for a week or two per year, and are otherwise awake all the time.
    -   Justified with Data (he's an android) and it's shown in a few episodes that he takes the night shift and other long watches and averts this trope as he often does so explicitly so the humans can sleep.
-   _Lost_ episodes 3x21 (_The Greatest Hits_) through 4x03 (_The Economist_) take place over a period of three _really_ busy days and all main characters are shown to stay up on both nights with no signs of exhaustion by the end of the third day. Though the very first handful of episodes show a paraplegic man unexpectedly gaining his legs back...
-   Elliott from _Leverage_ only sleeps ninety minutes a day.
    -   Based on real science, where a human _can_ technically get the required amount of REM sleep by training their body to near-instantly enter this state for 30 minutes at a time. Granted this is said to require _two hours_, so Elliott makes it count even further by not going for that extra half hour.
-   Played with on _CSI: NY_, where Mac's been called out several times about his seemingly rare periods of sleep. This show seems to ask for it more than the original CSI, because there doesn't appear to be another shift at the lab, just Mac's team.
    
    -   Jo once has Flack attempt to drag him home for some rest. They stop for a snack along the way and, naturally, never make it to Mac's apartment.
    -   On another occasion, Stella and Mac are looking for evidence in a hotel room and she alludes to people flipping their pillows over:
    
    **Stella:** What do you do when you can't sleep?
    
    **Mac:** Work.
    
    **Stella:** No...what do \*normal\* people do when they can't sleep?
    
    -   Taken seriously when one of their own is killed. Mac expects his team and all the police officers on the case to keep working, even if they're pulling doubles, because they owe it to the family to find the killer.
    -   Goes with the territory indeed. In "Risk," Danny spots a body on the subway tracks on his way home after a double shift and goes back to work to help with the case. In another episode, Mac asks him what he's doing still at work in the middle of the night. Danny tells him he had two court cases then worked the 4 to midnight shift before their current case popped up and ends with "Don't worry. I got my fourth wind, I'll be alright." Mac says ok, but tells him as soon as they're done to go home and get some sleep. Pot meets kettle, eh?
-   Cirronians in _Tracker_ have a biological adaptation which eliminates the need for sleep. Fans theorize they might go into some kind of meditation state, but it was never made canon.
-   _Criminal Minds_ regularly does this. Although the majority of episodes leave periods where one could presume they do more mundane things like eat and sleep, some episodes (such as "Retaliation") has the team working through the night with nary a break and they're none worse the wear for it. The only time the show subverts it is in "The Fisher King, Part 1," and even then, it's only one teammate \- Elle Greenaway, just so she could go home and get shot by the UnSub when she tried to sleep.
    -   "Faceless, Nameless," the season five opener, mentions a few times that the team hasn't rested (much less slept) after the previous episodes (an especially draining two-parter "To Hell... And Back"), but the only reason this comes into play at all is because they believe Hotch isn't answering his phone because he managed to get to sleep. He was stabbed by serial killer George Foyet and was brought to the hospital. It has no effect on anyone's performance.
-   Averted in the _Battlestar Galactica (2003)_ episode "33" where the strain of the Cylons showing up every 33 minutes (and the subsequent scramble to escape) wears heavily on all the characters.

    Video Games 

-   The _Uncharted_ series has two incredibly egregious cases:
    -   _Among Thieves_ has Nate climbing up a train hanging off a mountain after getting shot in the gut, even though he's barely able to stand upright. As soon as it's time for a gunfight, he's right back to running around and fighting like the wound isn't even there. There's no mention of hypothermia, either, even though he's not wearing anything to significantly protect him from the cold.
    -   In _Drake's Deception_, Nate gets stranded in the desert, and goes for three days without water. He reaches an abandoned city and can barely muster the strength to enter, but goes right back to normal as soon as bad guys appear for him to shoot at.
-   At one point in _Sleeping Dogs (2012)_, Wei gets captured by some goons and brutally tortured, including getting slashed multiple times, having a hammer dropped on his foot, and taking a power drill to the knee. When he wakes up, he can barely move, and only manages to kill two guards by relying on luck and surprise. However, once you open the door to the next room and regain full control, Wei's suddenly back to running, jumping, and fighting as if nothing happened at all.
    -   This gets even worse in the ending. While crashing through a door, Big Smile Lee blasts Wei in the side with a _shotgun_. This barely slows Wei down and he's still able to chase after Lee and even make a death-defying leap onto his boat before it escapes. Lee then abandons ship and crashes the boat into a fuel tank and it explodes when Wei is less than ten feet away from it. Despite this, Wei is still able to climb out of the water and fight and kill Lee in one last battle.
-   _S.T.A.L.K.E.R._: The Marked One, Scar and Major Degtayrev are apparently machines - despite engaging in countless gunfights, being awake possibly for in-game weeks, and dealing with the myriad dangers of the Zone, neither of them show the slightest dip in physical performance. Degtayrev at least has the _option_ to sleep, but without prompting from the player (and there's no benefit beyond fast-forwarding) they can apparently go indefinitely without sleep. Certain mods change this a bit: they add a sleeping bag and a _need_ to sleep, because otherwise you'll end up with a condition similar to being drunk and around a Controller's psy field at the same time, and it only gets worse over time.
-   Averted in Hardcore Mode of _Fallout: New Vegas_. The Courier _does_ need to sleep, eat, and drink, and going without will degrade your performance and eventually kill you.
-   Parodied in the first cutscene of _God Hand_, where Gene waddles into a town in the middle of the desert howling for water and collapses... then springs right back up when Olivia notices some enemies.
-   Though you don't need to, in _Fallout 4_ your companions will often suggest that you take a nap.
    -   Subverted much like Hardcore in _New Vegas_ above when playing on Survival difficulty in that you need to maintain your needs. However, there's also the fact that you can only save when resting as well, meaning hours of gameplay can be lost if you don't keep up on your bed rest.
-   _Bully_: You can run nonstop without tiring and go the whole game without eating or going to the bathroom. You do pass out at 2 AM though.
-   In _The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel II_, despite the fact that he's been in a coma for a month after getting his ass kicked in the Final Boss fight of the previous game, Rean's capable of climbing down a mountain and fight enemies, even noting that he's getting rusty and has to get back in fighting shape. He does have to draw a line with a huge golem as it kicks his ass, requiring him to be saved by Toval.
    -   It happens again to Rean in Cold Steel IV during the Intermission. Granted he was in a perpetual ogre power state at the time, but it should be noted that Rean had been chained up for little over a month, spent that time mostly awake, and likely has not eaten much during said period either. Yet despite all this, he's capable enough to rampage throughout the Black Workshop aided by Celine, Crow, and Duvalie, gets into a fight against Mc Burn and the Stahlritter, gets into a fight against New Class VII, and after snapping out of his rage, he then gets into a fight against Osborne and Arianrhod. At the end of this Rean looks barely out of breath, though he does end up falling asleep for over a day upon returning to Eryn.
    -   In the backstory of the games, the legendary mercenary generals Baldur Orlando the War God and Rutger Claussell the Jaeger King fought a duel that lasted three days and three nights non-stop. In _Cold Steel IV_ the implausibility of this is lampshaded, with Rutger himself not knowing how he managed to fight that long without stopping for rest.
-   _Total War: Warhammer II_ features the Perfect Vigor trait. Units with this trait never suffer any stamina penalties. After a forced march over difficult terrain, they could fight several battles, lose most of their health, and fight just as well as if they'd had a pleasant night's rest.
-   Your player character in _One Way Heroics_ has to make their way across the world without letting the encroaching darkness catch up to them. Days and nights will pass and you never have a chance to sit down and rest. Only after you defeat the source of the darkness does your hero collapse from utter exhaustion.
-   _Baldur's Gate_ usually averted this, with characters becoming "exhausted" if they hadn't slept recently, affecting their stats and ability to accomplish any tasks (including battle). But the trope is played straight when traveling: if traveling to another city requires many days' travel, then it successfully happens in one go. Yes, the characters are exhausted when they arrive at the destination, but by rights they should have collapsed en route.

    Webcomics 

-   During the DARE To Resist Drugs and Ninja Violence arc in _The Adventures of Dr. McNinja_, the Doctor realizes that it's been almost two days since he ate or slept while dealing with a random ninja mook. The mook tries to laugh it off, but it's made the doctor a bit cranky.
-   Sex comedy division; in _Ménage à 3_ after a night of mutually satisfactory passion, Peggy wakes Matt with the suggestion that they make it "an even dozen", and he agrees.
-   After being forced to leave Azure City, Vaarsuvius of _The Order of the Stick_ stops “trancing,” leaving them rather haggard. This is subsequently revealed to be due at least in part to guilt over surviving the invasion by hiding while their allies were being slaughtered. The fact that V was continually reliving the traumatic event of being able to do nothing while they died led V to conclude trancing was ... not productive.

    Real Life 

-   Pheidippides was said to have run 150 miles (Athens to Sparta to Marathon) and then 26 miles (Marathon to Athens) to bring word of victory at the Battle of Marathon. The modern concept of the marathon run is named in honor of this achievement.
-   This is humanity's "superpower" compared to most of the animal kingdom. While many prey and predator species are great at sprinting, and can reach speeds a human couldn't possibly hope to match without a vehicle, they can only do that for a short time. Humans, meanwhile, have the endurance to just _keep going_. There are tribes in Africa that hunt by doing this, essentially "chasing" the prey at a brisk walking pace and relying on advanced intelligence to track and predict the path as well as complex communication to share the work load until the target has exhausted itself. In fact, no animal on Earth can outrun a human in long distance running. None. At least in Africa, where a human's bipedal gait (which is more energy-efficient than moving on all four limbs and also reduces the amount of the body that's exposed to direct sunlight in the middle of the day) combined with more efficient breathing (again a byproduct of bipedalism), and the ability to carry water in drinking containers all give humans a huge advantage in endurance. In places that are cooler and further from the equator, the advantage is significantly reduced.
    -   One of the few animals that are even in the same league as humans in terms of endurance is the wolf, which is why we domesticated them and turned them into dogs, which we bred to be (by and large) more dogged than their lupine ancestors but still less so than us.
    -   See also: Humans Are Special.
-   Herschel Walker, former NFL running back, may be the single most determined man on the planet. In place of lifting weights, he chose to use basic push ups and sit ups to keep his body in top form. As of 2010, his daily workout still consists of _3,500 sit ups and 1,000 push ups._
    -   Just to break that down with some impressive math skills, that means that, assuming he does one sit up every second, he would have to be doing sit ups non-stop, once a second every second, for almost an hour to meet this regimen. Most people don't do that many in a year.
-   Dean Karnazes. Just take a look at his article on Wikipedia.
-   Horses not only have a unique physiology that allows them to run longer, domesticated, trained horses lack the survival instinct to not run themselves to death if pushed to do so.
-   The mission of Apollo 13 resulted in very little sleep for the crew, between the crises that needed to be handled and the extreme cold in the spacecraft. They tried to sleep, but still ended up going far longer than they really should have. Touched on in the film.
-   Cliff Young, an Australian potato farmer, ran and won a 544-mile foot race at the age of 61, beating competitors more than half his age while wearing overalls and rain boots. His strategy? While the other runners ran for seventeen hours a day and slept for seven, Young ran at a relaxed pace for five days straight without stopping for sleep or food. He broke the previous record by nearly _two days_. It's worth noting he didn't KNOW they were supposed to take breaks.

___