_"The Jewel of Charta! I'm invincible!"_

Diamonds are a Magical Girl's best friend. They are also friends to Mons, Doomsday Devices, space rangers, magical knights, Humongous Mecha, and regular old Robots. So if you want something to look highly advanced or incredibly magically powerful, just slap a Mineral MacGuffin on it; just like a normal MacGuffin, it doesn't even have to _do_ anything to be neat!

You see, while it's been fine for gold and silver to coast by on their prettiness to be worth something, in our fiction we seem intent on making jewellery work for their value and turn them into a universal battery so popular for energy storage it makes the AA look shameful.

In a magical setting, they'll often be called "The Eye of..." and Power Glows will be in full effect, leading to the crystal being a Glowing Gem. In science fiction settings, they tend to be welcome with the Sufficiently Advanced Alien races. They also can appear in less advanced settings when doing the job of "focusing crystal", not directly making the energy themselves but somehow being able to turn any other energy source into Stuff Blowing Up by having lights bounce around off the internal angles. Your Mad Scientist or Evil Sorcerer will probably be using such a crystal to power his Death Ray.

In a Video Game, these gems are usually the Power Sources and weak points of the robots containing them. They also dim or crack when under a heavy battering, or sometimes even blink like a half-broken LCD display. Robots who are killed will frequently have their crystals dim and go opaque.

Power Crystals may be faceted or completely round and smooth. Depends on the design aesthetic.

Choice spots to bling out your power armor are:

-   Forehead, as a "Third Eye"
-   Shoulders, as a military epaulet
-   Center of the chest (rarely, over the heart), as with "Iron Man"
-   Below the navel, or as a "belt buckle"
-   The back of the hand, as with "Lensman"
-   The palm of the hand, as with Iron Man's Repulsor Rays
-   On the knees (but for some reason, rarely the top of the feet)

These may not always exactly be crystals or jewels. Oftentimes lenses and emitters also perform this duty, by virtue of their placement.

If extemely powerful, a crystal may be an Amulet of Concentrated Awesome or an Artifact of Doom.

When actually used for attacking, that would make it a case of Gemstone Assault.

Compare Crystal Spires and Togas, Gem-Encrusted, Green Rocks, All-Natural Gem Polish, Body to Jewel, Crystal Prison, Silver Has Mystic Powers, Gem Heart, Mystical Jade.

A Sub-Trope of Everything's Sparkly with Jewelry (why else would this power be contained in a gem?)

A Super-Trope to Data Crystal.

_This item is available in the Trope Co. catalog._

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Agni's Philosophy_: One is instrumental in the summoning ritual.
-   _Ah! My Goddess_: Skuld has two on the backs of her hands, and two on top of her feet.
-   Downplayed examples are found throughout the Low Fantasy world of _Blue Ramun_ — the Blue Doctors use slightly magical crystals in their healing work. Jessie uses a "Hearing Stone" much like a stethoscope to check a patient's lung function. "Water Stones" and "Crystallized Blood Stones" are both mentioned in the context of surgery, the first for rinsing out a wound and the second as a transfusion source for a patient who has lost a lot of blood.
-   _Digimon Frontier_ has Dynasmon, who has one set into the palm of each hand. There's also JagerLowemon, who has them all over his body.
-   _Dragon Ball's_ Chi-chi has one of these in her helmet, used for lasering anything she doesn't like the look of.
-   In _Dragon Quest: Legend of the Hero Abel_, the Red Stone and Blue Stone hold untold power that can only be unleashed by those chosen to guard them. Most importantly, the Red Stone has the power to set loose an all-powerful dragon, who can only be sealed up again by the Blue Stone. The Blue Stone is given to Abel, and while normally it's attached to his headgear, on one occasion he removes the stone and fixes it to a magic staff. Talia is given the Red Stone, which she wears on a necklace.
-   In _Endride_, Adamas is a giant floating crystal that absorbs sunlight through the North and South poles and then projects it throughout Endora, creating an artificial daylight, which drains by the end of the day for an artificial night.
-   _Fairy Tail_:
    -   Lacrima crystals, which are formed from and contain magical energy that can then used to power almost every kind of magic item. Depending on the type of magic stored within the crystal, forcibly breaking one can release the contained magic in an uncontrolled reaction.
    -   When the Etherion was fired at the Tower of Heaven, the tower absorbed the magic energy and transmuted into a giant lacrima crystal that contained the destructive and varied elemental energies of the weapon. While Jellal intended to use the energy to power the R-System, Natsu in desperation devoured some of the crystals for a Power-Up to defeat him, and the damage the tower took over the course of the battle caused a chain-reaction that forced them to redirect the energy back into outer space before the crystals failed and released the energy in an uncontrolled burst.
-   _Fate/stay night_: The Tohsaka family specializes in a school of magic devoted to storing magical energy, typically in jewels. Rin does so by sprinkling her blood on her jewels every night, and uses them in battle by throwing them. The downside? Using the jewels generally destroys them, and those jewels are really expensive, so the Tohsaka family always has money problems.
-   _GaoGaiGar_:
    -   G-Stones actually convert positive emotions, most notably courage, into energy. The J-Jewel, being a replicated version of the G-Stone, probably works similarly.
    -   Zonder Metal counts too: it converts stress and other negative emotions into energy.
-   _Gundam_: The various Alternate Universe continuities love this trope.
    -   In _Gundam Wing_, all three Wings and the Epyon have large green "search eye" cameras on their chests.
    -   In _Gundam X_, the green gem on the GX's chest was the receiver for the microwave power transmission system that powered up the satellite cannon.
    -   Most of the GN-powered mobile suits in _Gundam 00_ have these, usually taking the form of one large crystal in the chest and at least one on each limb. They're supposed to be the storage units of the GN particles that make them go.
    -   _SD Gundam_ has crystals being used in various forms. Musha Gundam makes much of a 'Gundam Crystal', an artifact which is often split into separate parts and handed down to successive generations of heroes. Some versions of the series also have the Mushas house crystals on their torsos, inside of which are their 'GunSouls'. Upon death these crystals exit the body to await reincarnation.
-   In _Guyver_ there are the Zoa crystals which are embedded into each Zoalord's forehead that give them their power. Some even have other crystals stuck into other parts of their bodies.
-   _Harukanaru Toki no Naka de_: The Dragon Gems the Hachiyou have on their bodies might count as this, considering they're the source of their powers and are used for performing attacks (or for giving the Miko a power-up, for that matter).
-   _Heroic Age_: Bellcross has crystals on his chest, forehead, and palms... and making up his shoulder and hip joints.
-   _Lyrical Nanoha_: Having more in common with Super Robot than its Magical Girl Warrior siblings, the series puts a gem on every piece of technology there is; it usually displays what function the machine is using at the time. (Subaru even has the gems on top of her roller blades.)
-   _Magic Knight Rayearth_: Both the Rune Gods (while in robot-like mode) and the Knights' Escudo Weapons have significant, color-coded crystals on them.
-   _Mazinger Z_: Several Robeasts have Power Crystals in different body areas. An example is Brutus M3, who had two huge diamonds set on its chest worked like a Phlebotinum Battery.
-   _My-Otome_: The titular Otomes use gemstones as their Transformation Trinkets, worn as earrings (and standard rings for their Masters).
-   In _Naruto_, Naruto wears a crystal pendant that belonged to Tsunade and, before her, to the First Hokage. It can be used to hold back the Nine-Tailed Fox possessing him, but when he reaches six tails, Naruto deliberately shatters the crystal.
-   _Neon Genesis Evangelion_: The Angels have glowing crystal cores which cause the creature to shut down or, in the _Rebuild_ continuity, explode (with a Rain of Blood as an after-effect) as if their body was made of gelignite when sufficiently damaged. Evas, which are essentially man-made pseudo-Angels, more sensibly hide theirs under several tons of armour. There are exceptions to this rule, however, as not only do some Angels, like Leliel, Bardiel and Iruel lack visible cores, but there are some, like Zeruel, who can conceal his core behind a protective membrane (or ribs in Rebuild) should its AT Field be breached. That said, the original series' Ramiel _was_ just one big, octahedral Power Crystal / Wave-Motion Gun.
-   _Panzer World Galient_: The titular Humongous Mecha has a glowing, diamond-shaped crystal between its eyes.
-   _Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl_: In the three-episode Team Galactic arc, Cyrus uses a crystal of the Red Chain in the palm of his glove to mind-control the legendary Pokémon Uxie, Mesprit and Azelf.
-   _Rolling Girls_: Bests get their powers from heart shaped crystals that fall from the sky.
-   _Sailor Moon_: Sailor Moon and Sailor Chibi-Moon's Power source and transformation devices are the aptly named Silver Crystal. They carry their respective versions in a brooch worn on the bow on their chests. The same crystal is also carried on Sailor Moon's wand during the first arc/season after it's obtained and the other girls get a crystal they transform with in the manga. Each senshi is said to have one known as a Sailor Crystal (apparently the the Sailor Starlights carry their Sailor Crystals in their brooches according to the Material's Collection).
-   In _Saint Seiya Omega_, each Cloth — divine armor — has one, due crystal pendants being the new vessels for the Cloths. They're officially called Cloth Stones.
-   _Slayers_: Halfway through _Slayers Next_, Lina acquires a set of four Demon Blood Talismans from Xelloss, which she can use to amplify her magical power. She wears one on her collar, another on her belt, and the others on her wrists; they glow brightly when she channels their power. In addition, she also sports a pair of fake crystals in her shoulderpads, enchanted to explode when removed by a thief.
-   _Tekkaman Blade_: The title character uses a green crystal to transform ("Tekset"). Other Tekkamen, mostly hostile, use crystals of various colours and shapes.
-   In _Tenchi Muyo!_, the gems that can interchangeably go either on the hilt of Tenchi's sword or on Ryoko's wrists.
-   _Transformers_:
    -   Jetfire in _Transformers: Armada_ has "Lensman" hand crystals, but has never been seen using them.
    -   Energon stars in _Transformers: Energon_ (the sequel to the above series) were used by the Transformers to create energon weapons. However, the energon star would eventually run out of energy and vanish, along with the weapons generated by it. Energon stars (and weapons) were colour-coded by faction: red for Autobots and yellow for Decepticons.
-   In _The Vision of Escaflowne_, the Escaflowne has crystals that seem to serve no function but decoration, and a chest-mounted crystal that's basically the engine — this is where the pilot places a dragon's heart in order to fuel it. We actually see the shoulder crystals firing laser beams in one of Dornkirk's visions of a possible future where Van and Hitome 'rally the dragon' to defeat Dornkirk.
-   _Witchblade_ has a crystalline "eye" which is visible even in passive form (as a jewel on her "bracer") and glows red when going to kick some ass. See?
-   In _Xam'd: Lost Memories_, the title monster is formed by one of these embedding itself in a person's body. Bonus points in that the crystals are the souls of the dead (albeit after some sort of processing) and fully sentient.

    Comic Books 

-   _The 99_: The titular superheroes' powers come from magic stones.
-   _All Fall Down_: Count Von Deadly uses one of these — until he explodes.
-   _Atomic Robo_: Brutally spoofed. While fighting Dr. Dinosaur, Robo articulates several reasons why a time-traveling dinosaur scientist is flatly impossible. After Robo notes that Dr. Dinosaur would have had nothing but fronds and rocks with which to build a time machine, Dinosaur angrily attempts to Hand Wave it by saying "I had CRYSTALS!" After that, pretty much any explanation Dr. Dinosaur gives tends to involve "CRYSTALS" in some way.
-   In _The Autumnlands: Tooth & Claw_, Dunstan's father uses a luminous gemstone to summon a lightening bolt with grievous results.
-   _The DCU_:
    -   _Justice League of America_: An early story has four people empowered by mysterious black orbs from another dimension to follow their desires in an unstoppable crime spree. One woman, coveting jewelry in the window store, becomes Gem Girl, capable of using a different superpower from every gem she stole based on gem lore and powerful enough to trounce Wonder Woman.
    -   _Superman_:
        -   Several times, Kryptonite is a formidable power source. Generally done in the interest of making things harder for Superman, Supergirl or other Kryptonians. For example, it was the power source for Metallo in his original incarnation, though with no anti-Superman malice at the time (all the scientist who made Metallo happened to have on hand when he made him was some Kryptonite).
        -   In the Post-Crisis universe and other continuities, Kryptonians use a kind of glowing crystals called "Sunstones" which perform a large array of tasks, such as constructing building structures or storing data.
        -   In _Superman: Brainiac_, the Man of Steel studies information about Brainiac recorded in Sunstones left by his father.
        -   In _Last Daughter of Krypton_, a sunstone guides Supergirl back to Argo City and then displays a message recorded by her father.
        -   In _Bizarrogirl_, the Bizarro's rocket ship is controlled by sunstones. Supergirl also learns information about the Bizarro race via a Sunstone.
        -   _Who is Superwoman?_ reveals that those multi-purpose glowing rocks are also hard and sharp. Supergirl keeps a communication device made from Sunstones. During a heated argument with her mother, Kara smashes it to pieces, and cuts her hand on the shards.
        -   _Superman: Up, Up and Away!_: Kryptonian Sunstones are self-replicating, infinitely programmable and can transmit data at lightning speed. The object buried deep beneath Earth's surface is a massive Kryptonian warship made of Sunstone. Superman also uses the Sunstone to build a new Fortress of Solitude.
        -   _Superman and the ThunderCats_ has the magical stone Mxyzptlk gives Mumm-Ra in order to cross dimensions.
        -   In _Two for the Death of One_ and other _Superman_ stories, the Runestone of Merlin is a huge red gemstone glowing and bursting with immeasurable magic power. It is coveted by rival sorcerers Satanis and Syrene — daughter of the original custodian — who seek to gain omnipotence by absorbing its powerful energies.
        -   In _The Killers of Krypton_, Empress Gandelo's minions use glowing green crystals to send and receive messages.
    -   _Teen Titans_: Raven has a red crystal "Third Eye".
    -   _Wonder Woman_:
        -   _Wonder Woman: Warbringer_: In order to save her home and break the bloodline curse on the titular Warbringer, Diana uses a crystal called a Heartstone that has the ability to teleport the user anywhere out of Themyscira the user chooses — on the downside, it can then only be used to teleport _back_ to Themyscira.
        -   _Wonder Woman and the Star Riders_: Each of the Star Riders has a star jewel with magic properties that give the wearer additional control over an elemental power and help keep natural elements of the world in balance. All the gals have a spot for their jewels on their belts.
        -   _The Legend of Wonder Woman (2016)_: The Heart of Baetylus is at first presented as a crystalline chunk with great and dangerous necromantic power, and is eventually revealed to be a broken off chunk of the "Baetylus," the solidified and crystallized souls of a dead world, that forms the core of the "Titan" which once tried to destroy life on earth.
-   In _Lands of Arran_, the Elven civilizations possess crystals that concentrate the essence of a particular element within them, be it water, plants or even souls. A handful of the characters are bonded with these crystals, enabling them to manipulate these elements and become a One-Man Army.
-   In _The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck_, Jabiru's crystal can help him see the way, and indeed shows Scrooge the way to wealth, by making him see Alaska's Northern Lights.
-   _Marvel Universe_:
    -   _Darkhawk_ gained his powers from a mysterious gem he found in an abandoned carnival. Many, many years later, it turned out the gem was actually supposed to trap him in another dimension and slowly absorb his life-force as fuel. Only the fact it wasn't designed to work with humans stopped that. Not so much for anyone from an older species who stumbled on to them, though.
    -   The Infinity Gauntlet requires the empowerment of six gems representing the powers of soul, time, space, mind, reality, and power. On occasion, there have been additional gems, including the once-off Ego Gem.
    -   _Iron Man_ has crystals in the palm of his hands as focusers for his repulsors. Also, there's a triangular crystal in his chest.
    -   _The Saga of Crystar, Crystal Warrior_: The wizard Ogeode's Prisma-Crystal. He needs it for pretty much any really powerful spell, and it's also the mechanism for turning normal humans into crystal warriors.
    -   _Squadron Supreme_: The various versions of Doctor Spectrum get their Combo Platter Powers from a Power Prism, a large multicolored gem. _Squadron Supreme (2015)_ reveals it is of Kree origin.
    -   _Thunderbolts_:
        -   Moonstone's name and powers are derived from a Kree gravity stone that was found on the Earth's moon and bonded with her nervous system. The stone gives her the power of flight, intangibility and laser blasts from the hands. For a time, she had absorbed a second gravity stone which also granted her the ability to control gravitational forces, erectforce fields, generate miniature black holes, and transport objects through dimensional rifts.
        -   One story gave a Meta Origin to many of the MU's power crystals, revealing that the Moonstone, the Power Prism, the Bloodstone family's Bloodgem, Man-Wolf's Godstone, Basilisk's Alpha and Omega Stones, the Sphinx's Ka-Stone, and the diamond that empowered Blue Diamond were all part of a Lifestone Tree created by the Kree in co-operation with other races.
-   _Mickey Mouse_: One comic (a Scrooge McDuck/Mickey Mouse crossover to boot) deals with the characters chasing after an alien babe who was stealing diamonds. As it turns out, she needed them to fuel her spaceship. (There is a small Artistic License – Physics moment when Mickey apparently figures out that the diamonds must be fuel, because "they contain carbon".)
-   In _Tooth and Claw_, Dunstan's father uses his crystal to strike an ox with lightening.

    Comic Strips 

-   _Mandrake the Magician_: The Crystal Cube, a source of tremendous magical power held for safe-keeping in the College of Magic in the Himalayas.

    Fan Works 

-   _Antipodes_: The majority of the setting's Magitek is powered by spell-fixing crystals, such as the ones mined beneath Totemhoof. These are described as being crystals whose structure gives them a natural affinity for magic, allowing unicorns to enchant them with a variety of stored spells.
-   _Fallout: Equestria_: Most of the Magitek both ponies and zebras used was powered by enchanted gems. This was in fact the cause of the war: While the ponies needed zebra coal for their industry, the zebras needed pony gems for their magic. A zebra assassin finds out the hard way that, due to Rarity's special talent of finding gems, even being completely invisible isn't a defense if your stealth cloak is powered by a gemstone.
-   _The Flight of the Alicorn_: The _Adamas Firmamentum_, or Heavenstone, is a gigantic, flawless diamond enchanted so as to be able to store magic. It can accumulate an immense charge, either by a single unicorn pouring magic into it over time or many powering it up at once, and can allow a unicorn that has bonded with it to perform feats that would otherwise be impossible for any single mage. The ancient unicorns used it to gather the energy to move the sun and moon.
-   _Half Past Adventure_: Features an example straight from its source material, _Adventure Time_, in the form of crystals that are used to psychically beam letters to each other — here, they're given the name "prismgrams", and mostly used by resident Rainicorn-Dog Robin.
-   _If Wishes Were Ponies_: The Goblins of Gringotts place a great deal of value in Painite due to its unique properties allowing it to serve as a magical conductor for armored plating. Because of its extreme rarity on Earth — the only place where Painite is found is in Burma — when Sweetie Belle haggles for price over a fist-sized bag of Painite the Cutie Mark Crusaders accidentally became the 10th-richest benefactor to Gringotts.
-   _Sword and Claw_: The protagonists receive two diamonds from the pharaoh Thutmose (among other gifts). These diamonds allow them to store up spirit energy or demonic energy for later use.
-   _The Tears of Gaia_: There is a very ancient magical artefact called the Tears of Gaia. According to the Creation Myth, it is a gem created by Gaia with her own shed tears and the powers of the dead Alicorns are stored inside the Tears. The power found inside can be enough to wipe out most of the world! Most nations and the Blight want it in their possession, the other nations for defence and the Blight to expand its influence faster.
-   _Vow of Nudity_: Spectra's spellcasting ability, healing powers, and disease immunity come from the gemstone on her necklace. (Shame it also curses her to always be naked...)
-   _With Strings Attached_: Lots of examples:
    -   Paul is basically one big human-shaped power crystal—his hair, teeth, and nails are all magical diamond, and his bones may be as well. And he got that way by unknowingly grabbing onto a Trap Gem, which turned him into a diamond statue.
    -   John's Kansael is a blue teardrop-shaped diamond.
    -   The skahs wizards cast some of their magic through diamonds.
-   _With this Ring... (Green Lantern)_: Carol's Star Sapphire gem is her power's source and symbol.
    
    A large star sapphire gem, the symbol of her power, levitated from her table nearby and flew to her hand. Its power reinforced her own, and she formed a psi-shield against him.
    

    Films — Animation 

-   In _Atlantis: The Lost Empire_, the Atlanteans have small crystals with evident healing powers, and a big huge one that's under the city that keeps the ecosystem down there going.
-   In _Barbie & The Diamond Castle_, the castle itself is covered with diamonds, with a new one added each time a new song is sung. These diamonds also have the power to ward off evil spells.
-   In _Toy Story_, Buzz asks Woody if they still use fossil fuels or if they have discovered crystallic fusion. _Lightyear_ takes this line and runs with it, making Buzz’s motivating goal throughout the movie the development of a crystal fusion core that can facilitate Star Command’s Faster-Than-Light Travel, with the eventual final result becoming the Mineral MacGuffin that drives the rest of the plot.
-   In _Turning Red_, the coin-sword used in the red moon ritual appears to have a red crystal that projects a beam of light under the right conditions.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   In _The Dark Crystal_, the titular crystal is a Cosmic Keystone that has been damaged but is still used by the villains in rituals to restore their youth. When it is repaired, it restores the Castle to its former state and heals the barren and dying world.
-   In _The Hobbit_, the Arkenstone of Erebor glows and pulsates with its own inner light, although the flashbacks don't show it powering anything in particular.
-   In _The Last Witch Hunter_, the witches at Danique's place all use magical gems to make themselves look young. No Immortal Inertia ensues when one is destroyed.
-   In _Metalstorm: The Destruction of Jared-Syn_, Jared-Syn hands each of his followers a red crystal, which they can use to kill people and collect their life force. The red crystals' souls are emptied into a giant white crystal at Jared-Syn's hideout, which he believes will allow him to conquer Lemuria once it reaches full power.
-   Parodied in _Napoleon Dynamite_: The crotch-frying "time machine" that Uncle Rico ordered online needed you to insert the most vital part: power crystals. Which probably were just pieces of quartz. Surprisingly, the time machine featured in the film is a very real device called a "hyper dimensional resonator". Plans and kits for building it can be ordered from ads posted in many New Age (and similar) magazines and websites, and there are even unofficial websites for hyper dimensional resonator users. Not only is the "power crystal" just quartz, the plans _specifically call for_ ordinary quartz (which is treated by the plans as if it were a Power Crystal). The only real bit of parody in the scene is the crotch-frying bit. Though usage the real thing _does_ involve wiring electrodes to your crotch, and it kinda seems like you would wind up electrocuting yourself, it actually never does any more harm than failing to send you back in time, wasting your money, and making you look like a complete fool.
-   _Star Trek: The Motion Picture_: The glowing sensor crystal at the base of the Ilia-probe's neck. Spock, upon seeing the giant image of Ilia in V'Ger's memory, says that "the sensor must contain some special meaning. I must attempt to mind meld with it." He does, finds out that it's a direct link to V'Ger, and the power of V'Ger's mind knocks him unconscious.
-   _Star Wars_: Kyber crystals, gemstones strongly attuned to the Force, play a recurring role in Sith and Jedi matters.
    -   They're traditionally used to generate lightsaber blades — a kyber crystal sits within each and every saber hilt, as well as Jedi and Sith holocrons.
    -   In ancient times, they were used by the Sith in superweapons. And also in more recent times: guess what powers the Death Star's superlaser?
    -   Kyber crystals are quite rare, and are found in appreciable quantities only on a handful of planets. Ilum served as the Republic Jedi's primary source thanks to its rich crystal caves, but was mined to exhaustion by the Empire; other sources include Christophsis, Jedha, Lothal, and Exegol. Expanded universe material, both Legends and Disney, includes a handful of other sources, such as the Adegan system and Dantooine, a handful of unique gems, and some more unorthodox variants — for instance, the peals formed in the guts of Krayt dragons can also be used for this purpose, if you can get them out of the dragon in the first place.
-   In the _Superman_ films, crystals activate the holographic systems in the Fortress of Solitude. They can also remove (and, in rare cases, restore) Kryptonian powers.

    Literature 

-   _Avalon: Web of Magic_: The mages each have an item of jewelry that "channels" their magic. Also, the main plot of the last six books is finding the Nine Power Crystals of Avalon in order to stop the flood of bad magic.
-   _A Chorus of Dragons_: Tsali stones are colorful jewels formed from crystallized mortal souls, and are consumed by unscrupulous wizards to power their magic.
-   _The Cinder Spires_: Ubiquitous within the setting, though unlike most examples these are grown in vats rather than naturally occuring. They are also quite larger than is common; creating vats is Lost Technology and all power crystals are needed for military needs, with none left for the civilian market, so all of them are grown to a minimum size where they can power an airship. Gwen Lancaster's family owns the largest vattery in Spire Aurora, and is rightly proud of the quality of their products, though it's generally accepted that a power crystal needs at least a century of running-in before it is seaworthy.
-   _Codex Alera_ features a variant, in that the Canim bloodstones don't power their magic but protect the wearer from it. They are usually set in the hilts of their weapons or in amulets.
-   In _Darkover_, by Marion Zimmer Bradley, the "starstones" (aka "matrix crystals") can amplify a person's Psychic Powers to the extent where they can achieve magic-like effects. One character observes that a particularly large and powerful matrix could "pull one of the smaller moons down out of its orbit".
-   _Dinotopia's_ sunstones serve as the power source for any and all Lost Technology found by the protagonists.
-   David Eddings appears to be fond of this trope... both of his main universes — the _Belgariad_ and _Sparhawk_ settings — features a gemstone with enough power to give GODS a case of the shivers, and which functions as a Cosmic Keystone. Fortunately, these artifacts — the Orb of Aldur and the Bhelliom Blue-Rose, respectively — are in the hands of the heroes. The _Malloreon_, however (a sequel to the _Belgariad_) also features an equally-powerful but EVIL gemstone, the Sardion.
-   In _Empire of the East_, certain rare black gems are incredibly beautiful to spirits, wizards, and others with magical vision. But only Ardneh knows what they are, and he is able to draw immense power from one by transforming it back into what it originally was: The magnetohydrodynamic core of a hydrogen fusion power lamp.
-   In the _Inheritance Cycle_, gems are capable of storing massive amounts of magic, allowing a mage or dragon rider to store days and weeks worth of magic, so that they have a massive supply at their side to use at once, as opposed to merely whatever is in their bodies. For this reason, dragon riders' swords are set with gems, and may carry extras around, as well. Eragon often stores magical energy in the jeweled Belt of Beloth the Wise, or else in Brom's ring.
-   In _The Iron Teeth_ web serial the magic system is based around the use of magic crystals to achieve various effects depending on the type of crystal used.
-   _Journey to Chaos_: In the world of Tariatla there exists a mineral known as "Soiléir" that absorbs magical power and stories it. Eric and Kallen have these in the shape of a clear arrowhead crystal attached to the end of their respective Magic Staff. Eric steals part of a reaper's divinity with it, which gives him access to Make Them Rot necromancy.
-   In _The Magic Thief_ books, wizards use, instead of the traditional Magic Wand, a jewel or stone called a locus magicalicus to focus raw magic to cast spells. As Nevery explains, a locus stone ranges from anything between a rock and a gemstone.
-   _Rogues of the Republic:_ Most ancient technology is based on crystals, often absorbing energy from some ambient source (like sunlight) and doing something useful with it (like levitating). They are also used as keys and communicators, but those are more expensive.
-   _The Scholomance_: When properly enchanted, small crystals are a highly efficient "power sink" for storing Mana for later use, optionally at a distance via Sympathetic Magic. The protagonist has a staggering fifty courtesy of her mother, whose Radiant Mind crystals are world-renowned — her only problem is the grueling personal effort of filling them.
-   _The Seventh Tower_: The light-based magic of the Chosen relies on Sunstone gems, which can be controlled mentally by a trained user or embedded in Magitek. They're produced by investing a type of non-magic gem with The Power of the Sun — a tricky business, since most of the world is under The Night That Never Ends.
-   _Shannara_: Examples include the Diapson Crystals which convert solar energy to power airships and the Elfstones, which have so many uses (sometimes unintentional) as to serve as a veritable MacGuffin for the series.
-   _Small Persons with Wings_: The Parvi Pennati, or Small Persons with Wings, once fended for themselves with the Magica Vera, which helped them make clothes and houses for themselves as well as see through lies and illusions. When they started using the Magica Artificia, the Magica Vera made all their spells useless, so they stopped using the Magica Vera and stored it in a moonstone, which has been set in a ring. Anyone who wears the ring becomes a Living Lie Detector and can see through all magical illusions. If a human drops the ring into a glass of water and then drinks the water, they learn every Awful Truth about themselves and may be Driven to Suicide. The Turpins have spent centuries safeguarding the moonstone, but now the Parvi want it back so they can use their native magic again.
-   In "The Staff in the Stone" by Garth Nix, gems are popular Mana reservoirs for spellcasters. Pale gems like diamonds work for easy-access, short-term storage, while darker ones like rubies and amber can hold a large amount for a long time but are slow to release it. For best results, they're incorporated into a sorcerer's ring or wizard's staff with complementary materials.
-   _Star Trek_:
    -   Humans first discovered dilithium on the Jovian moon Amalthea in 2049. During the mid 21st century Cochrane studied dilithium but kept the knowledge he gained secret until he could find a way to monetize his findings.
    -   The original series novel "Chain of Attack" suggested low warp speeds were possible without dilithium crystals simply using the power generated by the annihilation of matter and anti-matter, and dilithium was needed to amplify the reaction enough to make higher warp speeds possible.
-   _Star Wars Legends_:
    -   According to the _Young Jedi Knights_ novels, lightsabers are powered by a simple battery, converter, and "focus crystal". Apparently just clarity and sparkliness is required of said crystals, Jedi can "sense" if it's good or not. (They don't even apparently need to be of any particular mineral.) If they're not sparkly enough, the lightsaber will explode.
    -   Other sources expand on the idea. Lightsabers with multiple crystals can have more than one length setting. The crystal may be responsible for the color of the blade, though the colors of the crystal and blade need not match. Not all crystalline materials will work; in one case, Corran Horn constructed a blade with two length settings, but the extended length didn't work when he used a fake diamond. In fact, it shorted out rather spectacularly.
-   _The Stormlight Archive_:
    -   The currency of Roshar consists of "spheres," gemstone shards suspended in glass, which glow when filled with stormlight. They are often used for illumination, and it's a minor show of luxury when you can "waste" spheres on light. Stormlight also powers the Magi Tech fabrials. What most people don't realize is that stormlight also powers the incredible surgebindings, powers over gravity, destruction, and more. So when an assassin with surgebinding comes after a rich king, he finds limitless power to fuel his abilities.
    -   Shardplate is also powered by stormlight, which is one of the reasons it is assumed to just be a Lost Technology version of fabrials (the truth is more complicated). Most suits of shardplate have infused gemstones placed strategically around their structure to power them, and even let them regrow lost pieces with enough time. An early plot point revolves around how a suspicious number of gemstones in the king's armor cracked at the worst possible moment, pointing at an assassination attempt.
-   _The Time Machine_: The titular device is made mostly of quartz carved into a mildly impossible shape.
-   J. R. R. Tolkien made use of this in his legendarium. Most known are the silmarils, of course, carrying with them the power of light. Frodo´s phial, containing the same light, has obviously the same power. There are also other chrystals, like the _Elendilmir_, which is borne by Aragorn, gaining him the nickname "Elfstone" (Elessar), and the stones embedded in the three Elven rings.
-   The Magitek in _Tough Magic_ is powered by mescs and macrys, both varitations on power crystals. Interestingly, they can, and in fact _have_ to be regularly filled with magic, making them more directly similar to batteries than most examples.
-   In _The Witchlands_, some witches can infuse gemstones — most commonly quartz — with their magic, allowing people without their power to use them. The most common of these are painstones, which serve as anaesthetics, and firestones, which seem to emit light or heat depending on how they're made and are used to make lamps and lighters.

    Live-Action TV 

-   An early episode of _Angel_ featured a demon with a jewel in its head which had to be smashed in order to permanently kill it.
-   _Babylon 5_ also has datacrystals.
-   In _Charmed_, crystals can be bewitched for a wide array of functions, such as forming energy cages, electrocuting those inside said cages, resonating in the presence of evil, absorbing magical powers, spreading curses, and divination. Of note, crystal pendants, either quartz or amethyst, are used to scry for lost things or people over a map.
-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   In "The Horns of Nimon", putting a special crystal into the ceremonial staff the Nimon give to their spokespeople turns it into an energy weapon that can stun the Nimon.
    -   The Metebelis Crystals which enhance telepathy, seen in "The Green Death" and "Planet of the Spiders". And then in the _New-Who_ episode "Hide".
    -   The Thirteenth Doctor's TARDIS console room is full of glowing orange crystals, including one serving as the Time Rotor, and six columns pointing at the rotor. The production designer said the intent was to make it look like the crystals all power the Time Rotor.
-   _Firefly_'s data storage units use square crystals. Truth in Television, sort of, since that's something that crystals can be used for in real life through holographic memory.
-   _Kamen Rider Wizard_ is this in spades, as all of his powers are based on rings with different stones set in them. Occasionally, he was given a raw gemstone that one of his allies would have to cut and refine into a new ring. Even his _visor_ is a gigantic gem.
-   _Land of the Lost (1974)_ had a lot of these, with varying effects from dimensional gateway controls to impromptu grenades.
-   _Power Rangers_ and _Super Sentai_:
    -   The Choushinsei Flashman had their Prism Flash henshin devices, which provided them their powers — in one episode they were damaged, only for them to get their Mid-Season Upgrade via the prisms getting repaired.
    -   Despite sharing their names with the trope title, the Power Crystals in Season 1 of _Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers_ aren't really examples — they're energy projections from the Power Coins that, when plugged into the Zords, become solid and cause the Zords to combine into the Megazord (and, once combined, they act as the joysticks.) They're not separate power-granting artifacts.
    -   In _Mighty Morphin' Alien Rangers_, the Zeo Crystal is an artifact of potentially world-ending power sought by Rita's father. It ends up broken up, and when later found, each of its five parts gives the Rangers a new set of powers as the Power Rangers Zeo. Its power is said to grow over time. The Zeo Rangers also have "Zeonizer Crystals" inside their morphers ("Storage Crystals" in _Chouriki Sentai Ohranger_). Separate from the Zeo Crystal itself they also are only seen making the Zords combine into the Megazord.
        -   In the _Power Rangers (2017)_ movie reboot, the Zeo Crystal is even _more_ important, despite never being seen. Turns out a Zeo Crystal is the source of _every_ life-bearing planet's ability to support life, which means if Rita got her hands on it, Earth would die in short order.
    -   In _Hyakujuu Sentai Gaoranger_ and _Power Rangers Wild Force_, the Rangers wield Gao Jewels/Animal Crystals, tiny orb-shaped gems with a model of an animal inside, which they use to summon and combine their Zords.
    -   The Dino Gems from _Power Rangers: Dino Thunder_, pieces of the meteor that wiped out the dinosaurs and absorbed the creatures' power in the process.
    -   The Energems from _Power Rangers Dino Charge_ seem to qualify, as they charge up the Dino Chargers used to power the Rangers' tech.
    -   The Mashin Sentai Kiramager draw their power from sentient magic jewels called Kiramei Stones. Thanks to Juru's creativity, he's able to use their magic to turn them into Humongous Mecha vehicles.
-   In both _Stargate SG-1_ and _Stargate Atlantis_, virtually all technology from the Sufficiently Advanced Aliens has crystals at its most basic level. Goa'uld have rainbow-colored geometric ones, the Ancients' are clear flat rectangles.
    -   In both cases the crystals are mainly used for data storage, which is actually something that crystals can be used for in real life through holographic memory.
    -   Then there's the Zero Point Module, perennial MacGuffin and power source. It looks like an orange, glowing lump of quartz.
-   _Star Trek_: The power source for Warp Drive is the crystalline material called Dilithium, and in the original series must remain in that form to work. Prior to the discovery of a method to recrystalize dilithium, the crystals had a limited useful life and had to be replaced from time to time. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   Later Techno Babble describes it as not the actual power source, but as a regulating agent for the Matter / Antimatter reaction (IE: what makes the energy usable for purposes other than blowing things up).
    -   Even later descriptions state that Dilithium itself is attuned to Subspace, which makes its discovery a major milestone in a civilization's development of Warp Drive since tapping into that dimensional layer of reality is how warp drives travel faster than light. It not only enables the antimatter-fueled powerplants needed for the immense power demand of a warp drive, but is inherently required for a warp drive to function at all. Dilithium crystals going inert can have catastrophic results if in an active warp reactor core, and is the cause of "The Burn", a galactic-scale apoclapytic event in the far future season 3 of _Star Trek: Discovery_.

-   The Ultramen have ones on their chests called Colour Timers as an indicator as to how much longer they can last. It's stated that only members of the Ultra Space Garrison possess these for places that are dangerous for them to remain in their normal form for too long, like within Earth's atmosphere.
    -   _Ultraman Tiga_ and _Ultraman Dyna_ have secondary crystals on their foreheads. These are used to change forms and transfer energy to other Ultras.
-   In the _The Suite Life of Zack & Cody_ Superhero Episode, Mr. Mosbey has Arwin create a super-ray that will amplify his power to turn children into miniture adults. It turns out that Arwin had design the ray in that it needs diamonds to power it.

    Pinballs 

-   The seven magic jewels in _Tales of the Arabian Nights_, which are needed to enchant the player's scimitar to defeat the evil genie.
-   The Time Crystals of _Pro Pinball: Timeshock!_

    Myths & Religion 

-   YMMV of course on whether it's this or Real Life, but Edgar Cayce and his followers claimed that Atlantis made heavy use of these, and it was part of what led to their downfall.
-   Many New Agers and neopagans believe crystals have special properties that enhance certain qualities or aid in healing (channel already existing energy though, not produce it).
-   Orgonite. It's not actually a true crystal, but molded resin (eg, plastic) filled with bits of minerals and shiny things. The purpose is to absorb bad "orgones," or negative energy. Whether or not they actually work, some peoples' orgonites are quite beautiful.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Dungeons & Dragons_ is full of magic jewelry, both standalone and embedded in other items.
    -   _Dungeons & Dragons 3.5_ introduced a class over the Internet, whose schtick involves embedding crystals into their skin. Precious gemstones specifically.
    -   Many spells involved gems as component or focus (e.g. _Gemjump_ — teleport to prepared gem). Sourcebooks on magic items and materials (like _Volo's Guide to All Things Magical_) have lots of gem-related entries.
    -   Psionics has a particular affinity with crystal — most psionic items are made at least partially out of crystal, psions can acquire a "psicrystal" companion, and there are psionic powers that can summon shards of crystal to attack enemies with. Not to mention "power-up" crystals embedded in armor and other items that make them quasi-magical.
-   The _Earthdawn_ roleplaying game features not only crystal plate mail and shields, but also _living crystal_ armor (small columns) and so-called "blood pebbles" (hundreds of small magical gems) that can be implanted into a character's skin and grow by feeding on the magic of the character's blood until they provide a natural armor bonus on the whole body (except the head). Because the crystal is alive and part of the character's body, the character can feel and move with it as if the crystal was his skin.
-   Hearthstones in _Exalted_ are magical gems produced via geomancy that provide their user with energy and special abilities when attached to an attuned artifact (weapon, armor, amulet etc.).
-   _GURPS_ has "powerstones" (which are always made from gems) that are pretty much absolutely required to provide extra energy for casting any powerful spell as the only other alternative is horribly ironic death as the casting rips your life force out of your body.
-   _Mage: The Awakening_: Mages use _soul stones_ to create Places of Power and enhance their spellcasting. A soul stone is literally part of the creator's soul and magic, voluntarily separated and manifested; despite the name, they take many forms, from gems to perfect imitations of live plants.
-   In _Princess: The Hopeful_, the Specchio Charm Enduring Beauty can literally peel away someone's beauty, converting it into a powerful magical gemstone. It's mentioned that using a Bequest powered by one of these gems is almost always a Belief compromise for Princessess, unless they have reason to believe that the gem was created willingly.
-   In _Rocket Age_ the Venusians use ancient crystals to store psychic energy, often mounting them on their priest's staffs. Small ones are bound into Venusian Wooden Axes and Shields, ancient artefacts that can parry RAY beams.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_:
    -   The Craftworld Eldar universally wear "Waystones," a gem worn over the heart which captures the soul of the Eldar upon death to prevent it from being painfully devoured by the Chaos god Slaanesh. These spirit stones allow the Eldar a peculiar kind of necromancy with Wraithguard and Wraithlords, battle constructs controlled by the spirit of a long-dead Eldar in a waystone. The Eldar also pimp out their vehicles and weapons with countless more mundane gems. They also occasionally have starships and titans powered by spirit stones. Though, since they already have a light cruiser class called the 'wraithship,' they had to call spirit-powered starships 'ghostships'
    -   The Dark Eldar have these too. They hold souls, but unlike the Craftworld Eldar, who use them to hold their own souls in stasis in death, the Dark Eldar use the crystals to hold the souls of tortured captives for various uses, primarily consumption.

    Theatre 

-   At the end of _The Rocky Horror Show_, before they beam the castle back to the planet Transsexual, Riff Raff cries "Activate the transit crystal!".

    Theme Parks 

-   Various crystals have appeared in Disney Theme Parks attractions.
    -   The Indiana Jones Adventure has hinted within the queue that Indy became lost on his search for the tourists going after a Gem of Power that provided the energy source to the entire Temple of the Forbidden Eye
    -   The Sorcerers of the Magic Kingdom game has Hades and his army of Disney villains seeking out pieces of the Crystal of the Magic Kingdom that could allow him control over the park and the Disney worlds within.
-   _Lost Island Theme Park_ has the Yuta's Agatu Gem that helps promote natural growth and creates earth elemental energy from harnessing the sun's rays and smaller Yunti Stone crystals used for various enchanted devices such as the Thermal Equalizers in the _Volkanu_ dark ride or the Windicators used by the Udaran Air Society in scientific and mystical rituals.

    Toys 

-   LEGO:
    -   The _Rock Raiders_ gather green energy crystals (one of the video games also included red energy crystals, five times as powerful as the green ones) as part of their main goal, which is to use them to power their Cool Starship and return home. Hindering their goal are the monsters on Planet U which eat said crystals as their main diet.
    -   Power crystals of various colors are the main macguffins fought over in _LEGO Power Miners_, a line very similar to Rock Raiders. The miners couldn't use them, but needed to keep them out of the mouths of rock monsters, since eating the crystals supercharged them and caused earthquakes on the surface.

    Video Games 

-   In _APICO_, Honeycore are mysterious honey-colored crystals that resonate when hives are nearby. They are found in the Tundra and Hallowed Island, and their resonance generates power to activate Bobbee's fully automated machines. Honeycore resonate more strongly under the full moon.
-   _Atlantis: The Lost Tales_: All of the technology in the game, mainly flying boats called flyers, is powered by crystals. Crystals also have other abilities in the sequels.
-   _Avernum_ features these a lot, particularly in relation to a): magical portals, b): golems, and c): anything made by the Vahnatai. The bigger ones often go boom nicely.
-   _Baldur's Gate III_ has the Netherstones, magic gemstones of incredible power and significance: the leaders of the Cult of the Absolute use the Netherstones to control an illithid Elder Brain via the Crown of Karsus in their bid to take over Faerun. The last half of the game centers around taking the Netherstones from the Absolutist leaders to control, or else destroy, the Elder Brain.
-   _Bayonetta_: Played with with the Eyes of the World, specifically the Left Eye of Darkness that Bayonetta already owns as the jewel in her witch broach and the Right Eye of Light that she is searching for and basically fuels the story. Ultimately averted in this case, as this was all misdirection — the jewel in her broach _is_ magical, but was a gift from her childhood friend Jeanne and isn't the Left Eye. In fact, the Eyes of the World are instead an intangible magical power held by Bayonetta and Father Balder, that can be used to resurrect a god and bring about Armageddon. The series also has Witch Hearts and Moon Pearls, which are collectibles that can extend Bayonetta's health and magic, respectfully.
-   _BlazBlue_:
    -   Ragna the Bloodedge possesses a pair of red crystals on the back of his hands. They act as the activation devices for his Azure Grimoire.
    -   Mu-12 has large plates all over her battle suit for the exact same reason as Ragna, save that hers are more effective, since she is the Inheritor of the Azure.
-   _Bloodwings: Pumpkinhead's Revenge_: Every time you kill an enemy in the first level, you have to sit through a railshooter sequence while clicking on blue "Tantanik Crystals" to collect them, as they are a necessary power source to access the FMV sequences.
-   _Castlevania: Curse of Darkness_: Every Innocent Devil has at least one crystal somewhere.
-   _Crash Bandicoot_:
    -   _Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back_ has purple crystals literally named Power Crystals around which this game as well as some that follow center and are main objective of your efforts. Their power is only vaguely described (it is stated gathering Master Crystal and 25 Slave Crystals allows Cortex to brainwash entire Earth to do his bidding) plus they get New Powers as the Plot Demands in post-Naughty Dog games; in _Wrath of Cortex_ they're used to put Elemental Masks into hibernation and in _Twinsanity_ Cortex uses them to power up his dimensional-travel device.
    -   There are also gems in almost all games. In _Crash Bandicoot (1996)_ they are mostly used just as platforms, but in _Cortex Strikes Back_ they explicitly power up N. Brio's laser that destroys Cortex Vortex.
-   _The Crystal of Kings_, as the title states: The source of power for the entire kingdom of Estorea lies in the magic crystals owned by members of royalty, these orbs of great power rivaling even the gods. Unfortunately, a wizard serving the Estorean Court named Nightspirit decides to dabble in crystal of chaos, allowing the forces of darkness to invade the land and kickstarting the game's plot.
-   _Dark Souls_: The Primordial Crystal gave Seath the Scaleless true immortality. Also, the most powerful sorceries are crystalline, invented by Seath after centuries of studying said Crystal. Fortunately, just because the Primordial Crystal is powerful does not mean it's very tough: it can be broken by a single attack.
-   _Dawn_: There are obelisks in the game that are powered by a crystal on the ground next to them. Ash can activate said obelisks by shooting the crystal with his magic, providing it with power.
-   _Dawn of War_: The Eldar use crystals for their plasma and thermo plasma generators.
-   _Devil May Cry 4_: The Savior has blue gems on its forehead, chest, and both of its arms, shoulders, and legs. In-game, these serve as The Savior's weak spots. For best results in order to save Nero, Dante has to destroy them all, although the gem in the chest is considered the most vital weak spot, as damaging it would directly and significantly reduce the boss's health bar.
-   _Divinity: Original Sin II_: Phase Capacitors are large crystals that act as inexhaustible power sources for Precursor Magitek. The player character needs to find a few to open locks in a Precursor installation in Act III.
-   _Dragon Age: Origins_: The golem character Shale uses crystals for both attack and defense rather then use regular weapons and armour.
-   _Dragon Quest IX_ has Nod's Tear, which a little slime wants you to find to wake Nodoph up. This little gem is actually a concentration of all Nodoph's power and emotion, which, once shed, left him barely able to return home.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_
    -   The series in general has these in the form of Soul Gems, which can be used in conjunction with a Soul Trap spell to trap the souls of enemies as they die. The more powerful the creature, the higher quality the Soul Gem must be in order to trap its soul. Once trapped, the filled Soul Gem can be used to Enchant an item, imbuing it with spell effects. It can also be used to recharge an already enchanted item which has been drained through use.
    -   The Ayleids, a presumed extinct race of Mer (Elves) who acted as Abusive Precursors to early humankind, had several types of crystalline objects imbued with magical power. Many of these are still found in their ruins in modern times (most notably in _Oblivion_ which is set in their former homeland), but is now Magitek Lost Technology. To note:
        -   Welkynd Stones restore Magicka to user.
        -   Varla Stones can be used in the place of the aforementioned Soul Gems to recharge enchanted items.
        -   The Ayleids also possessed "memory crystals", which could release memories directly to the user. Overuse of these crystals was said to cause a "problem of capacity" for mortal minds.
-   Amarr ships in _EVE Online_ primarily use lasers. Fitting different crystals to the laser turrets affects attributes such as optimal range, damage type, and even what color the laser is.
-   _EXTRAPOWER: Star Resistance_: The Shakun Star central computer's head protects and encapsulates a large crystal with an unknown woman encased within it. The computer does not stop its attacks until this crystal is finally shattered.
-   _Fairyside_: The "Lunite (II)" note reveals what the blue objects that serves as Shirley's EXP drops from monsters and upgrade shop currency is:
    
    Lunites are most often used by fairies to perform magic. Some fairies are better at channeling that power. Monsters will also ingest lunites to make themselves stronger, but the gems are retrievable upon death.
    
-   _Final Fantasy_: The Elemental Crystals from various games. Their exact powers vary from game to game, but they're usually the main Cosmic Keystones of the world, maintaining and controlling the four elements. In some games, their powers can be harnessed and amplified, and in a few, even a single shard of a broken Crystal has enough power in it for a person to transform into a hero.
    -   They also tend to keep the Sealed Evil in a Can... sealed.
    -   _Final Fantasy XII_ has Nethicite - essentially a crystalline stand-in for our world's nuclear power, including being major source of energy and Fantasy Nukes. The save points also take form of crystals in this game and some of them even allow you to teleport around Ivalice. And some are actually monsters that will attack you.
    -   They're even more central in the _Fabula Nova Crystallis_ series.
        -   Specifically, in _Final Fantasy XIII_, crystals are the source of magic: large crystals power the fal'Cie machine-gods who in turn bless humans with the power of the l'Cie by marking them with a Power Tattoo containing a crystal which grants them potentially limitless power... as well as a time limit and a specific mission. Failure turns you into a shambling monster made of crystal. Success isn't much better as you are frozen in crystal until the fal'Cie or the gods see fit to de-crystallize you and return you to their service. There is also another crystal unique to l'cie, the Eidolith (See the current page image) which allows a L'cie to summon an powerful entity in battle, provided the l'cie impresses it enough to forge the contract.
        -   In _Final Fantasy Type-0_ each of the four nations bears a crystal gifted by fal'cie gods, these crystals in turn imbue the peoples of each nation with a different power. For Rubrum the power of magic but only to the young, the power of weapons to the people of Milites, the power of dragons to the people of Concordia and the power of the shield to the people of Lorica. These crystals can also imbue people with the power of the l'cie giving them unique abilities and eternal youth at the cost of degrading their sanity and absolute loyalty to the will of the crystal.
-   _Gift (2001)_: Yellow, Black, Blue and Red Magic Crystals which give Gift one of four special powers: to create light, to create darkness, to fire a Freeze Ray or to produce gunpowder respectively. The Green Crystal unpowers the Magic Staff.
-   _Geneforge_ features crystalline "power coils" as power sources for heavy equipment. These _always_ explode if you screw up when trying to shut them down. Pre-destroyed ones are often surrounded by "flawed crystals" that function as Shop Fodder.

-   _Halo_: According to side material, the UNSC is interested in the energy-storing properties of blamite, a high-explosive crystalline material found only on Suban, one of the Elite homeworld's two moons. If that's sounds familiar, that's because blamite is also what the Needler's explosive homing projectiles are made of; let's hope the UNSC's researchers have taken the proper precautions.
-   _Jeanne d'Arc_: The all-important Spirit Gems that the heroes wear on their armlets. Each Gem grants a new transformation (each character can wield between three and five, depending on the slots on their armlet) and two of them are permanently missable if the player doesn't have sufficient warning.
-   _Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning_: Prismere crystals are used to make all sorts of Magitek for the human races, and the Tuatha use it to make weapons and implant it into their skin. It's seemingly perfectly safe for mortals but drives Fae insane.
-   _Knights of the Old Republic_: As in the broader _Star Wars_ canon, certain rare crystals form the core of lightsabers, where they create the energy beam that the rest of the saber hilt focuses into a coherent blade.
-   _Legend of Mana_: The Jumi have gems as their hearts. It gives them unlimited life and lots of power, but if it's so much as scratched, never mind destroyed, bad things happen.
-   _The Legend of Dark Witch_: Pure Syega are lumps of crystallized magic that humans can use for their needs. In fact, many characters are often seen with a Syega crystal or two on their designs to augment their abilities. The only ones who don't actually use them are Zizou, her sister Mati (on account of them both being Physical Gods and thus probably having no need for them anyway outside of gameplay) and Fae such as Stoj. Gameplay-wise, they serve as items needed to upgrade abilities.
-   _The Legend of Spyro_: Spirit gems — clusters of quartz-like crystals growing from the ground — serve as the source of the dragons' magic; by breaking and consuming them, dragons can restore their internal magic reserves. They're a major element in all three games, as they serve as the primary means by which Spyro recharges his health and Mana Meters and gains experience points.
-   _The Legend of Zelda_:
    -   Magical artifacts like the three spiritual stones in _The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time_ are often ornate gemstones with gold decorations or the like, while in the same game the silver and golden gauntlets have red gemstones set into them, possibly the source of the extra strength they give you. In addition, the Master Sword, in all its appearances, has a yellow gem set in the hilt where the blade meets the crossguard.
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_: Flavor text attributes elemental powers to gemstones: electricity for topazes, fire for rubies, and ice for sapphires. Several pieces of gear are noted to make use of their properties, such as the heat-resistant Desert Voe armor being inlaid with sapphires.
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom_: Fusing a gemstone to a weapon makes it function as a magic rod of the associated element. In addition to the Fire, Ice, Lightning triad of _Breath of the Wild_, opals hold the power of water.
-   _Long Live the Queen_: Lumens are empowered by special stones called Lumen Crystals. Whether or not Elodie chooses to recover the Lumen Crystal passed down from her mother has a big effect on how the plot can unfold.
-   _Lord of the Rings: The Third Age_: Spellcraft Gems are basically an Expy of Magicite. Equipped as an accessory, they permanently teach spells. One basically teaches a 1:1 copy of a characters skillset, but another teaches powerful Black Magic without having to ask Sauron really really nice to teach you.
-   _Lovers in a Dangerous Spacetime_: Upgrades for ship stations are represented by gems that can be attached to them to give them different powers. Generally speaking, power gems increase how many shots a weapon fires at once and increase the engine's propulsion, beam gems replace projectiles with laser beams, and metal gems replace guns with wrecking balls or sawblades and cause the engine to leave behind clusters of mines when used.
-   _Luminous Arc 2_: Roland has a Lensman-style artificial crystal on the back of his hand. It turns witches into his magic-giving harem.
-   Pick a _Mega Man_ game. Any game. Especially during/after _Mega Man X_.
    -   Special mention goes to Zero's "booblights".
        -   Zero's Power Crystal also has his "Z" insignia plus a little relevance. It _might_ be his weakness, as a flashback in _X4_ shows that Sigma couldn't have defeated him if it weren't for Zero convulsing when it was flashing.
    -   The red one in X's helmet has a couple of functions besides looking neat. If his health is low, it blinks on and off while he's standing still. In X3, the level maps you can access after acquiring the helmet upgrade appear to be projected from the gem like a hologram. In terms of gems that are just there for show, many of X's special armors have ones in various spots. In particular, his Blade Armor from X6 has green gems on his arms, shoulders, chest, waist, and the tops of his leg guards.
-   _Metroid_: Samus has a "Lensman" hand crystal on her non-cannon arm. In _Metroid: Zero Mission_, it corresponds to the Power Grip, and in _Metroid Prime 3: Corruption_, the Grapple Beam is fired from it.
-   The _Minecraft_ mod _Industrial Craft_ has two tiers of energy crystals, although they aren't shown on or in any of the machinery containing them. The first one is crafted from 8 redstone and a diamond and stores 100,000 energy units, or EU. Its upgrade, the "Lapotron Crystal" is crafted by surrounding an energy crystal with lapis lazuli and a few electric circuits, somehow allowing it to store 1,000,000 EU.
-   _Monster Eye_: Owing to a mysterious virus from a crystal mine which exclusively infects animals turning them into hostile, rampaging beasts, most of the giant animal enemies have crystal shards on their bodies which drives them into attacking everything on sight. Giant Mook versions of regular enemies and all the bosses will even have shards of crystal growing on them - shooting these crystals are the only way to damage them.
-   _Ninja Gaiden_: The Eye of the Dragon is a jewel said to contain a dragon's soul. It is used to transform the Dragon Sword into the True Dragon Sword.
-   In _Paladins_, crystals are a main source of energy in the Realm, with even the smallest shards housing incredible magic power. Their discovery led to a Magitek revolution that transformed the Heroic Fantasy setting into a Dungeon Punk world.
-   Some _Pokémon_ have gems encrusted in them for show: Staryu and Starmie, Golduck, Persian, Espeon, Ampharos, Sableye, Vespiquen, etc. Suicune deserves special mention, as it has a _big friggin' crystal_ encrusted in its head. There is also an attack called "Power Gem".
    -   Pokedex entries for Staryu/Starmie claim that their crystal IS actually their eye, which is based on "compound eyes" of some _real_ starfish.
    -   Pokedex entries states that Gigalith has multiple red crystals sticking out of its body. These crystals absorb sunlight, which is then redirected into Gigalith's internal core and released as a powerful blast of solar energy. The solar beams themselves pack enough punch to obliterate a large mountain, even a dump truck as well.
    -   Appropriately enough, Dialga and Palkia have a diamond and pearl on their bodies, respectively. The events of _The Rise Of Darkrai_ are set off when Palkia's pearl is damaged.
    -   Emerald from _Pokémon Adventures_ has one on his forehead.
    -   The crystal in Deoxys' body is actually its brain. In fact, as long as that is intact, it's still alive, considering its Healing Factor allows it to regenerate in the right conditions. Staryu and Starmie's center gems also share this same healing factor.
    -   Each type has a gem that, when held by a Pokemon, powers up moves of that type.
    -   Mega-Sableye gains a gem big enough to hide behind that turns him into a Stone Wall.
    -   _Sun & Moon_ added the Z Crystals, which allow every Pokemon to use a Limit Break for every type (as well as status moves with additional buffs and several species-specific Limit Breaks) once per battle. Necrozma is a powerful living crystal monster and believed to be the source of Z Power.
-   The red crystals in the _Raiden_ series. The Final Boss is typically a Cores-and-Turrets Boss powered by large versions of these.
-   Timonium deposits in _Rise of Legends_ look suspiciously like massive crystal formations. These crystals are used for EVERY RACE, including the non-technology based Alin. It is stated on the site itself that Timonium has incredible properties, including mystical ones (so presumably, Alin use it to power spells. Doesn't explain why the Hero Unit just use Mana instead.)
-   _Shantae_: The Golem Mine boss has one on top of its head that it will try to conceal after some time. Attack it for massive damage.
-   _Sins of a Solar Empire_ has Crystal as one of it's three resources used by all of the 3 factions. The Advent are particularly fond of it.
-   The Chaos Emeralds from the _Sonic the Hedgehog_ games are the epitome of this trope. There are seven of them, and even a single fake Chaos Emerald can teleport. A single real one is all that it takes to essentially freeze time in a decently sized area. Two Chaos Emeralds are capable of opening a _portal through time_. And when you get all seven, it's pretty much the epitome of Super Mode. They can also be used as power sources by machines such as biplanes, and six or so of them can power huge planet-destroying cannons.
    -   And then there's the Master Emerald, professional MacGuffin and the power source that keeps Angel Island a Floating Continent.
    -   _Sonic Rush_ introduces the Sol Emeralds, a set of emeralds from the Sol Dimension which serve as the counterparts to the Chaos Emeralds. Just as Sonic can use the Chaos Emeralds to become Super Sonic, Blaze can use the Sol Emeralds to become Burning Blaze.
-   _StarCraft_:
    -   The Protoss Khala relies on Khaydarin crystals, which can focus, store, and amplify their Psychic Powers and allows them to join minds. The pylons, the ones you need more of, are basically giant floating chunks of the stuff. The "minerals" that are harvested by all three races are also some kind of crystal.
    -   Protoss units are also often adorned with power crystals. _Starcraft 2_ has some units, like the Warp Prism and Void Ray which are built around them. The fluff describes the Warp Prism as a "computer built into the lattices of a crystal".
    -   This gets amusing in _Starcraft 2_, when a Protoss crystal is brought on board the _Hyperion_ and studied in its lab. The crystal grows and eventually begins emitting a _lot_ of power, but the lab tech cannot figure out where said power is going. Turns out the crystal had tied itself into the ship's power grid without anybody noticing, and is now helping to regulate the ship's systems and keep them all at optimal performance levels. Also, it's probably sentient.
-   In his teaser trailer for _Street Fighter V_, Charlie is seen with a glowing, bright green crystal embedded in his forehead.
-   In _Strife_ the Evil Empire Religion of Evil runs their technology with crystals. Have fun blowing them up.
-   _Synergism_: Crystals multiply Coin production depending on how many of them you have.
-   In _Tales of Symphonia_, Exspheres are crystals that can be used to power machinery, and also enhance people's fighting abilities if equipped properly. Just sticking it on the skin has a rather different effect, though...
    -   Many of the later _Tales Series_ games include these, usually enhancing each characters abilities, though some cases are more relevant to the plot than others. They're usually assumed to be naturally occurring crystals that just sort of appear in the world. They never are, and are usually either Powered by a Forsaken Child or some form of Lost Technology.
    -   _Tales of Vesperia_ has Blastia, specifically the Blastia cores. While Blastia is mainly used to augment each character's abilities, they're also used to power ships, barriers, and even act as mundane objects like thermometers or light sources.
    -   _Tales of Xillia_ has Lilium Orbs, which are, again, used by the characters to enhance their abilities, though they carry very little plot significance. There are also spirit fossils, used to power weaponry and flying vessels.
    -   _Tales of Graces_ has Cryas, which are used to transport water, heat buildings, and so on. There are also three massive Cryas known as the Valkines Cryas, which are generally used to power each nation's massive capital city by itself.
-   The Legend of Heroes _Trails Series_ takes place in a world where people rely on "orbal technology" which uses septium crystals as a power source comparable to electricity. In addition to providing people with "modern" conveniences such as domestic appliances and artificial light, orbal technology is used to power airships as well as the "battle quartz" that enable your characters to use arts akin to magic spells.
-   In _Treasure of the Rudra_, each of the heroes chosen by destiny gets a jade lodged into their forehead. The impact ends up killing one of them and sending him straight to the afterlife.
-   _Twisted Wonderland_: Subverted as magical stones aren't so much a power source as it's health protection for the magic users. Use of magic produces blot, and the stones are necessary to keep the blot collected there instead of directly in the person's body.
-   Used as a power source for the ATACs of _Vanguard Bandits_. They're small enough to fit in your hand, but large enough to power a machine larger than a house.
-   In _A Very Long Rope to the Top of the Sky_, a small stable saecelium crystal can power a droid effectively indefinitely.
-   The Nazi plot in _Wolfenstein (2009)_ revolves around the so-called Nachtsonne Crystals found near Isenstadt, Germany. Interestingly, the crystals themselves hold no intrinsic power, but are instead used as "lenses" for the Black Sun energy leaking into our universe. The Nazis harvest the energy, storing it in special barrels, which they use to fuel various crystal-based contraptions. Different crystals have different results: some slow down time, while others are used to create Some Kind Of Forcefield or activate the Thule Portal.
-   Naaru Magitek in _World of Warcraft_ seems to rely on these, at least judging from the amount of large crystals in the Tempest Keep instances. The Naaru themselves seems like sentient PowerCrystals / Energy Beings. The draenei use a lot of their crystals too.
    -   Un'goro Crater has Power Crystals of various colours scattered around the zone, as well as pylons that give various buffs when you bring crystals of correct colour to them. Several other magical crystals appear in the game too. Un'goro's crystal pylons are part of a huge homage to _Land of the Lost (1974)_.
    -   Kael'thas Sunstrider in Magister's Terrace has a huge demonic crystal stuck in his chest.
    -   Let's not forget the Jewelcrafting profession, the whole point of which, besides creating wearable stat-enhancing rings, necklaces and trinkets, is the cutting of gems able to enhance the stats of weapons and gear you socket them into.
-   In _Xenoblade Chronicles 2_, people with the right aptitude can resonate with Core Crystals, which bonds them with a Blade that serves as a combat partner and companion. If the Driver dies, then any Blades with whom they're in resonance reverts to their Core Crystal form to bond with a new Driver, and loses all memory of their prior life. Additionally, while in resonance, each Blade has a crystal embedded into their body, which, if destroyed, kills the otherwise immortal Blade off permanently.
-   The core of the Weather-Control Machine Napishtim in _Ys VI: The Ark of Napishtim_, which also summons smaller attack crystals. Also, the elemental crystals of Kefin in _Ys V: Lost Kefin, Kingdom of Sand_.
-   _Zone of the Enders_. The more of them your Orbital Frame has, the stronger it's likely to be.

    Web Animation 

-   Strong Bad of _Homestar Runner_ has a "blue diamond kinda thing" on his forehead which gives him the power to pop caps off of things.
-   _RWBY_: There is a crystalline substance known as Dust which was pivotal in humanity driving out the Grimm and establishing society. By the beginning of the series, the Schnee Dust Company led by Weiss' father Jacques Schnee have a monopoly over Dust distribution throughout the world of Remnant. Dust not only powers people's weapons, but also acts as fuel for vehicles and ammunition for firearms. It can be woven into clothing and be directly fused with a person's body (though that is extremely dangerous). Hazel Rainart is able to fuse Dust into his body without feeling the pain due to his Semblance Numbing Agent making him unable to feel pain.

    Webcomics 

-   _Aurora (2019)_: Lacrimas are crystals inscribed with magic runes and used to store large amounts of elemental energy. They're typically used to produce a specific magic effect on demand, with their runes restricting the ways in which their stored energy can manifest — for example, a fire lacrima can be "programmed" to only release light without heat and serve as a light source or a life lacrima meant for medical use to only regrow lost tissue — but ones without these limitations are essentially limitless spell batteries and potentially very dangerous things.
-   _Avania_: Giant crystals would appear to be the energy source for Demonian Magitek equipment. Dialogue implies that they function similarly to electrical capacitors.
-   _Castoff_: Mages wear these as necklaces to serve as power source/amplifier/indication (the bigger the stone, the stronger the mage), Bag of Holding, communication device andcollapsible armour for Magic Knights. The colour of the stone matches the owner's aura.
-   _Crystal Heart_ has the eponymous ancient crystals that can be transplanted into humans instead of their former hearts. They give their bearers special powers, for example mind reading or manifesting and controlling a rope made out of force.
-   _Heroine Chic_: Geordie and Zoe use an "Eternity Stone" to transform into superhero alter egos Valiant and Gilded Lily. The stone they use is part of a set of eight similar stones, which the villain Excelsior wants to collect for his own nefarious purposes (a shoutout to "Infinity Stones" of the Marvel Cinematic Universe).
-   _The Inexplicable Adventures of Bob!:_ "The jewels act like evil Frosty hats!"
-   _Kong Tower_: Tim has a small one worn as a necklace that gives him his low-level telekinetic abilities, and only works with him. He apparently inherited it from his uncle, how _he_ got it remains unstated.
-   _Marooned_: The Mindstones grant Psychic Powers, do Power Makeovers, and might be sentient.
-   _Phantomarine_: the titular Phantomarine is a glowing mineral used in the beacons of the Lighthouse Road — its perpetual light creates a barrier that repels seaghosts. It has a related substance called Revenite that provides similar protection, but requires an electrical current to glow. Pavel was given a lantern with a piece inside, which should be impossible because _all_ of the Phantomarine in the world was supposed to have been used to make the Road.

    Web Original 

-   The cybaspheres from the web fiction serial _Dimension Heroes_ prove to be invaluable trinkets that give the Dimensional Guardians the power they need to defeat the more powerful opponents they face.
-   The crystal from _The Quest_. It allegedly grants you every super power there is, and gives you control of an army of some kind.
-   There are power gems in the _Whateley Universe_: Nightgaunt has two on his belt that he uses to shadow-walk; Splendor has several that she bought using daddy's money so she could have superpowers. It is mentioned that Mad Scientist types and wizards can with great effort and expense create 'cultured' power gems, a less potent but still useful form of the other type.

    Western Animation 

-   An episode of _The Adventures of Puss in Boots_ features the Lorenzo Lapis Lazuli, a blue crystal capable of firing powerful cutting blasts. Because of this, Puss later uses it as a weapon to help him battle a powerful evil wizard, where it also demonstrates the ability to create Deflector Shields and Containment Fields.
-   In _Adventure Time_, "Crystals Have Power".
-   In _Futurama_, Al Gore's head offers a bag of "moon sapphires" to the first scientist who can solve global warming once and for all. According to a dark wizard in the audience, they could be used to open the Gate of Kerash. What the Gate is and why a dark wizard would want it open are left to the audience' imagination, but it's presumably magical.
-   _He-Man and the Masters of the Universe_ had a few examples. The most famous of which was Count Marzo's amulet which he needed to access his empowered form. It was strong enough to let him challenge Skeletor.
-   Two of the Doomsday Devices in _Inspector Gadget_ were exactly this, notably the Weather-Control Machine in "Weather in Tibet", and the satellite-killing laser in "The Ruby".
-   The _Mega Man (Ruby-Spears)_ animated series had shrink rays powered by red jewels, though Dr. Light found a way to alter them to do the polar opposite.
-   The main plot point of "Dressed to Kill", an episode of _My Life as a Teenage Robot_, was that an extremely powerful crystalline substance was being used in Brit and Tiff's commissioned clothing designs, giving them abilities that they would abuse inevitably.
-   _My Little Pony_:
    -   _My Little Pony 'n Friends_: The Heart of Ponyland is a large multicolored crystal from which all of Ponyland's magic originates.
    -   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_: In general, crystals and gems are strongly associated with magic within the series' world.
        -   The Elements of Harmony, some of the most powerful magical artifacts in the series, take the form of golden necklaces (and one "big crown thingy") each encrusted with a large jewel resembling its bearer's Cutie Mark<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , although when wielded by Luna and Celestia in the past they resembled plain-cut gemstones. The Element of Magic, specifically, is alongside the Dazzlings' crystal necklaces among a category of things that aren't depowered in the transition to the human world in Equestria Girls. The former suffers a change in magical properties and becomes able to respond to any wielder, rather than the bearer it originally attuned to.
        -   The Alicorn Amulet, an Artifact of Doom that corrupts the wearer, is encrusted with a large, blood-red gem. Similarly, the necklace that Twilight later dons in her rematch against Trixie features what appears to be an emerald; when it is revealed that the necklace is fake, this trope is invoked when the jewel promptly falls off and breaks.
        -   The Crystal Empire, in the far north, depends upon the Crystal Heart, a large, magical heart-shaped crystal which protects the Empire against threats and the arctic cold when powered by the crystal ponies' happiness.
        -   In a more Mundane Utility role, orange-red crystals are sometimes seen being used instead of fire. Numerous fireplaces in the in-universe story in "A Hearth's Warming Tale" are filled with such crystals. In "The Crystalling", Sunburst's home includes a cauldron warmed by a cluster of glowing crystals arranged like a fire pit. A similar arrangement appears in "A Health of Information", where Meadowbrook and her mother use it in lieu of fire to heat their cauldron.
    -   _My Little Pony (Generation 5)_: One of the primary differences between how magic works in G5 versus G4 is that is presence centers on three crystals, one for each pony type, being assembled and active. As long as harmony exists among the pony races, the crystals are fused into a single glowing, floating gem, and sustain the magic of the world.
-   _PJ Masks_:
    -   In the Season 2 episode "PJ Power Up", it's revealed that there is a crystal statue resembling the 3 animals that the heroes get their powers from hidden in HQ. When it gets knocked off it's spot, the heroes instantly lose their powers. And when they put it back in place, not only are their powers restored but they get some new ones as well.
    -   Another example, also from Season 2, is the Harvest Moon crystal, which is first seen in the Moonstruck two-parter. It can give Luna Girl a massive powerboost when combined with her wand.
-   _Princess Gwenevere and the Jewel Riders_ uses them as Transformation Trinkets. And just about everything else, for that matter.
    -   Robert Mandell, creator of _Princess Gwenevere_, is the king of this Trope as far as American animation. In his other series, _Adventures of the Galaxy Rangers_, Starstones and Psychocrystals were dark twins of the Riders' jewels.
-   Subverted in _Sheep in the Big City_, where the new military superweapon has to be powered by the titular sheep: It is a laser cannon with a sheep-shaped slot at the top.
-   In _She-Ra: Princess of Power_, He-Man's sister She-Ra's sword was identical to her brother's except for a large jewel in its hilt. While it's being a true power crystal may be up for debate, She-Ra's version of the transformation sequence did tend to focus on it as projection the power that empowers Adora.
-   The Lightstar Crystal from _Skeleton Warriors_, which not only served as the main power source of Luminicity, but when broken, empowered individuals based on their alignment. A force of good would receive powers such as flight or blasts of light energy, a force of evil would become a titular Skeleton Warrior with near-complete immortality, and more morally complex figures such as Grimskull would receive the ability to travel through shadows.
-   Diamonds are the power source of Crazy Stunts' pistols in _Skysurfer Strike Force_.
-   In _The Smurfs_ episode "Handy's Window Vision", the Smurfs discover a magic crystal that can transmit images exposed to it unto a bunch of smaller crystals that act as receivers, thus becoming their latest invention, the window vision. Gargamel, however, sees the crystal and uses it as part of his Smurf Smasher machine.
-   _Sofia the First_ have the amulet of Avalor, a necklace that have a purple(later pink)gemstone, which can grant powers or enchantments according to the actions of the wearer. to this date, sofia have animal talking, shrinking, and shapeshift into magical beings or animals between her powers thanks to her amulet.
-   _Song In The Sky_ has a city floating in The sky powered by a crystal. The protagonist says that the city has only one months' left worth of power, and it took the city six months to find its last crystal. So if its crystal runs out of power, the city will likely fall.
-   _Star Wars Rebels_, "Path of the Jedi": Ezra's reward for passing Yoda and the temple's tests of intent is a kyber crystal, which he uses as the core to his very own lightsaber by episode's end.
-   The Crystal Gems from _Steven Universe_ get their powers from the gems embedded in their bodies. They use them to materialize their weapons, and also to activate their technology (like the crystal laser cannon seen in the second episode). Magic crystals are also seen on occasion, such as the crystal shards that bring garments to life in "Frybo". It's later revealed, or rather clarified, that the gems _are_ the Crystal Gems: that their "bodies" are really humanoid constructs projected from their gemstones, which can regenerate over time if damaged so long as their gemstone remains intact. This makes them, and the entire Gem species in general, a race of living power crystals. And those magic crystals may also be gems as well, considering in "Secret Team", another group of Gem Shards like the ones in "Frybo" manifest as bunch of hands and feet when accidentally released from their bubble, and the gem powering a magic mirror in Pearl's possession turned out to be Lapis Lazuli.
-   _Storm Hawks_ features a world where everything is powered by crystals, and there's a crystal for every effect imaginable: hypnosis, explosions, "nitro-boosting" carriers, powering energy swords and boomerangs.
-   An episode of _Teen Titans (2003)_ had Doctor Light kidnap a girl that could turn into indestructible crystal, to use her as a focusing lens for his superpower machine.
-   There are 16 different crystals with unique powers in _Tenko and the Guardians of the Magic_.
-   In _Thunder Cats 2011_, the Eye of Thundera in the hilt of Lion-O's Sword of Omens is an Amulet of Concentrated Awesome, a gem that allows the sword's chosen wielder to access "Sight Beyond Sight" and turns the weapon itself from a powerless but elaborate dagger into a crackling Sword Beam\-shooting longsword when Lion-O utters his By the Power of Grayskull!. Big Bad Mumm-Ra claims former ownership, and really wants it back. In "Journey to the Tower of Omens" its revealed that the crystal is actually plundered Imported Alien Phlebotinum the Warstone, which Starfish Aliens used to power a Wave-Motion Gun. As of "Legacy", three more crystals exist, once used to create Adaptive Armor, and Mumm-Ra and the Thundercats are in a race to gather them.
-   _Transformers_:
    -   From the end of _Beast Wars_ up to the end of _Beast Machines_, Transformers toys had 'spark crystals', which were translucent plastic gems that had the faction symbol of the character in them. The Transmetal II Blackarachnia toy was special, since it had a spark crystal which could be flipped to display one of the two main faction symbols, reflecting the character switching sides in the cartoon.
    -   You can do a lot of things with Allspark fragments in _Transformers: Animated_. Overload factory equipment, turn regular vehicles into Transformers, bring Transformers back from the dead, power bombs, and putting your Forgotten Superweapon back online is a snap!
    -   In many _Transformers_ continuities, though probably most prominently (first?) in _Beast Wars_, raw Energon — fuel for Transformers — is depicted as taking a crystalline form.
-   Trolls from _Trollhunters_ are able to harness the power found in magic crystals for a number of uses. The Trollhunter in particular is able to equip the gems into the amulet and bestow onto them new weapons and abilities.
    -   The Triumbric Crystals are all crystals that originate from Gunmar in one form or another. When possess by the trollhunter, they give the wielder enough power to kill Gunmar himself.
        -   The Birth Stone was a crystal that originated from the Heartstone that Gunmar was born from. Found in Gatto's Keep, the Birth Stone gives Jim a pair of daggers that can combine into a boomerang.
        -   The Killing Stone was harvested from Gunmar's first kill, the Wumpa King, creating a shield for Jim.
        -   The Eye of Gunmar was _literally_ a stone harvested from Gunmar's right eye. Combined with the Birth Stone and Killing Stone, the Eye bestows Jim a black and red armor that could supposedly kill Gunmar. It is unknown what kind of power the Eye has on its own.
    -   Jim was able to use a gem found within Angor Rot's right eye to counteract Angor's mark on him, allowing him to use the Sword of Daylight against him.

    Real Life 

-   Semiconductors, mainly silicon, germanium, and various metalloid or nonmetal compounds called III-Vs, are functional crystals whose electronic properties make them extremely useful in a whole lot of roles. This includes use in electronic logic components like diodes and transistors, optical devices like LEDs and lasers, and — in a case of literally being power crystals — solar cells. Every integrated circuit (including your computer microprocessor and memory chips) is essentially a semiconductor crystal, that's been grown, cut, processed in a kind of arcane technological rune magic, and programmed, giving it the ability to create... all this. Although they have the same microstructural shape as diamond, most of these crystals don't actually look that pretty. But they are powerful.
-   Quartz crystals, a form of silicon dioxide, essentially the stuff of sand. When under pressure it produces an electrical current and it can be set to vibrate to fairly precise frequencies which led to its widespread use in governing electronic clocks, and generating signals for synchronous electronics (basically all modern digital systems).
-   Tourmaline crystals, like quartz, have the property of "piezoelectricity": when compressed, they develop electrical charges at the ends.
    -   This is used to make lighters, although friction-based lighters are more common.
        -   And for all of the above, you can thank Pierre Curie, Marie Curie's husband, who did the initial research on this with his brother Jacques. As _teenagers._
-   Sapphires and rubies (more rarely, diamonds) are commonly used as bearings in high-quality machinery, including mechanical watch parts. Because of their extreme hardness, they can grind for years and years and not wear down.
-   Solid state lasers. Confusingly, these aren't the same as semiconductor lasers, instead having a (somewhat) transparent ion-impurity-laced crystal as the lasing medium with an external light-based power source (another laser or a flashlamp) instead of direct electronic power (usually). Indeed, the first laser ever built was a ruby laser, and today sapphire and garnet lasers are indeed pretty common for various applications.
-   Some New Age and Feng Shui practitioners believe that certain types of crystals have special magical properties. This leads to "crystal healing" with placing various minerals on a person's body, and putting crystals in water which is then treated like holy water (eg, used for rituals). Some people even "charge" their crystals by exposing them to sunlight or moonlight.
    -   It gets a bit extreme for some New Agers, who warn that even small quartz crystals emit such powerful energy that they will _burn your hands_. Somewhere, A Geologist Is Laughing. Of course, they are, as mentioned above, pizoelectric, so they'll emit electricity if given a good thump.
-   Science may have finally caught up to science fiction in a big way as scientists at the University of Bristol have apparently figured out a way to turn _nuclear waste_ into man-made diamond batteries that can generate a small electric current for _longer than the entire history of human civilization!_

___