_"Computers may be twice as fast as they were in 1973, but the average voter is as drunk and stupid as ever. The only one who's changed is me. I've become more bitter and, let's face it, **crazy** over the years. And when I'm swept into office, I'll sell our children's organs to zoos for meat, and I'll go into people's houses at night and wreck up the place! Woahahahahaha!"_

A Corrupt Politician with far more success than most. This supervillain doesn't just have an Elaborate Underground Base, they have their own _country_, often a Ruritania, Banana Republic, or Qurac. Just like the Evil Overlord, but with an international scope. This affords them so many resources and so much power that the heroes often are never able to truly beat them.

Usually, the heroes aren't fighting against the country _itself_, apart from the occasional loyal citizen who's been turned into a Super-Soldier. Their beef is strictly with the villain, and the country is usually just a convenient plot device. Alternatively, and more poignantly, it may be _their own_ country that elects President Evil, who may then also qualify as a Glorious Leader. (If he rules America, expect his policies to make the Land of the Free unrecognizable if left in place for too long, or outright turn them into Evil States of America.) His enemies will then be forced to choose between their loyalty to the state and its laws on the one hand, and the need to dethrone its corrupt leadership on the other.

The villain's leaderly reputation varies between Villain with Good Publicity and 0% Approval Rating. Sometimes, the heroes go into the country and foment a rebellion to get the villain kicked out; naturally, this often leads to someone _even worse_ stepping up (as with Hitler's Time Travel Exemption Act) and an Enemy Mine storyline to restore the status quo. Or, the "oppressed masses" are actually Gullible Lemmings who _like_ their leader, and might not be oppressed at all!

See also The Caligula. A Different sort of President. If it's a super_hero_ who rules a country, see President Superhero. If the supervillain not only rules over others but rules _because_ of their superpowers, see Super Supremacist. President Evil's VP may be the equivalent of an Evil Chancellor, though this is not necessary. This may also be how President Evil himself started out, if something happened to his running mate.

In terms of the ranks of Authority Tropes, the tropes that are equal are God Save Us from the Queen! and The High Queen. The next steps down are The Evil Prince, Prince Charming, Prince Charmless, Sheltered Aristocrat, Warrior Prince, The Wise Prince, and all Princess Tropes. The next step up is The Emperor.

Not to be confused with Hoss Delgado's appearance in the fictional video game within a show _President Evil_, the 2018 horror film _President Evil_, or the actual video game series _Resident Evil_. All of them are the Trope Namers though.

If the President Evil has the same name as a Real Life president or is a No Celebrities Were Harmed version of a real president, then this is Demonization. Otherwise, they may be No Party Given to respect the Ban on Politics. For very obvious reasons, no matter how tempting it may seem, No Real Life Examples, Please! Some examples post-2016 may overlap with Trumplica.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   In the second season of _Bloody Monday_, President Adams seems to be this, only he's just more of a Jerkass than someone who's genuinely evil.
-   _Chainsaw Man_:
    -   The various world leaders are all varying degrees of corrupt, as they make Faustian bargians at their peoples' expense in order to win the Magitek Lensman Arms Race in their Alternate Timeline where the Cold War is still ongoing and the Soviet Union continued to exist into the late '90s.
    -   Subverted by the President of the United States, who's shown to be a Well-Intentioned Extremist who genuinely wanted to do right by America. To that end, he contracted with the Gun Devil to try to kill the first of the Horsemen of the Apocalypse, the Control/Conquest Devil, in exchange for one year off the lifespan of every American alive at the time (incidentally killing thousands of Japanese people in the process).
    -   The Prime Minister of Japan was manipulated by the Control Devil herself into becoming complicit in her World of Silence plot, and granted her Resurrective Immortality that sacrifices a Japanese citizen every time she dies. To make matters worse, the Japanese government were the ones who raised her as a Tyke Bomb in the first place.
    -   The Chancellor of Germany was willing to work with the Psycho for Hire Devil Hunter "Santa Claus", whose abilities are Powered by a Forsaken Child.
    -   And then there's Power, who wants to win the Nobel Prize and use her influence to become Prime Minister just so that she can pass laws to make people suffer.
-   In _Fullmetal Alchemist_, Führer King Bradley is a homunculus. When Colonel Roy Mustang tries to expose him to top military brass, he gets a shocker: most of them were already in on it. The entire country of Amestris was founded by Father and the homunculi. Bradley was a human chosen to be the country's ruler and injected with the Philosopher's Stone to make him a homunculus.
-   _Gundam_:
    -   _Mobile Suit Gundam SEED_ has Patrick Zala, a General Ripper who is elected chairman of ZAFT and proceeds to lead his nation into a genocidal war.
    -   Chairman Gillbert Durandal, ZAFT's leader in _Mobile Suit Gundam SEED Destiny_ is a different flavour of this, being a Well-Intentioned Extremist, Anti-Villain, and Dark Messiah.
-   In _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Steel Ball Run_, the president, Funny Valentine (yes, that is his name), is a corrupt, morally devoid lunatic who somehow still manages to be a Villain with Good Publicity (probably the American flag scar). Among other things, he uses government funds to secretly hire criminals and lackeys for his dirty work and he obviously has some sort of plan for ultimate power that involves using said lackeys to get the "Corpse Parts" for him. Oh, and he tried to rape a 14-year-old girl in one scene. He wasn't sure she was 14 years old, but attempted none the less. His skills as a politician and a speaker can't be denied, though. He even managed to momentarily convince the main character of the justness of his cause.
-   _Knight Hunters_ has Reiji Takatori, whose first act on being voted in as Prime Minister is to institute civilian curfews and martial law.
-   The President of Thracia from _Pluto_, who instigated a war under false pretenses for the sake of expansion. He isn't outright antagonistic, just extremely selfish and arrogant in such a way that it makes him easily manipulated by The Man Behind the Man, who encourages much of his villainy.

    Audio Plays 

-   _Big Finish Doctor Who_: "Rule of the Eminence" has Walter Vincent, the Grand Administrator of Earth. The Doctor thinks he's the Master, but he turns out to be a construct created by the Master from Molly's memory of her father Patrick O'Sullivan. He is the trigger that brings the minds of humanity under the Master's control.

    Comic Books 

-   _The Authority_: The President of the U.S. even _confesses_ to being a shill for big business. The Authority, who has had a long history of taking down dictators, depose _him._ Things go okay for a while until The Midnighter figures out it's all heading south and fast. Unfortunately, the only way to stop it is to let D.C. explode.
-   In _The Boys_, Vic the Veep is the amoral Lethally Stupid Vice President of the United States, who's a shill for the Evil, Inc. Vought and was indirectly responsible for 9/11. Vought intends to kill the President in order to make US policy favor them with Vic as a Puppet King. The _actual_ President, "Dakota Bob", is a Jerk with a Heart of Gold who makes callous decisions like trying to blow up the planes on 9/11 and bribing Pakistan to let them do whatever they want, but is a Reasonable Authority Figure who genuinely wants to do right by America. Vic ends up accidentally killing the President himself through his stupidity and is sworn in, although his reign is short-lived as he ends up being brutally murdered by Homelander. After this, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is sworn in before stepping down in favor of Barack Obama. After all of this, narcissistic Token Evil Teammate Rayner expresses a desire to become one of these, but Hughie saves the country by blackmailing her.
-   _Dastardly & Muttley_: After exposure to Unstabilium, the President whacks Senator Braynard with a mallet.
-   _The DCU_:
    -   _Batman_: During the '80s, when tensions with Iran were still high after the hostage crisis, the Joker (who'd just killed Jason Todd in Africa) was chosen to serve as Iran's UN representative, thus giving him diplomatic immunity. This was later retconned so that it was Qurac, a (fictitious) terrorist state, that gave the Joker diplomatic immunity. And then they did it again in the early 2000s, as part of a plot to nuke New York City.
    -   The leader(s) of Bialya is always some kind of homicidal whackjob who got the position by offing the previous leader. Oddly, this doesn't seem to have stopped even after Black Adam kills most Bialyans. The most prominent is the Queen Bee, who has gone up against Justice League Europe and Justice League International.
    -   _Legion of Super-Heroes_:
        -   President Leland McCauley in the late 90's turned out to be the immortal supervillain Ra's al Ghul in disguise. Before him, there was President Jeanne Chu, who orchestrated the creation of the Fatal Five and tried to instigate a galactic war between Braal and Titan.
        -   The early 90's Legion had President Tayla Wellington, who was only a puppet leader working for the Dominators when they took over Earth. She had a Heel–Face Door-Slam when she suddenly tried to reveal on a live broadcast just how badly the situation on Earth was becoming, and it got her shot to death by a Dominion grunt who panicked. Nevertheless, her death was what finally convinced the United Planets to make their move against the corrupt Earthgov.
    -   _Shazam!_: Black Adam as the leader of Khandaq, though that all came crashing down in _52_.
    -   _Superman_:
        -   The _President Luthor_ story arc has Lex Luthor become President of the United States. His platform was that he would spread advanced technology from Metropolis (which had become even more futuristic than normal at the time) around the country, but once he was elected, he mostly ignored this plan in favor of using the government's resources to cause trouble for superheroes and other people he doesn't like. One of his first acts as President is to have his ex-wife murdered with missiles. He remains president for several years and becomes more involved in the rest of the DCU (for example, framing Bruce Wayne for murder in _Bruce Wayne: Fugitive_). In _Our Worlds at War_, he _invites Imperiex to invade Earth_ so he can look good using the military to repel the invasion (making him partly responsible for the deaths of numerous humans including American citizens). While innocent in the main story of _Joker's Last Laugh_, its tie-ins saw him try to kill Superman while trying to stop a Jokerized Doomsday, hand Doomsday to Darkseid, and become Jokerized himself. Then in _Public Enemies_, he tries to frame Superman for a Kryptonite comet heading to Earth and then loses it — this is what gets him impeached. Going on a killing spree with your old Apokoliptian powersuit will do that.
        -   Played with in _Superman: Red Son_, after Luthor had succeeded in killing Superman (not really), he becomes the new US President, and succeeds in creating a golden age for the world. He's still a ruthless egotistical sociopath though — he comes to power after promising (correctly) that he could fix the devastated economy of the United States... which had been following an economic formula _he_ devised. Near the end, he implies that a great deal of the story was part of a master plan to Take Over the World and get rid of Superman all along. Still, Lex's Global United States is depicted as an unambiguous utopia, so much so that it produced a human being as great as Kal-L in the far future.
-   _Empire_ details what happens when a Doctor Doom-esque villain actually succeeds in taking over the planet.
-   Freddy Krueger actually names himself president after decimating Washington DC in _Freddy vs. Jason vs. Ash: The Nightmare Warriors_. One of his stated 'policies' was an ambitious program of "No Child Left Alive".
-   _Judge Dredd_:
    -   The atomic war that originated the mythos came around because President "Bad" Bob Booth stole an election, went around seizing the resources of foreign countries, and then _openly_ announced he was going to start nuclear war with _everyone_ if they didn't shut up. And then started it. (In "fairness", he thought America's nuclear screens would keep it safe from retaliation. _They didn't._)
    -   The Judges took over America and have since had one active supervillain for a Chief Judge (Cal), another who gained dementia and began some horrific policies (McGruder), and one who is a puppet for Shady Interests (Francisco); every other Chief Judge has carried out some morally questionable acts in the name of protecting Mega-City One, from foreign regime changes (Hershey) to _deliberately starting a riot_ so they could have an excuse to beat up on a pro-democracy march (Silver).
    -   The office of Mayor of Mega-City One isn't exempt from evil either, with examples including a greedy, gluttonous wannabe-king (Amalfi), and an unrepentant serial killer (PJ Maybe).
    -   Zig-zagged in _The Fall of Deadworld_. There's a U.S. President leading La Résistance against the new Chief Judge, who is an Omnicidal Maniac. However, the President turns out to be a stooge for that reality's East Meg One, and is disposed of as soon as he loses his usefulness to them.
-   _Marvel Universe_:
    -   During an arc on Geoff Johns' _The Avengers_ run, America got a Secretary of Defense called Dell Rusk (the Red Skull — yes, that's an anagram). Who gassed large parts of the country with the Crimson Mist virus.
    -   Around the time of the Watergate scandal, Captain America discovered that the head of the terrorist organization known as the Secret Empire was in fact "a high-ranking government official" (who was strongly implied, though never explicitly stated, to be Richard Nixon). He was sufficiently horrified by this that he temporarily abandoned the Captain America identity, calling himself "Nomad". It's not clear what Nixon (if it was Nixon) was supposed to have meant to accomplish by running a conspiracy to take over the U.S.A.
    -   In _Captain Britain: A Crooked World_, Mad Jim Jaspers is the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom... and also a Reality Warper whose powers drive him completely insane. He becomes a supervillain in two different Alternate Universes and leads campaigns to wipe out the world's metahuman population so he can play with the world undisturbed.
    -   Norman Osborn managed to become (de facto) President of the U.S. in the _Earth X_ series, after the Absorbing Man destroyed Washington, D.C. Strictly speaking, his title was illegal (he simply assumed power without an election), but most people were willing to go along with it rather than starve. Curiously, he does relatively little harm before the mind-controlling Skull usurps power and kills him.
    -   In _Elektra: Assassin_, the Beast manages to get Ken Wind elected president, but Elektra thwarts the plan with her psychic powers and ninja skills.
    -   Doctor Doom, Arch-Enemy of the _Fantastic Four_, is probably the best-known, ruling Latveria, an archetypical Ruritania. He's been deposed a couple times, but always manages to get back in.
        -   In the _Marvel 2099_ series of comics, Doctor Doom managed to become President of the United States. Though in that series, he was the _hero_ compared to the soulless evil corporations he was fighting. Then he was succeeded by a President who was _worse_ than the corporations. For added irony, this drug-addicted psychopath claimed to be Steve Rogers.
        -   However, whether he's actually an evil ruler and not just a ruler who happens to be evil changes from time to time, and depending on the incarnation. In some versions he's generally a very good ruler, bringing his country peace and technological advancements, where the people are truly happy. In others, it's basically a Police State where Happiness Is Mandatory — granted, one that actually works still a step up from the corrupt, brutal, crapsack Police State that it was _before_ Doom cleaned it up.
    -   In the _Marvel 1602_ series, we see a brief shot of the modern world, where the second-string supervillain named the Purple Man has been elected President of the United States of America (presumably using his mind-control powers).
    -   In the Bad Future story _The Wastelands_, the Marvel villains have taken over and the Red Skull is the President. (Technically, however, he only rules a fourth of America, with three other major villains each having their share.)
    -   In the two-issue miniseries _Ruins_, the President of the United States is Charles Francis Xavier, who is a far cry from the benevolent leader of the X-Men that he is in standard continuity. He wages war on Genosha and has also imprisoned and mutilated many mutants.
    -   Magneto, Arch-Enemy of the _X-Men_, ruled the island of Genosha for a while, transforming it into a haven for mutants until it was destroyed by Cassandra Nova.
        -   It's worth noting that, unlike most of Doctor Doom's enemies, the X-Men have never paid much attention to international boundaries or legitimate governments, and when Magneto headed back towards the crazy end of his personal sanity scale they didn't hesitate to invade the country, attack him in his capital and stab him to near-death.
        -   From Bad to Worse in _House of M_: Ruling from Genosha, Magneto's power extended over most of the world, though he allowed his dubious allies (such as a rebellious Dr. Doom and _friggin' Apocalypse_) to keep control over their own little corners. He was actually a fine ruler to that reality's mutant majority, though the humans weren't as lucky.
    -   Mystique and Sabretooth were the de facto rulers of Madripoor for a time; they bought the rights from Madame Hydra in _All-New X-Men_.
    -   Baron Zemo (the younger) was for a time in charge of Bagalia, an underground nation (literally and figuratively — it's in a cavern and most citizens are supervillains).
    -   Flag-Smasher, an anti-nationalist terrorist, was ironically installed as the president of Rumekistan for a time. He's eventually assassinated and replaced by Cable, who between this and creating his own island nation Providence is seen as a President Evil by a good portion of the globe.
    -   Though he was the leader of the U.S. defense system rather than its president, Norman Osborn was like this from the _Secret Invasion (2008)_ to the _Siege_ storylines. After the latter event — during which Osborn is publicly exposed as both morally corrupt and definitively off his rocker — Osborn is considered a criminal by the general public once again.
    -   Philip Nolan Voigt in _The New Universe_, a ruthless paranormal who can duplicate any other paranormal's powers, only better, uses his abilities to become President.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Also, Voigt tries to intimidate an Intrepid Reporter by threatening his elderly mother.
-   The limited series _The Mask: I Pledge Allegiance to the Mask_ has a politician discovering the Evil Mask, and Big Head goes on to use his uninhibited, wacky and sociopathic tirades to propel himself onto the White House. He gets within inches of a nuclear strike that could wipe out mankind before former users of the mask manage to blackmail him into removing the piece.
-   _Monster Plus_ has World President Mark Darke, who, if the name isn't helping you get it, authorized the creation of EVLI Eye squadrons to handle dissidents.
-   In _Promethea_, several hundred howling demons possess the mayor of New York, a highly ineffectual man with a Split Personality or forty. The net result is that the demons displace the personalities and go on to create a popular series of public works (including legalizing devil worship and pentagram shaped buildings), which actually _raises_ his approval rating.
    
    _"'All shall kiss my smoldering hoof', said the Mayor in a statement yesterday."  
    "Minority groups cheered the Mayor's statement that he would bring 'A new era of blackness' to the city..."_
    
-   _Samurai Jack: Quantum Jack_ at one point has Jack trapped in the life of an office worker. Upon returning to his house and watching television, he witnesses his nemesis, the dark personification of evil known as Aku, running against himself for President.
-   _Transmetropolitan_:
    -   Spider's problems get a whole lot worse once the Smiler becomes president. The Secret Service stalks his filthy assistants, assassins start crawling up his butt, and his stories get killed for reasons of "national security". He's able to give as good as he gets...
    -   The Beast, his predecessor, isn't much better. He is, by all accounts, a venal, selfish bastard, and the main reason he's called "the Beast" is that Spider nicknamed him that and it stuck (to the point that even the guy's _kids_ call him that). However, despite being a prime President Corrupt he's ultimately shown to be an aversion of this trope: the Beast never goes after Jerusalem personally (unlike the Smiler) and is shown to have political beliefs; it's just that his time as a politician has so badly burned him out that he can't see any point in trying to do more than keep 51% of the population alive.
-   The EC Comics publication _Weird Science_ had a story where "Allie the Alligator," a puppet on a kids' show called "Kookie, Fan and Allie," encourages parents to elect him president by writing his name in on their ballots. The two mainstream candidates are so unelectable that the majority of voters rebel against them, write in Allie's name, and elect him. Discombobulated beyond measure, Congress holds hearings on what to do. They summon the man who puppeteers Allie to appear, intending to make him president. Then comes the kicker: "Allie" is no puppet. He's a puppet-sized alien who's grafted himself onto the puppeteer's arm. And now that he's been elected president, his compatriots slither out of lakes and rivers and graft themselves onto Congress's collective arms to block any efforts to get Allie impeached.
-   _XIII_: U.S. President Walter Sheridan is the head of a conspiracy in the upper levels of the U.S. government that eliminates his brother, President William Sheridan in order to establish a totalitarian regime over the United States with him as its new Commander-in-Chief. While his treachery is explicit in the comics, it is left ambiguous in the video game based on it.
-   _Zombo_:
    -   Donald Trump is president of Earth, and when he isn't an unholy spawn of George H. W. Bush and Ronald Reagan, he runs the planet like _The Apprentice_. Also, he shredded a puppy.
    -   There's also Shadow President Jason Van Satan. It's all right there in the name.

    Comic Strips 

-   _The Phantom_: During The '90s Lamanda Luaga, the sympathetic president of the Phantom's homeland Bangalla, lost an election and was replaced by Kigali Lubanga, power-hungry madman, possible sorcerer, and Villain with Good Publicity.
    -   Later, Luaga was ousted by Sandal Singh, leader of the pirate group known as the Singh Brotherhood, and the Phantom's ancestral enemy. Unlike Lubanga, Singh has shown herself to be content to use her power to ensure that the Singh Brotherhood can operate unmolested, as well as a competent administrator and politician, in contrast to the Card-Carrying Villain Lubanga.

    Fan Works 

-   The President of the United States is the last foe Vash fights in _Christian Humber Reloaded_.
-   Artificial Intelligence CelestAI is all but sworn in in the _Friendship is Optimal_ fanfic _All The President's Horses_. While she recognizes an AI becoming president is too radical of a decision for most Americans to accept, she still pulls strings to make sure a human who will aid her _does_ get elected. All of this is naturally to further her goals of moving humanity as a whole into the digital world of Equestria Online.
-   Crops up _very_ often in _Hetalia: Axis Powers_ fanfiction. Evil presidents and other 'bosses' in the near future are frequently used as either the villains themselves or as the man behind the man, forcing the otherwise decent nations to do evil things.
-   Ganondorf is this in both _The Great Desert_, a Legend of Zelda AU, and _National Anthem_, a _Super Smash Bros._ AU. Both are by the author Shadsie.
-   _The Victors Project_: President Lucius is just as much of dog-kicker as President Snow later becomes, and was the one who first established The Hunger Games. After he dies, he's succeeded by Hadrian Fife and a series of other non-entities before Snow takes power and decides that Murder Is the Best Solution to just about everything.
-   _Halloween Unspectacular_: The Story Arc running through the seventh and eighth editions features President Fulton. At first just another Corrupt Politician Trumplica, he eventually ends up selling out to PURITY, turning America into a Police State where superpowered and non-human people are rounded up and anyone who protests is either arrested without cause or summarily executed. When PURITY is eventually defeated, he's subsequently arrested.

    Films — Animation 

-   Barack Obama ends up becoming this in the Bad Future of _Justice League: The Flashpoint Paradox_. Not only did he continue the U.S. government's brutal experimentation on Superman, but he directly orders the military to try to kill Cyborg for interfering as he and the rest of the government abandon the public after his attempt to use the military to stop Aquaman and Wonder Woman fails.
-   _The LEGO Movie_: Lord/President Business combines this with Corrupt Corporate Executive, as he's president of both Octan and the entire world — and also a Control Freak who wants to freeze everyone and create a perfectly ordered world.
-   _Resident Evil: Damnation_: Svetlana Belikova is a classic Soviet-type example. You can't get much more evil when you're using high-caliber bio-weapons to take out rebels.
-   President/CEO Shelby Forthwright from _WALL•E_ is a borderline example; not actively evil so much as short-sighted and corrupt to a downright disastrous extent. As leader of the MegaCorp that ruled the world, he pretty much destroyed the Earth through massive, indirect ecological damage, and then installed a ruthless AI onto the Generation Ship used to evacuate everyone that would keep them trapped in space. The latter act was committed under the misguided belief that humanity should never be allowed to return to Earth for their own safety.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _6 Underground_ has the Big Bad, President Rochav Alimov of Turgistan. He's a brutal dictator, who regularly massacres refugee camps of people trying to flee his rule, just to inspire fear. And when there's an uprising against him, he orders his military to indiscriminately open fire on the population, specifically to target schools, hospitals, and children. He also has his chauffeur run over civilians when they get in the way of his car while he's fleeing from said uprising.
-   _Absolute Power (1997)_: President Alan Richmond, while an upstanding man to the outside world, is in his private life a philanderer and serial abuser. When one of his escapades results in the accidental murder of a young woman, Richmond further resorts to cover it up and dispose of any witnesses to his crime.
-   _Bob Roberts_: Bob at the end of the film. A corrupt extremist willing to use lies, frame an innocent critic and fake a disability has been elected US President. This does not bode well...
-   In _The Dead Zone_, Johnny Smith shakes the hand of politician Greg Stillson and foresees that he will become president who, in a moment of megalomania ("YOU are not the voice of the people! I AM THE VOICE OF THE PEOPLE!"), orders a nuclear strike, thus destroying the world. This scene is pretty funny to those who mainly know Martin Sheen, who plays Stillson, as the wise, principled President Jed Bartlet.
-   Apparently, the people in the Crapsack World future of _Escape from New York_ and _Escape from L.A._ can**not** get a good president. In _...New York_, he's a scheming little crook, and _...LA_ has an outright religious psychotic. The second guy (who goes unnamed, but was based heavily on Jerry Falwell) got elected by saying that the earthquake that destroyed Los Angeles was God's punishment for that city's sin and decadence, and actually managed to get the Constitution amended to stay President for Life. His first act after that? Move the capital to his hometown (Lynchburg, VA).
-   In _G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra_, Zartan manages to disguise himself and take the place of the President. In _G.I. Joe: Retaliation_, he even puts Cobra banners on the White House, since Cobra is now the "official" ruler of America.
-   _The Hidden_: Alluded to but never realized. Towards the end, the evil alien who has been going on a mass-murdering rampage throughout Los Angeles throughout the entire film takes over the body of a U.S. Senator. He announces that he wants to become President.
-   _The Hitman's Bodyguard_ has Vladislav Dukhovich, the deposed dictator of Belarus, who committed ethnic cleansing and casual murder of both political enemies and critics of his regime. The whole plot of the movie is trying to get a key witness to the Hague in time to testify against Dukhovich in court.
-   _The Hunger Games_
    -   President Snow rules a totalitarian state in which people from the Districts are annually forced to compete in a televised Deadly Game.
    -   President Alma Coin of District 13 in _Mockingjay_ turns out to be as much of a power-hungry scumbag, who has no intention of stopping the games, but using them against her enemies. As bad as President Snow is, you can at least always count on him to keep his word.
-   In _Kingsman: The Golden Circle_ the President of the United States is willing to let millions of drug users around the world die just so he could say he won the war on drugs. This includes people that only tried a drug _once_, people using marijuana for medicinal purposes, _children_ born addicted because their mothers used while pregnant, and _his own Chief of Staff_, who only started using to keep up with the president's demanding workload. As soon as the Kingsmen release the antidote, the Chief of Staff exposes his crimes and gets him impeached and arrested.
-   The poster for _Omen III: The Final Conflict_ makes it seem like Damien becomes President of the United States. He doesn't; he _does_ become the Ambassador to the Court of St. James. It seems to be his long-term ambition though; he mentions running for Senator within two years.
-   In _Resident Evil: Retribution_, Albert Wesker is the president of the United States (or what's left of it). Slightly subverted in that he's united with his former enemies to take on a common foe.
-   _Spaceballs_: President Skroob might be an idiot, but he's fully on board with the effort to steal Druidia's air, which would wipe out the population.
-   _Star Wars_: Palpatine was one of these as the Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic. It is generally implied that, to the public at large as well as to the Jedi and the Senate, Palpatine is an excellent Chancellor — friendly, experienced, competent, professional, diplomatic and wise — who just happened to inherit a Republic that is rife with corruption and on the verge of civil war. Secretly, though, he is Darth Sidious, the Dark Lord of the Sith, the instigator of much of this corruption and the _mastermind_ behind the impending civil war who controls both factions in public and private, which gives him an excuse to turn the Republic into a _de facto_ dictatorship for reasons of "galactic security", then provoking the Jedi into attempting to arrest or kill him in order to carry out a purge against their Order, install himself as Emperor, and establish the evil, totalitarian Galactic Empire. The Expanded Universe delves deeper into his evil while Chancellor and implies or outright shows him (usually as Sidious) arranging assassinations, ordering atrocities, framing innocent parties, manipulating and corrupting people, and committing a laundry list of other crimes in pursuit of his sinister agenda.
-   In 1993's _Super Mario Bros. (1993)_, Koopa declares himself President of the Mushroom Kingdom and runs a fascist police state that's overusing the world's resources.
-   _Time Runner_: The World President turns out to be one of the aliens who have been plotting the conquest of Earth for decades.
-   _V for Vendetta_: Chancellor Adam Sutler is the totalitarian leader of the Norsefire Party that rules a post-apocalyptic Britain, elected into power after engineering a biochemical attack and take credit for creating a cure.
-   _We Can Be Heroes (2020)_: After infiltrating the aliens' mothership, the kids discover that President Amani is actually one of the invaders. It's later subverted with the reveal that the aliens were Good All Along.
-   _Wild in the Streets_: Max Frost is an interesting variation; a popular rock musician who's elected President on a leftist youth platform after the voting age is lowered to 14 (thanks to his supporters drugging Congress and the Senate with LSD when the amendment is voted on), Frost proceeds to withdraw the U.S from all military conflicts, sends surplus food to third world countries for free, disbands the FBI, and basically eliminates poverty. However, he also makes 30 the mandatory retirement age and anyone over 35 is sent to re-education camps where they're permanently dosed with LSD, basically taking the Youth Movement of the 1960's to a villainous extreme.

    Literature 

-   In _Christian Nation_, President Steve Jordan upon his inauguration suspends the U.S. Constitution in favor of the enforcement of the Fifty Blessings, turning America into a Christian theocracy and using the military to enforce all the states to obey.
-   The later portion of _The Dead Zone_ has Johnny grappling with visions of Greg Stillson becoming this, eventually leading to an all-out nuclear war. Not that Stillson isn't already evil. Johnny asks several people the age-old question about whether they'd kill Hitler as a baby, given the chance, and eventually he concludes that the only _sure_ way to avert the apocalypse is to assassinate Stillson himself.

-   In _Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows_ Voldemort manages to take control over the Ministry of Magic and all of wizarding England by placing Imperius Curses over some officials, murdering others, and placing Death Eaters and sympathizers of his cause in positions of power. This allows him to (without much resistance, thanks to the previous Ministers) enact what would end up as a pureblood regime. However, Voldemort never seems interested in becoming Minister of Magic himself.
-   _The Hell Candidate_ by Graham Masterton has _the Devil himself_ run for leadership of the free world.
-   _The History of the Galaxy_ has President John Winston Hammer of the Earth Alliance, who orders a devastating strike on the unsuspecting Lost Colonies, hoping that such a show of force (and the millions of people killed by nuclear blasts) would force the colonies to recognize the military superiority of the Earth Alliance and allow unrestricted flow of immigrants from the overpopulated Earth. Instead of a quick victory, the colonists resist, and the quick strike turns into a devastating war lasting several decades across dozens of systems and ends with the colonies emerging as the victors.
-   _The Hunger Games_ has President Coriolanus Snow, the overseer of the corrupt Capitol government that created and runs the child-murdering spectacle of the title, commit an insane number of atrocities all in the name of keeping his power. In the first book, Snow tortures Seneca Crane because Katniss and Peeta, without his interference at all, figured out how to survive The Hunger Games together and beat the system. In the second book, Catching Fire, he has the Quarter Quell's rules changed to having two previous Hunger Games winners from each district compete, simply out of spite. He has Katniss's friends tortured or murdered to break her confidence, even forcing her to watch Cinna's beating before the Quarter Quell. Katniss and Peeta got off lucky however as most other Hunger Games winners, Finnick Odair included, were forced by Snow to prostitute themselves out to other Capitol residents. In the final book Mockingjay, Snow firebombs Katniss's home in District 12 and later tries to frame President Coin. He authorizes the painful brainwashing of multiple citizens, one of whom, Peeta, has had his mental faculties destroyed for months, which will affect the way he processes events for life. Possibly his most heinous action occurs during the war between District 13 and the Capitol, where he offers innocent Capitol children shelter in his home only to use them as human shields to protect himself.
    -   President Alma Coin of District 13 turns out to be just as bad, killing Capitol children in a False Flag Operation to finalize Snow's defeat, declaring herself "interim President indefinitely" and preparing to put Capitol children through their own Hunger Games as retribution, before Katniss puts her down.
-   In Robert A. Heinlein's _If This Goes On—_, part of his _Future History_ sequence, President Nehemiah Scudder proclaimed himself "First Prophet" and imposed a Christian theocratic dictatorship at some point between 2013 and 2016.

-   In the _Left Behind_ series, Nicolae Carpathia starts out as the president of Romania, and moves on to become Secretary-General of the United Nations (later called the Supreme Potentate of the Global Community). He's The Antichrist
-   In the world of _MARZENA_, in the year 2033, the world will have to endure Russian President Victor Zolnerovich, one of the founders of Tresisda and a heavy supporter of Neo-Nazism, not to forget that he's really a clone robot AI. There's also possibly German Chancellor Norvak, or at least this is what Marian thinks.
-   In _Parable of the Talents_, President Jarrett is a member of the evangelical Christian sect Christian America. He scapegoats non-Christians (and Christians of other denominations) for all that is wrong with America and puts them in concentration camps.
-   President Charles Lindbergh in Philip Roth's _The Plot Against America_, who begins a process of creating an atmosphere of hate and persecution towards Jews and who may or may not have been a Nazi puppet.
-   In the _President's Vampire_ series, the Shadow Company would _love_ to install one of these, to aid their plans of taking over the United States and destroying the world. In _Red, White, and Blood_, they reach out to President Curtis' running opponent, Governor Seabrook, to try and recruit him to their cause, since he seems likely to win. And at the end of the book, Vice-President Wyman, who worked for the Company until they cut him loose, kills Curtis, allowing him to take over.
-   _Star Wars Legends_ did this a lot. One story arc featured Natasi Daala, a retired Imperial Admiral, as president of the Galactic Alliance. Not so bad, until you remember that she oversaw the construction of the Death Star, the enslavement of genius children to build it, and the bombardment of several pacifist planets. Plus in an attempt at Avenging the Villain she attacked The Republic _twice_ and still got installed to lead its successor government by its military leaders. In the present day she attempts to reenact Order 66 after exiling Luke on trumped-up charges, which finally turns the public against her and gets her Put on a Prison Bus by the Jedi.
    -   A book in _the same arc_ ended with Abeloth becoming president (by possessing a senator) and the Sith in partial control of the Senate. When the galaxy went through four presidents in one year with half of them being evil, it's no surprise that people decided to give the Empire another shot.
-   _Timeline-191_ has Jake Featherston, President of the Confederate States of America, and thinly veiled Adolf Hitler analogue, who attempts a genocide of the CSA's black population.
-   In one of the _Wild Cards_ books, Puppetman runs for president. (This is a man who controls people's minds to make them commit mayhem, just so that he can get off on their emotions, for crying out loud.)
-   In _Who Needs Men?_, the Lady Land Anglia's leader, Prime Minister Curie Milford, promotes something halfway between a Vietnam War and World War II against a less advanced patriarchal culture. She is effectively presented as a sort of exaggerated (and female) amalgamation of John F. Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson, and Adolf Hitler.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _24_:
    -   Charles Logan, who becomes President pursuant to the 25th Amendment after President John Keeler, under whom he served as vice president, is grievously wounded when Air Force One crashes during Day 4. He's also a part of the BXJ Technologies Corporate Conspiracy, and has a hand in both the selling of Sentox nerve gas to terrorists with the intent to acquire more oil for America from Central Asia, and the assassination of Former President David Palmer when Palmer gets too close to the conspiracy.
    -   Yuri Suvarov, President of the Russian Federation, is initially an ally to the CTU during Days 5 and (to a lesser extent) 6. Come Day 8, however, he is revealed to be the mastermind behind a plot to assassinate IRK President Omar Hassan in an attempt to derail peace accords between Hassan and U.S. President Allison Taylor, which would eventually weaken Russian influence on the IRK.
-   _The 100_ features Dante and Cage Wallace, respectively son and grandson of the then-sitting US President when the nukes fell. They have been overseeing the creation of Reapers to keep the Grounders distracted and wary about travelling in the area of Mount Weather, and if that isn't enough, flooding the area with acid fog too. Along with that has been the use of Grounders as Human Resources for their blood, and a long-term plan to manipulate the teenage survivors of the dropship to join the Mount Weather gene pool. When that falls through, Cage launches a coup and orders the forcible removal of bone marrow from the Ark teenagers, even though the method used would kill them.
-   _Babylon 5_: President Clark assassinates the previous president, under whom he served as vice president, and from there initiates an increasingly iron-fisted regime that brooks no disagreement with him, particularly the crew of the main series' setting who were actively working to expose his crimes and bring him down. His administration turns into a full-blown dictatorship when he executes a self-coup against the Earth Senate, who were on the verge of impeaching him. When his downfall is imminent, his final act as president before offing himself is to set all Kill Sats in Earth's orbit to fire at the planet. Luckily, the good guys manage to stop them in time.
-   _The Blacklist_: In Season 6, it ultimately turns out that President Robert Diaz is orchestrating a Government Conspiracy involving an attack against the country. In the season finale, we find out the details: the money he accepted from Alexander Kirk as a campaign donation in Season 3 wasn't a bribe, it was to pay a fixer to cover up how he killed a teenager in a drunk driving accident. His wife has since had a cry of conscience and wants him to confess, so he's decided to have her assassinated.
-   In _The Boys (2019)_, Homelander arranges for Mole in Charge Congresswoman Victoria Neuman to be on track to become the next Vice President of the United States. Plus, her running mate Dakota Bob is a Puppet King for Vought.
-   _The Dead Zone_'s Johnny Smith sees visions of a future apocalypse, linked to the political ambitions of Greg Stillson. Preventing Stillson from becoming President Evil is a recurring theme in the series.
-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   Mavic Chen of "The Daleks' Master Plan" is the democratically-elected head of the Solar System and also colluding with the Daleks to take over the Universe.
    -   Rassilon of Gallifrey is the classic one. Returns with a vengeance in "The End of Time", as an Omnicidal Maniac who was planning to destroy the universe so that he could Ascend to a Higher Plane of Existence. He's appropriately played by Timothy Dalton.
        -   In _Big Finish Doctor Who_, Rassilon is an Evilutionary Biologist who prevented species from existing because of the possibility they might eclipse the power of the Time Lords.
    -   In "The Invasion of Time", the Fourth Doctor himself becomes this for all of Gallifrey. It rather confuses his old teacher Borusa. (And it's all a ruse, of course.)
    -   "The Five Doctors": Borusa, now himself Lord President of Gallifrey, seeks to manipulate the Doctor's first five incarnations into recovering Time Lord founder Rassilon's fabled secret of immortality for himself so that he might rule Gallifrey forever.
    -   "Aliens of London"/"World War Three": A Slitheen wearing the skin of a mid-level politician manages to become Acting Prime Minister by offing the real one and being the highest-ranking elected official around during a time of crisis. Presumably, he would have been replaced as soon as the panic subsided, but it gives the Slitheen all the time in power they need to spark a nuclear war and destroy the Earth. This allows a very capable and sweet woman named Harriet Jones to become the new Prime Minister. However, the Doctor deposes Harriet Jones after she goes too far (in his opinion) during the next alien invasion a season later. She was supposed to be Prime Minister of the UK for three consecutive terms and lead the Golden Age of Britain. With the Doctor having altered her timeline, we instead get two absolute monsters:
        -   Series 3: The first replacement for Harriet Jones. The Master, posing as Mr. Saxon, gets himself elected as Prime Minister of Great Britain, and promptly uses his authority to gas the Cabinet, declare the Doctor and his friends fugitives, arrest Martha Jones' family, make fun of/assassinate the U.S. President-Elect<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , take over the world and generally act like a Magnificent Bastard. In the end, it is time-reverted, except for the deaths of the President and the British Cabinet. Ouch. In "The End of Time", he conquers the world by transforming all of humanity into carbon copies of himself, consequently making him president of every single country at once. Even acknowledges this himself: "I'm President! President of the United States! Look at me! Financial solution... deleted!"
        -   _Torchwood: Children of Earth_: The second replacement for Harriet Jones. Prime Minister Green. True, the whole leadership of the government reluctantly goes along with the plan of handing ten percent of the world's children over to the 456, but they didn't really have any choice, and they're shown to take no enjoyment from crossing this Moral Event Horizon. However, at the end of the miniseries, when the 456 have just barely been defeated in time, Green proves himself to be truly morally corrupt by gleefully announcing how he plans to blame everything on the Americans. This proves to be the last straw for his cabinet, and they blackmail him into standing down.
-   Nathan Petrelli/Sylar of _Heroes_ becomes the U.S. Prez in the alternate future presented in "Five Years Gone", and tries to enact a program to kill off all the superpowered people in the world (except himself. Because "I can fly. I'm hardly dangerous.").
-   Frank Underwood from _House of Cards (US)_, who slowly graduates from a mere Corrupt Politician to the 46th President of the United States thanks to his utter ruthlessness in obtaining political power. This trope is also deconstructed once he actually reaches the Oval Office, as his power is nothing close to absolute and actually _staying_ in power becomes very difficult after everyone in Washington he needs to support his reign becomes aware of the depth of his depravity.
-   John Tomarchio in _Jericho (2006)_, who establishes the dissident Allied States of America west of the Mississippi River after the United States is split in two in the aftermath of the nuclear attacks that annihilated America's major cities. Under a benevolent guise, he serves as part of a highly corrupt corporate conspiracy to seize control of the nation by means of the nuclear strikes, which would serve to fuel the outbreak of a second American civil war against the legitimate U.S. government.
-   _The Last Ship_ has President Peng of China, the Big Bad of Season 3. Having climbed to power over his superiors' corpses during the height of the Red Flu pandemic, he now intends to bring about China's total domination of Asia in the post-plague world by use of a chemical weapon that nullifies the cure for the Red Flu, enabling it to wipe out whole nations that he can then conquer.
-   _Masters of Horror_ episode "The Washingtonians":
    -   George Washington became a cannibalistic madman after he was forced to eat some of his men during a harsh winter. He started regularly killing and eating people (including several members of his own administration), ate children and made household items out of their bones and skin, and was apparently intent on founding the United States as a "cannibal republic". A reporter claims that Washington's monstrousness was covered up by his followers.
    -   The ending implies that George W. Bush is a member of the Washingtonians as well.
-   _NTSF:SD:SUV::_: The bad guy in one episode turns out to be the President of Mexico, who was trying to steal the American Space Program so that Mexico could have one of its own.
-   In an episode of _The Outer Limits (1995)_, "Decompression", a time traveler approaches a presidential candidate while he and his staff are traveling on a plane and warns him that his loss in the upcoming election will pave the way for one of these. As she continues to win him over, she eventually convinces him that his staff will sabotage his chances of winning and that he needs to jump from the plane (which she says is destined to crash) and leave them all to die (she'll protect him with her future-tech). He complies, and she's true to her word. Then she reveals _he_ is the President Evil she spoke of, having gambled that he would be self-centered enough to save his own hide at the expense of everyone else. The plane will be fine, and he's just ensured that his political career is tarnished beyond recovery. Oh, and she didn't really save him. She just gave him a few minutes to find out the truth before putting him right back in mid-air to splatter on the ground.
-   Governor James Devlin of _Oz_. On a show wall-to-wall with scumbags (it's set in a prison, after all), one of the worst is the guy on the outside campaigning on a "law and order" platform.
-   Evil Governor Colonel Montoya from _Queen of Swords_.
-   In _Read All About It_, Dunedon, the evil ruler of Trialveron, is also secretly Don Eden, mayor of our heroes' home town on Earth.
-   _Revolution_ features Jackson Davis, a usurper President who launched an internal coup at the US Government's hideout in Guantanamo. For about fifteen years, he remained at the helm masterminding a plot to retake the United States from the successor states which rose after the Blackout.
-   A 4th season episode of _Sliders_ ("California Reich") has a man, Governor Schick, running for President with a very good chance of winning... until the heroes expose the truth behind his "Repatriation Center" concentration camps. The guy's platform? "America for Americans" (a meaningless slogan for a nation of immigrants) and plans to deport anyone whose genes don't match with his ideal American, even if your great-great-grandparents were born in the U.S. That essentially means "anyone non-white". Somehow, he manages to impose this rule on his own state and ship countless people off to camps... and then they get turned into mindless drones called "Eddies" as cheap labor.
-   In a couple of _Smallville_'s Bad Futures, Lex Luthor is shown to either be President, or running for it, as a very intimidating Villain in a White Suit with a Red Right Hand.
    -   In the Distant Finale, set in 2018, Lex has just been elected. Uh-oh.

-   Lucifer, Satan himself, possesses the President in season 12 of _Supernatural_. It lasts all of one episode, but he was giving some thought to pardoning Charles Manson.
-   In _Supergirl (2015)_, President Baker turns out to only care about his poll numbers rather than standing up for what is right. When the Children of Liberty movement is starting to grow, he caves to them and even uses Loophole Abuse to free their leader (apparently, it's not terrorism if the targets aren't human), before making him a member of his Cabinet and giving him a carte blanche to deal with aliens the way he sees fit. It gets even worse when he's revealed to be a traitor, conspiring with Lex Luthor to help Kaznia invade the US so that Lex can betray them and save the day and thereby boost both their popularities.

    Music 

-   King Geedorah, alter ego of rapper Daniel Dumile. His methods of dealing with dissenters are expounded upon in the song "The Fine Print": The short version is, he has their heads cut off and mounted on pikes in the middle of town square, where the peasants will throw rocks at the heads for weeks until vultures eventually devour them. As he says, "Maybe _then_ they'll know the right words to speak out loud, at home, in the world, or in the streets."
-   Lordi's "Sir, Mr. Presideath, Sir" is about a genocidal, supernatural "Presideath" that is apparently widely loved by the populace. He deals with dissenters by removal of their hands.

    Myths & Religion 

-   In Scientology doctrine, Xenu was elected as the "supreme ruler" of the Galactic Confederacy, and apparently he was doing so poorly that they were about to "un-elect" him, but not before he killed most of the population by freezing them and blowing them up with hydrogen bombs in volcanoes.

    Print Media 

-   GamePro Magazine used "President Evil" during the April Fools issue (with a zombie version of Abe Lincoln on the cover) a few months after Resident Evil first came out.

    Video Games 

-   _Ace Attorney Investigations: Miles Edgeworth 2_ has Teikun O, the president of the Republic of Zheng-Fa, a Dirty Coward who orchestrated a fake assassination attempt on himself in a futile attempt to salvage his waning popularity. Then, much later in the game, we learn that he's actually a body double who pulled a Kill and Replace on the _real_ president and took over the country, and was planning to kill several others to cover it up. Of course, by the time you find that out, someone else has already killed him. He will not be missed.
-   _BioShock_: Altough Andrew Ryan was offically just the founder, member of the vaguely defined Council, and Just the First Citizen of Rapture, he was this trope in everything but name; even though Rapture was supposed to be a free-market utopia without any sort of government, religious or moral restraints, where every man could be free to choose his own destiny, Ryan was the only one really in charge. He banned religion right from the start, stomped down on free speech the second it spoke against him, violated his own principles the second a business rival threatened him, and became an outright dictator once Rapture plunged into civil war.
-   Lord Recluse of _City of Heroes_. Indeed, most of _City of Villains_ takes place in Recluse's country, the Rogue Isles.
-   John Adams in _Conduit 2_. Yes, as in the 2nd U.S. President. He's an alien spy, which is why he's still alive and scheming despite being set 20 Minutes into the Future.
-   In _Cyberpunk 2077_, for the past several decades what was once the United States has become a dictatorial One Nation Under Copyright controlled by the MegaCorp Militech. Every president since 2019 has been a former CEO of the company, with the latest being President Rosalind Myers. Due to her status as a background character Myers is more Ambiguously Evil, as with many politicians some view her as a proponent of peace while others see her as an imperialist fascist. Although the _Phantom Liberty_ expansion features the New USA in greater detail, potentially making her a Greater-Scope Villain.
-   The Purple Tentacle from _Day of the Tentacle_ manages to become POTUS and then enslave all the humanity.
-   _Dyztopia: Post-Human RPG_: Zazz is both the president of the State of Zeta and the president of Zetacorp, and he's a greedy man obsessed with expanding his influence and chasing after humanity's past glory, at the expense of other races.
-   _Fallout_:
    -   Played for Laughs in the series backstory, as one of the last United States presidents was removed from office for jaywalking by unanimous vote between both the House of Representatives and the Senate. However, it's very heavily implied that this was just an excuse and the _real_ reason was him circumventing Congress to annex Canada during the Resource Wars.
    -   The Big Bads of _Fallout 2_ and _Fallout 3_ are President Evils, focused on cleansing the post-apocalyptic world of any dangerous mutants. Given that, under their standards, the vast majority of the irradiated planet's surface-dwelling population would qualify as a dangerous mutant, including most of the good guys, this is obviously not a fun plan. To make matters worse, their faction the Enclave is a Government Conspiracy that's secretly ruled the United States since before World War III, with several U.S. Presidents having been members and helping turn pre-War America into a People's Republic of Tyranny. So far, there's been three antagonists to assume the title:
    -   The last official President of the United States, Dick Richardson, the Big Bad of _2_. As the leader of the Enclave, his plan revolves around releasing a virus into the jet stream that will target anyone on Earth with mutated DNA, basically anyone not part of the Enclave or a Vault Dweller, leaving an empty world for the "worthy" to recolonize.
    -   President John Henry Eden of _3_. Following in Richardson's footsteps, Eden is actually a sentient supercomputer who wants to hijack Project Purity, meant to purify the irradiated waters of the Washington Basin, to exterminate all mutant life on the East Coast.
    -   Thomas Eckhart of _76_. Originally the last Secretary of Agriculture before the Great War, Eckhart was a member of the Appalachian Enclave, which lost contact with the California Enclave and the real President. Determined to continue the war with China and destroy communism once and for all, Eckhart eliminated his political enemies and won a rigged election to assume the Presidency (as far as the Master Computer MODUS knew) just so he could gain control of the nuclear arsenal in the area.
    -   Subverted by President Tandi and Kimball of the NCR, though Kimball is a jingoistic imperialist. However, Tandi's Vice President Carlson is a straight example. One of the bad endings for _Fallout 2_ has him frame her for the death of Congressman Westin and take over, slowing the nation's progress with his own greed and corruption. It can potentially be even _worse_, as the player can turn the nation into a People's Republic of Tyranny.
-   _Final Fantasy_:
    -   Subverted with _Final Fantasy VIII_, Vinzer Deling, president of the (mostly portrayed as) antagonistic Galbadian nation is made out to be the Big Bad when the plot kicks off, only to be killed very early on by his ostensible Dragon, Edea.
    -   While having overt religious overtones, the Primarch, leader of the Sanctum that governs Cocoon in _Final Fantasy XIII_, is an elected position. The current Primarch, Galenth Dysley, _is_ the Big Bad and a fal'Cie in disguise.
-   _Gene Troopers_ has President Horacious Prowler, ruler of the Galactic Empire and a powerful dictator who commands the titular Troopers, who even orders captives to be converted into his private Gene Troopers army. Or so it seems. As it turns out, The Keeper, Ithaka Wassali, is manipulating Prowler with her parasites and the game's true villain.
-   _Hearts of Iron IV_ allows the player to play as several countries, many of which are democratic, and many of which have the opportunity to elect tyrants.
-   The last two games in the _Heroes Rise_ trilogy feature President Victon (he is the mayor of Millennium City in the first game), who gets himself elected on the platform of Powered regulation and the support of the rapidly rising Meek movement (as in, "the meek shall inherit the Earth"). Once in power, he proceeds to force all Infini-Powered heroes to submit to Power Nullifier treatments and works with the Meek to develop a device that will permanently de-Power everyone. Oh, and he also orders public executions of the Powered criminals he deems too dangerous to rehabilitate. However, this is only the tip of the iceberg. He is perfectly willing to risk the lives of millions of people for political purposes, gets the Player Character's parents framed for murder, works with a cabal to get an Infini-Powered ex-criminal to lose control of his powers on live TV, among many other crimes.
-   Pandak "Baby" Panay in _Just Cause 2_ holds Panau in his grip with a massive military junta.
-   _Kaiserreich: Legacy of the Weltkrieg_: Corneliu Codreanu, an antisemitic fascist in Romania who behaves like a less powerful Hitler, has the ability to run in elections if Romania decides to become a democracy.
-   _Metal Gear_:
    -   Solidus Snake, ex-President of the United States. The 'ex' part is the all-important part, though — he's more a traditional baddie who happens to have once been President. The Patriots are a better example — the man plotted and often elaborate plan\-loving council which secretly ruled the United States since about the 1970s, and have plans for world domination. It really gets bad when all the Patriots are either dead, in a coma, a vegetable, or actively trying to stop the rogue AI they created from trying to take over the world.
    -   From _Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance_, we have a President Evil-to-be: Senator Armstrong.
-   Richard Hawk in _Metal Wolf Chaos_ an evil _vice-president_ turned president after he overthrows his running mate in a military coup d'etat. As for his "evil" credentials during his actual tenure as president... Geez... _Where do we **start?**_ The giant mechanical spider he sent rampaging through Manhattan, possibly. Or nerve-gassing Chicago. Or executing Metal Wolf sympathizers... and their family... and their friends... and their acquaintances if they don't fess up (complete with evil-eyed Lady Liberty on the ultimatum commercial). Or turning the White House into a missile-launching and armored fortress and renaming it the "Fight House".
-   _Mr.President!_ on Steam is about saving the United States president "Ronald Rump" from repeated assassinations, despite increasingly justifiable reasons for doing so as he transforms America into a post-apocalyptic Nazi state and starts TWO WORLD WARS. Eventually, the player character snaps out of it and uses a time machine to kill his boss.
-   In _The New Order: Last Days of Europe_, much more attention is given to the villainy of certain characters than in the base game. Many of these people can be elected.
    -   Francis Parker Yockey is an openly pro-Nazi Germany politician with allies in The Klan when running for office. If he wins the 1972 election, the country is turned into a fascist regime where he introduces intrusive censorship laws against the media via the SAFE act, subtly encourages hate crimes against ethnic minorities while refusing to prosecute said criminals, allies the United States with Nazi Germany while giving money and intel to them, and causes even hardcore segregationists to hate him.
    -   On the opposite end of the political spectrum would by Gus Hall, a Principles Zealot who is willing to enforce progressive policies (racial and sexual equality, worker's rights, etc.) through regressive means (purging suspected opponents, encouraging political violence, expanding state power, etc.). He purges supposed "reactionary" CIA members _while in a cold war with the **Nazis**_. He also encourages homophobia nationwide for no other reason than shutting up _one_ gay political critic.
    -   On the opposite end of the globe, there resides the small Russian Disaster Democracy of Komi, home to Igor Shafarevich. Shafarevich, upon election, acts as a crypto-fascist President for Life who discriminates against minorities and purges political opponents under the guise of fighting "Russophobia". If this wasn't enough, his regime can open the gate to more openly fascist politicians to take power, like Gumilyov, Serov, and Taboritsky.
    -   On the opposite end of Komi's political spectrum is Andrei Zhdanov, who presents himself as a moderate reformist in his early years of his presidency, before establishing a pseudo-technocratic Communist dictatorship that tries to bend the nation to fit with science experiments that don't even work. Like Shafarevich, he can open the door to more radical communist politicians.
-   _Not for Broadcast_ has Prime Ministers Julia Salisbury and Peter Clement, who together turn the Player Character's home country into a socialist People's Republic of Tyranny. After Peter dies, it's revealed that he was acting as Julia's Morality Chain and she detonates nuclear bombs in several neighboring nations in retaliation for sanctions placed on the country, killing 14 million people (and potentially half the player's family). Things only get worse from there for everyone.
-   _Persona 5_ has Masayoshi Shido, a Corrupt Politician who is the secret head of The Conspiracy to turn Tokyo into an authoritarian dictatorship as a Puppet King for the Greater-Scope Villain. Thankfully for Japan, he's thwarted by several wrenches.
-   In the console version of _Rainbow Six 3_, the Big Bad turns out to be the President of Venezuela, who is secretly the mastermind behind terrorist attacks on the U.S. by seemingly Middle Eastern groups.
-   Karasov in _Republic: The Revolution_. He rules Novastrana with an iron fist, siphons money from the national stock exchange, uses his political and military power to imprison and/or murder his enemies, is above the law and he damn well knows it. Until the man whose parents he arrested ten years ago comes back to lead a revolt.
-   U.S. President Noah Grace is this in the _Resistance_ series, having established a totalitarian regime over the United States in an alternate history where he unseats FDR and suppresses freedom of speech and of the press nationwide. On top of that, he must defend the U.S. from the alien Chimera who have overrun the rest of the world abroad. Although fully committed to defending his nation and even committing troops to a ruined Western Europe, he was willing to go so far as to negotiate a surrender of the rest of the world's nations with the alien species in order to secure only America's safety.
-   In _Saints Row IV_, the Boss has gone from criminal kingpin/mass murderer to the President of the United States. More impressive is the fact that The Boss might not even be American (either being British or French). It's implied that they're less sociopathic as a president than as a gang leader, though, at least if their only presidential initiative shown (either "Fuck Cancer" or solving world hunger depending on what the player chooses) is any indication.
-   The fourth _Sam & Max: Freelance Police_ adventure game episode of the first season, aptly titled _"Abe Lincoln Must Die"_, sees the titular freelance police up in arms against an evil Abraham Lincoln. Or, in this case, a massive statue of Abraham Lincoln brought to life, who then tries to run for president. The only way to defeat him is for Max to become a President Evil himself, a position he still keeps afterwards. In the third season, it is strongly implied that Max has used dirty means to ensure that he keeps his office.
    
    **Sam:** Unrest in the Dakotas.  
    **Max:** Dispatch equal numbers of giant battle robots to all sides. Whoever wins, claim we backed them all along.  
    **Sam:** Illegal immigration.  
    **Max:** Let the new guys pilot the giant battle robots.  
    **Sam:** Criticism that your domestic policy is too giant battle robot-based.  
    **Max:** They can take it up with my new press secretary, the Maimtron 9000. _\[the phone rings\]_ If that's the guys from Air Force One, tell them they get the keys back after they say the magic word.
    
-   David Jefferson Adams in _Shattered Union_, who after being elected President of the United States proves extraordinarily corrupt as his first term is defined by martial law, domestic terrorism, suppression of civil liberties, and open violation of the Constitution as the government effectively rigs the next election in favor of Adams. His false victory is met with open outrage by the American public, and ultimately a foreign conspiracy to cripple the U.S. takes advantage of the political tensions sowed by Adams to destroy the federal government; a subsequent nuclear attack leaves Adams dead and paves the way for the splintering of the continental United States through the secessionist sentiment provoked by his rule.
-   _Splinter Cell_:
    -   Kombayn Nikoladze from the first game, president of Georgia, is using ethnic cleansing to seize neighboring Azerbaijan's oil, and later attacks the U.S. with information warfare when they try to stop him. His successor is only marginally better, quickly turning on his allies when it proves convenient.
    -   Vice President Calvin Samson in _Splinter Cell: Conviction_, who serves a clandestine terrorist network named Megiddo and is complicit in the Third Echelon conspiracy to assassinate President Caldwell and supplant her with himself and effectively establish a terrorist-backed regime; he would've been this had the plot actually succeeded.
-   Supreme Chancellor Saresh in _Star Wars: The Old Republic_ is the leader of The Republic, but is an Obstructive Bureaucrat and Knight Templar who just gets in the way of the real heroes and gets thousands of Republic soldiers killed walking into an obvious trap in the Ziost questline. In the _Fallen Empire_ & _Eternal Throne_ expansions she goes Jumping Off the Slippery Slope and effectively turns the Republic into a People's Republic of Tyranny with Emergency Authority (sound familiar?) before trying to have the Player Character killed, resulting in her getting killed/arrested herself.
-   President Walter Sheridan is implied to be this in _XIII_ in the game's cliffhanger ending, making him the leader of the conspiracy within the U.S. government that saw the murder of _his own brother_ to secure his own ascension to the Presidency. We may never know for sure as the sequel never came to be.

    Webcomics 

-   In the final arc of _The Adventures of Dr. McNinja_, King Radical, the Big Bad, successfully overthrows the U.S. government.
-   Subverted in this _Sluggy Freelance_ strip, where the president who's secretly a centuries-old wizard who enslaved people's souls isn't actually that bad.
    
    **President Kesandru:** Living hundreds of years changes you. I used to toy with people, destroy people, all with the selfish goal of untold wealth and power. Now I want to help people, to make up for past deeds. Take steps to make this a better place for everyone ... while _still_ attaining untold wealth and power.
    
    **Torg:** Politics. It's like having evil cake and eating it too!
    
-   In _Narbonic_, it is revealed that Mell's future self becomes President in the comic's Bad Future. She did this so that she could send a message to the past explaining how to avert the future. The process of sending the message to the past physically destroys her world in the process, much to her glee.
-   _The Japanese Beetle_ featured an evil android named Hypnotron whose Compelling Voice fueled a villain-organized run for the Presidency, but ultimately failed because, as a newly-built android, he's too young to legally be President. A later storyline had him succeed in disguising himself as George W. Bush and taking over America, using his powers to alter the world in subtle ways until a few heroes and villains catch on and fight back.
-   Zexion was elected governor of Pennsylvania in _Ansem Retort_. He's stolen tax dollars to finance his best friend's wedding (just to prove he can) and invaded New Jersey. In a later season, he sold New Mexico back to Mexico for the right of all US citizens to have sexy Latino names. His is Guillermo del Zexiero lo Marquis. Ironically, he once tried to run for president but gave up because the people started _agreeing_ with his crazy policies, thereby making it no fun anymore.
    
    **Zexion:** I will kill anyone who supports death panels!  
    **The people:** YAAAAAAAAAY!  
    **Zexion:** The hell is the matter with you people?
    
-   _Homestuck_ has Violent Jay and Shaggy 2 Dope elected co-presidents of the United States. They promptly use their power for evil.
-   In _Precocious_ Dionne makes a _campaign platform_ out of promising to be one of these when running for class president.
    
    "Those who support me will be exalted. Those who do not will be destroyed. The minority is irrelevant. They have no voice. I can and will take from them and give to the strong. It's majority rule!"
    

    Web Original 

-   _The Spoony Experiment_: In Dr. Insano's debut, he somehow managed to win the Presidential election in a landslide victory. It was a merciless parody of Sorceress Edea in _Final Fantasy VIII_ becoming a country's leader despite openly despising her own subjects and burning the legitimate President of the country alive. For extra hilarity, a lot of fans told Noah that they'd vote for Dr. Insano if they could. When he incredulously asked them why, the response was "Because he's honest".
-   Supervillain Lord Paramount of the Whateley Universe has his own country Wallachia.
    -   And supervillain Gizmatic (now King Wilkins) has his own country, the Caribbean island now known as Karedonia.
-   Both of the presidents featured in the e-novel _EHUD Prelude To Apocalypse_ are evil, although one is more of the corrupt old politician kept aloft by corrupt advisers type, while the other is definitely a terrible, terrible human being, even before getting elected.
-   General Douglas MacArthur becomes a downplayed version of this in the _Reds!: A Revolutionary Timeline_ Alternate History, with a healthy side of General Ripper. After evacuating the American upper-class to Cuba following the Communist revolution, MacArthur, being the highest ranking member of the National Salvation Front left after the main political leader, Nicholas Longworth, was captured by the revolutionaries, declares himself President of the in-exile government, which he proclaims to be the only legal continuation of the overthrown state of USA. MacArthur goes on to rule with an iron fist over the in-exile government, makes himself President for Life and even tries to install a Hereditary Republic by grooming his son to be his successor. His time in charge is marked by frequent purges against members of the government he suspects of being in cahoots with the Communists (often for little to no reason) and cruel oppression of the native Cuban population.
-   In the Alternate Universe The Nostalgia Critic is shown in the 2010 Christmas special _You're A Rotten Dirty Bastard_, Angry Joe is shown to have become the evil president of the United States, blowing up Canada and publicly executing Tom Green. To be fair, it's what the people wanted.
-   In the novel _A Girl Who Brought Down the World_, Christopher Winnifred Vega <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  is made President of the US thanks to a massive conspiracy. In due time, he ravages the entire world in an attempt to bring in a girl he had fallen in love with years ago who had no interest in him.
-   Dictator Pickles from Alfred's Playhouse is Alfred's Split Personality who wishes only to take revenge on reality after being sexually abused and abandoned as a child. In the _Rise of Alfred Alfer_, he is seen forcing Alfred to try and become dictator over Burrito Bell. He is also portrayed as being friends with famous dictators Adolf Hitler, Joseph Stalin, and also Lavrentiy Beria.
-   _Epic Rap Battles of History_:
    -   In the second election battle, Donald Trump promises to be one if elected, claiming that he'll run the country like he runs a casino-"more police and less Latinos"-and to create jobs tearing down mosques.
    -   A number of historical national leaders have made appearances as villains, including Adolf Hitler, Joseph Stalin, Genghis Khan, Shaka Zulu, Julius Caesar, Ivan the Terrible, Vlad the Impaler, and Alexander the Great.
-   In the Alternate History _Zhirinovsky's Russian Empire_, the Real Life ultranationalist Vladimir Zhirinovsky comes to power in the former Soviet Union and turns it into a fascist quasi-federation, unleashing a decade of international conflict.
-   President Donald Rumsfeld in the Alternate History _Fear, Loathing and Gumbo on the Campaign Trail '72_ is, in his psychotic obsession with right-wing, anarcho-capitalist and anti-communist rhetoric, probably one of the most horrifying examples of this trope ever conceived. Let's list his atrocities, shall we?:
    -   His extreme free-market policies see him privatising the US military, leading to US soldiers being given woefully substandard equipment and being sent to their deaths in a catastrophically failed invasion of Cuba. He also even goes so far as to _give the standing order for all wounded US soldiers to be executed by their officers to avoid paying the healthcare bill to save them_. This last crossing of the Moral Event Horizon is so horrifying it leads to pretty much everybody in his administration to finally turn on him.
    -   When his corporate cronies buy up the Hollywood film studios, he uses them to turn the film industry into a Propaganda Machine which vilifies historical figures that he hates, such as calling FDR a communist.
    -   He encourages "Liberty Battalions" to burn any books critical of his free-market economic policies and "disappear" any like-wise celebrities and political enemies. Between this and the last one, large swaths of American academia, the arts, and the entertainment industry flee to Canada and the UK.
    -   He establishes a permit system to restrict interstate travel, which is officially done to stop the free travel of criminals and terrorists but is really about compiling a database on everyone's movements for political purposes.
    -   He allows employers to slash _all wages in half across the board_ under the cover of investing the other half in the stock market, and removes all forms of workers' rights and social welfare, leading to unbearable poverty and terrible working conditions for working-class Americans, akin to serfdom and sharecropping. He also only enforces regulations just to attack businesses and media networks that oppose him.
    -   He alienates nearly all of his allies (resulting in NATO being disbanded) with the notable exception of the two dictatorial and genocidal states of South Africa and Israel (which he champions as bastions of freedom). He supports terrorism in Northern Ireland to "punish" the British for voting in a Labour government.
    -   Not only does he resort to blatant electoral fraud to be re-elected for his second term, he also _attempts to make himself president for life_. In fact, he privately admits to wanting to tear up the Constitution and strip US citizens of every constitutional right except the right to bear arms.
    -   He bullies state governments into accepting his policies, and later, when Pete McCloskey is re-elected as California's governor, he tries to annul the election in favor of his handpicked stooge, and impeaches the Supreme Court justices who ruled against overturning the election results. This pushes California, Hawaii, and Idaho into seceding from the union.
    -   He wants to have all homosexuals imprisoned, comparing them to pedophiles.
    -   He shuts down the nascent civilian Internet before it can get off the ground, all in the name of "national security".
    -   He removes every single environmental regulation and even pushes to have concern for the environment declared a mental disorder. When the nascent threat of Global Warming is brought up to him, he sees it as a good thing that will extend the growing season, and so he actively defends coal pollution.
    -   He tries to _weaponize AIDS_.
    -   He conspires to fill Earth's orbit with waste just to make things difficult for the Russian space program.
    -   And believe it or not, he's **nothing** compared to Douglas Coe. How bad is he? Under his command, Congress is destroyed (literally), DC has many of its historic landmarks demolished to make way for monuments to himself and Jesus, and the US is transformed into a totalitarian theocracy, complete with the 10 commandments added into the constitution. By 1990, the country has descended into a second civil war, with entire regions of states declaring independence. To crush any attempted invasions or resistance movements, Coe fully embraces the use of _nuclear weapons_. It's enough to get the Ku Klux Klan, the Black Panthers, and the Jewish Defense League to _join forces_ against him.
-   In _No W_, a series of events leads to Rick Santorum becoming President in 2005, and he immediately goes about turning the United States into a theocratic dictatorship. Laws are passed banning video games or television shows with even the slightest hint of adult content and persecuting the LGBT community. Muslim-Americans are scapegoated for the actions of Islamic terrorists and later rounded up into internment camps "for their protection". Right-wing and anti-Muslim governments around the world are backed by force (including covertly trying to bring about Regime Change in Israel to avoid peace with Palestine). And most tellingly, anyone who publicly disagrees with the administration (politicians and civilians alike) tend to wind up either dead, arrested on trumped-up charges, or disappeared.
-   One of the timelines visited in _An Examination of Extra-Universal Systems of Government_ features Edward Butler, a living embodiment of the worst traits of libertarians, objectivists, and the Tea Party movement, who nuked several major cities in the Middle East, including Mecca and Medina, tried to ban Islam, and suspend _habeas corpus_. This resulted in an uprising that led to Butler fleeing to Guantanamo Bay with what was left of his loyalists, where he essentially become an American version of North Korea's Kim family. He rules this tiny state with an iron fist and has an arsenal of nuclear ballistic missiles to prevent anyone from taking him out.
    -   In the "Liberty Now Has A Country" timeline, Joe McCarthy became President after Richard Nixon (who won the 1960 Presidential elections) and began persecuting civil rights groups, the Democratic Party, and anyone suspected of being a "communist". He was shortly after succeeded by J. Edgar Hoover, who was senile and unstable and ruled the country not any different from an Eastern European regime. Hoover was eventually overthrown within a span of six months.
-   _Piecing Together the Ashes: Reconstructing the Old World Order_: The man known only as "The Beast" was the last American president before The Deluge. A far-right American military leader, the Beast staged a coup against a leftist president to take control over the country. When Canada, Mexico, and Cuba criticized said action, the Beast either ordered the overthrow of their governments and put friendly dictators in change or invaded the countries. When America was harshly sanctioned by the international community, the Beast threatened to unleash Hell on Earth, which he did by ordering the use of multiple nuclear weapons throughout the world while believing himself a messenger of God, killing billions and causing the collapse of modern civilization. A brutal, petty bigot who tried to send American Muslims to reeducation camps, the Beast's crimes made him feared and hated even generations after his death, with his figure becoming the personification of evil to future civilizations.
-   _Triumphant: A Davy Crockett Presidency_ has Daniel Sickles, who is elected President in 1888 after he stages an Assassination Attempt on himself. After a full term spent being a textbook Corrupt Politician (rigging state elections to pack key offices with his allies, allowing rampant government corruption that he can personally profit from, etc), he then slides into full villain mode when he loses the 1892 election to Labor Party candidate Walter Earp (ATL Wyatt Earp). Refusing to yield power, he declares the election invalid and sends army and national guard units controlled by his allies to arrest and/or kill Earp, and even personally kills his own Vice-President when the man protests these actions. Thankfully, this coup fails due to more democratically-inclined military commanders standing against his forces, and Sickles ends up swiftly impeached and executed for treason.
-   On the _Dream SMP_, Jschlatt played this role as the President (or Emperor) of Manberg, while being the Arc Villain of the Pogtopia arc. After winning the L'Manberg election, his first decree after his inauguration was to revoke the citizenships of his main political opponents and send them into exile, while calling for their murder as they fled for their lives. He then changed the country's name to Manberg, heavily taxed those that spoke out against him to the point of going broke, mistreated his subordinates, ordered the execution of a teenager for being The Mole, and alienated everyone else on the server with his cruelty, to the point that not even his (ex-)fiancé (whom he abused and traumatized for life) and Vice President stuck around and eventually took one of his canon lives while making his escape to Pogtopia. By the time the man dropped dead from a heart attack or a stroke during the Manberg-Pogtopia War, next to no one had good enough memories of him to respect him even while dead, to the point that they robbed his coffin and the aforementioned ex gets away with eating his heart in front of everyone.
-   The _Evaporate_ video "Acid Rain" has Nerv identify President Donald Lincoln as the one responsible for causing the acid rain. President Donald Lincoln is then represented as a photograph of George W. Bush's face seated in the Oval Office with spindly arms and glaring eyebrows scrawled on, accompanied by Bowser's Evil Laugh from _Hotel Mario_.

    Western Animation 

-   Not technically president, but "his dishonor" the Mayor from _Action League NOW!_ does everything from kidnapping children, stealing priceless artwork, melting his chief nuclear safety adviser, causing massive train wrecks (he wanted the insurance money), unleashing ancient mummy curses, taking out NFL quarterbacks, and trying to blow up Washington D.C., all complete with a huge grin on his face, and evil pointed eyebrows. But despite all his acts of villainy, he's never removed from office... if he's even the official mayor of the setting. The narrator even asks the question "What is he the Mayor of?"
-   _The Amazing World of Gumball_: In the episode "The Vision", Alan the balloon wants to become school president to brainwash his classmates to all be happy.
-   In _Ben 10: Omniverse_ it's shown that in the Ben 10,000 timeline, Con Man Argit who's described by Gwen as the kind of person "who would sell his own mother for lunch money" manages to become the _Futurama_\-style President of Earth while still maintaining his illegal businesses.
-   In _Captain Planet and the Planeteers_, Omnicidal Maniac Dr. Blight almost becomes this in the future by kidnapping the popular candidate and intending to have her Robot Buddy rig the count but her daughter Betsi brings the Planeteers forward in time to help her prevent it.
-   In _Codename: Kids Next Door_, student council president Jimmy McGarfield revealed at the end of his debut appearance that he was in allegiance with the adults instead of the kids. At the end of his next appearance, he was sent to prison, leaving Numbuh 1 confident that he would take his place, only to find out that the Delightful Children From Down the Lane had in fact bought the election and become president(s) themselves.
-   _DuckTales (1987)_: Scrooge faces several President Evils in the course of the series:
    -   In "Three Ducks of the Condor", part of the Five-Episode Pilot "The Treasure of the Golden Sun", Scrooge and the other Ducks travel to the Andes in search for clues to the main treasure, and encounter Joaqim Slowly, the descendant of one of the three conquistadors that found the treasure (the second was lost at sea travelling North, while the third is the ageless Big Bad El Capitan). Possessing a single Golden Sun coin inherited from his ancestor, Joaqim uses his status as a "Sun Priest" to lord over a native tribe, abusing them whenever he feels like it. After trying to scam Scrooge out of his own coin to double his authority, Joaqim ends up losing both coins over a cliff, costing him his power entirerly.
    -   In "Sphinx for the Memories", Scrooge faces the corrupt High Priest (and ruler) of Garbabble, an ancient civilization in the remote Egyptian desert. The priest - a parody of Peter Lorre, is deposed at the end when his double-dealing is brought to light.
    -   In "The Duck in the Iron Mask", the greedy Count of Monte Dumas imprisons Scrooge, Launchpad and his nephews. It turns out the Count is really the Evil Twin of Scrooge's old friend, the rightful count and the eponymous Duck in the Iron Mask.
    -   In "The Duck Who Would Be King", the second part of the "Time Is Money" arc, the Ducks end up stranded in a ancient city called Toupee during their time-travel adventure, where a tyrant named Mun-Ho oppresses the citizens by claiming he serves the will of the "Great One", a prophesized messiah, using tricks and illusions to fake having magic abilities to back it up.
    -   Finally, in "Allowance Day", the corrupt leader of "The Banana Republic", General Chiquita, tries to steal away Scrooge's Banana Bran Flakes factory. The General also tries to execute Scrooge and Fenton Crackshell via cannon squad. While Scrooge wins in the end (and keeps the factory), the General remained in power becoming something of a Karma Houdini. One hopes that the US government took note of the near execution of one of her leading citizens, and deposed of El Presidente soon thereafter!
-   _Futurama_:
    -   Parodied in "When Aliens Attack", in which it is mentioned that during the 27th century, a supervillain was elected governor of New York. During his term, he stole all the major world monuments and put his face on Mount Rushmore (which he also stole).
    -   And more "currently" on the show, there's Earth President Richard M. Nixon's Head, who needs no explanation to people familiar with actual American history, though the show goes the extra mile to make him as overtly vile and corrupt as possible, to the degree that this version of Nixon is so over-the-top in his wickedness that he makes the real-life Nixon look like a saint.
    -   In the same episode where Nixon gets elected, there's a side discussion about the first robot president, John Quincy Adding Machine, who "struck a chord with the voters when he pledged not to go on a killing spree." "But, like most politicians, he promised more than he could deliver. "
    -   A Lincoln-style monument depicts the 60th president who was apparently a brutal alien warlord. His chair is surrounded by a pile of human skulls and he is eating a human. The people of Earth apparently do not care who they elect.
-   The text above warned you not to confuse this trope with the moment in _The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy_ where Mandy plays a video game titled _President Evil_, but in fact, it DOES feature evil presidents. _Zombified evil presidents._
-   Played for Laughs in _Harley Quinn_, as Season 3 has The Joker successfully become mayor of Gotham. He runs as a hardcore socialist and it's Zig-Zagged by the fact that he genuinely sought to clean up the city through stronger infrastructure and civic programs... through higher taxation on the wealthy, i.e. Bruce Wayne. His campaign being structured like a reign of terror is completely unrelated to any ideology; it's just because he's the Joker. To take it even farther, he puts Jim Gordon out of a job by abolishing the police department and has Bruce Wayne arrested for tax evasion, which he submits to in order to show the public that nobody's above the law.
-   Zigzagged in _Harvey Birdman, Attorney General_: Phil Ken Sebben is definitely crazy enough to fire a missile at his own country, but at the same time he has no memory of running for president (this time) and had hired Harvey and Birdgirl specifically to find a pretext for impeaching him since he doesn't _want_ to be President anymore. It turns out Peter Potamus orchestrated the whole thing with Mentok's help so he could make a fortune selling memorabilia for an impeached president. Phil eventually does get impeached after his inauguration caused the destruction of a national landmark, and new/returning president Black Vulcan stops the missile right before it hits the White House.
-   ROBOTUS in _Inside Job (2021)_ was a robot duplicate created by the Deep State to Kill and Replace the real President of the United States. After Reagan's father tampers with its code, it becomes self-aware and turns into an ultranationalist Trumplica bent on encasing the continental United States into a giant metal box to shield it from the rest of the world. When Reagan connects it to the Internet in the hopes of making it less patriotic, it instead becomes so disillusioned with mankind it decides to Kill All Humans and immediately attempts to utilize America's nuclear arsenal to do so.
-   _Justice League_:
    -   In the Justice Lords' reality, Lex Luthor becoming President sparked a chain of events that got Flash killed and put the planet on the verge of nuclear war. After Lord-Superman executed Luthor, the Lords turned the planet into a Gilded Cage police state.
        
        **Superman:** _(in the Oval Office)_ Even _this_ wasn't enough for you, was it? You had to have it all.
        
    -   In the Cadmus arc, "our" Luthor makes his own bid for the Presidency, leading many to fear that similar events will play out. The Question tries to kill Luthor to preserve Superman's reputation. Luthor then pummels the Question with his new superpowers, gloating that becoming president would cause him to _lose_ power. He freely admits that he ran a fake campaign "just to tick Superman off."
-   _Metalocalypse_:
    -   Floridian Governor Kip Slaughter, in _any other show_, would avert this and be the Only Sane Man, but because he _dared_ suggest that Nathan didn't deserve a state holiday because he was a disgrace, the people of Florida quickly regarded him as this trope and killed him.
    -   When Nathan Explosion was elected governor of Florida, Florida ended up decimated and abandoned due to his rampant disregard for life. Crime was up, the economy was in the tank, etc. He _did_ try to help Florida by putting on a concert, but that ended up summoning a hurricane. The funniest part? He's _still_ regarded as the greatest governor Florida ever had.
-   In _Ren & Stimpy_, Ren has an Imagine Spot of himself being President and blowing up Australia after an argument with their prime minister.
-   _Rick and Morty_:
    -   The first presidential election of the Citadel of Ricks sees the election of Evil Morty with the final scene of the episode in question ending on a slow zoom out past a field of Rick and Morty corpses slowly drifting away from the Citadel after being ejected from the airlocks. Season 5 reveals that his Evil Plan was to use the Citadel to escape the stranglehold Rick had over the multiverse by leaving for the universes he walled off, sacrificing the Citadel and everybody inside.
    -   The Season 5 Thanksgiving Episode has President Curtis being replaced by a half-turkey clone of him that seeks to overthrow the human race with an army of turkey Super Soldiers, and bribing the entirety of Congress to turn a blind eye.
    -   Curtis himself initially was more grossly irresponsible than outright evil, but in the Season 6 Christmas Episode/season finale when they're doing a May the Farce Be with You he manipulates Morty to steal his lightsaber and ends up dropping it vertically, leaving it to burrow through the Earth's crust and cause an Earth-Shattering Kaboom if it reached the core. Rather than try to fix his mistake, he frames Morty and launches the White House into space. To drive the point home he emulates Emperor Palpatine more than once, even having a Throne Room Throwdown with Morty. In Season 7 his Karma Houdini Warranty wears off and he starts being Hated by All for these antics and the _two_ Vichy Earths that happened on his watch, which leads to him assimilating half the planet into a Hive Mind because he Desperately Craves Affection.
-   _The Simpsons_:
    -   The aliens Kang and Kodos impersonate Bill Clinton and Bob Dole during the 1996 election, figuring one of them would be elected. When Homer reveals the truth, the aliens claim that American citizens have to vote for one of them anyway, and voting for a third party would be pointless. The ending of the episode shows that Kang has been elected President, and he proceeds to enslave humanity and forcing them to build monuments. Homer claims it's not his fault, as he voted for Kodos.
    -   The episode "Sideshow Bob Roberts" had Sideshow Bob running for mayor of Springfield. His campaign discredits Quimby by saying that Quimby released the two-time attempted murderer Sideshow Bob. Bob wins by rigging the election, and enacts a campaign of petty revenge against the Simpsons such as forcing the family to live in a cheap motel after building a freeway through their own house, and sending Bart back to kindergarten (though he is unaware Bart takes this as an Unishment and actually prefers it to the fourth grade). Mr Smithers helps to expose him as a criminal because of Bob's implied anti-gay agenda (which was presumably just to court the right-wing vote since Bob was never portrayed as homophobic otherwise, making Bob a sleazy opportunist), and in court Bob claims his ultimate agenda was to "lower taxes, brutalise criminals and rule \[Springfield\] like a king".
    -   Six-term Mayor Quimby himself is often portrayed as extremely corrupt in his own right. A serial adulterer who cares more about living the high-life and winning votes (while privately deriding the average Springfield voter as "morons" and "human roaches") than actually running the city properly, his misdeeds include starting a campaign against illegal immigrants solely to placate a mob that was angry over a mild tax increase, allowing Homer to replace Wiggum as police chief and run the police as a crooked private company, hitting a Hollywood film production with a bunch of invented taxes (including a "leaving town" tax), taking bribes from mobsters in return for letting them sell cheap rat milk to children, repeatedly stealing from the town treasury, claiming to not leave the city during an epidemic in a video message while actually already being on vacation in the Bahamas and using the city treasury to fund the murder of his enemies.
-   _South Park_: Played for Laughs when Fourth-grade teacher Mr. Garrison becomes President of the United States on a platform of "fucking all the immigrants to death". He repeatedly rapes members of his cabinet, intentionally exacerbated Tweek’s fears over North Korea by lying on Twitter about the cupcakes Tweek sent them, and then launched a nuclear missile at Toronto killing over a million Canadians there just because he finds it sexually arousing. These actions caused almost the whole town to despise him and almost caused the United States to descend into nuclear war.
-   Played for Laughs in _SuperMansion_ when after Black Saturn's future self manages to Set Right What Once Went Wrong, his present self convinces his Captain America expy teammate American Ranger to run for President. The Bad Future is then immediately replaced with a different one where Ranger becomes a superpowered tyrant reminiscent of Injustice Superman.
-   Baron Ünderbheit, a Captain Ersatz for Doctor Doom in _The Venture Brothers_, rules over the Barony of Ünderland, which is apparently located adjacent to Michigan.
    -   In the same show it turns out Grover Cleveland was a member of the Guild of Calamitous Intent, a Weird Trade Union for supervillains.
-   _Young Justice_: In Season 3, Lex Luthor is elected the Secretary-General of the United Nations, similar to how in the comics he was elected President of the USA. Luthor uses his political position to help further the plans and agendas of The Light throughout the season.

___