Follow

"I will climb to the sky; higher than the stars of God I will set my throne." So, how'd that gig work out, Lucifer?  
—Image by Caelicorn

_"Pride goes before destruction, a haughty spirit before a fall."_

Pride. It goeth before a fall.

Sometimes having a good opinion of yourself — your position, your skills, your accomplishments — can be too much. It can go to your head. It can turn you into a Jerkass. When it _really_ gets bad, it can destroy your common sense, make you delusional, declare to the world that "It's All About Me!" and make you grab the Idiot Ball by Tempting Fate.

Many religions, such as that of the Greeks (who coined the terms _Hubris_ and _Narcissism_ for such dangerous amounts of pride) were condemning on having a mortal (un)deservedly boasting that they're better at something than their highly petty and vengeful gods, especially the one who declares oneself Above the Most High. Or trying to constantly bully the weirdo who has the powers to reduce you into a smear on the wall, because your pride says you can. Or (always a classic) walking right into an enemy's hands confident they'll fall just like everyone else has, despite how they seem to be goading you to stand on the big red bulls-eye.

Or, best of all, never asking for help or Forgiveness despite all the Break the Haughty because _"pride"_ won't allow it... or, if you are helped you express lack of gratitude, and letting highly preventable events play out, to the pain and misfortune of protagonists and their close ones, if not others. In more Romanticist works, hubris also goes very well with committing, through science, sins against nature or discovering Things Man Was Not Meant to Know.

How the Mighty Have Fallen! The technical term for that is "Tragedy." When done on a larger scale upon entire civilizations, leads to Look on My Works, Ye Mighty, and Despair or And Man Grew Proud.

Pride forms a powerful combination with Ambition, Greed, Megalomania and Insanity, and these deadly sins have brought down more heroes and villains than Homer could shake a cudgel at; just see the many victims of the Villain Ball and its subtropes. As a Fatal Flaw and Achilles' Heel, it is a classic that's Older Than Feudalism and not likely to go away any time soon. There's a reason why this is one (and also the worst) of the Seven Deadly Sins, and why a _very minor_ character in Classical Mythology is the Trope Namer for Narcissistic Personality Disorder.

Pride is a potent driving force for Drama: Some stories begin with the proud brought low and their attempts to learn humility, others are driven by prideful quests, while others end because of an unwillingness to forsake said pride.

It's All About Me, A God Am I, Kneel Before Zod, Nothing Can Stop Us Now!, What Could Possibly Go Wrong?, Grudging "Thank You" and Don't You Dare Pity Me! are proud stock phrases. Proud people are also very likely to suffer from Moral Myopia (to the point of being convinced to be the only righteous one). Come to Gawk is frequently uncommonly painful for the proud — and the proud are uncommonly likely to jump to the conclusion that someone did come to do just that. The Green-Eyed Monster often accuses the envied person of Pride — justly or unjustly, or the person with Pride could be the one getting envious. Sub-Tropes include Acquired Situational Narcissism, Fairest of Them All, Holier Than Thou, Inferiority Superiority Complex, Never My Fault, Smug Snake, and Too Clever by Half. See also Small Name, Big Ego and Fallen Angel.

Not to Be Confused with the common use of "pride" to denote a group of lions, or LGBT Pride — in the latter's case, despite what some may claim, the concepts are unrelated, and most non-English languages have separate words for _this_ kind of pride versus pride in being who you are.

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   _Bleach_: Pride is a key trait of the protagonist, Ichigo. Some of his fights would be a lot easier if he didn't underestimate his opponents or taunt them. Whenever he starts enjoying a fight, pride kicks in.
-   Priss Asagiri had some serious pride issues in both the original _Bubblegum Crisis_ series from the 1980s and the 1998 TV reboot _Tokyo 2040_. Sylia Stingray and Nene Romanova had some pride problems of their own in 2040 too.
-   _Code Geass_:
    -   Word of God confirms that pride is Lelouch's main Fatal Flaw. A strong argument could be presented for hubris being the predominant reason his rebellion failed in R1 in that he valued Nunnally over the Black Knights, as if the people he knew personally mattered more than anyone else, and abandoned the people relying on him.
    -   Also Magnificent Bastard Schneizel, who does everything he does such that his life will be worth more than anyone else's.
    -   Luciano Bradley, who incessantly finds pleasure in robbing people of their lives, as if it makes his life worth more or better than anyone else's for it (hell, his personal mantra is that what all people value most is their own lives); this satisfaction in causing others' lives to be wasted is repaid in kind when he's fried alive by Kallen. And no one misses him.
-   _Death Note_: This, in a word, is Light Yagami's Fatal Flaw. He absolutely _refuses_ to believe he can be outsmarted or defeated, is utterly convinced he's right about _everything_, and delves into A God Am I so much he's the _page picture_. Ultimately, his tendency to gloat when he thinks he's victorious finally proves his undoing.
-   _Dragon Ball_:
    -   Vegeta gets his ass handed to him _so many_ times during _Dragon Ball Z_ for his stubborn pride, you start to wonder if he likes it. Few are the characters who have done more stupid things for the sake of their pride. Like so many characters on this page though, it is all he has left if you think about it. He's the Prince of a world that no longer exists, all his kin are dead until Trunks is born, and that filthy peasant Kakarot just keeps getting further ahead of him in terms of power. The whole _reason_ why he has nothing else left is his pride. He killed Nappa because of it, and got Bulma despite it, yet also loses the latter because of it. Good thing for him the Dragon Balls exist, as they allow him to keep trying again until even he gets it right.
    -   Most of _DBZ_ villains tend to have this as a major flaw thinking there is no way they can be defeated. Frieza cannot comprehend that a "monkey" could become stronger than him even after he is sliced in half and the world blows up.
    -   Android 17 thinks he is the perfect fighting machine and cannot be improved upon. Cell thinks his final form is "perfect" due to having the best qualities of each fighter and cannot be defeated.
    -   Even in the original _Dragon Ball_ series, most villains have this fatal flaw. King Piccolo is so sure of his power that he believes that no one in the world can defeat him, even when Goku was fighting as his equal and he was sealed for centuries by a martial artist.
    -   Piccolo Jr, before his Heel–Face Turn, also had this flaw, believing no one but Goku was a threat to him, and even then talked down to Goku and kept underestimating him.
    -   Goku has a more subtle case of pride, but it is still noticeable. He refuses to ask for assistance, even when he's being beaten up, and doesn't really like outside help. When he was sick fighting Android 19, he refused any help and kept fighting until he was physically knocked down and had his energy sucked. His Saiyan pride also didn't allow him to eat a Senzu to restore his health, although Cell wanted him to eat one, and he didn't like that he needed help to beat Buu or to become a Super Saiyan God since it was a level he couldn't reach on his own. Several characters have actually called Goku out for being too prideful.
    -   Gohan has this, subtly: whenever he is powerful enough to overcome his opponents with ease, he lets the power get to his head. Despite being powerful enough to end the fight, he'll toy with his opponent and put them into a corner, forcing them to lash out and overcome his power, as both Cell and Super Buu can attest. In Cell's case, this turned out to be a mistake which ended up costing him his father when Cell decided to try to blow up the planet.
    -   _Dragon Ball Super_: Along with his hatred for mortals, Zamasu's pride gets the better of him as he comes to believe that he is better than everyone else, both god and mortal. As such, he steals Goku's body, becomes Goku Black and begins a campaign of killing all the mortals and gods in Future Trunks' timeline with the help of his future counterpart so they can accomplish one goal: to create a Multiverse with only himself as its sole inhabitant.
-   _Fairy Tail_: Acnologia views himself as a being who stands heads and shoulders above all other creatures in existence, be they humans as he himself once was or dragons. Considering the fact that there isn't a creature alive capable of taking him on in a one-on-one, he's got every right to be smug. He won't even talk to anyone he doesn't view as posing even a modicum of challenge to himself, and considers the act of blowing humans away with his attacks the equivalent of swatting particularly annoying ants.
-   _Fate/Zero_ has Archer/Gilgamesh, who views himself as the greatest thing to ever come out of the world and all others as either subjects to lord over, upstarts who are crazy to challenge him, or "pretenders" who need to be taught their place in the pecking order. And he has all the power to back it up, though he'd do a lot better at it if he stopped letting his pride hold him back.
-   _Food Wars!_: Erina Nakiri has a serious case of this, not helped by the fact that she is legitimately the best student and chef of her generation. As a result, she refuses to admit that she might be wrong or ever back down from an opinion she arrived at without thinking, as shown when she refused Soma his entry to the academy only because he made a simple dish, and called it disgusting even though she clearly enjoyed it. Later on it's hinted that she doesn't really like being this way sometimes, envying her cousin Alice for her ability to openly express her frustration after losing to Soma at the Autumn Election quarterfinals. She can also be a bit of a Sore Loser and doesn't like to be seen getting worked up or upset.
-   _Fullmetal Alchemist_:
    -   Pride is the leader of the Homunculi, following the Seven Deadly Sins theme. However, his identity differs between the first anime and manga — in the former Pride is Fuhrer King Bradley, but in the latter it's _Selim_ Bradley! In the former, the pride aspect manifests through the power he wields through his precognition and the political power at his beck and call; he refers to himself as God's "guardian angel" of humanity (with alchemists, possessing the one power he cannot have as a Homunculus, as the Devil). In the latter, Pride is the "pride and joy" of Big Bad Father. At one point Hohenheim addresses Pride, and characterizes his self-love as particularly evil: Pride is utterly incapable of giving value to the life of any other person, and is Lack of Empathy personified. Not only is Pride Father's most powerful Homunculus, and not only is Pride the most prideful and arrogant of them all, his very _shape_ is proof of Father's hubris. His true form is _Father_'s original form as an amorphous shadow in a flask cranked up to eleven and then some. What better example of Father's pride than to make his strongest warrior in his own image?
    -   Particularly in the _Brotherhood_ version, Ed's pride (being an Insufferable Genius) seems to be a major motivation in his ill-fated attempt to bring his mother back from the dead, although love for her was certainly a big part of it too. Which makes his defeat of the Homunculus of the same name even more appropriate. In the fangame _Fullmetal Alchemist: Bluebird's Illusion_, in one of the endings Edward _becomes_ Pride when he commits suicide after failing to save his brother.
    -   While she definitely embodies the sin she's named for (specifically the desire to hurt others), the Homunculus Lust is also unbelievably arrogant in the manga, seeing herself and her fellow Homunculi as superior to all the pitiful humans. Anime Lust, meanwhile, is a Beta Test Baddie and her desire is to be human.
-   In _Grave of the Fireflies_, pride and stubbornness ultimately leads Seita to attempt to take care of Setsuko on his own. As the opening reveals, it didn't end well. This gets even more tragic considering the original story was autobiographical and Seita is the Author Avatar — the entire film is basically the author condemning his past self's pride over his sister's death in World War II.
-   This is why Kaguya and Shirogane don't confess to each other in _Kaguya-sama: Love Is War_. They're both proud to the point of being a little arrogant, as they refuse to accept the idea that someone has any form of power over them even something as simple as a crush. They're ideal of dating is the other begging for the other to date them and they give them pity. In truth, the thing that keeps them apart is a combination of shyness and insecurity on both sides. They've just both convinced themselves that it's pride.
-   Take a drink every time a noble dies due to pride in _Legend of the Galactic Heroes_. You'll be drunk by the quarterway-point of the series. Throw in a drink for death by pride for non-noble admirals and politicians (thus making The Alliance eligible) and odds are you'll be drunk some ten episodes in, and dead of alcohol poisoning by the quarterway. If you really want to get the ball rolling, throw in another drink for when their pride causes _other people_ to die. Several hundred thousand people were dead due to foolish pride _in the first episode_. Don't do it, man, it's a death trap!
-   Ribbons Almark from _Mobile Suit Gundam 00_ displayed a superiority complex: he always looked down on humanity, and he also also described himself superior to other Innovades. His confidence of himself is at the point of arrogance. Embodied in the final episode, in which he states that he isn't "playing God" because he really _is_ God. It's at this point that Setsuna decides that the guy is beyond hope and just needs to die.
-   Al La Flaga, a Posthumous Character in _Mobile Suit Gundam SEED_, was so arrogant that he had himself cloned rather than deal with a son who could not live up to his opinion of himself. He ended up creating the Big Bad of the series.
-   _Naruto_:
    -   Neji thinks he's better than everyone, until Naruto beats some sense into him.
    -   Sasuke, too, which unfortunately wasn't remedied until Chapter 698.
    -   Almost the entire Uchiha Clan (they're not known for their humility), but especially Madara. Something about having a Sharingan seems to make you really arrogant. In fact, it's revealed that unlocking the Sharingan renders an Uchiha dangerously proven to a deranging form of arrogance and those who manage to at least partially overcome this still tend to be pretty prideful.
-   Asuka from _Neon Genesis Evangelion_ is practically defined by pride in herself — even more than being the series' Tsundere. This is both a strength and a weakness; as the art book _Eve_ states, "Asuka's pride is a double-edged Sword of Damocles", and it's stated that her Pride is a defense to her _crippling_ low self-esteem due to a Freudian Excuse. It's essentially a false coping mechanism.
-   Perhaps the best example in _One Piece_ is Donquixote Doflamingo. He's very proud of his status, to the point that he brutally punishes Bellamy for disgracing his flag because he suffered a defeat from Luffy. Being a former Celestial Dragon has inflated his ego so much that ANYONE looking down on or opposing him will suffer his wrath and consider himself a god, such that when he was finally defeated, it looked like how Lucifer fell from the Heavens, resembling a most classical sense.
-   Superbia Squalo from _Reborn! (2004)_. His name literally means pride.
-   _The Seven Deadly Sins_: Escanor is one of the titular Sins and knight to the kingdom of Liones. He bears the Lion's Sin of Pride because of his own personal sin. His pride led him to a situation from which he feels he needs to atone for. He is also one of the most dangerous of the group as he grows stronger from dawn until the day progresses to noon, and then weakens until dusk. Even with his large ego, in the day form, he is a good person who cares for his comrades and genuinely pities, rather than hates, his enemies because they are just so weak and pathetic compared to him. It really isn't much of a challenge.
-   Played with by Lucifer from the _Seven Mortal Sins_, She does acts on pride and call herself the Demon Lord of Pride, but she does have some humble moments.
-   In _...Virgin Love_, Kaoru's biggest flaw is his pride, which is his defense mechanism to combat his insecurity and jealousy and makes him completely emotionally isolated.

    Comic Books 

-   Batman has been known to have pride issues, especially as his paranoia has been played up more and more over the years by writers.
-   Doctor Strange, in his backstory, was a young and very talented surgeon with the ego to match. Cue the fall from grace, which ended only when he started to care about people other than himself. He's come a long way since, but the temptation to backslide is still there.
-   _Fantastic Four_: Pride is the defining trait of Doctor Doom. The accident that damaged his face happened because he was too arrogant to believe that Reed Richards had found an error in his calculations. The minor scar Doom received, he saw as horribly disfiguring due to his vanity, and in desperation to hide it he ended up _really_ messing his face up. He was unable to even admit to himself of his mistake in either instance. His supervillain-sized lust for power is rooted in his belief that he should be second to no one, particularly Richards. This is also why he always rebuffs others' attempts to rehabilitate him. He just can't accept the pity and sympathy of others.
-   _Green Lantern_: Sinestro has Pride as his defining character trait. The writer for the _Sinestro_ series Cullen Bunn had this to say about him:
    
    _"If Sinestro's motivation could be boiled down to one overriding concept, it would be pride. His pride carries him, often when nothing else will. His pride has also been his undoing from time to time. He's too proud to ever accept that his way is not the right way."_
    
-   The Olympians from _The Incredible Hercules_ suffer pride worse than the Asgardians. Hercules, while a good guy, has attacked people who he believes insulted him or take attention away from him. The other Olympians are about the same either wanting mortals to worship them again or reacting badly to challenges of their godhood. Once when rendered mortal, Zeus completely broke after a few hours out of broken pride and fear. Hercules at least is used to it.
-   Pride is a reoccurring problem for Tony Stark a.k.a. _Iron Man_: being rich, handsome, and a brilliant inventor he originally did not care who he sold weapons to until it almost killed him. He started helping others, but almost regularly takes his own path without consulting others, insisting that he "knows" what to do and that others' opinions are not worth considering. Sooner or later, it always come back to bite him.
-   _Lucifer_: Naturally, the titular character of the comics, who rankled at the idea that any being should be in any way bound to another. On one hand this led to his total honesty and strict paying of all debts he owed, on the other it fueled his sociopathic disregard for anyone who wasn't him or his (very) small group of companions. As God pointed out it also meant he would be eternally unhappy, because the universe was by nature co-dependent and linked.
-   This is one of Sunspot's defining flaws, especially during his time in _New Mutants_. He refused to be seen as weak, and so internalised any problems and lashed out at his teammates if they tried to help him, which was often the cause of arguments. Nowadays he's less abrasive, but no less arrogant.
-   In the _Hulk vs. Iron Man_ tie-in of _Original Sin_, the "sin" turns out to be Bruce Banner's pride. After an argument between him and Tony, a drunken Tony sabotaged the Gamma bomb. His sabotage made the bomb's yield _smaller_, and he sent an e-mail to Bruce explaining what he had done. Bruce arrogantly deleted the e-mail and blocked all following e-mails from Tony. If Bruce had just swallowed his pride and read an e-mail, he could have avoided becoming the Hulk.
-   In _Paperinik New Adventures_ the downfall of the Xerbian and Evronian civilizations and Moldrock's regime ultimately come down because of this:
    -   The Xerbians were so proud of their advanced technology they couldn't even _conceive_ someone would dare to challenge their orbital defence, and when the Evronians negotiated a commercial treaty as cover for their invasion and asked them to lower their defences for a few minutes as a sign of peace they accepted. Those few minutes were all the Evronians needed to wreck the control of the orbital defences.
    -   The otherwise clever Evronians, thanks to their military might and having apparently won every single war of their history, severely underestimated the abilities of the Xerbian scientists they had spared from being turned into coolflames to use their advanced scientific knowledge. Thus they were completely blindsided when the last free Xerbians that they had just captured activated a device that brought back to normal every single coolflame on their Planet Spaceship, allowing Xadhoom to wipe them out now that they didn't have their hostages anymore. They also didn't expect Xadhoom to provide the energy to activate that device, as they thought the hostages were enough to keep her in check.
    -   Moldrock was a Physical God who thought little of fighting with any amount of cunning and thought himself invincible. Then one day his chief scientist Everett Ducklair knocked him out with a technology of his invention, put a Power Limiter on him, woke him up, and exiled him and his warriors in a dimension where his powers were dampened.
-   _The Sandman (1989)_: Dream spends most of the series going through a slow change and trying to correct mistakes that his strict code of honor "compels" him to make. In the process of doing so, he makes several powerful enemies, so it isn't his pride per sé that does him in, but his attempts to make amends. The nutshell description of the series is 'Dream of the Endless finds it necessary to change or die... and makes his choice.'
-   The Brotherhood of Guardians in _Sonic the Hedgehog (Archie Comics)_ massively prided themselves on their old Guardian traditions, leading them to think that threats like Dr. Robotnik wasn't a threat to them at all. When Eggman took Robotnik's place, they still weren't concerned, even when Princess Sally came to them, begging for help. To their shock and horror, Eggman eventually caught up to them technologically and helped cull the Echidna population greatly. Oops.
-   Spider-Man has had trouble with pride. It is, after all, the reason his Uncle Ben died, as Spidey was too full of himself to care about the burglar that would kill him. Spidey then learned that With Great Power Comes Great Responsibility, but he's still had his moments since then.
-   _Superman_:
    -   This is the most common reason given for the downfall of the Kryptonian civilization. They are often depicted as one of the most powerful races of their time, and the very idea of the destruction of their planet is unthinkable. This leads them to mock Jor-El and his warnings, and as a result of their hubris, only Superman, Supergirl, Krypto and other few Kryptonians survive.
    -   In _Supergirl (Rebirth)_, Director Chase thinks that Kryptonians were arrogant, and their hubris led to their destruction. She also thinks that Supergirl may have Kryptonian ego issues and still has anger management issues.
    -   In _Justice_, Superman himself says "Luthor is my greatest enemy. Not because of his wealth. Not because of the weaponry he creates. Not because of his greed, not even because of his evil. But because he cannot be **humbled**. No matter what happens to him."
    -   In _How Luthor Met Superboy_, Lex Luthor's arrogance leads to him becoming a villain. As saving him from a fire — started accidentally by Lex himself — Superboy accidentally destroys his life-creating experiment. Since Lex cannot admit that his scientific breakthrough became lost forever because he is a clumsy idiot wo could not even think of writing the formula down, he convinces himself that Superboy destroyed it intentionally to "crush his greatness", and swears revenge.
    -   _The Life Story of Superman_: Luthor's plan to replace Superman with a loyal clone is foiled by his inability to admit he might possibly be wrong. When copying Superman's memories into his clone, he tweaks the accident which started his feud because under no circumstances Luthor can admit that it was caused by his own clumsiness. Hence, the Superman clone gives himself away when he starts ranting about Luthor being an innocent victim of Superman's jealousy.
    -   _Should Auld Acquaintance Be Forgot_: Deadman is having troubles adapting to being an invisible ghost because he loved being a famous star, and he cannot deal with the fact that his life in the limelight is over. As Kara puts it, he soared and was cut down at his height.
    -   In _The Supergirl Saga_, what doomed the Pocket Universe's Earth to its fate (destroyed by the Phantom Zone criminals of that universe) was its Lex Luthor. He told Superman that, although he knew about the various isotopes of Kryptonite that were in Superboy's lab, he refused to use them to take down the Phantom Zone criminals because he felt that their defeat should be by his hand alone. He dies regretting that decision and passes on the responsibility to Superman to execute the Phantom Zone criminals through exposure to Green Kryptonite.

    Fan Works 

-   _Abraxas (Hrodvitnon)_: "The arrogance of man" is still in play. Alan Jonah experiments on both Ghidorah's severed head and the San-Vivienne Graham fusion that's born from it, wholly confident that he's in control. His experiments on Ghidorah's DNA create the Many, and his arrogance prevents him from seeing that Ghidorah's Brown Note is slowly driving him insane until it's too late for him.
-   In the _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fanfic _Envy And Arrogance_, the mane six have to save Equestria from their Evil Counterpart Elements of Discord. One of them is named Arrogance and she definitely plays the part. She is also very powerful but, unusually for the trope, she is not the most powerful of the six — instead she is an Evil Counterpart to Applejack — since self-delusion is the ultimate aversion of honesty.
-   _Equestria Girls: Friendship Souls_: Sunset's greatest personality trait and the very emotion that embodies her Zanpakuto spirit, who takes the form of her demon self. Part of Sunset's struggle to manifest her Shikai is in fact to come to terms with the fact that while her pride did lead to her banishment and transformation into a monster, it also lead her to becoming the best at what she could do. Only once she accepts this does her demon self finally relent enough to allow her to unleash her power, and her Zanpakuto's full name is _Hokori no Hikari_ (Pride's Light).
-   Discussed in _Hoofstuck_ when Pinkie Pie first tells the story of Love Lock and the Batterqueen. Apple Bloom points out that Love Lock's Absurdly High-Stakes Game seemed just as arrogant as the Batterqueen's belief she was entitled to rule. Pinkie spins this into An Aesop by telling her that "if you take a risk and succeed, that's called _confidence_. But if you fail, it's called ''hubris'... but it's really all the same thing!"
-   _In Flight_ has Shirou reunite with Saber and Rin, who have a method of keeping the Clocktower from experimenting on Shirou by having them stay with him. The only problem is that her pride as a magus and human would never allow her to be reduced to the level of his Alien Harem and she would rather go into exile than share him.
-   In _X-Men_ fanfic _Mutatis Mutandis_ by Artemis's Liege, Rogue's main flaw is her pride, which frequently interferes while she's trying to interact with other Marvel heroes.
-   _The Night Unfurls_:
    -   Shamuhaza represents the "romanticist" type of pride — experimenting on helpless civilians in order to exploit the Eldritch Truth. He gets transformed into an arthropod for his troubles, sitting on a lake with nothing to do but wait.
    -   The Hunter has faced many a person who think that they can one-up him or take him on despite knowing who he is, so many that it gets him to muse on the method to fight an arrogant enemy. He answers his own question with the following, a piece of advice in dealing with the prideful.
        
        _"When a man or woman thinks themselves invincible you show them how wrong they are. You destroy them without hesitation, without remorse or pity._
        
        _Show them just how... "human" they are and the facade fades pretty quickly."_
        
-   In _The Sun Hero_, pride, specifically being proud of himself, is how Izuku Midoriya learns to control his dual quirks. With the summary making it quite clear that his powers are based on Escanor's, this is hardly a surprise.
-   Tarkin's Fist: The main motivator of the leadership of Tarkin's Fist. Having come from an Empire that had won the Clone Wars, crushed all opposition and, having left prior to the advent of the Rebellion, the men and women of Tarkin's Fist are convinced that they are the pinnacle of civilization and cannot be beaten. When they come across the Earth and it's comparatively less advanced technology, they conclude that the Earth will make for a quick and easy target of conquest, and that the planet will fold just as every other planet that has defied the Empire has folded in the past. The Earth quickly demonstrates to the Imperial rank and file that they are no pushovers, and a war that was supposed to be won in a week drags on for over a year and a half in a brutal no holds barred slugfest. And yet, despite the growing body count on the Imperial side, the Imperial High Command on Mars is unable or unwilling to simply withdraw their troops when they have the chance, convinced that victory is right around the corner and that there is no way they can possibly lose to a group of primitive savages.
-   _Us and Them_: One of Sephiroth's flaws and the one that tends to get him in the most trouble, either actual physical danger or hot water with his wife. The short story where Aeris recounts his first attempt to ride a bike, resulting in him getting a concussion because he refused to wear a helmet he thought was stupid-looking, is even called "Pride Goeth Before A Fall".
-   _With Strings Attached_. There's a reason the third part of the Third Movement is called the Ego Trip....
-   This is Sunset's main flaw at the start of _The Witch of the Everfree_. She gets better about it over time, to the point where she manages to shock Cadance by admitting that Twilight is smarter than she is.
-   _Monstrous Compendium Online_: Kayaba is actually an ancient dragon who built up a career as a game designer over decades purely to build SAO. Kirito realizes that someone like that would never hide away in a cave when he could be inside the game, where he can sneer down at all the players. Which means he's _vulnerable_—if they can find him.

    Fairy Tales 

-   In "The Love of Three Oranges", the slave sees the heroine's reflection in the pool and thinks it's hers. It goes straight to her head and causes a lot of trouble.
-   In "The Three Little Men in the Wood", the stepsister's pride causes her to try to duplicate the results of seeking strawberries in the winter woods.

    Film — Animated 

-   _Care Bears Movie II: A New Generation_ — "Proud Heart Cat doesn't have a lot to say, but he's Purrfect in every way."
-   Various Disney villains are defined by their arrogance:
    -   _Aladdin_ — Jafar was _this close_ to complete victory, but his refusal to accept any position other than that of the most powerful being on the face of the Earth was what ultimately undid him. He was already the Sultan _and_ the most powerful sorcerer in the world as a result of his first two wishes upon capturing the Genie, but his undoing came when Aladdin tricked him into wishing to be a genie — with everything that goes along with the package. He could probably even have avoided the last third of the movie altogether if he hadn't wasted his first wish on, essentially, stealing the Sultan's clothes — out of pride.
    -   _Beauty and the Beast_ — No one is as prideful as Gaston! Fueled by the town's admiration for him and his own excessive masculinity, he pursues Belle solely because he believes he deserves the most beautiful wife, despite not having any respect for her passion of reading or her as a person, and there being other girls in the village that adore him. After having his pride hurt by rejection, he schemes to blackmail Belle into marrying him, and uses his popularity within the village to achieve this.
    -   _The Hunchback of Notre Dame_ — Frollo is a dangerous combination of pride and lust. While his lust for Esmeralda is his motivation, it's pride that convinces him that higher powers are responsible for his actions, and that it's _Esmeralda_ that's guilty for tempting him. He uses this as justification for setting ablaze the city of Paris in search for Esmeralda.
    -   _Wreck-It Ralph_ — Turbo was the player character of a racing game that was decommissioned after his thirst for gamer attention drove him to crash a newer racing game purely out of jealousy. After escaping, he took over the racing game Sugar Rush and disguised himself as King Candy, doing everything possible to make himself the favorite of everyone who played the game.
-   Pride is key to the plot of _Kung Fu Panda_. Shifu was too proud of his prized pupil Tai Lung, whom he valued as a son, to realize that Tai Lung was proud to the point of being arrogant. When Oogway denied Tai Lung the Dragon Scroll, he went berserk, carving a swath of devastation through the valley and trying to kill Shifu before being stopped by Oogway.
    -   Twenty years later, Shifu has allowed his pride and that failure to blind him to the potential of his other students, and prevents him from seriously considering that Po is the only hope of defeating Tai Lung. Meanwhile, Tai Lung has only gotten more full of himself while wasting away for twenty years, and when he finally confronts Shifu, he reveals that the motive behind everything he ever did was to make Shifu proud of him. Shifu declares that he was always proud of him, but that pride worked against him and kept him from seeing that he was setting Tai Lung up for disappointment. And once more, Tai Lung is too proud to accept this, and says he only wants the scroll.
    -   At the end, after getting thoroughly trounced by Po, he fails to understand the meaning of the Dragon Scroll that he had sought for so long, which is that you don't need to seek out some ultimate secret to reach your full potential: the power is already within you. His pride does not allow him to consider that he might have been wrong about everything, and he dies... we think... refusing to accept that he had lost to, in his words, a "big, fat panda".
-   In _The Prince of Egypt_ this is Rameses' fatal flaw that leads to all the suffering in Egypt. Portrayed much more sympathetically than usual due to it being more about appeasing his father's legacy as a strong ruler than anything he personally wants.
-   Woody in _Toy Story_ has his desire to be in the centre of attention as his main flaw, in addition to being worried that Buzz Lightyear could take over his place as Andy's favourite toy. Ironically, his given surname is quite a coincidence.
-   In _Turning Red_, Ming is too proud of Mei to believe Mei could have drawn the suggestive images in Mei's notebook and later to have come up with the plan to hustle Mei's panda form for money. It is only during the climax that she is disabused of this perception.

    Film — Live-Action 

-   Andrew from _Chronicle_, while originally painfully shy and introverted, begins to find popularity by dint of his newly-granted superpowers. One of his other superpower-enabled friends half-jokingly claims that, now that he possesses such extreme confidence, his hubris will then lead to his downfall. Andrew responds by asking what "hubris" means. Granted, his abusive drunken father is practically worse than him with this, severely underestimating how much Andrew is now able to fight back, which ultimately leads to disastrous results for everybody.
-   _Cruel and Unusual_: This seems to be what's holding some of the condemned back, such as Julien, who refuses to let the authorities see him break.
-   This is Vijay's defining characteristic in _Deewaar_. Most noticeably, he refuses to take money that is thrown at him, demanding instead that it be put directly in his hand.
-   The theme of Pride/Vanity as an engine of destruction runs all through the plot of _The Devil's Advocate_, namely because it makes you careless and imprudent or just drags you into the affairs that will surely and painfully bite you in the ass. Even the father of the sin himself is not invulnerable to its pernicious influence. At one point, he describes it as his favorite sin and the most "natural" as it stems from a "love of self"
-   In _First Reformed_, Toller quotes from Thomas Merton that one species of pride is despair, choosing to believe one's knowledge of the evils of the world is more certain than God's ability to bring out good from them. He later reminds himself of the sentiment when writing about how much he wishes young people liked him and his growing inability to pray.
-   Tony Stark has to deal with his issues of pride and relearn humility each _Marvel Cinematic Universe_ appearance. The effects of his pride often are the immediate causes of the problems he is having to fight.
-   _MonsterVerse_: A core cause of the conflict (and often a _direct_ cause of From Bad to Worse) is the sense of pride and arrogance intrinsic to humanity as a civilization which has in Real Life been a factor in the ongoing Global Warming crisis. We have outdone the vast majority of predators and competition with which we share our planet through our intelligence, technology and innovation, establishing ourselves as one of the planet's dominant species (in our own opinion, the _top_ dominant species). And then in this series, it turns out we're not really the Earth's top species by a _long shot_ once gigantic Kaiju who are immune to military arsenals and feed on nuclear energy start to emerge as a direct result of our species' activities — this is a revelation which doesn't sit well with a lot of human beings, who just can't handle such a notion and refuse to give up our species' self-given title, even when it turns out Humans Need Aliens to survive. It leads to the government and military firing the Oxygen Destroyer in a vain attempt to kill two Kaiju, but instead by crippling Godzilla whilst leaving Ghidorah unscathed it enables Ghidorah to come within a hair's breadth of succeeding at its goal to wipe out humanity and a lot of Earth's other life. Apex Cybernetics whose members are hubris personified believe they can ultimately conquer the Titans the same way humanity has conquered its previous predators and competition, by technological innovation, but their actions end up restoring King Ghidorah to life in a new form before their anti-Titan superweapon is ultimately defeated anyway by the natural Titans they wanted to usurp.
    
    **Serizawa:** The arrogance of man is thinking nature is in our control, and not the other way round.
    
-   _Pitch Perfect_: Aubrey's main problem. She refuses to acknowledge that what she is doing might be wrong , that there are better ways to achieve her goals and to accept others' views on her plans when they disagree or have criticism. Despite the several issues her program has, she refuses to change until the group reaches the Darkest Hour and is forced to admit her mistakes.
-   Discussed in _Pulp Fiction_ by Marsellus Wallace when he talks to Butch: "The night of the fight, you may feel a slight sting. That's pride fucking with you. Fuck pride. Pride only hurts, it never helps." He's trying to convince Butch to throw a fight by suggesting that his career as a boxer is essentially over, making this something of a Breaking Speech. Butch later turns it around on Marsellus while he's beating him up, taunting him with "See that? That's pride fucking with you."
-   The defining trait of Apollo Creed in the _Rocky_ franchise. He picks up underdog nobody fighter Rocky Balboa for a publicity stunt when his original "name" opponent pulls out; Creed doesn't take the fight seriously at first, approaching the whole thing like a game until Rocky knocks him down with one mean blow, something that had never happened before in his entire career. After an epic battle between the two the fight is so close that the judges have a hard time naming a true victor, but ultimately they give it to Creed, which comes back to bite him in the ass in the second film where Creed is angry and full of hurt pride over accusations from fans and critics that he cheated by rigging the fight with the judges earlier to give the title to him no matter what or he simply got lucky when they gave it to him. With his popularity and reputation crumbling as a result of the controversial and humiliating fight from the first film Creed becomes so obsessed with proving he didn't cheat that he forces his handlers to cook up a nasty smear campaign to get Rocky back in the ring for a rematch since it's the only way he knows of proving and redeeming himself in the eyes of his fans and critics. Once Rocky agrees to the rematch Creed trains harder than ever before and attacks Rocky like a force of nature in the ring but after another epic fight Rocky ultimately defeats Creed, though at least Creed's fans and critics forgive him for an honest loss.
    
    Sadly, Creed's pride ultimately brought about his death in _Rocky IV_.
    
-   Speculated in the documentary _Tilt: The Battle to Save Pinball,_ as a reason for why Williams Electronics president Neil Nicastro decided to shut down the pinball division instead of simply selling it.
    
    "\[In business,\] you don't want to run the risk of being proven wrong. And if someone else can make a go of something that you have decided or determined is not viable... I don't know how well that sits."
    
-   Victor of _Upldr_ is this. He felt that he was the only one who could do his project and should get sole credit for it. He was willing to do anything just to beat his former boss into completing his project.
-   _The Rapture_: Sharon's Fatal Flaw is that she inherently has only a shallow and unexamined understanding of her own faith, swinging dramatically from blaming God for the emptiness in her life (caused by her own actions), to arrogantly believing that she fully understands God's plans, to lashing out when God doesn't immediately answer all of her problems.. According to Roger Ebert:
    
    **Roger Ebert:** Everything she does is consistent with the fundamentalist view of how the world will end. There is even an argument for the shocking act she commits, several weeks into her vigil, although of course it is wrong — inspired by the sin of pride, of thinking she knows God's plans.
    
-   In _Sodom and Gomorrah_, Lot admits to the Hebrew elders that he has fallen victim to pride in seeking to dictate his own punishment for the sin of killing Astaroth rather than leaving his punishment up to Jehovah. He ruefully observes that Jehovah will punish him for his crime in due time.

    Literature 

-   Jane Austen:
    -   _Emma_ — pride goeth before a fall for dear Miss Woodhouse.
    -   _Pride and Prejudice_, naturally. Sometimes, people who accuse others of being too proud are the proudest of all.
    -   _Persuasion_, too, though it's not Anne Elliot herself, but her father, quite conceited over his Blue Blood and good looks, and older sister. Though at one point they are being abject to restore a connection and Anne thinks something she had thought she would never think: she wished they had more pride.
-   With his team needing a run in the bottom of the 9th inning and two runners on base, the namesake batter of _Casey at the Bat_ deliberately takes the first two pitches for called strikes because he doesn't like them. He strikes out on the third pitch, thereby losing the game. This after two prior despised hitters with zero expectations astonishingly come through with base hits to give Casey the opportunity to shine.
-   _Conan the Barbarian_: In "The Hyborian Age" <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  the Aquilonian empire suffered from this.
    
    _Always a rich kingdom, untold wealth had been rolled in by conquest, and sumptuous splendor had taken the place of simple and hardy living. But degeneracy had not yet sapped the kings and the people; though clad in silks and cloth-of-gold, they were still a vital, virile race. But arrogance was supplanting their former simplicity. They treated less powerful people with growing contempt, levying more and more tributes on the conquered. Argos, Zingara, Ophir, Zamora and the Shemite countries were treated as subjugated provinces, which was especially galling to the proud Zingarans, who often revolted, despite savage retaliations._
    
-   Pride is the ultimate source of all the misery Winterbourne and Daisy suffer in _Daisy Miller_.
-   _Discworld_: Her pride is one of the defining character traits of Knight in Sour Armor Granny Weatherwax.
    
    "You could bounce rocks off her pride."
    
-   _DFZ_: Opal's father refuses to let her go for no reason than because she belongs to him. Losing her would be an insult. She is also the only person he owns who doesn't love and adore him, which makes him angry.
-   _The Dresden Files_:
    -   The Fallen Angels who supported Lucifer are all described as having this vice, not just Lucifer. As noted by the author.
        
        **Butcher:** \[Y\]ou don't get to be a fallen angel without having a certain amount of irrational egotism and pride.
        
    -   Nicodemus Archleone, the 2000 year old leader of The Order of the Blackened Denarius who has spent the last 2000 years besting the best of God's followers, being a partner to one of the Fallen and not one of their servants, and generally never losing control of any situtation he's in has given him plenty of reasons to think he is the best. Note this rant he delivers.
        
        **Nicodemus:** I do not dance to the Fallen's tune, Knight. We may move together, but I play the music. I set the beat. For nearly two thousand years I followed my path, through every treacherous bend and twist, through every temptation to turn aside, and after centuries of effort and study and planning and victory, they follow _my_ leadership. Not the other way around. Turn aside from my path? I have _blazed_ it through ages of humanity, through centuries of war and plague and madness and havoc and devotion. I _am_ my path and it is me. There is no turning aside.
        
        -   Harry hammers it home by making the ultimate comparison
            
            _The shadow at his feet seemed to darken as he spoke, to throb in time with his voice, and I shuddered at the sight, at the pride in his bearing, the clarity in his eyes, and the absolute, serene certainty in his voice. Lucifer must have looked exactly like that, right before things went to Hell._
            
    -   Harry Dresden holds a lot of power, he has knowledge of things that could drive lesser people to insanity, he can reach out and draw on the cosmic powers of the universe. He will die fighting the forces of evil, giving it one snark-filled breath if he can. All that said, he is still a man of incredible pride. Because he has all this power, when he fails someone, when an innocent bystander is maimed because he wasn't quick enough, wasn't fast enough, wasn't good enough, he will mentally flagellate himself until he is nearly broken. He holds himself to impossible standards and beats himself frequently for failing to meet them.
    -   Mab, Queen of Air and Darkness, is described to have "a terrible pride." While she favors intelligent servants who are both capable of doing their jobs efficiently and will take their counterarguments to her plan in a cold, and calculating manner, if any were to try and put themselves as her moral superior and dare to judge her, she will not take this lightly. She might strike the offender that they dent an _elevator door_, or destroy an entire village for raising a weapon against her. That said, she will own up to her own mistakes and take a just amount of blame if her folly caused harm, like not killing her traitorous daughter as soon as she realizes Maeve's treachery. She acknowledges to Maeve, Harry, and other present, she is the one at fault for this matter, taking the blame for not just Maeve's crimes but also, after breaking Karrin Murphy's bindings so she could kill Maeve, absolving Murphy for this too.
-   Penny of _Edenborn_ is defined by her pride and stretches to justify her self-esteem at every turn. She's a teenager.
-   _Earth's Children_: Jondalar's pride causes some problems for him and his romance with Ayla in _The Mammoth Hunters_. Firstly, Jondalar doesn't want Ayla mentioning the Clan and her upbringing with them, and gets embarrassed and irritated when she does things associated with the Clan (such as kneeling before Mamut out of respect) because he's afraid that people will reject them both due to prejudice against "flatheads" (he has personal experience with being shunned by his community and desperately wants to avoid a repeat situation). He's also upset and jealous when Ayla starts to become closer to Ranec, who is obviously attracted to her, but as he later admits to himself, he didn't explain how he felt to Ayla and instead pushed her away because he worried that Ayla would choose Ranec over him, so he tried to avoid the issue entirely and thus inadvertently drove Ayla closer to Ranec because of what she perceived as Jondalar's rejection.
-   _Ender's Game_ series:
    -   In _Shadow Puppets_, Virlomi sets herself up as a holy woman/god on earth to lead a resistance movement in India against the Chinese occupation. After a long sequence of everything going right for her against rivals she knows are better than she is, she becomes convinced that she really is either divine or favored by the gods, and carelessly leads her army into an obvious trap.
    -   Later stories show just how much old Ma and Pa Wiggins manipulated their children because the pride of their children (especially Peter) was such there was no way their parents could have figured out they were world famous political Bloggers. _Ender in Exile_ especially shows this with how they manipulate Peter to exile Ender and Valentine to join Ender. In Peter's case it takes him four books to even suspect his parents used him due to his own pride. This may be a retcon, however. If it is, it is one inspired by the fact that the reason (according to the Hegemony) that Peter, Val, and Ender are so smart to begin with is that their family has such an excellent genetic history of intelligence.
-   _Farsala Trilogy_: This is the fatal flaw of the deghans — they are so confident that the Hrum could never defeat them that they fail to listen to intelligence reports or gather an army beyond the (very small) elite fighting class.
-   In the _Firebird Trilogy_, pride is both Brennen and Firebird's main failing, one that drives the plots of the second and third books. In the second book, Brennen faces losing most of his extraordinary abilities and learns that his worth is not dependent on what he can do. In the third book, Firebird struggles to let others help her and to not get detrimentally caught up in her royal heritage.
-   _The Great Divorce_: The number one factor keeping the damned from entering Heaven is their inability to acknowledge their own faults and give up on their petty grudges.
-   _Harry Potter_:
    -   Pride is the defining trait of Lord Voldemort. He is so in love with himself that he can't stand the idea of ceasing to be, which is what drives his obsession with immortality. He continually underestimates Harry and refuses to countenance the idea that there are powers that he doesn't understand. He repeatedly blames others for mistakes he himself makes and is incapable of viewing others as his equal, ultimately leading to his downfall.
    -   Other characters in the series, such as Hermione Granger and Draco Malfoy and anyone with a blood prejudice, has been shown to suffer for their pride as well.
    -   Pride is both a virtue and fault of Harry Potter himself. What separates Potter from the other examples, is that he doesn't veer into arrogance, he's well aware of his talents, or lack there of and has some self esteem issues due to knowing he's not as great as his friend and admirers make him out to be. At the same time, his pride refuses to let him roll over for long if he thinks he or anything he cares about is done wrong to. From his earliest memories it frequently leads to him getting beaten up by his much larger cousin and his Gang of Bullies and later in life it makes him an easy target for those in power to goad into breaking their rules so they can punish him but it also contributes to his continued survival because he feels he _has_ to go down fighting.
    -   This was both Snape and Dumbledore's fatal flaw in their youth, to similarly disastrous results (ie getting a person they loved killed). Snape always wanted to prove himself being a poor half-blood and thought that joining the Death Eaters would be so cool to the girl he liked (Harry's mom Lily) that she would like him back. This didn't work and she finally broke off their friendship when he called her a Fantastic Slur and culminated in her having married the man he hated most. Pride then caused him to spy on Dumbledore talking to Trewlawney in the middle of her prophecy about how there was a baby destined to kill Voldemort. He thought this would make him one of Voldemort's inner circle if he told him that kid was Lily's (he got kicked out halfway through the prophecy by Dumbledore's brother Aberforth and didn't know there was another kid to whom it could apply). He begged Voldemort to spare her and he was going to uphold his end of the bargain but she wouldn't let him kill Harry so he killed her. Dumbledore was also seduced by the power an Evil Sorcerer could bring as a teen, in his case Grindelwald. His mother died right after he finished Hogwarts and he had to put his gap year plans on hold to take care of his mentally ill sister Ariana while Aberforth finished school. He resented his Promotion to Parent and felt like he was wasting his brilliance being the family breadwinner. He wanted to prove himself so much that he agreed to go look for the Deathly Hallows with Grindelwald with Ariana in tow. Aberforth tried to stop them and she got killed in the chaotic Mêlée à Trois that ensued when Grindelwald attacked Aberforth. Dumbledore learned his lesson about how he shouldn't be trusted with power that his own brilliance could bring from this but Snape never did.
-   _John Carter of Mars:_ In Edgar Rice Burroughs's _The Chessman Of Mars_, the men of Manator are particularly proud and maltreat their slaves from contempt because they have never been defeated and enslaved themselves.
-   Each of the villains in the Keys to the Kingdom series represents a deadly sin, with Lord Sunday representing pride. He does nothing about actions that would destroy the universe until it is nearly too late simply because he would rather amuse himself.
-   _Legacy of the Drow Series_: In _Starless Night_, Drizzt Do'Urden leaves his friends behind to see if he can head off the coming storm all by himself. Not only does he fail, not only would he have died if his friends (and some enemies) hadn't rescued him, but he arguably makes things _worse_. This would be fine...if it weren't for Drizzt's proclivity for endless navel-gazing on various philosophical themes and subjects in his journal, just in case you missed the point.
-   In John Hemry's The Lost Stars novel _Tarnished Knight_, Drakon poses as over-confident in his ability to protect himself. ISS agents will believe that he doesn't bring his guards out of Pride.
-   In the _Malazan Book of the Fallen_, High King Kallor is arrogant, prone to overestepping his bounds, and _very_ touchy about insults to his person. And then there's the whole, "allowing a continent to die rather than relinquishing control of it" thing, and the obsession with power and becoming an Ascendant.
-   Daniel Dravot in _The Man Who Would be King_ (both short story and film). Getting yourself acclaimed as a god in order to take over (and loot) a country is fine, but when you start believing it you're officially entering the realm of hubris. At least he realised what he had done in time to apologise to his best friend.
-   As C. S. Lewis puts it in _Mere Christianity_:
    
    ...the essential vice, the utmost evil, is Pride. Unchastity, anger, greed, drunkenness, and all that, are mere fleabites in comparison: it was through Pride that the devil became the devil: Pride leads to every other vice: it is the complete anti-God state of mind.
    
-   _Outbound Flight_: Jorus C'baoth claimed that a Jedi was immune to pride. He was extremely wrong. Pride is the leading cause of death among Sith, narrowly beating out "swinging lightsabers" and "reactor shafts."
-   In John Milton's _Paradise Lost_, Satan.
    
    _To reign is worth ambition though in Hell:  
    Better to reign in Hell, then serve in Heav'n._
    
-   Zeus/Jupiter from the _Percy Jackson_ book series unsurprisingly suffers from this. Many of the crises are caused or made worse by Zeus' pride. In _The Heroes of Olympus_ Jupiter's wounded pride at being helped and told off by mortals in the Titan War leads him to seal Olympus and do nothing to stop the Giants. Luckily, the other gods are not so stupid and work behind his back.
    -   It's also Annabeth's fatal flaw as revealed by the sirens in book two. However, once she knows this, she works hard not to let her pride get the best of her. She makes some mistakes, but overall is successful. She even uses her knowledge of how a prideful mind works in her climactic battle with Arachne at the end of The Mark Of Athena to trick her opponent, as pride was her fatal flaw as well.
-   _The Reynard Cycle_: This is Duke Nobel's ultimately fatal flaw. Given that his character was based on a anthropomorphic _lion_, this character trait is a Stealth Pun.
-   Daylen Namaran in _Shadow of the Conqueror._ Being an Evil Overlord for several decades before beginning his Redemption Quest left him with a seriously inflated ego. Several times, he's able to swallow it and force himself to not treat other people as beneath him, but elements of his old personality still leak through. He notes that it's pure pride and his hatred of losing that enables him to fight back against Ahrek and Lyrah with every iota of his ability, because otherwise he'd be more than happy to just let them kill him. His sheer _outrage_ at a beggar attacking him in particular shows this.
    
    **Daylen:** "You dayless son of a Shade! Try to slit my throat and rob me! _Me!_ I've conquered nations, and you think a dagger from the likes of _you_ will be my end?!
    
-   _A Song of Ice and Fire_: The defining trait of the Lannisters, Targaryens and to a small extent, the Greyjoys. Although that may be less about any specific family and more about the whole Westeros social hierarchy- all the houses have some pride issues. The Starks are noticeable because they have one of the only house words that isn't a boast. The Targs do take it to another level though, although kind of justified with the dragons and stuff.
-   Being as _Things Fall Apart_ is more or less stated to be a classical Greek tragedy set in pre-colonial and early colonial Nigeria, it makes sense that Okonkwo's driving force and ultimate cause of death is Pride. Subverted in that the author does not condemn Okonkwo's pride but rather is saddened by it The backstory of his deadbeat father, who spent his days idling and died in massive debt, provides a Freudian Excuse in this case. Okonkwo swore to himself he would be a pillar of strength and manliness, not a failure like his father.
-   _Tolkien's Legendarium_:
    -   _The Silmarillion_, pride literally goes before a Fall:
        -   Melkor sought to create and rule over others, and was too proud to admit his creations were only discoveries made possible by God. He became Morgoth, that is, Satan.
        -   All the Noldor were prideful, but Fëanor's arrogance was such that he lead the majority of them into exile, thinking he would be able to defy the Valar (godlike angels delegated to rule the world), and that he would stand a chance of defeating Morgoth in combat. Predictably, it ended very badly for him and most of his people.
    -   _The Fall of Númenor_:
        -   Sauron considers to repent after Morgoth's downfall but he lets his opportunity of redemption pass because he does not want to serve someone else. Sauron then convinces himself what he should stay in Middle-Earth because he is clearly the only one who can fix the world after the wars against Morgoth, but he must take over Middle-Earth in order to do so because clearly the natives are too dumb to realize everything will go much better if/when he is running the place.
        -   The Rings of Power are a direct consequence of Elvish hubris. The Noldor did want to remain on Middle-Earth where their prestige as the eldest, wisest and most powerful race was greater than at the bottom of the hierarchy of Valinor, but they did not want to endure the mortal lands' decay. Cajoling them into forging tools to impose their will on the world and slow its decline was a piece of cake for Sauron.
        -   The Tale of Aldarion and Erendis is about the disintegrating marriage of Aldarion, prince of Númenor, and his wife Erendis, over his inability to keep his promises to return when he says he will from various sea voyages. Erendis refuses to bend, Aldarion refuses to explain himself, and the present king Meneldur is angry at Aldarion's apparent disregard of his responsibilities as heir. It's not until Aldarion huffily throws a letter from Gil-galad onto the table that Meneldur knows there was a justified reason, because Aldarion refused to tell him until he thought he could use it to start a fight. Unsurprisingly, Aldarion and Erendis' daughter ends up so emotionally scarred by all this that it contributes to her own unhappy marriage as an adult.
        -   The Númenoreans' increasingly unbridled ego caused the downfall of the greatest Mannish civilization. Since they were gifted with much longer and healthier lives -which allowed them to excel in sciences and arts- advanced technology and divine blessings by the Valar, the Númenoreans came to believe not only that they had the right to rule over other Men but also that they should be immortal since, being obviously superior, they are entitled to anything they want. Their overwhelming hubris and ambition eventually lead them to invade the Undying Lands, which gets their civilization destroyed.
        -   Ar-Pharazôn, the last king of Númenor, is a perfect exponent of the extent of their people's corruption. Pharazôn usurps the throne because he thinks he obviously should be king, wants to conquer the world because he should obviously rule it, and wants to become immortal because he is obviously too great of a king to die.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_ novels:
    -   In Ben Counter's novel _Chapter War_, Eumenes justifies his rebellion on grounds of fighting for what he believes in, but is clearly after power, especially when he gloats over what he will do with Sarpedon after Sarpedon submits to him to save the Chapter.
        -   And in Counter's _Grey Knights_, the daemon accuses Alaric of Pride, which, it claims, blinds him to both his faults and his defeat.
    -   In Andy Hoare's _White Scars_ novel _Hunt for Voldorius_, Kor'sarro is warned against the sin of pride while talking with the Raven Guard captain; he manages to move from Divided We Fall to Teeth-Clenched Teamwork.
    -   In Nick Kyme's _Salamanders_, Tsu'gan blames himself for his arrogance that led to his leaving his post, and so to an enemy's breaking in and killing his captain.
    -   In James Swallow's _Deus Encarmine_ and _Deus Sanguinius_, Sachiel's pride is contrasted to Rafen, down to their reactions to each other's loss. Sachiel's reaction to news of an explosion (No One Could Survive That!) is to gloat; Rafen sees Sachiel's corpse and pities him.  
        In the Back Story, Rafen was so arrogant as to have been rejected as an aspirant for it, but that humbled him and (through some other circumstances) led to his being selected anyway.  
        Stele explicitly compares Sachiel to Rafen: while it nearly killed him to break Rafen, and that was to drive him to despair because he could not win him over, he quite easily brought over Sachiel, through his pride.
-   In _Warrior Cats_, pride is a common trait among Clan cats, usually in the form of being unable to accept help that they need. For instance, in _Yellowfang's Secret_, Nettlespot is so determined to prove that she can care for her remaining kit that she refuses to ask for food, even though she desperately needs it. Yellowfang even thinks "Pride won't fill her belly." And in _Cloudstar's Journey_, Rainleap declares that she'd rather die than ask ThunderClan for help (which in Cloudstar's opinion is a bit extreme).
-   _The Wheel of Time_: The greatest war of the last millennium was set off because King Laman Damodred decided that he needed a new throne and that only the wood of Avendoraldera, the one sapling of the legendary Tree of Life, gifted to his country as a symbol of friendship by a nation of elite Proud Warrior Race Guys to repay an ancient debt, was suitable raw material for a monarch of his calibre.

    Live-Action TV 

-   The Minbari of _Babylon 5_ is an entire species of this. Same with the Centauri, who fuss over their glorious and long-be-gone past until their planet is reduced to rubble, the Narn, who fuss over their grudges with the Centauri and the need to take a rightful place in the galaxy until, you guessed it, their planet is reduced to rubble, Vorlons and the Shadows. The last two are worst (they incite genocidal wars and run species into extinction just to prove that their tutory strategy is the best one) and they are the ones that get away relatively easy. Huh. And _then_ there are the Humans, who manage to blunder into a disastrous war with the considerably more powerful Minbari purely out of arrogant carelessness. Really, there's more than enough of this to go around in the B5 universe.
-   _Better Call Saul_ has Chuck McGill, an elite and pompous lawyer who is usually too stubborn to admit he's wrong. At the beginning of the series, Chuck is too proud even to let his office make allowances for his debilitating maybe-medical-maybe-psychological sensitivity to electromagnetic radiation, and has become a homebound recluse as a result. A more subtle case is his brother Jimmy, the protagonist of the series — Chuck's perfectionism and defensiveness of his professional reputation repeatedly stymie his own attempts to get his brother to go straight, by causing him to insult Jimmy's own pride. Jimmy outwardly seems an underachieving, unscrupulous and self-hating person (that's certainly Chuck's impression of him), but he does pride himself on his self-determination, and tends to rankle any time his brother expects him to show gratitude or deference, reacting self-destructively. As the series goes on it becomes increasingly clear that Chuck _wants_ Jimmy to fail at the law, as he resents his brother's easy charm and likability and cherishes the one thing he has that Jimmy doesn't.
-   _Breaking Bad_ has Walter White, the main character with an obvious streak of pride coloring all his actions. He'd rather make and sell meth than ask for or accept help for his family or condition. At one point it's revealed that his partner in grad school created a successful biotech company that his ideas helped create. Rather than accept a very large check that would have covered his bills and act as a late payment for his help with the company, he tears it up and goes back to making drugs to earn money his own way. In one episode, he intentionally leads his DEA agent brother-in-law Hank back on his tail after he had started to believe Gale really was Heisenberg simply because he couldn't stand the idea of Hank thinking someone else was responsible for his work, while in another episode he hates that his son set up a donation website to pay for his cancer treatment because he doesn't want to accept handouts from strangers like a "beggar" and has to be convinced by his wife not to have his son take the site down. Saul even points out that the site is perfect for money laundering, but Walt still takes its existence as a personal insult.
-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   The Doctor can fall into this, given his Smug Super tendencies, and it's a notable part of the Tenth incarnation's personality. One of Ten's last appearances, in "The Waters of Mars", has him basically go into A God Am I mode with massive hubris, but then end up as much more humble afterward after his arrogance is crushed. Though it is justified, considering how the Doctor was raised by the Time Lords, who see themselves as the most powerful civilization in the universe; compared to that, the Doctor is the most humble Time Lord there is.
    -   In "The King's Demons", Hugh's anger over the way the Doctor saved his life in a Duel to the Death is inspired by this, as his parents observe.
-   _Game of Thrones_:
    -   In case the lion on their coat of arms and the motto "Hear me Roar!" didn't give it away, this is a unifying theme for the Lannisters. All of them have a subtly different take on it.
        
        -   Tywin's most defining trait. While this trope is precisely what drove Tywin to make House Lannister the most powerful one in Westeros, it also drove him to make it the most hated as well.
        
        **Tywin:** The lion doesn't concern himself with the opinions of the sheep.
        
        -   Cersei:
        
        **Cersei:** He's attacked one of my brothers, and abducted the other. I should wear the armor, and you the gown. _\[Robert strikes her\]_ I shall wear this like a badge of honor.
        
        -   Jaime often comes across as very arrogant and uncaring of others. However his father Tywin points out this is merely how he wants to be viewed.
        
        **Jaime:** I couldn't care less what anyone thinks of me.  
        **Tywin:** No, _that's_ what you want people to think of you.
        
        -   Tyrion believes that having too much pride is foolish and it's better to wear your flaws openly. Despite this, it does stick him that his father doesn't acknowledge any of his skills and contributions, even denying him the seat of the ancestral house _which is his by right_. He admits this to Jaime who chides him for his spiel during his trial, noting that there's only so much he can stand up to abuse before snapping.
        
        **Tyrion:** Never forget what you are. The rest of the world will not. Wear it like armour, and it can never be used to hurt you.
        
    -   Though a good and moral person, this can be a character flaw of Jon's. His confidence in the superiority of his abilities often causes him to lose sight of the bigger picture and complain about the unfairness of his life. Good thing he has Sam and friends to put things in perspective for him.
    -   Davos does a good job of stroking Salladhor's pride (and greed), winning his support largely on the basis of his ego.
-   On _Gilligan's Island,_ this is the deadly sin equated with The Professor (though Mary Ann and the Skipper are no slouches in that department, either).
-   _The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power_: This is a major theme in many of the storylines.
    -   Protagonist Galadriel is a Knight Templar certain that Sauron lives and determined to find him and revenge not only her brother but all those who died at Sauron's hands. This leads to her coming close to becoming a Well-Intentioned Extremist, since she expresses a desire to wipe out the race of orcs. She also fails to recognize that she has become Sauron-like in her obsession, which is ironic because it is she herself who brings Sauron to Middle-Earth, albeit disguised in his fair form. When he reveals himself to her, he points out how much they have in common and proposes a We Can Rule Together scenario.
    -   Celebrimbor's desire to craft something exceptionally make him very easy for Sauron to manipulate.
    -   Prince Durin and his wife Disa are good people who want the best for their kingdom, but their greed for mithril will have tragic consequences.
    -   Sauron himself doesn't see himself as a villain so much as The Atoner just trying to bring order and peace to Middle-Earth.
-   In _Mad Men_ this turns out to be Lane Pryce's undoing. The man started the series as a bit of a Chew Toy who is used as a hatchet man by his bosses and never given the recognition he deserves. In America he finds the freedom to pursue his own goals and becomes a founding partner of Sterling-Cooper-Draper-Pryce. He is justifiably proud of his achievements but his pride soon leads him to make questionable decisions. When a business downturn forces the partners to put more money into the company, he commits all his assets to the venture and does not tell anyone about his difficult financial position. More importantly, he fails to pay his British taxes (the US and UK did not yet have a reciprocity treaty), and a year later Inland Revenue sends him a menacing letter saying that if he ever wished to return to Britain and not get arrested, he had to make a very large lump payment that would bankrupt him. Don would have been more than happy to lend Lane the money but Lane's pride prevents him from asking for a loan. Instead he forges a check to get an advance on a bonus. When bonuses are canceled, he cannot return the money and Don tells Lane he has to leave when he finds out about the embezzlement. Lane hangs himself in his office rather than face the disgrace. Lane was no longer willing to "suffer the little humiliations" that his life was filled with before he became successful and thus was not able to ask for help when he most needed it.
-   In _Merlin_, pride is Uther Pendragon's defining characteristic and ultimately his fatal flaw. He's a tyrant and a bigot who routinely causes wide-scale devastation and misery due to his blind hatred of magic, but as he's a King, he never really has to take responsibility or learn from his mistakes. Almost every sorcerer who terrorises Camelot only does so because Uther has wronged them in some unforgivable way, but he _always_ finds a way to shift the blame and maintain his unshakeable belief in his own goodness. This arrogance, coupled with extreme paranoia, constantly skews his perceptions and leads him to misjudge people and situations, eventually bringing about his downfall.
    -   When his son Arthur is introduced he displays signs of the same overbearing pride — he's brash, impulsive, and elitist, regularly bullying his underlings and throwing tantrums when things don't go his way. Without the positive influence of Merlin and Gwen, both of whom kick his ass when he deserves it and encourage him to be more thoughtful and compassionate, he could easily have become Uther 2.0. As it is, he gradually overcomes his pride and resembles his father less and less.
-   Holden Ford from _Mindhunter_ increasingly falls victim to pride throughout the series. As an Insufferable Genius he tends to be right fairly often, but on the occasions when he's misguided, or isn't quite seeing the bigger picture, he _still_ tries to aggressively push his own agenda at any cost despite the reasonable objections of others, and doesn't show much in the way of guilt when things go wrong as a result of his reckless actions. His ultimate aims are good, but he pursues those aims with an unhealthy, single-minded obsessiveness and total disregard for protocol or even basic safety. He also basks in the attention his successes bring him, and expects his girlfriend to be thoroughly invested in his work despite seeming fairly uninterested in hers.
-   In _Smallville_, it often appears to be the Kryptonians' racial hat, having an inflated sense of ego which causes most of the Kryptonian survivors who find themselves on Earth to quickly devolve into a Smug Super. Even Clark isn't exempt from this, with his pride in being The Paragon frequently colouring his decisions and serving as his fatal flaw. Series 10 turns this into a major plot-thread, as Clark _cannot_ defeat Darkseid until he's learnt humility.
-   In _Stargate SG-1_, the Tollan are utterly convinced that they are invulnerable, due to their vast technological superiority that is even beyond that of the Goa'uld. Their arrogance eventually lead them to being wiped out, since they never considered that the Goa'uld might eventually find some way to circumvent their technology.
-   Star Trek:
    -   This is one of Captain Kirk's major character flaws. He spends his entire career being absolutely convinced that there is no scenario that he can't win through his own ingenuity and guile. He’s brutally disabused of this notion in _Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan_.
    -   Khan. His unwavering belief in his own superiority lost him his empire on Earth; the _Enterprise_ in "Space Seed;" and his crew, ship, and chance at revenge in _Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan_. Interestingly, his literary references in both of his appearances indicate that he's completely aware of this flaw; comparing himself to Satan in "Space Seed," and _Captain Ahab_ in Star Trek II.
    -   By _Star Trek: The Next Generation_, an extended period of relative peace left the Federation with a belief that they're ready and able to meet any challenge the galaxy presents them with. Then Q introduces them to the Borg. Picard later admits that this was the "kick in the complacency" that Starfleet desperately needed — and, indeed, allowed them to _narrowly_ avert complete catastrophe when the Borg finally attacked the Federation.
-   _Supernatural_: This is Castiel's major character flaw, causing him and those who care about him a world of pain.
    -   He begins as an angelic Knight Templar, who works for Heaven and believes that the ends justify the means. He gradually begins to doubt Heaven's righteousness, but he's caught trying to reveal the truth of the angels' plans to Dean and is tortured into submission. He eventually breaks free and rebels against Heaven, thinking he and Dean can stop Lucifer from rising. They fail, and Castiel is smited by Raphael.
    -   In Season 5, after being resurrected, he searches for God's help in fighting against Lucifer, only to learn that God doesn't care and has abandoned his creations.
    -   He promises his vessel, Jimmy Novak, that he will protect Jimmy's family. He fails, though in Season 10 he reconnects with Jimmy's daughter Claire in an attempt to atone. He admits his failures to her and talks about how prideful he was when they first met.
    -   He thinks he can stop Raphael without working with Dean and Sam. This leads to him working with, then double-crossing Crowley to obtain enough souls from Purgatory to defeat Raphael. He succeeds, but he also goes power-mad, declares himself the new God, and smites all of Raphael's angelic followers. He also accidentally causes the leviathans to be released onto Earth. He also dies and is brought back to atone.
    -   He also works with Metatron in an attempt to atone for his previous actions only to be tricked into causing all the angels of Heaven to fall to earth, and he loses his grace and becomes human for a short time.
-   _7 Yüz_: In the episode "Refakatçiler", Vildan leads Serhat to recognize how his stubborn pride has driven away the people who care for him most, particularly his son, Okan. Serhat's pride prohibited Okan from attending art school, creating a devastating rift between father and son. When Okan later went missing in Russia, Serhat refused to seek help from others to find him, because it would require him to humble himself and admit his mistakes as a parent.
    
    **Vildan:** You break people's hearts, then you lose them.
    

    Music 

    Mythology and Religion 

-   Classical Mythology:
    -   It is chock full of these. Here "pride" often means contention with or disrespect for a god.
    -   To the ancients everywhere, believing oneself equal to or superior to a god -was- an act of overwhelming pride. Just because the gods could be bested (in Greek / Germanic / Celtic mythologies, mostly; Chinese and Japanese myths generally do not have the higher deities ever lose to mortals) did not mean that they weren't inherently superior beings.
    -   In some versions of her myth, Medusa was a famously beautiful priestess of Athena. In Ovid's late retelling of the myth she has sex with Poseidon in a temple of Athena. She got turned into one of the Gorgons by Athena because of it. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   Arachne claimed she could weave better than the Goddess of Arts, Athena. The story varies from telling to telling; in some she makes tapestries depicting the gods' faults and foibles, and in some she out-and-out taunts Athena after actually beating her in a weaving contest. Either way, her pride gets her beaten senseless and nearly killed by the angry Athena, who quickly relents and turns Arachne into the first spider as a testament to her skill. The version where Arachne wins has Athena go berserk and destroy the mortal girl and her Magnum Opus, later regretting her actions and reincarnating her as a spider out of "mercy". Yet another version has her hanging herself after Athena destroys her masterpiece in a fit of jealous rage. Athena resurrects her as the first spider out of remorse. And yet _another_ version says that Arachne was stupid enough to specifically mock Zeus with her tapestry. With Athena being a notorious Daddy's Girl, this wouldn't have ended well for poor Arachne.
    -   _The Iliad_:
        -   Achilles refused to leave his tent and help the Greeks fight, even after Agamemnon apologized for their meaningless spat earlier. He ended up with a Dead Sidekick.
        -   Likewise, after killing Patroclus with the help of Apollo, Hector thinks that he himself is powerful enough to beat Achilles. He is wrong.
    -   In _The Odyssey_, Odysseus blinds the cyclops Polyphemus, and tells Polyphemus "Nobody" did it, so that when the other cyclops asked who blinded him, Polyphemus could reply only, "Nobody." This plan failed when Odysseus became so proud of his feat he _yelled_ to Polyphemus to remember the man who blinded him: Odysseus, son of Laertes, King of Ithaca. Polyphemus called out to his dad, who just happened to be Poseidon, for vengeance; as a result, Odysseus was stranded on Calypso's island for seven years.
    -   _Cupid And Psyche_: Psyche ended up Chained to a Rock and doing a lot more dangerous tasks because a whole group of people starts worshiping her instead of the resident Goddess of Beauty, Aphrodite, who didn't take about the loss of worshipers and someone else taking the Fairest of Them All title away (and her son's affection on Psyche).
    -   Cassiopeia of Aethiopia was full of pride when praising the beauty of her daughter Andromeda. Poseidon took ofense, flooded Aethiopia and demanded Andromeda be sacrificed to his sea serpent.
    -   Queen Niobe of Thebes boasted that she was superior to the goddess Leto because, among other things, she had _seven_ sons and seven daughters, compared to the latter's only two children: Apollo and Artemis. It did not end well. It also contains the most stunning example of Break the Haughty in classical mythology: After all fourteen of her children were killed, Niobe wept. And wept. And wept so much that the gods took pity on her and turned her into an unfeeling stone. And the stone _still wept._
    -   Nemesis' main job was to punish such acts. The Greeks believed in her power so much that, upon crushing a Persian army at Marathon (the first time a Greek force defeated a Persian one in open field) and finding out they had brought a large block of marble to make a commemorative stone to their impending victory, the Athenians were quick to conclude it had been Nemesis who gave them their victory and used that marble to make her a magnificent statue.
-   _The Bible_:
    -   In the apocryphal Book of Enoch, the archangel of the afterlife Ramiel is _filled_ with it, as is Azazel, who gave humans fashion and metal-working in defiance of the Almighty. They were cast out of Heaven and joined Satan in the angelic rebellion because of it.
    -   Lucifer is called a man in the _Book of Isaiah_, where the picture quote comes from. He is also described as the king of Babylon — at the time, Nebuchadnezzar, who was indeed filled with this and was humbled as a result.
    -   _The Four Gospels_: This trope is likely the reason that the New Testament's sole criteria for salvation is "confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead". Someone who can't conceive of a person more virtuous than themselves — in effect, someone who claims that they've never made a mistake at all — is dangerously wrong. _The Bible_ is full of examples of people who _became_ humble despite their pride, because they were invisibly moved by the Spirit of God.
-   _Robin Hood_ stories often mention a trap set by the Sheriff of Nottingham in the form of an archery contest, as it is well known that Robin is the greatest archer in all the land. Robin is entirely aware of the nature of the trap, but goes anyway, because he has to prove he's the best.

    Professional Wrestling 

-   Jay Lethal became the most dominant champion in pro wrestling<sup>*&nbsp;</sup>  after he won both the Ring of Honor Television and World Titles, becoming the promotion's third triple crown winner. However, he _was_ beatable, as proved by Roderick Strong and Colt Cabana, largely in part to his ego, which Truth Martini had to reign in to ensure both titles were not defended in the Strong case and that he didn't jump into unnecessary matches, which Martini couldn't do in the Cabana case.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Ars Magica_: The Magi of House Verditius tend to inherit their Insufferable Genius founder's independence and pride, exacerbated by the fact that their mastery of Item Crafting lets them show off _and_ get extremely rich. In game mechanics, they gain a Hubris score that can compel them to act pridefully, but gives a bonus to some actions that play to their ego.
-   _Exalted_: The Great Curse for the Sidereal is based around the structure of "make hubristic decision, execute competently". Solars are also prone to this, as their peerless excellence turns in on itself and becomes peerless arrogance. Other Exalts cheerfully dive into this on an individual basis.
-   _Genius: The Transgression_: the prideful conviction that you are Correct and everyone else is Wrong is how a Genius goes Unmada. This is rarely a thing that ends well for anyone concerned.
-   _In Nomine_: Pride is a central facet of Lucifer's character. Sometimes this can be to the player characters' benefit — for example, he's too proud to consider breaking minor promises, which will usually include ones made to the players. More often than not, it makes him dangerous to be around — he has no tolerance for disrespect or being made light of, and will never forget or forgive a slight real or imagined.
-   _Mage: The Awakening_ — Every bad thing that has happened to the mages in the New World of Darkness, from the Abyss to the released Goetia, can be traced back to mages who decided to push the proverbial big red button and were too hubristic to consider the consequences of their actions. Indeed, a major theme is that all evil is ultimately human evil in Mage.
-   _Nobilis_: Discussed in 3e, which cautions that while it's possible to become Noble by eating a Power's heart, making plans to do so would be an example of hubris and would probably come back to bite you on the butt, possibly in the form of a giant scorpion.
    -   Through _Nobilis_' history, Lucifer has been the Imperator of Pride and Persuasion, which is to say that it is because Lucifer exists that Pride, as a thing in itself, does too.
    -   Nobles themselves are generally portrayed as pretty arrogant; divine power tends to do that to you, since, after all, it's pretty easy to become insulated from the consequences of your actions when you can beat up the entire USMC. That being said, Nobles who push it too far by trying to shape cosmic power on a level that transcends their own — a Power of Snakes who tries to create an Aaron's Serpent, for example — risk tripping the Law of Hubris and unleashing an Actual, which tends to be a bad thing.
        
        _"There are some things which you cannot do. There are some limits on even a Noble's actions. Never learn these limits. Never accept them. You are a Lord or Lady of this earth."_
        
-   In _Pathfinder_, the ancient empire of Thassilon was divided into seven realms, each dedicated to one of the Seven Virtues of Rule, which their decadent Runelord masters quickly perverted into the Seven Deadly Sins. Cyrusian, the domain of Pride, was the largest and most powerful of the seven realms, and its master, Runelord Xanderghul, was the strongest of the runelords, and one of only two to hold his throne from the empire's founding until it was destroyed in the cataclysm known as Earthfall. Xanderghul was a master of illusion magic, which he used to make himself and his realm appear as impressive as possible at all times. He introduced the faith of the mysterious deity known as the Peacock Spirit to Thassilon, and heavily promoted its faith because the Peacock Spirit was actually Xanderghul himself, meaning many of his subjects (and not a few subjects of his rival Runelords) were unwittingly deriving their divine spellcasting abilties from him.
-   _Vampire: The Masquerade_:
    -   Tremere, founder of the clan of the same name, essentially tore a massive hole in vampiric society and damned himself and all followers to eternal tribulation as vampires, simply because he was too proud to admit he could fail in his attempts to maintain House Tremere's magical immortality.
        -   The rest of the clan are also quite prone to this. Indeed, _House of Tremere_ reveals that pride was the Tremere's impetus for agreeing to the transformation: they were so invested in the superiority of their own magic, that they came to the conclusion that magic was actually dying simply because their means of immortality were failing them, and vampirism was the only means of continuing the House's existence; in reality, magic was simply _changing._ This hubris continues even into the 21th century: quite contrary to the clan belief that magic and all its practitioners would soon be extinct, the Order of Hermes still exists in the modern nights — but the Tremere will never admit or acknowledge it.
    -   Very deep in the back story, Absimiliard, the progenitor of Clan Nosferatu, killed his sire for scarring his (in his opinion) perfect face during his Embrace. As punishment, his grandsire Caine cursed the entire clan with inhuman hideousness. Proving that he didn't learn anything from the punishment, Absimiliard has become so fixated in regaining his lost beauty that he's prepared to hunt down and murder every last childe in his attempts to appease Caine.
    -   Clan Lasombra, dedicated narcissists and self-styled masters of the earth, have never made much secret of their innate belief in their own right to rule: they still gloat how it was _their_ clan who made the first strike against the Antediluvians, and all other members of the Sabbat were merely imitators. Furthermore, their The Social Darwinist tactics are intended to purge the weak and the unwanted from potential members of the clan, so that no weaklings or failures dare sully the clan's membership: even the tests imposed on potential childer weed out those who might succumb to self-doubt or humility, leaving only the most proud. This finally backfires on them in Gehenna, when pride-fueled Darwinism leaves them too depleted to stand on their own — forcing them into a humiliating alliance with their most hated enemy, the Ventrue.
-   This shows up in multiple ways in _Warhammer 40,000_:
    -   The birth of the three younger chaos gods, the Horus Heresy and the fall of half the space marines to chaos, and the opening of the eye all directly resulted from the Emperor's decision to solve the problem by having everyone ignore it until it went away, because he was the only one superior enough to be allowed to know basic facts about (in-universe) science... reducing the millions of people _using_ that science for basic transportation to the position of blindly poking a cosmic bear with a stick with no warning or ability to take precautions.
    -   Many Space Marine chapters have this problem. The last codex had optional disadvantages to represent this, such as We Stand Alone — essentially preventing them from _ever_ getting Inquisitorial allies because they refuse help from anyone. Additionally, although some fall to Chaos through despair or rage, many (such as Horus himself or the Inquisitors who believe they can control Chaos) enter the claws of the Dark Gods due to pride - Tzeentch's portfolio includes (in addition to the more infamous Hope and Change) Ambition.
    -   Then there were the Thousand Sons. Magnus's two big mistakes: thinking he knew more about the Warp than the Emperor, and thinking he was too smart to fall for a Deal with the Devil. Then, over the course of about a day, the whole thing came crashing down around his ears.
    -   The Eldar, as a race, are now on the brink of extinction due to the Fall but are still full of themselves and refuse to get along with other races. The Dark Eldar take this even further, seeing their Craftworld and Exodite cousins as failures to the Eldar legacy despite that legacy having destroyed their race.
    -   The Orks have Flash Gitz, who are this trope personified within Ork society, with a fair share of Greed to go with it, too. Where normal Orks love fighting anything that moves, Flash Gitz are more concerned with getting more teeth (the Ork currency) while spending as little of it as possible, and showing off their highly customized guns and money to other Orks. They are widely disliked amongst normal Orks due to these facts for being huge showoffs.
    -   The Tau are convinced that the Tau'va, or "Greater Good", is the best basis for a culture. This has ended badly for them on multiple occasions, as they've misinterpreted aliens fighting for their own reasons as coming to their aid — leading to unfortunate experiences like hiring Dark Eldar mercenaries or trying to throw a thank-you party for the _Necrons_.

    Theatre 

-   In _Ajax_, the main character's pride leads to a mad rampage that only ends up driving him to suicide.
-   The title character in _Julius Caesar_ was practically the _living embodiment_ of Pride.
-   Iago in _Othello_ has Pride and Envy as his fatal flaws.
-   By the end of _The Women_, Mary decides that pride is "a luxury a woman in love can't afford."

    Video Games 

-   In _Ace Combat Zero: The Belkan War_, pride seems to be associated with the Knight Ace style ("\[aces\] who live for pride"), who refuse to cause collateral damage even when it's the surest way to victory. Your wingman even comments that your pride is gonna get you killed. Ironically, among the enemy boss squadrons, the one explicitly associated with pride is Detlef Fleischer's Rot Squadron, whom you face in the _Mercenary_ route. As the epilogue shows, even ten years later, poor Detlef still cannot accept and understand how he was defeated by mere mercenaries.
-   In _Asura's Wrath_ Deus represents the mantra affinity of Pride, stated to be the best suited for ruling Shinkoku Trastrium. He lives up to this, being the most powerful of the Seven Deities and making himself seem unstoppable until his final duel with both Asura and Yasha at the same time when it takes everything they have to finally wear him down for Asura to finish him in a one-on-one. Even in his dying breath he thinks only he can can beat Gohma Vlitra, the seemingly-impossible goal that motivated him to betray and murder the former Emperor and Asura, further militarize the demi-gods, and turn humanity into a Martyrdom Culture that he slaughtered for thousands of years and harvested _trillions_ of souls of to make come true.
-   _Azure Striker Gunvolt_: The members of the villainous Seven Sumeragi Swordsmen each represent a different deadly sin; Jota, the Prideful Silhouette, is associated with pride. He's incredibly arrogant and patriotic, constantly boasting of his own superiority and that of the Sumeragi Group to which he is fiercely loyal.
-   _BlazBlue_'s Big Bad Yuuki Terumi AKA Susanoo is all about this to the point of being is Fatal Flaw. His _Arrogance_, _Hubris_ _AND_ _Narcissism_ is the size of Ikaruga itself. In fact, it's also a Berserk Button if you so much as crack it, he will do everything in his power to have you Deader than Dead.
-   _Dead Rising 3_ has seven psychopaths who represent the Seven Deadly Sins. Pride is represented by Jherii Gallo, a female bodybuilder who is obsessed with her looks, strength, and winning bodybuilding contests and gets murderous when any of these qualities are insulted or threatened. After getting defeated in battle by Nick Ramos, she is killed when a shelf holding all her trophies falls on her.
-   _Dragon Age: Origins_:
    -   The Seven Deadly Sins are divided up among five different types of demons: Rage (wrath), Hunger (gluttony), Sloth, Desire (greed, envy, and lust), and Pride. Pride Demons are considered the strongest of the five types by the Chantry because the emotion that they feed off of is the most human and complex. Oddly, while some Pride Demons can be interacted with, only a few attempt to manipulate the player psychologically; their main threat comes from the fact that they're huge and hit like a MAC truck.
    -   The sin of Pride is one of the overarching themes of the _Dragon Age_ verse in general; it was the pride of the magisters that led them to attempt to conquer heaven and thereby to turn the Golden City into the Black City and unleash the darkspawn on the world (at least according to the Chantry; the magister Corypheus claims that the Black City was already corrupt when he arrived, but his clear megalomania certainly supports the Pride bit). Origins' introduction begins with Duncan intoning "The Chantry teaches us that it is the sins of Man that brought the darkspawn to this world..." and the two Tragic Hero party members of _Dragon Age II_, Anders and Merrill, both bring themselves (and other people) to ruin because they pridefully believe themselves equal to the foolish risks they undertake ( willingly allowing a spirit to possess him, in Anders's case; practicing blood magic, summoning demons and making deals with them, and attempting to repair an artifact that killed her best friend, in Merrill's case).
        
        _The Chantry teaches us that it is the hubris of men which brought the darkspawn into our world. The mages had sought to usurp Heaven. But instead, they destroyed it._
        
    -   In _Dragon Age: Inquisition_, Solas accuses Vivienne of being so self-assured that a Pride demon would walk away laughing. She replies it's happened more than once.
-   About half of the fortresses in _Dwarf Fortress_ meet their demise due to some form of shameless, unabashed hubris on the part of the Cruel Player-Character God. Many projects attempting to convert the landscape into Mordor, construct gargantuan statues, develop horrific Doomsday Devices, or channel the unspeakable, eldritch power of Hell itself end up resulting in Disaster Dominoes. Of course, when all goes according to plan...
-   _The Elder Scrolls_
    -   Pride is the Fatal Flaw of dragons. This flaw is often _literally_ fatal, because a dragon who is challenged must accept, and to not do so is to call into question whether you're a true dragon in the first place.
    -   Pride, along with his colossal Arrogance, tends to be the fatal flaw of series' recurring villain Mannimarco, a highly dreaded Lich/Necromancer. As a result of the Warp in the West merging _Daggerfall_'s Multiple Endings, he does succeed in his goal of becoming a god, but it is in a very minor station and left him with Literal Split Personalities. He fails to wipe out the rival Mages Guild in _Oblivion_, as the Mages Guild Arch-Mage made a Heroic Sacrifice to ensure Mannimarco's defeat. In the prequel _The Elder Scrolls Online_, Mannimarco serves as The Dragon to Molag Bal, but attempts to Starscream him and usurp his position of divinity. This ends poorly for Mannimarco, but he does survive as he appears in (chronologically) later games in the series.
    -   It also proves to be the Fatal Flaw of the Big Bad of _Skyrim_'s _Dragonborn_ DLC, who thinks himself superior to mortals _and_ dragons, and wants to rule them. He even thinks himself intelligent enough to outsmart Hermaeus Mora, the Daedric Prince of Knowledge, within Mora's _own realm_.
    -   _Online_ introduces Daedric Titans, a form of lesser Daedra created by Molag Bal, the Daedric Prince of Domination and Corruption, by corrupting _dragons_. After the dragon Boziikkodstrun resisted Molag Bal's Cold-Blooded Torture and Mind Rape through sheer unrelenting pride, Bal decided to bring that power to his side by corrupting Boziikkodstrun into becoming the first Titan.
-   _Fatal Fury:_ Geese... poor, poor Geese. If it weren't for his... excessive pride, he wouldn't be stuck to the pavement like a mancake right now.
-   _Geneforge_ series — The Shaper Council. If you choose to help a faction that opposes them, then they learn the hard way that yes, the rebellion _can_ be a threat to them. Unfortunately, the other factions are often just as arrogant.
-   The original setting of Enroth for _Heroes of Might and Magic_ was ultimately destroyed by the Pride of two leaders: Avlee's hero Gelu and Krewlod's king Kilgor. Their pride was exacerbated by the incredibly powerful swords each wielded, Armageddon's Blade and the Sword of Frost respectively. Gelu was convinced that he would be the one to save Enroth and bring order to it with the power of his blade, while Kilgor was convinced that he could conquer Enroth with the Sword of Frost. When they finally clashed, the colliding powers of their swords triggered a chain reaction that destroyed all of Enroth as well as them. In the end, their pride brought doom to themselves and to their world.
-   Durandal and Tycho from _Marathon_ are two rampant Ship AIs with delusions of godhood. The former's despair of being restricted to the thankless duty of operating doors while he could much greater things with his vast intellect is one of the things that starts the plot of the trilogy.
-   _Mass Effect 3_:
    -   The Illusive Man was brought down by his own pride. His plan was near\-foolproof, taking into account Shepard and the Alliance's interference, their eventual pushing back against the Reapers, as well as the eventual completion and deployment of The Crucible (for the first time in the history of the Galaxy). He even rightly came to the conclusion that it would allow him to take control of the Reapers. However, he _never_, even for a moment, thought he might end up indoctrinated himself. If Shepard can make him come to realize it, he commits suicide.
    -   This is also Kai Leng's Fatal Flaw. The Illusive Man, despite his pride, for the most part still treated his enemies with caution. In particular, despite being his/her enemy, he greatly respected Shepard. The Illusive Man continuously warns Kai Leng to show Shepard respect and to not underestimate his/her skills. Kai Leng arrogantly refused to do so and was even insulted when The Illusive Man compares him to Shepard. His underestimation of him/her proves to be his undoing.
    -   As it turns out, the ENTIRE Reaper threat is due to a particularly nasty case of this. The Leviathans, annoyed that their subjects kept making AI's that eventually destroyed themselves, made an AI to try and solve the problem. Shepard can rightly point out the idiocy in doing exactly what caused the destruction of their subjects themselves, and they just shrug it off by saying the concerns of 'lesser species' were beneath them. Even after the loss of their entire empire and being reduced to hiding in the deepest oceans, the Leviathan speaker still refuses to admit that creating it was a mistake. The entire galaxy today, them included, are now paying for their arrogance.
    -   Aria T'Loak suffers from this in spades in the _Omega_ DLC, with a heavy mixture of wrath, constantly underestimating her opponents and overestimating her own abilities. If she hadn't brought Shepard along with her, that pride would have gotten herself and all of her troops killed (as it is, it just leads to the deaths of a significant portion of them).
-   Bass from _Mega Man (Classic)_ is extremely arrogant and obsessed with proving his superiority over Mega Man, to the point he regularly disobeys Wily. It's justified in a Gone Horribly Right fashion: he was designed to defeat Mega Man and prove himself to be superior. However, Wily neglected to include a "obey Wily at all times" clause, and so this resulted in a robot who regularly ignores Wily's demands in favor of antagonizing Mega Man.
-   In _Overlord_, Pride is the sin embodied by the Wizard, seventh member of the adventuring band of heroes that slew the old Overlord. His pride kept him from realising his own vulnerability and intended role in the old Overlord's Thanatos Gambit. By the time the protagonist meets him, the Wizard is nothing more than a skin coat worn by the revived Dark Lord, who subsequently inherits the downfall of pride by being destroyed by the very man he groomed to be his puppet replacement.
-   In _Persona 5_, each of the palace owners embody one of the deadly sins. Pride is represented by The Heavy Masayoshi Shido, a politician who believes the horrible things he's done to complete innocents, including _half your party_ (being responsible for the death of Futaba's mother and Haru's dad, and being the one who sent you on probation), are entirely justified and that he is _God's chosen_, simply because the public supported for him unconditionally. (And yes, there's a "God" leading the public to ruin using him as a front) Sure enough, his sheer underestimation of your whole party going for his head (and that he doesn't take every other person he ruined as a serious consequence) caused him to become one of the long list of targets the Phantom Thieves successfully disposed of. Even after his Change of Heart, the real person had absolutely _zero_ idea that all the lives he ruined are going after him.
-   In _Persona 5 Strikers_, the sin is represented by Akira Konoe, the CEO of Maddice who was responsible for running the EMMA application, who unlike the aforementioned Shido is _genuinely_ an altruistic and charismatic man with an ambition to become a hero that helps those in need. The problem? Not only has he stooped to some very big extremes as a Well-Intentioned Extremist, being the one that helped in creating the Jails and bringing their respective Monarchs into power, he also fully subscribes to Black-and-White Insanity, being so self assured that what he's doing is in the name of justice that he thinks that anyone who dares disagree with his methods must be evil. He believes that he alone should be the superhero that everyone needs, and that everyone else should follow his beliefs of what justice is and what must be done to see it served.
-   _Planescape: Torment_. As the backstory unfolds, you learn that the First Incarnation of the Nameless One had committed a horrific crime, then decided that he needed to become immortal in order to have enough time to make up for it. It... didn't work. You can spend most of the game atoning for this, and you _still_ end up going to hell for it.
-   _Rengoku_: The second game tells that Mars, who is associated with Pride, has lacked discipline or self-restraint and have overused his AI Suit, which ended up killing him.
-   In the original _Ridge Racer_, the ultimate unlockable vehicle in the game is the black car (officially #13, 13" Racing). Even a good player can expect to be passed like they were standing still soon after the starting line, whereupon they will come around the next lap to see their opponent _lounging by the black car, waiting for them to catch up._ Tortoise and the Hare, much?
-   After the second credits of _Solatorobo_, Elh claims that Red has a huge ego and the reason she won't tell him what their adventures together mean to her is because she doesn't want it to get any bigger.
-   _Spec Ops: The Line_, being heavily inspired by _Heart of Darkness_ and _Apocalypse Now_, features this prominently.
    -   Colonel John Konrad thought helping the people of Dubai would just be a matter of putting in the effort and it's insinuated that at least part of his motivation is to make up for his failures as a commander in Afghanistan; his evacuation ends with much of the population dead, his own troops turning into what is effectively an occupying force to keep the survivors in line while subsisting off extremely limited resources, half of his troops turn on him when they decide it's gone too far, much of the population forms an insurgency against him because the troops have gotten so brutal they're worse than having no order at all, and he ends up killing himself after the weight of this new failure becomes too much to bear.
    -   Captain Martin Walker, like Konrad before him, is sure he can be the hero and help, so he presses on despite having the chance to leave, report the situation to his superiors and get backup. Everything he does only makes things worse, so much so that he snaps and loses his sense of reality. The fake Colonel Konrad he hallucinates is talking to him long after the real Konrad is dead actually calls him out for wanting to be a hero so badly that it blinded him to how much worse he was making everything.
    -   The player is not exempt, as even the game's _loading screen tooltips_ start telling you "None of this would have happened if you just _stopped._" The dev team are perfectly happy being blamed for making the game for the player to play in the first place, too, as it mirrors Walker blaming Konrad, to a point.
-   In _StarCraft: Brood War_, Admiral Dugalle's Fatal Flaw is pride. Samir Duran exploits Dugalle's pride in his forces to convince him to destroy the Psi Disrupter. When Vice Admiral Stukov goes behind Dugalle's back by secretly relocating the Disrupter, rightly believing that it's their best chance to defeat the Zerg, Duran plays Dugalle's hurt ego and manipulates him into ordering the death of his best friend. In the final cinematic scene depicting the remnants of Dugalle's fleet fleeing the sector right before they are wiped out by the Zerg Kerrigan sent to pursue them, Dugalle writes a final letter to his wife. In it, Dugalle confesses that his pride killed Alexei and consumed him as well. Immediately after finishing the letter, he commits suicide.
-   The Fatal Flaw of _Street Fighter_'s Sagat is his massive pride. After Ryu defeated him in the first game (or better said, a Satsui no Hado empowered Ryu defeated him), his ego was so bruised that he had a Face–Heel Turn and joined Bison's Shadaloo...
-   _Trillion: God of Destruction_: Ruche, one of Zeabolos' nieces, holds the Crest of Pride, and tends to look down on others due to her upbringing, even looking down on her uncle for being defeated by Trillion. Turns out she actually does consider everyone friends, and much of what she says, though backhanded, is genuine advice or compliments.
-   _World of Warcraft_:
    -   In the fourth expansion, pride turns out to be Emperor Shaohao's fatal flaw, for a rare non-villainous example, which nonetheless would go on to have tragic consequences; as he believed that Pandaria was better than the rest of the world, his pride created the magical mists that turned Pandaria into a Hidden Elf Village. By the time you actually meet him, he seems to have recognized his errors after millennia of meditation on the subject and goes on to give you a very philosophical analysis on the nature of pride before asking for your help to clean up his mess. Check quote pages if you want to know the full speech.
    -   Dealing with this involves a final showdown with the Sha of Pride, the fourth boss in Siege of Orgrimmar, the most powerful sha of all, and the only one Emperor Shaohao didn't purge himself of. To even fight against the Sha, you must complete Norushen's trial (the third boss encounter) in order to sufficiently purge yourself of your corruption. The Sha of Pride uses attacks that increase your Pride, all while saying things such as "You are better than your companions" and "You should bow to no king or warchief," with increasingly negative effects until you are ultimately mind controlled; you must defeat the boss before this can happen.
    -   Pride also proves to be Garrosh Hellscream's fatal flaw, as his caused him to view all non-orcish races as worthy only to serve or be ground underfoot, and that same pride caused him to be completely ignorant of the growing similarities between the oppressive rule of the mogu in ages past and the police-state Orgrimmar has become in light of the other leaders rebelling, after a campaign full of being used to further the orcs' agenda with nothing to show for it but bodies to bury and, in the blood elves' case, a weapon to use in the upcoming revolution. Fittingly enough, it was _Garrosh_ that allowed the Sha of Pride to manifest completely.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Fate/stay night_:
    -   Pride is the Fatal Flaw of Gilgamesh; he is the single-most powerful being in the story, capable of frightening even Avenger — the embodiment of all human evils incarnated in an unlimited source of power... But he _never_ goes all out on people because he is too secure in his own superiority, and it _always_ comes back to bite him in the ass because by the time he gets serious it is already too late.
    -   Shinji is also overly prideful (with far less justification, too), which (combined with his general uselessness) ultimately leads to his downfall in all three routes (in particular Heaven's Feel).
    -   Nero Claudius is one of the only people who can match Gilgamesh in sheer ego, though in her case it makes her endearing rather than annoying. It helps that as proud as she is, she's equally generous and kindhearted.
-   In _Katawa Shoujo_, Lilly is often described as prideful by Hisao, as he notices that she often hides her emotions and works hard to prevent her blindness from being a noticeable handicap. Similarly, Emi often boasts about her skill as a runner in the track, referring to herself as "the fastest thing on no legs".
-   In _Rising Angels_, this is the problem of Natalie, the protagonist. She's convinced that her relegation to a remote listening outpost was an injustice, and that she'd have done a much better job than her classmates who were promoted past her. Mistakes made in the course of the game cause her to realise that she's not actually guaranteed results any better than the "incompetents" she dismissed, and that there are more important things than trying to prove her qualities to her superiors anyway.
-   _Umineko: When They Cry_: Lucifer is the eldest of the Stakes of Purgatory. Naturally, she has quite a bit of Pride in this position, which makes sense, considering that's the sin she embodies. This makes her Defeat by Modesty at the hands of Kanon in the third arc all the more hilarious. However, the Stakes Valentine's Day side story reveals that she's actually the least competent of her sisters, and her TIPS reveal that she takes great pleasure in surrendering.

    Web Animation 

-   _Dreamscape_: Even though Melissa is no longer aligned with Melinda, she's kept _all_ her ego!
    -   Melinda herself thinks she is unstoppable and anyone that tries to stand in her way is a hopeless fool. This ends up being a Fatal Flaw and leads to her demise.
-   If you ask _Overly Sarcastic Productions_ 's Red, this is her fatal flaw.
-   Jaune Arc of _RWBY_ is a Downplayed variant. While he is a genuine Nice Guy, he turns down Pyrrha's offer to train him out of pride, believing he has to become stronger on his own. After some Character Development, Jaune reconsiders Pyrrha's offer.

    Webcomics 

-   Red Mage of _8-Bit Theater_ is noted for his absolute conviction that he is a brilliant tactician who understands everything perfectly and never makes stupid decisions. None of those things are true. This gets him hurt innumerable times, including the time he insisted that he would be better at negotiating with a monster than the guy who _hired_ said monster, and found himself transformed into a slime creature as a result. When the time came for them to face Ordeals related to their vices, Red Mage attempted to defeat the Ordeal of Pride by insisting that he _clearly_ can't be arrogant because that would be a _flaw_, and when he admits he cannot defeat it and thus passes, he takes about four seconds to convince himself that his mind was working on a level of subtle brilliance unknown to even him. Elves are arrogant on a cultural/species level, so Thief can also exhibit this, but Red Mage is the one who has it brought up the most.
-   _Dan and Mab's Furry Adventures_ gives us the following exchange:
    
    **Dan:** "You know... last time I checked... pride was considered to be a deadly sin!!!"  
    **Aaryanna:** "And it's a sin you should be proud of, dammit!!!"
    
-   _Jack_: Pride/Vanity is a minor antagonist. As a punishment for some undisclosed Pride-themed crimes she is disfigured beyond description (think of being literally turned inside out and left that way) and is obsessed with looking beautiful again. Her preferred method is to skin other Hell-denizens and clad herself in their hides.
-   _Kill Six Billion Demons_: The Demiurge Solomon David represents the sin of pride amongst the seven remaining Demiurges. A Control Freak who believes in Might Makes Right, Solomon has attempted to build a 'perfect' society out of his seventh of Creation. He regularly creates a massive multiversal tournament in the hopes of finding a Worthy Opponent who could inherit it from him, but the tournament is inherently rigged in that there is no realistic chance of anyone who isn't another Demiurge ever winning due to Solomon's massive power advantage. This turns the whole thing into little more than a continual 'proof' of his own superiority and worthiness to continue leading. The Tragic part is that like some of the other Demiurges shown so far, at least some part of him does genuinely want to lay down his mantle and pass on his power, but his Pride has made him unable to see his "test" is unfairly rigged and would, at best replace him with someone exactly like him and not a benevolent soul. And of course, when his own people end up seeing him fail to protect them against Jagganoth, and call him out on the fact he tyrannized a city over a promise of safety he couldn't fulfill, he _shatters_. He's last seen desperately throwing away his very life with a Dangerous Forbidden Technique to protect whatever's left and remove Jagganoth from the universe, if only to prove to himself, to his people and to the ghosts in his past that he's worthy after all, then staggering away, half dead, having shoved his Word to White Chain as a spiteful-seeming "let's see _you_ do better" gesture.
-   _The Last Days of Foxhound_: Everyone in FOXHOUND is pretty dysfunctional, but Ocelot is the most ravingly egotistical, mouthing off _constantly_ about how he's better than everyone else on the team. Most of it does seem to be genuine, although some of it may have been overplaying it for the sake of the long con.
    
    **Mantis:** Look, this is a man who believes if God himself came down from the heavens, pointed a shotgun at his head and pulled the trigger, _God would miss._
    
-   _Ménage à 3_:
    -   Petty pride is Zii's big failing. She's proud of being a great seducer, but regularly fails to anticipate the long-term consequences of her seductions; she also claims to be great at pairing other people up, but after promising to help the virginal Gary, she makes only vague, intermittent efforts to get his love life moving, with limited success.
    -   Matt also has this, nearly having a mental breakdown when he believes Gary performs better sexually than he does.
-   _The Order of the Stick_:
    -   Vaarsuvius' pride and inability to admit mistakes or rely on others is what ultimately causes them to accept a Deal with the Devil(s). To their credit however, they seem to have realized this and are trying to improve.
    -   Similarly, Pride is Miko's Fatal Flaw — she refuses to admit that she can be wrong, and ends up falling from her paladin status and dying in a Senseless Sacrifice that accidentally brings about Xykon's partial victory. As one poster on the Giant in the Playground boards put it, pride is the sin of the fallen, the sin of Lucifer.
    -   Genre Savvy Control Freak Tarquin is also dangerously, overly proud of himself.
    -   A variation of this is Redcloak's greatest weakness. He keeps telling himself, over and over, that he's come too far to change course now, but in truth, what's really keeping him going is that he thinks too much of himself to _ever_ admit he's made a mistake. To the point he turns down an offer to accomplish his goals in a clean, neat way that won't risk cataclysmically backfiring the way his actual plan is _guaranteed_ to because taking it means admitting he's wrong.
-   In _Sandra on the Rocks_, pride seems to be Zoé's chief flaw (and source of strength). She dislikes being called a "veteran model" because it makes her sound old, and would sooner spend a fortune on gifts than simply _apologise_ for mistreating someone.
-   In the BDSM themed _Sunstone_ this is what brought Ally and Alan's relationship to an end. The experience of dominating each other went to their heads and this turned into a competitive and destructive relationship when they didn't have the free time to share their desired role regularly. At the time the two of them also considered themselves superior to vanilla people; and this trait is still somewhat evident in Ally when she refers to casual practitioners of BDSM as noobs. Ally also blames herself and her ego for what happened in the class on shibari with Marion, leading to her "showing her too much, too fast" and the downward spiral that followed.
-   _Weak Hero_:
    -   Alex's Fatal Flaw. He's overly sensitive to his reputation as "just Ben's lackey", and is quick to fly off the handle if someone accuses him of riding off Ben's coattails. This was even worse in middle school, where he got involved with the wrong crowd after they appealed to his strength.
    -   Wolf's greatest flaw besides his bloodlust is his arrogance. His defeat at Gray's hands comes about from him pushing Gray to the point that his Berserk Button goes off, mistakenly assuming that he was stronger than whatever the feared White Mamba could dish out.
    -   Jimmy and Duyon are both immensely prideful, with Jimmy going so far as to challenge opponents stronger than him in a desperate bid to regain his reputation. This causes them to parallel each other, and when they eventually come to blows it's described as a "battle of pride".

    Western Animation 

-   _Aaahh!!! Real Monsters_: All three of the monsters suffer from this. Oblina because she's a know-it-all, Krumm because he smells so awful, and Ickis because it's the only way he can step out of his father's shadow.
-   _Avatar: The Last Airbender_:
    -   Suki doesn't respond well to having her failures pointed out. When Sokka gently prods her to admit she was beaten in a sparring session, Suki forcibly bends his finger backwards and insists it was a lucky shot. After Suki mocks Team Avatar's win/loss record and Sokka responds by pointing out Princess Azula took her captive, she flatly asks him if he's trying to get on her bad side.
    -   Zuko's pride and obsession with regaining his honor encourages him to make two seasons worth of bad decisions, to the point that he's made seriously ill by compromising his goals.
        
        **Zuko:** But I don't feel any shame at all. I'm as proud as ever!  
        **Iroh:** Prince Zuko, pride is not the opposite of shame, but its source.
        
    -   At the end of his life, Sozin understands it was all a waste and that he has committed horrible atrocities in the name of changing and saving the world, including being responsible for the death of his best friend and initiating a genocide that fails to kill the one person he was after. It was his self-perceived power and sense of right that led to nearly a century of war after his death.
    -   In the sequel series, _The Legend of Korra_, the title character herself has some pride issues as well. Having humility forced on her happens a lot throughout the show.
-   On _The Berenstain Bears_, this is one of Papa Bear's main character flaws, to the point that in "The Giant Mall" from the 2003 series, he spends over an hour wandering the mall looking for a hardware store because he wouldn't read a map. Though he does admit he was wrong at the end of the episode and vows to change his ways.
-   In _Bob's Burgers_, this is the biggest reason why the family lives in Perpetual Poverty as while he's an excellent chef, Bob's business sense is extremely poor to the point of being self-defeating due to a sense of pride as a cook. He's turned down numerous opportunities for profit (such as an investor's tiki theme or a plaque indicating his restaurant was the location of a criminal's death) and tends not to follow ongoing trends like sweet potato fries out of the misguided belief that he only needs his burgers to attract customers.
    -   Bob's own father was even worse, creating a rift between the two that lasted for decades. While Bob likes to experiment with his burgers, his Fantasy-Forbidding Father refused to try anything new and basically said it was his way or the highway while throwing away a burger Bob made for a customer as a boy before they could even try it.
-   _Codename: Kids Next Door_: After his defection, this was revealed to be Chad Dickson's fatal flaw. He has always considered himself to be the best, and his obsession with being at the top is his drive, to the point that when Nigel was considered to be better than him, Chad tried to _kill_ him.
-   _Danny Phantom_: Big Bad Vlad Masters' Fatal Flaw was a mix of this and envy. He was a Broken Ace who lost the love of his life to his best friend after getting injured in a Freak Lab Accident, and spent the entirety of his adult life seething over the life he felt he should've had due to his arrogance, thinking too highly of himself and his ambitions and being unwilling to compromise them.
-   _Darkwing Duck_ — Darkwing is to pride what Scrooge McDuck is to greed and avarice. With a chaser of Loners Are Freaks.
-   Speaking of Scrooge McDuck, this bites him big time in _DuckTales (2017)_. You just don't become the Richest Duck in the World by settling for second place, which fuels a lot of his adventures and his stubbornness, but it backfires horribly in "Last Crash of the Sunchaser" when after finally explaining what happened to Della Duck and the Spear of Selene, the triplets accuse Scrooge of being a cowardly penny-pincher who left her in space that Scrooge loses his cool and blows up at everyone before he can explain he nearly ran himself bankrupt trying to save her.
-   Lucius on _Jimmy Two-Shoes_. He's a Smug Snake ruling an Egopolis who constantly tries to make the population love him while at the same time making them miserable. He's even named after Lucifer, the demon of pride. In fact, according to Word of God, Lucius has some pretty terrifying powers, but doesn't use them strictly because his pride would be wounded if he admitted he needed them.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ brings up the subject of pride a number of times:
    -   In the Season 1 episode "Applebuck Season", her stubborn refusal to accept help after insisting she could handle her family's orchard harvest alone combined with her trying to meet obligations to help her friends ends in nothing but disaster all over.
        
        **Twilight Sparkle:** It's over-propelled pegasus, practically poisoned plenty of ponies, and terrorized bushels of brand new bouncing baby bunnies.
        
    -   Meanwhile, "The Last Roundup" features Applejack essentially running away from home in shame when she doesn't win as big as she and everypony else had expected her to in a big rodeo competition she'd won ten years straight.
    -   "The Super Speedy Cider Squeezy 6000" shows Applejack's learned her lessons when she readily accepts help from her friends in a desperate situation.
    -   A positive example occurs in "Baby Cakes", when an Innocently Insensitive comment by Twilight Sparkle kick starts Pinkie Pie's pride and forces her to step up to the responsibilities of caring for the foals she's babysitting.
    -   Discord is immensely prideful to the point he views _no one_ as a threat to him. This bites him in the tail, as it blinds him to the fact that the six ponies standing in front of him are now capable of kicking it.
    -   Rainbow Dash is Equestria's greatest flyer and she knows it _very_ well. Certain spotlight episodes such as "Sonic Rainboom" and "The Mysterious Mare Do Well" expand upon Rainbow's hubris and shine on her insecurities and fear of failure. By the episode "Wonderbolt Academy", she has grown enough to swallow that pride to accept an inferior assignment. However, it hasn't gone _completely_ away as late as the episode "Newbie Dash" has Rainbow Dash deal with trying to get rid of an Embarrassing Nickname.
    -   The aptly titled "Pinkie Pride" is all about Pinkie defending her pride as a party planner from her rival Cheese Sandwich, to the point where she takes great offense when her friends take the very concept of a party for granted. The episode examines both the positive and negative aspects of this mindset: while it does snap her out of a Heroic BSoD when her friends forget about her in favor of Cheese, it also blinds her from how much of a strain she puts on her friends as it continues to get the better of her.
    -   The Season 6 episode "The Gift of the Maud Pie" tackles this once more. Pinkie Pie is so driven by the desire to find a better gift than what her sister Maud Pie would give her that she totally misses the point of giving a gift to someone in the first place. Unlike _Pinkie Pride_, however, it shows only the negative consequences of her Pride, as Pinkie ends up trading away her prized Party Cannon for a rock pouch, which in turn, makes her completely miserable. Maud quickly picks up on this, and goes to get the Party Cannon back and set Pinkie straight as well.
-   Radicles on _OK K.O.! Let's Be Heroes_. He believes himself to be always right and has a hard time admitting when he isn't.
-   In the _Ready Jet Go!_ episode "Racing on Sunshine", Mitchell, the three-time kid kart derby champion, rejects help from Jet because he is sure that he will win. His overconfidence causes him to not think and forget to install a battery in his solar-powered kid-kart, and he ends up losing the derby because of it.
-   _Thunder Cats 2011_:
    -   Specifically brought up as a trait of Tygra's and tigers in general. Pride is Tygra's defining flaw for much of the series, driving him to constantly try to prove himself as better than Lion-O in almost every aspect, as well as causing him to be the most prejudiced member of the ThunderCats. That he's a royal, albeit adopted, doesn't help much either. Spoiler: this pride proved to be unfounded when in "The Trials of Lion-O", Lion-O is believed to be dead and Tygra has to take over as leader, only to end up getting the entire team caught when his plan fails miserably. He laments in the jail cell that he didn't know what to do, and while he always criticized Lion-O's plans, they always worked out while all he managed to do was get everyone captured.
    -   In "Native Son," we meet the Tiger Clan and Tygra's father Javan, and as it turns out pride was their downfall. The tigers and Tygus were too proud to join Leo when he rebeled against Mumm-Ra and split from them. When a plague was killing them, they were too proud to seek aid from Thundera and sought help from the Ancient Spirits (of Evil) instead. The Spirits agreed to cure everyone if Javan killed Tygra, but when he saved Tygra instead, the spirits cursed the tigers, letting the plague kill them all and forcing them to haunt their home as undead ghosts, only able to pass on if one of them could overcome their pride and show humility. Tygra's father even tries to keep all this a secret and drive Tygra away rather than have to admit what happened when Tygra becomes bitter about being sent away, all out of pride. Even in this case Tygra's pride gets in the way of seeing that his father was trying to save him from the plague, and it's only when he finds out about the curse that he forgives his father, which ends up lifting the curse. As you can see, pride causes a lot of problems.
-   _Transformers_:
    -   Pick a Starscream. Any Starscream. Granted, all of Decepticon/Predacon culture is glory seeking, but no mech is more of a narcissist than the Pride of the Cybertron War Academy, the Greatest Explorer in Modern Times, the true heir and leader of the Decepticons, and self-cloning geek, _fragging Starscream_.
    -   On the other side of the Cybertronian Civil War is Sentinel Prime, also in every incarnation. He usually means well, is at some level a nice guy, and usually has a history of friendship with Optimus Prime (if he isn't Optimus' father figure), but he's also almost always going to end up at least mildly villainous out of sheer ego.
    -   There's Megatron who makes sure that he alone is the undisputed leader of the Decepticons, and he won't allow even Unicron to command him.
    -   Speaking of Unicron, he takes It's All About Me to such an extreme that he won't tolerate the existence of the entire multiverse just because it consists of things other than himself.

___

## Escanor, Lion Sin of Pride

Escanor is the second prince of the Kingdom of Castellio and is a member of the Seven Deadly Sins. He is best known as the Lion Sin of Pride.

Example of:  
Seven Deadly Sins

### **Alternative Title(s):** Hubris, Arrogance

-   Power-Upgrading Deformation
-   Price of Power Index
-   Psychic Nosebleed

-   Lust
-   UsefulNotes/Europe
-   Seven Heavenly Virtues

-   Prank Gone Too Far
-   QuoteSource/The Bible
-   Pride Before a Fall

-   Offended by an Enemy's Indifference
-   Ego Tropes
-   Pride Before a Fall

-   Previously on…
-   WeAreNotAlone/Tropes M to P
-   Pride Parade

-   The Power of Love
-   Motivation Index
-   Prized Possession Giveaway

-   The Prankster
-   Character Flaw Index
-   The Primadonna

-   Pompous Political Pundit
-   Prideful Tropes
-   Pride Before a Fall

-   Parting the Sea
-   ImageSource/Other Media
-   Rays from Heaven