_"You mean the Spiritual Stone of Water, Zora's Sapphire, don't you? My mother gave it to me and said I should give it only to the man who will be my husband. You might call it the Zora's Engagement Ring! All right! I'll give you my most precious possession: Zora's Sapphire! Don't tell my father..."_

We all (well, most of us, anyway) know that it's good to be selfless, generous, and giving. This is easy enough when it comes to buying gifts for people, but it's not always possible to do that, and sometimes you really want to make a grand gesture. Sometimes, it's a matter of giving away something you personally love, whether it's because of sentimental reasons or simply because it's the gift you've been waiting for all year long.

It can be a character's #1 Dime or their most valuable jewel; a trinket that only holds sentimental value, or the new toy they just got for Christmas. As long as the item is something they hold dear, it counts.

This is frequently portrayed as a Heartwarming Moment, even if it's subtle. The idea of the character choosing someone else's happiness over their own is highlighted in them trading away the thing they love, sometimes as a direct gift, and sometimes as part of a trade for the real gift. The key here is that the character, even if a little reluctant, does it willingly and feels good about doing it. It's not forced upon them, it's something they choose to do because they know it's right, or because they really want to brighten someone else's day. However, the heartwarming connotation can be subverted if this is a Prelude to Suicide.

A staple of Meaningful Gift, Hair Memento and Gift of the Magi Plot, making this a supertrope. Compare Friend-or-Idol Decision, when it's a show of loyalty over desire. I Want My Beloved to Be Happy (when a character wishes happiness to their Love Interest after the latter is engaged to someone else) is a Sister Trope. Contrast Reluctant Gift, when the character actually _doesn't_ want to hand over their valued item, and only does it for a reason or circumstance that goes beyond their intent.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Ojamajo Doremi_: In the episode "A Wish For A Precious Shirt", Misaki sells his favorite shirt to the Maho-Dou. Upon finding out that it's a hand-me-down, the girls try to return it to him.
-   _The Seven Deadly Sins_: In a Season 3 Episode, set 45 years before the events of the series, Nadja comforts Gowther by gifting him one of her favorite storybooks, so he can enjoy reading it when he feels sad or depressed. Funnily, Gowther gives it back to her after he reads all of it by merely flicking through the pages in less than a minute.
-   _Wild Rock_: Yuni gives Selim his necklace when they part ways. When Selim mentions how much the necklace means to Yuni, Yuni retorts that it’s _because_ he treasures it that he’s giving it to Selim. Years later when their tribes unite together, Yuni spies this same necklace around Selim’s wrist worn as a bracelet.

    Comic Books 

-   _Asterix_: At the end of "Asterix at the Olympic Games", Asterix gives his laurel wreath to the Roman athlete and his centurion, claiming they needed it more than him (to ward off Caesar's wrath at the Roman team not winning a single event).

    Fanfiction 

-   _More Than Human_: Mitch Michelson treasures his father's leather jacket. He gives it to Buttercup when he grows out of it. This becomes a plot point after their breakup.

    Films — Animation 

-   In _Despicable Me 3_, after Gru and Lucy are fired from AVL, Agnes sells her stuffed unicorn (the one Gru won for her in the first movie, and marked the moment when Gru started to genuinely care for the girls) in order to raise money to support them.
-   In _The Mitchells vs. the Machines_, Rick gives Katie a wooden moose figurine (the last remnant of his dream house) when she gets nervous about going on a field trip.
-   _Rapsittie Street Kids: Believe in Santa_: Ricky decides to give Nicole his beloved teddy bear, which he got from his now-deceased mother. It initially backfires, because she doesn't at all care for it, but in the end, she not only comes to appreciate the sentiment but also gives him the gift _he_ really wanted.
-   _Toy Story 3_: In the movie's finale, Andy intends to donate all of his toys except Woody (his favorite) to Bonnie. When he realizes that Woody is also in the donation box (Woody himself entered there secretly) and Bonnie attempts to grab it, he initially hesitates to give it away to her, but soon changes his mind and entrusts it to her. The two humans play together with all toys for a brief time, and then Andy bids a final farewell to Bonnie and the toys before driving to the whereabouts of his college.
    
    **Andy:** Now, Woody. He's been my pal as long as I can remember. He's brave, like a cowboy should be. And kind, and smart. But the thing that makes Woody special? Is he'll never give up on you — ever. He'll be there for you, no matter what. Y'think you can take care of him for me? _\[Bonnie nods in assurance\]_ Okay, then.
    
-   In _Turning Red_, Mei ends up giving her prized Tamagotchi to her mother, Ming, so Ming can use it to store her red panda spirit.
-   _Up_: When Ellie is dying in the hospital, she gives her "adventure book", a book full of plans for her future adventures she had since she was a kid, to her husband Carl.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _Jingle All the Way_: Howard butts heads with Myron because they're both looking for a Turbo Man action figure for their respective sons, and being the year's hottest toy, the action figure has been completely sold out. When Howard is dressed up as Turbo man (he was mistaken for the actor after he went back stage to hide from the cops) he is given a special edition figure to give away at the Christmas parade he gives it to his son, Jamie. However, Myron ties down the actor portraying the villain and chases Jamie to get the Turbo Man toy. After Howard saves Jamie's life, the latter gives Myron the figure saying that he already has "a real-life Turbo Man" (his father) at home.
-   _Labyrinth_: At the beginning of the film, Sarah resents her baby brother Toby and is upset that her parents have let him play with her favorite soft toy without asking her first. At the end of the film, she gifts the same toy to Toby as a sign of how her feelings toward him have improved.
-   _Martial Arts of Shaolin_: The hero (Zhi-Ming) carries with him a silver anklet ever since birth, one which is two-of-a-kind that his (long-deceased) parents said the girl who carries the other anklet will be destined to be Zhi-Ming's wife. As the film goes on Zhi-Ming becomes close friends with Chao-Wei the warrior and Sima-Yen the Action Girl, the latter who owns the other anklet. At the end of the film after working together to defeat the Big Bad, Zhi-Ming ultimately decides his heart lies with the Shaolin monks; so instead Zhi-Ming gives his anklet to Chao-Wei, wishing Chao-Wei and Sima-Yan a happy marriage as he bids his best friends farewell.
-   _Rambo III_: At the end of the movie, after the Soviets have been defeated, Rambo gives his jade necklace to his young Afghan kid sidekick as a memento, the same necklace which is a Tragic Keepsake from Rambo's lover Co Bao who died in the previous movie.
-   In _Spaceballs_, Yogurt gives Lone Starr the very valuable ring of the Schwartz as a parting gift, having trained Lone Starr to use it. Humorously subverted when Lone Starr loses the ring near the end, only for Yogurt to tell him the real Schwartz was in him all along, while the ring was just a trinket from a Cracker Jack box.
    
    **Lone Starr:** I can't take this.  
    **Yogurt:** Take it, take it. You might need it.
    
-   _Star Wars: The Last Jedi_. Rose's last remnant of her dead sister is a Haysian ore medallion she wears. When she and Finn hire the shady hacker DJ, he demands her medallion seemingly as payment, and she grudgingly hands it over. However, it turns out later he only needed it to disable a lock and he returns it as soon as he's done, subverting the trope.

    Literature 

-   _American Girls Collection_: In _Meet Samantha_, Samantha begs Grandmary to buy her an expensive doll she saw in town, and agrees to work really hard at her various chores to earn the doll, which she does. She even names the doll after her mother Lydia, who died when she was five in an accident. When her impoverished new friend Nellie has to go back to the city and is scared she will have to work in a Nightmarish Factory again, Samantha gives Nellie the doll, knowing Nellie loves it and it will comfort her. Extra heartwarming when considering this is the first and likely only doll Nellie would've ever owned due to her family's poverty.
-   _Anne of Green Gables_: In the short story "Old Lady Lloyd" from _Chronicles of Avonlea_, a spinster finds that the only happiness she has is secretly helping the daughter of the man that she should have married, loving the girl as if she was her daughter. The man, who is now dead, was an amateur poet who self-published a small collection of his poems, giving the copies to his friends, including the spinster. However, the daughter never got a copy as she was born well after it was published and the few copies were distributed. The spinster treasures her copy of the book, but loves the girl more, and so secretly gives it to her.
-   _Cerberus High: Hearts Forever Engraved_: After Nagisa tells Kasumi of his terminal illness, Kasumi gives him her precious feather to alleviate some of the pain in his final moments. Nagisa returns it to her the night when they are sleeping in the school’s headmaster’s office.
-   _Harry Potter_:
    -   In _Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban_, Fred and George Weasley give Harry the Marauder's Map so he can sneak into Hogsmeade without permission. It's an exhaustively detailed map of Hogwarts showing all the secret passages, as well as moving ink dots revealing where people are. In all, it's the single greatest aid to rule-breaking imaginable, and Fred and George have put it to great use over the years so it means a lot to them.
        
        **Fred:** It's the secret to our success.  
        **George:** It's a wrench giving it to you... believe me...  
        **Fred:** But we've decided your needs are greater than ours. George, if you will.  
        **George:** "I solemnly swear that I am up to no good."  
        **Harry:** _\[reads the appearing words\]_ "Messrs. Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot and Prongs... are proud to present the Marauder's Map."  
        **George:** We owe them so much.
        
    -   In _Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows_, Harry presents Kreacher the house-elf with the locket which was substituted for the Horcrux. Although this object is worthless to Harry (and he was probably glad to be rid of it), being presented with a family heirloom means a lot to a humble house-elf, causing Ron to comment "overkill, mate".
-   _The Hunger Games_: Madge Undersee gave Katniss her Mockingjay pin just after she volunteers for her sister Primrose.
-   _Jennings_: In _Jennings in Particular_, Jennings and Darbishire are hoping to obtain some of a new issue of stamps, but their plans are foiled when Darbishire becomes ill and Pettigrew fails to buy the stamps. Jennings concocts a complicated scheme and is able to obtain _one_ stamp, while Darbishire is given one by the doctor. Both of them independently decide to give their one-and-only stamp to each other.
-   In the _Knuffle Bunny_ book "Knuffle Bunny Free", Knuffle Bunny is Trixie's favourite toy, but eventually, she gives him up to a Screaming Plane Baby.
-   In _Little Women_, Jo may not be the prettiest of the March sisters, but her hair was acknowledged as the most beautiful. When her father is injured in the Civil War money is desperately needed to send her mother to Washington, D.C. to take care of him. Jo sells her hair to a wigmaker to get some money. She does lament tearfully having done this that day's night, but says that this will help her work out her vanity.
-   _Roys Bedoys_: In the book "Meet the Baby, Roys Bedoys", the Bedoys brothers gain a sister named Joys. At the end of the story, Roys gives away his blankie to her to cheer her up.
-   _Shopaholic_:
    -   After falling into debt for the second time, and without a job to help pay it off, Becky decides to sell her possessions to make money. She auctions them off and the final item just happens to be the Denny and George scarf that bought her and Luke together. Suze pleads with Becky to keep it, but Becky insists on selling it too, believing that she and Luke are over. Turns out both the people bidding on it were doing so on Luke's behalf, and when he meets Rebecca again he returns the scarf to her.
    -   When Luke is going through his midlife crisis, he starts giving away his expensive shoes and clothes to people on the street. They're not exactly prized possessions, but it's still extremely out of character for him and a clue that he's more distraught than he's letting on.
-   _Tearmoon Empire_ has a variation on this. At an early point of story, the most efficient way to prevent the revolution that will eventually result in Mia's beheading seems to be investing money in the capital's poorest district to keep it from being the starting point of The Plague. Armed with the knowledge afforded by Mental Time Travel, Mia decides to contribute to the budget by selling off her favorite hair ornament. The reality behind the gesture is that Mia had that ornament taken away from her during that very same revolution, so she'd rather willingly put it towards avoiding the revolution than live through having it forcefully taken away from her a second time. While the ornament alone isn't enough to raise enough money, the gesture's _apparent_ selflessness gets used to convince others donate the rest of the needed money.
-   _The Thrawn Trilogy_: In the final scene, Luke Skywalker gives his father's lightsaber to Mara Jade.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _The Big Bang Theory_: In "The Apology Insufficiency", Sheldon accidentally ruins Howard's chance at working in a government satellite program by revealing that he once stranded the Mars Rover. Sheldon tries to apologize, but Howard is so angry he rejects it. Out of desperation, Sheldon offers him the thing he prizes most: his spot on the couch! Realizing how serious Sheldon is if he's willing to give up something he values so much, Howard accepts and takes the seat. Sheldon lasts all of ninety seconds before changing his mind and demanding the seat back.
-   _Big Time Rush_: At one point in "Big Time Christmas", Mrs. Knight's presents exploded and Katie discovered she got the "Snoop Dogg Jamphonic Headphones" she'd been wanting. However, she also spends the episode trying to give Bitters a good Christmas, and in the end gives him the headphones as a present. He gives her a very genuine "Thank you, Katie", showing he was touched by the gift and her entire quest to cheer him up. Kendall and their mother share shocked glances when she does this, helping to underscore the significance of it.
-   _Forever (2014)_: Henry's estranged father, on his deathbed, asks to see Henry. He tells Henry he has something to give him, but Henry makes it clear he won't accept anything because his father's wealth came from the slave trade. His father tells him this gift was given to him by his father, who got it from his father (thus it is _not_ a product of blood money), and holds out his pocketwatch. The reverence with which Henry says, "Your watch?" makes it clear that this is a highly prized possession.
-   _Friends_:
    -   Joey plays with the trope. He has gone to a special shop to get a sandwich that he particularly likes. Through a misunderstanding, he makes Chandler think that Joey would give his life to protect Ross, but not him. After this is sorted out, Joey shows his friendship by letting Chandler have a bite of his sandwich. Only a bite, though, because Joey is still a Big Eater.
    -   Ross and Monica's father plays it straight. He gives Monica his Mid Life Crisis Car (which he always considered was his most valued possession) to apologize for having ruined her childhood belongings by using the boxes to protect his car from water.
    -   Even Monica herself ends up on the giving end of this trope. When another bride booked the band Chandler wanted to play at their wedding, Monica gives her the wedding dress she bought and wanted to wear so the bride would cancel the band. She does, however, let Chandler rip the dress to screw the bride over as revenge.
-   In _Halt and Catch Fire_, Bos gives away his prized Mustang to his estranged son as a wedding present.
-   _The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power_: In the Season 1 episode Alloyed, both Galadriel and Elrond must sacrifice something they hold dear in order to craft the rings that will allow them to remain on Middle Earth. Elrond naturally sacrifices the fragment of mythril that represented the bond between him and Durin (which was obviously inevitable given their plan, but he still clearly shows a moment of hesitation before dropping it into the vat of liquid metal) and Galadriel sacrifices her brother's dagger that she's religiously carried with her since his death for its pure Valinorian gold and silver to augment the mythril's properties.
-   _M\*A\*S\*H_: In the episode "I Hate a Mystery", after Ho-Jon is revealed as the thief the unit has been looking for, everyone pities him and allows him to keep their stolen valuables. (He had stolen their things as a means to raise money to bribe border guards to bring his family from North Korea to South Korea.)
-   _Shake it Up_: In the Christmas Episode "Jingle It Up", Cece spends the episode being in-love with a handbag she finds at the mall while Flynn tricks Rocky into buying him a brand new video game console. At the end, however, they discover their neighbor's house suffered a fire and they lost everything. Flynn jumps at the chance to donate his new game console, and though she's reluctant at first, Cece also gives them her handbag.
-   _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_: "Heart of Stone" starts off with a Ferengi coming-of-age tradition where a Ferengi adolescent sells off their childhood possessions in order to use the proceeds to bribe a Ferengi adult to teach them a career.
-   _Ted Lasso_: Played with in "Two Aces". In order to lift the curse on the team's treatment room, Ted has the entire team sacrifice an item that they deeply value. Some of the items are truly meaningful and sentimental, but others are Played for Laughs such as Colin sacrificing the keys to his Lamborghini and consequently leaving himself with no way to get home.
-   _White Collar_: In the Season 6 episode "Au Revoir", Mozzie gives baby Neal his teddy bear Mozart from his childhood, the only thing he had left from his own birth parents, showing how meaningful that gift is.

    Music 

-   Zucchero: In the video of the song "Diamante" (Diamond), Zucchero (as a kid) meets a girl he's in love with, but due to external factors he has to move elsewhere and won't be able to see her again (the girl's tutor didn't let him talk to her anyway). Shortly before his departure, the girl gifted him with her necklace, as a memento of their mutual affection. After a Time Skip, they manage to reunite once again as adults.

    Puppet Shows 

-   _Fraggle Rock_:
    -   In the Season 1 episode "Catch The Tail By The Tiger", while getting ready to leave for Outer Space, Gobo gives Wembley his collection of smoothies (smooth pebbles), then takes out a medal and asks him to give it to Red after he's left.
    -   In the Season 4 episode "The Perfect Blue Rollie", Boober hoards the rollie in his hidey-hole, refusing to come out and share it. But when his friends rescue him, he has a change of heart and gives the treasured rollie to Wembley... who then decides to share it with everyone.

    Video Games 

-   _Bug Fables_: At the beginning of the game, a merchant offers Team Snakemouth a rare limited plushie of the Green Ranger, with it being stated that only 10 were made in the entire world. Kabbu, a huge Bug Rangers fanboy, will be extremely giddy once he buys it, and he is very protective of it, as shown in the optional dialogue when the Bug Ranger plushie is used as an incorrect option in some choices (which mostly involve giving it away). Much later, in the Termite Capitol, the team meets Terrie, a despairing termite child in front of the Colosseum's entrance, who laments that she wanted to buy a rare Green Ranger plushie, but once she finally stocked up enough money to afford it, someone else bought it before she could, and nothing could cheer her up anymore. Depending on the player's choice, Kabbu can choose to give her his own plushie, and when his teammates question his decision, he says that, given everything they went through, they became superheroes in their own right and don't need Bug Rangers to inspire them anymore, and decides to give his plushie to let Bug Rangers inspire the child to adventure. After receiving the plushie, Terrie gets incredibly overjoyed and almost decides to pay them, but the team declines (including Vi, who normally always demands a reward for anything), encouraging her to spend money on some good food instead. After completing the sidequest, the player is awarded with "A Good Deed" achievement, which is necessary for 100% Completion.
-   _Fire Emblem: The Blazing Blade_: Subverted. In his supports with Pent, Canas remarks that Pent should keep one of his books (which was passed down through his family and is both very high-quality and the last surviving copy) since he's so interested in it. Pent says that he can't accept it, but Canas says he can just get his mother to write it again.
-   _Freddi Fish_: In the second game, Boss and Spongehead dress up as a ghost to steal the toys of other fish to give to Squidfather on account of him not having any. After Freddi and Luther capture them and take back all the toys, Luther gives them his action figure telling them that the Squidfather should have at least one toy.
-   _Freddi Fish 2: The Case of the Haunted Schoolhouse_: Boss and Spongehead dress up as a ghost to steal the toys of other fish to give to Squidfather on account of him not having any. After Freddi and Luther capture them and take back all the toys, Luther gives them his action figure telling them that the Squidfather should have at least one toy.
-   _The Legend of Zelda_:
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time_: Princess Ruto does this twice. After Link helps her retrieve the Spiritual Stone of Water (Zora's Sapphire) and defeats the parasitic monster that was making Lord Jabu-Jabu suffer, Ruto agrees to reward Link with the very Plot Coupon they were looking for. The Sapphire is Ruto's most valued possession, as she received it from her late mother and is only meant to be given to whom Ruto would marry in her adult life. Due to certain factors that occur in the future, they ultimately don't marry, but Ruto is okay with it and still hands him another valued object, the Water Medallion, after he saves her life again in the Water Temple.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask_: Prior to the events of the game, Princess Zelda entrusted Link the Ocarina of Time, which until then had been passed down for generations within the Royal Family of Hyrule, as she felt it would save Link's life one day (and it does, as soon as Link manages to retrieve it).
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker_: Played with Aryll's telescope. This instrument is Aryll's most valued possession, so she _lends_ it to Link during his birthday and tells him that she wants it back when the day ends. When Aryll is rescued after her kidnapping, she writes a letter to Link telling him that she'll let him use the telescope for as long as necessary (thus making the item a permanent one in the inventory gameplay-wise), though it's never shown in the ending whether Link returns it to her or she lets him keep it for real. This is referenced jokingly in _The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass_, where a Link wannabe called Nyeve gives the real Link a kaleidoscope he "received from his sister" (he then admits he just found it during his travels).
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword_: Ledd is a friendly Mogma who hunts treasure and dearly keeps a Bomb Bag, telling Link that he cannot imagine being without it when a pair of Lizalfos steal it in Earth Temple. After Link defeats those minibosses and asks Ledd to lend him the bag for a while to explore the dungeon and look for Zelda, Ledd says no... because he decides to gift it to him as a token of their friendship.
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_: The Thunder Helm is a valued piece of equipment that Riju, current matriarch of the Gerudo Town, inherited from Urbosa; it is a cultural treasure of the Gerudo tribe and is capable of allowing its wearer to gain control of lightning. Link retrieves it after it's stolen by the Yiga Clan, and then Riju uses it to help Link gain access to the Divine Beast Vah Naboris. After Link frees the Divine Beast from Calamity Ganon's influence, he can ask Riju to have the Helm, and she replies that she can only give it to him after he helps her people solve their respective problems. Once Link does so, she deems him worthy of the sacred object and grants it to him.
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom_: After Tulin proves his strength and maturity by helping Link conquer the Wind Temple, Teba bestows upon him his Great Eagle Bow, which he's used for several years. Teba tells him that he was waiting for Tulin to become a well-crafted Rito warrior in order to pass his bow to him, and by that point he's confident that Tulin will need it more than he does now.
-   _Monster Hunter 4 Ultimate_: After the player's Hunter, with the help of the Ace Hunters, manages to repel Rusted Kushala Daora to drive it away from the city of Dundorma, the Master of Defense gives his old pupil (the Ace Commander) his trusty carving knife as a memento for all the time they spent together. This means a lot to the Commander, because it shows that the Master's faith and friendship towards him never waned, not even after an ill-fated mistake on the Commander's part during a hunting quest caused a Career-Ending Injury to the Master several years ago.
-   _Mortal Kombat X_: Five years prior to the Time Skip, Kung Jin intended to steal a valuable treasure his family had offered to Raiden's Temple, as he blamed the Thunder God for the death of Kung Lao (who was his older cousin) in _Mortal Kombat 9_. After a confrontation with Raiden, the latter convinced him to leave the wrong ways in favor of fighting to protect Earthrealm, and also encouraged him to join the Wu Shi Academy to train. Raiden then lets Kung Jin have Kung Lao's treasure, which further pushed him to the bright side.
-   _Stardew Valley Expanded_: After you've donated every mineral and artifact to the museum and reached 8 hearts with Gunther, the public's renewed interest in the museum prompts Gunther to give the player his most valuable possession: A rare Galdoran Gem, which is the best possible mineral to place into a crystalarium.
-   _Tales of the Abyss_: Tear gives up a pendant she was wearing to a carriage driver in order to get herself and Luke back to his home town after she accidentally ended up getting them both teleported out of the city. She later reveals it was the last thing she had left of her mother, prompting Luke to go and find it during a side quest.
-   _The Walking Dead (Telltale)_: Kenny sports a nice baseball cap. If Clementine decides to not kill him and enter Wellington with AJ without him, he will give said hat to AJ as a final farewell gift before he sets out again into the wilderness.

    Western Animation 

-   _Avatar: The Last Airbender_:
    -   In "Zuko Alone", Zuko gifts a custom pearl dagger, a present from his beloved Uncle Iroh (who himself stole it from an Earth Kingdom general during his attempted siege of Ba Sing Se), to a young Earth Kingdom boy he had bonded with. Unfortunately, once the boy finds out that Zuko is a prince of the Fire Nation, he refuses to have anything to do with Zuko and rejects the gift.
    -   In "The Avatar and the Firelord", when Roku is feeling down about having to leave behind everything and everyone he's ever known to start his Avatar training, his best friend Sozin gifts him a precious artifact worn by the Crown Prince to cheer him up.
    -   In the Sequel Series _The Legend of Korra_ episode "The Earth Queen", Mako gifts his beloved scarf (the last link to his deceased father that he owns) to his long-lost grandmother after reuniting with her, saying his parents would want her to have it.
-   _Jelly Jamm_: In "Ultravision", there is a dodo who wears Goomo's goggles because he's Blind Without 'Em. Goomo eventually decides to let him keep them. Goomo has the goggles in subsequent episodes, however.
-   _Monsters vs. Aliens_: In the short _Mutant Pumpkins From Outer Space_, Dr. Cockroach is joyful to realise the Swirlypop he always wanted was still intact after the battle, and then a trick-or-treating kid also appeared eager to see it. After a moment of hesitation, Dr. Cockroach eventually decides to give the Swirlypop to the child.
-   _Ninjago: Dragons Rising_: After winning the Crossroads Carnival, Lobbo gives away his prize money as he won thanks to Riyu's interference.
-   _PAW Patrol_: In "Pups Save a Bah Humdinger", Mayor Humdinger gets a cat plush toy from Santa Claus. A little girl trips and breaks a toy, so Mayor Humdinger gives her his stuffed animal. Santa is touched by Mayor Humdinger's rare moment of kindness and gives him another cat plush.
-   _Rupert_: In the end the Season 4 episode "Rupert In Toyland", Rupert decides to give his favorite childhood toy Mr. Squeezer to Toby.
-   _The Simpsons_:
    -   In the Season 5 episode "Rosebud", it is revealed that the teddy bear Maggie has (Bobo) was the same toy Mr. Burns lost several decades ago. He tries to get it back in different ways, to no avail. Near the end of the episode, Maggie herself gives the bear to him, as she feels somehow that the toy means more to him than it does to her. Homer and Marge witness this scene, and the former is unsure if this should count as a happy or sad ending (Marge simply sees it as an _ending_, as she was quite tired of the matter by then).
    -   The Season 8 episode "El Viaje Misterioso De Nuestro Jomer" is a defiance. When told that clarity of mind is the path to inner peace, Homer wonders if this means adopting a more ascetic lifestyle and giving his possessions away, at which the Coyote immediately scoffs.
        
        "Are you KIDDIN'? _\[chuckles\]_ If anything you should get _more_ possessions! You don't even own a computer."
        
-   _A Thousand and One... Americas_: Near the end of the seventeenth episode, Chris and Lon learn that this is the _raison d'être_ for the Potlatch. During the ceremony, a person must generously give all their possessions to their neighbors in order to show confidence and faith in the witnessed prodigy and how they'll be compensated with a greater income of goods and prosperity in the future; when Chris laments how the Haida man he befriended will prescind from all his material possessions, he's told that this will make the man _very_ respected. This also explains the ceremony's name, because Potlatch means _gift_.
-   _T.O.T.S._: In "Lost Lovey", Mia is distraught when her stuffed rabbit Lady Foo Foo ends up falling down a waterfall. Freddy, however, decides to let her keep his old stuffed monkey Mr. Muffins.

___