_"A hundred times I told him no, and he said yes, until finally I was saying yes as well. He was not the sort of man to be denied."_

The line between acceptable and unacceptable is often drawn at consent. However, human emotions and relationships are complex and multifaceted, meaning that consent can sometimes be questionable. How consensual was it, really?

The issue of consent can be complicated, and even if a person verbalizes their agreement towards a particular request or demand, various issues—such as the power difference between the agreeing parties, the age, mental/emotional condition of the one giving consent, and other potential conflicts of interest—may put the consenter's freedom to say "no" into question.

Let's say that Alice is very rich, while Bob is very poor with starving kids. Alice wants something from Bob. Something that he really doesn't want to give her. Maybe a kidney. Or maybe unprotected intercourse with no parental rights over the resulting child. Bob very reluctantly agrees because he is desperate for money for food and medicine for his kids. But how free was his choice, really?

The Sliding Scale of Consent Versus Exploitation doesn't have to be about money. It can be about social status, intimacy, drugs, or any kind of MacGuffin.

It can also be a discussion about whether or not a certain character is able to consent to a certain thing in the first place. The character might be too young or inexperienced, drunk or drugged, intellectually challenged, unconscious, or similar. It might also have to do with the nature of the relationship: a boss and an employee, a health care worker and a patient, a parent and child (even if said child is fully grown), a teacher and student, a clergyperson and a member of their congregation, a god/goddess and a human (or other non-divine entity), or something along those lines. More romanticized depictions of prostitution usually gloss over this too, ignoring issues such as poverty, addiction or threats from pimps that can keep people in the industry. Even apart from that, age, desperation or power differential can be an issue, as with sex between a master and slave. The trope may also apply in cases where one party is, if not immortal, at least Really 700 Years Old, and the other is a regular human being.

Compare Leonine Contract. Appeal to Force may be used; for extra No Yay, the even more extreme variant An Offer You Can't Refuse might get used instead. Adaptational Consent often overlaps, either clarifying one way or another whether a situation was truly consensual or doing the opposite and muddying a clear-cut situation into being Questionable. See also the Useful Notes page on Consent. This trope is _**not**_ to be confused with the webcomic that's only one letter away, _Questionable Content_. If it comes up in a conversation about whether, say, a teenager could _truly_ consent to a relationship with another teenager who's really a 200-year-old vampire, it might bring up Fantastic Legal Weirdness.

No Real Life Examples, Please!

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

-   _Sexual Violence with the Birds and the Bees_: Zach is about to go to bed with a girl who is so drunk, she can barely stand without support. Knoll points out that she's too drunk to consent.
    
    **Zach:** She's totally into it.  
    **Knoll:** Doesn't count when you're wrecked. Hammered equals date rape.
    

    Anime & Manga 

-   Defied in _The 100 Girlfriends Who Really, Really, Really, Really, Really Love You_. Rentarou refuses to accept a confession if he is under the influence of a drug or he thinks a girl isn't being honest about their feelings. Chapter 85 emphasizes that last point when he admits to the God of Love that he refuses to bring up the soulmate death clause with his girlfriends.
-   At least in the anime adaptation of _Another_, Mei is told that she has the option of refusing to become non-existent to everyone in her class. However, she's also told that if she does refuse, any deaths that occur that year will be her fault.
-   _Berserk_
    -   It's revealed early on that Griffith allowed Lord Gennon to have sex with him because the alternative was not having access to the nobleman's funds, and by extension the weapons and food that would keep his soldiers alive.
    -   Later, Griffith sleeps with Princess Charlotte. Although she likes him, it's clear that Griffith doesn't care about her consent due to his going too far On the Rebound after Guts left the group.
-   _Bokura no Hentai_ has this occur between Marika and Tamura. Marika has a crush on Tamura. He has emotional trauma due to being sexually abused when he was younger and has a somewhat hypersexual nature as a result, with his only consensual sexual experiences having been unpleasant and abusive. One scene has Tamura coming onto Marika in a predatory manner and he touches her. They're both barely teenagers, if that, and Marika had limited sexual knowledge at the time. It's left vague how consensual it was, but it causes a rift in their friendship for a while and sparks an awakening in Marika's sexuality. A later chapter has the two attempting to have sex, but nothing occurs when Marika becomes frightened and stops it.
-   A very complicated sexual example for the series as a whole in _Class Teni De Ore Dake Haburaretara_. The protagonist, Kirishima Ran, is given a transmigration skill \[Sexual Lunatic\] that makes any female fall madly in love with him if he touches her. The women who fall under his charm in this manner inevitably become unbelievably horny and come on so strongly they don't take "no" for an answer, even though he _never_ orders them to have sex with him, they know they're charmed, and they **like it!**
-   _Cross Ange_: Captain Zola often takes advantage of her subordinates, basically treating them as her personal harem. While she's shown to excel at physically satisfying her lovers she still treats them as inferiors and cares very little about consent, with the relationships meant to mirror them being her "prison bitches". In "Bikini Escape", Hilda (Zola's favorite lover) even tells Ange that she only went along with Zola's sexual assaults on her to survive life in Arzenal long enough to plan an escape.
-   _Goodnight Punpun_ uses this for Fan Disservice. Punpun's and Aiko's sexual scenes are uncomfortable for multiple reasons, including them both being deeply troubled individuals with Dark And Troubled Pasts. Punpun is obsessed with Aiko and their romance is depicted as unhealthy.
-   At one point in _Haruhi Suzumiya_, Mikuru's future self gives Kyon permission to kiss her unconscious younger self, but _only_ while unconscious because she can't have memories of it in order to preserve certain Stable Time Loops. Even he wonders how ethical it would be to accept her future self's approval without having the present one's consent despite knowing for certain that she _will_ be eventually okay with it. In the end, he doesn't go for it.
-   _I Can't Believe I Slept with You_: Chiyo did agree to sleep with the Landlady that first night, but her other option was to get evicted with a standing debt of ¥210,000, <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and it's strongly hinted that Chiyo had to get herself hammered before she was able to go through with it. The Landlady seems genuinely hurt and confused when Chiyo tells her she doesn't remember anything that happened the night before, and that Chiyo regrets having gone through with it, with the Landlady saying that it had been a consensual act. From time to time, Chiyo recalls moments from that night that suggest she was willing. But both Chiyo and the Landlady regret the way it happened, and so it hasn't been repeated.
-   In _Kaguya-sama: Love Is War_, Hayasaka justifies encouraging Shirogane to have sex with her fever-crazed mistress on the basis that they're both attracted to each other when "sober". This **does not work out**: Shirogane does nothing but is extremely discomforted when Kaguya pulls him into her bed, Kaguya is later horrified by the fear that he did do something, and the whole thing blows up into a massive argument that is only resolved when both parties apologize to each other. (Hayasaka experiences no consequences other than having to inspect Kaguya's bed for signs of rape.) Notably, even when they do start dating- several months after the incident- they still don't want or feel ready to have sex, because attraction has nothing to do with maturity and wanting to kiss someone does not necessarily mean you want to fuck them.
-   _Parallel Paradise_: Present throughout the series since the girls will literally die unless Yota penetrates them at least once (chapter 104 confirms that a single thrust is all it takes to lift the curse), though for the first hundred chapters or so it's usually pretty clear they would have slept with him anyway. Not so General Nakta, who is being held prisoner by Yota and Sandrio Town after she was captured while trying to kill him and every girl who ever slept with him (she beheaded three): with his Battle Harem's help he first gropes her so that his Living Aphrodisiac ability will weaken her on the battlefield enough to be captured. Then while she's being held prisoner, he tells her the arousal will only go away if she has an orgasm, and since she's tied up she can't masturbate, but he'll _still_ only have sex with her if she explicitly asks for it and then spends the rest of the chapter browbeating her into doing so. Given what she planned to do to the town, it comes off as Karmic Rape.
-   _Prison School_: It's unlikely Kate would have slept with Mari if she'd known the latter was filming it.
-   _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_ has a non-sexual example. Kyubey only contracts children who agree to become magical girls. _However_, he does not tell them (all of) what being a magical girl entails, he uses emotional abuse to browbeat them into agreeing, and he often propositions girls who will die if they don't contract (such as a crash victim who is bleeding out on the highway).
-   This is played deliberately in _Revolutionary Girl Utena_ several times, mostly for the purpose of Fan Disservice.
    -   The paramount example is the relationship between Akio and Anthy, since the audience is initially led to believe at first that it's consensual and both parties seem happy with the relationship; it's only after one scene in particular where Akio rapes Anthy when she hesitates to come to him that it becomes clear that it's really not, and in fact is almost literally<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  a case study for Domestic Abuse.
    -   This is also present in the infamous episode 33, where Akio takes Utena's virginity, leading to an extremely uncomfortable and awkward scene where they're never _fully_ shown having sex (we only see Utena from the shoulders up, babbling and later moaning), but the results are rather obvious by the time it's all done.
    -   Yet again with most of Akio's relationships due to the vast age differences between the parties, meaning that even _with_ consent, most of them would be considered rape in real life. There's also the fact that he's senior staff of the school everyone else is attending, adding an authority gap that also makes consent questionable.
    -   In The Movie, Akio has a Freak Out when he realizes that Anthy — who he'd thought was unconscious was awake for at least part of while he was raping her after slipping her drugs in her drink. Anthy tries to calm him down and tell him that she's okay with it, but he stabs her in the chest before throwing himself out the window.
    -   The light novel also has Touga having sex with Miki, with extremely dubious consent present throughout the entire scene.
-   _Scum's Wish_: The first time Hanabi and Sanae have sex, Sanae tells Hanabi to say if she wants her to stop knowing that Hanabi wouldn't say no to her for fear of losing Sanae as a friend.
    
    **Sanae:** You care about me as a friend, I know that I'm someone special to you. You can't say no to me, because you don't to lose me too. So of course, I'm going to take advantage...
    

    Comic Books 

-   The brief marriage between Hank Pym and Janet van Dyne only happened because Janet pressured Hank into it during a psychotic break so severe that he thought he was a completely different person... a person who had _killed_ Hank Pym, no less. Not a lot of people tend to remember that, but Hank accidentally slapping Janet whilst in the middle of _another_ psychotic break? Everybody remembers that.
-   _Afterlife with Archie_ is vague on whether Cheryl and Jason's relationship is mutually consensual or whether Jason is manipulating his sister.
-   In the first issue of the New 52 _Catwoman_ relaunch, Selina and Bruce are shown going at it, but Bruce at first seems pretty reluctant, adding a layer of squick that was most likely not intended. In the words of Linkara: "Because it's not rape if he consents eventually, right?" Adding to that, the Cosmic Retcon of _Flash Point_ means that the two are no longer aware of each other's true identities, which only adds to this.
-   This was the cause of _major_ backlash when the first issue of _Red Hood and the Outlaws_ showed Starfire as an amnesiac and unable to remember individual humans' faces, which made the fact that she then slept with Roy Harper pretty iffy. Two later attempts at an Author's Saving Throw both failed for similar reasons: First, it was shown that this was an act, but it still means that Roy didn't come out looking good since he slept with her even while thinking that she was amnesiac. And then it was _further_ clarified that Roy believed that if he left, then she'd forget him, which adds a whole other level of Squick, as it's essentially putting a very lonely person (in this case Roy) in a position where the only way to keep one of their two friends is to never leave them. It probably wouldn't have gone well if Roy had wanted to end the relationship but retain a friendship.
-   Word of God confirms that the reason Terra of _Teen Titans_ was shown in a sexual relationship with the villain Slade Wilson, aka Deathstroke, was to shock readers and emphasize how _evil_ she was by showing that she was slut. This falls flat when one remembers that Terra is 16 at the time while Slade is significantly older, and Terra honestly seems to think he loves her, meaning that rather than showing how evil she is, it instead comes off as her being a young, confused girl who's being played by a<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  rapist who wants to murder her teammates. The cartoon version of this storyline, aside from being significantly sanitized for younger audiences, actually addresses this trope by showing their version of Terra as a confused, lonely girl who clearly is manipulated into evil actions, and just how freely she's committing those acts is actually discussed and used as a point of drama.
-   The infamous issue #200 of _The Avengers_, in which Ms. Marvel is written out of the book by being kidnapped, brainwashed, and raped, and then happily waltzing off with the guy who did it to her. That's not what was intended, of course, but somehow it slipped Jim Shooter's mind that the guy using a mind control machine on her meant her consent was nothing of the kind. The next time Carol appeared as written by Chris Claremont was an issue-long What the Hell, Hero? she directed at the Avengers for standing by while the guy who did that to her explained exactly what he had done.
-   The God(dess) of Stories incarnation of Loki is very bad at this whole consent thing. For example, it's one thing assuming that your best friend trusts you and would be okay with you trying to save her. But if she's also willing to tell you their life story… she sure as Hel would like to have a warning before you use that story to turn her into magical jewellery to accomplish that goal.
-   Although it's usually danced around, X-23 is indeed a victim of this as she was introduced into the comics as a prostitute in _NYX_. Her age is never stated, but later books suggest she was no older than 16, meaning that she was _very_ much unable to provide consent under New York law. Even ignoring her age, there is her mental and emotional state to consider. By the time Zebra Daddy got his hooks into her, she was an emotionally broken girl who was forced to leave her only family, suffered severe physical and emotional abuse all her life, and has been violently conditioned for subservience and obedience to the point she _honestly_ doesn't understand how to make choices for herself. Laura would later confide in others that at the time Daddy found her, she didn't even comprehend that her body was her own. By _no_ stretch of the imagination would she be considered mentally or emotionally capable of providing informed consent, even if she were to have sex with someone her own age.
-   _Starfire (2015)_: Brought up in issue #10. After Syl'khee accidentally hypnotizes Raveena and Sol to lose their inhibitions, the two of them make out, but Sol afterward sees the incident as a violation of his consent. By contrast, Rave felt that she was empowered and was _more_ in control during the make-out. However, she chooses to drop the incident if that's what he wants.
-   _Zatanna: Everyday Magic_: Evil Sorceress Nimue uses spells and charms to make herself into a Living Aphrodisiac so men can't resist her advances, which is why she succeeds at even fooling Constantine, who would usually have the common sense to see through her obvious Honey Trap scheme. Zatanna has a very low opinion of her due to this.

    Fan Works 

-   In Transformers fanfic _Are You There Primus? It's Me Starscream_, one character needs to persuade an OC to stop hating him and design weapons for the Decepticon cause. So he makes it A Match Made in Stockholm. The consent is hideously dubious seeing as she's being held captive on the Nemesis, and it's practically Laser-Guided Karma that he goes on to fall prey to Lima Syndrome.
-   Three years ago in _Promises Kept_, Glinda had sex with Fiyero while on a date but she regretted it even during the act. When Elphaba asks Glinda if Fiyero forced himself on her, Glinda declines. Glinda mentions that she had wanted to stop it, but she felt she was too far gone to do so.
-   In _A Different Medius_, Azurai's marriage to Iratu is definitely an example, the former making a sarcastic remark, and the latter thinking it's a proposal. Iratu also jokingly "threatens" to eat Azurai if he doesn't go through with it. Azurai can't tell whether it's a joke, and doesn't care to find out.
-   In _An Anthem for Sheltered Bays_ the 15-year old Eren enters a romantic and sexual relationship with Levi, but Eren depends on Levi for virtually everything since he can't get back home, forced to become human, and Levi would not allow him to leave anyways. To Levi's credit, he actually does realize this and is repentant for it.
-   _Angel of the Bat: Times of Heresy_'s 15th chapter is rife with this without ever making it further than second base. Cassandra's girlfriend Sadie initiates the couple's first real sexual contact (undressing Cassandra and playing with her breasts) while constantly asking if Cassandra is comfortable, which she always replies yes to. The mucking comes when one remembers that Cassandra has had no sexual experience and very little education, suggesting she's not entirely aware of what she's getting herself into. _Further_ complicated by the fact that Sadie has been lied to about Cassie's background and thinks she has had a standard childhood and education and just can't speak English well due to being raised overseas. Sadie does at least stop as soon as she hears Cassie say "no", though Cassandra said it too quietly to be heard the first time, necessitating her saying it twice.
-   In _Advanced Theory_, Sora makes a fake confession to Riku to get back at him for being a jerk to Sora's friends. Which backfires because Riku accepts the confession and admits to having feelings for Sora. In Riku's excitement, he pressures Sora to have sex with him because Sora was afraid of hurting Riku's feelings with the truth. While Sora never calls it rape, he admits to feeling tainted by the experience. To Riku's credit, he picks up on this and makes sure to check for Sora's consent.
-   _Eleutherophobia_: In _Ghost In The Shell_, Eva and Tom are discussing voluntary Controllers when Tom points out that while most people think 'voluntary Controller' means 'willingly signed up to betray the human race', many voluntaries were suicidal and threw themselves at what they thought would give them a reason to live without knowing the full details, and others merely succumbed after being given the 'choice' of 'You let us infest you without a fight, or we'll take your whole family'.
-   In _Kimi No Na Iowa_ Chapter 23, Ichiyo wonders In-Universe that though shipgirls have rules about only having sex with consenting men, how genuine that consent really is when they are an Inhumanly Beautiful Race with a supernatural Presence that creates or amplifies awe and desire in the muggles around them.
-   _Lucky Number Thirteen_:
    -   Some of Ana and Christian's sex scenes come across as this in hindsight, especially the incident where he broke into her house to tie her up, spank her and roughly have sex with her after she jokingly told him she wasn't sure she wanted to continue their relationship. She's pretty disturbed when she realises this.
    -   Sharon and Christian's sexual encounter was this at best, at worst rape. When Christian tied Sharon up, her arm was dislocated and she started signalling to him to stop (she couldn't use verbal safe words because she was gagged). Christian either didn't notice or ignored the signals to stop and carried on with the scene, with Sharon helpless and in pain the whole time. Sharon states that even if he didn't intentionally overlook her trying to stop the scene, his lack of concern for her safety comes off as extremely neglectful and that a good Dom would've picked up on something being wrong.
-   In _My Mirror, Sword and Shield_ Suzaku returns Lelouch's feelings, but as his future adoptive father points out Suzaku is in no position to refuse. As Emperor, Lelouch could execute him if he felt like it and is Suzaku's boss. And Suzaku depends on Lelouch's patronage for protection and shelter while his time machine is fixed.
-   Although Asuka and Shinji really do care for each other in _Neon Genesis Evangelion: Genocide_, their initial physical relationship is like this due to their vastly different personalities. She's aggressive and used to getting her way, while he is much more acquiescent in general, and doesn't like to deny her anything in particular. The first time she suggests having sex, Shinji tells her he isn't sure he's ready for that yet, but she pressures him into continuing anyway; he's even concerned she might hurt him if he refuses. After that, they have sex whenever she wants to according to her preferences, with Shinji's own desires not being taken into account very much. He's not exactly opposed to any of this, but is somewhat uncomfortable with the situation.
-   _RWBY: Scars_: It's mentioned that Blake first had sex with her boyfriend Adam when she was fourteen and he was twenty. Their large age gap makes it dubious enough, but it's also noted that Adam was emotionally abusive. Blake doesn't question Yang when she asks if Adam forced her to have sex with him, but Blake implies that she enjoyed it because it made her feel like an adult. Nevertheless, Blake's friends and parents consider Adam to be a rapist.
-   _Scar Tissue_ has Asuka, who is still traumatized from the events before and after Third Impact and who copes with her loneliness by repeatedly having sex with Shinji. Although he never resists or tries to get help, it's clear that Shinji is too bogged down by guilt for his past actions to refuse. Asuka later admits that when Shinji did try to talk her down, she bluffed she would commit suicide if he didn’t let her get into his bed.
-   _TRON: Endgame Scenario_: Jet was a condemned prisoner at the time, and Mercury tracked him down to try and see if he was truly on her side (working for Ma3a as he claimed), or not. She first threatened to kill him, but changed tactics, hoping to get him lowering his guard. Things went too far, partly because of the difference between human sex and Program energy melds, and Mercury realized what she had actually done far too late. Jet treats the whole matter as a misunderstanding and forgives her (having an explicitly consensual encounter with her later), but Mercury is less inclined to forgive herself, especially given that Jet is a (_very_ reluctant) deity over her people.
-   In _Severance_, it's vague whether Ash was a One-Night-Stand Pregnancy, a Child by Rape, or the result of an affair. Delia mentions that Giovanni "had his way with her", which sounds aggressive but could also mean that he just ignored her afterwards.
-   _We'd Fly Away Together_: Terra claims that she consents to having sex with Slade and that _she's_ the one coming onto him, but it's likely she's lying to herself. She seems uncomfortable with it and, even if she did verbally consent, it's unlikely that she can legally consent due to her Vague Age. The fics also tag the stories under "Rape/Non-Con".
-   _Weight of the World_: A non-sexual and non-romantic example. America uncomfortably defends Atlas and Ozpinati's decisions concerning him and Vale. The therapist mentions it sounds like America was coerced and pressured into consenting to the Aura transfer. For context, America was outnumbered, without allies, and in an unknown and secluded location when he was "asked." America comes to realize he had never had a choice on whether or not to become Vale in the first place since the process was already started, so in the end, his "choice" was inconsequential.
    
    **America**: I said yes to them. I gave my consent. I mean, I didn't want to, and I didn't really have another choice but I said _yes_.
    
    -   In another non-sexual and non-romantic instance, England attempts to trick America into participating in a ritual that would sever his connection with Vale's people. Not only is America amnesiac and unaware of the intricacies of what a personification does and is, but England intentionally keeps the ritual's true purpose from him, stopping Norway from explaining the truth. England takes advantage of America's naivety and trust because he knows America would never agree to the ritual if he knew what it actually did.
-   Extensively played with and deconstructed in _Cabin Fever: Parting Shot_, including one example of self-performed masturbation:
    -   Bert has sex with Karen while she is extremely drunk. Though she is conscious and is presumed to have consented, all indications are that she never would've done so had she been sober.
    -   Zigzagged when Bert attempts to have sex with Marcy. Although ultimately she decides to reject him, for a brief moment she feels a little excited by his foreplay and considers allowing him to have his way with her. It would've been a case of Questionable Consent if she had, as his advances were completely uninvited.
    -   Both Jeff and Bert try—and fail—to secure a good time with Marcy under these circumstances, by pressuring her to reluctantly agree to be the grand prize of their shooting contest.
    -   Marcy does this to Paul when she suddenly decides to follow through on what was ostensibly a mock-attempt to win her favors, by initiating a real sexual encounter with him. Paul is clearly stunned when the farce becomes real; he has stumbled in to a situation that has slipped out of his control. Though he ultimately becomes a willing participant.
    -   The aforementioned masturbation scene: Marcy grudgingly allows Bert to watch her having sex with Paul (in accordance with an agreement they made), but expressly forbids him from masturbating to the spectacle. But he masturbates anyway. Brings up all sorts of intriguing questions about whether a third party can grant or deny the consent for a person to service their own body.
    -   Deconstructed and ultimately averted by Paul as he lays in bed with Marcy after they've had sex. Paul is eager for an encore round, but as Marcy is now fast asleep, she can't formally consent. Paul debates whether her consent for the sex they'd just had can be carried forward for a second round. Ultimately he decides it would be disrespectful to have sex with her while she slept and so he doesn't.
-   Zigzagged in _Destiny is a Hazy Thing_. Karen takes a shine to Kiba, but it is noted that she has a very big attachment to his chakra. When Ino jokingly presses Kiba to make a move (since she would be willing), Kiba immediately shuts down the notion with this trope and the Unfortunate Implications of such an action in mind. After the Konoha Invasion, Karen ends up being Kiba's Living Emotional Crutch and while they do end up getting along better, it's still very murky since Karen is still addicted to his chakra and Kiba is clinging to her because of grief.
-   This is part of the reason the Periphery Hatedom of _Monster Girl Encyclopedia_ tends to propose rather....extreme methods to dealing with the Mamono — Demonic Energy, besides turning woman into monster girls and men into incubi, also removes their inhibitions toward sex. While the author suggests this is merely giving people the chance to act on their existing desires, legally, many nations would consider having sex under the influence of DE rape.
-   _Quirk: Incubus_: With the zero-pointer ready to crush both of them, Izuku kisses Ochako to give him the power boost necessary to save both of them. Even when Izuku preemptively apologized and he did it to save her life, Izuku cannot help but feel terrible about it, citing that while affirmed consent was given when he kisses Bakugo, he more or less forces himself onto her. Bakugo thinks differently, citing that a kiss being used in an emergency situation given the circumstances is not the same as taking advantage of a girl.
-   _The MLP Loops_: Loopers can easily take advantage of non-Loopers, since they are infinitely older and wiser. When Spike and Rarity go on their first Awake date, Spike admits he did use his knowledge to get in good with Rarity several times, which he feels guilty about. It didn't go far, though, since he hadn't figured out age shifting yet and therefore was physically a child.
-   One of the Central Theme in _Unchained (Umei no Mai)_, since the plot is kicked off by Izuna abducting Tobirama in order to force him into marriage and giving her children. Even if she's very reasonable and nice about it, she still imprisoned and reduced him to a Breeding Slave and a lot of people are upset and appalled over it. To her credit, Izuna fully acknowledges Tobirama isn't really happy with the situation.
-   _Captive (AbyssCronica)_: While Birdie technically consents to have sex with Kid, she is not in a position where she can say no.
-   Defied in the second Halloween Episode of _A Game of Cat and Cat_. Vincent Brooks holds a Halloween party in the Netherworld, not knowing that as part of the festivities, Ose of the Ars Goetia temporarily alters the minds of the partygoers to think that they're their costumes. One of Vincent's many attempts at damage control is banning sex for the night, since everyone who was brainwashed is unable to consent.
-   _Impenetrable Walls_ implies this is why Lan Wangji refuses to bed his Sex Slave Wei Wuxian- he's painfully aware that the other man cannot refuse to have sex with him no matter his personal feelings on the subject. Also, Wei Wuxian knows _nothing_ about sex, making the situation even more iffy.
-   _Haunted_: The girls are all consenting, but Chris is taking advantage of them being young, still somewhat naive and lonely to get them to say yes.
-   _they'll name a city after us_ after Apollo forces Percy to marry him, on Percy's request he waits a few days to consummate. However he does make Percy swear not to refuse or reject him when Apollo arrives to consummate the marriage. Percy does not refuse, and given that Apollo is a Physical God with over four thousand years of experience, Percy does physically enjoy the experience but was in no way free to actually say no.
-   In _The Dresden Files_ fic _Dream State_, a wizard unknowingly enters a witch's Erotic Dream about him and participates in it. They're both horrified when they realize that the dream involved real people, to say nothing of the fact that he was _in her mind_ without her consent. Fortunately, they trusted each other deeply before the accident, so they're able to accept each other's apologies about it. The wizard suggests they view it as the magical equivalent of a drunken mistake.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _Angry Harvest_: Leon is a Polish farmer who takes in Rosa, a fugitive Jew, and hides her from the Nazis in 1943. He winds up pressuring her into a sexual relationship. Leon does unambiguously try to rape Rosa once, but the arrival of some visitors forces him to break off as she runs back to the cellar. Afterwards, they are in a sexual relationship that is "consensual", sort of. But the fact that he is hiding her from the Nazis makes it more like she is giving him sex in return for shelter. Rosa actually says this explicitly at one point, but it also becomes A Match Made in Stockholm.
-   _Beast (2017)_: Clifford tells Moll that Pascal has a criminal conviction from his teens for sexual assault. She questions him about it and Pascal says the sex was consensual, but because the girl's parents disliked him, they reported him for assault. Moll accepts this explanation, though it's never made clear what really happened especially given the revelation Pascal is a serial rapist. It's also mentioned the girl was only fourteen while Pascal was slightly older; the age of consent in Jersey is sixteen, so even if the girl consented Pascal would still be guilty of statutory rape (plus there may have been some level of coercion involved).
-   _Chinatown_ has Evelyn claim that she got pregnant from a consensual but abusive relationship with her father, but the audience and other characters understand that she was raped because of the age difference (she was 14 when it started, and the legal age in California back then was 16) and power imbalance between the two.
-   _Deadpool (2016)_ has a non-sexual example in that Wade consents to be taken to a facility that claims to have an experimental cure for his cancer. He is not told, however, that this experimental cure is essentially non-stop torture, that it may or may not trigger latent mutant genes that he may or may not have, and that if it does _work_ he'll be sold as a slave-soldier to the highest bidder.
-   In _Godzilla: King of the Monsters (2019)_, Rodan becomes Ghidorah's sidekick after being beaten by the latter in combat, but viewers question how willing he was to serve in this role. On one hand, he's shown to be highly destructive and antagonistic towards people that he might have jumped at the chance to cause more mayhem at Ghidorah's behest. On the other hand, as the Alpha Titan, Ghidorah seems to have some sort of supernatural influence over the other Titans.
-   In the Ruggero Deodato movie _Jungle Holocaust_, this gets a sort of inversion: the protagonist, as he sinks deeper and deeper into savagery, rapes a native cannibal woman in a fit of rage in one scene after she tries to run away from him while he's employing her to help guide him through the jungle. As reviewer Nathan Shumate notes, however, her cannibal tribe is demonstrated throughout the film to be rather callous and amoral about sexuality and human life, so due to some serious Deliberate Values Dissonance, the woman doesn't exactly treat his raping her as being raped, but rather as his staking a legitimate claim to her the way any man in her tribe might (and as some are indicated to have tried to do elsewhere in the movie). As her tribe has basically raised her to see herself as belonging to anyone forceful enough to take her, she treats the protagonist as her new master from then on and doesn't try to run away again.
-   _Killer Joe_: Dottie and Joe's sex scene. He first orders her to undress, then manually stimulate him before having sex with her. In no case does he seem to care what Dottie thinks, and though she complies it's dubious that he'd care. She may also may well be intimidated by the fact he's a hitman, and feel afraid to resist or object to this. Her attitude is hard to read, but Dottie never shows much discernible enthusiasm. Joe also says she's his "down payment" for the hit, with a huge implication of legal entitlement (i.e. he wouldn't take "no" for an answer from her).
-   _The Matrix_: As Cypher specifically complains, the whole "red pill vs. blue pill" choice was dishonest. If the situation was explained in full, many people, like him, would reject the "real world".
-   Discussed in _"O"_ regarding sex between Odin and Desi that started out fully consensual — but when Desi found it too painful and asked him to stop, Odin kept going for some time. Desi is talking about it with Emily, who reminds her that she asked him to stop, and he didn't.
-   _Observe and Report_ plays this for very black comedy. Ronnie and Brandi's date ends with the drunken Brandi seemingly passed out, with puke on her pillow and Ronnie pumping away on top of her. This looks like a straight case of date rape, but when Ronnie starts to slow down, she mutters, "What are you stopping for?" Given the fact that she Really Gets Around, Brandi might very well have been up for it, but the fact that she's _that_ drunk still makes her consent questionable.
-   _The Rocky Horror Picture Show_: Dr. Frank-N-Furter comes to Janet's room while disguised as Brad and attempts to initiate sex with her, and afterwards does the same thing with Brad while disguised as Janet. Both of them are initially angry and disgusted upon realizing that their "partner" is really Frank, but both also wind up giving in on the condition of secrecy.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Even though both Brad and Janet wind up getting into the seduction, the fact remains that in both cases Frank was attempting rape by deception.
-   Caroline and Christian's wedding night in _A Royal Affair_ involves this. She's clearly uncomfortable, even pushing him away and saying no at one point, but feels it's her duty, especially after her mother told her that if she can get the king into her bed on the first night, she'll be seen as "a great success". After she gives him a son, they don't share a bed again for a long time, with Caroline finding sex with Christian repulsive.
-   _The Survivalist:_ Kathryn and her daughter Milja are desperate for food and shelter. The Survivalist has a bed and a shotgun. So Milja sleeps with him. The Survivalist is not used to company, so the gun is probably to protect himself from her possible threat, and not to force her compliance, but if Milja didn't sleep with him, then she and Kathryn would have been sleeping outside.
-   _Under the Skin_: The man who takes the disguised alien in after he finds her on the bus has sex with her, and he thinks she is a traumatized/mentally challenged human woman, which would make it debatable whether she could give informed consent. While she seems fine with this, it also doesn't look like she knows what sex even _is_ exactly, pushing him off her after he apparently ejaculates to examine herself. Thus, it seems doubtful that she actually knew what was going on. So from either of their perspectives, it's problematic. Further complicating this in the other direction is the fact that one can be reasonably sure he wouldn't have had sex with her if he actually knew she's an alien who's already killed several men via Honey Trap, meaning that since his willingness to have sex with her is based on her knowingly deceiving him about her true identity, she would be committing Rape by Fraud if she was acting deliberately.
-   _Indecent Proposal_. A billionaire offers a couple one million dollars for one night with the wife, who has already turned down his advances earlier in the film. At this point, the couple is broke, having blown all their money on a venture to Las Vegas to try and _make_ money (which they initially did before foolishly deciding to return to the casino and make even more, rather than quitting while they were ahead). After much discussion, they decide to go ahead with it. The billionaire takes the wife to his yacht, but sensing her discomfort with the arrangement, offers to flip a coin and release her from the deal if she wins. However, he wins, and… cue Sexy Discretion Shot. It's obvious that at no time does she want to sleep with this guy but does so only out of desperation and some twisted sense of obligation. And even worse, later in the film, it turns out that the coin in question was rigged, meaning that the billionaire would have won no matter what, and making his actions look really sleazy in hindsight.
-   _Son of the Mask_: Tim has sex with Tanya while under the Mask's influence, which she didn't realize (he crawled into bed in the dark). It's quite likely she wouldn't have if his appearance was clear to her. This leads to the conception of her son too, and so there's the implication that he may be a Child by Rape.
-   _Passengers (2016)_: It's very probable that had she known that Jim woke her up early from cryosleep (thus forcing her to live out her life with him), Aurora would never have had sex with him, making her consent thus very dubious.
-   James Bond has two notorious examples in the series. It doesn't help that in both cases, Bond "seduced" the girl primarily as part of his plan to take down the Big Bad, as she was integral to the villain's operation:
    -   _Goldfinger_: In the most controversial sex scene in the entire series, Bond has sex with Pussy Galore after getting in a fight with her and planting a kiss that she clearly doesn't want. She appears to consent to sex afterwards, which begs the question: did she give consent under duress, which wouldn't make it consent at all, or was it that she wasn't fighting him but her attraction to him and she finally let her guard down? The movie probably intended the latter, but it doesn't change the fact that she _wasn't ready to say yes at that point in time_.
    -   For an example that isn't mission-related, in _Thunderball_, James basically blackmails his physical therapist at the health spa into sleeping with him in exchange for him not reporting the incident where he was nearly killed by a spine stretching machine being set to a dangerously high setting (which wasn't her doing) to management, which could have cost her her job.
    -   _Live and Let Die_: When Bond first meets the villain's fortune teller Solitaire, he asks her to draw a tarot card for him and it's The Lovers, hinting at their future relationship. When they cross paths a second time later in the movie, he's dealing the cards and asks her to pick one, and it once again turns out to be The Lovers, so she proceeds to have sex with him. Then he drops the deck behind her back and _all_ the cards are The Lovers.
-   _Berlin Syndrome_: Clare once has sex with Andi after he starts holding her captive, but of course this context makes it dubious how consensual it was, although she seemed willing otherwise.
-   _The Inner Circle_: Anastasya is taken away from her husband to be Beria's mistress. In their one scene together, she seems to be charmed by him and additionally, when she briefly sees her husband before they're separated, she doesn't seem overly distressed or claim she was raped, despite sex clearly having occurred. However, Beria is, historically, very well known to have been a prolific serial rapist and Anastasya later commits suicide rather than give birth to his child, having suffered extreme sanity slippage.
-   _Bit_: Laurel is happy to become a vampire. As the other option is death, however (also she would turn into one of them automatically otherwise), this wasn't much of a choice.
-   _365 Days_: Just how consensual was Laura having sex with Massimo, when he kidnapped her and tried everything possible to pressure her into being with him?
-   _Lake Mungo_: Nobody uses the word rape and Alice was sixteen when she had an "affair" with her married neighbors. Although everyone treats this as though it was consensual (and judging on the sex tape, it nominally was), Alice's psychological unraveling after that and the fact that the husband tries to steal the tape underlines that something else might have been ongoing, at least some form of psychological coercion.
-   _Troy_: Achilles woke up with his prisoner Briseis pressing a knife to his throat. He told her to do it, and when she didn't, he initiated sex, which she appeared to consent to. But if she had killed him, she would have been at the mercy of the other soldiers again, who came very close to branding and gang-raping her before Achilles stepped in. And if she had turned him down, he might have stopped protecting her and left her to the other soldiers. So how much choice did she really have?
-   _Thelma_: It's left extremely dubious as to whether Anja is really attracted to Thelma, or she's been forced to (even if unconsciously) kiss her etc. with Thelma's psychic powers. It grows into potential horror at the end when they start to date, apparently, since by then Thelma might make them have sex-which if it's really compelled, is rape.
-   _True Lies_: The striptease scene with Helen. Helen is, so she's been told, undercover as a High-Class Call Girl, but is told by her handler (Gib using a voice-changer) that her contact is a voyeur. She performs a striptease dance for the contact without knowing it's Harry, and is then told to "lie down on the bed and close your eyes", whereupon Harry indeed does attempt to have sex with her. Technically, Helen's orders from Gib were to plant a bug, not to have sex with the contact, but she _was_ told that if she failed her mission she'd go to federal prison—and braining her contact with a hotel telephone for trying to have sex with her would certainly ruin a cover as a prostitute and therefore could have been construed as failing the mission, had it not been her own husband setting her up in a poorly-thought-out attempt to fulfill a fantasy on her part.
-   _Quigley Down Under_: Crazy Cora makes a move on Quigley, and he's clearly into the idea, but then realizes her psychological illness is making her confuse him for her former husband Roy. Being a gentleman, he tells her nothing is going to happen until she can say his correct name. At the end, she reminds him of this conversation and that his name is Matthew Quigley.
    
    **Matthew Quigley:** I'm not sharing my bed 'til I'm sure who's in it.
    
-   _Entre Nous (2021)_: Laetitia considers her having sex with Simon less than fully consensual, which the viewer may also, given they were both drunk at the time, plus she feels he manipulated her into it as a "test" of her sexuality (she's bisexual but also engaged to a woman).
-   _The Invitation (2022)_: Evie willingly goes to bed with Deville. Given how horrified later she is about learning he's a vampire, there is little chance though that she'd have done this had it been revealed before they had sex together, making it essentially a Bed Trick on his part.

    Literature 

-   In _Animorphs,_ it's eventually revealed that Visser One and another human-Controller had twins through a pair of human hosts. The hosts, Allison Kim and Hildy Gervais, were apparently also in love with each other, and all four consider themselves the kids' parents in some sense. Since this is supposedly a kid's book, we don't get much information on the actual conception, or even what kind of relationship Allison and Hildy had before they became Controllers.
-   In _A Brother's Price_ (which is in many ways a Romance Novel with gender roles reversed) not-yet-16-year-old Jerin Whistler is seduced by Princess Ren, who feels him up despite his inarticulate protests and stated a desire to remain pure. She takes his arousal as more important than what he's saying; he even wonders how much force he can use to get away from a princess without getting in trouble, but soon rationalizes that this might be his only chance to be intimate with someone who's not a Brindle and participates happily. He says no and she backs off while he's still a Technical Virgin. When his sister learns about this she is initially **furious** with Ren for raping her brother but cools a little as he tries to explain.
    
    **Eldest:** I don't hate you. Truly, it is easier to know you gave in to passion. It hurt to think you had been taken against your will in our very kitchen. I'm still angry with her. Making advances on you is akin to dangling candy before a child.
    
-   In _A Court of Thorns and Roses_ Lucien feels obligated to perform a rite called Calanmai in Tamlin's place that involves sex with another person. In his case, with Ianthe, whose pursuits he's been trying to dodge for months. While he insists that he chose of his own free will to perform the rite, his body language and how he talks about it and her suggest that he didn't want to do it and hated the experience, and participated _only_ because he felt he had to out of a sense of duty towards Spring Court.
-   In _The Alice Network_, the Femme Fatale Spy Eve sleeps with her boss, René Bordelon. Though Eve does have a choice (she could ask the Alice Network to find her another position), René is unaware of this. All _he_ knows is that she's seventeen (she's actually twenty-two), vulnerable, and would be out of a job if she refused him. While Eve did give consent, it was not granted out of happiness but out of duty to her country.
-   _Atonement_: The rape of Lola is treated as a grey area because she is implied to have been seduced by Marshall, and grows up to marry him (seemingly not caring about the fate of the man who was falsely imprisoned for being her rapist). She's a young teenager and therefore could not legally consent by modern standards (the story is set in the 1930s).
-   _Can You Spare a Quarter?_: Jamie has tolerated sexual advances of men because otherwise he receives no food and no place to sleep in.
-   When Clorinda encounters Gentleman Jones in _The Comfortable Courtesan_, she's been skinny-dipping and is wearing nothing but a cloak, and _he_ is showing every sign of getting ready to rape her right there on the sand. A bit of fast talking on her part gets him to behave more civilly, and after a nice chat about his adventures, they have an enjoyable romp during which she even convinces him to wear a condom. But note that there was never any question as to whether they would have sex or not. Her choices were "enjoyable romp" or "violent rape".
-   The fans of _The Dresden Files_ are nigh-obsessed with the consent issues in the series and nailing down which were intended by the author and which were accidental.
    -   Anything involving The Fair Folk is almost certainly intended (the Winter Court in particular). There are only two hard-and-fast rules when dealing with fairies: any contract, verbal or otherwise, is 100% binding (and if you do not uphold your end, the other party is within their rights to come down on you like a ton of bricks, fatally if they should so desire), and there is no such thing as the spirit of the agreement, only the letter (and if you can get away with it, you can be pretty flexible with the letter as well). The conditions under which the agreements are made are completely immaterial, and many of the less benevolent fairies like to actively exploit people who are between a rock and a hard place like this.
    -   Lampshaded in _Proven Guilty_, when (in response to Molly explicitly trying to seduce him) Harry rejects her on the grounds that she's underage and recently had a very traumatic experience (being kidnapped and tortured by the Fae). Molly insisted that neither of these was relevant, but later concedes he was right to stop her.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   Harry refuses to take advantage of Sarissa in _Cold Days_, since he points out that even if she's fine with it, the power discrepancy in their positions creates potential problems.
    -   In _Storm Front_, Harry makes a love potion as part of a deal with Bob the Skull, who is obsessed with lust despite being a spirit of the air. The potion is then accidentally drunk by Susan Rodriguez, and is shown to be so powerful that she tries to have sex with him even though it would likely kill them both by destroying their protective pentagram and getting them ripped to pieces by a demon. However, it is unclear whether the potion was ever intended to be used or if just creating it was enough for Bob, and Harry did not take advantage of it. In the same book, however, it is also implied that Bob used magic to turn a frat party into an orgy.
    -   In _Death Masks_ Harry ties up Susan Rodrigues when she is overcome by the lusts from her vampire side, being the only way to prevent her from drinking him dry and changing forever. However, he does have sex with her while she is tied up, for which she arguably cannot consent due to the fact that sex is one of the vampire lusts that she was unable to resist. Her reaction is more one of gratitude for relieving the lust than outrage, however.
-   _Earth's Children_:
    -   At least twice between Jondalar and Ayla.
        -   First, while Jondalar teaches Ayla about the pleasure of having sex, after he made "the signal" to her that, according to the Clan's rules, commands her to immediately allow him to have his way with her. Ayla obeys because she's been conditioned for a lifetime to do as men tell her, but her thoughts are in the range of "for the first time, she would have refused", especially as it reminds her of her rape at Broud's hands. The fact that she's into it immediately as he starts makes it come across like "Not If They Enjoyed It" Rationalization. There also had been some problem with communication between the pair, further complicating matters. Jondalar had intended it as a flirtatious joke; due to not being raised in the Clan's ways, he doesn't fully understand the implications of the signal.
        -   Second, in the third book when they go on a hunting trip, while Ayla is technically in a relationship with Ranec and Jondalar generally behaves like a Jerkass. Jondalar, pissed off and jealous, forces himself upon her and realizes this afterwards, and while Ayla insists that she is "always ready for him" and there's more communication breakdown here, he definitely did not ask for her consent. Jondalar is horrified by his actions, believing he's no better than Broud, although Ayla insists she wanted to have sex and doesn't think of it as rape.
    -   Possibly Ayla and Ranec's first time. He propositions her and she seems to be under the impression she is obligated to go with him (due to the Clan training), in spite of the fact she finds him attractive. Mamut actually points out to her that it's her right to say no.
    -   Ayla and Laramar in the sixth book, considering she was extremely drunk at the time. Laramar claims she sought him out, but she was still intoxicated and Laramar's hardly the most honest and honorable man of the Zelandonii — even the First believes he's exaggerating.
-   In _Elminster: The Making of a Mage_, while he's a thief, Elminster and his partner Farl hide a prostitute (unconscious at the time) in the bedroom of a cross-dressing baker from the wrath of her clients (whom they just robbed), stroking both of them so they'll have sex after waking up—just for laughs apparently. The pair end up happily married, yes, but seriously?
-   In the _Eyes Of Crow_ books, Marek is turned into a Sex Slave by an Illion woman. Since her culture believes women cannot rape men, she threatens to kill his son if he does not share her bed. While he thinks that he's doing so consensually and is deeply ashamed of it, his wife calls it rape and nearly obliterates the woman's soul for it.
-   _Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas:_ Duke arrives at his hotel room to find Gonzo accompanied by Lucy, a very young woman who Gonzo met at the airport, gave some LSD, and then probably had sex with. Duke is concerned that when Lucy comes down, she will consider herself to have been drugged and raped.
-   _Fifty Shades of Grey_: Ana is told that being Christian's sub is up to her and that she can negotiate the terms of their contract if she wishes. When she sends him an e-mail, joking that she wants their deal to be off (before she even signed the contract), Grey goes to her apartment, ties her to the bed, and rapes her until she changes her mind. Whenever she tries to renegotiate anything in the contract, he tries to talk her out of it.
-   _Flowers in the Attic_ culminates a long building UST in a scene like this between Chris and Cathy. In the moment right before, and then during, no consent is _communicated_, which puts it pretty firmly in the rape category. Almost as soon as it's over, Chris has a My God, What Have I Done? moment and explicitly calls it rape when he apologizes. Cathy insists that it was not rape and she does not hold it against him. She tries to reassure him that she "could have stopped him" if she really wanted to, but that's a dubious claim since he's a boy two years older than her. In her own head she says "I wanted what he wanted, right or wrong", further muddying the waters. The 2014 miniseries gives Adaptational Consent by having them share a kiss and then just be seen in bed together.
-   Used as an example of Deliberate Values Dissonance in _Hometown_:
    -   By modern standards, what Rodney does to Vicki is a straightforward Date Rape via But Liquor Is Quicker: he shows up at the funeral of her best friend with lots of booze, knowing that she's going to need a freaking drink, drinks sparingly if at all while she tries to drown her sorrows, then rapes her when she's too drunk to resist. Vicki certainly resents this, not least because he doesn't use protection and thus gives her a bad Pregnancy Scare for what would have been a Child by Rape, but as a lower-class girl in the early Nineties, she considers the whole incident to be this trope at worst, since she voluntarily got into Rodney's car and drank the booze, knowing that this was a risk.
    -   There are also a number of straightforward examples of girls who are pressured or manipulated into consenting to sexual activities. The story actually begins with a scene where a couple is having unprotected sex and the boy "forgets" to practice withdrawal as he'd promised.
-   Rampant throughout _The Hunger Games_, where District teenagers have the option to 'choose' the Games (by stepping in for another or increasing their chances in the lottery), but for those in the poorer Districts, it is by no means a free choice. Grain and other supplies are awarded to those who add their name a certain amount of times, so it's a choice between starving to death and being murdered by a sociopathic teenager. _Winning_ the Games does not save you from this. The Capitol tightly controls Victors, keeping them in line with implicit threats of violence towards their families, and Finnick, a highly attractive District 4 Victor, has many Capitolite "lovers". Put those together and it's not good.
-   In the French comedy _Paris à tout prix_ (Paris at any cost), the protagonist's best friends are a couple who are in love and actively trying to conceive, but struggling. When the girl notices an erection on her sleeping boyfriend, she takes a chance... without waking him up. Played for Laughs as he does wake up in the middle of it and is pretty unfazed.
-   In _Heart In Hand_, The first time Darryl and Alex have sex, Darryl is intoxicated, and felt that he had the obligation to fulfill the "bet" even though he really didn't want to. It's addressed in-universe in that Alex feels guilty about it afterwards and Darryl himself still feels unsure about whether it was consensual, long after the deed is done.
-   _Knowledge Of Angels_: Palinor orders his female servant Dolca to undress. Dolca obeys and is described as being fearful though he says that she can refuse sex with him. She doesn't, and he has sex with her (but doesn't stop it despite knowing this hurts her). Then, after his male servant Joffre (her sweetheart) comes in, he suggests that they have sex together while he's watching, and the pair agree. After this, he has sex with Joffre, then guides Joffre into having sex with him in turn. Given they are his servants and used to obedience, plus the rest, this does not come off very well.
-   In _Kushiel's Legacy_, Phèdre is drugged and tortured while having sex with Melisande, but does not give the signale which would make her stop, even though Melisande repeatedly asks for it. Phèdre uses this trope to try and distance herself from the trauma of the ordeal, although it's clearly considered rape by everyone else.
-   _Lords of the Underworld_: Legion makes a deal with Lucifer: if she can seduce Aeron within a given period of time, she'll be able to keep the beautiful human body Lucifer gives her to do it with. However, Aeron does not love Legion romantically,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and only agrees to sleep with her because he knows she'll be _sent back to Hell_ if he doesn't. The fact that this isn't truly consensual is often brought up.
-   _The Lunacy Of Duke Venomania_ is constructed around this—the women in the titular duke's harem are happy to be there, thrilled to be having sex with him, and don't miss their families or friends or lovers one bit. This is because he has the power to instantly brainwash any woman that he fancies. Including a lesbian, who eventually dies from the strain on her sexuality. When he's killed at the end, all of the women run out of the mansion as fast they can. A less magic related case is Mikulia, who isn't brainwashed into the harem but has the emotional and mental maturity of a small child.
-   Nonsexual example in _A Macabre Myth of a Moth-Man_. Technically Brett _did_ consent to the procedure, but he was under the impression that it would cure his Melanoma and the condition that made him sunburn easily. Spending a year Strapped to an Operating Table, being genetically spliced with moth DNA, was never something he was informed of.
-   In _Magical Girl Raising Project_, people are asked if they want to become real Magical Girls, but they're not told that there's no backing out of being one. If they're forced to quit or attempt to quit, they'll die of a heart attack because their body can't take the stress of having their powers removed.
-   In _Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn_, Miriamele gives in to Aspitis when he comes to her bunk but she is vulnerable, drunk, and possibly drugged at the time.
-   In _Never Let Me Go_, the protagonists and others are getting exploited in the most brutal way, and they have all been conditioned to unquestioningly accept the system.
-   _November 9_: In hindsight, it's doubtful if Fallon would've consented to sex with Ben if she'd known at the time he is responsible for her burn scars, something which Ben was always aware of but never told Fallon about; he finally decides he will tell Fallon _after_ they've slept together a second time, as he knows she may not react well. Fallon finds out on her own mere hours after this and is completely repulsed by the situation.
-   _Piece of My Heart_: Michelle and Daniel's relationship was questionable given that Michelle emphatically stated she would never have been with him if she'd known he was married; Daniel intentionally mislead her about this, such as never inviting her to his office (where his co-workers knew he was married with a child, and where his wife would sometimes visit him) and going along with her ideas about them getting married and having children once she'd graduated. Michelle ghosted him when she realized the truth and was consumed with guilt over it, to the point it contributed to her getting addicted to heroin. Daniel also acknowledges that he was being deceitful and let things go on too long, though he's more concerned about the potential impact on his marriage than Michelle's feelings.
-   In the short story "Revolver Concert" by Spencer Carvalho, summed up in the following exchange:
    
    _"What does it mean when it says that the participant forfeits his or her life for the duration of the concert?"  
    "It's just legal stuff."  
    "Yeah, but what does it mean?"  
    "Just sign it, okay."_
    
-   _Reign of the Seven Spellblades_: In volume 4, Oliver is suffering aftereffects of the previous volume antagonist's Sex Magic. His friend Chela corners him in a restaurant bathroom after he has an episode, and informs him that, As You Know, if he's still feeling the effects of succubus Perfume this long after the incident, then the only way to clear it out of his system will be to satisfy the urge, and not by himself. After suggesting he try approaching his Love Interest Nanao for sex without getting a response,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  she manipulates him into some Intimate Healing that amounts to a magic-assisted handjob through their clothes, to which he never clearly consents. To Chela's credit, she feels extremely guilty about it afterwards: they're not attracted to each other that way and she worries she might have irreparably damaged their friendship by trying to help him.
-   In the backstory of _Shadow of the Conqueror_, Dayless the Conqueror invoked this trope to justify (to himself) raping hundreds of girls: he never explicitly told his attendants to coerce them, never asked if they'd consented, and figured all that crying might just have been nervousness. (According to one of his victims, he was also a Sadist who enjoyed it when she cried, and he later admits to himself that he "took such pleasure" in abusing her.) Every time he remembers this after beginning his Redemption Quest, he either vomits or breaks down crying, calling himself the most despicable monster who ever lived.
-   _Shimoneta_: Discussed between Tanukichi and Ayame during episode 5. When Ayame says Tanukichi should be happy now that Anna had given him the "green light", he retorts that he isn't interested in Anna just for her body. He then adds that even if he only wanted to have sex with her, he wouldn't be able to enjoy it anyway, since Anna doesn't know what she's doing, due to her sheltered upbringing, nor is she able to properly distinguish what her true feelings are.
-   Played with in the _Slave World_ novels, with the slave hunters using psychological profiling to find people who will (after being given the right medical treatment) love the fact that they are getting exploited and only consider the fact that it's non-consensual to be an extra turn on.
-   The marriage of Aredhel and Eöl in _The Silmarillion_. She rode into his forest without knowing he lived there or controlled it, and Eöl set enchantments so that she couldn't find her way out and wound up at his house. He eventually persuades her to marry him after keeping her thus imprisoned, and he refuses every request of hers to leave and seek out her kin again (since it turns out she's actually from the elven clan he despises), forcing her and her son to sneak out while he's away. Earlier drafts of the story have Eöl outright rape her, but Tolkien eventually decided that an elf would literally die of trauma if that happened to them, and modified it—however, the _best_ that can be said about the marriage is that "she was not wholly unwilling."
-   _A Song of Ice and Fire_:
    -   Daenerys is part of an Arranged Marriage with barbarian warlord Khal Drogo. On their wedding night, Daenerys notices that Drogo keeps asking her "No?", and realizes that he is actually seeking her consent. While she does verbally give it, it's still problematic for a few reasons. She's 13, and he's in his 20s. It's not clear whether he really would have accepted a "no" had she given one. Even if _he_ would have, her brother and (abusive) guardian since infancy, Viserys, makes it very clear that Daenerys would face terrible consequences for failing to please Drogo. After their wedding night, Drogo — who hails from a culture in which Marital Rape License is the standard — does not bother even going through the motions of seeking consent and does rape her several times.
    -   In the Backstory, Lysa Tully's bedding of Petyr "Littlefinger" Baelish has elements of this, as both times she slept with him, he was either passed out drunk or drugged, near-death, and hallucinating because of a nasty, feverish wound, and at least once believed that he was actually with Lysa's sister, Catelyn. It's unclear how aware Lysa was of just how out-of-it he was on these occasions, but it's clear it left him pretty traumatized.
    -   While Jon Snow was _attracted_ to Ygritte, he intended to stay true to his Vow of Celibacy. She all but blackmails him into having sex with her, and to maintain his cover as a defector from the Night's Watch, he does. He becomes pretty enthusiastic over time, but this doesn't negate or justify the blackmail, and it comes off a little like a "Not If They Enjoyed It" Rationalization.
        -   Made less questionable and more "definitely not consent" in the show where she explicitly tells him to have sex with her or die as opposed to just taking advantage of a threat made by a different person in the books.
    -   Similar to Jon Snow above is when Sam has sex with Gilly. The first time is questionable as while they are both physically attracted to each other, he mentally does not wish to have sex due to his vows. In fact, he is terribly wracked with guilt afterwards and tries to avoid her. Afterwards, again similar to Jon Snow, he receives a threat (from someone else) to either have sex with her or die.
    -   A rather complicated case of this with Rhaegar Targaryen and Lyanna Stark. While it's a common theory in the fandom, and confirmed in the television adaptation that Rhaegar's "rape" of Lyanna was in fact a consensual elopement, Rhaegar was in his 20s to Lyanna's 15 at the time, and kept her imprisoned in the Tower of Joy under the eye of the Kingsguard, who fought her brother Ned to a standstill when he came to find her at the end of a brutal war, despite Lyanna crying out repeatedly for her brother. There's also the little matter of Rhaegar having left said tower to fight on the side of the man who had Lyanna's father and eldest brother burned alive and strangled respectively.
    -   In the next example, is... messy. Consent was present (the people involved seem to think it was, at least) but not really communicated. Jaime has a thing for risky Making Love in All the Wrong Places — in Winterfell, in the Sept, beside a drunk sleeping Robert — while Cersei is more cautious. The two sex scenes we see between them play out along the same lines: It's Jaime's idea to have sex in a risky place, Cersei protests (tells him "stop" or "no"), Jaime ignores that and goes ahead anyways, and at some point Cersei gets into it and starts encouraging him. Cersei does not think of these events as rape, and Jaime does not think of this as forcing himself on her — fundamentally, they don't approach their relationship with the modern framework of explicit verbal consent as an ideal. The in-universe take on this situation is best summed up in this conversation Cersei has with a friend:
        
        **Taena:** A hundred times I told him no, and he said yes, until finally I was saying yes as well. He was not the sort of man to be denied.  
        **Cersei:** _\[with a wry smile\]_ I know the sort.
        
-   In _The Time of Contempt_ of the _The Witcher_ series, Ciri is trapped with the Rats after being rescued from a gang that was going to gang-rape her. Mistle rescues her from being raped by one of their members, Kayleigh, only for Mistle to then do the same thing. Ciri doesn't resist either time but is obviously terrified. Later, it's A Match Made in Stockholm.
-   _RCN_: Defied in _Though Hell Should Bar the Way_. Roy falls in Love at First Sight with Monica, who was at the time being held as a harem slave (she's confirmed to have been gang-raped at least once). After he rescues her and they escape the planet she reciprocates, but he initially turns her down, wanting to make sure she's sleeping with him because she wants to, not out of any sense of obligation.
-   _The Silerian Trilogy_: Elelar is initially willing to have sex with Cheylan, but he shows no signs of taking "no" as an answer later.
-   In _Skippy Dies_, Lori consents to giving Carl a blowjob, but then he forces her to swallow and films the whole thing without asking her, and sends the video out to the whole school. She's pretty upset by the whole thing.
-   In _Touch (2017),_ Father has a cult of willing prostitutes/Sex Slaves, many of whom are children. All of them are perfectly willing to be there, however, since Father's power is inducing levels of happiness so strong that people do anything he wants. The narrative and other characters make it clear that this should not be considered consent, but Father himself seems oblivious to why people aren't cool with this. He specifically hates it when people claim that he uses "Mind Control," but that's pretty clearly how it works in practice.
-   In _Vicky Peterwald: Target_, Vicky is kidnapped by assassins after the bounty placed on her by her Evil Stepmother. She escapes by seducing one of them and killing him in the act, but describes it as rape later on grounds of her desperation to escape.
-   _Victoria_ has Azania's Lady Land conquered, burned and wiped off the face of the earth by its arch-enemy the Northern Confederation, a far-right state that literally keeps its women in the kitchen. The survivors of the lesbian Amazon Brigade are put through reeducation camps, which supposedly make traditional, domestic "real women" of them without any coercion whatsoever... and those who resist conversion are sold as slaves. Still, the Confederation commander sincerely praises the beauty of it as the re-educated women become "blushing war brides" for his soldiers, and honestly appears completely oblivious to any suggestion that their consent might not have been freely given.
-   In _The Villains Series_, Eli (the Big Bad) and Serena (his Dragon with an Agenda) have a relationship chock full of this. Aside from her Compelling Voice, Serena has a passive "you want to please me" aura which she's incapable of turning off—even if she avoids direct orders, she's still influencing people, so she can never be certain a sex partner is 100% willing. Eli, for his part, originally intended to murder Serena as part of his crusade against people with powers, and will do it if she doesn't regularly order him not to hurt her. Although neither seems to have terribly negative feelings about the sex, this dynamic is a symptom of how deeply screwed up they both are and things don't end well.
-   Discussed in _Worm_ between Taylor and Brian, where she (who has had a crush on him for some time,) can't help but wonder if her caring for him after his horrific torture might lead into romance, but she is also fully aware that he's in a very vulnerable state and she needs to be careful not to manipulate him. Later on, they get together, but consent is not an issue because, even though Brian is still traumatised, he is sane enough by that point to be able to make the decision.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Arrowverse_:
    -   It’s revealed in _Legends of Tomorrow_ that after killing Kendra the first time, Vandal Savage convinced her reincarnation to get into a relationship with him. As soon as she learned who he was and what he had done to her in her previous life, she rejected him.
    -   In the eighth season of _The Flash (2014)_, Reverse-Flash creates an alternate timeline where he replaces Barry as the Flash and convinces Iris to become his fiancée. If she had known who he was in the main timeline, she would not have been with him.
-   _Battlestar Galactica_: In the episode "Six of One", Colonel Tigh orders Tory to seduce Baltar in order to find out more information regarding the last Cylon model based on the latter's experiences in the Temple of Five. Tory agrees to do so, but it's shown that she isn't happy at all. Later, when she does seduce Baltar, she cries while they're having sex. Baltar misinterprets this (because he knows that she's a Cylon) as thinking she's insecure and tells her that she does have feelings, and this apparently makes her feel better.
-   _Behind Her Eyes_: Early in the series, it seems like David just isn't into his beautiful wife anymore and the only way he can enjoy sex with her is by not looking at her face. Later, it's revealed to be a Grand Theft Me situation, and his wife's body was stolen by her friend Rob. Worse still, Rob later steals the body of David's new girlfriend/wife Louise and continues the deception.
-   _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_:
    -   Downplayed in "Out of My Mind" when Harmony thinks, incorrectly, that Buffy is hunting her down to kill her, she goes to her ex, Spike, for a place to stay. Spike agrees, but makes it clear that if she's living there, he wants sex. Her reply is such a casual "sure, whatever" that it doesn't come off as coercive—it just _would_ have been if she cared.
    -   Played for Drama in "Dead Things" when the Trio use a Mind-Control Device to try to make a woman have sex with them. Warren uses it on his ex-girlfriend, but she breaks out of it before things get very far. She is understandably freaked out and furious, screaming that the three of them tried to rape her. Andrew and Jonathan's horrified reactions make it clear that it never occurred to them that _making_ a girl consent might be anything more than kinky fun.
-   _Dark Angel_: While in heat, Max aggressively has sex with a guy she's just met. Afterward, she's shown in bed next to him looking very unhappy, indicating the overwhelming hormonal urges made her do it, which she wouldn't otherwise.
-   _Das Boot_: Simone submits to Forster's sexual advance, probably out of fear he might discover Carla hiding in her apartment otherwise. However, later she tells him he forced himself on her. We don't hear or see all that went on beforehand too. Since she's a closeted lesbian though, it's likely Simone wouldn't have sex with him _except_ in circumstances like this, whether or not he would have taken "no" for an answer.
-   _Degrassi_:
    -   Holly J sleeps with Declan. It isn't discussed until a few weeks later when she said she felt really uncomfortable with him pressuring her, saying that was why she did it in the first place because she didn't want to sleep with him at the time.
    -   Katie and Drew have sex at a party while Drew is visibly wasted and Katie is completely sober. This happens minutes after Drew tells Dallas that he wanted to lose his virginity to Bianca, and be sober for it. This is made even more alarming by the fact that Drew seemed to be only vaguely aware of his surroundings at the party, and doesn't even remember having slept with Katie when he wakes up the morning after. One can only wonder how aware he was when he was actually in the bedroom with her.
-   The Actives of the _Dollhouse_ all technically volunteered to allow their bodies to be imprinted with artificially designed personalities to be rented out for five years, with signed contracts to prove it. However, the volunteers range from an otherwise mentally sound veteran looking for a cure for his PTSD in exchange for work at the Dollhouse to convicts promised a shortened prison sentence or newly accused criminals facing jail, to a paranoid schizophrenic who was actually being drugged by a jealous stalker to induce her mental illness. The circumstances meant that the people had little choice but to consent and that some of them might not be considered mentally fit to consent at all, making the voluntary nature of the Actives dubious. Even more than that, the very concept of giving consent to _literally everything for five years in advance with no possibility of retraction_ seems highly questionable in itself, looking suspiciously like slavery.
-   _Downton Abbey_: In the first season, a devilishly handsome Turkish ambassador and house guest sneaks into Mary's room in the middle of the night and pressures her into having sex against her protests. When she threatens to scream or ring the bell, he gently reminds her that she wouldn't since the mere presence of a man in her room (innocent or not, bidden or not) would destroy her reputation and marital prospects. While she does eventually give in, and later claims that he was her lover, there really isn't much consent in the original scene.
-   A non-sexual version is seen in the _Fargo_ series premiere. The season's Big Bad Lorne Malvo runs into Lester Nygaard at a hospital while Lester is seeking treatment for an injury inflicted by his lifelong bully Sam Hess. Malvo offers to kill Hess for Lester, asking for a simple yes or no. Lester doesn't answer Malvo directly, but replies "yeah" to a nurse who calls his name before walking away. Lorne takes this as a yes and murders Sam Hess that night, ultimately sending Lester down a path of violence himself.
-   _Friends_: In "The One with Five Steaks and an Eggplant", Chandler gets a call from a Girl of the Week who thinks his number is from her ex, "Bob", with whom she wants to hook-up with. Chandler takes advantage of this by pretending he's said ex and arranging for a date, and when she's inevitably stood up, Chandler will "swoop in" and woo her while she's On the Rebound. Ross finds the entire thing very questionable and admonishes Chandler about it, but he goes through with it anyway and succeeds in hooking up with her... only to get his comeuppance when she calls "Bob" again only to tell him how awful Chandler was in bed.
-   In _Game of Thrones_, Margaery marries the much younger King Tommen and they engage in a sexual relationship even though she's an adult while he's a teenager, and it's made clear that she's using sex to wrap him around her finger. Actress Natalie Dormer insisted that she wouldn't have filmed the scene if Tommen wasn't at least 16 years old, but Tommen's age was estimated by viewers to be _14,_ based on the "one year per season" method of measuring time.
-   Discussed in _Ghosts (US)_: Hetty’s husband Elias was in a relationship with a maid named Molly while they were alive and Hetty believed that it was a romantic affair. But when Molly is accidentally summoned in the second Halloween Episode she tells her side of the story: that she didn’t even like Elias and was only with him to keep her job to support her child after her husband died in a mill accident (that Elias indirectly caused) and was miserable.
-   _Glee_:
    -   Quinn's pregnancy arc. It was already implied that Quinn's sexual encounter with Puck might not have been what she wanted since she told him she only did so "because she was drunk and feeling fat that day". But then a flashback at the end of Season 1 reveals that she _explicitly_ told Puck that she didn't want to have sex, but he turned her around by telling her that all her friends in the chastity club have had sex with him, she'll be forgotten by all of them in three years anyway, and then he lies about having protection. Not to mention the scene implies he's deliberately getting her drunk on wine coolers. And to top it off, it's all Played for Laughs.
    -   The show later Hand Waves this in Season 3 when he says he felt "kind of" bad about it (something he never indicated before this, ever) and she says, "No regrets" (completely the opposite of how she had been shown to feel about it since it was first brought up in Season 1).
-   _Hit & Miss_: Riley is a teenage girl (of indeterminate age) who's sexually involved with John, her landlord. Most times he doesn't ask before having sex with her, and Riley looks pretty unhappy. On the other hand, she seems pretty devoted to him at first. Eventually she kills John to be rid of him though.
-   One episode of _House_ had Cameron get high and booty call Chase. He briefly asks whether this is right and Cameron admonishes him not to be a good guy. When they discuss this later there is no talk of consent. But Cameron does get mad at the Patient of the Week for telling her that this kind of thing will make you happy when "self-destructive" would be more accurate.
-   In _How I Met Your Mother_, Barney's numerous conquests are based largely on deception. Of the over two hundred women he's slept with, he has bedded four (Marshall's constitutional law professor, Quinn, Nora and Robin) by being himself. All of Barney's sexual partners consented, but almost none consented with a full understanding of who he was and what his intentions were. Also, given that most of the women he has sex with are shown to be comically unintelligent and gullible, and some appear to be mentally unstable, he is clearly taking advantage of them, even if he isn't coercing them into sex.
-   _Interview with the Vampire (2022)_: In "In Throes of Increasing Wonder...", Louis de Pointe du Lac doesn't seem wholly cognizant when Lestat de Lioncourt has sex with him during Their First Time because Lestat is also drinking his blood, which has been shown to be intoxicating. Louis compares the _petit coup_/"little drink" to the best drug-induced high that Daniel Molloy has ever experienced, but "multiply it by miles, to the rings of Saturn and back." While Louis did consent to have sex with Lestat, he didn't explicitly consent to any blood play, but by the time Lestat had sunk his fangs into Louis' neck, the latter couldn't object even if he wanted to because his mind was in a haze.
-   Invoked in an episode of _Judging Amy_, when Amy has a massive freakout on her wedding day and calls it off because she realizes her fiance is a "really nice, really well-meaning bully" who's always pressuring her into things she inevitably ends up enjoying and being glad she was coerced, but the point is that he's coercing her at all, not really letting her choose.
-   In a Season 2 episode of _Justified_, Raylan is tasked with the transportion of Jamie, a female prisoner who is eight months pregnant. She claims to be pregnant from a conjugal visit by her husband, but Raylan eventually discovers that the father is a prison guard, who in this episode attempts to arrange to have Jamie killed and the baby sold to traffickers to cover up his tracks. That said, it's never specified whether he raped her or if their encounter was consensual (which would be problematic for other reasons...)
-   In an episode of _Law & Order: Criminal Intent_, Logan and Rogers (the forensic examiner) are discussing whether a woman Logan was attracted to was raped and killed by her abusive ex-husband, who had been stalking her. Rogers says she could find no evidence of rape, but then (very sadly) adds that there's no way to distinguish between consensual and forced consensual. In other words, the woman may have "consented" to sex with her ex simply to avoid a worse beating.
-   Frequently discussed on _Law & Order: Special Victims Unit_ whenever a teenager below the age of consent is in a relationship with someone older, particularly when that is a teacher or an authority figure. However, the discussion is usually undermined by revelations that one person in the relationship is manipulating or exploiting the other in some way, making one party seem naive and the other villainous. In fact, the teenagers are the guilty party just as often as the older partners. One episode delves into the question of whether a man lying to a woman about his identity in order to get her into bed counts as rape (i.e. the woman agreed to have sex with the false identity, not the man wearing it). Naturally, Olivia claims that it does, while at least one of the "victims" simply points out that it was a game that she lost, fair and square. They do end up getting the guy, but for something that is less ambiguous.
    -   In an egregious case of Protagonist-Centered Morality, a few years earlier, one of the main characters was revealed to have had a sexual relationship while undercover with a woman who had no idea who he really was (resulting in a child) and he's treated entirely sympathetically.
-   In _Lost_, Locke gives a kidney to his father, believing it was his own idea. However, his father has manipulated and maneuvered him from the start, and drops him like garbage as soon as he got what he needed.
-   On _My Name Is Earl_, in the episode "Seduced Seven Virgins," Earl recalls how horrible he's been to women, and in particular, years ago, he and Randy would wait for the Amish-like Camdenite girls to be released into The Outside World as a rite of passage. They would pretend they were from a nearby similar settlement to get the girls to trust them, get them drunk, and have sex with them. The girls liked the experience so much that they never returned to their village...although they had no idea how to survive in the outside world. It's unknown what happened to any of them afterwards, but it likely wasn't anything _good_.
-   In an episode of _Night Gallery_, a wealthy blind woman pays a desperate man for his eyes. He needs the money to satisfy his bookie.
-   _Once Upon a Time in Wonderland_: Jafar uses his magic to make Anastasia fall in love with him. While they make out numerous times, the audience (and other characters) are aware that she wouldn't be consenting if Jafar didn't put a spell on her.
-   In _The Orville_, Darulio's species produces pheromones once a year, which drives anyone they come into contact with into sexual attraction. When the others find out the truth, they are less than happy, while Darulio himself doesn't see anything wrong with it. In fact, in his culture, it's considered rude to refuse sex. He also admits it's possible he was releasing pheromones when Kelly cheated on Ed with him at the very beginning of the show.
-   _The Outer Limits (1995)_: In "Afterlife", Stiles submits to the experiment, but the alternative was death. His religious beliefs also precluded the latter, as for him it would essentially be suicide, as the experimenters knew.
-   _Rake_: Cleaver is basically coerced into getting involved with Kirsty by Col. While he isn't specifically forced to be with her, Col unsubtly makes it clear he'll get hurt if she isn't kept happy. This includes sleeping with her too, as Cleaver clearly thinks she won't be happy if he refuses. It only ends when he gets Col to confess his feelings for Kirsty, so they get together instead.
-   _Star Trek: The Next Generation_:
    -   In "The Naked Now", Tasha seduces Data while under the influence of a virus that seriously compromises her judgment and apparently passes it on to him in the process.
    -   In "Birthright" after Worf finds out that Ba'el is half-Romulan, she insists that her parents love each other. Since her father is in charge of a prison camp and her mother is a prisoner, she should be presumed incapable of consent under the circumstances. Worf being a Proud Warrior Race Guy and a Fantastic Racist accuses her mother of committing an obscenity by mating with a Romulan.
-   _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_:
    -   "Wrongs Darker than Death or Night": Dukat reveals that Kira's mother was his "lover" but given that Kira Meru was essentially abducted and forced into prostitution for the Cardassians and that her children were starving and in need of medicine and Dukat offered to provide for them, "questionable consent" is probably the nicest way to put it.
    -   Also there was Sisko from the prime universe sleeping with Jadzia from the Mirror Universe as part of his cover ID of being Mirror Sisko (she initiated the act, but she thought he was his Alternate Universe doppelganger). To the show's credit, Mirror Jadzia is _pissed_ in her next appearance, which is not something you often see with sex and the mirror universe. She even threatens him with a knife over it. At the same time, Sisko was forced to impersonate his doppelganger, and he only had sex with Jadzia to maintain his cover so as to not get killed, making his consent as questionable as hers.
-   _Supernatural_
    -   In the episode "I Think I'm Gonna Like It Here" (S09, Ep01), an angel gets permission to possess Sam by posing as his brother and asking to let him in and let him help, but Sam thought he was saying yes to his brother and did not know what the help entailed.
    -   Demons possess human bodies without their permission and it is made clear that the humans are often awake and aware of what the demon is doing with their bodies. This became an issue for the writers when Sam embarked on an affair with the demon Ruby. Viewers reacted badly to the idea that Sam knew full well that Ruby's host would have not been able to give consent and would have been aware of what was happening to her. The writers then inserted a flashback scene in which Sam expresses concern about Ruby's host bodies and so Ruby searches out a brain-dead young woman whose soul has already left her body. She even reminds Sam that she is alone inside the body before they have sex.
    -   Angelic possession, in general, can be considered a form of this, as angels require humans' permission to possess them, but it's clear that the vessels are not always fully informed about what exactly the possession entails and what sort of liberties angels will take with their bodies. In a Season 5 episode, Castiel considers having sex (although ultimately doesn't), but makes no mention whatsoever of his vessel Jimmy's opinion on the matter. Apparently, Castiel's interpretation of Jimmy's permission is that he has been given complete autonomy to do whatever he pleases while within Jimmy's body, but Jimmy is a married man and it's not known if he would agree to his body being used for sex. Although Castiel spent what appears to be a couple of days discussing the possibility of being a vessel with Jimmy before permission was given — it may be that he spelled out his possession would give him the right to do _anything_ while in control. Angels can also torture people (quite horrifically) until they give consent, so that also raises questions. In Season 10, we learn that Jimmy's soul went to Heaven when Castiel, while in Jimmy's body, was killed by an archangel. Presumably, Castiel liked Jimmy's body as a vessel and God knew it so brought him back in that form. This lets Cas (and the writers) off the hook for many of the things he subsequently did in the devout Jimmy's body, including sex, murder, and a host of other sins.
    -   The Reaper April presents herself as a kind human to a humanized and traumatized Castiel and seduces him. The fact that she is not human and lies to the emotionally vulnerable angel about her identity makes his ability to consent dubious. He does claim to have enjoyed the sex part, but not the part afterward where she tortures him.
-   _Switched at Birth_: This issue is raised when Bay wakes up next to Tank and can't remember what happened. After he reveals they had sex, she's skeptical that she'd consent to that, but he insists that she did. Others, however, note that being so drunk would cast doubt on her consent to start, or even automatically make it a sexual assault.
-   _Tidelands (Netflix)_: Adrielle and Augie having sex does not seem entirely consensual on his part as she just springs it on him, although this could be roleplaying, albeit he goes along with this and she doesn't stop when he protests while she's pressing his torso hard between her thighs while getting his penis inside her. The fact that she's also a murderous gangster and his drug supplier just makes this more sketchy.
-   _True Blood_: Sex with vampires in general is this for a number of reasons. For one thing, it's established that vampires have the ability to glamour (i.e. Mind Rape), and they frequently employ this as a means of having control over humans. For another, there's the question of whether or not the humans have taken any vampire blood, which has been described as a cross between a powerful aphrodisiac and a drug that can mess with a person's mental and emotional state. One of the most controversial moments in the entire series is when it's revealed in season 3 that Bill Compton intentionally let Sookie get beaten almost to death so he could drug her with his blood and use that to manipulate her. This was serious enough that it turned a lot of fans against his character and his relationship with Sookie. It's also stated that when vampires feed on humans, sex usually goes with it, and sometimes the vampires don't care about the human's consent since they view humans as inferior. There's also the revelation that vampire monarchs like Sophie Anne have humans procured for them, which by definition is when a person is obtained to be used as a prostitute for a client. Given that Bill has been procuring humans for Sophie Anne for 35 years (way before the human population found out about vampires) and that Sophie Anne was in a position as both a vampire and a queen to demand sex from the humans regardless of whether or not they were okay with it...it makes that entire situation icky for a number of reasons. There's also vampires having certain advantages over humans (super-strength, super-speed, sharp fangs, etc) that allow them to exert force over a human in a relationship, which is what Violet does with Jason in seasons 6-7.
-   In the 2017 revival of _Twin Peaks_, Janey-E has sex with Cooper believing him to be her husband. Unfortunately, due to weird interdimensional shit, Cooper is an Empty Shell who can barely think or reason, something Janey-E weirdly doesn't seem to realize.
-   _Vida_: Emma gives Nico oral sex while she's high. Nico later feels guilty about this, saying that it was "rapey". Emma dismisses this though, saying she wanted it and would have done the same even if unimpaired (though Nico points out that the point is she _wasn't_).
-   In _The Walking Dead_, this applies to Negan's harem of wives. He claims to despise rape, but this still comes into play. Women have to give consent to become a wife, but once they do it is unclear if they can still turn down sex, or if Negan thinks wives no longer need to give consent. The reasons they become a wife also apply, as it can be to escape the truly horrific conditions they'd live in otherwise (basically slavery), one does so to save her husband's life. The most notable case was Tina, who Negan pressured into becoming another wife of his so she would be able to get medication for her diabetes, _which she needs to live_, which she would not have been able to get had she remained a simple citizen of the Sanctuary. Ultimately, none of them seem happy with their circumstances, and it is decidedly unclear just how willing they really are. Gabriel chews out Negan a season later for the harem, but Negan refuses to accept any responsibility for it and says the women "made a choice" to be his. However, many years later in the show’s final episodes, when Ezekiel comes at Negan for the harem again, Negan, who has undergone a Heel–Face Turn, admits it was wrong of him.
-   _You (2018)_: Joe's relationships with both Beck and Karen become this in consideration of the fact that neither would have sex with him, to put it mildly, if they knew of his crimes.

    Music 

    Myths & Religion 

-   _The Bible_:
    -   In the Book of Genesis, the old and barren Sarah asks her husband Abraham to have a child with her slave Hagar, resulting in the birth of Ishmael. Considering that Sarah has authority over her servant, one can question whether or not Hagar was ok with the arrangement as the text never says that she was consulted for her consent.
    -   David's affair with Bathsheba in the Books of Samuel. The facts that we know: David was on his palace roof when he saw her bathing nearby. He fell in lust with her and they slept together, even though she was married to David's general, Uriah. There are some people who will insist Bathsheba must have been _trying_ to catch his eye if she was bathing where he could see her, some who will insist that David raped her, but the Biblical text leaves these details to your imagination. Given that David was king, there is an argument made now that Bathsheba consenting would always be dubious at best, as she might fear retaliation for refusing him (as it was, he had Uriah killed by sending him into harm's way to have her).
    -   Likewise, Absalom's going into his father David's ten concubines during his act of sedition against his father later on in 2nd Samuel can fall under this, as the concubines have little to no say of whether they would want to sleep with Absalom under such duress.
-   In Celtic Mythology, Aífe attacks her rival (and sister, Depending on the Writer) Scáthach. Scáthach's student Cú Chulainn jumps into the fight and eventually has Aífe begging for her life. Cú Chulainn agrees to spare her under two conditions—she drops her beef with Scáthach and also bears him a son, to which she agrees. Also, Cú Chulainn was apparently ten when this happened?<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   A lot of Double Standard: Rape, Divine on Mortal in Classical Mythology could probably be qualified this way.
    -   The myth of Europa makes it clear that Zeus didn't just hold her down and rape her—after carrying her away to Crete, he had nymphs adorn her with fancy clothes and such before they slept together. Then again, it's not like she agreed to be carried off to Crete in the first place; was she cool with this, or just afraid to tell an amorous god "no?"
    -   Heracles was conceived when his mother Alcmene willingly slept with Zeus after he disguised himself as her husband Amphitryon.
-   What exactly happened between Medusa and the sea god Poseidon tends to vary depending on the telling. The most commonly accepted version nowadays is that Poseidon violently assaulted the then-human Medusa in the temple of Athena who then cursed her with a monstrous visage, but this is based on a later Roman telling by Ovid, who was rather famous for having a major bias against authority. The oldest-known telling by Hesiod made no mention of Medusa once being a human and instead made the whole affair sound romantic by claiming the two "lay together in a soft flowery meadow". _However_, Hesiod also makes no mention of how Medusa actually felt in this situation (instead putting all of his focus on Poseidon) and himself was well-known for having _very_ unpleasant views on women as a whole, so just how consensual Poseidon and Medusa's relationship was remains unclear. We may never know for sure.
-   The Trojan War gives us Thetis and Peleus, Paris and Helen, and Achilles and Briseis.
    -   Thetis is a sea nymph who originally tries to escape marrying Peleus by Voluntary Shapeshifting. He overcomes this by holding on to each form and refusing to let go until finally, she agrees to marry him. How happy this marriage turns out is Depending on the Writer.
    -   Helen is married to another man when Paris carries her off to Troy. It's unclear whether she goes off with him due to force, Mind Control, or of her own free will.
    -   Briseis falls in love with Achilles and makes it clear that she wants him, but only after he's conquered her city, killed her husband and brothers, and captured her. Whether she had feelings before that and whether what she feels now is True Love, A Match Made in Stockholm, or both, is left unclear.
-   _The Odyssey_: Odysseus' extramarital relations with Circe and Calypso have shades of this. He became Circe's bed-mate because that was one of the conditions she demanded in exchange for helping him get back home. He became Calypso's partner because he was stranded on her island, and saying no to a deity is usually a pretty bad idea. In his heart, he was always devoted to his wife Penelope.
-   Arthurian Legend:
    -   In some versions, including _Le Morte d'Arthur,_ Sir Tor was raised by a peasant couple, but eventually learns that his real father is King Pellinore, who had sex with his mother "half by force" before her marriage, and also stole her dog as a souvenir of the encounter. The focus of this description seems to be on making clear that _she_ is all or mostly blameless, while the writer doesn't seem to have noticed that it makes Pellinore, a supposed good guy, sound like a rapist. It may be Fair for Its Day given how often Blaming the Victim occurred in these situations, but still hardly great.
    -   Arthur himself was conceived after Uther Pendragon was diguised magically using magic and impersonated Igraine's husband to sleep with her.
    -   Lancelot got enchanted into believing Elaine really was Guinevere (whom he'd always loved but didn't act on his feelings for) and slept with her in his confused state, conceiving Galahad.

    Tabletop Games 

-   In _Dungeons & Dragons_ 3.5, the Lawful Evil alignment often relies heavily on this trope, tricking or forcing people into agreements and then requiring them to hold up their end of the bargain.

    Video Games 

-   In _Catherine_, all of Vincent's sexual encounters with Catherine start with him getting so utterly plastered he can't remember his own name and allegedly calling her for company. This brings his "unfaithfulness" to Katherine into question.
-   In _Deus Ex: Human Revolution_, David Sarif (who is otherwise an Honest Corporate Executive and Benevolent Boss) took advantage of a clause in Adam Jensen's employment contract to augment him above and beyond what was needed to save Adam's life, turning him into a cyborg Super-Soldier. Adam didn't really need to have both arms and his legs replaced with augments, and he certainly didn't need the prototype, military-grade, ball-bearing bomb implanted in his chest. David may have honestly thought he was doing Adam a favor since he has a very idealistic view of augmentation. Adam technically consented to all of this beforehand in his contract, but "\[He\] never asked for this."
-   _Dragon Age: Origins_:
    -   Morrigan's ritual falls into a very, very grey (no pun intended) area. Nobody involved in it is thrilled about being there—even a male Warden romancing Morrigan can express his doubts, and vice versa—and the premise, "You/Alistair/Loghain will die unless you/Alistair/Loghain sleep(s) with me", makes consent… well, questionable. Morrigan isn't the one responsible for the dying part—she's offering an out, in fact—and she simply leaves if the ritual is refused, but the whole situation is definitely uncomfortable. Dummied Out content that can be restored with mods on PC has it play out quite differently in the context of a romance, more like a traditional Pre-Climax Climax.
    -   Mages apparently cannot be possessed unless they allow the demon/spirit to do it. However, said entity can force the issue by torturing the mage until they "consent". This is shown in gory detail in the Circle Tower when the Uldred abomination electrocutes a luckless mage until he agrees to become an abomination. In the "Stone Prisoner" DLC and in Redcliff we see demons get "consent" by manipulating a _child_.
-   The ending of _Half-Life_ presents the player with a choice of entering employment of a mysterious being of questionable intentions (and ending up in stasis for 20 years) or certain death.
-   In _Mass Effect 2_:
    -   On Illium, "indentured servitude" (which Shepard calls slavery) is an accepted form of employment, particularly for those who accrue large debts. A mini-quest involves a young quarian who is forced to sell herself into indentured servitude/slavery as the only way to escape her debts. Synthetic Insights refuses to hire her with that contract because they view it as immoral, but her contract holder seems to genuinely care for her and wants the quarian to land on her feet.
    -   The Feros colonists from _Mass Effect_ are revealed to have signed a contract which contained a clause that would allow a company to experiment on them in exchange for medical treatment. Unlike the former quest, where no moral opinions on the matter are stated to be superior, the game strongly suggests that this is exploitation, using the colonists against their will. If Shepard takes care of it, it turns out to actually be _completely pointless_; the (asari) executive responsible was lashing out at all aliens in a mad rage after her daughters were caught in the crossfire of the first game's finale, and will fix the loophole she exploited after realizing this.
-   In _Pokémon Reborn_, it's revealed partially through the game that Titania, despite having been in a relationship with Amaria for some time, has no romantic feelings for her whatsoever, and only entered into the relationship because she was afraid that Amaria, who is severely depressed, would kill herself without a reason to live. Unfortunately, when Amaria discovers the truth, she promptly attempts suicide.
-   Dragon-aligned characters in _The Secret World_ are, after a kidnapping by a mute monk and an infodump by an ex-professor, brought up to a hotel room and receive oral sex from a woman, regardless of gender and without your character saying a word. Not only does the orgasm lead to a flashback to someone else's memories of a Filth attack in London, which isn't terribly sexy, it's also uncomfortably rapey. Given the Dragon's philosophy, that may even be the point.
-   Interestingly contrasted in _Star Wars: The Old Republic_ between the two female Sith characters and their Romance Sidequests during the class storylines, both of which are with Muggles.
    -   The female Sith Warrior is paired with Malavai Quinn, an Imperial military officer whom she essentially declares is her Chosen Conception Partner, and who seems partly resigned to it in a fairly Just Following Orders manner, and partly just terrified of her. In contrast, the side fling with Lieutenant Pierce is explicitly consensual.
    -   In contrast, the Sith Inquisitor is paired with Space Pirate Andronikos Revel, who, if flirted with, goes to her and explains point-blank that he will _only_ be with her voluntarily: he's fully aware of the difference in power between himself and a Sith and will only engage further if she treats him as an equal and respects his freedom to walk away. If she agrees to that condition, they strike up a Friends with Benefits relationship that gradually gets more serious.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Katawa Shoujo_:
    -   In Hanako Ikezawa's route: After Hanako and Hisao have very awkward first-time sex, it occurs to him that while she didn't say "no", she didn't say "yes" either. Between that and her very meek personality, he fears that she may have just gone along with it because she was afraid to say no, and gets the idea that he might have raped her because he misinterpreted her feelings. However, it's a subversion. Hanako later explains that she wanted to have sex with him — although she didn't manage to express it properly because of her anxiety — and what they did was actually consensual the whole time. Furthermore, if you rewatch that scene, Hisao asks her permission before each activity he initiates, and she gives him some kind of implicit or nonverbal consent each time. It also becomes clear that Hanako deliberately brought Hisao to her room for that purpose. It just happened that neither of them was really ready for it.
    -   The discarded beta version is much worse. One of the H-scenes involves Hisao having sex with Hanako while she is drugged on medication. It instantly leads to a Bad Ending where Hanako gets upset and Hisao accidentally trips backwards, breaking his neck.
-   In _Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - Trials and Tribulations_, Iris dated Phoenix while masquerading as her twin sister, Dahlia. In this case, consent is questionable because 1) he'd only met Dahlia once before the masquerade began, 2) Dahlia actively manipulated Iris into doing it, and 3) he'd never even met Iris before, much less known that Dahlia had a twin. Once the truth is revealed, he has no problem with considering Iris to be, for all intents and purposes, the girl he was dating.
-   The _Touch and Tease_ series relies heavily on this. It's averted with Volume 1, which instead utilized the "Not If They Enjoyed It" Rationalization, but the other volumes are straight examples.
    -   Mamoru in Volume 2 is a work friend who's just there to hang out. You convince him to let you massage him and at first, he's clearly isn't expecting anything more that. Once you're deep into it, he becomes more enthusiastic and he'll even thank you and, under certain conditions, make it a regular thing but it still has shades of this trope.
    -   Katsumoto in Volume 3 is a straighter example. He's literally your student and you lure him by keeping him after practice for extra drills and then claim you want to check him for injuries even though he says he's fine. One route even lets you outright use the power imbalance to make him submissive. He'll be resistant up until the very end and even when he gives consent, it's only because you want him to. The normal route will have him basically pretending the whole thing never happened, further showing his dislike of the whole situation.
    -   Of the four routes where you can make your arrangement permanent, three invoke this trope, as he either blackmails you to become his sex slave, you force him to become your sex slave or you trick him into being the _whole team's_ sex slave. Only one involves a whole consensual relationship.

    Web Animation 

-   The Youtube Poop "Very Uncensored Winnie the Pooh" begins with Pooh pressuring his friend Piglet into having sex.
-   Defied in the _How It Should Have Ended_ for Wonder Woman 1984. Since Steve came Back from the Dead in the body of Handsome Man, Steve and Diana decide not to have sex because they can neither communicate with Handsome Man nor ask for his consent. Cut to Handsome Man wailing that he _does_ consent.

    Web Comics 

-   _#Blessed_: Joanna "consented" to taking part in an ancient prophecy involving choosing one of seven gods to impregnate her, simply by swiping right on a weird profile in a dating app. Should have read the EULA first. That being said, after the contract itself is set in stone, she has full authority on how the dating works and how she will choose. Furthermore, the gods didn't even get a theoretical option to consent—they were all simply chosen by fate and informed that if the contract was broken, everyone involved would die.
-   Present in _Drowtales_ with the issue of tainting, aka intentionally merging a drow's aura with a "harmless" nether being, which is presented as being like a vaccine to prevent further demonic possession. In the Sharen clan almost everyone is tainted after a war 15 years ago resulted in heavy casualties among their untainted troops, and _theoretically_ anyone could refuse to get tainted, as Vy'chriel, one such Sharen, did, but the pressure to be tainted is so heavy that it's hinted that Vy'chriel's sister Yami'ni did not want to be tainted but caved in under the pressure. And then cue the revelation that almost all but a select few Sharen have been unknowingly given intentionally faulty seeds that will kill them within 50 years as part of a Xanatos Gambit and it falls fully into this trope. There's also the fact that the headmistress of the local Wizarding School, who's also a Sharen and in fact the one responsible for said faulty seeds, not to mention a Manipulative Bitch par none, encourages tainting at the school, and again, while it's _theoretically_ possible to refuse, one isn't allowed to participate in summoning classes, which are a mark of status, and this trope is directly discussed in a council meeting when the topic is broached.
-   _Girl Genius_ had "one rule":
    
    **Wulfenbach**: You agreed.  
    **Dr. Beetle**: A pledge made under duress is _worthless_, Wulfenbach! You threatened my city, my university — I'd have agreed to anything. _You_ were in control then.
    
-   This trope is discussed in _Megatokyo_ where Kimiko, the voice actress for a character in an _eroge_ light novel, brings up that the situation in the novel she's voicing comes off as being emotionally manipulative and taking advantage of a girl who's not in a right state of mind. Her concerns are pretty much dismissed as being part of the industry and what the audience wants from the game.
-   The first story arc of _Collar 6_ is about Mistress Sixx trying and, for the most part, failing to find a balance between forcing Laura and Ginger to do what she wants and "forcing" them to do what _they_ want, too.
-   Succubi in _Grrl Power_ need to have a master in order to avoid dying of magical energy leakage, and they need to have sex with their master regularly for this work. This would be — and in the past, _was_ — extremely coercive, but now a council of Succubus matriarchs carefully vet prospective "masters" for those who won't abuse the position, and "requiring" a succubus to have sex is like "requiring" a shark to eat mackerel.
-   _Kill Six Billion Demons_ begins with main character Allison preparing to lose her virginity to her boyfriend Zaid; however, Allison is clearly uncomfortable with how far they're going and is pressured into continuing by Zaid, who repeatedly ignores her asking to slow down and kisses her without her consent. They're interrupted by the arrival of the main plot before they can get far, leaving the question of whether Allison would have been OK with going through with it unresolved.

    Web Original 

-   This idea is the most common criticism of Robin Thicke's "Blurred Lines" song and video, brought up here as well as among reviewers like Todd in the Shadows. In this case, the "line" in question appears to be the line of consent.
-   _One Take_: In the first episode, Alicia is very drunk, and only fifteen years old, at a Wild Teen Party. Whether she gave consent to have sex with James is very dubious.
-   _Out With Dad_: While at the homeless shelter, Kayla gets into bed with Vanessa, then they have sex offscreen. However, later on Vanessa says she just submitted to Kayla, indicating the sex wasn't something she'd really wanted though at the time they'd kissed apparently with mutual desire.
-   In _The Princess Diaries II_, The Nostalgia Critic almost kisses Hyper twice, but as he and Doug (on the commentary) point out repeatedly, he was only going to because it's A Match Made in Stockholm.

    Western Animation 

-   In the _Adventure Time_ episode "Breezy", Finn has been spending the entire episode making out with different princesses, in an attempt to kick-start his deadened emotions after some depressing events<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . When he kisses Lumpy Space Princess, she declares that she doesn't want to play in the "kiddy pool", but go to the "deep end", and says very aggressively "Don't be scared Finn, Lumpy's on lifeguard duty". Cut to the two of them in separate sleeping bags, with Finn pulling the bag up over him to cover himself and referring to the incident going in "the Vault", where he hides his more disturbing memories.
-   _Primal (2019)_: On the night of his death from burns, Spear is alone with Mira. She decides to return his love for her by making love to him. Given the condition Spear is in, his moaning doesn't convey if he's consenting. Given the burns, it's never given if physical interaction is causing him great pain, or if his nerves are gone and can't feel at all.
-   In _Steven Universe_, it's eventually revealed that Pink Diamond freed Pearl, her slave...but before she did, she gave her a perpetual order (along the lines of "Never tell anybody about \[spoiler\]"), that Pearl could not disobey even when she was "free". This drew ire from many sections of the show's fandom; they interpreted Pink Diamond as only toying with the letter of freedom because she wanted to make herself look good.

___