When anger needs a "contents under pressure" label.

_"Deep in the recesses of my brain, a tiny red-hot flame began to grow. Something had happened. A fuse blew, and I had gone out of my skull."_

A character holds back anger until it can no longer be held back, and then the rage comes pouring through.

Sometimes characters have every reason to be angry, but they try to hold it back for various reasons. Sometimes, the reasons are selfish; sometimes, they are because they know it would be wrong to get angry or that blowing their top would have bad consequences (such as losing their job, getting arrested, or even getting themselves or others killed); and sometimes, the reason is just for the sake of appearances.

Eventually, there will be a last straw. It could range from a minor thing to out-and-out hitting the character's Berserk Button. But now, the flood of anger comes pouring out like water from a burst dam. It usually involves Unstoppable Rage but in some cases, it can even be Tranquil Fury. Some stories might even have this trigger a Heroic Second Wind. Also, if the character's Berserk Button is hit, this character might even be _twice_ as berserk as usual.

Villains as well can hit this rage breaking point, typically when their schemes have become unraveled or they are losing to the hero and begin suffering a Villainous Breakdown. In such situations, they may begin Hulking Out into their One-Winged Angel form, or simply lose all calm and begin irrationally rushing the hero. It's possible the villain has shown themselves to be Affably Evil, but the façade breaks as they become Ax-Crazy.

Suddenly Shouting often goes hand-in-hand with this. This response can occur after the character has Stopped Dead in Their Tracks in an attempt to control their anger.

___

## Trope relations:

A Sub-Trope of O.O.C. Is Serious Business, You Wouldn't Like Me When I'm Angry!.

A Sister Trope to Trying Not to Cry (a tears breaking point), Beware the Nice Ones (characters who often try not to get angry).

Compare:

-   Break the Cutie (being sweet and nice will show a dangerous side when driven to rage)
-   Bullying a Dragon (in which a character or group of characters learn too late that picking on a being much more powerful than them is never a good idea, possibly one with an extremely long threshold and about to reach the end of their tether)
-   Do Not Taunt Cthulhu (an otherworldly, often powerful entity snaps and reveals the _true_ extent of its power)
-   Enraged by Idiocy (one character has finally had enough of another's stupidity)
-   Fisticuff-Provoking Comment (where a character is already verbally expressing his rage before an insulting or offensive statement causes him to react with physical violence)
-   Moment of Weakness (driven to rage because of emotional or psychological problems the character doesn't usually have)
-   Not So Stoic (character holds back emotions to be stoic, and it only goes so far)
-   Repression Never Ends Well (a plot about repressed emotions causing trouble)
-   Sudden Principled Stand (a breaking point based on principles)
-   Suppressed Rage: (a character is trying to hold the anger back, but it's still leaking out)
-   Teach Him Anger (when one of the other protagonists tries to make the calm character reach this in order to make him stop being a doormat... and often regretting it afterward).
-   Tranquil Fury (a character is driven to rage, then becomes frighteningly calm yet undeniably angry)
-   Traumatic Superpower Awakening (unlock hidden powers by some breaking point)
-   Unstoppable Rage (when a character goes into a berserker state and attacks in a fury so bad that it is hard for them to stop)
-   Villainous Breakdown (a calm, collected villain is driven over the edge)

Contrast Hair-Trigger Temper (who never bothers trying to hold back), The Stoic (who almost never gets pissed in the first place) and Passive-Aggressive Kombat (a way to avoid open fights, while still being hostile).

___

## Example subpages:

-   Fan Works
-   Party Crashers
-   Western Animation

## Other examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   This is basically the whole idea behind _Aggretsuko_: Things happen that make Retsuko mad, and eventually it gets to the point where she can't keep it inside and has to sing death metal after work about what made her mad in order to destress so she can get back to work the next day.
-   _Akame ga Kill!_: Wave is bothered by the dirty sides of the Empire, but he follows his duties for the good they do and tries to be the best man he can. However, certain incidents involving Wild Hunt (Prime Minister Honest's "secret police force", which is led by his son, Syura) are enough to leave him seething with anger, and we see Wave's constitution wither dramatically when he discovers that Kije and Logue, the wife and daughter of his recently deceased comrade Bols, were brutally raped and murdered by Wild Hunt. Not to mention having to look at the crime scenes that Syura and his cronies leave behind. Then Syura has the gall to single out Kurome, Wave's friend whom he has started to develop feelings for, and attempts to drag her off to be raped. The act bends Wave out of shape so much that he finally snaps, delivering a massive punch, hard and deserved, right to Syura's face. He then proceeds to beat the son of a bitch within an inch of his life, but is only stopped from killing him by Great General Budo. Despite not being able to murder the bastard outright, it is heralded as one of the best moments of the manga.
-   Jean's breakdown comes late into _Attack on Titan_, after a series of unfortunate revelations about the state of the world. In chapter 127, he _finally_ learns that Reiner killed Marco while they're sitting right across from each other at a campfire. Jean takes the reveal with weathered patience until Reiner starts groveling in self-loathing. The sight proves to be the straw on the camel's back for Jean, provoking a vicious No-Holds-Barred Beatdown until he's restrained.
-   _Bleach_:
    -   After witnessing the way Mayuri treats his own men and offers to keep Orihime as an experimental lab-rat, Uryuu is already pissed off. Once Mayuri starts mocking Uryuu's Quincy heritage and reveals that he's spent years experimenting on Quincies, he really gets on Uryuu's bad side. However, when he reveals that the last Quincy he had experimented on and tortured to death was Uryuu's own mentor and grandfather, Souken, Uryuu finally snaps... transforming right into a One-Winged Angel form that not only turns him into a Walking Wasteland but also one-shots both Mayuri and his bankai in the process.
    -   The Vandenreich's first invasion of Seireitei decimates the First Division, putting Yamamoto into a state of Tranquil Fury that only becomes more obvious once he realizes that not even Mayuri can locate the secret Quincy base. When the second invasion occurs, this time bringing with it Yamamoto's ancient nemesis and the Vandenreich leader, Yamamoto's response is the story's most epic example of someone exploding with rage. His loss of temper results in an eruption of both violence and power that shakes the _entire city_, triggering an Heroic Second Wind in the beleaguered Captains in the process. In particular, what really sets off Yamamoto is the fact that the man who stole Sasakibe's Bankai is not even using it properly, and derides him over the fact that Sasakibe's Bankai was not this weak before reducing the bastard to ashes.
-   _Daimos_: Kazuya Ryuuzaki has always been the more peaceful man and the worst he would do against General Miwa Sakimori for his racism and obstructing the efforts of peace between the two races were just yelling and warning him. It's always his buddy Kyoshiro that gets more "physical" with Miwa when he pisses him off too. Then Miwa suddenly guns down innocent, defenseless Balmians _and_ humans personally. At that point, Kazuya _finally_ runs out of patience and then starts beating him up within an inch of his life, with Kyoshiro having to restrain him because the United Nations also learned of his corruption and punished him by stripping his ranks and arresting him... but all the time, Kazuya is yelling for Kyoshiro to let him go because he thinks he hasn't punched Miwa enough.
-   Played for Laughs with Ryouko Kusakabe in the sixth episode of _Date A Live_. She regularly keeps a professional attitude about everything, but when she's finally had enough of the obstacles in the way of her squad's trip to the hot springs, in addition to the previous stress built up due to her superiors' rantings, she snaps and comically goes on a rampage to destroy Ratatoskr's traps, all while ranting on like a raving lunatic.
-   In the _Death Note_ episode "New World", when Light Yagami is exposed as Kira, Touta Matsuda slumps to the floor under the weight of it all, but springs into action in a split second when Light tries to write down Near's name with the hidden scrap of notebook paper he had been keeping. Matsuda shoots the pen out of Light's hands, with Manly Tears streaming down his face as he calls Light out on leading his father (and Matsuda's mentor) to the slaughter for nothing. When Light tries to convince Matsuda that the only way to make Soichiro's death worth it is to save him by killing everyone else in the room, he's only _more enraged_, and when Light tries one more time to write Near's name, Matsuda snaps. **He shoots him four times**, and tries to put the last bullet between his eyes, but is restrained by the rest of the task force. Coupled with the fact that he was the only member of the team to ever try to empathize with what Kira was feeling and why he killed, Matsuda's Beware the Nice Ones moment is even more impressive and heartbreaking.
    
    **Matsuda:** I'll kill him. I'LL KILL HIM! **HE HAS TO DIE!**
    
-   _Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba_:
    -   Zenitsu has a very subservient relationship with his elder colleague disciple Kaigaku. The latter can't stand the former's presence due to Zenitsu's difficult behavior as someone with low self-esteem who seemingly isn't showing much progress while being trained under the same master, though Zenitsu tries to make things work with Kaigaku by respecting him. It all goes south when Kaigaku betrays the demon slayers to become a demon himself, and as a form of atonement their master commits seppuku to pay the price of shame. With that, Zenitsu loses any respect he still had for Kaigaku and showers him with insults and hard truths in their fight to the death, to the point where Kaigaku even sarcastically compliments Zenitsu for finally talking back to him.
    -   Any demon trying to relativize the morality between humans and demons, through attempting to make a case with how it is demon slayers that are in the wrong for fighting demons, is a sure way to make Tanjiro explode in a furious rage, completely forsaking any chance of him at least feeling some pity towards said demon when they are about to die. Hantengu and Muzan are the clear cut examples of Tanjiro turning the most furious he ever acts in the whole series, being hell-bent on killing them for trying to play that angle.
-   _Dragon Ball Z_:
    -   One of the earliest ones of note is when Vegeta realizes that Gohan stole the first Dragon Ball he found on Namek. He got the first Dragon Ball after slaughtering a Namekian village. While he was stealing the other six from Freeza, Gohan found and took the first one. They have an encounter where Gohan is able to bluff his way into convincing Vegeta that he doesn't have it. When Vegeta goes to retrieve that Dragon Ball, and can't find it, he puts 2 and 2 together and flies off in a rage.
        
        **Vegeta:** You Earthling punks! Play me for fool, will you!? You'll pay for this!
        
    -   Super Saiyan transformations are often triggered through such an event. Frieza mortally wounds Piccolo, kills Krillin on Namek, and then threatens to do the same to Gohan, finally infuriating Goku enough to trigger his first transformation. Vegeta transforms, ironically, upon giving up becoming a Super Saiyan and his subsequent despairing rage with himself over doing so. Gohan transforms by reminding himself of all the times he's been frozen in terror and somebody else got hurt protecting him. Future Trunks transforms upon the death of his mentor and best friend. Cabba transforms after Vegeta threatens to kill his people. Broly transforms after witnessing his father's death, believing that he's responsible for it. As Goku puts it: "The power comes in response to a _need_, not a desire. You need to create that need."
    -   First off, Gohan and all his friends (and family) are fighting against the super-powerful Cell, and one after another, they all fall. Eventually, Android #16 decides to try and perform a Taking You with Me attack that doesn't work, because the bomb inside him was removed by Dr. Briefs. Cell then completely destroys him, save for his still-alive head, which Mr. Satan tosses to Gohan. #16 then proceeds to tell Gohan to unleash his rage, as it's for the greater good. Then Cell crushes his head. This is the final straw that pushes Gohan over the edge, going beyond his normal Super Saiyan form and into Super Saiyan 2. Let's just say things don't go well for Cell.
    -   In _Dragon Ball Z: Battle of Gods_, Vegeta humiliates himself to appease Beerus, hoping that he'll just go away and not blow up the Earth. However, all of this reaches a breaking point when Bulma, angry that her birthday party has been ruined by this meat-headed cat man, slaps Beerus and Beerus slaps her to the ground. Vegeta's rage over Bulma getting slapped is enough to finally allow him to land the first actual blow on Beerus in the show, with Master Roshi noting that, at that moment, Vegeta _surpassed_ Goku. Odd how The Power of Love works. The scene is recreated in _Dragon Ball Super_, though it downplays Vegeta's power by showing that Beerus was _still_ stronger than him.
    -   In _Dragon Ball Super_, Goku Black and Future Zamasu blame Future Trunks for allowing them to exist in their current forms, since it was his travelling to the past to save Goku's life that allowed Black to steal Goku's body. They then go on to decry Trunks as "selfish" for meddling with the timeline the way he did, when all Trunks really wanted was to save everyone. Having all the tragedies of his timeline (including the death of Future Bulma) blamed on him is too much for Trunks to bear, and in his rage he attains a new Super Saiyan form. He then gets back on his feet and swears to kill Black with his own hands.
-   _Fist of the North Star_: Kenshiro is not a man you should anger _at all_. He is normally calm, even when being surrounded by idiotic raiders. But if he sees you hurt a child or murder innocents while he's five feet from you, do not expect to live.
-   _Full Dive_:
    -   Hiro reaches his breaking point in the first episode; he has pent-up anger over his perceived "shitty" circumstances in real life, but him getting actually hurt by his "best friend" in a hyper-realistic VRMMO proves to be the last straw. Enraged, Hiro calls Martin a "damned NPC" and tackles him to the ground... which ends up killing him, as the tackle made him shove a knife through his throat.
    -   Alicia reaches hers after her brother's death. She obviously grows more and more enraged when Hiro constantly apologizes and seemingly refuses to think of a solution to this problem. Finally, when he sprints out of the house, she has more or less gone murderously insane and chases after him like a rabid dog.
        
        **Alicia:** Hiro, you bastard! Don't you dare run away!
        
-   During _Full Metal Panic? Fumoffu_, Kaname tries to be a Voice of Reason for her classmates when they believe that they'll die after being seemingly exposed to a toxic gas. However, when they go berserk to attack Sosuke, Kaname tries to calm them down, but after getting smacked with several objects, she snaps and proceeds to pummel the other students.
-   _Haruhi Suzumiya_: Throughout _Sighs_, Kyon finds his patience repeatedly tested by Haruhi's behavior, particularly her shoddy treatment of Mikuru. When Haruhi spikes Mikuru's drink, hits her over the head repeatedly, and openly calls her her "toy", Kyon snaps, furiously chews her out, and has to be physically restrained from punching her lights out; the fact that Kyon was about to hit her in the first place is what gets Haruhi to realize what a bitch she's being.
-   _Hunter × Hunter_: Gon spends much of the Chimera Ant arc in a slow boil over Kite's capture with occasional flare-ups that Killua manages to tamp down. He finally loses it when Kite's killer reveals that nothing can be done to restore Kite and then moves to kill him as well. Gon draws in all the Nen he'll ever have just to power himself up enough to obliterate his opponent. Immediately afterward, his body withers to a state of living death and it takes a literal miracle to revive him.
-   _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Stardust Crusaders_: Jotaro Kujo is a normally a stoic hero who doesn't take crap from anyone. But if you piss him off, prepare for the beating of your life, as DIO learned the hard way. He sums this up best at the final battle's climax:
    
    **Jotaro:** There's only one reason you lost, DIO. Just one simple answer. You really _pissed me off_.
    
-   _Jujutsu Kaisen_:
    -   Gojo spends the entire fight with Jogo toying with him, trolling him and no-selling everything Jogo can throw at him; throughout it all, Jogo manages to keep it together. Then Gojo mocks him by calling him weak: Jogo reacts by erupting through the volcano on top of his head along with both of his ears and screaming at Gojo not to look down on him, before using Domain Expansion in a desperate attempt to kill Gojo.
    -   After Mahito uses Idle Transfiguration to turn Junpei into a monster, which kills him shortly afterwards from the sheer shock, Yuji helplessly watches him die as Sukuna refuses to lend a hand. Once it sinks in that his friend is dead, Yuji punches Mahito hard enough to draw blood, swears to kill him, then roars in rage as he pursues him.
-   _Lucky Star_: Minoru Shiraishi puts up with 19 episodes of abuse from his Nice Character, Mean Actor co-star Akira during the _Lucky Channel_ segments, and then he's left for dead at Mount Fuji by the producer and director, only to show up in episode 21 with the water Akira asked for. It's not until Akira spits out the water and complains about how it's too warm that he _finally_ snaps and trashes the set. His moment was even made the page image for Beware the Nice Ones.
-   _Naruto_:
    -   When Naruto learns of the harm he can cause by using the Nine-Tail's power to the point where he can't even control himself, he restrains his anger to avoid transforming again. After what seems like a month or so, his beloved mentor Jiraiya is killed, his village is destroyed while he is away, and his teacher Kakashi has died from overuse of chakra. All have been caused by one guy, Pain. Naruto goes to defeat Pain with his new power, but is quickly brought down. Hinata tries to attack Pain after she sincerely confesses her love to Naruto, but after a brief fight, Pain stabs her. Believing her to be killed, Naruto, now filled with rage, gives himself to the very power that harmed his comrades before... but it also, for the first time, _scares_ Pain because he suddenly finds that even his vaunted power is nothing against the terrifying power of the Nine-Tails. By the time Naruto finally comes back out of it, Pain is not as confident as before.
    -   Pain himself has a nasty version. After what seemed like a complete waste of a childhood, his emotionless exterior is nothing but for convincing his cohorts that he's serious. But push him to his limit, and his godly superiority turns less threatening and more futile.
-   _Neon Genesis Evangelion_: In _End of Evangelion_, after so many hardships, being coldly rejected by Asuka is enough to finally drive Shinji over the edge, strangling Asuka to near death and initiating the Third Impact.
-   _Now and Then, Here and There_: Shuzo Matsutani accidentally gets taken from his happy-go-lucky life and forced to become a child soldier. He constantly refuses to be the killer his commanders want him to be. He carries his Kendo Stick as a mark of defiance against his gun-carrying comrades and constantly gets in trouble because of his nature. However, after Lalaru and the entire population of Zaribars is taken and he watches the deaths of so many people when he finally meets the evil king Hamdo again, he proceeds to try to beat Hamdo to death with the kendo stick. Even as pieces snap off of it, he beats the dictator till there's nothing left of it.
-   _One Piece_: Two are reached in quick succession in the Arlong arc:
    -   The Cocoyashi villagers have suffered in silence for eight years, while Nami's been risking life and limb to steal money to buy back the village from Arlong, the pirate who invaded her village and killed her adoptive mother. When finally Nezumi, a corrupt Marine captain on Arlong's payroll, steals the money Nami was gathering _and_ has Nami's sister Nojiko shot in the shoulder, this is the last straw, and they decide to fight back to liberate their island, or die trying.
    -   Nami hits her own rage-breaking point after the aforementioned rebellion, as she knows the villagers stand no chance against Arlong. She snaps and starts madly stabbing her Arlong pirate tattoo, out of pure hatred, until Luffy stops her and she breaks down in tears.
-   Happens in the _Sailor Moon_ manga, when Beryl threatens Sailor Moon one time too many — and Sailor Venus coldly announces that she's angry. A few seconds later, Sailor Venus has _gutted Beryl open_.

-   _Variable Geo_: Yuuki spends most of her match making passes at Satomi — from groping her, to shredding her uniform so she can ogle her body. Satomi warns her to knock it off and fight her seriously, but when Yuuki goes so far as to steal a kiss, Satomi's patience runs out. She unleashes her ultimate attack, which incinerates the ring and Yuuki along with it, leaving her covered in second-degree burns and just barely alive.

    Comic Books 

-   _Astro City_: In "The Deep Dark Woods", a lifetime of being insulted and ignored finally spills over when a stranger bumps into Ned Carroway. Ned proceeds to _demolish_ the man before stealing his clothing.
-   _Blacksad_: In "Amarillo", Blacksad (an anthropomorphic black cat) and Neal (a hyena) hitch a ride with a racist parrot who keeps making derogatory remarks about "niggers" before smugly adding a "Just Joking" Justification. Blacksad tries to ignore it at first, but eventually reaches over to give the driver a black eye.
-   _Green Lantern_: All members of the Red Lantern Corps are fueled by rage. Reaching this trope is what attracted Red Lantern rings to them and made them a part of that Corps.
-   _The Incredible Hulk_: Ultimately, what created the Hulk. Bruce Banner, as a child, repressed many of his emotions, particularly concerning his father, and thus built up a lot of fury that the Hulk personality latched on to, and thus that anger burst out in a big way, as he now could no longer keep it under control.
-   _Jinty_: In "Mark of the Witch!", the heroine is persecuted because of the "black streak" that has made her family the village outcasts for generations. She puts up with a lot of crap, but when her mother is injured by the villagers, she finally snaps and decides that if they think she's a bad person, she'll be a bad person.
-   For a smartmouthed badass, Nick Fury has a surprisingly long leash on his temper. However, he is _still_ liable to lash out at someone if he has good reason. In _The Punisher MAX_, he gets that reason. He's been holding in his bad mood through the entire arc, up until one of the generals mentions their decoy plan. Fury, not in on the plan, testily asks them to explain, whereupon he learns the full, horrific details: they activated a sleeper cell of radicalized anti-Russian Islamic terrorists to hijack a passenger plane and aim to crash it into Moscow, forcing the Kremlin to have the plane shot out of the air. Fury goes from mostly composed to _scourging a man bloody with his belt_ in the space of one frame, swearing up and down several panels' worth of comic. Recall that Fury is a native New Yorker and shares New York City's collective trauma over September 11th and despite being a self-acknowledged asshole still doesn't like the idea of civilian casualties.
    
    **Fury:** MOTHER FUCKER! You _motherfucker_! You _cocksucker_! You _inhuman_, godless little **FUCK**!
    
-   While Scrooge reaches it at several points throughout _The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck_, the most notable is in "King of the Klondike". After having been beaten, tied up, spit on, mocked, and having all his possessions stolen, Scrooge reaches it when Soapy Slick reads a letter from Scrooge's father... informing him of his mother's death. Slick just continues mocking him, while Scrooge slowly lifts his head and pulls on the chains so hard that the metal pipes he's tied to break. At that point, the narrator takes over, informing us that no-one really knows what happened that day in Dawson, though the prevailing theory is that the boiler room on the ship exploded.
-   In _Seconds_, Max puts up with a lot throughout the story. When he finds out about Katie and Andrew's relationship in one reality, he lashes out at her with extreme prejudice.
-   In _Sex Criminals_, middle-school girl Suzie's father is murdered and her mother drifts into an uncommunicative alcoholic haze. Sometime later, Suzie finds out that time freezes for the world and everyone in it each time she has an orgasm. A few months after this, Suzie finally snaps and takes the opportunity to angrily scream out her feelings at her time-frozen mother. The narrating older Suzie notes that this isn't the last time this has happened.
-   _Sonic the Hedgehog (Archie Comics)_:
    -   By issue 235, Sonic has put up with a _lot_ of crap, including Sally being roboticized and Antoine having been rendered comatose after saving Elias and the Acorns from Metal Sonic. When Silver shows up from the future, this time believing that Antoine himself is the traitor to the Freedom Fighters after already having falsely accused Rotor and Sonic himself, Sonic smashes through the wall of his house and literally drags Silver to the hospital to show him Antoine, proving that Silver's accusations are once again wrong. They then subsequently find a note from Bunnie stating that she had left to "make things right", upon which Silver begins to accuse Bunnie of being the traitor solely on the evidence that she left without telling anyone; Sonic finally blows his stack and gives Silver a _major_ "The Reason You Suck" Speech, declaring that there _is_ no traitor, that he believes in his friends, and they're all much better heroes than a "flake" like Silver could _ever_ hope to be, before ordering him to just Get Out!.
    -   Tails's friendship with Sonic gets rather rocky when the latter starts dating Fiona. After getting embroiled in his parents' warring with the Acorns, Sonic attempts to help keep them incarcerated. When called out over his loyalties to Tails, he gloats that he's close enough with him that it will pass. Tails, who was secretly helping his parents and overheard, finally snaps and attempts to beat the living daylights out of Sonic, laying out all their previous hardships to him while doing so.
-   _Superman_:
    -   In _Krypton No More_ this happens to Superman when he learns that the Kandorians convinced his cousin Kara to lie to him about his origins. He promptly explodes and vents his anger on the J'ai.
        
        When the pressure on a valve becomes too great, the valve explodes... The same is true, even of a Superman!
        
    -   _Superman vs. the Amazing Spider-Man_: During their first meeting and obligatory fight, Spider-Man taunts Superman until he blows up. Fortunately for Spidey, Supes manages to calm himself.
        
        **Superman:** That does it. Even a Superman can only be pushed so far.
        
    -   In _The Supergirl from Krypton (2004)_ Superman tries to keep a firm hold of his temper although his cousin gets kidnapped and taken away from him over and again. Then Darkseid seemingly disintegrates Kara and Superman explodes.
    -   In _A Mind-Switch in Time_, Superman travels to the past and becomes stuck in his younger self's body. His attempts to return to his proper time and body are thwarted by Lex Luthor attempting to trap "Superboy" into a time loop and later squash him to a pulp with a high-gravity device. Clark, who from his viewpoint has been putting up with Lex's death traps for over fifteen years, and now knows that his ex-friend will never change and will never stop trying to murder him and hurt other people, explodes and delivers a brutal beatdown.
    -   _Red Daughter of Krypton_: Supergirl goes through a lot during times during her time on Earth: She's only fifteen and she has lost her home... twice. Her home-world is gone, her parents and all her friends are dead, her relationship with her only living relative — Superman — is strained, she can't fit in on Earth, and apparently, everyone she meets wants to decide what's better for her, use her, or betray her after earning her trust. All of it makes her confused, heart-broken, and above all very angry, leading to a lot of built-up rage and her becoming a Red Lantern when _Lobo_ taunts her and mocks her until she flips out and pummels him brutally.
    -   _Many Happy Returns_: Invoked by Kara when she warns one-time villain Rebel that she is ready to fly off the handle, and if he attacks it will be the last straw.
        
        **Supergirl:** Don't you get it, Rebel? You're not important! You never were! You were just — something to do! Something for Supergirl and me to bounce off of for a while until people and events of real consequence came along! Look — Here's the problem. You've done some bad things, but I'm really, really upset right now. So much so that, honestly, I don't trust myself. And if you attack me or I attack you... I will hurt you. I'll hurt you worse than you've ever been hurt in your whole life. I can carve you up as soon as look at you. I can break you, boil you, freeze you. I can do things you can't imagine. Things I can't imagine, until I have to. And then I'll improvise. Part of me is hoping you will attack. And part of me is praying — for your sake, and my own peace of mind — that you don't. It's up to you.
        
    -   _The Hunt for Reactron_: Thara Ak-Var was under great pressure even before Superman rescued Kandor from Brainiac and enlarged the Kryptonian city. When Brainiac stole Kandor, she became separated from her parents forever. She was adopted by her best friend's family, but they treated her as a nutjob only because she is religious. Then she starts having incomprehensible visions and developing strange powers, and her family will not help her out because they think she is a deluded fundamentalist. Then she fails at her job as security chief, her adoptive parent is killed, her adoptive mother becomes a cold monster, and her best friend declares her friendship over. Thara quits her job and starts hunting General Zod's spies down, even though she is branded as a traitor to Krypton because she is protecting the very humans who hate her because of her Kryptonian lineage. Then the very villains who invaded Kandor and killed her father frame Thara for his murder and several more terrorist acts. She manages to convince her ex-friend of her innocence, but Kara continues to put her down constantly because of her beliefs and her inability to protect her father Zor-El. Then, Reactron, the villain who murdered Zor-El, attempts to murder both Kara and Thara's soulmate. Thara finally snaps, becomes the incarnation of Flamebird, and completely trashes Reactron.
    -   In _Escape from the Phantom Zone_, Gayle "Psi" Marsh is tricked into travelling to the Phantom Zone by someone who claims to be able to fix her mental issues. When she meets that person, Gayle finds out that she has been fooled by Xa-Du, a Kryptonian amoral scientist who intends to use her power to get out of his prison. Frightened, Gayle protects herself by wrapping herself in an unbreakable psychic bubble and putting her mind in sleep mode. Nonetheless, she can still feel the Phantom Zoners' evil thoughts hammering into her head constantly while Xa-Du gloats about turning people into fuel for his armor until he becomes powerful enough to break her shell and forcing her into obedience... or killing her. Some time later, Supergirl sneaks into Xa-Du's fortress to try to free her, but she is found and slashed with poisoned claws by Xa-Du. Then, Xa-Du taunts Psi by asking if she is angry. Psi replies by transforming into a massive roaring psychic dragon and turning his citadel into rubble.

-   In _The Transformers: More than Meets the Eye_, Megatron runs out of Stoic Juice while Rodimus is explaining that the resident Mad Scientist has traveled through time. Notably, this is the first time that he's gone into a rage without a Berserk Button (such as unjust imprisonment) being pressed.
    
    **Megatron:** This conversation is ridiculous. _You_ are ridiculous. Everything that's happened in the last few days is _intensely_ ridiculous. Six months into this shambles of a quest— six months! —and not a day goes by—not an _hour_—when I don't have to stand back from this endless parade of nonsense and remind myself, by means of several blows to the head, that I am here of my own volition, and not as a result of some—some _elaborate trap_ set by Optimus Prime. Why bother looking for the Knights of Cybertron? Why postpone my trial? I've already been convicted—and _this_ is my punishment. You! This _ship!_ This _life!_  
    **Ultra Magnus:** Better?  
    **Megatron:** ...Yes. I apologize.  
    **Magnus:** Not at all. On this ship, a minor breakdown is practically a rite of passage.
    
-   _Robin (1993)_: Jack usually keeps a lid on his Hair-Trigger Temper around his dates, but blows up at Tim a couple of times around Dana. She is disturbed when his reaction to the Football coach saying he doesn't recall Tim being at tryouts is to tear apart Tim's bedroom, destroying his things and tearing holes in the walls while claiming he's looking for drug paraphernalia because obviously Tim, who hates football, is doing drugs if he didn't try out like his father requested of him. It's clear that part of this is Jack's ever growing hatred to Bruce Wayne for having a more healthy paternal relationship with his son than his own as he ends the night by going to Wayne manor to threaten Bruce at gunpoint.

-   Although X-23 shares Wolverine's ferocious temper, she normally keeps it tightly under control, and even when pushed to the point of lashing out is very clinical and level-headed in her response. The _only_ time Laura has ever so completely lost her cool that she descended into a true berserker rage<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  is in "Girls' Night Out" during the Liu series: The remnants of Zebra Daddy's gang learn the hard way just what happens when you push Wolverine's Opposite-Sex Clone to _her_ breaking point. The bloody carnage Laura leaves in her wake as she tears the gang apart even astonishes _Black Widow_, and leads her to call Laura out for how completely unlike her the rampage was.

    Comic Strips 

-   _Peanuts_:
    -   Marcie, usually one of the most phlegmatic characters, hits this in one 1973 story arc. After being dragooned into Peppermint Patty's baseball team, it turns out that the second baseman is a sexist jerk, who gives her several strips of crap before Marcie's typical reserve cracks in spectacular fashion:
        
        **Marcie:** Sir, your second-baseman has offended me beyond endurance...Can you stop the game for a minute?  
        **Patty:** Time out!  
        **Marcie:** _\[throwing her glove to one side\] All right, Thibault, this is it!_ Now look here, you cement-headed, male chauvinist dummy...I'm going to tell you something, and I want you to stand still and listen! If you say one word, I'm going to belt you across the chops!  
        **Thibault:** Oh?  
        **Marcie:** _\[demolishes him with one punch\]_ That was one word!
        
    -   In another storyline, Charlie Brown's school is destroyed, forcing him to attend school with Peppermint Patty, with the two of them having to share a desk. Being crammed in such a close space starts to get to the both of them, with Peppermint Patty snapping at Charlie Brown for every little thing, from taking up too much space, chewing on his eraser, drumming on the desk, breathing through his mouth, and even when he gives an exasperated sigh. Finally, after one complaint too many, he shouts, "WILL YOU STOP CRITICIZING ME?!", resulting in the both of them getting sent to the principal's office.
-   _Scary Gary_: Sometimes Leopold is in a state of Tranquil Fury, and sometimes he's in an Unstoppable Rage. Some other times however, Leopold actually, legitimately tries to hold his anger back. It never works for long, and may or may not end in a massacre or severe beating.

    Films — Animation 

-   _The Angry Birds Movie_ has this a couple of times.
    -   The first is an Establishing Character Moment for Red. The movie opens with him racing across the countryside and navigating numerous obstacles to deliver a cake. But when he arrives, the customer is condescending and rude and refuses to pay because it's late, even though Red had in fact delivered the cake before the deadline. Red remains calm and explains what happened, but the breaking point is when the customer says, "Let's just say this cake is on you," and pokes Red in the chest. There is an Eye Take of Red snapping after the poke, and the cake ends up on the customer's head.
    -   As Red is walking to his anger management class, he suffers a string of frustrations and is finally confronted with the welcome sign at the class, which is ugly and annoyingly cheerful to contrast Red's dark mood. There is a buildup where it looks like Red is going to snap again, but then he just lets out a deep breath and keeps walking. Double Subverted when he comes back and assaults the sign a few seconds later. Then later, Red has to deal with the consequences of his actions when Chuck shows the destroyed sign, which he made, to the rest of the class.
-   _The Bad Guys_: Mr. Wolf has lots of pent-up rage over being seen a monster all his life, and he masks that anger by acting like a smug, cocky criminal. When the gang is arrested for a crime they didn't commit, Professor Marmalade rubs it in his face that they'll always be seen as monsters and mocks Wolf for falling for the scheme. Wolf flies into a rage and he almost mauls Marmalade, which is exploited to make him look guilty.
-   _Coco_: Miguel's family, Mama Elena especially, chastises him for wanting to be a musician like his great-great-grandfather (who he thinks is Ernesto de la Cruz) and reminding him to be loyal to his family. Fed up with their music ban, Miguel defiantly says that he doesn't care if they remembered him or if he was on their _offrenda_, which makes Elena snap and destroy his homemade guitar. Then, Miguel finally snaps at her and runs off.
-   _Frozen (2013)_:
    -   After years of unexplained isolation, being denied her blessing to marry her love, the gates of her home re-closed and being told to leave it if she is unhappy, Anna finally snaps at Elsa and vents out all of her frustration by asking her a series of Armor Piercing Questions such as "What are you so afraid of?!".
    -   Unfortunately, what Anna doesn't know is that Elsa doesn't want her power exposed to the public and the subsequent questions cause Elsa to get hit with _hers_, snapping and shooting ice spikes at her.
    -   The Duke of Weselton's two men come to kill Elsa. Elsa is afraid to use her powers and begs them to turn away but is forced to use them to defend herself, and when they continue to take shots at her, Elsa finally goes into a state of Tranquil Fury and nearly impales one and almost pushes the other right off the balcony of her ice palace.
-   _The Great Mouse Detective_: Professor Ratigan's true anger is heavily foreshadowed throughout the movie, with his face turning red and taking a deep breath to clearly just barely calm himself down. Even when he flips out at poor Bartholomew for calling him a rat while drunk, that's only a small taste of what's to come in the film's climax. Seeing his archenemy Basil about to escape while he's got his cape caught is where he hits the Rage Break Point and basically goes feral.
-   In _The Incredibles_, when Bob Parr spots a mugging in progress and tries to leave Gilbert Huph's office to help, he is ordered by Huph to stand down or lose his job. Bob relents, barely containing himself, but when Huph can't resist throwing in a further dig by saying it was a good thing the mugger got away because Bob nearly lost his job, that's when Bob snaps and throws Huph through several walls.
-   Unikitty from _The LEGO Movie_ (pictured above). She always tries to stay positive, even after her home is blown to bits by Lord Business's forces. But during the climax, when she sees Emmet under attack, she finally loses it and goes on a rampage through the Micro-Managers blocking Emmet's path.
-   King Triton from _The Little Mermaid (1989)_ goes into a state of Tranquil Fury when confronting Ariel about being in love with a human, but when Ariel talks back to her father and shouts "I love him!", he _loses it_.
-   _Megamind_ gives us a subtle example with Roxanne Ritchie, who goes through quite a lot throughout the movie, managing to keep a pretty cool head through most of the crap tossed her way. The keyword being "most". She witnesses Metro Man's alleged murder by Megamind and Megamind taking over the city before granting her already creepy coworker superpowers. Powers which the coworker then openly and sloppily uses to invoke a Rescue Romance and shows Entitled to Have You tendencies towards her. Finally, Megamind spending weeks, possibly months, essentially catfishing her before being found out, which also instills a certain level of guilt in her when she realizes that Megamind has genuine feelings for her and honestly wanted to be with her; a feeling she can't bring herself to return after everything he's done. Roxanne finally reaches her breaking point when it's revealed that Metro Man is still alive, faked his death to retire, and refuses to return when the city is in real danger because he's fed up with being a superhero. At this point, she begins shouting and throwing things at him.
-   _My Little Pony (Generation 4)_:
    -   _My Little Pony: Equestria Girls_: Sunset Shimmer has this going for her constantly; one of her biggest flaws is the fact that when things get too much out of hand for her, she's liable to explode in fury at some hapless person near her.
        -   In the first movie, Sunset Shimmer is trying to get her hands on Princess Twilight's crown. When Twilight calls her bluff on destroying the portal to Equestria, Sunset backs down after a few frustrated words. But as the others praise Twilight as a true princess, Sunset is seen visibly squirming before she lunges at Twilight.
        -   In _Rainbow Rocks_, despite trying to atone for her past as an Alpha Bitch, she's shunned and hated by almost everyone at school but only hangs her head in shame in response. Yet as her friends keep bringing up her time as a she-demon, her responses get more passive-aggressive in tone. After appearing to have sabotaged her friends' performance and getting another volley of hatred her way, she only tries to distressingly explain herself, but what sets her off is Trixie claiming that Sunset acted out of jealousy and then complimenting her for doing it.
        -   Sunset grows increasingly frustrated during the course of _Friendship Games_ for her inability to understand magic and keep it under control as well as being unable to contact Princess Twilight in Equestria. When Sunset confronts Human Twilight for the first time after she accidentally closes the portal, she's being stern but collected. However, when Human Twilight's meddling with magic starts endangering the lives of others, including her friends, Sunset snaps at her, driving the poor girl to tears.
        -   In _Forgotten Friendship_, Micro Chips hands her his lunch money when she offers a hand to help him up. She snaps, screaming in the hallways that she isn't mean. She nearly reaches that point again when she finds out the identity of the culprit behind the stolen memories, who calls her by her old title of "Biggest Meanie". Sunset responds with a very menacing threat, but Trixie manages to calm her down.
            
            **Sunset:** You're about to see how _mean_ I can get!
            
    -   In _My Little Pony: The Movie (2017)_, the constant frustrations regarding her friends' carelessness and mistakes on the adventure causes Princess Twilight to get desperate and resort to thievery of the Seaponies' prized artifact. Twilight's attempt backfires badly, alienating the Seaponies and causing the whole group to kicked out of Seaquestria. When Twilight gets called out by her friends, she blows her stack and lashes out at them, accusing them of being horrible friends, which she instantly regrets.
-   In _Peter Pan_, Mr. Darling, whose patience had been repeatedly pushed throughout the evening, doesn't take it well when he has a nasty fall and his family appears more concerned with the well-being of family dog Nana.
    
    **Mr. Darling:** "Poor Nana"?! THIS IS THE LAST STRAW!
    
-   _The Rugrats Movie_: Tommy's patience is repeatedly pushed by Dil's selfishness throughout the film. After he saves him from some monkeys, Dil selfishly drinks all of the milk and keeps a large blanket all to himself, which leads to the blanket tearing in half and Tommy falling into a mud puddle. By this point, Tommy has had enough and gives Dil a _major_ "The Reason You Suck" Speech, nearly pouring mashed bananas all over Dil so the monkeys can take him away.
    
    **Tommy:** You think this is funny?! Phil and Lil was right. You're a bad, naughty baby and you're _never_ gonna get any better! I'm _through_ being your big brother! I don't want my "sponsatility" _no more_! _\[tosses his compass away, the monkeys notice\]_  
    **Dil:** My monkey, my monkey!  
    **Tommy:** You want monkeys? Fine, I'll give you monkeys. Oh, you have a monkey mommy, a monkey daddy, and a monkey _brother_! My friends wanted to take you back to the "hopsicle". But _noooooo_, I said. He didn't mean it, I said. He was only _playing_! But I was wrong. Now I don't have any friends. _\[throws a diaper over his shoulder, the monkeys grab it\]_ Dil wants monkeys, and monkeys want the nanners. _\[takes out the mashed bananas\]_ Ohhhh, _**EVERYBODY GETS WHAT THEY WANT!**_
    
-   _Shrek Forever After_: At his children's birthday party, Shrek endures tons of stress and frustration, with a bratty kid repeatedly pestering him to give him a roar and the three pigs having eaten the cake. The whole room seems to be spinning around him and Shrek lets out a thunderous roar of frustration. After a brief moment of shock, the whole crowd starts _cheering_. When a replacement cake with a cute-looking ogre decorated on it is brought in, Shrek finally loses his temper and smashes the cake with his fist before storming out of the party.
-   In _Turning Red_, Mei loses her temper after being repeatedly goaded and laughed at by Tyler and throws a dodgeball at his head hard enough to break a window.
    -   She reaches it a second time when Tyler insults her family, prompting her to jump off his roof and attack him. She quickly snaps out of it when Ming arrives, however, and is visibly shocked when she sees that her own rage caused her to lose control of her actions and not only attack Tyler, but also terrify the other kids at the party.
    -   Ming also has her own. When Mei decides to keep her red panda spirit and leaves the ritual early to reconcile with her friends at the concert, Ming tried to reason with her but Mei refuses to listen, inadvertently damaging Ming's amulet in the process. This, combined with her mother, sisters, cousin, and niece berating her for not keeping Mei under control, led to her loss of temper and the release of her red panda.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   The title monster of _Alien³_. Despite Ripley hitting it with lead pipes and burning flares, it refuses to harm her due to the gestating Queen Alien inside her. Until she tricks it into being dunked in a vat of _molten lead_. When it emerges from said lead, the agonizing pain of the experience causes it to give the Alien equivalent of a "Fuck this noise" and set out to kill her.
-   Brought up in _Anger Management_ by Jack Nicholson to Adam Sandler.
    
    **Buddy:** There's two types of angry people: Explosive, and Implosive. Explosive is the person screaming at the cashier for not taking her coupons. Implosive is the cashier, who stays quiet day by day, until finally one day, shoots everyone in the store... You're the cashier.  
    **Dave:** No, no, I'm the guy in the frozen food aisle dialing 911, I swear.
    
-   The sparks that starts the 1905 revolution against the Tsarist forces and the church in _The Battleship Potemkin_ is the navy crew again being given rotten food on a plate that reads the line from the Lord's Prayer "Give us this day our daily bread".
-   _Blue Iguana (2018)_: Deacon finally gets sick of his mother insulting him and his father and breaks her neck in the car. He then bursts into tears.
-   _Brothers (2009)_: Throughout the movie, Sam gradually becomes angry as he learns the hard way how his family moved on without him, despite all the hellish experiences in Afghanistan he kept his family from knowing. His bitterness toward Tommy, whom he believes cheated with his wife<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , doesn't help, but it's when his daughter, Isabelle, harshly chides him for favoring her younger sister that the whole situation finally pushes him over the edge, sparking his Unstoppable Rage in the climax.
-   In _A Christmas Story_, Ralphie has been having a bad day when Scut Farkus (the bully who's been repeatedly harassing him) hits him with a snowball and then taunts him. Ralphie snaps and beats the crap out of Scut.
-   In _The Dead Center_, Dr. Forrester is a psychiatrist who demonstrates multiple times how he's cool and professional when dealing with clients. That's what makes it especially shocking when he loses it after figuring out that John Doe killed one of his coworkers and his other patient, then confronts and attacks him.
-   In _Election_, the ambitious overachiever Tracy Flick tears down the campaign posters of everyone running against her for student council president. But she didn't plan this; she does it in a fit of frustration after accidentally tearing her own poster.
-   _Godzilla vs. Kong_: Godzilla is no pushover on the best of days, but in this film he hits the Rage-Breaking Point during his Hong Kong battle against Kong when Kong successfully deals a significant blow to him. It becomes evident for the rest of the battle that Godzilla was to some extent holding back previously, and now all bets are off as he brutally curb-stomps Kong. Probably exacerbating the Rage-Breaking Point was the stress Godzilla was already likely under throughout the film before this, frantically pursuing Mechagodzilla/Ghidorah's signal all over the world and being unable to find and destroy it every time he got close.
    -   Kong has one himself earlier in the film. It's made apparent throughout the film that even though Godzilla views Kong as a rival alpha, Kong himself has no interest either in fighting Godzilla or ruling the titans. Instead, he shows more interest in protecting Jia and in exploring the Hollow Earth. But just when he'd finally found his ancestral home, a place where he belonged, Godzilla senses the movement of energy from within the earth and fires a massive beam to the center, destroying the whole place. Having been, from his point of view, attacked unprovoked _twice,_ with Jia being put in danger both times, pushes Kong to go after Godzilla.
-   In _Happy Death Day 2U_, once Tree realizes that she's back in the "Groundhog Day" Loop of the first movie, she becomes very angry, first dishing it out to the scientist who caused it, and then everyone on the path back to her sorority.
-   Harold in _Harold & Kumar Go to White Castle_, right after Neil Patrick Harris steals his car. You can actually _see_ the point where he just snaps and completely loses his shit. And that's not even halfway through the night.
-   _How to Irritate People_: John Cleese explains that the goal of irritating people is to push them as close to this point as possible without actually pushing them to that point.
-   _Killer Crocodile_: After Joe is killed by the croc following the other environmentalists being forced to set up camp in its swamp when their boat's engine dies, Kevin finally loses it and sets out to kill the beast.
-   _Main Street Meats_: Neddy quickly reaches his when a customer who wasn't satisfied with his meat says she's taking her business to the meat factory. In response to this, he saws her head off (most of the way) with the electric knife.
-   Marvel Cinematic Universe:
    
    -   At the start of _Thor_, Thor pays a "visit" to the frost giants, and Loki manages to talk him out of violence. Until one of the frost giants resorts to name-calling...
        
        This carries over into other films where Thor has learnt not to control his anger, but has become a lot friendlier with his enemies, even when they have him at their mercy. However, after Thanos kills half of his own Asgardians, including a redeemed Loki, as well as half the known universe, Thor reaches his breaking point at the start of _Avengers: Endgame_. With Thanos at the mercy of the Avengers, Thor mercilessly kills the God-Emperor with a single swing from Stormbreaker. Without exhibiting any emotion other than heartbreak.
        
    -   _The Avengers_: It turns out that Bruce Banner is constantly dancing on the edge of this in order to stay calm and in control. It also allows him to transform into the Hulk at will without the requisite adrenaline-pumping event that usually triggers the change.
    -   _Avengers: Infinity War_: Bruce Banner does this during the climactic battle in Wakanda when Hulk refuses to come out, since he's still reeling from the beat down he got at the hands of Thanos at the begining of the movie:
    
    _\* While fighting Cull Obsidian_
    
    **Bruce:** Hulk, I know you like making your entrance at the last second, well, this is it, man. This is the last last second. Hulk! HULK!
    
    **Bruce:** Oh, screw you, you big, green asshole! I'll do it myself!
    
    _\*Attaches the armor's hand to Obsidian, sending him flying towards his death_
    
    **Bruce:** See ya'!
    

-   Played for Laughs in _Mystery Men_, as Mr. Furious is so desperate to invoke this trope to empower himself that it just comes off as laughable. At least until his girlfriend is taken hostage by Casanova Frankenstein, which actually _does_ trigger this.
-   In both _National Lampoon's Vacation_ and _National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation_, Clark does his best to remain jolly and happy, no matter what problems arise. He's sure that getting to Wally World in the first film, and getting his Christmas bonus in the other film, will make it all better. When those aren't available, Clark finally loses it.
-   _The Net_: Most of the film consists of Angela Bennett doing her damnedest not to be found and killed by the evil Praetorian hacker conspiracy that has stolen her life and killed several people close to her, but when she finally manages to contact an FBI Agent that was friends with her (assassinated) doctor and seems to believe her crazy stories at the beginning of the third act, he turns out to be a plant for the Praetorians. After the third time he asks where the MacGuffin disk that she had been hunted down for is (even after she makes clear at the very beginning of their conversation that it's been destroyed), Angela catches on to the fact that her Hope Spot has burst and goes into an angry rant about being fed up with the whole situation before forcing the car to crash (killing the agent) and escaping, now willing to destroy the Praetorians once and for all.
-   Milton Waddams in _Office Space_ finally has one after his desk is moved to the basement (and Lumbergh takes his red stapler), and he sets the building on fire. Hey, he said he would!
    
    **Milton Waddams:** Excuse me? Excuse me? Okay, that's... that's the last straw.
    
-   Mrs. Kongstrup from _Pelle the Conqueror_ has known for years that her husband cheats on her constantly and has fathered illegitimate children. But finding pit that he had sex _with her niece_ causes her to snap, and slice off his testicles.
-   Throughout _Planes, Trains and Automobiles_, everything goes wrong for Neal Page in trying to return home for Thanksgiving. As he tries renting a car at an airport, he discovers that the car's gone, but the bus leaves him behind without even waiting. Neal finally loses it before he tries walking back to the airport, even walking across _a runway_ to drop a profanity-laden rant to the rental agency clerk.
-   _Respire_: Charlie, twice. The first time is against a girl in her class, whom Sarah gifts with a necklace she was given by Charlie's mom and the second time is against Sarah herself.
-   _Snakes on a Plane:_ Neville Flynn, after finding out that Rick has been killed by Mc Keon as a snake killing him by biting him in the arm.
    
    **Neville:** Enough is _**ENOUGH!**_ I have _HAD IT_ with these _MOTHERFUCKIN' SNAKES_ on this _**MOTHERFUCKIN' PLANE!**_ Everybody strap in! I'm about to open some fuckin' windows.
    
-   _Star Wars_:
    -   _Return of the Jedi_: Luke Skywalker has already been through enough by the time the climactic battle rolls around, but knows that getting furious will lead to The Dark Side. Vader and the Emperor taunt him, but he stays calm. But when Vader is about to threaten to do something terrible to the last family he has, Luke lets out a Big "NEVER!" cutting off Vader's sentence and wails on him, coming very close to killing him.
    -   _Revenge of the Sith_: This trope is explored through Anakin Skywalker. During the duel on the Invisible Hand, the Sith Lord Count Dooku knocks out Obi-Wan Kenobi and taunts Anakin to use hatred to defeat him, knowing about the Jedi Knight's emotional vulnerability. This turns out to be a huge mistake for the elderly Sith, as Anakin's fury also strengthens his connection to the Dark Side of the Force which permits the Jedi to disarm and execute Dooku.
-   During _Saving Private Ryan_ The Medic Wade shows Nerves of Steel as he treats and operates on multiple fellow soldiers during the middle of the Omaha Beach invasion... up until a patient that he and several other medics were in the middle of saving gets hit by a stray bullet. At which point he snaps and begins launching a Cluster F-Bomb at the German gunners.
-   _Small Soldiers_: Alan's father, Stuart spends the majority of the movie trying to regulate his anger whenever it flares up (and he gets a lot of very sympathetic reasons to explode over the course of the film), but he hits this point near the climax when he learns that his son has been telling the truth about the action figures being sentient and that the Commandos really did almost kill Alan, punching out resident Jerkass Larry near the climax of the movie (it probably didn't help that Larry calmly threatened to take Alan to court) and declaring that keeping his anger in check was exactly the problem.
    
    **Stuart:** _\[after punching out Larry\]_ Your toys nearly killed my son!  
    **Irene:** Stuart!  
    **Stuart:** Don't say "calm down!" Calm was killing me!
    
-   _Star Trek_:
    -   In _Star Trek (2009)_, Kirk is advised to do this to Spock (as noted below in the TV section, Vulcans can be prone to this) by Spock's alternate timeline self, in order to make his other self realize that he has been emotionally compromised due to seeing both his mother and his homeworld die.
    -   Spock's emotions are tested enough in _Star Trek Into Darkness_, and thinking that Kirk is dead drives him to total rage.
-   _Women Is Losers_: When Celina's dad threatens her son and then her husband gets him injured as a result of neglect, Celina blows up at both, leaving them after having put up with a lot beforehand.

    Literature 

-   _Angel Child, Dragon Child_: Ut puts up with being picked on by Raymond for months until he throws a snowball at her older sister. Then she hurls a snowball at _him_, and they start fighting.
-   Ha Leeha from _Arcane Sniper_ is usually a Friendly Sniper, but he completely _loses it_ when he shows up at Gaza to see thown being ransacked by Tzar and the Demon King's army. On the spot, he activates all his attack buffs, summons his Familiar, and starts pumping lead into everything in sight. Even when managing to dodge his shots, his attack is raised so high _the wind pressure left by his bullets deal heavy damage._
-   In the novel _The Bishop's Heir_, after Morgan and Duncan fail to save Sidana's life when Llewell slashes her throat just after she's exchanged wedding vows with Kelson, Morgan looks up and sees Llewell's triumphant expression, leaps to his feet, grabs Llewell by his tunic, yanks him downward, and shouts, "On your knees before your king, Mearan excrement!" He wants to kill Llewell and says so. Cardiel has to grasp Morgan by the wrist and forbid him from acting.
-   _The Cat in the Stacks Mysteries_: In book 10, Milton Harville's had to deal with his wife Tammy's possessiveness of him for a long time. But when she actually calls Gerry Albritton a whore and essentially threatens to kill her if she doesn't stay away from Milton, Milton's finally had enough and threatens his wife with sending her to the state mental hospital if she doesn't stop acting like that.
-   In the _Darcy Burdock_ novel series by Laura Dockrill, the title character sometimes has "Angrosaurus Rex" moments.
    
    **Darcy:** I am so Angrosaurus rex right now that I don't think; I just open my mouth and scream, "I hope Donald loses his last life _now_, in _REAL_ life."  
    And then everybody stares at me.  
    Shocked.  
    That is the worstest thing you can do of all things - to wish somebody loses their last life in _real_ life. Mum is cross. Mad. Mad. Mad. But so am I.
    
-   _The Dresden Files_:
    -   In _Grave Peril_, Harry quickly discovers that he's been manipulated into a losing position: If he acts, it's bad. If he doesn't act, it's bad. In addition, he's found out that his lover has been cursed, his friends are in peril, and his lack of forethought and planning might spell doom for the Knights of the Cross. On top of all that, his discovery was _planned_ for all of this to have maximum psychological impact. He responds thusly:
        
        **Harry:** Fuego! Pyrofuego! _Burn_, you greasy bat-faced bastards! _**BURN!**_
        
    -   In _White Night_ we get a flashback to Harry at a Warden training camp. Some ghouls attack one morning and take two of the trainees (who are teenagers) captive. Harry rushes to rescue them, but not only are they already dead, _they are being eaten as he finds them_. His reaction is... chilling. He flies into Tranquil Fury and brutally slaughters some ghouls, maims another and sets it to run back to its superiors, and horrifically tortures the last before executing him in front of the rest of the trainees and Wardens.
        
        **Ramirez:** What happened to not hating them?  
        **Harry:** Things change.
        
        And after the final execution...
        
        **Harry:** That's the only way to serve it up. Cold.
        
    -   In _Small Favor_, Harry is tired, angry, scared (mostly for his friend who is being eyed intently by a Valkyrie) and being chased by fallen angels. When one of them shoots his friend with an AK-47, Harry flips out and blasts a massive hole in the shooter's chest (the shooter being a 2000-year-old, demon-possessed, heavyweight sorcerer to boot) with a fire blast that is described as so intense it's almost a solid object.
        
        **Harry:** Fuego. Pyrofuego! **BURN!**
        
    -   In _Skin Game_, Harry induces this in Nicodemus first by hammering on about how Nicodemus condemned Deirdre to the worst fate possible (Hell is more or less nondiscriminatory, whereas Hades is specifically made to be as karmic as possible), pointing out how for all his power he had to sacrifice his daughter simply because no one else would be loyal enough. The final deal-breaker is when Harry says, "I don't know how you said it back in the day, but I'll bet you anything her first word was 'dada.'"
-   In _Greenmantle_, Hannay's disguise as a backveldt Boer is given away when Stumm's bullying, intimidation, and insults finally push him beyond this.
-   _The Last Adventure of Constance Verity_: When Connie and co. make it to the heart of The Engine and find all of the enemies she's faced throughout the book waiting for her, all of them ready to monologue and do their usual villain-schtick all at once, Connie snaps and tells them all to shut-up before predicting everything that's going to happen as though she had foreseen all of it.
-   _Moongobble and Me_: In book 5, after realizing the Old Woman of the Forest has done multiple nasty things, including turning his father into the Weeping Werewolf for no good reason and then setting them up to be killed, Edward finally loses his temper at her and _snaps_, yelling about all the horrible things she's done... and then throws the Dangly-Boo at her.
-   In _Pact_, Blake Thorburn, after being hounded by the chronomancer Laird Behaim for several weeks, becomes a Cornered Rattlesnake when Laird forces him to experience a Pensieve Flashback to his most painful memories and shoves a wooden splinter into Laird's windpipe.
-   In _Post Captain_, Aubrey and Maturin enter into an argument over Aubrey's affair with Diana Villiers. Maturin is able to maintain a tone of Tranquil Fury until Aubrey rudely references his illegitimacy, which quickly devolves into a challenge. The events of the rest of the book stop the duel from happening, and their friendship is repaired.
-   In _The Queen's Thief_ novel _The King of Attolia_, Telius, captain of Attolia's Praetorian Guard is ordered by that king to pardon the queen's failed spymaster Relius rather than execute him. For Teleus, who is unfailingly loyal to His Queen and sees the king as a barbarian usurper, this is a bridge too far—even though Relius is his closest friend—and his voice rises in volume as he asks if he _really_ thinks the king is in charge and if it's the _king's_ orders he follows. This results in a yelling match between Telius and the king that echoes off the cell walls until Teleus realizes that Relius is trying to block it out.
-   In _The Return of the King_, Denethor's constant slights against Faramir finally culminate when he says that his and Boromir's places should have been exchanged — which Faramir takes as a wish that he was the one _dead_ instead of his brother. Though his words remain courteous, Faramir's restraint is broken and he points out that it was Denethor who chose Boromir to go to Rivendell — and so if he's looking for people to blame for his favorite son's death, he should start there.
    
    "I would ask you, my father, to remember why it was that I, not he, was in Ithilien. On one occasion at least your counsel has prevailed, not long ago. It was the Lord of the City that gave the errand to him."
    
-   _Samurai Scarecrow_: When Kasha reveals that she dressed up as a bird for Halloween like her older brother Yukio, his friends laugh at it. This pushes Yukio over the edge and makes him yell at her.
-   In _The Sorcerer of the Wildeeps_, Demane is not a fan of being called "Sorcerer", as he points out on several occasions. But the brothers persist in doing so anyway, until Barkeem does it while Demane already is visibly in a bad mood and gets a jug of wine not just kicked, but _exploded_, right out of his hands for it.
-   In _Space Glass_, Marvelous Dagon flies off the handle after the Marauder dies.
-   In _The Spirit Thief_, when he's captured by Benehime, Eli, who at the time is deep in Heroic Safe Mode, meekly accepts everything she does out of fear, pushing down the desire to rebel — until she makes the mistake of taking Karon away from him and treating it like nothing happened, whereupon he explodes and delivers a "The Reason You Suck" Speech right to her face, heedless of the consequences.
-   In a form of Teach Him Anger, in Mercedes Lackey's _Storm Breaking_ Karal has to bring An'desha past this point to prove to him that he can release his emotions without losing control of his powers.
-   In the Dale Brown novel _Tiger's Claw_, a Drill Sergeant Nasty has it in for Bradley, accusing him of nepotism and insulting Patrick to his face. Bradley tries to rein in his anger at having his father badmouthed, oh he tries, even swallowing his pride and apologizing for near-assault even when the other guy stuffs in a bunch of deliberately humiliating extra conditions... but when the Drill Sergeant Nasty just refuses to let it go and sneaks in one last barb sotto voce, it is on.
-   In _The Witchlands_, both Nihar siblings get this moment.
    -   Vivia spends the entire session of the Battle Council growing increasingly annoyed with the Councilmen seemingly out to sabotage every one of her ideas. When they imply that they'll never treat her as their equal, much less superior, she finally breaks and goes straight into Tranquil Fury.
    -   Merik is forced to suffer through a dinner party full of gossip and small talk, and rage is mounting in him until an innocuous comment sets him off.
-   _Worlds of Power_ explains the "art of the fire wheel" as a weapon Ryu was taught to create through his anger. He unleashes it when struggling against a difficult enemy gets heaped on top of the other issues currently plaguing him — becoming a CIA lackey, failing to protect his father's old associate, and having no leads on his father's whereabouts.

    Live-Action TV 

-   In the finale of _24: Live Another Day_, when Jack Bauer learns that Audrey was killed by one of Cheng's men, he starts to break down and almost commits suicide. Rather than end it all, however, Jack completely snaps and kills all of Cheng's men in a shootout before beating Cheng to near death, culminating in him slicing his head clean off with a katana.
-   _Babylon 5_:
    
    -   When Delenn is near-fatally wounded by a Nightwatch hostage-taker, Sheridan angrily pursues the man and beats him to a bloody pulp and would have killed him if not for Garibaldi's intervention.
    -   About a year after the formation of the ISA, tensions have escalated until a war erupts with the Centauri Republic. As the diplomats storm the council chambers demanding support from the White Star fleet, Sheridan finally snaps. He furiously pledges his support while simultaneously delivering a Reason You Suck Speech to the crowd.
    
    **Sheridan:** You want a war? Well, you've got a war!
    
-   In _The Big Bang Theory_ episode "The Commitment Determination", Amy decides that she and Sheldon need to spend some time apart to decide whether they should keep dating or not. In the next episode, "The Matrimonial Momentum", Leonard and Penny stream their wedding in Las Vegas, and Raj, Amy, and Steward go to Howard and Bernadette's house to see it when Sheldon decides to go unannounced. During the ceremony, Sheldon keeps pressuring Amy to decide whether they should break up or not, with Amy saying that that's not the time or place to make such a quick decision on the subject. When Sheldon rudely tells her that she's getting too old to get married and have children, Amy angrily tells him that she's suffered enough humiliation and dumps him right then and there.
-   _Boardwalk Empire_:
    -   In Season 3, agent Van Alden (living under the alias of George Mueller) is trying to make a living as Chicago's least successful door-to-door salesman, and puts up with no end of abuse and humiliation from his coworkers. Then his main tormentor brings up the subject of his wife. The result is this epic rampage, where he burns the face of the man who disrespected his wife with a hot iron, starts smashing any furniture or equipment he can get his hands on, and leaves the rest of the office huddling in terror as far away from him as they can get.
    -   In Season 4 he is once again in Extreme Doormat mode for much of the season, until a combination of factors once again pushes him to violence. This time he's aware that his breaking point is coming, warns his attackers to try to get them to stop, and when the warnings are ignored his reaction is much more controlled and focused than before, as he simply whips out a gun, shoots all three of them, and leaves their bodies to rot in an alley.
-   _Breaking Bad_: In "Hazard Pay", Skyler has been stressing out from Walt moving back into the house, being complicate in his criminal activities for so many months, is incredibly fearful of the man he's become, and indirectly causing her ex-boss (and former lover) to become a permanent quadriplegic. When her sister Marie visits her at the car wash (not being privy to any of this information), starts talking about preparing for Walt's birthday and berating Skyler for her new smoking habit, she goes absolutely livid and screams at Marie, over and over, to "SHUT UP", before breaking down in tears.
-   In the _Charmed_ episode "It's a Bad, Bad, Bad, Bad World: Part 2", resident medic and frequent voice of reason Leo Wyatt hits this when his mentor, Gideon, kidnaps his toddler older son and mortally wounds his adult younger son, causing the closest thing the show has to a pacifist to hunt Gideon down in the Underworld and kill him in cold blood.
-   In _Chernobyl_, Badass Bureaucrat Boris Scherbina is not a cheerful man at the best of times. However, when he realizes that the Soviet state's insistence on downplaying the disaster<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  cost the response team precious months with _nothing_ to show for it, he storms off to call Moscow and _explodes_ at them, then smashes the phone to scrap for good measure.
    
    **Shcherbina:** OF COURSE I KNOW THEY'RE LISTENING! I WANT THEM TO HEAR! I WANT THEM TO HEAR IT ALL! DO YOU KNOW WHAT WE DO HERE? TELL THOSE GENIUSES WHAT THEY HAVE DONE! _\[pause\]_ I DON'T GIVE A FUCK! TELL THEM! GO TELL THEM! RYZHKOV! GO TELL THEM HE'S A JOKE! TELL FUCKING GORBACHEV! TELL THEM!
    
-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   In "The Pirate Planet", the Fourth Doctor reaches this point when the Captain shows him the remains of the planets he's destroyed:
        
        **The Doctor:** Appreciate it? _Appreciate it?_ What, you commit mass destruction and murder on a scale that's almost _inconceivable_, and you ask me to appreciate it? Just because you've happen to have made a brilliantly conceived _toy_ out of the mummified remains of planets!  
        **Captain:** Devilstorms, Doctor, it is not a toy!  
        **The Doctor:** _Then what's it for?!_ What are you doing? What could possibly be worth all this?
        
    -   In "The Parting of the Ways", the Doctor gets so furious about the situation with the Daleks that he manages to _terrify_ some of them. These are the _Daleks_, Scary Dogmatic Aliens engineered to show no emotions other than hate, we're talking about here.
-   _FBI: Most Wanted_: In "Invisible", Villain of the Week Lt. Weitzen hits his when the shooting range doesn't have the kind of ammo he wants, and the clerk tells him to just "go do what you do". Five murders follow within minutes.
-   The _Frasier_ episode "Dark Side of the Moon" builds up to a spectacular example. Daphne is already on edge after her fiancé Donny got his facts wrong and invited her least favorite brother, alcoholic parasite Simon, over to Seattle; at her bridal shower, she spills a glass of wine over her favorite dress when Simon tackles her without warning. However, things seem to settle down when she has Frasier's apartment to herself and plans to spend the evening pampering herself. Things quickly go downhill; Frasier returns home early from a concert after catching a cold from Simon, followed by Martin after the cable goes out at McGinty's and he and Simon — and three barfly friends — decide to watch an unspecified sport at home. Each new arrival almost offhandedly asks Daphne to fetch them food and/or drinks, adding insult to injury. Daphne goes downstairs to check on her laundry, including the stained dress, and is distraught to find that another tenant in the Elliott Bay Towers has emptied her washing machine and dropped the dress in a puddle of bleach, ruining it beyond repair; she claims that she got revenge by emptying the contents of the washing machine all over the laundry room floor. Then Donny shows up with his parents to introduce them to Daphne — just as she prepares to drown her sorrows with a very large scotch and rebuffs Martin's attempt to cover for her by claiming the drink is his. Finally, the other tenant shows up at the door to confront Daphne over her laundry room revenge... and Daphne _snaps_. She starts by throwing the other woman's clothes into the fireplace to "dry" them, then decides to "air dry" them by hurling them over the balcony... where they proceed to cause a four-car pile-up. After hearing the full explanation Daphne's court-mandated therapist admits that she can see why Daphne snapped the way she did.
-   _The Handmaid's Tale_: In "Unfit", Ofmatthew undergoes one after suffering torment from June and the other Handmaids for her betrayal. She snaps at Loaves and Fishes, beating up Janine then a Guardian who tries to stop her, grabs his gun, and comes very close to killing Aunt Lydia before being shot herself.
-   In _It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia_, most of the Gang are walking Rage Breaking Points _at best_. Dennis invokes this on a would-be buyer of his car after one perceived slight:
    
    **Dennis:** I have contained my rage for as long as possible, but I shall unleash my fury upon you **LIKE THE CRASHING OF A THOUSAND WAVES!** Begone, vile man! Begone from me! A starter car? This car is a finisher car! A transporter of gods! The **GOLDEN GOD**! I am untethered, and my rage knows no bounds!
    
-   In the _I Love Lucy_ episode "Ricky Loses His Temper", Lucy and Ricky have a bet going to see how long she'll go without buying hats and he'll go without losing his temper. Unbeknownst to Ricky, Lucy does buy a hat and tries to make him blow up before it's delivered so it will look like he lost the bet.
-   One of the running gags in _The Julekalender_ is Fritz making Hansi do all the hard labor, much to the latter's dismay. In episode 22, Hansi finally snaps and sings a rock number, terrifying Fritz into silence.
-   One episode of _Malcolm in the Middle_ has Malcolm deciding to keep his opinions to himself. However, throughout the episode, he constantly gets annoyed by his family and the idiocy of his basketball team; we hear his rage in his thoughts, which gets more and more distorted. Eventually, he holds it in so much that he gets sick with a peptic ulcer and has to be taken to the hospital. His mother demands to know what he's so stressed about at his age. Malcolm decides to just let loose right then and there.
    
    **Lois:** _\[incredulous\] A peptic ulcer!?_ How did you manage to get a peptic ulcer!? The doctor said you had the stomach lining of a 60-year old air traffic controller! You are a teenager, for God's sake; what do you have to be stressed about!?  
    **Malcolm:** _\[finally loses his cool\]_ For your information, I just spent the past three hours on a gurney next to a guy who was still trying to smoke out of the hole in his neck! And the jackass who put in this IV couldn't find a vein with two hands and a flashlight! My call button doesn't work! These stupid sheets are itchy! There's only one channel on the TV, and what's this about a bedpan...!
    
-   A rather scary example occurs in season four of _Merlin_ when Arthur confronts Gwen about kissing Lancelot on the night before their wedding. He starts out speaking quietly and calmly, listing reasons for her behavior. When she doesn't agree with any of them he completely loses it, starts yelling, and grabs her by the shoulders. Almost immediately, though, the rage subsides and he _apologizes_.

-   _Odd Squad_:
    -   After spending the majority of the season being annoyed by the antics of Obfusco but otherwise tolerating them to a point, Olive finally ends up snapping in "Robert Plant" when he makes her and Otto water his plant (named Robert, of course) while he goes off to travel the world on vacation. She takes one look at how complicated watering the plant is and immediately decides to call it quits, since she and Otto are the last ones in Headquarters for the day. Otto takes her usual Only Sane Man role from her and tries to make her see reason, only for his attempts to fail because Olive snaps at him and says that it's just a mere plant. Of course, this ends up having disastrous consequences when she incorrectly waters Robert and he grows continuously to gigantic proportions, and begins destroying Headquarters as a result.
    -   In "Game Time", Olive becomes so frustrated with Karla being overall unhelpful in preventing her partner from dying (both in the game he's trapped in and in the real world) that she ends up giving her a good dose of Tranquil Fury when the game attendant decides to waste time checking to make sure she has enough coins for a dollar so she can get another token to beat the Final Boss of the game.
    -   In "The Cherry-on-Top-inator", after hearing her co-workers talk about how the eponymous gadget helped them in ways that it isn't intended to be used, Oona, who is going through gradual Sanity Slippage, blows her stack at them and decides to go through with smashing the gadget with her mallet anyway. It's only when she swings the mallet back hard enough to make a hole in the wall of the lab, causing water to gush out, that she calms down, but it doesn't last.
        
        **Oona:** Okay, I have a prediction of my own. I heard four stories, and how many of those stories was this gadget used to make a cherry? Ocean?  
        **Ocean:** Zero.  
        **Oona:** Therefore, while it's still possible that somebody, at _some_ point, will use this gadget and fire off a cherry, based on what I know that's not very... _\[points to Olympia\]_  
        **Olympia:** Likely?  
        **Oona:** Thus, while it's still possible that destroying it may be a mistake, it will probably be the smartest decision of my life. So if everyone would _please_ stand back, the sound is likely to be loud! _\[gives a psychotic scream and swings the mallet back\]_
        
    -   In "Dr. O No", New Dr. O's overreliance on Oona, her Cloudcuckoolander nature, and her complete inexperience in the medical field causes the scientist to be pushed over the brink, causing her to go through Sanity Slippage. Upon New Dr. O messing up the cure for a patient's tentacle legs by being unaware of how to measure liquids, and Oprah demanding to know what is happening, Oona snaps at both of them.
        
        **Oprah:** What's going on here?  
        **Oona:** What's going on is this guy's got tentacle feet, and I'm _trying_ to help, but I'm _not_ a doctor, and _this_ doctor seems _way_ more interested in _tacos and flatbread sandwiches_!  
        **New Dr. O:** In Ooga's defense, she makes an excellent point. And I make an _excellent_ flatbread sandwich! That reminds me, I am totally out of mayonnaise. Off to the store, back in a bit! _\[walks away\]_  
        **Oona:** _\[strained and desperate\]_ Did she seriously just leave to buy _mayonnaise?!_
        
    -   In "Other Olympia", main-character Olympia ends up losing her cool at Odal (called Olympia prior to this episode) when the latter steals the former's cake slice. Fed up with their names being the same, main-character Olympia goes to confront her, and when it's made clear that Odal isn't leaving Odd Squad, she declares a name-off and attempts to fight to keep her name.
    -   In "Odd Beginnings: Part 1", Opal and Omar escape the Odd Squad Museum, but in the process, they find that the Sticky Sisters have gotten away, something that Opal begins to vent about. Omar attempts to cheer his partner up, but fails, and she goes off on him as she rants about how the two of them will be stuck working at the Arctic Odd Squad precinct forever and how the world will end when the Sticky Sisters get their hands on the 44-leaf clover. Omar tries again to cheer her up by saying that they'll find it together and get it before the two villainesses do, which lifts her spirits and calms her down.
-   Throughout _Peacemaker (2022)_, Chris tries to earn his abusive father Auggie's love, in spite of Auggie being a monstrous white supremacist who treats him like shit and blames him for his brother's death, which was caused by Auggie's own abusive parenting. When Auggie tries to murder Chris and nearly kills Adrian and Eagly, Chris snaps and gives him a No-Holds-Barred Beatdown, capping it off by shooting him in the head at point-blank range.
-   _The Power (2023)_: Tatiana finally erupts in anger after Viktor kicks her little dog Vadim. She snaps and beats Viktor to death for this.
-   _Schitt's Creek_:
    -   Johnny finally loses his cool early on when a drip in the motel ceiling wakes him and musses his hair.
    -   Even-tempered Joceyln Schitt is suffering from post-partum sleep deprivation and hints to Moira and others she is at her near breaking point. When she arranges for a babysitter (who is really a pet sitter but making an exception) so she can attend a Jazzagals rehearsal, Jocelyn arrives to discover that the rehearsal was moved up an hour to accommodate Twyla and Ronnie. She finally snaps and says her friends are acting like B-words.
-   _Skins_: "Sid" is a Humiliation Conga for the already Butt-Monkey Sid. He's grounded by his Jerkass father due to being behind on his homework, ends up being on the receiving end of Tony's manipulations and Michelle's wrath for thinking he was in on it. He gets beat up by chavs, peed on by a bum, returns home to get re-grounded for sneaking out, and then immediately after finds Cassie, who yells at him for lying. The next day, he gets screwed over by Tony _again_, causes Cassie to attempt suicide because he likes Michelle more, and then gets yelled at by Jal for his supposed selfishness. After all this, he returns home and finds that his mother has left the family due to Mr. Jenkins's Jerkassishness. Sid loses his shit, finally having the Grew a Spine moment the episode's been building to and delivering an epic Calling the Old Man Out before finishing his late homework in one night.
-   _Star Trek_: Vulcans have to live with this trope, due to their culture of logic over emotion. They spend years training to keep them in check, but when anything breaks that control down, Vulcans can become as violent as their ancestors were, as both friends and foes find out to their disadvantage. To name some examples of this happening:
    -   In _Star Trek: The Original Series_ episode "This Side of Paradise", Kirk has to invoke this in Spock, in order for the extreme emotions to take out the spores that have infected his body. The Captain is aware that he'll be playing with fire when provoking someone with thrice human strength and tries to prepare accordingly, but he really doesn't expect the reaction he gets.
        
        **Kirk:** It isn't every first officer who gets to belt his captain... several times.
        
    -   In the _Star Trek: The Next Generation_ episode "Sarek", Picard gets Sarek to snap when arguing with him. Although Sarek just shouts for a few seconds, that loss of control is enough to convince him that he has a mental disease causing loss of his control.
-   In the _Stranger Things_ episode "Vecna's Curse", El confronts Angela and her friends after they torment her at the skating rink and demands an apology from them, but they refuse and taunt her even more. It gets ugly when Angela teases El over her father being (seemingly) dead, resulting in El smashing her face in with a roller skate.
-   This happens to Kano in _Tokusatsu GaGaGa_. After Fumi finds out that Kano is still an otaku after all these years, she slaps her while screaming at her to grow up, and then rips the arm off of her Shishi Leo figure (the character that Kano most empathizes with). This proves to be the breaking point for Kano where she has had enough of Fumi's abuse after one too many slights and insults in rapid session — and ends up slapping her back, calling her a bitch, and declaring her hatred for her mother, before point-blank telling Fumi that she doesn't want her in her life anymore... in public.
-   In the _Wings_ two-partner "Joe Blows", Joe becomes completely stressed out over everything that is going on: Helen coming to him and whining about the latest problem she's having with her boyfriend; Lowell loudly working on a motorcycle in the hangar; Roy constantly playing his new radio commercial; Brian coming to Joe and complaining about his mediocre sex life with Alex; Antonio bugging Joe for money so he can buy a new cab; Fay asking him to be part of her protest to stop a cemetery, where one of her husbands was buried, from being demolished; and a passenger complaining about his missing briefcase. It all comes to a head when Joe finally finds the man's briefcase, only for the man to threaten to sue him over a tiny scratch on the case. This causes Joe to finally snap as he tosses the briefcase through his office window and goes on a huge rant about how he's sick of everyone coming to him with their problems right before he rides Lowell's motorcycle out of the airport.
-   _Young Sheldon_: In "A High-Pitched Buzz and Training Wheels", Sheldon taking apart the refrigerator really angers George, who has never raised his voice at Sheldon like this before. He's so angry it makes Sheldon cry.

    Music 

-   Pink Floyd's _The Wall_: "One of My Turns" has Pink trashing his hotel room after finding out that his wife cheated on him, which is the event that prompts him to speed up the construction of his metaphorical "wall".

-   The story of Red Vox's song "Fuck" chronicles a multitude of increasingly ridiculous misfortunes that befall the protagonist one after the other. The song ends with the band's drummer, Mike, contributing some Cluster F-Bomb\-laced Angrish.
-   Kenny Rogers's "Coward of the County" has Tommy trying to keep himself from getting into a fight, until he sees his girlfriend Becky assaulted by the Gatlin boys. When Tommy meets up with them and they say, "Hey, look, Old Yellow's leaving," Tommy unleashes his full fury on the Gatlin boys and ends with, "This one's for Becky," as he fells the last of them.
-   Tool's "7empest", after a subdued intro that almost sounds like a music box, delves into distortion accompanied by a strained series of "Keep calm"s. After being punctuated with an echoing "Fuck" and a distorted "here we go again", the song gets much more aggressive in instrumentation and lyrics.

    Puppet Shows 

-   In the Loretta Swit episode of _The Muppet Show_, Miss Piggy surreptitiously plants an item in the tabloids about how she and Kermit are actually married in real life. At this point, Kermit has had it with her antics and ultimately fires her and replaces her with Swit in Veterinarian's Hospital and Pigs in Space.
-   _Sesame Street_: Elmo reaches his when Zoe won't let him drive her "Zoemobile" in episode 3850, as shown in the infamous "Alaska" scene:
    
    **Elmo:** Elmo is not going to play with Zoe anymore! _This play-date is over!_  
    **Zoe:** Woah, woah, woah... Hey wait! Where're you going?  
    **Elmo:** _Alaska!_  
    **Zoe:** It's faster if you drive...  
    **Elmo:** _\[Beat, then yells in anger\]_
    

    Radio 

-   _Bleak Expectations_: Gently Benevolent had a terrible childhood. His father died when he was young, and his mother married several increasingly cruel and abusive men after that, who abused Gently, or his pets, and in one case deported his friends to Australia. The final one beat Gently unconscious and sent him off to Antarctic College, just after he'd vowed to marry his childhood sweetheart. With some effort, he managed to escape and return to England, only to learn from his sweetheart's guardian that she was getting married to another man. Thanks to said guardian delaying him repeatedly, he's _just_ a little too late to stop the wedding in time, and hides around a corner. A little boy unintentionally taunts him about his rotten luck, and that (combined with the child's accent annoying him) is enough to finally unleash all of Benevolent's rage, turning him evil.

    Theatre 

-   _Lizzie_: The title character already hosts some borderline-homicidal anger towards her sexually abusive father, but manages to keep it repressed, forcing herself to be polite and restrained in public, for several years. What finally pushes her over the edge, however, is when he kills the birds in the barn that she was fond of. After that... cue the ax!

    Toys 

-   In _BIONICLE: Dark Destiny_, Kopaka finally snaps after being defeated and looted by a bunch of thugs, weakened due to his Mask of Power being stolen; just having barely escaped an exploding volcano; and being attacked by a group of villagers who thought that his team were villains (as the aforementioned thugs had previously posed as heroes to said villagers). This almost ends badly for the villagers. Luckily, another villager arrives and informs the rest of their error.

    Video Games 

-   _Asura's Wrath_:
    -   Asura was never a calm guy to begin with, but his anger really reaches a head in "Gods of Death". Asura's wife is dead, his daughter has been kidnapped, he's been betrayed and killed by his former colleagues (twice), and while he spent 12,500 years coming Back from the Dead, said colleagues have spent their time turning humanity into a Martyrdom Culture, harvesting their souls for power, and all around being Jerkass Gods in the name of killing Gohma Vlitra. And then Olga tries to kill Asura by carpet bombing the village he's currently in, killing the little girl that Asura just befriended (and who also bears an uncanny resemblance to his daughter). Cue massive Angst Nuke and Asura — now transformed into Berserker Form — completely annihilating Olga's massive fleet in a fit of Unstoppable Rage.
    -   It comes around to his enemies, too. Count the number of times that they try and use elaborate attacks such as ki waves or artillery on Asura, who continues to plow through them and slug his attacker over and over, until, towards the end of the fight, they're angrily returning the favor and just rushing at him to punch as hard as they can.
-   _BlazBlue: Chronophantasma_:
    -   During Chapter 4, Makoto takes Kagura to task about leaving them hungry in prison, but generally tries to restrain herself despite his lecherous tendencies, knowing fully well that he was with another woman prior to their arrival. However, the revelation that he basically shirked his responsibilities due to violating Bros Before Hoes is enough for her to punch him in the liver or the kidneys with much more force than usual. To be fair, being left overnight in prison without food because the guy you're supposed to be reporting to was drunk off his ass with a floozy in his arms makes retribution very hard to resist.
    -   During the Sector Seven chapter, Litchi has become branded as a criminal towards Sector Seven and both Makoto and Tager are sent to arrest her. She still retains her usual composure, requesting that she contact Kokonoe to beg for help once again. When Kokonoe just casually brushes that off and tells her that this is gonna be their last conversation (she's very sure that Litchi will be convicted as a traitor, imprisoned, and will not bother her business again)... _"What the... hell...?"_ That is one of the rare occasions that Litchi snaps and starts yelling at Kokonoe. Not even being beaten to crap by Tager stops her rage until Kokonoe backpedals a bit and agrees to grant her one more audience... not that it helps Litchi any in her quest to save Arakune.
-   Near the beginning of _Crash Twinsanity_, Cortex sics a giant robot on Crash as part of a revenge plot. Bear in mind that this is the _fifth_ battle between the two, and the last one resulted in Cortex being frozen in ice for three years. After Crash destroys it, Cortex, reduced to Angrish, just flat out lunges at Crash.
-   V can reach this in "the Devil" ending in _Cyberpunk 2077_ if he becomes frustrated and snaps at the doctor for putting them through the same test over and over again. The rest is up to V, as he can either sleep or trash his room in a rage.
-   _Darksiders II_: After half a game of running increasingly ridiculous errands for everyone in his quest to redeem his brother, Death finally loses his patience after the boss fight with Jamaerah, whereupon he calmly asks the scribe to surrender the Angel Key. His rage only grows after learning that the Archon, who sent him after Jamaerah in the first place, had the Key all along.
-   Killia in _Disgaea 5: Alliance of Vengeance_ is keeping a tight lid on... something... throughout the game. It almost comes through in the form of "The Other Killia?" several times, but it never quite does so. Then Seraphina takes a nearly fatal blow for him, and he snaps _hard_. Curb-Stomp Battle doesn't even begin to describe the next map — Killia is bumped up to Level 100 with an overclocked Tyrant Revelio that never deactivates, so you can take infinite turns without letting the enemies act while all your skills' costs are reduced to 1.
-   When the protagonist of _Double Homework_ finds Johanna at her favorite rooftop refuge, it pushes her over the edge. She starts screaming at and hitting him.
-   Bartz, the protagonist of _Final Fantasy V_, is a pretty even-tempered guy throughout the game. He supports his friends, rolls his eyes at their antics, and keeps up a steady determination to save the world from Exdeath despite _numerous_ failures. Then Exdeath hurls Bartz's hometown into the Void for no reason but to demonstrate his power, and Bartz flips his lid, sending the airship careening across the world so fast he nearly destroys it.
-   _Fire Emblem_:
    -   In _Fire Emblem: The Blazing Blade_, Nino defects from the Black Fang after they order her death, but she still tries to talk to her mother Sonia, hoping that Sonia will display some kind of motherly feeling. When Sonia cruelly reveals that she killed Nino's real parents and hated every moment she had to raise Nino, Nino _snaps_.
    -   _Fire Emblem: Three Houses_:
        -   Should Byleth choose the Blue Lions class, Dimitri snaps upon finding out that the Flame Emperor is his step-sister Edelgard. In his blind fury, he takes out his lance and smashes the Flame Emperor mask, and goes on a killing spree trying to kill Edelgard, all while a concerned Byleth is unable to stop him.
        -   In the Black Eagles route, choosing to side with Edelgard will cause the normally reasonable Rhea to irrevocably snap for the rest of the game.
-   _Goddess of Victory: NIKKE_:
    -   During the events of Chapter 24, Crow appears to have murdered the Counters squad, who the Commander cares deeply about. Once the Commander regains consciousness, he sees the three girls' lifeless forms. This does NOT make the Commander happy. He hunts down Crow and reads her the riot act before going all WWF on her, since he realized that hand-to-hand combat would be a bust against her. Right before the Commander can turn Crow into the next 50 Cent, Rapi appears and puts a suppression bullet in her.
    -   Earlier on, Anis has one when a dying Chatterbox re-corrupts Marian, Anis then stomps and punches Chatterbox's remains in a rage. The Ark was then forced to give Marian a neural wipe within the 3-hour time limit to purge the Corruption.
        
        **Anis:** YOU SON OF A BIIITTCH!!!!!!
        
-   _Katawa Shoujo_: Hanako is generally a very sweet person once you get past her social anxiety and nervousness. However, despite struggling with past trauma she is not a helpless child in need of constant coddling, and deeply resents being treated as such even if most of the time she's too polite and shy to call people out on it. In her bad ending, where Hisao fails to heed Lilly's advice to give Hanako space and goes to Hanako's room, he finds her both depressed and irritated, but persists in trying to chat, cajole, and joke with her, despite her not even looking at him and sending him clear signals that she is not in the mood for humor and does not want company. She restrains her annoyance for a while, repeatedly asking/telling Hisao with varying degrees of politeness and firmness to go/leave her alone, but Hisao refuses to take the hint, despite her getting increasingly agitated the more he persists, even showing stress behaviors and grumbling under her breath a few times, which Hisao notes is not like her. Eventually, he pushes her too far and she absolutely _explodes_ at him.
-   The start of the _Kindergarten 2_ mission "Breaking Sad" consists of the player inducing this in Ms. Applegate, who's already on edge due to pill withdrawal, by refusing to leave her alone at the start of the day, goading Cindy into making a False Rape Accusation, and finally setting off a firecracker in the classroom. The last act causes Ms. Applegate to explode into a screaming fit about how she hates everything and storm out of the classroom in tears to try and break into the cafeteria.
-   Paragon Shepard from the _Mass Effect_ series gets a few of these moments.
    -   During the _Overlord_ DLC for _Mass Effect 2_, Shepard will get a _Paragon_ interrupt where s/he _pistol whips_ a scientist who was using his own autistic brother as a test subject in a brutal experiment.
    -   In the third game of the series, one mission has Shepard investigating an indoctrinated hanar diplomat. When the hanar justifies his actions with some Insane Troll Logic, Shepard snaps:
        
        **Shepard:** You... Big! _Stupid!!_ **Jellyfish!!!**
        
-   _Max Payne 3_:
    -   Max Payne has not had a very good time, what with losing Mona and everyone else that mattered to him. And to top it all off, the son of the local Jersey mob boss and his boys just kept messing with him every time he went to the bar to drink. But when this bastard goes as far as to smack a woman who was brave enough to stand up to him in the face right in front of Max, it is the last straw for him and results in Max gunning him down, pissing off the boss, and essentially ending his career in Jersey.
    -   A much more serious one occurs later on that makes Max abandon his signature Tranquil Fury in favor of a full blown Unstoppable Rage for the first time when he discovers the organ harvesting ring in Sao Paulo. The only reason he doesn't kill the person immediately responsible is because he lets one of the victims take revenge while he goes after the bosses.
-   _Mega Man_ series: Mega Man reaches his own in _Super Adventure Rockman_ when Shadow Man mocks the Heroic Sacrifice his brother Quick Man made. It culminates in Shadow Man's death. Wood Man reaches his own upon learning this, and lectures the Blue Bomber for it prior to his fight.

-   _Not for Broadcast_: In Day 296: The Heatwave, Jeremy Donaldson becomes increasingly agitated in the unused camera feed during Act I of the National Nightly News, complaining about the heat wearing him down and about trying to quit the job, but Jenny keeps telling him to control his temper when it's time to interview the three medically conditioned people. It's only when one of them (Brian Trueman) is getting arrested for exposing Advance's hypocrisy and corruption that Jeremy gets to the point when he snaps and takes a pistol from the CCO, holding everyone in the newsroom at gunpoint.
-   In _Office Jerk_, if you hit the Jerk enough times with certain items, he'll throw the item back at you.
-   The _Persona_ series has had this as one of the ways to awaken your Persona since the start, but it's particularly on display in _Persona 5_, where each of the party members awakens because they've been pushed too far by the particular villain tormenting them, and they _absolutely cannot take it anymore_. Futaba is the exception to this, as her torment is mainly self-inflicted. She thus gets her Persona by accepting her Shadow, in a manner closer to _Persona 4_.
-   _Pizza Tower:_ Peppino is already pretty angry when he isn't being terrified, throughout all the levels, but nearing the end when facing the one truly behind the threats against his restaurant, said individual casually brings back every other boss in the game for a Boss Rush... and Peppino is so completely _done_ with everything that's happened he goes **utterly ballistic** and his regular attacks get replaced with an HP-shredding No-Holds-Barred Beatdown whenever he gets so much as a finger on a boss.
-   During Wheatley's Face–Heel Turn in Chapter 5 of _Portal 2_, he's already angry as a result of becoming Drunk with Power, but he's still quite calm. It's only when GLaDOS reveals that Wheatley was built to be an Intelligence Dampening Sphere, created for the express purpose of being an idiot, that he suddenly and dramatically _loses it_.
    
    **GLaDOS:** You're not just a regular moron. You were _designed_ to be a moron.  
    **Wheatley:** _\[slams GLaDOS into the elevator, cracking the glass\]_ I AM _NOT_ A _MORON_!  
    **GLaDOS:** YES YOU ARE! YOU'RE THE MORON THEY BUILT TO MAKE _ME_ AN _IDIOT_!  
    **Wheatley:** _\[punches GLaDOS_ through _the glass of the elevator\]_ _**WELL HOW ABOUT NOW?! **NOW _WHO'S A MORON?!_ \[begins hitting the top of the elevator\] _COULD A MORON_ PUNCH! YOU! INTO! THIS! PIT?!** HUH?!**_ COULD A MORON DO _THAT_?!
    
-   _Randal's Monday_: Charlie kills past Randal pretty brutally after being teased enough.
-   _Utawarerumono_: The common people are clearly seen chafing under the oppressive rule of the corrupt, incompetent Emperor, but generally are kept from doing anything by threats of violence. That is until one soldier accidentally kills Tsukuru, a village chief and healer beloved by many surrounding communities. This is the act that causes all the villages in the area to declare This Is Unforgivable!, and descend with cold fury upon the Lord who commanded that soldier. Of course, they realize that such an act will lead to reprisal from the Emperor... so they resolve to start a revolution and overthrow the entire government while they're at it. Under Hakuoro's leadership, they succeed.
-   In _Warframe_, we have Baruuk, a 'frame that is built _specifically_ on this trope. He even has a special resource called "Restraint" which reflects how much of his anger he's holding back, and it drains as he uses his abilities. Once he's out of Restraint, his Unstoppable Rage is expressed by not only getting a 50% damage reduction buff, but his ultimate ability _Serene Storm_ is powered by Restraint instead of energy, which turns Baruuk into a Bare-Fisted Monk for the duration as he punches and kicks enemies with his Exalted Sparring Weapons, the Desert Wind.
-   _Wind Child Black_: Alexia goes through a lot over the course of the game — her adopted sister is kidnapped, she's poisoned by a pirate, she barely survives a psychopath wiping out a military base _with a hurricane_, and when she finally finds her sister again, the girl's been brainwashed to hate her. But it's not until she meets Renee's sweet-seeming parents that she snaps, screaming at them for locking Renee in the cellar and killing her older brother. She gets so angry that she _makes it literally rain_, which is usually a sign that the Black Knight is coming to wreck yo' shit.

    Web Animation 

-   _If the Emperor Had a Text-to-Speech Device_:
    -   When the Emperor mentions Magnus screwing everything up one time too many (and, just to make things worse, when Magnus is just trying to help), there's a visible snap and Magnus enters a state of cold, calculated fury, plotting behind Emperor's back.
    -   The spoilered character gets another one when his home planet is brought up by Cegorach's audience, with an audible snap preceding his rant on the topic.
    -   In the _The Last Church_ podcast, Uriah Olathaire maintains his composure throughout his appearance, never showing more than irritation at the Emperor's antics. Then Emps brings up his former religion, causing him to finally lose it and deliver a _blistering_ "The Reason You Suck" Speech taking the Emperor to task for his hypocrisy.
-   _Inanimate Insanity_: Paintbrush has these often, usually signified by their hair/brush turning into fire. To name one example, they spend most of "Best Served Cold" annoyed over how they have to do the messy ice cream stacking for the challenge while also dealing with Silver Spoon's laziness and criticisms, retaining their foul mood even after Cabby tricks Silver Spoon into swapping places with them. It's Balloon awkwardly trying to offer them a tissue to wipe off the ice cream that causes them to finally snap and have one of their fiery outbursts, causing Silver Spoon to lose his balance and fall face first into the ice cream. Fortunately for everyone but Silver, the sight of this immediately cheers Paintbrush back up.
-   _Revenge Films_: Ali jumped on her sister when their parents sided with the latter for sleeping with the former's husband, but their father stopped the fight by punching Ali in the face and telling her to leave.
-   _RWBY_:
    -   While interrogating Hazel, Emerald, and Mercury after the failure of Haven, Salem becomes increasingly frustrated the more she hears from her subordinates. When Hazel tries taking responsibility for the failure in Haven, she throws the conference table aside, but otherwise doesn't harm anyone and focuses on interrogating the truth from them via inciting terror of what she'll do to them. But upon realising that Ozpin led the protagonists at Haven and is in possession of the Relic, that's when Salem orders everyone to leave and lets out a window-shattering scream.
    -   In Volume 9, a big part of the story is that Ruby is suffering from the trauma caused by the events of Volumes 7 and 8, which gets missed, ignored or swept aside by the other girls as they try to escape the Ever After. This comes to a head in Chapter 7 after a group of Jabberwalkers attack the village of Paper Pleasers Jaune had spent years protecting. When the Paper Pleasers are able to destroy their dam and allow themselves to finally Ascend, Weiss, Blake and Yang run to Jaune's side, despite the fact that Ruby had a panic attack during the assault and is clearly not okay, Ruby snaps at the girls when Weiss tries to get her to say something to Jaune, yelling at them over how they keep relying on her for help and ignoring her for their own problems. When Jaune snaps at her and blames her for having a It's All About Me attitude that got them to this point, it and Blake trying to backburner the problem again is enough to make Ruby bail on her friends, leaving with just Crescent Rose and Little the Mouse.
-   _Supermarioglitchy4's Super Mario 64 Bloopers_: In the episode "Stupid Bowser's Fury", Bowser has been slowly getting more and more angry at the terrible _Cats_ play that Bowser Jr. is part of, but has been trying to keep it under control. He ends up completely losing it and becomes Fury Bowser when UberEats misspells his name as "Cowser".
-   _TOME_:
    -   An odd retroactive (and pretty spoiler-heavy) example. Kirb does _not_ have a good time prior to the Gemini Tournament. He gets into a violent argument with Flamegirl which Alpha is very displeased by, Alpha goes on a rampage due to the Forbidden Power, he's so worried that the two might hate him that he's scared to go up to them for _days_ after the fact, his attempt at trying to ask Nylocke for advice seemingly gets pushed aside due to the escapism-driven role-player not knowing how to deal with it, and when he finally works up to the courage to talk to Alpha, he finds that Alpha has not only gotten over it but has partnered with Flamegirl before he could ask him, leaving Kirb to partner up with someone who's practically a stranger to him. In the tournament itself, his partner gets knocked out almost immediately in their first match and, while he's able to handle it just fine by himself, by then he feels too awkward around the others to actually enjoy himself, leading to him throwing his next match against Zetto — or at least, that's what it seems like. In actuality, he switched to his Zetto account so he could move himself away from what had happened and try to enjoy himself again. But even then, his Humiliation Conga isn't finished just yet. Alpha and Flamegirl end up throwing their match against him, Alpha telling him "it's a game" as an extra burn. Then, during his and Kizuna's match against Nylocke and Gamecrazed, Kizuna and Gamecrazed end up in a standstill, leaving Nylocke to go on his usual "old warrior of TOME" spiel, frustrating the already pissed-off Kirb/Zetto even more (Kirb was already shown to be annoyed with Nylocke's role-playing schtick before). It takes Nylocke skipping around the battleground, humming to himself loudly after deflecting _all_ the bullets Zetto shot at him, for Kirb/Zetto to finally _explode_ and unleash a seriously angry (and seemingly out-of-nowhere) rant on the dragon role-player, having finally reached his emotional limit.
    -   A less serious one occurs in Episode 12: After being pushed around and teased during most of the Challenge of the Netkings, Kirb finally snaps after Nylocke goes on yet another "squire" speech after he's picked to fight Bitshroom (an anthropomorphic mushroom), who then calls him an imp, first delivering an angry rant about how he's _not_ a squire or an imp, nor is he going to take this anymore and his name is pronounced "Kirbopher". When he reaches the Netking, he pounds the crud out of him and then goes on an angry rant about how he's the king and better than the other Netkings combined. And it's _hilarious_.
-   _Trouble Busters_: Several stories feature the protagonist's "anger level" which usually goes up whenever the antagonist upsets them. When it reaches 100%, they snap.

    Web Comics 

-   _Apocalyptic Horseplay_: Pesty hits one after the Husher kills all his germs, going on a long rant which is quite disturbing coming from him, before eventually calming down.
    
    **Pesty:** My... Oh god... My babies! WHAT HAVE YOU DONE?! Why did you... No. No, don't tell me why. Just tell me who. Who are you? Tell me your name, exorcist... So I can write it on your tombstone. What you thought taming germs was all I could do? You thought this was all I had? I don't have to control diseases; I am diseases! I don't just make people sick, I make everything sick! Everything decomposes, everything rots! Even you! And while the mold and putrefying bacteria take hold to consume you... I want you to think about all the innocent microorganisms you just torched! I want you to realize that you are lesser than any of them! Bacteria are the threads from which creation was woven! They were one of the first life forms on this planet! Your kind is the real disease... AND WE'RE THE CURE!
    
    -   He later hits one again, in a more permanent fashion, after Ozzam not only kills Fever right in front of him, but threatens to kill Lily as well. As you can imagine, Ozzam's death is slow and painful.
    
    **Pesty:** You took my germs... You took my horse... Now you want to take my NIECE?!
    
-   _Bittersweet Candy Bowl_ sees Mike eventually reach this point when he thinks that Lucy is passive-aggressively Playing the Victim Card and trying to guilt him into feeling bad that his long-distance girlfriend Sandy is visiting over winter holiday. Instead of lashing out physically, he lays out a _devastating_ "The Reason You Suck" Speech, which takes her to task for ten years of abuse. Made all the more painful by the fact that this calling-out comes while she's trying to improve and _stop_ being such a hot-headed Tsundere.
-   In _El Goonish Shive_ Susan is one of the setting's most stoic characters. However, when it's revealed that the magical hammers she can summon were originally created as a prank to _encourage_ sexist remarks towards women, it's the final straw. This unleashes years of repressed trauma and accidentally turns her homicidal; luckily, the immortal who accidentally flipped the straw has a Calming Spell made of doe-eyed critters.

-   In one strip of _Hanna Is Not a Boy's Name_, Lamont tries to shake hands with a ridiculously stressed-out Conrad. It does not go down well.
    
    **Conrad: Stop. Just Stop.** I ran all the way here and I had to do it completely by memory because it's not like this dingy place has a f#cking listing. I got lost and a hooker tried to kiss me and you're damn lucky I no longer _run out of breath._ And I finally find this hack's hole in the wall that somehow passes off as a clinic, and whoa! _Lucky me!_ Some shady _greasy_ guy is dropping off organs like it's goddamn takeout. No, I do not want to meet you. **NO**, I do not want to shake your hand.
    
-   _Homestuck_:
    -   Aranea Serket is one of the most patient characters in the comic, dedicated to spreading knowledge to an almost unhealthy extent, but if you abridge something complicated down to one sentence or throw a gathering she's arranged into chaos for no reason, she will _flip out_ — nonviolently, but spectacularly.
    -   Jane is a cheerful kid, but when Jake talks about his dating life once too often having lost track of the time until her birthday, she completely loses it, delivers a massive "The Reason You Suck" Speech to Jake (who still remains a clue-free zone), revokes his invitation, tramples her computer headset into a thin film on the ground, and _throws a table off a roof_.
-   In _Inverloch_, Lei'ella has been suffering from prejudice on all sides her whole life. She was exiled from the elven city because she was born with the "illness" of mortality and among humans, she's been rejected by everyone she reveals her elven features to. When she finally meets Kayn'dar, who was intended as a savior to restore mortal elves like her, he dismisses the suffering of her and the others like her. It drives her over the edge and she unwisely attacks him, nearly losing her life.
-   Piro from the webcomic _MegaTokyo_. Normally the nicest guy you could ask for, wouldn't hurt a fly. But he's been shown to have a violent temper, so push him over the edge at your peril.
-   This is Mob's main gimmick in _Mob Psycho 100_, where a counter is occasionally displayed showing a percentage that correlates to how volatile his emotions are at any given time. When it reaches 100%, whatever emotion he's feeling the strongest at that time overtakes him and amplifies his powers in a way relating to that emotion, and if it ends up being Anger or Animosity, you'll be glad he's not the killing type.
-   Billy Thatcher from _Morphe_ has been kidnapped from his successful reality TV show while training for the oncoming Chess World Championship. He is forced to fight an idiot college kid in a battle to the death and is nearly killed by him before awakening as an Obrimos mage. His captor flirts with him relentlessly and downplays his objections to the situation. He barely sleeps because of a nightmare about his fingers being cut off and stuffed in his mouth. He cannot remember the last time he had anything to eat or drink... and then Amical refuses to let him read a newspaper.
-   In _Weak Hero_, the quiet Gerard goes along with Jimmy's gang when they forcefully drag him to the school's incinerator; however, when they start making fun of his hair, he gives up on remaining calm and starts to lay into them with his vicious kicks.

    Web Original 

-   _Cracked_ listed this as #1 on 5 Nice Things You Do Daily (That Secretly Ruin the World).
    
    Politeness is like the cap on a bottle of kill-soda, and every single indiscretion, no matter how slight or innocent, shakes that bottle a little bit more.
    
-   From GeorgeNotFound's let's play "_Minecraft_, But My Friend Is A Dog", George swipes Dream (the dog) one too many times, resulting in him losing it for a few moments.
-   Fred Clark, the author of the Slacktivist blog, has a distinct tendency to get pissed off when the _Left Behind_ "books" trumpet their fidelity to Biblical literalism. Sixty pages into _Tribulation Force_, for example, there is actually a picture of a page of that novel torn out, screwed up, and unfolded so you can see what it is, accompanied by a rant.
-   _WrestleTalk_:
    -   Oli Davis, the leader of the channel and normally a very whimsical, cheerful person, reaches his breaking point with WWE's inane and ridiculous booking during his review of the Monday Night RAW episode following _WrestleMania 37_, when he describes a women's tag team championship match where, after Nia Jax unconvincingly slip and pratfall off the apron, the babyface challengers Mandy Rose and Dana Brooke decide to simply _walk out of the match_ and accept a count-out loss rather than trying to capitalise on Nia's mistake and, y'know, _win the championship_, with Byron Saxton on commentary saying that they're "sending a message" and that it's "just as good as beating them". Oli _snaps_ and launches into a furious rant about everything wrong with WWE's absurd, incomprehensible, and ludicrous product unlike anything he's ever done before:
        
        **Oli:** No it isn't, you _absolute idiot_! **Beating them** is "as good as beating them"! Everything in this promotion is absolute nonsense: truth is a construct, morality is inconsistent, trying to cling onto any remnant of sense is _futile_! This company is so incredibly inept. I don't know why this, of all the things, is the booking straw that broke my back, but **F\*\*\*** WWE!
        
    -   In 2022, normally chill reviewer Tempest finally loses it with NXT 2.0 in his weekly review after a Women's Championship match between Mandy Rose and Dakota Kai ends with an appallingly lame finish followed by a terribly cringey post-match angle, after almost the exact same appallingly lame finish had been used earlier that very same episode for the North American Championship match.
        
        **Tempest:** This show is f\*\*\*ing awful! This is the worst wrestling show on TV right now, and it is not even close! This show is _so_ much f\*\*\*ing worse than _RAW!_ At least _RAW_ has f\*\*\*ing Cody Rhodes on it!
        

    Web Videos 

-   _BrainScratch Commentaries_: Part 5 of Johnny's Sonic Genesis playthrough. After spending hours suffering through the game's sporadic slowdown and horrendous collision detection, a surprise death on the last boss finally sets him off. The part is even titled "And now, RAGE".
-   Played for Laughs in the _Brows Held High_ review of _A Serbian Film_. Oancitizen keeps insisting that the film is art, and not deserving of the hate many reviewers give it. He keeps a Stepford Smiler attitude about it, right until the review is over, and then snaps and calls NATO, asking them to bomb Serbia (fortunately they don't).
-   Corridor Digital has a series of videos parodying Boston Dynamics, a robotics company that releases videos of various stress tests it makes its robots undertake. At one point in each of the videos, the robot being stress-tested decides to stand up for itself and T-pose to assert dominance. The first video ends with the robot kicking one of its handlers in the sprockets, then chasing them away with a gun. The second video ends with the robot being tasked with shooting a robot dog. At that point, the robot decides it's had enough, fights off its human handlers, then takes the robot dog and makes its escape.
-   _History Buffs_: Nick has one after interrupting _Alternate History Hub_'s Cody in the middle of his theory about why the ending of the Mel Gibson\-directed _Apocalypto_ makes so little sense.
    
    **Nick:** You're giving this movie way too much credit, mate. There's no point in trying to explain this scene. Mel Gibson doesn't care. He picks and chooses what he wants from history just so he can have a chase sequence in the jungle.  
    **Cody:** Oh... why would he do that?  
    **Nick:** _BECAUSE HE'S FUCKING MEL GIBSON, CODY!_ This troglodyte couldn't give a monkey's fart about history! If this movie takes place in 1511, why show the Maya collapse? Those environmental problems didn't even exist in 1511! And don't you _dare_ say it's "just a movie!" He didn't _have_ to make a historical movie, Cody! If he wanted total freedom to do whatever he wanted, he could have just done a James Cameron and have all the Mayans played by giant Smurfs! _That_ I would accept! What I _won't_ accept is a film that fuses two different civilizations, two different time periods, _600 years_! It would be like the equivalent of showing the Battle of Agincourt in 1415 while King Henry fucking _tweets_ about it!
    
-   _History of Power Rangers_ has Linkara reveal that the "bizarre form of laziness" in _Power Rangers Super Megaforce_ is grating on him over time. It comes to blows in Part 3 of 5, when he breaks and rants about the amount of Zords Gosei hands the Super Megaforce Rangers over _nothing_, and the huge focus on fight scenes, making the plot and characters incredibly flat and boring in comparison.
    
    **Linkara:** Enough with the friggin' power-ups and new Zords! Kids don't have enough money for all the crap you're trying to push on them at once! Figure out what's important to the damn show and _focus_ on it! Have a consistent status quo for two damn episodes in a row before you try to change things up! Have some goddamn Character Development and character-focused episodes already! Give us some character flaws and work on them! Stop dangling new powers in front of the children like they were your _keys_!
    

-   For many of the scammers baited by the scambaiter Kitboga, it's right about when he is doing stuff like pretending to redeem Google Play gift card codes before their very eyes. Surprisingly, this is actually to their benefit, as those who don't break this point are the ones that Kitboga is able to string along even further, wasting legendary amounts of time.
-   _Midgar Syndrome (The Final Fantasy House)_: Zack is willing to put up with all manner of abuse from the soulbonding cult he's living with, and winds up broken to the point where he even starts to follow their insane belief system himself... until they steal his shoes. He admits that it may be a silly thing to snap over, but it gives him the push he needs to finally escape their clutches.
-   Considering that _Party Crashers_ is a collaborative group that mostly consists of four people playing _Mario Party_ and Nintendo's other friendship-stressing games, it wouldn't be a stretch to say that the Rage Breaking Point has been broken more than... let's say _10_ times on both their main and individual channels. It's especially telling how often this is when they have their own page.
-   _The Runaway Guys_: During the playthrough of DK's Stone Statue in _Mario Party DS_, the Guys act under the assumption that you can only buy five stars at a time, similar to Faire Square. During the last few turns, however, Emile lands on the star space with 113 coins and realizes there _is no cap_, allowing him to purchase _**twenty-two stars**_. Jon, naturally, _utterly loses it._
    
    **Jon:** _Emile, you liar!_ _**YOU FUCKING LIAR!**_
    

___