_"Wait, wait. You ARE a rag-tag group of adventurers with unclear goals and good hearts, right? ...yeah, you people are my LARGEST threat."_

This mission is important. The fate of the battle, nay, the war, nay, the _entire world_ rests on the outcome. Who has the capability to stick it out, to give the good guys the victory they desperately need? This calls for a special team. The group of experienced, highly-skilled, professional, team-oriented experts? Not them. The assorted group of ex-con lowlife inexperienced cloudcuckoolanders or jerkasses who are trying to off their commander when they aren't going at each other? Yeah, them.

**This is usually justified in one of several ways:**

-   Despite their flaws, they're still the best at what they do. See Bunny-Ears Lawyer.
    -   They have talent but not much tolerance for traditional procedure, and/or they're the only ones who can stand to work with each other.
    -   Or, they are really good and not that flawed, but really want everyone else to see them that way: making sure that the Big Bad does not realize that the Mildly Military goofballs are a Badass Crew is part of the plan.
-   They're the best team that could be put together at short notice and/or budget.
    -   There simply _isn't_ anyone else.
    -   If trouble blew up at a remote outpost, and there isn't time to get help, those characters who were Reassigned to Antarctica have to deal with it. Since they all did something to get themselves Reassigned to Antarctica, they tend to be a miscellaneous bunch.
    -   The villains, no fools, took out everyone that looked like they could stop their Evil Plan; this is what's left.
    -   The only _essential_ trait is that they are not suspected of being The Mole or otherwise treacherous, and all the rest are under a cloud.
    -   They were the support staff for The World's Expert (on Getting Killed).
-   In case the mission fails, they're expendable.
    -   Alternately, they are _expected_ to fail, so their commander will be free to Nuke 'em like he wanted to in the first place.
    -   A mix of all the above, they may be sent in with people knowing they are the best, but not caring if they get killed either due to jealousy or just not liking them too much.
-   Sending in more experienced/skilled/powerful teams would have drawn too much attention. Indeed, the better-suited teams may be deliberately deployed elsewhere to distract from them.
-   More powerful teams would not put up with the person ordering them about.
    -   This can be because the Only Sane Man does not have authority to get the best.
    -   Conversely, the man in the know can be such an annoying bully that no one would work with him, and such a control freak that he can not give his knowledge to a Reasonable Authority Figure.
-   The authorities haven't actually noticed (or _are_) the problem, and the heroes have to gather whoever they can.
    -   Alternatively, the authorities were informed about the problem but refuse to believe it's real, leaving the heroes on their own.
-   There was a better first choice that _did_ get sent, but they screwed up badly. These guys were the backup plan nobody wanted to be forced to use.
-   They need them to do something untoward or outright illegal, and they know these folks will keep quiet about it.
-   They're the only ones crazy enough to even try.
    -   The authorities offered them pardon for some offense.
-   They're random survivors of some apocalyptic event who more or less stumble across each other.
-   The Magnetic Hero tends to pick up whoever is willing to join him, regardless of their quirks. In fact it's often implied the Magnetic Hero is the only one that can keep the team's assorted oddities under control and them all working towards a goal.
-   Fate has determined that these misfits are The Chosen Ones, and saving the world is their ultimate destiny.
-   In works set at a school, the school system may be responsible for bringing them together in some way.

Of course, the Ragtag Bunch of Misfits will eventually have a Misfit Mobilization Moment to get their act together and win the day. Most often it produces casualties: typically, the guy forced to go on the mission despite being the Convicted Innocent, or the Officer and a Gentleman who's been stodgy and uptight just before making a Heroic Sacrifice.

If the characters were not forced on the team—Condemned Contestant, Boxed Crook—they often join to be Lonely Together. To contrast their diversity, their enemies will likely be all homogenous in one way, typically by being highly collaborative professionals.

Compare with Character-Magnetic Team and Hitchhiker Heroes.

In the world of sports, this trope counts double. Last year's Super Bowl champions don't stand a chance against a random group of ex-cons, couch potatoes, and farm animals, with Improvised Training, who are almost guaranteed to pull out a last-minute win.

Also where the trope is shown in the context of sports (or dance teams), you will typically find a three-game arc of progress. In the first game, it's Murphy's Law. The game is a comedy of errors for our ragtag gang of misfits, and they lose. Bad. Ridiculously bad. In the second game, the team sees notable improvement; usually they'll play well enough, only to lose at the last minute. Occasionally, they might even win on a freak play. By the third game, however, everyone has clicked and is playing at the top of their game. From that point on, it's all smooth sailing until The Big Game. (Often times, their opponent in The Big Game will be the same team that blew them out in the first game, just as a ways to show how far they've come.)

Subtrope to The Team. Similarly, Ragtag Bunches Of Misfits come in any size, the Power Trio, Five-Man Band, Magnificent Seven Samurai and even Army of Thieves and Whores for when this trope is magnified to the size of an army. Recruit Teenagers with Attitude is a frequent subtrope.

Heavily overlaps with Criminal Found Family. Compare and contrast Carnival of Killers for the villainous equivalent.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

-   Anime & Manga
-   Comic Books
-   Film
-   Literature
-   Live-Action TV
-   Video Games
-   Real Life

    Advertising 

-   The Charlestown Cougars, a fake women's high school basketball team assembled for the purpose of Nike commercials.

    Eastern Animation 

-   _Dreamkix_ is about a group of Funny Animals working to overcome their physical disadvantages and personality clashes in order to become a champion soccer team. Pretty notable when your team members include an adorkably determined Dachshund, a surly Scottish sheep, and a chicken who often forgets he's playing soccer in the first place.

    Fairy Tales 

-   _The Brothers Grimm_:
    -   In "How The Six Made Their Way In The World", an out-of-work soldier gets back at a greedy king with the help of a band of peasants who just happen to have supernatural abilities that help him in his quest. These include a strong-man who carries uprooted trees like they were kindling, a hunter with Improbable Aiming Skills, a runner with such Super-Speed he has to tie a weight to one of his legs to keep himself from going Too Fast to Stop, a man who can blow powerful winds out his nose, and a man who can general a field of bitter cold just by straightening his hat.
    -   "The Bremen Town Musicians": A band of elderly farm animals escape being put to death and try to become travelling musicians; on their way to Bremen, they accidentally scare off a gang of bandits.
-   "The Fool of the World and the Flying Ship": There is the titular character, who is known as the fool of the world, and his companions: a man who can see across the world, a man who can eat tons of bread, a man who can run fast around the world and a man who can create an army out of wooden sticks.

    Fan Works 

-   _A Young Girl's Guerrilla War_: The Kozuki Organization recruits partisans wherever they can from the civilian population. The fact that they manage any sort of successes compared to much larger groups tends to surprise some. Also deconstructed, as their initial low hiring standards mean a number of psychopaths in their ranks end up causing disciplinary issues and nearly causes disaster when one member takes advantage of the group's resources to launch a personal murder campaign.
-   _The Chronicles of Narnia_ fic "Across the Worlds" sees Susan (from approximately the same time as _The Voyage of the Dawn Treader_) leading a group of four strangers- Zaru, a talking Leopard, Inara, a teenage girl from 2008 forced to deal with her abusive or neglectful parents, Jason, a bounty hunter from a post-apocalyptic world, and Professor Elias Denton, a scientist from the far future- on a quest across various alternate worlds using Andrew Kirke's old rings (_The Magician's Nephew_), after an unknown force attacks Narnia and abducts Susan's siblings, King Caspian, Professor Kirke, Polly Plummer, Jill Poole, Eustace Scrubb and even Aslan himself. While Zaru's loyalty helps Susan establish her authority of this group given her comparatively greater experience of such unconventional events, the journey is still a challenge as these five have to learn how to work together. Things become more complicated as they have to adapt their strategies as they rescue Susan's siblings, such as having to prevent Peter taking charge as Jason, Inara and Elias all have faith in Susan and resent a relative newcomer taking over their quest.
-   When the Alicorn Amulet is stolen in The Amulet Job, the group that comes together to get it back consists of an atoning magic-happy unicorn (Starlight), a scatterbrained scientist (Dr. Whooves), a clumsy muffin-loving mailmare (Derpy), an egotistical speedster (Rainbow Dash), a lyrist who doesn't fully comprehend what they're getting into (Lyra Heartstrings) and a candy shop owner (Bon Bon, formerly known as Sweetie Drops). They are joined later by a sour and rude ex-bully (Gilda), an inept yet studious mage (Sunburst) and a changeling who is struggling to do right by others (Thorax). Despite all of the obstacles in play, the entire group is still able to escape with the Amulet.
-   The main group from _The Calvinverse_: a Book Dumb Gadgeteer Genius, a Cowardly Lion, a prankster Cloudcuckoolander, a Jerkass Bungling Inventor and finally a nerd who's also the Only Sane Man.
-   _Code Geass: Paladins of Voltron_: More pronounced than in canon, since half of them were essentially high school students with no combat training at all.
-   JelloApocalpyse's playthroughs of _Pokémon Colosseum_/_Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness_, dubbed _"Dogs in Love"_, increasingly characterised all the cast as they were playing through and turned the games' Pokemon parties into these. The _Colosseum_ party consists of the titular dogs in love, one of whom is keen on being a Destructive Savior and one of whom _isn't_, a dopey Gentle Giant, a Punch-Clock Hero who doesn't really like any of the others, a bird-dragon who fawns desperately over one of the aforementioned dogs and a guy mistaken for a world-famous celebrity who feels he now has to keep up the act or the others will turn on him. The _XD Gale of Darkness_ party consists of the Anti Anti Christ, an emotionally-squishy insect, a mutant with the musical proficiency to play _all_ the background music, a friendly capitalist, a guy trying to be a cool vampire so people will actually like him and a lounge singer.
-   _The End of the World_:
    -   Charlie Flynn (The Social Expert from District Five) wins the 1st Quarter Quell while allied with his blind district partner, a terminally ill girl from District Nine, a one-handed boy from District Seven, two merchant kids from Twelve, two kids from Eight whose district held a reaping of their own to decide who to vote for and a nondescript pair from Eleven.
    -   Annie's allies in the 70th Hunger Games are her district partner (the two of them were kicked out of the regular Career pack), the girls from Twelve and Five, and the two kids from Ten.
-   The heroes in _Horseshoes and Hand Grenades_ (or rather, one of it's side-stories _A Month of Sundays_): A sweet Camera Fiend who loves people's smiles, a Glee Club (with one being a Ninja and the other a Samurai), a Huge Schoolgirl who wields a vaulting pole, a cheerleader with a huge Sweet Tooth and a Japanese Delinquent who was once a former monster called a Zodiarts.
-   The protagonists in _Warriors of the World: Soldiers of Fortune_: a Knight in Sour Armor with a Dark and Troubled Past reluctantly teams up with a Chick Magnet Squishy Wizard, an Insufferable Genius Sexy Priest, a Nice Guy, a quiet Big Guy, an Innocently Insensitive Wide-Eyed Idealist and his scientist half-sister, and an Only Sane Woman Church Militant. They start getting on well with each other once they determine exactly what they're meant to be doing.
-   In the _Sonic the Hedgehog_ story _Prison Island Break_, this is what Sonic ends up with by having a psychopath for his cellmate.
-   Invoked and parodied in the _Solar Opposites_ season 2 finale "The Solar Opposites Almost Get an Xbox." Desperate to be fulfilled before they die, the Solar Opposites travel to Brazil to coach a ragtag underdog team in a champonship game of water polo. However, all the teams are hunks, so they use the Rag Tag Ray to transform one team into a group of children, old people, disabled people, and a "Well Done, Son" Guy so their victory holds more weight.
-   The protagonists in _RONMAN THE BARBARIAN!_ (a Conan the Barbarian\-esque _Kim Possible_ fanfic) are called the Breeches Bandit Gang (BBG for short). They include Ronman (a young barbarian), Ruthless (his former pet Saber Tooth Naked Mole Rat), Wadelin (a young alchemist), Moniquity (the Queen of Thieves and Royal Best Friend of Kimila), and Kimila (the warrior princess, also known as the "Red Kim").
-   The _Heroes_ story _Fearless_ is basically a group of a soccer players, a cheerleader/former federal agent and 12-year-old versus the Company. Made worse by the fact that only one of them has a power that could be considered offensive.
-   Any time a fanfic in the _Shadowchasers Series_ is set around a team, they fit. The _most_ ragtag group is in _Shadowchasers: Backwater_; Tsubasa and Rave are the only ones that are truly human and all of them are unusual even when compared to Shadowkind either races that are incredibly rare on Earth (at least in this sort of situation) or unique beings entirely. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   In _Sonic X: Dark Chaos_, Eric and the crew of the Dreadnought take this Up to Eleven - featuring Alice the Cat (a rescued orphan girl), Sonya the Hedgehog (a foul-mouthed Japanese Delinquent Wrench Wench who happens to be a former princess), Shadow the Hedgehog, Fang the Sniper, Mighty the Armadillo and of course Eric the Hedgehog himself. They end up holding their own against demon forces many times their size and indirectly help Sonic and friends save the galaxy.
-   In _Mortal Kombat: Desperation_, Kotal Kahn and his team of champions (an outlaw, a humanoid reptile, an eccentric trainer of martial arts, a duo consisting of a big guy and a little girl AND a collection of souls) reluctantly team up with several revenants from the Netherrealm (including two demonesses, two former Shaolin monks, a former Lin Kuei, a police officer, a shaman, an Edenian princess and her mother) and with Earthrealmers (another physical god, a former actor and his wife, an ex-military specialist and his daughter, a telepathic blind swordsman and his son, and a Shaolin archer) in order to stop a power-hungry Raiden's desire to unleash Armageddon on all realms.
-   In _Mortal Kombat vs Marvel Universe_, you have the Exiled Kombatants, consisting of a former actor-turned-billionare industrialist (Johnny Cage), his military wife (Sonya Blade), their two daughters (Cassie and Ravenna Cage) and the former rulers of the Netherrealm-turned-assassins (Liu Kang and Kitana) joining forces against their former boss (Raiden), corrupted from purifying the Jinsei, now seeking to kill the former champions and bring both Cassie and Ravenna back to Earthrealm by force. And that's not taking into consideration the Avengers and the X-Men.
-   In _Ragnarok Ragna Guardian_, The Chosen Many are Shiro, an Idiot Hero and The Slacker, Saya, a Shrinking Violet Tsundere, Roku, an Insufferable Genius with a Hair-Trigger Temper, and Reiko, a Know-Nothing Know-It-All with No Indoor Voice. Naturally, they are hyper competent fighters.
-   _The Differentverse_: This series' Mane Six consists of:
    -   Twilight Sparkle, the personal student of a Physical Goddess.
    -   Moondancer, her roommate who's just as good at research but has a tendency to be rather blunt.
    -   Derpy Hooves, the faithful mailmare of Ponyville with lazy eye syndrome, who is raising a daughter and niece effectively on her own.
    -   Scootaloo, Derpy's goofy little niece with a talent for speed on her scooter and who loves keeping her friends and family happy.
    -   Marble Pie, a shy little Earth Pony who does nice things for others even when they don't realize it was her.
    -   Coco Pommel Apple, who was adopted into the Apple family as a child and is willing to risk her life to save their livelihood.
-   The _Fallout: Equestria_, an apocalyptic mix of _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ and _Fallout_, it makes sense to have a group of ponies who are a bit on the weird side, trying to survive in the wasteland that is Equestria. Our line up of heroes includes a naive unicorn named Littlepip fresh out of a war bunker, guided by an insatiable curiosity and Chronic Hero Syndrome, a kindly unicorn who escaped aforementioned bunker to become a Combat Medic and is obsessed with Fluttershy, a Defector from Decadence pegasus who really likes hoarding things, a gruff undead soldier bound to his Powered Armor and an enslaved zebra who hates being touched.
    -   The spinoff _Fallout: Equestria - Project Horizons_ ups the ante, based in the hellhole of Hoofington, and has an even more broken bag of heroes. Our hero Blackjack is a bisexual, trigger happy security guard who has an even bigger need to help others than Littlepip, emotionally and mentally unstable, an alcoholic, gambler and a Lovable Sex Maniac. And that's even before she becomes a Cyborg. Not to mention the amount of times she has boats dropped on her head. Her companions include an escapee gay sex slave addicted to painkillers, and later joined by his estranged daughter who aims to become a plumber, a pegasus medic who becomes the victim of forced exile, a particularly violent mercenary who is both immortal and a Soul Jar, and an alicorn who is part of a larger Hive Mind, serving as a physical dumping ground for any and all unwanted emotions and thoughts.
-   The Marvel Cinematic Universe AU series "Ronin and the Spy" basically acknowledges this as one of the problems the surviving heroes will face attempting the Time Heist. In this reality, the original Avengers (barring Thor and Clint) were all victims of the Snap, so while the survivors (Sam, Bucky, Scott, Okoye, Nebula, Carol, Peter and Yelena) all share their desire to undo the Snap they haven't actually worked together as a team.
-   The DC/Marvel crossover fic _Hope and Responsibility_ features Spider-Man becoming the unofficial leader of a group of teen heroes dealing with various threats in New York; himself, Supergirl (his current girlfriend), Static, a reformed Bombshell, and Cloak & Dagger.
-   In the _Doctor in the Underworld_ series, vampire historian Tanis observes that Selene's new 'team' of herself, servant vampire Erika (really an amnesic Madame de Pompadour), vampire-lycan hybrid Michael Corvin and the alien Doctor is basically this, explicitly asking when Selene started to work with a 'freak squad'; Michael responds with the observation that all they need is a theme song.
-   _Avengers of the Multi-verse_ has a team of teen heroes from various parallel universes coming together, with their members including Danny Phantom, Kim Possible, Ron Stoppable, Ben Tennyson, Rex Salazar, Jake Long, Zak Saturday, Illana, Lance and Octus; they get along well enough, but it takes them until the end of the second story in the series to nominate Danny as the leader.
-   _My Father's Son_ plays around with this developing in Rhaegar Tagaeryen's court. While he is the rightful king who had to overthrow his father for the sake of the kingdom, he's gathering an increasingly unconventional group around him: His mother served as Hand of the King for a few years as a proponent for the return of old Valryian culture, before political compromise instead brought in a Grumpy Old Man (Lord Tywin) in a sort of Bad Guys Do the Dirty Work incentive to strengthen their hand. There's Rhaegar's 2 queens, one an Iron Lady building her confidence back up (Elia), the other a free-spirited Action Girl (Lyanna). He invited an illiterate but kind priest (Meribald) and a Hot Witch (Melisandre) to act as spiritual advisors, along with a Mad Doctor as the new Grand Maester despite him coming from a minor keep in Dorne (Qyburn). The current Master of Ships is a Rags to Riches story (Davos), a eunuch mummer is a holdover from the last monarch as The Spymaster (Varys), the Masters of Law and War are relatively minor lords who decided to join Rhaegar early in the war (Lord Peake and Lord Lonmouth) and the Master of Coin was either a jolly fat man from The North (Lord Manderly) or as revealed in the appendix, an old friend from the Riverlands (Lord Blackwood).
-   "Sharper Points"- an _Arrowverse_ fic where Felicity Smoak has become a vampire- sees Felicity recruited to a supernatural-focused version of Task Force X, whose members include John Constantine, Papa Midnite, werewolf Faye Chamberlain, Alvin Desmond (Doctor Alchemy), Felix Faust and Dean and Sam Winchester (_Supernatural_). It turns out that the situation was manipulated by Faust in an attempt to get out of his Deal with the Devil (specifically Crowley), but although Desmond is killed, Crowley ultimately takes Faust off to Hell in advance for trying to cheat the deal.
-   In _Taaroko's Buffy the Vampire Slayer_, Oz returns to the Scoobies, but his new band (Illogical Stop Sign) has a lead singer who comes from another dimension and is basically a winged demon and their drummer becomes a Slayer after the collapse of Sunnydale, which prompts the bass player (also her boyfriend) to start training to become an official Watcher so that he can keep an eye on her in the field.
-   _The Pieces Lie Where They Fell_: The new generation of Element-Bearers, which consists of a female Ahuizotl (the same species as the Daring Do villain), a batpony noble, a unicorn and librarian with a handful of secrets (including the fact that she's actually a unicorn-changeling hybrid), a griffon with a massive debt and a drinking problem, a jovial female minotaur and a Diamond Dog with a talent for alchemy.
-   The main characters of _Anonymoose's Monster Girl Saga_ are an amnesiac guy from modern-day Earth, a roaming Blood Knight mercenary, a priestess of the setting's Expy of Ancient Egypt, a Cloudcuckoolander who thinks she's a sentai hero (despite being in a fantasy medieval setting), a former assassin for the Order who was originally sent to kill the previous three and a centuries-old demon who acts like a little girl.
-   In the _Natalie Jones_ Marvel Cinematic Universe AU, "Stone Knight" features the creation of the Committee for the Appraisal of Archaeological Peril, which consists of Russian spy-turned-archaeologist Natalie Jones, medical examiner Sam Wilson, Detective Inspector Sharon Carter, Sir Stephen of Rogesy, Allen Jones, and Clinton Francis; due to the influence of the reality-warping Holy Grail, Clint briefly believed himself to be Robin Hood, and Sir Stephen and Allen Jones were created based on an old legend and the fake father Natasha created for her false identity respectively.
-   The series _The Coven of Reformed Supernaturals_ initially seems to be this, as the Elders of _Charmed_ assemble Angel, Spike, Illyria (_Angel_), Leo Wyatt, Cole Turner-as-Belthazor (_Charmed_), Blade (_Blade Trilogy_), Hellboy (_Hellboy_), John Constantine (_Constantine_) and the vampire Batman to face a threat that has captured the Charmed Ones, although they eventually learn that they were actually brought together to keep Leo occupied elsewhere while Gideon tried to kill Wyatt to prevent his fears of Wyatt's future.
    -   The sequel takes it one step further, as not only do the Coven gain Spawn as a new member (replacing the deceased Batman), but it also puts the Coven against their 'evil twin' in the form of the Gathering of Supernatural Psychopaths, a team of supernatural killers brought together for the sole purpose of keeping the Coven occupied while the Devil himself prepares for the apocalypse.
-   _Young Justice: Darkness Falls_: As pointed out by Beast Boy, the team's not exactly the most normal and well adjusted of groups, but they're brought together by their common desire for justice.
-   The Red Lotus Trio in _Infinity Train: Blossoming Trail_ contains a girl from a world of superpowered monsters who wields a steel pipe that she insists be called a donut holer and invokes _Alice in Wonderland_ whenever she has the chance, a talking dog who is the current king of his land and a living book whose papers are in the shape of a teenage boy dressed as a "Specter" and has a fondness for gryphons.
-   The _Mystery Kids_ consist of a self-proclaimed paranormal investigator, his quirky twin sister, a boy who can see ghosts, a girl who escaped a demon with her wits alone, her nerdy friend and two psychic children, one of which is a former circus acrobat.
-   Bruno, Anná and Mirabel end up becoming the "Black Sheep" Madrigal family branch in _La polilla y la mariposa_. Bruno being the Misunderstood Loner whom everyone hates for having inconvenient/scary powers (and being the unfavorite by Alma), Anná being the daughter of the town drunk (being the only in-law Alma never approved of having) and Mirabel being the only by-blood Madrigal without a gift.
-   In _Patterns of the Past_, the only ten agents who know about Old Missie getting kidnapped are forced to become an impromptu rescue team, which consists of:
    -   Olesya, The Leader of the group. An Investigation agent who first finds out about the kidnapping along with her partner Ogden.
    -   Ogden, Olesya's partner. An Investigation agent with Situational Sociability who ends up leaving the group on the belief that Old Missie cannot be saved and that Precinct 13579 will fall to shambles without her.
    -   O'Sullivan, the sole Maintenance agent of the group who is working on renovations to Headquarters.
    -   Obfusco, an Investigation agent who speaks in painfully slow Word Salad Philosophy.
    -   Olmstead, the head of the Security department.
    -   Orscheln, the sole scientist of the group who is rather quirky.
    -   Osage, an Investigation agent and one of Old Missie's best agents. She would be in the running for being promoted to the Management department and becoming Old Missie's successor if not for her planning on retirement in a couple years.
    -   Oxley, Ocelot's partner. An Investigation agent and The Baby of the Bunch at just five years old.
    -   Ocelot, Oxley's partner. An Investigation agent with striking red albino eyes.
    -   Obed, Osage's partner. An Investigation agent who appears to have a dislike of Ogden, especially after he leaves the group.
-   _God Help the Outcasts_: The group consists of a fifty-foot-tall woman, a mad scientist with a cockroach's head (and diet), a prehistoric fish-ape, a sentient gelatinous cyclops and an insectoid kaiju.
-   In _DoofQuest_ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated expands its aegis to include a _very_ varied bunch. From toons, to cartoonish supervillains, resurrected Mongolian warlords, ninjas, magical creatures, failed teenage heroes and strangest of all, normal businesspeople, DEI has it all.
-   In _This Bites!_, the Straw Hat Pirates are naturally still this, but has been expanded beyond its canon misfits to include a multi-dimensional travelling Self-Insert, a loudmouth Devil Fruit-empowered Transponder Snail, a pair of former villainous Zoan weapons, a ditzy princess and her duck bodyguard, a quintet of martial arts fighting amphibians, a gun-toting sky-island inhabitant and her snarky cloud fox, the crew's original ship now human, and a cowardly but lovable electricity-generating duck-peacock hybrid.
-   The heroes of the _Codename: Kids Next Door_ fic _Operation Q.U.E.S.T._ consists of Henrietta Von Marzipan, a candy hunter who is now seeking to redeem herself for the crimes she committed, Laura Limpin, a little girl with the power to turn into a monstrous teenager named the Big Badolescent, Mushi Sanban, Numbuh 3's little sister who had previously turned her sister's dead stuffed animal into a monster, King Sandy, Mushi's boyfriend who gets way too into his games of pretend, Ace, an Ace Pilot who prefers to work alone and, as revealed at the end, Cree Lincoln, who plays Mysterious Protector to the group and is trying to make up for becoming a Teen Ninja.

    Music 

-   Mötley Crüe got its name from this trope. Mick Mars recalled playing in another band in which a fellow member had described the group as "a motley looking crew".
-   Christian singer/songwriter Rich Mullins recorded with a group known as the "Ragamuffin Band", who continued to perform together after his death. The opening track of _A Liturgy, a Legacy, and a Ragamuffin Band_ features a bit of Studio Chatter in which one of the band members admits he's barely ready to do this, which gets a laugh out of Rich and gives the listener the impression that the recording sessions were impromptu and fairly laid-back. Rich himself was known for performing concerts barefoot and dressed in faded jeans and a white undershirt.
-   The Savoyard march "Gironfla", where the Duke of Savoy musters an army of eighty peasants armed with halberds and wooden swords, gives them four cast iron cannons for artillery and twenty donkeys laden with turnips as baggage train, and nominates a 21-year old Ensign Newbie to lead the "army" to conquer France. Miraculously, they succeed. The song is based on historical events.
-   Hölderlins was a heavy-metal Japanese Girl Group that at one point had a line-up with an ex-pro wrestler, an up and coming porn star, a drummer who's earlier band went nowhere and a music student who also had a side gig of making her own clothing line. With such a group of rascals, almost all the members of that line left to go elsewhere and while Hölderlins still exists they're no longer an all-female metal band.
-   _Lonesome\_Blue_ is another Japanese Girl Group that included one of the ace guitarists from Destrose, two voice actresses and ex-bandol members from Queen of Purple with one of them (the bassist) being a former idol pop member, and a drummer who's a well-regarded session musician. Lonesome\_Blue is also strongly tied in with power metal band Lovebites and had their music composed by Lovebites's lead singer. Such a disparate group came about when a producer wanted a new band and the Queen of Purple exes wanted to be part of a real band.
-   K-Pop idol group Super Junior started out as this. Originally a group made up of all the "reject" trainees who weren't selected for labelmate group Dong Bang Shin Ki, even their company didn't expect them to do well. Now they're one of the top idol groups in all of Asia with a huge base of loyal fans.
-   The Clash consisted of a schoolboy turned pub rocker, (Joe Strummer) a young man whose ambition in life is to be a rock star, (Mick Jones) a handsome art student who had never picked up any instrument until he joined the band, (Paul Simonon) and a prodigal jazz, funk and soul drummer (Topper Headon). Surprisingly, it works _perfectly_.
-   The Ramones. The singer (Joey Ramone) was a neurotic Jewish liberal with a crippling case of OCD. The guitarist (Johnny Ramone) was an uptight conservative Military Brat. The bassist (Dee Dee Ramone) was a manic bipolar drug addict. The drummers tended to be the Only Sane Man.
    -   The band are a deconstruction. They were a mess for most of their existence, and despised each other and were profoundly miserable at times.
-   MAD TRIGGER CREW from _Hypnosis Mic_. The Yokohama division representative rap group is led by a yakuza leader and his members consist of a corrupt police officer and a former sergeant-ranked navy. When banded together, they are just as strong as they are intimidating. Their music also tends to lean to gangsta rap subgenre.

    Professional Wrestling 

-   _WWE Survivor Series '99_ featured wrestling porn star Val Venis leading his team of "Sexual Chocolate" Mark Henry, wrestling vampire Gangrel and, in the role of Only Sane Man, wrestling martial artist "The Lethal Weapon" Steve Blackman to victory over The British Bulldog and The Mean Street Posse (Rodney, Pete Gas and Joey Abs), the latter three being two of Shane McMahon's talentless friends and Abs, the "worker" of the team.
-   Misfits in Action in WCW in 2000. It was a military-themed group thematically made up of the tenured midcarders who didn't fit in either with the Millionaire's Club (tenured main eventers) or the New Blood (younger, newer wrestlers). It was made up of an Acrofatic heavyweight (General Rection \[Bill "Hugh Morrus " DeMott, changed from "Hugh G. Rection"), two up-and-coming Cruiserweights (Lt. Loco \[Chavo Guerrero Jr.\] and Corporal Cajun \[Lash LeRoux\]), a Stoner character who had previously been a heavy metal guitarist, a member of Raven's Flock, and a hippie (Major Stash \[Van Hammer\]), a Ms. Fanservice (Major Gunns \[Tylene Buck\]) and a big guy who had previously been the bodyguard for Berlyn (Alex Wright) (Sgt. A-WOL \[The Wall\]). Booker T was in the group for about a month, May-June 2000, as "G.I. Bro," which was his original gimmick in his GWF days, before he went back to himself.

    Tabletop Games 

-   You get these every so often in _BattleTech_, but for the longest time the premier group of quirky but remarkably influential mercenaries was Snord's Irregulars. As the name suggests, Cranston Snord picked some rather strange warriors to form his unit in the early 3000s, with a shared common quirk of collecting—Snord himself collected valuable antiques of the Star League era. Other collections belonging to members of his unit include antique art, weapons, sports memorabilia, the records of Elvis Presley, butterflies, and harvested/preserved human body parts. There's also a bit of a joke that Snord collects weirdos as well. Snord likes to claim he collects skilled Mechwarriors, and while his troops are indeed quite skilled, Snord somehow managed to gather together serious Bunny Ears Lawyers in the process.
-   _Blood Bowl_ gives us the Motley Horde, a Blood Bowl team that fits this description to a tee. Not even the coach knows what kind of lineup he will see each game.
-   The main playable character options in the Glass-Maker's Dragon campaign for _Chuubo's Marvelous Wish-Granting Engine_ are an Amnesiac God, his best friend who was wished into existence, an angsty mad scientist who may be an unwilling enemy of existence, a near-emotionless teenage Russian super-soldier, the daughter of the goddess of the Sun, the well-intentioned successor to the king of evil, the amnesiac remnants of a witch who sought to end reality, and Rinley, who defies rational explanation. Major characters in planned future campaigns include the spirit of the Amnesiac God's marvelous wish-granting engine (who manifests as either a steampunk Miss Frizzle or a huge luchador who is the best friend's Ambiguously Gay older brother), a nine-year-old elf and would-be noir detective with a magical cloak, a Large Ham who wishes to unmake reality for its own good, and the most popular kid in School, who has serious trouble with the concept of not being the most important person in the world.
-   A lot of Solar, Abyssal and Infernal circles in _Exalted_ would qualify. For Solars, if you're a reborn god-king with about half the world gunning for you, you tend to associate with others who can help you punch that half the world in the face. Infernals and Abyssals tend to end up in these through a mix of that desperation and the details of the assignments they receive from their bosses.
    -   _Exalted Essence_, by virtue of having the ten primary Exalted types available to play out of the box, lends itself to this more easily than the main ruleset, given that the various Exalted include reborn god-kings who are supreme in their chosen fields (Solars), elemental warriors who dominate the world (Dragon-Blooded), shapeshifting insurgents (Lunars), fate-manipulating agents of the Celestial Bureaucracy (Sidereals), champions of death created using the corrupted power of the Solar god-kings (Abyssals), victims of injustice and oppression wielding Lovecraftian Superpowers to tear the whole mess down (Infernals), artificial humans empowered with magitech (Alchemicals), ghost-hunting undead created using other people's bodies (Liminals), living glitches in fate (Getimians), and a further ragtag collection of individuals with diverse themes and powers who don't fit into any of the above categories (Exigents), and many of them have long-standing grudges against each other. The _Essence_ companion adds two optional Exalted types: reality-warping illusionist visionaries (Dream-Souled) and shadow manipulators who gain power by trading control to their own inner darkness (Umbrals).
-   While familias in _Nobilis_ are rarely _ragtag_ — it would absolutely _ruin_ their social standing — they can be a pretty weird bunch, because their bosses, the Imperators, are driven by stranger drives than "making teamwork easy" (these are, after all, people who find the purpose of sneezing incredibly confusing). Various editions have included or strongly hinted at characters who are living strains of music, dragons, sea captains, ten-year-old girls who can beat up the US Marine Corps, descendants of The Fair Folk and animated suits of clothes without human occupants, all of them effectively reality-warping demigods, and there's nothing that prevents all of these from being on the same team. That's _without_ counting the possible inclusion of un-people from the void outside the universe who have turned their back on destroying everything, who, in third edition, are _also_ playable.
-   _The One Ring_: Player characters can be drawn to adventure for many and varied reasons, from Revenge to wanderlust, but start the game with no Standing in their home culture and often attract suspicion for not leading a more respectable life. This can be zig-zagged if they gain renown, lands, and titles in their adventures.
-   What any player group in _Twilight: 2000_ is. By the year 2000 US Army units included lots and lots of personnel who were hardly regular army: other NATO military personnel from defunct units, deserters from the other side, and even local recruits. The 1st edition rulebook recommends that at least half of the group be American, but anything else goes.
-   Taken to an extreme, as is everything in the _Warhammer 40,000_ universe with entire penal legions, where the worst of the worst of the Imperium's convicted felons are sent on literal suicide missions in return for a general pardon in the unlikely event they survive. Think Dirty Dozen in battalion size. This trope is best exemplified in the novel _Kill Team_.
    -   Hell, the entire 597th could be considered a ragtag bunch of misfits. Of course, given the 40k universe's casually lethal nature, it's a good thing that they get constant reinforcements from Valhalla...
    -   Colonel Schaeffer's Last Chancers. Recruited from penal planets and given the opportunity to redeem themselves by dying for the Emperor.
    -   The 40k fan film _Damnatus_ follows the same idea, centering around a squad of mercenaries conscripted by the Inquisition to root out a suspected Chaos cult. There's the leader von Remus, sidekick Corris, big guy Wodan and their resident tech-priest Oktavian, all kept under close watch by more straight-laced PDF sergeant Adeodatus and _his_ sidekick Nira.
    -   A lot of Inquisitors' retinues tend to end up as this as well since Inquisitors frequently recruit people that they meet during their work with the only criteria being competence and loyalty.
        -   It should also be noted that the people they recruit can be of any social status or have any kind of occupation, too. For instance, one member of Amberley Vail's retinue used to be a fast food seller.
        -   Mordechai Horst ends up temporarily recruiting a prostitute desperate to escape from the societal role she was forced into as a guide. And his boss inducted a pair of Guardsmen simply because they were eyewitnesses to a major breach of security, and the pilot whose shuttle they were shot down in just because.
    -   Commander Farsight's personal retinue, The Eight. Listing them off, there's Commander Brightsword <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , Commander Bravestorm <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , Commander Arra'kon <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , Commander Sha'vastos <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , Sub-commander Torchstar<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , Broadside Shas'vre Ob'lotai 9-0 <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , and Honour-Shas'vre O'vesa <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> .
    -   For a while, Warsmith Honsou - an oddity himself, because his gene-seed is a mixture of the Iron Warriors and their worst enemies - went around with a personal retinue consisting of a thuggish Blood Knight, a Combat Sadomasochist who Honsou recruited by driving bone shards through his lungs, a renegade Raven Guard, and a horrific abomination produced from welding science and black magic together (up until he got all of them bar himself killed, anyway). That was just his immediate circle of what probably passes for friends among the Iron Warriors; his army consisted of basically everyone he could either convince or force to come with him, ranging from Space Pirates to cyborg war engines.
    -   The last faction of the 40k setting you'd suspect to have these kinds of teams would be the Space Marines, but even they have them, in the form of the Deathwatch and their kill teams. Officially an elite fighting force of the Inquisition dedicated to combatting xenos in all their forms, the Deathwatch recruits experienced Marines from loyal chapters. In reality, many Marines forwarded to the Deathwatch are misfits and relatively undisciplined for Space Marines, and so are sent away from the Chapter. When a Kill Team of Deathwatch Marines is formed, the team often grow a longlasting brotherhood of misfits, who learn how to deal with their differences to perform a single goal.
-   _Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay_: Many of the starting careers are undistinguished social roles like servants, peasants, and dung collectors, so many Player Parties are motley groups of questionable provenance, brought together by the story's crisis. This goes double if they follow the game's recommendation to draw their starting careers at random.

    Theater 

-   The musical _1776_ portrays the signers of the Declaration this way: a mismatched and forever-squabbling bunch of ordinary people inventing a new country by the seat of their pants. The approach was lambasted by Roger Ebert and others, who didn't realize how close to the truth it actually was.
-   One of the lyrics in the musical _Hamilton_ describes the American soldiers fighting in the American Revolutionary War as a "ragtag volunteer army in need of a shower."
-   Comedy musical _Starship_ features a crew including a robot that wants to kill all humans but can't, a battle-scarred emotionally unstable Commander with a mortal fear of robots, his violent and unsympathetic second-in-command, a Non-Action Guy nerd, a hyperactive idiotic recruit, a recruit from Farm Planet, a science officer whose relevant skills don't even extend to the ability to pronounce 'science', and the bratty son of the company boss. At first it seems to just be Played for Laughs in a parody of the sci-fi genre, but it is revealed later that Junior is evil and he needed the crew to be dysfunctional enough that they wouldn't notice his evil plan.

    Toys 

-   In one of the 2008 BIONICLE web serials, Federation of Fear, the Order of Mata Nui send out a Boxed Crook suicide team to bring back a Sealed Evil in a Can with a grudge to fight the Makuta. The team consists of two mutated ex-warlords/ex-prisoners, a disgraced scientist/ruler whose name has become a byword for "failure," a Manipulative Bitch whose name has become a byword of "treachery," a Bounty Hunter, a Cloudcuckoolander who is actually half of another being, and led by an Order member stuck in a Heel–Face Revolving Door who makes it clear at multiple points he won't hesitate to kill all of them if they cross him.

    Visual Novels 

-   All of the _Danganronpa_ classes count. To wit:
    -   Class 78 consists of an Ordinary High-School Student who happens to be somewhat luckier than most, as well as a Hope Bringer, a stoic Great Detective with Daddy Issues, a Jerkass Blue Blood, a donut loving swimmer, a Cloud Cuckoo Lander clairvoyant, an abraisve romance writer with a Serial Killer Split Personality, a Broken Bird idol singer, a Casanova Wannabe baseball player who hates the sport, an Elegant Gothic Lolita gambler who is lying about her entire past, a Brawn Hilda who also happens to be one of the nicest students, an extremely loud moral commitee member, a biker with a serious Hair-Trigger Temper, a Wholesome Crossdresser progammer who looks like a child, a perverted fanfiction creator, an Extreme Doormat solider and her fashionista sister who ends the world out of boredom.
    -   Class 77-B consists of a constantly self deprecating guy driven insane by his luck cycle, a Gamer Chick with problems staying awake, a baby faced Yakuza member, his Master Swordswoman bodyguard/Implied Love Interest, a perverted Supreme Chef, a Chuunibyou animal breeder, a princess with several strange interests, a Shrinking Violet nurse, a traditonal dancer who is nowhere near as sweet as she looks, a gymnast who loves eating, a Team Mom photographer, an Innocently Insensitive mechanic with the Face of a Thug, a Genki Girl rockstar, a team manager who loves talking about his bowel movements, a Master of Disguise pretending to be the Jerkass Blue Blood from the above class and, as the anime revealed, a shut in animator who the Master of Disguise also pretended to be.
    -   The Gifted Academy students consists of a detective doubting his talent due to arresting an Sympathetic Murderer, an All-Loving Heroine pianist, a magician who seems to actually believe she has magical powers, a man hating neo aikido master, an underaged astronaut trainee who is Secretly Dying, a Gentle Giant entomologist, a robot who is somehow one of the more normal members of the class, an extremely horny inventor, a Consummate Liar who claims to be the leader of a shadowy organization, a grumpy child care giver who is actually an assassin, a Almighty Maid who is revealed to be the leader of a nation, a baby faced, jaded tennis player who took out the Mafia by himself, an anthropologist who is revealed to be in love with his sister, a highly religious artist, a guy who can't remember his talent and an Otaku who is revealed to be behind everything. Interestingly enough, this trope is heavily implied to have been _invoked_ by the people behind the TV show. After all, what's better TV then a bunch of weirdos all forced to live together and solve each other's murders?
-   In _Double Homework_, the girls, Henry, and the protagonist break into Dennis’s apartment, steal his hard drive, and sneak out without him or the building security being any the wiser.
-   _Kindred Spirits on the Roof_ has the broadcasting club trio. Umi Ichiki is cheerful and friendly, but is obsessed with friendship and has a stuttering problem. Sasa Futano is a gloomy loner who enjoys telling those who annoy her to "Die." Nena Miyama is incredibly smart, but also rather lethargic and fond of sleeping. Sasa lampshades this in an extra chapter, noting that they all stayed together because they were flawed. Despite their flaws, the three are rather competent in their work for the broadcasting club considering they're amateurs and high school students.
-   _The Labyrinth of Grisaia_: Yuuji's platoon can be called this, considering that those who ended up in their military training camp were petty criminals and other social outcasts to begin with, it's little wonder. They called themselves "bush dog platoon" and they specialised in warfare where they are constantly on the retreat.
-   The team in _SC2VN_ starts off with an amateur foreigner, a high school kid who may or may not be a dropout, and a shut-in who only plays in online cups.
-   The main cast of _Spirit Hunter: NG_ consists of a teenage delinquent, his friend the Yakuza heir, an occult idol, a corrupt investigative journalist, a criminal magician, and a shady cop. When riding with Seiji and Kaoru on his motorcycle, Akira realizes that it's their outcast nature that has drawn them together so easily.

    Web Comics 

-   Lampshaded and subverted in _8-Bit Theater_, especially with the second party of worthy warriors always arriving too late to do any good or be hired for the quest.
    -   And again in Episode 1163 'Semantics' when they face Sarda. Red Mage confronts him and The Wizard Who Did It says "You and what ragtag band of adventurers with humorously conflicting personalities who learn the true meaning of friendship?" RM points behind him. They ran off.
-   _Bob and George_: Lampshaded. The heroic lineup outside that scenario is impressively odd. The core team has Mega Man (who is an idiot), Proto Man (who is the resident Meta Guy and has a bit of a weapon obsession), Roll (who has some fairly impressive anger issues), George (a superhero from another dimension), Bass (who is technically supposed to be a bad guy, but is too stupid to remember this), Nate (a reprogrammed Yellow Demon goo-bot enemy who communicates through signs), Chadling (another Demon, this time from another dimension, who bonded with the main characters over a shared ice cream addiction), Mike (a former villainous minion and very incompetent cyborg ninja), Rush (a sarcastic robot dog with self-esteem issues), Dr Light (a scientific genius and a short-tempered, arrogant drunk), the author of the comic (when he can be bothered to show up), and Ran (a Communist robot who, after his introduction, dies at least a dozen times in nearly every storyline). The list of temporary members is even weirder and includes several villains (reformed and otherwise), more than a few characters from other dimensions, time travellers, at least one version of a villain from another dimension, multiple sets of time-travellers from alternate dimensions, and Bob, the eventual Big Bad, who for the trifecta is a time-travelling villain from another dimension.
-   CK's crew from _Commander Kitty_ includes Fluffy, a Cute Kitten and Cloudcuckoolander Mittens, CK's Bumbling Sidekick who's also a total slacker, and Socks, a genius ferret engineer with a serious language barrier.
-   _Contra Farce_ features one competent mercenary and three incompetent goofballs. They were the best Deputy Mayor Simmons could afford.
-   _Crimson Dark_ also has the Ragtag Bunch Of Misfits IN SPACE!
-   _Curse Quest_: Not much is known for how the main group met, but it is clear that their goals are quite different. Walrus clearly just wants to get his curse removed, and Avalon seems to have ulterior motives selecting his curse quest for unclear reasons. Mogarth seemingly joins the group because he was looking for a job and his personality is drastically different from Walrus and Avalon. The original version of the comic had all six of the adventurers constantly bickering as they progressed in the dungeon. One can only assume what it will be like in the reboot.
-   In _DICE: The Cube That Changes Everything_, the band of misfits include an impatient Kid Hero and The Big Guy who has to work more than he would like to. It seems clear that these characters aren't of best of terms with each other, but they have to work together for survival.
-   Ragtag Bunch of Misfits: Mio creates her faction out of Dicers of different backgrounds who can't stand for themselves, and promises to make sure they can reach a rebirth for themselves so they can be happy. In turn, this creates Undying Loyalty to her even though she carries a huge bounty on her.
-   In _Electric Wonderland_, a Fiery Redhead Intrepid Reporter decides to end corruption through a hard-hitting, independently published newspaper. Who does she hire to help write? An unemployed Highly-Visible Ninja, a Stepford Smiler with a mushroom costume, an outcasted Magical Girl, a talking bull who's Too Dumb to Live, and a Bratty Half-Pint mermaid. At the inquiry of the ninja, the redhead reporter admitted at the end of the first issue that she doesn't have any hiring standards.
-   _A Girl and Her Fed_ has a main cast consisting of a hyperactive martial artist (the Girl) a 6'5 cyborg secret agent (her Fed), the ghost of Benjamin Franklin, and a talking koala.
-   Master Payne's Circus of Adventure from _Girl Genius_ is made up of an eclectic group of performers traveling the dangerous Wastelands from town to town. Many of the circus folk are actually Sparks who are hiding in plain sight from the Baron and people who might try to kill or capture them otherwise and the rest seem to be various runaways and oddballs.
-   In _Hivebent_, who gets to play Sgrub and create a new universe (Because Destiny Says So)? A matchmaking huntress obsessed with cats, a ghost obsessed with death, a bipolar oracle obsessed with computers, a serial killer obsessed with imitating her distant ancestor, a budding lawmaker obsessed with tasting things, a fish princess raised by an Eldritch Abomination, a bloodthirsty nobleman mourning his recent breakup, a perpetually angry mutant who's the descendant of Troll Jesus, a furry bigot who builds robots, a drug addict clown...and Kanaya and Tavros, though the last two are actually kind of normal. It should come as no surprise that their section of the plot goes to hell.
-   _Kill Six Billion Demons_: Allison is a college girl with terrible self-esteem who suddenly gets handed great supernatural power and thrown from the normal world into the middle of supernatural adventures. White Chain is an angel with gender identity issues (in spite of being sexless) who's practically a rebel among her kind for actually considering being good and not just lawful, but still comes across as totally rigid to the others a lot of the time. Cio is a devil with a dark past that haunts her who actually wants to be good, well, not evil anyway, and writes Fan Fiction about reality, shipping herself with Allison. Princess is a powerful devil whom Allison accidentally bound to her service by giving it a ridiculous name. Nyave is actually pretty stable and competent, for a random person saved by the group, but she isn't a real main character.
-   _The Last Days of Foxhound_ portrays FOXHOUND (the Quirky Miniboss Squad of _Metal Gear Solid_) this way. It _is_ played with a bit, as everyone, including the misfits themselves, readily acknowledge how unstable and insane the team is, but also recognize that they are able to accomplish feats that would be impossible for any other group.
-   _Last Res0rt_ sees this and raises you a Reality Show. Of course, they don't really DO anything of worldly importance (yet), but still, there they are.
-   _Mindflayed_ even had it discussed<small>◊</small>:
    
    **Mindflayer**: Adventurers? I thought we were a bunch of outcasts banded together in hopes of increasing our odds of surviving to the next day.  
    **Lomylith**: That would be the definition of the word "adventurers", flayer.
    
-   In _Nami Warriors_, the main characters are definitively this, to the point that at least one of them directly acknowledges that this is the case.
-   In _Nebula_, because it takes place in a Small, Secluded World, the cast is stuck with working with each other despite their oddities. They are:
    -   Earth, a planet who is almost physically unable to keep her nose out of everyone else's business
    -   Venus, her more mature younger sister
    -   Mercury, an office worker who can barely start a conversation without insulting everyone else in the room
    -   Jupiter, a melodramatic Leader Wannabe with more ambition than brains
    -   Uranus, a moon-thief<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and borderline con-artist
    -   Saturn, a recluse who would really just rather not interact with people in general
    -   Mars, a Jerk with a Heart of Gold who speaks Cassandra Truth like a second language
    -   Neptune, an often spoken-over voice of reason
    -   And Sun, a member of a completely different species who's barely suppressing the urge to murder all of them.
-   In _No Rest for the Wicked_, November acquires anthropomorphic cat Perrault (intentionally), the Ax-Crazy Red by accident, and Claire after they happen to rescue her from being burnt at the stake.
-   _The Order of the Stick_:
    -   The eponymous crew certainly qualifies. Roy is pretty competent in his own right, but his band consists of an ambitious and greedy rogue, a completely psychopathic halfling ranger, a trigger-happy elf wizard that never stops talking, a dwarven cleric that is stuck in his role as a healer instead of being the nightmare that _D&D_ clerics are known for and a bard that's as dumb as a box of moldy carrots. Roy at one point refers to his team as trained professionals before adding "Well, semi-trained, quasi-professionals." Also:
        
        **Minrah**: Does everyone in your group have weird emotional issues?  
        **Durkon**: Eh, tha cat's probably fine.
        
    -   And for that matter, pretty much all of the comics in the fan comic section of the forum do this too.
    -   At one point General Tarquin, despite being initially unaware of the composition or existence of the Order of the Stick, deduces that it is a team almost immediately upon meeting all the individual members, largely because he recognizes that when a bunch of weirdly competent but oddly diverse individuals show up out of nowhere, he can assume they're a team until it's proven otherwise.
    -   Xykon never directly addresses the Order as such, but when he's off buying some new magic items he asks if he can get insurance that will cover the loss if his lair is destroyed by a ragtag team of heroes.
        
        **Clerk:** How ragtag are we talking, here?
        
    -   This is also Xykon's justification for having a 'back-up lair'; "You never know, you could be just relaxing in your den on a lazy Sunday afternoon, reading the paper, when suddenly BAM! A band of unlikely heroes put aside their personal differences and evicts you from your own house."
    -   And eventually Elan directly refers to them as "a ragtag band of Unlikely Heroes with unresolved issues who didn't see eye-to-eye". He thinks he should have known they would end up Saving the World because of that.
-   _Pibgorn_: A love-struck idiot, a homicidal digital maiden, and a omnipotent clueless succubus
-   _Rebirth_: Noah's band of survivors is a colorful bunch, including his bodyguard maid, his creepy children, and an assortment of eccentric action survivors. Special mentions to the Unfazed Everyman Wyn, Combat Pragmatist Alix, and Nice Guy Theo.
-   The team in _Rezz & Co Bounty Hunters_. The two founders are an eccentric human with power armor and a lay-back attitude, and an AI tryinc to bring in logic and be the voice of reason. Joining them is an alien mercenary with a big gun and an alien biology that allows him to regenerate his many mortal wounds. Then there's a wannabe musician who mistook the team for a band and a lizard janitor recruited at the last minute because they needed to fill a medic quota.
-   The Main Party in _RPG World_ consists of an Idiot Hero, a thief chick who's the sarcastic Only Sane Man, two "cute fuzzy things", a prostitute mage, an extremely perverted White Hair, Black Heart, an engineer pirate with two (not so helpful) robot assistants, and a punk breakdancer. However, Galgarion is Genre Savvy enough to know not to underestimate them.
-   The main cast of _Sluggy Freelance_ consists of a kinda dim freelance web designer, a Mad Scientist obsessed with guns and explosives, a witch who's occasionally possessed by her Tome of Eldritch Lore, an occasional camel, a shapeshifting alien, a hyperactive ferret, and the most dangerous and evil rabbit on the face of the Earth. Despite not making it a mission to fight evil, they've actually saved the world a number of times, mostly because apocalyptic matters seem to turn up wherever they go.
    -   And if something doesn't turn up to endanger the world, one of them will usually end up endangering it themselves.
-   _Teh Gladiators_ features as its protagonists not the seasoned _World of Warcraft_ veterans that one might expect, but the most improbable and possibly the least competent Arena team ever formed. Gorrok, the orc warrior, is the only actual veteran present and the Only Sane Man; his companions include Vallant, the human (sort of) hunter who's a ditz with Accidental Aiming Skills; and Spin, a Tauren hippie who has no combat skills whatsoever. They are joined at various times by a pair of lecherous murloc Mad Scientists and Leeroy Jenkins, the Trope Namer of _World of Warcraft_ fame. Yet somehow they manage to win.
-   _Stand Still, Stay Silent_: The protagonists part of an underfunded research mission into the monster-infested Silent world, so the group hiring them specifically picks people who are stupid, desperate, incredibly bored with their lives or hate their current employers or co-workers with a burning passion. To wit, we have:
    -   Sigrun, a Blood Knight and Genki Girl who considers this expedition as a nice vacation.
    -   Mikkel, an omni-competent and stoic Danish farmer, who also is unemployable, mostly due to his tendency to troll his surroundings mercilessly.
    -   Tuuri, a sheltered mechanic who desperately wants to see the world outside the fort where she grew up.
    -   Lalli, Tuuri's possibly autistic, strangely cat-like and mostly weird cousin. Who also happens to be a skilled night scout and a mage of frightening power.
    -   Emil, an arrogant Pretty Boy who is looking for a quick path to the fame and glory he considers rightfully his.
    -   Reynir, an Icelandic sheep farmer who ran away from home to find adventure, and got a _little_ more than he bargained for.
-   The second season of _Tower of God_ features the team Sweet and Sour. It is comprised of the Boisterous Weakling Ja Wangnan, who wants to become King of the Tower, The Proud Elite Yeon Ehwa who has insecurities because of her Power Incontinence, a young school girl, a slightly older school girl, a Papa Wolf who has a rather strained relationship with his charge, the son of a Loan Shark and mob boss who just realized that he was relatively useless, a Gentle Giant whose power is so deadly that he has to always hold back, and finally, a Person of Mass Destruction and training to Kill the God who's being forced to work for the Tower's most feared criminal and rebellious organisation and whose bosses kind of want to kill everyone else in the team to get him a better one. This is going to be one smooth ride.

    Web Original 

-   The adventuring party of _1 For All_ is a trio of miscreants who get themselves into trouble as often as they get themselves out of it. They consist of a murderhobo fighter that is blasé toward having severed limbs, a Pyromaniac tiefling useless in any situation that doesn’t involve fire, and a self-obsessed Horny Bard who can’t keep it in his pants. Recurring Guest-Star Party Members that get roped into their antics include a put-upon Triton cleric healer you don’t want to piss off, a half-orc Warrior Poet barbarian with shoddy art skills, a tree-hugging Cloud Cuckoolander of a druid, and a frisky Tabaxi rogue.
-   The Tres Horny Boys from _The Adventure Zone: Balance_ are an impulsive human carpenter-turned-fighter who really loves dogs and other animals of all sorts, a middle-aged hippie dwarf cleric with a plant fetish trying to spread the good word of the nature god Pan to teens, and a vain Lovable Coward elf wizard who's arguably more famous for his cooking show on TV than his magic.
    -   Their compatriots in the Bureau of Balance aren't much better, including among their number a stoner potion expert who loves Pringles to the point that everyone calls him that instead of his real name, an Insufferable Genius Mad Scientist that even the All-Loving Hero can't stand, a Kid Detective, a depressed bard, a gnome illusionist who mostly only says his own name, and a giant jellyfish that can cause Laser-Guided Amnesia.
    -   The IPRE-crew is just as bad. We've got a pair of elven wizard twins who insist on wreaking havoc everywhere they go, a human necromancer who looks like Tom Arnold and whose name is _Barry Bluejeans_, a human fighter who's obsessed with getting stronger and seems to be enabling the twins' shenanigans at every turn, a dwarven cleric looking to spread the word of Pan wherever he goes, a human artificer who's the very definition of a wallflower and spends most of her time logging every moment of their travels, and their captain, a deadly serious gnome with a surprisingly goofy side.
-   _Critical Hit_ is an actual play _Dungeons & Dragons_ 4 edition campaign that follows the adventuring party which consists of some rather unusual individuals, as per proud Tabletop Games tradition. A big and fierce-looking 3/4 orc with a giant axe who is more cunning than his obsession with funnelcakes would lead one to believe. A socially awkward Gadgeteer Genius with a robotic arm who, due to his player's abysmal luck with dice rolls, tend to be disaster-prone. A haughty and respectfully racist young Eladrin wizard obsessed over his hair. An unassuming young man prone to the bursts of wild magic and growing hair and claws during combat who has no idea what you are talking about. And that's before some even more odd characters joined in the later seasons. The party is regarded as a Ragtag Bunch of Misfits In-Universe as well, with various people the party meets commenting on such an "eclectic group".
-   _Critical Role_:
    -   Vox Machina. Their self-styled group of intrepid adventurers contains an exiled goliath barbarian and his best friend, a dorkily cute gnomish war-cleric; a vengeful noble gunslinger in a medieval setting; a socially awkward druid princess; a gnomish Casanova Wannabe; and a half-elven brother-sister duo consisting of a Fearless Fool rogue and a flirtatious gold-hungry ranger with a pet bear. Somehow, they make it work.
    -   The Darrington Brigade, a group of adventurers founded by former Vox Machina member Taryon Darrington in the Epilogue, consists of a Camp Gay Gadgeteer Genius artificer, a series of constructs of his own design, the artificer's former tutor turned boyfriend, a ditzy half-orc barbarian who may or may not be a True Polymorphed duck, and a drow bounty hunter. The brigade members ten years later are possibly _worse_.
    -   Campaign 2's party, the Mighty Nein, isn't much better. They have a pyromancer with PTSD, a kleptomaniac goblin with a dark past, a fallen Demi-angel, the Genki Girl daughter of a famous courtesan and prophet of a god few have heard of, a monk from a rich family, a former sailor who made a bargain with a dark power, and an Agent Peacock Amnesiac Hero with blood magic. Later additions are a Gentle Giant hippie priest, and a former antagonist trying to atone for his horrific war crimes.
-   Then there's The Deviant Universere's premeir Super Team The Thunder Force. The first incarnation consists of a government agent with a dark past and robotic enhancements to his body, an invisible gun toting ex-news anchor, a rich treasure hunter with a magic bone necklace and a tiger striped costume, a female super speeder, a strange girl in a school girl outfit, Canada's only hero who is powered by the internet, a living beat'em up video game chick, a symbiote who is similar to both Nightcrawler and Venom only with no angst about his situation, and a chibi computer program who is programmed to destroy the world himself. The second incarnation consists of a jerkass archer secret agent, an animal shapeshifter teen boy, a male Captain America expy who uses guns and is kept alive through cloning, a female Captain America and Wonder Woman combined expy, a hero with thunder powers combined with Flying Brick abilities, and a mermaid heroine with legs joined up with the aforementioned treasure hunter in tiger print and the symbiote guy.
-   The five protagonists from the web fiction serial _Dimension Heroes_, despite their increase in power and skill over the course of the series, have yet to fully separate themselves from this trope.
-   _DSBT InsaniT_: Oh so much. The craziness and interactions between the members of the cast is what gives it the 'InsaniT' label after all.
-   The whole bunch of convicts living in the Paracelsus' Sword in the world of Einsteinian Roulette count as this, ranging from mercenaries, petty criminals and discarded experience subjects to farm boys, spoiled brats and crazy doctors.
-   The Dragon Maulers Incorporated from _Fallout Is Dragons_ certainly qualify, blundering their way through situations that would daunt most skilled adventurers.
-   The vast majority of _Fire Emblem on Forums_ have their casts comprised of this, given the origin series' heavy use of this trope. The number of games that _don't_ can be counted on one hand.
-   The characters in _A Game of Gods_ come off as this. Justified in that they were taking from their home worlds by the Nomads.
-   The _Hamster's Paradise_ art one-shot "Odd Ones Out" is about a mixen named Sundown who adopted four pups who were abandoned due to their disabilities; Twist has a twisted paw, Snowcloud is albino, Shortsnout is brachycephalic, and Bigpup has some kind of brain damage.
-   The entire cast of Hitler Rants. Hitler's staff includes an Ax-Crazy alcoholic, a professional map pointer, a bald man who specializes in objecting to his plans, and a guy who specializes in providing useless information. His enemies include ruthless dictators, U-Boat sailors, a psychotic demolitions expert who is determined to blow him up, and a number of little girls.

-   The heroes of The Nerdy Show's pen and paper adventure podcast, _Dungeons & Doritos_, hurt each other and their allies or employers about as much as they hurt their enemies. However, over the course of the adventure, they learn to care for their teammates and become increasingly competent at working together. Except when they aren't, and then Hilarity Ensues.
-   The titular guild in _Noob_. Only Sane Man leader with a fear of Game Masters? Check. Self-centered misogynist? Check. A Manipulative Bastard and Dirty Coward package deal? Check. Stupid Good Manchild? Got that too. May I suggest adding a narcoleptic Mad Bomber or a Leeroy Jenkins Psycho for Hire to your order?
-   The eponymous Time Police team in Past Division consists of a fire-throwing dwarven cleric who loves to go for the family jewels, an anthropomorphic panda bear with elite ninja skills and a very big hammer, a diminutive Team Primadonna Plant Person who fights with Cards of Power, and a teenage Horned Humanoid whose abilities clash a bit with her job.
-   _Protectors of the Plot Continuum_: The PPC is an _entire organization_ comprised of individuals with a wide variety of backgrounds and dysfunctions attempting to protect the multiverse from the results of bad fanfiction.
-   The main cast of Psychronicles takes this pretty far. For one we have the Genki Girl who's also an otaku and constantly Shout-Out to other works. Next up is the overly playful Cloudcuckoolander then the Lawful Stupid Leeroy Jenkins. Finally there's the ridiculously brilliant Teen Genius Straw Nihilist. Clara and Ian even lampshades it in chapter 14.
    -   Hell the Occult Society can pretty much be a Ragtag Organization of Misfits. The latest arc had just introduced an overly conceited Fighting Narcissist and an Anthromorph with multiple personalities of the Western Zodiac in the secondary cast.
-   The Fellowship of _The Questport Chronicles_ starts out as this: one amnesiac Winged Humanoid, two elves (one of whom is an assassin), a Vegetarian Vampire, a fairy, a human trapped in a dragon's body, a Voluntary Shapeshifting demon, and an easily-confused pixie.
-   The main characters of _Red vs. Blue_. They are all fully armed soldiers who were hand-picked for being the lowest-scoring grunts in the military, they are also the least qualified people for handling the various omnicidal maniacs that cross their path.
    -   With the exception of Tex, who is pretty much confirmed to be the single best fighter in the series.
        -   Not that she's without her own very special issues, however, as season 8 reveals. She's essentially cursed to ultimately fail at everything she tries to do. The most normal person they meet (Wash) _still_ has issues, what with Epsilon's memories being beamed directly into his mind and all.
        -   Though in later seasons they start to pick up several levels in BadAss, and have managed to pull off some pretty impressive feats in recent years. As of season 11, they're rumored considered to some of the greatest warriors in the galaxy... Yeah, they couldn't believe it either.
        -   Turns out they aren't the only ones. In season 12, episode 10, it's revealed that Felix was lying about that.
-   _Reflets d'Acide_ starts with Wrandrall, a Half\-Demon warrior, trying to assemble comrades for a quest. He ends up with a group including a Dwarf, an Elven Bard, a Fire Elemental and a female Barbarian Hero (the latter being soon replaced by a Dirty Old Monk).
-   The Final Hazard from _Roll to Breathe_ is a superhero team consisting of a walking superhero database, an overworked intern, an unintentionally destructive rich kid, a girl with no powers or training, a bullied Japanese delinquent, and a sweet eldritch boy. Also, they're all teenagers. Together, they defeat villains several times their size with many years more experience.
-   _gen:LOCK_, though it's somewhat justified in this case: the technology that sets the system in motion, the titular gen:LOCK system, is only compatible with _very_ specific nervous systems; and with The Union bearing down on them, the good guys are desperate enough to take whatever compatible pilots they can find, regardless of whether they're... ideal soldiers or not. The Five-Man Band consists of
    -   Kasu, a japanese soldier demoted to _cooking duty_ for insubordination.
    -   Valentina, a Cold Sniper who grew up fighting in La Résistance and wants to _avoid_ anymore fighting.
    -   Cammie, a seventeen year old Playful Hacker.
    -   Yasamin, a Union defector recruited out of _prison_.
    -   Chase would seem to be the exception, as he's actually a model soldier and crack pilot, but his body was horribly damaged in the first battle of the war, leaving him totally dependent on life-support systems to stay alive; when he's not in gen:LOCK, he can only interact with people through a holographic avatar.
-   In the story of RedScotGaming's Dragon Ball Xenoverse and Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2 series The Tony Saga, we have titular character Tony Cold, the estranged cousin of Frieza and Cooler kidnapped by Trunks with the Dragon Balls to do _his_ job in the Time Patrol, his best friend Iced Kovacs, a Frost Demon that originally served under Cooler and was for a time a crippling alcoholic, Max Stone, a usually dimwitted Earthling with an unhealthy obsession with stones and the like (Watch yer stones, lad.) who gave Tony his signature shades, Trunks, who due to Xenoverse 1 and 2's Artificial Stupidity is an incompetent member of the Patrol that frequently gets abuse of the verbal kind from Tony to the point that _he_ now has a drinking problem instead of Iced, Chronoa, the head of the Time Patrol, and as such the boss of the prior mentioned, with many weapons of mass destruction in her collection and hidden anger issues, and Elder "Creepy" Kai, Chronoa's snarky second-in-command who may or may not run a secret sex trafficking ring. And during the Xenoverse 2 portion of the series two more members of the team are added; Papi Cell, an alternate version of Cell that became perfect _and_ had a Heel–Face Turn due to absorbing a lot of Max's biomass and ultimately becoming Max's adoptive father, and Tristina, a Saiyan woman who was one of the few survivors of the Code Green incident that ends up taking the role of Only Sane Woman alongside Iced.
-   Falling Rain's retinue in _SavageDivinity_ is made up of crippled soldiers, former bandits, slaves, and an elite turtle guard. Said giant turtle also refuses to leave his side so can be considered a member as well.
-   The members of "Team Templar" from _Shadow of the Templar_ are the first type of this, all the way. Extremely talented but mostly crazy, their general rule of thumb seems to be that "standard procedure" is a good Plan B. All the same, they have a reputation for getting things done.
-   Roll to Dodge Princess Celestia may have The Party count as this.
-   The web series _Star Trek: Renegades_, per its title, centers on a pirate crew captained by the outcast daughter of Khan Noonien Singh and including a disgraced scientist, a rogue former drone, a genetically-defective Betazoid, a Pah-Wraith-worshipping Bajoran, and more.
-   _TFS at the Table_: The Natural One-ders crew is lead by a rogue whose real ambition is to create a performance troupe. Other members are a merman monk, a donkey-centaur who is dumb as a nail and doesn't believe in his own magic (at first), the world's angriest goblin, a kobold of faith who's working on becoming a god, an Ambiguously Human naval officer, a basically-insane sea hag (who does all the cooking), a spy, a dwarf with a tendency to cheat at card games, a _very_ fat alligator-man who hunts things with a huge blunderbuss, a naga warlock and a nine-foot-tall barbarian who isn't interested in anything she can't fight with. They get up to shenanigans together.
-   All of the Channel Awesome anniversary specials where they team up against an enemy have them out of their depth, and even their themed costumes hardly unify them, such as when Brad Jones roleplays as Indiana Jones because "it's quest based, it counts". Lampshaded in To Boldly Flee, where one of the villains brags that only a ragtag group of Z-List internet reviewers<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  could stop them now.
-   In _Trapped in the Bird Cage_ this is by design of the DM, Holly Conrad. She had each player create their character with no knowledge of what the others were making. As a result you have a Camp Gay bard, two rogues, one of whom is a kleptomaniac even by rogue standards, the other of whom robot and the Token Good Teammate who keeps a record of all the crimes the others comit and a pyromaniac wizard. They may not even be from the same universe and the first time they meet is when they're summoned into a dark closet.
-   _We Are All Pirates' Revenge_: The crew of the _Zenpance_ currently includes the likes of a giant bipedal rat, one normal-sized rat, a stone woman, two kids, a shape-shifting dragon, a raccoon privateer, a witch with amnesia, and a talking treasure chest.
-   Team Kimba of the _Whateley Universe_. A former rich kid who is now the Fallen Princess. An Army brat chased out of his own home by anti-mutant fireteams. A nerd turned into a Person of Mass Destruction. A loner who turned into The Chosen One. A motherless victim of child abuse who has spent time as a foster child. A transgender black kid from Baltimore. A loner turned into one of The Fair Folk. And they're not the weirdest kids at Whateley Academy.
-   _Worm_:
    -   The Undersiders were created when a handful of isolated no-name teenage supervillains were recruited via a blend of bribery and coercion by a Mysterious Employer to act as professional thieves. At various times, the members include a textbook sociopath, a Manipulative Bitch, a Justified Criminal doing it for the sake of his kid sister, said Drama Queen kid sister, The Mole, and Bitch. They manage to get the job done well enough most of the time, though, and that's all their employer asks of them.
    -   The Slaughterhouse 9 is a villainous example of this trope. A group of up to nine Serial Killers, their methods, motivations, and appearances all vary drastically. They're only able to function as a group due to Jack Slash constantly manipulating the members and their lack of teamwork results in them crumbling the moment they face actual opposition.

    Western Animation 

-   The Trio from _The Adventures of Teddy Ruxpin_ consists of an adventurous Farm Boy with Chronic Hero Syndrome, a brutally-honest Cowardly Lion Big Eater and an Absent-Minded Professor inventor with a Speech Impediment.
-   In the _Adventure Time_ episode "Mystery Dungeon" Ice King brings four members of the show's secondary cast to help him traverse the dungeon due to the traps and puzzles requiring their skills. The team consists of a demented princess-kidnapping wizard (Ice King), a senile old elephant who loves baking apple pies (Tree Trunks), a pie-making Butt-Monkey robot thrown together from scraps (NEPTR), a sour and manic artificial lemon man (Lemongrab) and finally a sarcastic talking worm (Shelby).
-   _Amphibia_ tells the story of a human teenager who gets Trapped in Another World on her 13th birthday. Along her stay, she befriends a family consisting of an energetic 10 year-old pink frog, a Hot-Blooded tadpole, and the latter two's grandfather who has a love of tradition.
-   In _Avatar: The Last Airbender_:
    -   The responsibility of defeating the Fire Nation and saving the world rests entirely with a 12-year-old goofball of a Messiah and the various other children he picks up along the way. These include a 14-year-old untrained water-bender, a 15-year-old wannabe warrior, a spoiled runaway earth-bender, the angsty banished prince who defected from the opposing side, and teenage face-painted Kyoshi Warrior.
    -   Three attempts were made by various characters to have actual armed forces involved, but the first two times were stopped before they started (the second when a 14-year-old princess and her two handmaidens, a dour knife user, and a Cloudcuckoolander acrobat, managed to pull off a coup in a hostile city) and the third time resulted in a crushing, ruinous defeat.
        -   The group leading the aforementioned third attempt is referred to as a "ragtag team" by Sokka, due to it being made up of various allies that Team Avatar had met previously rather than a proper army.
    -   Jet and his band of Merry Men also qualify.
    -   _The Legend of Korra_ gets in on the action too. The core team starts with a hyper-aggressive teenager who happens to be the next Messiah, an extremely beautiful Badass Normal, a pair of dirt-poor orphans who are involved in professional bending, an enormous polar bear dog, and an adorable red panda ferret creature. Counting their more reliable allies (who vary from potent authority figures, to street thieves), you get something of a mess, which only gets messier as the stakes get higher in the later seasons and even former enemies start putting their weight behind the Avatar.
-   _The Batman_:
    -   The episode "Team Penguin" featured Penguin gathering up a team consisting of Killer Croc, Ragdoll, and Firefly, with Killer Moth as their gofer until he became mutated later in the episode.
    -   A later episode titled "The End of the Batman" featured two new characters, Wrath and Scorn, bringing together a group consisting of Joker, Penguin, Killer Croc and Ventriloquist (Scarface).
-   _Ben 10: Alien Force_ focused (or was supposed to be focused at least) on Ben assembling a team from various Half-Human Hybrids to stop an Alien Invasion. In the finale, he assembles said team, which ends up made of himself, his Magical Girl cousin Gwen, his former Nemesis Kevin Levin, Time Travelling scientist Paradox, his Love Interest Julie and her alien pet Ship, Half-Pyronite Alan Albright, Technopath Cooper and temporary allied supervillain Darkstar. And that's just those who are in the battle from the beginning.
    
    **Gwen Tennyson:** We're too late!  
    **Ben Tennyson:** It's never too late. New plan!... Working on it.  
    **Kevin Levin:** That's reassuring.  
    **Ben Tennyson:** Got it! We break into the Highbreed Control Room and force the captain to make his ships retreat.  
    **Darkstar:** That's your big plan?  
    **Ben Tennyson:** Hey, how many times have I beaten you?  
    **Darkstar:** Twice. But just at this moment, I don't see how.
    
-   The main group in _Boo Boom! The Long Way Home_ consists of; a Cute Mute young boy, a snarky cat, a Lovable Coward klutzy talkative rooster, a Sapient Steed, a military dog, and a bee who serves as said dog’s partner and scout.
-   _Carmen Sandiego_: In this reimagining of the classic thief, Carmen ends up with one. She starts off as an orphaned child raised at the headquarters of V.I.L.E., and while she knew they were thieves, didn't know the depths to which the students learning there and the five main faculty would go to secure their targets. When she discovered her friends from class would be more than willing to leave no witnesses during a heist, she rebels. She is first aided by a youthful hacker who is only known as "Player." Later on, during her first mission against V.I.L.E. as Carmen, she encounters Zack and Ivy, two Boston locals who were trying to rob a donut shop, which is a front for a V.I.L.E. operation. Zack is a race car driver and Ivy a Wrench Wench who built her younger brother's car. Together these four work to systematically stop and destroy V.I.L.E.'s plots. Even the Faculty of V.I.L.E. doesn't realize Carmen's crew consists of just Carmen and three people. When Shadow-san, one of the Faculty, defects to join Carmen he is openly shocked by the smallness of the crew and their lack of discipline at times, but does admit they are very capable in their missions.
-   Sector V from _Codename: Kids Next Door_ consists of a British Properly Paranoid Conspiracy Theorist, an American pilot who tells bad puns that only he thinks are funny, a Japanese airhead Genki Girl, a Book Dumb Australian Blood Knight, and an African-American/French Only Sane Woman.
-   The main Trio of _Danny Phantom_ comprise of a Casanova Wannabe Techno Geek who only eats meat, a hyper vegan goth girl and a fairly normal boy whose parents are ghost hunters and later gains super powers.
-   Scrooge refers to his closest allies as a "ragtag gang of underdogs" in the second season finale of _DuckTales (2017)_. Indeed, it consists of Gyro, Launchpad, Darkwing Duck, Gizmoduck, Officer Cabrera, Mrs. Beakley, Miss Quackfaster, Duckworth, Manny the Headless Man-Horse, Lena, Violet Sabrewing and Gabby McStabberson, as well as Johnny and Randy from "Ottoman Empire".
-   In the _Family Guy_ episode "Spies Reminiscent of Us" Vladimir Putin notes the reactivation of a Cold War sleeper spy would be an embarrassment equal to, "our 1981 failed Czechoslovakian occupation outpost which was penetrated by Bill Murray, Harold Ramis, and their ragtag band of misfit soldiers who didn't even graduate."
-   _Futurama_:
    -   The Planet Express crew in general; the main delivery crew is a good hearted yet goofball kid from the 20th century, a selfish robot who spends his time drinking booze and making wisecracks, and a social outcast cyclops who tries to be professional, maybe a little too much. The rest of the company is a nutjob century-and-a-half-old mad scientist, a Jamaican paper-pusher who likes to limbo and fill out forms, a ditzy clumsy Chinese girl from Mars, and a lobster alien who has neither social graces nor an accurate idea of human anatomy, despite being the company doctor for humans.
    -   Referenced and Parodied when Fry attempts to destroy a giant brain with a Quantum Interface Bomb. He's found by a squad of smaller brains that try to destroy him. When their brain rays fail, one of the brains say, "But we're an ambitious young squad, with everything to prove!"
-   _G.I. Joe: Renegades_ invokes this hard in the first episodes, with the team only _tolerating_ each-other for the mission, and getting much worse for a bit until the end of the second episode when they're able to come together to stop a threat. They're still at odds for the next few episodes, but gradually seem to come together as everyone gets to know each other.
-   _The Head_: Madelyne and Dr. Axel aside, Jim's friends are an alien, a guy with a propeller blade stuck in his face, a guy with a fishbowl stuck in his mouth, a guy with a extra mouth on his stomach, a guy with long arms and legs, a lady with a large nose and a lady with shiny hair (and a tail).
-   The Local Heroes of _Kid Cosmic_ are this. The team consists of a flying (actually telekinetic) child who desperately wants to be like the heroes in his comics, a teenager who works at the local diner and can use teleportation, a multiplying old geezer who likes to tinker, an energetic toddler who can grow to giant size and a Fat Cat who can see the future. Hardly the people you'd expect to be utilizing the powers of 5 cosmic stones.
-   The team of heroes in Season 2 of _Miraculous Ladybug_ consists of a Cute Clumsy Girl, a sweet model, a Genre Savvy redhead, a DJ extreme, and an Alpha Bitch.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_:
    -   The "Mane Six". They're a graduate student taught by a Physical Goddess, a stubborn apple farmer, a hyperactive baker, a brash sound barrier-breaking flyer, a prim and proper fashion designer, and an overly shy animal caretaker. Princess Celestia, said Physical Goddess, seems to consider them to be the best team to deal with powerful threats to Equestria like Nightmare Moon and Discord (due to the Elements of Harmony) and a stubborn dragon whose smoke threatens the well-being of their country (which they must deal with without the Elements of Harmony). Nightmare Moon was defeated by the Mane Six after they had known each other for less than a day.
    -   The team Starlight leads to save the day in "To Where and Back Again": an amoral Reality Warper and reformed tyrant only helping out to save a personal friend, an itinerant illusionist and former Evil Overlord with an ego problem, and a former mook and deserter from the Big Bad's forces who's terrified at the thought of meeting his old boss again, all led by a former cult leader terrified at the idea of being in charge of anything again.
    -   This even happens in the 2017 movie, where the friends the Mane 6 make on their journey to retake Equestria include a fast-talking conman, a group of formerly Retired Badass pirates and a bubbly hippogriff princess who knows she's going to get grounded after this. Despite all their differences, the one thing they have in common is they were all helped by the Mane 6 in some way and want to help them too, and they managed to fight back against The Storm King's army.
-   _The Owl House_
    -   The main characters living in the titular Owl House are a plucky young human girl who ran away from her restrictive home life in order to fulfill her dreams of becoming a witch; a snarky older woman with a bounty of a trillion on her head and a curse that turns her into a massive beast; an adorable little demon creature with megalomaniacal tendencies who later turns out to be a baby-Physical God, and a owl-tube thing who technically _is_ the house, with a voice that sounds like Mickey Mouse on helium. They are briefly joined by the criminal lady's sister, who used to lead the cult trying to arrest her until she defected and started reconnecting with her family.
    -   The final group who take down the Big Bad Belos in the season 2 finale are the above-mentioned human after aquiring an _enormous_ Guilt Complex; a former Alpha Bitch who slowly breaks out of that mindset and starts dating aforementioned human; a Child Prodigy of Illusion-magic with a love for anything related to humans and the ability to pull your worst nightmares out of your head and use them to fight you; a formerly shy and bullied plant witch who slowly grows into the powerhouse of the team; a Child Soldier in the midst of an _enormous_ identity crisis after discovering he's the latest in a long line of clones; and the above-mentioned adorable Physical God, who ends up freeing a much more powerful and _much_ more dangerous Physical God with the promise to play with them in exchange for them saving the world.
-   _Phineas and Ferb_:
    -   At the beginning of the second Meap episode, the animators who made the trailers to it were described as a "ragtag group".
    -   Technically the titular characters' core group counts too. There's a miniature Wonka, his Inexplicably Awesome stepbrother, the local bully, the nerd said bully picks on, a bunch of Inexplicably Awesome Girl Scouts, a weirdo who stalks The Wonka and his stepbrother and a bunch of random people who walk in and out.
-   One scene in the trailer for _Pibby_ highlights that the protagonists are hardly the first choices for defeating an Eldritch Abomination that threatens the entire universe. While Pibby (a small little girl from a preschool cartoon) explains the situation to her companions, they protest that they're just a sidekick and a villain, respectively.
    
    **Pibby:** I know we're not heroes. But maybe... we can learn.
    
-   Stated outright in the Opening Narration of _The Pirates of Dark Water_: "At his side is an unlikely but loyal crew of misfits."
-   _Ready Jet Go!_: A quirky, hyperactive alien kid and his parents, a strange alien pet who can do anything and everything, a computer with a face, a comic-book geek, an uptight science nerd, and a little girl. And yet somehow they all came together and have a strong, family-like bond, and when it's called for, they more often than not save the day. Yep, they definitely fit the bill. Whichever side character(s) joins them for their adventures can easily fit into the group as well.
-   The _Robot Chicken_ sketch parodying _Armageddon (1998)_, where the leader was chosen by call-in votes. The winner was Harrison Ford, who protests "I'm just an actor! I'm 62-years-old!" but everyone expects him to act like a movie hero. Aerosmith fill the remaining slots on the team because the mission needs a cool theme song. They die trying to land.
    
    **Reporter:** Don't we have highly trained astronauts?  
    **Senator:** Oh, that's something of a myth.
    
-   _The Simpsons_:
    -   In the episode "Homer at the Bat", Mr Burns calls his remaining players this after all but one of the professionals are made unavailable in ridiculous ways.
    -   In "Moneybart", Lisa tries to apply this trope to Bart's baseball team, ala the Oakland A's, but it doesn't quite work.
        
        **Bart:** We're not losers! Last year we finished six and five.  
        **Nelson:** And we're not lovable. We had a tall freckle-faced kid on the team that we picked on 'til he quit. Hey, Splatterface, how's the weather up there? It's too bad, cause he's a great hitter, but it's worth it.
        
-   _Sonic the Hedgehog (SatAM)_: The Freedom Fighters consist of a super fast hedgehog, an innocent two-tailed fox, a tomboyish princess squirrel/chipmunk hybrid, a sweet half robotized rabbit, a cowardly coyote, a walrus who's good with tools, and are later joined by a clumsy but good natured dragon and the fast hedgehog's robotized uncle. They band together to fight the evil Dr. Robotnik and free the Kingdom of Acorn from his control.
-   Parodied with the elementary school dodgeball team in the _South Park_ episode "Conjoined Fetus Lady", who make it all the way to the finals much to their own shock and dismay.
-   The crew of the Ghost in _Star Wars Rebels_ is a rebel pilot with family issues, an ex-padawan whose Master died before she could finish his training, a former bounty hunter, a Lasat with a bad case of survivor's guilt, an orphaned 15-year-old they picked up when he tried stealing from them and a droid which likes to electrocute friend and foe all the same.
-   _Steven Universe_:
    -   The Crystal Gems consist of a Half-Human Hybrid teenager living with three aliens: a love-based Fusion of an elite Gem and her bodyguard, a Cool Big Sis with self-esteem issues who should have been twice her size, and an anxious Team Mom who broke free from slavery and was in love with Steven's Missing Mom. Later additions are a snarky, skeptical terraformer who's got some serious baggage about being trapped in a mirror for millenia, and a nerdy technician who pulled a dramatic Heel–Face Turn as she started to develop affection for Earth. These two live in a barn and enjoy watching crappy TV and making art (or "meep-morps") together, and are later joined by a small, animate pumpkin dog Steven created.
        -   The original Crystal Gems were a much bigger bunch, but they consisted of every kind of Gem that Homeworld considered inferior: Fusions, defective Gems, Gems who wouldn't carry out their assigned tasks, ect., led by a Gem that had come to love Earth so much, she was willing to sacrifice everything for it.
    -   The Off Colors are another bunch of misfits, hiding from Homeworld's judgement. They consist of a Seer who can only "predict" events that have literally just happened, an anxious Fusion of two, a serene Fusion of six, a pair of Conjoined Twins, and an undead human teenager with self-esteem and anxiety issues.
-   The Teen Titans were specifically stated to have been formed because they don't fit in anywhere else. They include the former sidekick of a violent vigilante, a half-man/half-machine hybrid, a half-demon Lady of Black Magic, a green skinned animal shapeshifter, and an alien princess.
    
    **Raven**: I don't exactly fit in.  
    **Cyborg**: He's green, half of me is metal, and she's from space. You fit in just fine.
    
-   The ThunderCats, both the original series and the 2011 reboot, were survivors of a great catastrophe (in the original series, it was the destruction of their home planet Thundera while in the reboot, it was the destruction of the kingdom Thundera). The original group consists of a young inexperienced prince with a great destiny, an old soldier, an Action Girl, a scientist (original series)/arrogant prince (reboot), two Tagalong Kids, and the Team Pet.
-   _Transformers_:
    -   Played with in _Beast Wars_. The oft-bickering good-guy Maximals are somewhat of a ragtag group, the crew of an exploration vessel forced into battle and joined by a Defector from Decadence, but the Predacon antagonists fit the trope even better, backstabbing, scheming, and jockeying for position constantly.
    -   Similarly invoked in _Transformers: Animated_, in which the job of saving the day lands on a repair crew with barely any real weapons who've mostly never been in combat before, while the Decepticons also spend a large time disorganized and spread apart. Of course, when the team of experts does show up, they're not a lot of help...
-   _Vikingskool_: None of the main trio fit in quite right with Viking society - Erik is the descendant of a disgraced hero, Arni would much rather be a bard than a warrior, and Ylva is a Wild Child Raised by Wolves. It's implied that this inability to fit in formed the basis of their friendship, and their collective traits in turn let them achieve far more than any of them or an ordinary Viking could do alone, up to and including defeating the trickster god Loki.

___