The child isn't so much raised by a pack of wolves or even natives (who while foreign or wild, genuinely love the child), but by their Always Chaotic Evil equivalents. Usually the orphan is from an orc raid, and their adopted parent(s) took them in out of either a rare display of paternal/maternal instinct, or to spite their human foes by twisting their children into cruel mockeries of themselves. Their life will probably consist of Training from Hell coupled with nihilistic life lessons, and focus on combat over social interaction. They will be taught Might Makes Right, that Asskicking Leads to Leadership, and to worship their God of Evil if they have one.

Of course, having not come from the Always Chaotic Evil stock, evil is not hereditary for them and is "all nurture", so they're prime Heel–Face Turn material. This can actually escalate if their foster parent(s) do love them, and the Orc Raised adult manages a community wide turn. Alternatively, it can be a chance to deconstruct the very idea of a race being Always Chaotic Evil, by revealing that the orcs may not be so bad after all.

While Orc is part of the trope name, the group need not be inhuman fantasy creatures, any evil human or non-human group will do. (Also, since Our Orcs Are Different and some variants aren't Always Chaotic Evil, a child literally raised by orcs may not fit this trope...) However this trope and the Heel–Face Turn becomes much more pronounced if they're not human looking.

Compare Raised by Rival. Contrast Orc Raised by Elves. See also Tyke Bomb.

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   Shura Kirigakure from _Blue Exorcist_ was rasied by a demon until she was rescued by Shiro Fujimoto.
-   _Dragon Ball_: Much like the Superman example below, Goku is viewed as this trope by his fellow Saiyans, especially his brother Raditz, who is horrified to find that his baby brother is living happily among the very beings he was supposed to murder. Vegeta also shows some shades of this with Goku early on, constantly disgusted whenever Goku display human values such as mercy and honor. Both tried to make Goku recover his true nature. Raditz kidnapped his son to blackmail him into killing people, which outright failed. Vegeta did instill some of the pride of being a Saiyan, although he could never make Goku act as brutal or as cold-hearted as a typical Saiyan.
-   In _Princess Tutu_, it's eventually revealed that Rue / Kraehe was actually just an ordinary human child abducted by the Raven and not his real daughter.
-   When he was young, Slader from _The Seven Deadly Sins_ was kidnapped and raised as a slave by some barbarians who were more than willing to kill him if he ever stepped out of line.
-   Juuzou Suzuya from _Tokyo Ghoul_ is a Psychopathic Manchild as a result of having been raised by a particularly evil Ghoul. Even after being rescued by CCG and trained as an Investigator, he remains prone to terrifying acts of violence and suffers from a Lack of Empathy. Once he's partnered with the kind Shinohara, he gains a surrogate father that helps him to slowly regain his humanity.

    Comic Books 

-   Princess Aldrif Odinsdottir of Asgard was raised by the Angels of the Tenth Realm, who aren't always chaotic evil per see _just_ think "Lawful", "Neutral" and "Evil" in any possible combination (their culture is very materialistic and deeply trenched in deals and bartering, so they don't tend to see worth in anything that cannot be assigned a price tag) — oh yeah, you might know her better as Angela.
-   The mutant who would become Apocalypse, En Sabah Nur, was abandoned at birth for his obvious mutations. He was then rescued and adopted by Baal, leader of the Sandstormer raiders, and grew up indoctrinated with their Social Darwinist creed. A lot of Apocalypse's villainy is simply him taking his adoptive father's teachings to a nightmarish extreme.
-   _Batman_ antagonist Bane was born and raised in Peno Duro, the worst Hellhole Prison in Santa Prisca, a small South American country mostly known for it's drug trade. His father was Edmund Dorrance, AKA King Snake, a British mercenary who fled the country after a failed revolution, with the government sentencing his unborn son to serve his sentence. As a result of being raised and trained by the worst murderers, rapists and monsters South America had to offer, Bane grew up into an extremely dangerous and competent arch-criminal, fluent in several languages thanks to the mixed nationality of the prison population, and highly intelligent both due to a natural gift and the education he received from the prisoners and a local Jesuit priest. He is essentially an evil, sociopathic Doc Savage.
-   _Black Moon Chronicles_: Zigzagged by Greldinard. He's a Half-Human Hybrid who was created when a human baby was adopted by an orc shamaness, but realizing that the other orcs would kill a human boy, she magically fused him with her just-dead orc baby. Greldinard's skin is patches of green and beige (though no one ever learns this as he wears 24-Hour Armor), and he's also unnaturally clever for an orc.
-   The _Lanfeust_ spin-off _Trolls of Troy_ is an entire comic series following the exploits of Waha, an human female adopted by a troll. He kept her as a fresh snack but grew fond of her before the time to eat her came. He raises her as his own, eventually leading to a "what do you mean, adopted?" moment. She's the best of her class.
-   In _New Gods_, Granny Goodness raises any children under her "care" to serve Darkseid loyally. Most conformed but out of the following:
    -   Scott Free/Mr. Miracle refused to be corrupted or break and ran off, followed by his future wife Big Barda. Unfortunately, this was what Darkseid _wanted_, since Scott doing so meant Darkseid could claim the peace treaty with New Genesis was now void.
    -   Knockout, while never good, also fled from them.
-   Several surviving Kryptonian influences and Sufficiently Advanced Aliens floating around the DCU seem to think Superman is this trope, and that they should help him recover his "true nature" rather than abandon him among the unworthy, inferior, savage human race. Clark Kent has a few issues with this interpretation.
-   Gunna Sijurvald of the _Thunderbolts_, imaginatively codenamed "Troll", is a half-Asgardian half-Troll girl who was raised among a pack of Trolls. Attempts to integrate Gunna into Asgardian society have failed since she sees herself as a Troll.
-   A 2018 one-shot issue of _What If?_ has _The Mighty Thor_ being raised by Laufey, king of the frost giants of Jotunheim, after the giants win the war against Asgard when Thor is a child.

    Fairy Tales 

-   A very common plot in Scandinavian folk tales: the trolls steal a child and raises it for their own. Sometimes they leave a troll child with the human parents, sometimes they don't.
-   In the Arabic folktale of "The Ghul's Daughter", a girl comes home to find her family murdered. A ghul arrives to feast on their flesh, but doesn't harm the living girl, deciding instead to raise her and transfer some of his magic powers to her.
-   The Japanese hero Kintaro was raised by the mountain hag Yama-Uba in a benevolent mood.
-   Rapunzel was raised by a witch after her own parents gave her up so her mother could eat the witch's rampion.
-   Vasilissa the Beautiful spent time living with and working for Baba Yaga the witch, rather than her abusive stepfamily. In most versions of the tale she learns courage and self-sufficiency, but in a few she also learns magic.

    Fan Works 

-   _My Abominable Monster Classmates Can't Be This Cute!_: Salem has a secret Academy of Evil full of Grimm/human hybrids, created from teenagers who she abducted, experimented on, and dipped in the God of Darkness's pools when they were children, and she's raising them to be her weapons against humanity. Under Salem's "motherhood", the hybrids live little better than savages: subsisting on nothing but raw cow and pig carcasses, and being taught to "cull" each-other until only a handful of the strongest and smartest hybrids are left alive to go out into the kingdoms and do Salem's work. Jaune wants to redeem the hybrids, specifically the Grimmified Team RWBY, and break Salem's control over them for good.
-   The _Warhammer 40,000_ fan character Blue is a Tau girl (a race of idealistic space-communists) raised by Orks. Which is strange because Orks have no concept of child-rearing, being animate fungi who grow from spores and emerge fully formed from the ground. That said, Orks are entirely in it for the fun of warfare, so if the girl can fight, she's more or less okay with the Orks. They don't care so much what species you are, has much as they do if you can swing a Choppa and beat the piss out of people (Including the Orks themselves. Their economics, such as they are, are based on Ork teeth knocked out of your enemies heads)
-   Steven Universe in _Gift of A Diamond_ - son of Rose Quartz, enemy to Homeworld - ends up being raised by Blue Diamond, one of Homeworld's grand matriarchs. He becomes one of her best Quartz soldiers and her most influential court member. He reunites with his Earth family, but only after the Crystal Gems ambush his adoptive older sister Carnelian, thinking she was sent to spy on them.

    Film — Animated 

-   The alien _Megamind_ is raised by convicts in a prison and taught right from wrong (more specifically, that right _is_ wrong). He seems to have had a happy and emotionally healthy childhood, despite having a very limited understanding of social skills. His education is also lacking, as reflected by occasional mispronunciations of English words, the most common one being "school" (which he pronounces as "shool").

    Film — Live-Action 

-   In _Blood Diamond_ many children are kidnapped and brainwashed by the rebels into Child Soldiers, unfortunately very much Truth in Television.
-   In _Captain America (1990)_, the Nazis kidnap an Italian child prodigy, slaughter his family, and raise him to be the perfect Nazi. He grows up to be the Red Skull.
-   _Conan the Barbarian (1982)_ shows Conan being raised as a slave after his family is murdered in a raid. As befits a hero, he not only survives, he thrives and grows into the man who will destroy the one responsible for the deaths of his family.
-   _Ilya Muromets_, a Russian film about Russian folk hero Ilya Murometz's routing of the Mongol hordes. In a twist, his wife is kidnapped and the Mongol Khan raises Ilya's son as his own. The movie very much treats his son's upbringing as this, but his innate heroism from his biological father lets him do a Heel–Face Turn.
-   Hsiao Lu-er, the heroine of the martial arts film, _The Jade Faced Assassin_, was stolen from a martial arts clan by a band of ten murderers and assassins called "The Ten Villains". But Even Evil Has Standards prevents them from killing a baby, and so the assassins decide to raise Lu-er as one of their own, each of them passing their best skills to her into adulthood.

    Literature 

-   _Discworld_:
    -   PTerry seems to like inverting this trope. It's present in _Snuff_; Felicity Beedle's mother was raised by goblins, and they treated her more humanely than the humans who eventually "rescued" her.
    -   Inverted by Mr. Nutt in _Unseen Academicals_. He _is_ an orc, and possibly one of the very few left; raids by humans killed off most of the orcs. Mr. Nutt was then raised by humans and Friendly Neighborhood Vampires before being sent off to Ankh-Morpork. And he definitely proves orcs aren't Always Chaotic Evil.
-   In another Victorian class-switch example, one of the big reveals of Sarah Waters' _Fingersmith_ is that two major characters are different examples of this. The two protagonists, in fact. Susan was actually born into the gentry, by the woman whom Maud thinks is _her_ biological mother, but Sue was raised by Mrs. Sucksby's band of working-class petty thieves to be one of them, an expert at stealing but uneducated to the point of illiteracy. Meanwhile, Maud is actually Mrs. Sucksby's biological daughter, raised as the wealthy heiress Maud Lilly, which means being abused by her (or rather, Sue's) uncle throughout her adolescence to be his perfect reader of pornographic literature. She's mostly "educated" in that she's an expert in books about men's sexual fantasies, and not a lot else, with how isolated she is in her "uncle's" sprawling and gloomy country estate. Park Chan-wook's film adaptation _The Handmaiden_, which transfers the story to 1930s Korea, kept a lot of the novel's other major twists but eliminated the baby-switch.
-   _Oliver Twist_ — Oliver, a member of the gentry, is orphaned and left at the mercy of cruel, greedy caretakers and ultimately London's criminal class. He manages to remain uncorrupted by their influence.
-   _Oliver Twisted_: To upscale the gruesomeness of the workhouse where orphans grew up in the original story, this retelling has the workhouse run by the cult-like Brotherhood of Fenris that deliberately corrupted the orphans to be sacrificed. Oliver would make the Brotherhood one of the evils he seeks to destroy.
-   Alinadar from _The Red Vixen Adventures_ was raised by Space Pirates after they murdered her family.
-   Duncan, in the _Stardoc_ series, was raised by Hsktskt.
-   _Star Wars Legends_:
    -   Played with in many ways with the character Tahiri Veila, a Jedi Apprentice (and later Jedi Knight) in the New Jedi Order. She actually _was_ raised by Tusken Raiders, but this was closer to Raised by Natives since the Tuskens, their outings in the movies notwithstanding, aren't all bad. _Then_ the Yuuzhan Vong show up, kidnap Tahiri, and attempt to brainwash her into believing she's one of them (in order to create a Force-using Vong warrior)- so she ends up with two sets of memories, in one of which she was raised by, essentially, space orcs crossed with space dark elves, as one of their own. Further complicating matters, the Vong Shapers tell her that she was one of them captured and raised _by humans_ before beginning said brainwashing, which considering the Vong see themselves as the good guys and their enemies as Always Chaotic Evil, is basically this trope from the opposite perspective.
    -   She's not the only one; an Old Republic Jedi named A'Sharad Hett was also raised by the Tuskens, until he left to become a Jedi and later, Darth Krayt. A lore entry from _Star Wars: The Old Republic_ indicates the Sand People have a habit of this, for reasons unknown to outsiders.
    -   In _The Truce at Bakura_, Dev Sibwarra got some basic training from his Force-sensitive mother before he was kidnapped by the Ssi-ruuk, so he maintains some human sympathies, but most of that is buried under Ssi-ruuvi brainwashing. He has been taught that though he is an inferior and strangely-formed creature, his Ssi-ruuvi masters love and care for him, though in reality they see him only as a tool. And he fervently believes that Ssi-ruuvi entechment (the ripping away of a sentient's life force to be used as a power source) is a wonderful fate to be shared with the galaxy, and his greatest wish is to be enteched himself and spend the rest of his life powering a droid starfighter.
-   Tagg in _The Taggerung_ is a textbook example: he's an otter whose father was killed by vermin, and is later raised by them. He grows to be the biggest, toughest, fastest, strongest of them all, and this being Redwall, he can't bring himself to kill an unarmed creature and he runs off. The tribe end up chasing him because a) he stole the chieftain Sawney's knife, and b) they think he killed Sawney.
-   Malbordus from _Temple of Terror_ is a human abandoned by his family as result of a curse, before being adopted by a group of Dark Elves with intent of raising him as their champion.
-   The Ilse Witch, aka Grianne Ohmsford of _The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara_ was raised by The Morgawr and his Mwellrets following the deaths of her parents. She grows up hating everyone, including the Mwellrets; The Morgawr is the only person she respects, and it's just barely.

    Live-Action TV 

-   Angel's son Connor from _Angel_ was kidnapped as a baby by Knight Templar villain Holtz. Who is actually human, and he would otherwise have been raised by a (good) vampire. Still, being raised by a fanatical Vampire Hunter in a demon dimension had a pretty clear negative effect on his stability.
-   River Song from _Doctor Who_ was raised by the Church of the Silence and trained to kill the Doctor.
    -   A _Big Finish Doctor Who_ audio reveals that her 'siblings' (clones created after her escape) were punished by being locked in their sister's old bedroom with her disemboweled teddy bear and other 'toys'.
-   Scorpius on _Farscape_. He's the product of Scarran scientific study that involved raping Sebacean women in order to determine if any potential mixed-species offspring could be of use to the Scarran Empire. He was the lone hybrid who survived. His upbringing after this point was not exactly very nice, to put it mildly. This made him join with the Sebaceans to destroy the Scarrans.
    -   This did not qualify as a Heel–Face Turn as the main Sebacean culture, the Peacekeepers, are just barely the lesser of two evils compared to the Scarran Empire (the Scarrans want to utterly conquer and subjugate everyone forever in a species dictatorship, while the Peacekeepers do at least sometimes allow their conquered species to maintain their own societies and get recruited). There's a reason that for most of the series, Scorpius was the Big Bad.
-   _The Magicians_: Fen and Eliot's baby is taken at birth by Fairies. The Fairy Queen later presents a teenager, Fray (short for Frail Human), as their daughter, explaining that time runs differently in the Fairy Realm. Fray makes it clear that her loyalty is to the Fairy Queen. When she reveals to the Queen a scheme of the humans against her, the Queen rejects Fray for betraying her family. Fray, bewildered, then reveals that Fen's baby was stillborn.
-   Helena from _Orphan Black_ was raised by the abusive Prolethean cult and trained to hate and kill clones (and misinformed that she was the original and not a clone herself). The Castor clones were raised by the military and trained as agents of The Baroness.
-   In _Power Rangers Lightspeed Rescue_, a young Ryan Mitchell was taken by the demon Diabolico, and raised to hate his human father, Captain William Mitchell.
-   _Star Trek: The Next Generation_:
    -   Inverted with regular character Worf, who is a Klingon who was raised by humans. Granted, Klingons aren't the enemy of humanity anymore (mostly), but the principle is the same. This was played with quite effectively, with Worf often being truer to Klingon principles than most Klingons we meet (from having learned about them while surrounded by humans), who are often sloppy and dishonourable from lacking this incentive to be true to their culture.
    -   Subverted in the episode "Suddenly Human", in which the _Enterprise_ discovers, and attempts to "rescue", a human teenager who was adopted as a small child by a military officer of an alien species, after his human parents were killed by them during a past war between them and the Federation. Signs of old injuries that were interpreted as abuse turn out to be due to the usual hazards of an adventurous boyhood as part of a Proud Warrior Race, and Picard and the crew finally accept the genuine love between the boy and his adoptive father, and his desire to return to the culture he was brought up in.
-   _Star Trek: Voyager_ had Seven of Nine (formerly Annika Hansen), the child of a human couple who were exploring the Delta quadrant and anthropologically studying the Borg. Their cloak against detection failed, and the Borg assimilated them all. Later, Seven was separated from the collective and Janeway freed and "deprogrammed" her.

    Podcasts 

-   Flint from _The Fallen Gods_ was kidnapped by orcs as a child during a raid on his village (they were impressed by his sixpack) and raised to be a warrior by them.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Exalted_ features a few examples, but one of the standouts is Harmonious Jade, the signature Night Caste. She was raised in a cult devoted to the demon Sondok, and spent her days as an assassin who struck at enemies of the cult. And then she was chosen by the Unconquered Sun to be one of the Solar Exalted. As demons have... _issues_ with the Unconquered Sun, Jade quickly became a target of the cult.
-   Feiya, the iconic Witch for _Pathfinder_, is a Tian-Min (essentially a Fantasy Counterpart Culture to Japanese/Chinese/Korean) woman who was raised by a coven of hags. Which, as in Dungeons & Dragons, are malevolent humanoid monsters whose culture basically revolves around Black Magic, murder, deceit and snacking on infants. As a result, her social skills are pretty awful.
-   An inversion is Serena the Pious, an Orc Paladin introduced in the third expansion to _Red Dragon Inn_. Her backstory, essentially a Shout-Out to the iconic D&D moral dilemma of "The Paladin wipes out a tribe of orcs — but what does s/he do with the innocent orc babies left after the Always Chaotic Evil adults are dead?", is that human paladins of Korash wiped out her tribe, found her amidst the wreckage, and decided to adopt her and raise her to be a paladin of Korash in turn. She does believe in Korash's teachings, but has problems balancing them against her inherently chaotic Orc instincts, meaning her personal mechanic situation is Karma Meter to gauge just how close she's managing to stick to her faith.

    Theatre 

-   In _Tomorrow The World_, a 1943 problem play by James Gow and Arnaud d'Usseau, a liberal college professor in the midwestern U.S. adopts his twelve-year-old nephew who has been orphaned in Nazi Germany. The boy is given to clicking his heels, repeating Nazi propaganda lines such as "To be an American is to be a member of a mongrel race" and declaring that his father was a traitor and a coward. Typical Enfante Terrible\-style mischief ensues.

    Video Games 

-   _Ace Attorney_: After his defense attorney father dies, Miles Edgeworth is adopted by prosecutor Manfred von Karma and raised to be one of the most vicious and effective prosecutors his district has ever known. This was all part of von Karma's extended revenge against Gregory Edgeworth. He murdered him and then plotted to turn his son into a twisted mirror of everything Gregory Edgeworth stood for, and without Phoenix Wright to confuse matters he probably would have succeeded.
    -   This is made more apparent that even if he's raised by von Karma, Edgeworth still didn't turn out as 100% as von Karma is, while he is more than likely to pursue "Guilty" verdicts, he doesn't make it a complete top priority, if there is a chance that he will unveil the truth, he will prioritize it over getting "Guilty" verdict, while von Karma could care less and only wants a perfect record.
-   _Arcanum_ has two versions of it as a possible character background and both zig-zag the trope:
    -   Literal one, where the player character was a runaway orphan, took in and and raised by an orcish family. Even if the character was apparently loved and cared for, it still robs him/her of conventional social skills due to a _staggering_ -6 penalty to Charisma (standard starting value is 8), while providing a decent bonus to Strength, Perception and _all_ combat skills.
    -   Being member of a barbarian tribe is combined with an extremely mysterious past. It's not exactly clear if the character was born in, raised by or simply dwelled with said tribe. The (toned) penalties are more related with being out-of-touch with social standards and lacking formal education rather than being rough or grumpy as a person. It also comes with extremely useful barbarian armour, combined with Strength, Constitution and Melee bonuses, making it one of the best starting backgrounds for melee-oriented characters.
-   In _Boktai_, Sabata was kidnapped at birth by The Immortals, given a healthy dose of Dark Matter to imbue him with all their evil powers, and sent after Django. Unfortunately for them he ultimately has a Heel–Face Turn, and his dark powers (which humans can't normally use) end up coming in handy against the bad guys.
-   _Chrono Trigger_'s Magus. As a kid, he gets dumped in the middle ages via time portal only to be discovered by Ozzie. He then proceeds to impress the monsters with his magic so much that he grows up to rule over them.
-   Goblins in _Dwarf Fortress_ always try to kidnap children of any race. If they're successful, the adults act exactly like ordinary goblins, and can be seen snatching more children and participating in raiding parties. Even more horribly, snatched dwarves will adopt goblin aesthetics and shave their beards.
    -   This can easily be taken to a ridiculous extent in world-gen as kidnapped children will eventually have their own children, thus "goblin" civilizations will often have their entire populations replaced by the descendants of the kidnapped other races. This isn't noticeable in Fortress Mode, because sieges only consist of goblins and possibly some dwarf squad leaders, but in Adventure mode you can often find Dark Fortresses completely devoid of goblins and the player characters themselves (who can't normally be goblins) will often be from such civilizations.
    -   That said, depending on the player's actions, it may be a lot better to be raised by goblins.
-   One of the possible character backgrounds in _The Elder Scrolls II: Daggerfall_.
-   The plot of _Fire Emblem Fates_ has this... sort of (it's a bit more complicated). The protagonist Corrin is a child born from the peaceful kingdom of Hoshido, until one fateful night when they was still a little boy/girl, the aggressive kingdom of Nohr under King Garon killed their father and kidnapped them to be his child. They were then put under the care of Garon's children, who are still pretty much decent people but carrying the values of Nohr under Garon, as he was shown to be a mad tyrant during that time. Even so, Corrin still carried the pacifistic nature that did not go along the line of Garon and the other darker part of Nohr, they refused to go along with Garon no matter which side they took, if they took Hoshido's side, they will decry that Garon is a mad tyrant not worth calling a father, if they took Nohr's side, they still sought peace and reforming the kingdom with their more decent siblings. Both cases, they succeeded despite having the upbringing of being raised by the less 'obvious good' side.
-   _The Force Unleashed_ had Starkiller, the son of a Jedi, raised as a Sith by Darth Vader. He's got the scars to prove it. Has the mother of all Heel Face Turns – he decides to become a Jedi and _founds the Rebel Alliance_, although, of course, Redemption Equals Death.
-   While there's no particular hard definition of "race" in the _Freedom Planet_ games, an off-hand conversation with Spade in the sequel reveals this is how Lilac was 'recruited' by the Red Scarves.
    
    **Spade:** Just sayin'. You can't blame your friends for growing up as fast as you.  
    **Lilac**: Oh yeah. Like _you_ gave me a choice.  
    **Spade:** Aaaaaaand you're still holding on to that.  
    **Lilac**: You stole me from my family before I was even hatched! So yeah. Yeah, I'm going to hold on to that.
    
-   In the _Skyrim_ mod _Interesting NPCs_ the character Bergrisar is a Nord (Human) raised by Giants, usually hostile to any trespassers on their land.
-   The Sub-Zero brothers in _Mortal Kombat_ were abducted by the assassin clan Lin Kuei when they were still children, due to their inherent ice powers as cryomancers, and then raised to be cold-blooded assassins loyal to the clan. Elder brother Bi-Han is too loyal to the clan and adopts most of its negative traits, until eventually he died by the hands of Scorpion, a man who Bi-Han brutally murdered, come back as a spirit to exact vengeance. The little brother Kuai Liang, on the other hand, follows the trope more closely, he showed his conscience by sparing the life of his opponent, giving Scorpion the cue that he's different than his brother. And when Lin Kuei decided to cyborgify every one of its members to increase their effectiveness at assassination, Kuai Liang rejected their philosophies and abandoned the clan, becoming a defender of Earthrealm in process and a bonafide good guy that eventually struck back at the clan and reformed it into a force of good.
-   In _Mutant Football League_, the Orcs of Hazzard are all orcs except for superstar RB Iron Jaw Magilicutti, a Mutant. The team's bio states he was abandoned in the bayou as a child, raised by orcs, and still thinks he's an orc.
-   The backstory of Symmetra in _Overwatch_ is that she used to be a very poor girl in Indian slums, only to be 'picked up'/kidnapped by the Vishkar Corporation and then raised to be their ace architect, never to see her parents again, and indoctrinated her to believe that order is everything, freedom is bad, but what they do is for the greater good (and for the most part they did restore order and make several parts of the world into a place with better living standards)... and then got sent to do corporate espionage to eliminate their rivals. While Symmetra eventually started getting doubtful due to their latest antics including oppression, she still tried to believe about their seemingly noble goal. Tellingly, while Vishkar in general looks more like only interested in profit or gaining dominance without care of other's lives or feelings, Symmetra dislikes killing (especially unnecessary ones), preferring non-lethal takedowns and she is driven by an altruistic goal to improve others' lives, essentially becoming their Token Good Teammate. However, the same upbringing and her having autism also caused her personality to look standoffish and looking down on the poor even if she is trying to help them raise in stature.
-   Albert Wesker of _Resident Evil_ was raised by the extremely unethical Umbrella Corporation as part of a eugenics project modeled on the CEO Oswell Spencer's Darwinist views. Therefore, it's not much of a surprise he turned into a vicious adult with some seriously skewed views on humanity.
-   Culcha (a human) in _Spectral Force 3_ was raised by Goblins. However, being a good but misunderstood race they were actually good parents. She views and is looked on by other goblins as a "big sister" and her Mama Bear is truly bearlike.
-   Hilda Rhambling from _Tales of Rebirth_ is born a Half, from a Huma(n) father and Gajuma (beastman) mother. That alone is a pretty serious issue, but her parents loved her anyway. Unfortunately, they ran across Tohma, who proceeds to kill her father and took the infant Hilda to become his personal Tyke-Bomb and both indoctrinated with how Halves like her are to be outcast of the society and the inherent racism on both races make it even worse, including her having a rough childhood due to her status. She only starts getting out of her dark upbringing when Tohma decided she's useless, revealing her Half status, humiliating her, nearly drove her to suicide and then only Veigue's team would take her along, not out of pity as she first thought. It's also implied that this is the case of Hilda's fellow Half friend Militsa.

    Webcomics 

-   _Dominic Deegan_ has the character Kharnak, who fits the _letter_ of the trope, but since in this strip orcs are a Fantasy Counterpart Culture of Native Americans he's closer to Raised by Natives in practice. He still fits under this trope as well, however, as a key part of his character is feeling out of place no matter where he goes. Though the orcs took him in, he was never really fully accepted by them because of his physical differences (humans can't eat Orc vegetables which are as tough as bark).
-   _Glorianna_: Hope is raised from infancy by the fanatical priestesses of Ojhal, only to be "rescued" by their rivals, the equally fanatical cult of Syons.
-   _Goblins_: Unusually inverted when a group of monsters is shown, which includes an orc that had been part of a raid on a dwarf settlement the previous winter. During the raid he encounters the very young son of a dwarf he killed, and because he couldn't leave the child to die the orc has been taking care of him ever since. Obviously the orc isn't exactly the normal Chaotic Evil brute orcs are generally presented as. However, the hideout gets raided by a dwarf paladin named Kore, who wipes out all the monsters, including the orc as the orc begs for Kore to spare the child. Because Kore is a crazed Knight Templar, he believes that because of this trope the child will be tainted by evil and likely to sympathize with monsters, so in a major Kick the Dog moment, he kills the kid too.
-   _The Order of the Stick_: In the tie-in book _Start of Darkness,_ Redcloak's brother, Right-Eye, gives his daughter up to humans to raise after their whole village is forced into Xykon's army. This is after his two sons have already fallen in battle, and given the brothers' hatred of humans he was clearly desperate.

    Western Animation 

-   _The Loud House_: Lincoln Loud thought this was the case with Ronnie Anne, admitting he assumed she was raised by trolls. This isn't the case, as shown in later episodes, and this comment got him a dozen CD's thrown at him by his eldest sister.
-   _Masters of the Universe_:
    -   _She-Ra: Princess of Power_: Adora was kidnapped by Hordak as a baby and raised by the Horde, though it doesn't take much for her to do a Heel–Face Turn since for some bizarre reason Hordak didn't try to instill his Always Chaotic Evil values on his de-facto daughter, instead raising her to believe in crazy stuff like justice and honor, and lying to her that he was a just ruler and that the rebels were misguided troublemakers. Though he threw in some Mind Control courtesy of Shadow Weaver for good measure.
    -   _She-Ra and the Princesses of Power_: The Horde _regularly_ raises orphaned young children of invaded territories to be soldiers, with Shadow Weaver raising Adora and Catra... badly. Adora is the just odd defector, as she had long remained oblivious to how destructive the Horde was in "bringing order" to Etheria.
-   _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2012)_: Karai was born the daughter of Hamato Yoshi (later named Splinter after his mutation), but she was raised by the Shredder as a member of the Foot Clan, being involved in all of the illegal and dishonorable activity that entails.

___