Not everything is better with dinosaurs.

_"Try to imagine yourself in the Cretaceous Period. You get your first look at this "six foot turkey" as you enter a clearing. He moves like a bird, lightly, bobbing his head. And you keep still because you think that maybe his visual acuity is based on movement like_ T. rex _— he'll lose you if you don't move. But no, not_ Velociraptor_. You stare at him, and he just stares right back. And that's when the attack comes — Not from the front, but_ from the side_, from the other two raptors you didn't even know were there."_

Ever since _Jurassic Park_ made _Velociraptor_ a household name, its iconic image — a man-sized, intelligent, agile, toothy, scaly killer — has appeared countless times in popular culture, usually as a Shout-Out to _Jurassic Park_.

Meanwhile in Real Life, the fact that the wrong dinosaur gained undeserved fame causes paleontologists an unending amount of bitter tears.

_Velociraptor_, while still believed to be an agile and clever predator in its own right, was actually a bird-of-prey-like hunter about the size of an eagle. The actual inspiration for the creatures found in the book and film is its larger cousin _Deinonychus_. Later books and films also pull in elements of _Utahraptor_, The Big Guy of the family which actually exceeds the size and build of the creatures in the film.

Besides _Velociraptor_, _Deinonychus_ and _Utahraptor_, this trope potentially encompasses all portrayals of other deinonychosaurian dinosaurs in media as well, such as the dromaeosaurids and troodontids. In reality, the group is made up of many species with various hunting strategies ranging from tiny to huge in size, sharing traits like their famous sickle claws, carnivorous diet, bipedal stance, and birdlike feathers. In fiction, however, the family shares traits like near-human intelligence, green or brown scaly skin, roughly human size, an insatiable desire to kill, and the name _Velociraptor_.

Science Marches On has further complicated things. At the time Michael Crichton wrote _Jurassic Park_, the dromaeosaurid subfamily Velociraptorinae was classified as a large collection of species resembling its namesake member, which included _Deinonychus_. Thus this species _was_ at the time considered to technically be a _velociraptor**ine,**_ <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and the Rule of Cool dictated Crichton use the name that could be shortened to "raptor".

This is no longer the case, however, thanks to some shuffling of classifications. _Deinonychus_ is no longer a velociraptorine. There are analyses that suggest troodontids and dromaeosaurids were not close relatives at all, and/or that some groups traditionally considered to be dromaeosaurids were not, instead being closer to modern birds (although others maintain the traditional view). Some recent analyses also suggest that the so-called "first bird" _Archaeopteryx_ may either be a deinonychosaur as well (in other words, closer to _Velociraptor_ than to modern birds), or farther from modern birds than deinonychosaurs are. This has even led to speculation that traditional dromaeosaurids may have had ancestors who _became_ flightless. And in a final hilarious twist, there is still no universal agreement on where _Deinonychus_ fits in the raptor's Tangled Family Tree.

It's worth noting that before _Jurassic Park_ made _Velociraptor_ famous, _Deinonychus_ was the most frequently-seen dromaeosaur in pop-culture. Many dinosaur-themed works of fiction from the 1970s and 1980s feature _Deinonychus_ as the token dromaeosaur.

In any case, it's worthy to note that there is very little difference between the body plans of _Archaeopteryx_, troodontids, dromaeosaurids and a number of other (relatively) small birdy things in that part of the family tree. Much like modern birds of prey, size and potential color patterns aside, the average person would probably have little luck telling them apart in life, even before they tried to claw your eyes out for being too close to their nest.

For a more thorough listing of the inaccuracies that tend to show up in various works, see the folder below. For good examples of _accurate_ deinonychosaur portrayals, see these websites.

Basically, an accurate dromaeosaurid would really just look like a Toothy Bird.

Usually an example of Artistic License – Paleontology, what with _Jurassic Park_ being the Trope Codifier, and sometimes of Rule of Cool, if raptors are added just for coolness. See also Terror-dactyl and T. Rexpy.

For the other kind of raptor attack, see Kidnapping Bird of Prey. See also Xenomorph Xerox for a type of alien monster that tends to have similarities with raptors. Can fit nicely into Feathered Fiend if the raptors are portrayed accurately with feathers.

___

    open/close all folders 

    List of Common Inaccuracies in Media 

-   Being covered in scales instead of feathers. If present in older works this is a victim of Science Marches On, but we've known since 1999 that deinonychosaurs had feathers.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  On real deinonychosaurs, scales were only present on the feet, if at all. Known specimens with feathers had completely feathered feet, meaning that scaly feet were probably a bird-exclusive trait.
-   In the event that deinonychosaurs are portrayed with feathers, it is very, very unlikely that the feather distribution and structure will be portrayed accurately. One of the most common mistakes on this front is to have the wing feathers end at the wrist, even though we know that deinonychosaurs actually had wing feathers attached to the second finger as well. Only partially feathering deinonychosaurs is also generally incorrect. It is common for many depictions of feathered deinonychosaurs to portray them as a weird hybrid between a bird and a lizard, probably to highlight their "missing link" iconism. However, we know that deinonychosaurs were almost entirely feathered other than the tip of the snout and sometimes the feet (though it is not unreasonable to suggest that the largest deinonychosaurs may have had some naked patches similar to ostriches today). For a long time it was thought that deinonychosaurs only had pennaceous (modern-style) feathers on the wings and tail (and sometimes the legs), with the rest of the body being covered in protofeathers, but a new study has shown that these protofeathers are likely just misinterpreted pennaceous feathers. So, like modern birds, deinonychosaurs actually had pennaceous feathers all over the body - imagine a slightly oversized, flightless bird of prey with a toothy snout instead of a beak and a long tail, and you may have a pretty good idea of what these creatures looked like in Real Life. Incidentally, the pennaceous feathers of many modern flightless birds (such as kiwis) are degraded and hair like, so it's possible that flightless deinonychosaurs were similar.
    -   If one wants to get a good idea of what raptors truly looked like, they were so bird-like that had they lived into the modern day, they almost certainly would have been classified as birds instead of reptiles. Accurate paleoart like that by Fred Wierum<small>◊</small> illustrates this point.
-   The hands will be twisted around so that the palms point backwards towards the body, kind of like a zombie. In reality, deinonychosaurs (in fact, most dinosaurs) have palms that naturally face one another, like someone about to clap, and twisting them around like that would break the wrists. Biomechanical studies have shown that deinonychosaur palms would actually rotate _upwards_ when the wrists were extended, which would have helped them clutch objects to the chest.
-   Deinonychosaurs will often be depicted as Lightning Bruisers, among the speediest of all dinosaurs. While troodonts and basal dromaeosaurids were well built for running, the larger, more derived dromaeosaurids (including _Velociraptor_ and _Deinonychus_) were not (they are, however, still much faster than a person, but not nearly as fast as pop culture depictions). In fact, going by leg proportions alone, derived dromaeosaurids were among the _worst_ runners among _all_ theropods (meat-eating dinosaurs), with only a few specialists (_Therizinosaurus_, etc) being much slower. As early as the 1960s, scientific analyses have concluded that advanced dromaeosaurids were built for short-range and fast bursts of speed (similar to modern big cats and the cougar) and low-speed endurance running instead of high-speed sprinting for long distances (like modern canids, to which dromaeosaurs often get compared), and the bone walls of _Utahraptor_ are around twice as proportionally thick as those of _Allosaurus_. However, the leg structure _does_ indicate that they do appear to have been very agile and had a good sense of balance (which is more important to chasing things anyways), which sort of makes up for it. In sum, advanced dromaeosaurs were more akin to Jacks of All Stats or masters of all than what the movies say, in that they stressed more emphasis on Combat Parkour (which ironically qualifies a raptor as a Lightning Bruiser) and claw-to-claw dogfighting than fleetness of foot.
-   Animal Eyes, combined with Rule of Scary and, to some extent, Reptiles Are Abhorrent. Cat-like eyes with slits for pupils are the most common, which _might_ be reasonable considering that the only non-dinosaurian archosaurs alive today, crocodilians, have slit pupils as well. However, given the fact that raptors are much more closely related to birds than to crocodilians, their eyes may well be more bird-like with round, fixed pupils.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  On the other claw, however, the typical raptor skull does not have a supraorbital ridge, so it would be rather unrealistic to give your raptor the same "eagle scowl" as that of the other type of raptor, the Noble Bird of Prey.
-   Bigger Is Better combined with Taxonomic Term Confusion, where works depict "_Velociraptor_" as being more similar to _Deinonychus_ and sometimes nearing the size of _Utahraptor_, the Trope Maker being _Jurassic Park_, due to Michael Crichton using paleo artist Gregory Paul's book (which considered _Deinonychus_ a species of _Velociraptor_) as a source for his novel. This is typically a result of Follow the Leader when present in other works. The actual _Velociraptor_ was typically coyote sized compared to the mountain lion sized _Deinonychus_ and polar bear sized _Utahraptor_.
-   Overly flexible or overly stiff tails. Due to their tails being surrounded by ossified tendons, deinonychosaur tails were probably not sinuous and whip-like as shown in _Jurassic Park_. At the same time, it is a common meme among paleo artists to draw deinonychosaur tails as being stiff rods almost incapable of bending except at the base. Though true to a degree, fossils of sleeping deinonychosaurs such as _Mei_ show that their tails were flexible enough to curl around the body.
-   Extreme intelligence, in stark contrast to other types of dinosaurs. Prior to the discovery that modern birds are dinosaurs, deinonychosaurs were widely considered "the most intelligent dinosaurs." (Just look at the door-opening raptors from _Jurassic Park_.) Based on brain-to-body ratio and brain structure, deinonychosaurs do appear to have been quite intelligent among Mesozoic dinosaurs. In fact, their encephalization quotient is actually much higher than that of modern-day crocodilians (which may not sound like that much of a compliment, at first, until you remember that, according to a recent study, crocodilians are actually as intelligent as dogs) and comparable to those of some modern birds. However, they were almost certainly not as intelligent as the most intelligent birds alive today, corvids and parrots. A common paleo meme that arose in the 1980s was the idea that if dinosaurs never became extinct, the most intelligent species (i.e.: deinonychosaurs) would develop into humanoid forms. This overlooks the fact that the most intelligent dinosaurs (modern-type birds) _were_ the ones that survived to begin with, as well as demonstrates something of a Humans Are Special attitude. After all, there isn't any good reason why hypothetical highly intelligent dinosaurs would necessarily develop a human-like body plan.
-   Being capable of taking on impossibly large prey. Due to their reputation as pack hunters (which is in itself debatable), deinonychosaurs are popularly shown killing prey much, much larger than themselves with ease. Although we know that some dromaeosaurids definitely preyed on larger prey (for example, one famous fossil preserves a _Velociraptor_ fighting a _Protoceratops_, a herbivore that could have been up to twice its size in mass), many of these depictions show coyote-sized dromaeosaurids killing prey not just ten times their size, but _several hundred times_ their size, such as adult hadrosaurs or even sauropods. This paleo-meme may have originated from John Ostrom's description of _Deinonychus_ as a big-game hunter, using its claws to slash at its prey, but it is now known that its claws did not have the sharp lower edges required for this purpose. Instead, the more advanced dromaeosaurs would have used the hooked claws as piercing implements, hooking onto moderate to large but not huge-sized targets (which, however, still can be larger than the raptor itself) such as juvenile iguanodontians or small ceratopsians, and skewering their vitals (the _Velociraptor_ vs. _Protoceratops_ fossil, for example, shows that the raptor's killing claw is embedded in the ceratopsian's throat, where the jugular would be IRL). Furthermore, many other deinonychosaurs (such as troodonts and basal dromaeosaurids) likely specialized in small prey, not large ones. (Check out how comparatively small those teeth and claws are in _Troodon_.)
    -   The often invoked predator-prey relation between _Deinonychus_ (3.4 meters long) and _Tenontosaurus_ (6 to 8 meters long) is not as set in stone as commonly presented either, despite being actually possible in Real Life with a family group/opportunistic gathering of _Deinonychus_ and a single herbivore.
-   Overly useful hands. Many deinonychosaurs had long arms and big hands, and it is therefore tempting to think that they were actually _used_ like human hands. It is not uncommon to see deinonychosaurs (again, especially _Troodon_) shown with opposable thumbs, even though the only deinonychosaur that has so far been biomechanically demonstrated to have had opposable thumbs is _Bambiraptor_, so most deinonychosaurs could only hold objects two-handed (or clutched them towards the chest). In reality, long as their arms were, deinonychosaurs couldn't reach further with their hands than they could with their mouths, and the large feathers known to have been present on the arms and hands of deinonychosaurs would have prevented their use in picking up food from the ground or digging (known traces of digging deinonychosaurs show they dug with their feet, as modern ground birds do). The hand claws were useful as grappling hooks and for holding food that couldn't be eaten in one gulp, but they likely weren't as dexterous as often portrayed.
-   Killing by disembowelment. The claw is often depicted being used like a blade, slashing the soft underbelly of prey. While this seems initially plausible, the deinonychosaurs' legs are not flexible enough for the task and the "killing claw" is built incorrectly for slashing, since it's curved and lacks a sharp edge. It's also highly dangerous to attack a large prey animal _by getting under it_. The most likely theories are that raptors used their claw like daggers, stabbing weak points like the jugular to kill larger game, or that they hunted like extant eagles; using the enlarged pedal claw as a gripping aid as the dromaeosaur _ate the prey item alive_ while pinning it down with its feet.
-   Misplaced Wildlife mixed with Anachronism Stew. Due to the fact that pretty much every dinosaur related anything seems to have a need for every stock dinosaur ever to make an appearance, you'll often see animals labelled "Velociraptor", "Deinonychus" or "Utahraptor" living alongside _Tyrannosaurus rex_ and _Triceratops_ (and in extreme cases, _Stegosaurus_). In reality, _Deinonychus_ and _Utahraptor_ went extinct long before _T. rex_, and even though _Velociraptor_ lived during the Late Cretaceous, it lived a few million years earlier and on the other side of the world. That said, this inaccuracy may have been vindicated somewhat, as two dromaeosaurs that resemble _Velociraptor_ and _Deinonychus_ have been discovered to have lived alongside _T. rex_: _Acheroraptor_ (discovered in 2013) and _Dakotaraptor_ (discovered in 2015).
-   Probably thanks to _Jurassic Park_, it was a bit of a trend for a while to depict raptors as being Always Chaotic Evil. It should probably be obvious why this is inaccurate. Fortunately, this is less common nowadays, to the point that later installments in the franchise both avert it and give a kind of justification for past depictions: they were violently sociopathic due to being "raised" without proper role models (read: isolated in artificial pens since a very early age, being fed remotely, and pretty much zero socialization).
-   Real Is Brown. Like many dinosaurs, raptors will often be depicted as green or brown, even with feathers, with writers acting like it's more realistic for them to be dull colored. In reality, we know from groundbreaking fossils of _Anchiornis_ and _Sinornithosaurus_ that many maniraptors would have been very brightly colored. Like birds, raptors had great eyesight and therefore would likely have been capable of seeing in color. That said, there are a few species proven to be somewhat darker in color, like the iridescent, starling-like _Microraptor_.
-   Giving raptors two fingers, likely a result of Mix-and-Match Critters, combining them with _Tyrannosaurus rex_ for maximum Rule of Cool. This mistake is particularly egregious because every known dromaeosaur had three-fingered hands (while the two-fingered theropod _Balaur_ was once considered a dromaeosaur, it's now thought to be have been a flightless bird and even when it was considered a dromaeosaur it was far too obscure to influence popular media depictions of the group).
-   Yet more proof that it's possible to go too far in one's attempts to highlight the avian characteristics of dromaeosaurids: portraying medium to large-sized species as being capable of sustained and powered flight. While all deinonychosaurs were feathered with "wings", and several smaller raptor genera such as _Microraptor_ and _Rahonavis_ may indeed have possessed limited flying (or at least gliding) abilities, the relatively small wing-to-body ratio of the majority of the group indicates that (unless the laws of physics were somehow radically different in the Mesozoic) they were flightless; they likely used their wing feathers for other purposes such as display, insulation, and/or balance while tackling prey. Research done in 2015 suggests that, for _Deinonychus_ at least, limited flying or gliding _may_ have been possible for juveniles of the species, but even then it would've been limited and restricted only to that particular growth stage, the animal losing its flight abilities as it matures.
-   Giving deinonychosaurs feet like a generic theropod and forgetting the killing claw. This is especially egregious since the killing claw is the _iconic feature of a dromaeosaurid_. Troodontids are common victims of this, possibly because their killing claws are less robust than those of their raptor cousins. _Archaeopteryx_ is also traditionally portrayed having typical bird feet, when it is now known it had raptor-like feet.
-   Portraying raptors as the ancestors of birds. While deinonychosaurs and birds are both eumaniraptors, they are not directly linked to each other. Instead, they share a common ancestor from which they diverged.
-   Wedge-shaped heads with a very wide base narrowing to a narrow snout, more like that of a lizard, are very common in media. In truth, like most theropods, dromaeosaurids had very thin, birdlike skulls. The former look was inspired by vintage reconstructions of _Deinonychus_, which showed it with a shorter, more allosaur-like head (though even allosaurs had narrow heads when seen in dorsal view), but the discovery of more complete _Deinonychus_ skulls has rendered the old restorations obsolete. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

-   This Gatorade commercial from the 90s featuring velociraptors from _Jurassic Park_ taking on Vince Carter of the Toronto Raptors... in a basketball game.

    Anime & Manga 

-   _The Blue Hole_ featured feathered crow-like _Deinonychus_. This was way ahead of its time, as the manga was published in 1991.
-   _Cyborg 009_ has one of the earliest examples of this trope; one chapter involves a living _Deinonychus_ in the modern era which turns out to be a robot.
-   The little-known Viz-Media manga _Dinosaur Hour_ actually used _Velociraptor_ in a chapter about feathered dinosaurs, which was about 2 _Protoceratops_ discussing about the appearance of a "feathered _Velociraptor_". They sketch a _Velociraptor_ and try to add plumage to it, and it ends up looking so ridiculous that they find it amusing. The _Velociraptor_ is later revealed to have... rather interesting feathering: it looked like it stuffed its head and torso into 2 giant puffballs, making it look like a cartoonish duckling. Unfortunately, its _Troodon_, _Deinonychus_, and _Utahraptor_ lack feathers, while _Dromaeosaurus_ is scantily feathered.
-   _Dinosaur King_ had feathered _Velociraptor_, _Deinonychus_, and _Troodon_ (all three are lacking wings and a tail fan, though) and scaly _Utahraptor_ with a crest. It also had a deinonychosaurian _Megaraptor_, though this was disputed in 2003. On the other hand, the _Archaeopteryx_ looks pretty good (it even has raptor-like footclaws), although the coloring is off.
-   The dromaeosaurids and troodontids in _Dinosaur Sanctuary_ mainly avert this by being portrayed with a nice covering of feathers. However, they still have half-formed proto-wings rather than full bird-like ones.
-   Averted in one episode of _Doraemon_, which showed an anatomically accurate _Velociraptor_. Previous episodes however had featherless raptors. A later episode has Doraemon and Nobita getting chased by a pack of _Saurornitholestes_ with inaccurate feathering and broken wrists. And then another episode has the cast getting menaced by a pack of nicely-feathered (but two-fingered) Arctic troodonts.
-   The manga of _Gantz_ featured aliens taking the form of raptors pretending to be display models in a museum. The raptors are given only a very sparse coat of feathers, and lack them completely on their arms.
-   _Inazuma Eleven_ has standard 80s-styled _Troodon_.
-   _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Steel Ball Run_ has the minor antagonist Diego Brando, gain the Stand _"Scary Monsters"_, which gives him the ability to transform into a raptor-like dinosaur, though with body markings resembling the letters DIO, and yellow, rounded quills on its head and back.
-   The anime short _Jurassic!_ averts this with an accurately feathered and sized _Velociraptor_. For bonus points, it is shown standing next to a dog for size comparison. The _Archaeopteryx_, however, has only two fingers on each wing, but at least it is the correct color.
-   _Jura Tripper_ has typical Jurassic Park-styled raptors, although a _Utahraptor_ with a feather crest appeared in one episode.
-   In _Killing Bites_, Tyke Bomb Koyomi Uzaki, the apparent Final Boss of part three, is a Deinonychus Brute, able to assume a dinosaurid form sporting plenty of feathers. Also a Big Eater and a potential cannibal.
-   The Kawasakisaurus from the 2-part _Kirby: Right Back at Ya!_ episode "Fossil Fools", which resembles a cross between a JP-styled raptor and Chef Kawasaki.
-   Trica from _My Girlfriend is a T-Rex_ is a _Velociraptor_\-human hybrid. She at least has some feathers, including wings on her arms.
-   _Seton Academy: Join the Pack!_ mostly averts this with Deino-sensei the _Deinonychus_. He has feathers (though his wings still end at the wrist), and his killing claw is described as used for stabbing rather than disembowling since it doesn't have serrated edges for cutting. Like the other dinosaur characters, he's a Reasonable Authority Figure, but will threaten the students with violence if they anger him.
-   _Zoids: Wild_ has the V Raptor-type Rapterrix (velociraptor) and D Raptor-type Gilraptor (deinonychus). Rapterrix are unusually accurate in their depiction of being small, fairly weak, and dumb. On the other hand, Gilraptor are larger and more intelligent with the trademark hook claw on its inner toes, but also tend to be highly effective fighters. They share similar vocalizations, which include hawk like screeches instead of gutteral roars.

    Comic Books 

-   _Age of Reptiles_: Dromaeosaurs appear in the first and third stories (_Deinonychus_ in the first story, and an unnamed _Velociraptor_\-like species in the third story) and they are depicted rather stereotypically as scaly, pack-hunting, extremely intelligent, super-fast, able to take down prey far, far larger than themselves (even a full-grown titanosaur), and with Absurdly Sharp Claws able to disembowel their prey in a single swipe.
-   One of Atomic Robo's recurring enemies is Doctor Dinosaur, a superintelligent (for a dinosaur, he's still an idiot by human standards) dromaeosaurid. He's loaded with scientific inaccuracies, but these are justified by Robo pointing them all out and concluding that he's a genetic experiment created by people who had watched _Jurassic Park_ too many times. However, the fact that The Cuckoolander Was Right when it came to Doctor Dinosaur's "time bomb," proving that his crystals could in fact allow time travel, suggests that these inaccuracies might just be due to his Inexplicably Awesome nature instead.
-   Issue 3 of the _Darkwing Duck_ comics by Joe Books has Bushroot and Dr. Fossil being attacked by their newly-created plant-_Velociraptor_ hybrids, kept small due to being given only a single drop of water. Gosalyn then sprays the raptors with a fire hose, making them grow into giants. The plant-raptors noticeably have leafy feathers, although their arms are left bare.
-   _Dinosaurs vs. Aliens_ did not shy away from giving their raptors and troodonts feathers. Word of God stated that this was not only for accuracy but also to differentiate them from _Jurassic Park_ raptors.
-   _Disney Ducks Comic Universe_: In "Escape From Forbidden Valley", Scrooge and the triplets encounter a pack of _Velociraptor_ feeding on dinosaur eggs. Scrooge muscles his way through the pack to get a couple eggs to bring back, only for the raptors to turn on him. Don Rosa actually gets the size of the _Velociraptor_ right as they are around Scrooge or Donald's height (3') and they also have the correct skull shape, but they are still scaly, as the comic is written in 1999.
    
    **Huey, Dewey, or Louie**: Run, Unca Scrooge! Those are the _most vicious_ type of dinosaur!  
    **Scrooge**: Those ugly runts? A Yukon grizzly would make six of 'em!
    
-   _Flesh_ was one of the first works of fiction to feature raptors, with _Deinonychus_ appearing in a supporting role in the first volume and playing a role in the main human villain's origin story. Needless to say, they are shown without feathers. More recent issues, however, feature feathered raptors.
-   _GI Combat: The War That Time Forgot_ actually has feathered raptors.
-   Clawstriders are a raptor-esq machine with frills resembling feathers on its head. While it appears in _Horizon Forbidden West_\], their first appearance in the tie-in graphic novels.
-   _Jurassic Park: Dangerous Games_ managed to avert this trope with completely feathered raptors. However, a flashback showed the scaly raptors from the movies, suggesting that the feathered raptors are the result of a different cloning attempt.
-   _Jurassic League_: The Flash is a _Jurassic Park_\-style _Velociraptor_.
-   Cooper the _Utahraptor_ from _The Midas Flesh_ is certainly feathered, but he lacks primaries on his arms.
-   Old Lace from the comic book series _Runaways_ is a genetically engineered _Deinonychus_. Interestingly enough, she looks just like the _Jurassic Park_\-style _Velociraptor_ and has been mistaken for one as well. She also resembles _Troodon_ as well, in regards to the shape of the skull and exaggerated large eyes.
-   _Star Wars_ gives us the Tiss'shar, who are, for the most part, _Jurassic Park_ raptors, although some have feathered crests on their heads and necks.
-   _Tyrannosaurus Rex_ managed to avert this with feathered raptors.<small>◊</small> Strangely, the comic has humans and dinosaurs coexisting (although this was only for fantasy).
-   _XTNCT_: Raptor is a programmed dinosaur with Super-Speed who always talks in Leet Speak.

    Comic Strips 

-   More recent strips of _B.C._ feature raptors.
-   _Calvin and Hobbes_ has Calvin giving a report about overpopulation, which involves a pack of _Deinonychus_ devouring Susie. Though the detailed dinosaurs look like something out of _Jurassic Park (1993)_, the strip actually predates it — and Watterson gives the dinosaur its correct name, though he couldn't know about the feathers back then.

    Documentaries 

-   _Animal Armageddon_ featured half-arsed _Velociraptor_ with the wrong skull shape and a pair of naked _Troodon_ that take down a subadult hadrosaur.
-   _Clash of the Dinosaurs_ had feathered _Deinonychus_, though again not quite extensively feathered enough. Two _Deinonychus_ also kill a subadult _Sauroposeidon_ with a few superficial scratches. Its sort-of sequel _Last Day of the Dinosaurs_ has something similar: two _Saurornithoides_ (which used the same model as the _Deinonychus_) kill an adult _Charonosaurus_. To make things worse, they're referred to as "saurornithoidids" (Troodontidae has been used for the group since 1987).
-   The 80s documentary _Dinosaur!_ features a pair of _Deinonychus_ hunting and bringing down a _Struthiomimus_. This is in spite of the fact the two animals were not contemporaries, _Deinonychus_ being from the early Cretaceous while _Struthiomimus_ was from the late Cretaceous.
-   Three episodes of the Discovery Channel miniseries _Dinosaur Planet_ featured "raptors". The first one was about a female _Velociraptor_ named "White Tip" (due to her white feathers) trying to find a new pack. The second was about a male _Pyroraptor_ named "Pod" who ends up on an island inhabited by dinosaurs much smaller than he is including a pack of mini troodonts. In a third episode, _Troodon_ proper shows up. They were commendably portrayed with feathers, but not quite extensively enough (for example, they lacked pennaceous feathers). Both dromaeosaur protagonists are depicted as being obligate pack-hunters that require extensive social interactions, a notion which is considered unlikely nowadays. _Pyroraptor_ is also depicted as basically being a _Jurassic Park_ raptor covered in greenish or bright-red fuzz (probably because the species is only known from extremely fragmentary remains).
-   _Dinosaur Revolution_ averts this trope with flying colors by having raptors with clawed wings, male deinonychosaurs sitting on the nests and omnivorous troodontids.
-   _Jurassic Fight Club_ featured _Deinonychus_, _Dromaeosaurus_, and _Utahraptor_, all of which either lacked feathers altogether or had only a tiny crest of them.
-   2015's _Leaps In Evolution_ \[1\] has a _Troodon_ that is very old-fashioned, being featherless and lizard-like, being a carbon copy of Dale Russell's iconic model<small>◊</small>. This is especially unfortunate considering the tyrannosauroids are neatly feathered.
-   _March of the Dinosaurs_ had _Troodon_ as one of the main characters. They also aren't feathered properly (though they have feathers), but behavior—wise are mostly plausible.
-   _Monsters Resurrected_ briefly featured _Deinonychus_ in one episode (_sans_ feathers).
-   _Planet Dinosaur_ went both ways by producing some of the most well-feathered dromaeosaurid television reconstructions to date, but the modellers still attached the wing feathers to the wrong finger, and their troodontids are no more than old-fashioned, lizard-like critters outfitted with a _very_ thin feather coating, and have no wings, nor a tail fan.
    -   They also made _Sinornithosaurus_ venomous, which was a theory that was panned some months before it was released (even though they included research that was _more_ recent than the rebuttal to the venomous _Sinornithosaurus_ hypothesis). The accompanying book does refute the theory however.
-   In the Speculative Documentary / parody _Prehistoric Park_, a _Troodon_, later named Rascal, causes trouble by attempting to steal the bait truck. This sets off a chain reaction of accidents in the park, culminating in the climactic T-Rex escape scene. This one had only a light body covering of feathers, with no wings or a tail-fan. Another episode also featured the troodont _Mei_ and the dromaeosaurid _Microraptor_, the former of which also did not have enough feathers like the _Troodon_, and the latter of which suffered some mild Anachronism Stew and splayed its legs while gliding, something that has since been debunked. As with _Prehistoric Park_, this is actually something of a Fair for Its Day example; the idea of dromaeosaurs having wings as well as feathers had not yet been caught on at the time.
-   _The Truth About Killer Dinosaurs_ focused on _Velociraptor_ in one of the two episodes, discussing how _Velociraptor_ may have used its killing claw in predation. The fact that dromaeosaurids had feathers is given some attention, though (as usual) the feathering given to the animated _Velociraptor_ isn't entirely accurate. It does also examine the trope of raptors using their sickle claws to slice prey open (using a mechanically-operated claw), finding that they probably couldn't. The documentary suggests they may have instead used it to puncture major arteries or other vital organs (subsequent research suggests they may have been used to grapple on top of prey like modern birds-of-prey).
-   _Walking with Dinosaurs_ had scaly raptors and in one episode, _Utahraptor_ was shown living in Europe. _Velociraptor_, also in need of plumage, turn up in the _Chased by Dinosaurs_ spinoff, where they're correctly shown as fairly small, though still pack-hunting and dangerous.
-   _When Dinosaurs Roamed America_ was one of the first documentaries to feature feathered dromaeosaurids. The scientific consultants pointed out that the feathers should've been more pennaceous, but they reportedly didn't have enough of a budget to do realistic-looking pennaceous feathers (though one may wonder why they couldn't just keep the feathers as textures like with CGI birds). There is another major error that was discovered in mid-production, too late to fix: the dromaeosaur species depicted in the documentary did not actually exist, they are based on fossils initially thought to belong to dromaeosaurs, but later reclassified as a more primitive coelurosaur (specifically tyrannosaur, and named _Suskityrannus_ in 2019).

    Fan Works 

-   Some fan art of the above-mentioned Diego Brando avert this trope by giving his Scary Monsters form feathers, often making him cuter in the process as a non-sexual instance of Self-Fanservice.
-   Neatly averted in _Equestria Girls Dino Sapien_, which portrays both Eno<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and his dromaeosaurid enemies<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  as extremely bird-like and using their toe claws for stabbing instead of slashing.
-   _Kaiju Revolution_:
-   A _Deinonychus_ christened Sharpclaw by the islanders in _Kataang Island Adventure_ has only an island to claim as his territory, so he contends with the islanders. He and other raptors are shown with scales instead of feathers, though it was said in the epilogue that they grew feathers for winter. He is also a shout-out to supposed living dinosaurs like Mokele Mbembe.
-   Our very own Albertonykus' _My Little Maniraptor_ series averts this trope. The ponies are all translated to different types of highly accurate maniraptors; the unicorns are oviraptorosaurs (their crests taking the role of their horns), the Earth ponies are flightless dromaeosaurs and troodontids (lack of flight ability and strong legs) and pegasi are flying deinonychosaurs (for obvious reasons; Fluttershy, a basal troodontid, is the exception due to being a weak flyer). The Princesses are Mix-and-Match Critters with features of all three raptors, plus some extant birds, like swans and cranes.
-   The _Lost World RPG_ a retelling of _The Lost World: Jurassic Park_ set in the Amalgam'verse both plays it straight and averts it. The scaly, overly aggressive JP-raptors are labeled as prototypes made by completing the then-incomplete _Deinonychus_ genome with _Allosaurus_ genes, resulting in their manic behavior. A later version made by Dr. Wu and Dr. Sorkin completed the genome and resulted in calmer, accurately feathered _Deinonychus_ which are extremely bird-like. When one of the prototypes is sicced on the expedition team, they manage to lure it and a later version into a fight. Because of its greater maneuverability and ability to Wall Run thanks to its wings, the accurate _Deinonychus_ wins.
-   In _Negaverse Chronicles_, Friendly Four's Bushroot and Quackerjack are transformed into raptors by Negaverse's Stegmutt, with Dr. Fossil guessing they are either _Deinonychus_ or _Utahraptor_. Both of their raptor forms lack feathers (or feather-like leaves, in Bushroot's case).
-   The _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fanfic _Pinkassic Park_ has _Deinonychus_ that attack the main characters after being accidentally freed from their pens, only to be knocked out after attacking Pinkie Pie's pony decoys stuffed with sleeping gas. They are explicitly stated to have bird-like feathers, and Word of God said they were used because the _Velociraptor_ from _Jurassic Park_ were actually based on _Deinonychus_, which is quite true.
-   Mostly averted in _Prehistoric Park Reimagined_, where all the currently rescued prehistoric animals that could count for inclusion amongst the dinosaurs to receive this portrayal (i.e. ornitholestes, dromaeosaurus, acheroraptor, pectinodon, etc.) are portrayed as accurately feathered, with realistic levels of intelligence, and not being any more aggressive than any modern carnivorous animal. Played straight, however, with the pectinodon over the course of Big Storm Episode _Hell's Labyrinth_, albeit under the justification of being infected with a Hate Plague that's causing them to act explicitly more violent and aggressive than they'd normally behave.
-   Mostly Averted with the dromaeosaurs in _Prehistoric Park: Returned from Extinction_, who are up to date with modern discoveries and don't usually act unreasonably aggressive. In fact, in the one major scene featuring _Velociraptor_, they're not the main threat — that would be a group of _Protoceratops_ that are charging the keepers trying to clean their exhibit.
-   Similarly, _Rise of the Galeforces_ has the protagonists regularly do battle against _Deinonychus_ Mooks. Most of them are Weaponized Animal version of the standardized JP-style "raptors", but one particular antagonist stands out in this case: Velociripper, a genetically modified, sentient specimen who is also weaponized - and is explicitly stated to have turkey-like, blood-red feathers.
-   _The Seven Hunters_ follows a relatively accurate portrayal of _Utahraptor_ in the case of Littlefoot's pack by including feathers and other traits, but uses the inaccurate portrayal from _The Land Before Time_ films for other _Utahraptor_. This discrepancy is eventually explained away by the rainbowfaces.
-   Swing123's _Triassic Park: Into the Past_ has _Deinonychus_ as recurring antagonists in the Late Cretaceous. They are as usual depicted as very intelligent and speedy (Calvin at one point said they can run 60 to 70 miles) and as pack-hunters. The fic doesn't specify whether they are feathered or not, although it receives points for comparing them to birds. However, it makes a jarring mistake of having the raptors tree Calvin and Hobbes and wait for them to come down, despite the fact _Deinonychus_ was able to climb.
-   The _Jurassic Park_ and _Mass Effect_ Crossover _Tyrant Kings_ has Jurassic Park-style Velociraptors, which is to say "Deinonychus-sized." However, the story decides to take it in a rather fascinating direction- in the story, not only are Raptors (and related races, including Microraptors and Utahraptors) sentient, there is an all-Raptor combat unit known as the Velociwreckers, outfitted with jetpacks, shotguns, and mono-molecular foot claw omni-blades.
-   _The World of the Creatures_ zig zags between the inaccurate media depictions like the raptors from _Jurassic Park_ and accurate depictions that represent our current understanding of dinosaurs. Seeing as this all takes place in a character's mind, this zig zagging is justified.

    Films — Animation 

-   Disney's _Dinosaur_ provides a rather... interesting handling of this. The _Velociraptors_ that attack Aladar and the lemurs just right before they are all rescued by the Herd are the first of their kind to be drawn anatomically correct in film history — small, weedy, and with properly oriented wrists — but unfortunately they still don't have feathers. In fact, they may even avert this trope if it weren't for the fact that they were scaly. This may probably have been due to Executive Meddling, since the higher-ups apparently thought it was cheaper and creepier that way, although Science Marches On may have also seeped in a bit.
    -   Some concept art however, did show them with feathers, and an initial take was them portrayed as like a "band of Indians" with the leader sporting a feather crown. This concept art dates back to _1997_, a time when the idea of _any feathered dinosaurs, period_ was still brand new and mostly discussed only in academic circles.
-   Averted in "The Rite of Spring" segment of _Fantasia_ where no raptors are to be seen anywhere, as they weren't very well-known at the time of that film's release (_Fantasia_ was released in 1940; while the first raptors were discovered in the 1920s, their remains were very scant). However, there was an Archaeopteryx that flapped its wings like a bird, real Archaeopteryx cannot flap their wings, and most likely glided.
    -   The small dinosaur attacking the _Archaeopteryx_ is a _Troodon_ according to Word of God, but it is depicted with a domed head and horns as at that time it was considered to be a pachycephalosaur.
-   _The Good Dinosaur_ features a pack of _Velociraptor_ presented as rustlers trying to steal a herd of long-horned bison from a family of _Tyrannosaurus_. They do have feathers, but only mane that goes down their necks to the ends of their tails as well as small tufts on the back of their legs. They are also, as usual, oversized, but thankfully have long and narrow snouts appropriate for _Velociraptor_, however the inaccuracies can be potentially justified as the story takes place in an Alternate Universe where the KT asteroid never hit earth and the dinosaurs have been continuing to evolve for millions of years.
-   The small carnivorous dinosaurs that attack our heroes in _Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs_ are vaguely reminiscent of raptors, including the killing claws, but they are _Guanlong,_ a genus of _primitive tyrannosaur._ In fairness to the movie, there _ARE_ deinonychosaurs, but the _Troodons_ (identified as such in the game) are depicted as naked vegetarians, although in reality they would have technically been omnivorous.
    -   And then there's the _Archaeopteryx_ that was to be fed to the baby _T. rexes_, whom Sid threw off a cliff expecting it to fly off but dropped like a stone. Kinda Truth in Television, although _Archaeopteryx_ most likely glided.
    -   The game app _Ice Age Village_ has a scaly, _Jurassic Park_\-styled _Velociraptor_. _Pyroraptor_ has feathers, however.
    -   _Ice Age: Collision Course_ has a family of feathered dromaeosaurids serve as antagonists. They are of unspecified species, referred to as "Dino-birds" in official merchandise, although fans and The Other Wiki believe they are _Dakotaraptor_. To their credit they at least have wings, only problem is they're able to _fly_ with them (something _Dakotaraptor_ almost certainly couldn't do as an adult in Real Life).
    -   _The Ice Age Adventures of Buck Wild_ features "raptors" as mooks for the Big Bad. They don't look like real dinosaurs in any way; they are featherless, and possess spikes, quills, and nose horns.
-   The _The Land Before Time 3_ features JP-style raptors as the main sharptooth opponents.
    -   In the seventh movie, some more raptors (called "Fast Biters" in-universe) appear during a flashback ambushing and killing some dinosaurs that Petrie's uncle, Pterano, had led away from the rest of the herd. An unusually dark moment for the normally tame sequels.
    -   The twelfth movie introduces a heroic feathered maniraptor, a _Microraptor_ named Guido. He looks nothing like a _Microraptor_, looking more like a cross between an _Oviraptor_ and a muppet. Although he is one of the few friendly meat-eating animals in the series (probably because he's too small to be a threat to even the child dinosaur protagonists).
-   Played with in _The LEGO Movie 2: The Second Part_: Rex Dangervest has a squadron of raptors that he trained to act as his soldiers (likely an allusion to Chris Pratt’s role as raptor-trainer Owen in _Jurassic World_), although they're not as dangerous as their usual portrayal. (Emmet even gives one of them a bellyrub!) Played straight however when he's revealed to be Evil All Along and has them attack the heroes, though after his defeat they pull a Heel–Face Turn.
-   _Speckles: The Tarbosaurus_ has scaly _Velociraptor_ with feathers on its head and arms. Its _Microraptor_ is decently portrayed, however. The sequel _Journey to Fire Mountain_ features scaly _Deinonychus_ with feathers on their arms and quills along their backs.
-   _Turok: Son of Stone_ featured _Velociraptor_ with protofeathers.
-   _You Are Umasou_ has a pack of _Troodon_ raiding the _Maiasaura_ nests in the opening scene. While the _Troodon_ were correctly depicted with feathers, they lack the killing claws on their feet. In a later scene, Heart chases a pair of red dromaeosaurs during his frantic search for Umasou. Both dromaeosaurs have scutes on their backs similar to the film's _Tyrannosaurus_ and lack wings and a tail fan, but judging by their coloring they appear to have a feather coating (though the art style makes it hard to tell). Although to be fair, none of the dinosaurs in the movie look realistic.
    -   A corpse of a feathery dromaeosaur makes a cameo during the eruption of Egg Mountain.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _Carnosaur_: Like in the novel it was based off, the _Deinonychus_ is a scaly and big reptile that attacks people in an obsessive manner even as a newborn. In the sequels the _Velociraptors_ take its place. Funnily enough, while even its chick stage is aggressive, it is also feathered (albeit due to being made from chicken DNA), making it one of the first depictions of a feathered raptor in any media.
-   _Claw (2021)_: The movie is about people in a Ghost Town in the desert being chased by a single black raptor.
-   _Dinosaur! (1985)_ has a pair of _Deinonychus_ instead of _Velociraptors_. While the movie shows their size accurately, their depiction has most of the typical inaccuracies due to dated information. It does, however, avoid the inaccuracy of them killing prey much larger than themselves, and they are instead seen hunting a _Struthiomimus_, a dinosaur reliant on speed for defense. Despite this, they are still presented as menacing predators. The narration also states the _Deinonychus_ may have been pack hunters, not saying it is certain, while the interactions of the pair after they make their kill imply they are mates who hunt together.
-   _Dinosaur Hotel_: A raptor is one of the dinosaurs the contestants of the game have to survive against. The raptor in the movie manages to claim the lives of Sam and Zara.
-   _Godzilla (1998)_: Godzilla's offspring turns the last half of the film into a fusion between _Jurassic Park (1993)_ and _Aliens_, with Nick and Philippe's team fighting the baby Godzillas, which act _very_ closely to _Jurassic Park_'s velociraptors. Possibly justified, since they're not actual raptors, but the offspring of a mutated marine iguana.
-   _Hatched_: There are stated to be two raptors on Simon's property. Over the course of the movie, they kill Christine and a couple of soldiers, including Sargeant Fletcher.
-   _Jurassic Park_, naturally, is the Trope Maker and Trope Codifier. They seem to grow in intelligence with each movie; the original could at least be fooled by reflective sheet metal.
    -   _Jurassic Park III_ gives them some color — to the male raptors, anyway. Somewhat justified, in that the first and second films' raptors were female, or, thanks to faulty DNA hybridization to fill in the damaged strands, changed to males.
    -   In _Jurassic World_, four of them (Blue, Delta, Echo, and Charlie) are being trained by an ex-Navy man named Owen Grady and appear to, for the most part, respond to him. He admits that it's helped by the fact that he was the first being they saw upon hatching and, since these raptors have been spliced with bird DNA (instead of frog DNA as the original ones were), he imprinted on them. It's also implied that Owen has devoted an enormous amount of time to raising and bonding with the sisters, which has effectively made him a trusted Parental Substitute and their alpha/father-figure. Even then, his control over them is shown to be extremely fragile and they'll gladly kill anyone besides Owen on sight.
    -   Vic Hoskins wants to use the raptors as weapons against insurgents and, eventually, forces Owen to use the raptors to help them hunt down the _Indominus rex_. Unfortunately, the _I. rex_ turns out to have some raptor DNA and manages to turn the raptors against the humans until the very end, when Owen reasserts his control and sends the raptors to attack the _I. rex_.
    -   The sisters also feature a wide variety of color patterns as a direct result of their individual genetic mixes. Blue is blue with patterns from a Black-throated African Monitor Lizard, Charlie is brownish-green (like the raptors in the original movie) with striped patterns from an Iguana, Delta is green, and Echo is sandy yellow. The film also acknowledges that the franchise's _Velociraptors_ (or dinos in general) look nothing like the real animals by emphasizing that these were not, and never will be, "pure" dinosaurs, due to the incomplete nature of DNA from amber or bones and the non-dinosaur genes used to fill in the gaps.
    -   There's a reasonable fan theory that the velociraptors in Jurassic Park are _Achillobators_, which were the size of Jurassic Park raptors and also from Mongolia. Since _Achillobator_ was not named when the book was written, and was instead considered a large specimen of _Velociraptor_, this is plausible, but impossible to confirm.
    -   The fifth film of the franchise, _Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom_, introduces the _Indoraptor_, a hybrid cloned from the _I. rex_ mixed with _Velociraptor_ DNA. About twice the size of Blue, the _Indoraptor_ has terrifying intelligence and a sadistic sense of humor, and strangely is semi-quadrupedal. The scientists behind the project clarify that it's only a prototype of the bioweapon they're trying to create: not only is it still too psychotic to control, but it also suffers from other health defects as a result of its wonky genetic structure.
    -   The _Atrociraptors_ in _Jurassic World Dominion_ continue the trend of being scaly, pack-hunting predators, though they at least lack pronated hands - and they're in a way the bioweapon the _Indoraptor_ was supposed to be, able to respond to a sound\\light command to hunt a specified target no matter what appears in the way. IT is downplayed, though, with _Pyroraptor_, which has feathers (complete with wings) and also proper wrists. However it continues many common inaccuracies, including having large, catlike eyes, attaching the wings to the wrist instead of the second finger, and with general proportions similar to the franchise's _Velociraptors_. Both dromaeosaurids are as big as the franchise's _Velociraptors_.
-   The remake of _King Kong (2005)_ introduces the _Venatosaurus_, a fictional genus of dromeosaurid. For starters, they have scaly skin, pronated hands, and slit pupils. They are shown possessing great speed and strength, and make the examples involving deinonychosaurs bringing down adult hadrosaurs seem plausible, because they are shown hunting a large herd of adult sauropods. In the book it's said they give _live birth_ and are specialized just to kill large dangerous game even the island's tyrannosaurs can't hunt. The book also includes three other species: a smaller, blue-tailed variety of _Venatosaurus_; the crested fish-eater _Ambulaquasaurus_; and strangest of all, the _Arsarticaedes_, a mountain predator that _runs on all fours_.
-   Raptors appear in the appropriately titled _Raptor Ranch,_ though surprisingly have very little screentime compared to the larger meat-eating dinosaurs.
-   Raptors appear as the antagonists in the found footage film _Tape 407_.
-   _Tremors 2: Aftershocks_: The shriekers, a velociraptor-like "nymph" stage — the movie premiered 2 years after _Jurassic Park (1993)_. They're not even close to dinosaurs, however.

    Literature 

-   Raptors are present in the original _Jurassic Park_ novel, just as they are in the movie. Here, though, they are explicitly referred to as _Velociraptor mongoliensis_ and stated to come from China, which means that, unlike in the movies, they are not misnamed _Deinonychus._ They are still, however, the same size as their film counterparts. There are a couple possibilities for why this might have been done. Michael Crichton is known to have relied on Gregory S. Paul's 1988 book _Predatory Dinosaurs of the World_, as a resource, and this book puts forth the (since debunked) notion that _Deinonychus_ is a synonym of the much smaller _Velociraptor_. Hence, Crichton may have decided to increase the raptors' size to that of _Deinonychus_ due to conflating the two. He many also have been influenced by Paul's mention in his book of a toe bone from a big Asian raptor, which he considered to be a species of _Velociraptor_. In 1989, a full skeleton of this raptor— or at least, possibly same species the toe bone belonged to— was found dating back to roughly the same place and time, and in 2000 it was named _Achillobator_.
-   Happens in _Animorphs_, when they're sent to the time of dinosaurs. Tobias played with toy dinosaurs as a kid, and when they find a pack of _Deinonychus_ Rachel calls them "raptors," but Tobias corrects her — he does however note they are still fast, dangerous, carnivorous dinosaurs they should really run from because they're actually _worse_ than _Velociraptor_. That said, they're still described as having scaly skin, and shown living at the end of the Cretaceous period (though that last part is lampshaded by Tobias at the end).
-   The protagonist of _Anonymous Rex_, Vincent Rubio, actually _is_ a velociraptor (and a Private Detective in modern Los Angeles). He describes his hide as green and scaly, claiming that his species allegedly having had feathers, and in fact _the K-T extinction_, are part of an elaborate hoax designed to keep humans in the dark about the continuing survival of the dinosaurs. (He also mentions his _external_ ears and the very lizardy Healing Factor of a group of ornithomimids, so... yeah.) For the most part, he acts human, but can jump and fight like a true dino if there's a need for it.
-   _Velociraptor_ are recurring villains in the _Astrosaurs_ series. Not only they are scaly and oversized as usual but have forked tongues, which aren't even an archosaur trait. However, the books try to justify this as evolution in space over 65 million years.
-   _Carnosaur_ might actually be the unsung Trope Maker, predating _Jurassic Park_ by over half a decade. While featherless, due to being released in 1984, and featuring incorrect claw usage; it was actually ahead of works following it for years by depicting its _Deinonychus_ as behaving very bird-like. In a case of possibly Accidentally-Correct Writing, the animals' primary bird-like killing/feeding method of pinning down with the feet and tearing with the arms and jaws actually lines up quite well with modern theories. The two _Deinonychus_ in the book are still portrayed as voraciously seeking out humans are prey, but it's given the justification that since they were feed livestock since infancy, they associate all mammals with easy food.
-   In _Destroyermen_, the Grik are described as very raptor-like: bipedal, with sharp claws and teeth, fast and vicious. The resident scientist who cuts one up points out that they share some kinship with birds thanks to their hollow bones and feathered skin. This is deliberate, as the scientist (from the 40s) would not know that raptors really are related to modern birds. Unlike the raptors described in _Jurassic Park_, the Grik prefer an Attack! Attack! Attack! mentality, coming in as a disorganized mob without regards for tactics or casualties. However, this is later revealed to have been the result of deliberate cultural tendency, as the Grik cull all non-aggressive hatchlings. When they stop doing that, the non-aggressive ones show real aptitude for tactics.
-   _The Dinosaur Lords_ prominently features dromaeosaurids and troodontids as wild or domesticated animals. Victor Milán clearly shows his research and depicts them as appropriately feathered, and _Velociraptor_ is realistically sized and presented as a mere pest to humans.
-   _Dinosaurology_ (a 2013 installment in Dugald Steer's _Dragonology_ series) featured feathered _Deinonychus_ (not feathered enough, though) that bring down a juvenile _Brachiosaurus_ and more accurately feathered _Velociraptor_ frightening a herd of hadrosaurs. The events of the book is set in 1907, and yet _Velociraptor_, discovered in 1924, was able to be identified. Interestingly, the equally identical _Deinonychus_ is treated as a creature unlike any other. However, the book somewhat Hand Waved these inaccuracies in that it is supposed to be the facsimile of a traveler's journal. The venomous _Sinornithosaurus_ speculation is also brought up, but this is just treated as a hypothesis as only the tooth of the animal was featured.
-   In _Dinotopia_, it is almost a given that some deinonychosaurs crop up from time to time, due to the many dinosuars in this work. Two examples are Malik the _Stenonychosaurus_ and Enit the _Deinonychus_, who both work in Waterfall City as the Time-Keeper and the Chief Librarian respectively. Both of these are victims of Science Marches On and lack feathers, which probably explains why they don't show up in the fourth book (which is _filled_ with feathered depictions of deinonychosaurs and other dinosaurs, including Emperor Hugo Khan the _Microraptor_).
-   _Dinoverse_ has a _Deinonychus_ pack with an extremely structured social hierarchy and set of mores. They even punish members they think have withheld food from the group. One of them also learns how to make fire and many other things by watching a human do it. They're scaly, highly dextrous, fast, and can take huge prey.
-   _Evolution_ has a scaly _Deinonychus_ in the end of the Cretaceous Period that appears to be cold-blooded, despite the fact that this is the very dinosaur that sparked the idea dinosaurs were warm-blooded. Fortunately, its _Troodon_ and _Velociraptor_ are feathered.
-   In the _Jurassic World_ prequel novel _The Evolution of Claire_ a lone female velociraptor that was transported from Isla Sorna to Isla Nublar ends up escaping containment and attacks a young Claire Dearing and kills her love interest Justin Hendricks.
-   _Prehistoria_: Averts almost every facet of the trope. The _Adasaurus_ featured as the focus character is entirely feathered with accurate wings, is solitary with her only interaction with another female is to immediately get into a territorial dispute, and uses their claws more for climbing, pinning prey, and stabbing in an emergency rather than slashing. The science section in the second half of the book focuses on discussing this trope and how even if some dromaeosaurids potentially hunted in packs, that doesn't mean every species did <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> .
-   _Raptor Red_, a novel by paleontologist Bob Bakker, is told from the POV of a female _Utahraptor_. _Deinonychus_ and troodonts also show up in the story. Speculation aside, the deinonychosaurs are portrayed accurately for the time - 1995, just a few years before it was confirmed feathers were basal to the dromaeosaur lineage. (And to be fair, it's the only avian trait the raptors _don't_ have.) Also, _Deinonychus_ and _Utahraptor_ weren't actually contemporaneous, though both lived in North America in the Early Cretaceous.
-   _Silverwing_: Most of the surviving Saurians (dinosaurs and pterosaurs that survived beyond the Cretaceous) in the prequel _Darkwing_ are scaly dromaeosaur-like theropods with downward pronated hands. They are established as being too strong for any early mammal to take down.
-   _A Song of Ice and Fire_: Twice in the series, it briefly alludes to "terrible walking lizards with scythes for claws" which dwell in the lands far beyond Westeros. Since the series uses Medieval Prehistory (with dire wolves, _Megaloceros_, and woolly mammoths among the fauna of Westeros), it's probable the "walking lizards" are a vague description of scaly, _Jurassic Park_\-style dromaeosaurs.
-   _Star Wars Legends_: The Ssi-Ruuk are a race of aliens who are essentially anthropomorphic _Jurassic Park_\-style velociraptors, though they also throw in some Tyrannosaurid features and dragonic features from both Eastern and Western dragons. Naturally, they're bloodthirsty conquerors and tacticians.
-   _Tales of Kaimere_: Modern Cockatrices on Kaimere are a clade of derived eudromaeosaurs whose ankles have fused together like tyrannosaurs and robust monarchs, which help them run faster over longer distances. Rather than pinning their prey down with their foot claws and biting out their flesh like basal raptors, Cockatrices will use their teeth to grab onto their prey and then stab at their vital areas with their sickle claws. The Eastern Continent has a giant Dromaeosaur, called the Komu Ka Bawe, that specializes in hunting down Titanosaurs and using their teeth to sheer flesh.
-   _The Ultimate Dinopedia: The Most Complete Dinosaur Reference Ever_, a 2010 National Geographic book, is a mixed bag, ranging from the dated but otherwise good (_Microraptor_) to the otherwise decent ones lacking primaries (_Buitreraptor_) to those lacking wing feathers altogether (_Troodon_, _Velociraptor_ & _Deinonychus_) to the completely naked ones (_Utahraptor_). To make things worse, it uses Dromaeosauridae to encompass every coelurosaur that isn't a tyrannosauroid, ornithomimosaur, therizinosaur or bird (and some non-coelurosaurs, such as the carnosaur _Xuanhanosaurus_, the chimeric archosaur "Protoavis" and the ankylosaur _Struthiosaurus_). Thankfully, the second edition fixes these errors.
-   _Z. Raptor_ has genetically-enhanced _Velociraptor_ and _Utahraptor_. Both are sparsely-feathered and the latter spits acid (due to DNA splicing).
-   Averted in _Primitive War_ with its _Utahraptor_ and _Deinonychus_. Both are accurately feathered and bird-like, _Deinonychus_ displays arboreal locomotion, and the concept art shows _Utahraptor_ with more up-to-date proportions (shorter legs and stocky build).

    Live-Action TV 

-   The _Doctor Who_ episode "Dinosaurs On A Spaceship" features "Raptors" that look very much like the raptors from _Primeval_. In fact, they _are_ the raptors from _Primeval_ - the animation model was reused. (Potential Crossover, anyone?)
-   In _House of the Dragon_, the near-human size (at the time) and aggressiveness of the young dragon Vermax give off a _Jurassic Park_ velociraptor vibe.
-   In the BBC show _My Pet Dinosaur_, speculating on human's relationships with dinosaurs had the meteor not hit, had scaly _Troodon_s as the equivalent of raccoons and foxes.
-   _Primeval_ features raptors in some episodes, _Jurassic Park_\-styled. All of them have head quills, in the style of the raptors in _Jurassic Park III_, although they also have plumage covering much of their body to show they at least did a little research.
    -   A Super Persistent, time-traveling, Raptor is even used to deliver some Laser-Guided Karma to one of the Big Bads, tracking them through multiple temporal leaps.
    -   Tree Creepers, a hypothetical climbing dinosaur, resemble muscular, long-armed raptors, but lack feathers and the killing claws.
    -   Finally, the raptor model was once more reused to be an unnamed Jurassic theropod that swims between islands in search of food. It's not supposed to be a raptor, and the dim lighting, dark coloration of the creature, and camera angles make damn certain that you can't see the sickle claws. Originally the creature was to be a _Eustreptospondylus_, which actually did live on islands in the Jurassic, but a lack of funds meant they couldn't make a new model. Luckily, instead of re-painting the raptor black and calling it _Eustreptospondylus_, they re-painted it black and referred to it as just a "theropod" (which means it could be virtually any kind of two-legged carnivorous dinosaur).
-   Hulu's _Runaways (2017)_ adaptation naturally features Old Lace, Gert's empathic _Deinonychus_. Her design has been altered slightly to include feathers.
-   _Super Sentai_ and _Power Rangers_ have had raptors in some of their dinosaur-themed series. In every case, they're some form of biomechanical creature, so don't bother expecting strict accuracy:
    -   _Bakuryuu Sentai Abaranger_ and _Power Rangers: Dino Thunder_ gave the Rangers velociraptors as steeds (though _Dino Thunder_ downplayed them in favor of using motorcycles for personal transportation instead).
    -   In _Zyuden Sentai Kyoryuger_ and _Power Rangers Dino Charge_, the Green Ranger is Velociraptor-themed, and the team can summon sets of twin Deinonychus mechs that combine into motorcycles.
    -   _Kishiryu Sentai Ryusoulger_ and _Power Rangers Dino Fury_ have a pair of raptor Humongous Mecha.
-   The _Star Trek: Enterprise_ two-parter "In a Mirror, Darkly" discusses the trope when a mirror-Red Shirt on the captured starship _Defiant_ is found killed by what Phlox describes as "a particularly large reptile" that turns out to be a Gorn.
    
    **Reed:** Perhaps it was a pet owned by one of the crew.  
    **Phlox:** Unless one of them owned a _Velociraptor_, I find it highly unlikely.
    
-   _Terra Nova_ gives us the _Nykoraptors_, a fictional breed of dromaeosaurid said to have 3 rows of incisors. And they have feathers, if you look at them closely. They're also capable of climbing trees, just like real dromaeosaurids. The equally fictional _Acceraptors_, called "slashers" by the characters and not named onscreen, are sometimes thought of as raptors, but lack the toe claws and more closely resemble primitive tyrannosaurs like _Guanlong_ (see the example from _Ice Age_ above).

    Sports 

-   The NBA team the Toronto Raptors debuted in 1995 during the NBA's expansion into Canada, and were so named due to the popularity of _Jurassic Park_ at the time, with a Hollywood-style velociraptor as its mascot. The classic raptor mascot and imagery has persisted to this day despite what we know now.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _The Chronicles of Aeres_: The Sliskvir of Astreas are a race of Lizard Folk with features of raptor-like dinosaurs from the blasted southern wastelands of Astreas. They were warped by Wild Magic from the wildest and most barbaric human civilization of Astreas by the death of the Mad God Drakmorla. Interestingly, in contrast to the standard, vaguely crocodilian-featured Lizard Folk of _Dungeons & Dragons_, which are described as "coldblooded", logical and stoic, sliskvir are chaotic, impulsive, wildly emotional and passion-driven creatures.
-   _Dungeons & Dragons_:
    -   The fleshraker dinosaur from _Monster Manual III_ is a spined green creature described as "a cousin of the velociraptor", and somewhat notorious as one of the most powerful animal companion options in the system.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Its "Leaping Pounce" ability allows it to make _five_ attacks as part of a charge, while also potentially knocking down the attack target and/or pinning it helplessly to the ground. Its foreclaws and tail are also venomous for good measure.
    -   The Sunset Raptor is an equally deadly take, but replaces the venom with blinding light; on top of the disemboweling claws and teeth, it can use its pattern of feathers to reflect light in a way to blind or even hypnotize potential predators and prey.
-   _Pathfinder_ features scaly raptors as mounts for the Chevalier class.
-   _Discworld Roleplaying Game_: The "Lost and Found" sample scenario includes a confrontation with "High-Velocity Rapacious Monstrosities" whose inspiration is obvious — though, being derived from Discworld swamp dragons, these creatures are also fire-breathing and explosive. They are not a standard Discworld species, but, well, A Wizard Did It.
-   _Exalted_: Claw striders are scaly, featherless raptors as tall as a man and with curved toe-claws capable of slashing open the throat of a horse with one swing. They are ferocious pack hunters, and can bring down prey as large as elephants and tyrant lizards by running them into exhaustion before ganging up on them.
-   _Magic: The Gathering_:
-   _Warhammer_; Cold Ones are large raptors that inhabit Lustria and the New World, used as mounts by the Lizardmen and the Dark Elves. There are two species (the Lustrian species is more crocodilian while the northern type closely resembles _Jurassic Park_ raptors), but unusually for most depictions they are described as being painfully stupid compared to other beasts of war. They are highly aggressive and will attack their riders as well, so the riders have to take extra precautions before preparing them for war. (Saurus that are spawned to ride Cold Ones exude pheromones that mask their scent, while the Dark Elves use elixirs and foul smelling cosmetics for the same purpose.)

    Theme Parks 

-   _Donald's Dino-Bash_ at Disney's Animal Kingdom mostly averts this trope by featuring a new feathered dromaeosaur character, who is supposed to teach that many theropods had feathers and were very similar to birds (the raptor still appears to be scaly, or at least his snout and underside are — the art style makes it hard to tell).
-   The UK theme park Lightwater Valley opened a new ride around 2010 called the Raptor Attack. The ride is based on a an old coal mine, with newspaper reports about raptor fossils being found inside. The visitors then wait for a roller coaster cart at the end of the mine to continue the tour, while the lights start to dim and a miner via a video camera screams "Do not send anyone else down, there's something moving down here, Smith is dead. Repeat, do not send anyone else down" and the video goes dead. The ride then proceeds to a dark ride coaster with animatronic raptors and dead miners. At the end of the ride, when the visitors are leaving, a raptor jumps out of the water and hisses and a metal doorway clangs as another raptor tries to break out.
-   The beginning of the climax of _Skull Island: Reign of Kong_ at Universal's Islands of Adventure involves the guests being pursued by a pack of Venatosauruses.

    Toys 

-   Takara Tomy _Ania Animal Adventure_ line has a _Velociraptor_ figure. Its mouth, legs and tail are articulated, and it comes with a palm tree for diorama building. Curiously, while the box art has its arms feathered, the actual figure doesn't have any feathered feature.
-   The Cuddlekins (a line of plush animals made by the company Wild Republic) has both a _Velociraptor_ and _Utahraptor_ plush. On the one hand, both toys have accurate (at the time the toys were made) information on each of the dinosaurs, look fairly realistic (for plush toys), and have feathered bodies. On the other hand, the _Utahraptor_ plush isn't quite as "fluffy" as the _Velociraptor_ and both plush have their hands facing downwards (something that's impossible for real-life dromaeosaurs).
-   The _Dino-Riders_ toy line had not one, but two different sets with a _Deinonychus_. Until the introduction of a Rulon _Quetzalcoatlus_, it was therefore the only species that was ridden both by the heroes and the bad guys.
-   Surprisingly averted with this Dino Valley _Velociraptor_ toy. Granted, the eyes and teeth are cartoonishly exaggerated, the hallux is touching the ground, and the wing feathers attach to the wrist and not the second finger, but it's otherwise an accurately feathered dromaeosaur, right down to the face being feathered with only the snout bare.
-   The _Jurassic Park_ toy line had a dozen different variations of the franchise's "trademark" dinosaur, the _Velociraptor_, ranging from simple repaints to completely different molds. Oh, and two _Utahraptor_. And three mutant raptors (from the Chaos Effect toyline, which featured mutant dinosaurs and ugly recolours of existing toys) — one a mix between it and an _Archaeopteryx_ that, in flavor text, ambushed from the sky; the second a dark-blue recolor of previous velociraptors, stated to be faster, more active, smarter, and extremely sadistic; and a cross between _Parasaurolophus_ and _Deinonychus_, who would chase prey into waters to tire/drown them. Interestingly, some of the raptors have their hands set up correctly (palms inwards), while others have their palms facing down.
-   There was a Meanie (Gross-out parodies of Beanie Babies) named Veloci_crapper_.
-   Dinobot from the _Beast Wars_ line of _Transformers_ toys, as well as his various repaints and retools. Hailing from the '90s, he was naturally a scaly, very robust looking _Velociraptor_, who strangely had five toes on each foot. In the animated show, he had only three (four would have been correct), and an incredibly bendy tail — Justified in that he was really a robot. In the 2008 Universe 2.0 toy-line, he received a new mold, up to modern engineering standards, but sadly not to modern dino-science: instead, they went for a more show-accurate look, and gave the toy a wavy tail where the original had a stiff one.
    -   Grimlock's form in the comics was a step in the right direction: though his toy was just a recolored, scaly Dinobot, he was illustrated with a thin covering of fuzz.
    -   Archadis and Airraptor (same toy, but different characters) turn into the classic, green-blue colored lizard-headed _Archaeopteryx_ with hands that look glued onto their wings.
    -   Slash from the recent toy franchise for _Transformers: Age of Extinction_ is on its way of averting this, being covered in metallic feathers.
    -   A few years later, _G1_ got its own version of Slash, who's intentionally designed to transform into an anachronistic version of a raptor (so no feathers).
-   Two of the LEGO _Dino_ sets have a giant, _JP_\-styled, striped raptor.
    -   The twin LEGO-lines ''Dino Attack'' and ''Dino 2010'' also had a figure called "raptor", but it was more like an _Allosaurus_ with horns and a tail crest, in keeping with the mutant theme of the set-line.
        -   In the same line, there were the "Mutant Lizards" which _were_ rather raptor-like in appearance, and were the same size as most raptors in pop culture.

    Video Games 

-   _1916 - Der Unbekannte Krieg_, an indie horror game, features large raptors as the main enemies that stalk the trenches. Though, whether they're real or a hallucination brought on by gas inhalation or PTSD is left ambiguous.
-   Refreshingly averted in _Animal Crossing: New Horizons_, in which _Deinonychus_ replaces the _Velociraptor_ from the previous two games. For his description on completing the _Deinonychus_ skeleton, Blathers points out that _Velociraptor_ is actually small whereas _Deinonychus_ is the big raptor commonly seen in media, as well as the fact that they both had feathers. That said, he still exaggerates _Deinonychus_'s size to seven feet tall.
-   _The Archotek Project_ has _Deinonychus_ as one of its species.
-   _ARK: Survival Evolved_:
    -   The raptors are sparsely feathered and have pronated hands. They're also of large size, though this is more appropriate than most examples, on the count of their dossier identifying their genus as _Utahraptor_. However, they are _bigger than trucks_. Unsurprisingly, they're the bane of survivors everywhere.
    -   _Microraptor_ is more accurately feathered, but is portrayed as a ferocious pack-hunter using Zerg Rush.
    -   The _Troodon_ have inaccurate feathering and is described as the most intelligent animal on the island next to humans. They also have paralyzing venom, as inspired by _Jurassic Park: The Game_.
    -   The Valguero DLC exclusively features _Deinonychus_. They are feathered (although their faces and undersides are scaly and their wings end at the wrist) and portrayed as agile climbers like real-life dromaeosaurs, but they're still oversized and attack prey much larger than themselves.
-   _Beasts Of Bermuda_ averts this with its _Velociraptor_ and _Utahraptor_ which are accurately feathered.
-   The first two _Carnivores_ hunting simulator games feature _Velociraptor_, and the iOS and Android versions added _Utahraptor_ and _Troodon_. Unfortunately, none are especially accurate. The Velociraptor might as well have leapt out of _Jurassic Park_: an oversized, naked, bendy-tailed excuse for a dromaeosaurid. The Utahraptor is slightly better, with non-pronated hands and a small crest of feathers on its head, but that's about the only place it has feathers (no one seems to understand that raptors were _completely_ cloaked in feathers from head to toe, they weren't just lizards with a mohawk). The Troodon is probably the worst: scaly, much bigger than the real animal, and as if this weren't bad enough it is flat-footed (everyone seems to know that raptors had an enlarged foot claw, but the fact that troodontids also had it is a somewhat lesser-known fact). These inaccuracies may be justified if, as the game's manual states, the game is set on a distant planet instead of on prehistoric Earth, in which case any resemblances of the inhabitants to Earth's dinosaurs would be purely superficial.
-   _Club Penguin_ has a feathered dromaeosaurid as a new dinosaur transformation for Prehistoric Party 2014, mostly averting this trope. Played straight, however, with the _Utahraptor_ from the play "The Penguins that Time Forgot", who looks absolutely _nothing_ like any kind of dromaeosaur (it doesn't even have sickle claws).
-   Fangy from _Conker's Bad Fur Day_ is supposed to be a raptor, but he looks more like a generic tyrannosaurid in that he has 2-fingered hands and no killing claws on his feet. He was, however, given the footclaws in _Live and Reloaded_.
-   _Dead Space 2_ features Necromorphs called Stalkers, whose shape, mannerisms, attack patterns, and vocalizations are clearly influenced by _JP_\-style raptors. In a Shout-Out, the console version features a trophy/achievement (earned by surviving the first encounter with them) called "Clever Girls."
-   _Dino Crisis_ has _Jurassic Park_\-style "raptors" which disappointingly serve as low-level goombas.
    -   And for its next trick, it had Super Persistent Predatory... therizinosaurs. (To be fair, that particular group of animals was very poorly understood at the time. For _Therizinosaurus_ itself, all we had were a pair of terrifyingly huge claws — it has since turned out that their owner looked less like a giant murderbeast and more like Big Bird. Although this discovery was made before the game was released.)
-   There is a video game released in Japan called _Dinosaur Hunting_, and it has its deinonychosaurs actually cloaked in feathers! And it was made in 2003! On the other hand, the deinonychosaurs are out of scale; _Velociraptor_ and _Dromaeosaurus_ are shown as being the same size as _Deinonychus_ (and yet, the game correctly states they are smaller). There's also an albino _Velociraptor_ that's even bigger than _Utahraptor_.
-   _Dino Strike_ has Cyborg raptors serving as enemies, though they're actually benevolent creatures - break the electronic implants controlling them and the raptors went back to being docile.
-   _Dino Strike Wii_ have you fighting dinosaurs all across an uninhabited island whose prehistoric population escaped extinction, with velociraptors being the most numerous and commonly-encountered. They'll Zerg Rush you on sight in later levels.
-   _Dino Trauma_, a dinosaur-themed FPS inspired by the dinosaur rage of the mid-90s, have velociraptors as the first recurring dinosaur type. They're modeled after the featherless _Jurassic Park_ variant.
-   _Dragon Age: Origins_ has deepstalkers, pack-hunting raptors with the mouths of worms that inhabit the dwarven-built Deep Roads. The player will often have to fight packs of them during their travels through the Deep Roads.
    -   Phoenixes are more accurately feathered raptors that show up in the desert region of the Western Approach in _Dragon Age: Inquisition_.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_ series has Clannfear, a form of lesser Daedra with animalistic intelligence and the general appearance of raptors with frills and beaks. While deadly on their own, they prefer to attack in packs and can bring down larger/more powerful prey when they do.
-   _Exo Primal_: Played Straight with the generic "raptors", which are human sized, scaly, vicious looking, and even have Spikes of Villainy. Downplayed with the _Deinonychus_ and _Sinornithosaurus_, which have feathers (including tail fans and wings, but not a full coat and with the wrong attachment point for the wings. The feather colors of the _Sinornithosaurus_ also match up with what we have from fossils, and they're also not venomous.
-   _Flight Rising_ has Wildclaws, which are dragons resembling large, slender raptors with wings (the Vertebrate with Extra Limbs kind, not the arm-feather kind), horns, and an extra toe on each foot. They do have feathered crests, tail plumes, and a coating of body fuzz.
-   _Fossil Fighters_ has several vivosaurs revived from fossils of deinonychosaurs like _Velociraptor_ (V-Raptor), _Bradycneme_ (Breme), _Troodon_ (Tro), etc that play this trope straight. To be fair, none of the vivosaurs are realistic. They do however receive points for at least feathering the deinonychosaur vivosaurs, save for _Deinonychus_ (Nychus) until _Fossil Fighters Frontier_.
-   Raptors are a fairly common creature in _Guild Wars 2_. They're covered in feathers and some are designed to resemble modern day bird species like eagles and vultures. The original game had them as well, though located only in the Tarnished Coast regions.
-   _HEX_ has the card Pack Raptor, which looks like a Jurassic Park raptor. It also gets more powerful the more Pack Raptors you have in play. And when you play it, you get four new copies of the card randomly inserted into your deck.
-   _The Hunter Primal_ does a partial aversion in that its _Utahraptor_ have non-pronated hands and fine-looking primaries, although they didn't have a feather coat until the official release of the game. There's also _Velociraptor_, which are thankfully small.
-   _The Isle_ has the _Utahraptor_, designed to look just like the _Jurassic Park_ raptors, and featherless yet accurately-sized _Velociraptor_, though its _Austroraptor_ is accurately feathered. However, there are plans for the _Utahraptor_ and _Velociraptor_ to have feathered variants.
-   The _Jurassic Park_ licensed games capitalize heavily on the raptors' appeal. The raptor is a playable character in both Sega Genesis games, with Dr. Grant serving as the main antagonist, and _The Lost World_'s 3d platformer also had a raptor as one of the playable characters.
    -   _Jurassic World: Evolution_ and _Jurassic World Evolution 2_ are park building simulation games that allow you to exhibit several kinds of raptors for your guests. Unlike most other _Jurassic Park_ games, these games have a diverse range of raptor accuracy. Scaly, lizard-inspired raptors include _Velociraptor_, _Deinonychus_, and _Atrociraptor_, while the more scientifically accurate, feathered raptors include _Pyroraptor_ and _Utahraptor_.
-   Averted in _Kid Icarus: Uprising_. While no dromaeosaurid shows up in the game, there is a Claws weapon based on the dinosaurs known as Raptor Claws, which are notably decorated with feathers.
-   Riptor from _Killer Instinct_ is a human-raptor hybrid, with a hunched-over, barrel-chested human slouch. In the 2013 game, it's a Cyborg raptor on top of that.
-   _Legend (1998)_ have velociraptors as higher-level enemies of the forces of chaos in the last few levels of the game.
-   _Looney Tunes: World of Mayhem_ has Roadius Runnerus, a prehistoric counterpart of Road Runner whose design takes cues from raptors (albeit the killing claw on the outer toe instead of the inner one). He even possesses feathers like his modern counterpart, including wings.
-   _Marvel: Avengers Alliance_ features several missions that take place in the Savage Land, where many enemies are various versions of _Jurassic Park_\-style _Velociraptor_ (some with laser cannons strapped to their backs.) One variant even has a summon-style attacked called "Clever Girl."
-   _Monster Hunter_ has many monsters based on lanky, ferocious, scaly raptors; in-universe, these are considered to be a type of flightless wyvern and, notably, are closely related to the avian Bird Wyverns.
    -   _Monster Hunter (2004)_ introduced the Velociprey type enemies, which are actually more _Velociraptor_\-sized, but it turns out they are just immature versions. The larger Velocidrome Alphas are the first "large" monster most players fight.
    -   _Monster Hunter Freedom 2_ has the Giadrome, the King Mook of the Giaprey (which debuted beforehand in _Monster Hunter G_, mistakenly localized as White Velociprey in _Freedom_). This white-colored Theropod inhabits snowy mountains, and can spit cold globules that inflict ice damage.
    -   _Monster Hunter 3 (Tri)_ introduces the Jaggi family, which lacks the "beak" of the Prey/Drome family.
    -   _Monster Hunter Generations_ introduces the Maccao and Great Maccao, which are more feathered than the previous Preys/Dromes, though they still have pronated hands and (in the case of the Great Maccao) tails which are somewhat flexible vertically (the others have tails which are relatively stiff in that direction). That last trait helps the Great Maccao deliver a double-kick like a kangaroo, similar to Gorosaurus or Gregory S. Paul's palaeo-art.
-   _Monster Rancher_: Zuums, which are big enough to ride on, friendly and easy to raise, and can breathe fire. Although its stat gains are mostly even, unlike most examples its intelligence is actually usually its _lowest_ stat, though not by too much.
-   _Nanosaur_ has you playing as a raptor with a jetpack and a blaster than can fire lasers, missiles, and nukes, who has come to prehistoric Earth from the future to rescue dinosaur eggs before the asteroid impacts the planet.
-   The Chult sections of the _Neverwinter Nights 2_ expansion _Storm of Zehir_ have featherless _Deinonychus_ as possible encounters. There's also _Megaraptor_, which surprisingly are portrayed as not dromaeosaurids but large carnivorous dinosaurs with the big claws on their hands.
-   A pack of raptors fitting this stereotype are amongst the Prehistoric Monster enemies that player character Madison encounters in _Oakwood_. First she encounters them in the titular campground's abandoned community lodge building where she has to make careful usage of air vents and at least one toilet stall to evade them. Then she finds herself continously on the run to avoid falling victim to their efforts at hunting her in the forest behind the lodge. And the game ultimately ends with her being heavily implied to have successfully gotten killed by them.
-   The game _Off Road Velociraptor Safari_ is a work that features _Velociraptor_ with feathers for once, if only because raptors getting hit by a car driven by a _Velociraptor_ wearing a pith helmet looks cooler with Perpetual Molt.
-   _Path Of Titans_ has its deinonychosaurs feathered and birdlike, averting the trope.
-   Jurassic Marsh's Raptors from _Plants vs. Zombies 2: It's About Time_ lack feathers and are larger than the zombies. While they thankfully do not attack plants, they _do_ attack the zombies... by kicking them 4 squares forwards into your defences. If the raptor is charmed by the Perfume-Shroom, however, it plays this trope straight as it kicks zombies away for a One-Hit Kill (Gargantuars aren't safe either).
-   _Plants vs. Zombies: Heroes_: Both the Plants and Zombies have raptor teammates, all of which have the Dino-Roar trait which triggers an effect whenever the Plant/Zombie hero draws or conjures a card:
    -   Plants have the Veloci-Radish Hatchling and the Veloci-Radish Hunter. Both of them gain +1 attack whenever the Plant Hero draws or conjures a card, and being pack hunters, the Veloci-Radish Hunter will also make a copy of itself in its lane when played.
    -   Zombies have the Raiding Raptor (based off the Raptor from Jurassic Marsh), which conjures a card that costs 2 or less whenever it deals damage to the Plant Hero. It also gains attack whenever it manages to do so, making it very deadly with Laser Base Alpha environment.
-   _Pokémon_:
    -   _Pokémon Black and White_ has Archen and Archeops, who appear to based on archaeopterygids. While they lack the killing claws on the feet of most dromaeosaurs and have scaly heads, necks, and tails, they are otherwise accurately feathered albeit with typical Pokemon-ish stylization. Archen can perform Wing-Assisted-Incline-Running as shown in the anime, while Archeops has the oft-forgotten smaller wings on its hindlegs (a trait shared with the _Microraptor_) and is a poor flyer like _Archaeopteryx_ in real life (meanwhile Archen cannot fly at all, but lives in trees and instead jumps between branches, referencing how winged proto-birds most likely glided).
    -   Grovyle and Sceptile, the evolutions of the 3rd gen (Hoenn) Grass starter Treecko, have some raptor elements to them, such as inward-facing hands and leaves in place of "feathers." This being said, they are Mix-and-Match Critters overall; Sceptile is more akin to a (non-frilled, spit-less) _Dilophosaurus_ than a dromaeosaur, and the overall line is mostly based on leaf-tailed geckos (which, being lizards, are only distantly related to dinosaurs as a whole).
    -   Scyther from the first generation is supposed to look like a praying mantis, but it also has many traits similar to those of a _Jurassic Park_\-esque raptor, being swift, territorial, worryingly intelligent and having an overall dinosaur- or dragon-like design. This sadly does not carry over to its second-generation evolution, Scizor, or its Mega Evolution, which look more like anthropomorphic wasps with lobster claws (though said claws do look a little like dinosaur heads).
    -   Dracozolt is an extremely interesting case: the top half of it is referred to as a "bird" and is very obviously a feathered dromeosaur of some sort, complete with maybe-a-beak. The _bottom half_ is a stegosaurid, complete with thagomizer. Blame the careless scientist hacking the two unfortunate dinosaurs together, in a reference to older paleontology that mish-mashed diferent animals together. Its cousin, Arctozolt, slaps the dromeosaur on an unfortunate cold-adapted plesiosaur.
    -   From _Pokémon Scarlet and Violet_, we have Walking Wake, or as some fans like to call it, Raptor Suicine, due to having some physical similarities with Suicune from _Pokémon Gold and Silver_, but stands on two legs and has two tiny arms thus looking like a raptor instead of canine.
-   _Prehistoric Kingdom_, another game which strives for accuracy, also averts this with their properly feathered _Deinonychus_, _Velociraptor_, and _Utahraptor_.
-   _Primal Carnage_ has the "Novaraptor" (deliberately made to explain why it's not as massive as _Utahraptor_ or _Dakotaraptor_), which are Jurassic Park-style raptors, save their non-pronated hands. There's actually two variants - one that's feathered, and one that isn't. Loading screens and backstory said the geneticist had to make two variants because the eccentric millionaire who commissioned them didn't like the feathered raptors. You can also play as an _Oviraptor_, which is accurately feathered in all variants.
-   Talon, the skyscraper-sized, Lightning Bruiser _Deinonychus_ God of Survival from _Primal Rage_, who interestingly has feathers on his head — not bad for a game that came from the '90s and in the wake of _Jurassic Park (1993)_. He lords over human-sized raptors, as well.
-   _Raptor Valley_ is about wandering through a field of tall grass, using weapons to drive off attacking raptors.
-   The Hunter series of bioweapons from the _Resident Evil_ games are essentially _Jurassic Park_ inspired velociraptors with a human body frame, from their intelligent pack-hunting behavior right down to their genetically-engineered method of creation.
-   _Saurian_ aims to avert this with both their _Acheroraptor_ and _Dakotaraptor,_ both of which are appropriately feathered and birdlike.
-   _Schwarzerblitz_ has Wally Alba, a sentient Australian Bounty Hunter raptor with a minigun!
-   _Second Extinction_ has _mutant_ velociraptors as one of the most common, recurring dinosaur enemies encountered, who rushes at you and tries chomping you down on sight.
-   _Secret of Evermore_ opens with a Heads I Win, Tails You Lose battle against a pair of raptors. These foes tend to pounce forward with their clawed feet extended, making them an annoyance even into the late phase of the game. In the final dungeon, you confront robotic versions.
-   _Sixty Five Million And One BC_ has (once again) Jurassic Park styled velociraptors. However, the reason why they are scaly was because feathers made it difficult for the sprites to animate. The game did, however, have a white raptor with a red crest of feathers.
-   _Spyro: Enter the Dragonfly_ has R-1000s, which are fireball-shooting _Velociraptors_ made of liquid metal.

-   _Tekken 2_ features Alex, a _kickboxing velociraptor_. He's scaly, but that's the least of his problems. He stands upright, resembling the classic theropod tripod pose, and has long, powerful arms with boxing gloves on the end. His strange posture comes from the fact that he's a Palette Swap of Roger, a Boxing Kangaroo. And he's _awesome_. Could be justified in that he's genetically engineered.
-   _Tokyo Jungle_ features _Deinonychus_ (featherless and with pronated hands, though appropriately muscular) as playable characters and _Archaeopteryx_ (more anatomically-accurate, even having wings on its back legs) as huntable animals.
-   Raptors were enemies in _Tomb Raider I_, _III_, and _Anniversary_.
-   In _Turok_, raptors are common enemies, ranging from plain ol' raptors, ones captured by the various bad guys and turned into cybernetic, Arm Cannon\-wielding nasties, or evolved, humanoid versions that fight alongside their cousins.
-   _World of Warcraft_: Of the several dinosaurian beasts in the game, scaly raptors are one of the most common. They are particularly associated with trolls, especially the playable Darkspear tribe, who use them as mounts and hunting companions (troll hunters start with a raptor pet). Among their pantheon of loa spirits, the Darkspear seem to follow Gonk the Hunter, who takes the form of a raptor, most closely. To complicate matters slightly, some strains of raptors express _tribal_ behaviors, like wearing feathers and jewelry, and there's at least one zone—the Raptor Grounds in the Barrens—where the raptors living there have clustered their nests like a village. Later on, feathered raptor-shaped dinosaurs called falcosaurs are introduced — but they're also beaked and generally bird-themed.
-   Giant, scaly raptors appear in the _Zoo Race_ level Seth’s Safari, stalking the edge of the river where the animals spend the race swimming.
-   Both _Zoo Tycoon_ games have an example of this trope with the animal's ingame bio making a reference towards the raptor intelligence in _Jurassic Park_. _Velociraptor_ appears in the first game- it's human sized and scaly, with its pink coloration making it resemble a plucked chicken. A scaly _Deinonychus_ and _Utahraptor_ and feathered _Velociraptor_ (which is more accurate) appear in the second game. The male _Utahraptors_ have feathery crests on their heads.
-   _Beacon (2018)_ prominently features Tritoraptors, which are broadly similar to their inspirations (save things like a skull-like head, a split lower jaw, sharp quills for feathers, and being aliens). They hunt in packs to take down larger game and can leap far distances, just like _Jurassic Park_ raptors. What sets them apart is that they get bigger and more Tyranosaurid as they get older; adults resemble a cross between _Megaraptor_, _T. rex_, and _Triceratops_. Taking their genes can allow the same leap ability or the sharp quills to help with speed, all the way up to _turning into a Tritoraptor_.

    Web Originals 

-   This fun little edutaining song about _Archaeopteryx_ plays with this trope; on the one wing, it's correctly stated to have been from the Jurassic period, referred to as a dinosaur instead of a bird and is even referenced as being a maniraptor. On the other wing, the cartoon _Archaeopteryx_ has a toothy beak (while _Archeopteryx_ had teeth, it did _not_ have a beak) and lacks its sickle claws. Interestingly, the show never gives an answer as to whether or not _Archaeopteryx_ could fly, and the video features an adorable cartoon _Archaeopteryx_ trying everything he can to get airborne. Hilarity Ensues, naturally.
-   Massively averted by _Ask a Velociraptor_, much to the delight of dinosaur enthusiasts.
-   These two DeviantArt groups were created specifically to avert this trope.
-   _DSBT InsaniT_: Shredder, Seth's pet velociraptor, although he actually has feathers.
    
    **Perry**: But why does it have feathers?
    
    **Seth**: Come on, Perry, in this day and age, feathered dinosaurs should be common knowledge.
    
    **Snake**: Its true. Dinosaurs were the ancestors of your species.
    
-   One short _Happy Tree Friends_ smoochie focusing on Disco Bear had him being shredded apart by a raptor after being stomped by a T. rex as one of his many deaths.
-   "Meet the Pseudosaurs" parodies this trope, along with others of its stripe.
-   Absolutely parodied with _Mortasheen_'s Bucbuclaw, an ugly chicken-looking thing, whose main attack involves parasitic poop-eggs.
-   The _Neopets_ franchise gives us the Pteri, which is meant to be a stylized _Archaeopteryx_. However, it looks more like a generic cartoon bird with a long tail, with the claws and the teeth being absent.
-   Philosoraptor: Seen here<small>◊</small> getting all chemistry nerdy.
-   Averted with quite bird-like raptors in the _Reverse Jurassic Park_ AKA _Quaternary Park_ videos, which are spoofs of key scenes of the first JP movie. In fact, paleontologist Thomas Holtz has deemed these the most anatomically accurate animated _Velociraptor_ _ever_.
-   _Spec World_: More or less completely averted, a little bit of Science Marches On aside,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  to the point that the creators decided to kill off nearly all troodonts as a stealth Take That! to humanoid dinosauroids (and indeed, no dinosauroids at all are allowed for the project).
    -   Among the different kinds of dromaeosaur families that _DO_ appear, only three are labeled as "raptors" per se. Other families include mattiraptors, hesperonychids, draks, ninjas, and arbros.
    -   There's also a subversion in the form of the Cain, Madagascar's top predator. It looks like a stereotypical scaly Hollywood raptor, but it's not a dromaeosaur at all— it's actually a noasaur, a member of a group of dinosaurs that _were_ scaly.
-   _The Tyrannosaur Chronicles_: Subverted by a naked _Deinonychus_ character, who is said to have shaved all her feathers off in order to star in _Jurassic Park_. The other deinonychosaurs are portrayed with feathers, though mostly not pennaceous ones, probably due to massive work load. More properly feathered deinonychosaurs have been shown to be in the works, but the Series Hiatus on this project has prevented them from yet making an appearance in the story.
-   _Dinosauria_: Averted, as the deinonychosaurs and troodontids are portrayed as properly feathered, birdlike in appearance and action, and they don't live in packs. The short "Our Frozen Past" focuses on a mother troodontid and her chicks, with the mother shown to be caring and protective in the face of an attack from a pair of _Nanuqsaurus_.

    Webcomics 

-   Yoshi from _The Adventures of Dr. McNinja_ is a "classic" _Jurassic Park_ Velociraptor (unfeathered, Deinonychus-sized). The authors admit that they do care more for Rule of Cool rather than scientific accuracy.
-   Marvin, Libby's pet dinosaur from _Bloody Urban_ is a partial aversion- he's only about as big as a medium-sized dog with feathery tufts on his head and tail.
-   Some of the earlier pages in _Dawn of Time_ (intentionally) depict _Jurassic Park_ style dromaeosaurids. However, a feathered _Velociraptor_ _does_ show up in a flashback later on, and the dinosauroids that also feature in one of the story arcs refreshingly avert the "Lizard Folk dinosauroid" trope.
-   _Utahraptor_ from _Dinosaur Comics_. By the way, if you want to see _Utahraptor_ (and his two theropod friends) portrayed in a more historically accurate way (meaning feathered), just type in _&butiwouldratherbereading=somethingmorehistoricallyaccurate_ behind the html-adress of a _qwantz_\-comic of your choice, like this for example. Or check out Aaron Diaz' awesome guest comic!
-   Sebastian the _Deinonychus_ from _Exterminatus Now_ plays with this trope—as an anthropomorphic dinosaur, he's not a nightmarish predatory monster, but he's also scaly.
-   In the _Gifts of Wandering Ice_ webcomic one of the "ice gifts" turned out to be a living raptor.
-   _Manly Guys Doing Manly Things_: Averted. Jet's raptors are realistically sized (somewhere between a chicken and a turkey), brightly plumaged, coo like pigeons, docile enough to be picked up and more interested in begging for scraps of roast chimera than savaging anyone. They also are tame enough to be trained as Ace's waiters (complete with tiny bespoke tuxedos) and possibly accept a modern-day turkey as their alpha.
    -   It turns out they tried cloning sleeker, more wild looking (yet still realistic) raptors but they proved untrainable as the genes that give the current raptor squad their cuddly appearance also gives them their friendly personalities.

-   Averted and lampshaded in this _Sandra and Woo_ comic, where Sandra expresses her disgust at _Velociraptor_ still being depicted the same way as in _Jurassic Park_ as she and Larisa look at a museum display of a scientifically-accurate _Velociraptor_ model

    Web Video 

-   _Pokemon Amber_:
    -   The Starter Pokemon, Fleetwi and its later evolutions, as well its Spliced variants, are based on different types of raptors, with the former being based on feathered raptors, namely _Pyroraptor_ while the latter is based on the long-debunked featherless raptors from _Jurassic Park_. Interestingly, Flightor has the sickle claws on its wings rather than its feet (which was intentional on the creator's part), though the Spliced Fleetwi line has the claws on the feet.
    -   Primal Archen and Archeops, while based on the _Archaeopteryx_, also has some features from the _Microraptor_.
    -   There are two Pokemon based on the Troodontidae line, which are Troazolt, a fully completed genetic clone of the upper half of Dracozolt and Arctozolt, and Trusetis.

    Western Animation 

-   One episode of _Ace Ventura: Pet Detective_ The Animated Series had the eponymous detective go into a cage inhabited by a velociraptor the size of a small bear.
-   The _Velociraptor_ that gets locked into Jimmy's closet in a _The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron, Boy Genius_ episode is the standard _JP_\-styled fare.
-   The _Amphibia_ episode "Fight at the Museum" zig-zags this with a museum display of a _Deinonychus_\-like dromaeosaurid. On one hand, it has feathers. However, the feathering is still not enough, and the model also possesses the usual pronated hands and slit-pupils.
-   _Dino-Riders_ featured _Deinonychus_ that were large enough to ride on and tote saddles armed with laser cannons. This is several years before either _Utahraptor_ or _Jurassic Park (1993)_ came to light.
-   _Dinosaucers_ may or may not have one deinonychosaur with Teryx the _Archaeopteryx_, depending on the issue if her genus belongs into this clade or not. (See the paragraph in the introduction.) On the villains' side, Princess Dei, Genghis Rex's sister, is another example. She is featherless, due to the show being made in the 1980s, besides the issue of her being a _Deinonychus_ and him being a Tyrannosaurus rex.
-   The villain of _Dino Squad_ is a humanoid _Velociraptor_ named Victor Veloci. Curiously, the mentor figure of the titular Squad is also a velociraptor-person.
-   Averted by the _Velociraptor_, _Archaeopteryx_, and _Microraptor_ in _Dinosaur Train_ (Science Marches On for the coloration of the latter two). The _Troodon_, _Utahraptor_ (which initially even gets mispronunced as "Ultraraptor"), and _Deinonychus really_ lack plumage, however.
-   _Dinotrux_: Thus far, Scraptors are the only things shown that actively try to prey on the Dinotrux, other scrap-loving species mostly just scavenge. They're rusty, unable to talk, and are treated as more Always Chaotic Evil than even D-Structs.
-   In an interesting inversion of Dinosaurs Are Dragons, _Dragons: Riders of Berk_ features one dragon species, the Speed Stinger, that lacks flight and a Breath Weapon and is a scaly, wide-mouthed raptor, though it being a dragon, it does have fin-like sails and a venomous sting on its tail.
-   In _Extreme Dinosaurs_, three anthropomorphic raptors are the main villains. Even before being transformed, they are much larger than real _Velociraptors_ and don't have feathers (although feathers were unknown at the time the show was made).
-   _Gigantosaurus_:
    -   Two of the recurring antagonists are a pair of _Velociraptor_, Cror and Totor. While they are still scaly and oversized, they at least have the proper build and snout shape for _Velociraptor_. Unusually for this trope, they are portrayed as bullies or troublemakers rather than vicious predators or flat-out evil geniuses (in fact, neither of them are particularly bright, although Cror is smarter than Totor).
    -   One of the friends of the main group is Archie the _Archaeopteryx_, who is much larger than the real animal and has a toothy beak, multi-colored plumage, and stereotypical bird-like feet. He also frequently tries to fly throughout the series, since the rest of his species can do it, and always ends up comically failing.
-   Zig-zagged with Chuuk the _Utahraptor_ from _The Girl from Dinosaur Island_. On one hand, he's nicely feathered, even having wings. On the other, he has only two fingers per hand and in general looks more like a small, Super-Deformed _T. rex_ with raptor-like feet.
-   The _Go, Diego, Go!_ special "The Great Dinosaur Rescue" featured _Troodon_ with only a coating of fuzz (no wings or a tail fan).
-   The _Gravity Falls_ episode "The Land Before Swine" has a typical _Jurassic Park_\-styled raptor with two-fingered hands (which doesn't correspond with any known deinonychosaur).
-   _Il était une fois..._:
    -   In an episode of one series, the characters watch as a group of '80s-styled, kangaroo-_Deinonychus_ attack a large Sauropod dinosaur. What makes them so "kangaroo" is that not only are they shown standing fully erect, they move around by hopping. Raptors can hardly get more retro than this!
    -   The first episode of _Once Upon a Time... Man_ had a four-fingered _Archaeopteryx_ evolving out of "thecodonts" through the hypothetical "_Proavis_" phase.
    -   One episode of _Once Upon a Time...Space_, set on another planet inhabited by dinosaurs, had a _Deinonychus_ raiding the nest of a _Brontosaurus_. Said _Deinonychus_ looks like a small '70s-styled _T. rex_ down to having two-fingered hands, made more confusing by the fact they completely hid its feet from view, and it also has a grasping tail which it uses to ensnare a _Brontosaurus_ hatchling. On the other hand, _Archaeopteryx_ is three-fingered this time.
-   An episode of _I Am Weasel_ has the Red Guy as a cavewoman try to woo Weasel by offering him a Velociraptor pie. A live Velociraptor then pops out of the pie and mauls "her."
-   _I'm a Dinosaur_ had a very sparsely feathered _Velociraptor_ with too broad a skull, a _Troodon_ that might as well be a _Coelophysis_ (yeah, have fun in the Arctic without feathers), a decently-feathered _Sinornithoides_ that can't pronounce its own name<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and a deinonychosaurian _Megaraptor_ (which wasn't even considered a coelurosaur, let alone a deinonychosaur, at the time).
-   In _Jurassic World: Camp Cretaceous_ has both actual Jurassic Park/World-style _Velociraptors_ and the Raptor-like _Monolophosaurus_, _Compsognathus_ and _Dilophosaurus_.
-   The two villains of _Kung Fu Dino Posse_, Skor and Skrap, are called "raptors", but they don't look like real dinosaurs in any way. They don't have feathers and they have frills like the _Dilophosaurus_ in _Jurassic Park (1993)_ and head quills similar to the _Velociraptor_ from _Jurassic Park III_.
-   _The Land Before Time_ television series had a pair of villainous _Utahraptor_ named Screech and Thud who were often seen with the Big Bad Redclaw. Both lack feathers and have two fingers instead of three.
-   The _Littlest Pet Shop (2012)_ episode "A Day at the Museum" had what was referred to as a _Velociraptor_, but it was more identical to an _Allosaurus_ and lacked both feathers and the killing claws.
-   _The Magic School Bus_ episode "The Busasaurus" featured a _Troodon_ pack. Amusingly, they're sized accurately if you pay close attention, but they sort of tried to hide this using Forced Perspective. Being outright inaccurate wouldn't do on a science show, after all. They're also scaled, but the episode is from 1995.
-   Averted in _Masters of the Universe: Revelation_, where Kuduk rides on a large dromaeosaurid with very accurate feathering, down to having wings attached to the second finger.
-   _Mighty Magiswords_ features giant-sized, tripod-stanced, flat-footed _Velociraptor_ with feather mohawks.
-   In the _Phineas and Ferb_ episode "Mandace", Doofenshmirtz is turned into a dinosaur that he calls a _Velociraptor_, but has little specific resemblance to _Velociraptor_ besides its size and generic theropod shape. Then again, knowing Doofenshmirtz, he either thought it was cooler to call it _Velociraptor_ or simply doesn't know what _Velociraptor_ really looks like.
-   One episode of _The Powerpuff Girls (2016)_ features a typical Jurassic Park-like raptor.
-   _Primal (2019)_: "Terror Under the Blood Moon" features a _large_ pack of stereotypical Jurassic Park-like raptors, which are otherwise the correct size and skull shape for _Deinonychus_. Word of God stated they were meant to be feathered, but the crew had difficulty with it.
-   Photography Raptor from _Rick and Morty_ is your typical oversized scaly JP raptor. Justified, in that he's an alien parasite in disguise.
-   _Scooby-Doo! Legend of the Phantosaur_ REALLY messes up _Velociraptor_ by not only using the classic _Jurassic Park_ design, but also giving them HORNS. They _were_ part of a "Scooby-Doo" Hoax.
-   _The Simpsons_:
    -   The episode "The Days of Future Future" featured raptors with feathery tufts on their heads, necks, and arms.
    -   The final segment of "Treehouse of Horror XXIX" has the Los Souvenir Jacquitos taking the forms of oversized, featherless _Velociraptors_. This one actually makes sense, as the skit is a parody of _Jurassic Park_. Ironically, they look more like actual _Velociraptor_ than JP's own version, having long and narrow skulls.
-   _Total Drama Island (2023)_: In the episode "Jurassic Fart", the contestants have to avoid vicious _Velociraptor_ that are a direct parody of the ones seen in _Jurassic Park_. Besides being scaly and oversized with a broad skull, they can even open doors.
-   _Where's Waldo? (2019)_ averts this in "Mongoliasaurus", which features accurately feathered dromaeosaurids. However, _Velociraptor_ still has pronated hands and wrist-wings.
-   Sylvia of _Wander over Yonder_ bears some raptor-like similarities such as an S-shaped neck and "feathers" on her head and the tip of her tail, although she's an alien rather than an actual dinosaur.
-   _We Baby Bears_: "Modern-ish Stone Age Family" features a pair of _Archaeopteryx_\-looking paravians that can mimic speech like parrots, to the point they act as a stereo system for a caveman family as the Bears teach them about television. Both of the paravians have dromaeosaurid-like killing claws on their feet and are covered in black plumage.
-   The _Yabba Dabba Dinosaurs_ episode "Yabba-Dabba-Dabba Kamma-Kamma-Chameleon" features a "Chameleosaur", which is not a chameleon as its name suggests, but rather a raptor that can shapeshift. Interestingly, it is decently covered in feathers, but it also has cat-like eyes and a rough, forked tongue which are the clues to identify it in its transformed state.

___

___