Do you mean that she likes me, or that she _likes me_?

_"So you can actually say, Oh yeah, sorry I two timed you with that other person. But look! Presents!"_

In many Video Games, there exists Relationship Values that reflect how much your party members (or other NPCs) like you. Often hidden, they can be altered by your in-game behavior and choices. Types of behavior that can change your relationship values include:

-   The choices you make during gameplay. For example, one character wants you to go outside and inspect the rumbling noise, while another wants you to wait and see what happens. What do you do?
-   A subset of the above, the answers you give to certain questions (often of the "who do you want to go with you?", "do you think the White Magician Girl is cute?", variety).
-   Your actions during battle. For example, healing a character in battle may raise your relationship value with them, while attacking them may lower it.
-   How you allocate party members during split-up sequences.

Most available choices will please some characters, while disappointing others. Therefore, part of the challenge lies in either allocating your praise equally among all characters, or (more likely) figuring out whose good side is worth getting on and whose isn't. Relationship Values can be frustrating, because what affects your relationship values, and even the existence of Relationship Values themselves, is often not alluded to during the game. Furthermore, the player character's actions may affect their relationship with others in unexpected if not nonsensical ways, such as when a character's relationship with the player character is changed despite them not being present when the actions are carried out.

The results of having a good or bad relationship value are varied. Common examples include unlocking an alternate cutscene, gaining access to a different ending, or simple gameplay buffs/bonuses.

Almost all Dating Sims have these, and, indeed, they are usually the whole point of the game. Strategy games (notably 4X games) may also have a variation of this, tracking your relations with other factions (and theirs with each other).

Sometimes called Affection Values. Sometimes coupled with a Karma Meter or Romance Sidequest; sometimes makes you Level-Up at Intimacy 5 or makes You Lose at Zero Trust. Poor design often results in More Friends, More Benefits. Compare Match Maker Quest and Alliance Meter.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Action-Adventure 

-   _Grand Theft Auto_:
    -   _Grand Theft Auto 2_ had an approval meter for each of the three gangs in the area. Doing missions for one against another would boost your standing with that gang, and turn your target against you. Them being in a triangle of hate results in you usually being able to max out only two of them with the third shooting you on sight.
    -   A large part of _Grand Theft Auto IV_ is about Relationship Values; both romantic and platonic. Having good relationship values unlocks areas, gives access to cheap guns, medical treatment, and a host of other advantages.
-   _Metal Gear_:
    -   In _Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots_, Snake can gain notoriety or anger from the rebel side of the two warring armies in the game. If you help them, then when they see you they might assist you in return, but if you hinder them, they will become more aggressive. There's really no point to hindering them, though, because the PMCs under Liquid will treat you as hostile no matter what you do.
    -   This mechanic is fully utilized in _Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain_. Venom Snake can alter the Bond level between three of his four Buddies (Quiet, D-Dog, and D-Horse; with the _exception_ of D-Walker). The Bond level can be positively increased by taking a Buddy along for missions, while inflicting any physical harm or dismissing them from duty will obviously worsen their Bond. The Bond level for each Buddy must be maxed out in order to unlock all of their respective abilities and equipment.
-   _Onimusha_ series:
    -   In the second game, some of the plot turns in the story and even whether several members of the supporting cast live or die may depend on what sort of relationship you have with them.
    -   It comes back up in a much smaller manner in the fourth game, where Soki having a better relationship with the other members of the party will unlock additional dialogue options and make them willing to craft more items for you in one sitting. However, since you get relationship points every time you go into battle alongside the other party members, and nearly every stage has a secret you will need to revisit with your companions in order to unlock, having a high relationship with everyone is all but inevitable.
-   In _The Walking Dead_, the decisions Lee makes affect how the other survivors see him. He can earn their respect or disdain, and how they treat him changes accordingly. When Kenny states "_No one_ gets left behind" in the first episode, for instance, he'll add either "_Especially_ a good friend" or "Even if he _is_ an asshole" depending on his opinion of you. In the final chapter when you need to save Clementine before Lee succumbs to the infection, your relationship values determine how many people will come along. You can have an entire team of True Companions, get stuck going alone, or anywhere in-between.

    Action Games 

-   In _Fate/Extella: The Umbral Star_, you have Bond Levels with the servants. Not surprising, given the franchise's visual novel origins. You raise Bond Levels by selecting the correct options in dialogue events and completing side-missions. Reaching certain bond levels will unlock bonuses, such as alternate costumes or gameplay items.

    Action RPGs 

-   _Alpha Protocol_ has Mike getting a Reputation with each major character, which ranges from -10 (enemy) to +10 (friendly). Not every character's reputation can be maxed out in either direction, but most major ones can. Depending on what you want from that character, antagonizing a character into negative values may be just as useful as playing along with them to get a positive value.
    -   First, they give you story options. For instance, if you can make Albatross hate your guts, you can beckon him into sending his forces to kill you, leading to a helpful Enemy Civil War. Secondly, good and bad reputations give you stat bonuses on missions. For example: If you're unsubtle and threatening while Albatross is your handler, you get a health bonus. But if you're stealthy and manipulative instead, you'll get a stealth bonus.
    -   In addition, one particular character (Marburg), after doing a lot to deserve death, can _only_ be goaded into a battle if he really hates you. If you've been playing the game telling everyone what they want to hear, then you will never have the chance to kill him.
    -   Marburg can also be killed by completing Madison's dossier and discovering her secret fact (she's the daughter of Alan Parker), then if you choose to contact Parker in the final mission and pick the "dossier" option, and if Parker has a high enough reputation with you, he'll believe you and try to kill Marburg and end up getting killed himself, then you get to fight Marburg again, only this time, you fight him to the death
    -   Max out Marburg's friendship, however, and he'll show up during the end cutscene and reject the Big Bad in a satisfying way, causing Thorton to snark, "Looks like Marburg's had enough of you, too."
-   _Dragon Age_:
    -   _Dragon Age: Origins_ has approval ratings which are affected by the Player Character's decisions and dialogue options, and can also be helped along with gifts. As each party member's approval of the PC increases, they gain stat boosts from the inspiration the main character provides. The relationship value also determines whether the relationship is of a friendly or romantic nature. These use the same number and are determined in the same way, but are differentiated by their description on the status page. Although the player can engage in multiple romantic relationships at once, they will eventually be forced to choose a single romantic companion. Shunting the relationship value of the other involved characters from romantic to friendship usually comes with a pretty hefty reduction in the value. Thank the Maker you can just bribe them back into being your BFF with a few shiny gifts.
    -   _Dragon Age II_ instead has a Friendship/Rival meter similar to _Alpha Protocol_, which gives party members different passive upgrades and can affect how the Romance Sidequest with characters go. While this allows you to earn their respect even if you disagree, not going far enough one way or the other has the same effect as You Lose at Zero Trust, and can lead to you fighting each other.
    -   _Dragon Age: Inquisition_ returns to the approval system, but hides the exact numerical values, just listing which characters approve or disapprove of any specific decision of yours. Occasionally, instead of simply approving or disapproving, they "slightly" or "greatly" approve/disapprove. Unlike most games with this mechanic, you cannot always prevent approval gains or losses by not taking specific companions with you; the consequence of the player being the leader of a massive organization means that the approval gains for large-scale, world changing decisions affect your entire party, even companions located elsewhere. They even retroactively gain or lose approval for big decisions you made before they were recruited.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_:
    -   _Daggerfall_ has a system where every NPC starts with a unique opinion of you, tempered by a faction opinion of you.
    -   In _Morrowind_, every NPC has a Disposition toward the player, ranging on a scale from 0 to 100. A high disposition will make NPCs more likely to share information, give quests, will make prices better if the NPC is a merchant and makes them less likely to attack you<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . It is determined by factors including the player's race, Personality attribute, Speechcraft skill, Reputation stat, and allegiance to any guilds or factions. Disposition can be raised permanently by bribing or admiring the NPC, raised temporarily by intimidating the NPC (which is easier to do than admiring,) or lowered to the point where the NPC may attack you by taunting them. Success for each is determined by your Speechcraft skill and, in the case of bribes, the amount you offer.
    -   _Oblivion_ has NPC disposition based on each one's responsibility at first, compared to the player's Fame and Infamy (i.e. high-responsibility characters, like Fighter's Guild members, will like you less with a high Infamy, while members of the Dark Brotherhood will become increasingly amicable). Disposition can be adjusted permanently through quest choices, a dialogue Mini-Game, or simple bribery; or temporarily through Charm Person spells. At low enough levels, people might attack you on sight; at high enough levels, they'll even ignore it if you're a Vampire.
    -   _Skyrim_ has a simplified relationship system, in which the disposition of an NPC is only designated as variants of "enemy", "neutral" and "friend". These designations are invisible during gameplay and influence how the NPC will act towards the player and what kinds of dialogue they'll have. For example, an NPC designated as friend can offer cheaper prices if he's a merchant or offer to travel with the player if flagged a follower. The only way the player can influence this is by doing quests for an NPC, improving the relationship or by committing crime against them, lowering it.
-   Each companion in _Fallout 4_ either likes or dislikes certain actions, which adjusts their hidden affinity value. At certain milestones of positive approval, the companion will speak to you, usually revealing more of their past. Once you reach 1,000 approval, the companion idolizes you, tells you how positive your influence has been on them, and you receive the companion's unique perk. Some companions have personal quests that you have to complete before their approval will plateau, and one can't advance beyond a certain limit until you complete enough quests for his faction. On the other hand, doing actions which the companion dislikes will cause them to scold you and, at low levels, they will threaten to leave, only reconsidering if you pass a difficult speech check (but only once: if you continue to do things they disapprove of, they'll leave and never return).
-   _Genshin Impact_ gives each character other than the Traveler a friendship meter that slowly progresses doing most side content with them in your active party, letting them live in your Serenitea Pot, or giving them foods that they enjoy. Reaching higher levels unlocks pieces of their backstories, new voice lines, extra expressions when using them in Photo Mode, new dialogue when talking to them in the Serenitea Pot, and at maximum friendship, a unique nameplate.
-   _.hack//G.U._ has an affection system that can be altered through e-mail, cards and gifts. This will allow for better trades and morale boosts for your party members. In addition, (with two notable exceptions) the main character can marry the female characters or become best friends with the male characters at the end of the game assuming their affection is maxed out.
    -   The two exceptions being Natsume, who only views you as a friend, and Endrance.
-   _LunarLux_: Talking to individuals in a region and performing sidequests raises your affinity level with said region, which then grants discounts at the local shops.
-   _Mass Effect_:
    -   _Mass Effect_ has Shepard develop friendships with their squadmates by completing sidequests for one half of the team, and romancing one of the squadmates in the other half. Urdnot Wrex, especially, because once Shepard recovers his family armor, persuading him to rejoin the heroes on Virmire becomes several times easier, since they've earned the krogan's trust.
    -   _Mass Effect 2_:
        -   Shepard can earn loyalty from each of their squadmates by completing their loyalty missions. It's a more oversimplified relationship system, as Shepard can just complete their respective loyalty missions, and boom, instant friendship! However, earning their loyalty also increases their odds of surviving the suicide mission; after all, when you're friends with someone, like Shepard's teammates to Shepard themself, your will to get the job done increases, as you're motivated to do it for those friends.
        -   Shepard also have to mediate two arguments, one between Jack and Miranda regarding the former's life as a Cerberus experiment, and the other between Tali and Legion regarding the latter uploading data from the former's people. Shepard can either side with one of those teammates and risk losing the others' loyalty, or if they have a high enough Paragon/Renegade meter, persuade both sides to stand down and work together as a team.
    -   _Mass Effect 3_:
        -   There is an unspoken one between Commander Shepard and either Ashley Williams or Kaidan Alenko, whomever is still alive. During the first third of the game, they're hospitalized, and depending on various actions Shepard undertakes, or already undertook over the course of three games (building a relationship with them, becoming romantically involved with them, not cheating on them with someone else (or being honest about it if you do), dropping by to visit them in the hospital, getting them a gift, or having a heart to heart about them thinking you betrayed them by joining Cerberus in _ME2_) their trust for Shepard is increased. At the climax of the mission where Cerberus attacks the Citadel, they are locked in a Mexican Standoff with you. A high relationship will have them trust you unconditionally, while lower (but not too low) ones require reputation checks to avoid shooting and killing them.
        -   There is also another hidden one that affects all party members, it determines which squadmates will emerge from the _Normandy_ after it crashlands (if there are any survivors). Love interests are given highest priority. It also influences who will place (or don't) Commander Shepard's plaque on the _Normandy_ memorial wall.
        -   The _Citadel_ DLC has some more low-key examples, tracking who you take with you the most. The story begins with Shepard being ambushed alone - one squadmate comes to the rescue and another assures them over radio that the team is coming (love interests get priority). It later lampshades the Arbitrary Headcount Limit — when Shepard is forced to take two and leave everyone else, one will complain that they wanted to come, and your least-used squaddie will complain that they _never_ get picked.
-   _Radiata Stories_ has this, although it's nearly impossible to figure out. All female party members (of which there are many) can get a short scene during a festival late in the game where they watch fireworks with Jack. This character will also be seen following Jack out of town in the human side ending, implying they plan on leaving with him. If you choose the non-human side, then it affects nothing, as Jack's love interest will then become Ridley.
-   The _Star Ocean_ RPGs feature this prominently.
    -   In the first _Star Ocean_, the way the main character reacts with the other characters affects his relationship values with them, which in turn affect the way the story unfolds and which of the the Multiple Endings the player gets.
    -   In _Star Ocean: The Second Story_, every character has a relationship value with _every other character_, and a multitude of different scenes can play during the ending depending on who you recruited and which character each one of them ended up with.
    -   For _Star Ocean: Till the End of Time_, actions mostly affect characters feelings towards Fayt and determine who he ends up with. This also determines who fights alongside a Fayt duplicate in one of the bonus dungeons.
    -   In _Star Ocean: The Last Hope_, actions again only affect relations with main character Edge and the others. It doesn't determine who he ends up with, but a high enough value shows an extended ending for each character.
-   _Tales Series_:
    -   In _Tales of Innocence_, relationship values go up based on cutscene dialog choices, and between any two characters at the end of battle if one used a healing or support skill on the other. The game is unusual in two ways: first, the game shows you the numerical values for every decision and at the end of every battle, even letting you check values at any time in the status screen, and relationship values can exist for every pair of the six characters, though only the main character's values affect the ending.
    -   Likewise for _Tales of Symphonia_, although the ending is only marginally different — relationships affect certain in-game cutscenes more. Particularly frustrating because one character (Colette) is noted for her devotion to the main character, and as such, it's difficult to shake her and get a different character to be Lloyd's closest companion. Fortunately, your wanted character can be anywhere in the top 4 highest values, instead of only the highest. You choose which character wins during the Flanoir event, and can simply refuse Colette if you want someone else.
        -   And the real ending is only with Colette, even though 2 of the other characters, Kratos and Zelos, can fly. The rest are only shards of the epilogue where Lloyd is tacked into someone else's ending, but in the previous dramatic cutscene only shows affection for Colette.
        -   This can be avoided by keeping your Relationship Values on a New Game Plus. This means, you can actually force Colette to be second or third on your second play through and have your wanted soulmate on top. If you want to get a certain cutscene with Zelos (that Colette normally speaks during The Reveal involving Kratos, he must be the second or third person on your first play through before he can be the first. This works for everyone though. If you play the game again after that, you can move Colette further down the line until she's no longer on the top.
        -   It's fully possible to get Zelos - the character who starts with the lowest affection for Lloyd - as your soulmate while pushing Colette fairly close to the bottom of the list (low enough to be one of the four characters who leaves Flanoir for the snow conversation segment) on the first playthrough. It's _possible,_ but you have to answer every question in the game in a way that angers Colette and pleases Zelos, with no indications or hints as to what you should pick, pursue some sidequests and not others at certain times, keep Zelos in your party every time, find all of his skits, and get at least one of his optional costumes. This means it's also possible to get any character as your soulmate on the first try, and always possible to bump Colette off the list - you just have to know what to pick in advance.
    -   In _Tales of Xillia 2_, raising Ludger's affinity with other members of the party allows him to learn one of their artes and unlocks a special Mystic Arte he can perform with them, among other things.
-   _The World Ends with You_ has two much different than usual values. There's synchronization, a percentage that affects your partner's performance in battle which resets every day, is increased by feeding them food, and goes down when you flee from battle. Then there's your friendship gauge with shop owners, which you increase by spending money at their store and unlocks items' abilities (as well as making their dialogue much friendlier).
-   _Xenoblade Chronicles_:
    -   _Xenoblade Chronicles 1_ uses a variation. The game keeps track of each party member's "affinity" with the others, doing things like helping them out in battle or performing sidequests together can increase the relationship. Once it reaches certain values, you have the option to view "Heart-to-Heart" events between the two, potentially increasing their relationship even more. Interestingly enough, this only really affects gameplay: characters can learn skills off those they have a high affinity with, make better gems while crafting and get slight boosts in battle.
        -   The NPCs in the game also have affinity values with each other, which can be strengthened or damaged based on your choices during sidequests (such as how you resolve an NPC Love Triangle, for example). These don't really do much, though, aside from providing Videogame Caring Potential.
    -   _Xenoblade Chronicles X_ keeps the Affinity system, though now it only tracks the relationship between the Player Character and teammates. Increasing a party member's affinity is necessary to access their Affinity Missions.
    -   _Xenoblade Chronicles 2_:
        -   The Affinity system has been changed to just be another name for the skill tree. However, most Blades require a high Trust to reach the better rungs of their tree. In addition to granting access to their better skill nodes, Trust also increases the speed at which you can use Blade Combos.
        -   There is a _very_ minor one for the Rex and Pyra/Mythra relationship. When Pyra and Mythra obtain their Super Mode, Rex asks what he should call them. You get to decide whether to use Pyra or Mythra's name, which changes the voice clip used for the Super Mode for the rest of the game. Then at the very end, when Pyra and Mythra have been revived from their core in separate bodies, the one you chose mouths "I love you, Rex" as the game ends.

    Adventure Games 

-   _Detroit: Become Human_ has an assortment of relationship meters that can influence the path of the story.
    -   Hank has one for his relationship with Connor, which changes depending on how compassionate Connor is to him and the various deviants they run into during their investigations. If his relationship level is low enough late in the game, he ends up resigning from the DPD and commits suicide in a later scene.
    -   Markus has to contend with the relationship stats of North, Josh, and Simon, as well as the approval level of Jericho as a whole. Obtaining a high enough relationship level with North allows for her to romance Markus as well as sacrifice herself for him in a few scenes, and if Jericho's approval level is sufficiently low by the chapter "Crossroads", Markus ends up being ousted from Jericho due to his poor leadership.
    -   Kara has Alice's relationship level, which if low enough by "Crossroads" results in Alice rejecting Kara and wandering off on her own, causing Kara's story to end right there if she doesn't choose to go look for her.
    -   Shared between all three protagonists is the "public opinion" meter, which represents how positively the general population perceives androids. Markus' decisions have the biggest influence on it since he's leading Jericho, but Connor and Kara can influence it in their own small ways. This meter affects one specific thing: whether or not the army kills Markus and the last remaining Jericho protestors in the final chapter, during the Demonstration route.
-   Every character in _Doki-Doki Universe_ has a meter that tells you how much they like or hate you, which you can influence by summoning things they like or hate, or by picking them up and throwing them around.
-   In _Goodbye Volcano High_, the characters' closeness to Fang can be seen in the game menu, with each character appearing as an icon orbiting around Fang. When the player makes choices that improve a relationship, the icon will move into closer orbit. Stronger bongs will cause certain sequences of the story to play out differently and unlock flashbacks and photos. However, there are a limited amount of choices the player can make, and prioritizing one relationship can cause others to be neglected.
-   _Life Is Strange_:
    -   Chloe has a simple relationship meter, based on five specific choices Max can make regarding her. If you side with Chloe on at least three of them, then in the Sacrifice Chloe ending the two will share a passionate kiss.
    -   In the prequel _Life Is Strange: Before the Storm_, Chloe has a more complicated one with Rachel. The more flirty you are with her, the more flirty she is back, culminating in the school play where (if you complete the play perfectly) Rachel will improv a proposal on stage, and later Chloe and Rachel can have The Big Damn Kiss. If you choose less flirty options, Rachel will instead give Chloe a much smaller kiss; if the values are low enough, Chloe won't even have the option to ask for a kiss at all.
    -   Daniel in _Life Is Strange 2_ has two relationship meters which are affected by Sean's actions: one for "morality", which represents his ability to distinguish right from wrong, and another for "brotherhood", which represents how close he is with Sean and how willing he is to trust his older brother. While the latter influences, at most, whether Daniel will defer to Sean's judgement in a few scenes, the former affects his overall attitude throughout the game as well as which pair of endings out of the main four you can obtain from the big decision in the final episode.
-   In the _Tex Murphy_ game _The Pandora Directive_, the player's choices determine whether he ends up with wholesome, lovable Chelsea or scheming Regan, though it's really not so much a choice of which girl to end up with as it is a choice of whether to be on the moral or immoral path. Ending up with Chelsea nets you the Golden Ending, whereas pursuing Regan instead gives you a Bittersweet Ending at best.
-   _Ms. Director_ keeps track of how often you interact with Ida by examining objects while she is in your party, and you need at least a few in order to achieve the best ending.

    Fighting Games 

-   _Tekken_ has this in the way the characters react to each other and cooperate as a team, as well as affecting win poses. It's a little around the place but makes the game worth playing to see the different combinations.

    Hack and Slash 

-   _Dynasty Warriors_:
    -   The fourth incarnation possesses a relationship system which keeps track of how every single playable officer feels about every other playable officer, strengthening relationships by saving them to encourage them to appear out of nowhere to save the player and weakening relationships by defeating them causing them to spontaneously defend your _enemy_ commanders if they're on the same force; even challenging you to a duel if they **really** hate you.
    -   This relationship concept returned _en masse_ for one of the spinoff franchises, _Dynasty Warriors: Gundam 2_. Characters will like you or hate you depending on how you treat them in your missions. Of course, this will affect if they come and reinforce you in certain missions or what licenses you can earn for using other major giant robots in the game. This becomes especially painful when you realize it's necessary to befriend certain annoying characters to _actually unlock them to use in the game._ Luckily, the game does give you "friendship building levels" to at least try and patch up those problematic character relationships.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   The _Empires_ spin-offs expands on the relationship system, allowing players to forge bonds with other characters. At high enough levels, players can take on other characters as sworn siblings, or even marry another character of opposite gender.
    -   _Warriors All-Stars_ has the Regard system. Regard Levels are increased toward the player character by using support abilities during battle, using Musou Rush, activating special events in the Sanctuary, and encountering characters in the hot springs. Different abilities/items will be awarded when reaching certain levels. When two characters have high Regard for each other, they will trigger character-specific events. Regard is split into 5 distinct levels, from lowest to highest: Associate, Acquaintance, Friend, Companion, and Confidant.
    -   The _\[\[One Piece: Pirate Warriors One Piece_ spinoffs have Crew Levels in the third installment. These are raised by calling upon support characters during battles, and by racking up KO's during Kizuna Rush mode. Raising these will unlock that character's Gallery entries, such as the model viewer, portraits, voice lines, etc. The crew levels go from 1 to 5, with 5 being the highest.
    -   The _Samurai Warriors_ games have Friendship Levels. In the fourth installment, maxing out Friendship Levels with a character will allow your avatar character to equip that character's weapon type.
    -   The _Fire Emblem_ crossover spinoffs feature Supports. You can raise the support level between two characters by pairing them together during battle and slaying enemy captains, or by completing side-missions that they request of you. Raising supports will reward the player with rare items related to those two characters, which can be used to craft skills and blessings. The Support ratings are split into 4 distinct levels: None, C, B, and A/A+. Getting two characters to "C" rating will gift the player with both characters' respective silver materials. A "B" rating will gift the player with both characters' respective gold material. An "A" rating will gift the player with a unique gold material from both characters, which is that character's "Essence", which is needed for other characters to learn that character's personal skill. Some pairs will have an "A+" rating in place of the standard "A" rating. These pairs will trigger a custom, personalized dialogue event between them when the "A+" support rating is obtained.

    MMORPGs 

-   In _Star Wars: The Old Republic_ each of your companions have a relationship meter with you that can be increased through selecting the right dialogue options while they're around, or just bribing them with gifts.
-   In _World of Warcraft_, two values were originally used for hunter pets: Loyalty, which grows over time (if the pet is happy), and happiness, which is raised by feeding the pet food it likes. While Loyalty was pretty much meaningless after a while (unless you let the pet starve long enough), happiness affected the pets base damage. Both were eventually removed, though.

    Platform Games 

-   Played for Laughs in _A Hat in Time_ when you befriend Mustache Girl in the second mission and a rainbow-gradient gauge with her name on it appears that fills about halfway and lights up with "FRIENDS!" to imply these will be a thing in the game. However, the very next mission you and her have a falling-out, the gauge goes so far into the negative it _explodes_ and reads "ENEMIES" instead, and gauge never appears again with there being absolutely nothing you can do to influence relationship values with any character in the rest of the game. It makes sense, after all; the gauge blew up.

    Rhythm Games 

-   Evolving members in _8 Beat Story_ requires maxing out intimacy values first. Repeating the process after the members have evolved increases said member's stat.
-   All idol cards in _Tokyo 7th Sisters_ have intimacy values, which has a higher requirement for rarer cards. Maxing out intimacy for any idol cards give a stat boost on them. Doing the same on idolized cards of silver rarity and above gives Seven Coins, this game's in-app purchase currency and unlocks intimacy scenarios, in which the idols get personally close to you.

    Roguelike 

-   _Griftlands_: The main method of increasing relationships is by drinking together and giving them money, while the main method of decreasing relationships is by betraying them or murdering their friends<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . Characters who like or hate your grifter will stand by or against them in negotiations and combats, and characters who love/hate your character will give passive perks.
-   In _Hades_, Zagreus can strengthen his bonds with other character by gifting them nectar, or the more spendy ambrosia. At some point, every character will hit a lock and Zagreus can't bond with them further until the story progresses.

    Role-Playing Games 

-   Every NPC in _Arcanum: Of Steamworks & Magick Obscura_: Henchmen, shopkeepers, guards, rats, _every single one_ - has a Reaction score indicating how much they like the PC, and this score can be changed depending on a number of factors; don't expect to be well-liked if you have a reputation for running naked through the streets of Tarant. Party members can be persuaded to remain just when they're about to leave in disgust by giving them a certain item (such as cakes or snuff tobacco).
-   _Baldur's Gate II_ had several romances you could pursue, though people complained that it had limited choices for female players (namely, just one), as well as the romances being tightly scripted (so you were required to give the "right" answer to your prospective partner at every step to make the romance continue). The expansion pack _Throne of Bhaal_ continued the romances, and the epilogues were different depending on who you romanced and what you did in the end.
-   _Beastieball_: Beasties that interact with each other will eventually form bonds, which grant both of them access to a powerful combo move.
-   _Breath of Fire II_ had the Dragon Tear, a memento left to Ryu by his mother. The color of the gem reflects how certain people feel about you, ranging from solid black (lowest) to shifting rainbow colors (highest). Not too surprisingly, the people in the solid black range are usually evil and you end up fighting them.
-   _Circus Electrique_:
    -   Devotion serves as a loyalty gauge for each of your performers. High Devotion makes them more effective both under the big top and battling the Vicious. Some moves even require _spending_ Devotion. If any of your Performers lose all their Devotion, they may decide to take off... and take any Gadgets you might have equipped to them with them.
    -   Performers also each have Chemistry with each other; they enjoy working with certain other types of acts, and dislike being paired with others. This also effects how well your shows go.
-   _CIMA: The Enemy_ features this for the various settlers that you have to protect, which increases if you kill monsters in their presence and decreases when they take damage. Having a negative value means that the settler won't be able to craft items for you (and an event happens early on that puts this value into the negatives for _every_ character, forcing the player to regain their trust.)
-   In _Contact_, there are a number of girls that Terry can romance, based on his rank in the dozens of statistics that game has.
-   In _Disco Elysium_, your Good Cop/Bad Cop rating is actually just a rating of how good your relationship is with Kim. This means you can maintain a good working relationship with the Lieutenant by sneaking out to do Police Brutality and Dirty Cop corruption stuff late at night when he is asleep. The game also has multiple other trackers, some of which are visible and others of which are not, which trace your political ideology, your 'copotype', your Honor Points, the number of times you have announced you are going to kill yourself, the number of times you have told people "I am the law", and so on.
-   _Earthlock:_ Party members generate "Battle Bond" by fighting in pairs. Leveling up the bond unlocks passive benefits, which are different for each pairing of the six characters.
-   _Exist Archive:_ Characters increase their Affection for each other by fighting together. Increased affection increases their chances of learning new skills from each other, and gives the player a reason to keep switching up the party, instead of finding a preferred group and sticking to it like glue.
-   In _Faery: Legends of Avalon_, saying certain things to some characters — mostly joinable ones — will cause you to gain or lose approval with them. Usually, you gain approval by picking nice conversation options, although one of them likes it when you snark at her. If characters like you enough, they'll present you with gifts of equipment.
-   Some of the _Final Fantasy_ games feature the use of relationship values.
    -   In _Final Fantasy VII_, whoever liked you the most would take you out on a "date" at the Golden Saucer. Many people get Aerith because of her extremely high default affection value towards Cloud, and arbitrary jumps in points for seemingly random events. However, the Tifa date is still rather easy to get, and with enough dedication, Yuffie, or even Barret can be your suitor.
        -   Your relationship value with Tifa also affects her interaction with Cloud while under the Highwind, prior to the Very Definitely Final Dungeon. The high affection variant heavily suggests they did more than just spend the night together, while the low affection doesn't.
        -   A more complicated system that took into account Cloud's treatment of the girls/Barret in battle (gaining him points for healing them/Covering them, losing him points for hitting them/having them Cover him, etc) was planned in development, but scrapped for being too confusing to implement. This does lead to some dialogue being Dummied Out due to it being impossible to gain enough Affection to trigger the scene without using cheats (specifically, Aeris telling Cloud she hoped he would be jealous when finding out about Zack).
    -   They had something similar for the prequel _Crisis Core_, where the actions taken to find the thief who stole Zack's wallet can lead to a different type of conversation with Aerith. For some reason, having Zack act like a Schmuck and listen to all the unhelpful bystanders earn points on Aerith's affection scale.
        -   In a similar fashion, completing certain side quests would effect how many people joined Zack's fanclub and its final mail message.
    -   In _Final Fantasy X_, alternate scenes and dialogue can be accessed depending on who likes you most out of Yuna, Rikku, and Lulu. Perhaps most notably, your relationship values determine who aids Tidus in the cutscene of his ultimate overdrive.
        -   Also happens with the male characters, although the varying scenes aren't as plentiful. The snowmobile scene is the most obvious one; Rikku and Lulu are by far the most common options, but it's possible to also get Kimahri or Auron to buddy up with Tidus for that scene.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
        -   Yojimbo, one of the optional Aeons, decides its next move based at least partly on the Relationship Value.
    -   _Final Fantasy Agito_ possibly tops all others to the degree it's compared to a dating sim and you can wind up with multiple girlfriends or boyfriends from the main characters.
-   _Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords_ has an influence system that governs interaction with your party members. The higher your influence with a party member, the more their alignment will shift towards the player character's alignment. The system rewards both very high influence scores (adoration) and very low influence scores (contempt). With the appropriate influence, your party members will reveal their secrets or inner turmoil and depending on the character, can be trained into Jedi or Sith. Justified in that These are both unique in-universe abilities of the player character, draining the life from foes to add to their own strength and twisting the minds of those close to them, which terrify others so thoroughly when they learn this they consider the player to be a Humanoid Abomination equal to the main villain.
-   In _Legaia II: Duel Saga_, certain actions and choices presented to the player affect Lang's relationship with four different girls: Maya, Sharon, Nancy, and Phanta. It is possible to make all four of them fall in love with him, though unfortunately, this has no effect on the ending. It does affect the in-game cutscenes and dialogue, however. The way the player is able to tell how the different romantic relationships are progressing is by going to the fortune teller in Phorchoon Casino and getting a reading for his love life.
-   Both _The Legend of Heroes: Trails from Zero_ and _The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel_ have events that allow players to hang out with the other characters. Before the final chapter of the game, they get to hang out with the character they've maxed out their relationship with and get their ending. In _Cold Steel IV_, maxing out a character's bonding point at Mishelam Wonderland has them giving Rean an accessory that's only exclusive for him to equip. If the character is female and the player has done their romantic events, then players get to watch the fireworks with said girl and ends up kissing them, unless they're minors then he doesn't.
-   _Lunarosse_ lets you manage your relationships with Gloria and Noel. You can earn up to three points with each, at which point they get a new move. Generally not too hard to get, as long as you treat them both and listen to the in-game hint on how to do so during the winter dance. The tricky part is that if you don't get make the right choice after the boss battle in the underwater temple, you can easily screw up and not be able to get the one point you need to ensure they both max out. And that's before the relationship values are even introduced to you.
-   In _Miitopia_, party members can form bonds with one another, which will then lead to them aiding one another in battle in various ways. These can be formed gradually by having characters room together at the inn between levels, but bonding scenes can also happen at random either at inns or during levels, and in-battle actions can also bring people closer. Conversely, characters can be angered by others' behavior, but rather than actively lowering the relationship values it freezes them in place and replaces the positive in-battle actions with negative ones until the quarrel's over.
-   The _Neptunia_ series has these, and given the cast is nearly entirely female, it terms them Lily Points. _Hyperdimension Neptunia mk2_ merely had every party member have a ranking with Nepgear, while _Victory_ and later has a Lily rank between every possible pair of your party members. Some of the more frustrating trophies to get require you to max out all of them.
-   In _Opoona,_ you can befriend certain NPCs. Each "friendable" NPC has their own story associated with them, and by doing events to advance their stories, you can increase your friendship with them. Near the end of the game, you'll need to gather up a number of your friends with a high affection in order for their help in storming the final dungeon.
-   The later _Persona_ games stand out among other examples because the Relationship Values system is an integral part of the game; half the gameplay is leveling up these values (known as Social Links), and it has a huge impact on the other half of the game - the actual dungeon crawling. Even if you wanted to, you can't ignore this aspect of the game, as the fighting would be way, way too hard if you don't have Personas boosted by Social Link points.
    -   _Persona 3_ has a system in which you get access to the best Personas if your relation with certain characters (not necessarily party members) is high enough. Your team is a Social Link that levels up automatically, but some members of your party, along with a colorful cast of NPCs, have individual Social Links. Getting all links maxed in one run is a Bragging Rights Reward and the equivalent of a No-Damage Run for the non-combat aspect of the game, but even with a guide, it's still beyond difficult, particularly since the game _loves_ to mess with players by changing your schedule. Did you choose to spend a night boosting a stat instead of pursue a social link? You might as well start over: your school-based Social Links are unavailable for the next two weeks. Have fun figuring out how to level up your base stats quickly enough to _initiate_ certain Social Links while also maxing out the ones available to you.  
        Additionally, maxing every social link in _Persona 3_ unlocks bonus content and each maxed link yields an otherwise unobtainable item and the benefit of being irreversible. Which means that you need to date several female characters simultaneously in order to finish the link, then do it again with another set of female characters (Playing the _Portable_ remake with a female protagonist allows you to keep your relationships platonic, but you still need to max each social link). The Social Links are one of the game's logic puzzles — what a reasonable person would say and what you need to say to level the link are often not the same. Oh, and one link requires you to be fleeced of 40,000 yen, which _hurts_ if you try to start that link too soon. Social link questions make up almost half of _Persona 3_ boards and are essentially a set of logic puzzles, with each link being its own puzzle. Good luck!
    -   _Persona 4_ does this as well, with the additional option of pursuing either a friendship or a romantic relationship with the female characters (and the Social Link puzzles making more sense than they did in _Persona 3_). Having a high relationship with your party members can save your neck in battle too, since advancing their link will grant them various combat bonuses like the ability to take a mortal blow for you; if you max out a party member's S-Link, their Persona will upgrade to a more powerful form.
    -   _Persona 5_ renames the system as "Confidant" (to fit with the Phantom Thief motif of the game), but it works the same as previous installments. However, now every Confidant gives a special bonus. For example, befriending the weapon store owner gives you discounts and adds new gun modifications to the store, while befriending the shogi player gives you tactical bonuses such as the ability to switch your party members in-battle.
-   Takes two forms in _Pillars of Eternity_:
    -   The game eschews individual Influence stats _a la_ _KOTOR2_ and _NWN2_, instead favoring a system similar to preceding BioWare titles wherein your companions will open up to you and share more stories as you travel with them.
    -   The Disposition stat is a variant, essentially a measure of the Watcher's personality traits. This affects some interactions with NPCs. It's also a key stat for paladins, whose powers are either improved or penalized by certain Dispositions, depending on the chivalric order chosen at character creation: for example, a Shieldbearer of St. Elcga will benefit from Diplomatic and Honest, and take penalties for Aggressive and Cruel.
-   _Planescape: Torment_ relied heavily on interactions with party members to tell the story, and you would have a more-or-less personal relationship with everyone (not necessarily romantic either). Interactions could change alignments, stats and the way the final battle unfolded.
-   Most _Pokémon_ games feature a relatively simplified version of this trope, in which your Pokémon either like or dislike you. This "happiness" value affects the damage power of a couple of moves, certain Pokémon will only evolve if they like you enough, and certain NPCs will give you an item if your lead Pokémon has a high enough happiness rating.
    -   It is worth noting that Frustration, the move that gains more power from a _lower_ happiness value is much harder to get and use effectively - in most instances you need a Pokémon that hates you to even get the attack, and if you do opt to use it, it will rapidly decrease in effectiveness simply by the fact that _doing well_ with that Pokémon causes your happiness to rise. Compare Return, which is incredibly easy to get and can only really increase in power unless you're actually trying to bring it down.
    -   In the most recent games, your happiness affects whether or not specific Pokémon can learn some rather powerful moves - essentially Hyper Beams in Fire, Water, and Grass types. Draco Meteor sometimes counts as well for dragon-types.
    -   _Pokémon X and Y_ adds another layer to this in the form of Pokémon Amie, where you can play with your Pokémon to raise their affection for you, which is a separate value from the aforementioned friendship. Raising it provides benefits like increased EXP gain and increased critical/evasion rates. It'll also change the battle dialogue to reflect the bond you've forged with that Pokémon and the Pokémon will start looking back at you while it awaits its commands if likes you enough.
-   _Rakenzarn Tales_ gives _all_ your party members, your support members and certain NPCs relationship gauges with the protagonist called "Affinity". It won't affect the main story, but taking the time to build them via combat, dialogue and events can grant stat boosts and items. For certain female party members, you can progress to a romantic relationship. However, forming a romantic relationship with a girl makes it exclusive, so you can't date multiple girls.
-   _Rakenzarn Frontier Story_ gives you relationship values for each party member and certain NPCs. Increasing your party member relationships is essential for accessing the higher-level limit breaks, while you can unlock dating options and more shopping features with NPCs.
-   In _Riviera: The Promised Land_, the ending you get depends on which other party member likes you the most, with a secret ending being reserved for your cat-demon familiar. On the other hand, that character can't be used for the final battle.
    -   In the PSP remake there's supposedly an ending with Ledah. The CG for it has been found and looks completely genuine, but no one's figured out how to _get_ it yet.
-   _Romancing SaGa: Minstrel Song_ gives you Relationship Values with _the gods_. The quests you complete and the choices you make therein affect your favor with the various gods of Mardias, raising the chances of them coming to your aid during battle and influencing your access to certain options, as well as determining which of the three ending quests you can access. (Ironically, it's easy to buy your way into their good graces simply by purchasing spells at their temples for higher prices than normal — in fact, Elore, lord of the gods, is by far the _easiest_ to appease this way, while the evil gods don't _have_ this option and are thus more difficult to earn favor with. Go figure...)
-   In _Romancing Walker_, Ryle's attraction with his female companions increases when she fights alongside him (i.e. serve as an active party member) for a long enough period of time. Having a high enough points would also unlock events that would further deepen Ryle's relationship with the girl of his choice. The girl with the highest attraction would end up with him in the epilogue.
-   In the _Sakura Wars_ games, how the girls feel about you (their commander) explicitly gives them bonuses in combat, and a special team-up attack is available depending on who your relationship is strongest with at a given time.
-   _Science Girls!_ affects the main character's relationships with the other girls via conversations. This actually doesn't do anything - heck, you may not even know it's there the first time around - until the end of the game. No, not for a romantic pairing, but for determining who the alien hive mind kidnaps and possesses for the final boss battle.
-   In _Shadow Hearts: Covenant_ and _Shadow Hearts: From The New World_ have an "affinity" stat for each pair of characters. Its starting value is based on preexisting relationship between characters, and increases by fighting together and performing combination attacks. Higher values of affinity makes combination attacks stronger and easier to use. Also, if affinity between two characters is high enough, and one of them is in critical health, the other may shield them from a fatal attack.
-   In _Tyranny_, your relationship with your party members is determined by their Loyalty (how much they like you) and Fear (how much they don't like you), which are measured separately. Getting either of them high enough can unlock special Combination Attacks as well as unique interactions.
-   _Unrest_ has three meters that track how Friendly, how Respectful and how Fearful NPCs are of your character. In addition, their general opinion of you is summed by a one-word description over each bar.
-   In _Wizardry: Tale of the Forsaken Land_ once your party becomes a team you gain a trust score representing how much your party trusts you as a leader. Each character aside from the party leader has their own individual trust meter which can go up or down based on your actions and their personality. High trust levels allow you to perform powerful combination techniques.
-   _Yakuza: Like a Dragon:_ Ichiban has "bonds" with the other characters, which go from levels 1 to 5. You can level up their bonds by straightforward things like fighting, buying meals, and taking the men to hostess clubs. Eri's bond can only be raised through the business Mini-Game. Increasing bonds has the following benefits:
    -   Characters earn more XP when not in the active party.
    -   More jobs become available.
    -   You find out more about each character's back story.

    Simulation Games 

-   In the _Angelique_ series, your relationship values effect both the dating sim and the world-building sim portions of the game. Guardians who like you will give you free buildings and guardians who like your rival will either give her buildings or destroy yours.

-   _Brave Soul_ gives each party member Character Levels as you pursue them romantically: the healer gets more powerful spells as your relationship deepens, and so on.
-   The _Coming Out on Top_ demo had the option to show the relationship value as a number once you finished the game once. This way, the player can look how high the number goes after a choice to find the best option. And there's of course the fact that every dateable guy has strong preferences (be kind, be sensual, be strict) that considerably raise their value.
-   _Dandelion_ keeps track of how many relationship hearts you have with each of the five main romanceable guys and they can be increased through successful interactions with them. Some of these guys require you to raise your relationship with another guy in addition to them to get their good ending but for others, raising your relationship too much with another guy will get you their bad ending instead.
-   In _Dead In Vinland_, every character has a relationship meter toward every other character. The higher their friendship values, the better the bonus they get to actions they take together; if the score dips into the negative, they get an increasingly severe penalty instead. Some pairs of characters have a Romance Sidequest together. If a character dies, the game will report how the other characters react, which can even be "\_\_\_\_\_ was overjoyed" if the survivor really hated the dead character.
-   In the free amateur RPG/Dating Sim _Elven Relations_, the girl you get closest to will defend you in combat, and your actions in combat affect how she feels about you in the story-based segments.
-   _Freelancer_ has Relationship Values for every in-game faction. The more jobs you do for them, the higher the respect they hold for you; the more jobs you do for their rivals, the more they will hate you. If you push enough towards one side, that faction will become your friend or enemy. You can also pay for having a good word put upon you at any space station.
-   The _Galaxy Angel_ games incorporate Relationship Values into both their Dating Sim and Real-Time Strategy segments. If you impress an Angel on the bridge, she'll fight stronger in her ship. If you let her blow up in combat, she'll hate you when she gets back.
-   _Harvest Moon_ (and _Story of Seasons_):
    -   Most of the bachelor(ette)s have these, usually in the form of hearts, that tell you how much they love you. Once you get them to a certain level, you can then use the Blue Feather (_HM_'s equivalent of a wedding ring) to propose to them.
    -   The animals have it as well. The higher the relationship level is with them (and, in relationship to this, how good care you take of them), the better produce they provide. In _Magical Melody_, your relationship level with your horse determines what race you can enter for the Horseracing Festival, which means that you have to actively neglect and upset your horse if you want to keep at the necessary relationship level for certain races.
-   _Hustle Cat_ tracks the player's interactions with the other characters in the first half. At the end of the first arc, when the player goes to the basement, the character with the highest value will appear and from then on be Avery's lover.
-   _Idol Manager_: Each idol has three bars relating to her relationship with the Player Character:
    -   A friendship one that can be filled via casual conversation and choices made during random story events, which makes the idol more confortable with sharing gossip.
    -   An influence one that is primarly filled by discovering what the idol would like to do during her career and making it happen. Said influence can be used to make the idol stop bullying another, force a breakup with a romantic partner or make her stay in the agency past her own preferred graduation date.
    -   A third bar that exists for the purposes of an eventual Office Romance with the idol.
-   In _I Was a Teenage Exocolonist_, you can track your relationships with the romanceable characters in your friend list. You can improve your relationships with them by giving them gifts and bonding with them until you max out their meters at 10 hearts. As you bond with them, you unlock more details on their profiles, including sliders that tell you more precisely about their personalities.
-   In _Kitty Powers' Love Life_, each couple has Love Meters that determine how happy they are in the relationship. Maxing them out will let you level up their relationship from being romantic partners to getting engaged, and then getting married and finally achieving "true love" and leaving the Love Village to pursue their goals. On the other hand, if their Love Meters drop to zero, they threaten to break up with each other unless you ace the quiz on their partner's personal info.
-   _Littlewood_: The inhabitants of the town the Player Character is rebuilding all have a Level that represents their friendship with them, but also second meter that can only be filled by flirting or dating the character. The option to flirt starts showing up as an alternative to complimenting the character for an extra boost in Level once the friendship is high enough. As the friendship increases, the option to flirt will show up more and more often until the Player Character's Parental Substitute and characters whose Romance Sidequest is only missing marriage to be completed can be complimented.
-   There are 377 Melody points available in _Melody_, and any player who collects at least 375 will get the Perfect Ending. However, there is no equivalent for any of the other girls in the story.
-   _The Movies_ tracks relationships between actors and directors. Closer relationships between co-stars and directors give a slight (but not deal-making) boost to individual movies. Slightly related is the mood-tracking concept that The Movies shares with just about any personal-scope (Sims-style) Simulation Game.
-   _Potionomics_ is a business management game in which you run a potion shop, buying ingredients to craft your merchandise and then selling them. Sometimes you sell to the very people you bought ingredients from, such as the witch Quinn, who specializes in things like unicorn horns and slime. By interacting with them frequently and staying on good terms, your relationship with these people will increase, allowing you to buy materials cheaper and sell potions for higher, being taught new skills for dealing with customers, and unlocking events such as helping Quinn obtain free chocolate samples from some candy stores they've been banned from.
-   _Potion Permit_: As you slowly gain the trust of the villagers with your skills as a Chemist, you can track your friendships with them in the task menu's Social tab. You can bond with them a little by talking to them once per in-game day and giving them Moon Cloves as gifts for a big boost. Once you max out their friendship meters and complete their Friendship Events, you unlock more details in their profiles, with the romanceable characters having one extra page than the others.
-   In _The Prince of Tennis_ dating sim _Gakuensai no Oujisama_, the player is put in the role of a female manager who must work interact with the Cast Full of Pretty Boys to help organize the upcoming inter-schools School Festival. The player chooses a school for the girl first, then has her interact with the dudes of said school's tennis team, and the guy that the girl interacts the most with might or might not become her boyfriend if the cards are played right. Obviously, some guys are harder to reach to than others due to their personalities <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , plus some boys <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  are more prone to jealousy than others; if the player had the girl work on their affections but then she bumps into one of them while with another dude, their love meters will drop noticeably due to envy and resentment.
-   In _Princess Maker 2_, some particular meetings and your adoptive Daughter's stats will determine who will she marry. This includes unnamed males of more-or-less high status, a young Dragon, your lovely demon butler, the Prince of the Realm, a nobleman, a local tycoon, a normal man who may leave her in the end, the Demon Lord (who she kills and then steals his power)... or even yourself. Hey, she's your _adoptive_ kid...
    -   The _Princess Maker_ games in general are notable for this, especially since all Relationship Values are completely invisible, and there's no real way to influence them, besides indirectly. The only one that's easy to predict is the Wife Husbandry ending, because of the sparkly eyes your daughter's drawn with whenever she qualifies for it.
-   In _Roots Of Pacha_, you can track how close you are to the villagers by the number of flowers in their dialogue boxes, with 10 being the max. You can bond with them by talking to them, giving them gifts, and dancing with them. The romanceable characters are marked with pink flowers (which turn red when you start dating them and then into white Pacha tulips when you're in a Union with them) while the non-romanceable ones are marked with yellow flowers.
-   Employed in _Rune Factory_, just like with its sister series _Harvest Moon_.
-   _Sentimental Graffiti_ keeps track of two affection values: how much the girl likes him in general (the size of the heart) and how much she wants to see him (how fast it's beating).
-   All versions of _The Sims_ have this as a central aspect of the game. Relationship Values are visible for player-controlled characters, but there are also more minimal visual indicators for NPCs; icons will appear over the characters' heads when they become friends, best friends, enemies etc. Having a certain number of friends can be a requirement for getting a job promotion, or a goal unto itself.
    -   In the original game, one expansion added a long-term relationship meter to go with the usual short-term meter, with the icons then reflecting long-term changes over short-term ones.
    -   There are also situations that have temporary relationship values; you don't have to stay friends with the person, just get them to like you a certain amount in a time limit, such as trying to impress the Headmaster so your kid can go to private school.
    -   _The Sims Medieval_ still has the friendship values between individuals, and adds a Popularity meter for your monarch and for the two religious leaders. Unfortunately, the one for the monarch is unseen (you only get popups that it's increased or decreased) and has _virtually no_ effect on gameplay. Having a 0% Approval Rating doesn't change your Aspects nearly as much as quests do, so feel free to rudely deny every petition put before you.
    -   Sims in _MySims_ have a friend meter. It starts at Acquaintance, then goes through Friend up to Best Friend as you give them things they like and Be Nice to them. When you achieve Best Friend status with a particular Sim, you are rewarded: Townies give you special blueprints, while Commercial Sims give you duplicates of their outfits.
-   All the villagers in _Stardew Valley_ have a relationship meter expressed in hearts, up to a maximum of ten. A few of them will send you gifts or teach you a new cooking recipe if you get their relationship level high enough. You'll also sometimes unlock cutscenes which give them a bit more characterization and/or can affect your relationship with them. Villagers who can be romanced will have their relationship meter capped at eight hearts until you get it high enough and give them a bouquet, and from there you can give them a mermaid pendant to propose marriage once you get them to relationship level ten.

-   _Wing Commander III_ and _Wing Commander IV_ allowed you to affect your pilots' attitudes, and thus their combat efficacy, in cutscenes. WC4 took it another step by putting you in situations where you had to choose _which_ person to be nice to, and thus which one would take the relationship hit. Thankfully, the games were easy enough to make your wingmen irrelevant.
    -   Also, in WC3, in a romance subplot you (as Col. Christopher Blair) were given a choice between the ship's chief tech and a pilot under your command. Choosing one made the other unavailable afterward (no Rachel meant you had to configure your own ship loadout, or else you'd launch with no missiles, whereas no Flint just means one less pilot to select for the final mission set), or you could choose neither and make both a little less pleased with you, but keep both of them around.
-   In _World Neverland,_ you can become friends with any of the 300+ kingdom residents wandering around. They start as Strangers, become Acquaintances, then Friends and Good Friends. Same-sex friends can become Best Friends, while opposite-sex friends can become your Boyfriend/Girlfriend and eventually Husband/Wife if you're single. You have a limited number of "friend slots," however, and the people you have the lowest friendship with will go back to being Strangers if they fall off your "friend list."

    Strategy Games 

-   _Crusader Kings_ keeps track of all sorts of relations between characters. First of all between rulers and characters in their courts (a "loyalty" ranking) then for rulers and their vassals, then relations BETWEEN vassals and between rulers and other rulers. Mess things up too much and you can have your empire implode. All of these traits are based on a multitude of factors (prestige, piety, badboy score...) including your character traits (skeptical and zealous characters do not get along) some of the worst traits in the game ("Heretic", "Excommunicated" and "Kinslayer") has the effect of turning you into a real pariah...
    -   In the sequel, these are scrapped and replaced with a new system wherein every character has an opinion of _every other character_.
-   4X Strategy games such as the _Master of Orion_ and _Civilization_ series are won or lost by your relations with your neighbors — or at least by your ability to placate them until you can get around to properly crushing them under your heel.
    -   Also, in some of those games, you can win Diplomatic or Alliance victories by having extremely high Relationship Values with all the factions that you haven't converted to smoldering piles of rubble.
    -   On anything but the easiest difficulty levels, it's pretty much impossible to keep the other civilizations happy with you. As soon as you become even moderately successful, they will start plotting to bring you down. Of course, if you have a Democracy, it often behooves you to get your relationship values as low as possible, so that the other civilizations will attack you, eliminating the need to get permission from your Senate to declare war. And there also seems to be a hidden relationship value as far as how your Senate feels about the other civilizations. If it goes low enough, you can declare war on the other civilizations, and your Senate will just look the other way.
    -   _Rise and Fall_, the second expansion to _VI_ adds one for each city, which represents the city's loyalty to their civilzation. The loyalty effects the countries growth rates and yields and can be increased or decreased through various ways, including population pressure, city happiness, and domestic and foreign governor pressure. If loyalty gets too low, then the city will flip to a free state, who are against everyone. These free states can be taken by anyone, either forcibly or through loyalty. A leader from the third expansion, Eleanor Of Aquitaine, has this as her main mechanic, allowing her to use Great Works to flip cities and skipp the free city state when doing so.
-   The RTS _Seven Kingdoms_ also have a wealth of diplomacy options with other kingdoms. Unfortunately, the AI tends to be on the aggressive side and will become a sworn enemy if you do as much as build a fort in reach of one of its cities. Or reject their request to declare war on another AI kingdom that probably hasn't done much worse than that to anger them. However, there is still a benefit in forging alliances, and breaking them damages a kingdom's reputation. A surefire way to set their relationship value to 0 and thereby declaring a war themselves? Capturing their fort with spies, it doesn't matter if beforehand you're best buds for life, do it and they declare hatred on you. The second game makes these values visible in the Kingdom tab, so you can adjust fairly.
-   In _XCOM 2_, your soldiers will be palling it up in the barracks or sitting next to each other in the bar when you're looking around the _Avenger_, but not arbitrarily - the game keeps track of who shot down an enemy that had flanked a friendly soldier, or who healed another soldier with a medkit, and factors this in to what in the vanilla game is a hidden relationship stat. The _War of the Chosen_ expansion lets you see the affinity between your soldiers, even assigns them compatibility values, and if their relationship develops far enough you can make them "Bonded," unlocking special abilities and bonuses when they take to the field together.

    Survival Horror 

-   In _Haunting Ground_, Fiona finds a dog named Hewie, who is tied to a tree via wire. She frees the dog, who in turn becomes attached to her. By praising the dog for doing something well, or giving him the jerky you find scattered around the castle, Hewie's bond with Fiona increases. Being mean to the dog will make him ignore you, and the ending will change, depending on if he did or did not survive at the game's end.
-   _Ib_'s Multiple Endings are determined by the title character's relationships with Garry and Mary. Having a too-low relationship with either one of them locks you out of the game's best endings, especially with the latter as angering her too much by being overly violent to things around you or failing to get out of the doll room in time when playing as Garry causes her to kill Garry later on (although getting Mary this angry is ironically _required_ to get her ending). The best ending is obtainable only if Garry's bond with Ib is at max or near-max too, which requires you to not only be nice to him and talk to him at every opportunity but also to talk to him a _lot_ of times at said opportunities.
-   _Resident Evil_:
    -   In _Resident Evil_, when playing as Jill, you have a choice mid-game whether or not to trust Barry. This will influence Barry's actions near the end of the game, and ultimately affects the number of survivors.
    -   _Resident Evil 5_ has a secret trust meter. Play well and work well with your partner and there will be different animations. If it lowers then they can become uncooperative.
-   In _Silent Hill 4: The Room_ Henry has one with Eileen. The more damage Eileen sustains, the more antagonist Walter Sullivan will be able to possess her. Depending on how hurt/possessed she is, Eileen may speak like a baby, recite the teachings of the Order, attack herself, refuse to move, or sap health from the player. Possession can be counteracted with Holy Candles.) This also affects the game's ending, since the more Eileen has been hurt by the end of the game, the faster she will move toward the Death Machine during the final battle with Walter Sullivan. Eileen's survival or death is one of the two factors that influences the game's ending.
-   Featured in _Until Dawn_, where dialog choices can influence them, and thereby how well the characters trust each other. This, in turn, can affect the endings, including the credit scenes.

    Tabletop Games 

-   In _Apocalypse World_, every PC has a 'History' stat for every other PC, which indicates not their feelings towards that character, but rather how well they understand them. This stat is rolled against whenever a player wants to help (or hinder) another's roll. It's initially set by choosing options during character creation which determine certain feelings or past events, and after that is altered by how you act - if you heal someone you understand them better, if you hurt someone they understand you better.
-   Getting good at your pilot's Psychic Powers in _Bliss Stage_ depends entirely on your ability to Level-Up at Intimacy 5 and to avoid losing at zero trust.
-   In the _Dungeons & Dragons_ 5th Edition adventure module _The Rise of Tiamat_, the actions that the players undertake while fighting the Cult of the Dragon will have an impact on the opinions of the Councillors of Waterdeep, who represent many of the major factions and kingdoms of the Sword Coast. Each councillor's opinion needs to be above a certain threshold by the last episode of the module, or else that councillor will not commit their forces to the final battle against the Cult.
-   In _Fabula Ultima_, player characters can forge Bonds with NPCs and each other over the course of the campaign. Each Bond consists of one-to-three emotions like Loyalty, Admiration or Hatred, with the strength of the Bond equaling the number of emotions it contains. Players can leverage these Bonds to gain mechanical benefits under certain circumstances: for instance, a player who failed a Check could spend a Fabula Point to invoke their Bond with another character and add its strength to the result of the dice roll.
-   In _Flying Circus_. relationships between Player Characters are quantified with Trust, a binary, non-reciprocal value: either the pilot trusts somebody or does not trust somebody. These two extremes represent the intense emotions (or intense lack of) that pilots feel toward each other. Trust can change back and forth throughout play and affects Moves.
-   In the RPG based on _Smallville_, characters have relationships with other important characters rated as die type, from d4 to d12, that you can add to rolls that deal with that character. The level does not represent how good the relationship is, but rather how strongly you feel about the other character. A d12 relationship could represent love, hate, or something else entirely.

    Tactical RPGs 

-   _Agarest Senki_ lives and breathes on this trope. The higher the relationship value, the stronger the next generation protagonist will be. Same thing goes with _Agarest Senki 2_.
-   _Disgaea_:
    -   Starting from _Disgaea 2_, fighting alongside characters offered an increasing variety of benefits (increased chance of combo attacks, special endings, etc.), and in _Disgaea 2_ is specifically used as Story And Gameplay Integration to track the progression of Adell and Rozalin's relationship.
        -   _Disgaea D2: A Brighter Darkness_ makes use of this through its Likability mechanic. The higher two characters' Likability ratings are, the more often they will activate Cover (taking an attack for) and Support Attacks (follow-up attacks) with each other on the field. At maximum likability, one can even earn the other's passive ability. That said, there is the "Heart's Shadow" Innocent that gives a stat boost per person with Zero likability with the holder, and these ratings can be raised or lowered at the Dark Assembly.
    -   _Disgaea D2_ has Likeability values, which can go up and down between units depending on actions like healing another character or ally kills. Higher likeability leads to better chances of initiating team attacks, support attacks, and protect abilities. Some endings can also be triggered depending on the likeability between certain characters.
-   In the _Fire Emblem_ series, characters who spend a lot of time in battle together can improve their relationship, and will receive statistical bonuses whenever they're near each other on the field. Certain preset combinations change the ending, with the supporting characters getting married or otherwise pursuing their relationship:
    -   In _Genealogy of the Holy War_, relationship values are determined by how many turns a man and a woman stand together. Whoever reaches 500 relationship points with a woman first becomes her spouse and the father of her children in the next half. Values are also determined by whether or not the pairings are "predestined;" each female comes with three men as her default love interests, and building relations with them takes less time than building them with others (example: Lewyn/Erinys is one of the fastest pairings in the game and can happen in a chapter's span (and a certain talk can make them _fall in love instantly_), while pairing Erinys with Claud takes forever).
    -   In _Binding Blade_, only the main character Roy can have paired endings, and only characters who went to the final battle (the _real_ final battle, that is) get more than a simple line of text stating what happened to them after the war. Its prequel _Blazing Blade_ and the following game, _Sacred Stones_ also has the same system, but multiple characters have paired endings, depending on who the player has them end up with.
    -   _Awakening_ has a similar system as _Genealogy of the Holy War_, in that when a male and female reach the 'S' Support level they become committed/married to one another, which gives more stat bonuses when the two are paired up in battle. Depending on the female, they may produce a child who inherits skills, re-classing options, and statistical values from both parents. Although even those that don't have children still can reach 'S' rank.
    -   _Fates_ has pretty much the same system as _Awakening_ for all three games, with characters being able to support, marry, and have children. The main difference here is that children are now locked to their fathers instead of their mothers, with the only exceptions being Azura's son Shigure and the Female Avatar's son Kanna. An A+ rank has also been added in some cases, and achieving A+ or S support ranks allows characters to share classes.
    -   _Three Houses_ retains mostly the same system as in the previous two games, however there are more methods to raising support levels than simply battling. It is also possible to _lose_ support points by choosing wrong dialogue options. Unlike the previous two games, only Byleth can reach S support, and not until the end of the game, though endings will still mention possible relationships between characters if they reach A rank.
-   _Fuga: Melodies of Steel_ makes it an integral part of the gameplay by having the kids raise their affinity with each other by talking or working together in battles. Increasing their affinity levels allows them to gain different battle bonuses and more insight between them.
-   The _Growlanser_ games usually have these integrated in, where they represent the other party member's opinions of their leader.
    -   _Growlanser 2_'s Relationship Values would give the player a choice about who they could spend a day in town with near the end of the game, and could effect the ending on the regular game path (Though they're all but ignored on the two other gameplay branches). One could spend it with any member they wanted so long as their value was high enough, be they male, female, or dog-familiar thing.
-   Interesting example in _La Pucelle: Tactics_, in which any monster you convert to your side has a visible friendliness meter. Training them causes it to drop, and being nice to them causes it to rise. If it hits 0, the monster leaves with all the gear it had equipped, and if it reaches 10, that monster can use the special ability Purify.
-   _Luminous Arc_ have Heart levels, which increased by choosing the right dialogue choice in the Intermission sequence with the character after every battle they participated in.
    -   The sequel, _Luminous Arc 2_, use a similiar system, except with fixed chapter choices. So you have to choose between two or three characters a chapter to increase their Heart level.
    -   _Luminous Arc 3_ continues using the Intermission sequence, along with Refi spending time with a partner of the player's choice and gains a Zodiac Card to perform a Unison Strike with them.
-   _Soul Nomad & the World Eaters_ has a platitude of Multiple Endings for both genders for Revya, each one being unlocked via increasing Revya's relation with that character. Aside from certain dialogue options increasing these values, putting that character into Revya's squad and using their unique Combination Attack will increase said value as well. Raising these values high enough with Levin or Endorph before a certain point will not only unlock some alternate scenes, it will let you carry either of them past the Point of No Return in Drazil, locking you into their ending.
-   Many games in the _Super Robot Wars_ series have hidden relationship values between different pilots, whether as friends, rivals, or love interests. This is quite useful in the games it appears in, as it can affect the skills of the pilots if they're surrounded by the people they like.
    -   _Super Robot Wars K_ has a simple version that determines which of the two sidekicks gets to pilot the mecha that combines with Mist's, affects the OG Big Bad slightly, and determines who's with you in the "fin" slide. If you do it right, you can get both girls in the ending, but you still have to pick who pilots the Selcerius.
    -   _Super Robot Wars Judgement_ has a similar instance of setting the main character up with one of the copilots, although the implementation differs. There is an instance closer to K's in _Super Robot Wars Alpha_ where you can determine whether Hikaru ends up with Misa or Minmay.
-   _Symphony Of War_: By fighting alongside each other in battle and then witnessing their Conversations from the base menu, units can be paired up from C to A-Rank relationships, which grant bonuses when fighting alongside each other in battle. Not every Bond is romantic, as they include Family and Friend relationships.
-   _Tactics Ogre_ has Loyalty points which are invisible but you can read them through Characters' opinion about the main character. Having Loyalty at zero will make the character feel "Disaffection" and leave the party; some special characters like Aloser will immediately feel "Disaffection" and leave if you make a certain choice. There are many factors for raising and dropping loyalty: leveling them up on non-training battles will increase loyalty, but if you kill enemies with the same race as them they will drop their loyalty. Alignment has an effect too - if you have made "Lawful" choices the Lawful alignment characters' loyalty will increase while "Chaotic" characters' will drop, and vice versa.
-   _Vanguard Bandits_ had its characters' relationship values towards Bastion based largely on two things: how the characters did in combat (getting defeated cost them), and who you chose to talk to between fights. What these meant, plotwise, depended on the story path you were on: in the Kingdom path, you needed the average amount above a certain total to avoid the Bad Ending; the Empire path resembled a two-girl dating game, and the one with the higher relationship value would end up with Bastion at the end; and the Ruin path (which had only one ending) didn't care a whit for them.

    Third-Person Shooter 

-   Each of the Squadmates in _Binary Domain_ has a personal loyalty meter that's affected by both your performance in battle (they react positively to killing robots really well and negatively to friendly fire) as well as your responses to them. The higher their loyalty, the better they react to commands. Maxing out all of their loyalty gives you the best ending to the game.
-   _Mercenaries: Playground of Destruction_ had meters tracking each of the four major factions' attitudes towards you, which could be influenced by helping them (doing missions for them) or harming them (killing their soldiers). This doesn't really affect gameplay, except that if you piss one group off enough, you either have to please them again or bribe them to make them forget what you've done (additionally, pissing off the Allied Nations typically involves causing Allied or civilian casualties, which can get expensive after a while).
-   _Warframe_: The Tenno has the ability to gain standing with various factions (called syndicates), which unlocks shop wares and access to locked content (i.e. the Profit Taker boss, which requires max standing with Solaris United to access). The Solaris workers of Fortuna reveal their secret upon reaching max rank with them, which are their actual faces located behind the shutters on their torsos.

    Tower Defense 

-   _Arknights_ has operator Trust, which builds up by taking them to missions and being present in the base on daily reset. Higher trust levels give the operators a stat buff and unlock new records, which often show the operator expressing more of their individuality towards the Doctor as their relationship deepens.

    Turn-Based Strategy 

-   _Fate/Grand Order_ keep the Bond mechanic from the original _Fate/stay night_, but instead unlocks voice lines, access to Interludes and gameplay rewards.
    -   The bond point amount needed to reach bond 5 is often an indicator of a Servant's personality traits. Examples include: Scáthach-Skadi only requires 15k points and is an All Loving Heroine, Anastasia requires 50k points due to her history causing her to have trust issues, and Brynhildr requiring 45k for her first three bond levels then abruptly dropping to 5k at the last two is indicative of her Tsundere nature.
    -   Reaching bond level 10 rewards the player with the Servant's bond Craft Essence, which often contains insight into most personal parts of a Servant's history. Bond Craft Essences are often not useful in gameplay due to their subpar stats, and when combined with the long time it takes for one to reach bond 10 it makes them Bragging Rights Reward.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Analogue: A Hate Story_ has the AI constructs keep track of how you treat them and how well your opinions match theirs. It is only used to add flavor as long as you don't piss off \*Hyun-ae completely and refuse to apologize. The save file icon gives a rough estimate on how they feel about you.
    -   This continues in the sequel _Hate Plus_, but due to the low number of chances to change them, the imported save is generally controlling the values.
-   _Bliss Stage: Love Is Your Weapon_ has these as its _combat statistics._ Relationships form Empathic Weapons; sexual relationships form Infinity Plus One Swords!
-   _Cinders_ tracks the eponymous character's relationship values with not only her obvious male love interests but with her stepfamily too. If Cinders takes the time to improve her relationships with her stepsisters, they'll have friendlier dialogue with her and cover up for her when she sneaks out of the house. Similarly, if she makes a good impression on her stepmother Carmosa, she can opt to retake her father's manor by impressing Carmosa enough that she steps down to let Cinders manage the household which makes for a much less risky solution than having her arrested or killed off.
-   In _Coffee Talk_, meeting each character adds them to your friend list on the social network site _Tomodachill_. The more you interact with each character by getting their orders right, the more information appears on their profile. Getting their orders wrong will likewise make them hide their profile info from you, but they stop doing this in Episode 2.
-   In _Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc_ there's an option named "Free Time", which gives the-player-as-Naegi the chance to hang out with the other students and give them presents. They'll reward him either with skills to be used during trial scenes, or by raising the maximum number of skill points Naegi has during trials, depending on how far he's progressed in hanging out with them. (Not to mention, some show quite a bit of Hidden Depths as well.) The downside to this, however, is that there's a limited number of "free time segments" in each chapter. When students get killed, they are no longer available to spend time with, and their skills cannot be acquired. Furthermore, even if they're still alive, some characters may be unavailable to spend time with for plot reasons. Fortunately, skills and free time progress both carry over on subsequent playthroughs.
-   _Doki Doki Literature Club!_ contains both several rounds of a "poem-writing" minigame where you can impress one of the three romanceable girls each time by choosing the right words, as well as other choices one of which even has the Player Character thinking about how his choice is going to affect what the girls think of him. Subverted: While your choices affect things like which girl you get a more private scene with next, and there _are_ some kind of appeal points that have an effect on scenes, everybody's still ultimately ready to fall in love with you regardless — and the game takes a total Genre Shift before you can get an ending where you make any of them your girlfriend.
-   _Famicom Detective Club: The Girl Who Stands Behind_ gives you a compatibility check with heroine Ayumi Tachibana after the game's credits. The ratings score is dependent on your interactions with various characters throughout the game, including not just Ayumi, which could end up giving you a bad score if you just check through every interaction option.
-   _Fate/stay night_ performs a relationship values check in all three routes. In Fate, if you-as-Shirou are too much of a jerk to Saber, she basically kills you in a moment of absentmindedness to get the Grail (this practically requires a conscious effort to get). UBW has Tohsaka leaving you to be killed by Archer while she goes ahead without you to stop Caster (also very difficult to get). HF has the Shadow eating you if Sakura isn't attached enough, Illya will also come after you if you don't meet her a few days earlier in the route, and if you choose not to unseal Archer's arm, Shirou will stab Sakura (and get killed by Rider) much further down the route (all of whom can easily happen if you're not careful). All of these, needless to say, are bad ends that kill you. You get scolded for these in the Tiger Dojo, especially the first.
-   _Galaxy Angel_ and _Galaxy Angel II_ have this justified in-story. For starters, the potential love interests pilot Emblem Frames, ships equipped with a system whose performance is directly linked to the mental and emotional state of the Angels, so the more they like the player, the better they will perform during the space battle segments. Each of the first games in each trilogy has a point where the player must pick an Angel who'll become the player's romantic partner for the rest of the route, and the three with the highest level of affection will be the ones available.
-   nitro+' _Full Metal Daemon Muramasa_ has a subversion of the usual points system: At the midpoint of the game, you _**kill**_ the heroine with whom you have the highest affection points. This is due to the curse laid upon you by your mystical Powered Armor - to slay an ally for each enemy, someone you love for someone you hate.
-   In _Katawa Shoujo_, relationship values track the player(as Hisao)'s affection with each girl in Act 1. Basically, they're split between Shizune and Lilly/Hanako: if Shizune's is higher, Hisao will go with her, if Lilly and Hanako's are higher he'll have a final choice between the two and get together with that one, and if they're roughly equal he'll get with Rin. To get with Emi he pretty much just needs to choose to try hard during their training, though it's sometimes possible to end with Shizune even after that. After Act 1 and a girl's route has been chosen, the game goes in a more Visual Novel style with choices determining whether you get a Good, Bad, or sometimes Neutral End.
-   All of _The Letter's_ playable characters have relationship values with each other, which will change over time depending on the player's choices. Character relationships affect some story branching as well as the epilogue.
-   All three games in the _Purrfect Apawcalypse_ series keep track of the characters' affection for you with heart meters shown over their heads. The first game has this as a largely optional system that doesn't affect your chances of getting the best ending and just tells you after you get an ending which character you made the happiest, but the second game requires you to have a positive relationship with pretty much every character to get the best ending and shows you a bonus drawing if you got max affection for everyone. The third game goes back to a more relaxed approach with the relationship values; it's fully possible to get the best ending with negative affection with everyone as long as you don't cross the Moral Event Horizon, but getting the best ending with everyone's affection maxed out unlocks a bonus drawing similar to the second game's and getting the worst ending with everyone's affection in the deep negatives unlocks a bonus epilogue after the ending screen.
-   _Seven Kingdoms: The Princess Problem_ tracks four possible relationship values: Friendship, Romance, Rivalry, and Respect, each influenced by your actions and behavior toward a given character. Not all of the characters you can interact with have sliders for all four values... although the presence or absence of the Romance slider shouldn't always be taken at face value.
-   In _True Love Junai Monogatari_, the girls will likely be attracted to either one trait or one factor that Player Character must work on. In example, to get Remi's attention, he _must_ work on his Academics/Scholarship, to get Mayumi he shall work on his Appearance, and so on. And in one case, it'll work _against_ him: if the player wants to romance Mikae, he or she _can't_ let the PC's Academics get too high, lest Mikae and Remi will end up as love rivals. Additionally, if the PC's stress gets too high, Mikae will nag him and accuse him of being The Pig-Pen until it's lowered.
-   _Tsukihime_ also has a relationship values check in all of the routes, though Akiha's and Kohaku's routes are the only ones whose endings aren't determined by it. In Arcueid's route, she'll kill you if your relationship value is low (this can easily happen if you choose to rape her in your craze, which greatly lowers your value and happens right before the check). At the end of Akiha's route, Shiki puts her down if the check fails, which is still considered a Bad End in spite of Shiki living. Generally, having a good relationship with the main heroine of the route nets you the True Ending.

___