Uh, I'm freezing here.

_"Any more great ideas? Why don't you strip down and have a hundred people stare at you?!"_

If the writer or artist wants to include a ridiculously sexy female character who is always dressed in skimpy outfits, they may choose to give a reason for this character to dress and behave the way she does. Maybe she's The Vamp and is using it as a means to get what she wants from men, or maybe she's the Innocent Fanservice Girl, who simply doesn't know any better or the Shameless Fanservice Girl who doesn't care.

And then there's this girl. She would _prefer_ to dress modestly, and really doesn't like being ogled by men, but, for some reason, the universe conspires to have her dress in skimpy outfits or end up naked. Her clothes may get ripped in combat, disappear or get stolen by someone, she may be pressured into it by her friends, she may have to provide a sexy distraction to get past the idiot guards, the villain may have kidnapped her, had his servants bathe her and forced her to wear a metal bikini... any excuse will do, but whatever the reason, she will always be unhappy about it. Sometimes she may even have a Naked Freak-Out, or will give people a "No Peeking!" Request.

Often Played for Laughs as a form of Butt Monkey-ness, although serious variants are also possible. After all, much of the humour of the situation depends on whether you think women being unwillingly stripped-down carries a host of Unfortunate Implications or is as harmless as any other fictional kink. If the author wishes to make a point about gender issues, this kind of Fanservice will often be toned down or Deconstructed.

A frequent consequence of the Third Law of Gender-Bending. This trope is also not exclusive to females and may also happen to the Mr. Fanservice. Contrast with Shameless Fanservice Girl, who has no reservations about flaunting their sex appeal. Also contrasts with the Token Wholesome, who's allowed to maintain their modesty.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   Chika Minazuki from _Ai Yori Aoshi_. A Running Gag in the story has various accidents and mishaps leave Chika standing completely naked in front of Kaoru. On one particular occasion, she not only drags her friends into it, but she also finds herself on the ground with her legs spread wide.
-   In _Asteroid in Love_, The Earth Sciences Club understand they need to wear Meido costumes during the School Festival exhibit to draw in visitors; the club's status as a Club Stub means that visibility means a lot to the club's continued survival since prospective students often visit these festivals. Most of the members, though, find it embarrassing; Mikage wears a tracksuit over it when her classmates come to visit, while Mira and Ao get embarrassed when their parents come by.
-   The condition for Ringo's jumping power in _Banana no Nana_ is that she has to wear a miniskirt that shows off her panties.
-   Casca from _Berserk_, since she had troubles with her femininity and didn’t think she's very attractive (even though she is) tended to cover up and act like a Sweet Polly Oliver, when Guts has to stripped her so she wouldn't die of hypothermia, Casca attacks him as soon as she notices she's naked upon waking up. Played for Drama at other times as Clothing Damage is intentionally done to Casca by a lot of foes and specifically Wyald for obvious reasons. Even Guts her then Love Interest once told Casca to leave the battlefield after she lost most of her shirt and pants saying she would just distract him looking like that. When Casca is cured of her mental state and put in a beautiful but cleavage-revealing dress by the Elf Queen, Casca gets annoyed reminding everyone present that's she's a mercenary, they ignore her protests.
-   _Castle Town Dandelion_: Akane has a knack for accidentally providing panty shots to the in-universe audience.
-   In _Chinpui_, any photograph taken of Eri will inevitably turn out to be a upskirt shot or a nude. This is because both the interstellar paparazzi and the universe in general are determined to embarrass her.
-   Kallen from _Code Geass_ has fallen into some precarious clothing and/or pose situations, to the point where part of the fanbase considers her nothing more than fanservice.
-   In _The Demon Girl Next Door_, Yuko's Crisis Management form's outfit is distressingly revealing to her, as she usually dresses extremely modestly, to the point one would never otherwise know she has a surprisingly attractive figure for her age and height. Not that anyone ever points it out.
-   _Don't Meddle with My Daughter!_: Played for laughs and, occasionally, for drama. Athena Haruka aka the Eight Wonder retired from being superheroine 20 years ago, after repeatedly being harassed and sexually assaulted, by villains and bystanders alike. She's never told her daughter Clara because she fears what Clara might think of her. But when she finds out Clara's chosen to follow in her footsteps _and_ is the new Eighth Wonder, Athena comes out of retirement to protect her. Though it means subjecting herself to sexual humiliation all over again, she'll bear it so her daughter won't have to.

-   In _Dorothy of Oz_, Mara Shin's Magical Girl transformation strips off her clothes to reform them into the Witch's suit. Unfortunately for Mara, someone always walks in just as the magic takes her clothes off. In the fifth volume, she trips and falls on top of one of her comrades while in the middle of her transformation.
-   _Dragon Ball_: In the very first story arc, Bulma's clothing becomes damaged and, stuck out in the desert, the only piece of clothing nearby is a Playboy bunny costume. She hates wearing it, but inexplicably wears the bunny ears with it until she can replace it with some nearly-as-revealing local attire.

-   Yuka in _Elfen Lied_ takes up the Ms. Fanservice role rather unwillingly, due to her being a frequent victim of Nyu's antics or getting panty shots that are seen by Kouta.
-   _Fairy Tail_:
    -   Gray is a male example. His training to resist the cold left him with a habit of stripping down to his boxers _without realising it_, and he's always embarrassed to find out he's half-naked.
    -   Lucy, whose clothing always manages to rip just enough to cover the naughty bits. She's understandably not very happy about it. Not to mention that at least twice (thrice if we count a filler episode in the anime), she ended up with Natsu groping her.
    -   This culminates in an amusing scene in the movie where Lucy runs out of the shower without realizing that her towel didn't quite catch and ends up in front of the now wide-eyed Gray and Natsu, prompting the following exchange:
        
        **Natsu:** Gray, is your stripping habit contagious?  
        **Gray:** Thank you, stripping habit!
        
-   Tamaki Kotatsu of _Fire Force_. She doesn't like her body being exposed as a result of her "Lucky Lecher Lure" and usually has a Naked Freak-Out whenever it happens. She has to wear a bikini under a cut-off uniform (necessary, as a result of the way her powers work) and has a habit of accidentally tripping chest/crotch/boobs first into people and then accusing them of sexual harassment. In what's probably the ultimate example of this, she somehow loses all her clothes by tripping which proves that she's the real deal in place of a body-doubling cultist to Iris. However, she doesn't seem to have a problem wearing a bikini top and a open uniform jacket or her trousers with large gaps in the sides. Her reluctance clashes with her established role as the Symbol of Life.
-   _Free!_ has Rei Ryugazaki, who is forced to wear a speedo when he tries swimming for the very first time. He later objects and decides to get a different swimsuit, but Nagisa keeps getting more and more speedos for Rei, much to his dismay. In a later arc, when they are trying to recruit more members for the Iwatobi Swim club, Nagisa suggests they all parade through the school while showing off their bodies and a very frustrated Rei says he wouldn't do it. Nagisa then asks him what would he rather have, attract prospective club members by parading through the school in the buff or not have new members at all and Rei points out that they are both equally bad options.
    -   When the team is instructed by Gou to strip down to their form fitting swimsuits onstage, to get more members for their club, they are a little concerned but do it anyway, but Makoto Tachibana is actually shown to be embarrassed, as opposed to Nagisa or Haru.
-   _Girls Bravo_: Kirie can't catch a break because she's stuck being the object of Fukuyama's perversions.
    -   Nearly half the time you'll see her panties is because he regularly flips up her skirt to see what color she's wearing. And you'll see plenty of her boobs too, since he gropes her just as often.
    -   In episode 11, Kirie has to play against him in a game of ping pong, where if _she loses_, she would've had to use her body as a loofah to wash his back. She only agrees to the terms since Fukuyama and his sister would have to leave, if she wins.
    -   And in episode 13, he blackmails her into entering the "Girls Fight!" competition, by threatening to show everyone a childhood photo of her wetting the bed if she doesn't. Then set the rules so the combatants have to wear progressively skimpier swimsuits as they advance in the rankings — just so he can see Kirie in a thong.
-   Sohara from _Heaven's Lost Property_ often ends up in embarrassing Fanservice situations, to her great dismay. An entire episode, for example, has her to go around without panties against her will.
-   _Hell Teacher Nube_:
    -   Having Ritsuko Takahashi either naked, half-naked, or with quite the Clothing Damage is kind of a Running Gag in the series. It becomes a Cerebus Retcon when she's stripped naked _and then almost murdered_ by a reluctant and mentally broken Yukime.
    -   Also, while Izuna Hazuki is normally a Ms. Fanservice, the episode where she develops pyrokinesis and her clothes are constantly damaged or destroyed places her here.
-   Ryuko from _Kill la Kill_, in the first few episodes at least, is _extremely_ embarrassed about how Stripperific her Kamui is. This actually turns into a plot point: because she's so ashamed of its skimpiness, she's unable to harness its true potential until a (totally bizarre) Rousing Speech from Mako.
-   Mio Akiyama from _K-On!_. She's been forced into her share of costumes, not to mention tripping over a cord and landing in a panty-exposing position during the band's first performance in front of the whole school.
-   In _Love Hina_ Naru Narusegawa often ends up in embarrassing situations with Keitaro. To the point that the author himself, in the extra, apologizes for having drawn her naked so often.
-   This is part of the main premise of _Mahou Shoujo Nante Mou Ii Desu Kara_. Yuzuka's Magical Girl outfit is nothing more than a two-piece swimsuit. While it does serve a practical purpose, given that her powers are water-based, and it's Played for Laughs rather than actual fanservice, Yuzuka is still extremely embarrassed by it and refuses to transform.
-   _Maken-ki!_:
    -   Having **H-Cup** breasts makes Haruko a natural target for groping, since Takeru can't seem to keep his hands, or his face, off them. In some cases, it's deliberate. She also ends up pantless more than once, due to his knack of falling in such a way that her skirt (or her shorts) are always the only thing in reach.
    -   In chapter 60, Kimi explains that she convinced Takaki to cosplay for her at the school's previous Manga Con. She reluctantly went along with it, until a male attendee got to close for comfort and tried to take photos under her skirt. Takaki panicked, because of her androphobia, and stomped on him until Ms. Aki and the others calmed her down. She's refused to attend the convention ever since.
-   This is the entire concept of _Miss Machiko_. The title character continually finds herself naked due to the actions of her perverted students, the occasional non-human, or the nature of the universe itself.
-   The centaur Centorea from _Monster Musume_. She really does try to dress modestly but is frequently either giving Kimihito Marshmallow Hell, being groped by Kimihoto in accidents, or losing her top completely and reveals her breasts. Embarrassment tends to happen after each event.
-   Briefly parodied by the show's resident Terminator Impersonator Lunar's dad in _My Bride is a Mermaid._ Nagasumi incidentally sees him changing into a Sailor Fuku outfit through a window across the street while cute music plays, causing him to gasp and close the curtains, shouting at Nagasumi to not look. Nagasumi is clearly not a fan of what just happened.
-   _My-HiME_:
    -   Natsuki Kuga would like nothing more than to figure out why District One killed her mother. But as the resident Butt-Monkey, she has been forced into a Going Commando situation by a monster Panty Thief, forced to Show Some Leg to flag down a ride,as her friends tell her to "use her girlish looks", and forced into a frilly pink dress and pigtails for an involuntary karaoke session.
    -   Natsuki's Arch-Nemesis, Nao, at the aforementioned karaoke session, is made to wear an outfit that looks like something more appropriate to a Vegas showgirl or a Brazilian Carnival than a middle school student. She's clearly uncomfortable in the outfit, despite generally being much more confident in using her feminine looks to manipulate people.
-   _Negative Hero_: When Renee joins the maids of the Demon Lord's castle for a day, the maids put her into a very fanservicey dress that stops above her knees, to her obvious discomfort. The Demon Lord's Papa Wolf intincts get triggered and he near-instantly whips up some much more practical (and modest) clothes for her.
-   A dozen examples could be found from _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_ alone.
    -   Takane D. Goodman is the most notorious. Takane is in the habit of using magically-generated clothing instead of _actual_ clothing, and so her outfits tend to _vanish completely_ whenever she's defeated in battle... and she's not exactly the most powerful side-character. The only thing worse than the way this traumatizes her is the way she eventually copes with it: she demands that Negi fight her in a serious duel, and insists that the duel only end with him either agreeing to go out with her or blasting her clothes away once again.
    -   This is also known to happen to Asuna. Early incidents involved Negi's wind magic activating by accident, which blew off all Asuna's clothes without causing her any harm. Negi's wind magic accidentally activating has done that to many girls, not just Asuna. The fact that his attempt to _erase her memory_ also resulted in nothing more than clothing loss for Asuna, however, was foreshadowing of Asuna's magic cancel abilities. And later, her magic canceling abilities became so strong that she _kept her clothes on_ when Negi's infamous strip-sneeze came around.
-   The Magical Girl outfit in _Oku-sama wa Mahou Shoujo_ is designed for your standard, young girl. Ureshiko, at 26, has a fully adult body, and she's not quite comfortable when people point out how it looks on her.
-   _One Piece_:
    -   Vivi in stark contrast to Nami is more shy about her body. She got particularly embarrassed<small>◊</small> when Sanji bought her a belly dancing outfit and meekly told him that it wasn't ideal desert attire, while Nami was delighted with her outfit. Notably, while Nami happily invoked Battle Strip with her desert cloak to show off her dancer clothes, Vivi on the other hand adamantly kept her cloak on. As time goes Vivi dresses more revealing perhaps to show she's accepted maturing physically as well as emotionally.
    -   Nico Robin is a meta example: She doesn't seem to mind wearing Navel-Deep Neckline and other skimpy clothes In-Universe, but one fan pointed out that he found it weird that she wouldn't dress more modestly with the kind of personality she has (not only modest but also relatively sophisticated and mature). Oda replied that indeed, women with Robin's personality wouldn't really want to dress like that, but since it is a way to provide Fanservice, he will continue drawing her wearing those kinds of clothes.
    -   Played very straight with Tashigi. She dresses much more conservatively compared to almost every other female character, and when she gets into a "Freaky Friday" Flip with her superior Smoker, she gets very embarrassed that he unbuttoned her shirt to reveal that she's a Hidden Buxom. When Tashigi gets her body back the result is unsurprising<small>◊</small>. In _One Piece: World Seeker_, Nami and Robin even gently mock Tashigi for her shyness while bathing, saying she's got nothing to be ashamed of.
-   _Pokémon: The Original Series_: In the (banned) episode "Beauty and the Beach", Misty declares that parading in front of strangers in a bikini is "Totally embarrassing and degrading... but we need the money." This is however only present in the 4Kids dub, as Misty (Kasumi) in the original Japanese version prides herself in the bikini since she considers herself to be an "internationally known beauty".
-   _Rune Soldier Louie_: Of the main female cast members, it _would be_ the priestess.
    -   When Headmistress Jenny jokes that Melissa's duty may require her to let Louie have his way with her, Melissa imagines him as an ogre tearing her clothes off; complete with a Big "NO!"
    -   While they're out sailing in episode 15, Louie's fishing hook snags the top of her bikini. So when he casts the line, it pulls her across the deck and tears off her top, ending with her being flush against his back. Predictably, she has a screaming fit and demands her top back (at 6:48-7:12).
    -   And in episode 21, she volunteers to cover for Merrill, while she was out sick, not knowing that one of her jobs was dancing in a burlesque show. So Melissa is equally horrified and mortified when she sees the "costume" she has to wear.
        
        **Melissa:** _\[thinking\]_ OH MY GOD!! If this is what he means when he says "costume", I don't want to know what he means when he says "dance"!
        
-   Elizabeth of _The Seven Deadly Sins_ frequently winds up in fanservice-y costumes against her will but doesn't seem to fully mind.
-   In _Sumomomo Momomo_, Sanae's fighting style revolves around an outfit that makes her more powerful the less of it she wears. Even when fully clothed the costume is still very Stripperiffic. She really doesn't like wearing it. The manga goes into detail regarding this: the traditional strength-enhancing outfits of Sanae's family aren't anywhere near that bad, but Sanae's grandmother modifies all of hers to both expose her and force her to deliberately or inadvertently expose herself further. Her grandmother believes Sanae's humility and desire to be seen as "normal" are crippling weaknesses and that the only way for her granddaughter to be the competent fighter circumstances require is for Sanae to be _publicly shamed and humiliated_. Repeatedly.
-   Karina "Blue Rose" Lyle in _Tiger & Bunny_ is _contractually obligated_ to go crime-fighting in a Stripperiffic outfit, despite how impractical and dangerous it is, mainly because her sponsors market her largely on sex appeal. Since she's a deconstruction of Ms. Fanservice, poor Karina is shown to be _extremely_ embarrassed and frustrated over it — but she can't do anything since it's either that or losing her fans _and_ her sponsors.
-   _To Love Ru_:
    -   Yui Kotegawa. Almost every encounter with Rito usually ends up with her embarrassed, naked or groped (sometimes all three combined).
    -   Yami is continuously a victim of Rito's pattern of accidentally falling and groping girls (which earns Yami's wrath more than a few times). Inverted with her "Darkness" form.
    -   In episode 22 of the first anime, both Yui and Haruna (pictured) are forced to wear skimpy outfits for the animal cafe cosplays.
    -   Tearju, in the sequel _Darkness_, since her first appearance where she and Rito end up naked thanks to Lala's teleporter device. Special mention when Mikado uses her to test Rito's "skill."
-   Yutori Kotorogi in _Tomodachi Game_. A modest Shrinking Violet with a chest so large that the managers of the Sadistic Game Show assign them a monetary value of _$2 million dollars_. More often than not it's Played for Drama, as she's frequently victimized by men seeking to take advantage of her and jealous girls.
-   _Uzaki-chan Wants to Hang Out!_:
    -   The titular protagonist often ends up in many embarrassing situations (several of which involve her huge rack). One instance involves her being forced into a Playboy Bunny outfit and being visibly uncomfortable wearing it.
    -   Her mother Tsuki ends up this way in Chapter 74. When her husband is going through a funk due to their daughter finally getting hooked up with Sakurai, she decides to do a cosplay session for him to cheer him up, first dressing up as a Meido, and then wearing a School Sport Uniform, while also feeling embarrassed.
    -   Ami also gets a moment of this when she tries to convince the Uzakis to wear sexy outfits in their café, right before getting caught by her dad. She ends up having to serve the customers in a Playboy Bunny outfit for the rest of the day as punishment.
-   Doronjo (the female member and leader of the Terrible Trio) from _Yatterman_. She suffers from Clothing Damage at every episode and more than his two comrades. Indeed the destruction of the Dorombo gang’s mecha will result in her clothes being shredded to revealing levels. Sometimes she also asks the viewer to not look.
    -   This applies also to other _Time Bokan_ villainesses. Special mention to Mirenjo from _Yattodetaman_ who is often the victim of Defeat by Modesty, ending the episode half-naked. In episode 40 this happens to her three times!
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh!_: In the virtual world mini-arc, Joey is forced to wear the garb of a legendary warrior: a one-shouldered "barbarian" style garment cut very short. It's even skimpier than Mai' costume — although she's extremely comfortable in hers and Joey tries to avoid coming out in his.
-   Alexis is the resident Ms. Fanservice in _Yu-Gi-Oh! GX_, no matter how much she hates it. More evident in the manga, where she's nominated for Ms. Duel Academy and practically has to be _dragged_ to the competition.

    Comic Books 

-   The entire point of _Empowered_, where the titular heroine's super-suit seems to be perversely designed to leave her as exposed as possible and tear to shreds at the drop of a hat. This has _not_ helped her self-esteem any.
-   Played with the New 52 Power Girl, seeing as she's always getting into situations where she might be invulnerable, but her costume clearly isn't. It ends up getting torn pretty much in every issue, to her dismay. Then when (Earth-1) Supergirl's Sanctuary gave her the old Power Girl costume (complete with infamous boob window), presumably now invulnerable like Supergirl's, as a replacement, she seemed quite happy with it. Clearly it's not the style of costume that's the problem, just she'd rather have one that stayed intact.
-   DC villain Plastique became this at the end of her first appearance when Firestorm used his powers to de-atomize her clothes, leaving her completely naked and sexually humiliated in public while he took away the bombs that were attached to her suit.
-   _X-Men_:
    -   Jean Grey got very annoyed<small>◊</small> Wolverine did an Action Dress Rip to her evening gown making it too short for her taste.
    -   Kitty Pryde suffered this during Joss Whedon's run when her phasing power unexpectedly kicked in when she was having sex with Colossus, causing her to phase through the bed and fell all the way down into one of the lower rooms of the Mansion (with students everywhere) and, being completely naked, she had to grab the nearest couch sheet available to wrap around herself as she ran back upstairs.
    -   Rogue tends to have a very good reason to cover herself up, but the MU doesn't listen to her, and she is subject to Clothing Damage and suggestive situations that put others (especially Gambit) at risk. Averted at other times as she will happily wear skimpier outfits, e.g. like when she's on a picnic with Gambit or in the Savage Land. However, when Gambit decided to get a little hands-on during the aforementioned picnic, Rogue (for his safety) ran away very fast while Gambit chased after her. Also when Nick Fury offered her a change of clothes in the Savage Land, Rogue gladly took it.
-   The normally very knowing and Shameless Fanservice Girl that is Selina Kyle, a.k.a.: Catwoman, became this briefly in _Catwoman: When in Rome_ when she made the mistake of going to bed naked and then a bomb went off in her apartment the next morning, forcing her to jump out of her window completely naked.
-   Jennifer Walters alias _She-Hulk_ is often subject to embarrassing situations. One of the early examples in _Fantastic Four_ where a paparazzo took photos of her sunbathing topless (but nobody ultimately knew it was She-Hulk due to an unwitting editor "correcting" her green skin).

    Comic Strips 

-   Jane from the _Daily Mirror_ strip of the same name. An urban legend claims that during World War II, when a rumor went out that D-Day would coincide with Jane appearing fully naked for the first time, army brass specifically asked the artist to make it so. On VE Day, a patriotic Jane showed up in uniform to congratulate the troops, and they tore all her clothes off in search of souvenirs. In 1987, the strip was adapted as the film _Jane and the Lost City_.

    Fan Works 

-   In a Discworld fic by A.A. Pessimal, several Lady Assassins are detailed to work alongside the Guild of Fools, on a City-sponsored Guild assignment to draw out opposition to the Fools' Guild openly recruiting women and girls for the first time. Johanna Smith-Rhodes and Alice Band are therefore assigned to learn suitable circus skills<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . Both realise they will need to appear in public in things like leotards, high heels and sparkly tights. And at a public performance, they are aware of vampire iconographer Otto Chriek, who is taking lots of pictures of an attractive tightrope-walker and trapeze artiste (Alice) in the approved showgirl rig. A lion-tamer in the approved black tights and high-heeled boots with a whip to crack (Johanna) also features in the Times. As teachers at the Guild school, both know what this means. Those photos will circulate like wildfire in a school full of horny adolescent boys. Alice is philosophical about this, reasoning that suitably inclined girls will like them too.
-   Sylvanas Windrunner in the _Heroes of the Storm_ fanfic _Heroes of the Desk_. She doesn't like the way others portray her (or lust after her) in our world, leading to some Hypocritical Humor as she sees _absolutely nothing wrong_ with what she is (not) wearing, despite the fact that this is the main source of the fanservice.
-   In _Imaginary Seas_, Percy is not pleased when he learns that his new armor comes with a gratuitous Cleavage Window that shows off his pecs and abs and feels indecent because of it (though he's glad his armor includes pants, unlike Caenis' version). So when he comes across a village whose inhabitants rush to serve him as the son of Poseidon, one of the first things he asks for is a shirt.
-   Power Girl is uncomfortable being seen naked by a reformed Lex Luthor (actually Xander Harris possessing Luthor) in _Lex Marks the Spot_ while he's performing life-saving surgery on her. She admits it seems silly when he points out that a few minutes prior, he was acting as her lungs and it's hard to get more intimate than that.
-   Suzaku in _My Mirror, Sword and Shield_ is embarrassed that he's forced to wear unnecessarily form-fitting clothes as his Royal Guard uniform but he can't do anything about it since Lelouch hired him as eye candy and Lelouch is the Emperor. Lelouch gets better about this as he learns to respect Suzaku.
-   Cloud as his player character Rainstorm in _Off the Line_. He didn't check the equipment customization when he picked the Viera as his character's race and found out the hard way that all armor is programmed to look skimpy on him. To his embarrassment, Rainstorm's clothing can be generously called well-placed pieces of cloth and/or jewelry.
-   In _Pokémon Reset Bloodlines_, a minor side character named Midori is forced by his female friends to pose in his boxers for a painting, much to his embarrassment. This was due to him developing Muscle Angst after a trip to the beach, and they want to use the painting as proof that he shouldn't feel physically inadequate.
-   In _Total Drama Action: All-In_, Bridgette becomes one in the seventh episode when the first challenge requires her to be a lifeguard and to wear a very form-fitting one-piece lifeguard swimsuit while at it. She becomes immensely annoyed by all the male contestants ogling her body and vocally complains about how much she hates being treated as a sex object (even saying in confessional that it's not the first time this has happened to her).
-   _Vow of Nudity_:
    -   Spectra is court-ordered to wear a cursed necklace that forces her to live her life completely naked, and even decades later is still clearly embarrassed about it. She didn't even do anything to deserve it; the local magistrate forced the necklace on her after her parents were executed following a failed bank robbery, rationalizing that she'd likely follow in their footsteps if given the chance to live normally with her changeling powers hidden.
    -   Haara assumes this dynamic whenever Fiora is around, as the latter repeatedly finds increasingly-outlandish ways to get Haara into sexual or embarrassing situations.
        
        **Haara**: Why does _every_ single plan of yours involve humiliating me?
        

    Films — Live-Action 

-   Babs in her final scene in _Animal House_, having been stripped to her bra and panties, tries to both hide and coverup, all while screaming. She needn't have bothered, because no one was even paying attention to her while with the riot going on around her.
-   The entire plot of _Beyond the Lights_ is based around this trope. Operating under the idea that Sex Sells, Noni's record label (with her Momager's FULL APPROVAL, no less!) turns her into a hyper-sexualized "fantasy girl" that "every guy wants and every girl wants to be". To say that Noni is reluctant would be an understatement. She feels like she is suffocating and that no one can see (or cares to see!) her for who she truly is- until Officer Kaz Nicol comes along.
-   _The Italian Job_: Stella is upset when Charlie shows up while she's stripped down to her bra. She orders him to look away and quickly puts a shirt on.
-   _James Bond_:
    -   A few of the Bond girls across the franchise actually fall into this, but most tend to be very knowing and savvy about their sex appeal. Interestingly, Plenty O'Toole goes from being a rather Shameless Fanservice Girl to a very reluctant one once she gets caught stripped down to her panties by the "Perverts' Convention" in _Diamonds Are Forever_.
    -   In _The Living Daylights_, Bond forces a lady to become this in order to surprise and distract the incoming KGB agent.
    -   In _The Man with the Golden Gun_, Mary Goodnight, while being held prisoner on his private island by Scaramanga, is forbidden any clothes other than a bikini; Scaramanga's excuse is that he wants to make sure she has no weapons concealed.
-   Hot Lips in _M\*A\*S\*H_ when the gang arranges for the shower curtain to drop while she's in the shower.
-   Leia in _Return of the Jedi_ is forced to wear a skimpy slavegirl costume when captured by the Fat Bastard Jabba. Understandably, she isn't happy. Though she manages to get back at him by using the chain attached to her costume to _strangle Jabba to death_.
-   Sandy in _Saving Silverman_ has been in training to be a nun and wears a knee-length habit. When she needs a change of clothing, the only outfit available is a set of stripper clothes.
-   Elena becomes this when Zorro gives her a Shameful Strip in _The Mask of Zorro_.
-   Angel in _X-Men: First Class_ — although she says that she's used to men staring at her without clothes on and not so used to them staring at her with clothes on.
-   The German/Polish short film _Diabelska edukacja_ (AKA: _The Devil And The Virgin_ and _A Devilish Education_) features Gosla (or Gosia, played by the lovely Renata Dancewicz), a beautiful young virgin who finds herself the object of affection to Satan himself — who sees her cheerfully frolicking about completely naked when she bathes outside; however, her gleeful nudity immediately turns to humiliated horror when she realizes someone is watching her and, covering herself as best she can, runs away. Happens again later when Satan seduces her for the first time - he persuades her to take off her clothes in a forest, then teases her by saying someone else is watching, causing her to cover herself again in shame, until he lets her know he was joking, and then she relaxes.
-   Stephanie Plum in _One for the Money_ is showering off after a bad day when her suspect and ex-boyfriend rips the shower curtain off. He doesn't give her a towel straight away, forcing to crouch in the tub covering herself with her arms, and then he handcuffs her to the shower rail. Then, before he goes, he takes away her towel. It's not as much of a Shameful Strip as it could have been, because being her ex he's seen her naked before, but she still has to give some thought to who she wants to call about setting her free.
-   _Love with the Proper Stranger_: Angie puts on a dress for her date with Rocky only to realize that said dress shows a lot of cleavage. She tries to pull the front of the dress up but there's nothing doing, and it's too late to change. Rocky openly gawks when she lets him into her apartment.
-   _Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle_:
    -   The avatar Martha ends up in, Ruby Roundhouse, is an Expy of Lara Croft, with the body of Karen Gillan and a skimpy outfit that's not at all appropriate for the environment. Martha, who is a bookish nerd in real life, is none too happy about it, and later asks Bethany for the jacket of her avatar (an overweight, middle-aged male scientist).
        
        **Martha:** Why am I wearing half a shirt and short shorts in the jungle?!
        
    -   Spencer becomes a male version of this trope. A nerdy gamer who had little luck with girls in real life, he winds up in the avatar of Smolder Bravestone, a hunky, charismatic Adventurer Archaeologist with the physique of Dwayne Johnson, and struggles to manage the attention he gets from Bethany and Martha.
-   _A Cinderella Story: Once Upon a Song_: Lucy Hale's character Katie is locked out of her house naked by her stepbrother. She isn't very happy about it.
-   _Not Okay_: When Danni attends the influencer's party with Colin she wears a dress with a Cleavage Window, apparently to try to fit in, but she never seems very comfortable in it. When she leaves the party to meet Rowan, she's pretty thankful to get a shirt to wear.

    Literature 

-   Averted and generally played with, in the case of Angua in _Discworld_, notably in the sequence about nude mud-wrestling with Sally Von Humpeding, and their subsequent dressing in costumes from the Kitty Cat Club.
-   In _Fate/Apocrypha_, Mordred asks Kairi to buy her some normal clothes so she can fit in as all she has is her huge, scary suit of armor and skimpy undergarments. As Kairi is a cheapskate, he only gets her sneakers, a tube top, a jacket, and Daisy Duke shorts. In the original light novels and manga adaptation, she becomes embarrassed by this but accepts that she has no choice but to wear it. In the anime adaptation, she doesn't seem to mind at all.
-   Slave girls in the _Gor_ novels normally start out as this, especially if they're Earth women transported to Gor. However, after a woman succumbs to Happiness in Slavery she will typically become a Shameless Fanservice Girl instead.
-   Mikuru Asahina from _Haruhi Suzumiya_. Haruhi is constantly trying to invoke tropes, so she recruits Mikuru for her appeal and tries to make her the SOS Brigade's Ms. Fanservice, much to Mikuru's despair. While she eventually accepts her Meido outfit, she is still struggling to accept Haruhi trying to put more revealing outfits on her.
-   _Infinite Stratos_: Charlotte Dunois often mentions not minding nudity around Ichika, but would prefer that he ask first, yet still chides him for perversion.
-   Mercy Thompson is frequently naked, as when she changes shape, her clothes don't come with her. Played with, in that by itself she doesn't mind being nude at all. It's only that people make assumptions when she shows no qualms getting naked around them, and she wants to avoid such unnecessary assumptions.
-   _The Misfit of Demon King Academy_: Upon being resurrected as a butt naked half-demon, Emilia Lud(o)well covers her bare breasts and angrily lashes out at Anos, asking if this was his idea of humiliating her.
-   In _Modern Magic Made Simple_, Yumiko is the most frequent source of fanservice and is not happy about it. The wind seems to blow solely to make her provide upskirt shots or Marilyn Maneuvers, she gets her panties stolen, Koyomi accidentally rips her bikini top during the Beach Episode, and so on.
-   In _Nightmare Alley_ the sweet and innocent Molly, as part of her stage routine as an 'Electric Girl' in a travelling carnival, has to wear what is effectively a metal bikini (a nonsense explanation is given to the crowd that the garment has to be metal to help her conduct electricity). She hates wearing it and seems completely oblivious to the reactions it gets from male patrons. At one point she is almost arrested for public indecency, but Stan manages to distract the local sheriff by giving him a cold reading.
-   Amelia Windrose from _Orphans of Chaos_, constantly. A climactic scene in the third book is enacted with her naked the entire time, and a villain standing between her and the only towel. It's... much more serious than it sounds.
-   In-universe example from _The Stormlight Archive_. Shallan has a tendency to be forced to reveal her safe hand to others or go around with it exposed. In Vorin society exposing a safe hand is roughly equivalent to going topless, but in real life, it's just her left hand.

    Live-Action TV 

-   All three of the _Charmed_ sisters, to the point where Phoebe Lampshades it. When Chris proposes a plan (which is in fact put into action) that calls for Piper to wear a Chainmail Bikini, Phoebe says that Piper's "gonna kill you...because she hates wearing these costumes as much as we do." Paige nods her agreement with the sentiment...and then Chris reveals that he also needs for Phoebe and Paige to dress similarly. (Of course, Phoebe and Paige have little problem with voluntarily wearing revealing outfits as part of their normal dress...but that is a different thing from having magical accidents turn them into various forms of fanservice.)
-   Susan in _Desperate Housewives_ often ended up in this kind of situation.
-   Justified in _Primeval_: Abby wears minimal clothing in her flat because she's deliberately keeping the temperature above 30 Celsius. Why? Well, she happens to be caring for a prehistoric reptile.
-   Chloe Sullivan from _Smallville_ has got into this once in a while.
-   Widespread, and applied to both genders, in _Spartacus: Blood and Sand_. Slaves are often forced to go partially or completely naked for the entertainment of their Roman masters either for erotic reasons, especially with household slaves and prostitutes, or simply because in some jobs, such as mining, they see no reason to provide them with clothes.
-   Happened to both Xena and Gabrielle a few times on _Xena: Warrior Princess_, one of the most famous examples being "The Bitter Suite" where Ares gave Xena one epic Shameful Strip.

    Music 

-   1960 novelty song "Itsy-Bitsy Teenie-Weenie Yellow Polka-Dot Bikini" is about a young woman who puts on a new bikini, but is embarrassed about wearing it, so she stays in the ocean until she turns blue.

    Pro Wrestling 

-   Alexis Laree came to Ring of Honor in its early days to get away from the fan service displays she had been a part of in other Northern promotions only to be forced into them by Allison Danger, a member of the exotico Christopher Street Connection who decided she liked Laree and didn't care that the feeling wasn't mutual. Sumie Sakai, a much more notorious exotica, actually respected Laree's wishes, however.
-   WWE's Cherry had a Seemingly-Wholesome '50s Girl image and was reluctant to take part in a bikini contest on _WWE SmackDown_.
    -   So was Molly Holly, and that wasn't an act either, as it was part of the reason she retired early.

    Video Games 

-   Honolulu from _Azur Lane_ is one of the more prominent examples that crosses this trope with Tsundere. While she's one of the more curvy ship girls with quite a chest, she's rather embarrassed about being put into revealing outfits in her alterante skins and frequently tells the commander to turn away, only opening to him after her affinity with him reaches high enough.
-   Cornelia from _BoxxyQuest: The Gathering Storm_ deeply resents her gigantic breasts, and while her default outfit is very modest and keeps them fully covered, all four of the alternate costumes the player can put her in are designed to show as much of them as possible.
-   The Princess in _A Dance with Rogues_ is this, if she isn't played as a Shameless Fanservice Girl since almost all of the module's female clothing is revealing and she's frequently put into situations that force her to infiltrate or sneak around naked, or lose her equipment in escape attempts. She _can_ lampshade this by showing her exasperation with the ridiculously impractical design of the clothes and being annoyed at the lack of equipment in several quests.
-   Natalie in _Epic Battle Fantasy_, after using her Kyun Limit Break, will usually comment on it afterward by saying, "Well, that was embarrassing", "I hope that's enough fanservice for a while", and "Okay, stop staring now."
-   _Fate/Grand Order_:
    -   Mash Kyrielight wears conservative clothes unless she is in her Demi-Servant form, the appearance of which was out of her control. She tends to get embarrassed when someone draws attention to how it emphasizes her assets.
    -   Ruler Altria was convinced by Lancelot and Gawain to wear a Playboy Bunny outfit, but she is uncomfortable with it.
    -   Whenever there is a wacky event, Medusa usually ends up roped into it and forced to wear an outfit even skimpier than her regular one. She'll often say, "Can I go home now?"
    -   Whenever Atalanta Alter regains her sanity, she gets embarrassed by her outfit.
    -   When Zenobia is summoned, she appears wearing the skimpy slave girl outfit and golden shackles that Aurelian forced her to wear when he defeated and captured her in life. She tends to get embarrassed if anyone stares at her.
    -   Bazett Fraga McRemitz is possessed by the god Manannán Mac Lir. They normally wear either a business suit or a form-fitting bodysuit, but in their Third Ascension, they wear a somewhat skimpy dress. Manannán says he doesn't really mind the dress and that Bazett is beautiful and should show her body off more often. He adds that Bazett is screaming in embarrassment inside.
-   _Fire Emblem_:
    -   _Fire Emblem: Awakening_:
        -   Olivia is a dancer who dresses rather skimpily... Yet she's also a Shrinking Violet who suffers from Stage Fright when off the battlefield and _refuses_ to wear a swimsuit in the _Summer Scramble_ DLC stage. She explains it in some support conversations as not really thinking about it during battle since she knows that her dances _are_ necessary for letting other units move twice.
        -   Surprisingly, Tharja is one of these. In the same _Summer Scramble_ DLC stage, she's given a skimpy swimsuit to wear and is not exactly pleased, and when Cordelia talks to her in said scene she gets _very_ upset when Cordelia keeps bringing up her figure during their talk. Also, her usual portrait has her looking extremely awkward and using her spellbook to cover herself (Contrasting with the also well-endowed Aversa, who _very_ proudly flaunts her Navel-Deep Neckline) Like in Olivia's case, Tharja's super skimpy outfit is a necessity of sorts since it's the average uniform for female Dark Mages, and it's implied that she underestimated its effect on those around her.
    -   In _Fire Emblem Fates_, Tharja's Dark Magical Girl expy Rhajat also is this but in a different way. She _is_ aware of her lovely looks and wears a midriff-baring outfit that is the average uniform for female Diviners, but is _very_ displeased when other people comment on her good looks; i.e, one of her supports implies that she seriously considered cursing a well-intentioned but nosy shop attendant who made comments on her good looks when she was trying on a dress.
-   Sonya, the _Diablo III_ barbarian in _Heroes of the Storm_ makes it clear she does _not_ like her outfits in her Stop Poking Me! quotes. She threatens to find the inventor of the Chainmail Bikini and punch their jaw off their face. She also says that the nightmare of being at work in your underwear is her life every day.
-   _NieR: Automata_: 2B is a borderline example, since she is indifferent to the fact that she wears an extremely short dress and walks very seductively. But if the player tries to use the camera to look up under her skirt or too close to her derriere, she will either kick the camera, cover herself from view, or back away. The game itself is self-aware about it since doing this enough times will give an achievement called "What Are You Doing?"
-   _Persona_:
    -   _Persona 4_: The girls are involuntarily volunteered into entering the school beauty contest by Teddie. All of them except Rise fulfill this trope well enough, feeling awkward about being put on the spot as they were, but Naoto flat out _refuses_ to take part in the swimsuit category. Justified in the fact that the school at this point still doesn't actually know that she's a girl.
    -   _Persona 5_: Ann is initially not a fan of the cleavage-bearing thieving outfit her Persona creates for her, and also shoots down Joker and Ryuji's attempt to give her a Femme Fatale code name. Nor does she appreciate being asked to nude-model for Yusuke, or having the guys looking down her shirt when she tugs it outward to ventilate her chest. On the other hand, if a Heroic Seductress deal is _her_ idea, she'll take it much better; the fact that _others_ could be pushing her to do it is what bothers her.
-   The women in _Real Girls Strip Poker_ react this way after the (presumably male) player has stripped them nude.
-   Fighting game _Rumble Roses XX_ had Queens Mode, where the losing woman was punished with doing embarrassing chores. The developer considered this the very essence of Japanese eroticism, but Americans were disgusted to the point its overseas sales were significantly damaged compared to the original game's.
-   In _Star Ocean: The Second Story_, Celine justifies that she can't wear more clothes otherwise it interferes with her magical abilities.

    Visual Novels 

-   This drives the main plot of Mikage Yuuki's route in _Cosplay Fetish Academy_, where she, her sister, and cousin are dumped into an alternate universe in which women wear revealing outfits, and consider "normal" women's clothing to be shameful; this forces the already prudish Yuuki to go along with the change to fit in. In her endings, she adapts and becomes a shameless fanservice girl.
-   Mikan Tsumiki in _Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair_ is sometimes an over-the-top parody of this, due to how she'll often end up in extremely embarrassing poses (though any panty shots she might be displaying will be conveniently censored in some way). However, she's also a deconstruction and subversion since her self-esteem is so low that she does this intentionally, as she believes that embarrassing herself in front of other people is the only way she can get attention and thinks it's better than being ignored.
-   Miu Iruma in _Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony_ somehow manages to be this and a Shameless Fanservice Girl. She is shameless in that she is open about her kinks and gives Shuichi some sexual content involving herself, like sunglasses with built-in porn videos, of which one of them is of herself, and a recording of her moans. The "reluctant" part comes in when for example, she strips to her underwear to prevent Gonta from capturing her, knowing that he would be too embarrassed to even look at her. _Miu_ herself looks incredibly embarrassed at having to do this, and she does not want to talk about having to use her "secret woman weapon" to thwart Gonta when she first brings it up.
-   When the title character of _Melody_ goes to the pool with Sophia, she is shy about wearing her scanty bikini.

    Web Comics 

-   Elly from _The Word Weary_ is the only female character to have been featured in a state of undress in the comic, much to her disappointment.
-   Marigold from _Questionable Content_ becomes one after borrowing Faye's bikini.
-   Both Peonie and Tiffany from _Exiern_ are forced into this role, the universe just hates their clothing. Peonie does get increasingly irate about that as the strip goes on.
-   In _El Goonish Shive_, Sarah is one in this sketchbook comic which doubles as a Brick Joke to the very first week of comics.
-   Freya the steam knight from _By the Book_ is in the middle of tinkering with her steam-powered armour when the evil gnoll-werewolf army returns from beyond the void, and as she rushes to confront the invaders along with a group of ex-pirates in their airship, her (quite drunk) superior Venom pulls her dress off while attempting to "help her change", only to discover that Freya was apparently Going Commando. The dress immediately goes out the airship window, and Freya thus ends up having to fight in only pauldrons, coif and leggings, and a blacksmith's apron that they found somewhere.
-   _Transformers Legends_, a Japanese webcomic featured on the official Takara Tomy website to promote the _Transformers_ toyline of the same name, has Ai from _Car Robots_ in this role. Reality-warping events force her to wear a revealing bikini for most of the series and some of the Bonus Edition chapters (told in pack-in comics that are included with the _Legends_ figures) have her being left in the nude.

    Web Videos 

-   Grant Kirkhope was allegedly this when he was a guest on _Game Grumps_; according to him, the Grumps do their show naked, which, with everyone being The Unseen, took him by surprise and made him uncomfortable. When Jon mentions that he didn't have to join them in their nakedness, Grant responds that he'd be even MORE uncomfortable if he joined them clothed, but is still upset to "let his dingleberries out."
-   The Nostalgia Critic. Although he's fine to give fanservice on his own, if he's the victim in other videos (like the Game Heroes promo where they kidnapped him or _Spooning with Spoony II_) then he'll take on this role.
-   Sabie, the curvy Distaff Counterpart of Saberspark, isn't impressed with him inviting her to host his videos about Gender Bending, The Smurfette Principle, and Transformation Fiction "just for views". At the end of the last episode in the aforementioned list, she vows to "literally kill \[him\]" for that and turning her into a Cat Girl just to promote his Sabie plush.

    Western Animation 

-   Lana from _Archer_ loses her clothes on a few occasions, most notably when ISIS goes into space and they need a distraction<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and another time when Archer uses her bikini top as a slingshot.
-   _Bojack Horseman_: Although she has absolutely no qualms about sex, Sarah Lynn is genuinely disgusted by the number of letters she gets every day:
    
    **Sarah Lynn:** I get a letter _every day_ from boys telling me I was the first person they masturbated to. Literally. Every day.  
    **BoJack:** That's disgusting.  
    **Sarah Lynn:** Oh-ho, I know!
    
-   Gadget of _Chip 'n Dale: Rescue Rangers_ has intentionally used her looks (which she normally seems oblivious to) to her advantage precisely _once_. It comes while wearing her infamous red dress in "Double O Chipmunk", and she is not at all happy about it: When she, Chip, and Monterey are captured by the Villain of the Week, Chip's plan to escape requires her to seduce the guard. She objects quite vehemently, but ultimately relents once convinced it's their only hope of surviving. And an entire generation of Furries was created in one moment.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_:
    -   Fluttershy ends up as one in the episode "Green Isn't Your Color" after Rarity talks her into being a model for Photo Finish. She hates being a model but keeps at it because she doesn't want to disappoint her friend but ends up quitting at the end of the episode after Rarity finds out how much she hates doing it.
    -   In "Sparkle's Seven", Rainbow Dash is forced to dress up by Rarity to distract Zephyr Breeze from his guard post. She's quite unhappy about it.
-   _The Simpsons_:
    -   Seen briefly in a movie that Homer and Marge watch, _The Erotic Adventures of Hercules_.
        
        **Girl:** Hercules, the Cyclops tore off my clothes!  
        **Hercules:** Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!
        
    -   When Marge and Homer manage to trap themselves outside completely naked after having sex at a miniature golf course in "Natural Born Kissers", Marge herself becomes this (Homer is more Fan Disservice). They are forced to run all over town completely naked in the hopes of getting home before they get seen without their clothes. This does not end well for them.

___