As a general rule, licensed derivative media can't kill characters, develop relationships, alter the world, or make any sort of changes that have a chance of messing up the continuity of the original version. Primarily, because while the original creators might not care for continuity in the source material, they do have an artistic version that they'd rather have maintained in any adaptation. Or that they fear new people will unwittingly spoil Plot Points they had planned, especially if the original is still being published or aired.

One downside of this is that works in the expanded universe can end up running in place and be inferior to the original because of the lack of change. Sometimes, new characters to which change _can_ happen are introduced to make up for the problem.

Another reason is to prevent Continuity Lock-Out, as potential fans would have to watch the movie and then read the comic in which the setting is turned upside down to understand the animated series. Which is something most executives are leery of.

A variation of this happens in anime with Filler, which the Shounen commercial juggernauts are infamous for. The non-filler episodes are adapted from the source material, usually a manga, and are part of an overarching plot; the filler episodes are made for the animation and must leave everything as it was before at the end of the filler.

This trope only applies if the Spin-Off is meant to follow the same continuity as the original series (though not necessarily vice versa). It doesn't apply to adaptations that are retelling the story and may feel free to change things as needed.

Sister Trope of No Origin Stories Allowed, when the original creators ban licensed authors from writing about a character's backstory. Compare Fan-Work Ban, it's the fans who are forbidden by the creators to toy with the story. Super-Trope of Doomed by Canon, when certain characters have their fates sealed in all the adaptations because that's how they ended up in the canon. Related to Executive Meddling, when the higher-ups interfere with creative work in either an original work or an adaptation. See also Status Quo Is God, when the continuity of a fictional work tends to reset itself back after each installment.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Mobile Suit Gundam_:
    -   The multiverse suffers this in spades. Since the events of the anime are set in stone (and have been that way for up to thirty years), manga and video game expansions almost always deal with an entirely new cast of characters, set off to the side of the anime's events and never directly interfering (though, on some rare occasions, having a degree of crossover).
    -   However, the manga series _Gundam the Origin_ completely and utterly ignores this (it helps that it's being written and illustrated by the original character designer and apparently has Tomino's blessing) and introduces a chain of events that while similar, are significantly changed and make a whole hell of a lot more sense in some respects. It's from here that a lot of the backstory for the mainline universe can be gleaned (though distortedly). Tomino is not a stickler for continuity; his novelisations and Compilation Movies often change plots around.
    -   _Mobile Suit Gundam SEED_: A slight exception is the popular spinoff _Gundam SEED Astray_, which was intended from the beginning to tie into the anime, occasionally patching up plot holes, and just barely misses being included in the anime itself.

    Comic Books 

-   _Adventure Time_: Zig-Zagged with this Comic-Book Adaptation. Initially, the comic's writers tried to keep it in line with the show's mythos. As the show's writers were constantly tuning the details of their own worldbuilding, it was hard to play catch up and the comics' creators couldn't really do their own thing. Eventually, they just called it an Alternate Continuity and started playing with the world themselves, with the arc kickstarting this change ending in The Lich getting killed off in particular. As a result, the comic plots are not considered canon to the show's timeline.
-   _Gargoyles: Clan Building_: A case of Canon Discontinuity and Expanded Universe restrictions occurs in Greg Weisman's comic. Continuing the beloved series after the end of Season 2, it refutes everything that happened in the Disney-produced _Goliath Chronicles_ spin-off (sans the first episode and one additional scene), essentially restricting the expanded canon to that comic alone.
-   _G.I. Joe_: Averted because the comics can kill people and make changes as long as the relevant action figure or other toy is no longer in production.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic (IDW)_: The comics have to stay consistent with the show's Status Quo, ensuring any major events get wrapped up well enough to stay self-contained.
-   _Sonic X_: The comics aren't allowed to incorporate characters from the games that weren't featured in the show, nor were they allowed to make any real changes to the status quo.
-   _Transformers_: Averted in the comics seeing that they are almost always alternate continuities.

    Fan Works 

-   _The Basalt City Chronicles_: The fanfic is not only an example of this trope regarding its source material, _Gene Catlow_, seeing that the author goes to the universe's creators for permission for virtually everything he adds, but is also that Verse's Manual.
-   _The Wind Done Gone_: Alice Randall writes it in African-American vernacular English as an explicit refutation of the limitations imposed by Margaret Mitchell's estate on those wishing to write sequels to _Gone with the Wind_.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _The Hobbit_: While one of Peter Jackson's goals was to tie the events of _The Hobbit_ to the _The Lord of the Rings_, Tolkien's estate refused to grant him access to _The Silmarillion_, _Unfinished Tales_, _The History of Middle-earth_, or the other Tolkien books containing the material required to do so while remaining faithful to what Tolkien had written. As such, Jackson extrapolated and changed a few details, such as the backstory of the Nazgül, in order to make his story work.

    Franchises 

-   _Doctor Who Expanded Universe_
    -   The post-cancellation novels and audios make changes and reveal great swathes of history. Much of which has to be ignored after the TV series gets a revival over a decade later. Now, this doesn't necessarily mean it's a retcon, what with the setting having considerable Temporal Mutability. On some occasions, Word of God has confirmed that "everything is canon", we're just seeing different possible timelines. For example, one of the post-revival episodes is an explicit retelling of the novel _Human Nature_, written by Paul Cornell. Likewise in the case of the _Doctor Who Magazine_ comic strips as well as the IDW and Titan comics have been through it in the revival.
    -   On July 5, 1969 —two weeks after "The War Games" aired— TV Comic begins a series of stories where the Second Doctor is exiled to Earth. During this period, the Doctor lives in the Carlton Grange Hotel and becomes a newspaper-headlining celebrity. In "The Night Walkers" (November 8-22, 1969), the Doctor investigates a story about scarecrows that walk at night that turns out to be a trap by the Time Lords so they can enforce the second half of his sentence. The scarecrows begin the regeneration process and set the TARDIS controls to dematerialise, leading seamlessly into "Spearhead from Space" six weeks later. So, averted in that case.
-   _Halo_: The video games are rather light on plot, allowing the Expanded Universe to go hog-wild on it. The multimedia adaptations give characters new backstories and personality traits that are never hinted at in the games; not to mention that they introduce and kill off new characters. They also flesh out the origins of both the UNSC and the Covenant. As a bonus, they add new weapons and vehicles. As a result, the fans regard them as better than the source material. When 343 Industries takes over development duties from Bungie, the Expanded Universe becomes much more integrated with the games from _Halo 4_ onward, especially regarding the Didact.
-   _Star Trek_:
    -   The comics do this. At one point, even new characters couldn't be used because of fears that they would become Canon Immigrants that required royalties.
    -   Also a problem in the novels, although the _Star Trek: New Frontier_ and _I.K.S. Gorkon_ series dodge it by having new crews based on one-shot characters, and the _Titan_ series does by being set after the events of _Star Trek: Nemesis_.
    -   It seems that Paramount has given the writers more freedom in changing the status quo in post-Nemesis stories, as Admiral Janeway from _Star Trek: Voyager_ Ascends To A Higher Plane Of Existence in _Before Dishonor_.
    -   The complete anhilitation/liberation of the Borg in the Destiny trilogy was only possible because new canonical material coming out was deemed unlikely at the time.
    -   _Star Trek_ novels have gone back and forth between Restricted and non-Restricted a couple of times. The novels of the '70s and early '80s tended to give authors a lot of freedom to interpret _Star Trek_ in their own idiosyncratic ways, though the books rarely referenced or built on one another. By the later '80s, Pocket Books' Trek authors began referencing popular novels like Diane Duane's Romulan/Rihannsu books and John M. Ford's Klingon epic _The Final Reflection_, and authors who did multiple novels increasingly carried continuity arcs forward within them, so an overall book continuity gradually began to emerge. But once _Star Trek: The Next Generation_ was on the air, Paramount began restricting the books and comics, forbidding them from referencing anything but the live-action canon, which killed continuity between books. Those rules began to relax in the late '90s, and by now, with all the shows off the air, the books have built up an elaborate, interconnected continuity. However, the new movie continuity (J. J. Abrams) operates under rules so restricted that only prequels to the movie have been allowed to be published so far.
    -   _Star Trek Online_ is set in the prime universe post-dating the Hobus supernova from _Star Trek (2009)_. However, due to a confluence of legal issues —the license comes from CBS rather than Paramount—, it can only use story details, not visuals. CBS also has veto power over Cryptic's ideas, and they're also restricted in their use of TV-canon characters because, while the _character_ belongs to CBS and is thus usable, the _likeness_ belongs to the actors so Cryptic has to negotiate with them separately or use an Off-Model (the latter of which they've mostly stopped doing). They also have to negotiate separately to use elements from other works in the _Star Trek Expanded Universe_ (although they do often get permission).
-   _Star Wars_:
    -   Writers of the old Expanded Universe, besides following the regular continuity, had to abide by a certain set of rules established by Lucasfilm. Among those revealed to the fans are, firstly, that the protagonists (Luke, Han, and Leia) cannot be killed. Secondly, members of certain alien species cannot become Jedi. Even though several Wookiee Jedi characters already exist, no new ones should be introduced. The _Star Wars: The Clone Wars_ series does so but makes mention of Wookiee Jedi rarity. Thirdly, Yoda's species and homeworld cannot be revealed. And fourthly, before the prequels, writers were told by Lucas to avoid writing in that era. This was solved by creating the Old Republic stories set long before the prequels.
    -   _Vector Prime_, the first novel of the _New Jedi Order_ series, is notable for having killed Chewbacca for real. According to the author, the higher-ups wanted to kill off a major Canon character in order to set up an Anyone Can Die atmosphere. The call eventually comes down that Chewie is to be the Sacrificial Lamb based on his sidekick status and lack of dialogue. The original plan was to kill off Luke, which Lucasfilm understandably objected to.
    -   _Star Wars Infinities_: The graphic novels are, from the beginning, set in an alternate universe of the original movie trilogy. As such, the authors are free of killing Luke in _The Empire Strikes Back_ equivalent and have him come back as a ghost in _Star Wars: Legacy_ (one In-Universe century after)
    -   _Star Wars (Marvel 1977)_: The series isn't allowed to have the heroes meet Darth Vader in case it upstaged anything from later movies.
    -   With Disney's takeover of Lucasfilm, all new Expanded Universe stories are overseen by a committee to ensure full continuity with the established canon is maintained. However, there are still oversights mostly caused due to the films being made with little to no input from the Expanded Universe's creatives (most notably, all the worldbuilding tie-in material for the sequel trilogy was ignored in the films due to being written by people outside their production).

    Literature 

-   _Babylon 5_: The licensed novels are under severe restrictions in regard to the treatment of characters, Plot Points, and setting. Therefore, they frequently contradict each other (for instance, _Blood Oath_ and _Clark's Law_ both mention G'Kar's wife, but she has a different name in each.)
-   _Mass Effect_: Bioware has stated that the official continuity is what happens to the player. Because of this, derivative works have been forced to remain neutral on big issues such as the fate of the original council, the Destiny Ascension, who survived on Virmire, what happened to the rachni and humanity's representative as well as smaller ones right down to Commander Shepard's gender. The exceptions are thus, appropriately vague. The second and third novels reference the Council, but do not specify if it is the original, human-led, or human-only. _Retribution_ and _Inquisition_ state that Anderson leaves the Citadel in disgust at the Council's refusal to acknowledge the Reapers, but do not specify whether he's the Councilor or Udina's aide. Word of God has since said that Udina is the Councilor and Anderson was his aide, he is even stated to be an admiral in _Retribution_, this has more to do with plot reasons for future novels and games however.
-   _Wing Commander_: Novels that are built around canon characters from the game, particularly Jason "Bear" Bondarevski (first introduced in the _Wing Commander 2_ Expansion Pack _Special Ops 1_), are heavily restricted in terms of not altering the main continuity. For instance, the Landreich, a vague analogy of the early United States (IN SPACE!), is created specifically so William R. Forstchen has someplace to play that won't break anything in the "core" universe of the games.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power_: The Tolkien Estate gave Amazon the rights to adapt material from _The Lord of the Rings_ and _The Hobbit_, but not directly from _The Silmarillion_, _Unfinished Tales_, _The History of Middle-earth_ or other Tolkien books except on a case to case basis, and at the same time Amazon cannot simply remake the stories that the Warner Bros./New Line movies directed by Peter Jackson covered. The Amazon show focuses on the Second Age (as opposed to the Third Age, where the main story of the LOTR and Hobbit books and movies are set) where the vast bulk of Tolkien's writings concerning the period is in other books, but Second Age events and storylines are referenced more vaguely as background lore within the main text of LOTR and its appendices. And so the show has a great deal of expansion and its own take on the background lore of LOTR, not necessarily following what Tolkien actually already wrote elsewhere. As stated by the showrunners:
    
    **J.D. Payne**: We have the rights solely to _The Fellowship of the Ring_, _The Two Towers_, _The Return of the King_, the appendices, and _The Hobbit_. And that is it. We do not have the rights to _The Silmarillion_, _Unfinished Tales_, _The History of Middle-earth_, or any of those other books.
    
    **Patrick McKay**: There’s a version of everything we need for the Second Age in the books we have the rights to. As long as we’re painting within those lines and not egregiously contradicting something we don’t have the rights to, there’s a lot of leeway and room to dramatize and tell some of the best stories that \[Tolkien\] ever came up with.
    
-   _Marvel Cinematic Universe_: During the Infinity Saga, the TV shows and other tie-ins had no major impact on the movie continuity — the closest things have come is that _Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._ filled in some non-essential gaps for _Age of Ultron_. While Marvel eventually strengthened the connections in the Multiverse Saga thanks to Disney+ streaming projects, they've given a couple explanations as to why it hadn't really happened before then:
    -   Movie audiences haven't necessarily watched the shows and will need to be brought up to speed, which could necessitate an Info Dump that may disrupt the story.
    -   TV production is much faster than movie production; either a movie has to make a guess at where the shows' plots will be when it releases, or the TV writers could be constrained by what a movie script has already established. Some examples of these continuity issues:
        -   _Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._ was considered to have been in a rut and stalling for time while waiting for the _Winter Soldier_ plot twist to hit. Years later, Season 5 had wrapped up, complete with its plot tying into _Infinity War_, when it received a surprise renewal; and the showrunners had no idea when the next season would air. Since they couldn't risk the possibility of spoiling _Endgame_ should the series air first, they had to ignore the _Infinity War_ references and claim that Season 6 was still set prior to Thanos' attack.
        -   Any series not featuring movie characters is plagued with questions of "how does this tie in with the latest movie events?" For the _Defenders_ shows, the answer always ended up being "this is a little ways into the past, and the movie hasn't happened yet"; and they ended before they caught up with the unavoidable impact of _Infinity War_. _Runaways_ and _Cloak and Dagger_ still haven't given answers as to why the events of _Infinity War_ haven't been seen yet, though in the former's case an Extremely Short Timespan can account for not yet catching up to that point.
    -   The TV side of the universe finally gets recognized in _Endgame_, as Edwin Jarvis from _Agent Carter_ makes a cameo. It helps that his show was already over, and a period piece set in the late 1940s to begin with, so nobody has to worry about the appearance affecting TV continuity. Other series have also been given nods in the Multiverse Saga, with _Daredevil_ receiving a full Revival and its leads (Matt Murdock and Wilson Fisk) making appearances in various other projects.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Avatar Legends: The Roleplaying Game_: Should a game session strictly adhere to canon, players will limited in their choices. For example, some of the listed techniques haven't been invented yet during some eras a game could be set in (e.g. Metalbending, Bloodbending, Aang's _Air Scooter_ etc.). Secondly, one can't play an Airbender during both the Hundred Year War and the Aang Era. And thirdly, a lot of villains during the Hundred Year War, such as Ozai, Zhao, or Long Feng, are bound to remain Greater Scope Villains due to the Gaang defeating them in canon.

    Video Games 

-   _Lost_: In the video game Expanded Universe, nothing your character does can really affect the plot, so you end up doing various side things to advance your own story, while the show's plot happens offscreen.
-   _The Matrix Online_: The game features in its first chapter as Morpheus eventually commits terrorist acts against the Machines, demanding that they return Neo's body. That character goes so far as to create "code bombs" to reveal the Matrix code even to people still jacked in and not ready for such a revelation. Then he is Killed Off for Real by a program known as the Assassin.
-   _Perfect Dark_: The series leaves a large gap between the original and the prequel game, leaving the Greg Rucka novels (and comics) to expand and improve the characters and conspiracies of the universe. Those also change the backstories of Daniel Carrington and Cassandra Devries by placing them into a relationship.
-   _Super Mario Bros._: Nintendo's iconic franchise has been reported to have an IP-overseeing committee that dictates certain guidelines that outside studios working in Spin Offs of the series are obligated to follow in order to keep it consistent with the mainline platformers. In particular, the introduction of original characters is very restrictive nowadays—a turnaround from entries around The Noughties and before, when such a practice was more prominent.
-   _Tolkien's Legendarium_:
    -   The video games have long faced restrictions from two opposite directions because the licenses to adapt original literary works and Peter Jackson's movies were sold to separate studios. On one side were the games unable to use any of the designs, lines or actors from the movies even when they were very well-known and liked (_The Fellowship of the Ring_, _The Hobbit (2003)_, _The Lord of the Rings: War of the Ring_, _The Lord of the Rings Online_). On the other side were the games unable to include anything at all that was not explicitly referenced on-screen in the movies, severely limiting available plotlines (_The Two Towers_, _The Return of the King_, _The Lord of the Rings: The Third Age_, _The Battle for Middle-earth_). And of course, nobody at all has the rights to _The Silmarillion_, _Beren and Lúthien_, _The Children of Húrin_, _The Fall of Gondolin_, _The Fall of Númenor_, _Unfinished Tales of Númenor and Middle-earth_ and other texts, placing events and characters exclusive to those books permanently off-limits.
    -   Eventually, some studios were able to obtain both licenses, allowing for the games _The Battle for Middle-Earth II_ (and its expansion pack) and _War in the North_ to combine the likeness of actors and location designs with various elements that were Adapted Out from the movies. The general consensus is that (quality of the gameplay nonwithstanding) this allows for a much more coherent Middle-Earth experience.
    -   Meanwhile, _The Lord of the Rings Online_ is still going strong after seven years and five expansion packs, but its license is limited to _The Lord of the Rings_ and its Appendices only. Rumours are, even _The Hobbit_ material cannot be used if it wasn't also mentioned in LOTR as well. This, among other things, prevented the developers from making a proper tie-in to _The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey_ - players had to revisit Bilbo's path in the "present" days of the War of the Ring instead.
    -   LOTRO also isn't allowed to change the main story in any way, so a lot of the quests don't directly relate to the plot ("Bring Me Twenty Wolf Ears") and those that do are portrayed as being things that help the main characters without actually being able to have a huge impact on the outcome.

___