**Bryan Mills:** I killed your son because he kidnapped my daughter!  
**Murad Hoxha:** _(slaps Bryan)_ I DON'T _CARE_ WHAT HE DID! I only know... I will never see his face again, I will never hear his voice. _(kisses a photo of his son)_ And as you held him responsible for your daughter, I hold you responsible for him!

It's relatively common that the reason that Alice wants to kill Bob is that Bob killed Charlie. Revenge seems pretty straightforward. But it gets a lot murkier when Charlie was trying to kill Bob first and Bob was just defending himself. They were in a war, it was a fight, Charlie surprised Bob at the worst time, it was an accident, the list goes on. Bob didn't really want to kill Charlie and would have avoided doing so if possible. It's likely Bob regrets it greatly. But all of that doesn't matter to Alice. Bob has to _pay_ for what he did to Charlie.

Supertrope to Avenging the Villain, but there are also other cases that it covers where Charlie wasn't specifically killed for committing and/or trying to commit evil. For example, this also applies when:

1.  Grey-and-Gray Morality is in effect, such as (but not limited to) wars and family feuds where both sides are flawed/justified to an extent at some point.
2.  Charlie is a good guy.
3.  Charlie was Not Himself, being possessed or such.
4.  Charlie was going about his business when a fatal accident happened, even if he was an Evil Empire mook.

A Revenge by Proxy scenario can result. This may be a part of a Feuding Families or Cycle of Vengeance situation. A subtrope of Moral Myopia. Again, if the one killed was a villain, the example goes in Avenging the Villain. Rage Against the Legal System is this when the rager is a genuine criminal.

See also Revenge Before Reason.

Expect angst and drama and **unmarked spoilers.**

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   In _Black Clover_, the Eye of the Midnight Sun are usually the ones who instigate the various battles and acts of terrorism they are involved in. When the opposing party attack in retaliation or even in self-defense, Licht treats it as though they were attacking him and his allies first and uses it to justify his Fantastic Racism against humans.
-   _Dragon Ball_:
    -   Both the Crane Hermit and Tien Shinhan are furious at Goku for killing Mercenary Tao, their younger brother and mentor, respectively. Goku calls them out on it, pointing out that Tao was a Psycho for Hire who was hired by the Red Ribbon Army to kill _him_ and killed one of his friends, and he was only defending himself; neither of them cares. Though Tien later gets over himself and becomes one of Goku's allies.
    -   Dr. Gero wants Goku dead because Goku destroyed the Red Ribbon Army and cost him his funding. This is ignoring the fact that the Red Ribbons were an evil group who terrorized innocent people and wanted to Take Over the World, and Gero willingly built killer robots to help them. Later material elaborates that Gero also wanted to avenge his son, who died fighting for the army, but it's still incredibly myopic considering that Gero's son still died for a leader who didn't care and a cause that would've made the world a worse place.
-   _The Heroic Legend of Arslan_: Zandeh wants to kill Daryun to avenge his father, who didn't even kill him, as Kharlan died when he fell on his own broken weapon. Never mind the fact that Kharlan had betrayed and tried to kill Daryun and Arslan first, both of whom he had sworn allegiance to.
-   _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Stardust Crusaders_: After her son J. Geil's death, Enya the Hag desires to kill Polnareff for vengence. The matter that Polnareff killed J. Geil to avenge the death of his sister Sherry, who J. Geil raped and murdered, seems to be no difference to her.
-   One episode of _Kino's Journey_ has Kino meet a woman and the man she's hired as a guard as they're about to set out on a journey. She sits with the man for a while and learns that he had killed her husband several years ago accidentally while robbing his store, and had been reformed and set free by their justice system, on the condition that he makes it up to the woman by mutual agreement. It's made clear that his reform and desire to help the woman in any way he can in penance for his crime are genuine. They part, and later Kino is riding through the woods when she hears a gunshot — it turns out that the woman wasn't so big on the penance idea after all.
-   _Mazinger Z_: When Baron Ashura gets killed by Koji Kabuto, his boss Dr. Hell swears revenge on the heroes. The fact that Ashura had attempted to kill them literally several dozens of times, at the behest of Hell himself, until Koji and his friends had no option but to kill him in self-defence, is easily overlooked.
-   _Naruto_: Sasuke starts to fall into this as his sanity goes off the deep end. At first, his revenge plan is reasonable; he just wants to kill Itachi for murdering his entire family (plus mind raping him). Then Itachi dies, and he finds out that Itachi was a good guy all along, but was pressured into killing the Uchihas because they were going to revolt (and his torture of Sasuke was to make his Face–Heel Turn more believable without having to _kill_ his beloved little brother). So Sasuke shifts his revenge to Danzo, the guy who pressured Itachi to kill his clan, ignoring that the Uchihas provoked it by threatening civil war because they felt mistrusted (Mind you, Danzo was responsible for _that very mistrust_ along with a lot of _other_, and even less justified, atrocities and nobody would be all that sorry to see him go, but that's not what Sasuke was thinking about. Danzo even points out that it doesn't matter what he actually did, because Sasuke was on a revenge kick and wanted to hurt _someone_ for the Uchiha massacre.). And once Danzo dies, he shifts his revenge to _everyone in Konoha_ for being happy at the same time his brother was suffering.
-   The Reveal of Kagari's motivations in _Puella Magi Suzune Magica_ puts her schemes well into this territory. Kagari orchestrated the events of the series, from making Suzune Brainwashed and Crazy to kill other magical girls to erasing her memories of herself and her little sister Matsuri because she wants revenge for Suzune killing their mutual mentor and mother figure Tsubaki. The problem is that while Suzune killed Tsubaki, it was both unintentional and necessary: Tsubaki had been _protecting_ Suzune and ended up using too much magic, darkening her Soul Gem and turning into a Witch, forcing Suzune to put her down. Heartbreaking yes, but a sad fact of their universe. Kagari seems to think that this makes her justified in forcing Suzune to kill other magical girls who are innocent in this feud before dropping the Awful Truth on her head, which would force Suzune into despair and turn her into a Witch herself so Kagari can kill her and "make Suzune suffer just like Tsubaki did." Of course, Kagari is both insane and a sadist, and freely admits to Suzune she made the plan much more complicated than it needed to be because it gave her a thrill, so some of the myopia was likely intentional.
-   _Rebuild World_: After Katsuya goes on an Unstoppable Rage Freak Out over both a Love Triangle over Sheryl and the False Flag Operation against him by Tiol making it look like Akira killed his teammates, and Akira kills Katsuya in self-defense, Airi forms a Renegade Splinter Faction from Drankam to get revenge on Akira despite him being the victim, as well as her friend Yumina fully accepting he was such.
-   _Rosario + Vampire_: Kuyou's entire motive when he comes back in Season II is to get revenge on Tsukune for defeating and humiliating him. Sure, never mind the fact that Kuyou is a human-hating Knight Templar who abused his status as the head of the Student Police to make everyone at Yokai Academy miserable, and Tsukune defeated him _after_ Kuyou threatened his friends and nearly killed him by burning him alive, purely because he was a human.
-   In _Rurouni Kenshin_, Yukishiro Enishi wants revenge on Kenshin for killing Tomoe's fiancee and destroying her happiness, before killing her (though by accident) and taking away the only person Enishi loved. However, Tomoe never died hating Kenshin but instead tried to protect him. He doesn't realize the truth until he is given her diary right at the end. Enishi also never acknowledges that Tomoe died in a battle that he helped set up, meaning that her death was at least partially his own fault.
-   In _Samurai Champloo_, Jin killed his master Mariya Enshirou in self-defense. Try telling that to Mariya's _other_ students, who are hunting for Jin throughout the series to avenge him. Particularly notable is Not-So-Harmless Villain Ogura Bunta, who managed to hold his own against Jin when he finally encountered him. The shame of his defeat, however, caused Bunta to be Driven to Suicide, according to Jin's Unknown Rival Yukimaru. For his part, Yukimaru doesn't care about their master, and just wants to kill Jin to absorb the reputation of the thousand man killer.
-   _Suterareta Yuusha No Eiyuutan_: Despite bullying Daichi, horrifically, for years, and throwing him into a monster pit to be Eaten Alive, Samejima Sanji swears graphic vengeance on Daichi the moment Daichi has him cornered in a dungeon. That is, until Daichi kills him over, and over, and over again so that he learns what being helplessly bullied feels like.

    Comic Books 

-   Slade Wilson aka _Deathstroke_ has a bad history with this:
    -   In his first story arc, Deathstroke blamed the Titans for the death of his eldest son Grant. Except a) the only reason Grant died was that he underwent the same super soldier experiment that gave Slade his powers but which proved fatal to Grant and b) Grant died trying to kill the Titans. And despite not wanting his son to follow the same path as him, Slade chooses to blame the Titans for Grant's death rather than go after H.I.V.E., the organization that performed the fatal experiment on Grant.
    -   In _Infinite Crisis_, Slade destroyed Blüdhaven, the city Nightwing protected by dropping the super villain Chemo, a monster made of radioactive energies, into it. When confronted by Batman, Nightwing, and Robin (Tim Drake) Slade goes into a rant about how Nightwing had turned his family against him when in reality Slade had either turned his back on his family or did a good enough job on making them hate him himself. Interestingly Slade did learn a lesson after this, arranging a complex gambit to get his children Jericho and Rose to fully embrace the Titans as family because he felt he couldn't be a good father to them.
-   _Judge Dredd_: The Russians tend to fall into this trap whenever they show up after the Apocalypse War. They're driven by vengeance toward Mega-City One for nuking their own home city - and Judge Dredd in particular, who launched the missiles. The fact that they started this war to begin with, and nuked half of Mega-City One to oblivion, never crosses their mind let alone their conscience.
-   _Master of Kung Fu_ had a storyline where an underworld boss tasks his assassins and then an evil samurai with killing Shang-Chi, assuming that Fu Manchu will reward him for it. The samurai screws up by not only dying himself but also accidentally killing his employer's life partner. The villain naturally goes It's Personal on Shang-Chi – who else is there left to blame for her death, himself?
-   _Superman_:
    -   Supergirl villain Reactron wants to kill Kara because she wrecked his healing radiation-containment suit... which happened because she was stopping him from killing her when he assaulted her, completely unprovoked, the first time they fought in _Supergirl (2005)_. So in retaliation, he murdered her father in _New Krypton_, tried to kill and rape her several times in story arcs like _Who is Superwoman?_, _Codename: Patriot_ and _The Hunt for Reactron_\-, and in _War of Supermen_ he murdered her mother and blew up her planet and race.
    -   In _Action Comics #544: Luthor Unleashed_, Lex Luthor has been living on planet Lexor for a while, where he's hailed as a hero and cherished by his wife and son. Even so, he goads Superman into Lexor and attempts to kill him. During the battle, Luthor's warsuit shoots a blast which accidentally hits one of his doomsday devices. Lexor blows up, Lex's family dies, and Luthor, who is all but physically unable to take responsibility for his own actions, swears revenge on Superman.
    -   _The Girl with the X-Ray Mind_: After escaping prison, Lesla-Lar plots her revenge against Supergirl, even though Supergirl literally did nothing to Lesla. In _The Unknown Supergirl_, Lesla nullified Supergirl's powers because she was pettily jealousy of Kara's future fame. Then she brainwashed and replaced Supergirl, intending to kill Superman and Luthor and then take over the world, but she was caught by the Kandorian police before she could carry her scheme out. In a nutshell, Kara did nothing to earn her enmity, Kara was not the one who brought Lesla down, and Kara did not even know Lesla exists.
    -   _The Leper from Krypton_: Criminal ringleader Ventor wants to kill Superman to avenge his brother Bruno, not caring that his brother would not have died in prison if he had not committed crimes that forced Superman to catch him. The story makes a point that Bruno's death has eroded Ventor's sanity, though, since he alternates between declaring he'll avenge his brother's death and claiming his brother is still alive and he will kill Superman to protect Buno.
    -   _Who is Superwoman?_: Sam Lane seeks revenge against Supergirl for the death of his daughter, the titular villain. This is ignoring the fact that Superwoman died because her super-suit malfunctioned while she was attempting to murder Supergirl. This is also ignoring the fact that Superwoman both put on that suit and started that battle at Lane's behest.

    Fan Works 

-   David in the _Animorphs_ fanfic _Animorphs Redux_; he's determined to get revenge on the Animorphs for their previous defeats of him, which ended in him getting trapped as a rat, completely ignoring the fact that not only did they do that _after_ he tried to kill them, but more importantly, _he's now in an alternate timeline where none of the team had done ANYTHING to him before he started trying to kill them_.
-   _A Darker Path_: The Trio are _furious_ at Taylor for breaking into their lockers and stealing their clothes, promising epic vengeance. Never mind that the reason she did it was because they had forced her into her own locker and locked her in with piles of hazardous waste, and after breaking out, she needed to change her own ruined clothing...
    
    "Someone took my favourite top!" Emma felt a surge of outrage. How _dare_ they break into _her_ locker and steal _her_ stuff! This sort of thing didn't _happen_ to her! Nothing else had been taken, but that was beyond the point. Her stuff was _her stuff_.
    
-   In _Fools And Drunks_, only a few residents of Sunney Towne were responsible for murdering Ruby. Nightmare Moon goes on a Roaring Rampage of Revenge through the whole village, slaughtering all of its inhabitants.
-   Throughout _For His Own Sake_, Naru blames Keitaro for making her life utterly miserable, as her Karma Houdini Warranty ran out shortly after he broke things off with her. At no point does Naru ever acknowledge that they broke up because of how she constantly beat the ever-loving crap out of him for no reason at all, or that he isn't even involved in said warranty expiring; everything bad that happens to her is a result of the consequences of her own actions catching up to her.
-   _Infinity Crisis_: In _Of Kryptonians and Queens_, Jason Blood accuses Morgana of this, as for all her claims of originally wanting freedom for her fellow magic-users, everything she does now is motivated by a desire for revenge against Merlin.
-   Possibly the best description of the villain's agenda in _Harry Potter and the Mystic Force_; Ivan Ooze took years to pull himself back together after the Rangers hurled him into the path of a comet, and by the time he was intact again he couldn't be bothered hunting down and killing the Ranger team who nearly destroyed him as that team had all gone their separate ways by then. Instead, Ooze set up an elaborate plan to gain power for himself by going after the wizarding world, who never knew he even existed until then.
-   _Hellsister Trilogy_: Nemesis wants to kill Supergirl to avenge the death of his mother Satan Girl, whom Supergirl killed in self-defense because her evil duplicate was attempting to kill her _again_.
-   In _Hero Chat_, this is Chloe's fourth category of reasons for Akumatization: You Brought This On Your Own Damn Self, where a person did something bad and got Akumatized over the reasonable consequences (i.e. Lila turning into Volpina because Ladybug called her out for lying).
-   In _Kara of Rokyn_, Lex Luthor wants to kill Superman, among other reasons, to avenge the deaths of his wife and son. Never mind the fact that Superman is in no way responsible for it since their deaths were due to a planetary hecatomb caused by Luthor himself.
-   In _Last Mage of Krypton_, Umbridge is out to take revenge on Harry because he showed her up and prevented her from stealing his company off from him.
-   In _My Mirror, Sword and Shield_, Cornelia and Schneizel acknowledge that they would be no better than Lelouch if they sought out their revenge. They decide to do so anyway.
-   _Pinkie Personalities_: Neuron Probe blames Pinkie for ruining his career, claiming that it's unfair she got to live a happy life while he was rotting in prison. The part he refuses to acknowledge is that the whole reason he wound up arrested in the first place was because he was conducting illegal experiments on her.
-   _The Rigel Black Chronicles_: Lee Jordan has a grudge against Harry for getting him expelled from school. Why was he expelled? Because he tried to brutally and permanently maim her and erase her memory of it. And why would he do that? To get revenge for her family pushing his out of the joke-inventing business — except that the real reason for that happening was because his father, finding himself falling behind, turned to inventing Deadly Prank items that caused legal trouble and had to be recalled, so shops like Zonko's didn't want to do business with him. The Marauders didn't even push him out of the market deliberately, they just invented better products. Nonetheless, Lee blames the Marauders for all his problems, and wants to watch "Rigel" die slowly and painfully as their hope for the future, nevermind that Harry has already told him she's not interested in going into the business.
-   _Summer Days and Evening Flames_:
    -   Red Hooves wants revenge on Gilda for arresting his sister, who was in the middle of robbing a merchant blind.
    -   After Sherry's Face–Heel Turn and Iron puts out a country-wide arrest order, she pulls her connections to get Iron fired for daring to try bringing her to justice for all of her fellow Guardsman she got killed.
-   In _Superman of 2499: The Great Confrontation_, the last descendant of the Joker wants to take revenge on Batman for the death of his son, who also took up the mantle of the Joker. The fact that his son was a criminal whose death was caused by his own stupidity and not by anything Batman did is lost on the Joker.
-   _When The Roses Bloom Again_: Cassiopeia Black tries to persuade her brother to blame the Potters for "murdering" Perseus Black, and rouse him to retaliating. However, instead, Arcturus laughs in her face and insists that even if William Potter cast the spell, it was Grindelwald who filled Perseus' head with nonsense and sent him into battle, and killing an enemy soldier on the battlefield doesn't count as murder. Instead of blaming the Potters for Perseus' death, he promises revenge on Grindelwald. Cassiopeia remains bent on avenging her brother, however.

    Films — Animated 

-   In _Puss in Boots_ Humpty Dumpty's big grievance against his friend-turned-enemy Puss is the fact that Puss abandoned him to the authorities after the two of them failed in the robbery of a bank. Humpty seems unwilling to recognize that he is just as guilty by tricking Puss into aiding him rob the bank against his explicit wishes, and in the process branded him an outlaw and ruined his hard-earned reputation as the town hero. It's quite telling that Humpty doesn't even view what he did as a betrayal, thinking that Puss was just supposed to go along with it because they're blood brothers.
-   The motivation of Killian from _Spies in Disguise_ is getting revenge on Lance for killing all of his men and disfiguring him during a mission. When Killian reveals this, Lance points out that Killian and his men were all terrorists who were planning to kill innocent people and he was doing his job to stop them.
-   The dilemma of _Toy Story_ is set up by escalating (thanks to misunderstandings) cases of this; Woody gets jealous of Buzz's inadvertently becoming the favorite toy of their owner Andy, so tries to knock him under the bed to regain attention, he instead knocks him out the window by mistake. Buzz, thinking he did it on purpose, attacks Woody during a car trip, accidentally leaving them stranded, leaving Woody once again livid with Buzz. This is lampshaded in their Blame Game argument following this:
    
    **Woody:** I'm lost, Andy is gone, they're gonna move from their house in two days, _and it's all your fault!_  
    **Buzz:** My fault?! If you hadn't pushed me out of the window in the first place...  
    **Woody:** _(scoffs angrily)_ Well if _you_ hadn't shown up in your stupid little cardboard spaceship and taken away everything that was important to me...
    

    Films — Live-Action 

-   Black Manta in _Aquaman_ wants to kill Aquaman because Aquaman killed his father. Well, "didn't save" his father. See, Black Manta and his father were pirates who were hijacking a submarine (which involved killing crewmembers), and Aquaman intervened. Aquaman was ready to walk away, when Black Manta's father attacked him, ending up pinned and dying as the sub filled with water. Black Manta begged Aquaman for mercy, and Aquaman refused (not unreasonable, considering the father had just proven he'd take advantage of mercy). Black Manta not only has all the facts, but he _witnessed_ the entire thing and still blames Aquaman.
-   In _Jason Bourne_, The Asset wants to kill Jason because exposing Blackbriar towards the end of _The Bourne Ultimatum_ got him outed and captured. Except that Bourne never would have found out about Blackbriar if the Asset hadn't _murdered his father_, thereby driving him into Treadstone, Blackbriar's precursor organization.
-   _The Karate Kid Part II_: Chozen Toguchi insists that forcing Daniel LaRusso into a fight to the death by threatening Kumiko will restore his honor in the eyes of the village. His blinkered mindset keeps him from noticing how everyone watching this unfold is clearly horrified by his own behavior. _Cobra Kai_ explores this further where it reveals even _Chozen_ himself almost immediately regretted his behavior, and still does even to this day, and likely would have been driven to suicide had Kumiko not sought him out and forgiven him because of their childhood friendship.
-   _Kill Bill_: Looked at objectively, none of them can be considered good guys considering their careers; but The Bride's former crew killed her innocent new family, which is reason enough for her to kill them all back. She is in the right for wanting to kill them, she just doesn't see that she is not much better than them.
    
    **Bud:** That woman deserves her revenge, and we all deserve to die. But then again, so does she.
    
-   _The Last Circus_: Colonel Salcedo kidnaps Javier and humiliates him because he made him lose an eye years prior. What makes Salcedo ANYTHING but an innocent victim is that Javier did that by accident when the Colonel was killing his imprisoned father.
-   _The Last Samurai_: Taka is very uncomfortable with being made to house and care for Algren when he is taken prisoner shortly after killing her husband Hirataro in a Thwarted Coup de Grâce. She even pleads for Katsumoto to execute the American to avenge her husband and says she will kill herself if he doesn't go through with it, and Katsumoto has to point out her hypocrisy since Hirataro _was trying to kill him_ and had killed other men in the battle who also had loved ones. Taka quickly apologises for this mindset.
-   _The Loved Ones_: Lola informs Brent that, because he killed her father, she will now take revenge by going to Brent's house and killing his mother and his girlfriend. And the fact that, in order to kill her father, Brent had to break free of his restraints before the man _poured a kettleful of boiling water into the hole they had just drilled through Brent's skull?_ Lola seems to feel this is no excuse.
-   _Marvel Cinematic Universe_:
    -   Tony himself falls into this at the climax of _Captain America: Civil War_ when he learns that Bucky killed his parents. Bucky was brainwashed at the time, so his HYDRA handlers were really the ones responsible... but Tony's too angry and grief-stricken to care. To be fair, it was an extremely stressful time for him (and Baron Zemo, the one who made the revelation, was counting on this), and part of the reason he's angry is that Steve had hidden this from him, denying him the opportunity to come to terms with it on his own time.
    -   _Spider-Man: Far From Home_: Quentin Beck also wants revenge on Tony for stealing his technology, renaming it BARF and firing him... except that if Beck was working for Stark Industries when he created BARF, the tech belongs to Stark Industries, not him, and while the name Tony gives it isn't great, it does just stand for what the tech does (Binary Augmented Retro-Framing), and Tony admits that he should probably think of a better one. As for being fired, well, the film demonstrates that he is very unstable and Tony (or just as likely, Pepper Potts, as she was CEO at the time) was right to fire him.
-   _MonsterVerse_:
    -   _Kong: Skull Island_: Colonel Packard becomes obsessed with killing Kong in revenge for the deaths of his soldiers, ignoring that they (albeit unknowingly) started it by bombing the island, and later the revelation that Kong is vital to stopping an even worse threat to humans from coming to the surface.
    -   _Godzilla: King of the Monsters (2019)_: Mark Russell for the first half of the film holds a nasty hatred towards all Titans and especially Godzilla because his son was a casualty of Godzilla's past battle against the MUTOs, and he doesn't care that Godzilla is an animal who didn't in any way deliberately cause Andrew's death (this is especially notable when you realize that someone in Mark's profession should rationally know better than the average person not to make such biased judgments towards animals). That being said, Mark is implied to be "all bark and no bite" when it comes to seeing Godzilla killed, and he gets better via Moving Beyond Bereavement.
    -   _Godzilla vs. Kong_: It's not brought up in the film, but in the novelization's Adaptation Expansion, Ren Serizawa has shades of this in regards to his personal hatred of Godzilla. Ren wants Godzilla dead because he blames Godzilla for diverting his father's love and attention away from him his entire life and also because the late Serizawa's death before Godzilla's snout permanently dashed Ren's hopes of having reconciliation with his father; nevermind that on top of the "Godzilla's an animal" think with Mark's vendetta, Ren's father _willingly_ sacrificed his life to save Godzilla's and Ren is now knowingly trying to undo the very thing his father gave his life for.
-   The entire plot of _Oldboy (2003)_ in a nutshell. Oh Dae-su wants revenge against the man who abducted and imprisoned him for 15 years. Lee Woo-jin in return wants revenge against Oh Dae-su for indirectly driving his sister to suicide.
-   Triad boss Terence Wei from _The Replacement Killers_ wants the young son of police detective Stan Zedkov dead for Zedkov's own killing of Wei's son. Aside from the messed up sense of vengeance that characterizes this Revenge by Proxy scheme, Peter Wei, the son in question, was a murderous twenty-something Triad lieutenant in the drug trade, and Zedkov had tried to take him alive, even telling him not to go through with trying to kill him and the other cops.
-   _Scream_: Many of the villains fall into this trap.
    -   _Scream (1996)_: Billy Loomis murdered Sidney's mother and framed an innocent man for it because she had an affair with his father, which led to his mother abandoning him. The following year, he goes on to murder five other people (three by disembowelment) who had nothing to do with his family falling apart and try to frame Sidney's father for it, all because he hates Sidney's family that much. (Two of their victims, Casey Becker and Steve Orth, are implied to have been picked out by Billy's accomplice Stu Macher, because Casey broke up with Stu to date Steve.) Not once does Billy realize that it takes two to tango and hold his father responsible for his part in the affair.
    -   _Scream 2_: Debbie Loomis, Billy's mother, wants revenge on Sidney for killing him. Never mind the fact that Sidney killed Billy in self-defense after Billy did all the things listed above, not to mention how her own abandonment of Billy played a lot into his psychosis in the first place. But she's sick of people using that old Blame Game on her. She even attempts to get Cotton Weary in on this, noting Sidney falsely accused him of the crimes her son committed and intentionally framed him for.
    -   _Scream 3_: Roman Bridger, Sidney's half-brother, is revealed to have been the one who manipulated Billy into killing Sidney's mother and going on a murder spree. He did all this because he hated Sidney for having the mother he didn't and for getting the fame that he felt he was owed. Except Sidney didn't even know about him and it is made quite clear that none of the fame she has as a survivor of the Ghostface murders is worth the years of isolation and mental trauma she has endured. This is the point where Sidney has flat-out had enough of killers targeting her for such petty reasons and calls Roman a selfish brat who refuses to accept responsibility for his actions and only kills people because he enjoys it.
    -   In _Scream VI_, the Bailey family wants revenge on Sam for killing Richie in _Scream (2022)_. The fact that he instigated a murder rampage that left six innocent people dead and died trying to murder the woman who ultimately did him in is immaterial.
-   _The Spy Who Loved Me_: In the opening scene, James Bond kills Anya's lover, who is trying to kill him at the time. When she finds out about it she vows to kill James. She never goes through with it, giving it up after they manage to foil the villain.
-   _Star Trek_:
    -   Khan in _Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan_. Lampshaded even. After Khan explains his beef with Kirk, Chekov says, "Captain Kirk was your host. You repaid his hospitality by trying to steal his ship and murder him!" Khan ignores the fact that Kirk, in simply exiling Khan to his own planet, was more charitable than he had to be given Khan's actions both on the _Enterprise_ and as a fugitive from international justice 300 years ago. Kirk could have easily taken Khan and his people back to Earth and put them in the hands of Federation justice, which might end in a number of ways unfavorable to Khan, his crew, and his girlfriend. Plus, Kirk left them on a very nice planet, and it's hardly his fault it underwent a drastic climate change and Khan's wife died.
    -   John Harrison and Kirk in _Star Trek Into Darkness_. Harrison seeks revenge on Admiral Marcus and ends up killing Christopher Pike in his attack on the admiral. Pike's death then drives Kirk to swear revenge on Harrison. Both of them thus end up largely playing into the hands of Admiral Marcus and his plans to instigate war, blinded by their personal desires for revenge. Even across timelines, Khan never changes...
-   _Taken 2_ is driven by Murad Hoxha wanting to avenge his son Marko, killed in the first _Taken_ movie by Retired Badass Bryan Mills for kidnapping his daughter Kim. Being The Don of a mafia with several other relatives, Murad doesn't care about how Marko worked in a crime ring and destroyed many young women's lives by forcing them into sex slavery (a fate Kim escaped just in time). He just wants to ease his pain by killing the man responsible for Marko's death (and his loved ones), and to add salt to the wound, intended to do so by finishing his son's original intentions.
-   In _Tales of Terror_, Morella returns from the grave to take vengeance upon her daughter and husband. Problem is, Morella died from overexertion at a party which _she_ pressured Locke into throwing for her, despite his concerns for her health after the birth of Lenore: an event that'd happened _months_ earlier, so hardly merited Death by Childbirth status. Not that she'd have been justified blaming Lenore for her death, if she had expired from giving birth.
-   In _Two Champions of Shaolin_, one of the villains' daughter tries to eliminate the hero Tong Qian-jin on his wedding day, only succeeding in killing Tong's fiancée. Her vendetta is because she intends to avenge her slain father, never mind her father was a ruthless assassin who tried to kill Tong several times and was killed in a fair fight.

    Music 

-   Eminem's beef with Insane Clown Posse resulted in him including a nearly two-minute-long skit on his Magnum Opus _The Marshall Mathers LP_ of ICP having extremely gross-sounding gay sex, while also dedicating an entire verse on the album's title track to calling them gay. (Using harsher words than that.) However, he was entirely responsible for starting the beef by printing up fliers promising that the ICP would be present at one of his gigs, without bothering to ask ICP first (who enjoyed a mutual fandom with him and would have been at the show if he hadn't felt entitled to use their names to get attention). Eminem responded to their mild annoyance with Disproportionate Retribution, vandalising the ICP's tour van with paintball guns, which resulted in ICP's deliberately low-effort diss "Slim Anus", a song in which they dub poor-quality gay jokes directly over a recording of "My Name Is". _That_ was what Eminem's skit and diss was in response to. It is worth pointing out that both parties have now squashed the beef due to D12 member Proof taking ICP bowling; they've appeared on his radio show, and Eminem has accepted he was in the wrong in the scenario.

    Literature 

-   _Carrie_ has the famous sequence where the eponymous Carrie uses her powers to take revenge on her classmates, and subsequently destroying her entire town. This is revenge for the bullying she has been suffering her entire life, which admittedly many of her classmates did take part in. But the incident that triggers this is the prank that Chris and Billy pulled; no one else at the prom knew about it and, while they laugh at first, it's out of shock rather than maliciousness. Some of the people who get killed in the conflict were actually nice to her, ironically enough. The adaptations play around with this; the 2002 movie has Carrie go into a complete trance when the revenge happens, and she doesn't even remember anything when she comes out of it. The 2013 one has her spare people who were nice to her (such as Miss Desjardin) and actively target her tormentors (in this version, far more people are implied to have been in on the prank).
-   _Cradle Series_: Common, due to constant use of Asskicking Leads to Leadership and Moral Myopia. When Lindon was faced with Kral, an opponent far above him, he bowed politely, reminded Kral that the two of them had no real quarrel, and promised to leave. Kral seemingly accepted this, then dropped a poison cloud on Lindon's head when his back was turned. Lindon managed to kill him. Jai Long called this a dirty trick and murder, and Lindon is only saved by Eithan revealing that he is by far the most powerful person in the room. When Jai Long relates this story to Kral's father and Jai Long's sister, he still speaks of it as murder, and in their later duel, he repeatedly calls Lindon a coward for using tricks against a stronger opponent instead of just dying.
-   _The Dresden Files_:
    -   _Grave Peril_ reveals that Bianca's motivation for revenge against Harry (and the entire White Council) is because he caused one of her prostitute employees' deaths back in _Storm Front_. The sequence of events went like this: Bianca attacked Harry when he came to question her about the case he was on (which she legitimately had nothing to do with), and he defended himself and left. Afterwards, she fed on the prostitute but was so shaken up that she accidentally killed the girl. Not only does she not acknowledge her role in the debacle, _she didn't even know the woman's name_ (Harry does- her name was Rachel). She may have been manipulated by Nemesis into provoking the White Council to weaken the general supernatural world.
    -   In _Cold Days_, Titania refuses to tell Harry information that would keep Demonreach from exploding- taking out _half the Midwest_ with it- because he killed her daughter. (Her daughter was attempting to commit genocide on the Summer Fae, which would have had apocalyptic consequences on Earth's climate and life as a whole, in addition to letting the Outsiders unmake reality itself.) Titania admits Harry was fully justified in his actions, and for that reason she allows him to live...but she still _can't_ work with him. Even to prevent mass murder on a continental scale. It's Justified in that Titania is a Summer Fae; emotional responses are in her nature, including pursuing a grudge that she knows full well has no logical basis. The level of restraint she managed to show when she appeared was _amazing_ by Summer Court standards, and the result of _years_ worth of therapy sessions with Eldest Gruff.
-   _Dungeon Crawler Carl_: Frank and Maggie are player-killers who typically spin up a sob story to explain themselves, then kill people when their backs are turned. Carl and Donut manage to escape them, though Carl leaves behind a trap he hopes they might trigger. Later, he meets them again and finds out that their daughter was injured by the trap, and Maggie had to Mercy Kill her because she was wearing a magic ring that prevented healing. Both of them want to kill Carl for this, even though he was reasonably defending himself and didn't know anyone else was with them. Frank is at least self-aware enough to know he's a hypocrite, he just wants revenge anyway, but Maggie really does think that everything is Carl's fault, and ruins several other lives trying to get to him.
-   Older Than Dirt. In _Enûma Eliš_, Tiamat does her best to avenge Apsu's death at the hands of the Annunaki, completely ignoring the two small facts that Apsu was actively planning to kill them and that _she herself ratted him out to them_, allowing a preventive strike.
-   _The Han Solo Adventures_: In _Han Solo and the Lost Legacy,_ J'uouch goes berserk when her brother dies while trying to kill Han and tries to kill him for revenge. Then _she_ gets attacked by Hasti Forge, whose sister J'uoch killed in cold blood. The fight ends in a Disney Villain Death for J'uoch.
    
    **J'uoch:** He killed my brother! I'll kill Solo if I have to blow these mountains apart.
    
-   In the fifth and sixth _Harry Potter_ books, Draco Malfoy makes it clear he wants revenge on Harry for putting his father in prison, even though his father was arrested for helping his genocidal Evil Overlord master try to attack and/or kill quite a few people, Harry included.
-   _Honor Harrington_:
    -   Solarian Fleet Admiral Rajampet Rajani states, in no uncertain terms, that he does not care how justified the Manticorans believed they were in killing Admiral Josef Byng, and goes on to say he doesn't care how justified they _actually_ were. His biggest concern is the blow to the Solarian League Navy's prestige their actions have caused and the precedents it could set. This attitude is not helped by the fact that the Manticorans keep Curb Stomping his navy.
    -   In _Shadow of Victory_/_Uncompromising Honor_, when Manticore comes knocking on Mesa's door, Albrecht Detweiler, leader of the Mesan Alignment, kills himself and his wife with a nuke, triggering more nuclear weapons across Mesa, preventing the Manticorans from finding further proof about the Alignment and framing them for the attack. What do their children do? Organize the destruction of Beowulf's three main space habitats, totaling 43 million people - all because their father killed himself and their mother.
-   In _Imager's Challenge_, the D'Ryel family tries to destroy Rhen's family and Rhen himself because he had partially blinded Lord D'Ryel's son in the previous book. This blinding was done in self-defense in a fight that the noble started over something Rhen didn't do, and may not have even happened at all.
-   _Killer Species_: Series villain Dr. Catalyst feels he's perfectly justified in killing anyone who gets in the way of his plans, which involve creating new predatory hybrid species, designed specifically to kill off all members of an invasive species that are wreaking havoc on the environment. He doesn't care that his creations also attacked the humans, who killed them in self-defense; they destroyed his creations and must pay.
-   _Kris Longknife_: Subverted with Vicky Peterwald, who starts out wanting revenge on Kris for her part in the death of Vicky's brother Hank in _Resolute_, and unsuccessfully tries to assassinate her in _Audacious_. In _Intrepid_ however, Kris is brought to meet her in a context where Vicky **can't** kill her, and manages to get through to her that 1) there was a Space Battle going on and people tend to die in battles, 2) it was Hank's fault the battle happened in the first place, and 3) Hank would have survived if a third party hadn't sabotaged his Escape Pod and then caused the cruiser carrying his body to make a bad jump to Destroy the Evidence. Kris and Vicky actually manage to bury the hatchet and become friends.
-   In the novel _Live Bait_ by PJ Tracy, all but one of the murders the police are investigating turn out to be the work of a young man who had witnessed his father's murder and has been hunting down the responsible parties in what he considers "righteous kills". Problem was, his dad was _a Nazi war criminal_ who had escaped justice, and the killers were a vigilante hit-squad made up of Holocaust survivors (the remaining murder was actually another of their victims), making his dad's death a "righteous kill" by his logic. To be fair, he didn't actually know that at the time, but isn't dissuaded when he eventually finds out.
-   _Malazan Book of the Fallen_: At some point, Clip gets the idea into his head of taking revenge upon Anomander Rake aka the Black-Winged Lord aka the god the Tiste Andii of Bluerose worship for allegedly allowing them to degenerate and eventually be slaughtered by the Letherii. As far as Clip is concerned, Anomander Rake deserves to die. Never mind that neither had he anything to do with the fate of the Andii of the Andara, they did not even ask him if it's okay to worship him as a god and expect anything in return. It's questionable whether he even knew of their existence.
-   In the _Maximum Ride_ series, the reason Ari targets Max specifically during so many of their fights is that he blames her for stealing his father's love (which is not entirely as petty as it sounds - Ari's father leaving to secretly raise Max and her siblings left Ari unprotected to be experimented on by the Whitecoats). Max tries to point out several times that she was a child at the time and had no idea what was going on beyond being rescued from a scary, painful place, but Ari refuses to listen. When faced with the reality that he's going to die soon, in the third book, he finally does admit to Max that he knows she had no more control over the situation than he did. Considering that Ari's mentally and emotionally a child, his reaction is justified.
-   In _Memoirs of a Geisha_, Pumpkin enacts her revenge on Sayuri by trying to sabotage her budding relationship with the Chairman. This is payback for Pumpkin not being adopted by Mrs Nitta back when they were in the okiya and losing everything as a result. Except that Pumpkin never had a chance of being adopted, because Mrs Nitta was savvy that Pumpkin would only be Hatsumomo's puppet - and she chose to adopt Sayuri mainly because she didn't want to have to put up with Hatsumomo (and fears that Hatsumomo would use her influence to have them ungratefully thrown out on the street). Sayuri actually begged Mrs Nitta to adopt _both_ of them in an attempt to save Pumpkin, but that doesn't happen again because of Hatsumomo. And when World War II hit, it was Mrs Nitta who kicked Pumpkin out of the okiya because they couldn't afford to keep her.
-   In David Eddings' _The Redemption of Althalus_, when working as a mercenary, Eliar kills the ruler of the city-state the mercenaries were attacking. He ends up being captured and Andine, the daughter of said ruler, enacts personal revenge. He gets rescued eventually. And she eventually gets over it. They end up married.
-   In _A Song of Ice and Fire_ Lord Karstark wants revenge against Jaime Lannister for killing two of his sons. He does this by killing two of Jaime's relatives who were held captive, killing several men allied with him to get to them. It's pointed out that killing defenseless prisoners and your own allies is not the same as killing an enemy in battle, but the distinction seems lost on him since he's basically half-mad with anger and grief by that point. This also extends to his soldiers: Karstark's execution by Robb Stark for murder causes them to abandon House Stark, _their rightful liege lord_, despite the fact that their lord _did_ break the law and was punished accordingly.
    -   There are other instances where someone (Balon Greyjoy, the Sand Snakes) acknowledges that the people they spent years plotting revenge against are all dead, yet they still want revenge against their house. It gets rather ridiculous with Balon, who blames Ned for the death of his eldest son because Ned fought on the opposite side to Balon and his, one of Balon's sons having died in a battle Ned wasn't even present for. Granted, Ned also held his last son hostage.
    -   The Martells seek vengeance against Ser Amory Lorch, Ser Gregor Clegane, and his liege lord Tywin Lannister for the murder of Princess Elia Martell and her children during the overthrow of the regime that she married into. True, it was war and the children were in line to the throne, but it was a particularly brutal and unnecessary murder. Tywin tries to get around it by blaming all the murders on Lorch after their death. Oberyn Martell is granted the chance to fight the Mountain in a duel...and when he loses fair and square, his children, the Sand Snakes, start clamoring for revenge against the Lannisters for _his_ death, even though Gregor admitted his crimes and died rather agonizingly of his wounds anyway, and Lord Tywin died of unrelated causes (namely, Tyrion finally getting fed up with his father and killing him).
    -   Cersei Lannister is also guilty of this after _A Storm of Swords_, where she loses both her eldest and most beloved son _and_ her father. She constantly sends people out to hunt Tyrion down, despite the fact that her eldest son was a psychopath who _wasn't even killed by Tyrion_ (instead poisoned by Olenna Tyrell, who refused to let such a monster marry her granddaughter Margaery) and that her father _really_ had it coming; not only was he about to execute Tyrion under false pretenses because he was The Unfavorite for being a dwarf (and because Tywin's wife died giving birth to him), but Tyrion had just found out that Tywin falsely led him to think that his commoner wife was a whore. It was really just a matter of time before _somebody_ whom Tywin and/or Joffrey wronged succeeded in killing them, but Cersei doesn't see it that way.
-   In Diane Duane's novel _Spock's World_, the Big Bad is seeking revenge on Spock for the death of a mate. What the Big Bad fails to take into account is that said mate took a suicidal risk to get closer to the Big Bad because the mate thought that said character's brooding over the last encounter with Spock was romantic.
-   In the _The Three Musketeers_ sequel _20 Years After_, Mordaunt, the son of the previous book's Big Bad, Milady de Winter, seeks revenge on the Musketeers for the Vigilante Execution they performed on her. When he goes to confront his uncle, Lord de Winter, who also played a role in the execution, de Winter explains to his nephew how awful Milady was and all the terrible things she did. Mordaunt responds by saying quite clearly that he _doesn't care._ De Winter and the Musketeers killed his mother, and so he's going to kill _them_ in revenge.
-   In _Tigana_, Brandin goes to extreme lengths to take revenge on the person who killed his son and his whole province, in spite of the fact that said son was killed in a war he started to invade said province.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Angel_: Angel falls into it in Season 3 when Wesley kidnaps Connor; it turns out he was tricked by a fake prophecy claiming that Angel would kill his son. Angel acknowledges this, accepts it and tells Wesley as such... but considering that Wesley's actions led to Connor being taken to a Hell dimension, he still refuses to forgive him for it and tries to kill him with a Vorpal Pillow.
-   _Breaking Bad_: In season 3, the Salamanca cousins travel up from Mexico in order to kill Walt in revenge for Tuco getting killed. Except it was Walt's brother-in-law Hank who shot Tuco, and they know this, but the cartel has a very strict rule that US law enforcement agents are not to be touched. Still, they have to kill someone. Gus eventually redirects them to go after Hank...but he also arranges for Hank to be tipped off right before the hit is carried out so they'll take each other out, as part of a scheme by Gus to force a sitdown with the cartel.
-   _Farscape_: In the very first episode, Crichton accidentally crashes into a ship piloted by Bialar Crais' brother, killing him instantly. Crais becomes _insanely_ obsessed with ferreting out Crichton and killing him, an obsession that lasts most of the first season, to the point where eventually Crais loses his job because his priorities are entirely focused on revenge — despite the fact that Crichton continually tries to convince him that it was an accident.
    -   In an episode where an Evil Sorcerer brings both of them (or, at least, their minds) into his "temple", he does his best to fuel Crais's desire for revenge. Crichton once actually manages to almost convince Crais that it wasn't Crichton's fault by pointing at simple facts: Crichton's _Farscape One_ pod is nowhere near as advanced as a Peacekeeper Prowler (no weapons, minimal defenses, pitiful maneuverability), so there's no way his brother's death could have been intentional. Unfortunately, Malgus chooses this moment to show an image of his brother burning to death, knowing how Crais will react. After Crais becomes a temporary ally, he admits that his own career was waning, and he was projecting this frustration onto his brother's "killer".
-   _Game of Thrones_:
    -   In a massive change from the books, Brienne of Tarth murders Stannis Baratheon as he is responsible for the death of his younger brother Renly Baratheon. However, Renly was trying to usurp the throne which Stannis had more right to and intended to kill his brother despite Stannis offering to make them his heir. Brienne even has the audacity to call Renly "the rightful King" before she murders Stannis. Unsurprisingly this change has proved very controversial, making Brienne The Scrappy for many viewers.
    -   Following the death of Oberyn Martell in a legal trial-by-combat against the Mountain, Ellaria Sand and her Sand Snakes become _obsessed_ with revenge to levels that go above and beyond "murderous bitch" — they murder Oberyn's brother and nephew to seize power in Oberyn's "name" and are also responsible for the murder of Myrcella Baratheon, and they don't intend to stop there. Even Cersei's detractors can easily find themselves rooting for her over the Sands when she takes revenge on the last two survivors in Season 7.
-   _Once Upon a Time_:
    -   Regina's vendetta against Snow White was because the girl was partly responsible for getting her fiance killed. Except it was Regina's mother Cora who did the actual killing. Snow did reveal the secret she'd promised to keep, but it was mainly because of Cora worming it out of her. Season 2 however started showing more backstory to reveal that Rumpelstiltskin slowly corrupted her over several years (with Regina trying to move past the incident at first), exploiting this for his master plan.
    -   This seems to run in the family; when Regina's half-sister Zelena shows up, she wants revenge on Regina for getting everything instead of her. Except Regina had no clue Zelena even existed, let alone that Cora had another child. It was their mother who decided to abandon her firstborn so as to not inconvenience her social climbing. But since Cora was first trapped in another dimension and later Killed Off for Real by the time Zelena came to power, Regina was an easier target to focus on.
    -   This defined the relationship between Captain Hook and Rumplestiltskin. Hook had fallen in love with Rumple's wife, Milah. Rather than leave a Dear John letter, Milah and Hook faked her kidnapping and let the then-human Rumplestiltskin and his son believe she had been murdered by pirates. When the current Dark One Rumplestiltskin found out about the deception, however, he murdered Milah and cut off Hook's hand. Swearing revenge, Hook vowed to find a way to kill him. However, since Rumplestiltskin is near-unstoppable as the Dark One, most of Hook's attempts have involved hurting Rumplestiltskin's true love, Belle, who has never done anything to Hook.
-   _Revenge (2011)_: Victoria Grayson wants retribution against Emily for what happened to her family, actual or perceived. Thing is, after what Emily went through, and how much of it was Victoria's fault, she had it coming, especially given that her season 3 finale fate of being committed to an asylum was exactly what she did years ago to young Emily.
-   _Revolution_:
    -   "Pilot" starts with a group of militiamen trying to take Ben Matheson into custody peacefully, and he's even willing enough to go; all he asks is a few moments to make arrangements for someone to care for his children, which the militia leader grants him. Unfortunately, his son Danny overreacts and rouses half the settlement to resisting (and dying). The militia may be bad guys, but this particular scene was a pretty clear-cut case of self-defense. The heroes don't see it that way.
    -   "No Quarter" has one militia soldier guilty of it as well, in a far more blatant and infuriating fashion. Danny Matheson kills one of the militiamen (Templeton) and the friend of this militiaman (Private Richards) gives this speech about how "that soldier had a name and a family", clearly trying to up the guilt for Danny's "senseless slaughter". When Danny coldly points out that said soldier _killed Danny's father first, just seconds earlier, as the first shot fired in the battle_, the soldier's friend simply chuckles and says, "Well, let's be honest, that was no big loss."
-   _Soap_: Danny wants to kill Burt, his stepfather, because he killed his father. Burt also feels horrendously guilty over this fact, but it turns out that Burt only killed him in self-defense. Danny eventually agrees with him.
-   _Star Trek: The Next Generation_: In "The Battle", the Ferengi DaiMon Bok wants to avenge his son, whose ship had been destroyed by Captain Picard during the Battle of Maxia, even though Picard destroyed the ship entirely out of defense.
-   _The Walking Dead (2010)_ has The Governor get a vendetta attitude about Michonne because she finished off his zombie daughter, even though he had previously sent men out to kill her simply for not buying into his false utopia (without which it is unlikely she would have returned), and even after acknowledging his daughter was already dead.

    Religion 

-   _The Book of Mormon_ recounts how Ammoron wants revenge against the Nephites for "murdering" his brother. Said brother was leading an unprovoked invasion of the Nephites at the time, conquering cities and slaughtering the inhabitants, on a mission to _drink the blood_ of their chief captain, and his death was in the field, at the hands of an enemy soldier, with a standard weapon. (And why did he want to drink Moroni's blood? Because Moroni's innovative city defences foiled the _previous_ unprovoked invasion.) Ignoring all this, Ammoron calls it murder and wants revenge.

    Tabletop Games 

-   The dwarves of _Warhammer Fantasy_ keep an enormous Book of Grudges, in which every slight and insult made to a dwarf is inscribed (even those that were not done on purpose or are absurdly inconsequential, such as a kingdom missing _twelve_ pieces of gold out of three _wagons_ full that were promised as payment for a job). These are avenged in blood, which naturally causes more dwarves to be killed, and their names are added to the Book, despite the enormous toll this takes on the population. And this is divinely mandated, too- when two quarreling factions in an outpost realized that no one had any idea how their feud started, they decided to make peace and fight the massive Orc horde outside- only to be smote by the gods for failing to redress their grudges, leaving the Orks to take the outpost.

    Video Games 

-   In _Cyberpunk 2077_, during the Wacky Racing questline with Claire Russell you learn that she lied about the circumstances of her husband Dean's death and had been using you to get close to the man she believed to be responsible. His rival Sampson didn't commit premeditated murder as she claimed, he just did what literally any other participant in the death races would do and rammed their car. It was simply bad luck that Dean died, and Sampson points out that Claire killed people in the races too. If V tries to talk her down but didn't make the right dialogue choice earlier, she'll admit it's not right to kill Sampson...and then kill him anyway.
-   In _BattleTech_, Commodore Samuel Ostergaard of the Taurian Concordat wants to kill protagonist Kamea Arano for killing his son. Whilst Kamea did personally order the ship his son was commanding destroyed, she only did so after catching it delivering weapons to her enemies during a war and after he refused two offers to surrender. In response Ostergaard orders his troops to fire on civilian targets affiliated with Kamea's cause. When it's revealed that the Kamea's enemies lured the Taurian Concordat into the war on false pretenses Ostergaard is ordered to stand down. He promptly defects (to the guy who started the false war) for one more chance to kill Kamea, violently putting down an Anti-Mutiny from his own crew in the process.
-   In _Injustice: Gods Among Us_, Harley Quinn's main motivation is to get revenge on Superman for his killing of the Joker. What Harley appears to have conveniently forgotten is that the Joker got himself killed on purpose by tricking Superman into killing his wife Lois Lane and their unborn child, thus activating a detonator the Joker rigged to her heart that activated when she died and detonated a nuke that destroyed the city of Metropolis, then going out of his way to torment Superman over this, which he did purely because he was tired of always losing to Batman and wanted to get an easy win over Superman. Or that she herself was complicit in the Joker's actions. So Superman's actions were entirely justified, while Harley clearly has a bad case of Never My Fault about the whole thing. Which is very typical for Harley's character in general, as far as she and her _Puddin_' are concerned. By the sequel she's grown out of this and opposes Superman purely for moral reasons while admitting that she has far too much blood on her own hands to expect forgiveness.
-   _Mass Effect 2_: Crusading Widow Kasumi wants revenge on Donovan for killing her lover Keiji... when the two of them were thieves who were in the process of robbing Donovan when Keiji got caught. Now, admittedly it's not always justified to kill a thief, but it's still a little absurd to hear Kasumi scream "murderer!" at Donovan like an innocent victim... especially when she'll gladly help slaughter dozens of foes on any given mission.
-   In _Max Payne 3_, Anthony DeMarco Sr. wants Max and Raul dead for shooting his son Anthony Jr. He ignores the fact that his son had already threatened Max with a gun simply for not being intimidated by his tough-guy act.
-   In _Resident Evil Village_, Lady Dimitrescu is _all about this_. She constantly rants about how you murdered her daughters, insulted her hospitality after she "invited you into her home", and disrespected her and her family, and this is _after_ she kidnapped your daughter, one of her henchmen abducted you so he and her daughters could torture and kill you, and her own constant attempts at killing you.
-   _Star Wars: The Old Republic_: Darth Angral swears vengeance on the Jedi Knight PC at the end of the Justified Tutorial after being Forced to Watch over a holocommunication as the Knight killed his son Lord Tarnis. That it was self-defense and Angral had been egging Tarnis on, and that Tarnis was trying to use a superweapon on Coruscant, doesn't enter into it.
-   In _Stranglehold_, a sequel to _Hard Boiled_, James Wong wants revenge on Tequila Yuen for killing his son Johnny, the Big Bad of _Hard Boiled_. Never mind the fact that Johnny was a psychopathic gangster who was quite willing to murder innocent people just for being in his way. The fact that he orchestrates the death of his surviving child, who is Tequila's wife, just to spite Tequila only makes it worse.
-   In _Thief_ sequel, Victoria reveals her desire to revenge to Garrett for killing the Trickster. Considering this comes from someone who betrayed, mutilated and left Garrett to death after being ordered by the Trickster, and the guy himself wanted to plunge The City into the Maw of Chaos, what would result in violent death of most of its citizens, the blame she puts on Garrett sound like apex insolence. Downplayed, as she renouce her desire to vengence on Enemy Mine basis.

    Visual Novels 

-   This crops up a few times in the _Ace Attorney_ franchise:
    -   Manfred von Karma blames Gregory Edgeworth for ruining his perfect trial record so much that after he was murdered in the DL-6 incident, von Karma took in his son Miles and raised him to be a cold and ruthless prosecutor, the kind that his father fought valiantly against. And, for good measure, it turns out von Karma is the one who murdered Gregory -- he tries to frame Edgeworth for the murder of the man who defended the man who was falsely accused of Gregory's murder years ago, and when Phoenix and Maya disprove that, he tries to convince the court that he's not the one who fatally shot Gregory. The thing is, the only reason Gregory was able to put a mark on von Karma's record was that von Karma brutally interrogated Jeffrey Masters, the suspect of the IS-7 incident and Isaac Dover's murder, by threatening to indict his daughter for the crime; Master finally broke down and gave a false confession to protect her, but Gregory was able to prove in court that it was manufactured, forcing von Karma to take the penalty. But _Investigations 2_ adds another layer by revealing the fact that von Karma did this because the chief prosecutor, Blaise Debeste, conjured up a false autopsy report (because they couldn't find Isaac Dover's body) and lied to von Karma about it, presenting it as real, which drove him to extort the false confession so they would have _something_ to take to court and make the indictment stick.
    -   Dahlia Hawthorne considers Mia Fey her mortal enemy for catching her over several murders she committed. In revenge, she works with her mother on an overly-elaborate plan that involves her being channeled after her execution so that she can murder Mia's sister...after Mia herself was already dead. Eesh...

    Web Animation 

-   In _Mystery Skulls Animated_, Lewis has come back as a ghost hellbent on getting revenge on Arthur for his murder. Unfortunately, he is either unaware or doesn't care that Arthur was possessed at the time and was visibly horrified at Lewis's murder at his own hand. Further complicating matters, Arthur seems to have forgotten Lewis's death and is now desperately seeking his missing friend on a visible lack of sleep that may be causing hallucinations meaning he's not likely to recognize Lewis's flaming skeletal ghost and wouldn't be able to even try and explain what really happened if he did.
-   In _RWBY_, Hazel Rainart sided with Salem because he blames Ozpin for his little sister's death. Ozpin did not kill his little sister, commit Murder by Inaction, kill her in an Uriah Gambit, or anything like that. Ozpin just accepted her application to Beacon (which was presumably at the age that every other student gets there), and she was killed by a Grimm on a training mission. So he's allied with Salem (who commands the Grimm) to take down Beacon, and thus making sure that even more teenagers suffer his sister's fate. While he hasn't grasped the hypocrisy of his actions, his later reasoning for siding with her (aside from how she's a powerful immortal and that he went with the logic of if you can't beat them, join them) is because of how Ozpin lures people into his shadow war yet leaves the Awful Truth that they're in a Forever War out of it.

    Webcomics 

-   _El Goonish Shive_:
    -   The creator of the dewitchery diamond was so enraged by his master's avenger being slain by a werewolf that he vowed to destroy any being created by the diamond to atone for creating it, including Ellen.
    -   On a related note, the immortal Pandora helped rid the world of werewolves after one killed her husband, while her son calls her out for not attempting to find a cure.

    Web Original 

-   In _The Lizzie Bennet Diaries_, Lydia frequently insulted Lizzie, making comments about how she would need to change if she wanted a boyfriend. But when Lizzie bluntly told her that she would need to change her ways to have a successful career (something Lydia wasn't interested in), Lydia was offended and remained furious for a long time, viciously criticizing Lizzie and guilt-tripping her about Lizzie's fear of abandonment and lack of people skills.
-   This is implied to be the case for the two families that make up SCP-2039. Mabel Pike essentially made a Deal with the Devil that left her family and the Wagner family in an eternal feud, because Blaine Wagner, the family's patriarch, murdered Mabel's girlfriend when they were younger. The exact circumstances are never given though, the feud itself only began because of the supernatural aid of a mysterious entity, and the Foundation report indicates that Blaine suffers from night terrors while frequently murmuring the name of Mabel's girlfriend.

    Western Animation 

-   In _American Dad!_ episode "Escape from Pearl Bailey", Steve gets revenge on a group of popular girls after he finds they smeared his girlfriend in a class political campaign. He later finds out that it was actually his friends who did the smear, and tries to explain this to the now angry popular kids, which doesn't matter as Steve had disfigured one girl and given the other an STD all for a few insults. The kids proceed to beat up both Steve and his friends.
-   In _Avengers Assemble_, the Winter Soldier claims to be out to avenge himself on Red Skull but is willing to murder plenty of innocents in the process if he has to.
-   _Batman: The Animated Series_:
    -   The Clock King, Temple Fugate, is obsessed with taking revenge against Mayor Hill. Years ago, Hill gave him some advice, which essentially boiled down to "take a coffee break at a different time than normal to try and relax", and Fugate taking this advice inadvertently led to him losing a $20 million court case. Fugate devotes his entire life to revenge against Hill, believing Hill somehow did it on purpose because he belonged to the law firm that had filed the case. He completely rejects the notion that Hill had genuinely tried to help him and holds onto the idea that Hill somehow did it on purpose, even though Hill barely knew him (even forgetting his name when they first spoke) and that there's no way _that_ is how Hill would have tried to sabotage him.
    -   This is The Mad Hatter's, well, hat. In his first appearance he becomes so obsessed with gaining the affections of a girl Alice he begins brainwashing everyone around her to make it happen and, when all else fails, he brainwashes _her_ as well. When Batman calls him out on this, he very briefly reflects on what he's done before simply blaming Batman for "forcing him to do it". He holds this revenge-grudge against Batman for the remainder of the series, and this even becomes his "testimony" in Trial for how "Batman created him" even though he had become the villainous Mad Hatter _before Batman even got involved_.
        
        **Hatter:** I'll cut that cowl off your neck before you take her! I've waited my whole lonely life for her!
        
        **Batman:** Then all you've waited for is a puppet... A soulless little doll.
        
        **Hatter:** It didn't have to be this way! _You_ made me do this to her!!!
        
-   _Dan Vs._ has a surprisingly low amount of this, as while most of Dan's revenge schemes are pretty petty reasons and minuscule problems that wasn't an issue at first sight, it turns out that he's coincidentally right about many of the targets deserving it. An exception, however, is "Neighbors", in which Dan learns that new neighbors (who are much nicer and Dan never liked to begin with) are now moving next door to him. It takes a pie they baked him to fall on his car to finally take revenge on them, ignoring the fact that Dan was the one who dropped the pie on his own car in the first place.
    -   Interestingly inverted in "Telemarketers", where Dan's imposter stalks and tortures Dan via telemarketing as revenge for getting him locked up in "Dan", which was for trying to steal Dan's identity and life in the latter episode.
-   The _Dexter's Laboratory_ segment _Mandarker_ cements Mandark's motive for outshining Dexter, as revenge for destroying his lab (through Dee Dee). But while it does a good job creating sympathy for Mandark, what it fails to mention is that Dexter did that in retaliation for Mandark forcing him to shut down _his_ lab. He curiously doesn't blame Dee Dee (who he has a crush on), even accusing Dexter of tricking her into doing it. A later episode reveals that Mandark's real motive is payback for Dexter making fun of his original name - "Susan".
-   Frizz and Nug were at the constant receiving end of this in _The Dreamstone_. The heroes thrived on punishing them for trying to steal the title stone and ruin dreams (often far more severely than the crime itself). They never take notice of the fact they are The Drag-Along in every instance, either due to being Press-Ganged by Sgt Blob and Urpgor or because Zordrak threatens to _execute_ them if they don't. It's implied the heroes went through a great few Urpneys in this manner before Zordrak simply got bored of offing minions. Later episodes try to make the heroes more pragmatic, as well as give them a much better provocation so their vendetta seems more proportionate, though the fact nearly all Urpneys are unwilling slaves is still never remotely brought up between them.
-   In _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_, Starlight Glimmer wants revenge on Twilight Sparkle and her friends for taking Starlight's village away from her. She's completely ignorant that her village was a horrible place to live, that the villagers there were under duress and threatened with imprisonment and borderline torture for any dissent, or that the entire reason Twilight ruined it was in order to free herself and her friends after being kidnapped, imprisoned, and borderline tortured into joining her cult.
-   In _Star Wars: The Clone Wars_, Boba Fett wants revenge on Mace Windu for killing his father, despite said father having been a hostile combatant on a live battlefield when he was cut down. Mace's genuinely unsympathetic demeanor towards the boy doesn't help matters.
    -   Also applies to Darth Maul, who seethes for vengeance against Obi-Wan for carving him in half like a ham even though he murdered Obi-Wan's Master before his eyes in cold blood and tried to do the same to Obi-Wan himself.
-   The Shredder from _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2012)_ lives by three words: Revenge Before Reason. He possesses a seething, unfathomable hatred for Splinter and all of his reasons for it run on Insane Troll Logic bordering on I Reject Your Reality.
    -   While he has a hatred for the Hamato Clan as a whole for being the enemies of his birth clan the Foot, his hatred for his former-brother Hamato Yoshi began when their mutual crush Tang Shen chose Yoshi over him, cementing into Feeling Oppressed by Their Existence when Tang Shen stepped in to take a killing blow meant for Yoshi, the Shredder blaming him for her death.
    -   After raising their daughter Miwa as his own under the name Karai, convincing her that she was _his_ daughter and that Hamato Yoshi murdered her mother all to spite Yoshi, he accuses Yoshi of brainwashing her when she discovered the truth and pulled a Heel–Face Turn. When she gets turned into a snake-mutant after he dangled her over a vat of mutagen as part of a sinister plot Gone Horribly Wrong, he vows that he will "avenge" her, blaming Splinter for this happening.
-   In the _X-Men: Evolution_ episode "Blind Alley", Mystique pretends to be Scott's brother Alex, supposedly stuck in Mexico after losing his passport, in order to lure Scott out on his own, knocking him out and leaving him stuck in the middle of the Mexican desert without his glasses to stop his eyes, saying "That's payback!" after Scott let her get captured inside a military base in "Day of Recovery". However, Scott did that because she had abducted Professor X and impersonated him throughout the two-part episode "Day of Reckoning", and refused to divulge the location of the real Professor X. Note that when he managed to find his way to the city, she intended to knock him out and do it again, somewhere even more remote.

___