"He's just cheating up his NaNoWriMo word count."

_"I hate the serial killer wall of death."_

— **Seeley Booth**, _Bones_

One of the standard symptoms of insanity as it is portrayed in television and film media is paranoia accompanied by graphomania, usually expressed by writing on walls, tables, body parts, etc. It can be the same phrase written dozens of times, or an elaborate theory detailing a supposed conspiracy. Confessions, mathematical equations, rants, and screeds are also popular. These can be supplemented with pictures, newspaper articles, official documents, etc. Usually, a character will find some room in their environment upon which to fully express the terms of their obsession. And don't expect these characters to be deterred by the fact that they Couldn't Find a Pen; they'll write with their own blood if they have to.

Characters who display this kind of behavior are not always dangerous or even fully insane, but they are always obsessed.

A detective/doctor/family member can stumble across rooms full of these kinds of paranoid obsessive ramblings and realize that they are Alone with the Psycho. It's not unusual for this moment of discovery to be quickly followed by an attempt on the discoverer's life by the owner of the room. These rooms can also be susceptible to cases of vanishings as well. (Curse you, Pine Sol!)

It should be noted that a character doesn't have to cover the walls with writing to make this an effective trope. A neatly typed ream of crisp white paper reading "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy" will work just as well.

If the Room Full of Crazy is specific enough, for example, only part of a wall is covered with photos of the same subject, it may be a Stalker Shrine. A Shrine to Self may likewise double as a Room Full Of Crazy for Omnicidal Maniacs and the like. If the room is used for plotting a conspiracy theory, it's a String Theory. The Black Bug Room is the mental version of this.

Compare Mess of Woe. Not to be confused with a Wall of Text, which is about something else entirely. The Big Board is the non-insane version of this.

Has nothing to do with the level of insanity present in _The Room (2003)_.

___

## Example subpages:

-   Live-Action TV
-   Video Games

## Other examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   The failed detective in _The Animatrix: Detective Story_ is found in a room with "Who is the Red Queen?" scrawled on the walls and a chessboard grid on the floor of his apartment.
-   Schwartzwald in _The Big O_ has apparently discovered the secret behind Paradigm City's mass amnesia, and what happened to the rest of the world forty years ago. His reaction is to wrap himself up in bandages, murder aristocrats via arson, commandeer a giant robot (and verbally harass its new pilot _after_ his death), and leave typewriters - sometimes dozens of them - wherever he goes, filled with rantings to curse the foolish and blind residents of the city. Depending on interpretation, the bit about the giant robot may not count; it's well-established and even invoked by another character at this point that the mecha of The Big O partially think for themselves and have a brotherhood-like preference for their pilots, so Schwartzwald laughing in Alan Gabriel's face for trying to pilot Big Duo could be the most logical thing he ever says.
-   _Black Lagoon_. Rock sets up a wall in his apartment as The Big Board, pinning up maps and taking notes on the walls. When we get back to him later, the writing has spread across the other walls, the floor is littered with empty beer cans and Rock is virtually tearing his hair out.
-   In Kaori Yuki's manga _Boys Next Door_, Adrian has one of these when his backstory is revealed. After stabbing his mother, he doesn't want her staring at him, so he covers her eyes and then scratches the eyes out of every picture in the room. The police find him five days later.
-   _Dear Brother_:
    -   Rei Asaka aka Hana no Saint Juste) has _two_ Rooms Full of Crazy. One (in her apartment) is full of mirrors, the other one (in an abandoned spot of her school) has stuff carved into the walls and hundreds of holes left by throwing knives.
    -   In the anime, Fukiko "Miya-sama" Ichinomiya has a room obsessively preserved for six years because that's where she first met the guy she has a crush on.
-   Old Cho's room in _Domu: A Child's Dream_ is completely filled with little trinkets that he has collected from every person he killed.
-   In _Durarara!!_, the Dollars chatroom blows up with crazy anytime Saika shows up. Incredibly fast spam messages full of crazy cover the chatroom. They consist of such delightful phrases as "Cutcutcutcutcutcut" or cries for mother.

-   _Ghost in the Shell: Arise_. As part of a conspiracy to frame her mentor Lt. Colonel Mamuro, Motoko Kusanagi realises she's been infected by a virus that gives her False Memories and filters out anything she sees that doesn't fit in with them. When she's able to temporarily disable it, Motoko shocked to find that her neat apartment has been trashed and she's scrawled _The Lt. Col. is innocent_ all over the walls.
-   Reki paints her nightmares into such a room in _Haibane Renmei_.
-   In Chapter 407 of _Hayate the Combat Butler_, the SC Rangers are filming a video and need feel the need for something more "shocking". So Izumi suggests they go film Kotetsu's room. Given that Kotetsu is an avid photographer and Hayate's self-professed stalker, it comes as no surprise that the entire room is literally covered in various-sized pictures of Hayate. What really sets the creepiness factor up a few more notches is the fact there there is literally nothing else in it except his bed. Risa and Miki definitely find it creepy. Izumi finds it "pure love".
-   The narrators in Hideshi Hino's horror stories invariably have houses or shops full of crazy, filled with disturbing paintings, horrible things in jars, and/or macabre junk.
-   In _Ibitsu_, Kazuki discovers a room in the abandoned mental hospital where the lolita covered large portions of the walls and floor by writing 'big brother' over and over.
-   Downplayed in _Kaguya-sama: Love Is War_: Shirogane's study room, while not having stuff written directly on the walls, is covered with "motivational" pieces of paper with things like "everything else is meaningless", "fuck sleep", and "carelessness is the enemy" written on them taped to the walls. Everyone else who sees the room finds it incredibly disturbing, but hilariously, Shirogane himself believes this is _completely normal_.
-   In _Koharu no Hibi_ Koharu's descent into Love Makes You Crazy mode is especially evident after we see her put up photo's of Akira all around her room.
-   An odd version of this trope turns up in _Metropolis (2001)_. Tima, after being taken into the custody of the man who had her created in the first place and being denied access to Kenichi, the boy on whom she'd imprinted, proceeds to scrawl his name all over the walls and windows of the luxury bedroom she was given. This was especially powerful, given how innocent Tima's character is, and scares the maid that brings her a change of clothes witless. All the same though, it was more Tima sulking than anything truly horrific or psychological.
-   _Monster_: Johan leaves behind a number of messages, some bragging, some asking for help.
-   _Neon Genesis Evangelion_:
    -   A subtle use of this trope is Doctor Ritsuko Akagi, NERV's resident sexy scientist. At first her tendency to leave post-it notes all over her cubicle and the MAGI computer makes Ritsuko seem like she's just a workaholic with a liking for cats, but in the second half of the series we realise she's seriously disturbed.
    -   Her mother, Naoko, is almost exactly the same way. When they have to get inside the Caspar core, its entire inside is covered with post-its, with almost no space left free. At least one reads "Ikari! YOU JERK!"
    -   Rei's original room in Central Dogma might also count: there are various terms related to quantum physics written onto the walls. It also happens to have the exact same layout as her current apartment's living room.
-   A _Se7en_\-like variant occurs in _Nijigahara Holograph_. Maki's boss has a room over his cafe which contains a doll which he believes is Arié sitting at a table, along with _hundreds_ of diaries of what he thinks is her account of what is supposed to happen when the world ends.
-   Alice first appears in one of these in _PandoraHearts_. Ada is also revealed to have one of these.
-   In _Paprika_, Himuro has an entire apartment full of crazy. There are shelves filled with broken toys and dolls (all of them move and make noises), walls coated with photos of himself and his friend Tokita (with Tokitas's face cut out) and little lit-up signs that say "help me." This signifies the fact that the dream world has overwhelmed his mind.
-   Lucia's cell in _Rave Master_ which probably wasn't done in blood because several of his messages implied that he had yet to harm anyone, and there's no way he had enough blood to fill that cell.
-   In the first _Sailor Moon_ anime, whenever Hotaru Tomoe's Mistress Nine personality manifested herself before definitely taking over her, she would be seen in a huge darkened room with no visible windows (the light inside comes from many lamps instead), sitting on a very detailed chair similar on a throne, _and_ with many dolls and stuffed animals (which MN!Hotaru would occasionally rip in half with her bare hands) at her feet.
-   In _Sayonara, Zetsubou-Sensei_, Matoi Tsuetsuki stalks anyone she falls in love with.In the end of the chapter she is introduced in, she is shown in a room/closet full of pictures of Itoshiki. If you look closely, you can see a picture of him chugging pills and a Death Note.
-   _Sgt. Frog_: Momoka has enough money to get both a Stalker Shrine and a _Building_ Full of Crazy.
-   After Kamina is killed by Thymilph in _Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann_, one of the signs that Simon's grasp on sanity is slipping is his tendency to lock himself in his room and use his drill to obsessively carve statues of the deceased over and over until the room is literally filled with them.
-   One of the first victims in _Uzumaki_ has a room filled with spiral-related items: mosquito coils, numerous shells, spiral-patterned clothes, etc. When these are thrown out in an effort to stop his psychosis, he is... less then pleased.
-   _xxxHoLiC_'s characters told ghost stories about people who stumbled across one of these rooms in a haunted house. ("Let me out! Let me out! Father, please let me out!")

    Art 

    Comic Books 

-   In _52_, time-traveling superhero Booster Gold breaks into the secret base of veteran chrononaut Rip Hunter looking for advice on temporal anomalies that have been bothering him, but finds Rip missing, his time machine broken, and a chalkboard in his bunker covered in crazy theories and the phrase "TIME IS BROKEN" over and over. Over in a corner, he finds the words "IT'S ALL HIS FAULT" scrawled all over the walls and dozens of photos and magazine covers of _Booster himself_. It later turns out that Rip was absolutely sane and absolutely _right_, but the photos weren't of Booster — they were of his (possessed) Robot Buddy Skeets.
-   In _Arkham Asylum: A Serious House on Serious Earth_ by Grant Morrison, Amadeus Arkham spends his last days incarcerated in the asylum he'd founded, carving huge, elaborate magic circles in the cell floor with his _fingernails_.
-   _Batman_:
    -   The Joker does this occasionally. One story showed the walls of his cell covered with smiley faces, caricatures of Batman and Robin and the full lyrics to the Batman version of Jingle Bells. The speaker on the wall with which the doctors communicated with him was labeled "**THEM**". In another story, Batman managed to find a clue in the Joker's scribbles.
    -   In one comic, Two-Face is shown to have news clippings covering one of his walls. He says jokingly that compared to some of his other obsessions, that one is only about a 2 on the Richter scale.
-   _Fantastic Four_:
    -   During Dwayne McDuffie's the team discovers a secret lab that only Reed Richards has ever entered before, every surface covered wall to ceiling with various equations. This lab, it turns out, is where Reed Richards had started what he called "Plan #101", a plan to solve all the problems in the world. Among them some of the guidelines he was following during the Civil War. Johnny points this out when they first see the room: "Dude, if you'd asked me, I'd buy you a notepad."
    -   Ultimately subverted during the "Fix Everything" arc by Johnathan Hickman; it's revealed that the surfaces of Reed's secret lab act like output devices, and Reed can erase and rewrite as needed. When he encounters a legion of Reed Richards counterparts from alternate universes who sacrificed their families to solve the world's problems, he chooses to put his family above "Plan 101" and orders his computer to erase his notes. The next frame shows the lab, with all surfaces clean and pristine.
-   _Forgotten Realms_: In issue #20, the protagonists have been captured by a tribe of werecats. The wizard Dwalimar Omen—who has gone a little loopy since the Time of Troubles changed the rules of magic—is shown to have covered the walls of his cell with arcane scribbles.

-   _Johnny the Homicidal Maniac_: Johnny's entire house. Stuffed animals are nailed to the walls, rooms are covered with philosophical meanderings, posters are stuck all over the place, as well as macabre little messages (Enjoy your stay-the management). Of course, considering that Johnny is Ax-Crazy, this makes a lot of sense. Not to mention the wall he paints with the blood of his victims in an attempt to placate the cosmic/demonic monstrosities he believes live within it.

-   _The Sandman (1989)_: Morpheus punishes author Richard Madoc (who had kidnapped a Muse and was raping her for inspiration) by giving him an unstoppable barrage of ideas. When this happens while he has no writing materials on hand, Madoc transcribes the ideas on the sidewalk with his fingernails and blood. Another schizophrenic man (who is recruited to rescue Delirium) has a compulsion to write warnings on any available wall ("DO NOT ERASE THIS MESSAGE!").
-   _Serenity: Those Left Behind_ shows Dobson living in a room decorated with pictures of Mal and phrases like "Kill Reynolds" scrawled over every surface. As he explains to the men sent to find him; "I don't want Serenity... I want Reynolds. You could say I'm... preoccupied with the idea."
-   _Spider-Man_: Cletus Kasady did this when he was told Spider-Man's identity - he wrote Peter Parker's name on the walls hundreds of times and chanted to himself "I know a secret..." The knowledge was quickly wiped from his mind, but they never showed what happened to the writing on the wall. Presumably Ravencroft's guards and doctors assumed Carnage was obsessing over the guy who took pictures of him getting beat up.
-   In _V for Vendetta_, the patient in room 5 makes patterns out of piles of fertilizer and other substances, prompting a doctor in the facility to document his behavior in her journal. There's just one problem — it isn't symbols, it's homebrew explosive.
-   _The Wild Storm:_ Jenny Spark's String Theory wall isn't this, but it doesn't stop the Doctor and Jack Hawksmoor both commenting that it looks like a "serial killer wall".

    Fan Works 

-   _Abraxas (Hrodvitnon)_: In this _Godzilla_ MonsterVerse fanfiction, The Many have taken up to carving all kinds of creepy and fanatical scrawlings into the walls of Alan Jonah's base, as revealed in Chapter 11.
-   In _Address Unknown (Remedy)_, Derpy decorates her bedroom with eye charts from her dozens of visits to opticians over the years. Rainbow Dash describes it as, "In daytime, they were thought-provoking, but at night… creepy." It becomes a plot point when she wakes up the morning after being temporarily blinded by Twilight's spell and realises that not only can she see again, she can read the top rows of letters more clearly than ever before.
-   In _Aeon Entelechy Evangelion_, Rei writes Arcane symbols on the walls of her home. She is not crazy, though, just not normal.
-   _Always Visible_: By genre standards, there's nothing all that special about the room Galbraith rents at the "Stait of Snow Lake", but given that there are no chairs, a bed infested with bugs, and a broken lock, it might as well be that.
-   In the _Kim Possible_ fanfic _Alone, Together_, Kim and Shego are stranded in an Alternate Universe by a mishap with one of Dr. Drakken's inventions. Kim spends a year obsessively trying to figure out how to get the device working again, living in a mess of scattered notes and discarded food and water containers.
-   _At The Food Court_: After Ash lost his mind after suffering a No-Holds-Barred Beatdown courtesy of Team Rocket, he begins to cover every square inch of his bedroom walls with Pokemon League posters, and every human in the photos is either Brock or Misty, showing that he still remembers them despite his massive brain damage. And the floor is full of boxes overflowing with Pokemon plushies, which Ash thinks are real Pokemon. The author even calls it a Room Full of Crazy in the comments—and says that this is the _best-case scenario_—if nothing was in his room, that would imply that his personality and memories were completely gone.
-   In _Camp Nightmare_, the walls of Hugs and Snuggles Day Camp's basement are covered with the cult's logo.
-   In _Cave Story Versus I M Meen_, Jack does this after watching Sue and Toroko rape each other seemingly but not quite to death. Although, it's more like a _room splattered with random condiments, cornbread, bodily fluids, and_ _Jack's freshly picked, naturally produced toejam._
-   In CP Coulter's _Dalton_, a wall in Adam's room is covered in pictures of Julian, his obsession, love letters to him, roses, and Adam's own blood. The wall is covered up by wallpaper most of the time, but the room still stinks of roses and blood.
-   The _Kung Fu Panda_ fanfiction _A Different Lesson_ has a mind-controlled Monkey "decorate" his room this way as part of his downward spiral into insanity following learning that Tai Lung and Tigress share a mutual attraction. Thankfully, he got over it.
-   In the terrifying _Pokémon_ creepypasta _Easter Egg: Snow on Mt. Silver_, the protagonist's brother covers the whole house in broken gameboys and cartridges that he has destroyed himself after the easter egg renders him essentially insane.
-   In _Getting It Right_, Ichigo has five dry eraser boards in his closet that he uses to arrange people (that he shouldn't reasonably know) and future events in a web graph with someone he's planning on killing in the center. When Rukia runs across it, she's quite disturbed and erases it all, leaving Orihime to be confused by a bunch of blank white boards lying around later.
-   In _Infinity Train: Blossoming Trail_, Henry's patient in the Fog Car has the word "Ash" scribbled on the walls. Gains a darker meaning when it's revealed that said patient is Alain...
-   In the _Knight Hunters_ fanfic _God Rest Ye, Merry Gentlemen_, Ken, investigating a target's room, stumbles upon a _wardrobe_ full of crazy.
-   The _Homestuck_ fanfic _The Serendipity Gospels_ has Terezi do this in her sleep after the Grand Highblood starts chucklevoodooing her. She writes "BR34K SH4CKL3" over and over again, first on one wall and then on all the walls. When she wakes up and licks the words, she goes screaming insane. Gamzee has no idea what the hell is going on, and neither does she.
-   The main character in the CG Fan Film _Silent Hill: No Escape_ is a man whose slow descent into his own Self-Inflicted Hell is accompanied by mysterious words and sigils, written in blood on the imaginary landscape that surrounds him. The words "No Escape" are common appearers, of course, and when he gets to the church with the sacrificial altar at the end, he sees, written above it, the titles and numbers of the six victims his Superpowered Evil Side has murdered in order to free itself.
-   _Universe Falls_: In "Society of the Blind Eye", the Crystal Gems find a room in the Society's lair; one wall of said room is covered in years' worth of newspaper clippings about the Gems, and a number of threatening messages calling them a menace, all arranged in the shape of the Blind Eye logo.

-   In _Vision_, seemingly kindhearted vet White Wash claims to put stuffed animals in the cages to make the animal shelter more friendly-looking when it's not at full capacity. Siren believes her, until she realizes that White Wash has been treating the dolls as if alive.

    Films — Animated 

-   Subverted in _Mary and Max._ At the end of the film, when she finally gets to meet Max in person, she finds Max dead on the couch with a smile on his face, looking at a wall plastered with the letters from Mary he received over the decades.
-   In _9_, 6 covers his little corner of the sanctuary with scribblings of "The Source". Since his fingers are tips of fountain pens, it's quite possible that his _purpose_ is to draw just that, but since 1 refuses to acknowledge him, 6's sketches just keep coming until you can't see the walls anymore...
-   Abbot Cellach's room at the top of the tower in _The Secret of Kells._ It's covered from floor to ceiling in drawings and plans of the Abbot's beloved wall which encircled the city, with eerie lack of perspective.
-   In _Trolls_, Branch's bunker and Bridget's room are full of writings and paper related to their respective paranoias/obsessions.
-   _Up_: More like part of the room, but the wall where Muntz has his elaborate map to capture Kevin and _all the caps and goggles of the people he killed_ definitely counts.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _Accident_. Brain rents the flat below Fong's and draws the layout of Fong's apartment on the ceiling to help make sense of what he's hearing through the microphones he's planted. As the Brain's sanity slips, he starts detailing the connections of his conspiracy theory—interspersed with pages from his notebook—on the walls.
-   Ray Finkle's room in _Ace Ventura: Pet Detective_, covered with scrawls of "LACES OUT" and "DIE DAN DIE", left Ace (and the audience) in no doubt that Finkle lost his mind following the disastrous missed field goal that cost the Dolphins the Super Bowl and that he's got some rather ugly designs on Dan Marino, whom he blames for the whole thing. Ace would later say of the room, "Cozy, if you're Hannibal Lecter." It's a _nested_ example too; his parents' house is covered in graffiti degrading and vilifying him.
-   _The Accountant (2016)_. The title character, an accountant who has high-functioning autism, is shown during a Hard-Work Montage doing the books on a robotics company and writing the numbers on first the whiteboard, then the glass walls of the office they've given him. He actually starts acting most disturbed when the company shuts down his investigation prematurely and gets the cleaners to remove the numbers from the walls.
-   In _The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai Across the 8th Dimension_, Dr. Emilio Lizardo's room in the asylum was covered in notes for the Overthruster he'd been working on at the time of the accident that caused him to share a body with an evil Lectroid.
-   In _The Amazing Spider-Man_, the walls of Curt Connors' sewer lair are filled with mathematical equations.
-   _The Amazing Spider-Man 2_:
    -   Max Dillon has his own stalker room of Spider-Man, complete with photos and newspaper clippings, as well as a mirror next to one photo so he can pretend that _he_ is Spidey's secret identity, because of a crippling inferiority complex and nobody noticing him (his own mother forgets when it's his birthday). When it so happens that one day Spider-Man saves his life and calls him "my eyes and ears" after he calls himself a nobody, he gets overconfident and tries to fix dangerous electrical equipment in Oscorp labs by himself, leading to the accident that turns him into Electro. When Spidey meets him again, and the crowd and media starts siding with him over Max, he thinks Spidey set him up and goes on a rampage.
    -   Peter Parker's own room takes on some attributes of this trope as he fills a wall with clippings, notes, annotated maps, and the like in his effort to figure out what really happened to his father; Aunt May is concerned when she notices it.
-   _American Psycho_:
    -   Used when a prostitute, while being chased by Ax-Crazy Serial Killer Patrick Bateman, enters a room in his apartment that has the words "yuppie scum" written all over the walls in an erratic and disturbing manner.
    -   Also used at the end of the movie when Patrick's secretary looks through his planner to see that, instead of having dates written down for important meetings and the like, he's filled the entire book up with macabre drawings of people being killed and other such disturbing things.
-   In the intro of _The Amityville Horror (2005)_, the police find a book in Ronald DeFeo, Jr.'s possession that has "KATCH'EM AND KILL'EM" furiously scrawled on every page.

-   In _Batman Forever_, Edward Nygma has at least one picture of Bruce Wayne in his office (which is really a cubicle that he put glass walls around to keep the other workers out) and his home is filled with yet more pictures and newspaper clippings of the same. As The Riddler, he starts sending crazy riddles to Bruce's home and office made out of newspaper clippings. He thinks Bruce Wayne is the only man who can understand his genius- when Bruce brushes him off, he snaps, murders his supervisor (after using his device on him, unintentionally stealing his brainwaves to make himself smarter).
-   _A Beautiful Mind_: The main character keeps a room filled with obsessively underlined and highlighted newspaper clippings, searching for elusive hidden messages.
-   _Billy Club (2013)_: In one Flashback, we see Billy covered one of the walls of his cell at the mental hospital with etchings of pictures of things like his bat, Coach Fredricks, and various other things, along with several words, like "win", repeated over and over again on them.
-   In _Blood Waters of Dr. Z_, Dr. Leopold's huge chart showing each phase of the years he spent on his Evil Plan to turn himself into a half-catfish hybrid.
-   In _The Book of Revelation_, Daniel's new apartment becomes one as he chalks up tallies of all the women he's slept with trying to find his abductors.
-   _Boogeyman (2005)_: When Tim and Franny go to Franny's father's house, they find the inside has the walls all covered in writing saying things like "Face Him", and a wall covered in missing children's posters.
-   _By Hook or By Crook_: Someone has written "LONELY IS THE HUNTER" in blood on the walls of the mental institution that Val is sent to at the climax of the film.
-   In _Candy_, Dan comes home from work to find that Candy, in her mental breakdown, has scrawled an epic poem about their relationship over every wall in the house.
-   In _Carrie (1976)_, the title character's fundamentalist mother shoves her into a closet of crazy, which contains a candlelit shrine to Saint Sebastian.
-   In _Child's Play (1988)_, Karen goes to Chucky's apartment (from when he was alive) and finds the whole place to be like this. There are a bunch of odd and disturbing murals on all of the walls depicting things like Human Sacrifice, as well as big red letters reading "OH THANK YOU MIGHTY DAMBALLA FOR LIFE AFTER DEATH".
-   In _Close Encounters of the Third Kind_, Roy Neary finds himself compelled to transform first a plate of mashed potatoes, then his living room, into a model of Devil's Tower, the alien landing site, as a result of his own "close encounter" with a UFO. He later meets others who had similar experiences, though they expressed themselves in different media.
-   _The Conspiracy_ features the "walls covered in newspaper clippings" variant.
-   In _Conspiracy Theory_, Mel Gibson's room is plastered with clippings from every whacko newspaper in the country. It's also wired up to self-destruct, in case "they" come after him. Which they do.
-   In _Cthulhu_, the names of the missing (and soon-to-be-missing) are chalked on the walls and floor of the net shed.
-   Detective Eddie Walenski in _Dark City_, after going mad, covers the walls and floor of his rooms in endless spirals.
-   _The Dark Tower (2017)_. Jake Chambers has drawings of his visions on the wall of his room. When his mother starts talking of sending him away to a clinic, he takes them down in acknowledgement of this trope, though it does little good.
-   In _The Dead Center_, Dr. Graham spends the movie tracking down the missing body of a John Doe, and eventually finds his parents. He's shown what John was working on the week before he ended up in the hospital: a big board with newspaper clippings and copies of photographs of genocides and mass death events from all over the world, and entries from the Covenant of Death, translated from Vedic Sanskrit. John also made another spiral pattern on the floor nearby.
-   In _Dr. Strangelove_, the doodles General Jack D. Ripper writes out on a sheet of paper (Peace On Earth, Purity Of Essence, POE) are not only a key to understanding his conspiratorial paranoia but also an important clue to figuring out the all-important "Recall Launch" codes that can stop World War III.
-   _Ex Machina_. Nathan Bateman has a wall lined with thousands of stick-it notes. Although it looks organized, this trope coupled with the computer screens he's using to monitor his subject give an early hint to how disturbed he is.

-   _Godzilla (2014)_: Joe Brody has a room covered with newspaper clippings and other documents relating to his search for the truth behind the collapse of the Janjira plant that led to his wife's death. His son is understandably taken aback at all this; his father simply replies: "I don't get too many visitors".
-   Harold Oxley in _Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull_ covered his room with bizarre drawings of the crystal skull, as well as the word "return" in multiple languages. This turns out to be a plot point, as he also carved the location of the skull into the floor of the room.
-   Played with in _In the Mouth of Madness_ where Trent is locked up in the loony bin, drawing crucifixes all over the walls and himself because he's afraid of Lovecraftian monsters destroying the world. The twist is, of course, Trent realises he is perfectly sane once he comes to terms with really being a character in a book and that the monsters really are coming and makes a room full of crazy so as to convince the authorities to keep him in the relative safety of the sanitarium.

-   _John Doe: Vigilante_: The Pedophile Priest who is John Doe's first target has a wall covered in pictures of his past victims: each of which has a smiley face sticker stuck over their head.
-   In the Spanish thriller _Julia's Eyes_, Julia's caretaker and stalker has one of these, full to the brim with pretty disturbing photos of Julia and her twin sister.
-   In one scene of _Kairo_, one of the ghost-touched victims on her way to becoming an Empty Shell scrawls the word _tasukete_ ("Help me") all over her bedroom walls in messy black script.
-   _Kingsman: The Golden Circle_: The lepidopterist is not in his right mind, which is further emphasized by the countless butterfly drawings and accompanying text that cover the walls in his room. Bonus points for the room appearing to be a padded cell. After he gets his memory back, he still struggles to convince people that his brain is trustworthy again.
-   In _Knowing_, the precognitive little girl who predicts the series of disasters cumulating in the end of the world turns out to have spent her last days in a veritable _mobile home_ full of crazy, containing several walls covered with deeply significant newspaper clippings and the revelation everyone was going to die carved repeatedly into the underside of the bed.
-   In _Mad Love (1995)_, Drew Barrymore's bipolar character spends a night cutting out magazine pictures of eyes and taping them all over the walls of a motel room, telling her boyfriend that the eyes will "protect" them.
-   _Memento_ features a much more portable and practical version of this in the form of Leonard's tattoos. Even worse, but seemingly more innocent: "Remember Sammy Jenkis." This is Leonard's way of using his own condition against himself, to continue perpetuating the lie that is Sammy Jenkis as a existing person. By putting it on his hand, he ensures he'll look at it every so often.
-   Once Leon becomes obsessed with "the Butcher" in _The Midnight Meat Train_, his room turns into a craze den with tons of photos and newspaper clips on the wall.
-   Invoked and played with in _Minority Report_. The villains set up one of these to frame the protagonist, but the investigator points out how implausible and over-dramatic the trope is and immediately becomes skeptical at having such heavy-handed evidence dropped on him at once.
-   In the Made-for-TV Movie _Murder At My Door_, one of the many, _many_ signs of Teddy being unhinged is the collection of newspaper headlines and photos about the murders that he's cut out and pasted all over the back wall of his closet, complete with X's drawn over the victims' eyes.
-   Hori the "Super Psychic" in _Noroi: The Curse_ has a whole HOUSE full of crazy. Everything is covered in tin foil and fliers warning the reader about "ectoplasmic worms".
-   In the Jim Carrey film _The Number 23_, the final chapter is scrawled all over the wall of Fingerling's motel room.
-   In _The Omen (1976)_, Thorn and Jennings visit Father Brennan's small room after his death. The room is wallpapered with pages from the Holy Bible. Even the windows are covered. Several crucifixes and religious icons are on display as well.
-   In _One Hour Photo_ Sy makes extra copies of pictures of one particular family that develops their photos in the shop where he works, and he plasters the pictures all over the walls of his Stalker Shrine.
-   Esther's room in _Orphan_, with a slight twist: her decor and paintings appear normal until viewed under a blacklight, which reveals disturbing overlays depicting fire, blood and murder (and erotic images reflecting her sexual obsession with her adopted father).
-   Used as a clue in _Outpost: Black Sun_. A special forces team returns to the Outpost to find the Nazi Secret Weapon is missing; there's only an empty room with scrawled equations on the walls. However the physics engineer with them notices the equations don't match up, and realises one of the walls can move to make a hidden door.
-   In _La piel que habito_, the endless scribbles and artsy sketches that Vera's room is covered in? They didn't come with the room. Vicente/Vera made them him/herself to hold on to sanity.
-   In _Pig Hunt_, the interior of John's late uncle's cabin is a testament to his obsession with hunting the Ripper, the legendary 3000 lb boar said to roam the surrounding woods. The walls are covered in maps, photos, drawings, and random jottings in a tight, crabbed handwriting. It is not clear is the final comments written in blood are the uncle's or if they were added by cult members after his death.
-   At one point in _A Pure Formality_, the hero finds himself in a prison cell with walls full of scribblings.
-   _Quills_: The main character is in prison, but obsessed with finishing his book. He continues to find more and more innovative ways to write it, on his sheets in blood, and culminating in scrawling it all over the walls of his cell in his own filth. Given that the character in question is the Marquis De Sade, this isn't too far of a stretch but we have to remember that this is a particularly egregious example of Based on a True Story.
-   In _\[REC\]_, the closest anyone gets to an explanation is a Room Full of Crazy covered in newspaper clips about a "Ninha Medeiros" who seems to have been infected or possessed, a recorder that plays back some ramblings about a virus, an _infected hyper-aggressive little boy_ and, finally, the **Ninha herself** that kills the last two survivors.
-   _Red 2_: Frank Moses and Victoria Brown discover that the weapons scientist who invented the MacGuffin has been imprisoned in an MI6 psychiatric ward for thirty years. When they break into his cell, the equations written on the walls are the first sign that getting anything plot-relevant out of him is going to be difficult.
-   In _Red Dragon_, Dolarhyde keeps a scrapbook of newspaper clippings and doodles from his messed-up childhood.
-   _The Return of the Pink Panther_ ends with Clouseau's boss, the former Chief Inspector Dreyfus being driven mad by his obsessive hate for his underling. He spends the last scene in a strait jacket holding a crayon between his toes, writing "Kill Clouseau'' over the walls of his padded cell.
-   Throughout the _Saw_ franchise, Diabolical Mastermind Jigsaw has had several nasty-looking headquarters. In the first movie, David Tapp, a detective who has gone more than a little crazy with tracking him, also has a room covered with thousands of newspaper clippings about the Jigsaw case.
-   Suki in _The Scribbler_ suffers from Split Personality syndrome. Her most dominant personality is the titular Scribbler, who — when in control of her — makes her compulsively write backwards, on any piece of paper or blank surface available.
-   One of the creepier examples appears in _Se7en_. As if the black painted windows and red neon cross in his bedroom weren't enough to convince us that John Doe is crazy, the religious icons, drawings and obsessively detailed notebooks he leaves behind leave us in no doubt. (John Doe is also fond of leaving obsessive inscriptions near his murder victims as well.) The most disturbing part of this is all the books were filled with genuine crazy. A guy was hired specifically for the movie and spent two weks scribbling up the texts.

-   The patient's room with blood-smeared photos and clippings in _Session 9_.
-   _Sherlock Holmes_:
    -   In _Sherlock Holmes (2009)_, Holmes gets one of these when he's stuck on solving the case. He also comes across Lord Blackwood's police cell which is covered in occult scribblings (given Blackwood's M.O., this was likely done deliberately to freak people out).
    -   In the sequel, a wall in Sherlock's room has been done up as The Big Board, with strands of red string running from all over the room to a picture of Professor Moriarty to show the extent of his criminal conspiracy. As Holmes is also dressed in his underwear and drinking embalming fluid, this trope is definitely involved.
-   _The Shining_ features one of the more iconic examples of this trope. Writer Jack Torrance has taken a job as winter caretaker for a hotel with the hopes that the lack of distractions (and lack of alcohol) will let him work on his novel. Some weeks in he is showing signs of going crazy and his wife stumbles on his manuscript, reams of paper with one sentence "All work and no play make Jack a dull boy" typed over and over and over again.
-   The film adaptation of _The Silence of the Lambs_:
    -   Gumb's house: He's got pictures of butterflies all over the place, swastika quilts, and dead people. He also has a collection of newspaper clippings regarding his exploits, plastered on the inside of the door of a large cabinet. Directly in front of it is his in-progress woman suit, which is substantially freakier.
    -   Jack Crawford, Clarice's superior and the man leading the hunt for Gumb, has his office adorned with the same newspaper clippings, along with photos of the bodies that washed up on the riverbank.
    -   Lecter's cell is a more toned-down version, as it's just plastered with crayon and charcoal drawings of Renaissance architecture. Guy has a lot of time on his hands, and likes to draw.
-   An attic full of Voodoo in _The Skeleton Key_.
-   The eponymous work of _The Testament of Dr. Mabuse_, written by a former criminal genius gone mad who is unresponsive except for his hand, which keeps writing whether he has pen and paper or not. Seemingly scrawled gibberish, the pages assembled in the right order form a manual to bring about the "Reign of Crime", and meaningless but terrifying crimes around Germany demonstrate that someone's read the manual...
-   In _The Theatre Bizarre_, the walls of Enola's apartment are covered with photographs, sketches and notes relating to abandoned theatre she is obsessed with.
-   In _They_, Billy's room at home includes a number of newspaper clippings and a drawer full of batteries.
-   _Tower of Terror_ features a variation of this: Abigail Gregory has a trunk filled with photos of Sally Shine with her face cut out, a doll of Sally with her head partially decapitated, and the words "HATE", "PAIN" and "BAD" written all over the photos and newspapers in red and black.
-   In _Transformers: Revenge of The Fallen_, Sam makes his college dorm room into one of these, with everything covered in Cybertronian symbols. Although he's not quite insane, he just has a map to a sun-destroying energon source implanted in his brain by the Allspark.
-   In _Trick 'r Treat_, Mr. Kreeg walks into his bedroom to find that someone has written "Trick 'R Treat, Trick 'R Treat, give me something good to eat," all over the walls.
-   In _Unbreakable_, Bruce Willis' character finds out the truth about his Broken Pedestal mentor when he has a psychic flash, then looks around at the room they're standing in and sees newspaper stories about, and plans _for_, countless disasters are plastering the walls around them. Nothing like finding out someone you trust is a Devil in Plain Sight.
-   In _The Wall_, Pink Floyd smashes all the contents of his room, then arranges the pieces in strange and artistic patterns.
-   In _When the Bough Breaks (1994)_, the mentally disturbed teenager Jordan carves hands with numbers on them on the walls of his cell in the mental hospital. After Macleah gives him a drawing pad and some crayons, he fills in the hands, writes "Yes" over and over again, and makes drawings of things like a piano and stairs leading up to a cellar door, which turn out to be objects in the house where Jenny and the kidnapped girl are being held.
-   Rare, reasonably sane version in _The X-Files: I Want to Believe_, used to portray Mulder's obsession with his old job.

    Literature 

-   In the 6th book of _The 39 Clues_, Amy and Dan are in Bob Troppo's room in an abandoned Australian Mine. The walls had the words "Ring of Fire" carved all over, a Shakespeare quote, and a drawing of a volcano.
-   In _Artemis Fowl: The Lost Colony_ the demon Leon Abbot is said to have spent his much of his brief foray out of Limbo alternately ranting about how he was going to Kill All Humans and writing seemingly random equations and incantations on his cell walls. It's later implied that the writing was actually the warlock Abbot had merged with calculating the effects Abbot's interference had had upon the spell to seal their home island into Limbo.
-   In Chuck Palahniuk's novel _Diary_, the protagonist's husband used to hide (yes really) rooms in houses he worked in and write insanities on the walls before he attempted suicide. Subverted: it wasn't a suicide attempt, and he wasn't really insane but trying to warn future inhabitants of the danger they were in.
-   _Discworld_:
    -   In _Thief of Time_, the idea for the "glass clock" comes to Jeremy Clockson (who is not so much crazy as so sane he wraps back around to crazy) in a dream, and he's forced to write down the plans on the wall of his bedroom before he can forget them.
    -   While in _Men at Arms_, Detritus the troll is trapped in a freezer house, and his silicon brain becomes super-cooled. He begins to puzzle out the nature of the universe through mathematics, writing his equations in the ice. When rescued, he can't remember what it was about, and his dwarf partner gets just enough time looking at the work before it melts to know it would take a very long time to figure it out. Though it was more tragic than crazy; the writing is described as a thing of beauty, pure understanding of mathematics itself.
    -   In _Moving Pictures_, Dibbler wakes up in the middle of the night with the idea for "Blown Away" and, after a moment of discovering that he hasn't got any paper, writes the script on his bedsheets. This is playing the trope entirely straight, since the ideas for the moving pictures come from the Discworld's own set of Eldritch Abominations.
    -   Methodia Rascal, the Mad Artist whose masterpiece was stolen in _Thud!_, lived in fear of either being attacked by, or transformed into, a chicken. After his death, his landlady found sacks <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  full of notes he'd scribbled to himself, most of which read: "You are not a chicken".
-   _Doctor Who_ Expanded Universe: The 8th Doctor wallpapers a room with increasingly abstract crayon drawings in the novel _Seeing I_. He also spends almost all of _Interference_ going crazy while being tortured and writing on the floor in his own blood.
-   _The Dresden Files_: In _Ghost Story_, many of the Big Hoods' pitiful sleeping chambers have deranged messages scrawled on their walls.
-   In _The Folk Keeper_, the Marblehaugh Park cellar has the words "Poor Rona" painstakingly carved into the stone over and over and over...
-   In _The Girl from the Well_, Tark and Kagura find a room full of crazy in Aitou village in _The Suffering_. Yukiko Uchiyama's ghost, driven mad by death, has scrawled phrases in blood on the walls of her house: "Don't drink the tea", "Beware the beautiful death", and "The monsters are here". Though Tark initially ignores it as the crazed ramblings of a deranged spirit, he later realizes what Yukiko meant: she was given poisoned tea containing Belladonna, "the beautiful death".
-   _Gun Machine_. During an investigation, a police detective finds a New York apartment, where guns are mounted to every surface. In patterns of gear-like circles, waves, paint-speckled row of guns, wall to wall, floors and ceiling. It was crafted over a period of years, and serves some function, but only the owner could possibly tell what.
-   _Heart of Darkness_. Kurtz, the Company trader who the narrator, Marlow, has been sent down the Congo to find, has written a treatise for the 'International Society for the Suppression of Savage Customs'. It opens with the phrase that Europeans must appear to the Congolese as 'supernatural beings'. It ends quite differently... Exterminate all the Brutes! It is later revealed that this treatise is sought after by a journalist intent of publishing it, and who describes Kurtz as a potential political candidate for 'any party', as 'an extremist'.
-   Zampano and Johnny Truant's rooms in _House of Leaves_. Paper everywhere, notes on _The Navidson Record_, Tape Measures taped to the floor, and in Zampano's room, a set of unexplained claw marks on the floor.
-   Deborah Blau does this in a bathroom in Joanne Greenberg's _I Never Promised You a Rose Garden_. She writes the words for "extreme loneliness" and "extreme anger" over and over in her personal language. It's a very important moment to her, to her psychiatrist it's a good sign, but to the orderlies she's just another lunatic. She overhears them making fun of her later.
-   In _John Dies at the End_ the protagonist and narrator, Dave, find himself in the trailer where the man who sells the Soy Sauce lives. He enters a room, only to find himself in a beautiful landscape which he later realizes is a painting that covers all of the walls, floor and ceiling to trick the eye. He then realizes the painting is not as nice as it first appears to be.
-   _The Laundry Files_. When the protagonist visits an asylum set up for Laundry operatives who've gone insane in the line of duty, he notes that many of the inmates aren’t allowed writing implements or even blank paper—when you can summon Eldritch Abominations with the right kind of theorem, crayon on the walls of a padded cell takes on a whole different level of menace.
-   Downplayed Trope in _Moominpappa at Sea_, where the room upstairs in the lighthouse bears subtle but poignant signs of Go Mad from the Isolation that the keeper underwent before vanishing: poems and tally marks. Moominmamma also begins drawing and painting flowers on the walls as she grows lonelier...
-   _Nightside_:
    -   Suzie Shooter's residence resembles this trope, not because she's nuts, but because she doesn't have a desk and honestly couldn't care less whether or not it's appropriate to write on walls. More of a Room Full Of Doesn't Give A Shit, really.
    -   Any room that Madman remains in for long becomes a _literal_ Room Full of Crazy. Writing on the walls is optional, as it's hard to write on a surface that's bleeding, shaking violently, and/or telling you raunchy knock-knock jokes (possibly all three).
-   In _Peacebreakers_ by Mindy MacKay, inmates of Fleischer prison scrawl poetry on the cell walls in their own blood, which eventually evolves into a tradition referred to as "Bloodletting".
-   In _Pretty Girls_, Sam Carrol made up a wall with all sorts of ramblings and notes that criss-crossed and were supposed to be clues that may indicate where his missing daughter had disappeared to. He knew how crazy it was and eventually decided to move that wall of crazy into his bedroom, so that his other daughters won't see it anymore when visiting.
-   In _Secret Window, Secret Garden_, by Stephen King, Amy arrives at Mort's house near the end of the story to find the word "Shooter" written over and over on every available surface. Shooter is the name of Mort's imaginary stalker.
-   _The Shadow of the Wind_: The Julián children room is covered with crosses and Catholic symbols, although that's his father, not him, who made this.
-   _The Southern Reach Trilogy_:
    -   When Control is appointed director of the Southern Reach, he finds that the previous director's office includes a door that opens onto a wall covered in scrawled writing: _Where lies the strangling fruit that came from the hand of the sinner I shall bring forth the seeds of the dead to share with the worms that gather in the darkness and surround the world with the power of their lives while from the dim-lit halls of other places forms that never could be writhe for the impatience of the few who have never seen or been seen..._ Additionally, he finds a mysterious plant that looks like it's taking nourishment from a dead mouse and an old cellphone in the director's desk, and a huge pile of notes taken on all kinds of surfaces all over and between the books in the former director's office.
    -   Later in _Authority_, Control discovers that one of the scientists has created an even more elaborate room full of crazy in a ceiling crawlspace, featuring oil paintings of animals and creatures from Area X with printed copies of human faces taped to them. A sleeping bag and other things indicate said scientist actually lives there.
-   In _The Stormlight Archive_, King Taravangian has one which was written on a day when his mutable intelligence was astronomically high. It functions as something between a master plan and holy scripture for his followers.
-   The Robert Louis Stevenson book _The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde_ has a scene in Dr. Jekyll's trashed laboratory, where Dr. Lanyon finds a book of theology belonging to Jekyll, made harder to read because of Hyde's insane and blasphemous scribblings all over them.
-   In Dean Koontz's _Strangers_, one character types "The moon" hundreds of times on his computer and another covers his entire house with pictures of the moon.
-   In a _Sweet Valley High_ mini-series, crazy stalker Margo had one of these dedicated to Elizabeth Wakefield.
-   _Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy_: In reaction to the various disasters befalling the Circus, Control locks himself in his room with old files stacked everywhere, including the floor. Everyone thinks Control is losing his grip, but it turns out he's tracking down The Mole who's behind it all.
-   Subverted in Howard Buten's _When I Was Five I Killed Myself_ (_Burt_ in its French publication). Burt's psychologist's _thinks_ that Burt's obsessive scribbling on the walls of the isolation room are this trope... but only because he never bothers to read it. What appears to be a Room Full of Crazy is actually a straightforward account of the experiences that led Burt to the mental hospital, which he has been unable to speak aloud.
-   The short story _The Yellow Wallpaper_ (written in first person) about a Victorian woman confined to bed rest in a room with creepy yellow wallpaper, and slowly... going... mad...

    Music and Music Videos 

-   The video for _The Call_, a Backstreet Boys song about infidelity, the band members are being stalked and offed one-by-one by a woman who appears to be the incarnation of guilt. During the chase, one of the boys passes through a room that has the words "CHEAT", "LIAR", "TRAITOR", etc. written all over the walls and ceiling.
-   Adam Buxton wrote a cheery song revolving around an extreme example of this trope. He later made a music video for it, which can be found here.
-   Alice Cooper's "Vengeance is Mine".
-   From The Crystalline Effect's song "Poetry": "She writes poetry of places she's been/She paints words all over the wall".
-   Combine _Elfenlied_ a piece full of Nightmare Fuel with the song titled "Blue" by The Birthday Massacre and then stop the video at the key points as something writes on the walls revealing a new vector for this trope.
-   The video for Incubus' _Warning_ features a wallpaper-friendly variation, with "10:24" sticky notes covering the walls.
-   The video to _Bedshaped_ by Keane ends up with something like this in a toilet cubicle with the lyrics to the song on the walls
-   The Kidcrash named their album, _I Haven't Had a Date in 4 Years_, after a diary they found that had the sentence written all over it.
-   The video for Poe's _Hello_ uses this trope.
-   Every single room in the video for The Prodigy's song 'Breathe'. Flickering lights, rats, giant centipedes, hair growing from the walls and even the band themselves.
-   The surreal video for Project Pitchfork's "Timekiller" has Peter Spilles repeatedly typing out a mysterious message on a typewriter, while insects crawl on the walls and the clocks run at warp speed, then he levitates towards the ceiling and rain starts to pour into the room, the typewriter types by itself, and cabinet doors repeatedly open and close. At the end, the typed message is revealed as: "My confusion creates your universe!".
-   The Queensryche song "The Mission" from Operation:Mindcrime: "I talk to shadows from a lonely candle/recite the phrases from the wall/I can't explain this holy pain". Many of these phrases and words are shown in the video for "Breaking The Silence" from the same album.
-   Radiohead's artwork mostly consists of layers over layers of random phrases, weird drawings and repeating symbols, all meant to match (and supplement) the music's angst and paranoia.
-   The eponymous character from the Residents' album and webseries "The Bunny Boy" has one of these. It's described in the song "Secret Room", pictured in the liner notes and recorded on video here (watch at your own risk).
-   The video for Tokio Hotel's "Rette Mich" features an entire wall with the words 'rette mich' ("rescue me") written all over it in frantic handwriting.
-   Eminem, due to his Ax-Crazy persona and his famously obsessive, graphomanic lyric writing<small>◊</small>, uses this a lot.
    -   The photoshoot for _The Slim Shady LP_ shows Slim surrounded by his lyrics, daubed incoherently around him in black paint.
    -   In "Stan", Stan has 'a whole room full of your posters and your pictures, man!'. In the music video this is represented as a terrifying Stalker Shrine in his basement.
    -   The intro film for his 2000 Anger Management tour showed teenagers breaking into Eminem's house to find it full of scrawled text all over the walls that segue from "MY NAME IS MARSHALL" to "MY NAME IS SLIM SHADY".
    -   The music video for "Crack a Bottle" represents Eminem's Mental World as one of these, with insane young men scrawling lyrics all over the walls.
    -   The music video for "3 a.m." shows Eminem taking a Blood Bath in a room with walls covered in scribbled lyrics.

    Professional Wrestling 

-   Erick Rowan has a YouTube channel with videos of him in a shed along these lines — its walls are covered in newspaper clippings and variously-painted/customized sheep masks, not to mention what appear to be locks of human hair. The centerpiece: a long-haired Creepy Doll wearing a sheep mask.

    Tabletop Games 

-   In _Mage: The Awakening_, there is an Abyssal intrusion that exists as a meme. When a scientist - usually a physicist or a pure-mathematician - contracts this meme-virus, he begin to write natural laws of the Abyss onto every surface he can find. The result is usually this trope and the scientist's death by ignoring his own need for food. Oh, and you can catch this meme simply by looking at the writings.
-   _Normality_ in its entirety, arguably. It's presented as an in-universe document from the games setting, and is a rambling, incoherent screed of Ergodic literature, and playing it requires deciphering it.
-   Used in _Pathfinder: Rise of the Runelords_ by the Scribbler, who fills the walls of his entire lair with gibberish. Gibberish, except for the poem that the PCs need to decipher.
-   One of the Block's inmates in _Sentinels of the Multiverse_ has covered his cell in scribbled messages. Some of them are references to the then-approaching OblivAeon event - "THE CHILD IS THE CENTER", "ALL WILL END AS ONE", "THE FUTURE IS GONE", "EACH WILL FALL"<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . Others are just standard crazy-talk: "CAN'T FEEL MY EYES", "NO NO NO NO NO", a crude scrawl of Legacy's symbol, etc.
-   A fairly common sign of Chaos-inspired madness in _Warhammer_ and _Warhammer 40,000_, usually written in blood (which may or may not be the writer's own), and usually some sort of Brown Note.
    -   One of the _Ravenor_ novels had madness-induced frescoes spanning through several apartments, getting more elaborate and detailed as they went. The last one depicted two of Ravenor's companions encountering the painter even as he finished the fresco.
    -   One footnote in a _Warriors of Chaos_ army book describes a Nurgle-tainted landowner who locked himself in his room and inscribed verses of reverence to the Plague Lord all over his study, in his own blood and filth of course. "The mewling wreck that was found gibbered and moaned ceaselessly, crippled in mind and mutilated in body. He cradled and caressed many self-inflicted wounds, but none dared to dwell upon the cause of his missing hands."
        
        "_Nurgle's Children, our pretties, our pets... How Nurgle loves his little children! How Nurgle loves his little pets..._"
        
    -   Note that the type of crazy varies by Chaos deity. When Commissar Ciaphas Cain breaks into a Slaaneshi cult's retreat in _The Traitor's Hand_, the soldiers with him are hypnotized by the insane yet entrancing erotic murals all over the walls.
    -   In _Xenology_, the Adeptus Mechanicus Magos Genator studying the aliens held inside his spiral-shaped research facility goes steadily mad. Halfway through his final report, while analyzing a Necron artifact, he abruptly loses it, writing "The metal lives. The metal lives. The Metal Lives. THE METAL LIVES. THE METAL LIVES" over and over again, first in ink and then in his own blood, as he begins cutting spiral shapes into his flesh...
    -   The _Liber Chaotica_ series offer handheld examples. Author Richter Kless is an Imperial scholar in the _Warhammer_ world writing a definitive compendium on the forces of Chaos, and naturally goes insane over the course of his work. The books become filled with his comments in the margins, mad sketches, attempts to find numerical codes in the passages, his conversations with a dead informant, and mirrored or backwards text that is subtly different from the source. He also begins having visions of a grim, dark future filled with impossible war machines and inhuman soldiers...

    Theme Parks 

-   The Dark Knight coaster at Six Flags Great America and Six Flags Great Adventure, based on the movie of the same name, pulls this trope in the preshow room. You enter, watch a short film of Harvey Dent giving a speech, and then the Joker hijacks the feed and various words ("Ha Ha Ha", "Why so serious?", etc.) randomly appear all over the walls as a different and much more disturbing video plays. The effect is quite unnerving, to say the least.

    Visual Novels 

-   One of the rooms in Kotomi's house in _CLANNAD_ is covered with newspaper articles and so forth about her parents and their deaths in an airplane crash.
-   In _The Letter_, all of the ghost's victims use their blood to write "Help Me" multiple times throughout the room.

    Webcomics 

-   _The Artist is Dead!_ seems to be set inside _the contents_ of one of these.
-   _Autumn Bay_ has abandoned subway tunnels whose walls are covered in cryptic phrases, making the tunnels an example of this.
-   Zerlocke's room from _Charby the Vampirate_.
-   _Cyanide and Happiness_ and Susan the actual psychopath.
-   In _Fafnir The Dragon_, Stephenie Meyer (yes, THAT Stephenie Meyer) lives in one of these.
-   _Foundation - The Psychohistorians_: The cover page for the story gives the impression of a jumbled mess stemming from the mind of Hari Seldon due to the red mathematical and Chinese symbols filling the sky behind him.
-   In _GF Serendipity_, Stan comes across Ford's lab, complete with creepy drawings of Bill Cipher's eye, and a shrine to the one-eyed demon himself, that holds the journals.
-   Mana in _Haru-Sari_ gets a little upset when she gets taken away from Cortinon.
-   This is actually a fairly important plot point in _Homestuck_. The suppressed parts of John's, Rose's, and Dave's subconscious are expressed by writing on their walls while sleepwalking. This alone wouldn't necessarily qualify for crazy, until you realize that none of them could actually SEE their own graffiti. Jade doesn't have this problem because she's already aware of her Dream self in Prospit. The same thing happened in the trolls' session with Tavros, Aradia, Vriska, Terezi, and Gamzee. Massive bonus Nightmare Fuel points to the last one for filling an entire book with "honk HONK" written in all the other trolls' blood.
-   The comic, _The Hopeless Living_ seems to just have this as part of the general environment.

-   The current page image is from _Manly Guys Doing Manly Things_, when Jared finds Jonesy's belongings covered in scrawl of "All work and no play makes Jones a dull girl". Turns out she was just trying to increase her word count for NaNoWriMo.
-   In one _Nukees_ storyline, the protagonists are trying to find a kidnapped Danny and eventually track him down to a house whose walls are completely covered with equations. They know he's still in there because the equations keep changing as they return to previous rooms. It turns out that a completely different crazy person is being kept there, though. Later referenced when King Luca finds that every surface in Danny's office is made of whiteboard, including the desk, so that he has a place to write.
-   In the _Nuzlocke Comics_ Fire Red arc, the Wham Episode shows Mewtwo in a cave with the scratched-out names of various other trainers on the wall. Biggest, center, and intact is "Ruby". This confirms that Mewtwo created the illusion of Nuzleaf's ghost to manipulate Ruby.
-   Brian from _Rhapsodies_ has been known to do this while in a sleep deprived fugue state. (His sister always makes him clean it up.)
-   Red's death room in _Ruby Quest_ consists of Red himself impaled on a spike in the middle of the room, with NEVER CATCH ME NEVERNEVERNEVER written all over the walls in his own blood. It then explodes. And that's downright _mundane_ compared to what you find in cold storage.

    Web Original 

-   Parodied in one of _Arby 'n' the Chief_'s "Bytes," when Arbiter wants to know why Master Chief has locked himself in Jon's Bathroom for 4 days straight. Upon getting into the Bathroom when Chief's asleep, Arbiter finds out that Chief, a nasty, obnoxious, sexist, religiously devoted fanboy of anything and everything related to Halo, has become a brony. At first Arbiter find Chief's hypocrisy funny, until he notices all the MLP-related pics Chief plastered all over the bathroom, and even a (poorly) handcrafted sexdoll of Fluttershy, is what creeps him out to the fullest. The trope then gets subverted when Chief finds Arbiter snooping and seemingly attempts to kill for it, ONLY to then sit Arbiter down and have him watch the show himself.

-   On the _Dream SMP_, the room housing the detonator for the TNT Wilbur planted all over Manburg has the L'Manburg anthem written all over the walls. As for Wilbur? Well, he planned to take himself out in the explosion of Manburg, for one...
-   The YouTube channel Exploring With Josh discovered one of these in an abandoned house (from 6:34 to 7:09).
-   In the _RPPR Actual Play_ episode "Lover In the Ice", to the point of inducing SAN loss. As the crew enters a suspect's house...
-   _The Slender Man Mythos_:
    -   Alex's _entire house_ in _Marble Hornets_.
    -   In Entry #60, Jay returns to the burned-out hospital and enters the room where he saw the hooded man leaving in a previous entry. On the walls are scrawled "HE IS A Liar" and "Follow ME", presumably referring to Tim, whose medical documents are later found in the tunnel with a piece of paper containing the Operator symbol and the word "Liar" covering them.
-   _The Amazing Digital Circus_: When Jax opens Kaufmo's room, he, Pomni, and Ragatha find it entirely scribbled with the word "EXIT," along with demented paintings and drawings that have him realize there is no exit. Alongside the others mentioning Kaufmo was losing his sanity some time before the events of the pilot, this punctuates how he far he fell and eventually Abstracted, turning into a giant black digital abomination.

    Western Animation 

-   In the _Batman: The Animated Series_ episode "The Clock King", this trope is exploited: Batman tracks Temple Fugate, alias the Clock King, to an Abandoned Warehouse, the _Time All Watch Company_. There, Batman finds a room full of clocks, all of them displaying a different hour, data about the Gotham Watch Tower, the subway, and a poster of Mayor Hill’s Malevolent Mugshot with Mustache Vandalism with the legend "Time for a change". All of those are relevant to the plot, but it turns out Fugate isn't crazy, they're all clues to lure Batman into a Death Trap by making him _think_ Fugate isn't as mentally sharp as he really turns out to be.
-   In _Ed, Edd n Eddy_, Edd creates Fences Full of Crazy in "Cleanliness is Next to Edness" when he is driven temporarily insane by lack of shower facilities.
-   The Question from _Justice League Unlimited_. His grand-unification conspiracy theory diagram covers the walls of his room on the Watchtower. Several members of the League think he's got mental issues, but it's subverted in that he's often right about _parts_ of the conspiracy. It could also be he's pulling off a bit of Obfuscating Insanity. At least, we hope so. When he suffers Sanity Slippage in 'Question Authority', he actually breaks one of the diagrams out of anger about a chain of events (Cadmus, Luthor and their influence on the League) he thinks will end the world.
    -   When Batman tells the others in the meeting room that he asked The Question to look into something almost all of them audibly groan, he tells them that he understands their reservations but reminds them that nobody else is as talented at finding obscure connections and they are sorely in need of clues as to what Cadmus is planning.
-   _Moral Orel_: Ms. Sculptham's bathroom is covered in newspaper clippings about serial rapist Cecil Creepler, and between that and the radio broadcast playing in the background it becomes clear her obsession with Creepler led her to lure him into making her the final target, all so she could have sex.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ utilizes the non-paranoid version in "It's About Time". Twilight spends an entire weekend locked in her library preparing for some unspecific disaster by "monitoring everything". When Pinkie checks up on her, she finds her among blackboards and posters covered in scribbles and equations, as well as enough lab equipment to give a scientist a heart attack. Turns out there was no disaster at all.
-   _Ninjago:_ Between season 14 and 15, Jay takes up residence in Dr. Julien's tower, where he keeps paintings of Nya and glasses of water which he thinks _are_ Nya.
-   _The Simpsons_:
    -   Double subverted in the "Treehouse of Horror V" story "The Shinning", parodying _The Shining_. In the original, Jack at one point had typed an entire pack of sheets with "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy" arranged like it was actual text. In "The Shinning", seeking to understand Homer's newfound madness, Marge walks up to a typewriter he's been using and pulls out his paper, which has a single phrase typed on it; "Feelin' fine." After breathing a sigh of relief, a lightning strike illuminates the room, which is covered with scrawls of "No TV and no beer make Homer go crazy." Marge is _less_ encouraged:
        
        **Homer:** So what do you think, Marge? All I need is a title. I was thinking along the lines of "No TV and No Beer Make Homer something something."  
        **Marge:** ..."Go Crazy"?  
        **Homer:** Don't mind if I do!
        
    -   "The Bob Next Door":
        -   The words "Bart Simpson will die" are written all over Sideshow Bob's prison cell. This is actually a subversion, because it was meant as a warning from the guy who had Bob's face at the time. It's lampshaded by Marge when she points out that his choice of words left a lot up to interpretation.
        -   Played straight with the inside of Bob-in-disguise's bedroom, which is covered with stabbed photos of Bart with "KILL" written on them, along with one photo of Krusty and a note about buying milk.
    -   In "Who Shot Mr. Burns (Part One)", Homer is frustrated that Mr. Burns can never remember his name, so he sneaks into Mr. Burns' office and spray-paints "I Am Homer Simpson" all over the walls. After Burns asks "Who the devil are you?" when he catches him, Homer loses his temper and shakes him shouting "Homer Simpson! My name is Homer Simpson!" before security guards drag him out.
-   Used in _South Park_ when Butters discovers the true identity of Asian Store-Owner Tuong Lu Kim. He is actually one of Caucasian Dr. Janus' split personalities, the strongest one. Butters finds in Dr. Janus' house a room covered with pictures of the sushi chef (Tuong Lu Kim's "enemy") with the word "Kill" scrawled in red paint over them.
-   Spongebob Squarepants creates one in the Krusty Krab after trying and failing to suppress a really catchy song.
-   _Star vs. the Forces of Evil_: In "The Other Exchange Student", Star creates one when she becomes obsessed with Gustav, an exchange student from Scandinavia whom she believes to be a liar and possibly a cannibal. She is right that he is a liar, but not a cannibal.
-   In _Teen Titans_, Robin had his walls completely covered with news clippings of Slade in "Masks", his definite low-point in his vendetta against the man.

___