_"Okay, they're dead, all right?! We're not gonna be seeing them again!"_

— **Stewie Griffin** (after shooting Vern and Johnny), _Family Guy_

A Running Gag is a recurring event that becomes more humorous or meaningful each time it is used, depending on its subject. However, it can only happen so many times before fans will call out the writers for being unoriginal. What to do? This is the payoff of a Running Gag, where all the humor or drama caused by this builds up to an ending. Ending the gag is hard to pull off successfully whether the gag was popular among the fanbase or not. If it's popular, that means the gag won't be used anymore. If it isn't, it's wasting time when there are bigger fish to fry.

How do you handle it? Send it off in grand style, of course. Give it a conclusion, or maybe tell the audience and end it there.

Compared to Overused Running Gag, where the writers acknowledge the joke's tiredness but don't retire it. A specific form of this is Shoo Out the Clowns, in which the joke is gagged to cement a shift in tone. See also Subverted Catchphrase. If the Running Gag makes a reappearance after a while, it would be a Call-Back or a Continuity Nod, depending on the example. Has nothing to do with jogging with your mouth stuffed.

If the gag just gradually fades out or abruptly disappears with no further reference being made to it, it's a form of Early-Installment Weirdness.

Related to Discredited Meme.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   In Part 1 of _Naruto_, viewers would sometimes see how Sakura feels through Inner Sakura whenever she felt differently than how she responded. In Part 2, Sakura has learned how to express her true feelings and Inner Sakura only appears once in what could be considered a Call-Back (seen in Episode 8 of _Shippuden_ and Chapter 250 of the manga). The last time the gag is used in Part 1 is when Inner Sakura is implied to be a full-on 2nd personality and foils Ino's attempt at Grand Theft Me.
-   In _One Piece_, Sanji's laughably inaccurate bounty poster was a long-running joke... until the Straw Hats end up getting attacked by a guy called Duval whose life has been totally ruined by the fact that he happens to look just like that crappy poster, causing people to think he's Sanji.
-   In the Funimation dub of _Crayon Shin-chan_, Penny has a very abusive dad that stems most of her humor. Near the end of Season 2, her dad goes to therapy, but because Penny is used to the ideal that Love Hurts, she has trouble coping for an episode before finally accepting it. After the show was brought back after 2+ years on hiatus, the writers seemed to have kept this element.
-   _Jo Jos Bizarre Adventure Diamond Is Unbreakable_ always had Josuke getting angry over anyone insulting his hair. Then it's revealed that his hairstyle was inspired by a mysterious man who saved his life when he nearly died from a fever. It is at that moment that the gag ends.
-   _Pokémon: The Series_:
    -   _Pokémon: The Original Series_: After quite a few of Kanto's Gym battles end in Ash being given a badge either out of pity and/or saving the Gym or its Leader personally, Blaine does not give Ash a Volcano Badge after he helps stop a volcanic eruption. He offers a rematch instead (as Ash had surrendered to him earlier), but Ash is still happy to take it (especially when Charizard decides to behave for a bit and inserts itself into the 1 on 1 battle with Magmar).
    -   The anime began regions with Pikachu wrecking the bikes of that region's female lead (Kanto with Misty, Hoenn with May and Sinnoh with Dawn). However, since Iris lacked a bike in Unova, Pikachu shocked her instead, creating a different running gag where Pikachu shocks the female lead.
    -   _Pokémon the Series: XY_ featured Bonnie attempting to be The Matchmaker for her big brother Clemont, always proposing any girl or woman she meets to be Clemont's "keeper", much to Clemont's embarrassment. But in the episode "A Keeper for Keeps?!", the girl of day, Lilia, ends up liking Clemont and the two get along well, causing Bonnie to have nightmares of Clemont leaving the Lumiose Gym and her for Lilia and regretting her matchmaking behavior. Ultimately, Lilia doesn't feel ready to be Clemont's "keeper", but this ends up being the last _XY_ episode to feature "Keeper" gag.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   _Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon_ featured a recurring joke about Lillie being afraid of touching Pokémon in its early episodes. After the reveal this stemmed from an incident with the Ultra Beast Nihilego, the gag stopped being used after that.
    -   A subtle example: Team Rocket's Meowth notably was unable to learn Pay Day due to learning to speak like a person instead. The move becomes G-Max Gold Rush when using its Gigantimax form in _Pokémon Sword and Shield_, which ends up happening in _Pokémon Journeys: The Series_ after Meowth is hit with a blast of Galar particles from Eternatus and gains the ability to Gigantimax.
-   _Kaguya-sama: Love Is War_: In the early part of the series, the main running gag with Yu Ishigami was his utter fear of Kaguya. Due to Poor Communication Kills and One Dialogue, Two Conversations, he had become convinced that she hated him and was plotting to kill him (and, given how powerful her family is, she could probably do it). This typically took the form of Kaguya saying or doing something Ishigami interpreted as a threat, which would result in him leaving school early while saying something like "I need to revise my will" or "I'm gonna go hang myself". Through the later chapters Kaguya begins helping Ishigami with his poor grades and his romantic pursuits, refusing to give up on him because she knows the truth about the incident that made him an outcast; as a result Ishigami develops a more positive image of Kaguya, and the two even develop a sweet Like Brother and Sister relationship.
-   _Shaman King_: since _the very first chapter_ comedic relief character "Wooden Sword" Ryu was at the center of a running gag where his enormous, glorious and cherished pompadour would get partly sliced off in increasingly bizarre ways, forcing him to style his mangled hair into different shapes each time. This changes at the end of volume 11: during a fight against Boris Tepes Dracula that saw him finally step up from his comedic relief role to true warrior, he epically styles his hair back into a shorter pompadour after having it cut off for the last time. The gag from this moment on is nowhere to be seen, and Ryu even (inexplicably) grows his pompadour back into its original length, if not even _longer_.
-   Every so often in _Zatch Bell!_, Kiyomaro's body inexplicably shifts to a demonic look whenever he gets angry at somebody and characters briefly remark on that. Towards the end of the Faudo arc, when Kiyomaro has been brought back from death and arrives with unrelated supernatural powers to save his friends from Rodeaux, the hero transforms into an abomination for several pages as he makes Gash unleash a storm of lightning attacks on the henchman, complete with a pause to recharge his Heart Power. Kiyomaro turns back to normal to reassure his friends and then becomes a monster one last time just to seethe at Arc Villain Zeon, who is actually unnerved by his appearance. That's when the joke stops.

    Comic Books 

-   _Ultimate Spider-Man_:
    -   Spider-Man following every single denial he was a mutant with "Not that there's anything wrong with that" before ultimately stopping whilst thrown into a Hunting the Most Dangerous Game situation alongside the X-Men.
    -   In a meta-sense, J. Jonah Jameson twisting every single heroic deed Spider-Man made and Spider-Man's general status as a Hero with Bad Publicity. After over 4 decades of it in the mainstream Marvel universe and 9 years in the Ultimate universe, Jameson stopped slandering Spider-Man after the events of _Ultimatum_, when he witnessed Spider-Man doing everything he could possibly do to save people in the midst of New York City being flooded whilst the other superheroes were nowhere to be seen, and subsequently this led to Spider-Man having the best PR out of any of the heroes when Jameson proceeded to admit he was wrong and the Bugle became Spider-Man's biggest supporters. He _did_ restart the slandering when Miles Morales started on his path as Spider-Man, but in an interesting twist, this was because Jameson (like many people) thought that Miles was desecrating Peter's memory... and in 2018, the good ol' 616 version of Jonah put his own version of the Running Gag away (if not for good because Status Quo Is God, then at least for a while) in _Spider-Geddon_, with him helping Peter survive Morlun's latest rampage and publicly proclaiming Spider-Man as a hero (which actually leads to a hefty In-Universe backlash calling him a "sell-out").
    -   The running joke of Spider-Man crashing through Kingpin's office window to confront him gets put to an end when Kingpin gets fed up with it and has his windows reinforced, resulting in Spidey smacking into them and falling to the street below when he tries to interrupt a board meeting.
-   _The Transformers: More than Meets the Eye_: The Rodpod (a dropship modeled after Rodimus' head which everyone except Rodimus hates) gets retired with a vengeance at the end of season two when the DJD blow it up in their first attack against the Lost Lighters.
-   _Atomic Robo_: Louis and Martin, Robo's most incompetent employees and Those Two Guys, form a pretty silly Running Gag for awhile with their bungling, reckless attempts at science and tendency to get Reassigned to Antarctica for it. Then their carelessness causes an incident that kills sixty innocent people and they _instantly_ stop being funny and become just plain despicable. The last we see of them is the two being immediately fired from Tesladyne and facing life imprisonment for manslaughter, with the case stacked so heavily against them they'll be lucky if they ever see the outside of a prison again.

    Fan Works 

-   In Season 1 of Script Fic _Calvin & Hobbes: The Series_, the titular duo would often have meaningless arguments over stupid things. This was quietly dropped in the second season.
-   _Dragon Ball Z Abridged_:
    -   The "Kaio-what?" gag<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  ended with Freeza No Selling it (though it did return in the Goku vs. Superman episode of _DEATH BATTLE!_).
        
        **Freeza:** No, seriously, Kaio-_what?_  
        **Goku:** Kaio-_crap!_
        
        -   It comes back for one last hurrah in _The World's Strongest Abridged_.
    -   In an odd way, the running gag of a freeze frame Squicky Fan Disservice picture appearing whenever someone uses Solar Flare ended<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  by undergoing a mini-Cerebus Syndrome, as when Cell shows up they go from being humorously squicky (such as Freeza's head photoshopped onto a guy showering, or Lanipator dressed as Dr. Frank-N-Furter) to two real cicadas mating, until finally a (mercifully cropped) picture of Semi-Perfect Cell raping Android 18 appears in the episode where he absorbs her and becomes perfect. It does come back one last time during Cell's Really Dead Montage at the end of the saga, with Imperfect Cell wearing a bikini being the flashed image, but the gag itself dies with him.
    -   Ever since the very first episode, the series has kept up a "Krillin Owned Count", going up every time something bad happens to the resident Butt-Monkey. This gag is put to bed in The Stinger of Episode 60, when Krillin and Android 18 hook up. The counter starts to go down, and keep in mind it went down for every "round" and it was at _39_ in the end, before being annihilated by a Scatter Bullet.
    -   Freeza makes a game out of counting aloud all of the heroic cliche lines he's heard in his years as a galactic conqueror, to unnerve and demoralize would-be freedom fighters who repeat them. However, when Goku cheerfully boasts "I'mma deck you in the schnoz!" Freeza is initially left speechless, then admits he actually _has_ never heard that one before. He then slowly loses his mind in his fight with Goku, not just because of Goku matching him blow for blow, but because he can't make sense of how Goku thinks.
    -   The "Goku is a bad father" joke seems to die in Episode 60, with Goku's Heel Realization and subsequent attempts to fix the situation, resulting in his Heroic Sacrifice.
    -   Throughout the second season a running gag is that Gohan says he needs an adult only for the guy he is talking to say they are an adult, often in a situation that says that he doesn't want that adult. When Goku tries it in the third season, Gohan emphatically shuts him down and that he isn't an adult.
-   _Hellsing Ultimate Abridged_: Ever since the first episode, Seras Victoria is always called something else rather than her name, even by those not in on the joke in the Hellsing organization. Most call her "Police Girl" while Pip calls her "Ma Chere". This stops in Episode 7 when she becomes a full vampire and violently forces Zorrin to say her name. Afterwards everyone has a moment where they say her name to her.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh! The Abridged Series_:
    -   In Bandit Keith's final appearance in the main series, his Eagle Land characterization was officially dropped when it was revealed that he was only pretending to be American and he was actually from Canada. In the episode that wrote out Bonz, he reveals that he actually can talk normally and his constantly saying "Braiiins..." was just an act. Both characters' subsequent appearances in all future side videos have dropped these gags. It's lampshaded in one anniversary special where Bakura and Marik try to do a drinking game off some of the gags from the series, they end disappointed when both Bandit Keith and Bonz explain that they don't do those anymore.
    -   One of the earliest running gags in the series was Weevil and Rex being obvious expies of Beavis and Butt-Head. This officially ended after Episode 73 when the Seal of Orichalcos allowed them to Retcon this behavior away and act more like their canon counterparts. And then subverted when Yami defeating the Orichalcos for good causes them to revert back to acting like the duo.
    -   Episode 78 ends the running gag of Kaiba's two henchmen being Those Wacky Nazis. When asked about it, Kaiba says that the gag was stupid.
    -   Episode 83 opens with the reveal that Duke’s theme music has been killed by YouTube getting wise, so he now has Tristan beat-boxing his theme music as a compromise.
-   In _Kingdom Hearts in a Nutshell_, all of Yen Sid's appearances see him trying to tell everyone what his name spelled backwards is, but he keeps getting cut off. In _Kingdom Hearts III in a Nutshell_, he finally gets to finish... and it becomes a Badass Boast during his Big Damn Heroes moment, somehow making the parody version even more epic than the real thing.
-   On _Final Fantasy VII: Machinabridged's_ version of the original game's startup menu, appearing at the start of every season, under Continue, there's an option that says "HD Remake" that's selected...to reveal an inhumanly long download time, a reference to the apparent Development Hell it was in. After that, New Game starts Season 1 and Continue starts Season 2 and 3. When selected at the start of Season 4, however, a window pops up declaring "The joke is dead", because in between seasons, more trailers, footage, and ''a proper release date'' was revealed. Also, Square Enix themselves had used the gag to introduce the remake at their panel during E3 2019. When the Movie rolled around, the HD Remake option was dragged off by a Whisper.
-   In _Ultra Fast Pony_, Pinkie Pie's a New Zealander and an obsessive fangirl for _The Lord of the Rings_ (the movies specifically). So nearly every episode she appears in, she'll shoehorn at least one _LOTR_ reference into her dialogue. The series creator, Wacarb, eventually got sick of doing those gags—so when he abridged the episode where Pinkie clones herself dozens of times, he took the opportunity to kill Pinkie off and replace her with one of those clones, which is thankfully one who doesn't know anything about _LOTR_.
-   _Kingdom Hearts Ψ: The Seeker of Darkness_ has a running gag involving Kairi being in denial about her bisexuality, something that Everybody Knew Already. It's eventually Gagged when Terra brings it up among a few other things they all knew but didn't talk about and Kairi finally admits it to herself.

    Films — Animation 

-   Throughout the _Ice Age_ series, Scrat will try and fail to store an acorn, often times _causing the plot of the story through said antics_. In a clip that ended up being the final thing Blue Sky Studios made, Scrat finds an acorn and prepares to bury it... then looks around for a moment before digging in. This is the only time in the entire franchise Scrat ever gets to enjoy an acorn.

    Films — Live-Action 

### **Creators:**

-   Due to Stan Lee's death in 2018, the tradition of Stan's Marvel cameos has ended, with _Avengers: Endgame_ featuring his final appearance. Even if he were still alive, however, he had already planned _Endgame_ to be his final cameo due to his failing health, as well as _Endgame_ seeming like a good place to end it due to it wrapping up a large part of the Marvel Cinematic Universe.

### **Movies:**

-   Throughout the _Guardians of the Galaxy_ movies, no one gets Rocket's species (a raccoon) correct except for Peter; almost everyone else who tries calls him a different, completely incorrect animal. In _Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3_, Rocket finds the original cage he was from and learns that he really _is_ a raccoon. Facing the High Evolutionary once more, he emphatically denounces his laboratory designation and calls himself Rocket Raccoon.
-   The running gag in _Moneyball_ of Billy breaking, smashing, and/or throwing random objects stops about halfway into the film when things finally begin to look up for him after years of seeing the Oakland A's play dismal season after dismal season.
-   After two movies of being a Found Footage Film series, _REC 3_ goes through a Genre Shift to more traditional horror... and the way it does this is by filming its first act in the regular Found Footage style and then one of the characters ending up pissed at the cameraman because he is eager to continue recording everything instead of helping (the cameraman even justifies himself by repeating a line that the characters on the other films use to _encourage_ their cameramen into continuing his recording), so he wrestles the camera away from the cameraman and slams it into the ground.
-   In _Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over_, everybody constantly refers to "The Guy", and it becomes Arc Words and a minor plot thread. Once the kids reach the entrance to Level 5, "The Guy" appears, opens the way, then gets killed immediately after. Nobody brings it up again.
-   _Star Wars_:
    -   The famous and recurring "Wilhelm Scream" has been officially retired from use in the film series, starting with _Rogue One_, _The Last Jedi_ and _Solo_, since it's now considered an overused and cliché sound effect to use, and it has been replaced with a new (as yet unidentified) recurring stock scream in _The Rise of Skywalker_.
    -   Subverted with "I have a bad feeling about this." _Rogue One_ looks like it shuts down the gag by having K-2S0 try to say it, only to be told to shut up. _The Last Jedi_ then plays coy by having it be said by BB-8 without any subtitles, meaning you wouldn't even know it's said unless you heard the Word of God about it. Just to drive it home, _Solo_ straight up inverts the joke, having Han say that he has a really good feeling about his current situation. And then _The Rise of Skywalker_ brings the gag back in all its glory, just so Lando will have finally gotten the chance to say it.
-   _The Wolf of Snow Hollow_: Jim getting repeatedly physically injured is played comically until he gets stabbed by the killer in the climax.
-   In one of the first scenes of _Clerks_, Dante discovers gum in the padlock holding the Quick Stop's steel shutters down, prompting him to draw a "I assure you, we're open" sign and hang it outside. The gag quietly resurfaces in _Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back_ where the shutters are down during the day and the sign is up once again. At the tail end of _Jay and Silent Bob Reboot_, Dante once again discovers gum in the locks and can't open the store, while Jay reveals to his daughter (and the audience) that, unsurprisingly, it was him and Silent Bob who jam gum in the locks on a regular basis. Finally, in the _Clerks_ trilogy Grand Finale, _Clerks III_, Dante reacts to discovering gum in the locks once again by kicking the shutters like he did in the first movie... only to calmly peel off the gum with his key without any trouble moments later.
-   _Silent Night (2021)_: Sandra keeps pleading with her daughter Kitty to hug her. Kitty keeps refusing, but at the end of the movie, she hugs Sandra...as Sandra is dying from the cyanide pill, and Kitty herself will soon die, and it's not even clear if Sandra knows Kitty is hugging her.
-   Throughout the first two acts of _Snatch._, one minor running gag is Irish Traveller Mickey O'Niel swindling people to keep forcing them to buy a caravan to give to his mother. The film's biggest Drama Bomb happens in the third act, when Brick Top reacts to Mickey telling him (off-screen) that he will gladly take the fall in the fight if he buys a caravan for his mother by setting his mother's caravan on fire… while she was sleeping inside of it… and tell Mickey that it's the fall or all of the other Travelers in the park die.
-   _Total Recall (1990)_: Benny constantly complains that he's "got five kids to feed!", and that's why he follows around the generous Quaid despite the mounting dangers and multiple deaths. It pays off when he reveals he's been Evil All Along and "I've got four kids to feed." When Quaid sardonically asks "what happened to the fifth?", Benny laughs and admits, "Shit, man, you caught me. I'm not even married."
-   _Payback_: Everyone in the Outfit keeps assuming that Porter wants the full $130,000 that Resnick gave them from the heist that he and Porter pulled together, but Porter keeps correcting them that he only wants the $70,000 that was supposed to be his share. When the Outfit's boss finally shows up with the money, it's $130,000, and Porter can only roll his eyes in annoyance.

    Literature 

-   _Hollow Kingdom (2019)_: After a Humboldt penguin coughs up some fish as a sign of respect for S.T., the recurring insults about penguins stop.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _30 Rock_ has a running gag where Jenna compares a current situation to increasingly bizarre Noodle Incidents involving her and Mickey Rourke, like the man trying to fire her from a catapult. The Series Finale puts a stop to it.
    
    **Jenna:** He's in a really bad place, like when Mickey Rourke... ok, I can't do this anymore. _\[looks straight into the camera\]_ I've never met Mickey Rourke.
    
-   _Adam Ruins Everything_ had a recurring gag of references to characters being afraid of "little bugs". This came to a head in the penultimate episode, "Adam Ruins Little Bugs", which was entirely devoted to explaining why many little bugs aren't as scary as people think they are.
-   _Arrested Development_:
    -   Maeby often says "Marry me!" to her coworkers as a means of allaying suspicion whenever they point out how young she looks. But one time when she uses it, the proposal is taken a little too seriously and she quickly stops.
    -   Another (temporary) example is Tobias' "never-nude" syndrome. For those who don't know, never-nude syndrome is Exactly What It Says on the Tin and means, in situations where other people would be naked, never-nudes remain clothed (most commonly, for reasons not entirely clear, choosing to wear cutoff jeans). He recovers from it in a mid-season 1 episode, but at the beginning of season 2, he develops this again because of an extreme close-up of his testicles airing on TV as "proof of weapons of mass destruction".
-   _The Big Bang Theory_:
    -   One of Raj's defining features during the early seasons was his selective mutism, which rendered him unable to speak to or in front of women other than his mother and sister, forcing him to whisper in someone else's ear, usually Howard's, to relay what he had to say, unless he was inebriated (which rendered him obnoxious) or on experimental drugs (which caused various side-effects). However, at the tail end of Season 6, a bad breakup shakes him to the point of curing him. The selective mutism and the alcohol-induced obnoxiousness make a brief comeback in a Season 12 episode.
    -   A running gag in the early seasons is that the "check engine" light in Penny's car is constantly on. Sheldon and others bug her about attending to it, and she refuses. Her car finally breaks down in the Season 7 episode "The Friendship Turbulence".
    -   When Stuart's comic book store becomes popular after Neil Gaiman made a visit to the place and then tweeted about it, late in the series' run, Stuart, who has hitherto been a Starving Artist stuck in Perpetual Poverty, is finally financially secure — so much so, that he hires an assistant named Denise to help him out with the business, who would stay on for the rest of the series and quickly becomes his Love Interest.
    -   The last example of this trope, chronologically speaking, comes right at the series' Grand Finale, in which the elevator of the apartment, which has been broken since the beginning the series, is finally fixed.
-   _Community_: A Once a Season gag in the first two seasons was the series getting a Paintball Episode where all Hell breaks loose as people do their damnedest to win. While the gag stumbled a bit after said two seasons, Greendale College still encountered a lot of Serious Business episodes that ended in a huge brawl (including a "the floor is lava" contest). The episode "Modern Espionage" ends the paintball contest gag (and similar messes) once and for all with Greendale's new principal putting her foot down and making clear that anybody who tries to start a brawl will be expelled (and she actually expels several people she caught in a paintball competition in campus grounds to make clear she was not bluffing. She takes back the expulsions when he Study Group gets evidence that it was a scheme by people against her, though). On a more meta note, the episode is one of the last four of the final season, and the series started to wind down on the wackiness for the Grand Finale.
-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   For a few seasons of the new series, there was a gag in which the companions would try an accent and/or repeat what The Doctor said, to which he inevitably replied "No... no, don't do that." The episode "Midnight" murdered this gag, as Donna repeating what the Doctor said after he was nearly taken over and killed by an unseen monster was the _last_ thing he needed to hear. The gag has not been used since.
    -   The Tenth and Eleventh Doctors both expressed disappointment upon first regenerating that their hair still wasn’t ginger. This running gag was quite popular with fans of the revival series. However, it’s been abandoned since those two incarnations (though the Doctor has yet to be ginger).
-   _Friends_ had a Running Gag going since the beginning involving "Ugly Naked Guy", a never-seen, um, Exactly What It Says on the Tin character who lived in the next apartment building over, who would occasionally get mentioned with lines such as "Oooh, Ugly Naked Guy's doing X!" By Season 5, the writers decided it was time to retire the gag, and at that point Ross was also in need of a new place to live. So they killed two birds with one stone by having him move out, and Ross get his apartment.
    -   An earlier example would be how throughout the first season, a neighbor, Mr. Heckles, would complain the gang was making too much noise despite them clearly have been going about their business at a normal volume level. Early into season 2, they get tired of it and intentionally make too much noise and Mr. Heckles dies moments later. While cleaning out the apartment, they realize that the acoustics of the apartment actually did make their normal activities sound louder than they really were.
-   A rare example of a Running Gag ending dramatically instead of comically happened on _Hill Street Blues_. Every few episodes, Belker would arrest the same petty criminal. Whenever Belker asked him for his name, he would always give an obviously fake one. Belker would often be on the phone with his mother while booking the criminal, who smirked at the incongruity of a tough detective being nagged by his mom. This went on for years, until the criminal was accidentally caught in the crossfire of a shootout. He had nothing to do with the gang shooting it out with the police; he was just in the wrong place at the wrong time. When Belker ran up to him where he lay dying, he finally told Belker his real name and asked Belker to tell his (the criminal's) mother what had happened.
-   _House_: Dr. Kutner can never use a defibrillator, once accidently setting fire to the patient and again shocking himself unconscious. In "Locked In" he finally uses one without any mishaps. In the very next episode, "Simple Explanation", he kills himself via self-inflicted gunshot.
-   _How I Met Your Mother_ brings back Barney's fireball magic trick, but everyone snaps at him that it isn't funny anymore, the barmaid reminds him he's been banned from doing it by the fire marshal, and Lily tells him to go stand in the corner. A flashback in a later episode shows that the gang at some point held an intervention to try to persuade him to stop doing it.
-   _iCarly_: Gibby loved to take his shirt off, even during inappropriate moments, and it was more or less his defining characteristic. Once he became a main character starting in the fourth season, he does it less and less until he eventually stops going shirtless altogether (save for one more instance in "iRescue Carly") and it is lampshaded that he doesn't do it anymore.
-   In _Kamen Rider Drive_, Lt. Otta had two major running gags:
    -   First, he only got bits and pieces of information about the Kamen Riders and therefore had a wildly inaccurate image of them - for instance, he saw only parts of Drive's body at times when he was in different forms, so his mental image of Drive was a mashup of all of them; and then when he realized there was more than one Kamen Rider running around he thought that _all_ of Drive's forms were actually different people. This ended when Drive's identity went public and Otta could get his facts straight from the source. It gets an amusing Call-Back in the _Kamen Rider Heart_ post-series movie where Heart's attempt to transform into Drive results in his turning into a real-life version of Otta's mashup picture, complete with a reaction shot from Otta when he sees it.
    -   Otta also displayed a comical inability to say the word "Roidmude" no matter how many times he's corrected; what he does say instead gets translated into things like "Hemmoroido" and "Pork Roasto". In one episode, he even acknowledges this while under the effects of a Hate Plague, raging that his co-workers think he's an idiot because of it. The gag gets put to rest about 3/4 of the way through the show, where it's revealed that the incredibly powerful Freeze Roidmude placed a mental block on the police to render them ineffectual, keyed to the word "Roidmude"; Otta's mispronunciation is one of the only reasons he was able to remain competent. A cure is developed, and once it's used on Otta he's able to say the word properly, much to his teammates' relief.
-   German comedy _Klimbim_ had the unknown drinker at the bar, who never said a word and fell from his stool. When they got bored with it, in a series finale he shoots everyone and says "Finally I can talk!"
-   _Last Week Tonight with John Oliver_:
    -   During the 7th season, John would regularly gush over Adam Driver's attractiveness. In the last episode of the season, Driver himself appeared at the show, lambasting Oliver's unwanted advances, and even turned some of them around against him.
    -   Durig the 8th season, there was a gag where John could summon George Clooney by snapping his fingers, sometimes entirely accidentally. During the season finale, George gives him the power to summon any other celebrities of his choosing, which includes Jennifer Coolidge, Will Ferrell, Ru Paul, and Cardi B.
-   _My Name Is Earl_: Number 86 on Earl's list "Stole a car from a one-legged girl". Before he discovered karma and turned his life around, Earl had a one night stand with a woman named Didi, who, unbeknownst to Earl until the next morning, had a prosthetic leg. Earl freaked out, stole her money and leg while making off in her car, leaving her to hop around on her remaining leg. Earl had several encounters with Didi, but she would instantly go bonkers and try to hurt/kill him on sight before he could explain that he was trying to make amends, with her triple amputee boyfriend even helping a time or two. Come season three, Earl is finally able to calm her down long enough to get through to her (largely due to the fact that Earl approached Didi at her place of work, where she couldn't make too much of a fuss) and after making him hop a mile in her shoe, Didi finally forgives Earl and he crosses her off his list.
-   _Mystery Science Theater 3000_:
    -   Up until "Teenagers from Outer Space", Joel and the Bots, upon seeing a flashlight being shown, declare "It's _The NBC Mystery Movie_!". In the first segment of that episode, as a result of overusage in the previous episode "City Limits", Joel uses shock therapy to get them to cut it out.
    -   In "The Indestructible Man", a running gag of Donut Mess with a Cop get used so much that two cops invade Deep 13 at the end to force Joel and the bots to sign an affidavit to prevent them from doing so again. A bit of Loophole Abuse happens when the joke is revived by Mike, who wasn't around thus didn't sign the affidavit, in "High School Big Shot".
    -   In "The Atomic Brain", whenever Ms. Marsh's house appears, the SOL crew declare "Selznick International Pictures''. After a while, Mike decides that they should stop, but Tom tries to sneak in two more.
-   _Odd Squad_: The running gag of Season 1, where a character remarks "If Sheila could see me now" after performing some sort of action, comes to a head in the finale "O is Not For Over", where "Sheila" is revealed to be the name of an actress in the Show Within a Show _Bizarre Brigade_ who has, quite literally, lost her head. Once Otto restores it with the aid of a gadget, the director of the SWAS states that "I'm so glad Sheila can see me now!" This is lampshaded in the Season 2 episode "The Ninja Situation" when, after giving a disguised Otis the pizza needed to win over the Yum-Yum Twins, Olympia remarks "If Sheila could see me now" only for Oona to tell her that "I don't think we're doing that anymore."
-   _Seinfeld_: In the first five seasons, one of the running jokes with George is that he can never hold a job for more than episode or two, screwing up in some way every time he comes close. This is stopped at the end of season 5, when he becomes employed by the New York Yankees and stayed there for multiple seasons.
-   _Stargate SG-1_: Fun with Homophones jokes regarding the Goa'uld Lord Yu were abandoned in the eighth season, as even the characters in-universe were getting tired of them. Weir, a newcomer to the series, hears his name and is immediately told that every single joke and pun has been done to death, so please don't. Yu himself dies near the end of the season as well, putting the final nail in the proverbial coffin.
-   _Veronica Mars_: Cassidy Casablancas is constantly being tormented by his nickname, Beaver, and Veronica consistently starts calling him Beaver before switching it out with Cassidy; Logan also makes a series of "Dick and Beaver" jokes about sleeping with Kendall (their stepmother). Then, come the end of Season 2, Logan accidentally calls him "Beaver" when trying to persuade Cassidy not to kill himself after it comes out that he crashed the bus and killed multiple people due to being molested. This ends up being the final straw for him, and he emotionally tells Logan that his name is Cassidy, then jumps off the roof to his death. Out of respect, Logan decides to stop making the jokes and always refer to him posthumously as "Cassidy", never calling him "Beaver" again.
-   _Wheel of Fortune_: On October 12, 2020, a contestant won $100,000 in the Bonus Round, but the confetti did not shoot from its cannons. Pat Sajak explained that the cannons malfunctioned, and he jokingly blamed it on then-new executive producer Mike Richards. For that day and on other Season 38 episodes featuring wins in excess of $100,000, Richards was credited as "Mike 'Confetti' Richards". This gag was retired once Richards left Sony on bad terms shortly into Season 39. A weekend repeat from Season 38 was modified to credit Richards normally.
-   _Whose Line Is It Anyway?_: To end the game "Scenes from a Hat", Drew Carey would fling the hat offstage, visibly cheering if it managed to hit a camera. He stopped doing it when he accidentally hit a camera hard enough to knock it off its crane.

    Podcasts 

-   _Welcome to Night Vale_: In the first few seasons, every time Cecil reads out the week's horoscopes, the one for Scorpio sounds angry and demeaning. It's eventually revealed that this is because Cecil's Sitcom Arch-Nemesis, Steve Carlsberg, is a Scorpio. Cecil and Steve resolve their differences in "Matryoshka", and in "The Promise of Time", Cecil promises Steve that he'll never insult Scorpios again, putting an end to the gag.

    Puppet Shows 

-   _The Muppet Show_'s Rita Moreno episode has the telephone gag, wherein Fozzie answers the telephone, and something comes out of the microphone. Eventually, Kermit gets annoyed at the gag and orders Fozzie to not answer the phone. When he disparagingly cries "is there no end to this running gag?!" Cue Animal ripping the phone from the wall<sup>*&nbsp;</sup>  and running off with it.
-   Throughout _Dinosaurs_, Baby would regularly hit Earl over the head and shout "Not the mama!" In the episode, "Refrigerator Day", the Sinclair family ends up in financial jeopardy when B.P. Richfield fails to deliver the holiday bonuses, which results in their fridge getting repossessed. Feeling like he's at an all time low, Earl asks Baby to hit him over the head. Baby thinks about it for a second and says, "It's getting old."
-   Early in _Sesame Street_'s life, no one else could ever see or hear Snuffleupagus due to him conveniently being missing when a character other than Big Bird would attempt to see him, causing the rest of the cast to believe that Snuffy was Big Bird's Imaginary Friend, much to Big Bird's growing frustration. In 1985, this was put to rest, due in part to the writing staff running out of ways to implement this, as well as fear that children might not tell authority figures about something important, especially following some high-profile child abuse cases at the time. This was done by having Big Bird and Snuffy formulate a plan so the others could see him. Afterwards, the other characters apologize to Big Bird for doubting him for so long.

    Theatre 

-   In _The Farndale Avenue Housing Estate Townswomen's Guild Dramatic Society's Production of Macbeth_, the Third Witch keeps coming on stage at the beginning of scenes and proclaiming, "Thrice the brindled cat hath mewed", before being rushed off because it's not time for that scene yet. When the play does finally get to the right scene, she misses her cue, leaving the other two witches stranded on stage waiting for her to arrive and start the scene.
-   Noah Smith's stage version of _The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde_ depends on quick scene changes and uses minimal set dressing. At the beginning of each new scene, the Greek Chorus describes the setting to the audience, pointing out the locations of imaginary windows, furniture, etc., and frequently ending with "And a door." When Utterson breaks down the locked door of Jekyll's laboratory at the end of the penultimate scene, the subsequent scene shift to the interior of the laboratory ends with "And an open space where there used to be a door."

    Video Games 

-   The _Animal Crossing_ series had Mr. Resetti and his infamous rants about restarting the game without saving prior to that. Then comes _Animal Crossing: New Leaf_, in which encountering him is now optional. Upon the first reset, after selecting a reason for the action, this dialogue occurs:
    
    **Resetti**: Wassat? You were expecting something a little different? Heh... Yeah, here's the thing. The Reset Surveillance Center? It don't exist no more.
    
    -   Though it does end up being a temporary retirement of the gag when you decide to build a new Reset Surveillance Center.
        -   In _Animal Crossing: New Horizons_, however? Due to the autosave function, the gag is now officially over due to Resetti being laid off from the job, _for real this time_. Fortunately, he's still around for players to hang out with.
-   _Dragon Quest VIII_ had Yangus's catch phrase "Cor Blimey!" which happens as a funny background event any time Trode appears from nowhere. By Tyran Gully, it had happened three times, and instead we got:
    
    **Yangus:** Cor Bli—Nah, fed up of that line.
    
    Given a callback as the very last line of the ending before the credits roll, though not by Yangus this time.
    
-   The _Gears of War_ series features a Once an Episode gag involving a member of the Carmine family being casually killed off early in the game. While none of the deaths are Played for Laughs, the formulaic nature of their appearances are certainly done in a tongue-in-cheek nature. This suddenly changes in _Gears 5_, where Lizzy Carmine's Cruel and Unusual Death (a la an out-of-control Hammer of Dawn) is treated completely seriously, and serves as the moment when the story takes a dark turn.
-   In the final _Henry Stickmin Series_ game, a lot of the successful choices are ones that previously resulted in FAILs whenever they came up.
    -   Using a Gadget Gabe item- there are actually _two_ (in different routes) that work correctly.
    -   Henry using one of Captain Falcon's moves. He executes a Wombo Combo with Ellie perfectly in the _Capital Gains_ route.
    -   The 'Charles' option that has him crash his helicopter into Henry. It's the correct choice to proceed in the _Valiant Hero_ route.
-   In the first _Portal_ game, numerous references were made to cake, such as Chell's reward being cake, and the famous The Cake Is a Lie meme was found here. In _Portal 2_, the writers were sick of the memes and stripped out all references to cake... except _one_: an Obvious Trap labeled "GLaDOS Emergency Shutdown and Cake Dispensary".
-   _To the Moon_ has the stuffed platypus, whose appearance (and long life) is constantly joked about in-game until The Reveal of its origin at the end.

    Web Animation 

-   _Homestar Runner_:
    -   Parodied in the Strong Bad Email "the facts"; Homestar tells Strong Bad he's incorporating a new catchphrase, "That's bupkis", which he never says in any other cartoon.
    -   A long string of SBEmails featured a Running Gag where characters would randomly make a reference to "DNA evidence". The last email to feature this running gag, "rough copy", had an Easter egg at the end where Homestar is sitting by himself in Marzipan's living room and wearily says the phrase "DNA evidence", to show the joke had officially worn out its welcome.... that is, until it became the subject of its own toon.
-   _Red vs. Blue_ starts Season 11 with the main characters stranded in an unknown planet after their ship crashed. All through that season and the next, there would be a flashback showing one of the cast (except the one viewers would expect, the Lethally Stupid Caboose) might have caused the accident - Washington tripping on a power cable, Grif spilling soda over the controls, Tucker hitting on the pilot, etc. Come episode 15 of Season 12, the ship actually crashed because of a tractor beam on the planet - only the cumulative hijinks from those flashbacks actually _saved their lives_ ("Ships come by, we pull them down and then kill everyone aboard. Would have worked on you too but something went wrong. It was like the ship tried to jump to slip-space, change course and power down all at the same time. It didn't make any sense. Instead of pulling you down, the ship got ripped apart").
-   _SMG4_:
    
    -   Mockery of Justin Bieber and _Twilight_ was very common in _SMG4_ early years, referencing their status of Memetic Losers at the time, especially the former, with characters disgusted by "Baby" to the point of _committing suicide_, to literally featuring Justin Bieber himself as a joke character in some episodes. By the mid-2010s, this became quickly outdated as internet moved away from both targets. Nedless to say, these jokes were quietly dropped of the series by 2017.
    -   Mario's nudist tendencies were another common running gag that dissapeared from the series, albeit due to limitations with _Garry's Mod_, since it is used more to animate the series than _Super Mario 64_ nowadays. In other words, Naked Mario wouldn't translate very well on _GMod_.
    -   Death as Comedy used to be frequent on the series, with either Mario killing Toad or Peach by accident (or sometimes on purpose), to Mario dying by his own stupidity, with no real repercussions as they always come back alright in the next episode or sometimes in the next scene. By the time the show entered Cerebus Syndrome, and especially after Desti's death in the Anime Arc, death is now treated as something serious and the show is now more careful about which character dies now that death in SMG4 is irreversible.
    -   Not entirely abandoned but Mario's obsession with spaghetti has become less frequent over the years.
    -   A frequent running gag saw Princess Peach's Castle destroyed by some wacky occurrence, usually because of Mario. The movie _IT'S GOTTA BE PERFECT_ ends with the castle being swallowed whole by an Eldritch Abomination that had also corrupted SMG4, and it's outright stated that the castle's likely gone for good this time.
    
    **Mario**: Wait...but guys...Mario blows up the castle all the time...can't we just rebuild it again?  
    **Meggy**: Something tells me...the castle won't be returning any time soon...
    

    Webcomics 

-   _El Goonish Shive_:
    -   There was a Running Gag involving women hitting men with a Hyperspace Mallet whenever they said something sexist. The Hammers were eventually deconstructed as their true purpose was revealed: They were not designed to prevent sexist comments, but rather encourage them, as the hammers gave women an opportunity to get back at the men in a harmless manner, meaning the men didn't have to feel bad about upsetting them. The hammers became permanently unusable when the immortal who controlled them was preparing for his death and rebirth.
    -   References to Tedd being androgynous also stopped for a while, probably because in the newer art style he didn't really look all that androgynous. They later made a return, along with Tedd getting a new (and much more androgynous) look in-universe.
    -   Later, an arc titled Bringing Silly Back seemed to be mainly using this as a chance to call a capper on the overly silly running gags, and reconstruct them to fit the new tone of the comic.
-   A short-lived example in _Bob and George_: The third time the Right Behind Me gag was used with Dr. Wily, Dave Anez retired the joke. (The name of that particular strip even lampshades this: "This Is The Last Time, I Swear".) The "retirement" only lasted one year before it was brought back, at which point Wily rages about the author's broken promise. The gag would continue to be used on occasion right up to the final story arc.
-   Jeph Jacques of _Questionable Content_ frequently used Yelling Bird, a foul-mouthed avian, as filler material when he needed a break. In August of 2015, he officially retired Yelling Bird, after letting the bird verbally abuse the readers one last time.
    
    **Jeph:** I am tired of Yelling Bird comics so there will be NO MORE OF THEM, goodbye you shitty bird.
    
-   _Ctrl+Alt+Del_ had a running gag of a normal strip being interrupted with one of the character randomly getting shot by an arrow. It was officially retired by having Ethan dodge and catch it and snapping it in half. Cue him being crushed by an elephant.
-   _The Order of the Stick_ had a gag where the raven Blackwing would only appear when his master Vaarsuvius remembered his existence. This joke was played purely for laughs with little impact on the plot until Vaarsuvius suffers a crushing loss to Xykon and needs someone who can fly to save the day. Following that incident, Blackwing has had a more permanent presence in the party. In addition to showcasing Vaarsuvius's character development (atoning for their former negligence of Blackwing), the author has also commented that retiring the gag was deliberate as he thought that there was no variation of it he could pull off that would be more impactful than its last iteration.

    Web Videos 

-   _Atop the Fourth Wall_:
    -   Early on in the series, Linkara had a "continuity alarm" that would stop him anytime he would try to discuss the complicated backstory behind certain background elements in the comics he reviewed. However, many fans who weren't regular comic readers actually wanted Linkara to discuss the continuity in-depth, so Lewis gradually phased the joke out. The continuity alarm ended up being sabotaged by Dr. Linksano in his review of _Zero Patrol #1_, and Linkara revealed many years later that he reprogrammed it to tell him when his microwave popcorn was ready.
    -   A minor running gag in the milestone episodes featured Brad Jones appearing in a cameo thinking that Linkara was reviewing the _Caligula_ comic. By the time Lewis did his 600th episode, his real-life relationship with Brad detoriated following the fallout of the #ChangeTheChannel movement. As a result, the review itself opened up with Linkara about to review the _Caligula_ comic at long last, only to stop once he receives a phone call informing him of how Brad was treating his friends, prompting him to review a random comic he pulled from his shelf instead… which unfortunately turned out to be the infamous Spider-Man storyline "Sins Past".
-   Chuggaaconroy
    -   Zig-Zagged with Steve the Trooper from his Let's Play of _Pikmin_. Chugga mentioned during the LP that he calls any red-leaf Pikmin that falls behind "Steve". When one "Steve" spent all day trying to bring any enemy corpse back to base on his own Chugga turned Steve into a Memetic Badass. Eventually, however, Chugga grew annoyed with fan's obsession with Steve, and would avoid mentioning him throughout the entirety of the _Pikmin 2_ Let's Play. He would later exclaim in frustration during the LP of _The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask_ "The gag stopped being funny after Pikmin 1!", and claimed to kill the gag after defeating Poké Maniac Steve in _Pokémon Emerald_. Despite this, Steve would continue to have brief references in later LPs, and eventually returned to the spotlight during Chugga's Let's Play of _Pikmin 3_, and once again a few years later during Jon's blind Let's Play of _Pikmin 1_ on The Runaway Guys, albeit now going by the aliases of "Estaban" (Spainish for "Steve").
    -   In earlier videos, Chugga would commonly say "D'oh I missed!" after missing an attack, as a reference to Wario's losing quote in the first two _Mario Party_ games, with the soundbite even being his ringtone during the _Majora's Mask_ Let's Play. Around 2013 however, Chugga would use the gag less and less explaining during the Let's Play of _Super Mario 64 DS_ that he felt he had been overusing the joke and recently learned that the actual line is "So Ein Mist!" (German for "That Bites!"). As a result, the line very rarely shows up in newer videos, and when the line is said, it's sometimes done with reluctance.
    -   Chugga’s two pet cats Teddy and Kirby would often barge in when Chugga was recording a video demanding attention, which could sometimes mess with how he was playing. This pattern would become less common when Teddy passed away in February 2016, and cease complete when Kirby passed away in July 2023.
-   In _Dragon Ball Z Uncensored_ (a comparison of the original _Dragon Ball Z_ TV show and its English dub), some time after the episode which introduced Hell, Chris Psaros started using the exclamation "What the HFIL?" (in reference to Hell's Dub Name Change), which he kept using until near the end of the Frieza Saga, at which point he retires the phrase, but not before admiring the meme that resulted from it.
-   _history of the entire world, i guess_ has "you could make a religion out of this" repeated after the founding of various world religions. The line starts to repeat after The French Revolution and the death of Maximilien Robespierre, but is interrupted by "no, don't"<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> .
-   YouTuber J's Reviews took many swipes at _Sly Cooper: Thieves in Time_ in his earlier videos, with the game being his go-to comparison for poor writing. J would also attack the game's developer Sanzaru Games whenever they came up, often referring to the company as "Shitzaru Hack-Fraud Games". At the start of 2021, J quietly dropped the Running Gag due to viewers expressing their fatigue with the constant jabs and J realizing how unprofessional it was. The gag's death was cemented in his 2023 re-review of _Thieves In Time_, where J expressed regret towards his common attacks and gave a formal apology to Sanzaru for unwittingly making the studio target for harassment, even deleting his harshest videos towards the game around this time.
-   _Nitro Rad_: Ever since his review of the _Gex_ series, James would often use his dislike of how Gex talked as an example of annoying dialogue from video game characters. After his review of _Bubsy 3D_, in which the title character has an even more obnoxious voice with more pointless dialogue, he promises to stop harping on Gex, admitting his stupidity was more charming.
-   _Noob_ has a case of this trope meeting Real Life Writes the Plot. One of the running gags was a situation in which a Player Killer named Dark Avenger was in a Mistaken for Badass situation with Sparadrap, The Fool of the cast. The actor playing one of the two could no longer participate so Dark Avenger's higher-ups suddenly got frustrated with the situation that has been lasting for years and expelled him from his guild. That is followed by Sparadrap managing to beat him up in the middle of trying to give him a little consolation. That results in him quitting the game out of spite.
-   The Nostalgia Critic has had various jokes that he used at the beginning of his run, only to cycle them out and exchange them for new ones.
    -   With one — his showing of a clip with M. Bison saying "Of course!" when a character expresses a desire to rule the world — he refuses to show it because it's been overdone, only for the clip to force its way onto the screen despite his protests. In the commentary for the review, Doug Walker mentions that he tries to be mindful of if he's overusing a joke to the point where it isn't funny, at which point he tries to mix things up a little and keep it fresh.
    -   On that point, one of his reviews _did_ end with its respective Running Gag (a Flanderized-to-the-point-of-uselessness Patch Adams called "Bitch Spasms") being blown away (and the cadaver being left on the ground as a Brick Joke for a future episode), the review for _Jurassic Park III_ finishing (at least apparently for now) the "Motherfucking T-Rex" gag (on the moment that the T-Rex gets its neck snapped by another dinosaur. It does, however, get a glorious resurrection as Awesome Music for the Rexy-vs.-Indominus fight on the _Jurassic World_ review), the review for _The Lost World: Jurassic Park_ kills the newsreel-style Long List of how humans screw up nature that had pervaded several nature-related film reviews with the Critic belting out a Big "SHUT UP!" to launch into a rant about how annoyingly Anvilicious films get when they try to (continuously) hammer this point.
    -   "Bat credit card" was killed by Linkara when the critic made a cameo in his review of _Batman & Robin_’s comic adaptation, wanting to just get the bit over with. Linkara instead reconstructs the meme by explaining Batman is filthy rich, uses secret methods to spend that money on crimefighting in ways that cannot be traced back to Bruce Wayne, is known to purchase items while fighting crime if he needs them, and is obsessed with putting his bat brand on everything he uses. With all those traits to him, a Bat credit card is actually rather logical and practical for him to have, so what's so anger-inducing about it? The Critic is speechless.
    -   His "Boomer Will Live" gag started with his _Independence Day_ review. When he did the review for _Battleship_, he showed a clip of a pilot with the call sign "Boomer" on his helmet after the aliens are defeated. He starts to do the usual gag until...
        
        _Boomer... is retiring this joke._.
        
-   raocow has done this in a few LP's, such as in _Mushroom Kingdom Meltdown_, where he would often abruptly cut away to a fast-forwarded clip of him farming infinite lives whenever he ran out, usually while singing badly. After a few occasions, he said "Okay, this has stopped being funny now", and retired the gag (though he did still farm infinite lives offscreen). He's also said he reads his own trope page and checks under "Catchphrase" and "Running Gag" to see what he's overdoing and making an effort to stop doing that.
-   SomecallmeJohnny had a Running Gag in his Metroid videos where, anytime he mentioned the Screw Attack powerup, a disembodied voice would suddenly shout "SCREW ATTACK!" much to Johnny's confusion, and later, annoyance. By _Metroid Prime 3_, Johnny finally calls it off and guns down the "SCREW ATTACK" guy, ending the gag. It got one last oblique mention in his video of _Federation Force_ where he mentions the Screw Attack, and then immediately says "I shot that asshole dead."
    -   In his earliest reviews of _Sonic_ games, when he brought up Big the Cat, he mocked him in a certain way or said "I don't like Big the Cat". Then comes his review of _Sonic & Sega All-Stars Racing_, and when he mentions Big the Cat as a playable character, he inhales to say "I'm kinda sick of saying that."
-   A common Running Gag in _Scott The Woz_ was him voicing his dissaproval for _Chibi-Robo Zip Lash!_ by throwing his copy of the game into the toilet and exclaiming "This game blows!". This eventually came to head during his "Dark Age of Nintendo" mini-series, covering what many consider some of Nintendo's weakest offerings in recent times, as the final episode was centered around the titular game, and explaining in depth why he hates it so much, ending with him and his friends trekking out to the sewers to destroy every copy he threw down the toilet.
    -   The mini-series itself _also_ has its own Running Gagged. Scott's friend Jeb is obsessed with Gex the Gecko, and Scott continuously tricks him into playing games with him by disguising the game he's _actually_ playing as a Gex game. When they destroy the copies of Zip Lash! however, Scott decides to play Gex for real...only for Jeb to be confused.
        
        **Jeb**: ...What the f\*ck is this?
        
-   Jules Gill of WhatCulture.com is known for making crass Your Mom jokes in his videos on the WhatCulture YouTube channel (invariably followed by "That's my one per list."). Around Spring of 2020 he phased those jokes out, saying that he thought they had run their course. It was used once in a later video, however.

    Western Animation 

-   _Looney Tunes_: The _Looney Tunes_ cartoons and comics can't use caricatures of Peter Lorre anymore (at least not in the context of him being a Mad Scientist like he was in a few of the older Looney Tunes) due to legal issues with his estate, who will no longer authorize using caricatures of him in that context (not to mention that younger viewers are less likely to recognise him nowadays). It got a planned appearance of him axed from one of the Looney Tunes comics and replaced with the scientist from _Water, Water Every Hare_.
-   Early on in _The Boondocks,_ Tom was deathly afraid of being raped by Bubba, despite happily sending members of his own race to the exact same fate. In "A Date With The Booty Warrior," he faces his greatest fear: The Booty Warrior. He easily defeats the Booty Warrior, and he doesn't get a single rape joke in Season 4.
-   _Family Guy_:
    -   The evil monkey living in Chris' closet. In season 8, he finally came out of the closet, turned out to not be that bad of a monkey, helped Peter and Chris amend their relationship, and moves out to live in Jake Tucker's closet. He has been Out of Focus in _Family Guy_, but he makes a complete Heel–Face Turn in _The Cleveland Show_, where he is renamed Monkey, and he saves Cleveland from the guys from _Deliverance_.
    -   Another example is Vern and Johnny, the Vaudeville players, who would be killed off. They started making appearances after the show's revival (although Vern appeared by himself way back in the second season of the show), and were killed by Stewie in the next season. They end up making one more appearance after this, with Vern as a ghost and Johnny in Hell (Vern's ghost explains that Johnny liked little boys). They also have a background cameo in one of Stewie's nightmares in "A Lot Going On Upstairs" that involves other recurring extras that were no longer used. They are also seen in Peter's hallucination of deceased characters in "Coma Guy".
    -   Also killed off was Paddy Tanniger, a character introduced in the second season whose defining trait was his catchphrase of "Big whoop, wanna fight about it?". During the climax of "Hell Comes to Quahog", he says the phrase while mocking Brian and Stewie's tank, and the two promptly run him over before he can even finish. And then back the tank over him. And then drive over him again.
    -   Subverted with the running gag of Peter's shenanigans destroying the front of Cleveland's house while he's taking a bath, causing his tub to fall to the ground. At first, it seemed like the first episode of _The Cleveland Show_ was this, as it was the last straw that convinced Cleveland to move out of Quahog. Even after that, however, the gag still makes a few sparse appearances, once with an empty tub falling down because Cleveland moved, once when a missile manages to hit Cleveland's new house, once when time is going backwards for Stewie and Brian, and once where it happens to Cleveland's ex-wife Loretta, which ends up killing her.
    -   The Conway Twitty gags. They started in the season 5 episode "Bill and Peter's Bogus Journey", where a character makes an Aside Glance, introducing the viewers to Conway Twitty as a distraction, playing a performance of one of his songs. This occured a few more times in later seasons. There are a few times where the characters are annoyed by this, as in "3 Acts of God", God gives Peter, Cleveland, Quagmire and Joe a message where Conway wishes that they would stop doing these gags, and in "Peter, Chris, & Brian", teenage Peter starts to play Conway Twitty's music for his adult self in a video, but present Peter finds it annoying, not wanting to sit through the song.
    -   The "Brian's Emmy Vote" online shorts are basically remakes of the scene in "Patriot Games" where Stewie beats up Brian for not being able to pay back the money he owes him, only this time Stewie is beating up Brian for not giving _Family Guy_ a vote in the 61st Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Comedy Series (its fellow nominees were _30 Rock_ (which won), _Entourage_, _Flight of the Conchords_, _How I Met Your Mother_, _The Office (US)_, and _Weeds_). The last video abruptly ends early as Stewie decides _Weeds_ is not worth beating Brian up over.
    -   One of Stewie's main character traits in the early seasons was his goal of killing Lois, and his repeated attempts failing miserably. The episodes "Stewie Kills Lois" and "Lois Kills Stewie" has Stewie run a simulation to see what would happen if he actually did go through with killing Lois (she survived, and she and Peter kill Stewie.) Stewie concludes that killing Lois is too risky and from that point on, his matricidal desires more or less went away.
-   In _The Flintstones_, Fred would ask Barney to lend him a few bucks until payday saying he's short on cash, with Barney replying that he's a little short (in stature). In the 1994 live-action adaptation, it starts out with Barney mentioning that nothing's changed when Fred asks him for a couple of bucks. Later, after Fred goes back to his old job with benefits for the rehired workers, Fred asks Barney again, and Barney replies "Not this time!"
-   _The Simpsons_:
    -   Combined with Aborted Arc. Pre-season 8, Skinner was a Non-Giving-Up School Guy and Krabappel was an Old Maid. In season 8, Skinner and Krabappel hooked up, ending the jokes about the two individually (particularly Krabappel), and became more notable as a couple with A Day in the Limelight together occasionally. In season 14, the two got engaged, and since this show loves Status Quo Is God, this would put a stalemate to any future development. Surprisingly, season 15 showed their marriage, where Krabappel left Skinner at the altar. Since then, they reverted back to their original characters, and Krabappel received regular Flanderization (Skinner, interestingly, became _less_ flanderized, especially notable considering _The Simpsons_ is the Trope Namer), though her case seemed like it might change since in the season 22 finale, she and Flanders hooked up in a Cliffhanger. However, the death of her voice-actress and with it, the character, as shown with Ned wearing a black armband in season 25's "The Simpsons S 25 E 13 The Man Who Grew Too Much", leaves whatever plans for the character there were derailed.
    -   The first four "Treehouse of Horror" episodes would open with a graveyard where the tombstones contained amusing messages - such as the names of dead celebrities or cancelled TV shows. In "Treehouse of Horror V", the opening sequence starts with a tombstone for "Amusing Tombstones". This was the writers' way of showing that they were tired of coming up with ideas for humorous tombstone messages. This was the last time they used this gag before it was briefly revived as a one-off joke in "Treehouse of Horror XXIX".
    -   Bart making prank calls to Moe's Tavern is a running gag so synonymous with _The Simpsons_ that even serious fans of the Long Runner might be surprised to note that it was effectively wrapped up in _Season 4._ The episode "New Kid on the Block" pays off the joke with a story about Bart "identifying" himself to Moe as bully Jimbo Jones in what proves a highly effective bid to get Moe to go after him. All subsequent appearances of the gag would take the form of a variation or Continuity Nod rather than being Played Straight.
    -   The "Who Shot Mr. Burns" 2-partner used Mr. Burns' inability to remember Homer's name and existence regardless of how many times they've interacted as Homer's motive when he's a suspect in Burns's shooting, as being forgotten numerous times finally causes him to hit his Rage Breaking Point and insist on being remembered. Although Burns seems to have managed to forget him yet again by the end of part 2, the story still pretty much laid the joke to rest as in subsequent episodes he no longer has to be reminded who Homer is.
    -   While it's still referenced, the classic gag of Homer strangling Bart in anger has not been Played Straight since Season 30, which may have something to do with Disney's buyout of Fox. As of Season 35, this has been acknowledged in the show by Homer himself ("See, Marge? Strangling the boy has paid off. Just kidding, I don't do that anymore. Times have changed"), though it may prove temporary as _Simpsons_ co-creator James L. Brooks subsequently told _People_ magazine that the show has no intention of ending the gag.
-   _Sofia the First_: In the first season, Sofia mispronounces Cedric's name as "Ceedric", prompting him to correct her in annoyance. Starting in Season 2, she pronounces his name correctly. The first time she does, Cedric expresses shock.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   _South Park_:
    -   "Oh, my God! They Killed Kenny!" In its early seasons, Kenny McCormick's death Once per Episode was one of the defining traits of the show. Many a fan eagerly awaited to see how Kenny would bite it this week. Soon, however, the writers felt that it was becoming an Overused Running Gag, and decided to end it before it got too much. And so, Kenny was Killed Off for Real in the aptly titled episode "Kenny Dies", and stayed dead for the better part of the following season. Eventually, Kenny was brought back from the dead, only now he wasn't killed off... at least not as often (plus the "Oh my god! They killed Kenny!" phrase wasn't always said). The whole thing got a Cerebus Retcon in the "The Coon And Friends Trilogy", where we learn that Kenny's parents were part of a Lovecraftian cult and his immortality was a curse from the Dark Ones.
    -   The boys trying to find a replacement fourth friend in the sixth season. For the majority of the first half they took in Butters, who Got Volunteered into all sorts of Zany Schemes Once per Episode, before finally getting thrown out with Tweek being placed in the role instead. However, Tweek was eventually phased out before Kenny himself finally reappeared at the end of the season.
    -   Many episodes ended with characters (usually Kyle) giving morals, most of the time accompanied by the phrase, "You know, I learned something today." This practice was mocked in some episodes such as "Butt Out" and "Cartoon Wars, Part 2", but it was put to sleep for good in Season 19's "Where My Country Gone?", where Kyle's friends blame a recent wave of illegal Canadian immigrants on his speech about tolerance and acceptance in the previous episode, and ignore him whenever he argues against them. At the end of the episode, Kyle disrupts Mr. Garrison's rally to issue a moral against sensationalistic politics, only to be met with angry glares from the audience. From that point forward, this would happen much less frequently.
    -   A lot of other catchphrases from the show’s early days, notably “Screw you guys, I’m going home!” and “Dude, this is pretty fucked up right here!” also ended up being phased out.
    -   Cartman's love of Cheesy Poofs is well established within the first two seasons but almost never is referenced outside of that timeframe. Nowadays, Kentucky Fried Chicken is usually shown as his Trademark Favorite Food if the plot calls for one.
-   _Archer_:
    -   A recurring gag of Butt-Monkey Brett accidentally getting shot ends in the Season 5 premiere when FBI agents storm ISIS headquarters and accidentally shoot him in the head.
        
        _"He died doing what he loved... getting shot."_
        
    -   The gag of characters suggesting that Krieger might be a clone of Adolf Hitler ends in the Season 6 finale, when Krieger gets fed up and points out the obvious flaw in this theory:
        
        _If I were a_ clone _of Adolf goddamn Hitler, wouldn't I_ look _like Adolf goddamn Hitler?_
        
-   _American Dad!_:
    -   In the first season, Stan would often want to make Steve, his geeky son, popular at school because he was very unpopular when he was his age and doesn't want him to live through what he had to. In the last episode that aired before most Stan/Steve episodes were stripped of this plot thread, Stan gives Steve _steroids_ to make him strong, but instead because of his genes he _grows boobs_, becomes popular at school because the boys are using him for a cheap grope, and resists Stan when he tells him the boys are only using him. Stan had to resort to giving himself a larger dosage of steroids so he would grow bigger boobs to prove his point to Steve. At the end, Steve gets a chance to tell him he's happy with his real friends, and Stan seemingly accepts it.
    -   In the early seasons of _American Dad_, Klaus' entire character (aside from being a man's brain in a goldfish) was his crush on Francine, doing things like trying to look up her dress or rolling around in her underwear, culminating in an episode where he gets a human body and tries to steal her away from Stan. As the show started Growing the Beard, this aspect of his character quietly disappeared without explanation.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   One ongoing plot point in the first season was Hayley being an enemy and foil for Stan's uber-conservative personality who was often at odds with him. When the show started to become less centered around politics, Hayley's Soapbox Sadie tendencies were downplayed and she has since gotten married and doesn't appear that much. At least one of her Soapbox Sadie traits was explicitly removed: her vegetarianism. While she would eat meat in some episodes, she would soon go back to being vegetarian by the end of the episode. After getting a job at Sub Hub, Hayley admits that she sometimes eats some of the sandwich meat and subsequent episodes show her eating meat with no issue and her vegetarianism is never mentioned again.
-   For four and a half seasons of _Daria_, Quinn refuses to admit that Daria is her sister, insisting that she is her "cousin" instead. She is especially nervous that her friends in the Fashion Club not find out her real relationship with Daria. But thanks to Character Development, by the fifth season Quinn's relationship with Daria has improved and she starts sticking up for herself more in the Fashion Club. This led to the following exchange in the episode "Lucky Strike":
    
    **Quinn:** Besides, why _shouldn't_ I act sisterly towards her? After all... she's my sister.  
    **Sandi:** _\[fake gasps\]_ Did you hear that? Oh, my gosh! Quinn just admitted that weird girl is her sister!  
    **Stacey:** Well, um, of _course_ she is, Sandi! We knew that.  
    **Tiffany:** We were just being polite about it.
    
-   _Kim Possible_:
    -   The series had a popular gag where Sidekick Ron would lose his pants. Eventually, the gag ended in "Clean Slate" where Kim gave him a titanium belt. However, it got a good sendoff with a montage of Ron's best pants losing moments, which helped an amnesia-recovering Kim remember that they were dating.
    -   A gag that surfaced in the Post-Script Season was Kim and Ron Almost Kissing, only to be interrupted by various people (usually Wade), which could've been seen as frustrating to K/R fans. Fortunately, the gag ended in the Grand Finale where we see Kim and Ron kiss onscreen twice.
-   _Adventure Time_ had some jokes in early seasons which implied that Gunter, despite being to all indications an ordinary penguin, was in fact the ultimate evil in the Land of Ooo, surpassing even Hunson Abadeer and The Lich in threat level. This seemed to just be Rule of Funny until "Orgalorg", which revealed that Gunter is actually a Mad God named Orgalorg who is older than the Universe and can destroy planets on a whim when at full power. The only reason he's seemingly not a threat is because the King of Mars wiped his memory when he was banished to Earth, reducing him to primal animal instincts. Only when his brain is exposed can he remember his past.
-   Helga’s horrible home life was a long-standing bit of Black Comedy in _Hey Arnold!_... until "Helga on the Couch" had her go to therapy and promptly break down over her family situation, revealing that it’s actually left her with serious emotional and mental issues. After that point, Helga’s problems with her family are _never_ Played for Laughs.
-   _King of the Hill_:
    -   The season 4 episode "Nancy Boys" puts an end to the 14-year affair between Nancy Gribble and John Redcorn, after they both realize how good of a person Dale really is. Though Dale never finds out about the affair.
    -   Dale's paranoia resulted in him using the alias "Rusty Shackleford" when he doesn't want to use his real name. At least until season 11's "Peggy's Gone to Pots" where it's revealed that Rusty is an actual person who Dale knew from school and believed to be dead (he actually just moved away). Rusty returns to Arlen to confront Dale over tons of credit and identity issues as resulting from Dale using his name. Dale panics and arranges a failed murder-suicide pact with Peggy, after which Rusty merely has Dale sign a form clearing him of all his identity troubles.
-   _Hero: 108_: In the first season, ApeTrully tries to give gold to all the animal kingdoms to get them to join Big Green and gets captured every time, which results in First Squad having to come and save him, but starting in season two, he stops doing this.
-   _VeggieTales_: "The Eight Polish Foods of Christmas", a parody of "The Twelve Days of Christmas" and a song included on a _A Very Veggie Christmas_ and _The Little Drummer Boy_. Starting with the second food, Oscar describes each food with the similarity that they have meat (2 steamed perogies <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , 3 simmered gołąbkis <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , 4 baked paprikas <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and 5 smoked kielbasas <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> ). When we get to number six, 6 fried chruścikis, Bob asks if it's something in the meat category. He explains it's a delightful pastry and the gag about everything having meat pretty much stops.
-   In _Star Trek: Lower Decks_, one of Shaxs' first options to dealing with _any_ problem is to eject the warp core, something he proclaimed all the way back in the first episode, "Second Contact". Any time some sort of danger comes up, expect the ejection idea to come up. However, in the season 3 finale "The Stars at Night", Boimler lets out a Big "SHUT UP!", pointing out that this time, it is their best plan, where they use it as a gigantic high warp mine to try and destroy their pursuers.
-   _Kaeloo_: In the first two seasons, a running gag was that nobody knew if Stumpy's long-distance girlfriend Ursula was real or not, and jokes would often rely on Ursula's existence being ambiguous. In Episode 116 from season 3, Stumpy's friends' questioning of Ursula's existence prompts Stumpy to have a mental breakdown, and in the hospital his friends encounter Ursula, who was real all along and has come to visit Stumpy. From this point onwards, nobody questions the existence of Ursula ever again.
-   In the first few seasons of _The Loud House_, Bobby was seen working a variety of jobs, rarely the same one in each episode. However, after the status quo was shaken up when he moved to a new city, he has consistently been shown working at his family's bodega.
-   _The Patrick Star Show_:
    -   Squidward is the paperboy, and in earlier episodes, it's a Running Gag that Cecil never pays for the newspapers Squidward delivers him. "Backpay Payback" is entire episode dedicated to Granny Tentacles helping Squidward retrieve the money Cecil kept from him. Cecil does pay up... but the money turns out to be paper-mache, and he gets away scot free. Even then, the joke has never shown up in episodes after this one, meaning it ended here for good.
    -   Whenever Shmandor appears, someone smashes it, be it Cave Patrick crushing it with a rock, Squidina unknowingly stepping on it, or Patrick destroying it with cereal box prizes. This leads to "The Wrath of Shmandor", where the army mobilizes an attack against Patrick to ensure their city's safety. While Squidina does give the Shmandorian leaders a solution, the army general actually wins and takes over Patrick's brain, with the episode ending right there.

___