**Javier:** Why don't they fight their own fucking fights!  
**Vendel:** Would you be eager to fight the devil?... \[f\]or that is what Gunmar is to trolls — the devil, who can strip the will and mind from your closest, oldest, friend or mate, and send them against you.

An evil character who appears to be a satanic figure for the setting, although they clearly aren't the Devil himself.

A Satanic Archetype character can be any combination of the following:

-   A tendency for entering bargains with the intent of helping the other person in the short term, but screwing them over in the long term. If portrayed as more of a Noble Demon then said Satanic character might not intend to do more than what's in the contract — but they will still exact their pound of flesh from anyone who fails to uphold their end of the bargain.
-   A Fallen Angel who rebels against the creator's will, and may or may not want to supplant them. If there are no beings outright called angels in the setting, then said character could be a member of another group of beings who were either divine, otherworldly, or just have abilities that others don't. Bonus points if they were their creator's favorite pre-fall.
-   A tempter, who guides decent people towards indecent things. Often an Evil Mentor or a toxic friend, sometimes more supernatural and less corporeal.
-   A God of Evil.
-   A ruler of demons, or devils.
-   Something that looks the part.
-   Embodies most or all of the Seven Deadly Sins.
-   Is known by various names, has many faces and is called many things.
-   Is associated with animals that are considered dark or malevolent (like wolves, dragons or snakes).
-   May or may not have fire powers or dark powers (because demons and hell are often associated with fire and/or darkness).
-   Alternatively to the powers, they may invoke the literal meaning behind Lucifer - "bringer of light" - and be strongly associated with light and colors associated with both brightness and beauty, especially if they are also a Narcissist. Expect a Red Right Hand or a menacing One-Winged Angel form, though.

Chances are, if a work is using Everybody Hates Hades, then Hades or another being or creature associated with death will be depicted as a Satanic Archetype. If the character lampshades their own satanic qualities, then it falls under Devil Complex.

Super-Trope of Davy Jones. See also The Trickster, Hijacked by Jesus, God of Evil, The Anti-God, Maou the Demon King, Classic Villain, Southern Gothic Satan (a Deep South version of Satan), Louis Cypher (a trope which frequently overlaps with this one) and Demiurge Archetype (who _impersonates_ God rather than going head-to-head against Him) Contrast with Crystal Dragon Jesus, Madonna Archetype, Messianic Archetype, Moses Archetype, Big Red Devil (who looks Satanic but doesn't necessarily act the part).

___

## Examples:

-   Anime & Manga
-   Animated Films
-   Literature
-   Live-Action Films
-   Video Games
-   Western Animation

    open/close all folders 

    Comic Books 

-   For the entirety of The DCU, Darkseid is the Big Bad. He's a God of Evil and the Evil Overlord of Apokolips. He's the arch-enemy of the Highfather of New Genesis, and plans to take over the universe just to make everything in it suffer. Not to mention he's a powerful deceiver. In _Final Crisis_, he's upgraded to the status of a Made of Evil Humanoid Abomination Omnicidal Maniac.
-   The Joker can be described as one, given that he has many nicknames, comes off as a trickster who loves to sow discord and chaos just For the Evulz, and embodies most of the Seven Deadly Sins. He also dresses in light colors compared to Batman's Dark Is Not Evil vibe. Being a foil to the Dark Knight, the Clown Prince of Crime's two main goals are to make Batman laugh (i.e. mentally break Batman) and prove that the world is just as ugly as he is.
-   Sinestro in _Green Lantern_, to the point where the parody episode "Green Loontern" in _Duck Dodgers_ actually lampshades it at least once. He was the best and brightest of a heavenly host that used a form of light, only to be thrown out into exile. At first Sinestro goes renegade, obtaining his own power ring, and eventually corrupts his successor Hal Jordan, turning him into the hosts for the monstrous Parallax. Seeking to overthrow the heavenly host in question, the Green Lantern Corps, he creates his own Sinestro Corps through making deals with various aliens and monsters across the universe. They take over Qward, the antimatter universe, and reshape it to the point where it resembles your typical Fire and Brimstone Hell. In the short term, he promises them whatever they desire, but what they don't know is that every single ring he gives them has a killswitch only he can activate. Mongul, for example, found this out the hard way, and the entire Sinestro Corps is betrayed and sent into stasis by their former leader when he no longer has a use for them. When he becomes the latest incarnation of Parallax, he takes on a twisted form resembling a devil.
-   In the Marvel Universe, the Hell Lords are a group of demons composed of Asmodeus, Hela, Mephisto, Pluto, Satannish The Supreme, and Satana. Former members of the group included Beelzeboul, Dormammu, Hellstrom, Lucifer/Satan, Marduk Kurios, Olivier, Thog the Nether-Spawn, and Umar the Unrelenting. (Yes, Satan himself used to be a member of a group of demons who represent all the aspects of Satan. Somehow.) Many have admitted to either being inspired by, playing off the name of, or claiming to be the REAL Satan. Thanks to inconsistent continuity and their own history as liars, nothing they say can be believed. This was further complicated with the introduction of the real Lucifer- Who is very specifically the _Satan of the Christian religion_ in the Marvel universe. A tie-in to the _Fear Itself_ crossover introduced Satan's empty throne, but it was unclear if there was a real Satan and if so who it was (though when we saw God's throne in _Ghost Rider: Heaven's on Fire_, it was also empty). Several hell-lords claim to be Satan, but none sit in it for fear of being torn apart by the other hell-lords.
    -   Immortal Hulk introduces the One Below All, the dark reflection of the One Above All. His Hell spans the entire multiverse, he is the source of all gamma radiation, and he gives those who channel his power Resurrective Immortality while bringing out their darkest self.
-   MonsterVerse: Besides the film examples, there's Camazotz in the graphic novel _Kingdom Kong_. He has horns and bat-wings, he's associated with darkness, he emerges from the Hollow Earth (i.e. the underworld) commanding a legion of smaller minions (demons) who are similar to him in image, and he does battle with the reigning benevolent god seeking to usurp said god's kingdom for his own and reshape the kingdom in his own image.
-   Lord Golgotha in _Reborn_ is the ruler of the Dark Lands, the evil half of the afterlife where all the wicked souls are sent upon dying. He has a outright demonic appearance except he has grey skin instead of red, and he was prophesied as his people's Dark Messiah that would lead them into conquering the world of the living in their twisted, dark forms.
-   An excellent version of a character in a polytheist story being cast as the Christian Satan occurred in the comic _Rogan Ghosh, Star of the East_. A character called The Soma Swami, False God of a Thousand False Worlds, who tempts people to sin or leads them into ignorance so that they'll stay in the wheel of reincarnation where he can feed on their energies. People who reach enlightenment/heaven/Nirvana have escaped him (as he himself puts it, "Fuck Christ! Fuck Buddha! They're just the ones that got away!") As a way of adapting the Christian devil to a Hindu setting, it's hard to imagine Soma being bettered.
-   _Wonder Woman_ Vol 1: The Emperor of Saturn has the appearance of a Big Red Devil, has an empire full of frequently beaten human and Saturnain slaves, his subjects are mostly terrified of him even those that revere him and when he makes deals and treaties he holds to the text while fully intended to use the loopholes therein to screw over whomever he made the deal with.

    Fan Works 

-   _Abraxas (Hrodvitnon)_: Ghidorah, like in _Godzilla: King of the Monsters (2019)_. Vivienne Graham always called Ghidorah the Devil or the Dragon in her notes, it's often compared by human characters' narration in the story to a devil, and if Viv and San (Monster X) are an Anti-Anti-Christ then Ghidorah is to them what Trigon is to Raven. Ghidorah even hints in Chapter 13 that the Devil might literally be humanity's mythical memory of Ghidorah after all.
-   _The Bridge_:
    -   The Shadow of Red is a huge, red, fire-controlling demon who rules Zenith, a realm that resembles Fire and Brimstone Hell. He and his army of demons enslave and torture anyone who enters Zenith, and he's been compared to beings like Satan, Iblis, and Kali.
    -   Bagan is described as having once been a radiant paragon of virtue and wisdom until something caused him to despise life and become an Omnicidal Maniac. He tempts certain characters with a Deal with the Devil to manipulate them into helping him achieve his goal. One of his former titles was even "The Morning Star".
-   _Code Prime_:
    -   First we have Megatron. Once a former hero that fell to the dark side, turned his entire homeworld into a wasteland as a consequence of his quest for power, Megatron arrived on Earth by falling from the skies, much like the deciptions of Lucifer being expelled from Heaven. Upon firming resindence on Earth, Megatron became an Evil Mentor to Charles zi Britannia, corrupting the young prince with the social darwinist ideology that drives the Britannian Empire. He also controls Dark Energon, a malevolent and highly dangerous power that descends from Unicron, the Cybertronian God of Evil, capable of raising the dead as horrific abominations. Megatron also gains the power of Dark Geass, a corrupted form of Geass capable of killing anyone with a single glare. Being a Code Bearer also allows him to form contracts with others, as shown with V.V. after his capture. To put it in the bluntest way possible, C.C. calls him the Devil, and the leader of the Decepticons doesn't make an effort to convey his unhinged nature.
    -   Then there is also, Unicron, whom many people acknowledge as The Devil due to how similar their backstories are. Described as being of pure evil and malice that wished for the end of all life, Unicron once battled against Primus, the God and creator of the Cybertronian kind, only to be defeated and sealed away in the depths of Earth, although its worth noticing that what actually happened is that the planet ended up forming itself across his body. As mentioned mentioned above, his blood is a corrupting substance capable of bringing the dead, or just any kind of technology as horrendous monstrosities.
-   _A Diplomatic Visit_: In the sequel _Diplomat at Large_, the Storm King, per canon. He commands an army of ferocious beasts, has conquered multiple countries and left them devastated, and has Tempest do his bidding with a promise to restore her broken horn, though he outright admits during the battle that he wasn't going to do it even before she betrayed him. In addition, he has horns, a pointed crown and goats legs reminiscent of Satan.
-   _Equestria Girls: Friendship Souls_: Much like his Equestrian counterpart, the Human Tirek fits the bill, being the red-skinned horned king of the Hollows/Arrancar, ruling them in their ongoing war against both the heavens (Soul Society) and the humans (the Quincy). It's pointed out In-Universe he looks a lot like the Devil. In fact, due to the All Myths Are True aspect of this crossover, it's heavily implied that Tirek himself _inspired_ the stories of Satan and his minions, since he's old enough that he was once contemporaries with the ancient gods of various religions and mythologies. Although ironically, he wasn't responsible for betraying The Soul Queen, but rather witnessed said betrayal and chose to whip his side to war to face the real traitors.
-   _The Logia Brothers_: Akuma is the manifestation of the Sea Devil who created the Devil Fruits. He spreads them around for the sake of creating chaos for his amusement.
-   Dark Raiden in _Mortal Kombat: Desperation_ fits the bill of one: openly rebels against the Elder Gods, was once The Mentor to many of the heroes but now a Broken Pedestal after his Face–Heel Turn, aspires to become the Evil Overlord of all realms, wears a dark outfit to show his wicked nature, leads an army of evildoers by manipulating them, and is a nihilistic Omnicidal Maniac.
-   _My Venom Academia: Symbiote's Justice_, has Knull, the God of Symbiotes. He is described as an ancient evil entity that opposed the forces of light, created a race of monsters who essentially possess and corrupt their victims, is imprisoned by his own allies who could not stomach his evil intentions any longer and makes a deal with a mortal in order to be set free. He is known by many titles, including King in Black, The Living Abyss, God of the Symbiotes and the Forger of Darkness, all describing how much of a malevolent and nightmarish deity he is.
-   The Dark Queen Olga from _The Night Unfurls_ is a prideful Lady of Black Magic who starts a Forever War by rebelling against the Goddess Reborn, is associated with fire and dark, and is known by various titles. Later subverted as she is merely the Disc-One Final Boss, her motive for rebellion is portrayed in a sympathetic light, she gets a Heel–Face Turn, and her association with dark (dark elves) is not malicious in nature.
-   Ho-oh and Uxie both represent this trope in _Poké Wars_.
    -   Ho-oh is a great and noble angelic being of light whose Pride made him rebel against God's chosen plan in favor of his own vision, and he makes other Legendaries/Angels join him by preying on their hidden desires. His fall to evil also causes him to lose sight of what he originally fought for, turning him into an angry, spiteful, and petty creature of darkness that gets trapped inside the Pokemon version of Hell, the Reverse World.
    -   Uxie is a monster that was sealed away and is released during an apocalyptic scenario who then proceeds to manipulate events from behind the scenes to his benefit. He looks like a creature of good and light, disguising his evil intent, he believes that he can make the universe superior to God's attempt, and he plans on making mockeries/clones of his creations to act as his army.
-   MissingNo in _Pokémon Reset Bloodlines_ pretty much introduces itself as one. It reveals to go by several demonic names, offers Faustian deals and takes pleasure in watching people suffer.
-   The _Pony POV Series_ has two beings who share this role. One is Discord's father, Havoc, the Anthropomorphic Personification of Mass Hysteria and one of the four Elders (the Top Gods). He's the Dimension Lord of Pony Hell, where the condemned are doomed to pull his chariot across an endless desert for all eternity. The other is Morning Star, a Fallen Alicorn who was originally supposed to be the Concept of Perfection and Beauty, but, like Old Scratch, became the embodiment of Evil and Temptation when he attempted to overthrow the Elders, seeing himself as more perfect than they are. He was sealed away, but later released by Havoc to fight on his side of a war, and served as _Discord's_ Evil Mentor. What became of him after that is presently unknown, though Word of God is that he was either killed during the war or imprisoned in Hell under Havoc's watch as part of the peace treaty between the Alicorns and Draconequi.
-   _Revival_: Maya Lottie is one of the avatars of the evil Nyarlathotep. Much like her literary counterpart, she makes deals with potential victims such as forcing Lincoln Loud into a game when stealing the souls of two of his sisters among others.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Arrowverse_:
    -   _Arrow_ has Damien Darhk. He was a potential candidate for the next Ra's al-Ghul, but was cast out of the League of Assassins along with his League allies, similar to Lucifer and angels sympathetic to him being expelled from Heaven. His light blonde hair brings to mind the meaning of Lucifer's name, "light bringer." He infiltrates Star City under the guise of a benefactor, before using it as a base to try and destroy and remake the world in his image. After experiencing a Rogues' Gallery Transplant to _Legends of Tomorrow_, he loses most of these features.
    -   _Black Lightning (2018)_: If the titular Black Lightning is the show's Jesus-figure, his arch-enemy Tobias Whale is the show's devil stand-in. He was a Freeland politician who was expelled from politics after being exposed for corruption. He's an albino and therefore has Light Is Not Good built into his character. Gambi, who has dealt with Whale in the past, notes that he's exceptionally good at bringing out the worst in people, of which he uses Whale's right-hand woman Syonide and Jefferson's former student Lala as examples. In the show proper, we see it when Whale approaches Khalil, a teenager paralyzed in a shooting Whale ordered, posing as a sympathetic benefactor to try and poison him against Black Lightning. Sadly, it works.
    -   _The Flash (2014)_:
        -   Savitar, an ancient and extremely powerful speedster that always wears shining armor and uniquely leaves a trail of white lightning whenever he runs. He promises potential followers superhuman powers in exchange for their service, leaving them to torment the people of Central City and Team Flash.. He also turns out to be a Fallen Hero, since he's a potential future self of Barry Allen.
        -   This trope is invoked in "The Last Temptation of Barry Allen, Part 1." The episode, being a Whole-Plot Reference to _The Last Temptation of Christ_, places Bloodwork in the role of Satan as a Foil to the Speed Force's Messianic Archetype.
-   In the _Battlestar Galactica (1978)_ episode "War of the Gods", the fleet is tempted by the promises of the mysterious "Count Iblis" (an Islamic name for Satan), who turns out to be a fallen angel from Caprican mythology.
-   _The Boys (2019)_: Homelander provides a chilling example of this, being Satan crossed with Superman. He's a blonde, charismatic and handsome man who was supposed be a true hero — in other words, an angel — but toxic egotism and the desire to do whatever he wants has turned him into a monster who is incapable of true heroism, only fooling others into thinking he's a pure person while manipulating people to serve his own ends. Season 1 even hints towards this allusion with graffiti of an upside-down cross being framed behind Homelander at one point.
-   _Buffyverse_:
    -   Glory from _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_ shares a lot in common with you-know-who; a fallen god exiled to Earth who lives in a lavishly decorated apartment, wears expensive clothes, takes on the form of someone nobody would suspect, and is called "The Beast" despite her followers describing her as a "shining light".
    -   The Beast, the highlight from series four of _Angel_, is the most demonic monster<small>◊</small> in the whole franchise, and nearly unstoppable since the only thing that can harm him is a dagger made from his own bones. But the Beast being the ultimate evil gets subverted as he's taking orders from Cordelia, who is being controlled by Jasmine, who appears in the world as a beautiful goddess but who also removes the free will from every human, which Angel takes issue with.
    -   Wolfram and Hart is the underlying evil and the final villain to beat in _Angel_, having existed at the dawn of time and having connections to many separate dimensions. Even when apparently being in control of Wolfram and Hart, the Angel gang suffer their greatest losses just getting sucked into the evil business. Even killing all the top staff merely gets the Senior Partners angry, which leads to a seemingly unwinnable battle, but Angel and his friends decide to go out fighting.
    -   The First Evil, an incorporeal being who first appears in the _Buffy_ episode "Amends" as well as taking the role of major antagonist in season 7, is ultimately the source of all evil in the Buffyverse.
-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   The Master/Missy was always Satanic as well as being the Doctor's childhood friend and counter to all the Doctor's goodness. The Master takes pride in being a megalomaniacal time-travelling killer, and who could forget that devilish beard. Though The Master usually wants to kill/torture The Doctor, they also want the Doctor to give into power and corruption and cannot understand the Doctor's fixation with "mercy". Despite the Master's evilness, the Doctor cannot bring themself to destroy the Master since they have a connection that's lasted thousands upon thousands of years.
    -   The Monster of the Week in the two-parter "The Impossible Planet"/"The Satan Pit" is the Beast, a monstrously large creature with red skin and curved horns, imprisoned within a large chamber deep underground, put there by the so-called "Disciples of the Light". It claims to be the inspiration for all the Devil figures in all of the religions of the universe, and to be older than the universe. However, it clearly does have a liking for messing with people's heads, so it's entirely possible that it's simply a Sufficiently Advanced Eldritch Abomination with a good grasp of psychology. Whatever the case may be, the Beast's attempt to escape its prison is thwarted by the Doctor, and no definitive answer is ever put forward. The Beast's greatest feat is making the Doctor question his own belief and even consider the metaphysical.
    -   There is also the Black Guardian, the Anthropomorphic Personification of Chaos, who claims to act in the name of evil, and wants to plunge the Universe into eternal chaos.
-   Verna from _The Fallof The Houseof Usher 2023_. If she's not literally the capital-D Devil, then she's at least an extremely close relative. In her case, though, she's very much the 'Satan-as-prosecutor' version of this archetype, a supernatural force who exists to test people's susceptibility to evil through traps and temptations (and exact terrible punishment if they fail those tests). She's not so much malicious as she is responsible for dealing with human malice, and can actually be quite pleased when people prove themselves better than she expects.
-   _Frasier_: Frasier's agent, Bebe Glazer. She'll pull any trick for her clients, including (but not limited to) seducing them, sabotaging the competition, and staging a suicide attempt, all for better contract deals and greater exposure. Niles never fails to draw the comparison to her as a literal devil.
-   _Game of Thrones_: The Night King is this, in contrast to Jon and Dany's Messianic Archetype (s). He rules over a kingdom of what are essentially ice demons, and he either serves or is R'hllorism's equivalent of Satan. As far as we know, the Night King is the ultimate evil of Westeros.
-   In _Hannibal_, Hannibal Lecter serves as a Satanic figure vis-a-vis Will Graham's messianic archetype. Mads Mikkelsen plays Hannibal as if he were Lucifer, a destructive and inhuman being living among humanity. Hannibal tempts, manipulates, deceives, and destroys those around him. He appeals to the worst impulses in his targets (fear in Abigail, guilt in Jack, and ambition in Sutcliffe). He mimics God's power over life and death and arrogantly thinks he understands the Almighty, as suggested by his conversation with Will about how God enjoys killing, and his conversation with the "muralist" about reflecting God's light in his "mural". In several scenes, he's lit with bright light from behind, evoking Lucifer as an angel of light. Finally, in Will's dreams and hallucinations, Hannibal is symbolized by a monstrous horned man.
    
    **Will:** Hannibal's not God. Wouldn't have any _fun_ being God. _Defying_ God, that's his idea of a good time. There's nothing he'd love more than to see this roof collapse mid-Mass, choirs singing...he would just love it, and he thinks God would love it, too.
    
-   _Kamen Rider_:
    -   The Great Leader in the original _Kamen Rider_ is a faceless, shapeless being which tempts others to do evil and forfeit their humanities in exchange for greater power, and who ultimately desires to corrupt the human race by remodeling select humans into kaijin and enslaving the rest.
    -   _Kamen Rider Kuuga_: The lord of the Grongi, N-Daguva-Zeba is a man in white whose the sadistic ruler of a race of effectively demons and who plans to corrupt humanity into evil and wicked creatures.
    -   _Kamen Rider Agito_ has an interesting take on it. The Big Bad known as the Overlord Theos proves to be the one who created humanity, and the low-level superpowers some people have — Riders like Agito being what you get when that power fully matures — turns out to be the "Seed of Agito" left by Prometh, an El Lord identical to Theos, who wanted to help humanity break free of his superior's control. As a guy with a light-based name who leads humans to rebel against their creator, _the Big Good is actually based on the devil!_
    -   _Kamen Rider Gaim_ gives us an unusual example in DJ Sagara. The show features an extended metaphor for the Book of Genesis, and Sagara has the Animal Motif of the snake. He's also the avatar of Helheim, the Alien Kudzu trying to destroy the world. In spite of this, Sagara/Helheim is never depicted as malicious or evil, but simply a very harsh Secret Test of Character because the power of the Golden Apple is quite literally world-shaping. In fact, at several points in the story he helps out the protagonists (particularly Kouta, to whom he takes a liking), and at the end of the story when Kouta and Mai leave the Earth, he remarks "Though I'm probably the last one who should be saying this, be fruitful and multiply!"
    -   _Kamen Rider Build_: Blood Stalk/Evolto is the being his primary Fullbottle and first Evolbottle with red being his main color motif. He also fits in terms of role, as a Cobra\-themed manipulator who offers power to the other villains in exchange for doing his bidding only to screw them over in the end while furthering his own plans to kill everyone by starting The End of the World as We Know It. The _ROGUE_ spinoff even has him be directly compared to Mephistopheles from _Faust_.
    -   Storious of _Kamen Rider Saber_ is a cunning manipulator who makes deals with others, only to inevitably backstab them when they're of no more use. His monster form also resembles a Big Red Devil, being largely red and black with two large horns coming from either side of his head. The comparisons are further amped in his backstory, where it's revealed Storious was once one of five followers of an angelic Miko who was the embodiment of the Wonder World, until he selfishly tried to steal the Great Big Book of Everything for himself and led two others to follow him. Furthermore, when he obtains a Kamen Rider form, it summons six wings behind him during the Transformation Sequence.
-   _Loki (2021)_: The Big Bad, He Who Remains. He calls himself a devil, is introduced holding an apple, says that he's seen all and knows all, and tempts a pair of characters, a male and a female, both created from the same source, with a choice to maintain or disrupt the status quo. His Citadel with pointed arches, rose windows and candelabrum looks like a dark gothic church, and on his official poster he has a Background Halo on the purple background.
-   _The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power_:
    -   Morgoth is the Satan analogue of Middle-earth, as a fallen archangel who led a failed rebellion against heaven. Sauron was his right-hand demon. Given Tolkien's strong Catholic faith and his statements that Middle-earth is meant to actually be our own world, but in a lost historical age thousands of years ago, Morgoth is _literally_ meant to be Satan, just appearing in a different version (it's complicated).
    -   Sauron becomes the next one by the end of Season 1, after deceiving everyone around him with a handsome and charming human form. Bonus points for having Hellish Pupils and Mordor as his lair.
-   The two deity-like figures on the island of _Lost_, Jacob and the "Man in Black", both share numerous traits with the devil as a way of making it unclear who is good and who is evil:
    -   Jacob has blonde hair, likes wine (and uses it as a metaphor for evil "corked" by the island), interferes with the lives of the characters in subtle ways, and is explicitly called "the devil" by the Man in Black, though he was presumably saying this metaphorically to exploit Richard's Catholic faith. He's also played by Mark Pellegrino — Lucifer in _Supernatural_.
    -   The Man in Black is a shapeshifter and manipulator, known for taking the forms of the dead and deceiving mortals. He cannot kill Jacob himself and must use someone else to do it. He takes the form of a giant cloud of black smoke that sometimes looks like a slithering snake. He has been called "evil incarnate" and a personification of hell by various characters.
-   _Lucifer (2016)_: Ironically is not Lucifer, the In-Universe Devil himself, but his Evil Twin, Michael, who behaves more like the stereotypical idea of Satan. His motivations are based on sheer sadism brought on by a wounded ego towards his brother, even implying that _he_ planted the idea into Lucifer's head to rebel against God. He is infamous for his lies (making him the "King of Lies"), he corrupts those around him like Amenadiel and Dan into doing genuine harm unlike Lucifer's less damaging Poke the Poodle temptations, his powers are based around causing chaos through fear and doubt; even his scarred face, lop-sided posture, and mangled wing all make it look like _he_ was the one who fell instead of Lucifer, having once been beautiful before being permanently scarred by wickedness.
-   Mr Gold/Rumplestiltskin in _Once Upon a Time_. An immensely powerful being who loves to make deals, he'll make all your dreams come true, for a price. He even looks vaguely demonic- long nose, pointy ears, goatee.
-   _Person of Interest_ has Samaritan. A malevolent A.I. that sees itself as God meant to rule mankind, has a near infinte amount of followers (referred to as "Assets") all of which wear black and are more than willing to die on its name, directly opposes The Machine (regarded as a God) and finally, its human avatar is a young boy named Gabriel. The Archangel Gabriel is usually said to be God's herald, the same way Gabriel Hayward acts as a herald to Samaritan, as fitting of its biblical references.
-   In _Lexx_, the planet Fire is a hot, barren world where people can only survive by living in cities built on top of tall pillars that hold them in the slightly-cooler higher altitudes. The planet is ruled by the Affably Evil Prince, and it turns out to be the afterlife for people who make bad decisions in life. Prince himself often claims ignorance of his origins and purpose, but understands that his job is to make sure the people of Fire suffer forever.
-   Khan in _Star Trek: The Original Series_. He was genetically engineered by ambitious scientists to improve the species, and instead became a tyrant (but a more benevolent one than his buds). His exile at the end of "Space Seed" draws a parallel to Lucifer in _Paradise Lost_. And he opens up _Star Trek Into Darkness_ by making a very Faustian little deal with a desperate archivist to further his own goals.
-   In the _Star Trek: The Next Generation_ episode "Devil's Due", an alien claims to be the devil-figure from any number of mythologies (including Klingon) and "proves" it by taking their forms.
-   _Stranger Things_ Season 4 has Vecna aka Henry Creel, who masterfully checks all the boxes for this. He’s an inhuman sociopath that seeks out tormented souls and plays on their anxieties and guilt, before killing them and taking their minds/souls to live with him in his hellish domain. He commands an army of monsters and a legion of bats creatures in particular (in the Bible bats are the messengers of Satan), his first victim in the show is someone called Chrissy which can be short for Christina/Christine (strongly related to Christianity in Latin) and even gets wreathed in fire courtesy of Steve and Robin. Henry’s backstory in the Hawkins lab and the events that turned him into Vecna only cement this, as he appears as a seemingly kind white-clad handsome orderly to Eleven yet subtly manipulates her into bringing him back to full power, using the gratitude she feels in him helping her escape to get her to remove the Power Limiter from his neck. Henry in this grand spirit of this, even tries to lure Eleven into temptation offering a We Can Rule Together, though she refuses and casts him down to “Hell” aka the Upside Down and just like Lucifer Henry is burned in the descent turning into a demon-like being.
-   _Super Sentai_:
    -   In _Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger_, Witch Bandora's true master is named Dai (Great) Satan. He looks nothing like the usual depiction of the Judeo-Christian devil, being a floating blue head who yells a lot, and is mostly just an evil spirit that just happens to be named "Satan" (as opposed to being the "actual" Satan). When footage of Dai Satan was used for _Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers_, he was renamed "Lokar" and his role on the story was demoted to a monster who just served Rita Repulsa.
    -   In _Tensou Sentai Goseiger,_ Our Angels Are Different, but Burajira of the Messiah is a fallen Gosei Angel and the manipulator behind the series' events. At one point, when Gosei Knight is being mind-controlled by him and Alata (Gosei Red) is trying to talk him down, we get each over his shoulder, Good Angel, Bad Angel style.
-   _Titans (2018)_: Trigon is a red devil from a world of fire and brimstone that dupes mortals into working for him.
-   _The Twilight Zone (1959)_:
    -   The aliens from "The Monsters Are Due on Maple Street" are, when it all comes down, non-human beings who deliberately encourage the worst in others with the goal of said others' destruction.
    -   Several episodes involving deals with the devil:
        -   Cadwallader in "Escape Clause".
        -   Mr. Smith in "Printer's Devil".
        -   Miss Devlin in "Of Late I Think of Cliffordville".
-   Ultraman Belial of the _Ultra Series_, a being of light cast from his home for his insatiably arrogant hunger for absolute power (which he eventually got when he merged with the Reiblood alien) to the point where he tried to steal the life source of M78. He was successfully imprisoned after an assault on the Land of Light with an army of monsters and aliens, but was eventually freed and now seeks to take over the Land of Light and destroy his good counterparts once and for all.
    -   Alien Mefilas from _Ultraman_. Named after the devil Mephistopheles, he tried to convince Satoru to hand over the Earth to him, in a parallel of the Devil himself trying to tempt Jesus.
-   Gorog, the Big Bad in _Wizards of Waverly Place_ is the leader of the Angels of Darkness. It's not clear if he is The Devil, or a high ranking minion of his, or simply an Expy. He does show some traits of the Biblical Satan, such as trying to tempt the main characters into joining him. It also appears his minion base is made up of people he tempted and fallen angels.

    Mythology & Religion 

-   The Bible, of course, has the real deal. But many individuals in the Bible still mirror the devil in some way.
-   Egyptian Mythology: One might claim that Satan himself is actually an Apophis archetype. Apep (or Apophis in Greek) was the ancient Egyptian God of Evil/Chaos (which were pretty much the same thing to the Egyptians), and thus was never 'worshiped' in any real way. He took the form of a giant serpent/dragon who constantly tried to destroy all the gods and thus the universe itself. Every night, it was believed, he would battle the sun god Ra. Ancient Egyptians would prepare prayers for fighting against Apep as they went to the underworld.
-   Mesopotamian Mythology: Anzu/Zu/Imdugud is possibly _another_ Ur-Example, like Apep existing well before Christianity. A giant Lion-Bird creature, Anzu defied the King of the Gods - Enlil, and stole from him the Tablets of Destiny (an artifact giving one power to rule the universe/creation). Gods feared to challenge Anzu, until Ninurta (or depending on version Ningirsu or latter Marduk) fought with, and defeated the lion-bird. Further notable is that overtime Anzu started to be depicted as a Lion-Dragon, as well as possibly evolved into (more well known in modern pop-culture) figure in Assyrian and Later Babylonian myths - Pazuzu the King of Wind Demons.
-   Gnosticism: Yaldaboath, otherwise known as the Demiurge, created the physical world and seeks to keep mankind in the dark about their spiritual nature.
-   Angra Mainyu is the God of Evil whilst also being the polar opposite of his brother Ahura Mazda. Freely admitting he could do good but opts not to, Angra Mainyu makes it his mission to pervert his brother's creations after failing to kill the primal bull. He corrupts the daevas against his brother and is responsible for many of the tragedies that befall the world.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   Mara is the "King of Demons" in Buddhism, although the term may also refer to all demons, as in _the_ maras. Mara is the son of a deva whose life purpose is to avoid people from attaining Nirvana, however Buddhists do not really bash or hate Mara as they should feel compassion for all beings, demons included, and Mara would some day die and re-incarnate in something different. Interestingly, as pointed by some scholars, Mara is a very Buddhist-exclusive concept that does not exists in Hinduism or Jainism and some scholars suspect could be an import from other neighboring culture, maybe China or Persia.

    Pinball 

-   The Devil in _Devil's Dare_ is a Big Red Devil who leads a group of green-skinned demons in a Fire and Brimstone Hell.

    Role-Playing Games 

-   The Darkitect, as depicted in _Dino Attack RPG_. A Manipulative Bastard who actively plays with the emotions of his foes to tempt them into doing his bidding? Check. Ruler of the Stromlings and Mutant Dinos, often referred to as "demons" by the inhabitants of Adventurers' Island? Check. The Darkitect may not be Satan himself, but he certainly fits the archetype.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Exalted_ has the Yozi, the so-called Demon Princes. They're Eldritch Abominations who built the universe and were overthrown by the gods and humans they had created (there's a strong titan theme with them). They now sit imprisoned in the Bloody Bowels of Hell, tormenting infinite hapless demons, trying to lure mortals and Exalted into Faustian deals for morally dubious goals. They aren't necessarily pure evil, but they're bad news, very alien, and generally not fond of humanity. For example, the Ebon Dragon is the cosmic embodiment of betrayal, among other things. She Who Lives In Her Name wants to get rid of free will, for the greater good.
-   _Magic: The Gathering_'s Nicol Bolas. Starting by the fact that _his own name_ is reportedly a German term for the Old Scratch and he is a dragon designed to resemble a demon, but it goes so much deeper than that. An impossibly old evil member of a host of god-like beings, of which he stood out amidst, he is a Consummate Liar and manipulator as well as an outright corrupter who can't resist being worshiped as a god if he can help it. He is thoroughly associated with the most stereotypically evil color association with all that entails,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , and is _Magic's_ quintessential force of evil, especially after previous overarching villain Yawgmoth's defeat.
-   _Pathfinder_ presents Asmodeus, God of Slavery, Tyranny, Contracts, and Pride, pictured above. However, while not quite heroic, he is significantly more reliable, honorable and trustworthy than most examples; he even helped Sarenrae, the local Messianic Archetype, seal away the Omnicidal Maniac Eldritch Abomination Rovagug, the Rough Beast, and actually holds the only keys to his prison. Which he uses to taunt Rovagug.
-   _Warhammer_, _Warhammer 40,000_, and _Warhammer: Age of Sigmar_:
    -   For the "God of Evil who rules over demons" archetype: There are actually _four_ of them - the Chaos Gods. All of them rule over legions of daemons, tempt people to their cause, and want to raise hell. Each of them has a certain Satan-like trait - Khorne is all about violence and bloodshed whose daemons look the part, Nurgle is the Plaguemaster (a trait often attributed to the devil in medieval Christendom), Slaanesh encourages total following of pleasures of the flesh, and Tzeentch is the ultimate Manipulative Bastard.
    -   Only _Warhammer_ and _Warhammer: Age of Sigmar_:
    -   Only _Warhammer 40,000_:
        -   For the Miltonian "Fallen Angel Rebel" archetype: Horus, who was the favorite son of the Emperor, rebelled, and tried to overthrow the Emperor in the early days of the Imperium. Further reenforcing the analogy, when he rebelled, one-third of all Imperial forces followed suit. The only Son who would stand up against him is the angelic Sanguinius, the Primarch closest to his father in both actions and personality and who died for his bravery.
        -   For the "Edenic tempter" archetype: Erebus, the man who convinced Horus along with Lorgar to serve Chaos in the first place.

-   Although for obvious reasons, post-Gygax TSR and later Wizards of the Coast were extremely wary of allowing anything that could be even remotely used to put the charges of Satan-worship at their doorstep, there have been a few uses of Satan-like characters in _Dungeons & Dragons_:
    -   Asmodeus, Beelzebub (under the alias "Baalzebul"), Pazuzu and other fixtures in Christian demonology are used as villains often in the various _D&D_ worlds, particularly in 1st Edition and 3rd Edition (for most of 2nd, devils and demons were banned or renamed).
    -   Satan himself was statted up in a fan-penned article in _Dragon Magazine #28_, _long_ before the "D&D = Satanism" panic took off. As an injoke, Satan had exactly 333 hit points.
    -   At this point, Asmodeus, the ruler of the Nine Hells, has become the single most direct Satan analogue in D&D, to the point of being Satan in all but name. This is especially the case in 4th Edition D&D, where his backstory is now that he was once an archangel who led a _successful rebellion_ against the god he served.
    -   The closest Abyssal equivalent to Asmodeus' Infernal one would be Graz'zt, the Dark Prince, seducer, corrupter, hedonist and schemer extraordinaire, who would look like a stereotypical if handsome Big Red Devil (cloven hooves and all) if not for his pitch-black skin, has six fingers on each hand, and was explicitly inspired by legends of the Devil appearing at witches' Sabbaths in the guise of a Dark Man whom the witches would fornicate with. Depending on the edition and/or different versions of his Multiple-Choice Past, it's possible he's either a rogue Archdevil who decided Chaos was more fun than Law, or the offspring of another being who masquerades as the Dark Man at witches' Sabbaths, the Crawling Chaos AKA Nyarlathotep.
    -   Another close Abyssal equivalent, is Lolth, Demon Queen of Spiders, especially in _Forgotten Realms_. Originally a goddess named Araushnee, living in the Upper Plane of Arvandor - the favorite and lover of the ruler of elven gods, Corellon Larethian. But who after an almost successful coup, she was renamed Lolth, was banished to the Abyss and turned into demon. Indeed becoming one of the most powerful Demon Lords, even arguably the most powerful one<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . Later corrupting dark elves, ultimately resulting in them becoming drow, and staying as a corrupting influence on even non-drow elves to a degree. Bonus points for being very probably named after, and partly based on Lilith.
    -   _Forgotten Realms_ also has the god Gargauth, a former <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  archdevil who had made himself into a god of betrayal, cruelty and (political) corruption. Thanks to focusing on the Realms specifically and being a god (albeit a weak one) when Asmodeus wasn't, the 'Tenth Lord of the Nine' was able to temporarily corner this niche for the setting, until Asmodeus _actually_ became a god after the Spellplague, and Gargauth stopped being mentioned...At least untill the Second Sundering, though Gargauth returned far weakened, not even a deity anymore.
    -   The Birthright campaign setting had Azrai, the most beautiful and powerful of the gods who subsequently turned to evil and became The Corrupter and was subsequently fought and defeated by the other gods in a titanic battle known as Deismaar.
    -   _Eberron_ has a _lot_ of hostile supernatural forces, but the oldest, most powerful, and arguably most purely malevolent are the Overlords of the Age of Demons, also known as the Rakshasa Rajahs. Each corresponds to a different form of corruption or destruction, and one of them, Bel Shalor, the Shadow in the Flame, is the most clearly Satanic. A tempter and deceiver who specializes in corrupting mortal souls, who likes to whisper from within the Silver Flame (which is the Sentient Cosmic Force that holds him imprisoned) and convince people to do evil in the Flame's name. Theologically, he pretty much _is_ the Church of the Silver Flame's Devil, both for the above reasons and because their founder Tira Miron was first given divine power in order to defeat him.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh!_:

    Theatre 

-   _Mr Burns: A Post-Electric Play_ deals with a post-apocalyptic theater troupe doing their interpretation of the Cape Feare episode of _The Simpsons_. Over time, said interpretation changes so that Sideshow Bob becomes replaced with Mr. Burns, who becomes a dark god representing nuclear annihilation.

    Toys 

-   _BIONICLE_: There are three of them, and all of them have fought each other at some point to show who's higher on the pecking order.
    -   A Fallen Hero from one of God's (or Mata Nui's) elite soldiers, grew envious of Mata Nui, wants to supplant him and believes himself capable of doing so, an absolute master of manipulation... yep, Makuta Teridax fits the bill. Ultimately, he succeeded in toppling Mata Nui and taking his power, but died in the final battle with Mata Nui because of his own overconfidence and actions.
    -   Karzahni alludes to the Devil in many ways. He is a nigh-mythological figure in Matoran legend who rules over the equivalent of Bionicle hell meant for workers who didn't try hard enough at their jobs and never returned, in contrast to his brother Artakha. The reality is that it was his duty to "repair" them. Unfortunately, he wasn't very good at his job, went a little insane, and started imprisoning them in his realm. As for appearances, he is a Horned Humanoid that uses flaming chains and whose powers allow him to torture his victims with their worst nightmares of alternate futures. Put in his place by Teridax, driven insane, beaten by an old enemy with a grudge, and finally unceremoniously killed.
    -   Pridak of the Barraki bears many similarities with Lucifer. He is described as a "perfect physical specimen" before rebelling against his creator and subsequently being cast into a hellish prison, where he turned hideous and now actively plots his revenge on the universe he still seeks to rule. Ironically, he was the one to inspire Makuta Teridax to make his own bid for world domination, and even his name has the word Pride, which was Lucifer's Fatal Flaw. He fails to measure up to Teridax in the long run, but he's also the only one of the three still alive by the end.

    Visual Novels 

-   Manfred von Karma from _Ace Attorney_ is a more subtle version, resembling Satan in the sense of his Book of Job depiction as an evil prosecutor in a court. Aside from being an evil prosecutor, he's also the manipulative Greater-Scope Villain of the original trilogy, causing pretty much everything bad that happened in those games either directly or indirectly. This is slightly less subtle in the Japanese version where his name Karuma (Kanji: 狩 魔) literally means "hunter demon". Oh, and he _sounds_ like the devil too.
-   _Danganronpa_ has Junko Enoshima. The ultimate antithesis of hope, she orchestrates events leading to The Tragedy, tossing the world into disarray and chaos. Junko is a wicked manipulator whose very presence drives people to madness and blind allegiance to her evil cause, such as her twin sister Mukuro and her Childhood Friend Matsuda. In the second game, it's shown she had an Apocalypse Cult dedicated to her in which they also voluntarily mutilated her corpse in bizarre rituals.
-   The Big Bad of _Dies Irae_, Reinhard, makes offers of immortality or the resurrection of the dead for those who swear themselves to his servitude. Those sworn under him are then made to enact all kinds of atrocities and mass slaughters in the name of his ritual for godhood. And while he does keep his end of the bargain, it's only in the loosest sense as the promised immortality means becoming one of his Einherjar, forever bound to his legion, while the resurrection of the dead means that those brought back will also be bound to his army. And if you happen to die while in his service, you will also become part of his legion. His title is Mephistopheles for a reason.
-   Dennis from _Double Homework_ first offers the protagonist deals and free information that will supposedly help the two of them get “tons of sex,” but he reneges on his promises, and eventually gets what he wants out of the protagonist using trickery, manipulation, and blackmail.

    Web Animation 

-   _Dreamscape_: The Master of the Dammed is an Evil Overlord of his own realm where souls are tortured for all eternity, commands demons, and is associated with fire.

    Webcomics 

-   The Tiger Barb from _95 Gallons_ is a Satan stand-in, working to corrupt the utopian fish tank by introducing currency, the concept of economics, the idea of people working for themselves rather than for the good of all, etc. He's also crafty, hiding his true evil intentions behind more blatant and short-lived acts of evil — the above are hidden behind the introduction of drugs, starting a feud between two families of gouramis over who has the nicest home, and tricking fish into worshipping an ultimately worthless game he fabricated, respectively.
-   Voltaire of _El Goonish Shive_ fights against Immortal law because he believes he deserves to be a god. He prefers an "Angel of light" form, and shafted all three people we've seen him make deals with. While he merely manipulated Abner into working against his morals, he essentially mind-controlled Dex, and he tried to get Tara to murder someone, while giving her none of the aid he promised. Grace described him as "That weirdly white immortal who actually reminds me of Satan."
-   The Other from _Girl Genius_, to most of the people of Europa, is an unseen yet ultimate evil - much like the Devil himself. The more we learn about the Other's true nature over the comic, the more the parallels to Satan show up; they possess people as vessels, they make deals that have you more or less sell your soul, they are worshipped as a false deity<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , and (via time-travel) they _may as well_ be the original evil. Oddly enough, her father's name was Lucifer and her sisters were named Demonica and Serpentina, meaning the Other (as Lucrezia Mongfish) has the _least_ Satanic-sounding name in the family.
-   Doc Scratch from _Homestuck_. If the name wasn't enough of a clue. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Doc Scratch is only a harbinger/servant to Lord English. Basically, Doc Scratch exhibits the Faux Affably Evil Man of Wealth and Taste portion of the archetype, and Lord English has the more hateful/destructive characteristics.
-   In _Kill Six Billion Demons_ we have the _literal_ King of Devils, referred to as Himself. Unlike all other devils, he possesses a coherent identity despite lacking a name or mask, which is implied to either be the result or cause of him possessing immense, reality-defying power. The ruling council of devils that serve under him are also responsible for keeping him eternally imprisoned within a chained iron coffin.
    -   Incubus, although he's (probably) human, embodies the corruptor aspect of this archetype. His stock in trade is the Deal with the Devil, where he inflames the ambitions and skill of his 'clients' and drives them to excel no matter the cost and leading to their spirital ruination. He visits said clients in their dreams in the form of a beautiful Pretty Boy, and tempts them with power. In-universe he is known as the "Lord of the Pit" amongst many other titles, and he carries the word **Flame** of the seven names of God held by the Big Bad Ensemble.
        
        _"Though the lord of the pit clads himself in finery and smiles, do not be bedeviled. He is a wretched, stinking king, and the minds of men are playthings to him."_
        
    -   Jagganoth, meanwhile, is another human claimant who embodies the straight-up demonic aspect of the archetype. A borderline Destroyer Deity, he is known as God's Monster, Lord of Rage, the God-Eater and the Red God (amongst others) and presents as a thirty-foot tall monster of a man with a demonic-looking helmet. Jagganoth's ultimate goal is to scour The Multiverse free of life, making him the ultimate adversary of both the protagonists _and_ most of the antagonists. Fittingly, he has an alliance with Incubus where the former distracts their mutual enemies until Jagganoth can unleash his final war upon The Multiverse.
-   In _Ob Mil Yandere Games_, Hera is implied to be this. She was raised by a dark priest and his followers who practiced satanism and black magic. Soon she learns the magic to make herself godlike and wants nothing more but the demise of humanity..
-   The IFCC from _The Order of the Stick_ are a group attempting to unify the demonic entities of different Evil alignments. They appear to make a Deal with the Devil with Vaarsuvius. While their ultimate goal is unclear, they seek to destroy the world.

    Web Original 

-   The SCP Foundation has the Scarlet King as its main Big Bad and Greater-Scope Villain. As shown by this short story, he was once a divine being who fell from grace when the unbearable pain he felt at his birth drove him to madness and caused him to consume his siblings, making him stronger. Cursing creation, he now seeks to destroy all of existence by annihilating the Tree of Knowledge. Described as a demonic being heavily associated with the color red, he watches over everything and therefore the definite antagonistic presence of the setting.
-   _Undertale: The Narrator's Musical_ has the Anomaly of Genocide she is a mysterious supernatural Humanoid Abomination figure heavily associated with the color red. She is also a Greater-Scope Villain who plays the role of The Corrupter towards the other characters, influencing them towards her evil ideology, she is also an Omnicidal Maniac heavily associated with darkness and red light who lives in the Void, similar to stories in the Bible about demons living in the Outer Darkness.
-   Zalgo is the personification of evil and chaos who is often presented as this in Creepypasta.
-   Much like his main-line counterpart in _Dungeons & Dragons_, Asmodeus, aka The Lord Of The Hells, is presented as such in the universe of _Critical Role_. While all eight of the Betrayer Gods qualify, being once-good beings who fell and embraced evil, Asmodeus most fits the depiction, both physically (being a Big Red Devil) and in terms of his MO as the God of Lies who delights in leading mortals astray and damning their souls to his Pit. We get to see him up close and personal in the four-part _Calamity_ prequel-campaign.

___

...Hey, would you like to make a deal? All the knowledge in the world, and all the time to peruse it.