Follow

## Science Fantasy

aka: Science Fiction Versus Fantasy

**Pearl:** Fantasy is for babies. It's just a bunch of make-believe fairy tales. Sci-fi, on the other hand, is a thinking-squid's genre. It's about exploring the potential of our universe... based on actual science.  
**Marina:** Space dragons are actual science?

Robots and wizards, spaceships and dragons, lasers and fireballs. Mix these ingredients in your cyber-witch's boiling pot of dark matter, and you've got yourself Science Fantasy.

Science Fiction and Fantasy stories can be difficult to tell apart under normal circumstances, as all but the very hardest sci-fi introduces some hypothetical technology that one has to take on faith, like FTL Travel or Humanoid Aliens. And at the other end of the scale, even High Fantasy works have consistency requirements like Magic A Is Magic A, which can blur the line into Sufficiently Analyzed Magic.

Science Fantasy works, on the other hand, take traditional Fantasy and Science Fiction tropes and throw them in a blender, purposely creating a setting that has the feel of both. Expect to see a lot of classic Fantasy tropes (e.g. warriors with swords, dragons, wizards, castles, and elves) _and_ a lot of standard Science Fiction tropes (e.g. spaceships, aliens, lasers, scientists, robots, and Time Travel).

In any event, it's bound to include Sufficiently Analyzed Magic, Magitek, Functional Magic, Magic from Technology, Fantasy Aliens, and probably Scientifically Understandable Sorcery. Sometimes, it may contain so much fantasy and science fiction as to be both Fantasy Kitchen Sink and Sci-Fi Kitchen Sink.

It should be noted that some works may slant towards one or the other, yet still contain elements of both. Science Fantasy lies near the middle of a continuum between Science Fiction and Fantasy, so there will naturally be a wide range of works that lie somewhere between "Fantasy with a dash of Sci-Fi" and "Sci-Fi with a smidgen of Fantasy". For an explanation of why the genres are so linked, see the analysis page on Speculative Fiction.

Subtrope of Speculative Fiction, under which all Fantasy and Science Fiction falls. Compare Urban Fantasy, Gaslamp Fantasy, Space Opera, Dungeon Punk, and Planetary Romance. Contrast How Unscientific!, where the mix of genres seems out of place; Magic Versus Science, where both aspects are in a rivalry, and The Magic Versus Technology War, where an in-universe warfare happens between wizards and scientists. Compare and contrast Doing In the Wizard and Doing in the Scientist, which retcons a fantasy element to a sci-fi one and vice versa. Compare and contrast Fantastic Science, where magic operates by logical rules similar to real-world science, and The Spark of Genius, where powers and abilities that operate like fantasy magic are dressed up in scientific trappings.

Science fantasy may also arguably describe character oriented stories where the fantastic elements are very subtle and are common to both science fiction and fantasy. Examples could include Paranormal Romance which just happens to involve Applied Phlebotinum, Time Travel or Artificial Intelligence. Many such stories strive to keep the fantastic elements understated (often in the form of minimal Special Effects) in the interest of focusing on human drama.

Supertrope of Fantasy Aliens and Wizards from Outer Space.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _ARIA_ is set in a replica of Venice on the planet Aqua (née Mars), there are elaborate technological control systems maintaining the environment — floating islands for climate control, underground facilities for enhancing the planet's gravity — the works. Then the cast is caught up in supernatural time travel and ghosts of the past appear. This sounds like the setting for a gripping tale of planetary exploration and the technological and social struggles of the colonists as they deal with a mysterious past. But really, it's just an excuse for Scenery Porn, as the female gondoliers float through a beautiful, peaceful city in their happy-go-lucky lives.
-   _Aura Battler Dunbine_ was a noteworthy Humongous Mecha anime because it was a Yoshiyuki Tomino work and because it happened in a medieval setting full with unicorns, fairies... and giant robots. And that medieval world was a parallel dimension the main character arrived at through a dimensional gate.
-   _Bio-Hunter_ is an anime OVA that takes place in a world where a pair of scientists hunt and investigate a strange demonic virus that can transform normal humans into vicious otherworldly monsters.
-   _Dandadan_ features yokai and aliens.
-   _Digimon_ features a digital world that can be accessed by a computer in some anime series. The titular Mons have magical powers and many are based off human myths and religious concepts. Many continuities also imply that the Digital World had existed even before computers, originating in myths and legends and having evolved alongside human technology. However, _Digimon Tamers_ explicitly states that Digimon were Artificial Intelligence created by humans and thus leans more towards pure science fiction, as does _Digimon Universe: App Monsters_.
-   _Dragon Ball_:
    -   _Dragon Ball_ starts out as a new rendition of a fantastic Chinese folk tale, with some science-fiction elements on the side (everything made by Capsule Corp).
    -   _Dragon Ball Z_ introduces alien invaders, space travel, time travel, androids, and it all gets weirder from there. The final arc involved Wizards from Outer Space, and an unstoppable pink Blob Monster from near the dawn of time.
    -   _Dragon Ball Super_ also throws destructive gods and The Multiverse into the mix.
-   _EDENS ZERO_ is described by Hiro Mashima himself as "space fantasy", which he was inspired to create due to his misconception as a kid that this is what the abbreviation "SF" (science fiction) stood for. It's set in a largely futuristic Magitek universe filled with aliens, robots, and space travel—barring some more primitive worlds—some of which is deliberately modeled after a fantasy setting, such as the robotic Demon King who came from a fantasy theme park and ruled the cosmos (but was actually a swell guy). The main characters and several others also have a superhuman ability from the "Dark Ages" called Ether Gear, which is Magic by Any Other Name.
-   _El-Hazard: The Magnificent World_ is another series that blends science fiction with fantasy, featuring a story centered around a time paradox set in a land rife with magic and supernatural wonder. Yet, there are remnants of ancient technology as well, such as the Stairway to the Sky, the Eye of God, and the demon dolls.
-   _Hunter × Hunter_ is set in a world brimming with strange fantasy creatures and mythical locations juxtaposed with modern cities and cutting-edge technology, and characters can manipulate their auras with Nen, a supernatural ability similar to magic that can also be used with various forms of technology, and as a form of technology in itself.
-   _Gintama_ It has everything, to name a few, aliens, samurais, magic, onis, ghosts, mechas, zombies and much more, although it all comes from the parodic nature of the show.
-   The Leijiverse has this in spades.
    -   _Captain Harlock_ encounters everything from Ancient Astronauts, eldritch abominations, and The Ring of the Nibelung.
    -   _Galaxy Express 999_ features a spaceship implausibly designed after an old fashioned steam locomotive.
    -   _Queen Millennia_, whose series and movie have the honor of being scored by New Age Space Music composer Kitaro.
    -   _Space Battleship Yamato_ often includes divine intervention in the form of goddesses such as Trelaina, Shalbart, and Aquarius as well as Queen Starsha after her death.
-   In _Lyrical Nanoha_, the Space-Time Administration Bureau that the main characters work for is like _Star Trek_'s Federation, except where _Star Trek_ would have a piece of Techno Babble to power its futuristic devices, _Nanoha_ just uses magic. Magical Energy Weapons, magical Faster-Than-Light Travel, magical Cyborgs, magical artificial intelligence with Windows-esque error codes...
-   The 2008 miniseries _Mnemosyne_'s first half is Urban Fantasy that starts in 1990 Japan and makes a series of Time Skips between episodes. In episode 4, the Time Skip takes the series to 2025, where it starts incorporating cyberpunk elements that only get stronger after the next skip to 2055.
-   _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_ seemed to be straight Urban Fantasy at first, what with the mages and golems and vampires. Then Chachamaru came in. And the Mad Scientists. And the Magic Internet. And the magical Playful Hacker vs The Cracker face-off in cyberspace. And the Martian Time Traveller from the future with Humongous Mecha and Mecha-Mooks. And it is implied that the magic world is actually on Mars. It ends up as sci-fi and fantasy in a blender.
-   _One-Punch Man_ is set in a sci-fi/fantasy world of superheroes fighting against supervillains and monsters.
-   _Outlaw Star_ has spaceships and aliens, but the Space Pirates use Chi Magic and the most popular resort world in the galaxy was originally a Mana mine. The main character's signature weapon is a fireball-flinging Magitek pistol.
-   In _Panzer World Galient_ the setting was a typical medieval fantasy world... with giant robots thrown in the mix. Later events show the setting to be closer to a science fiction story set in a medieval society (with a plot inspired by heroic fantasy tropes) than it is a high fantasy story that features giant robots.
-   _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_ is primarily a Magical Girl show, yet it takes place in a rather futuristic city. On top of that, the conflict in the series stems from the approaching heat death of the universe, and at one point Kyubey gives a (dumbed-down) explaination of entropy to Madoka. The science part _really_ comes in when Kyubey's full motivation for recruiting magical girls is revealed. He and his race are Sufficiently Advanced Aliens attempting to stop the heat death of the universe. Magical girls, who become witches, _really are_ magical and not bound by the laws of physics, so the energy their despair produces can be used to fight entropy. Indeeed, it’s considered a sci-fi series in many circles, and fans like to discuss the science in this series.
-   _Sailor Moon_ is _largely_ an Urban Fantasy Magical Girl Warrior series, but the _S_ season of the 90s anime shifts toward this, due to Big Bad Professor Tomoe being a Mad Scientist using technologically-created Daimons in his quest for magical talismans. The Sailor Guardians were also Human Aliens in their past lives, and the majority of the villains are extraplanetary aliens of some kind.
-   _Samurai 8: The Tale of Hachimaru_ is filled with sci-fi and Japanese folklore-like elements. It has cyborgs, virtual reality game systems, and robotic animals all powered but souls and magic.
-   _Star★Twinkle Pretty Cure_ is a Magical Girl show whose theme is outer space, and one of the magical girls is a Human Alien. Many of the villains are also based on various Youkai despite being aliens, in a similar vein to _Urusei Yatsura_.
-   _Tweeny Witches_
-   _Urusei Yatsura_ technically may be a sci-fi, but essentially all of the aliens are some form of Youkai from Japanese Mythology: Lum is from the Planet Oni, Oyuki the Yuki Onna is from Neptune, etc. In practice, anything from Science Fiction or Fantasy can happen from Time Travel to Onmyōdō exorcisms, so long as it's funny.
-   _The Vision of Escaflowne_ has a girl from present day Earth being magically transported to Gaia, a sort of hidden moon from where she can see the Earth and the Moon. In this world, feudal states, Italian-like and Arabian-like cities, and a superior technological empire are at war, using Mechas that are powered by dragon hearts. Oh, and there are Fairies, but we won't call them that.
-   _Wolf's Rain_: Technology meets mythology. In an incredibly twist at the end of the series, you'd think the entire story happened centuries in the future, when in reality it was 10,000 years in the past.
-   _Zombiepowder._ flavors it with Western themes. At the same time as you have gunplay, chainswords, bounty hunting, and gangs of outlaws, you have strange arts bordering on magic, people who can teleport, and rings that eat life force and can use it to revive the dead and make the living immortal.

    Comic Books 

-   In _Invincible_, both sci-fi elements and magic exist in the universe. Given its collection of DC/Marvel-inspired superhero tropes, it shouldn't be surprising.
-   _Judge Dredd_: While it started out as straightforward dystopian sci-fi and still leans towards that, more and more fantasy elements have been introduced over the years, including ghosts, demons, zombies, and forms of magic.
-   _Kingmaker_ by Ian Edginton features a fellowship of nine on their quest to defeat the Dark Lord... interrupted by an alien invasion.

-   _Pathfinder: Worldscape_ takes place in a plane of existence that draws warriors from three different settings such as the titular campaign (which already features this trope, as seen in the "Tabletop Games" folder below), Earth in its various timelines including Hyborian Age and Mars. As result, we have sorcerers prancing about in airships and radium guns being wielded alongside swords and magic.
-   _Rom Spaceknight_ features a cyborg knight from a faraway planet coming to Earth to thwart an invasion of evil alien wizards.
-   _Saga_ is set against the backdrop of a Magic versus Technology War. The winged natives of the planet Landfall bearing high-tech weapons against the horned and magically-inclined denizens of the moon of Wreath. Trappings of both sci-fi and fantasy include a race of robots living in a medieval monarchy, spaceships made out of trees, dragons, sentient animal races, and ghosts.
-   _Soulfire_ takes place in the Cyberpunk future of 2211. It is about a boy whose destiny is to bring magic back into the world.

    Fan Works 

Many fanfics will fall into this category, usually crossovers between works on opposite ends of the speculative fiction scale.

-   _Always Having Juice_ is set on an alien planet in a fictional planetary system with at least two other life-sustaining planets in it, and Everyone Is a Super (and because of their Bizarre Alien Biology if one's not, it's curtains for them...) with Floating Continents kept afloat by magical (and occasionally evil) artifacts from the ancient past. That's just the tip of the iceberg.
-   _Child of the Storm_ features this, true to its comics roots, mixing up A.I. with Genius Loci, magic and technology — though there tends to be a little more emphasis on magic than technology.
-   _The Conversion Bureau_, is set 20 Minutes in the Future with A.I. handling most menial tasks, holograms everywhere, cybernetic upgrades readily available, and the early phases of space colonization. With the emergence of Equestria there are also spell casting unicorns, weather controlling pegasi, monsters from across many mythologies, and two Physical Gods of the moon and sun.
-   _Crucible (Mass Effect)_ started with the time travelled Ad Astra which continue the sci-fi theme from canon, then the existence of living stars was revealed which kinda ventured out of this, and then ghosts/souls started to popping here and there and finally _Death_ himself appeared which firmly pushed the series into Fantasy theme. And don't even get into what Shepard actually is and was or whom she's connected to.
-   _Glorious Shotgun Princess_ is a crossover between the (comparatively) hard Sci-Fi of _Mass Effect_, and the clearly fantasy (and Kung-Fu) world of _Exalted_.
-   In _The Keys Stand Alone: The Soft World_, C'hou has become a massive Science Fantasy Kitchen Sink, blending magic and tech much more thoroughly, with outworlders who embody everything from _The Flintstones_ caveman-type tech to AD&D adventuring parties to _Star Trek_ expys, and where you can go from a monster-filled dungeon to a high-tech city just by walking through a jump gate. Or, at least, so it seems; the entire thing is actually a giant telepathic MMORPG, and the real C'hou is more or less what it used to be (which is still science fantasy, albeit less so).
-   _Mass Effect: Human Revolution_ starts out as Space Film Noir, but fantasy elements start creeping in from the Caleston arc onwards due to the lingering effects of Sufficiently Advanced Aliens.
-   _The New Adventures of Invader Zim_: Much like canon, this is primarily a science-fiction story that nevertheless has a significant amount of magic and paranormal creatures involved.
-   _https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11852303/1/Rise-of-a-Star-Knight_ and its sequel _https://www.fanfiction.net/s/12404778/1/Knights-of-Remnant-The-Ring-of-Darkness_ fit this, with the Star Knights and their personal armies, the Sky Knights, being far more public than the Maidens, cavalry charges on motorcycles by knights with gun-spears, Mithril, Grimm orcs and Uruk Hai being lead by a rogue cyborg Super-Soldier, the Valkyrie family acting as the equivalent of the dwarves, goblins<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , the various Artifacts Of Doom from the Lord of the Rings, etc. Basically, it has more fantasy elements (taken from the granddaddy of them all) than _RWBY_, and as such mixes them more with sci-fi (The aforementioned Sky Knights are loyal to Magic Knights, but fight using tanks and Mini-Mecha, or make cavalry charges on motorcycles and trucks, Moria had a tramway before it was overrun by orcs, etc.).
-   The universe of _Sonic X: Dark Chaos_, being essentially a twisted mixture of _Warhammer 40,000_ and _Shin Megami Tensei_, runs entirely with this. It combines Space Opera science fiction mixed in with magical Chaos powers, Lovecraftian horrors, and Sufficiently Advanced Aliens.
-   _Undocumented Features_, a Mega Crossover, fuses many Fantasy and Science Fiction sources into a single narrative. For example, a Norse God used _dimension door_ to get his party onto the Klingon Space Pirates' ship, whereupon their sorceress summoned a protective wall of roses as they hacked the computer to gain control of the ship — all while a Space Battle was going between the two ships outside.
-   _With Strings Attached_ completely blurs the lines between fantasy and science fiction. The planet C'hou has the quasi-Victorian land of Ketafa, with its guns, factories, and occasional motorized vehicle, and the exceptionally nonstandard fantasy continent of Baravada; the Fans influence events via Magitek and watch things on their computer screen; and the four visit three wildly different worlds on their Vasyn quest, including a 1950s parallel New York-Xanth expy, a universe where science has overtaken magic (but it still has its adherents), and a more traditionally magical world of adventure that was partially put together with Magitek.

    Films — Animation 

-   Ultimately the genre the more fantastic _Boonie Bears_ films end up in. _Entangled World_ has the Tech Boss having developed sci-fi technology to access fantasy Alternate Tooniverses and _Blast Into the Past_ has fantastic Pretty Butterflies Time Traveling the heroes to the equally fantastic past.
-   _NIMONA (2023)_ takes place in a feudal city with flying cars and knights in shining armor armed with laser crossbows. Though unlike the webcomic the only sign of magic is the shapeshifting Nimona herself.
-   _Wizards_ features a Schizo Tech Post-Apocalyptic world that resembles a Standard Fantasy Setting, in which magic-using elves and fairies wage a war against gun wielding robots, mutants, and Nazis.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _The Chronicles of Riddick_ series shifted into this with _The Chronicles of Riddick_, the second film. _Pitch Black_ was fairly hard sci-fi, but _Riddick 2_ introduces superhuman warriors on a holy crusade led by an Evil Overlord, elemental alien seers, and a prophecy saying that Riddick (now the last living member of an extinct Proud Warrior Race destroyed by the Overlord) will be the one to kill the Necromonger leader. It still comes off as a strange mix with Low Fantasy, as the harder elements are still present in every scene that doesn't involve the Necros.
-   DC Extended Universe:
    -   _Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice_ has both the very advanced genesis technology brought by Kryptonians and the daughter of Zeus fighting a result of said technology.
    -   _Justice League_ has the Ancient Astronauts known as the New Gods who use technology far beyond what Earth is capable of with the Mother Boxes, and they fought an alliance spearheaded by the Olympian gods in the distant past, as well as the daughter of Zeus in the present.
-   _Electric Dreams_: A 1980s era home computer achieves sentience because its owner accidentally spills sparkling wine on the keyboard. It also seizes control of all the household appliances, and starts writing love songs for its owner's girlfriend (much like _Cyrano de Bergerac_). Naturally, a Love Triangle Ensues.
-   The _Godzilla_ franchise has monsters of both magical and scientific origin fighting or teaming up with each other. It also includes various evil Humanoid Aliens and humans with Psychic Powers to further spice things up.
-   _Immortal_ is set in the future and features things such as flying cars, human augmentation, and other sci-fi conventions, but there are also Egyptian gods running amok with supernatural powers.

-   _Prisoners of the Lost Universe_ has humans from a modern Earth enter a Heroic Fantasy type world via a dimensional transporter.
-   The genre of _Star Wars_ was explicitly stated by Lucas to be space fantasy. It's the story of a farmboy who meets an old wizard, learns magic and swordfighting from him, and then fights an evil wizard and a dark knight. He travels throughout strange lands where he meets monsters, rescues princesses, and... flies a spaceship. Because all this takes place in another galaxy where space aliens fight with laser guns and manual labor is done by robots. The prequels participate in some Doing In the Wizard, but even they don't try to explain the ghosts and the prophecies. The massive Expanded Universe gives us dragons, magical artifacts... and also features mass dewizardification, Depending on the Writer.
-   _Sucker Punch_: The third battle scene is this at level 11. When Goblins are perfectly capable of being catapulted onto your World-war 2 gunship, and your assault rifle's bullets are just bouncing off that big dragon's hide, you realize that yeah, you're in a Science Fantasy scene.

    Literature 

-   _1Q84_ includes two main characters who find themselves in an alternate version of 1984 Japan. In this version of the world, there exists creatures known as the Little People and a religious organization that seems to worship them.
-   _The Acts of Caine_ mixes a Cyberpunk future Dystopy with a High Fantasy world _far_ Darker and Edgier and Bloodier and Gorier than your usual one.
-   _Almost Night_ has vampires, werewolves, a troll, an elf, the main character drinks a magic potion, and the plot is centered around the spell book of an evil wizard. However, there are flying cars, space travel, a space empire, aliens, and laser guns.

-   The _Apprentice Adept_ series fits perfectly. The setting is one world split across two realities. One of them is called Proton, which is high tech, while the other is known as Phaze, where magic prevails.
-   _Artemis Fowl_: This is a major part of the premise, as the novels focus on Artemis' interactions with magic and the fairy folk while both sides make use of highly advanced technology. It's squarely between the two as well. The first book follows a boy trying to steal gold from a leprechaun — done up as a high-tech heist movie! The boy is an wealthy evil prodigy, the gold is a ransom, and the leprechaun is actually an agent of Lower Elements Police reconnaissance (LEPrecon). Book number five has Artemis calculating, mathematically, the exact time that demons would appear out of nowhere (It Makes Sense in Context) due to magic, and the use of a high-yield bomb to power a spell. Someone once described the first book as "_Die Hard_ WITH FAIRIES". Apt.
-   _The Asterisk War_: A meteorite impact containing manadite became a Mass Super-Empowering Event, gifting a generation of children with increased physical abilities and/or the ability to materialize phenomena. The series leans on Sufficiently Analyzed Magic, with industrial-scale laboratories devoted to studying manadite phenomena and developing practical applications for it, especially weapons.
-   The _Belisarius Series_ has sword-bearing warriors, robots, scizo-tech, time-travel, visions of the future, and all, all mixed up.
-   The _Beyond Reality_ series explores this concept amongst the backdrop of the multiverse, with advanced technology existing side by side with magic and gods.

-   _The Bone Season_ is set in an Alternate History Cyberpunk England and adds in people with Psychic Powers and Rephaim, a race that combines characteristics of The Fair Folk and vampires.
-   _The Solomon Code_ series has a number of characters who insist the Nephilim are not half-angel, they're half-ALIEN.
-   _Book of the New Sun_ by Gene Wolfe is set After the End in a Schizo Tech world mixing feudalism (and a Low Fantasy style of narration) with space travel, androids, laser weapons, etc. One device the protagonist gets a hold of called the Claw of the Conciliator appears to be actually magical. One reviewer comparing the ‘’Book’’ with its followup _The Urth of the New Sun_ described the former as "science fiction pretending to be fantasy", and the latter as "fantasy pretending to be science fiction".

-   _A Certain Magical Index_'s Tag Line is "when science and magic cross paths", and draws liberally from all sorts of speculative fiction and fantasy tropes for each story arcs.

-   The Cthulhu Mythos is considered an example of Dark Fantasy, and it's not without reasons: it revolves around a pantheon of incomprehensible gods, many of whom are worshipped by cultists who wish to summon them through occult means. There are also Spell Books, most notably the Necronomicon, as well as malevolent wizards and witches, with one god in particular- Yog-Sothoth- often serving as their patron. However, the gods in question are actually aliens from different parts of the universe (such as Yuggoth), and the "magic" is implied to be a case of Clarke's Third Law.
-   _Daikaiju Yuki_ features giant monsters mostly born out of nuclear fury and aliens from outer space, yet also includes things such as the concept of mana as "the lifesblood of the Earth" and people who transfer their consciousness into monsters by linking their souls with the kaiju through special amulets/stones.
-   The _Dante Valentine_ series is set a few hundred years in the future on an Earth where demons, necromancy, golems, Healing Hands, and the Devil himself exist side-by-side with computers, firearms, Hover Boards, and Frickin' Laser Beams. The series uses elements of Sufficiently Analyzed Magic (e.g. the setting's version of vampires, the Nichtvren, reproduce partially through a retroviral infection), but not everything can apparently be analyzed (there's apparently an "etheric transfer" involved in Nichtvren as well).
-   _The Dark Angel Trilogy_ has flaming swords, unicorns and vampires. It is set in the distant future, when the Moon has long since been terraformed into a lush paradise complete with its own animals, plants, and races.
-   _The Dark Tower_ series by Stephen King, set in a post-apocalyptic world where oil refineries, nuclear-powered water pumps, and the music of ZZ Top co-exist with wizards, succubi, and gunslingers who fight for truth and justice in the Arthurian tradition.
-   _Discworld_ to an extent. Magic is described in terms reminiscent of nuclear physics or quantum mechanics, golems are very much like Asimovian robots, and some Igors have progressed from Mix-and-Match Man to "bio-artificing". In _The Last Hero_, the local Clock Punk genius even builds a vehicle that allows the characters to visit the Moon and meet Lunarian dragons. However, while wizards are often presented as the setting's version of scientists, _The Science of Discworld_ books show how bewildered they are by all the ways science _isn't_ like magic.

-   The _Dragaera_ books look at first to be typical Dungeon Punk, with magic, elves (OK, "Dragaerans"), swordfights, et cetera. However, careful inspection indicates science-fictional underpinnings: humans ("Easterners") are from "small invisible lights" (meaning the stars, invisible in the Empire because of the enclouding), genetics and gene manipulation are well-understood, and some characters view abstract concepts like "the soul" as matters of engineering, not religion. Let's not even get _started_ on the gods and the nature of magic...
-   In the world of _Dragon Pearl_, supernatural beings from Korean mythology co-exist with spaceships and interplanetary empires.

-   _Dune_ by Frank Herbert series is science fiction, but apart from ‘’Star Wars'' it might be the best well-known example. The Galaxy has an Emperor and several rival feudal-aristocratic families rule over even complete planets. There is a quasi-magical order of witches, although the story is otherwise within a fairly straightforward interplanetary science fiction setting.
-   _Ecko Rising_ by Daanie Ware combines a high tech cyberpunk world with that of fantasy.
-   _Encryption Straffe_ is a Cyberpunk novel with stream-of-consciousness narration. The highly surreal second and third arcs depicted the feats of cognition technology as indistinguishable from magic for people immersed in it, while a major character is a digitalized vengeful spirit.
-   The _Eighth Doctor Adventures_ lean even more heavily on the "fantasy" side of science fantasy than the series did (while the _Doctor Who New Adventures_ mostly went the other way, a few oddities like _Witch Mark_ aside). This is especially notable in the Amnesia Arc, possibly because The Magic Comes Back in the absence of the Time Lords, possibly because the amnesiac Doctor isn't able to say "Here's why this fire elemental is scientific _really_", or possibly due to a combination of the two.
-   _Feral: The Story of a Half-Orc_ runs on this. While magic does exist, 'wizard' may well be the same as 'scientist', with use of scientific thought and processes throughout the story. The story takes place after its world's creation of the printing press, and it's stated multiple times that its creation is more important than anything other device. Char, the main character, uses science and magic to create armor and weapons, including a blunderbuss whose gunpowder is lit by a fire rune.
-   _The First Dwarf King_ uses this beautifully. Much of the first act takes place in a world populated by humans, elves, dwarves, orcs, and demons. Sounds like a Standard Fantasy Setting, right? Well, the races have gotten to the point where they use guns in the place of bows and arrows, which they wield tandem with swords, axes, and warhammers. In addition, the second act reveals a race of aliens living on an island off the coast, whose society utilizes the equivalent of 21st century technology. Just to make things even more complicated, the aliens' closest allies are a race of Lizard Folk who live in Medieval Stasis _by choice_, yet have also developed a fleet of airships. The lizards also have a Church Militant whose members can call upon their god to summon katanas out of thin air. And that's just _scratching the surface_. The story also uses this trope in its setting and backstory. The universe was created by an omnipotent entity who used evolution to set the races on their course to sentience. Humans, elves, dwarves, orcs, and Redariam evolved from apes, while the Tarsi evolved from ancient reptiles.
-   _Freakling_ by Lana Krumwiede is set in an after the end crapsaccharine world with some advanced technology and where people have psychic powers.

-   _Glory Road_ by Robert A. Heinlein is a reconstruction of pulp adventure novels with an ordinary modern day man swashbuckling his way across several savage planets inhabited by "dragons" and other such beasties in search of a device that recorded the memories of all the Empresses of the Fifty Universes.

-   _Goosebumps_ is a kids' horror anthology series which features various sci-fi or fantasy monsters in each book.
-   Simon R. Green's novels are set in a Verse that's about half supernatural horror/fantasy and half gonzo Mad Science.
-   _Grunts!_ by Mary R. Gentle starts out as a stereotypical fantasy world told from the point of view of a tribe of Orcs. There's a Last Battle, a Dark Lord, a Nameless Necromancer, halfling thieves, The Dark Lands, and all the things you'd normally expect to find in a High Fantasy world. Then the orcs get their hands on modern firearms (from our universe via a magic portal). Cue an elephant made to fly with anti-gravity and a cloaking stealth dragon. Then Aliens invade!
-   _His Dark Materials_ by Philip Pullman has plenty of things that should go well with science fiction (the fact that Dust is a particle and explicitly stated to be what our universe calls dark matter, the numerous technologies that look as if they came from various degrees of civilization, from Steampunk worlds to things akin to those you'd see on hard science fiction (especially in the last book), the alternate evolutionary paths of life on Earth seen in some worlds like that of the mulefa, etc.), but there are plenty of themes that should connect it to at least Low Fantasy (the witches, the fact that Dust is conscious, the armoured polar bears, etc.)
-   _I'm the Evil Lord of an Intergalactic Empire!_: The main character is a noble in a Feudal Future full of advanced technology like mechas, cloning, or artificial intelligences, but there's also magic, alchemy, and the Big Bad is an evil spirit that feeds on people's negative emotions.
-   _Illium_, by Dan Simmons, in breathtaking style. There are space robots called Moravecs, exotic rocket propulsion, planetary rings, teleportation, a space plane that is the essence of a UFO, and the _entire Greek Pantheon_. Throughout the book and its sequel, _Olympos_, the Moravecs are skeptical that these gods are genuinely gods and not some high-tech trickery.
-   _InterWorld_ features a multiverse organized as an arc, with the worlds on one side being ones where magic is in control, and worlds on the other where science is the dominant paradigm. Each end is ruled by a multiplanar empire, one representing Magic and one representing Science, which are both trying to take over the entire multiverse. There is a third organization, made up of different versions of the main character, who fight both sides and have the ability to travel freely between worlds, who move about the center of the arc.
-   In _The Locked Tomb_ by Tamsyn Muir series, spaceships, LED lighting, magazines and comic books coexist with necromancy powered by the fundamental energies of death and life, animating skeletons, and summoning ghosts.
-   The _Lord Darcy_ stories by Randall Garrett are a _Sherlock Holmes_\-style mystery series set in an alternate history with very rule-based magic. While technology (and politics) has barely equaled the gaslight-era by the 1970s, magic has effectively reached a bit higher than modern day technology. And magic isn't just useful, it's carefully codified, requiring as much study, repeatability and dedication (and certification, licensing and taxes) as modern engineering or medicine. Though now commonly billed as fantasy, most of the stories originally saw the light of day in either _Analog Science Fiction_ or _Isaac Asimov's Science Fiction Magazine_. Randall Garrett once stated that Lord Darcy’s world and ours shared the same laws of physics. He defined the “magic” of Darcy’s world as a form of psionics, which he thought of as a real-world phenomenon.

-   Downplayed in _Lucifer's Star_ by C.T. Phipps where people duel with swords, fight with shields, and have nobles. They also possess dragons and unicorns for pets. This is all due to Sufficiently Advanced science, though with fantasy worlds being a popular archetype to terraform your colony around.
-   _The Machineries of Empire_ mixes spaceships, sentient AI and FTL travel with living shadows, possession and calendar-based Reality Warping.
-   Anne McCaffrey:
    -   _Acorna_ and sequels are about a foundling creature who looks like a "unicorn girl", complete with a horn on her forehead, unearthly beauty, and the power to purify water and air. Except she's not exactly magical: she's an alien, and the setting is basic science fiction with spaceships and interplanetary travel. Double subverted when it is revealed that her species is genetically-engineered by aliens who combined their own DNA with that of unicorns they rescued from Earth.
    -   The _Dragonriders of Pern_ books feature intelligent, telepathic, teleporting, and occasionally time-traveling dragons. These are just genetically engineered upgrades of pre-existing diminutive "dragons", which have similar powers, though this Lost Technology aspect isn't explored until the prequels. Later books also feature a supercomputer. McCaffrey always maintained that the books are Science Fiction rather than fantasy, as everything is based on hard science, and she spoke to many authorities in various sciences to work out the specifics of the world and the things that happen on it.
    -   In _The Ship Who Won_, a Role-Playing Game\-obsessed spaceship crew discovers a planet where magic actually works. (Until they discover the inhabitants are just abusing a Sufficiently Advanced weather-control system). Definitely sold as Sci-Fi.
-   _Magistellus Bad Trip_ initially looks like dystopian 20 Minutes in the Future Science Fiction, but it turns out that the Magistelli, the seemingly AI partners of players of the MMORPG _Money (Game) Master_, are actually literal demons, bumping it into this genre.
-   _The Night Land_ by William Hope Hodgson takes elements such as evil spirits, haunted houses, and your classic Knight in Shining Armor and throws them in with things like air-ships, chainsaw-like weapons, and energy-based superweapons.
-   The _Nomes Trilogy_ is a good example of genre blending. All three books are written as a _Borrowers_/_Littles_ sort of "tiny people living undetectably amongst us" story, except that it is revealed that the Nomes are in fact aliens marooned on Earth who have devolved somewhat, who only realize what they are when "The Thing", a mysterious box that one of the characters carries, starts talking and turns out to be a sentient computer.

-   The _Play Places_ universe is science fantasy and _not_ sci-fi according to its author, although this has yet to be seen from the ending.

-   _The Prey of Gods_ The novel's world fuses advanced and futuristic technologies (such as robotics, genetics, and Artificial Intelligence) with magic, supernatural creatures, and divine beings. Shamanism, spiritism, and polytheism from Zulu and Xhosa sources also make an appearance.

-   _Ra_ takes place in a world where magic was first properly discovered in The '70s, and is now used extensively in both technology and science.
-   _The Radiant Dawn_ mixes science fiction (the alien Wutner race), urban fantasy (the guns used by the defenders to protect the fortress), and fantasy (the magic used to raise the undead/Dawn's shield).
-   _Rainbow_ takes place at least one thousand years from now on an Earth that has been conquered by a New World Order, and features many pieces of impressive sci-fi technology. Aliens and ghosts are also explicitly said to exist; however, so are witches, fairies, and magic. _All stories are true_, after all.
-   _The Rogue King_ series starts with spaceships crashing on an alien world, which is largely controlled by gods, and the larger population has some form of magic.
-   _Scrapped Princess_ blends fantasy and sci-fi elements, with a world seemingly in Medieval Stasis where magic and Tron Lines abound. Then adds Ruins of the Modern Age and the Skid into the mix and the existences of Xeferis, and Natalie, who're dragoons that link with their masters. And the Peacemakers, who are a powerful race of alien overlords who can enslave the minds of all who gaze upon them. And their true forms resemble Humongous Mecha!
-   The _Shannara_ series written by Terry Brooks takes place in our future, After the End, and includes robots and mad computers, but also elves and magic.
-   _The Ship That Sailed to Mars_ is an early (1923) example, wherein an Old Man and a crew of fairy shipbuilders craft a boat that can sail across space to take them to Mars. Their journey takes them to many strange invented planets between Earth and Mars, through the Milky Way, and eventually to the red planet.
-   _Spellhacker_: Magic (called maz) is Sufficiently Analyzed Magic controlled by a corporation. The setting contains copious amounts of futuristic technology and Magitek.
-   The _Starship's Mage_ series by Glynn Stewart uses magic as the key to faster-than-light travel, allowing humanity to colonize the stars after the war that created mage-kind.

-   _The Supernaturalist_ combines a Cyberpunk future with invisible (to all but a very few), soul eating (or so it appears) cryptozoological creatures called Parasites.
-   _A Symphony of Eternity_ is a Space Opera set in a universe where magic is used instead of technology, the aliens are varried and diverse with no two characters alike and the story is set around the backdrop of an Epic Galactic War with roman legion like units and Greek Phalanxes fighting by the side of magically powered tanks and space fighters that share the sky and outer space with power armours and pegasus riders.
-   _Tale of the Comet_ by Roland Green has an alien ship crash-land on a Standard Fantasy Setting. The survivors and the natives band together to fight a Borg Expy, and some of the aliens learn magic by watching a native Wizard.
-   In _A Taste of Honey_, fantasy versions of Ancient Rome and ancient Africa are combined with interstellar travel, so-called gods using sci-fi gadgets and superpowers that seem like magic but are actually science. The people fight with spears and swords and the gods use tablets.
-   _Terra Ignota_ by Ada Palmer seems like a pure science fiction series on the face of it, but the fact that Bridger can work literal miracles edges it just that tiny bit into fantasy territory. Due to sufficiently advanced science, there are also pet unicorns and other fantastic beasts.
-   _The Three Worlds Cycle_ has sorcerers who can tap into a supernatural power. It also has human-like races from other dimensions crossing over, amazing engineering feats, and otherdimensional alien monsters.
-   _Togetherly Long_: The fantasy element comes from the land of Kuni in which the story takes place, where science is nearly unheard of and magical creatures and spells are commonplace, and the science fiction arrives when the evil Emperor Von Mal lands his spaceship there, intending to keep this planet as just one of a million worlds he's conquered.
-   _Trapped in a Dating Sim: The World of Otome Games is Tough for Mobs_ has the backdrop of a High Fantasy Otome Game, but it also fetures sci-fi elements such as Lost Technology, Mecha, and technological battleships that are readily used by nobles. The reveal of elves essentially being a race of living bioweapons created by humans also counts.
-   In _The Vagrant Trilogy_, the world starts off in a cyberpunk dystopia. A young girl is born with increasingly godlike supernatural powers and through her powers she realizes that there'll be an invasion from Hell coming. So she spends years waiting for more people like her to emerge and ready for the Apocalypse. Unfortunately she's unique and so she takes to becoming the God-Emperor and forcibly uplifts humanity into Crystal Spires and Togas to ready for the end. Unfortunately the invasion happens centuries after she dies, and so a good chunk of humanity is taken over by the victorious demonic forces. Which leads to the events in the story...
-   The _Warlock of Gramarye_ series dances mockingly on the edge of SF. Most of it takes place in a cod-Elizabethan land of swords and sorcery, knights and lords, witches and fairies, but all the magic is more or less explained away by a mixture of psi powers, alien life forms and Sufficiently Advanced Technology.
-   David Weber is best known for his Space Opera and Military Science Fiction, but he occasionally plays with this trope:
    -   The _Hell's Gate_ series is about two human civilizations that come into contact with each other through inter-universal portals. One civilization, the Union of Arcana, is a very Magitek civilization with wizards and genetically engineered dragons, where the main weapons for fighting are swords and crossbows. The second civilization, the Empire of Sharona, has Psychic Powers along with some minor advantages like rifles, machine guns, cannons, steam engines, trains, armored personnel carriers and battleships. Neither side reacts well to the existence of the other.
    -   _In Fury Born_ features a Space Marine protagonist who is possessed by a literal Greek goddess (one of the Furies, the goddesses of vengeance who torment evildoers). This makes for a somewhat jarring Genre Shift in the omnibus edition after Weber added two prequel novels of straight-up Military Science Fiction.

-   _The Witches of Karres_ by James Schmidt is about a spaceship captain who rescues three little girls who turn out to be the titular witches. Yes, you could call it "psychic powers", but actually everyone in the book calls it "klatha magic".
-   _WorldEnd: What Do You Do at the End of the World? Are You Busy? Will You Save Us?_ seems like a pretty standard fantasy world at first, with floating islands and various fantastical races. However, it’s later revealed that the gods who created the world were actually Sufficiently Advanced Aliens. It also turns out they only terraformed the planet the story takes place on. The primary antagonists of the series are actually the planet's original inhabitants who seek to reverse the Visitor’s terraforming and restore the world to the way it once was.
-   _Worlds of Shadow_: Lawrence Watt-Evans describes the trilogy as this, since it has both a sci-fi and fantasy parallel universe interacting with ours.
-   _The Young Ancients_ begins as a stock fantasy setting, before learning it's Earth thousands of years After the End. The magic also functions on a Techno Babble explanation. By book nine of the Magitek industrial revolution, there's Magitek spaceships and a moon colony.
-   The _Young Wizards_ series by Diane Duane, especially from the third book onwards. What do you do with your Magic A Is Magic A Functional Magic that looks suspiciously like programming? Go to Mars. And then explore the rest of the galaxy and meet up with aliens.
-   Roger Zelazny liked to challenge the boundaries between Science Fiction and Fantasy, and was known for blending in elements from Mythology:
    -   _Creatures of Light and Darkness_, often considered a companion novel to _Lord of Light_, featured _actual_ Egyptian Gods in a Standard Sci Fi Setting.
    -   _Lord of Light_ featured apparent Hindu Gods—actually humans with mutant powers—on a far-future colony world.
    -   _Roadmarks_ mixes science fiction tropes like robots and cyborgs with fantasy tropes like dragons and mystical powers in a setting where characters casually travel the length and breadth of human history. (Reader's choice which side the time travel falls on.)
-   _The Zodiac Series_ is mostly sci-fi, set in a galaxy with high-tech starships, several colonized planets, and androids...and _also_ has Psynergy, which allows humans to see the future. The Talismans are super-powered Psynergy sources, with one of them granting outright Resurrective Immortality, and the backstory of the setting involves humanity going through a portal from Earth and being welcomed by literal fallen stars.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _The Adventures of Slim Goodbody_: The series overall has a 20 Minutes into the Future aesthetic to it, but mix in some Magic from Technology and the odd evil wizard, and this is what you get.
-   _Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._ dives head first into this in its fourth season, which introduces the explicitly supernatural Ghost Rider into the Marvel Cinematic Universe and has a plot line which revolves around S.H.I.E.L.D. competing with a literal _ghost_ to recover a Tome of Eldritch Lore called the Darkhold, all existing contemporaneously with the usual sci-fi schtick of the Marvel universe. The same season even contains a subplot about a Life Model Decoy named Aida and her awakening as an artificial intelligence (partly _due_ to the influence of Darkhold after she's exposed to it). Prior to the fourth season, the show already contained some trace elements of Science Fantasy, such as the various Asgardian characters who occasionally showed up help S.H.I.E.L.D. (including two guest appearances by Lady Sif from _Thor_).
    -   The other Marvel Cinematic Universe television shows could count as well, including WandaVision and Loki (2021).
-   _Babylon 5_ started out looking like pure sci-fi and eventually ended up here. The transmigration of souls, technomages, and the first sapient being in the galaxy (mysteriously born immortal) coexisted with psychic powers, hyperdrives, and battleships. Though notably, everything was explicitly given an empirical, scientific gloss<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  At least, until the literal _demon_ that appeared in one of the post-series DTV films — the creator explicitly wanted to write in the style of a High Fantasy epic. The main characters of the sequel series were even partially modelled on the classic adventuring party makeup.
-   _Battlestar Galactica_ includes both cosmology and theology. Much of it appeared to be in the form of Sufficiently Advanced Aliens, particularly in the form of the mythical Lords of Kobol and the angelic seraphs from _War of the Gods_. The original series had a liberal dose of thinly-disguised references to the Book of Mormon, the Christian Bible, Judaism, and Islam. The reimagined series settled for Greco-Roman mythology.
-   The second season of _Buck Rogers in the 25th Century_ has a lot of fantasy involved. In "Journey to Oasis", it has orc-like monsters, a cave filled with deathtraps, and a living sword with an invisible wielder.
-   The trope is one of the major motifs _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_ season 4. The penultimate episode is an epic battle between the forces of science and the supernatural, orchestrated by a Big Bad who has a foot in both camps.
-   _Doctor Who_: A clear-cut television example of this. Oh, where to begin... The original series was supposed to be firmly grounded in observable reality — the Doctor himself identified as a scientist on a number of different occasions, because the series was originally intended to be an Edutainment Show — but then the more zany science fiction elements took over. By now, it uses elements from all over Speculative Fiction, from eldritch abominations to Venetian vampires to cybermen. (Though this gets subverted, as many of the apparent monsters commonly turn out to be just unusual aliens instead.) And it's all brought together by a Time Travelling TARDIS which looks like an antique police box on the outside and apparently goes where and when it is needed. The Eleventh Doctor's era was explicitly "a dark fairytale", mixing space opera with a childhood-like imagination and fantasy ethos.
-   _Find Me In Paris_ is a time travel show with a fantasy feel and approach. That said, the Time Collectors and Oscar's Clock Shop are rather Steampunk, while the Bureau have more futuristic sci-fi aesthetics.
-   _Kamen Rider_
-   _Legends of Tomorrow_ is about a team of superheroes on a futuristic, time-traveling spaceship. And while many of the heroes get their powers from some sort of technology, the team has also featured a warlock, a reincarnated Ancient Egyptian priestess, a couple of magical totem bearers, and a member of an ancient League of Assassins who was brought Back from the Dead through magic. The villains they fight range from immortal sorcerers and primordial demons to mad scientists and alien invaders. At one point, the characters even needed to find the formula for cold fusion, because it was the only thing that could repair a mystical artifact.
-   _Lost_ has ghosts, immortal people, and sentient Islands that can move...and also well thought out time travel, exotic matter, and electromagnetism as a key plot elements. Though, really, _no one knows what genre it is._
-   _Power Rangers_. Some series lean more towards science or magic, others happily mix the two, but it's inevitable when you have superheroes and physics-defying giant robots fighting monsters.
-   _Quantum Leap_: Starts as a straight time travel show, with the "Leaping" caused by an experimental time machine, neural links, holograms, and computers crunching probablities. Eventually we discover that some cosmic power is directing the protagonist, and maybe also, in separate episodes, meet Satan and a vampire.
-   _Shadowhunters_ is this in contrast to the books it was based on. In the books, the Shadowhunters used ancient magic and tools to track demons. In the show, the Institute is shown having lots of high-tech machinery and security systems to do the tracking.
-   _Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's The Lost World_ had the 1920s Challenger Expedition that were stranded on a Prehistoric Plateau not only dealing with Dinosaurs and Apemen but a huge assortment of other Fantasy/Scifi themes. Everything from witches and disembodied spirits to space aliens and time travel. The supernatural plots usually had Challenger scoffing at the idea of such rubbish and that everything they encountered had an answer based in science.

-   Broadly speaking _Stranger Things_ is presented as sci-fi, drawing aesthetic inspirations from '80s alien horror movies. However, there is a very strong thematic connection to _Dungeons & Dragons_, and as the series goes on it engulfs more fantasy tabletop tropes. Ultimately, neither the Upside Down (which the pitch bible claims has strick rules, which in the season 4 finale work very much like ritual magic) nor the psychic powers (which ultimately stem from a single person born with them) are fully explained in scientific terms.
-   _Super Sentai_
-   _Supergirl (2015)_ is mostly a straight (if very soft) science fiction series, but its third season revealed that the planet Krypton _also_ had genuine, magical witches, and the main Story Arc of the season revolved around stopping these alien invaders from starting a supernatural apocalypse on Earth.
-   _Tin Man_ is a retelling of _The Wizard of Oz_ in a sci-fi setting. Essentially it's meant to be the original Oz that Dorothy landed in — with a few hundred years' worth of industrial advancement. There are some Cyberpunk elements, but the villain is still a Wicked Witch who's planning to bring about The Night That Never Ends.
-   _The Twilight Zone_, which was the earliest TV series in America to show the line between Fantasy and Science Fiction get blurred, from ghostly flying saucers to tales of a man who could create anything with a tape recorder.
    -   _The Twilight Zone (1959)_
    -   _The Twilight Zone (1985)_
    -   _The Twilight Zone (2002)_
    -   _The Twilight Zone (2019)_
-   _Wizards vs. Aliens_ has a perfect balance of both science fiction and high fantasy elements. The creators, Russell T Davies and Phil Ford, had originally worked on _Doctor Who_, in which there are often fantasy creatures, but they were always rationalized into alien beings. The idea for _Wizards vs. Aliens_ came when it occurred to them they didn't have to merge one genre into the other, they could have both existing in the same universe!

    Manhua 

-   _Bloodline: The Last Royal Vampire_ has this kind of setting. While Lilo and her allies stick with magic, the antagonistic Shengdi a variety of weapons. Examples: Flying mobile bases, modern day battle suits, scythes, tanks. And, of course, silver bullets and their own kind of magic.

    Manhwa 

-   The Korean manhwa _Noblesse_ features an 800-year old vampire awakening in modern-day Korea, his having to deal with an age-old betrayal and his fellow Noble Vampires, who wield immensely powerful Soul Weapons passed down from generation to generation, containing the spirits and powers of their previous owners. Oh, and the bad guys is an international military organization known as the Union, which runs Super-Soldier experiments with modified humans, werewolves, and vampires.

    Music 

-   The _Evillious Chronicles_, a dark multi-media series heavy on magic and science-fiction technology. This is epitomized by the kingdom of Levianta, where they carried out a project to impregnate a woman with the souls of a god and then raise them in scientific test tubes. After the kingdom's fall, much of the chronological series is almost strictly magic, even featuring sorcerers in medieval civilizations—until the rest of the world starts developing technology again and the lines once again become muddled. That's not even mentioning the odd machines used in the series' versions of heaven and hell.
-   Gloryhammer's second album is called _Space 1992: Rise of the Chaos Wizards_. Lyrical content contains references to Spaceknights, a wizard resurrecting the spirit of a dead hero in a hologram, and the king of the galaxy smashing goblins with his Astral Hammer. If that wasn't enough, it's a direct sequel to the band's first offering 'Tales From the Kingdom of Fire", which opened with a undead unicorns and magical artillery. Their third album features a magicked Jet Pack as one of the Plot Coupons required to fight \[\[Big Bad Zargothrax}}.

    Podcasts 

-   _The Adventure Zone_ has dipped into this with a few of its campaigns.
    -   While _The Adventure Zone: Balance_ starts out as full D&D High Fantasy, later arcs shift more towards this. It's a story about magic, Artifacts of Doom, wizards, castles, and dwarves wielding giant hammers — while at the same time containing elevators, colonies on the moon, robots, aliens, interdimensional space travel, and Costco.
    -   _The Adventure Zone: Ethersea_ embraces this right off the bat, focusing on a group of survivors After the End relying on both advanced science and magic to build a new society underground. Old-fashioned submarines, displaced spirits and ghosts, teleporting sharks, and magic-granting gods abound.
-   _The Elandrid_, the first entry in the "Thomas Tells a Story" series of audioplays, features a mix of science fiction and sorcery and old-fashioned social upheaval, with the plot focusing on The First Arcanist, Elandra Ramirez, being dispatched to the planet Freya to investigate reports of an android that can perform magic. Things escalate from there when she learns that Gabriel Burns, The Lord Regent, has been dispatched on the same case.
-   _Metamor City_ is a Layered Metropolis inhabited by humans transformed by a regional curse, elves, lutins, demons, celestials, vampires, mages both licensed and unlicensed, and psionics. They've also got Flying Cars and several varieties of Cyberpunk technology.
-   _The Minister of Chance_ is a borderline _Doctor Who_ spinoff but with more of a fantasy slant.

    Roleplay 

-   _Destroy the Godmodder_: Due to the game's omni-fictional scope, entities from both science fiction and fantasy universes can be summoned, any otherwise magic-using or fantasy-themed characters are fine wielding advanced weaponry such as firearms, and science and sorcery are regularly mixed. It's quite telling that Destroy the Godmodder's analogue to Commander Shepard is a rebellious fantasy elf.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _d20 Modern_. The standard setting is Urban Fantasy, but there's plenty of options for adding sf into the mix. The bodak, for example, is a zombie Grey.
-   _DragonMech_. The setting was simple Standard Fantasy Setting. Now, there are also alien invaders from the moon and Steampunk Humongous Mecha that developed to fight them.
-   _Dragonstar_ is a D20 Role-Playing Game that combines _Dungeons & Dragons_ fantasy roleplay roles with a Science Fiction setting with interstellar travel, robots, and other features of futuristic technology. Thus you get wizards with laser pistols and an interstellar empire ruled by dragons.
-   _Duel Masters_ as a whole. Magic is pretty much an in-built feature, being what separates the five civilisations, and thematically is does play up the fantasy angle. However, both the light and water civilisations have very advanced technology, to the point that the former are actually mostly living machines/cyborgs whose light manipulation can easily just be interpreted as standard sci-fi laser/optics use, and the fire civilization has a lot of Steampunk.
-   _Dungeons & Dragons_. Several supplements and campaign settings over the years have been based on this premise:
    -   _Eberron_ is one of the codifiers of the Dungeon Punk sub-sub-genre. Elemental binding magic allows for airships, mag-lev trains, and sapient constructs, among other things.
    -   _Spelljammer_ is essentially D&D as a Space Opera with magic-powered wooden ships sailing the phlogiston currents between stars.
-   _Empire of the Petal Throne_: The combination of a far-future setting, lashings of Clarke's Third Law, Psychic Powers labelled as magic, actual gods, and general weirdness makes this a non-standard fantasy setting with _some_ Science Fiction underpinnings.
-   _Exalted_ was written with the intention of "burning down the generic fantasy warehouse", in the words of one of its writers. Part of what they threw out was the distinction between science-fiction and fantasy, leading to such innovations as warstriders and Magitek everywhere. 3rd edition has scaled things back towards fantasy for a variety of reasons, however.
-   _Fading Suns_ throws out any distinction between science fiction and fantasy, though the closer the narration veers toward omniscient, the more likely something is to sound like sci-fi. In general, it's a Feudal Future where sci-fi stuff has taken on mystical and fantasy elements. Psis aren't just trained minds, they're sorcerers (and bear occult markings...which may just be genetic mutation); the family's ancestral sword is a wireblade; cyborgs have replaced part of their body with occult magic, and the sacred jumpgates represent the light of the Pancreator. And then you get into stuff such as theurgy and Antinomy, which calls upon what appears to be the divine or demonic forces respectively...but it might also be Sufficiently Advanced Aliens, or just another expression of humanity's potential.
-   _Fellowship_ has some story elements that can be introduced to the game that mix fantasy and sci-fi, such as dwarf-made cars and Powered Armor and Space Elves.
-   _Feng Shui_ takes place in a universe where robot monkeys coexist with sorcerers and demonic creatures.
-   _GURPS_:
    -   _GURPS Illuminati University_ is set in a very weird pun-filled interdimensional university where wizards, demons, aliens and budding mad scientists happily mingle.
    -   _GURPS Technomancer_. The first above-ground atomic explosion in the U.S. releases magic into the world. As a result, people can cast spells and weird hybrid creatures are born, but only in the area covered by magical fallout.
-   The RPG _Tabletop Game/Kamigakari_ is an Anime Kitchen Sink set in modern Japan. Cyborgs fight dragons while traditional Shinto onmyoji compare techniques with cutting-edge Digital Sorcerers. The second supplement, _Machine God of Damocles_, is largely focused on the technological side of things.
-   _Mage: The Ascension_ features groups that use science and groups that use magic.
-   _Magic: The Gathering_ has a bizarrely long and convoluted nature with the line between fantasy and sci-fi. Early flavor as far back as _Antiquities_ had a strong emphasis on artifacts and thus technology, and the Urza vs Phyrexia saga in particular reads more like a Space Opera rather than actual fantasy (to wit, the bad guys are a biomechanical menace with literal nanotech in their blood and the "good guys" are performing eugenics, with mech suits, specialised surgery and spaceships for days). This actually created some disagreements between authors as far back as _Planeswalker_, which felt that the fantasy elements were being drowned out by all this. Even in recent times the blur continues: Ravnica similarly features genetic weirdness, the return to Kamigawa is a Magitek Cyberpunk and Phyrexia continues to resemble sci-fi villains, particularly now that they have a faction aligned with Blue mana (the magic color most associated with knowledge and perfection).
-   Monte Cook's _Numenera_ is inspired by works like Gene Wolfe's _Book of the New Sun_, and is set a billion years into our future. The setting, called by its inhabitants the Ninth World, mixes a society with medieval technology with technological artifacts left behind by the previous civilizations that have risen and fallen over the previous billion years. Monte has cited Clarke's Third Law to explain the presence of things that would otherwise be at home in a fantasy setting such as "wizards" (Nanos, whose powers are derived from cybernetic implants, extradimensional aliens, or other non-supernatural sources), "gods" (alien entities or ancient A.I.s), and floating cities (kept aloft by some sort of anti-gravity or repulsor tech).
-   _Pathfinder_ looooves itself this trope. An entire book is devoted to the various planets in Golarion's solar system. There is also a nation in the setting called Numeria, where a starship crashed smack in the middle of a savage, barbaric land thousands of years ago. To top it all off, an entire Adventure Path, "Iron Gods", was based in that nation which asks the question, "what happens when an artificial intelligence gains the ability to grant spells to its followers?". This Adventure Path was further supplemented with both an entire book on sci-fi technology and technological magic, and another book that details the various alien races you can play as, including androids.
    -   _Starfinder_ is a spinoff dedicated to science fantasy. Taking thousands of years after _Pathfinder_, the native races of Golarion now live on the Absalom space station after their home planet mysteriously disappeared. Knowledge of when, why, and how Golarion vanished was lost to The Gap, a millenia-long period of which there are no memories or historical records anywhere in the multiverse. Advanced technology like energy weapons and starships have become common place, along with a new form of magic called Technomancy, using the correlations between magic and technology to create something more powerful than either on their own.
-   _Rifts_ is set a few centuries after the high tech world of tomorrow is utterly trashed by the return of magic. Human supremacist armies of cyborgs, chemically-enhanced supersoldiers and Humongous Mecha traipse across the landscape. Atlantis has risen. Sorcerers summon demons and raise the dead. Rifts in spacetime spew out critters from other dimensions more or less at random. Elves and dragons and goblins roam the wilderness. Killer cyborgs from another dimension want to kill all humanoid life on Earth. Gods battle alien invaders. Vampires openly run entire cities. And that's just the tip of the iceberg. The _Phase World and the Three Galaxies_ sub-setting of the game takes this trope all the way. You have science-based interstellar civilizations (the Consortium of Civilized Worlds) alongside magic-based ones (the United Worlds of Warlock). The local Evil Empires (The Transgalactic Empire and the Splugorth Dominions) are ruled secretly or openly by Eldritch Abominations. Technology, magic, psionics and super powers all co-exist in a Standard Sci Fi Setting... which is currently undergoing a Demonic Invasion.
-   _Shadowrun_ is the quintessential Cyberpunk Urban Fantasy. It's set in a world after The Magic Comes Back, with elves, dwarves, trolls, orcs, and dragons, but it's also set 20 Minutes into the Future, so instead of forging axes underneath mountains, said dwarves are more likely to use cybernetic interfaces to pilot unmanned combat drones.
-   _Skyrealms of Jorune_ is a far-future Planetary Romance that featured powerul energy manipulation powers that resembled magic, floating islands, Power Crystal, a wise and an ancient race, lots of strange monsters and human colonists who have a fallen several notches in tech and culture but recently rediscovered a large cache of energy weapons.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_ is perhaps one of the genre's most darkest (and glorious) examples. It takes place in a (far) future Space Opera setting, has spaceships, lasers, extraterrestrials, Psychic Powers, Humongous Mecha and an army of genetically-engineered Super-Soldier Space Marines. However, said spaceships must travel through hell to move between stars, the lasers are blessed in the name of The God-Emperor by the all-pervasive Church Militant, the extraterrestrials are based on classic fantasy races IN SPACE, Psychic Powers are drawn from the same hellscape your spaceship has to dive through and are as likely to get you purged as a heretic witch or possessed as they are to give you awesome powers, the Humongous Mecha are Lost Technology worshiped by the resident Cargo Cult and the Space Marines are fanatical Knights Templar. The medieval Gothic aesthetic to the entire place is there to drive home just how regressive and oppressed everything is. John Blanche, the artistic madman who defined the dark gothic aesthetic of both _Warhammer_ games, describes the setting in the September White Dwarf magazine (the game's 30th anniversary special) thus:
    
    "_Warhammer 40,000_ is, to me, a pure \[English\] view of medievalism in space. It's full of fear, superstition, conflict and servitude and that's what we aim to show in the artwork."
    
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh!_ jumps around between pure sci-fi, pure fantasy, and things from other genres entirely, but mostly ends up somewhere around this trope. Tellingly, the second most common type in the game after Warrior is Machine, and robotic dragons are downright common.

    Toys 

-   _Masters of the Universe_ has elements of this. The main character is muscle-bound, loin cloth wearing beefcake with a magic sword, who hangs out with a wizard and a robot, has faced cyborgs and monster men, and frequently deals with tech that wouldn't feel out of place in a Star Wars film.
-   LEGO themes:
    -   _BIONICLE_ is more mystical fantasy in its early phase, with a setting that's vaguely Polynesian at face value, everyone is a mostly machine cyborg and the main heroes, the Toa control the elements with no explanation other than "elemental energy" and wear super-powered masks. Later, there's a Genre Shift leaning heavily into sci-fi, revealing the characters live inside a giant robot made of Applied Phlebotinum. They sport sweet tech, but the most common way for the powerless Matoran to defend themselves are with frisbees that can freeze, shrink, or teleport whatever they touch. Ancient mysticism, prophecies, all sorts of fantastical powers are everywhere and the concept of Destiny rules the universe. Co-writer Greg Farshtey was adamant that there's no magic involved, as that word was never used in the Universe Bible. But no actual explanation is ever given to the powers and mystical elements.
    -   In contrast to the original, the short-lived _BIONICLE (2015)_ ReBoot openly embraced magic but still kept the characters as biomechanical cyborgs and robots, with no explanation as to where they came from this time.
    -   _Nexo Knights_ is set in a medieval kingdom where magic meets space-age technology.

    Video Games 

-   _Action Taimanin_ is set in a Bio Punk / Cyberpunk world with demons.
-   _Albion_, a game where a spaceship in the future lands on a world with magic instead of technology. A lot of the time is spent in primarily fantastic or scifistic settings, but they eventually mix, and both elements are present at least a little most of the time.
-   _Arknights_ is set on Terra, a world vaguely analogous to modern Earth with a mixture of sci-fi and fantasy elements, as well as Schizo Tech due to Originum enabling different technological progression. There's modern riot police armed with swords and crossbows patrolling gigantic mechanical mobile cities. There's Casters who carry staves and wands to control their magical Arts but are also clad in modern tactical armor. Most advanced modern firearms are in the hands of what is effectively a race of angels and the Terran version of the Catholic Church. Other firearms and high explosives require knowledge and training of Arts to trigger them. Magitek is everywhere, from personal devices and electronics to advanced machinery, and industrial accidents or other accidental exposure to Originum can cause a malignant disease known as Oripathy, which is effectively a form of lethal cancer which also grants natural magical powers. And this is before we get into the multiple races of demons, vampires, and other fantasy beings, as well as humanoid dragons, people with animal traits, and literal gods.
-   _Armory & Machine_ initially starts off as a game where you control an AI that builds robots to scout a post-apocalyptic Earth, with most enemies being hostile wildlife. Then, supernatural and magical aspects are present in the Landfill area, where the enemies consist of Elemental Embodiments that wield the power of Earth, Dust, and sludge, which heavily contrasts the robot-filled Laboratory area.
-   _Armory & Machine 2_ takes it even further than its predecessor. The player starts out with technological weaponry to fight wildlife, slimes of varying sorts, and robots in the first four areas. The fifth area, the Wilderness however contains several magical beings and creatures as enemies, including sprites, orcs, spirits, imps, gargoyles, and even dragons. The player also unlocks the Marketplace, which sells Elemental Weapons effective against the Wilderness enemies in an Elemental Rock-Paper-Scissors fashion.
-   _Ar tonelico: Melody of Elemia_: The series features girls who control magical powers with their songs and goddesses who control the giant towers that humanity has been forced to live in after a disaster destroyed the world's land. The backstory of the series reveals that this disaster was caused by the technology of a highly advanced civilization. The towers themselves were built by these civilizations. The villain in the first game invades the tower's systems with viruses that can take physical form and possess many of the tower's robot guardians. The magic wielding girls themselves are actually an artificial race designed to use magical powers based on the intricate principles of "wave science". The prequel series, _Surge Concerto_ takes this even further, as Ra Ciela's civilization is even more advanced than Ar Ciel's, and one of the series' games even takes place almost entirely on a spaceship. However, there's still the same magic music and gods as is usual for this universe.
-   _Arcanum: Of Steamworks & Magick Obscura_ is a mixture of more specific genres: High Fantasy and Steampunk. The overarching story is fantasy epic, set in a more dystopian land that includes race and class conflict and the growing pains of an industrializing society as themes. Magic vs. technology is less a war than an ideological clash that can at least find common ground in its goals if not its practical methods.
-   _Asura's Wrath_ IS this trope with a Hindu and Buddhist twist.
-   In _Azur Lane_, you have the high-tech production ships of the Ironblood and the Sirens, and Memory Cubes making the game seem like a Science Fiction story... and then you have the _York_\-class being able to use magic, the Duke of York being a Shakespearean vampire, the Centaur being an elf, all of the Sakura Empire ships who are a Little Bit Beastly (and based on Japanese Youkai), and other things that are fantastical elements.
-   _Battleborn_: While the game is a deeply sci-fi work in the vein of _Borderlands_, it has a number of things that are more fantasy in basis. These include among things, magical abilities derived from science grounded concepts and Magitek-like technology. The most notable of all of these however are the Eldrid, an entire faction consisting of fantasy inspired individuals whose number includes a sentient Fungus, a Space Elf, a space dwarf, and a skeletal ice golem.
-   _Castle Crashers_ starts out in what is, ostensibly, a quirky Low Fantasy setting, with a war against a barbarian tribe, evil wizards, and the classic chestnut of the princesses getting kidnapped. Upon crossing the ocean, you immediately thwart an Alien Invasion by the Alien Hominids.
-   _Cave Story_ takes place on a Floating Continent, which is inhabited by fantastic creatures such as bunny-shaped Mimigas, (undead) sand-dwelling crocodiles or humanoid cockroaches, ruled over by an old witch who's responsible for an abomination that keeps the island afloat from inside a chamber protected with terminals and water control. There's also an incubator corridor that keeps dragon eggs and Ridiculously Human Robots.
-   _Chrono Trigger_: An apocalyptic future with destroyed domed cities caused by a Cosmic Horror, combined with a medieval Sword and Sorcery setting in the past. And it's all connected by Time Travel.
-   _Copy Kitty_ takes place in a binary stellar system with a futuristic society of 12 sentient species, that's constantly under the threat of magically-enhanced constructs from another dimension.

-   _Crystalis_, a _Zelda_\-esque top-down action-adventure game for the NES, takes place in a post-apocalyptic future where human civilization has regressed to medieval times and embraced magic over technology. The game's Big Bad has taken control of a floating tower and is threatening the world with powerful magic and Lost Technology.
-   _Deep Rock Galactic_ shows constant hints that the setting is a Standard Fantasy Setting that made it out of Medieval Stasis and advanced past the space age, into proper sci-fi. The dwarves may be kitted out like mining space marines, but they mention the "empires of old" in their toasts, elves are implied to exist and Deep Rock has some among its management, and a clean shaven look is mentioned as "progressive" in the context of dwarven society. And sure enough, the game is all about the dwarves heading out to dig in the most dangerous of places for valuable ores, kitted out in the heaviest armor and armaments their company can provide, so clearly the dwarves are still dwarves.
-   _Destiny_ is science fiction turned on its side by the discovery and harnessing of “paracausal” forces that defy physical law, i.e. space magic. So in addition to alien Space Pirates, conquering empires, and time-traveling robots, there are wish-granting dragons, undead wizards in service to dark gods singing songs that kill people, and you, the player, a Guardian brought back from death and granted strange powers by the Light to protect humanity. Bungie has even described the game as being "mythic science fiction".
-   _Doom_ features an invasion by demons from hell ... thwarted by a _Space Marine_ on _Mars_ with a _plasma rifle._ Our hero is basically a high-tech Barbarian Hero, especially in the Reboot games below.
    -   In _Doom (2016)_, you play a warrior whose wrath is legendary among the forces of hell, clad in mystical Powered Armor and using all manner of ballistic and energy weaponry, awakening in a Martian facility owned by a humanity that has started mining Hell and using its energies to advance to a Golden Age, whilst experimenting on demons and engaging in dark arts rituals. Your allies are an A.I. and the Cyborg C.E.O. of the company that runs the place, fighting against the demonic forces of hell whose Earthly agent is a scientist using an exoskeleton to counter a crippling disease.
    -   _Doom Eternal_ brings back almost everything from the previous game and adds more demons, like the cybernetic Arachnotrons and Whiplashes, the Mauraders, and the Icon of Sin, returning as a massive humanoid demon covered in cybernetic armor. There are also technologically advanced angels who turn out to be Scary Dogmatic Aliens that literally made a Deal with the Devil to keep their empire afloat. The Doom Slayer gets two new weapons: the technologically advanced Ballista that fires arrows made of Argent Energy, and the Crucible, a Laser Blade whose blade is also made of Argent Energy. The Ancient Gods Part 1 reveals that your cyborg C.E.O. is one of those angelic aliens, and your A.I. is THE creator God. The first DLC ends with the Doom Slayer summoning the series' equivalent of Satan so that he can kill him in the sequel DLC. The Ancient Gods Part 2's epic climatic battle has a Humongous Mecha, starships, and even _dragons_ for both the Sentinels and the Demons (the latter two at least; just replace the mech with a Kaiju for the Demons' side).
-   _Endless Legend_ mixes the sciencey bits of its predecessor with fantasy, as the game takes place on a former Concrete Endless world which has been populated by the survivors a wrecked spaceship. Suits of Animated Armor powered by money argue with sentient dragons in the courts, on the battlefield Power Armor\-wearing hatchetmen follow their Humongous Mecha into battle against witches and wizards who get their power from pain, while an empire of malfunctioning robots converts bands of orcs and trolls to join their cause in destroying the ruins of the Endless.

-   _Eroica_ is primarily fantasy since it delves much more into magic and races other than humans, with the sci-fi mostly put into ancient artifacts, abandoned technology, and research done and applied by the independent Tech-State of Tan, which is explored by the main characters in the campaign's second act.
-   _Eversoul_ is set in Earth's distant future where humanity left the world ravaged due to excessive wars, ultimately meeting an untimely fate after escaping to the stars in nine arks in an attempt to ensure species survival. Souls, immortal magical beings born from ancient artifacts who were once used as humanity's living weapons, would then rebuild the world and make it their own, renaming it "Eden". There, they lived in relative peace for hundreds of years until the Gate incidents began, with each "death" gradually erasing memories of their pasts, that made them summon the player, who lived in modern Earth, to their time to help them rediscover their origins and give them great power to fight against this crisis, kickstarting the events of the game's main story.
-   _ELEX_ can be best described as _Gothic_ meets _Fallout_. It takes place on a world similar to modern day Earth that was devastated by a meteor strike. Said meteor brought with a new element, Elex, that can grant people magical powers.
-   _Fallout_ itself occasionally dabbles in more fantastical elements. While usually a Sci-Fi Kitchen Sink, _Fallout_ games have featured an actual ghost and an Inn Between the Worlds, a haunted office building with a Tome of Eldritch Lore and ancient cults that worship abominations.
-   _Fable III_ was in an industrial revolution, while the magic and swords were kept, the two DLCs Understone and Traitor's Keep featured steampunk robots with latter even including a potion to turn your dog into a robot.
-   Nearly every _Final Fantasy_ has had this. Besides the series standard magic and Summon Magic:
    -   _Final Fantasy_ was mostly fantasy, with added bits of Lost Technology showing up later in the game, largely thanks to the Lufenians.
        -   _Stranger of Paradise: Final Fantasy Origin_ is a prequel that goes full Science Fantasy. Cornelia being technologically advanced compared to the original game is a plot point and in fact is more because the characters using that technology are not from Cornelia, but rather the Lufenians or their former agents.
    -   _Final Fantasy III_ featured post-apocalyptic Ancient technology.
    -   _Final Fantasy IV_ had a spacecraft capable of going to the moon, aliens from the destroyed planet between Mars and Jupiter, and a Humongous Mecha, although it's otherwise fantasy in all respects.
    -   _Final Fantasy V_ has people from other worlds landing on the planet via a meteorite, dimension travel and lost high technology, as well as castles, kings, pirates and dragons.
    -   _Final Fantasy VI_ had steampunk-esque technology and Edgar's tools, which included a chainsaw and drill. The sand-diving Castle Figaro was treated as using science rather than magic, although it's really not physically possible.
    -   _Final Fantasy VII_ had near-modern cities complete with television, guns, genetic engineering (sort of), electricity, and power plants. However, those power plants ran on the literal lifeblood of the planet, which also produced magic crystals that functioned as Powers as Programs. The original game had a cell phone-like device, referred to as a 'PHS.'
        -   The spinoff game _Dirge of Cerberus_ and the film _Advent Children_ feature these cell phones much more prominently. The remake used smartphones and 21st-century expectations of future technology.
    -   _Final Fantasy VIII_ has Summon Magic, magical Time Travel, schools that convert into ancient moving fortresses, and a ship that got lost in space while launching an evil sorceress into a space prison. It also has Esthar, a Crystal Spires and Togas\-like futuristic country.
    -   _Final Fantasy IX_ is mostly fantasy, but includes quite a lot of Steampunk technology and a Sufficiently Advanced Magitek alien race to which both the protagonist and the Big Bad belong.
    -   _Final Fantasy X_ has machina, a slightly steampunk-esque technology that can make guns, grenades, mecha, and blitzball stadiums. On the other hand, there's an Eldritch Abomination running around killing everyone and the pyreflies that make up a person can reform into monsters after their death.
    -   _Final Fantasy XII_ has guns and more science fiction like airships than previous titles, but the airships are powered by magical phlebotinum. And all the other magical elements.
    -   _Final Fantasy XIII_ appears to be Science Fiction at first, with guns, more "realistic" airships, mecha, and genetic engineering. But most, if not all, of the tech is powered by fal'cie, magical beings. Who can also grant magical powers to chosen humans, although it sucks to be chosen this way for the human.
    -   _Final Fantasy XIV_ has the science fiction aspect mainly as the trait of the antagonistic Garlean Empire, who are incapable of using magic, but Cid Garlond has been making use of both since he defected from said empire. Other science-fantasy concepts induce a fallen Crystal Spires and Togas empire (Allag, with some emphasis on crystal spires) and aliens (specifically, the dragons or at least Midgarsomnr and his brood; and the machine lifeform Omega).
    -   _Final Fantasy XV_ is about a modern-era king on a journey to steal back the world's _last_ gigantic mana crystal from a medieval-culture nation that has been armed to the teeth with advanced robotics technology. Half of the battles involve fighting robot legions equipped with lances and plate armor or exosuits, and the other half of battles involve hunting down fantastic beasts that make up most of the planet's ecosystem. Noctis uses magical teleporting swords, but he and his allies can also use artillery installations and handguns.
    -   _Final Fantasy XVI_ takes place in a dark setting similar to Game Of Thrones, but sprinkled with advanced precursor Lost Technology that includes magic-powered jet engines and internet routers that shoot laser beams.
    -   _Final Fantasy Type-0_ revolves around a war between a dominion of magic users whose army is made up of students from the resident Wizarding School with Summon Magic, and an aggressively expansionist, vaguely Nazi-esque empire employing Humongous Mecha and Fantastic Nukes.
    -   _Final Fantasy Tactics_ is _nearly_ pure fantasy, but it's set in a world that used to be much higher-tech, and a couple of characters use guns that shoot magic. _XII_ is something of a Prequel in the Lost Age.
-   _Geneforge_ is another examples of this. The Shapers are a sect of wizards who can literally create life, but the methodology is strongly implied to be at its heart pure sci-fi. Most of its machinery is explained as being carefully designed semi-living creatures that, for example, shift to open a door when someone approaches, or release a cloud of spores that signals other creations to, say, not explode. You've even got General Alwan, who's kept alive by what is basically intravenous magic.
-   _Gradius_ routinely weaves in and out of this, especially in terms of some of the game's bosses, as some are prophecized ancient terrors, while others are elemental beings, like dragons and phoenixes _made of_ fire, or lions made of sand. Even Moais are also enemies and bosses in the series. Other supernatural elements routinely come into play as well, especially in the MSX games where the concept of ESP plays a role in the story. To compliment the fantastical side, the series also has fleets of battleships, robot spiders, and alien monsters made of Body Horror. What other game lets you play as a Cool Starship that battles fiery dragons and battleships with Frickin' Laser Beams and Attack Drones?
-   _Guardian Tales_ seems more like a standard fantasy RPG at first glance, but then modern stuff like phones, airships, movies, and... Facebreak start to get thrown your way as you explore the world. And that's not all: there's Demon World, a dimension separate from humanity that's practically cyberpunk up the wazoo, inhabited by the aforementioned Demon race.
-   The _Guild Wars_ series flirts with this. It's hinted that the Mists are actually something akin to Hyperspace and the humans and Forgotten are confirmed to have been brought to Tyria from another planet by the gods (who may or may not be Sufficiently Advanced Aliens). The charr and asura races, on the other hand, are racing headlong into this trope from the other direction — the asura have magitek with a definite sci-fi feel, while the charr are in the midst of an industrial revolution and continuing to advance at a breakneck pace.
-   The _Guilty Gear_ series of games, set in a future where a new, unlimited source of power has been discovered... called "Magic". Humanoid robots and artificially created killing machines coexist with people who can summon the power of the elements and fight with melee weapons (admittedly, melee weapons which can spit fire and lightning).
-   _Journey (2012)_: Besides the beautiful sand that submerged the world, glyphs, magical cloth, and the impaired buildings, technology is uncommon at most. You fly using the energy bundled in your scarf, and although there exists an ancient language you can't seem to talk at all, even the game hardly shows any text beside from the logo and closing credits. Singing near large pieces of cloth can release "cloth creatures" from the machines' remnants. Glyphs and confluences teach you the history of a civilization started by your ancestors. The reason why the game takes place After the End is the machines powered by energy from red banners destroyed the world in a war against the White Robes.
-   The _Kingdom Hearts_ series has magic, souls ("hearts"), fantastic creatures, and a prophecy involving a hero of destiny... alongside spaceships armed with lasers, Mad Scientists, advanced robots, and Magical Computers including an Inside a Computer System level. The spaceships with lasers are firmly on the magic side of it. They are made from size-changing gummi blocks that broke off of the sky. On your second visit to the Inside a Computer System world you have to bring a computer program modified by Merlin's magic to _TRON_ so that he can do battle with the MCP.
-   _Kirby_ is set on a fantastic alien planet and features fantasy tropes such as castles, knights, dragons, and magical artifacts alongside Eldritch Abomination, high tech spaceships, and interplanetary travel. The plot of _Kirby: Planet Robobot_ kicks off after alien invaders mechanize Kirby's home world for their own profit and the main gameplay feature is Kirby piloting a Mini-Mecha.
-   _The Legend of Zelda_ has shades of this in that, while mostly a fantasy series, a few games use technology beyond what one could expect from such a setting. _The Legend of Zelda: Spirit Tracks_ places heavy emphasis on trains, while _The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword_ has the the Ancient Robots as a major race. _The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_ is particularly centered on this trope, being set in the wake of the collapse of a highly magically and technologically advanced civilization, and a variety of either technological or Magitek mechanisms feature prominently, including the Sheikah Slate (a tablet-like device capable of letting Link teleport, freeze water, magnetically control metallic objects and freeze things in time), the robotic, laser beam-shooting Guardians, energy-based weaponry that Link can scavenge for, and four animal-shaped Humongous Mecha roaming the world.
-   _The Longest Journey Saga_: Magic and technology once coexisted. Past misues of the two brought the Powers That Be to separate the two into Stark (technology, "our" world) and Arcadia (magic/medieval world). Attempts to alter this balance are what drives the plot. The later games also throw in some Steampunk.
-   _Lost Odyssey_ is set during an era called the "Magic-Industrial Revolution". It has swords and sorcery alongside muskets and tanks, idyllic villages with haunted houses near dirty steel and concrete cities and mortals and immortals the latter from another world fighting alongside, and against one another. The opening sequence alone features a battle between armored knights and barbarian warriors utilizing very steam-punkish weapons (one of the most interesting being a machine that resurrects dead soldiers, powered by magical chanting). Then there's Grandstaff, which is described as a "Magic Staff". It's actually an enormous mechanical TOWER that channels magic. The entire game is one massive kitchen sink.
-   The _Mega Man_ series may have taken place in a futuristic setting with highly advanced technology and robots with AI almost as the same level as humans (for better or worse), said technology for the most part is there to look futuristic for the sake of it. Several of the robots are also created to resemble ninjas, mermaids, vampires, and mythological beings in mind. Not only that but a good number of the Robot Masters have the standard elemental magic powers (fire/water/electricity/grass) and their powers are no stranger to magic. As for the later series like X, Zero and ZX... android witches, knights, and angels/fairies that are created out of energy (in the name of Cyber-elves) are also apparent. The _Battle Network_ alternate timeline is mostly digital sci-fi, but the final half of the series begins introducing fantastic elements like Dark Power and the bizarre properties of Bug Frags.
-   _Metal Slug_ has tanks armed with painfully slow rolling mortar shells and mining drills, anti-personnel homing missiles, antrophomorphic weapons, animals with mounted machine guns, man-eating plants, a pathogen that turns the players undead, shiny flashing bullets and grenades and access to alien technology. Okay. Some of these are scientific, while others are magical.
-   _Metroid_ is mostly science fiction, what with an intergalactic bounty hunter armed with advanced Powered Armor pursuing evil Insectoid Aliens across different alien planets. But the games also feature fantastical elements, especially from _Metroid Prime_ onward. The Chozo are an advanced race whose high-tech machines are essentially Magitek, and on at least one planet they were able to become Seers and Ascend to a Higher Plane of Existence after they _abandoned_ their technology. One of their major creations, the Metroids, are strange energy-based parasites who can suck some sort of Life Energy from their victims; the various other factions that research the Metroids really don't know what exactly this energy is, only that creatures can't live without it. The Reptilicus of _Metroid Prime 3: Corruption_ have a somewhat similar culture to the Chozo and are explicitly stated to use magic, most frequently used for their various Golems. And Samus Aran's Arch-Enemy, Ridley, is a dragon, a creature usually found in fantasy.
-   _Metro 2033_ takes place in a fairly standard Grimdark version of After the End, with hostile mutants, scattered human survivors, and a climax that involves using pre-cataclysmic weapons. There are also enough murderous ghosts for one of the characters to have a theory on them (Heaven, Hell, and Purgatory were _also_ atomized), including a bona fide Afterlife Express.
    -   _Metro: Last Light_ takes this even further at one point, actually throwing a player into a hellish supernatural dimension where one of the game's big moral choices takes place. Also features a legitimately haunted airplane wreck.
-   The _Might and Magic_ series, which includes the first four _Heroes of Might and Magic_ games, takes place in fantasy worlds but with SF-elements, mostly involving Lost Technology. Not many people who haven't played _M&M6_ knows that the Kreegan/Inferno town of _Heroes 3_ is in fact populated not by demons but by hive-minded aliens (except for when the Inferno town is used to represent the _non_\-Kreegan demons that are also around in the setting). They even planned to add a futuristic town with tanks and cyber-zombies in the first expansion<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , although backed down after fans threatened to boycott. The greatest example of just how science fantasy the series was may be that for the first five games, the Big Bad and the Big Good were magic-using robots travelling around in spaceships and infiltrating societies with castles, wizards and elves living on worlds created by really advanced Magitek.
-   _Minecraft_ is not necessarily an example of this due to there not being much interaction between the "technology" (redstone) and "magic" (potions); however, many technology and magic mods of Minecraft, due to using a common API, intersect in the way they are used, resulting in systematic ritualism and magical devices which are capable of interfacing with technological devices from other mods.
-   _Monster Hunter_ is set in a world filled with wyverns, oversized and incredibly dangerous beasts, and dragons that can range from the mundane 'fire breath' to being outright terrifyingly unexplainable. The humans of said world hunt them with Bamboo Technology weapons made out of the bodies of dead monsters, and no special powers except strength and willpower. Some of said weapons include gigantic swords, complex axe-swords hybrid weapons, bowguns (which are really just guns that vaguely resemble crossbows), glaives which allow the controls of a giant insect, and more. Said dragons and wyverns also tend to have a semi-scientific explaination for their Elemental Powers rather than just 'magic'.
-   The _Mortal Kombat_ universe also combines elements of both science-fiction (cyborgs, advanced weaponry, parallel dimensions, spaceships) and fantasy (magic, dragons, gods, demons). However, the blood physics the series was well known for have gone more realistic and scientific over time.

-   _Next Jump SHMUP Tactics_'s Excuse Plot involves an alliance of men, elves, dwarves, and orcs brought together by a mutual love of alcohol battling an Evil Empire of dragons by using huge versions of their traditional weapons mounted on Space Fighters. The orcs even have a wizard's staff mounted on their fighter as its main gun!
-   _NieR_ and its sequel take place in a post-apocalypse Earth, and feature both eldritch magic and advanced technology, but most schools of magic have been reverse-engineered and applied for use in machines.
-   Most of _The Ninja Warriors_ is purely sci-fi, with robots, vehicles, guns, lasers, and other technologies. The fifth boss Jubei however has green fire ninja magic with no technological explanation and the red fire-breathing ninja mooks have teleportation, suggesting that supernatural elements do exist in the game.
-   The final act of _Oddworld: Abe's Oddysee_ involves raiding an Eternal Engine death factory run by Corrupt Corporate Executives full of machine-gun toting guards, electric defense systems, and floating magnetic mines...while wielding the power of Shrykull the lightning god. The good ending's cutscene even involves shamans using their combined spiritual power to bring divine wrath on the head of the Big Bad.
-   _Ōkami_ is inspired by Japanese Mythology, thanks to its pantheon of divine animal deities called the Celestial Brush Gods, the presence of Yōkai and demons, and the fact that you're playing as Amaterasu, _the Goddess of the Sun_, in the form of a divine white and red wolf. The game also has science-fiction elements, such as a pair of owl demons made of clockwork technology, an ancient starship once piloted by a supposedly extinct alien race from the moon, a malevolent Mechanical Abomination who's the source of all technology, and a scientist whose electric invention helps Amaterasu.
-   _Omikron: The Nomad Soul_ features Mechaguards, Supercomputers and Cyberpunk Dystopias mixed with Soul Magic and Demonic Invaders.
-   Early in _Paladins_ development, champions fought with either magic, technology, or Magitek and have the appearances to match, such as Viktor's very modern frag grenades and assault rifle and Kinessa's futuristic sniper rifle up against Torvald's stone-tech powerfist and Seris' soul-powered lantern. However, by the time the game fully released, the sci-fi aspects were removed, with more fantasy champions being added and redesigning some of the older champions to look less sci-fi, such as Ruckus' mech going from a cartoonish, Mechwarrior-esque steel fighter to a wood-and-metal steam-powered lifter. Now _Paladins_ has more of a Dungeon Punk angle. This aversion to sci-fi seems to have been done to make _Paladins_ stand out from other Hero Shooters, such as the sci-fi heavy _Overwatch_ and Space Opera _Battleborn_.
-   _Panzer Dragoon_ is set in a post-apocalyptic world ravaged by war, resulting in a mutant-rampant world and the extinction of The Ancients, leaving behind their powerful ancient technology to the current age. The world is so damaged from the war that it has to be supported by ancient structures known as Towers to keep the world stable until they're destroyed in _Saga_. The series' protagonists ride on armored dragons that breathe homing lasers, taking on mutated creatures, ancient artificial creatures called Pure-Type Monsters, and The Empire's forces, ranging from scout ships to epic battleships, and genetically-engineered dragons called Dragonmares in _Orta_. There's also an ancient supercomputer, and the reason why the Towers release mutants is so they can balance the ecosystem, even if that means attacking humans.
-   _Perimeter_ has Physical Gods with Sufficiently Advanced Technology that reside in floating cities. You lead super-advanced, Shapeshifting robotic soldiers fighting demons on alien worlds. Faster-Than-Light Travel is achieved by sending things through the noosphere.
-   _Phantasy Star_ was notable as one of the first science fantasy console RPG series, with the first game being a Space Opera spanning multiple worlds, featuring spaceships, laser weapons, alien races, and robots existing alongside magic, fantastic monsters, and an ancient primordial evil. As the series progressed, particularly with _Phantasy Star Online_ and its successors, the series began to embrace more sci-fi tropes, but continued to incorporate elements of fantasy.
-   _Pokémon_ takes place in a Constructed World full of magical creatures called Pokemon, impossible geography, aliens, robots, psychic powers, and spaceships. One sort of pokémon is theorized to be aliens from the moon, and they rub shoulders with several kinds of vengeful ghosts, almighty dragons, whimsical fairies, and something that can only be described as "God's dog."
-   The _Ridge Racer_ games mix realistic vehicle physics and driving physics as well as fantasy symbolism. The later games in the series even have _exaggerated driving physics which is no means a possible science_ as well as Nitro Boost.
-   _Rise of Legends_ features Steampunk robots and soldiers fighting Genies and and magicians. That is, until the Alien Gods show up.
-   _Rogue Adventure_ has multiple types of wizards, fairies, primordial spirits, angels/demons, elves, and Beast Man coexisting alongside futuristic robots and a Space Corps. This is all based off their Summon Cards and character classes, by the by.
-   _Sacred 2_ is a good example, although the barrier between Magitek and actual technology is difficult to define. You have artificial beings (both cibernetic and organic), lasers, lightsabers, force fields, strange energies and _Resident Evil_\-esque mutant zombies in a High Fantasy premise.
-   _The SaGa Series_:
    -   _The Final Fantasy Legend_ starts off as a typical fantasy game, with medieval weapons, monsters for enemies, and all of the usual trappings. Late in the game, however, players travel through the post-apocalyptic ruins of a modern day city. Weapons also begin to include sci-fi staples, such as guns, chainsaws, and even a Laser Blade.
    -   _Final Fantasy Legend II_ is a fantasy game with sci-fi elements. It's centered around gods and the ancient stones called MAGI that give them power, but heroes and enemies include robots as well as magical creatures and humans. Weapon stores sell heavy assault guns alongside swords and spellbooks.
    -   In _Final Fantasy Legend III_, the heroes fight against evil gods to recover the missing parts of their time machine.
    -   In _Sa Ga Frontier_, the main characters include a half-Mystic, a wizard, a former model turned secret agent, a henshin hero, a sentient monster, a sentient robot, and a slacker bard (plus a Cowboy Cop in the 2021 HD remaster). The recruitable characters just get weirder from there. The Regions you travel to are a mix of magical and technological, while you ride on various airships and spaceships to travel between those Regions.
-   _Sakura Wars_ is set in an Alternate History where steam-powered technology has given way to everything from Mini-Mecha to computers, cellphones, and tablets before the 1930's. Said Mini Mecha are used partially driven by spiritual energy and used to combat supernatural demons. Many of the heroines are also capable of using magic to varying degrees.
-   _Septerra Core_ wandered back and forth between the two, blending such elements as Steampunk technology, magic fueled by the planet itself, genetic engineering and a pantheon of gods.
-   _Shadow of the Beast_ is set in a Roger Dean-inspired fantasy world called Karamoon, which features sword-wielding orcs, medieval architecture, goblins, morningstars, mechanical claws, jetpacks, and (in the third game) robots.
-   The _Shin Megami Tensei_ meta-series is made of Science Fantasy. The original novels that started it all presented summoning spells written in computer code so that computers could conjure demons — and those demons able to inhabit the computers into which they were summoned. Some games are more or less so than others — _Shin Megami Tensei I_, _II_, and _Shin Megami Tensei: Strange Journey_ are steeped in this genre, as are the _Devil Survivor_ games and the first two _Devil Summoner_ games (and parts of the _Raidou Kuzunoha_ ones flirt with it). _Persona_ and _Persona 3_ are much more so than _2_ or _4_. Meanwhile, _Digital Devil Saga_ is, well... just look at the name.
-   _The Sims_ start out fairly grounded in everyday life, but with the expansion packs they turn into textbook Science-Fantasy. Science-Fiction elements include aliens, (complete with abductions and a Face Full of Alien Wing-Wong), Time Travel, jet packs, Robot Buddies who can think and feel like real Sims, smaller robots helping around the house, travelling to other planets, weather control machines, and so much more. Fantasy elements include zombies, genies, ghosts, The Grim Reaper, magic, witches and wizards, vampires, werewolves, voodoo dolls, potions and alchemy... the list goes on.
-   The _Sonic the Hedgehog_ series has always been a big fan of robots and machinery, and has also dabbled in time travel, alternate dimensions, aliens, and artificial life-form creation, while also containing many supernatural elements like the Chaos Emeralds and ancient gods.
-   _Space Station 13_ fits into this category pretty squarely. On one hand, it takes place upon a highly technologically advanced space station some 500 years into the future, with spaceships, lasers, cyborgs, aliens and generally the standard run-of-the-mill science fiction elements common to most space settings. On the other hand, some of the factions out to destroy the station or otherwise cause general mayhem to its crew members include murderous demon cults and the Space Wizard Federation, who both employ different kinds of magic to achieve their goals. While not all rounds feature said roles, the ones that do tend to become very weird indeed.
-   The _Star Ocean_ series typically takes characters from a science fiction setting, and then plunges them deep into fantasy, while ever hinting at science fiction overtones throughout the stories.
    -   Special mention goes to _Star Ocean: Till the End of Time_, by having Fayt and Cliff, who're members of the Pangalactic Federation, crash land on Elicoor II, a planet who's inhabitants are a type-3 civilization. Fayt and Cliff go to great lengths to conceal the true nature of their identities to avoid unnecessary trouble, leading to predictable results. Except for the part where they learn that their universe, and everything in it, is one big virtual game!
-   The _Super Mario Bros._ games are set in a Magical Land where Funny Animals, castles, a monarchy, and cute monsters collide with modern technology, aliens, robots, time machines, and space travel.
-   The _Tales Series_ often uses settings centered around this trope, to varying degrees depending on the entry.
    -   _Tales of Phantasia_: The game seems like typical fantasy at first, until one city uses a magic-powered Wave-Motion Gun to wipe out an army of the Demon King, and another city develops aircrafts powered by the Spirit of Electricity. Said Demon King is eventually revealed to be an alien from the world of Derris-Kharlan, the original home of elves. There also used to be a highly advanced civilization that could build sentient supercomputers, while powering their city with the captured Spirit of Light, and shaping their superweapons as swords.
    -   _Tales of Eternia_ juxtaposes this trope with a more traditional medieval fantasy setting. Infernia has a more traditional fantasy setting, with very little signs of technology there. Whereas Celestia is more technologically advanced, using Magitek to create things such as trains, battleships, guns and escalators to name a few.
    -   _Tales of Symphonia_ uses this same juxtaposition. In the "waning" world of Sylvarant, the technology and overall aesthetic matches a more traditional fantasy setting, with a steam powered ship being considered a marvel of technology. Meanwhile, in the 'prospering' world of Tethe'alla, connected to Sylvarant through a cyclical system of mana, the people of this world enjoy high tech conveniences such as trams, teleporters, and even rollercoasters powered by Magitek. In addition, the "Desians", a rogue faction of half-elves, possess similar levels of magitek including autonomous robots and personal jet-propelled flying vehicles powered by magic.
    -   _Tales of Legendia_ can probably be considered as proper Sci-Fan, as it takes place on the Legacy, a giant ship the size of a continent that's actually a spaceship that crash landed into the planet. Many dungeons have a more sci-fi inspired design, however there aren't many signs of advanced technology, safe from the ones belonging to the Legacy.
    -   _Tales of the Abyss_ is one of the games in the franchise that most heavily leans into this trope. From mechs and airships to cloning and a fully mechanical city, great feats of science fiction level technology are accomplished by Magitek devices called 'Fontech'. In addition, the magic system of the setting tends to be portrayed as far more scientifically structured, another hallmark of the trope.
    -   _Tales of Vesperia_ overall tends to adhere closer to a more traditional fantasy (or at least, a fantasy anime) aesthetic. However, technology known as "Blastia" exist in the setting, which do everything from empower fighters to projecting barriers over entire cities. The Blastia are essentially the setting's version of Magitek and causes it to lean more toward this trope in places.
    -   _Tales of Graces_ has sword-wielding knights, mages, and elemental spirits in the same world as autonomous walking tanks and magitek guns. Both magic and technology is powered by shards of giant magic crystals, known as cryas. Moreover, the original homeworld of humanity, Fodra, is still full of decaying technology, like spaceships or fully autonomous, indistinguishable from humans "humanoids", like Sophie, — essentially robots made from "Light particles". Their ruin, meanwhile, was brought by Lambda, an Energy Being that practices Demonic Possession.
    -   _Tales of Arise_ takes place on a worldwide Penal Colony, where spellcasting aristocrats donned in knights' armor made of space-age alloys descend from futuristic spaceships to siphon the magical life force from slaves in a brutal might-makes-right gathering contest for a chance to become the next emperor of a gigantic space station. It's so ridiculous that figuring out _how_ this society really runs _is a plot point_.
-   _Terraria_ starts with you fending off zombies, skeletons, and floating eyes with swords and bows. Then you start finding guns lying around. And then meteors start falling from the sky, from which you can craft Powered Armor, phase swords, and ray guns. Said power armor also boosts your magic damage, so you can run around as a space wizard (or fly around with rocket boots) pretty quickly.
-   _Torment: Tides of Numenera_ is the spiritual sequel to _Planescape: Torment_, and is based on Monte Cook's _Numenera_ tabletop game (mentioned above). The far-future post-apocalyptic setting uses sufficiently advanced science and technological artifacts left by the previous civilizations that have risen and fallen on the Earth over a billion years to explain traditional fantasy tropes.
-   _Touhou Project_: While the series is fundamentally fantastic, there's still a fair bit of science going on in the sidelines. Most of it caused by the kappa, who are an entire race of mad scientists, but neither of the attempts at nuclear fusion involved them at all.
-   Similarly, the primarily high fantasy _Ultima_ and _Heretic_/_Hexen_ series briefly skirted with SF on a number of occasions, resulting in the occasional raygun, spaceship, time machine, or demonic supercomputer.
-   _ULTRAKILL_ takes place in a post-apocalyptic world where humanity is extinct, and Killer Robots run on blood, so they invade Hell to find more. You play as one of these robots, and you slaughter damned souls, demons, other robots, cyborg zombies, and angels, with hi-tech weapons in your descent to Inferno. Speaking of which, Hell is layered in the classic Dante fashion, and its layers can be fantastical and ancient, technological and futuristic, or even both.

-   _Voyage Inspired By Jules Verne_ involves Michel Ardan reaching the moon, and discovering that it has a complex ecosystem inhabited by a race of alien beings called The Selenites.
-   _Warcraft_ 'verse's technology is roughly at pre-industrial level, where guns are getting common, but swords and bows are still viable. However, the range of technology available is quite large. Rock axes can down demonic Humongous Mecha, and Death Rays can be used against ancient evil gods. And the dimension-hopping giants that ride around in spaceships.
    -   In _World of Warcraft_ you can have a mage that can teleport, cast spells, ride a variety of mounts on the ground, from a normal horse, to a demonic unicorn, to a motorcycle on the ground and anything from dragons, to flying carpets, to a rocket in the air. Druids can turn themselves into a bird. Heck, engineering is a profession, where you can make your clothing produce rockets and bombs if you want to.
        -   To further elaborate: the distinction between golem and robot is blurry and they are frequently sentient, several races on Azeroth are extraterrastrial (orcs, ogres, draenei), there are steam powered aircrafts armed with automatic guns, airborne aircraft carriers, subarmines, interdimensional crystal spaceships with orbital lasers,exoskeletons armed with rocket artillery that can transform into proper power armor. Demons have space ships that are fuelled by souls and the resident eldritch abominations (who have reportedly been sighted on other planets) are the agents of the embodiment of entropy, the heat death of the universe.

-   In _War Wind_, futuristic technology (such as bio-upgrades and ray guns), magic, and supernatural entities coexist quite well.
-   _Werewolf: The Last Warrior_: On the extrasolar colony of Red Earth, a scientist enters a cave containing an ancient evil to become the Big Bad, and the only way to beat him is to become the Werewolf through the use of a magical glyph.
-   _WildStar_ is this and a Space Western. Instead of wands, the wizards use dual mag pistols and are called Spellslingers. They also have nuclear-powered greatswords, among other things.
-   _The Witcher_ series, while thematically planted quite firmly in a fantasy setting, nevertheless uses some subtle Magitek and some very anachronistic scientific concepts and ideas, considering the otherwise Middle-Ages level of the setting. For instance, genetics are not only understood but can be manipulated by both alchemy and magic. Microbiology for similar reasons is also well-studied by wizards and other learned folk, and pathology is a common medical discipline. Magical constructs, such as golems, operate on the magical equivalent of computer programming, and magicians, wizards and sorceresses make use of devices that aren't all that dissimilar from telephones and webcams to communicate with each other.
-   Starting around the sixth game in the series, the _Wizardry_ games dove head-first into combining fantasy and sci-fi, where spells, magical creatures, and arcane artifacts are found hand-in-hand with spacefaring aliens, starships, and advanced energy weapons.
-   _Xenoblade Chronicles_ series tends to mix the two so thoroughly that it can make one dizzy.
    -   In _Xenoblade Chronicles 1_ The prologue starts with two warring titans whose dead bodies make up the entire world, and then it transitions to advanced Human Aliens (Homs) fighting a war against relentless killer robots. The robots can only be stopped by a legendary ancient sword called the Monado, which turns out to be equipped with a Laser Blade. Then the Monado starts granting the protagonist visions of the future, but that turns out to have a reasonable scientific explanation. Later on the team finds the High Entia, who are a race capable of manipulating ether, yet that didn't stop them from advancing their technology to great levels. It concludes with a flashback to when their world was created by two scientists from our world trying to create a new one, destroying their own in the process and turning them into the two titans and their computer system into the Monado.
    -   _Xenoblade Chronicles 2_ is set in the boundless sky, populated by enormous titans, who serve as living Floating Continents for various races living on them. The Cloud Sea, in which all titans "swim", conceals a vast world of lost technologies, which are collected by salvagers, who dive into it in old-fashioned diving suits. Some people in this world can awaken Blades - Bond Creatures that can manipulate ether and grant their master an incredible power. As the plot goes on, the Cloud Sea turns out to be a cloud of Nanomachines, that slowly rebuild the world after it was destroyed by the aforementioned experiment, the Blades are revealed to be hi-tech prostheses, retooled into a part of titans' reproducton cycle, and the Aegis is shown to be a retooled supercomputer processor, meant to monitor Blades in their evolution.

    Visual Novels 

-   The _Science Adventure Series_ falls into this category when it comes to the Chaos; duology, comprised of _Chaos;Head_ and _Chaos;Child_. These two entries focus on Gigalomaniacs, who are literal reality warpers wielding what most people would consider magic swords. On the surface and in terms of execution, they lean more on the fantasy side compared to the other Science Adventure entries, though the explanations for them are more in the realm of Science, as they rely on quantum physics such as the Dirac Sea and antiparticles to justify why they work the way they do, instead of just being handwaved by an explanation such as "it's magic".

    Web Animation 

-   _Broken Saints_ uses a lot of the technology from (probably) 20 Minutes in the Future, and just labeled "state-of-the-art" in-story. However, it also includes Shandala's powers of healing and... not-so-healing..., and Kamimura's ability to Soul Jar his pupil, holding a fragment of said pupil's consciousness within his own mind. While the first ability is revealed to be part of her genetic design (very sci-fi), they are both firmly in the fantasy realm.
-   _Kubo Punko_ is a mix of teens using keychains that transform them into robotic superheroes and defeat monsters.
-   _Matt 'n' Dusty_ is this mixed with World of Weirdness and Law of Conservation of Normality, and is a complete straight-up comedy. Robots are voiced by the text-to-speech function in _Moonbase Alpha_, there's a giant pink dragon that bakes cookies, the two titular characters survive the apocalypse and prevent it with a Stargate, PlayStations and Xboxes have apparantly been in a Robot War for centuries, and to top everything else off, Interdimensional Jack Benny as Father Time.
-   _RWBY_ is this but without space travel, featuring (among other things) characters with magical abilities, robots, airships, and smartphones called "Scrolls".
-   SCP cartoons:
    -   _Confinement_
    -   _Detective Void_
    -   _SCP Animated - Tales from the Foundation_
    -   _SCP Chronicles_
    -   _The Offshoot_

    Webcomics 

-   _Angel Down_ is set in the early 24th century, and features advanced cybernetics and in one shot of the Chicago skyline features a Space Elevator. The comic itself however fetures a secret society of superpowered demon hunters, chosen by the four archangels.
-   _Archipelago_ contains a society with witch doctors, bird spirits, undead pirates, sharkmen, living books, ancient demigods, dragons, and ancient magical legacies, all built on the back of a fallen dragon ... by which they mean an ancient spaceship. The bird spirits are corrupted A.I.s; the undead pirate is kept alive through the use of cybernetics; the sharkmen are genetically-engineered super soldiers; and the magic is implied to be all-pervading nanotechnology.
-   The space setting of _Arthur, King of Time and Space_ has magic-based FTL drives.
-   _Ava's Demon_ has aliens, interstellar travel, advanced technology, magic, potions, and "demons", which are like ghosts.
-   _Broken Space_ (site) features aliens, demons, clockwork, steam-power, magicians, guns, swords, strange Magitek weapons, and divinely powered starships.
-   _Cendaran Marael_ is set in a world where the magic (and elves and slimes and so on) came back as a result of Earth passing through a ray of energy from space, starring an artificial alien angel.
-   The _Crushed_ subseries of _Supermegatopia_ is technically the result of a space explorer using Sufficiently Advanced Technology to make a medieval fantasy world. This later gets ruined by the Ragnaracoon, and mixed into an unapologetic mishmash of high technology and high fantasy called Meshworld.
-   _Dan and Mab's Furry Adventures_ has both magic and futuristic technology, and combinations of the two.
-   _The Dragon Doctors_ make heavy use of magic, but always use it rationally and scientifically (their leader even calls herself a "Magical Scientist"). LEGO Genetics are referenced at one point as being only possible with the use of magic to treat traits as conceptual objects.
-   _El Goonish Shive_ has genetically altered super-mutant assassins, aliens, mad scientists and many magic users, several of whom are main characters. Oh yeah, and one of the magic users can create a fairy version of herself, and Tedd's been hacking a Magitek transformation ray gun since 2002.
-   _Gaia_ starts at a school of magic and is a mostly straightforward fantasy world, except for various modern things like lightswitches and sinks. And then there are the elves, who seem to have high technology/magitech.
-   _Girl Genius_ is steampunk combined with fantasy - in fact it coined the term Gaslamp Fantasy. Most of the weird stuff can be explained by technology, but not everything. The magic includes stuff like the river Dyne (which is an apparently natural spring the waters of which make the drinker a mad genius, though in most cases it's instantly lethal. It also mutates creatures into monsters and can be used as a power source), Geisterdamen (who look like ghost-like beings, though they're solid enough), Frankenstein-esque reanimated corpses, Jaegermonsters (non-human beings with superhuman strength and lifespans who are former humans who drank the "Jaegerdraught"), multiple cases of Brain Uploading, the castle Heterodyne's seemingly telekinetic ability to move chunks of itself, and the whole deal with GodEmpress Albia of Britain.
-   _Gunnerkrigg Court_: There are robots and other advanced tech in the Court, while the Gillitie Wood is full of magic-users (including Physical God Coyote). Transformation to/from forest creatures is an accepted part of the universe, and the Court has students and teachers skilled in "etheric sciences".
-   _Heartcore_ is set in a magical realm of fantastic beasts, powerful demons, and a single human settlement situated in a Domed Hometown with modern-day conveniences and advanced technology.
-   _Homestuck_ revolves around a very advanced game that Plays You, is set in a world in which everyone has their own videogame-esque abstract inventory systems, and features a _lot_ of robots and cyborgs, but it also plays around heavily with fantasy tropes and themes such as princes and princesses, knights, dragons, quests, and magic.
-   _Iothera_ is a science fantasy with a lot of Magitek.

-   _Last Res0rt_ is set several thousand years into the future, contains nanotechnology, flying robots, and a galactic society... and also contains lots of creatures that run off of soul-based magic, including vampires, djinn, and zombies. Also, furries. It's labeled Cyberpunk — but it's about as Cyberpunk as, say, Shadowrun.
-   _The Mansion of E_ features robots along with magic.
-   _MegaTokyo_ has both light fantasy elements (mostly Magical Girls) and soft sci-fi (stuff related to the TPCD mostly). A Dark Magical Girl is best friends with a Robot Girl and said DMG used to control people's emotions through an MMORPG.
-   _Metempsychosis_ includes both fantasy creatures and sci-fi themed space travel. One of the main characters so far is a Humanoid Alien who is chasing down one of these dragons, for as of yet unknown purposes.
-   _Metompsychosis Union_ is a Cyberpunk story that includes fantasy creatures as characters.
-   _NIMONA_ exists in a world with knights, magic, and shapeshifters, while computers and radios happen to also exist.
-   _Quentyn Quinn, Space Ranger_ is a sequel to _Tales of the Questor_ that takes place 700 years later in the interstellar age. At that point most Racconnans rely on technology for most of their Lux use.
-   _Sluggy Freelance_ is filled with this trope. Santa Claus is infected with alien DNA. Witches and Talking Animals lead teams of Space Pirates. A ray gun is used to blast a demon back in time. A centuries old sorcerer is President of the United States _IN SPACE!!!_
-   _Stand Still, Stay Silent_ is set in a post-apocalyptic world with various remnants of modern technology in which The Magic Came Back and the Plague Zombie creatures are closer to fantasy monsters than to standard undead.
-   _Unicorn Jelly_ started out as just a cute fantasy tale, but then gradually turned into an insane science fiction multiverse with alien physics.
-   _VHV_ is set in a galaxy with both magical libraries staffed by fairies and starships crewed by fuzzy androids.
-   _The Water Phoenix King_ takes place in a dying universe with fantastic races and features from scifi, such as each species having it's own "technology" which could be nearly anything including forms of "magic"; in the instance of humanity, a poorly made martial-arts style and propaganda tool tied to an overbearing god. Who eventually dies, leaving humans at a huge disadvantage while other species still have access to more useful tech like steam-power or sorcery.
-   _Zap!_ is mostly soft science fiction, with psychics, robots, cat girls, FTL, and other scifi sundries. However, the aliens with Elemental Powers cement it in this category.

    Web Original 

-   _Bloody Cutlass_ is a Spin-Off of _Space Pirate Captain MacTaggart_ that places emphasis on the science fantasy elements more than its parent series did.
-   While most of _Chaos Fighters_ novels are fantasy with minor science fiction elements inserted in the fighting scenes, _Chaos Fighters II_ and _Chaos Fighters: Chemical Warriors_ are science fiction with significant fantasy style battles.
-   While _Chrono Hustle_ starts out as a sci-fi series, it starts including fantasy elements as early as the 4th story, in which a powerful magic user is introduced, although it is mentioned by some characters that she is just a powerful psychic. In the following story though, it is confirmed by characters with more information that she is an actual magic user. And then the 7th story introduces Greek Gods.
-   The best explanation for the genre of _Prolecto_. It has angels and demons who make Chain Katars, versus guys in powered armor, and the main enemy is a demonic nanomachine entity.
-   The _SCP Foundation_ is primarily a Sci-Fi Horror universe about an organization of Mad Scientists who are trying to understand various paranormal/supernatural phenomena, and they attempt to contain and minimize any damage to the world caused by more dangerous anomalies. While the articles are generally written in a (pseudo-)scientific and clinical tone, much of what they're trying to describe defies any logical explanation whatsoever. The various Lovecraftian entities they have in their custody include strange robots and powerful machines, severely mutated humans/animals/plants, extraterrestrial/extradimensional monsters, and outright magical beings such as spirits/demons/angels/gods. Though the titular SCP Foundation is loathe to describe anything they encounter as being explicitly "magical".
-   _Spaghetti Ice_ takes place in a Fantasy Kitchen Sink where magic is Sufficiently Analyzed to the point where it is a science.
-   _Tech Infantry_ is like a mish-mash between the _Old World of Darkness_ and _Starship Troopers_. The titular "Tech Infantry" are an army of Mages and Werewolves in Powered Armor.
-   _Whateley Universe_

    Web Videos 

-   ''Dad
-   _Noob_: The fictional MMORPG where it happens has The Magic Versus Technology War as a setting. The magic side is your classic Medieval European Fantasy setting with some informed Steampunk elements while the technology side's strongholds could get the setting mistaken for Science Fiction. The fact is best shown in the novels and the _Neogicia_ Spin-Off, while the technology elements are somewhat Demoted to Extra in the webseries and almost absent in the comic.
-   _TitansGrave: The Ashes of Valkana_ takes place in a world where science and magic explicitly intermingle. There was even a holy war fought over the issue. The characters include a street performer with a robot companion, a wizard/priest and a cyborg warrior

    Western Animation 

-   _Adventure Time_ has goblins, futuristic robots, princesses, wizards, hologram projectors, magic, and mini-anti-gravity chambers. All in a post-apocalyptic Earth.
-   _Avatar_ uses an interesting take on this trope.
    -   _Avatar: The Last Airbender_ was very much set in a pre-modern fantasy world, with only one faction having any substantial industrial or steampunk technology.
    -   However, by the time of _The Legend of Korra_ (70 years after _The Last Airbender_), technology has advanced considerably, with things like cars, airships, airplanes and even Humongous Mecha becoming more and more commonplace, reaching to almost Diesel Punk levels (especially by the time of Season 4). Essentially, _Avatar_ shows what happens when a typical fantasy setting breaks its Medieval Stasis.
-   In _Barbie: Star Light Adventure_, while the setting is the futuristic planet of Para-Den, the story beats are that of a fantasy quest.
-   The _Ben 10_ franchise has aliens, advanced tech, lovecraftesque Eldritch Abominations and magicians from an alternate dimension, as well as a species of _aliens made of magical energy_.
-   _Centurions_ was a Science Fiction series, filled with Technology Porn and set 20 Minutes into the Future. On top of that, the writers introduced Dracula, Merlin, a Hot Witch and her Evil Twin sister, an army of mummies, Atlantis, Psychic Powers and accidental Time Travel into various episodes.
-   _Courage the Cowardly Dog_ is a surreal comedy-horror cartoon about a talking dog who regularly encounters all kinds of weird sci-fi/fantasy villains, monsters, and other weird characters; including other talking animals, aliens, demons, robots, ghosts, zombies, wizards, mad scientists, etc.
-   _Defenders of the Earth_ is another example of a series which often combines elements of fantasy and science fiction. The extent to which this happens varies from episode to episode. Some are very much rooted in science fiction, though most of these still contain some fantasy elements. With others, such as "The Carnival of Doctor Kalihari" or "Dracula's Potion", the fantasy element dominates.
-   _Doctor Snuggles_ leans more towards the fantasy element. While there are science elements involving the Doctor and his machinery, there is plenty of magic and fantasy in the setting. We have talking animals, sentient trees and characters wielding magic spells such as Winnie Vinegar Bottle and Professor Emerald.
-   _Ewoks_, being set in the _Star Wars_ universe, naturally shares its progenitor's blending of sci-fi and fantasy tropes. It leans much further towards the fantastical side if anything, in no small part because Endor is a world ruled by Stone Age cultures, with Force powers more overtly functioning akin to magic; shapeshifting, geokinesis and curses show up as Force powers in this setting, when traditional Force powers are more rooted in telepathy and telekinesis. Endor could easily be a non-humanocentric fantasy world, up until you get to the episode where the Empire arrives with spaceships, laser-toting soldiers and robots that introduce the spear-wielding, spirit-worshipping hunters to a wider universe.
-   _The Fairly OddParents!_ takes place in a modern setting and features fairies, genies, Greek gods, elves, monsters, and leprechauns as well as aliens, a kid genius, robots, and time travel.
    -   _The Jimmy Timmy Power Hour_ is a crossover between the above cartoon and the more sci-fi _The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron, Boy Genius_.
-   _Gargoyles_ has laser weapons, robots, cyborgs, mutants, gods, fairies, ghosts, as well as various other mythological creatures (which obviously includes the titular gargoyles, of course). One episode even featured an alien soldier from outer space, who only appears once due to being based on Easter Island, while the primary setting is New York.
-   _Gravity Falls_ is about a titular town filled with paranormal activity of both fantasy and sci-fi origin.
-   _Invader Zim_ is primarily a science fiction series, but Dib's studies of the paranormal sometimes bring in magical stuff as well. Prominent examples include the demonic Mortos der Soulstealer, or the curse inflicted on Gaz that makes everything she eats taste like pork.
-   _Invincible (2021)_, much like the original comic that it's based on, is set in a science-fantasy superhero universe with aliens and magic in it.
-   Downplayed in _Jackie Chan Adventures_, an Urban Fantasy show that was heavy on magic, and thus is mostly fantasy. Though given the modern setting, some science fiction elements sneaked in; for example, the government agency Section 13 possessed some advanced and futuristic technology, such as laser weaponry and a time machine. And one episode revealed that Stonehenge is a landing pad for flying saucers, of implied extraterrestrial origin.
-   _Kaijudo_ is pretty much a mix of sci-fi and fantasy aesthetics and tropes. It is overall a Urban Fantasy tale, involving a mystical parallel universe, spells and fantastical creatures... that can be manipulated through power gloves, are strongly technologically advanced, with the light ones being living, sapient robots, and the villain is pretty much a Mad Scientist.
-   Being the girl who can do anything, _Kim Possible_ has dealt with enemies of every genre: spy, mutant, robot, magic, alien, superhero, even pirate.
-   _Love, Death & Robots_ is a speculative fiction anthology series which mostly leans on science fiction, though some episodes are more fantasy.
    -   "Good Hunting" is the purest example of science fantasy in this show, featuring both magical creatures and advanced steampunk technology.
-   _Martin Mystery_ is about an ordinary university student who partners with his stepsister and a caveman as agents of a The Men in Black type organization that polices paranormal threats both supernatural and extraterrestrial.
-   _Masters of the Universe_ in its various incarnations always includes high technology and powerful magic.
-   _Mysticons_ takes place in a High Fantasy world that doesn't have Medieval Stasis, resulting in Drake City, a skyscraper-filled place with pixie hollows in cracks in the pavement by leaky fire hydrants, elves, dwarves, and more, Magitek mechs and flying cars and Griffins, the main characters being Magical Girl Warrior types.
-   _Ninjago_ Takes place in a futuristic world in which there are Djinns who grant wishes, oni, and ghosts. On the other hand, there are cyborg-ninjas and aliens.
-   _Ōban Star-Racers_ is a Space Opera with some fantasy elements, like Aika's magic (which is explicitly referred as such) and the God-like Avatar.
-   The _Phineas and Ferb_ episode "Nerds of a Feather" featured a war between fans of the science fiction genre (led by Baljeet) and fans of the fantasy genre (led by Buford), with Phineas and Ferb caught in the middle. They managed to end the feud by having both sides team up against a hologram of a mystical creature armed with weapons.
-   _PJ Masks_: The show freely mixes elements of both genres. On the fantasy side, we have characters like Night Ninja and An Yu, and adventures involving ancient artifacts and anther dimension called Mysetery Mountain. On the sci-fi side, there are characters like Romeo, Luna Girl, PJ Robot and Newton Star, and adventures set in space. The three main heroes are a mix; their powers are more on the fantasy side, with them using magical bracelets to transform into heroes, and tapping into the animal spirits their powers are based on, but on the other hand they also have high tech vehicles and an HQ that can transform into a spaceship.
-   _Regular Show_ is a surreal comedy cartoon about the strange misadventures of two park groundskeepers (both of whom are anthropomorphic animals), who frequently run into all kinds of different supernatural trouble; ranging from dealing with magic curses, to fighting off evil aliens and monsters.
-   _Rick and Morty_ is more focused on the sci-fi elements like aliens, robots, cybernetics, and interdimensional and universal travel, but is also set in a universe that includes fantasy elements like the Devil, vampires, serial killers residing in dreams, wizards, dragons, and even Ghost trains summoned by one of the Vindicator heroes. Some other dimensions, like the one, depicted in "Meseeks and Destroy", are fantasy worlds within a generally science-fiction influence multiverse.
-   _Samurai Jack_ involves the titular samurai warrior wielding a magic sword, who gets thrown through a time portal into the far future. During his ongoing quest to destroy a powerful shapeshifting demon who rules this world with an iron fist, he repeatedly encounters other warriors, talking animals, sorcerers, demons, dragons, faeries, elementals, rock monsters, aliens, cyborgs, robots, etc. in an anachronistic world where the past meets the future.
-   _Treehouse of Horror_ is an annual series of _The Simpsons_ Halloween episodes which parody all kinds of horror, fantasy, and science fiction stories in an anthology format.
-   _Steven Universe_: The show has this with a dash of Genre Shift. Early on, The Crystal Gems are presented as straightforward magical beings that defend humanity, but as the first season progresses, it becomes clear that they're actually aliens with advanced technology. What's more, their species' Bizarre Alien Reproduction makes them somewhat like robots. By the later seasons, which feature space travel to alien planets among other things, the show is more Science Fiction in nature, although several aspects of Gemkind—with powers like healing, future vision, or plant armies for instance—are still treated like magic.
-   _Tales of Arcadia_ is set in a science-fantasy universe where trolls, aliens, magicians, and many other types of strange beings lurk around the titular town of Arcadia, California.
    -   _Trollhunters_
    -   _3Below_
    -   _Wizards (2020)_
-   _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2003)_ you got 4 mutant humanoid turtles who do ninjitsu, and battle ninjas, robots, aliens, and inter-dimensional creatures to boot.
-   _Thunder Cats_ has space travel, futuristic vehicles and the like, but also features a magic sword used by the hero and an undead Sorcerous Overlord as the main villain.
-   _The Venture Bros._ had a Magic Versus Science contest between Dr. Venture and Dr. Orpheus (a parody of Dr. Strange), reaching its climax as Orpheus produces fire from his hands. Dr. Venture's scientific one-up? A match.
-   _Villainous_
-   _Wakfu_ takes place in a universe full of a variety of different from animal people, elves, plant people, and a race of greedy old people, it also has the titular base of magic that's also the life force of all living things, gods and demons, and even reincarnation. On the Science Fiction side, it has aliens, laser weaponry, time travel, and robots.
-   _Winx Club_ focuses mostly on magic since the main characters are fairies with all sorts of magic powers such as fire, natue, or light. Fairies, witches, and wizards dominate the series. The Magic Dimension is also shown to have advanced technology such as laser guns, inter-planetary spaceships, advanced holograms, inter-dimensional phones, and the like that don't seem to rely on magic at all. Tecna is the fairy of technology, showing that magic and technology can be used together.

___

## Ron Stoppable, Monkey Master

When Kim is in danger of getting turned into a trophy by Warhok and Warmonga, Ron finally gets full control of his Mystical Monkey Power.

Example of:  
Super Mode

### **Alternative Title(s):** Science Fiction Versus Fantasy, Space Fantasy

-   Übel Blatt
-   Dark Fantasy
-   Arawn

-   Samurai Cowboy
-   Hybrid Genre
-   Sci-Fi Horror

-   Magical Girl
-   Fantasy
-   Slow Life Fantasy

-   Psychic Stories
-   Speculative Fiction
-   Sci-Fi Horror

-   School Swimsuit
-   WeAreNotAlone/Tropes Q to Z
-   Science Is Wrong

-   Schmuck Banquet
-   RenamedTropes/Q to Z
-   Scrabble Babble

-   Science Destroys Magic
-   Speculative Fiction Tropes
-   Science Marches On

-   American Law Enforcement
-   ImageSource/Magazines
-   Grandfather Paradox

-   Sci-Fi Horror
-   Science Fiction
-   Space Opera

-   Ontological Mystery
-   Literature Genres
-   Science Fiction Literature

-   Parasol of Pain
-   QuoteSource/Video Games
-   Stealthy Cephalopod

-   Occult Law Firm
-   Urban Fantasy Tropes
-   Superhero School