_"By now I will have been dead for many thousands of your years. Embedded in the crystals before you is the total accumulation of all literature and scientific fact of dozens of other worlds spanning the twenty-eight known galaxies. There are many questions to be asked. Here, in this Fortress of Solitude, we will try to find the answers together. So, my son, Kal-El: speak."_

The complete opposite of Sealed Evil in a Can. This entity is usually kind and gentle, and usually (if not always) rewards the one who releases it, if it can. In other cases, the wandering band of travelers are desperately trying to evade capture or being killed by the forces of darkness. They stumble upon the entity and, thanks to a can-opener (which can range from a trinket to a sacrifice), the only thing that can stop the great evil awakens, and prepares to open a can... of whoop-ass. Sometimes it's revealed that there is a baddie in there with them and they were the Barrier Maiden or the ever-fighting guard keeping them in (Sealed Evil in a Duel). In these cases their release _also_ releases the Sealed Evil in a Can. Oops.

Comes in two flavors:

-   **Sealed by allies.** Similar to Sealed Badass in a Can. There was something in the future they would be needed to combat, so to make sure they would be ready, the Good let themselves be sealed. If the future threat was simply "bad guy I need to beat up," it's probably a case of Sealed Badass in a Can instead.
-   **Sealed by enemies.** A straight inversion of Sealed Evil in a Can. There was a great foe that no one could defeat, so they sealed him away instead. Only difference is that the foe is the good guy, and the sealers evil. This, in turn, can overlap with Badass in Distress, particularly if the sealed good is a Badass who had to be captured prior to the sealing.

Occasionally used as a more subtle form of Deus ex Machina; may qualify as Holding Back the Phlebotinum, but on some occasions these can be the main hero. See Sealed Inside a Person-Shaped Can for when the Good is imprisoned inside a living being, Sealed Cast in a Multipack for when several characters (good or evil) are canned, or Sealed Badass in a Can for a neutral variant. See Artifact of Hope, which could qualify as "the can." Compare Fling a Light into the Future. Contrast King in the Mountain, who is usually _not_ let out. May be caused by Supernatural Sealing. See also Awakening the Sleeping Giant, which is where the Good is less "sealed in a can" and more "lazy". Contrast with Trapped in the Host.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   The original sealing away of Alexiel in _Angel Sanctuary_ is a borderline example of this. True, she was captured trying to bring down Heaven's ruling class. On the other hand, the angels and demons vary so much between moralities that it's hard to say whether she's good or evil.
-   C.C. from _Code Geass_ is almost literally Sealed Good In A Can, since she begins the series locked inside a mechanical capsule that supposedly contains poison gas.
    -   The protagonist of the _Geass_ game _Lost Colors_ put himself into a coma within a Geass ruin following the death of his friends and family, making him a rare case of self-sealing.
-   An early chapter of _Crimson Spell_ features an example of this trope in the form of the magical spirit-creature Lizregbel, released by Vald and Havi and promptly renamed "Ruruka" after Val's little brother's pet bunny.
-   Insead of being a villain initially in _Digimon Adventure: (2020)_, Gatomon was sealed inside SkullKnightmon until Kari willingly went inside him to find her.
-   In _Digimon Fusion_, it turns out the DigiMemories are actually a group of ancient, heroic Digimon that protected the Digital World. They were ultimately sealed in there in a failed attempt to stop the break up of the Digital World.
    -   Goldramon has two dragons sealed in his bracers: Amon of the Crimson Blaze, who administers destruction, and Umon of the Blue Thunder, who administers creation.
-   Elder Kai from _Dragon Ball Z_ was was sealed in the Z Sword about 75 million years ago, and when he comes out he provides lots of help in the effort against Buu. It’s later revealed that the person who sealed him in there was Beerus.
    -   And Tapion in _Dragon Ball Z: Wrath of the Dragon_, who was himself the container of a Sealed Inside a Person-Shaped Can.
    -   In the Piccolo Jr. Saga, Kami attempted to seal Piccolo (the then Big Bad) in a bottle with the Evil Containment Wave. Piccolo bounced it back at Kami, sealing him until Goku beat Piccolo and freed him.
-   _Fairy Tail_
    -   In the Tartaros Arc, it is revealed the dragons Igneel, Metalicana, Grandeeny, Weisslogia, and Skiadrum were this the entire time, sealed inside their dragon slayer children, with Igneel leaving Natsu's body to fight off Acnologia while the others destroyed every unit of the magic destroying Face. The reasons they sealed themselves were because one, they needed to provide anti-bodies to prevent the Dragon Slayers from turning into dragons; two, to recover their power while hiding from Acnologia; and three, to have a mean of traveling 400 years into the future, where there would be more magic to absorb.
    -   Also hinted at in the Tartaros Arc, and further elaborated in the Alvarez Empire Arc, Fairy Tail's greatest secret Lumen Histoire is actually the comatose (_not_ dead like almost everyone in the world believes) body of their first guildmaster Mavis Vermillion, who has been using an Astral Projection to interact with the guild and pretending to be a ghost. The reasons for this were because one, her body is the container for an _infinite_ source of magic known as Fairy Heart that plenty of people would want to get their hands on; and two, because she actually suffers from the same Complete Immortality curse as Zeref complete with "Instant Death" Radius, which would both be a threat to her beloved family and the knowledge of her true status would attract all sorts of unwanted attention.
-   _Gungrave_: Before his death, Brandon Heat left a letter for Big Daddy, stating that in the event of his (Brandon's) death, and if Harry and the Millenion goes down the wrong path, Brandon would allow his body to undergo necrolization and become a Deadman. His last request was to remain locked away in the doctor's confinement chamber, in a state of hibernation, until the time he needs to be summoned. Brandon (better known as "Grave"), "sleeps" for thirteen years until Mika (Big Daddy's daughter) awakens/releases him because she was told to seek his protection.
-   In _Jujutsu Kaisen_, Suguru Geto's goal in the main series is to reduce Satoru Gojo to this, allowing him to continue with his plans with the strongest sorcerer out of the picture. In Shibuya, he succeeds.
-   In _Mamotte Shugogetten,_ Shaorin and other spirits were imprisoned in objects for several hundred years at a time, only coming out to serve a master who was pure of heart. Unlike with most cases, exactly why this is done and who does it are a mystery. (Especially since none of them seem to have done anything to deserve it.)
-   At the end of the first arc of _Mermaid Melody Pichi Pichi Pitch_, the recently reformed Gackto, Sara and the Dark Lovers are sealed under the ocean forever for their crimes. Although she's not going to go and turn on Aqua Regina for it, Lucia mourns them as if they were dead and is surprised to see them astral project in the Pure arc.
-   The _Monster Rancher_ anime had both Sealed Good and Sealed Evil. The goal of the protagonists became to revive the Phoenix before Mu could fully revive his original body.
-   Oddly enough, _Naruto_ himself is the subject of both this and Sealed Evil in a Can. When the 4th Hokage, his father, sealed the Nine-Tailed Fox into Naruto, he sealed his own soul into Naruto as well. His soul serves as a failsafe to prevent the seal on the Fox from breaking. Not to mention that if it were possible him to get it out (it isn't), it would double as Sealed Badass in a Can.
-   _Pokémon_:
    -   The _Black/White_ arc of _Pokémon Adventures_ ends with Black getting sealed into the Light Stone in front of a horrified White.
    -   _Pokémon: Lucario and the Mystery of Mew_: The titular Lucario is an ancient Pokémon Aura Guardian who was sealed away in Sir Aaron's staff after the latter seemingly abandoned his kingdom to war and didn't want Lucario to follow him. Lucario would later be freed from the staff centuries when Ash Ketchum held it in a ceremony.
-   Prince Mythos from _Princess Tutu_ does not literally seal himself, but shatters his heart and seals the pieces in order to seal the Monster Raven. As Princess Tutu returns his heart shards and emotions, the seal on the Raven gets correspondingly weaker.
-   _My Hero Academia_: During the Sports Festival, the protagonist Izuku Midoriya glimpses mysterious silhouettes who seemingly save him from being brainwashed. All Might brushes them off as mere remnants of previous users of One For All with no will of their own. Much later into the story it is revealed that the previous users of One For All are indeed alive as spirits within the Quirk and have regained their consciousness. Their first action upon fully awakening is to contact Midoriya and promise to guide him. More information about them is also revealed as the series progresses.
-   In _Rave Master_ Elie/Resha is one of these. She sealed herself away to combat Endless, the seemingly unstoppable monster that would arise in fifty years time, and whose only weakness is her Etherion.
-   _The Record Of A Fallen Vampire / Vampire Juuji Kai_: The vampire queen Adelheid was considered to be Sealed Evil in a Can and released only because her Chaotic Evil powers could stop alien invaders... and upon release she revealed the truth that she hadn't killed her husband's pregnant lover and confessed to it only to snap him out of destroying himself with a suicidal Heroic Sacrifice.
-   Implied for Prince Dios in _Revolutionary Girl Utena_. In nearly any given Utena incarnation, all the audience initially learns of him is that he resides in an unreachable floating castle, that Anthy the Rose Bride can summon his Infinity +1 Sword, and that Utena can either summon or channel him to grant her victory. Beyond this, information is vague, but all evidence points to him being both powerful enough to bring the world revolution and a benevolent, selfless savior of the weak prior to his current imprisonment. This being Utena, this gets several subversions depending on the version:
    -   Manga: Nearly played straight - Dios is indeed imprisoned, but only his power and his "good" side; his Enemy Without (End of The World, aka Akio Ohtori) is unfortunately free as a bird.
    -   Anime: "Dios" (as well as his castle) were illusions all along. Dios himself is real and free - he just cranked Fallen Hero up in the intervening centuries and became Akio. His powers, on the other hand...
        -   This is one of the _many_ potential interpretations of the ending.
    -   Movie: Dios was never real to begin with, born from Anthy's need to see her brother as a hero and protector, instead of the weak, perverted rapist he really was.
-   In _Tears to Tiara_, the long-dead Demon King Arawn is this in the beginning of the series. He is mistaken for a Sealed Evil in a Can by an evil priest who releases him in the hopes of becoming his Dragon. It ends badly for the priest.
-   This is what Mikael and Silky from _I'm Gonna Be an Angel!_ did to themselves - they sealed their fallen halos, in a box (well, more like three boxes) in Mikael's case and in a drawer in Silky's case. Given that a fallen halo means losing potentiality of becoming an angel (losing any goodness) and is basically an expression of self-hatred, it's no wonder why they both turned into such psychos at the end.
-   Mashiro in _Tayutama_ chose to be sealed along with the Tayutai knowing that if they're freed she'll be freed along with them and can seal them again. She would much rather work with them and get them to get along with humans than fight them. She will fight if necessary however, which is what she does almost immediately upon being released. She then lectures the ones she defeats about how they need to be nice.
-   Nuts from _Yes! Precure 5_ was trapped inside the Dream Collet after he let a Kowainaa into his kingdom by mistake.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh!_: Pharaoh Atem sealed himself along with the Big Bad so he would be around to defeat the Big Bad _again_ when he was inevitably unsealed in the future.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh! ARC-V_: Ray, the duelist who first opposed Greater-Scope Villain and Omnicidal Maniac Zarc (or Z-Arc). The duel between them caused their home dimension to fragment into four different ones (Standard, Fusion, Synchro, and Xyz) and caused both their own souls to fragment, hers now residing in those of Ruri, Rin, Yuzu, and Serena. Unfortunately, Zarc is in the same situation, his soul fragments now residing in Yuri, Yuya, Yugo, and Yuto, and his original goal - destroying all of existence - is one he desires to renew.
-   _Zombie Fairy_ has the zombie fairy, bound in a coffin. This is also a case of sealed evil in a can, as she is under a curse that causes her to go into berserker rages.

    Comic Books 

-   _Camelot 3000_ is all about the Sealed Good of King Arthur being revived from a millennia-long hibernation to battle alien invaders.
-   _Captain America_, frozen in 1944 and thawed out again in... well, whenever the current continuity says (roughly 12 years before whenever you're reading).
-   Similarly, _The Twelve_ revealed that twelve other (much more obscure) Golden Age Marvel heroes were frozen in suspended animation by the Nazis to study later, but the Nazi scientists didn't get the chance because the war ended. They get reawakened in modern times, and the book mostly deals with how well they each manage to adapt to the new world, or fail to do so.
-   In _Legion of Super-Heroes_, Lar Gand (Mon-El/M'Onel, Valor) was trapped in the Phantom Zone for 1,000 years before the Legionnaires freed him.
-   Marvel Comics' Tiamut the Dreaming Celestial was the only member of his race that objected to their genocidal policies and was punished for it. A major Retcon from his initial appearance, where he's a straight Sealed Evil in a Can that nearly kills millions.
    -   According to what the Dreaming Celestial later told Makkari, he was not actually imprisoned because he objected to killing anyone, he was imprisoned because the other members of the Second Host were ONLY killing the Deviants. Tiamut wanted them to follow protocol and summon the alien Horde race to harvest ALL life on Earth.
-   Then there's the Ekert from _Non Sequitur_.
-   And also Primus, god of the _Transformers_, who sealed himself away at the core of Cybertron itself in order to also seal off his opposite number, Unicron. He was also present in the Unicron Trilogy, but he was created in the comics. To clarify: initially Primus and Unicron were entities capable of going from physical to astral forms. Primus goaded Unicron into a chase in his astral form, then switched back to physical just in time to embed both of them in lifeloss rock. Unicron eventually turned his prison into a new body; in response, Primus turned his into Cybertron.
-   Back in the Golden Age, Fawcett Comics (best known for Captain Marvel) had a magician super-hero named Ibis the Invincible. He was an ancient Egyptian who had somehow wound up as a mummy, but then got reawakened in the present day in a museum. He then reawakened his mummified lady love (thanks to magic, they were revived as living breathing people, not movie-style mummies), and then he went on to become a very Mandrake the Magician\-style super hero. He debuted in _Whiz Comics_ #2, the very same issue that introduced Captain Marvel. Like the other Fawcett heroes, he's now owned by DC Comics, and pops up once in a while in stories dealing with magic or the Middle East. His signature weapon is a magic wand called the Ibistick.
-   Image Comics has the series _Rumble_. Rathraq is an ancient warrior god who protected humanity from the monstrous Esu thousands of years ago. A traitorous god separates Rathraq's soul from his body and has the spirit chained on another plane of existence until modern times. Rathraq's soul isn't returned to his mighty body - instead it's placed inside a scarecrow, animating it.
-   _Irredeemable_: The mighty and benevolent Eleos are held in a barrier of nuclear energy. They're actually not "imprisoned", as they're more than powerful enough to simply break the barrier and leave anytime they wish. They willfully allow themselves to be contained because escaping would release the energy and cause the worst nuclear disaster in human history.

    Fan Works 

-   _Antipodes_: After the fall of Equestria, Celestia and Luna were left as scattered fragments hidden in numerous hidden locations. The story's plot is driven by the quest to track them down, put them back together, and resurrect them in order to save the world.
-   _The Bridge_: The Guardian Beasts <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  were Kaiju sealed away by Benevolent Precursors 70,000 years ago to bolster the world's defenses against the Big Bad. On the Equestrian side, the Tree of Harmony is actually the sealed form of the Big Good.
-   _Diaries of a Madman_: The elementals were sealed in one by Discord, and one of Navarone's goals is to free them.
-   _A Diplomatic Visit_: As in canon, the six Pillars of Old Equestria — Starswirl the Bearded, Rockhoof, Mistmane, Flash Magnus, Somnambula and Mage Meadowbrook — sacrificed themselves to imprison the Pony of Shadows in Limbo, and themselves with it. When Twilight and co. discover this, it kicks off a new story arc in which they release the six (and unwittingly their enemy as well) from the Can, and then have to take steps to rescue Stygian (the seventh Pillar) and deal with the Pony of Shadows and its fellow Umbrum once and for all.
-   _Hellsister Trilogy_: Wildfire, member of the _Legion of Super-Heroes_, spends one thousand years trapped in an anti-matter star until Supergirl stumbles upon it during one battle, giving Wildfire the opportunity to hitch a ride when she leaves.
-   _Intelligence Factor_: Audrey trapped Zygarde in a Pokéball so he wouldn't interfere with the war in Unova.
-   _I See the Stars_: Diana is a type 2 as the rightful leader and protector of Leisa. Of course she's only human (er... leisan) so when Ada frees her she proves to be severely traumatized and in desperate need of a therapist.
-   _Legacy of the Six_: Omega, the Great Alicorn, got sealed in another dimension by Discord. No one, up until Derpy's interaction with the hivemind spark, has ever heard from or located him since.
-   _A New Chance Series_: The Father Latios, who sacrificed himself to save Altomare and was sealed in the Soul Dew over a century before the events of _Pokémon Heroes_, ends up freed due to the actions of Ash and the villains.
-   _A New World, A New Way_: Arceus, the creator of the Pokémon world, starts out as one. Then he gets out, and kicks off the story's plot.
-   _The Parliament of Heroes_: Part of the Round Robin's background is that the previous Stargirl, Courtney Whitmore, fought against Vandal Savage while attempting to reform the Justice Society of America. The battle ended with Courtney severely wounding Savage and forcing him to go incognito for a time, but at the cost of getting her spirit locked away inside the Cosmic Rod. Her still living body became a catatonic husk, away from where Courtney could find it. She, as the Cosmic Rod, eventually falls into the hands of Luz Noceda, with whom she develops a sibling-like relationship.
-   _Percy Jackson: Spirits_: Someone, implicitly Unalaq, has turned the spiritual defenses of the Oasis the Moon and Ocean spirits inhabit into a prison keeping them from doing much to actively intervene in the current situation in the Spirit World.
-   _Pokémon Reset Bloodlines_: Like in the anime, Sir Aaron's Lucario remains sealed inside his staff. However, the circumstances that led him to be sealed this time around are _very_ different.
-   _A Wolf In The Garden_: Leman Russ finds himself in a sealed-off section of the Warp which turns out to be a prison where the Chaos Gods imprisoned their "positive" aspects; Khorne's virtue and justice, Nurgle's compassion and fostering of life, Slaanesh's empathy and love, and Tzeentch's scientific discovery. These gods of good have turned the realm within into a veritable paradise (the fic's title is a reference to the Garden of Eden) but are _very_ anxious to get free and put a stop to their counterparts' rampant destruction. Khorne, in particular, has spent the eons building and training an army of souls for that day.

    Film — Animated 

-   In Disney's _Aladdin_, the Genie is a kind and good spirit who wants to help his masters. He starts the movie sealed in a lamp, but is freed at the start of the second act. In Disney's version of the story, genies -- good and bad -- are naturally sealed. In the original Arabic folklore, sealed genies are, according to one of the stories in the Arabian Nights, the criminals of genie society. The lamps they are often found in are their prisons, and genies _choose_ to grant wishes to show their gratitude for being released.
    
    **Genie:** It's all part and parcel, the whole genie gig: _**PHENOMENAL COSMIC POWERS,**_ _itty_ bitty living space.
    
-   In _Barbie & The Diamond Castle_, Melody accidentally traps herself in a mirror while fleeing from the Big Bad's (literal) dragon, and keeps herself hidden inside, effectively becoming sealed good in a mirror. Until she's coaxed out by the singing of the main characters, of course.
-   _Mulan_: According to his backstory, Mushu the dragon was actually turned into an incense burner inside the Fa family altar as punishment by the Fa family ancestors for failing to do his job as a guardian the last time he was called. When Mulan decides to run off disguised as a male soldier, the Fa family ancestors send him to… awaken another guardian to help her. He fails and accidentally destroys the statue, and has to go himself. Fortunately, he's far from incompetent this time.

    Film — Live-Action 

-   The title character of the _Austin Powers_ series was cryogenically preserved and revived in response to similar efforts by his evil counterpart, Dr. Evil.
-   In _Dogma_, keeping God on life support in the real world so She could not return to heaven and blink things back to normal could be seen as Sealed Good in a Can, in this case a more direct borrowing of Sealed Evil in a Can by the dark side.
-   In _The Gamers: Dorkness Rising_ the... adventurers... players... whatever you may call them are officially on a mission to regain a cursed artifact for the High Priest of the local goddess of Lawful Good, Therin. Said High Priest is shown to have a powerful artifact of Lawful Good, which is later to be revealed the prison of Therin. The party destroys the prison, freeing the goddess, and are rewarded by her afterward.
-   In _The Garbage Pail Kids Movie_, the titular Kids are trapped inside an outer space garbage can that lands on earth, and are discovered by an antiques store owner. He does his best to keep them in the can, but they always manage to find a way out. Much like the Animaniacs example below, the Kids aren't necessarily good, but they aren't evil either. A more apt definition would probably be Sealed Jerkass in a Can.
-   In _Jumanji_, Alan Parrish is sucked inside a board game for twenty-six years until Peter Shepherd lets him out when he rolls a five.
    -   Similarly, in _Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle_, the four main characters get sucked in and are trapped there until they finish the game. Alex Vreeke, who joins them in escaping, had been trapped there for twenty years before them.
-   In _Spaceballs_, the Schwartz (the movie's answer to the Force) can be bottled after being condensed into liquid form and used to give a spaceship more kick.
-   The icy Breath of Valkur in _Kull the Conqueror_ had to be retrieved from the far north, to counter the fiery evil Big Bad.
-   The White Queen in _MirrorMask_.
-   _The Sorcerer's Apprentice_ features two examples. Balthazar Blake was trapped alongside Maxim Horvath in an urn for ten years. At the same time, Veronica Gorloisen willingly absorbed Morgana's spirit into her body so that Balthazar could trap both into the Grimhold. This also is an example of Sealed Inside a Person-Shaped Can.
-   Sentinel Prime in _Transformers: Dark of the Moon_. He's been rusting away in the Ark since he crashed on the moon in The '60s. It later turns out that he was actually a Sealed Evil in a Can, as he defected to the Decepticons before leaving Cybertron. After revealing this to his former comrades, he joins Megatron with a plan to enslave all humanity as a workforce to rebuild Cybertron.
-   Ultraman Dyna in the film, _Ultraman Saga_, prior to (and during) the climactic battle between Ultramen Zero and Cosmos against _Giganto Zetton_
-   Leeloo, as the titular _Fifth Element_, is the only weapon against the embodiment of evil - life personified. Overlaps heavily with Sealed Badass in a Can.
-   _Night at the Museum_: Ahkmenrah, the Pharaoh whose tablet brought the exhibits to life, spent decades in his sarcophagus, with both staff and exhibit assuming him to be evil. In desperation, Larry and Nick free him from the sarcophagus, and he proves to be very gracious and helpful afterward.

    Literature 

-   Mordecai of _100 Cupboards_ was sealed for twelve years in a barrow by the faeren he was allied to, as this way they could Rules Lawyer their way into breaching their agreement by claiming it was for his own protection. He is released when a knife is thrown at his son Henry's belated christening, as per British folklore.
-   Terry Pratchett's _Discworld_:
    -   In _Moving Pictures_, there's a guardian sealed away under the Holy Wood hill, that the heroes need to awaken in order to banish the Things that come to life from movies.
    -   _Lords and Ladies_ has a parody of the King in the Mountain: the ancient king complains he hasn't had a wink of sleep for the last century, because some bugger keeps ringing the bell.
-   Vangerdahast's subplot in the Forgotten Realms novel _Elminster's Daughter_ involves him attempting to seal _dragons_ in a can to protect Cormyr. (The country's previous Sealed Good was unsealed, then destroyed, in a prior war.) The subplot ends with Vangerdahast shapeshifting _himself_ into a dragon, then sealing himself and a volunteer song dragon in the can.
-   In Guy Gavriel Kay's trilogy, _The Fionavar Tapestry_, King Arthur and Lancelot are both examples. King Arthur is awoken by one of the protagonists to fight the big bad. Arthur finds Lancelot under a mountain and wakes him. Guinevere is already present, Sealed in a Person-Shaped Can. Arthur is doomed to fight evil when called upon to do so, and the others are doomed with him to relive their own tragedy whenever he does so. Until the end of the trilogy, when they are freed as a result of a heroic sacrifice allowing Arthur to live to see the end of the battle for the first time averting part of the "doom."
-   _Goblins in the Castle_: The goblins had their spirits sucked out and imprisoned in the North Tower of Toad-in-a-Cage Castle, and their bodies locked in the dungeons, all because the old Baron and his sorcerer ally thought they were evil rather than just mischievous.
-   Rick Riordan's _The Heroes of Olympus_:
    -   Percy was kept asleep by Juno for several months until the time was right for him to go to Camp Jupiter.
    -   Hazel's time in the Underworld also qualifies.
-   In Alan Dean Foster's _Humanx Commonwealth_ novel _Bloodhype_, the Tar-Aiym Guardian, Peot, was charged with containing and finding a way to destroy the Vom, a planet-scouring Eldritch Abomination. Half a million years later, Peot is dormant and must be awakened in order to counter the Vom's renewed threat. Flinx turns out to be the key to accomplishing this.
-   Also by Rick Riordan, in _The Kane Chronicles_ the good goddess Bast was locked a long time ago and it's main character's father who releases her. It overlaps with Sealed Evil in a Can, because something very bad was imprisoned along with Bast - and escaped at exactly the same moment.
-   Jim Knee in _Septimus Heap_ was sent to Septimus as this and eventually succeeds, despite several incidents and being rather reluctant.
-   In the Back Story to William Shakespeare's _The Tempest_, Prospero releases Ariel from the cloven pine where he had been imprisoned for twelve years by the evil witch Sycorax for refusing to do her bidding. Ariel is thus bound to serve Prospero for twelve years to repay his debt.
-   In _Beast Child_, second book of _Voyages of a Flying Dragon_ , Manu, the so-called Titan boy is innocent and good, having being put away to serve the god-like being which has been split into Lenis and Missy.
-   Robert Jordan's _The Wheel of Time_ series has the Horn of Valere, which can summon the greatest heroes of the setting's history to kick righteous amounts of ass. The subversion being that the heroes obey whomever blew the horn — good or evil — until he dies. Double subverted when we find out that this actually isn't true; the heroes would never fight for the Dark One or his minions. Also the heroes aren't exactly sealed: they regularly get reincarnated on Earth and only the ones not currently alive are summoned.
-   The heroes of _The Malazan Book of the Fallen_ spend most of the series believing that the Crippled God is a Sealed Evil in a Can. When he is freed towards the end of the series, he turns out to be not so much evil as simply mad, and giving him his freedom seems to have undone his madness. He ultimately assists the heroes in preventing the extinction of the human race, and so functions both as a subversion of the Sealed Evil trope and a variant of the Sealed Good trope. He also turns out to have been the Narrator All Along; the Direct Line to the Author of the series presents him as having penned it In-Universe so that those who sacrificed their lives to free him and to prevent the end of the world would not be forgotten. Which, of course, also gives the series its title.
-   In _Halo: Cryptum_, the Forerunner Didact was sealed in the titular Cryptum for one thousand years as a meditative exile after his political defeat by the Builders. He is released early in the book.
-   _The Crimson Shadow_: Brind'Amour put himself in stasis long ago, then awoke to find Eriador has been taken over by Greensparrow, an evil sorcerer. His brethren did the same thing, though unfortunately all of the rest have been found and killed by Greensparrow's forces.
-   _The Lost Fleet_: Revered hero John "Black Jack" Geary is discovered in cryogenic suspension by the descendants of his culture who after centuries of continuous warfare have forgotten nearly everything he knows about how to fight smart in favour of crazed aggressive tactics. He has to teach them the basics of tactics and to avoid counterproductive atrocities.

    Live-Action TV 

-   Who would have expected the depths of the planet Z'ha'dum, home of the evil Shadows in _Babylon 5_, to contain Lorien, The First One, who saves Sheridan's life and goes on to help the good guys? Though it wasn't so much sealed as waiting for someone worthy to find it.
-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   The Doctor does this to himself in "Human Nature"/"The Family of Blood" to evade pursuing enemies.
    -   Inverted in "The Pandorica Opens", as the Pandorica is said to contain the greatest evil in the entire universe, with the Doctor trying to stop his enemies from getting their hands on it as it opens. However, when it finally does open, it's _empty_. The whole myth is a trap set up by the Doctor's enemies, who are all under the mistaken impression that _he's_ the one behind the universe-ending threat of the season. The episode ends with him being locked inside the Pandorica, screaming and begging all the way.
-   _Farscape_: As seen in the _Peacekeeper Wars_ post-series finale, the Eidolons. There were actually two separate groups of them, one group was The Remnant, and the other were a Type 2, saved by an Inversion of Critical Existence Failure. They can lull any other species into a receptive state, and read their minds, to construct a good argument. Besides being Super-diplomats, they are the ones that transplanted and genetically engineered early-Hominids , thus creating The Peacekeepers.
-   In _I Dream of Jeannie_, Jeannie was sealed in a bottle for 2,000 years by the Blue Djinn as punishment for refusing to marry him.
-   It's implied that this was the case for the original _Kamen Rider Kuuga_. More than that, it was hinted he did it to himself and ages when he was discovered it is implied he was _**STILL ALIVE**_ during all the time he was sealed up before the Grongi escaped and may have murdered him as soon as the seal was broken.
-   Kai in _Lexx_ starts and ends many episodes frozen in a stasis chamber, showing up to save the other characters in the nick of time. You know, because he's dead.
-   _Power Rangers_ and _Super Sentai_:
    -   Zordon was technically in a "time warp" and broadcasting his face into a tube, but they freed the man by making him _actually_ trapped in the tube. To make matters worse, the poor guy was kidnapped as soon as he was "released", and when he was rescued, he promptly had to commit a Heroic Sacrifice to save the day. Shoulda stuck with the time warp.
    -   Ninjor from season 3 played the Sealed Good in a Can twice, once when he first appeared and again when Lord Zedd and Rita captured him and the Falconzord and sealed them away. He's currently still in his initial can thanks to the timewarp inflicted on the Earth.
    -   Ninjaman, Ninjor's _Ninja Sentai Kakuranger_ counterpart, was like this as well. To the point where he's resealed after he pissed off the gods he aids and isn't released until the _Kaizoku Sentai Gokaiger_ team comes knocking, looking to obtain the Kakuranger's Greater Power.
    -   The Gold Ranger in _Power Rangers Dino Charge_ was sealed in Fury's body for centuries after he bonded with the Gold Energem and Fury imprisoned him in a rage. He tries to escape several times during the Rangers' fights with Fury, but isn't able to until Fury briefly obtains the Energem in episode 11.
    -   The Zyurangers in _Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger_ were put in suspended animation rooms in an underground temple, to make sure they would still be alive and ready to fight Bandora if someone released her.
-   In _The Outer Limits (1995)_ episode "Sarcophagus", an archeological dig finds an alien inside a tomb. Upon awakening, the friendly being was quite happy to find that humanity had come a long way from the cavemen that had attacked him on sight, forcing him to seal himself up to recover from his injuries. When there is a cave-in, the alien allows the two who had befriended him to seal themselves up, keeping them alive until they are finally rescued.
-   Sophia de Borghesse from _Sabrina Goes to Rome_. Since she cannot be with her lover, she seals herself inside a locket.
-   In _Stargate SG-1_, the progenitor of the Tok'ra, Egeria, was almost literally sealed in a can (a symbiont containment vessel) by her Goa'uld enemies. Egeria fared less well than usual — the humans who eventually found her were unable to tell her from any other queen Goa'uld and basically tortured her to death. Uhh... "Sorry"?
-   _Ultra Series_
    -   The Spark Dolls from _Ultraman Ginga_ are the sealed forms of the previous Ultra Heroes. The Monsters suffered a similar fate.
    -   While Spark Dolls are present in _Ultraman X_, they play a completely different role. Instead, the Sealed Good of this series is X himself, who was reduced to data contained within Daichi's X-Devizer as a result of a battle against the Big Bad.
    -   The Capsule Monsters from _Ultraseven_ and Sevengar from _Ultraman Leo_ are Mons placed inside small capsules to be released by the Ultramen to fight in their stead when needed.
    -   The title hero of _Ultraman Tiga_ was discovered by Daigo as a petrified shell that he merged with to reawaken the hero.

    Mythology 

-   In Yuin religion the Top God and cultural hero Daramulum is trapped inside the trees. To let him out religious ceremonies often make use of bullroarers.
-   Many, many variations of the King in the Mountain myth, including King Arthur, Frederick Barbarossa and Bran the Blessed. These heroes are almost never sealed by an evil power; in fact they are generally sealed to "preserve" them to fight some coming evil or hardship. The promise that they will returning "at the time of their country's greatest need" is a key element of the myth in many cases.
    -   On a related note, Excalibur itself might be considered an example, as this powerful weapon for Good was kept hidden by the Lady of the Lake until the right wielder came along. Like many cases where this trope applies to objects, it was Sealed In A Can Again after Arthur was through with it.
-   Some versions of the myth of Pandora's Box state that after all the evils of the world had been released from the box, there was just one more thing that remained in the box: Hope.
-   In _Journey to the West_, Monkey was first birthed from a giant stone egg. After gaining power and immortal indestructibility, he caused such trouble in Heaven that the Buddha sealed him under a mountain. Just five hundred years later, he was freed by Kuan Yin (Avalokiteshvara, the boddhisatva of compassion turned Chinese Goddess) after he promised to reform and help the monk Tripitaka/Xaunzang retrieve the Diamond Sutra from far in the West. This legend has been adapted many times in many ways, including Milo Manara's dark _The Young Ape_, the rather Bishounen _Saiyuki_, and Stephen Chow's _A Chinese Odyssey_ films.
-   In Hesiod's _Theogony_, the Cyclopes and Hundred-Handers who were locked in Tartarus by their father Ouranos and later (again) by their brother Cronus, are freed by their nephew Zeus and the other Oympians when the Titans make war on the Gods, and in turn they forge weapons — most importantly, Zeus' thunderbolts — and help in the Titanomachy, the War with the Titans.

    Podcasts 

-   Kip, Gol, and Ne-on from the _Cool Kids Table_ game _Star War_ are Knights of the Old Republic who were frozen in carbonite until defrosted by Admiral Ackbar.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Dungeons & Dragons_:
    -   In module Q1 _Queen of the Demonweb Pits_, one possible encounter in Lolth's Web is a chance to rescue a ki-rin (powerful Lawful Good unicorn-like creature) trapped in a transparent cube that keeps it in a state of suspended animation. If rescued, the ki-rin will offer its services to its rescuers.
    -   Module I12 _Egg of the Phoenix_. The ki-rin Da-weng allowed himself to be changed to stone so that at a future time he could be returned to normal and fight against Evil. If released, he gives the party an amulet that will allow them to summon him to aid them.
    -   Benekander, a benign Mystaran Immortal, was Sealed inside the Mirror Shield for millennia before being released in time for the _Wrath of the Immortals_ boxed set.
    -   Etienne d'Amberville (Stephen Amber), an extremely powerful wizard Immortal from the _Castle Amber_ adventure, must be freed from his tomb to complete the scenario successfully.
    -   One way to destroy the Eye of Arik in _Palace of the Silver Princess_ is to release the benign white dragon Ariksbane from another dimension, so it can shatter the evil gem with its icy breath weapon.
    -   The _Dragonlance_ setting is made of this trope: the Disks of Mishakal, the brass dragon Blaize, the rest of the good dragons, plus of course the dragonlances themselves. Half the campaign is uncanning sealed goods.
-   In most games for Solar characters, the Jade Prison in _Exalted_. More generally it's mixed at best; the Solar Exalted don't really answer to any authority and may or may not be good.
-   Mirage block of _Magic: The Gathering_ has Mangara of Corondor sealed in the Ember Prison.
    -   Lord Ith was imprisoned by Mairsil the Pretender during the years of The Dark (between the Sylex Blast and the Ice Age).
    -   Avacyn, archangel and guardian of the humans of Innistrad, was sealed within the Helvault alongside the demon Griselbrand, until Thalia of Thraben was manipulated into freeing them both by Liliana Vess.
-   Warhammer 40,000:
    -   The God-Emperor of Mankind. As much as there IS "good" in the game of course. Technically, he's on psychic-fueled life support in a coma. His death would mean his rebirth, but a lot of bad things would happen in the mean time. So he's Sealed Good In A Can, with the Can being as vital to humanity as the Good. What, you thought we were joking when we said that 40k is GRIMDARK?
    -   The Eldar in general might qualify, but they are more Awakening the Sleeping Giant in most cases.
    -   From the Tau, Commander Shadowsun, being one of their history's greatest commanders and military minds, and a student of _the_ greatest, spends much of her existence in stasis, being awakened when the Tau need her the most.
    -   To a lesser extent than the Emperor are the Space Marine Dreadnoughts, and Eldar Wraithlords. On the plus side, you're now a near-immortal warrior that can crush hordes of enemies that plagued entire squads of your fellows in the palm of your hand... often literally. The downside? You have to be nearly dead (or for the Eldar, FULLY dead,) be rescued by your compatriots, and have been such a glorious badass among badasses that they plug you into a huge, lumbering war-machine. You're also hooked in there forever, or at least until the machine breaks and you die, and you tend to spend years, decades or centuries in between humongous battles in total stasis, hence fitting into this trope in multiple literal ways. Interestingly, Chaos forces are terrified of being dreadnought-ed themselves, for the same reasons... because they don't get the luxury of being put into stasis between battles.
    -   Bjorn the Fell-Handed is the oldest Space Marine, having met and fought alongside the God-Emperor himself, and was put in a Dreadnought so he could see his Primarch's return. He's woken up every century to retell the great sagas to the assembled chapter, or when he's needed for battle (and once managed to stop the fratricidal war between the Wolves and the Inquisition-backed Grey Knights by killing their Chapter Master and ordering both sides to stand down).

-   _Princess: The Hopeful_ has it as a major plotpoint. The titular Princesses used to be the magic-wielding nobility from a Kingdom, whose function was to bring hope to the world and keep the All-Consuming Darkness in check. After finally defeating them by taking advantage on their infighting, minions of the Darkness were unable to exterminate them due to them having Born-Again Immortality, so they instead trapped the large majority of their souls in a Lotus-Eater Machine, keeping them away for millenia while they spread and turned Earth into a Crapsack World. This lasted until the Apollo Landing, which caused Hope to shing brighter for a while on Earth, giving the trapped Princesses and their Queen enough lucidity to break free from the illusion and resulting in resurgence of them in the real world.

    Toys 

-   _BIONICLE_:
    -   The Great Spirit Mata Nui's soul was sealed inside the Mask of Life by Makuta and thrown out of the universe. Upon setting things straight, he sealed himself back in, so that civilization could grow in its own pace, without a God.
    -   The Toa Mata were put in stasis 100,000 years ago, so that were Mata Nui ever to be struck down, they could be immediately launched in their pods to hurry to his aid. Due to a malfunction, however, their canisters remained floating in the Endless Ocean for a 1,000 years, under which time their flesh decayed and their memories were wiped. Good thing they could heal. This backstory was, by the way, part of LEGO's marketing: giving the toy containers and the figure's assembly actual storyline importance.

    Video Games 

-   _ActRaiser_: At the beginning of the game the forces of evil control the world, and your character is the Sealed Good In A Can. The game was remarkably lacking in controversy, since said character is strongly implied to be the Judeo-Christian God, or at least the local equivalent.
-   _A Mess O Trouble_ (a shareware Adventure Game) has two godlike creatures trapped inside time dilation bubbles in some ruins. You know from local historians (and abominations lying around in the ruins) that their civilization was practically constructed by a good creature and then fooled into nearly destroying itself by a bad creature. One is a beautiful Energy Being, the other a dull-looking lizard man. Guess which is which?
-   In _Arcanum_, the supposed Big Bad, Arronax, has been trapped in the Void repenting his crime for thousands of years: once found, he joins the party to take on the real Big Bad.
-   In the second game of the original _Bard's Tale_ series, the Zen Master Arkast qualifies. (He singlehandedly took on Lagoth Zanta and his mercenary army before you showed up, and only failed by lack of being an unkillable Destiny Knight.) You don't technically _have_ to free him, but travel into his can to group with him (and would thus normally bring him out with you). The start of the relevant poem in the manual: "A tale once told of ages gone, which bards once sung in deep despair / of he who fought the evil one, and cast his fate within the Snare..."
-   Alucard from _Castlevania_ seals _himself_ away on multiple occasions, seeing his powers as evil. He isn't _intentionally_ a Sealed Badass in a Can, but when Dracula rises and the Belmonts are unable to act, he awakens anyway and goes out to deal with Dracula. After Julius Belmont's victory, he appears to be permanently unsealed.
-   _Conviction (SRPG)_: The Dark Elf sealed two of the Three Magi, Jing and Snow, into stasis to make Leed's quest to find them harder.
-   JC Denton in _Deus Ex: Invisible War_. He merged with an ultra-powerful AI at the end of the first game, but the result was unstable. Before he could turn the world into a utopia, he had to go into cryogenic storage and wait for Nanotechnology upgrades to be developed. Furthermore, his brother Paul was the test subject on some of these upgrades, which proved to be unsuccessful, meaning he _also_ had to be put into cryogenic storage. The player, being a successful test subject, can wake them both over the course of the game.
-   In _Doom (2016)_, the Doomguy himself has become this. After being betrayed and becoming the Sole Survivor of the Night Sentinels of Argent D'Nur, he went on a Roaring Rampage of Revenge against all of demonkind, eventually becoming so feared among all the denizens of Hell that the only way they could stop him was to lure him into a trap and bury him underneath a temple before trapping him in a sarcophagus. Then the UAC find him and bring him and his suit to Mars. The very first thing Doomguy does when the game starts is break out of said sarcophagus, tear through every Possessed in his way and reclaim the suit. Then it's back to business.
    -   The demons see him as Sealed Evil, however, and play dead straight to that trope. The UAC notes the demons fought with absolute frenzy to protect his sarcophagus, thinking it to be some kind of legendary artifact. Truth is they were absolutely _terrified_ of Doomguy ever getting loose again, as he is literally a walking extinction event for demonkind.
-   Golem named Shale from _Dragon Age: Origins_ The Stone Prisoner DLC. Like other golems, she was a dwarven woman whose soul was transferred into the golem body to guard against the darkspawn threat, but was forced to spend hundreds of years dormant (but still awake and sentient in total darkness) until the Warden finds her control rod and re-activates her.
-   In _Dragonfable_, at the end of Chapter 2, the Hero of Lore is imprisoned in a block of ice by Jaania. The Hero finally breaks out many years later after a Time Skip, only to discover that the world has become very hostile towards magic and Jaania has become the new Big Bad.
-   The hero Melvin in _Dragon Quest VII_ was sealed in a stone by God so he would be alive to fight should the demon lord rise again.
-   In _Duel Savior Destiny_ for a twist in the last route it turns out Aether Relics are previous Messiahs who have vowed to stop God from destroying the universe again.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_
    -   The series' primary Creation Myth provides an example of a permanent sealing. Anu and Padomay are the anthropomorphized primordial forces of "stasis/order/light" and "change/chaos/darkness", respectively. Their interplay in the great "void" of pre-creation led to creation itself. Creation, sometimes anthropomorphized as the female entity "Nir", favored Anu, which angered Padomay. Padomay killed Nir and shattered the twelve worlds she gave birth to. Anu then wounded Padomay, presuming him dead. Anu salvaged the pieces of the twelve worlds to create one world: Nirn. Padomay returned and wounded Anu, seeking to destroy Nirn. Anu then pulled Padomay and _himself_ outside of time, ending Padomay's threat to creation "forever". From the intermingling of their spilled blood came the "et'Ada", or "original spirits", who would go on to become either the Aedra or the Daedra depending on their actions during creation. (Some myths state that the Aedra come from the mixed blood of Anu and Padomay, while the Daedra come purely from the blood of Padomay).
    -   Serana from _Skyrim_ DLC _Dawnguard_ is an ancient Friendly Neighborhood Vampire who rebelled against her vampire father, Lord Hakon, centuries ago and was sealed away with an Elder Scroll by her mother in order to protect them both from him. Although she's not particularly "good" (admitting freely that for her, the perks of being vampire royalty outweigh any moral compunctions), she seeks to thwart her father's omnicidal plans after being released from her imprisonment and becomes a loyal friend to the Dragonborn.
-   In _Fallout 3_, James, the Lone Wanderer's father is a variation of this. After the death of his wife in childbirth, he abandoned his work on Project Purity for nineteen years to raise his child in the safety of Vault 101, making him a Big Good who chose to seal _himself_ in a Can. The game kicks off when he decides to escape the Vault with the intention of restarting the Project, inadvertently forcing his child to follow him out into the Wasteland after him.
    -   He actually does it again a little further in the game, a little more literally, when he manages to accidentally get himself stuck in the Vault 112 simulation Tranquility Lane.
-   Merlin in _Fate/Grand Order_ has been locked away in a tower in the realm of Avalon by a witch (most likely the Lady of the Lake) since the end of King Arthur's reign. Though he can communicate with the protagonists via magic, he has to resort to Loophole Abuse to actually physically leave in some way.
-   Holy, in _Final Fantasy VII_, is cosmically powerful Sealed Good In A Can, the opposite number to Sealed Evil in a Can Meteor. It takes a couple steps to successfully unseal it, mind.
    -   In _Final Fantasy III_, friendly and mighty Unne is trapped in the dream world until you grab the magic lute that awakens her.
    -   Bahamut and Leviathan in _Final Fantasy V_ were sealed along with the twelve legendary weapons and the ultimate magic spells after a battle against an evil wizard.
-   _Finding Light_: After clearing the Depths, the party finds Ruth and Gwen, the heroines of _Knight Bewitched_, who Lilith put into stasis.
-   In _Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance_ and _Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn_, the goddess Yune is sealed in a medallion, locked away by her twin sister/other half Ashera, who found her chaotic whims too dangerous. While neither is technically good or evil, Yune is the goddess of chaos and Ashera represents order, and this, along with the fact that anyone (save for Mist, her mother, and members of the heron clan) who touches the medallion goes berserk, has given Yune somewhat of a bad reputation (as a "Dark God"). After her long sleep, Yune is warm and friendly to the humans, since she was always with them when in the medallion. Meanwhile, Ashera has become bitter after 780 years on the top of a inaccessible tower, and is portrayed closer to the Sealed Evil in a Can Yune was accused to be (particularly after passing judgment on all people when she realised they had been warring for all this time, where Yune decides to take the few remaining and defeat Ashera).
-   The events of the game _Graffiti Kingdom_ are set in motion after the Prince Pixel releases both the good Pastel and the Devil from a wall mural when he decides to play around with the Graffiti Wand he finds lying adjacent to the mural chamber hidden in the castle.
-   Vyrn of _Granblue Fantasy_: His true powers were sealed away in the Zinkenstill forest shrine. Once the crew gets him near it, a silhouette of Bahamut appeared over him. So far, one of his revealed powers is to seal away the Dark Energy corrupting Yggdrasil into her Malice incarnation.
-   _Halo_:
    -   The finale of _Halo 3_ seals Master Chief in a can.
    -   It can also be said that Master Chief is a sealed good in a can at the beginning of _Halo: Combat Evolved_.
-   The finale of _Half-Life_ seals Gordon Freeman in a can, to be reheated and served in the sequel.
    -   And at the end of _Half-Life 2_, he is resealed until _Episode 1_. Then things get weird, and either an _Episode 3_ or a third game has yet to come along and explain it all.
-   In the NES game _The Krion Conquest_, a good witch who, depending on if you're playing the orginal Japanese version or not, is named either Doropie or Francesca, is released from a magic staff to fight off an Alien Invasion. Why she was sealed in it in the first place is unknown.
-   _The Legend of Spyro: The Eternal Night_: During the ending, Spyro, Cynder, and Sparx are trapped in the Well of Souls, resulting in Spyro using his Dragon Time powers to seal them in a crystal to save themselves. In the sequel, _The Legend of Spyro: Dawn of the Dragon_, taking place three years later, a group of Malefor's minions come and chisel them out for a sacrifice days before Malefor's plan would have ultimately succeeded without their interference anyway.
-   _The Legend of Zelda_:
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past_: In the Dark World, Link has to rescue the seven maidens, who are descended from the Seven Sages in the game's backstory; Agahnim has imprisoned them in crystals scattered in the dungeons of the Dark World.
    -   In _The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening_, the benevolent Wind Fish is asleep in an egg until it is awoken by our hero.
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass_ harkens back to this, with the mighty Ocean King left powerless by the Big Bad.
    -   Link himself becomes this in _Ocarina of Time_. The Master Sword chose him to be the Hero of Time as a child, but since he was too young, he was sealed away in the Sacred Realm for seven years.
    -   In _The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_ Link is this once again, having apparently been sealed in a shrine for the purpose of of defeating Calamity Ganon. Mainly because he was nearly killed when Calamity Ganon original ravaged Hyrule, and needed a hundred years or so to recover.
-   In _Lunar 2: Eternal Blue Complete_, Lucia is Sealed In A Crystal until she is awakened - and not on schedule - at the beginning of the game. At the end, she seals herself up again. And in the Playable Epilogue, Hiro goes after her.
-   In _Majin and the Forsaken Kingdom_, Teotl, the titular majin, has been sealed away by the Darkness and the game begins when he’s released by Tepeu. Later on, the pair also releases Warrior Princess Toci from similar containment.
-   In _Mass Effect_, it's mentioned that an eccentric volus billionaire is spending his fortune excavating a planet of ruins for "lost beings of light" who are intended to fight "machine devils from beyond the stars". Unfortunately for the people of the galaxy, this apparently ended up being a Red Herring.
    -   In the first game, it's revealed that many Protheans attempted to put themselves into stasis to survive, intending to awaken and rebuild the Empire once the Reapers had departed once and for all. Unfortunately for the people of Ilos, the Reaper's extermination took centuries to complete, the VI "Vigil" was forced to sacrifice non-essential personnel to maintain the others, to the point where only a _dozen_ remained out of the _hundreds_ put into stasis.
    -   Javik in _Mass Effect 3_ was another such Prothean put into stasis on Eden Prime, with the VI "Victory" sacrificing the other survivors to maintain his pod. It got even worse as the damage caused by the Collectors meant that the revival procedure could only be activated _manually_, causing him to wait over 50,000 years before Shepard awoke him. By then, the latest Reaper invasion was already well underway.
    -   Liara mentions in the third game having refined the Protheans' plan of using their Beacons as a warning, seeding many worlds with time capsules containing an archive with all galactic information, knowledge of the Reapers and plans for the Crucible weapon, in case the worse should happen and they fail to stop the Reapers. In the Refusal Ending, it's revealed that this did indeed work and allow the next Cycle to defeat the Reapers.
    -   It's implied that the Protheans may have been responsible for sealing the Charon Relay in ice to intentionally keep humanity undiscovered and isolated from the rest of the galaxy, possibly to prevent the Reapers discovering them if they had not advanced to the space-age by the next extermination Cycle. Or maybe just another ace in the hole if their plans with the asari fell through.
-   The Biometal (or "Live Metal") from the _Mega Man ZX_ series are the sealed memories of many past characters. Namely, Model X is obviously X, Model Z is Zero, And Models H, L, F, and P are the Guardians From _Mega Man Zero_.
    -   Before that are X and Zero themselves, found in such a state at the beginning of their respective series.
        -   Ironically, Zero was actually Sealed _Evil_ In A Can at the start of the X series, as shown in _Mega Man X4_: he killed an entire Hunter unit, then effortlessly beat the ever-loving crap out of the then-good Sigma when the latter tried to stop him– and _laughed about it the entire time_. That version of Zero made a return in _Zero 3_ as Omega, sort of, who was again Sealed Evil in a Can; albeit a can that can move, speak and wreck stuff on its own. Heck, Zero himself opens Omega's can unintentionally, possibly making this a Nice Job Breaking It, Hero scenario.
-   In _Might and Magic V: Darkside of Xeen_ one quest involves unsealing Corak the Mysterious, discovered in stasis inside an escape pod. Then you get a task to find a special box to temporarily seal him in, so you can get him in place to fight and kill the Big Bad for you when you enter his room.
-   Amaterasu of _Ōkami_, who is awakened at the start of the game when after someone cracks open the Evil Sealed Can of Orochi.
    -   Sakuya, a wood sprite with trees extending all across Nippon, is also sealed away until you can awaken her. Reviving her various Guardian Saplings will break the curse over an area.
    -   For that matter, the brush gods as well, requiring you to free them and regain their powers.
    -   Happens again in _Ōkamiden_ with Chibi releasing Shiranui from being frozen in ice.
-   In _Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door_, according to ingame myths, the black boxes are actually the four heroes of a thousand years ago who sealed the Shadow Queen and were sealed as well.
-   _Persona 5_: Igor, the Big Good of the _Persona_ franchise, spends most of the game sealed away by the game's hidden Big Bad, who's been impersonating him. It's only after discovering the villain's deception that Igor is freed and lends you his full aid in the Final Battle.
-   Pokémon can become this in their Poké Balls, especially if their Trainer deposits them indefinitely into the Pokémon Storage System.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   In _Puzzle Quest: Challenge of the Warlords_, the player character and his/her allies must help the minotaurs revive their god, Lord Sartek, so that he can defeat the evil Lord Bane.
-   In _Quest for Glory IV_, you finally learn the fate of the legendary mage and Friend to All Living Things, Erana. She attempted to seal a Cosmic Horror that was invading the land, but only partially succeeded, and got sealed with it as well rather than miss her chance to do so. She's since been tormented by it for all that time, until the very end of the game.
-   In _Shadow Hearts: From The New World_, the light of Will (the good counterpart of the Malice animating the Big Bad and The Dragon) is sealed inside a big tower in a salt lake.
-   _Shadow of the Colossus_ may or may not have an example in Dormin: They're definitely some kind of sealed entity, but the jury's still out on if they're good, evil, or neither.
-   In the early _Sonic the Hedgehog_ games, Dr. Robotnik's plans usually involved sealing innocent creatures into his robots as power sources. Recently, he seems to have found another source of energy for them (Chaos Drives?). Why he didn't just use batteries in the first place is anyone's guess.
    -   He might indeed use batteries, and the Small Furry Animals merely serve as the "intelligence" part of the robot. In other media, however, Robotnik relied upon the _roboticization_ process. This other media includes Bioware's _Sonic Chronicles: Dark Brotherhood_.
    -   First major straight example in the series is Tikal in _Sonic Adventure_. Sealed up right alongside Chaos, she gets released at the same time as god of destruction, and spends the rest of the game playing Exposition Fairy in the form of a glowing ball, and occasionally causing visions of Chaos's origin and nature. At the end she helps Chaos Ascend to a Higher Plane of Existence. Somehow.
    -   _Sonic Unleashed_ has this as well in the form of Chip, aka Light Gaia, who voluntarily sealed himself within the planet to bind his counterpart, Dark Gaia, and both were released incomplete when Eggman blew the planet open ahead of schedule — one's an amnesiac Exposition Fairy and the other a physically-scattered Cosmic Horror.
    -   In _Sonic and the Secret Rings_ the good genie, Shahra, is sealed inside a ring found by Sonic at the beginning of the game. Another cosmic being in the game, the evil Erazor Djinn, becomes Sealed Evil in a Can at the end of the game.
-   In _Star Control 2: Ur-Quan Masters_, races defeated by Ur-Quan Kzer-Za have choice between enrollment as battle thralls or imprisonment on their own homeworld under an impenetrable _slave shield_. One of the latter must be fetched out of can by the player in order to win.
-   In _Subnautica_ the Sea Emperor Leviathan can count as Sealed Good in an Aquarium. It was sealed by the Precursors as it was needed to cure Kharaa. Sadly, it can never escape - it's offspring though...
-   In _Super Mario World_, the Yoshis are trapped inside eggs until Mario rescues them. In the Super Famicom version, it's explicit.
-   _Touhou_ has Byakuren, who was sealed away after trying to establish equality between youkai and humans. Bizarrely enough, you fight her as the final boss, after unsealing her, on purpose. Of course, given how the heroines usually behave, that probably isn't too surprising.
-   The druids in _Warcraft III_, whom the player must wake up during the Night Elf campaign. Some of whom are _really, really cranky_.
-   _World of Warcraft: Mists of Pandaria_ gives us the Klaxxi Paragons. The Klaxxi are Mantid whose best and brightest are sealed away in amber and resurrected when the need arises. In this case, they're Sealed Good from the _Mantid_ perspective, as their objection to Empress Shek'zeer isn't that she's raising a swarm of Mantid to attack Pandaria, but is doing so at the wrong time and in the process abandoning the Mantids' Social Darwinist values.
-   In _Universe at War_, it turns out there's an entire race of Sufficiently Advanced Benevolent Precursors who are sympathetic to us Puny Earthlings in stasis under the Atlantic Ocean. Just what the doctor ordered for helping turn the tables in a Hopeless War against a race of brutal Planet Looters. Overlaps with Awakening the Sleeping Giant.
-   In _XCOM 2_ starts with the Commander imprisoned in a stasis pod by ADVENT. The tutorial mission consists in rescuing them to restore XCOM's fighting ability and unite mankind against the aliens.

    Webcomics 

-   Abraham, the wizard who created the dewitchery diamond in _El Goonish Shive_. Sure, he almost kills Ellen because she was created by the diamond, but it's pretty obvious that she was the first non-evil thing created by it.
    -   He also revises his statue's inscription to say I rise to atone for my sins after he realizes both good and evil creatures can be created by the diamond. This is a step above "I rise to reap what I have sown" which suggested destroying everything the diamond created.
-   Winnie from _Free Spirit (2014)_ fears getting trapped in a mirror. A witch like her can not escape one by herself, and if no one lets her out before it breaks, she will die.
-   _Sluggy Freelance_: When the demons first conquered the world that became the Dimension of Pain, they sealed away all that world's goodness in a Zip-Lock bag and stored it in the Demon King's refrigerator.
    
    **Torg:** I heard the story before, but I assumed it was _metaphor_.
    
-   _Godslave_ has Anpu, the reaper of "don't fear" kind, sealed by his siblings when they rebelled against the Eternal Recurrence. However, if Heru and Epileptic Trees are right, he's actually Sealed Evil.
-   The plot hole juju in _Homestuck_ likely qualifies, as it contains the souls of the four beta kids. Definitely a Type 2, since Caliborn put them in there. That said, what exactly it _does_ with those souls when it's activated against Lord English is not shown.
-   The first Prissan in _Goblins_ is stated to be a hammer meant to contain good and be wielded by the evil, mirroring the Axe of Prissan which is actually something else.
-   The rabbit spirit from _Blue Moon Blossom_ was sealed inside a crystal deep in a temple guarded by bat creatures. And even when the seal is broken, it remains asleep until it's needed.

    Web Original 

-   _Fine Structure_'s Big Good is revealed in an Loose Canon story to have been sealed in a can and released before the main action of the series began. Ironically, that story is evidence for a much darker Alternate Character Interpretation of him.
-   In _Terramirum_, Animusara finds herself trapped in a reliquary for 1,000 years.
-   The Web novel _There_ features sealed good — the life force of the world, without which environmental decline happens at a rapid rate.
-   _Trick Moon_: The heroic, powerful Prince was betrayed and trapped inside the Magic Moonstone without any of his magic or abilities. Unlike most examples, he's fully able to communicate with the outside world.
-   _RWBY_: The heroes find that one of the relics they need to defeat the villainous Salem contains Jinn, a charismatic, kind, and omniscient magical being created by the God of Light to truthfully answer three questions every one hundred years. Later, they find another being like her named Ambrosius in the relic of creation, though he's a little less friendly.

    Western Animation 

-   Human Popsicle Aang of _Avatar: The Last Airbender_ is the Avatar, essentially a God in Human Form, who gets sealed in an iceberg for a hundred years right as The Empire is beginning it's conquest of the rest of the world. He awakens to find that the rest of his people were killed and the remaining nations are on the brink of defeat. Katara unseals him in the first episode and the series follows his journey to restore balance to the world.
-   In _Beast Wars_, stasis pods were the writer's means of introducing new characters. Whenever they needed a new character the character would usually come from a stasis pod, a sort of cocoon that provides life support for a spark and basic body for a transformer until they can scan an alt mode and become a fully conscious character. All the stasis pods in the show were Maximal by default, but sometimes gave birth to predacons through either intentional alteration or by an unlikely glitch or chance. Most of the time they're a straight example, save for Quickstrike<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and Inferno<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  who hopped out as willing predacons.
-   Dark Heart does this to the Care Bears at the end of _Care Bears Movie II: A New Generation_, before Christy frees them.
-   _Code Lyoko_:
    -   In the prequel, Jeremie turned back on an abandoned Supercomputer inside which resides what he thinks at first is a benevolent A.I., Aelita. He will spend the next season trying to materialize her in the real world. This comes of course with its counterpart Sealed Evil in a Can.
    -   Franz Hopper, the Big Good of the series, although the heroes' interaction with him is very limited as he is more securely sealed and has no body.
-   Non-character example with Popeye's spinach; _anyone_ can become strong from eating it, not just him.
-   _Dungeons & Dragons (1983)_
    -   In the episode "The Box," the good sorceress Zandora has been sealed in the eponymous container by the evil Venger; her attempts to reward the shows' heroes for freeing her are somewhat less than successful.
    -   Venger seals other enemies he deems dangerous by transforming them; The heroic knight Sir Lawrence is turned into a dorky-looking creature in "Garden of Zinn" and the spellbinder Lukion has become a swamp creature made out of moss and goo in "Prison Without Walls", unable to talk or use his magic.
-   In _Futurama_, it's revealed that Human Popsicle Fry was deliberately frozen by Nibbler, a member of the Precursors because he's The Chosen One, the only being capable of defeating the Brain-Spawn and preventing them from destroying the universe.
-   A Story Arc in _Galaxy Rangers_ was about Tarkon's benevolent Master Computer that had been "sleeping" since an ancient war. The Heart of Tarkon controlled sophisticated defense systems for the planet and had to be "awakened" to repel a Crown invasion.
-   This happenes to the Justice League in _Harley Quinn (2019)_, after the Queen of Fables traps them in her book. They are eventually freed by Harley in order to defeat Dr. Psycho and his parademons.
-   In one episode of _Justice League_, Despero is leeching off a Sealed Good's energy gradually to fuel his powers. When it's completely freed, he's toast.
-   _Mummies Alive!_ had a royal prince and his four guards. When all five are slaughtered by the minions of the Evil Chancellor, the four guards are mummified and enchanted so that when the prince is reborn, they may awake to protect them. This is particularly important since the Sealed Evil in a Can Big Bad has already been released. Further more they need to return to their sarcophagus's to recharge their powers.
-   _PJ Masks_: has An Yu, the defender of Mystery Mountain, who originally was sealed inside the Dragon Gong (though how and when she was sealed is unknown), forced to obey whoever possessed the gong's mallet. That is untill in the season 3 episode "Meet An Yu", Night Ninja steals the gong and takes it to Mystery Mountain in hopes that the dragon will help him rob the pagoda. Instead, this turns out to be exactly the thing An Yu needed to break free.
-   _Steven Universe_: In "Mirror Gem"/"Ocean Gem", Lapis Lazuli is initially found in gem form attached to the mirror in the former until she instructs Steven to remove her from it. At the end of season 1, she becomes both this and Sealed Good in a Duel when she fuses with Jasper in order to imprison them both at the bottom of the sea, where they stay until early on in season 3.
-   The Autobots in the original _Transformers_ cartoon, who were all sealed away inside a volcano with the Decepticons after both factions crashed into it in the distant past, making them all unconscious. It wasn't until the volcano's eruption that both were set free.
    -   This more or less seems to be Metroplex's role in various recent continuities. He is often hidden and in stasis until unwittingly awakened by the Autobots.
-   Zigzagged in one episode of _Teen Titans_ where Raven meets a heroic wizard named Malchior who has been sealed into a book by an evil dragon called Rorek of Nol, and both befriends and begins working to free him. Unfortunately, it turns out Rorek was the wizard and the sealed Malchior is actually the very evil dragon who she ends up freeing.
-   In _Winx Club_, the White Circle is found to have been imprisoning the remaining Earth Fairies for sixteen years. Played with in that while technically good and victimised, the Earth Fairies are not purely good once released; Nebula and her Warrior Fairies also serve as an antagonistic force to the Winx Club for much of the story.
-   Season Two of _W.I.T.C.H._ has Elyon, who is sealed inside a necklace that her powers were drained into. Nerissa uses the necklace/Elyon's powers to attack Elyon's friends. It can't have been pleasant.

    Real Life 

-   The Svalbard seed vault and other heirloom and traditional seed and plant vaults and storages - the only hope of the world to avoid starving to death in the event of anything from nuclear war to a genetic modification mistake. Reserves of vaccines, medications, and other necessary health items so _if_ there is a pandemic or a major disaster that reduces healthcare to pre 20th century levels, there's some chance at saving lives from it and/or bringing conditions back to their pre-disaster levels.

___