_"I rank the frequently blundering poet with Choerilus: when he  
Does produce two or three excellent lines I am startled to laughter,  
As I am taken aback by good Homer's occasional drowsing.  
True, with a long piece of writing a drowsiness does steal upon you."_

— **Horace**, _Ars Poetica_ (Charles E. Passage translation)

Certain facts or events are presented in a series that contradict earlier episodes. May be done intentionally, or incidentally, possibly because Writers Cannot Do Math. Can lead to a Continuity Snarl or Continuity Drift.

A common feature of Long-Runners, as it's difficult to keep track of continuity after multiple years or decades, especially as new writers are brought on board. Compare Beyond the Impossible is about characters breaking the story's internal logic by doing what is physically impossible.

___

## Example subpages:

-   _Star Trek_
-   Anime & Manga
    -   _Dragon Ball_
-   Comic Books
-   Literature
-   Live-Action TV
-   Western Animation
    -   _The Amazing World of Gumball_
    -   _American Dad!_
    -   _Total Drama_

## Other examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

-   One of the Somersby apple cider commercials tells the story of how music was only listened to until lord Somersby accidentally invented dancing. Then in a later commercial featuring young lord Somersby, we can see some people dancing in the background, even though it is supposed to take place earlier canonically. Given the nature of these commercials, which run on deliberate Anachronism Stew for the Rule of Funny's sake, people can justify it.

    Asian Animation 

-   In the third episode of _BoBoiBoy_'s first season, Adu Du comments on BoBoiBoy while the latter is playing football<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . In the second season's third episode, Adu Du has no recollection of what football is.
-   Occasionally, _Noonbory and the Super 7_ forgets that Totobory's leaves only allow him to taste things, not eat them. This error has occurred in "Big, Bigger, Biggest" and "The Great Switcheroo".

    Audio Plays 

-   _Big Finish Doctor Who_: In the _Fourth Doctor Adventures_ story "Destination: Nerva," the Fourth Doctor rambles about a "Butler named Butler," a character from an audio drama recorded before "Destination: Nerva" but coming after it in the Doctor's timeline. The line was a Tom Baker adlib, and he didn't care about such things. Fan Wank of God is that the Negative Space Wedgie allowed the Doctor to foresee future events.

    Comic Strips 

-   _Calvin and Hobbes_:
    -   A few early strips allude to the family having two cars, and the very first strip shows Calvin's dad washing a car resembling a Ford LTD. However, in all subsequent appearances, we've only seen one car, an econobox hatchback, and even then the car's taillight design changes between appearances.
    -   Does Calvin's dad take the bus to work or does he drive? Depending on the needs of the joke at hand, it changes (such as when Calvin rolls the car into the ditch while his dad is at work, or when Calvin builds a snow mound over his driveway, preventing the car from getting out and making his dad late for work).
    -   The position of the window next to Calvin's bed changes between strips; it's changed from the side of the house, the front of the dormer, and the side of the dormer, and also alternates between the left and right dormer.
    -   This occurs between strips when Calvin's parents are in bed. The first two strips show Calvin's dad on the left, but the third one has him on the right, and the fourth one has him on the left again.
    -   The first strip shows Calvin capturing Hobbes in the wilderness in the present, but subsequent strips allude to Hobbes having known Calvin since he was a waddling infant. Word of God noted in commentary that he came to regret showing how Calvin met Hobbes and would've preferred it to be a mystery.
    -   Calvin is shown writing with both his left and right hands. While he could be ambidextrous, the more likely explanation is that Watterson just didn't keep track of which hand Calvin uses to write.
-   _Peanuts_:
    -   A comic strip from 1959 has Snoopy say that he doesn't have any siblings, yet they appear later in the strip's run (and were mentioned in this 1970 strip). To make matters worse, when he first meets his siblings in the strip, he claims they all speak different languages, which is also later proven false. He also started calling Charlie Brown the "round-headed kid" around the late 1960's, even though he called him by his name earlier, although that could be more of Characterization Marches On.
    -   Even stranger, the December 5, 1960 comic has Snoopy denying being a beagle.
    -   Even though Violet's birthday is seemingly June 17th, according to the June 17, 1962 strip, a couple of the 1950's strips hinted her birthday is January 28th: In the February 22, 1951 strip, she said her birthday was last month, and in the January 29, 1955 strip, Charlie Brown said her birthday was yesterday.

    Fan Works 

-   Calvin's phone number in _Calvin & Hobbes: The Series_ is first shown to be 555\-7186. Five episodes later, it's 555-6846.
-   _The End Of The World Fernwithy_: The series is a Doorstopper written in Anachronic Order, so there is the occasional discrepancy even after the author went back to revise the earlier-written stories. Most are fairly small and easy to disregard, but three stories give contradictory information about District 9's victors. _The Hanging Tree_ claims there are only two during Haymitch's Victory Tour, a man and a woman (although a second District 9 female Victor, Etta Bossard, is also mentioned in passing in a later chapter), and implies that Darla the woman is the older one. _The Golden Mean_ and a complete list of Victors in the author's universe temporarily made available on LiveJournal say there are five Victors from 9, all older than Haymitch, with Darla being much younger than both of the men. _The Narrow Path_ claims that there were only four: Darla, a woman who won a year after her, and two older men.
-   _The Palaververse_: The fics are supposed to be able to happen in canon, so "The White Horse" has this because Sombra should not be around after Luna's banishment.
-   _A wand for Steven_: The first chapter states that Steven and four gems (Pearl, Amethyst, Ruby, and Sapphire) were found by the veil. Later on, Peridot wakes up during the summer before Year 3, making it _five_ gems instead.

    Films — Animation 

-   At the end of Disney's _Atlantis: The Lost Empire_, Kida gains more tattoos on her face, which could be a sign of her becoming queen; but in the sequel, all of her tattoos save her first one are inexplicably gone.
-   In Disney's _Bambi_, Bambi's mother says not one deer has lived half as long as the Great Prince. However, in _Bambi II_, when Bambi is still a fawn, the Great Prince says he was Bambi's age when he met Bambi's mother.
-   In _The Hunchback of Notre Dame_, the little girl who hugged Quasimodo at the end of the first movie is present at the start of the second movie and hasn't aged at all — even though enough time has passed for Esmeralda and Phoebus to have a young son.
-   In _The Ice Age Adventures of Buck Wild_, Crash and Eddie point out that dinosaurs don't talk, despite having met Gavin and his kids who are talking dinosaurs in the previous film.
-   The Disney Direct to Video film _The Lion King 1 ½_ (which is essentially a recap of the first film's events, but from Timon and Pumbaa's point of view) actively contradicts the events of _The Lion King_ on many levels. On the other hand, given whose points of view this is... Then again, some people have interpreted it as a parody because of how _many_ events it contradicts.
-   In _The Mitchells vs. the Machines_, Linda adopts Eric and Deborah, which would make her a mother of 4. However, in the battle with the Prime bots, she states that she is a "mother of two".
-   A throwaway line in _Monsters, Inc._ suggests that Mike and Sulley have known each other since elementary school. Yet, its prequel _Monsters University_ shows them meeting for the first time in college. There was also a promo (seen in _Toy Story 2_) where Sulley complained that Mike was too interested in his elementary school crush to pay attention to geography, which is why they've chosen the wrong door. Plus, a guidebook said they met in kindergarten when Sulley mistook Mike for a chair and briefly sat on him. Interestingly, the 4th-Grade line was going to be canon in the prequel, but the directors had difficulty trying to find a way to make the story work that they decided not to make the line have any meaning.
-   _Winnie-the-Pooh_:
    -   _Piglet's Big Movie_ recounts how Kanga and Roo first came to the Hundred Acre Woods. Tigger takes part in the event, even though Pooh and the others first met Tigger in _Winnie the Pooh & the Blustery Day_, in which they already know Kanga and Roo.
    -   In the holiday-themed Compilation Movie _Winnie the Pooh: Seasons of Giving_, Rabbit and the other characters act as though Kessie hasn't been seen in the Hundred Acre Wood since her debut episode in _New Adventures_ "Find Her, Keep Her." However, there _was_ another episode ("A Bird in the Hand") where Kessie returned to visit the Hundred Acre Wood. Kessie is also still in her young form when she cameos at the movie's end despite having grown up by the time of "A Bird in the Hand" (a form she has been in all of her subsequent appearances, like in _The Book of Pooh_). Maybe _Seasons of Giving_ takes place between "Find Her, Keep Her" and "A Bird in the Hand," but if not, then it's an error.
-   In _Wreck-It Ralph_, _Sugar Rush_ is depicted as a side-by-side multiplayer arcade cabinet similar to the _Mario Kart Arcade GP_ series. In _Ralph Breaks the Internet_, it's suddenly a traditional single-player arcade cabinet, because the plot requires a mechanical malfunction to shut down the entire game.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   In _Addams Family Values_, Debbie makes Fester get hair plugs because she doesn't like his baldness. This is despite the previous film showing an amnesiac Fester with a full head of brown hair, meaning that he shaves his head by choice and could have simply grown his own hair back.
-   In _Aliens_, the _USS Sulaco_ sports a dark blue hue, its name written in black on its right side, and cryogenic stasis pods that look quite different from the ones aboard the _USCSS Nostromo_, but in _Alien³_, the _USS Sulaco_ sports a bright brown hue, its name written in white on its left side, and cryogenic stasis pods that look _identical_ to the ones aboard the _USCSS Nostromo_.
-   At the end of _AVP: Alien vs. Predator_, the Predalien chestburster sports a jawed tongue, but at the beginning of _Aliens vs. Predator: Requiem_, it doesn't.
-   _Dirty Harry_ ends with the title character bringing down the Scorpio Killer once and for all... and then, after some quiet reflection, throwing away his badge, a significant event that is naturally not addressed in the sequel _Magnum Force_. Or, for that matter, the _other_ three sequels.
-   _Doctor in Distress (1963)_: Despite retiring at the start of _Doctor in Love_, Sir Lancelot is now working at Hampden Cross Hospital with no mention of why he gave up his retirement.
-   _Dragonheart_:
    -   Siveth's mural in _Dragonheart: Battle for the Heartfire_ depicts her as greenish with red eyes and a red mane, but in _Dragonheart: Vengeance_, she is a recolored blue-eyed version of Drago from the previous film.
    -   Also, Draco's mural in _Battle for the Heartfire_ shows him with five claws on both hands though he had four on his hands in _Dragonheart_.
    -   There is no Mural for Griffin from _Dragonheart: A New Beginning_ even though he is should be one of Draco and Siveth’s contemporaries. There is also no mention of the existence of another population of dragons in the east despite the fact that _Dragonheart: A New Beginning_ mentions the eastern dragon council who were the ones responsible for cursing Griffin to be human sometime after he fled east to escape Bowen during his twelve year dragon-slaying career before they were later all killed by Emperor Kuo-Fan.
-   The _Friday the 13th_ series has a huge one in part V (which takes place after Jason Voorhees gets killed but before he becomes undead). Some murders are happening and Tommy Jarvis (who killed Jason as a kid in the previous movie) is afraid Jason has come back from the dead. At one point the Mayor tells him Jason was cremated and he's "nothing but a handful of ash". This would be contradicted in the _very next film_ where Tommy goes to Jason's grave, digs him up, and rams a metal rod through his heart in order to destroy him forever, only for lightning to strike that exact spot and reanimate Jason as an undead. This can perhaps be Hand Waved by saying the Mayor was lying to make Tommy feel better, but that doesn't answer how he found out Jason was really buried and where his grave was.
-   _Gremlins 2: The New Batch_: In the first movie we see Mrs Deagle's body and a number of humans seem to die offscreen. But early in the second movie Kate mentions that fortunately nobody got killed. One wonders how the science teacher survived, plus the news report at the film's end _explicitly_ confirms that Mrs. Deagle had indeed died and hadn't just been knocked out.
-   The _Halloween_ films:
    -   At the end of the first movie, Michael is shot by Loomis six times, then falls off a covered balcony at the back of the house. This scene is shown again at the start of the sequel — and Loomis shoots Michael _seven_ times (despite only having a six-chamber revolver), sending him flying off an _uncovered_ balcony at the _front_ of the house. It worsens when Loomis goes around shouting, "I shot him six times!" in the film's first few minutes.
    -   In the original _Halloween_, the Myers house is a modest two-story home. By the time we get to _Halloween 5: The Revenge of Michael Myers_, it's a huge, Gothic-style mansion, and by the time we get to the sixth film, it's back to being a two-story family home that's still completely different from what we've seen in the first two films. When these films were made, they were in the same continuity as the first two, so there's no excuse for the discrepancy.
-   Smaug is quite clearly a quadruped in _The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey_, and then transforms into a wyvern in _The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug_. The Extended Editions of the films replace the original Smaug in _An Unexpected Journey_ with the new one to correct this.
-   A line in _Holiday on the Buses_ claims that Blakey has worked with Stan and Jack since 1959, despite the fact that Stan mentioned he'd been on the buses since 1962 in _Mutiny on the Buses_.
-   The first film where Sidney Poitier played Detective Virgil Tibbs, Oscar-winner _In the Heat of the Night_, has Virgil say that he's from Philadelphia, unmarried. Three years later, in the sequel _They Call Me Mister Tibbs!_, Virgil lives in San Francisco (and has for a while, dialogue indicates that he's been with the SFPD for 12 years), and he's married with two school-age children
-   In both the novel and film versions of _National Velvet_, The Pie is specifically portrayed as a gelding, meaning he's castrated and thus incapable of reproducing. The film sequel _International Velvet_ ignores this point so that he can sire a successor, Arizona Pie.
-   _Jurassic Park_:
    -   Word of God was that _Jurassic Park: The Game_ is soft canon to the films, meaning a version of it happened along with the first movie. It has the island bombing as a plot point though and more damage to the visitor’s center, which the later film _Jurassic World_ ignored, although the name of the island's volcano, Mount Sibo, is kept. _Jurassic World: Camp Cretaceous_ would further de-canonize the game by showing that Lewis Dogdson recovered the embryos Nedry stole (or at least the can they were in) can decades after the first Jurassic Park incident, not days as depicted in the game.
    -   Different filming locations in _The Lost World_ And _Jurassic Park III_ led to two different environments, a coniferous forest (actually Sequoia National Park in California) and a jungle (Hawaii). The island could be large enough to support both though.
    -   The ending of _The Lost World: Jurassic Park_ shows numerous _Pteranodon_ flying free over Isla Sorna, but _Jurassic Park III_ depicts them being trapped inside a giant metal aviary and only breaking free at the end. The design also changes radically between films, although why this is so is never specified.
    -   _Jurassic World_ has the mosasaur lagoon in the middle of the island with no apparent ocean access but this was blatantly retconned in _Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom_ to facilitate the mosasaur escaping.
    -   _Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom_ establishes that Hammond broke his partnership with Lockwood in the past because he used their dinosaur cloning technology to clone his dead daughter Charlotte, who died in a car crash. _Jurassic World Dominion_ retcons this so that it was Charlotte who cloned _herself_ long after Hammond had died, and she passed away of a genetic disease rather than a car crash. Although this does fix some timeline issues, it calls into question why Hammond became estranged from Lockwood if he _didn't_ clone his daughter.
-   The Marvel Cinematic Universe: _Spider-Man: Homecoming_ has a glaring one right at the start, claiming the events in _The Avengers_ happened eight years prior. For starters, both movies were made only five years apart. And in-universe, _Homecoming_ is set months after _Captain America: Civil War_, which explicitly says only four years have passed since _The Avengers_.
-   In _Men in Black_, keen eyed viewers can notice that Agent J's year of birth on his recently deleted birth certificate shows he was born in 1969. But that is later contradicted in _Men in Black 3_ which reveals Agent J was already a child around that year, given Apollo 11's launch provides a major setting and plotpoint for that film. And that was in 1969, supposedly when he was born.
-   The third film in _The Omen_ series, _Omen III: The Final Conflict_, ends with the second coming of a fully-empowered Jesus Christ on Earth, a seemingly important event which is naturally not mentioned once in _Omen IV: The Awakening_.
-   In _The Princess Diaries_, Mia's birthday is stated to be after Genovian Independence Day. In the sequel, her birthday is _before_ Genovian Independence Day.
-   The _Saw_ franchise's timeline was already very complex, so much that even dedicated fans can get frustrated getting a grasp on the sequence of events, especially since some movies happen out of chronological order or even during another; however, the timeline was still carefully constructed, and could be understood clearly when put in order. Then along came the eighth film, _Jigsaw_, which dropped a bomb on everyone by revealing that Logan, a new character who debuted in the film, was the first Jigsaw apprentice, not the previously-introduced Hoffman. Fans were baffled at this reveal, since it disrupted the timeline the previous films had, and when the issue was brought up to the film's writers, they admitted that they did such a reveal because knowing the complete timeline didn't make any sense for it (since the film was released and is set years after the previous ones), and they were hoping that nobody would notice the error.
-   In _Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan_, Khan recognizes Chekov despite the latter being introduced in the second season of _Star Trek: The Original Series_. "Space Seed", the episode with Khan, was part of the first season. One theory is that, since Chekov never got a formal introduction episode, he could've been in the lower decks since Day One and been promoted to bridge officer after Khan's banishment. It wouldn't even be the first time someone's shown up on screen out of nowhere and been treated like they were on the show the whole time. Walter Koenig likes to joke that, offscreen, they met when Chekov kept Khan waiting at a restroom, then left him with no toilet paper, hence Khan remembering him. This can be made more plausible if one opts to sort the show's viewing order by the stardates, allowing two second-season episodes featuring Chekov, "Catspaw" and "Patterns of Force", to be set _before_ the episode with Khan. That way, clearly Chekov was part of the crew when Khan and his henchmen tried to take over the ship; his fight against them was just not shown.
-   _Star Wars_:
    -   First is the conflicting ages of the Republic given by Obi-Wan and Palpatine. In _A New Hope_, Obi-Wan establishes the Jedi have been protecting the Republic for "1000 generations" (roughly 15,000-30,000 years, depending on one's definition of a "generation"). In _Attack of the Clones_, Palpatine says that he will not let "this Republic which has stood for a thousand years" fall. Even factoring in the possibility that Obi-Wan may have been exaggerating (which, according to the Expanded Universe, he wasn't), that's a pretty big difference in ages. It's been hand waved since the government had a major reformation and restructuring 1000 years before what Palpatine refers to, hence the reference to "_this_ Republic" rather than "_the_ Republic."
    -   Another example is Leia remembering her mother as established in _Return of the Jedi_, only for Padmé to die within minutes of Luke and Leia's birth in _Revenge of the Sith_. There _have_ been attempts to explain this, like the novelization implying Leia was "trying to take in every detail," or fan speculation that Leia was mistakenly thinking of her foster mother. Even Leland Chee, the man responsible for sorting the massive and convoluted _Star Wars_ continuity, says that he's stumped.
    -   The public perception of the Jedi undergoes a very radical change in-between _Revenge of the Sith_ and _A New Hope_. In the prequel trilogy, the Jedi are very active in galactic politics, including personally fighting in the Clone Wars. But 20 years later, the original films show that they're regarded as little more than a fairy tale. Luke has never heard of them before, and Han dismisses the Force as an "ancient religion", despite _Revenge_ showing his companion Chewbacca fighting droids alongside Yoda. The Empire possibly conducted an extensive censorship campaign considering that Order 66 (an executive order that suggests Palpatine regarded the Jedi as a serious threat to his power, followed by a speech to the Senate about how dangerous they are) happened within living memory. It's more likely that the writers didn't consider their previous portrayal in the original trilogy when writing the prequels.
    -   In _The Empire Strikes Back_ Obi-Wan's spirit informs Luke that he cannot intervene if Luke chooses to face Vader, and Vader says the same thing to the Emperor, implying that Force Ghosts cannot interact with the physical world. This would be proven false in subsequent installments. _Return of the Jedi_ shows branches moving as Obi-Wan walks past them and he's able to sit down on a rock. In _Star Wars: The Clone Wars_ episode "Voices", Qui-Gon Jinn's spirit is able to levitate Yoda and other objects in the room in order to prove he's really there. In _The Last Jedi_ Yoda's spirit uses the Force to summon lightning to strike the tree containing the ancient Jedi texts and he later whacks Luke with his cane. And in _The Rise of Skywalker_, Luke's spirit catches Anakin's lightsaber when Rey discards it and uses the Force to lift his submerged X-wing out of the water.
    -   _The Rise of Skywalker_ ignores Poe having encountered jumptroopers earlier in _Poe Dameron_, the destruction of the Lars moisture farm in _Darth Vader_, and Luke's X-Wing being non-operational in _The Last Jedi_ Visual Dictionary.
    -   _Star Wars Expanded Universe_: The uncancelled seventh and final season of _The Clone Wars_ contradicts the novel _Ahsoka_ on one detail: in the book, when Ahsoka abandons her lightsabers on Mandalore as part of a Faking the Dead ploy, the blades are green and yellow like on the TV show. However, the season 7 trailer and footage shown at _Star Wars_ Celebration Chicago in April 2019 shows the lightsabers with _blue_ blades when Anakin returns them to her, and in all moments where she's shown using them. The footage indicates that the color change is due to Anakin tinkering with the weapons, but that doesn't change the fact that according to the novel, the sabers had their original blade colours when Ahsoka abandoned them at the end of the Siege.
    -   _Star Wars Legends_:
        -   _Revenge of the Sith_ is supposed to be preceded by _Star Wars: Clone Wars_ and _Labyrinth of Evil_. Both are supposed to take place simultaneously in some coherent order, yet both contain scenes mutually exclusive to each other, necessitating Merging the Branches for both stories to work. Both works were then relegated to the Legends continuity and replaced with _Star Wars: The Clone Wars_.
        -   _Labyrinth of Evil_ itself claims that before discovering an image of Darth Sidious within Nute Gunray's mechno-chair, the Jedi believed he was a lie Dooku invented to lead Obi-Wan astray on Geonosis in _Attack of the Clones_, and not mentioned since. But in _Yoda: Dark Rendezvous_, Dooku openly names Sidious as his master to Yoda. Continuity Nods to _Dark Rendezvous_ appear elsewhere in _Labyrinth of Evil_, yet this discrepancy is not explained.
        -   Dac or Mon Calamari? Retconned as Dac being the indigenous name for the planet.
        -   The _Star Wars (Marvel 1977)_ comics introduce us to "your father, Darth Vader, and Obi-Wan Kenobi." Also, Obi-Wan has black hair. The actual phrasing was "Obi-Wan, Darth Vader, and the man who carried Anakin Skywalker's lightsaber," certainly implying Anakin and Vader are two different people. In one of the deftest Retcons in the Expanded Universe, an author was able to use a _pre-existing_ Jedi ritual to justify the man carrying the saber as a third, distinct Jedi who had swapped sabers with Anakin at the time.
        -   Chewie only has one son when Word of God says Wookiees have multiple births and six breasts. Considering the nature of Kashyyyk, however, infant mortality might explain this one.
-   _X-Men: Apocalypse_: When Raven reminiscences about the original team from _X-Men: First Class_, she talks about how they were called the "X-Men." However, going by the events of that film, Moira only coined the term "X-Men" _after_ the Cuban Missile Crisis, by which point the team had already broken up and Raven herself had left.

    Multiple Media 

-   MonsterVerse:
    -   In _Godzilla vs. Kong_, Number 10 (which has a notably different coloration from the Skullcrawlers previously seen on Skull Island) bleeds bright-green blood and viscera, whereas in _Kong: Skull Island_, the Skullcrawler in the boneyard scene bled _pink_ blood. The B-Roll footage shows that Number 10's remains originally would have been a lifelike crimson, more or less preserving series continuity, but this was apparently changed at some point before the movie was released.
    -   It's hinted in _Godzilla vs. Kong_, and confirmed in the novelization, that the public are still treating the Hollow Earth as if its existence wasn't confirmed during the events of _Godzilla: King of the Monsters (2019)_, with the novel hinting that Monarch kept silent about their discovery in the previous film – this directly contradicts an In-Universe publicized article in the Creative Closing Credits of _Godzilla: King of the Monsters_, which addresses the topic of the Hollow Earth and its connection to the Titans as if its existence was verified to the public.
    -   In _Godzilla (2014)_, it was stated that Godzilla was awakened in 1954 as the result of a nuclear submarine reaching the lower depths for the first time ever, and it was implied that there were _multiple_ attempts to kill Godzilla with atomic detonations that were covered up as tests during this decade. In the third episode of _Monarch: Legacy of Monsters_, Godzilla was discovered via a gigantic footprint he'd left on land with no mention of a submarine; and the Castle Bravo detonation (which was depicted in the 2014 film's opening) is portrayed as the _sole_ detonation aimed at killing Godzilla, with Godzilla being presumed dead after he vanished in the nuclear fireball.

    Mythology & Religion 

-   Greek Mythology could have a page to itself due to its numerous continuity errors and snarls. See the origins of gods.
    -   Aphrodite both rose from foam created by Uranus' severed testicles and was born to a mistress of Zeus.
    -   Dionysus is both the son of Zeus and the son of Persephone and Hades.
    -   After swallowing the pregnant Metis, Zeus developed a severe headache. When Hephaestus split his head open to relieve the pain, Athena sprang forth. She became the most important goddess of her generation, and Zeus took great pride in knowing that he'd "fathered" her all by himself. Hera became jealous and gave birth to a child all by herself, to prove Zeus wasn't the only one who could do it. That child? Hephaestus. Some authors solved this by having somebody else, like Prometheus or Hermes, split Zeus's head instead or deny that version of Hephaestus's birth.
-   The Canon of Norse Mythology consists of numerous sources which contradict each other on many points. In particular, the important story of Balder's death exists in two very different versions.

    Professional Wrestling 

-   Impact Wrestling gives the name of Dixie Carter's father as Bob (his real name), yet also implies that it is Ethan, as he's the grandfather of Ethan Carter III.
-   On the August 1, 2002, episode of _WWE SmackDown_, Jamie Noble introduced Nidia to the announce team of Michael Cole and Tazz, saying that they don't mess with Tazz because he's "one of them street thug kind of fellers." The problem is that Tazz was one of Nidia's trainers on _WWE Tough Enough_, so she already knew what he was like.

    Radio 

-   All the episodes of _The Further Adventures of Sherlock Holmes_ are based on Noodle Incidents from the Canon. A couple, however, don't quite fit:
    -   "The Saviour of Cripplegate Square": Supposedly, the incident Holmes referred to when he said, "the most winning woman I ever knew was hanged for poisoning three little children for their insurance-money" in _The Sign of the Four_, but in this story the woman in question insists the money didn't interest her. Still, she thought her charges were Too Good for This Sinful Earth and was "saving" them. And Holmes seems to believe her since he uses the case as an example of how love is not a positive emotion.
    -   "The Shameful Betrayal of Miss Emily Smith": Based on Holmes's reference in "The Adventure of the Priory School" "to that terrible murderer, Bert Stevens, who wanted us to get him off in '87". The murder Stevens wants them to get him off for is one he's actually innocent of. He commits the terrible murder afterwards, and is entirely unconcerned with getting away with it.
    -   "The Determined Client": From Watson's reference to "an account of the Addleton tragedy and the singular contents of the ancient British barrow" in "The Golden Pince-Nez", but there is no ancient barrow in the story at all.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Dungeons & Dragons_ gods:
    -   The Demon Queen of Spiders, goddess of the drow, is called Lolth. R.A. Salvatore accidentally spelled her name Lloth when she became a _Forgotten Realms_ character, and the error increased to the extent it needed a rationalization.
    -   Juiblex had similar problems by often being misspelled as Ju**bi**lex. Since both are Demon Lords, it is quite easy to invoke I Have Many Names to justify the differences.
    -   In the _Dragon_ article series "The Wizards Three", Ed Greenwood occasionally forgot that, in _Dragonlance_, "dark elf" isn't a race, but means any elf who has turned to evil. On one occasion he outright referred to Dalamar as a drow, and on another he had him refer to "his people" raiding the surface world.
-   _Magic: The Gathering_:
    -   In the novel _Rath and Storm_, it's briefly mentioned that Hanna's mother Rayne is dead. However, we later find out in _Prophecy_ that she's quite alive. And then she dies in _that_ book.
    -   Recent Portuguese cards and documentation are printed in Brazilian Portuguese instead of Portuguese Portuguese, resulting in many unwarranted changes in terminology.
-   _Star Trek Adventures_: Page 42 of the core rulebook repeats the misconception that different ships had their own unit patches in _Star Trek: The Original Series_, originally caused by a costuming error in "The Omega Glory".
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh!_:
    -   When "Elemental HERO Burstinatrix" first came out, her flavor text says she's the "only" female member of the "Elemental HEROes" which was true at the time. It corrected the English text later as "first," but the Japanese text hasn't been, even though more female "Elemental HEROes" have been released.
    -   Recent Portuguese cards and documentation are printed in Brazilian Portuguese instead of Portuguese Portuguese, resulting in many unexpected changes in names and terminology. Apart from spelling changes (Portuguese _activar_ > Brazilian _ativar_), there were also term changes (Portuguese _Anjo_ "Angel" > Brazilian _Fada_ "Fairy"; Portuguese _jogador_ "player" > Brazilian _duelista_ "duelist").
    -   The Chinese rule book has never been updated to be consistent with printed cards for all their pathetically short run.

    Toys 

-   _BIONICLE_
    -   The original intro of the story involves Takua summoning the Toa in their canisters to the island. He got blasted into the sky to witness six metal capsules descending form the "heavens" and landing in the sea, then drifting to the island shores. Later material explained that these canisters had been floating in the ocean for a thousand years before Takua attempted to do this.
    -   Another example is what the Order of Mata Nui reported about Karzahni. In their book, they write about how he is amassing an army in his own realm to lead them into battle. When Karzahni reappears in the story, he reveals he's been following the Matoran who later became the Toa Inika ever since they had gotten away from him, so he would've had no time to train any army.
    -   When the Rahkshi attack Ta-Koro in the movie _Mask of Light_, Tahu, the village's protector, boldly shouts "None have breached Ta-Koro's gates before! And none shall this day!" Except that the previous set of baddies, the Bohrok-Kal _have_ broken into the village and defeated Tahu himself, _right_ before the movie's story. The reason for this oversight is that the movie and preceding Filler Arc were handled by different writers, and in all likelyhood the movie was written first but released later.
    -   Probably due to the same reason, some scenes of the second movie, _Legends of Metru Nui_, are at odds with the novels' and comics' stories. One of the more significant issues is Matau learning that his blades double as wings. In the movie, everyone is surprised when they activate and save him from plunging to his death; according to the comics, he has already used them to fly earlier.
    -   The comics leading up to the third movie, _Web of Shadows_, didn't want to spoil Vakama's betrayal, and so showed him leading his team into the Coliseum to clash with the villains. Yet, in the movie, we learn that Vakama, having become evil due to the villains' influence, was in the Coliseum the whole time, waiting for his former comrades to try and take him back.
    -   The book _Tale of the Toa_ was written without the _Mata Nui Online Game_ in mind (which at the time had been considered non-canonical), but it had some issues of its own. In the comics, the fact that the Rahi beasts have to be defeated by taking off their infected masks is common knowledge from the get-go, but in the book, which was written in accordance with the comics, this is only discovered halfway through. Other parts of the book were later also Retconned to better fit in with the timeline and accommodate the events of the _Online Game_.
    -   The online animations and the book _Makuta's Revenge_ offer differing accounts on which Bohrok-Kal stole which Toa Nuva symbol. Usually, the former is considered more canonical. The mini-comic in the toys' instruction manuals contradict both, making it an example of Advertising-Only Continuity.
    -   Makuta's narration in one of the 2003 comics claims he's been hiding for years after his 2001 defeat. Later on, the writer established that the entirety of the 2001-2008 storyline (barring the 2004-2005 flashbacks) took place within a single year. Of course, Makuta might just be Breaking the Fourth Wall here and meant "years" in real-life terms.
    -   A lot of continuity gaffes stem from different writers having more influence on certain media, retelling events their own way. The _Bionicle_ movies in specific are basically their own canon, often based on undeveloped concepts, referencing ideas contradicted by other media, and aiming for wider viewer appeal with simplified stories and explanations. At times the creators were aware of continuity errors but chose to ignore them for the sake of the films' themes or presentations, like the island of Mata Nui in the 4th film being lush with jungles despite earlier story explaining that all life had been extinguished on it.

    Video Games 

-   _Batman: Arkham Series_:
    -   _Batman: Arkham Origins_ caused one within _itself_ when they decided to give _Batman: Year One_'s corrupt S.W.A.T. officer Branden a first name: his bio in the game proper is listed as "Howard", but according to a radio transmission the player can listen to on the Cryptographic Sequencer in the "Cold, Cold Heart" DLC, his first name is "Scott."
    -   _Batman Arkham Underworld_ sees Harley Quinn in her _Batman: Arkham Asylum_ costume — which she stated in that exact game was new and a tag at the start of _Underworld_ says the game takes place "9 years ago", which given _Batman: Arkham Knight_ states the events of _Origins_ takes place ten years before it, means part of _Underworld_ takes place not long after _Origins_.
    -   _Batman: Arkham Origins_, developed by WB Games Montréal (not the original developers from Rocksteady Studios), portrays the first meeting between Joker and Harley Quinn dramatically different from what's heard from videotapes in _Batman: Arkham Asylum_. Instead of just another villainous rambling from Joker and slutty responses from Harley Quinn in _Asylum_, the conversation is quite solemn: Joker keeps pondering on his newfound nemesis, Batman, and talks about him as if they're destined for each other, while Harley Quinn, portrayed as being uncharacteristically timid and shy, only gives back minor responses and ultimately submits to the belief that he was talking about her.
-   _BoomBots_: If you unlock Klaymen as a playable character and decide to play through the game as him, the first message you recieve tells you that Dr. Pick created Klaymen. Anyone who has played _The Neverhood_ knows that it was Hoborg who created Klaymen.
-   Discussed in _Deus Ex: Mankind Divided_ in the "A Criminal Past" DLC when Jensen gets his augmentations back. The game notes that giving him access to the new experimental augs from the main game nine months before he canonically knew they existed constitutes a Plot Hole and gives you the option to either respect continuity at the cost of a weaker Jensen or accept the plot hole so you can have all of your shiny new toys. Can also be a case of Unreliable Narrator as Jensen survived a bombing that did some damage at the start of the game and the DLC is framed as Jensen giving a very overdue after-action report following the events of the base game and the other DLC.
-   _Disco Elysium_ is normally incredibly good at keeping track of what you did, which makes it weird in the few cases when later scenes do contradict previous ones:
    -   Players who explore long passages of the game without Kim will sometimes find him knowing about things he shouldn't, repeating in-jokes from conversations he wasn't there for, and sometimes even being reacted to by other people as if he had been there on an earlier meeting. This is especially relevant to the way the game tracks your character's drug abuse. You will only lose Relationship Values with Kim for taking up a new drug habit while Kim is there to watch you, making it clear he's not supposed to know about what you do when he's not there, but Kim will still mention it in the ending if you only took one drink, in your room, after Kim had gone to bed.
    -   Even if you have been drinking throughout the game, if you have the Wasteland of Reality thought internalized during the ending, Kim will tell Jean that you have been dry all week. This is due to an Orphaned Reference — in older versions of the game, Wasteland of Reality couldn't be acquired if you were drinking in the first two days of the game, so there wouldn't have been an inconsistency.
    -   The game is internally inconsistent about when Harry wrecked his car. Kim and your character will deduce from the visual evidence that the crash happened on Sunday night, but Idiot Doom Spiral tells you it happened on Saturday night. You partied with the Union of Moribund Alcoholics through Sunday morning before becoming suicidal around midday Sunday and vanishing.
    -   In the first scene when Kim uses his Trigat Mini camera, it's described as a digital camera, but in the second, it uses film.
-   During Chapter 6 of _F-Zero GX_'s Story Mode, Black Shadow attempts to murder Captain Falcon by strapping a speed-senstive bomb to the Blue Falcon. However, Captain Falcon manages to knock the bomb off and survive. During the next chapter, Black Shadow is suprised to see that Captain Falcon is still alive and well. But it shouldn't be very suprising, considering that the Blue Falcon is parked right in front of him.
-   _Fabula Nova Crystallis: Final Fantasy_:
    -   _Final Fantasy XIII_, _XIII-2_, and _Lightning Returns_ have terrible continuity, both in-game _and_ cross-game<sup>*&nbsp;</sup> . It's absurd to the point where _Lightning Returns_ has completely different reasons/motivations/developments/explanations, etc., for events the characters reflect upon and the lore of the games themselves after the prior two built everything up. Yet they still apparently happen the same way.
    -   Etro is stated to be the goddess of time in _XIII-2_, but in _Lightning Returns_ and the expanded universe material, her dominion is over the life and death cycle, meaning time travel and visions of the future/alternate timelines she made possible in _XIII-2_ couldn't have been done by her, and the rest of the series' god entities were either sleeping or dead.
-   In _Fallout 2_, Myron proudly claims to have invented the addictive drug known as Jet, and if asked, will tell you the story of how it was created, partly by accident, as a result of the Mordinos' efforts to create a potent drug that they could produce in the wasteland. _Fallout 4_ indicates that the drug was made before the nuclear war due to being on a list of drugs hidden in a vault before the bombs fell. No canon source has addressed this yet.
-   _Feral_: It's established in several quests that airships cannot visit the Blood Tundra's harbor without crashing. When the Fera Air Mail airship rotates into the Blood Tundra, it docks in the harbor without experiencing any problems.
-   _Fire Emblem_:
    -   Since _Fire Emblem: The Blazing Blade_ is a prequel, characters who appear in or have children who appear in _Fire Emblem: The Binding Blade_ are Saved by Canon and won't die for real if they fall in battle (though they'll still become unplayable). Rebecca is an exception — despite her son appearing in the previous/next game, she dies for real if she falls in battle. No explanation is given for this, suggesting that it was simply an oversight.
    -   In _Fire Emblem: New Mystery of the Emblem_, it was established that Minerva initially rode a pegasus before she became a wyvern rider, tying into how the Dracoknight class that rode wyverns promoted from Pegasus Knights in that game. Later material reinforced this, with the trading card game _Fire Emblem Cipher_ releasing a card of Pegasus Knight Minerva that could be used to summon that version of the character in _Fire Emblem Fates_. Later on, _Fire Emblem Heroes_ released a younger version of Minerva, who rides a wyvern despite the events of the remake being previously established as canon. Her past as a Pegasus Knight is ignored.
    -   In _Fire Emblem: Awakening_, undead monsters known as "The Risen" terrorize the land of Ylisse. However, they don't appear until a few chapters into the story. Depending on how you play, Robin and Lissa's first support converstation will be unlocked, which mentions the Risen before they show up. The European version of the game corrects this by changing the Risen into bandits.
-   On the way to the True Ending of _Hyperdimension Neptunia mk2_, the CPU Candidates are promoted to full CPUs. Yet at the beginning of _Hyperdimension Neptunia Victory_, the direct sequel, Nepgear introduces herself, Uni, Rom and Ram as CPU Candidates. Despite a few ways to reconcile this (_mk2_'s Good Ending is the canon one, or the immortal goddess CPUs being reinstated after the events of the game), the game doesn't explain it.
-   _Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity_ is a prequel to _The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_, and the map of Hyrule is intact as such, with Castle Town in particular showing more streets than the earlier game. However, in the cutscene where Purah excitedly shows the completed map on the Sheikah Slate atop Akkala Tower, Castle Town is prominently visible as its destroyed version. Notably, the area directly in front of the Hyrule Castle drawbridge should look more like a U with a line connecting the top, but it looks like a J instead.
-   At the end of the first episode of _Life Is Strange_, both Max and Chloe are surprised when it suddenly starts to snow.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  The other citizens of Arcadia Bay are also confused about this and like Chloe they act like they've seen something for the first time- but the prequel revealed that the same thing already happended in the summer of 2010 while a wildfire threatened to burn Arcadia Bay. While Max had some reasons to not know about this<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  The other characters and primarily Chloe should've remembered this.
-   Between the first and second _Mass Effect_ games, "thermal clips" were invented to replace all guns' original heat sink system. During the same period, mechs became widespread compared to their initial limited numbers. This is an issue when rescuing Jacob's father, who was marooned eight years prior to the first game. Despite being cut off from the galaxy, the planet still has a plentiful supply of thermal clips and mechs.
-   _Metroid_ games since _Metroid: Zero Mission_ have established Samus's Power Suit as something formed and maintained by her will (and being knocked unconscious causes the suit to dematerialize), and not so much a physical set of armor. This causes problems with the chronologically later game, _Metroid Fusion_ — where the plot hinges on the Power Suit being a physical object that remains around Samus whilst she is unconscious, and a parasite can infect her.
-   _Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction_ reveals Ratchet to be the last of the Lombaxes... but in _Going Commando_, Angela Cross is one too. Whoops. Apparently, Word of God has said she's a separate but similar species. Regardless, in the prison in _Tools of Destruction_, they mention "prisoner's of Lombax descent", so Angela could also be half-Lombax. Then it became a Flip-Flop of God: as of _A Crack in Time_, Angela has been confirmed as a Lombax (apparently females don't have tails).
-   _Resident Evil_:
    -   _Resident Evil 3: Nemesis_ states that Raccoon City was completely blocked off from the outside by the military to contain the viral outbreak and supposedly takes place before and after the events of _Resident Evil 2_ (apparently the entire second game took place while Jill was unconscious from the T-Virus infection). In the game, you can see most of the city is a burning wreck, and the entranceway for the RPD is littered with construction equipment while also having two of the main doors inside being barricaded. However, _Resident Evil 2_ shows the front entrance of the RPD being rather clean as if nothing happened on the property. Not only that, but the opening cut scene shows Leon and Claire entering Raccoon City without any blockades barring their way and most of the city looks abandoned rather than an inferno.
-   _Sonic the Hedgehog:_
    -   _Sonic the Fighters_ has eight Chaos Emeralds instead of the series standard of seven, to accommodate for the eight playable characters. This is likely because it was developed by Sega's arcade division, AM2, rather than Sonic Team.
    -   Although the moon was half-obliterated in _Sonic Adventure 2_, it has since been shown intact in subsequent games, as early as _Shadow the Hedgehog_ in fact, only two games later. Word of God is that the moon _is_ still damaged, but all subsequent appearances have been of the opposite, intact side.
    -   Despite the _Sonic Rush_ games establishing them as being from another dimension, _Sonic '06_ and the _Sonic Rivals_ games went on to claim Blaze and Eggman Nega (respectively) came from the future of Sonic's world (Nega, in particular, being Dr. Eggman's descendant as opposed to Eggman's counterpart in the Sol Dimension). Since _'06_ is subject to a Cosmic Retcon, later games revert to Blaze being from another dimension, while Nega is still from the future.
    -   While _Sonic Generations_ makes it abundantly clear that the "classic" incarnations of Sonic, Tails and Dr. Eggman are from the past, _Sonic Forces_ suddenly puts forth that Classic Sonic (who is explicitly the same Sonic from _Sonic Mania_) is from another dimension. Fan speculation is that the "classic" era split into two timelines because of the Time Travel plot of _Generations_ (as opposed to creating a Stable Time Loop), meaning that one timeline leads from _Sonic 3 & Knuckles_ to the "modern" era, and the other leads into _Sonic Mania_ instead.
    -   The Word of God confirmation that "Sonic's World" and Earth are separate worlds leads to confusion with many of the 2000s _Sonic_ games. The first two _Adventure_ games heavily imply that Sonic has always lived amongst humans and that there's nothing unusual about them. _Sonic Battle_ makes it more explicit, as it's clearly shown that the characters live in the human-populated Emerald Town. Gerald Robotnik's journal entries from several decades ago reveal that the Chaos Emeralds and Echidna tribe have existed on Earth for centuries, even though by the logic of earlier games, they should be exclusive to "Sonic's World". The first TailsTube episode addresses the "two worlds" by explaining that animals like Sonic and Tails live on islands, while humans live on larger countries and continents — meaning that it's _literally_ one planet, but _figuratively_ two worlds.
-   _Space Quest_: The WD40 terminoid in _Space Quest V: The Next Mutation_ is sent to collect on the payment Roger Wilco didn't make for the Gippazoid Novelty Company's Labion Terror Beast Mating Whistle after defeating the Arnoid sent to collect payment in _Space Quest III: The Pirates of Pestulon_. In that game, Roger defeated the Arnoid, who demanded payment for the whistle from _Space Quest II: Vohaul's Revenge_. And in that game, examining the order form shows the whistle is for free, which later games never brought up again in-story. The developers admitted it was an oversight, and the Space Quest wiki runs with the idea it's the company's fault for charging for an allegedly free item.
-   _Spyro: Year of the Dragon_ clearly states dragon eggs only occur once every twelve years. In _Spyro: A Hero's Tail_ you must rescue different dragon eggs despite the fact no one seems to have aged much since the third game, and certainly not twelve years. However, _Year of the Dragon_ also flies contrary to _Spyro the Dragon (1998)_, where one had to chase thieves with dragon eggs. While time passed between the games, twelve years seems unlikely.
-   _Street Fighter_:
    -   In _Street Fighter II_, Guile's motive for entering the World Warrior tournament was to get revenge on M. Bison for killing his friend Charlie. In _Street Fighter IV_, he's insistent that Charlie is still alive because (as established in the _Street Fighter Alpha_ prequel series) they Never Found the Body.
    -   The SNES sequel to _Final Fight_, _Final Fight 2_, established that Guy became the Bushin-ryu successor after training under Genryusai. It would be contradicted in _Street Fighter Alpha_ by having Zeku revealed to be Guy's predecessor, even though Genryusai's daughter Maki would show up in later fighting games (specifically _Capcom vs. SNK 2_ and the portable versions of _Street Fighter Alpha 3_). Udon's _World Warrior Encyclopedia_ attempts to reconcile this inconsistency by having Genryusai be Zeku's predecessor.
-   _Ultima_ has a considerable number.
    -   The entire game of _Ultima Underworld_ takes place in a dungeon destroyed several games ago.
    -   In _Ultima IX_, the Tapestry of Ages is supposed to depict the previous _Ultima_ games. It supposedly magically painted itself throughout history as the events unfolded, yet the earlier games have no such tapestry. The visual depictions are not accurate to the details of each story. The tapestry is meant as a reminder that the Avatar visited Britannia on eight occasions, once for each main entry in the series, ignoring how the Avatar was not on Britannia in _Ultima II_ and _Ultima VIII_, and remained on Britannia in other games.
        -   The Tapestry is just the tip of the iceberg — people have written entire dissertations about all the continuity errors in _IX_.
-   _The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt_: _Nobody_ in or out of the game can decide what counts as a higher vampire, with the situation made even worse with the _Blood and Wine_ expansion. Geralt's dialogue outright contradicts itself on separate occasions, the target of a contract _identifies_ themselves as a higher vampire but is permanently killed and drops the essence of katakan (which is a lower vampire according to one of Geralt's lines), the image used in the codex entry of a higher vampire is of a lower vampire, and so forth.

    Web Animation 

-   _Red vs. Blue_: Word of God says Grif was the Army's sole draftee, and his resentment of it drives him to be the world's biggest slacker. However, in the first episode, he says he "signed on to fight some aliens." It's eventually revealed in Season 17 that despite claiming he was drafted, he ensured he'd be picked.

    Webcomics 

-   In _Drowtales_ an update had a conversation play between two characters implying they had never met before that point, despite the characters having been established as close friends early in the series. Fans quickly pointed this out, and the conversation was edited and corrected.
-   _Teahouse_ has a few inconsistencies over the comic:
-   _Wonderlab_:
    -   In Episode 35, My Sweet Home was said to have been shipped off to a different facility, being replaced with the Drowned Sisters. Despite this, it returns in the "A Party Everlasting" arc alongside the other Abnormalities introduced in the series.
    -   During its first proper appearance in Episode 49, the hearts lining the bottom of Distorted Catt's teacup body are drawn upside-down. However, the hearts get drawn right-side-up in every appearance afterward.

    Web Videos 

-   _The Chronicles of Jaller_: Invoked, lampshaded, and Played for Laughs in "Black Piraka Gets Noticed Part 2."
    
    **Penguin the Penguin:** Wait, vasn't there a table zere? And what's zat doing zere?  
    **Axon:** What— Oh! _\[laughs\]_ Yeah, we don't work very hard with continuity here. Those scenes were filmed months ago.
    
-   _Dragon Ball Z Abridged_: In Episode 21, the "Krillin Owned" meter hits 13 when Krillin is unable to look away in time from Burter and Jeice's "Seizure Procedure" technique. It hits 13 again two episodes later when Captain Ginyu-in-Goku slaps Krillin.
-   _Flander's Company_: In the Season 4 finale, there's view of the energy blast that destroyed Damien rising above the atmosphere. Cool shot, except the stream is clearly coming from France, while the last battle is supposed to happen in Pennsylvania, at Reed Richards' manor, as with the beginning of season 4.
-   _The Nostalgia Critic_: In the anniversary special, _To Boldly Flee_, one of the main villains, Turrell, blames the Critic for destroying his home planet in his review of _Battlefield Earth_. Except in that review, a random person offscreen lit a cigarette, which ignited the atmosphere on Turrell's planet, something Turrell himself points out.
-   _SuperMarioLogan_ gives a rather glaring one revolving around Bowser and his mother, specifically their ages. His mother is 200 years old as of "Chef Poo Poo's Kitchen Disaster!", but Bowser himself is confirmed to be 312 as of "Bowser Loses a Tooth!".

___