_"This is the form in which a Kamui is able to unleash the most power! The fact that you are embarrassed by the values of the masses only proves how small you are! If it means fulfilling my ambitions, I will show neither shame nor hesitation, even if I bare my breasts for all the world to see! My actions are utterly pure!"_

A character (usually female) is not embarrassed by their state of undress. The "other half" of the Innocent Fanservice Girl.

The key difference between the two is that while the Innocent Fanservice Girl's lack of a nudity taboo is based on the fact that she never knew of its existence (i.e., she's too innocent to know better), the Shameless Fanservice Girl **does know**, but just doesn't **care.** She ignores nudity taboos by choice and couldn't care less who's disturbed by it.

This is not "the exhibitionism trope" either, but rather "the knowingly unashamed trope". Exhibitionists expose themselves to others for their own self-gratification. In contrast, and akin to the Innocent Fanservice Girl, no matter how other characters and the audience may see it, she just doesn't see it as kinky.

This doesn't necessarily mean she prances around the streets in the nude constantly. Perhaps she's just the type who Sleeps in the Nude, spends all of her private time in her house either without clothing or in just her underwear, or only goes nude when she feels safe doing so, such as at the beach. Perhaps she simply got into a situation where she ends up in a state of undress, but simply does not care enough about modesty for it to affect her. But whatever the reasoning and specifics, the key factor is that she _does_ understand that her state of undress is typically frowned upon by people.

Her amount of consideration for people who are uncomfortable around her nudity can vary. Sometimes she will get dressed just for the sake of her audience. Other times she'll have a "screw you" attitude and not let the disturbed countenance of her audience persuade her to stop being naked if she wants to be, sometimes she will act like The Tease or The Gadfly and enjoy the reactions she gets. It pretty much depends on what kind of person she is.

Satirical or comedic versions frequently have her facing no repercussions at all (much like her innocent sister-trope), or only comedic ones. Sometimes, for extra comedic effect, her nudity will only be noticed by one person whilst being ignored by everyone else for no apparent reason. More serious portrayals will tend towards the discreet: Characters that reject the taboo but otherwise do not make it an issue, or only in semi-private situations where they are within their rights to decide what to wear.

While this trope can overlap with Attention Whores, it is _not_ a subtrope. This does not preclude a rare Attention Whore who is _also_ a Shameless Fanservice Girl, but it is not a requirement.

The polar opposite of Reluctant Fanservice Girl, who is definitely embarrassed and bothered by it.

Needless to say, this does not apply where their state of undress is considered normal to begin with. If someone shows off acceptable amounts of skin regularly, visits bathhouses or hot springs frequently where nudity is to be expected, or uses the beach or other aquatic situations as an opportunity to wear bikinis (but not g-strings et al), that's not this trope.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

-   The five main M&Ms in the "Bare All" campaign.
-   Suzanna Jones in the Mandalay Bay commercial happens to be a fifth-grade teacher and a mother of three who has no problems parading around in a skimpy bikini. She takes her top off at the end of the ad.
-   The young woman doing her laundry in this Miller Genuine Draft commercial, who ends up stripping to her undies and smiles as she removes her bra in front of a man.
-   This commercial for the KGB, (as in the Knowledge Generation Bureau, not the main security agency for the Soviet Union), the female agent, played by a pre-_Scrubs_ Elizabeth Bogush, helps to set up a bet between two arguing men where the loser will have to wear her outfit. The commercial ends with the agent relaxing her body against the bar in her underwear. Her partner offers her a towel, but she simply says "I'm good".
-   Reflecting how skimpy the costumes in Carnival parades can get, for over two decades, between 1993 to 2016, Brazilian channel Globo promoted their coverage of the holiday with a dancer wearing only body paint, even when the first and best-known of the dancers was pregnant (in her first gestation in 2003 she had a more discreet paint, in the second a year later she was recreated through CG). Only in 2017 the "Globeleza" appeared fully clothed.
-   In this “Firm Massage Bar” commercial for Lux, two girls are trying to go through airport security but keep activating the metal detector every time they walk through it. They remove a piece of clothing each time until they’re left in nothing but their bra and panties. In the end, they finally remove their METAL hair pins, and it’s implied that they knew those were activating the metal detector all along, meaning they stripped off their clothes just because they wanted to.

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Ayakashi Triangle_:
    -   Reo is openly lecherous and has a habit of wearing skimpy clothing and getting other girls to join her. She never gets flustered by sexual things like her friends do, even complimenting Suzu as "sly" for being an Accidental Pervert.
    -   Mei, or at least her Enemy Without, doesn't seem to care much at all about being seen naked. When some people walk in on her bathing, she laughs and sarcastically chides them for "peeping" without making any attempt to cover herself up.
-   _Bad Company_: Downplayed with Sakura, the only girl who hangs out with Ryuji and Eikichi's gang. She frequently offers to show them her panties to get them to stop fighting, or to take her along when they go somewhere, but that's as far as she goes (she _offers_ to show them "even more", but doesn't in the story).
-   In _Battle Athletes_ (not to be confused with _Battle Athletes Victory_, the remake) Kris Christopher calmly parades around the room she shares with her teammates completely naked as it's part of her culture/religion. The other girls are not particularly thrilled about this.
-   _Berserk_: Despite the series being fairly open with nudity in general, this trope is relatively sparse given what the average character looks like, and even the most straightforward examples have some aspect that's Played for Horror.
    -   Slan is a Giant Woman whose clothing includes a choker, a corset, and nothing else. She is also an almost literal Sex God, being a member of the God Hand whose domain includes all forms of sexuality. Unfortunately, rape is a VERY prominent practice that she both encourages and practices. Also there's that one time when she created an avatar for herself out of troll intestines.
    -   Casca becomes this after the Eclipse, bathing without any visible shame and running around without clothing. This is, of course, after she's been so badly broken that her mind has collapsed from the stress; her lack of shame comes from an infantile regression as a defense mechanism.
    -   Griffith is a Shameless Fanservice Boy during the Golden Age arc, with his infamous "naked homoerotic waterfight" with Guts. Nudity isn't something he's apparently concerned with, and both men and women find him stunning. Unfortunately, this is a very early bit of foreshadowing regarding his... later actions.
-   In _B Gata H Kei_, Kosuda argues quite regularly with his sister about her tendency to casual nudity at home. She's not so shameless that she'd walk outside in the nude or even around the house if there are guests over, but if it's just her high-school-age baby brother, who cares? (aside from said brother, and anyone walking outside while he yells at her)
-   Vanessa of _Black Clover_ is a limited version. She has no qualms about walking around in just her underwear so long as she's in the comfort of the Black Bulls' hideout. When she's actually going out, she dresses decently.
-   _Bleach_:
    -   Yoruichi Shihouin. At first it was because she spends so much time in cat form that she forgets to wear clothes and just seems to find it more comfortable, but when she revealed her human form to Ichigo for the first time and he protested over her nudity, she found it funny and started doing it just to fluster him. And then there was the time readers learn she actually came up with a way to Flash Step out of her clothes.
    -   Around the time Isshin and Masaki first met, he saw her naked. She just laughed and made fun of him for getting flustered.
    -   Also Rangiku Matsumoto, who is so proud of her sex appeal to the point that she will allow men to get an eyeful of her boobs and manipulate them with her boobs or her skirt.
-   _Brynhildr in the Darkness_:
    -   Kazumi Schlierenzauer qualifies. She has a special reason. She constantly drops her clothes around Ryōta Murakami to try to seduce him.
    -   In an OVA, Kazumi challenges all the girls in Murakami's harem to cook for him in the Naked Apron, confident that she will be the only one not embarrassed. While most get embarrassed and give up, Kazumi is shocked to find that Hatsuna Wakabayashi does not mind and even confidently turns around to show Murakami her butt.
-   Almost every female in _Cross Ange_ goes to this except for the main character at the start. After Ange's character development, she goes from being embarrassed to not caring at all. Even the other characters call her a slut and an exhibitionist.
-   Rebecca in _Cyberpunk: Edgerunners_ has no problem giving a man a handjob in public and snarkily asking David if he enjoyed the show afterward, walks around in her bra, panties, and a half-unzipped hoodie, and has zero qualms answering the door in her underwear.
-   Kurumi from _Date A Live_ behaves like this when she is around Shido and they are both alone.
-   In _Darker than Black_, Brita can teleport, but can't take clothes or any other inorganic materials with her. She doesn't care about this limitation at all and flaunts her body endlessly.
-   _DARLING in the FRANXX_: In episode one, Hiro is actually more concerned about walking in on Zero Two Skinny Dipping than Zero Two herself.
-   Majority of Mamoru Onodera's Battle Harem in _Deadline Summoner_. Out of the ten cute monster girls, they are only three who are dressed in more than a few scraps of fabric. Justified in that they probably don't share the same perception of "decency" as humans.
-   After Nanami gets stripped to a halter and shorts by a magic attack in _Dog Days_, she simply laughs, strikes a pose, and says "Showing this much is okay!" She does have a limit, however, as shown when a later attack leaves her _completely_ naked and she has a Naked Freak-Out.
-   _Don't Meddle with My Daughter!_: Whenever Mei is disguised as Honey, all she wears are her latex mask, elbow-length gloves, and thigh-high stiletto-heeled boots. The rest of her is completely bare and she isn't bothered by anyone seeing her that way.
-   _Don't Toy with Me, Miss Nagatoro_:
    -   The titular protagonist plays with this trope a bit. Nagatoro is very open about using her body to get a rise out of Senpai, but only to a point, as she only lets it go as far as she wants it to, like teasing him about modeling nude and stripping off to reveal she's wearing a School Swimsuit under her uniform. She will get legitimately embarrassed if the fanservice is unintentional, such as the time she calls him while she's taking a bath, only to accidentally activate the video call in her phone and he ends up seeing her (thankfully, the steam and water cover most of her, but still).
    -   The Arts Club President constantly strips and walks around naked, and often has nude portraits of herself made. Despite this, she acts completely stoic and asexual, and she wants to show off her body to inspire art. Her cousin is the same way, though she blushes a little bit.
    -   When Senpai and Shikki get stuck in the same shower stall due to a mix-up, she just showers and says she doesn't care what he sees.
-   Ranfan from _Dragon Ball_ strips down to her underwear to seduce Namu; this is her most powerful tactic to shock male opponents. Unfortunately for her, Namu defeated her fighting with his eyes closed to Ignore the Fanservice.
-   Yuuko of _Dusk Maiden of Amnesia_ is an odd example. She sees no reason for modesty in her ghost form, stripping out of one school uniform to put on another right in front of Teiichi. However, she does get embarrassed when people see her physical body... which is a skeleton by now.
-   Misty in _The Electric Tale of Pikachu_ has no shame in wearing her very revealing swimsuit that's just a bit of robes of clothing to cover the boobs and genitals (Even then the breasts are still mostly shown) and is only slightly embarrassed when Ash stares at her breasts and buttocks. She also states that she wants to get her breasts larger.
-   Mami of _Esper Mami_ is a strange variant — her father's a painter, and she works for him as a nude model. As a result, she has no hang-ups about being nude, especially at home.
-   _Fairy Tail_:
    -   Erza Scarlet mentions in one episode that maybe she should walk around the guild naked and is completely at ease with taking baths with Natsu and Gray. In one hot springs scene when some of the girls are bathing they get chills and think the boys are spying on them<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . Erza's reaction is to _let them in_. The only exception to this is when Jellal sees her naked, which actually causes her to have a Naked Freak-Out.
    -   Natsu seems to be like this too.
        -   When he ends up naked along with his female guildmates in two different contexts (Lucy, Erza, and Wendy at a hot spring, and Lisanna in a prison), he has some rather amusing reactions about the fact that they are in the nude, but he doesn't seem to mind nor think about that they also get to see him naked.
        -   Natsu is pretty much confirmed to be this in chapter 416.5. When he is called in to use his flames to heat the women's bath by Erza he walks in totally naked. Natsu doesn't seem to notice or care that all the girls can see him. Lucy is the one to tell him to get dressed, though his reaction is nothing more than casually noting her presence. Natsu and Erza even scrub each other's naked backs without acting like it's anything sexual.
    -   Lucy Ashley, unlike Lucy Heartfilia, is a bit shameless and offers to let Natsu see her naked.
    -   Jenny Realite loses a bet to Mirajane Strauss during the Grand Magic Games, leading her to be photographed naked for the cover of _Sorcerer Weekly_ magazine. Jenny's profile states that she wasn't quite as embarrassed posing butt-naked for _Weekly Sorcerer_ as she seemed, and it's more likely she was embarrassed Mirajane got one over on her since Jenny was the one who came up with the bet in the first place. She also tries (and fails) to use her sexiness to distract one of the dragons that come through the Eclipse Gate.
-   In _Fate/kaleid liner PRISMA☆ILLYA_, a younger version of Gilgamesh is materialized naked. Illya freaks out and orders him to get dressed, but he says he's not ashamed of his perfect body. He finally puts some clothes on to get her to stop bugging him about it.
-   _Food Wars!_: Satoshi Isshiki's most common outfits are a Naked Apron when he's at the dorm or a Fundoshi while he's plowing the fields. If he gets called out on it, he just laughs it off.
-   _Free!_'s Haruka Nanase doesn't care if he's in public — if there's an opportunity for him to swim, he won't hesitate to strip down to his trunks.
-   _Fuuto P.I._: Tokime uses a public fountain as a makeshift shower and doesn't care if people see her naked.
-   Clair from _Gleipnir_ also qualifies. She doesn't mind at all who gets to see her in underwear or even naked. In the vicinity of Shuichi, in particular, it often shows itself in this way. This behavior, along with her indecent hints, seems to be aimed at making Shuichi interested in her.
-   The _Ghost in the Shell: Stand Alone Complex_ incarnation of Motoko Kusanagi regularly goes around in a windbreaker over a leotard and seems to have no compunctions about sleeping topless in the same bed as a kid she just met. There's a comment in one episode that her cybernetic body started as a consumer model that was popular several years ago (though obviously she's made many modifications under the hood), so there are probably thousands of women in Japan with her exact external body. Also, as she lost her organic body due to a childhood accident, she never went through the normal version of puberty, which also suggests an intent to desexualize her character.
-   Gender-flipped: France from _Hetalia: Axis Powers_ walks around naked when he has the option. Most notably in episode 35 of Axis Powers, (England freaks out upon seeing him and is almost forced to nudity by France), and episode 11 of the Beautiful World (no one cares or even mentions it). Oh God, that episode...
-   Yoshinoya-sensei from _Hidamari Sketch_ she always tells her students that she can model nude if they wanted.
-   Chapter 62 of _Horimiya_ shows that Hori doesn't think twice about getting changed in front of Sengoku, and she even admits that she'd be perfectly comfortable going to the bathroom with him present. With everyone else, she demonstrates an average level of modesty.
-   _Hoshin Engi_: Dakki is proud of her beauty and has no qualms providing fanservice. She actually exploits it on various occasions. She even strikes sexy poses to give a power boost to her Mind Control magic weapon.
-   _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Stone Ocean_: When Jolyne Cujoh is sent to prison, the guards attempt to humiliate her by forcing her to strip and then subjecting her to a cavity search. They are stunned when she doesn't care at all and even starts posing like a model.
-   Neko from _K_ is somewhere between Innocent Fanservice Girl and this - she knows everyone wants her to put on clothes, she doesn't quite understand why, but either way, she's not embarrassed just because everyone else is. She even suggests making her two (male) friends go naked with her, so it won't be weird that she's naked.
-   Downplayed with Momo in _Kaguya-sama: Love Is War_. She doesn't dress provocatively, but her lack of manners means that she often sits in a way that would easily leave her underwear exposed under her uniform. Of course, it's probably less a case of "I don't care if anyone sees", and more "I know no one is stupid enough to look".
-   _Kenichi: The Mightiest Disciple_:
    -   Rachel Stanley has no problem exposing herself more in order to gain more attention.
    -   Shigure Kosaka. She _does_ get pissed when Kensei Ma attempts to peek on her in the bath, but could care less about bathing with Kenichi, and doesn't even bother to lock the door to her room when she changes. However, when she's captured by YAMI and subjected to a Shameful Strip, she blushes and angrily calls them perverts.
-   _Kill la Kill_:
    -   It is Played for Drama, as the price one must pay to wield the full power of a Kamui (a living uniform), apart from feeding it blood, is to appear half-naked while wearing it. Satsuki fully embraces it with neither shame nor hesitation to show her total mastery of its power, while Ryuko must overcome her fear of everyone gawking at her naked body in order to catch up (Shown in the quotes above). For Satsuki, this is greatly aided by her thinking everyone else to be so beneath her that she doesn't even _care_ what they see. Though, in actuality, she just does whatever it takes in order to accomplish her goals. It's also possible that she just doesn't care due to being desensitized from years of sexual abuse at the hands of her mother.
    -   Joining Aikuro on the male side is Uzu Sanageyama, who won't let silly little things like being completely naked get in the way of rejoining the fray.
    -   By the three-quarter mark of the show, especially the ending, the list of shameless fanservice characters extends to _everyone_.
    -   Played for Laughs with Mako. When held upside-down, she complains that she forgot to bring her sexy panties, and that's just the _first episode_. For someone who wears normal clothes, she also tends to show off a lot of Underboobs.
-   _Maken-ki!_: Despite her late introduction, the manga wastes no time establishing Love Espada as having a raging libido and just as eager to please.
    -   Shortly after arriving at Tenbi, she went into the boys' locker room in nothing but a string bikini and high heels in an attempt to seduce Takeru then and there. It took all his willpower to turn her down but he couldn't help staring later.
    -   In chapter 70, she wore a Playboy Bunny costume while making the announcements at the Himekagura Festival. When she noticed how all the guys were staring, she got turned on and started to strip for them. Her friend, Hoshii, kept her from doing it, so Espada did the next best thing: she stuffed the mic down her cleavage and bent over onstage, to give the crowd a clear view of what she had to offer.
    -   Three chapters later, she drew another crowd when she started posing provocatively. When Otohime tells her to stop trying to seduce the boys and focus on their objective, Espada replies that it wasn't just the boys she was after.
-   _Medaka Box_'s title character Medaka Kurokami has no problem changing clothes in front of her childhood friend Zenkichi and wears a Custom Uniform of Sexy that shows off her ample cleavage. When Zenkichi asks if she has any shame, she responds, "What's the point in having a body this toned if I don't show it off?"; later, when a member of the Enforcers complains about the uniform, she says "I'm not showing off my cleavage, I'm covering the rest of my body."
-   Dragons in _Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid_ lack any kind of a nudity taboo since they're all Technically Naked Shapeshifters, though most of them are polite enough to give themselves the appropriate amount of clothing. Lucoa is not one of those dragons, and one of the story's Running Gags is her getting in trouble for wearing things that are a sneeze away from being indecent.
-   In the light novel _Mom, please don't come adventuring with me_, Ryuuji's elven sensei <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , Chiquita Derfflinger, shows herself to be a mild example of this halfway through the manga adaptation's 5th chapter and every one of her appearances afterward.
-   _Monster Musume_:
    -   Miia is very, very intent on showing Kimihito her goods to try and tempt him into actually making a move. Chapter 2 has her gleefully pulling Kimihito into a lingerie shop and taking off her top in front of him, asking his opinion on the bras, and dragging him towards the changing rooms with her. All with a smile on her face.
    -   Centorea is _usually_ a Reluctant Fanservice Girl, but when she got attacked by sea anemones, she seemed to not care that her clothes got ripped completely, though this was mostly because she was enjoying her breasts being touched by the tentacles.
    -   Mero usually dresses in a modest fashion when out in public, but she isn't as innocent or ignorant as she seems; Miia has called her out for constantly going around the house half-naked, as most of the time she's seen in Kimihito's house she is wearing a bikini styled like a maid outfit. Not only that, but she also indulges in the art of risque selfie-taking. And did we mention that she does all this despite being a princess?
    -   Rachnera Arachnera. Not only does she openly try seducing Kimihito when she gets the chance, but she also dresses up _far_ more skimpily than most of the other girls; almost all of her outfits leave her midriff exposed and shows off a good portion of her breasts and hips. And if that's not enough, she Sleeps in the Nude.
    -   Doppel always goes around naked in her humanoid Shapeshifter Default Form, but she doesn't bother getting embarrassed because that's not her real form anyway. When the very end of Ch. 40 shows that she complied with Kimihito's request to put on some clothes, she doesn't seem too happy with it. In fact, she actually gets embarrassed that she has to wear clothes, to the point where she covers herself with her own hair.
-   _My Dress-Up Darling_: Marin Kitagawa is a downplayed example. She loves to tease Gojo and doesn't mind showing off her body in a bikini while he takes her measurements, and while shopping for supplies for her first costume she shamelessly shows him a garter as "reward", even suggesting she'd wear a sexier one if he asked her. However, as she develops feelings for him, she becomes more self-aware and gets more flustered around him.
-   _My Hero Academia_:
    -   Toru Hagakure is happy to show off in a cheerleader outfit, and in fact doesn't mind spending a significant amount of time buck naked in full view of everyone else. Of course, she's invisible but her powers don't affect her clothes, so she has to strip to get the full benefit of her power.
    -   Midnight publicly advertises herself as "R-rated" and has no problem wearing BDSM gear during televised events or in class. In fact, her first hero costume (an open trench coat and belts) was so revealing that a law was passed in response, requiring hero costumes to cover a certain amount of skin (it is this law that Momo ran into difficulties with due to the nature of her Quirk).
-   _My Monster Secret_: Shiho is a self-proclaimed pervert who rarely hesitates to give anybody an eyeful.
-   _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_:
    -   Evangeline has no qualms about being seen nude, and will often tease any male characters around if they do happen to walk in on her. This is generally less than successful given her apparent age. In _UQ Holder!_, she zigzags this trope. As the buxom Yukihime, she has no problems being seen in the nude, but as the childish Evangeline, she's far more bashful about it.
    -   Misa Kakizaki is a lesser example. In an early chapter when Negi is touring the campus and sees the cheerleaders at practice, a couple of them are embarrassed by his staring, while Misa replies "Oh please, like these outfits are designed to discourage staring." She's also among the more sexually aggressive girls (she's the one who came up with the "Reverse Hikaru Genji Plan"), though her lack of story prominence means this is never elevated beyond a background gag. There's also a scene near the end of the series where she nearly exposes her entire chest to seduce "Nagi" (really Negi).
    -   Mizore Yukihiro of _UQ Holder!_ has no problem being televised racing in a skimpy swimsuit that can easily come off. She also mentioned that she would have preferred wearing a Naked Apron when she has to replace it with one of Touta's shirts.
-   _One Piece_:
    -   Nami isn't ashamed to show her body to others as long as they pay her afterwards. (Though it should be noted, she didn't adopt this attitude until _after_ Luffy defeated Arlong, allowing her to replace the Embarrassing Tattoo she had on her shoulder with a tattoo symbolizing her home.) Subverted in "Thriller Bark" as Nami gains a Stalker with a Crush who lusts over her due to seeing her naked while bathing; Nami gets truly pissed, saying her body isn't a piece of meat for a lion-mouthed asshole and electrocutes him.
    -   Franky is a male version, as he absolutely no qualms about wearing nothing but a tropical shirt and underpants inciting many characters to tell him Please Put Some Clothes On. At the end of the Water 7 arc, he loses the underpants too and while initially anxious to get them back, Franky decides he can go without, boldly claiming "you wouldn't ask a Lion to wear underwear" to everyone awe/disgust. Franky has only worn pants twice in the series.
-   _Panty & Stocking with Garterbelt_:
    -   Panty is the biggest one in this instance, being a Lovable Sex Maniac with a lot of men, and doesn't mind getting stripped down in "The Stripping" and "High School Nudical". When her breasts are covered up by crabs in the Beach Episode, she tries to pull them off.
    -   Stocking isn't much better, stripping down in "The Stripping" and "High School Nudical" all the same, but doesn't have sex with as many people. She is a masochist, though.
-   _Planet With_: When Generalissimo asks for Benika's motives for wanting to join the Sealing Faction, he teleports them to a Hot Spring so they can bathe while she shares her story. She immediately understands he's invoking "hadaka no tsukiai" and strips down to comply with no fuss. When she's done telling her story, she also surfaces from the water to leave with no regard Yousuke and Generalissimo can see her, which surprises both.
-   _Queen's Blade_: Elina is openly lesbian for her big sister Leina, and doesn't care who knows it. In "Hide & Seek", she groped her sister in public, just before their semi-final bout at the tournament. She and Leina are also known to habitually Sleeps in the Nude, and unlike her sister, Elina isn't bothered by anyone walking in on her.
-   _The Quintessential Quintuplets_: Ichika, the eldest of the Nakano sisters, sleeps naked, and subconsciously strips when she goes to sleep in pajamas. She hardly seems to mind Fuutarou seeing her naked, and during the fireworks festival, she even offered him to take a peek under her yukata.
-   _Ranma ½_:
    -   Ranma is a bit of a downplayed version of this. He doesn't hate clothes; he just really doesn't care about whether he's naked or not. He's been known to go topless in front of men without batting an eyelid and has used his female form's good looks to tease men into giving him what he wants or needs. It's usually through Akane covering him up with clothes or a towel that he preserves any modesty. We also see him in male form at home in nothing but boxers quite a bit.
    -   Shampoo acts this way when she's trying to seduce Ranma. She simply doesn't have any problem with showing up in his bathroom naked.
-   _Rave Master_: At one point, Julia faces off an especially perverted member of the Six Guard who tries to submit her to Defeat by Modesty by using his powers to blow apart her clothing. Julia's response is to _rip off_ the remains of her own bra to prove the point that modesty will not defeat her. She then proceeds to kick his ass with no regard to her nudity.
-   Princess Hathor Nefert in _Red River_ who walks around topless like it's nothing much to the shock of the Hitite ladies and Yuri. Kinda justified: she's from the VERY hot Egypt, so she's used to taking off her top to be more comfortable when it's too sunny for her taste.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   Alice of _R.O.D the TV_ suddenly and nonchalantly strips naked to avoid getting her clothes wet, much to Drake's dismay.
-   Chocolate Misu in _Sorcerer Hunters_, much to the chagrin of her more conservative younger sister and the object of her desires.
-   Blair, the shapeshifting cat from _Soul Eater_. Soon after Soul trashed her place and ate one of her souls (by mistake), she started living in his and Maka's place, and she's been a perpetual tease ever since: not afraid to crawl up to a snoozing Soul in the nude or to "accidentally" drop the towel she was wearing in front of the entire gang when they first come over. She also works nights at the cabaret frequented by Maka's father.
-   Reiko from _Super Cub_ isn't shy to appear in front of her friends in just her panties (episode 11) or completely naked (episode 12) after coming out of a bath, much to the shock of Shii and the disgust of Koguma.
-   Yuusaku in _Toradora!_. One episode featured him nonchalantly walking into a room, in full view of the three main girls, with nothing covering him except a handtowel. He excuses himself saying he didn't know there were women in the room, but couldn't be less ashamed.
-   _To Love Ru_:
    -   Momo Belia Deviluke. She is more than willing to step into the bathtub with Rito, wake him up straddling him half-dressed, etc.
    -   Mea doesn't show any kind of embarrassment or shame, not even when her clothes got ripped off. She instead prefers to get caught in awkward and/or sexual experiences, showing a sadomasochistic side.
-   Main character Andy in _Undead Unluck_ doesn't give a damn about the fact his usual dismemberment based combat style leaves him completely exposed under normal circumstances or how uncomfortable this makes Fuuko and everyone around him. Fuuko theorizes that Andy at some point in his long existence Andy started getting less particular about any sort of nudity taboo. In a case of Dramatic Irony, his past self (who did still have a nudity taboo at that point of his life) when told his future self walks around half-naked insists he would never do that.
-   _Vermeil in Gold_:
    -   Magic academy student Alto Goldfield is practicing summoning magic in his dorm room. Since he's using an heirloom spellbook, he succeeds in summoning an A-tier succubus named Vermeil. She appears completely naked, swishes a spaded tail, and can't wait to plant her lips on Alto. She becomes his academy familiar, and wears clothes only on command, though she exacts a price for this: she gets to suck some mana out of Alto.
    -   Elena and Chris say they don't care about being seen undressed and tease their friend Jessica for getting embarrassed when Alto accidentally walks in on the three of them changing clothes.
-   Mio in _Waiting in the Summer_ is a deconstruction of this trope — having been raised as a nudist her whole life she was never raised with a nudity taboo. However, instead of having the standard effect on her personality, it actually causes her a lot of self-confidence problems — she's convinced that she's a weirdo in comparison to everyone else. She still doesn't wear clothing around the house, can't sleep with clothes on (even in group situations), and can't remember to wear underwear, but altogether she's _humiliated_ by the fact that she's a "weird nudist" more than anything else. Ironically, or perhaps part of the deconstruction, she wears fairly conservative outfits for the most part (even going so far as to wear a hooded sweatshirt to the pool) and is the first anime and manga character on this list to actually call themselves a nudist, instead of just randomly deciding not to wear clothes when fanservice calls for it.
-   Ryuuko Kounuma from _Wolf Guy - Wolfen Crest_. Not only doesn't seem to mind being nude in front of Inugami but also not so much about masturbating in his proximity.

    Comic Books 

-   In _All-Star Batman & Robin, the Boy Wonder_ #6, Jimmy Olsen visits Vicki Vale in the hospital who's eager to leave. She asks him to fetch her clothes for her and then begins to remove her hospital gown right there in front of him so she can change. The reader is repeatedly informed by the narration boxes that Jimmy doesn't stare, but he is clearly shown turning his head near the bottom of the page.
-   In an issue of _Batman and the Outsiders_, Cassandra Cain moves in with Grace and Anissa, and gets a glass of orange juice while completely naked, simply because she doesn't bother. Grace remarks "I didn't know the Bat-crowd was clothing-optional," while Anissa observes "she has so many scars..."
-   In the graphic novel _Bikini Cowboy_, Whisky Jill has no qualms with bathing topless in front of young Rod McCloud.
-   On the cover of one issue of _Billy_, which is the R-rated Norwegian variation of _Beetle Bailey_, Miss Buxley's topless at the beach.
-   In the _Den_ series, any woman coming from Earth to Neverwhere typically becomes this: buck naked, buxom, and happy to be that way in a Sword and Sorcery world with National Geographic Nudity.
-   Magical Native American Rainmaker of _Gen¹³_, is very proud of her body and has no problem showing it off. She also knows exactly what kind of reaction her nakedness tends to inflict on others, and sometimes acts like The Tease just for get a rise out of people. But this is played with later with her two male teammates, as she still doesn't enjoy being the target of Grunge's perversion and becomes uncomfortable when seen naked by Bobby once his attraction to her becomes more serious.
-   Harley Quinn doesn't seem to care who sees her naked or how comfortable they are with it.
-   During one Huntress storyline in _Wonder Woman vol 1_, after having escaped Arkham Asylum, Helena succumbs to the effects of being shot with a very potent hallucinogenic. After a Journey to the Center of the Mind, she wakes up in the flat of her fellow inmate she escaped the Asylum with, Gary Minelli, who undressed her and nursed her back to health. She's distraught by it, but not by the fact he saw her naked body, but her naked _face_ as it compromises her Secret Identity.
-   In issue four of the 2022 _I Hate Fairyland_ series, Gertrude (who is now an adult instead of being an adult's mind trapped in a child's body) goes skinny dipping and isn't shown to care much about her companions Rotwald and Virgil seeing her naked. It gets to the point that when Virgil tries to point out her missing clothes at the end of the issue, Gertrude is more concerned with how her bathtime was interrupted by being eaten alive by a sea monster before her uncleanliness caused the creature to die.
-   The title character in _Lady S_ has absolutely no problem escaping a house in her underwear. She once had to climb a roof and removed her dress because it wasn't practical, rather than tearing it.
-   _The Punisher_: Rosalie Carbone's meetings with subordinates, competitors, and hired assassins sometimes take place place while she's wearing a bikini, her underwear, or a towel, and she doesn't seem to care, although she does have her men look the other way when they come in with news while she's completely naked in the bathtub.
-   Reka in _The Secret History_ is frequently naked and knows exactly what effect she has on men.
-   Catman from _Secret Six_ is a Rare Male Example, since he frequently winds up naked and knows why it makes people uncomfortable, he simply doesn't give a shit, which ties into his semi-feral personality.

-   _Superlópez_: Actress Valerie Astro from _La gran superproducción_. Apparently, she gets typecast in roles that require her to show her body and she's grown used to it, to the point that she actually finds having to act dressed insulting.
-   Every female character in _Tarot: Witch of the Black Rose_, except when they're yet again being subjected to a Shameful Strip by an enemy, turning them into a Reluctant Fanservice Girl.
-   Starfire is like this in the original _Teen Titans_ comics. In the 2011 reboot, she's more of a Ms. Fanservice with an extreme dosage of Ethical Slut.
    -   Also Rose Wilson from the 2003 run. She has no problem undressing in front of Kid Devil to go skinny dipping or to crawl into Tim Drake's bed naked. Justified, as she grew up in a brothel and, as such, has been exposed to casual nudity for most of her life at that point.
-   _Vampirella_: While she's sometimes depicted as not being aware of human conventions, being an alien from a planet of vampires, Vampirella is usually shown to be fully aware of how her costume is perceived by those around her. She doesn't care since it allows her to use her sexuality as a weapon.
-   _Wonder Woman_: In Vol 2, Vol 4 & Vol 5 Aphrodite likes to strut around and lay around completely naked, sometimes donning a sheer strip of gauzy pink that covers nothing, and flirt with every passerby.
-   _X-Men_: Emma Frost uses her sexuality and good looks as a tool and status symbol. Her costumes are deliberately Stripperiffic and she scoffs at anyone who questions them.
-   _Xanadu_: Empress Alicia thinks nothing of conducting court business in her bathing chamber stark naked with various personnel in attendance, especially considering she's had many of them in her bed as lovers to begin with.
-   In _X-Factor (2006)_, Rahne "Wolfsbane" Sinclair says she lost her body modesty since her Shapeshifting Excludes Clothing and often destroys her clothes, so she eventually just got used to being seen naked. But she's still disturbed when she's left naked after a fight and notices Shatterstar (her ex-boyfriend's _boyfriend_) Eating the Eye Candy. He explains that it's because he's never seen a _pregnant_ woman naked. She ends up flashing him more just to sate his curiosity.

    Comic Strips 

-   It would be easier to list the times Lynne, of _George and Lynne_, is fully dressed rather than the times when she isn't.
-   _Jucika_ the "big-breasted beauty" from the vintage Hungarian magazine _Ludas Matyi_ goes back and forth between being this and an Innocent Fanservice Girl, undressing at every chance (often in public places) and using her physical qualities to her advantage. Given the Communist regime at the time, these strips were considered risqué even in a satirical, mostly adult-targeted magazine.

    Fan Works 

-   _Bait and Switch (STO)_: We see a few times that Kanril Eleya prefers to sleep in the nude, which usually isn't sexualized. When Franklin Drake complains about it in _Didn't Expect That_ (after breaking into her quarters while she's sleeping to talk to her, as Section 31 agents are wont to do), she retorts, "I happen to _like_ having nothing but my man with me in bed, not that it's any of your business, _ye'phekk maktal kosst amojan_."
-   In _Child of the Storm_, Betsy Braddock seems to have an element of this, since she's perfectly happy to drop her clothes in front of Peter Wisdom— the first time to test him, since she couldn't get a psychic read on him (his reaction was largely boredom), the second time to annoy him (which succeeded). She's also an Ethical Slut, Fandral admiringly referring to her as a "woman of the world" after having an amazing one afternoon stand with her that left him in a daze.
-   In _Crush_, Superman offhandedly mentions that all Kryptonians (at least those with superpowers) think nothing of being seen naked or seeing others naked because if they don't concentrate, their eyes shift through the various spectra. As a result, they see everyone naked several times a day, including each other.
-   In the _Doctor in the Underworld_ series, the Doctor expresses concern about doing anything with Erika before she regains her memories of her life as Reinette and her memories of him. However, despite being touched at his nobility, Erika quickly draws his attention by kissing him in the garage that's serving as their current refuge from the sunlight, and the Doctor abandons most of his doubts after she takes her top off.
-   In the _Fairy Tail_ and _One Piece_ crossover _The Dragon That Will Pierce the Heavens_, Hikari does not care at all about modesty in the midst of a life-or-death situation, which is helpful considering all of the Clothing Damage she suffers. This is shown as early as the Buggy Arc, where she tore off her own shirt to bandage Zoro's wound, despite his protests.
-   _Ignited Spark_ has several examples:
    -   According to Setsuna, the reason for costume to be skintight is because she is sexy, and wants to look sexy.
    -   Himiko has the bad habit of showing off at Recovery Girl's office in the most scandalous Hospital Hottie outfits. Ochako describes the outfit she is wearing when they meet as something Midnight would wear if she worked on a hospital.
    -   Nejire has zero problems with Izuku or anybody else staring at her ass whether in her hero costume or while she is wearing a bikini.
    -   Camie is rather proud of making anyone who stares at her formfitting Spy Catsuit blush.
-   Nii Yugito in _Kitsune no Ken: Fist of the Fox_ has no qualms about showing off her nudity; in fact, when Hinata walks into her hotel suite and finds Yugito bathing in an artificial waterfall on the balcony, Yugito's only response is to ask, with an amused smirk, whether Hinata liked the view. Yugito later admits to Itachi that she deliberately let Hinata see her in that position, to shock the prim-and-proper younger woman.
-   In _A Minor Miscalculation_, Ryuko undergoes the shift from Reluctant Fanservice Girl to this during a six-month Time Skip. With no more inhibitions about being exposed, she rarely sees a problem with showering or changing in front of people, though she acknowledges times when it logically might be inappropriate.
-   _The Naked Jedi_: As Sarza explains succinctly to Kael when he tries to loan her his robe, not wearing clothes is part of the Nue Jedi philosophy. Sarza feels no qualms about being naked, even among crowds of complete strangers, and actually rather enjoys the lustful feelings her nudity inspires.
-   In _New Arrivals_, Sally Acorn welcomes Amy Rose, Cream and Vanilla as new residents to the village. Amy is soon amazed that Sally is naked, and the squirrel explains that she is more comfortable that way, and clothing is optional in the village. Amy enthuses and immediately removes her own clothes, asking rhetorically, "What do you think of this, town council?!". <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Shortly after, Cream and Vanilla also accept the idea and are practically naked.
-   In _Off the Line_ while Rainstorm admits he still hates his Stripperiffic armor that he's cursed to wear, he is no longer bothered by it anymore and no longer cares if he's half-naked around people.
-   _One Punch Man: Hero's Harem_:
    -   Beast Queen exercises topless and bathes nude under the spray of a fire hydrant. When questioned about it, she explains that being covered in fur makes exercise hot enough without wearing clothes on top of it and she's too large to fit in the apartment's shower.
    -   Zigagged with Deep Sea Queen (Deep Sea King's sister) who has no problem going around in pasties and a bikini bottom but is embarrassed that her wanted poster is of her One-Winged Angel form which is completely topless.
-   Jennifer Black in _Princess of the Blacks_ doesn't remotely care who sees her naked; only logical given that she's a former child prostitute. Cedric Diggory notes that as the prefect bathroom is communal bathing, new prefects generally wear Modesty Towels into the bath but eventually stop bothering. Jen walks in the nude without a care in the world.
-   _The Secret Return of Alex Mack_: Azure Crush's Heel–Face Turn begins when Hustler magazine pays her five million dollars to appear nude, more than she previously expected to earn in a lifetime. She's still getting used to the idea of her newly superpowered body being attractive to anyone but doesn't particularly care who sees it. Terawatt doesn't approve and certainly doesn't intend to follow suit but is glad to see that with that money in the bank and people fawning over her, she's no longer stressed out and bent on revenge.
-   In _Emergence_, after they find Yang, Sam hands her some clothes to replace her tattered and filthy ones. She changes right in front of them. He gets scared and shields his eyes, thinking she'll beat him up, but Ruby explains that Yang doesn't care what anybody sees.
-   In _Teal'c's Wish_, after Willow vanishes all of SG1's clothing, only Vala and Teal'c aren't bothered. Vala poses and tells the guards to "enjoy the free show" whereas Teal'c simply doesn't care.
-   All of Team 7 reach this point in _Team 7's Ascension: Blood Wings_ out of sheer necessity, such as needing some way to stay reasonably clean in an area where the only source of water is Naruto's jutsu. After a few weeks, they think nothing of showering together to save time.
-   In _White_, most Hollows don't react much to their nudity upon transforming into Arrancars, largely due to having spent decades if not centuries without having any sex drive or even genitals.
-   In _Wild Arms: The Dee Legacy_, Anne Hardin simply has more important concerns than modesty, bathing and changing whenever she needs to, although she has a good deal of awareness when someone is paying more attention when necessary.
-   _Into the Brighter Night_: When Young Justice reunites after rescuing Tim Drake and Anita Fite is given the opportunity to act as Empress again she quickly strips out of her street clothes to change in a room full of people, and her teammates' attempts to shame her for it are entirely ineffective.
-   _Rocketship Voyager_. While Chakotay is walking through a berthing compartment, Seska steps out of the refresher stark naked. She's entirely casual about this because there's little room for privacy on a spaceship and they've had a previous relationship.
-   _Vow of Nudity_: Averted with Haara despite her constantly walking around naked, as she knows the spell _disguise self_ and always casts it prior to interacting with civilized people, knowing they're likely to be uncomfortable with nudity. Played straight with several of the guest party members that share an adventure with her, including Walburt the barbarian and Fiora the forest witch.
-   _Vow of the King_:
    -   Yoruichi thinks nothing of lounging around naked.
    -   Candice taunts Ichigo with her naked body at one point in Soul Society.
    -   By the end of her fight with Ichigo, Unohana is stated to be completely nude due to the damage she's taken. Even afterwards when the fighting's over, she spends some time healing others before bothering to get dressed.
-   Daia from the Game Mod _Ridgeside Village_, she openly flirts with and teases the player character, and her dialogue is full of innuendos; on her 6 heart event she is shown walking around in her underwear and openly says that she has no qualms doing so.
-   _We Must Be Killers_: Callista, the most voluptuous District 2 Victor, is often noted as wearing something like a short evening gown, low cut sweater or (during one particularly hot Christmas season) nothing but ribbons and relishes the stir it causes.

    Films — Animation 

-   _Belladonna of Sadness_: After having sex with the devil and becoming a Hot Witch, Jeanne is pretty much done with clothing as a thing.
-   _Beowulf_: Beowulf shows no hesitation about stripping in front of Queen Wealtheow.
-   The mermaids in Disney's 1953 adaptation of _Peter Pan_ and its sequel. The Seashell Bra and Godiva Hair are all they sport as wardrobes.
-   Asuka becomes this by the last _Rebuild of Evangelion_ movie: she's indifferent when Shinji walks in on her naked, nor by the arrival of her Parental Substitute, Kensuke. Compare her reaction to Shinji seeing her in the second film. Afterwards, she spends a good portion of the movie in nothing but panties and an open jacket. Unlike many examples, this doesn't imply promiscuity or confidence so much as being too jaded to care.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _Avalanche Sharks_:
    -   Jenna tosses off her vest at the ski resort and spends a while walking around with just a bikini top.
        
        **Jenna:** Everything goes.
        
    -   Becca just wears some swimwear for the car ride to the resort, explicitly telling Lacy she's doing this just for Randy's benefit.
        
        **Becca:** I said he can't touch me, to that he can't lust over me.
        
-   _Bring It On_ has a One-Scene Wonder girl trying out for the cheerleading squad by giving a sexy performance to _Cherry Pie_ by Warrant. Male cheerleader Jan loves it so much he falls out of his chair.
-   In the French softcore film _Burning Snow_, shapely blonde Lorna performs an impromptu striptease at an Alpine ski resort's restaurant; it gets all the other patrons so hot and bothered that an orgy ensues.
-   In _Crystal Fairy & the Magical Cactus_, Crystal leaves the shower naked and parades in front of her four male roommates until they tell her she's making them uncomfortable.
-   In _Date Movie_, the film features Andy. Andy is the jealous ex-fiancé of Grant. She broke it off a week prior as she didn't want to be tied down. Despite this, she clearly decides to act sexy and seductive around him anyway. When we're first introduced to her, she dives into a pool and comes out in a Sexy Surfacing Shot, with a very revealing gold bikini. She also seductively eats a banana, seductively chews on corn, squirts milk on herself, uses a jackhammer to cause her boobs to jiggle, jumps high to get the same effect, and sexily showers. This is followed up with her suddenly washing a car in an even more revealing outfit, showing her ass off on full display, soaking the car and herself with a soaked sponge, and sexily eating a hamburger, which already was pretty shameless... and then she completely strips naked in front of Grant and Julia. It's revealed later it's simply because she wants to get back with Grant, but Grant does end up deciding to stay with Julia.
-   In _Diamonds Are Forever_, Tiffany Case lampshades this in her first scene, saying she doesn't bother to dress for the hired help.
-   Lou in _Doc Hollywood_, who first meets Ben when she's Skinny Dipping in a lake and he's asleep next to it, wrapped in her towel. He wakes up to see her walking naked out of the lake towards him, wringing out her hair.
    
    **Lou:** _\[stops in front of him\]_ Hello.  
    **Ben:** Uh... hi. Good morning. _\[embarrassed laugh; she stands there looking at him patiently\]_  
    **Lou:** Is somethin' wrong?  
    **Ben:** Uh, no. No. _\[by way of explaining\]_ I'm a doctor.  
    **Lou:** Yeah, I know who you are.  
    _\[after a long moment he gives a start and hands Lou her towel; she ignores it and starts putting on her shirt\]_  
    **Ben:** Hey, you want this?  
    **Lou:** If you're a doctor I ain't got nothin' you haven't seen before. _\[walks away\]_
    
-   _Epic Movie_ has a parody of the film version of Mystique, who similarly does not care remotely about being completely naked in public; no nipples or private areas are visible, but still. She completely knows this and uses this to both get Logan as her boyfriend and eventually seduce Peter into having sex with her after she finds out he's gonna be the King of Gnarnia. She also does a seductive dance while naked, in a public school, but this turns out to just be a fantasy of Peter.
-   Olivia Pierce in _Final Destination 5_ is introduced wearing a skimpy crop top, short shorts, fishnets, and glasses, and nonchalantly strips down to a lacy black bra in front of her co-workers when changing into something more appropriate for the office retreat.
-   _Friday the 13th (1980)_: The late Brenda Jones suggested that she, Bill, and Alice play strip Monopoly. Brenda was down to her bra and panties when she remembered that she left her cabin windows open during a storm and she didn't get dressed.
-   _The Garden of the Finzi-Continis_: When Micol catches Giorgio peeping at her through a window, she deliberately exposes her breasts.
-   In the Skinemax softcore movie _Girl for Girl_, Sara lies out on a rubber raft naked in a swimming pool and she also wears just her panties and an unbuttoned shirt while talking to a guy in the kitchen and putting food in the refrigerator.

-   _Happy Death Day_: In one "Groundhog Day" Loop, Tree confidently struts naked around campus, enjoying the appreciative stares she gets.
-   Delores Purdy in _In the Heat of the Night_ has a routine of parading around her kitchen in the nude to get her kicks.
-   _The House Bunny_: After showering, Shelley walks around the house in the buff so she can "air dry", which freaks out her new housemates, but she tells them she's not afraid of showing the body "God and Dr. Borkman" gave her.
-   In _How to Beat the High Cost of Living_, Elaine performs an impromptu striptease at a shopping mall to distract the crowd and security from the ongoing heist.
-   _The Hunger Games: Catching Fire_: Johanna Mason strips off her skin-tight ensemble until she's naked to the toes, right in front of Haymitch, Peeta, and Katniss inside of a moving elevator without so much as a fumble. She then proceeds to stand there with a smug look, facing the trio as the elevator makes its way to her floor.
-   In 1915 film _Hypocrites_ the character of the Naked Truth is portrayed by a nude actress. The Naked Truth, being a supernatural entity that is visiting mortals to show them their hypocrisies, is pretty unconcerned about being naked.
-   _Lara Croft: Tomb Raider_:
    -   Lara is made out to be something of this. She is offered a dress by her butler Hillary as she steps out of the shower saying he wants to turn her into a lady; she mutely refuses his offer by tossing the Modesty Towel she has wrapped around her aside in indignation. She walks nude past him towards her dresser, giving us a moment of Toplessness from the Back and Sideboob.
        
        **Hillary:** And a lady should be _modest_.  
        **Lara:** Yes, a lady _should_ be modest.
        
    -   For a male variant, Alex makes no effort to cover himself when caught naked by Lara when she breaks into his home while he was showering.
-   Ashely in _Lizzie Borden's Revenge_. The sorority's Hard-Drinking Party Girl, she arrives at the slumber wearing nothing but a pair of black lace panties—claiming that this is what she sleeps in— and is peeved when Amanda forces her to go and get dressed. She only barely complies with this demand; putting on an extremely abbreviated crop top. Later she all but demands that someone dare her to make out with another, and seems turned on at the thought of putting on a show for the others in doing so.
-   _The Malibu Bikini Shop_: During the Tan Lines/bikini contest, Margie Hill says that she doesn't have any tan lines because she likes to tan "au naturel," and removes her bikini top to flash her breasts. Some tourists see her and a woman screams, leading to police getting involved. Two police officers use their caps to cover Margie's breasts.
-   _Mama Turns 100_: The family has found some old trunks filled with clothes. Gorgeous Natalia discovers a see-through mesh top. She strips off from the waist up to put the lingerie on, which no one notices. But when her mother Luchy does notice Natalia in the mesh top and yells at her, Natalia angrily whips it off, leaving her topless in front of the whole family and making Luchy yell at her even more.
-   The Girl in the Ferrari in _National Lampoon's Vacation_, a Head-Turning Beauty who is not ashamed of looking good to the point she makes Clark distracted or uncomfortable.
-   _A New York Christmas Wedding_: Gabby is this, at least from Jenni and the audience's point of view. In Gabby's timeline, she and Jenni are engaged and have been living together for years, so she doesn't mind being naked or barely dressed around her. Jenni, on the other hand, is from a time when she may never have actually yet seen her undressed in any form, so it is somewhat shocking to her.
-   Delly from _Night Moves_ shows little restraint in whipping her clothes off in front of much older men; it's suggested that her mother inspires such behavior.
-   Ulla from _The Producers_ auditions with a song she wrote herself: "When You've Got It, Flaunt It". And she's got it.
    
    _Clothes may make the man / All a girl needs is a tan / When you've got it, let it hang out!_
    
-   The late Wendy Richards in _Prom Night (1980)_.
-   Trash from _The Return of the Living Dead_ likes hanging out at graveyards naked, and the idea of asking anybody for something to wear does not occur to her for the rest of the movie. She does grab someone's vest when the Trioxin-tainted rain starts to fall, but in that case, her concern is protection instead of modesty. She never does find any pants.
-   _Room in Rome_: Alba couldn't care less that a stranger (Max) sees her naked, in stark contrast with Natasha who's far more shy and hesitant about being nude with her even privately.
-   _Sherlock Holmes (2009)_: Irene Adler invites Sherlock into her room while only wearing a Modesty Towel and doesn't hesitate to drop it in front of him to get dressed.
-   _The Spirit_: When Spirit tells a towel-clad Sand to put her hands behind her head, she coyly complies, causing her towel to slip off her body. She stands there flaunting her nudity to the flustered Spirit, who is quick to turn around and demand her to Please Put Some Clothes On.
-   _Ultraviolet (2006)_: Violet isn't too bothered to take off all her clothes to go through the ultraviolet Decontamination Chamber. In the Novelization she notes the entire world lost its modesty due to constant medical checks the government forces on the populace. She still notices with some slight amusement, that some of the doctors _do_ give her body some appreciative looks.
-   In the first _Underworld_ movie, there is a very subtle suggestion that Selene may have Shameless Fanservice Girl tendencies, at least during her offscreen, non-Lycan-hunting hours. The vampire boss Kraven orders pretty blonde vampire Erika, to get Selene dressed and ready for the party tonight. Shortly thereafter, Erika enters Selene’s room to bring her the party dress she selected. Erika says, “Oh yes. You should wear this one. It’s perfect.” ...And holds up a completely see-through black dress. The suggestion being, that either Selene would have no qualms about wearing a nearly nude transparent gown – or at least – Erika would like to see Selene wear it.
-   A defining example of this trope in film is the nude biker (Gilda Texter) in _Vanishing Point_ (1971).
-   _Venus Beauty Institute_: Mme. Buisse, the very sexy woman who comes to the beauty salon to use the tanning booth. One time she comes out of the changing room naked because there aren't any robes, and is completely unconcerned when a whole crowd of men instantly gathers outside the window to stare. Later, she comes out of the tanning room naked to complain about the bulb burning out, and is again indifferent when Antoine is there and stares in astonishment. (She's addressed as "Madame Buisse" in dialogue but the actress is credited as "Exhibitionist client.")
-   Male variant in _Welcome to Mooseport_. Harv the middle-aged jogger is constantly seen jogging completely naked (save for socks and tennis shoes) and everybody seems pretty fine with it. Several full rear views of Harv are shown as he jogs down the town street—his butt is the _first thing seen in the film_. In several other shots, a large banner blocks a frontal view of him.
    
    **Handy**: New socks, Harv?  
    **Harv**: Yeah.  
    **Handy**: Yeah, I like 'em, they go well with...each other.  
    **Harv**: Thanks.
    
-   Mystique from the _X-Men Film Series_ does not give a damn about the implications of being naked all the time. It helps that her privates are naturally covered by blue scales and she probably doesn't feel the cold. It also helps that she can shapeshift the appearance of clothes onto herself when impersonating others, so actual clothing would be an impediment. The actress playing Mystique, Rebecca Romijn, wasn't wearing much more than blue paint and prosthetic appliques but she said she didn't feel at all naked - though she admitted she sure _looked_ naked. The funny thing is, Jennifer Lawrence, who plays the younger Mystique, has said the opposite, that she feels very uncomfortable playing Mystique, as she does feel naked on-set with everyone seeing everything.

    Literature 

-   _The Asterisk War_: Claudia Enfield seems to actively enjoy showing off her body, especially to Ayato (who usually tries to avoid thinking about it and exit quickly). Saya Sasamiya, on the other hand, is the resident Rei Ayanami Expy and appears not to care (she once answers a knock on a locker room door butt-ass-nekkid in the anime; in the novel, she has a towel on).
-   _Campione!_: Erica Blandelli shows absolutely no qualms sleeping naked next to Godou, much to the latter's horror every morning. It's ironic considering that when they first met, Erica was against perverted antics and gets embarrassed and angered when Godou saw her in her underwear.
-   Olga Poddelka from _Cat Girls Have Four Ears_ meets Detective Burroughs as she's about to sunbathe in the nude. She seems to enjoy the experience a bit too much. Cardoso's nude waitresses are selected based on their casual shamelessness, some are even aggressively lewd.
-   The Alphas in _The Dresden Files_ quickly lose their nudity taboos, since they operate in groups and their Shapeshifting Excludes Clothing. Harry, however, finds it a bit distracting — not least because they're all quite a bit better built than he at the time.
-   Louise from _The Familiar of Zero_ has no problem changing in front of Saito at first, because she considers him to be merely a servant. A few episodes later she hides in a closet to change, showing that she thinks of him differently.
-   In one scene of _Fate/Apocrypha_ Astolfo has no trouble with somebody seeing him walk out of the shower with a towel... resting on his shoulders. He later laughs about it with another character while they walk around town.
-   In _Fate/Zero_, when Gilgamesh's clothes are destroyed, he gets up and walks around, not even bothering to cover himself.
-   In Pierre Bottero's Gwendalavir Universe, such characters are quite prominent. Whether if it was the Author's own appeal or if he personally wanted to make a point about body image is up to debate.
    -   Ellana from _Ewilan's Quest_ has no qualms about showing her body, although being a Marchombre ("Shadow Walker", but read "Leather-clad Ninja") with a thinly musculated, nigh-perfect body likely helps a little. It is explained in her dedicated Prequel trilogy that she got this from her Master Jilano. When he teaches her how to swim, he removes all of his clothes, much to teenage Ellana's embarrassment. Amused, he reassures her: He takes no pleasure in exhibiting but isn't ashamed of his body. Again, Marchombre, perfect dancer-acrobat-like finely-muscled body, etc. Ellana quickly doesn't care anymore.
    -   Salim starts with a usual Europe-standards nudity taboo. Then he learns how to turn into a wolf, but it makes his clothes completely vanish every time. He gets some times as Reluctant Fanservice Guy, but Ellana's influence eventually helps him get rid of this. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   Several bathing scenes also occur in the two first trilogies.
    -   Nawel, from _The Crossed Souls_, joins the Armours' Cast, who are the Elite warriors who protect the City from serious threats. They all live together in a Spartan Style and use common baths and showers. A few chapters hint at how Nawel gradually loses her prudery, to the point that upon putting her armour on for the first time, she doesn't really care anymore about unclothing fully in the middle of the Armour's Casern, in front of her mentor and her childhood friend. Once again, it's clearly stated that she likes the body she's obtained through training, and although Nawel never got to know Ellana, one of her teachers was both a Cool Old Lady and a Lovable Sex Maniac.
-   _Haruhi Suzumiya_: The titular Haruhi Suzumiya doesn't have a problem with changing in public because she doesn't care about anyone else or what they think; in Kyon's narration, he surmises that she doesn't mind undressing in front of boys before gym class because she mentally compares them to potatoes. A major sign of her growing relationship with Kyon is that she _does_ begin to care if he's watching and violently throws him out of the room.
-   In _High School D×D_, Rias is this in spades. Rias does show concern about exposure on a few occasions when nudity is forced on her, but if she wants to be naked, she'll be naked. The other major girls in Issei's harem are on the border in this area, hovering between the sort of Innocent Fanservice Girl who doesn't realize there's a problem with getting naked in a particular situation and the Shameless Fanservice Girl who fully comprehends what she's doing but does it anyway to achieve her goals. Kuroka in particular enjoys exposing herself to Issei and is upfront about wanting to mate with him. Xenovia meanwhile is a mixture of this trope and Innocent Fanservice Girl, being adamant as well about wanting to bear children with Iseei, albeit not fully realizing how perverted that sounds.
-   _The Hunger Games_: Johanna Mason, usually combined with Naked People Are Funny, playing on the awkwardness or absurdity of the situation.
-   _Independence Day_: Frank the realtor is showing the Markhams a house. Frank sees a neighbor, "a young mom, in blue jeans cut off mid-thigh", and a shirt "cinched in a Marilyn Monroe knot just below her breasts." If that's not obvious enough, a little bit later Frank sees the neighbor inside her home, walking across her front picture window totally in the nude, "a big protuberant pair of white breasts leading the way." Joe Markham, preoccupied by his dissatisfaction with the house, misses this completely.
-   _KonoSuba_: Aqua is one, considering it's heavily implied that she doesn't wear underwear under her short skirt, loves to show off herself whenever she gets the chance, and gets offended if nobody is gazing at her beauty. Being an attention-seeking goddess in a world where looks can lure in followers, it makes sense.
-   The titular protagonist of the _Mercy Thompson_ series. As a long-time shape-shifter, Mercy doesn't mind being seen nude by those who are familiar with shapechangers, but she'll make a conscious effort to keep herself covered in front of those who might misinterpret her casual nudity as casual sexuality. This also applies to any of the werewolves in the series.
-   A bizarre twist on this trope occurs in Isaac Asimov's novel _The Naked Sun_. The Solarians, humans on a sparsely-populated colony world where they usually live alone on vast estates with thousands of robot servants, have become extreme misanthropes. They can barely tolerate physical proximity to other human beings. However, they make extensive use of telepresence video conferencing ("viewing") to communicate. When Elijah Baley, a detective from Earth investigating a murder, first interviews the victim's wife it is via such means and she casually talks to him naked having just come out of her bath. Because he is only _viewing_ her, not actually _seeing_ her (i.e. in-person), she sees nothing wrong with being naked on a video call and is confused by Elijah's discomfort. However, like any other Solarian, she would find it extremely uncomfortable to be in the actual presence of another person, even if she were fully clothed (although she is nowhere near as phobic about it as most of her people).
-   Nyarko of _Nyaruko: Crawling with Love!_ has absolutely no problem surprising her Love Interest Mahiro by barging into the bathroom in the nude, and repeatedly attempts to seduce him regardless of their current situation (like trying to get intimate when they're both stuffed into a girls' room locker). In her case, it seems to be an odd application of Single-Target Sexuality, since the entirety of her efforts are focused on Mahiro; when it comes to her unwanted Psycho Lesbian Stalker with a Crush Cuuko, she's a lot more modest.
-   _Re:Zero_ shows Frederica. She had no hesitation in taking off her clothes in front of Subarua. On the other hand, it was so that she was on the verge of a violent fight, and wanted to transform into her animal form.
-   Tuerasians in _Shadow of the Conqueror_ vary between this and Innocent Fanservice Girl/Guy when interacting with those of other cultures. Cueseg is decidedly on the shameless side, going shirtless or nude specifically to teach the women around him how to Ignore the Fanservice.
-   _Shimoneta_: In her Blue Snow persona, Ayame only wears a sheet with nothing under it and a pair of panties as a mask. Justified in that her lack of clothes makes the police unwilling to touch her because if she winds up exposed, they'd be breaking even more obscenity laws.
-   In _A Song of Ice and Fire,_ Daenerys may or may not have had a nudity taboo at some point, but due to her assimilation into Dothraki culture, it's certainly gone by the end of the first novel. She regularly has sex with Khal Drogo in front of the entire _khalasar_ without any shame.
-   Holo of _Spice and Wolf_ has absolutely no problem with other people seeing her naked; her first conversation with Lawrence was conducted entirely with her completely nude, and he was _much_ more unnerved than her. Justified, since she's actually a wolf- when she runs around all the time in her fur, why should she care if people see her human skin? She prefers to wear clothing most of the time, though, since it's much colder without her fur.
-   _Strike the Blood_:
    -   Asagi gets her body possessed by Nina Adelard while showering and casually steps out of the bathroom in the buff to ask Kojou for his help. Downplayed in that it's not her _actual_ body, but she acts like it wouldn't be a big deal either way.
    -   La Folia shows little reaction to Kojou when he sees her bathing naked, Sleeps in the Nude besides Sayaka, and does not hesitate in stripping, straddling, or even kissing Kojou if it helps awaken his vampiric instincts.
-   _Sword Art Online_: When Quinella achieves godhood, she discards her clothing, saying since she's now unstoppable, she doesn't need it anymore. It's also partly due to discovering that she's a simulation, so why bother if her body isn't even real?
-   _The Testament of Sister New Devil_: Maria, being a succubus, likes to tease Basara a lot by stripping.
-   _Vampirocracy_ crisscrosses between this and Innocent Fanservice Girl with Rosie, a member of Amy's coven. She strips down to cast a spell with the coven on Leon, but that's just how she's most comfortable performing magic. She's fully aware of Leon's reaction, though.
-   Rei, the Deuteragonist and main Love Interest in _Zero Sight_ is one. It's the only reason the main protagonist is an Accidental Pervert. At one point, she even gives tries to give him a photo of her nude, as reward for collecting the negatives and all copies of said photo. When he refuses she asks him if there is something wrong with the focus and shoves it in his face so he can take a better look.
-   In _The Merman's Children_, merfolk don't wear clothes except on special occasions. The merman's children usually wear clothes on land, but despise the feeling and the smell and take them off at the first opportunity, including the oldest sister Eyjan, to the delight of the sailors on _Herning_.
-   _We Can Remember It For You Wholesale_: Shirley, the Rekall receptionist, goes around working her job while showing off her well-endowed and topless body.
-   _Transpecial_: Jun, one of the New Age Retro Hippies at the Olympus Spiritual Center, grew up on the Moon, where the inhabitants of some cities don't wear clothes. She lives on Mars now, but she refuses to make any concessions to the local social norms beyond wearing a skirt. There's no weather on Mars, so she doesn't see the point of covering up.

    Live-Action TV 

-   We had Karina in _The Adventures of Brisco County, Jr._ episode "Bye Bly". She is a naked time traveler from the future. She travels naked because it's easier for the process. Though she appeared to have no problem being seen naked by Brisco and his friends, she does cover up when she realizes Brisco found her nudity distracting. Of course, the only piece of clothing she wears throughout the episode is a blazer.
-   Sandra Bernhard once showed up on _The Arsenio Hall Show_ wearing only Black Bra and Panties and Fluffy Fashion Feathers. She played with the bra to show off her erect nipple, which was Pixellated out.
-   Olivia Munn shows the attitude of this trope in _Attack of the Show!_.
-   _Betty_: Honeybear frequently goes around with her shirt open and no bra underneath, only having pasties covering her nipples, with total casualness. While skateboarding once, she sings via voiceover about wanting to have her breasts free.
-   There was a variation of this on _Cheers_, one who never appeared on screen. In a subplot to the season four finale, Norm mentioned how his wife's sister Donna, who he described as an "oversexed exhibitionist" was visiting, and how he was afraid she was flirting with him, describing how she was rather... liberal around him. (As it turned out, she was harmless.)
-   _Corner Gas_ episode "Spin Cycle" focuses on the town having a nude calendar for charity. Two of the main characters (Wanda and Karen) have absolutely no qualms about stripping nude on the spot if asked about the calendar (which causes another main character, Lacey, to frantically cover her eyes and start yelling "Please Put Some Clothes On"). This leads to Naked People Are Funny when Lacey overcomes her prudishness and decides to be part of the calendar after all, and strips nude in front of who she _thinks_ is the cameraman, but is just a customer of her diner.
-   _Counterpart (2018)_: Baldwin takes her shirt off right in front of Clare with nothing beneath, who's embarrassed by this, and looks scornful at seeing her reaction.
-   _Dark Matter (2015)_: Two casually strips her towel off to get dressed after a shower while in front of One while he's trying to give her a ship report, despite being very aware he's attracted to her, which he finds very frustrating.
-   _Devious Maids_: In "Setting the Table", Spicy Latina maid Carmen is quick to take advantage of the fact her boss Alejandro will be out of the house for a while to enjoy its luxuries herself, including taking off all her clothes to go Skinny Dipping in his pool, uncaring about doing in front of her coworker Sam who is too taken by the sight to properly protest.
-   In the "Taming of the Wolf" episode of _Doctor in Charge_, at the Medical Ball, Emma gets up one of the tables and performs a striptease.
-   Chloe from _Don't Trust the B---- in Apartment 23_. She's barely in the pilot for two scenes before casually walking into the kitchen and surprising June with her (pixellated) naked body.
-   _Doctor Who_:
    
    -   In "The Eleventh Hour", when the Eleventh Doctor starts spontaneously stripping and changing clothes in front of Rory and Amy, he simply suggests that they turn their backs if they're bothered by it. Rory begrudgingly does so. Amy, on the other hand...
    
    **Rory:** Aren't you going to turn your back?  
    **Amy:** Nope!
    
    -   Lady Cassandra ends up becoming this once she takes over the body of Rose in "New Earth", showing off her new assets every time she gets the chance.
-   _Farscape_:
    -   Zhaan belongs to a species with no nudity taboo. She does wear clothes most of the time, though it's used for Fanservice at times. She knows exactly how other life forms are likely to react to her nudity. Including Squick in case of the non-humanoid Rygel.
    -   Also applies to Chiana. While she doesn't engage in recreational nudity as frequently as Zhaan, she shows very little concern about her shipmates seeing her in the buff (or even watching her having sex with D'argo, for that matter).
-   _Flash Gordon (2007)_: Flash and Dale catch Baylin bathing with oil in the buff on Flash's backyard, uncaring of who sees her. Flash stays there staring until a peeved Dale drags him away.
-   _The Halcyon_: In the first episode, Lord Hamilton catches the Betsey bathing in his room. After exchanging some Snark-to-Snark Combat Betsey provocatively stands up in the tub, puts her hands on her hips and asks him for a Modesty Towel.
-   _Haven_: Mara has no problem showing off her body to people, doing things such as stepping out of the shower in front of Duke. Of course, she is also trying to manipulate and seduce him, and while he's aware of it and _detests_ her, she knows he can't help but be attracted to her.
-   _Hellcats_: When Marti gets her clothes stolen in the locker she is forced to hide in a stall in the boys in the locker room. Thankfully for her, the only one that catches her is Lewis who helps her out by taking off _his_ towel to clear out his playmates from the locker room.
    
    **Marti**: _\[stepping out of the stall in his towel after the guys clear out\]_ Lewis, I owe you one. Thanks for the save.  
    **Lewis**: Well, you're my new flyer. Gotta look out for each other. Plus I like getting naked.
    
-   _Leverage_:
    -   Parker pays no heed to modesty if she needs to change clothes in front of her colleagues.
    -   Tara has no qualms about using her sex appeal if the job demands it, such as pretending to be a woman who got trapped outside her hotel room in just a towel to trick into opening the door for her. Then dropping the towel to short-circuit his brain enough so he won't question her story.
-   _Lost_: In "Confidence Man", the episode's teaser has Sawyer confidently walking out of the ocean naked in front of Kate. She's not impressed.
-   _Lucifer_:
    -   In "Manly Whatnots", after accidentally getting an eyeful of Chloe when he interrupts her shower, he decides to make it "tit for tat" for Chloe and greets her completely naked in his apartment.
    -   In "Liar, Liar, Slutty Dress on Fire", Lucifer is the one who is scandalized when his mother gets naked in public after he complains about her Stripperiffic clothes.
-   _Million Yen Women_: Minami doesn't wear clothes inside the house. It makes Midori uncomfortable, but she couldn't care less.
-   _The Night Manager_: Jed has no compunction about others seeing her in lingerie or nude, which she blithely tells Pine while undressing when he politely turns away. Thus, she's shown in her underwear or nothing at all multiple times.
-   The infamous Australian Soap Opera _Number 96_ had Miss. Hemmingway, a compulsive nudist who was in therapy to try and cure her dysfunction. She often "appeared" in the lobby of the resident psychiatrist character's office.
-   _One Tree Hill_:
    -   Brooke doesn't seem to have much modesty. She is infamous for sneaking into guys' cars completely naked and casually climbs out of the pool in front of Felix after Skinny Dipping. Her video for the Time Capsule even involved her flashing her breasts so there could be a record of her body "at her peak". When that video is made public and goes viral, she's upset for a while... until Peyton points how high the video is ranking.
    -   Felix is a male example, the first time he meet Brooke was when she caught him Skinny Dipping on her pool he doesn't bother covering herself as he gets out.
    -   Alex has no hangs up about her body and even Sleeps in the Nude when sharing a bed with a friend.
    -   After sleeping in Mouth's apartment after getting drunk and puking all over herself, Gigi wakes up wearing only Mouth's shirt... which she casually takes off in front of him when he needs it back.
-   Charity on _Passions_ displays this behavior when she gets up on the table at the ski lodge club and performs this striptease.
-   _Pretty Little Liars_: In a flashback in "The Perfect Storm", Alison lets her towel drop in front of Emily, who gets visibly distracted.
-   _Relic Hunter_: Sydney is very comfortable with her body and has no problems taking communal showers or being in a state of undress, and seems to be even amused by the awkwardness it can cause others.
-   Melissa in the _Seinfeld_ episode "The Apology" is very comfortable walking around naked in Jerry's apartment.
-   _Sense8_ has a male example in Wolfgang Bogdanow, who's introduced shirtless, gets naked a lot and is the only male member of the cast to provide Male Frontal Nudity. When Kala comments on how often he shows up without clothes Wolfgang attributes it to his being German, noting that his country just isn't that uptight about nudity.
-   _Sheena (2000)_: While Sheena does wear clothes most of the time, she frequently bathes outdoors or ends up naked due to Shapeshifting Excludes Clothing. She is never bothered by being seen naked by other people and usually reacts to Cutter's Please Put Some Clothes On pleas with vague annoyance, much to his frustration.
-   _Smallville_:
    -   In "Heat", Jonathan finds Desiree Skinny Dipping in the Luthor Mansion and she shows no qualms about surfacing from the pool in front of him and doesn't bother covering herself until he throws her a robe.
    -   In "Action", Rachel doesn't see anything wrong with having a massage in the middle of Clark's living room with only a Modesty Towel as cover.
    -   In "Persuasion", Tess is having a relaxing Candlelit Bath when Major Zod invades her bathroom to confront her, taking advantage of catching her in a moment of weakness. She turns the tables on him by acting unperturbed and nonchalantly climbing out of the tub in front of him without an ounce of shame.
    -   In "Patriot", Mera has no qualms with taking off her swimsuit right in front of Lois and seems to enjoy making her fluster.
-   _Spartacus: Blood and Sand_ has characters such as Lucretia and Ilithyia, who bring this into play whenever they can. Note that actual upper-class Roman matrons were expected to be fairly conservative in their attire. But as seduction is an important part of their arsenal they often take some liberties. Dialogue between Lucretia and Ilithyia indicates they both rebel, to certain extents, against expectations of "proper Roman women."
-   On _Teen Wolf_, Malia lost her body modesty during her time spent as a coyote and frequently shifts back naked in front of the crew in the later seasons. In "Echo House", when Stiles walks on Malia showering, he immediately looks away and assures her he wasn't staring and didn't even see anything due to the Censor Steam and keeps on babbling until Malia interrupts him by telling him she doesn't care. But later when she walks out of the shower towards him, he's obviously taking a peek and she pokes him about it.
    
    **Malia:** _Now_ you're staring.
    
-   Cameron from _Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles_. As a Terminator she's utterly nonchalant about how little she wears or who sees her. On the other hand, she's acutely aware of the reactions others have to her body and is definitely not above using them.
-   _Tidelands (Netflix)_: Leandra is introduced topless and she appears to like going around in that state since there's no particular reason for this.
-   Marilyn McCook from _Too Many Cooks,_ who when she catches Chris spying on her changing, just puts down her top and smirks; she's later seen playing _Pictionary_ topless with Darren, Chloe, Armondo, Olivia, and Taylor.
-   _Two and a Half Men_: In his introduction episode, Walden shows no shame when he gives a Naked First Impression to Berta and Judith. Neither of them mind.
-   _Ugly Betty:_ Amanda is very comfortable with her body and her naked antics are often played for humor.
    -   In "Petra-Gate", Amanda, thinking Tavares is gay, starts stripping in front of him (We only see her Toplessness from the Back or Shoulders-Up Nudity) to try on some clothes. And finds out he _isn't gay_ when she notices he's staring and getting a Raging Stiffie. Instead of getting offended, she just ends up seducing him.
    -   In "Betty's Wait Problem", when trying to get the media's attention at a red carpet event, Marc decides to help Amanda as she runs towards the reporters by stepping on the hem of her dress, tearing it away and leaving her naked in public. At first she has a Naked Freak-Out, but then the photographers turn toward her and start snapping away, and she cheers up and starts posing, basking in the limelight of the camera flashes.
    -   In "Crush'd", Betty is shocked to find Amanda completely nude at Mode early in the morning and immediately asks her to Please Put Some Clothes On. Amanda explains she got evicted and just started to live there, and is naked because she's a Home Nudist.
    -   In "When Betty Met YETI", Amanda moves in with Betty, and Betty soon finds Amanda taking a bubble bath while the bathtub is in the _middle of the kitchen_.
-   _The Vampire Diaries_:
    -   In "The Dinner Party", Katherine is unperturbed about Damon walking on her showering in his bathroom and casually stands naked in front of him while coyly asking for a robe.
    -   In "The Birthday", when goes into the Salvatore mansion, she ends up finding him naked and soapy in the living, having just left the bath to get more champagne. Unashamed, he poses with his hands on his hips while she gasps and turns away, asking him to Please Put Some Clothes On. She also points out that he _must_ have heard her coming in with his enhanced vampire hearing.
    -   Elena displays this behavior when she switches off her humanity in "Bring It On", stepping out of the shower completely naked in front of both her exes (Damon and Stefan) and her Best Friend Caroline.
        
        **Elena:** What? It's nothing you guys haven't seen before.
        
-   WAMI-TV news reporter Diane Moca, in this news report on Haulover nude beach wears a thong bikini and she takes off her top at the beginning of the segment.

    Music 

    Pinballs 

-   Unsurprisingly, the female lifeguards of _Baywatch_ are always shown wearing swimsuits that are skimpy, sexy, or both.
-   Horror film maven Elvira, Mistress of the Dark poses alluringly in her trademark dress on the backglasses of both her pinball tables, _Elvira and the Party Monsters_ and _Scared Stiff_.
-   Naturally, just about everyone in Bally's _Playboy_ pinball qualifies for this trope, with the sole exception of Hugh Hefner himself.
-   Taken Up to Eleven in Stern Pinball's _Playboy_, which features photos of Real Life Playboy playmates on the playfield in various stages of (operator-configurable) undress.

    Pro Wrestling 

-   WWE Diva Miss Kitty (aka The Kat), whose entire existence seemed to revolve around her desire to be naked. She did a nude scene at _WrestleMania 2000_, flashed the audience after she became Women's Champion and tried to combat Right to Censor with her own Right to Nudity.
-   Candice Michelle has stated that she is more than comfortable being naked. Which should be evident since she's done softcore porn and posed for _Playboy_ twice.
-   WWE Diva Kelly Kelly. When she first appeared on the relaunched version of ECW in 2006, she had the persona of an exhibitionist.
-   On the August 22, 2002 _WWE SmackDown_, Shoichi Funaki, in his "_SmackDown_'s #1 Announcer" role, snuck into the Divas' locker room and encountered Nidia, who was shown topless from the back but behind some packing boxes so nothing was shown. Then WWE Women's Champion Molly Holly walked over in street clothes and with her hair in curlers to tell Funaki that he shouldn't be there. Molly called Nidia "loose," and she said that she wasn't loose, she was "open." Nidia said that after she defeated Molly for the Women's Title, she would flash her breasts to the crowd, an idea that Molly found disgusting. Nidia gave Funaki a look at her breasts. Molly retained the title by pinning Nidia with her Molly-Go-Round Finishing Move after knocking Jamie Noble off the apron. Molly then dropkicked Noble into Nidia after the match when Nidia tried to flash the crowd anyway.
    -   Crossed with Throwing Down the Gauntlet: Josh Matthews interviewed her on the March 6, 2003 _SmackDown_. In re the announcement that Nidia, Torrie Wilson and Stacy Keibler would all be appearing at the _Girls Gone Wild: Live From Spring Break_ PPV, Nidia challenged Torrie to a "Body Contest" (to see who looks better naked.) Nidia then flashed her breasts to Josh, though nothing was actually shown.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   For the bikini contest at _WWF Fully Loaded 1998_, Sable wore a black thong and hands painted on her breasts. That's all.
-   On the August 26, 1999 episode of _SmackDown!_, Tori (Terri Poch) was scheduled to face Ivory in an Evening Gown Match. Michael Cole, still a neutral character, attempted to interview Tori backstage before the match as she walked away from the camera. Tori pulled down her evening gown, saying that there was no way Ivory was going to humiliate her, and, with her back to the camera, walked around backstage wearing only a Thong and shoes until she was stopped by a group of referees and Road Agent Tony Garea, who gave her his shirt to wear. Tori won, of course, in 57 seconds. The fact that she was attempting to walk to the ring practically naked on national network television should qualify for Refuge in Audacity.

    Sports 

-   The US men's gymnastics team embraced this trope in recent years, including photos of the team members lounging on the beach in Rio in all their muscular glory. This is largely because gymnastics is one of the few sports where men receive far less attention (and fewer endorsement deals) than women, so the guys use fanservice to make up the difference. It helps that male Olympic gymnasts are usually adults while the ladies are still teenagers<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , thus the men are able to be sexualized without nearly as much controversy.

    Tabletop Game 

-   In _Rocket Age_ Martian Julandri courtesans — both men and women — aren't so much shameless, as culturally trained with different social norms. They are aware of the reaction Earthlings have to their revealing or potentially non-existent attire, but they often don't see that as enough of a reason to change. Remember that Rocket Age is set in the 1930s...
-   _Werewolf: The Forsaken_: Most werewolves grow up in human society before their First Change, so they obviously know about the naked taboo. However, after it, their mindset becomes more wolf-like, and as a result, they often grow to care less about it.
    -   In _Werewolf: The Apocalypse_, this mindset is perhaps reinforced by the necessity for a ritual to be performed to "bind" a set of clothing to the werewolf so that they don't shred it should they need to shapeshift without stripping first. Furthermore, this ritual must be performed again any time a werewolf needs to bind a different set of clothing to themselves. (Lorewise, a werewolf doesn't actually shapeshift; werewolves have five forms, and when they're in one form, the other four are in "storage" somewhere in the spirit realm. The ritual causes their clothes to go into storage as well.) _Werewolf: The Forsaken_ eliminates the ritual entirely; their clothing simply vanishes when appropriate, and reappears when they change back to human form.

    Theatre 

-   In the musical version of _The Producers_, Ulla composes and performs a song all about this trope, appropriately named, "When You Got It, Flaunt It," explaining that if a girl wants to get ahead in show business, she has to be one of these. Ulla definitely isn't shy about wearing revealing, attractive clothing, or seducing Leo. Oddly, this is also given a dash of Innocent Fanservice Girl, in that Ulla genuinely doesn't seem to have a clue that Max is attracted to her (and is being rather crass about it, for that matter), and her nature isn't that of The Vamp, but of a good-natured space cadet.

    Video Games 

-   _AI: The Somnium Files - nirvanA Initiative_ has Tama, Ryuki's dominatrix Robot Buddy who flirts with him while half-naked.
-   _Brown Dust II_: Eclipse in her Nightmare Bunny outfit, which shows her nearly topless, takes enjoyment in letting people check out her body and has no issue travelling outdoors in it.
-   _Devil May Cry 5_: Lady is found naked inside Artemis, and brought back to the DMC van by Nero, where Nico covers her in a Modesty Bedsheet. Soon after, though, Nico needs her help clearing a path for the van, so Lady dramatically stands up and lets the bedsheet hit the floor right in front of Nico, asking if she has any clothes to spare.
-   _Dragon Age: Inquisition_ Bull isn't bothered in the slightest when Cullen and Josephine walk in on him naked during his romance path, and he claims to be a firm believer in "No Pants Fridays".
-   _Echocalypse_: Shiyu's Starry Tranquility attire consists of her donning a cocktail dress that bares not just her cleavage, but also her back and Sideboobs, which is more revealing than her default attire and shows no shame in lifting her skirt to show off her underwear.
-   _Fatal Fury_/_The King of Fighters_: Mai's character design was fanservicey to begin with, but KOF flanderized her to the point where she literally fights half-naked. In most games, neither she nor any of her opponents seem to mind it. But XIII finally subverts it by having the majority of the cast point out the indecency of what little she's wearing. Mai's reaction ranges from trying to explain that it's the traditional garb worn by the women of the Shiranui Ninja Clan, to being insulted.
-   _Fate/EXTRA_:
    -   The player Saber who is female Emperor Nero doesn't seem to be ashamed that her dress is see-through. If anything, she wants her subjects to see and be entranced, saying as much in _Carnival Phantasm_ (it's not see-through, she's _letting_ people see). She is the Attention Whore of Babylon, after all.
    -   In the CCC expansion, Gilgamesh defeats Elizabeth Bathory by stripping naked and letting _her_ be the one to get offended.
    -   CCC also informs us that Rani does not wear underwear, initially as a mandate from her creator and later, due to Character Development, of her own choice.
-   Aversa in _Fire Emblem: Awakening_, with her revealing take on the Dark Flier costume and her sultry personality. She keeps all of this if the player gets her to pull a Heel–Face Turn.
-   Tequila in the _Galaxy Angel II_ trilogy shows a few moments of this. Aside from being the most flirtatious of the Rune Angels, she's amused instead of annoyed when Kazuya gets shoved face first into her chest, and if taken to a shopping date, she drags Kazuya to a lingerie shop and decides to try in front of him a pair of very provocative panties. Her exact words are "Lingerie is meant to entice men".
-   _Guilty Gear_: One of I-No's victory poses has remove her jacket and top and stand with her back to the sceen, leaving her basically topless.
-   In _League of Legends_, Nidalee's frequent "mating season" jokes may indicate that she relishes her sexuality and is more than happy to sleep with many men.
-   In _The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_, Link can go on much of his quest wearing nothing but boxer briefs. Not only is he completely unconcerned by any and all NPCs' reactions to this (which range from appreciative to appalled), he'll even take some time to admire himself if left idle. This is a rare male example.
-   It shouldn't come as a surprise that the _Leisure Suit Larry_ series has examples of this amongst its increasingly copious amounts of nudity tropes.
    -   At the end of _Leisure Suit Larry 1: In the Land of the Lounge Lizards_, Larry encounters a naked woman named Eve in the pool of a penthouse that he technically shouldn't even be in. She doesn't mind him seeing her in the buff, and that's not because her body is underwater. In fact, she invites Larry to join her, and she's easily seduced.
    -   _Leisure Suit Larry 7: Love for Sail!_ has Drew Baringmore (yes, that's a Meaningful Name Pun on Drew Barrymore), one of the many passengers aboard RMS _Bouncy_. Not only is she naked all the time, but she actually had the crew lock all her clothes away.
-   In _Mortal Kombat_, sexy outfits seem to be a dress code for female warriors working for Shao Khan; with Mileena, however, it crosses into an exhibitionist attitude. A picture of Mileena<small>◊</small> appeared in _Playboy_.
-   Since Kongōke Bosatsu "Hana" of _Namu Amida Butsu! -UTENA-_ is a flamboyant Agent Peacock who wears skimpy clothes, takes overwhelming pride in his beauty, takes the Japanese expression that means "to be helpful to others" to mean "take your kit off" and views people as their most beautiful when they're in the same state as a newborn (in their birthday suit, to put it bluntly), he constantly insists on stripping off his or someone else's clothes. He truly is a Mr. Fanservice otherwise, with one of his spell cards showing his being pretty well-built.
-   _Onechanbara_: The Onechanbara series stars Aya, who wears a bikini by default. Kagura in the "Z" titles also wears a bikini.
-   _P.N.03_: Vanessa's already fanservicey rumpshaking becomes even more shameless when she wears her final suit, which features a thong and bares her midriff.
-   _Persona_:
    -   Shadow Rise in _Persona 4_ is a rare Played for Drama example. First, an explanation; a person's "Shadow" represents their true feelings and takes the anthropomorphic form of said feelings but warped and turned Up to Eleven. They exist in the TV World but appear in the real world on the Midnight Channel, a strange TV Channel that only appears exactly at Midnight on a rainy day. Got that? Good. Now Rise's desire is for people to look past "Risette", her cutesy idol Personality and "see the real her". As a result of the aforementioned Up to Eleven warped desire nature of Shadows, Shadow Rise is a scantily clad Attention Whore who interprets Rise's desire of showing "the real her" as showing everyone _her naked body_. Shadow Rise gleefully announces on the Midnight Channel, her intention to strip naked and expose herself to everyone. Rise is understandingly horrified, not only because the Shadow is psychologically torturing her at the same time as all this, but for the obvious reason of she's an Idol Singer, an _underage_ one at that, and someone with her body is about strip naked on live TV. Rise is essentially being Forced to Watch _her own_ Shameful Strip. It would not only undoubtedly cause a huge nationwide scandal, but it would also mark the end of her idol career, and god only knows what it would do to her personal life. Thankfully Rise utterly rejects her shadow which causes it to go berserk, leading it to be fought and defeated before anything was exposed. It's later revealed that the public believed Shadow Rise was just a lookalike, as no one believed the real Rise would get naked on TV.
        -   However, going by the other Shadows' more literal Up to Eleven nature, along with some in-game moments such as her happily flaunting her body in a school swimsuit competition, it's possible that Rise herself does have some of this trope in her. Maybe not to the "exhibitionist" level of her Shadow, but she's definitely not ashamed to wear revealing items in public.
    -   Ann Takamaki in _Persona 5_ is a situational case. As long as _she's_ the one instigating, she's more than happy to use her status as Ms. Fanservice to her or the Phantom Thieves' advantage. Should someone else have her Show Some Leg, though, and she'll reject it outright.
-   _Senran Kagura_:
    -   Ryōna is this in spades, because of her masochistic tendencies. There are even moments where her fetish-fueled antics border Nightmare Fuel territory.
    -   Renka also seems eager to have any excuse to take off her clothes. Her sisters usually stop her.
-   Very outgoing sims in _The Sims 2_ will forego swimsuits in the hot tub and just jump in naked, much to the shock of their fellow sims. This will happen even if the hot tub in question is on a community lot.
-   Judith from _Tales of Vesperia_ wears very skimpy clothing and frequently boasts about having a sexy body, and on the hot springs, the idea of the men seeing her naked didn't seem to bother her. In fact, her large picture in skits is her purposely leaning over so that the men could look down her cleavage.
-   Lucy in _Whacked!_ goes around in nothing but gloves and boots, censored by the game show itself with some persistent Censor Boxes. In her audition, she planned to appeal to a male demographic by originally wearing a dark blue dress but then decided to take "less is more" to its logical conclusion and took it off. She goes into probably-lethal arena combat like this, we might add.
-   _Yakuza 2_: Kaoru doesn't seem to think much about undressing while Kiryu is in the room with her, dropping her Modesty Towel right in front of him, to his obvious discomfort.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Danganronpa_:
    -   Akane Owari of _Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair_ somehow manages to be this trope _and_ an Innocent Fanservice Girl at the same time. She doesn't understand why everyone thinks it's such a big deal if she goes swimming naked (she'd be much too embarrassed to be seen wearing one of those hideous school swimsuits, you see), nor does she care to understand. If they're bothered by it, that's their problem.
    -   Likewise, Miu Iruma from _Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony_ somehow manages to be this trope and a Reluctant Fanservice Girl simultaneously. She is very open about her kinks and even gives Shuichi some sexual content of her in their Free Time Events. That said, Miu is a lot more embarrassed about sexual situations than she lets on, and she is implied to be pulling a Have I Mentioned I Am Sexually Active Today? act.
-   Lovestruck:
    -   _Queen of Thieves_: In her third season, the heroine learns that Vivienne's teammates have all seen her naked due to her loose relationship with clothing, which Vivienne jokes they should be _grateful_ for.
        
        **Zoe:** Have you met her? Vivienne's always one flute of champagne away from stripping.  
        **Leon:** _\[sounding miserable\]_ I saw Vivienne naked before I learned her last name.  
        **Vivienne:** Oh, what a terrible fate for all of you, being forced to admire art.
        
    -   _Sweet Enchantments_: Runa has no problem changing or lounging in her underwear in front of the heroine not long after meeting her.
-   Kathy from _Daughter for Dessert_ is unembarrassed when the protagonist finds her nude pictures after looking through her phone and sends him more if he asks her nicely. She is also unbothered by Moe Mortelli talking dirty to her.
-   Saber from _Fate/stay night_ initially isn't fazed by Shirou's embarrassment when he opens the door to the bathroom while she's showering. This behaviour notably changes when she develops feelings for him.
-   Amane from _The Fruit of Grisaia_ is this to a T, and her reactions to main protagonist Yuuji accidentally walking in on her naked tend to be nonchalance (she's more confused about Yuuji's nonchalance than vice versa). Subverted in one instance when Yuuji walks in on her while she's in his room, while she's clothed but about to engage in a... personal moment, which embarrasses her immensely.
-   _If My Heart Had Wings_: Kanako wanders around in her underwear when it gets hot, which makes a lot of people uncomfortable. After her mother remarried some guy with a son approximately Kanako’s own age, her mother made her live in the dorms since she refused to stop wandering around the house half dressed.
-   _Melody_:
    -   Sophia generally dresses to get male (and female) attention and is downright excited if the protagonist checks out her ass during one of their tutoring sessions.
    -   Xianne is similarly unashamed with her (partially or fully) undressed body. She wants to eventually start dancing at the strip club where she tends the bar. Apparently, giving erotic massages at her aunt’s parlor made her open about her body.

    Web Animation 

-   _Etra chan saw it!_: Tokusa and Akamatsu go to the secret hot springs after hearing about it from Tachibana. Soon, Azami, Akane and Yuzuriha joined them naked. The girls were very shameless at showing their goods especially Akane, who flashes anybody who passes by her. This dismayed Akamatsu since he was expecting the girls to be embarrassed of their nudity.
-   Deliberately invoked with the Whites in _Lucky Day Forever_ to show how inhuman they are in comparison to the Proles.

    Webcomics 

-   Guenevere in _Arthur, King of Time and Space_. Her family is naturist and she tends not to wear clothes if she doesn't have to (and Paul can keep the art worksafe).
-   _Awaken_: Piras is a male example—he's not shy about taking his clothes off at all and at one point nonchalantly strips naked in public so he can bathe in an oasis, despite Nyl telling him he could keep his boxers on.
-   _Ayuri_: Kay feels the need to buy clothing when she finds she doesn't have any but doesn't mind doing so naked.
-   _Dragon Mango_: Here, Steve accuses Lemon of using the magic Baloney Stone to cheat on the Pockfighting competition. Lemon doesn't hesitate to fling off all her clothes in front of a crowd to prove she doesn't have it on her person and to get Steve him to faint from the sight.
-   _El Goonish Shive_: Grace progresses from Innocent Fanservice Girl to this after realizing her preference for nudity has sexual connotations to most people. She still doesn't agree with humankind's nudity taboo, but can fake it well enough to get along with people. After Sarah gets voluntarily turned into a Cat Girl in one of the newspaper arcs, she realizes that Grace has a point: clothing _does_ feel weird when you're already covered in fur.
-   Sarine from _Errant Story_ has this attitude, though it doesn't come up very often given the setting. Jon ogles her while she bathes and she is clearly not embarrassed, though she is annoyed at the interruption.
-   _Girl Genius_:
    -   Zeetha. After being accidentally stripped down to her very short leather bikini, she doesn't bother to search for clothes for dozens of pages.
    -   Lucrezia. She removes her dress just because she's more interested in looking at her new body than she is in modesty. At this point, she wears quite modest underwear, but someone else would be ashamed of being in these clothes in front of a guy. It's heavily implied in the novel that Lucrezia is actually going completely naked in those scenes, but that they could only "write" about that, not show it.
-   This is the primary schtick of Roomie in _Go Get a Roomie!_, though she wore clothing with increasing frequency as the strip went on. She's aware of nudity taboos, doesn't particularly care, and hangs out with one of the most sexually liberated crowds in non-explicit comics.
-   _Magick Chicks_:
-   _Ménage à 3_ has Matt and Senna for male and transgender variants of the trope. Both are professional lingerie models and hence required to have limited nudity taboos, but both of them are also habitual seducers who are happy to exploit their looks to the full. Matt is fairly good-natured about this, if a bit of a bastard in his love life, but Senna is melodramatically vain and catty. As the comic itself is relaxed about depicting nudity, both provide plenty of fanservice for the readers.
-   _Mr. Boop_: Betty Boop seems to be aware Alec makes comics about her sex life and supports him.
-   _Nerf NOW!!_: Anne-Marie is a shameless cam whore who is quick to resort to fanservice or show skin for money.
-   Larisa from _Sandra and Woo_ has no problem when she accidentally sent a nude pic to over 60 million people. There is a reason for this.
-   _Sandra on the Rocks_: Being a Fanservice comic about modeling, a lot of the more experienced models have no body shame due to their work.
-   Aisha from _Slimy Thief_. She's an elf and elves aren't ashamed of being seen nude. When her human friend Azamat accidentally walks in on her taking a steam bath she tells him she doesn't mind if he looks just as long as he stops staring at her so creepily.
-   Super MILF from _Spinnerette_ has immense breasts, and she is well aware that they draw attention (which she enjoys). To a lesser extent, the same is true of Greta Gravity, who gained this in the process of accepting her new body shape that came with her enhanced powers.
-   Erica in _SwordCat Princess_ strips for fellow officer Nicky while on duty, and then forgets that she was even wearing panties (in the page preceding this one of Nicky keeping the underwear as a memento); she later shocks her co-workers by whipping off her hospital gown to dress while they're still in the room at the end of this scene.
-   In _Sword Princess Amaltea_, Amaltea and Ossian found a nice river and, since they have no money to pay an inn, Amaltea strips right there to take a dip. Thanks to women being "males" in this story, Amaltea's behavior is like that of any teenage boy, and when Ossian freaks out, she just tells him to turn around if he's that prude.
-   _Vampire Cheerleaders_: Suki has no problem with others seeing her naked.

    Web Original 

-   "Sunglasses" from the Creamsicle meme has an ambiguous black stripe around her chest which can be interpreted as a bikini top, a strapless bra, or just a censor bar, implying casual toplessness.
-   Mythcreants favors this trope over Innocent Fanservice Girl because Shameless Fanservice Girls actually want to give fanservice, rather than being forced into it.

    Web Videos 

-   This is the whole idea behind the Naked Vlog trend on YouTube.
-   The Try Guys seem all too comfortable in getting naked (or near-naked) to demonstrate sexy costumes, modeling, stripping, and so on. After Zach does an impression of how Keith takes his shirt off during shoots during a talent show, one of their co-workers at Buzzfeed noted she was "disturbed" by how much they get naked around each other for them to know so much about how the others get undressed.
-   _The Warp Zone_: In "If Nintendo Had Facebook", Twintelle is portrayed as one.
-   _Youth & Consequences_: Farrah and Colin get into the shower together, as proof that neither is wearing any wire when they're sharing particularly juicy gossip. Despite the "Chamber of Trust" being his idea Colin awkwardly covers himself with his hands the whole time, while Farrah stands confidently with her hands on her hips, making no effort to cover herself.

    Western Animation 

-   _Duncanville_: Bex shows no issue in being naked in "Judge Annie", where she and the other teenagers attempt to protest LaDouche's draining of the swimming hole by Skinny Dipping there under the reasoning that LaDouche will have to register as a sex offender if his actions expose their nude bodies. LaDouche doesn't care due to believing his wealth will absolve him of accountability and continues with draining the swimming hole. While the other teens try to lower themselves with the water level to stay decent, Bex doesn't bother and goes ahead with showing off her body.
-   The nudist Campbell family from _Family Guy_ somehow go nude in public without more serious repercussions than their son getting bullied. They either ignore or fail to notice how disconcerting Peter and Lois initially find their nudity and since nobody asks them politely to get dressed, it's hard to tell which.
-   The cast of _Futurama_ tend to bounce around this. In some episodes, public nudity is completely normal, while in others, you can be arrested for streaking. Hilariously, the most common offender is _Professor Farnsworth_.
-   _King of the Hill_: When Hank and Peggy reluctantly go to a nude beach to "save their marriage" in "Sug Night," they come across a pair of women who are regular nudists and thus comfortable going around naked in public, in contrast to Hank and Peggy's shamefulness.
-   _The Simpsons_: There is a _Treehouse of Horror_ segment which features a Swedish Crossing Guard that is naked except for gloves and a hat.
-   _Tuca & Bertie_ has Draca, a living dracaena plant who has a nude pinup of herself on the wall, and casually takes her top off in Tuca and Bertie's company.
-   _Love, Death & Robots_: In the episode 'Good Hunting' the spirit fox Yan is completely naked when she meets Liang for the first time. She doesn't show to be ashamed or bothered at all, and even comments that she noticed how Liang looked at her nude body.

    Real Life 

-   This trope is the "other half" of how Nudism is portrayed in the media, used less often than the Innocent Fanservice Girl variation — ironic, due to this tropes being technically speaking a more realistic approximation of nudist beliefs.
-   Terri Sue Webb from Bend, Oregon was about as close as you can get to this in real life — she's a militant nudist, part of "The Freedom to be Yourself" campaign, which contends that indecent exposure laws are racist against _humans_. She stopped wearing clothing sometime in 2001 but kept living her life as normal. Unlike in fiction, she was promptly arrested multiple times, her prison sentences extended due to her refusing to wear clothing in jail, and a judge threw her in an institution, using a legal technicality to prevent her from ever leaving. She was released on appeal in 2003 and has apparently toned things down since then per the advice of several nudist groups in the US.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   Reportedly, Joan of Arc decided it would be a bit pointless to worry much about modesty while traveling with the French army, and was therefore frequently at least topless in front of them while getting in and out of her armor. Soldiers later testified that they felt no desire for her; whether this meant that she wasn't very attractive or that they did not want to admit to sexual desire for someone who was beloved to the point of worship (or just had other things on their mind entirely) is up for debate. Manners and habits were really different in medieval Europe, people were far more comfortable being nude around relatives and servants, or in certain circumstances (such as going bare-naked to the bathhouse from your house). This still led to accusations that she had lost her virginity, though at her trial it was proven otherwise with an examination.
-   Inverted in _Among the White Moon Faces: An Asian-American Memoir of Homelands_ (1996, pp. 142-146, 149) by Shirley Geok-lin Lim. While searching for an ideal roommate, she accepts an offer from Jason and Brenda Clinken, a nudist couple, and finds their nudity off-putting.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    
    "Their nakedness was intrusive." — page 143  
    "May I say something to you? You can't get too prudish with us. You know, a pussy is a pussy. It doesn't mean anything." — Brenda, to Shirley, page 146
    
-   Several (warm climate areas) have nudist colonies and/or clothing-optional beaches where pretty much _everybody_ is in the buff and doesn't see a big deal about it.
-   Cindy Crawford has practiced casual toplessness, as shown by some paparazzi photos of her that were taken while she was at the beach and at the pool.
-   News anchor Wendy Rieger once mentioned that in the summer, she drives home from work in the nude and then goes for a swim:
    
    "You shed the city and lots of other things during the drive. By the time I see that water, I'm good."
    
-   _Playboy_ Playmate and _Baywatch_ star Marliece Andrada admits that she's "allergic" to clothes at home in her March 1998 pictorial:
-   During the filming of _Monty Python's Life of Brian_ in Tunisia, Graham Chapman, who was a licensed medical doctor, would allow the locals into his accommodations for free medical advice since many of them were too poor to afford a doctor in the normal course of events. His partner, David Sherlock, would occasionally wander through in the nude.
-   Ursula Andress has said that she doesn't mind being naked in front of people, which is why so many of her films feature her nude or scantily clad.
    
    "I have no problem with nudity. I can look at myself. I like walking around nude. It doesn't bother me. I see all the people walking around nude; it doesn't bother me."
    
-   Following the Brexit referendum in 2016, British economist Victoria Bateman staged a number of naked protests based on the premise that "Brexit leaves Britain naked" i.e. vulnerable. One of these protests involved her attending a meeting with fellow economists in the nude (none of whom commented on the nudity). She explained that she saw this as a feminist act since she believes that women should be able to wear as much or as little as they like. In January 2019, she expanded on the "Brexit leaves Britain naked" theme by delivering a naked lecture on Brexit at Cambridge and having audience members sign her body afterwards.
-   Paparazzi have captured many pictures of supermodel Elle MacPherson topless/nude on beaches/boats/etc., and she's had her share of Wardrobe Malfunctions. She doesn't seem to mind. (Though when you're famous under the nickname "The Body", why would you?)
-   Supermodel Irina Shayk seems to aspire to this. In this video, she says that she wishes she could Body Paint herself all the time, so she wouldn't have to wear clothes.
-   Actress Bai Ling seems to have no problem letting her nipples stick out of whatever she is sort of wearing at the time. As just _one_ example, she showed up at the "Movie Meets Media Party" in Hamburg, Germany on December 7, 2009, wearing a tutu and Fluffy Fashion Feathers. That was it.
-   German model Micaela Schaefer may be Bai Ling's Transcontinental Equivalent, gleefully taking this trope to such levels that even calling it Refuge in Audacity _just doesn't say it_. On October 1, 2014, she showed up for star photographer Oliver Rath's book release party _completely naked_, wearing only shoes and jewelry and using her purse to cover her crotch.
-   Ashley Judd:
    -   At the _70th Academy Awards_, she walked on stage in a white dress with a high front slit and no panties and was briefly exposed on camera.
    -   She once flashed her breasts at the Paparazzi while in a car with Salma Hayek, and afterwards she seemed to be saying, "What's the big deal?" and Salma had her hand over her mouth in shock and appeared to be thinking, "Oh my God, you're crazy, I can't take you anywhere."
-   According to the crew of _Showgirls_, Elizabeth Berkley became so used to being naked or near-naked in front of the camera during filming that she wouldn't bother to put on her robe or other clothing between takes, though she dressed normally off-set.
-   In an interview during the early seasons of _True Blood_, Alexander Skarsgård was asked if he was bothered by doing nude or near-nude scenes. His response? "Are you kidding? I'm Scandinavian, we _live_ to get naked!"
-   When Marilyn Monroe wasn't acting, she preferred to be naked and a casual visitor to Palm Drive would see her walk naked from her bedroom to bath and to her pool and cabana. When she did wear clothes, Marilyn wore just a bikini.
-   Susan Backlinie, who played a character Skinny Dipping in both _Jaws_ and _1941 (1979)_, was said to not mind being seen and filmed naked at all. She was hired for _Jaws_ when she sent a nude photo of herself to the studio. She also defended her nude scene from _Jaws_ from critics who accused it of being disrespectful to women, saying naked women are better looking than naked men.
-   Dana Delany is an avid skinnydipper.
-   Christie Brinkley openly admits to frequenting nude beaches.
-   Cheryl Ladd is an avid golfer and she practices her golf swing in the nude.
-   Jenny Scordamaglia Is more or less the living embodiment of this trope. She has been on record saying that she wears next to nothing, if not nothing, because it helps her better "emanate positive energy", and has even created a nude retreat in Tulum, Mexico. She's been at this on her Miami.TV channel, and elsewhere on the internet (and offline) for so long, that seeing her actually covered up, is weird. Despite her seemingly flirtatious demeanor, and that her revealing styles of dress are 100% intentional, she's been happily married for many years. Those that thirst too hard on her do get called out for it, though.

___