_"You think you're the only superhero in the world? Mr. Stark, you've become part of a bigger universe. You just don't know it yet."_

When The 'Verse is shaped by multiple creators writing independently, such as how many different comic book titles can be set in a collective continuity. This makes it easy to have a Crossover. In contrast, a single TV series with multiple writers is just the Verse with subcontractors. Likewise, when different continuities by the same author are tied together later by an Intercontinuity Crossover, that's Canon Welding.

As a rule, simply having a Crossover is not enough to qualify as a Shared Universe, as those tend to be standalone stories and have no further connections beyond that. Major events should be referenced across the different projects or characters are mentioned as having their own adventures somewhere else.

The nature of the Shared Universe — multiple independent creators creating one continuity — can easily lead to a Continuity Snarl if it lasts a long time and the different creators don't take care to keep things straight. If a Shared Universe starts relying too heavily on continuity, especially if it's obscure or too reliant on each work in the Verse, a Continuity Lock-Out may occur. When creators disagree on the direction the Verse should take, they may fight Armed with Canon. If some corners of the continuity are "off limits" to some characters to avoid theme-drift or plot derailing, then Superman Stays Out of Gotham.

When they go back centuries, and even further and further, long before copyrights and trademarks, the Shared Universe turns into one or more actual mythologies. Compare with The 'Verse, Expanded Universe, Canon. Contrast with Shout-Out.

When two works are considered to share a universe by the fandom, see Fanon Welding. Not to be confused with Public Domain Canon Welding, which is when an official work uses Public Domain assets and presents it as a Shared Universe.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   Several of Aka Akasaka's works occur in the same universe. This was established in a chapter of _Oshi no Ko_ wherein Ruby mentions having had a photoshoot done by one Kaguya _Shirogane_. Later on, _Renai Daikou_ features mentions Frill, Abiko, and _Sweet Today_ from _Oshi no Ko_ as well.
-   _Burn The Witch (2018)_ and _Bleach_ take place in the same world. They're more connected than you'd think, as Wing Bind is revealed at the end of the pilot to be an English branch of Soul Society.
-   A truly bizarre case is _GaoGaiGar_ and _Betterman_, which take place in the same universe despite the former being a Super Robot Reconstruction and the latter a Real Robot horror series. The two even have an official crossover novel.
-   _Case Closed_ and _Magic Kaito_ exist in the same universe. In fact Kaito Kid is a reoccurring nemesis for Shinchi Kudo/Conan Edogawa, and is even his Evil Twin of sorts. Technically _Yaiba_ would be in the same universe too, although that's more of a Show Within a Show.
-   Both _Cat's Eye_ and _City Hunter_ (both created by Tsukasa Hojo) have referenced each other's protagonists at times, implying they're set in the same universe. The Kisugi sisters (protagonists of _Cat's Eye_) eventually showed up in _City Hunter: Shinjuku Private Eyes_.
-   _Cromartie High School_ and _Di Gi Charat_.
-   _Dragon Ball_: _Dragon Ball_, _Dr. Slump_, and _Jaco the Galactic Patrolman_ (plus its short spin-off _Sachie-chan Guu!_) share a universe; the main characters from all three series even met each other in a filler episode of _Dragon Ball Super_. _Neko Majin_ is set here, though its parodic nature makes it canon status dubious, and _Pola and Roid_, _Tomato_, _Girl Detective_, _Jiya_, and _Wonder Island_ all connect to _Dr. Slump_ via cameos, placing them here too. Various other limited series and one-shots from Toriyama such as _Cashman_ are possibilities given the vast scope of universe and very similar designs for technology and characters, but that could just be Toriyama recycling (like how Satan in _Sand Land_ happens to look exactly like Dabra from _Dragon Ball_).
-   _Hayate the Combat Butler_ and _Seiyu's Life!_.
-   _Cowboy Bebop_, _Carole & Tuesday_, _Samurai Champloo_, and _Space☆Dandy_ all are stated as taking place in the same universe by Word of God for all of them. While _Cowboy Bebop_ and _Carole and Tuesday_ are set primarily in the same timeline and area, with some commonalities between them, the latter two are respectively an Alternate History and set in an area of space where aliens freely exist. Take of that what you will.
-   _How Heavy Are the Dumbbells You Lift?_ and _Kengan Ashura_.
-   Implied in _Isekai Quartet_, Aqua figures out that Ainz, Subaru and Tanya all hail from Japan just like Kazuma, suggesting they all come from the same world.
-   Leiji Matsumoto has the aptly named _Leijiverse_. It is a connected universe of sorts, since continuity has never been his thing. But you get Harlock showing up on the Galaxy Express, _Cosmo Warrior Zero_ saw the hunt for Harlock from the other side. _Yamato_ would have had a Harlock encounter, but it was cut for time (but the _Yamato_ has shown up in the background in some of _Harlock_).
-   _Oreimo_ and _Eromanga Sensei_ take place in the same universe. Not surprising, as they're both written by the same author. It wasn't too obvious in the beginning, but was made very clear when Kyousuke, Kirino, Kuroneko, and Saori make a cameo in Episode 11 of Eromanga Sensei.
-   _Sword Art Online_ and _Sword Art Online Alternative: Gun Gale Online_ exist in the same universe and occur alongside each other, only focusing on different sets of characters. However the events from _Sword Art Online_ are constantly mentioned in _Gun Gale Online_. _Accel World_ appears to exist in the same universe too, but it's set 21 years in the future from SAO so it's a lot less apparent.
-   Takuma Yokota has established a shared universe between his various series starting with the short story _Koganeiro_ and continuing with the serialized series _Sesuji wo Pin!_ and _Shudan!_ which contain grown up versions of the characters from Koganeiro as supporting characters. _The Story Between a Dumb Prefect and a JK with an Inappropriate Skirt Length_ is also confirmed as taking place in the same universe when Michikage and Naomi from Sesuji are brought in as professional dancers to help with the school's cultural festival.
-   _Teasing Master Takagi-san_ and _Fudatsuki no Kyouko-chan_ by the same author are in a shared universe. Mina, Sanae, and Yukari from _Ashita wa Doyoubi_ make cameos in one chapter of _Fudatsuki no Kyouko-chan_, while Mina Hibino herself is likely related to Haruka Hibino from _Kyouko-chan_.
-   The _Yu-Gi-Oh!_ universe consisting of the NAS adaptation and at least some of its spinoffs.

    Comic Books 

-   The Amalgam universe, a short-lived crossover between DC and Marvel. It had several canonical crossovers and a few characters who break the fourth wall in a way that essentially links the two universes.
-   _Archie Comics_, _Sabrina the Teenage Witch_, and _Josie and the Pussycats_ are all a part of one _Archie_ universe and frequently crossover.
-   DC Comics:
    -   The DCU is an example of this, with multiple monthly titles who might not even have the same creative team month to month. Quite frequently, certain characters will make appearances in each other's books, and that's not getting into the numerous Crisis Crossovers.
    -   The Elseworld titles _Batman: Two Faces_ (a retelling of _The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde_ where Bruce Wayne is Dr. Jekyll and the Joker is Mr. Hyde) and _The Superman Monster_ (a retelling of _Frankenstein_ where Lex Luthor plays the part of Victor Frankenstein with Superman serving as the monster he creates) are indicated to take place in the same continuity, as both stories have a Framing Device of Commissioner James Gordon and Peregrine White exchanging tales.
    -   All of the _Hanna-Barbera Beyond_ comics were originally intended to be an example of this, though this quickly fell by the wayside as each new creative team and book ignored this idea in favor of freely doing their own standalone takes on their given properties.
-   DC Thomson comics, particularly _The Beano_, do this constantly. For added parental bonuses, there are also cameos of characters from discontinued comic strips (or even comic _books_!) that appear as well for a brief gag or for nostalgia purposes.
-   The action heroes of _Future Quest_ are part of a multiverse, though it is shown that _Jonny Quest_, _Birdman_ and _Mightor_ exist in the same Earth.
-   Image Comics has had a handful of examples:
    -   Virtually all of the early Image Comics titles were set in the same universe, with the stars of any given book often making guest appearances in another or ahving their origins tied to characters from other series. Spawn's killer, for example, is Chapel from _Youngblood_. However, one of the core ideas of the company was and always has been creator ownership. This caused a Continuity Snarl no less than _twice_; Once, when Rob Liefeld picked up his characters and left to create Awesome Comics, necessitating that Spawn's killer be retconned to be Jessica Priest, and again when Jim Lee took _his_ properties and made his Wildstorm Studios into a DC imprint, which required an entire crossover, _Shattered Image_, to excise the Wild Storm characters from continuity.
    -   _Invincible_ shoulders a lot of weight when it comes to establishing a larger Image universe. Big events (like the funeral of the Guardians of the Globe or the Invincible War) feature just about anyone who's anyone in the company at the time. At one point Mark was even a member of the Pact, a team consisting of him, Zephyr Noble, Firebreather, and Shadow Hawk.
-   _Judge Dredd_ and its spinoffs share a universe with _Strontium Dog_, _Rogue Trooper_, _Harlem Heroes_ and their respective spinoffs. Earlier stories also suggested that _Invasion!/Savage_, _ABC Warriors_, _Ro Busters_ and _Flesh_ were part of this universe, but these have subsequently been retconned out.
-   Marvel Comics has created several universes that are extensively contributed to by multiple writers. Some were always connected to other settings via The Multiverse - and a few had connections added retrospectively.
    -   The Marvel Universe, referred to in-universe as Earth-616.
    -   The Ultimate Marvel universe, an Ultimate Universe distillation of the Marvel Universe.
    -   Marvel 2099, a possible future of the Marvel Universe with a touch of Cyberpunk.
    -   The New Universe, intended as a more realistic setting with a single modern Mass Empowering Event as its Point of Divergence from the real world.
-   The Massive-Verse, primarily published through Image Comics<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , is a shared universe that began with _Radiant Black_ in 2021 before formally launching in 2022 with a one-shot crossing the three characters over, and its second series, _Rogue Sun_, launching after. All three of its primary creators are fans of Sentai who have worked on licensed comics for Sentai properties, and it is a big part of the visual design of the universe.
-   _Ninja High School_ and _Gold Digger_ loosely share a universe and occasionally engage in crossovers or use each other's villains.
-   _Revolution_ has establishing the Hasbro Comic Universe at its core; _Transformers_, _G.I. Joe_, _M.A.S.K._, _Action Man_, _Micronauts (IDW)_ and _ROM_ (the latter two separate from their older Marvel histories). In addition, Word of God has _Jem_ in the same universe, just not in the crossover because slice of life music and armed men and metal aliens do not mix well, and also that _My Little Pony_ isn't a part of it (yet).
-   _Gilgamesh the Immortal_ is part of a shared universe with several other works written by Robin Wood, such as Nippur of Lagash (a comic about the adventures of a warrior in ancient Mesopotamia) Or-Grund (about the adventures of a barbarian hero in a world of Sword and Sorcery), Raycon (an astronaut who after a space journey that lasts centuries, returns to a post-apocalyptic planet Earth), among others, all have in common the presence of The Primordials, an alien race Always Chaotic Evil obsessed with destruction and conquest. Inconsistencies abound, but that's because this universe was accidental and unplanned from the beginning.

    Comic Strips 

-   _Safe Havens_ and _On the Fastrack_, both comics done by Bill Holbrook, take place in the same universe and have on occasion crossed over with each other (a major point being Fastrack funding the mission to Mars Samantha of Safe Havens is planning). This has actually been downplayed in recent years, especially since it's been hinted the comics don't take place at the same _time_ (a 2020 comic in _Fastrack_ implies the mission to Mars hadn't happened yet, while the 2020 _Havens_ comics has the crew on their return trip from Mars).
-   _Little Orphan Annie_ and _Dick Tracy_, given how the Fully Absorbed Finale of the first was handled.

    Fan Works 

-   _Always Visible_: It is mentioned that Delia's family lived in New York before moving to Portland, which could be interpreted to mean that **Always Visible** is actually a sequel to _Omen IV: The Awakening_.
-   _YuYuGiDigiMoon_ has a shared universe consisting of _YuYu Hakusho_, _Yu-Gi-Oh!_ (up to _5D's_), _Digimon_ (which starts off with _Tamers_ and _Frontier_, then _Adventure/02_ and _Data Squad_ are added), and _Sailor Moon_.
    -   It also has an AU called _Guilty Crown: The Lost Kingdoms_ which is mainly set with _Guilty Crown_ while the characters of _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_ begin to share their existence. Later on shows ''Sword Art Online' exist in this universe as well.
-   The _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ stories _Rainbow in the Dark_ and _Racer and the Geek_ have small nods, links and references. Both authors have implied that their stories exist in the same universe, although perhaps not in the same continuity. This is still completely nebulous.
-   The _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fanfic _Black Queen, Red King_ by wille179 and _Gatekeeper: Prince of Darkness_ by InfiniteBrony are two sides to the same story, crossing over at several points. Even more authors are attempting to join, according to Word of God.
-   _Dangerverse_ fans have written numerous fics of their own set in the same universe, many of which have been integrated into the canon, as well as Alternate Universe Fic aplenty. The author has no qualms about working in ideas from her friends and fans.
-   The AU Shadowverse stories about _Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha_ characters Lutecia and Vivio, created by RadiantBeam, also involve many other writers who write about secondary characters in that universe. Each of the various authors tend to write around different themes (spy-thriller, emotional drama, political-thriller, etc.) despite writing in the same AU.
-   More than a decade after the release of _Under The Bridge_, _Chip 'n Dale: Rescue Rangers_ fan fiction writers love to include enough elements from _The Nowakverse_ into stories of their own, especially the main original characters.
-   Most fanfiction writers seem to incorporate _Ranma ½_, _Inuyasha_, and other works by Rumiko Takahashi in the same universe.
-   Similarly, it's almost more common to see writers have _Sailor Moon_ and _Ranma_ in a shared universe than not, most times with the justification that "They're from different wards in Tokyo" (Minato and Nerima, respectively).
-   _Harry Potter_ fanfiction often has cameos from _Wizards of Waverly Place_ and _Hellsing_, due to the similar premises of the first and the second occurring in England as well. Crossovers with _Percy Jackson_ are also not uncommon.
-   _Naruto_ and _Bleach_ cross over so much that it is very common to see OC ninja share their names instinctively.
-   The bulk of the _Pony POV Series_ is written by the same guy and his editors, but quite a bit of the Recursive Fanfiction has been declared officially canon (or at least Loose Canon) by said author.
-   _The Lunaverse_ is a _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ AU where Celestia became evil instead of Luna. It started with one story by RainbowDoubleDash who promptly opened it up to anyone else who wants to write in it. Multiple writers took him up on this offer.
-   Lunaverse alum GrassAndClouds2 is now running a Shared Universe of his own, The Cadanceverse. It is music-themed, and features Cadance as the princess (after both Celestia and Luna were corrupted), Octavia as her student, and Vinyl, Fluttershy, Lyra, and two background ponies as the other Element Bearers.
-   Like the Lunaverse, _Life in Manehattan_ (aka the Manehattanverse) is an AU of _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_, this one based on the premise that the Elements of Harmony were found some time before the pilot and taken to a museum in Manehattan; therefore, it's there that Twilight Sparkle goes for the Summer Sun Celebration, makes friends, and ends up living. The first story by the original author covers the alternate events of the pilot, after which other authors have started writing their own tales of the Manehattan 6.
-   In perhaps the greatest example of universe welding, the efforts of the author of _The Elements of Harmony and the Savior of Worlds_ created the ultimate shared universe. The Discord from a universe where neither Celestia nor Luna were corrupted won for a few years thanks to the plunder seeds, but grew bored, and thus recruited Spike from the _Flipverse_, Rainbow Dash from the _Dashverse_, Pinkie Pie from the "Hasbroverse", Ditzy from the Lunaverse, Octavia from the Cadenceverse, and Auntie from the Maehattanverse to go on an epic quest across 6 locations to find that universe's new Elements of Harmony in _Multiversal Harmony_.
-   After the original _Pokéumans_ story became popular and successful enough to have its own spin-offs on the same concept, these all the share the same universe and characters from one series occasionally appear or get a notable mention in another series. Said shared universe is the world — the _real_ world.
-   The story _Avalon_ by Dave19941000 is an _Neon Genesis Evangelion_/_Marvel Cinematic Universe_ crossover which shares its setting with the writer's _Stargate SG-1_/_Battlestar Galactica (2003)_ crossover _Brother's Betrayal_, and the _Stargate SG-1_ fanfic _Stargate: Triangulum_.
-   The _Hetalia: Axis Powers_ AU fic _Monarchy Over The Danube_ makes a number of nods to the fanfic _Eva_ by Marj. With Eva herself visiting her sister, the future Danubian Federation.
-   _Dragon Ball Z Abridged_ and _Yu-Gi-Oh! The Abridged Series_, seeing as how often they've appeared in each other's shows, especially as one video claims that Kaiba is a robot built by Frieza.
    -   Similarly, a recent video confirms that _Yu Yu Hakusho Abridged_ takes place in the same world as well, which is especially fitting as Lanipator (creator of _YYHA_) is one of the principle members of Team Four Star.
-   _Pokémon Reset Bloodlines_ forms the core of what fans have dubbed the Resetverse, containing side stories and one shots.
-   Tye Dye Wildebeest has some of his _Loud House_ fanfics <sup>the list&nbsp;</sup>  in a shared universe with _Peeking Through the Fourth Wall_.
-   _Collated Accounts of the Infinity Train: A summary_: The last excerpt reveals the _Infinity Train_ and _Star Trek_ universes to be one-and-the-same, being a Captain's Log utilizing stardates that the author sourced from the "Federation".
-   The Altered Destinies is a series of _Ranma ½_ works of fan fiction looking at alternative histories for the characters. This series can easily cause Archive Panic as not only does each fanfic in it represent an Alternate Universe each author has their own Multiverse. There's also many cases where the writers themselves aren't aware that they're apart of this universe. Either because of Right Hand Versus Left Hand where they use elements from Altered Destinies to write their story unknowingly creating a sequel for example the Pokegirl fanfics, or their story was integrated through Ascended Fanon. For example when Shinobu Saotome was introduced in _Thunder in the Mountains_ many suggested that she originated from _It's the shinobi life for us_
-   _The Many Dates of Danny Fenton_ is a crossover between _Danny Phantom_ and various other franchises, including but not limited to _Kim Possible_, _Ben 10_, _Six Teen_, _Sailor Moon_ and _Teen Titans_. The premise of the original fanfiction is Danny going on blind dates for a month with a girl from each of those other franchises. Spin-offs that take place with whomever he chose as his girlfriend would involve meeting other characters.
-   While no official name has been given, Bird Keeper Toby's Pokemon Tempest series links back to three other Poketuber's original fakemon series, creating a Poketuber fakemon shared world. It was even supported by HoopsandHipHop, who popularized the trend with his Pokemon Cardinal series and then made a prologue that features cameos of the regional professors from all four fakemon regions.

    Film — Animation 

-   The _DC Universe Animated Original Movies_ were originally conceived as standalone films, with the occasional sequel or two-parter. While they still do this they have also created two animated movie universes:
    -   Starting with _Justice League: The Flashpoint Paradox_, there is the DC Animated Movie Universe which at first focused on New 52 based stories before using material from other parts of DC's history. There are also two comics set in this universe. This universe lasted from 2013 to 2020, and is revisited in a short film in 2022.
    -   After the DCAMU ended, the 2020 film _Superman: Man of Tomorrow_ began the Tomorrowverse which is Lighter and Softer when compared to the DCAMU.
-   _Disney Animated Canon_:
    -   The Grand Duke and The King from _Cinderella_ make _very_ brief cameos in _The Little Mermaid_, and a painting of Princess Aurora and Prince Phillip from _Sleeping Beauty_ can be seen at one point in Prince Eric's castle.
    -   Belle makes a brief cameo in _The Hunchback of Notre Dame_.
    -   Similarly, _Hercules: The Animated Series_ features a crossover where Hercules and Aladdin meet, and Ursula from _The Little Mermaid_ cameos in an episode featuring Poseidon.
    -   According to Greg Weisman, a crossover was planned between _Atlantis: The Lost Empire_ and _Gargoyles_. An audio track was recorded, but the episode was never made. This in turn would have included _Tarzan_ in the same universe as them as the animated series would have confirmed that Queen La was an Atlantean had the series continued.
    -   Rapunzel and Eugene appear as guests at Elsa's coronation, placing _Frozen_ in the same universe as _Tangled_ and (presumably) its spinoff series.
-   _Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse_ is intended by Sony to start an animated cinematic universe based on Spider-Man. After the critically acclaimed reception of the film, Sony announced that they are planning a sequel and a female-led spin-off movie possibly starring Spider-Gwen. Phil Lord & Chris Miller, who served as the producers and writers on the film, have also expressed interest in giving Spider-Ham his own animated series.
-   Warner Bros. intends to start a cinematic universe of Hanna-Barbera properties beginning with _Scooby-Doo_ adaptation _SCOOB!_, with films based on _The Jetsons_, _The Flintstones_ and _Wacky Races_ also confirmed to be in development. As stated through prerelease material for _SCOOB!_, other properties that are confirmed to exist in this universe include _Captain Caveman and the Teen Angels_ and _Dynomutt, Dog Wonder_.

    Film — Live-Action 

-   Universal Horror is one of the earliest cinematic examples, even likely being the Trope Maker. From the 1930s to the 1950s, Universal Pictures (later Universal Studios) released various horror films featuring Dracula, Frankenstein's Monster, The Wolf Man and others, and eventually had them Crossover with each other, creating or at least codifying the Monster Mash. Then the franchise combined with the Abbott and Costello comedy team with surprising ease and created a whole series of its own as the two encountered nearly all the Universal monsters themselves.
    -   Averted with more recent Universal horror/adventure films like _The Mummy Trilogy_, _Van Helsing_ and the 2010 version of _The Wolfman_ as they did not share a universe.
    -   In 2014 Universal started trying to do this again, first with _Dracula Untold_ and then with _The Mummy_. This new shared universe was to be known as the _Dark Universe_, but due to lackluster performance by _The Mummy_, these plans have (for now) been cancelled.
-   Kevin Smith's View Askewniverse, consisting of _Clerks_, _Mallrats_, _Chasing Amy_, _Dogma_, _Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back_, and _Clerks II_, which are all set in the NJ/NY area (well, mostly, as _Dogma_ and _J&SBSB_ both have Road Trip Plots), and which share many characters/actors.
    -   Jay and Silent Bob are due to appear in the upcoming _Moose Jaws_, which would put this and the other installments of the _True North Trilogy_, _Tusk (2014)_ and _Yoga Hosers_ in the same universe.
-   A lot of Happy Madison productions share a universe, with Inexplicably Identical Individuals given the differing roles of Adam Sandler. These include _Happy Gilmore_, _Billy Madison_, _Big Daddy_, _The Waterboy_, _The Wedding Singer_, _Little Nicky_, _Joe Dirt_ and its sequel, _Mr. Deeds_, _Eight Crazy Nights_, _The Longest Yard_, _Grandma's Boy (2006)_, _Click_, _I Now Pronounce You Chuck & Larry_, _Grown Ups_ and its sequel, and _That's My Boy_
    -   _Happy Gilmore_'s Chubbs Peterson is seen in Heaven in _Little Nicky._
    -   In a non-Happy Madison connection, Callahan Auto from _Tommy Boy_ is referenced in dialogue in _50 First Dates_; a medical center there is also named the Callahan Institute, the implication being it was one of the beneficiaries of Callahan's philanthropy.
    -   The character Whitey Duvall, the high-voiced elderly basketball referee, debuted in Sandler's one-shot album _Stan and Judy's Kid_, had a cameo appearance in _Little Nicky_, and was the deuteragonist of the Happy-Madison animated film _Eight Crazy Nights_.
    -   Farmer Fran from _The Waterboy_ shows up in _Joe Dirt_.
    -   Rob Schneider's "You can do it!" Cajun is in _Little Nicky_, _The Waterboy_, and _The Longest Yard_.
    -   A cop played by Dan Patrick appears in both _The Longest Yard_ and _I Now Pronounce You Chuck & Larry_.
    -   The children's book "The Puppy Who Lost His Way" features in both _Chuck and Larry_ and _Billy Madison_.
    -   The O'Doyle family from _Billy Madison_ (the surviving ones anyway) are the neighbors of the main character of _Click_. Sandler still hates them.
    -   The minister officiating the marriage ceremony in _That's My Boy_ is Father Shakalu, who was known as Doctor Shakalu in _Grandma's Boy (2006)_.
    -   Nazo, the food delivery guy played by Rob Schneider in _Big Daddy_, cameos in _Mr. Deeds_.
    -   Eric Lamensoff, Kevin James' character _Grown Ups_, is name-dropped in _Click_ _and_ _The Wedding Singer_.
-   Because Marvel Studios holds the rights to all Marvel Comics characters not given to other studios,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  they have managed to bridge together a single continuity family named the Marvel Cinematic Universe with links between the characters' stories, and the franchise has continually grown as more characters are introduced. The success of the MCU has led other film companies to follow Marvel Studios' lead, creating their own cinematic universes for comic-book properties they own the film rights to. In fact, the success of it is so immense that it may well be the Trope Codifier. The MCU itself can be broken down into various "Phases":
    -   Phase 1: Focusing on introductory and world-building films like _Iron Man_, _The Incredible Hulk_, _Iron Man 2_, _Thor_, and _Captain America: The First Avenger_, with the whole thing coming together in Crisis Crossover _The Avengers_.
    -   Phase 2: A running story centering on the gradual panic over potential alien invaders and the appearance of the Infinity Stones drives _Iron Man 3_, _Thor: The Dark World_, _Captain America: The Winter Soldier_ and _Guardians of the Galaxy_. This culminates in _Avengers: Age of Ultron_, where super-science gone wrong nearly destroys the Earth and Thor realizes that someone _wants_ the Infinity Stones found and united. _Ant-Man_ is a Dénouement Episode that's mostly there to introduce a new hero to the sandbox. In this phase they also began to introduce several TV series set in the MCU, like _Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._ and _Daredevil_.
    -   Phase 3: The fallout of Phase 2's events and the build-up to the end of the Infinity Stones Myth Arc runs through _Captain America: Civil War_, _Doctor Strange_, _Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2_, _Spider-Man: Homecoming_<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , _Thor: Ragnarok_ and _Black Panther_. The big Crisis Crossover is split into two parts, _Avengers: Infinity War_ and _Avengers: Endgame_, with _Ant-Man and the Wasp_ and _Captain Marvel_ coming out in between them to set up various elements for the finale. Finally, _Spider-Man: Far From Home_ is another Dénouement Episode.
    -   Phase 4: A rebuilding period setting up a new Multiverse Myth Arc. While previous TV shows were always held at arms' length from the movies, this phase starts incorporating TV miniseries that are fully integrated with the movies' plotlines. While some of the entries introduce the Multiverse and Alternate Timelines (_WandaVision_, _Loki_, _What If...?_, _Spider-Man: No Way Home_, and _Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness_), most of the rest focus on the retirement or death of several veteran heroes and/or Passing the Torch to Legacy Characters (_Spider-Man: Far From Home_ fits this despite technically being in Phase 3; and Phase 4 itself includes _The Falcon and the Winter Soldier_, _Black Widow_, _Hawkeye_, _Ms. Marvel_, _Thor: Love and Thunder_, _She-Hulk: Attorney at Law_, and _Black Panther: Wakanda Forever_). The few remaining feature origins for brand new heroes unconnected to the old ones (_Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings_, _Eternals_, _Moon Knight_, and _Werewolf by Night_), plus a couple of wacky side adventures of the Guardians (_I Am Groot_ and _The Guardians of the Galaxy Holiday Special_).
    -   Phase 5: The current phase with its themes TBD, though it did launch with the full reveal of the Myth Arc Big Bad in _Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania_ and will explore him further in a second season of _Loki_. Other films and shows planned for this phase include _Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3_, _Secret Invasion_, _The Marvels_, _Echo_, _Ironheart_, _Agatha: Coven of Chaos_, _Daredevil: Born Again_, _Deadpool 3_, _Captain America: Brave New World_, and _Thunderbolts_.
    -   Phase 6 has also been announced to introduce the Fantastic Four and resolve the Multiverse Myth Arc with another _Avengers_ duology, among other mostly-unknown films.
-   Warner Bros created the DC Extended Universe for all their DC Comics properties, beginning with the initial standalone film _Man of Steel_. _Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice_ followed it up as a crossover with Batman and an introduction to the larger DC mythology, with Wonder Woman included as part of the story. In contrast to other cinematic universes, which are heavily centralized and designed by committee, the DC Extended Universe is intending to allow the directors a lot of individual freedom <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , so long as they stay within certain narrative boundaries.
    -   Warner Bros was actually supposed to launch their DC cinematic universe in 2011 with the release of _Green Lantern_, but poor reception caused the movie to under-perform, and set the possibility of a shared universe back until their next attempt with 2013's _Man of Steel_ which, despite its mixed reception, did better at the box office.
    -   _SHAZAM! (2019)_ also features a cameo by Ms. Glover from _Lights Out (2016)_ as the foster care counselor, thus putting that film into the DCEU as well.
-   Fox had already started something similar with their _X-Men Film Series_ by creating more character-centric spinoffs, a job aided the huge background number of X-Men-affiliated characters. A series of movies centered on Wolverine (_X-Men Origins: Wolverine_, _The Wolverine_, and _Logan_) was the start, followed up by _Deadpool_. They went full-swing with the idea for a time, by channeling three separate _X-Men_ sub-franchises: _Deadpool 2_ in 2018, _Dark Phoenix_ in 2019 and _The New Mutants_ in 2020, and each centered around different stories while being part of the same universe, but further plans ended up shelved due to the buyout of Fox by Disney and the future integration of the X-Men and other Mutants in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
    -   Similar to Warner Bros, Fox also had a What Could Have Been example with their _Fantastic Four_ reboot. It was originally going to be set in the same universe as their _X-Men_ films, but the dismal reception to said movie ended up destroying any hope of going forward with a sequel, or possible crossover, with the new Fantastic Four cast.
-   Sony attempted to do this with _The Amazing Spider-Man Series_, though people have criticized _The Amazing Spider-Man 2_ for trying to do this too quickly at the expense of the quality of the film. The underperforming critical and commercial response to the movie led them to make deals with Marvel Studios to introduce Spider-Man into the MCU.
    -   While Spider-Man was introduced to the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Sony is still trying to do this with Spider-Man characters they own the film rights to. _Venom_ was the first, followed by _Morbius_.
-   _Supergirl_ takes place in the same continuity as _Superman: The Movie_ and the remainder Christopher Reeve films. (Many mentions are made of Superman and Jimmy Olsen appears in the film.)
-   Over the years, Quentin Tarantino's movies have developed into _two_ relatively coherent 'Verses - the first being the main "Tarantino-verse" which turns out to be an Alternate History where the Basterds killed Hitler in '44 and the second the films within that verse. It also seems be linked to his friend Robert Rodriguez' world too, and include some of his favourite older movies.
    -   _Pulp Fiction_ and _Reservoir Dogs_ are the first link in that Vincent Vega and Mr. Blonde (Vic Vega) are brothers. Originally the connection was intended to be much stronger. In early drafts of the script, the briefcase Vincent and Jules retrieve contain the diamonds stolen in _Reservoir Dogs_. Additionally, a prequel to both movies, set before Vic is sent to prison in which he visits Vince in Amsterdam, was in Development Hell for years before Tarantino finally gave up because John Travolta and Michael Madsen had aged too much to convincingly play younger versions of themselves.
    -   Other family connections: Lee Donowitz from _True Romance_ is the son of Sgt. Donny "The Bear Jew" Donowitz from _Inglorious Basterds_. Furthermore, Alabama from _True Romance_ is the same Alabama that Mr. White mentions in _Reservoir Dogs_. According to Tarantino, Django and Brunhilde (whose maiden name is "Von Schaft") are the great-grandparents of John Shaft<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , and Django had a comics crossover with Zorro. And _The Hateful Eight_'s Oswaldo Mobray, aka "English Pete" Hicox, is related to Michael Fassbender's Sgt Hicox from _Inglourious Basterds_. Cliff Booth from _Once Upon a Time in Hollywood_ is the son of Aldo Raine from _Inglourious Basterds_ (they're even played by the same actor), while Rick Dalton starred in _Coming Home in a Body Bag_, the Vietnam War film mentioned in _True Romance_, directed by Lee Donowitz.
    -   The "movies-within-movies" 'verse includes _Kill Bill_ (It's a reworking of the failed TV pilot _Fox Force 5_ mentioned in _Pulp Fiction_. The actress playing The Bride is not just Uma Thurman, it's Uma Thurman as Mia Wallace.) Sonny Chiba's appearance as a new Hanzo family member is an in-joke linking his _Shadow Warriors_ series to _Kill Bill_. The shared character of Earl McGraw links that to From Dusk Till Dawn and the Grindhouse movies.
    -   _A Million Ways to Die in the West_ has Django cameo in a mid-credits scene, implying that it also takes place within the shared Tarantino-verse.
-   _Godzilla_: The Showa era of Kaiju films includes fifteen Godzilla movies, _Mothra_, _Rodan_, and the TV show _Zone Fighter_, and some fan theories incorporate Toho's productions _The Mysterians_, _Atragon_, _Frankenstein Conquers the World_, and _War of the Gargantuas_ to explain the presence of other monsters in some films, as well as technology like the Maser Cannons and A-Cycle Light Ray.
    -   After the release of _Godzilla (2014)_ with Warner Bros. and the reveal that they were working on a _King Kong_ reboot with Universal, Legendary Pictures announced that they were using the former to kickstart a kaiju-focused cinematic universe (known as the _MonsterVerse_). The _Kong_ reboot, which changed distribution from Universal to Warner Bros. and is titled _Kong: Skull Island_, established King Kong within the universe, followed by _Godzilla: King of the Monsters (2019)_ (which brought Mothra, Rodan, and King Ghidorah into the universe as well) and _Godzilla vs. Kong_, pitting Godzilla and Kong against each other.
-   This was implied with the appearance of an Alien Skull in _Predator 2_ and later made confirmed with the release of _AVP: Alien vs. Predator_. In the Expanded Universe, it already was canon for years. However, with the release of _Prometheus_, it seems that there are two different timelines, one in which the universes are shared and one in which they are not.
    -   A handful of background details could plausibly place the _Blade Runner_ films in the Alien/Predator universe.
-   According to Word of God, _Soldier_ is set in the same universe as _Blade Runner_. Whether SGT Todd came before, after, or at the same time as Roy Batty's little romp in Los Angeles is unclear, but it's a safe bet that Todd has also seen the Tannhäuser Gate.
-   _This is Spın̈al Tap_ is most likely an actual documentary in the universe where _The Nanny_, _Everybody Loves Raymond_, and _The King of Queens_ takes place.
-   Probably one of the most... unusual... ways to create a shared universe was done with the Cloverfield Universe. It all begun with _Cloverfield_, a Kaiju meets Found Footage film which was financially and critically well received. Years later while working on a totally unconnected movie named _The Cellar_, J. J. Abrams changed the title to _10 Cloverfield Lane_ to take advantage on name recognition, even as the movie is unrelated except for extended online material making loose connections. The movie was, again, well received critically and made profit. Then it came Netflix's sci-fi movie _God's Particle_ made by Abrams' studio Bad Robot which went overbudget and, once again, the title was change to _The Cloverfield Paradox_ and some extra scenes were shot connecting it to the two previous films. Thus we have the first –-as far as we know— cinematic universe that was never intended in the first place.
-   _Freddy vs. Jason_ shows that slasher film legends Freddy Kruger and Jason Voorhees share a universe. But the film's comic book sequel _Freddy vs. Jason vs. Ash_ reveals that the _Evil Dead_ series also takes place in the same universe, as already hinted by the Necronomicon's brief appearance in _Jason Goes to Hell: The Final Friday_. The same film that revealed the latter two shared a universe. Word of God says that Jason's mother used the book to make Deal with the Devil to bring her son back to life, making Jason a Deadite. Through various shout outs (like the evidence room scene in _Bride of Chucky_) and the _Jason vs. Leatherface_ comic book crossover, _Child's Play_, _Halloween_, _The Texas Chainsaw Massacre_, and possibly more may also take place in the same universe.
-   The _Harry Potter_ series with its eight movies and seven novels is part of the planned prequel pentalogy of _Fantastic Beasts_ and the sequel play _Harry Potter and the Cursed Child_ (not to mention all the video games).
-   Easter eggs may set Neill Blomkamp's works in the same universe, namely _District 9_, _Elysium_, and _Chappie_. The main link is the Tetravaal congolmerate. It's the main focus of _Chappie_ as the manufacturer of the titular robot and all other robots in the film, but its brand also shows up<small>◊</small> in _District 9_ and the aptly-named short _Tetra Vaal_.
-   M. Night Shyamalan's _Unbreakable_ is set in the same universe as _Split_ and _Glass (2019)_.
-   Robert Rodriguez has confirmed that two of his film series — _Machete_ and _Spy Kids_ — share the same universe, solidified by the main character in the former making his debut in the latter. His later film _We Can Be Heroes (2020)_ also has a character from _Spy Kids 2_ appear (specifically Christopher McDonald reprising his role as President Amani), meaning that it (and, potentially by extension, _The Adventures of Sharkboy and Lavagirl_) likely also takes place in the same 'verse.
-   The Conjuring Universe is a group of interrelated horror films that started with _The Conjuring_, based on the purported cases of real-life paranormal investigators Ed and Lorraine Warren. It eventually explored other things, though they are still given a tangential connection with the Warrens.
-   The _YRF Spy Universe_ of Bollywood is a group of spy action-thriller movies featuring various fictional RAW Agents. It started with _Ek Tha Tiger_ in 2012 and followed by a sequel titled _Tiger Zinda Hai_ in 2017. _War (2019)_ was confirmed to be set in the same universe, although only one character appeared in both the _Tiger_ movies and _War_. The 2023 movie _Pathaan_ is explicitly stated to be in the same universe, with Col. Luthra from _War_ being one of the main characters, Salman Khan as Tiger having an extended Crossover Cameo, lots of explicit references to the previous movies and a Sequel Hook, teasing Pathaan and Kabir (from _War_) getting involved in the upcoming _Tiger 3_.
-   Bollywood also has Cop Universe, starting from 2011's _Singham_, followed by a direct sequel _Singham Returns_ and two more installments: _Simmba_ and _Sooryavanshi_.

    Literature 

-   _Cthulhu Mythos_: A famous and early example of this; professional fanfiction set in his world is not only published, but was also acknowledged and supported by Lovecraft before his death.
    -   Originally the stories of _Conan the Barbarian_ shared the same universe with the Cthulhu myths, since Robert E. Howard and Lovecraft were great friends, although currently, apparently for legal reasons, this is no longer possible.
-   The _Wild Cards_ Super Hero books were designed as Shared Universe Anthologies from the ground up.
-   _Bordertown_ is a city between the "real world" and Faerie. It was originally created by Terri Windling, but Emma Bull, Will Shetterly, Charles de Lint and several other writers have written stories set there.
-   _1632_ was originally to be a one-off novel, but due to favorable fan response went beyond that, later expanding into _The Grantville Gazette_, one of whose main goals is to give previously unknown authors a way to be published, and paid for their work at professional rates instead of less generous fanzine ones. Unlike with many anthologies, the contributions from other authors affect the "main" story line works. There are very few aspects that are truly forbidden to these authors, primarily those where it would interfere with the prerogatives of Eric Flint, the series creator.
-   _Thieves' World_ was a dark fantasy Shared Universe created by Robert Asprin in the late 1970s. It had contributors like Poul Anderson, John Brunner and Marion Zimmer Bradley and generated 12 anthlogies of short stories, seven official novels and a bunch of roleplaying adaptations before writing stopped in 1989, with a short revival in the early 2000's. It preemptively dealt with Continuity Snarl with a preface framing story about an old timer talking to a new arrival in the city about how one should not believe everything in the stories one hears, as everyone spins the stories to fit their agendas, to make themselves sound more important in a good story, or less to blame in a bad one, and two people telling the same story may have wildly different variations.
-   _Unwoven Literary Universe_: _Monarch One_, the High School AU of the Unwoven Fragment (read: sub-series) was fully integrated into the series starting with _Unwoven 2019_. The same book also confirmed that _Anthropomorphized_ was set in the same universe as well.
-   The universe of the _Bolo_ super-tanks, originally by Keith Laumer, has been shared by everyone from John Ringo to Mercedes Lackey.
-   The Russian _Death Zone_ series is worked on by several known Russian sci-fi authors and is loosely based on the _S.T.A.L.K.E.R._ games. Unfortunately, this tends to create certain lapses in continuity. For example, in Andrey Livadny's novels, the Order is portrayed as a rational group that believes in the existence of an otherdimentional point known as the Node based purely on empirical evidence. In Roman Glushkov's books, they are fanatics spouting religious nonsense about the Holy Node before sacrificing themselves for the cause. It could be explained that these are different members of the Order interpreting their teachings, if they were not using the same characters.
    -   Other major differences involve the very nature of the Zones. For example, in Livadny's novels, there is no plant or animal life in the Zones, as anything exposed to the scorgs gets "upgraded" (i.e. it becomes a weird mix of flesh and metal bearing little resemblance to the original). _Rust_ by Aleksey Kalugin shows the Moscow Zone full of plant and, occasionally, animal life with only a few examples of bio-tech mixes. Kalugin's nanobots (the word "scorgs" is never mentioned) only care about consuming metal and reanimating machines.
-   The _Liavek_ anthology series- stories by several different authors, set in and around the city of Liavek. Apparently the setting started out as a RPG invented by Will Shetterly for his writer's group, The Scribblies; they later fleshed out the setting and produced five volumes of short stories (and a few poems). Two of the authors, John M. Ford and Pamela Dean, later wrote more stories in the same universe.
-   The Midnight Rose collective, a group of British SF writers, published several shared-universe anthologies in the early 1990s, with settings including _Temps_ (tongue-in-cheek superhero stories) and _The Weerde_ (shape-shifting aliens are the source of all the world's myths and conspiracies). Contributors included Stephen Baxter, Neil Gaiman, Mary Gentle, David Langford, Kim Newman, and Charles Stross.
-   _Merovingen Nights_ was an anthology series set on the planet Merovingen, in an islolated corner of C. J. Cherryh's _Alliance/Union_ universe.
-   _Heroes in Hell_ was an anthology series with a concept similar to _Riverworld_: all the dead wind up together in Hell, where they pick up where they left off when still alive.
-   The universe of the _Malazan Book of the Fallen_ was jointly created by Steven Erikson and Ian Cameron Esslemont, and both authors have written their own novels for the setting. This setting is home to:
    -   _The Malazan Book of the Fallen_: Erikson. The main ten-novel sequence comprised of three major Rotating Arcs that eventually converge into a central Myth Arc dealing with the Crippled God.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   _Tales from the Malazan Empire_: Esslemont. Six loosely-connected novels that deal with events not part of the _Malazan Book of the Fallen's_ major arcs, though they are very significant to the broader world and sometimes pick up lingering threads from the other series.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   _The Tales of Bauchelain and Korbal Broach_: Erikson. A series of largely satirical novellas chronicling the misadventures of a pair of eccentric, homicidal necromancers and their put-upon manservant.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   _The Kharkanas Trilogy_: Erikson. A Prequel in the Lost Age trilogy primarily dealing with the Tiste and the civil war that led them to become sundered into the Tiste Andii, Tiste Edur and Tiste Liosan peoples and led them to invading the main world of the series. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   _The Path to Ascendancy_: Esslemont. Prequel series (initially a trilogy, later expanded to a projected six novels) chronicling the early adventures of Kellanved and Dancer and how they would eventually come to found the Malazan Empire. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   _Witness Trilogy_: Erikson. Sequel Series to the _Book of the Fallen_ picking up some time after it ends and focusing on the aftermath of its events, in particular the legacy of Karsa Orlong. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   The '80s _Magic in Ithkar_ anthologies were more of a shared setting; all the stories started with the setting of Ithkar Fair, detailed in the anthology prologues, but other than that each author's stories were free-standing, sharing no characters, events, or settings beyond those established in the prologues. Most notably, one story ended with the Fair being shut down due to plague; this was not reflected in any of the others.
-   The _SporeWiki Fiction Universe_ began life as a _Spore_ fan fiction continuity but eventually separated itself. It's shared between multiple writers and is open to anyone willing to write for it.
-   Galactic Crucibles, which also originated as Spore fan fiction, is a shared Space Opera universe between numerous authors with a large focus on worldbuilding. Interestingly enough, it is implied to be part of the same multiverse as the SporeWiki Fiction Universe.
-   As well as _The Infernal Devices_ prequel series, _The Mortal Instruments_ is said to be set in the same universe as the _Modern Faerie Tales_ by Holly Black. Val and Luis from _Valiant_ are the homeless kids Clary sees in the first book and Simon listens to Stepping Razor, Ellen's band from _Tithe_.
-   The Ur-Example of a Shared Universe book is The Bible, although it is chiefly notable as an object lesson in the importance of having an editor.
-   Rick Riordan's various mythology series _The Camp Half-Blood Series_ (actually three different series), _The Kane Chronicles_, and _Magnus Chase and the Gods of Asgard_ all take place within the same universe, the _Riordanverse_. _The Kane Chronicles_ contains several hints towards this end, culminating in a crossover. Magnus Chase is actually Annabeth Chase's cousin. This usually doesn't affect the series much, as by-and-large the various gods and mythologies avoid interaction in a sort of deliberate Mutual Masquerade, but later books tend more and more towards inter-connectivity, with characters from one series showing up in another.
    -   This is currently set to be averted with the 'Rick Riordan Presents' series of books, which while edited by Riordan and using similar themes will not be explicitly in the same universe, at least at the start.
-   Philip Jose Farmer's "Doc Savage" books have a number of other writers' fictional characters exist in the same continuum, using the device of a comet that struck a group of people leaving a party, resulting in their offspring becoming many famous characters from fiction. Since many of these creations were still covered by copyright at the time, one wonders how he got away with it!
-   As mentioned below in Multiple Media, the _Dungeons & Dragons_ setting _Forgotten Realms_ is notable for having over 70 novel series all set in the same world with minimal Continuity Snarl. The Other Wiki has a page
-   Stephen King is fairly notorious for this amongst fans of his work, with nearly all of his novels containing either major or minor references to each other and sharing the overall connection of _The Dark Tower_ series. It's recently further expanded to include references to the works of his son Joe Hill.
-   _Isaacs Universe_ is a shared setting created by Isaac Asimov in the 1990s, totaling five books. Three volumes were anthologies of short stories edited by Martin H. Greenberg (contributing authors included Poul Anderson, David Brin, Hal Clement, George Alec Effinger, Karen Haber, Janet Kagan, Rebecca Ore, Robert Sheckley, Robert Silverberg, Allen Steele, Harry Turtledove, and Lawrence Watt-Evans). The novels _Fossil_ by Hal Clement and _Murder At The Galactic Writers Society_ by Janet Asimov are also set in the same setting.
-   Every Bret Easton Ellis book shares the same world, with old characters making appearances in later books. For example, in _The Rules of Attraction_, one of the main characters is Sean Bateman; his brother, Patrick Bateman, has a chapter in the book and later became the main character in _American Psycho_, where Sean had a minor appearance. _Story of My Life_ by Ellis's friend Jay McInerney is also set in this world, due to the appearance of the protagonist Alison Poole in _Glamorama_ as Victor's girlfriend.
-   The anthology series _Tales from the Year Between_ sets each of its volumes in a new universe; each of its worlds is created from scratch by the contributors of that volume, and is then owned jointly by all contributors. Any one of the people who helped create the world is permitted to write their own work within it, with no need to go through the official volumes.
-   The short story "Time and Time Again" by H. Beam Piper, in which the 43-year-old Allan Hartley's mind is sent back in time to his 13-year-old self's body in 1945, is set in the same universe as two later Piper works, "The Mercenaries" and "Day of the Moron". Both stories, which take place in 1965 and 1968 respectively, refer to President Blake Hartley, indicating that Allan's plan to get his father elected in 1960 was successful and an Alternate Timeline was created. In "Time and Time Again", Allan planned to raise capital for his father's campaigns by using his knowledge of future developments in chemistry to establish a company that will overshadow IG Farben. "The Mercenaries" reveals that Blake served as the President of the chemical company Associated Enterprises before his election but the real power lay with Allan. Kato Sugihara speculates that the same is true with respect to the government.
-   "He Walked Around the Horses" by H. Beam Piper, in which Benjamin Bathurst slipped into an Alternate Universe in which the American and French Revolutions never happened, is set in the same universe (or rather multiverse) as Piper's _Paratime_ series. The first official _Paratime_ story "Police Operation" features an implicit reference to the events of "He Walked Around the Horses", describing the situation but not mentioning Bathurst by name. In that story, Tortha Karf says, "I picked up a fellow on the Fourth Level, just about where you're operating, and dragged him a couple of hundred parayears. I went back to find him and return him to his own time-line, but before I could locate him, he'd been arrested by the local authorities as a suspicious character, and got himself shot trying to escape. I felt badly about that."
-   "Fear Street" by R. L. Stine is an anthology of 100+ standalone novels - barring the occasional sequel or trilogy - that nonetheless all take place in the same town, allowing characters and locations will recur over multiple books. Some of the most fully realized characters never starred in their own book, but had minor appearances in enough books to make up for it.
-   Many of Gabriel García Márquez's works are set in or around the fictional city of Macondo, somewhere in Colombia.
-   _Frost Dancers_ is implied to be in a shared universe with a previous book called _Hunter's Moon (1989)_. In that book, foxes believe in a predator afterlife called the Perfect Here. In _Frost Dancers_, it's said that the spirits of predators like stouts try to tempt recently deceased hares to go to Perfect Here with them. If hares go with them, they're forced to feed predators for all eternity.
-   The works of Arthur Machen are implied to all share a universe, though it's never made explicit, but rather hinted at by the recurring locales (Edwardian London or the English countryside— or both) and references to Mr. Dyson, his most recurring character who starred in multiple short stories and a novel.
-   George MacDonald Fraser's novels _Black Ajax_ and _Mr American_ explicitly take part in the same universe as his most famous creation, _Flashman_, which in turn takes place in the same universe as _Tom Brown's Schooldays_. In addition, Flashman himself encounters Colonel Sebastian Moran (one of Sherlock Holmes's adversaries) in _Flashman and the Tiger_, resulting in an alternative perspective of "The Adventure of the Empty House" - implying that Holmes's cases take place in the same universe as Flashy's many misadventures. This gets more complicated when you factor in the Holmes continuation novel _The Seven-Per-Cent Solution_, in which Holmes and Watson encounter the hero of _The Prisoner of Zenda_ which is explicitly stated to be a work of fiction in the _Flashman_ universe (the result of Flashy drunkenly retelling the events of _Royal Flash_ to a journalist called 'Hawkins').
-   _The Chronicles of Narnia_: Thanks to a single throwaway line, we know that the series take place in the same universe as the Sherlock Holmes stories. In _The Magician's Nephew_, which is chronologically the first story in the series, the narrator mentions that the events of the book were happening at the same time that Mr. Sherlock Holmes was still taking cases in Baker Street.
-   Initially, _The Never Mythos_ and _The Kindness of Devils_ were two separate franchises that had no relation to one another short of a Shout-Out here and there. Eventually, the authors decided to combine both franchises into _The Neverkind Saga_, and various crossovers involving characters from both series' happen quite often.
-   _Whateley Universe_: There are about a dozen authors writing about twice that many main characters. And that doesn't count the Fan Fic.
-   _Xanadu (Storyverse)_: The setting was designed for any author to write stories for, and most stories are written by different people. It's also common for other authors' stories to reference each other, although one of the setting's rules prohibits major events that other author would be obligated to include in order to limit constraints on new stories.
-   Almost all of the stories from P. G. Wodehouse are implied to happen in the same universe: the same places or institutions (such as the Drones Club or Blandling Castle) are referenced in multiple books with different characters, and the main characters of a given book are often referenced or appear in a small role in others.

    Live-Action TV 

-   Poobala.com's Crossovers & Spinoffs has the most comprehensive list of television connections, featuring, among other things, _39 shared television universes_. For example, Group 1 includes _All in the Family_, _Archie Bunker's Place_, _Blossom_, _Checking In_, _Diff'rent Strokes_, _ER_, _The Facts of Life_, _The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air_, _Gloria_, _Good Times_, _Hello, Larry_, _In The House_, _The Jeffersons_, _Maude_, _Out All Night_, _704 Hauser_ and _Silver Spoons_.
-   Stephen Colbert has confessed that, as far as he's concerned, _The Colbert Report_ shares a universe with _Strangers with Candy_. In fact, Tim Meadow's black Republican character, P.K. Winsome, is the exact same character as Tim Meadow's opportunistic grief councilor Percy Kittens from _Strangers with Candy_.
-   The "Toei Universe" centered around several properties owned by Toei Company. Sort of. As it seems the shared continuity between shows (even from the same franchise) gets retconned with frequency. To make a recap:
    -   _Kamen Rider_: The Showa-era shows all exist in the same universe as evidenced by the presence of a common enemy called "The Great Leader", who is eventually revealed to have been the leader of all the evil organizations the Riders faced throughout the 70s. At the start of the Heisei era, _Kamen Rider Agito_ has hints of being in the same universe as its predecessor _Kamen Rider Kuuga_, but the producers pointedly avoided making it a direct sequel to prevent Continuity Lockout. _Kamen Rider Decade_ in 2009 seemingly ended with the _Rider_ shows being merged into a single universe, with past Riders showing up to help out if a crisis gets too big for the current guy to handle; specifically, the Movie Wars series Crossover films links every series from _Decade_ onwards in a single universe by having the current Rider and his immediate predecessor (and sometimes others, depending on which actors are willing to return) join forces. There's also the additional element of Foundation X, a sinister organization first established in _Kamen Rider Double_ as funding the research of various power sources and occasionally serving as villains (most commonly in _Movie Wars_); it seems the intent was that they would be the Heisei-era equivalent of the Great Leader, but this concept was mostly done away with following _Kamen Rider Fourze_.
        -   _Kamen Rider Build_ is the first modern-era show not to be a part of the "Decade universe", because its backstory (in 2007, Japan was split into three separate countries by the sudden appearance of mysterious "Skywalls") is completely incompatible with any other Rider series. In order for the requisite Movie Wars crossover with _Kamen Rider Ex-Aid_ to even take place, the plot had to involve reality-warping shenanigans.
        -   Subverted, Deconstructed and Defied by _Kamen Rider Zi-O_. The Heisei riders are from 20 incompatible worlds that the show's Big Bad merged together as part of an evil plan to Ret-Gone them all and take their powers for himself and rule over his own world. Similarly, the villain of the movie makes it his business to erase the inconsistencies of the Heisei Era by replacing it with a newer, more coherent version with himself and his minions as the protagonists. Although Sougo defeats both handily, he still separates the worlds, as the merging has progressed to the point where paradoxes are theartening to destroy them. End of an Era indeed.
        -   Archaia's graphic novel adaptation of _Cyborg 009_ got into the mix by revealing that Foundation X was one of the financial backers of Black Ghost, the organization that created the Double-0 Cyborgs. The company had plans to develop this into a Shared Universe for all of Shotaro Ishinomori's works (they also referenced _Skull Man_ and said they would have done a _Kikaider_ series next), but plans fell through because Archaia and Ishinomori Productions couldn't agree on the direction of the series.
    -   _Super Sentai_ also is a shared universe with frequent crossovers. It also shares a universe with several other Tokusatsu shows including _Kamen Rider_ (though this can create a snarl since not all _Kamen Rider_ shows share a universe as previously stated) and _Metal Heroes_. An exception is _Uchu Sentai Kyuranger_, which takes place in its own universe, since in that show Earth has already been taken over by the villains with no other heroes to stop them, although it is considered part of the same continuity, and so the Kyurangers have been part of a few crossovers where they entered the main universe. Other exceptions include the spin-off shows _Hikonin Sentai Akibaranger_ and _The High School Heroes_ which both take place in universes where the other Super Sentai series are shows within the show.
        -   The 45th anniversary series _Kikai Sentai Zenkaiger_ depicts all the previous series as each being in a separate universe, even though this contradicts what was established in the _Gokaiger_. This likely means that each Sentai show has its own universe, but _Gokaiger_ and other crossovers take place in a universe with its own versions of most of the other teams. Or that _Gokaiger_ is the "prime" universe with all the Sentai teams, and the worlds in _Zenkaiger_ are alternate universes each with only one _Sentai_ team. _Avataro Sentai Donbrothers_ is a sequel to _Zenkaiger_ but how the two shows are connected is currently unclear because Kaito from _Zenkaiger_ is a supporting character in _Donbrothers_, but has an entirely different personality, although episode 26 implies that he remembers the events of _Zenkaiger_, hinting that it is an alternate timeline. So now it seems that Super Sentai is retiring the shared universe and switching to a shared multiverse. It also no longer seems to share a universe with _Kamen Rider_, as _Kamen Rider Saber + Kikai Sentai Zenkaiger Super Hero Senki_ shows that _Super Sentai_ and all the previous _Kamen Rider_ seasons are works of fiction in the world of _Kamen Rider Saber_ but interestingly, _Kamen Rider Revice_ is a show in the world of _Donbrothers_. This also is supported by the film _Ninpuu Sentai Hurricaneger 10 Years After_ which is a sequel to _Hurricaneger_ but takes place in an alternate continuity that ignores all of the events that happened to the _Hurricaneger_ characters in crossovers following the show, so it takes place in the _Hurricaneger_ universe, but not the main universe. Then, however, the following series, _Ohsama Sentai King-Ohger_, at first seems like it diverges even further by taking place in a world very different than ours which resembles a Medieval European Fantasy... Before it's revealed to be a Stealth Sequel to _Zyuden Sentai Kyoryuger_.
-   Like the shows they are adapted from, the various seasons of _Power Rangers_ are shown to exist in the same Universe. This was most obvious in the early years of the series, which had one, continuing storyline culminating in _Power Rangers in Space_. Later seasons tend to downplay this, but the various crossovers and reappearing characters establish that the universe is the same. However, _Power Rangers RPM_ and takes place in an Alternate Universe, something not made obvious until its crossover with _Power Rangers Samurai_. _Power Rangers Dino Charge_ is also confirmed to take place in an Alternate Universe in the _Power Rangers Ninja Steel_ Milestone Celebration episode _Dimensions in Danger_. That episode also states that Rangers from the main timeline have developed and distributed transportal devices to cross dimensions in case of emergency. It's stated that overusing them can destabilize the Morphin' Grid, but considering _Ninja Steel_ ended with the team using one to attend a Christmas party in the _Dino Charge_ world, it's safe to say that any future crossovers won't be too difficult.
-   _JAG_, _First Monday_, _NCIS_, _NCIS: Los Angeles_, _NCIS: New Orleans_, the new _Hawaii Five-0_ and _Magnum, P.I. (2018)_ are a shared world, as evidenced by Kensi's presence in Hawaii, and later Sam and Callen's trip to Hawaii, followed by Chin Ho and Danno's visit to Los Angeles, as well as Magnum's team working a case with the 5-0 Task Force. And now it's further established that _Scorpion_ is now part of this verse, thanks to the Scorpion team's visit with Hetty. _Macgyver 2016_ is now a part of that universe, after the Five-0 team referenced a phone call from the Phoenix Foundation.
-   The Filmways-produced _Petticoat Junction_ and _Green Acres_ were both set in the town of Hooterville, and characters from each gravitated to the other fairly regularly.
    -   Also frequent crossovers with _The Beverly Hillbillies_ (which was also a Filmways preezentayshun).
-   "The Girls Of Hollywood High," the second of _two_ Poorly Disguised Pilots (for a proposed series about Texan private detectives called _Eyes Of Texas_) which aired as _BJ And The Bear_ episodes, established that this shares a universe with another Glen A. Larson series - at one point the female PIs pay a visit to the Los Angeles Coroner's Office. John S. Ragin and Robert Ito turn up as the characters they play on that particular series, but Jack Klugman, alias _Quincy, M.E._, is conspicuously (and given how he felt about Glen Larson understandably) absent.
-   Most of the series produced by Jack Webb take place in the same universe, including _Dragnet_, _Adam-12_, _Emergency!_ and the short-lived Robert Conrad vehicle, _The D.A._
-   _Magnum, P.I._ had two crossover stories that concluded on _Simon & Simon_ and _Murder, She Wrote_.
    -   _Simon & Simon_ also had meetings with _Whiz Kids_.
    -   _Murder, She Wrote_ also shares a universe with an obscure 1949 film-noir called _Strange Bargain_; 40 years after the movie, Jessica Fletcher helped uncover the real killer from the original movie.
-   _Diff'rent Strokes_, _The Facts of Life_ and _Hello, Larry_.
-   _Diagnosis: Murder_ shares a universe with _Matlock_ (Matlock defended Dr. Jesse Travis in a murder case), _Mannix_<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and _Mission: Impossible_ (due to an appearance by Barbara Bain as Cinnamon Carter).
-   _Barnaby Jones_ shares a universe with _Cannon_, as shown in the former's pilot episode (Cannon is friends with Barnaby's soon-to-be-murdered son).
-   The Whoniverse, consisting of Parent Show _Doctor Who_ and its spin-offs _K-9 and Company_, _The Sarah Jane Adventures_, _Torchwood_, _Torchwood: Children of Earth_, _Torchwood: Miracle Day_, and _Class (2016)_, and (at least the quasi canon parts of) _Big Finish Doctor Who_ and _K9_.
-   _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_ and Spin-Off series _Angel_ shared a universe, albeit with only a few cross-overs. The canon was thoroughly welded back together in the sequel comics.
-   _Once Upon a Time_ got a Spin-Off in _Once Upon a Time in Wonderland_. Given that Wonderland starred a protagonist from Victorian England (Alice), whereas Storybrooke had a protagonist from modern-day NewYork, it was up in the air how connected the two series would be. However, the writers decided to pull a big ol' Timey-Wimey Ball and have major characters interacting with one another across the two series and times. The Knave of Hearts from Wonderland is first seen breaking into Granny's diner in Storybrooke before somehow going to Victorian England to convince Alice to break out of the insane asylum she's being kept in. Then in the third episode, he's shown as one of Robin Hood's (a significant character in the third season of OUAT) Merry Men.
    -   Actually it's not Time Travel. Alice, like Cruella De Vil, comes from a land where it is just perpetually Victorian England. We learn in the 4th season that some lands of storytelling are just stilted in certain periods, where the inhabitants aren't aware of the year. That being said, _Once Upon a Time_ is just one big shared universe between live action Disney, literature, and fairytale pieces.
    -   One episode of _Once Upon a Time in Wonderland_ included the Sarlacc in a list of monsters, implying that its cosmology might also feature events that happened a long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away...
-   NBCUniversal has their own universe based on series they produced, established by the Cloud 9 store from _Superstore_ making cameo appearances in _The Mindy Project_, _Good Girls_, _I Feel Bad_ and _Kenan_.
-   Most of NBC's 90's sitcoms were clearly supposed to take place in a shared universe from the network:
    -   _Cheers_ had one direct and well known spin-off in the form of _Frasier_, but both shows also shared the same universe with _Wings_, which was created by former _Cheers_ showrunners David Angell, Peter Casey and David Lee, who would subsequently go on to create _Frasier_. While several _Cheers_ characters appeared in both _Wings_ and _Frasier_, there were never any cross-overs between the latter two shows; there was a plan to have _Wings_ character Antonio in the first season of _Frasier_, but it was canned after actor Tony Shalhoub refused to go along with it, and while he did appear in an episode of Frasier, it was as a different character.
    -   The "Blackout Thursday" stunt began with the characters from _Mad About You_ causing a city wide blackout that affected _Friends_ and _Madman of the People_.
    -   _Friends_ had two crossovers with _Caroline in the City_, with the title character appearing in an episode of _Friends_ while on the same night Chandler Bing appeared in an episode of _Caroline in the City_. Ross Geller also appeared in an episode of _The Single Guy_ while an episode of _Hope & Gloria_ had the title characters meet Phoebe.
    -   _Caroline in the City_ also had a crossover with _The Single Guy_, with Jonathan Elliot appearing in the same episode as Chandler Bing from _Friends_. Meanwhile there were some implications that is shared a setting with _Frasier_.
    -   _Mad About You_ at first appeared to share the same world as _Seinfeld_, but later episodes would establish both shows as being fictional in the other's world.
    -   _Caroline in the City_ also crossed over with _Friends_, with Chandler appearing in the former show and Caroline in the latter. As Niles and Daphne also made an appearance in one episode of _Caroline_, which subsequently connects the above shows with each other.
-   Maxine and Kyle from _Living Single_ appear in an episode of the UPN sitcom _Half & Half_, at that point having been married with a child.
-   The Arrowverse, a Fan Nickname for a shared universe between a series of DC shows on The CW (officially, it's "The CWverse"). The franchise started with _Arrow_ and has produced a total of four sister series: _The Flash_, _Legends of Tomorrow_, _Batwoman_, and _Superman & Lois_. The 'verse has also expanded to include short web animation series _Vixen_ (set in the main 'verse) and _Freedom Fighters: The Ray_ (set in an alternate universe). _Supergirl_, which was originally aired on sister channel CBS, was crossed over with _The Flash_ in an episode of the first season and eventually hopped to The CW, and by extension Arrowverse, for good when CBS decided not to renew the series. All shows crossover frequently; outside of individual episodes, there's been an annual crossover event since 2014 which sees most of the characters team up to battle a shared threat.
    -   _Constantine_ was originally an unrelated show (it being aired on NBC) but was retroactively added to the Arrowverse after the series was cancelled. The titular character guest starred in an _Arrow_ episode that aired after his show ended, but negotiations for further appearances dragged on for two years before he finally made his proper appearance in Season 3 of _Legends of Tomorrow_. Constantine would become a cast member of _Legends_ starting with Season 4.
    -   The 1990 iteration of _The Flash_, which aired on CBS, was also made a part of the multiverse retroactively when John Wesley Shipp's Barry Allen appeared in Season 5 of _The Flash_. Shipp has previously been part of the recurring cast of the 2014 series since the beginning, but he plays different characters.
    -   _Black Lightning_ notably did _not_ start out as part of the Arrowverse, even though it is a DC show, shares the same executive producer, and is aired on The CW. Word of God said that the show was never developed as an Arrowverse series in mind, since coordinating its production would have been a nightmare (it is filmed in Atlanta, while the Arrowverse is filmed in Vancouver). This changes with _Crisis on Infinite Earths_, however - not only does Jefferson Pierce make his crossover debut, but it ends with the main CW shows becoming a Merged Reality.
-   _Sesame Street_ and _The Muppet Show_. _A Muppet Family Christmas_ also had characters from _Fraggle Rock_ appear. Mr. Rogers appeared in an episode with Big Bird and vice versa.
-   Bobbie Fleckman, was the manager of the band that was making a music video in Maxwell Sheffield's house where Fran Fine was living/working as _The Nanny_. Fran went to high school with Frank Barone, who was friends with Doug Heffernan before he moved to Queens, New York.
-   One episode of _Make Room For Daddy_ was a Poorly Disguised Pilot for _The Andy Griffith Show_, which led to _Gomer Pyle, U.S.M.C._ and _Mayberry R.F.D._.
-   Since Alan Brady of _The Dick Van Dyke Show_ had a cameo on _Mad About You_, _The Dick Van Dyke Show_ is also part of that universe.
-   Joked about In-Universe on _Mystery Science Theater 3000_ The bots spin an elbaroate yarn about how there is an entire _Carnival Magic_ universe comprised of prequels, sequels, spin-offs and a reboot. Hilariously, Jonah actually believes them.
-   _Law & Order_:
    -   For the record, the official entries in the franchise are _Law & Order_, _Law & Order: Special Victims Unit_, _Law & Order: Criminal Intent_, _Law & Order: Trial by Jury_, _Conviction_, and _Law & Order: LA_.
    -   _Law & Order_ had a few episodes crossover with _Homicide: Life on the Street_. After _Homicide_ was cancelled, _Law & Order: Special Victims Unit_ was spun off from both shows (due to the presence of Capt. Donald Cragen and John Munch).
        -   John Munch also appears in _Arrested Development_, _The X-Files_, The Beat, _The Wire_, mentioned in the UK show _Luther_, and the comic book Spider-man/Deadpool #6.
    -   An episode of _Law & Order: Criminal Intent_ had a brief appearance by Mary McCormack as Mary Shannon, establishing _In Plain Sight_ takes place in the same universe.
    -   In The New '10s, it became established that the franchise takes place in the same universe as NBC's _One Chicago_ franchise (_Chicago Fire_, _Chicago P.D._, _Chicago Med_, and _Chicago Justice_). Peter Stone from _Chicago Justice_ is the son of Ben Stone from _Law And Order_.
    -   Of the above, the _Chicago_ shows have been noted for how seamlessly they connect. Quite often, actors from one cross over into the other from the cops of _PD_ showing up to help the firefighters to both sides ending up at the _Med_ hospital to check on a victim. There are even relationships across the show such as how _Fire's_ Mouch is married to _PD's_ Trudy while _PD's_ Jay and _Med's_ Will are brothers.
    -   As of the end of Season 2, _FBI_ and _FBI: Most Wanted_ are part of the extended Dick Wolf 'verse, with _PD's_ Det. Upton working with _FBI_ Agent OA.
-   Freeze Frame Bonuses and Word of God have heavily hinted, if not confirmed, that _The Office (US)_, _Parks and Recreation_, and _The Good Place_ are in the same universe.
-   _Frankie Drake Mysteries_ and _Republic of Doyle_ have a linked universe through the guest appearances of characters from _Murdoch Mysteries_ in both shows.
-   _Stargate SG-1_ acted as a continuation of the film _Stargate_, and the series _Stargate Atlantis_ expanded the universe to a new galaxy with a new cast. Later, _Stargate Universe_ would expand the mythology of the Stargate series even further.
-   Every _Star Trek_ series and spinoff is in the same universe, and the biggest change in continuity was the new timeline introduced in _Star Trek (2009)_.
-   Shonda Rimes has a couple of these now. _Grey's Anatomy_ exists in the same universe with spinoffs _Private Practice_ and _Station 19_. Sort-of with _Scandal_ and _How to Get Away with Murder_. The OC is also implied to be in the same universe as Summer's dad gets a job at Seattle Grace in one episode.
-   _Ultra Series_ has expanded a Multiverse and lore of the franchise on multiple instances:
    -   The Nebula M78 Timeline, where the first eight Showa Era series such as _Ultra Q_, _Ultraman_, _Ultraseven_, _Return of Ultraman_ (a.k.a Ultraman Jack), _Ultraman Ace_, _Ultraman Taro_, _Ultraman Leo_ and _Ultraman 80_, the Heisei era only show _Ultraman Mebius_, the _Ultraman Zero_ trilogy films (With Zero being the son of Ultraseven acting as a Dimensional Traveler and Guardian of the Multiverse) along with the spin-offs _Andro Melos_ and _Ultra Galaxy Mega Monster Battle_ are part of the same timeline. _Ultraman Max_ and _Ultraman Neos_ are both Alternate Universes of the M78 timeline (as boths Expys of Seven And Ultraman) with both Max and Neos both making cameos in _Mega Monster Battle: Ultra Galaxy Legends_ and _Ultraman Zero: The Revenge of Belial_ along with Ultraman Great from _Ultraman: Towards the Future_, Ultraman Powerered from _Ultraman: The Ultimate Hero_ Ultraman Scott, Ultraman Chuck and Ultrawoman Beth from _Ultraman: The Adventure Begins_ are both non-Japanese series of the franchise.
    -   The Heisei era shows such as _Ultraman Tiga_ and it's Timeskip Sequel _Ultraman Dyna_ both share their universe together referred as the "Neo Frontier Space Timeline", _Ultraman Ginga_ and it's direct sequel _Ginga S_ (Ultraman Victory's debut) also had it's respective timeline, _Ultraman Orb_ and _Ultraman R/B_ also both shares their respective universe as both their main Ultras are natives of Planet O-50 while the other Heisei era series take their standalone universes of it's own such as _Ultraman Gaia_, _Ultraman Cosmos_, _Ultraman X_ and _Ultraman Geed_.
    -   _Ultraman Nexus_ and it's prequel film _Ultraman: The Next_ were supposed to be a reboot to the franchise with Darker and Edgier tone intended for the older audiences but it got scrapped due to combination of Screwed by the Network and Misaimed Marketing.
-   The ABC soap operas _Loving_, _All My Children_, _One Life to Live_, and _General Hospital_. Several noteworthy crossovers frequently happened between the first three shows (in particular in the early '90's between _Loving_ and _All My Children_, and in the mid-2000's between _All My Children_ and _One Life To Live_), as they were all created by Agnes Nixon, set in small towns in Pennsylvania, but filmed in New York City. Although _General Hospital_ didn't participate as often—it was filmed in Los Angeles and set in upstate New York—several scenes and storylines made it clear that it was included.
-   The CBS soaps _The Young and the Restless_ and _The Bold and the Beautiful_ have had numerous characters repeatedly crossing over from one to the other, most famously Y&R's resident psychopath Sheila Carter, who wreaked havoc on _both_ shows. The now defunct soaps _As the World Turns_ and _Guiding Light_ never participated, but Y&R's Michael Baldwin appeared on both, making it clear they were included.
-   The Australian/American drama _Pine Gap_ features the American aircraft carrier USS Bartlett, which seems to indicate that it is set in the same universe as _The West Wing_, in which a President Bartlett played a prominent role.
-   The Vampire Diaries Universe, consisting of _The Vampire Diaries_ and its spin-offs, _The Originals_ and _Legacies_. The first two actually aired concurrently from 2013 to 2017.
-   _The Inside Man_, an Edutainment Show about IT security, possibly has one with _Restricted Intelligence_, another program by the same company about HIPPA training, as both feature the Bland-Name Product SnapPenguins, a parody of SnapChat.

    Multiple Media 

-   Older Than Steam: Perhaps the oldest non-mythology example is the _Jianghu_ (literally "rivers and lakes") fantasy world in which most Chinese wuxia books, films, TV series, etc. are set. Jianghu dates at least to the 14th-century novel _Water Margin_.
-   Each _Dungeons & Dragons_ campaign setting is its own 'Verse (See the page on D&D for more information), and the associated novels have many different authors, though - like the _Star Wars Expanded Universe_ - the writers usually have to clear their ideas through the universe's owner.
    -   _Dungeons & Dragons_ also has all of the settings linked in _Planescape_ and _Spelljammer_, but those are rarely mentioned as existing except for their own continuities.
        -   Given that Urban Arcana is our Earth, only with hidden fantasy elements, the Earth that Forgotten Realms canonically is connected to<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  is probably that Earth. Planescape, at least, has a connection to Urban Arcana via a shared character that namedrops Sigil and has a way to traverse the Shadow that otherwise acts as a boundary between Urban Arcana and the rest of the multiverse.
-   The _Warhammer 40,000_ universe is shared by a large number of writers; the sheer scale of the setting in both space and time helps avoid continuity problems.
    -   In early versions of the background, it was heavily hinted that the _Warhammer Fantasy_ world was part of a planet cut off from the rest of the universe by warp storms, explaining the many shared elements. However, mentioning this nowadays is liable to get you bundled into a van and never seen again.
-   Word of God places _Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog_, _The Tick_ and the _Venture Brothers_ in the same universe.
    -   The Edlundverse perhaps?
-   Spells R Us was started off with Bill Hart's story A Strangeness at the Frat House and then became not so much a universe but a single series of the same character in the same errant shop all ending up with customers being transformed into something.
-   The Transformers Aligned Universe encompasses _Transformers: Exodus_, _Transformers: Exiles_, _Transformers: Retribution_, _Transformers: Prime_, _Transformers: Rescue Bots_, _Transformers: Robots in Disguise (2015)_, _Transformers: War for Cybertron_ (and _Fall Of Cybertron_), and _Transformers Universe_.
-   _Gradius_, _Parodius_, and a few other Shoot 'Em Up games from _Konami_ all exist in the _Yu-Gi-Oh!_ card game universe as shown here. They also exist as games within the anime, as shown in an episode of _Yugioh GX_.
-   _The Office (UK)_ takes places in the same universe as _The Office (US)_, a series of YouTube videos called "Learn Guitar with David Brent," and the film _David Brent: Life on the Road_. They are linked by the character David Brent, who appears in all of them.
-   Majestic Blue Studios has these universes:
    -   The Jiltedverse, given by Word of God as the name of _The Jilted Ones_.
    -   The ColorWorld Universe, which consists of _The Dynamite Twins and Friends_, _Bunny and Bear_, _Space Pirate Captain MacTaggart_, _Bloody Cutlass_, among others.
        -   They both encompass webcomics, comic books, film, music, and more. And they're all connected to one another.
-   A few Nickelodeon sitcoms happen to share the same universe and some of which are from Dan Schneider. Nicknamed the _Schneider-verse_, it consists of _The Adventures of Pete & Pete_, _The Secret World of Alex Mack_, _Spongebob Squarepants_, _Drake & Josh_, _Unfabulous_, _Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide_, _Zoey101_, _iCarly_, _Victorious_, _Sam & Cat_ and _iCarly2021_.
    -   The universe may also include other shows that aren't Nickelodeon such as _Fraggle Rock_, _Pair of Kings_, _W.I.T.C.H._, _Black Hole High_, _Flight 29 Down_, _Scout's Safari_, _Darcys Wild Life_, _Detentionaire_, _Dan Vs._, _Transformers: Prime_, _RL Stines The Haunting Hour The Series_, _Green Lantern: The Animated Series_ and the recent two revival seasons of _Are You Afraid of the Dark?_.
    -   At first it seemed like _Henry Danger_ and _Game Shakers_ were a part of this universe until the latter had an episode where the characters marathon _iCarly_ and bet with each other who Freddie loved - Sam or Carly - with Nathan Kress appearing as himself.
    -   Potential movies that supposedly take place in the _Schneider-verse_ along with all the numerous shows are _The Incredibles_, _Reservoir Dogs_, _True Romance_, _Pulp Fiction_, _The Adventures of Sharkboy and Lavagirl_, _Trickr Treat_, _The Spiderwick Chronicles_, _Krampus_, _Demon Knight_, _Inglourious Basterds_, _Lights Out (2016)_, _SHAZAM! (2019)_, _Jurassic Park_, _The Lost World: Jurassic Park_ and _Jurassic Park III_.
-   Gorillaz shares a universe with _The Powerpuff Girls (1998)_ of all things, due to Ace of the Gangreen Gang temporarily replacing the band's bassist Murdoc. They also seem to share a universe with a version of _X-Men_, as drummer Russel Hobbs was kicked out of the Xavier School for Young Achievers after being possessed by a demon—which would not be a first for that institute.
-   Marvel Comics takes the stance that _every_ spinoff, adaptation, and what-have-you of their properties takes place _somewhere_ in a shared multiverse. This is mostly seen with _Spider-Man_ these days, as _Spider-Man: No Way Home_ brought together characters from three film continuities (and referenced a fourth), while the main selling point of the _Spider-Verse_ comic event and _Spider-Man: Spider-Verse_ film series is "this includes every Spider-Man you've ever heard of, some you haven't, and some new ones we just made up".

    Radio 

-   _The Green Hornet_ was said to be _The Lone Ranger_'s nephew.

    Tabletop Games 

-   Subverted by _Warhammer Fantasy_ and _Warhammer 40,000_; they were long rumored to exist within the same universe and galaxy, Fantasy's planet being a single planet existing outside the scope of the galactic warfare of the wider galaxy of the 40k setting. A common theory was that Sigmar, founder of the Empire in Warhammer Fantasy and somewhat of a demigod was a Primarch, one of the God-Emperor of Mankind's genetic sons who was somehow lost on the planet. This theory had hints going for it in the very earliest editions of _40k_, but the pointlesness of it (mainly the fact that it renders all the epic struggles of _Fantasy_ irrelevant) as well as the variety of continuity issues it caused (such as it being stated or shown multiple times in no uncertain terms that the Chaos Gods were badly struggling to take a single preindustrial planet in Fantasy) saw any connection being dropped. The End Times books indisputably joss any theorized connection through their brief look at the wider universe and the Realm of Chaos.
    -   Subverted again in the End Times campaign of Warhammer Fantasy, a group of heroes venture into the Realm of Chaos and encounter a "silvery knight speaking a strange accent", hinted as being Grand Master Kaldor Draigo, a Space Marine lost on the Warp in the 40k setting. This turned out to be a Relictor Stormcast Eternal from Age of Sigmar, the sequel to Warhammer Fantasy. The Realm of Chaos does mess with time after all
-   _Twilight: 2000_ and _2300 AD_ both share the same historical background, with World War III taking place in the late '90s. _Twilight: 2000_ is in the immediate aftermath, and _2300 AD_ says what happened during the next 300 years of human history. Although it would be fun to contemplate a group of grizzled WWIII veterans encountering the Kafer from _2300_, there weren't any crossovers in the printed adventures, and the two systems had incompatible game mechanics.
-   _Earthdawn_ and _Shadowrun_, both by FASA, are also set in the same universe. _Earthdawn_ is said to be the Fourth World, while _Shadowrun_ is the Sixth, several thousand years later. There are shared characters between the two games, including several dragons and a few immortal elves. _Shadowrun_ has been hinting for some time in its Meta Plot that the Horrors, the primary adversaries in Earthdawn, will soon return to destroy the world. The ties were much stronger when FASA was producing both games, and were downplayed after FASA folded.

    Toys 

-   Hasbro toylines:
    -   The Action Figure File Card for the _C.O.P.S. (1988)_ character Checkpoint established that his father was a member of an US Army special force unit active throughout the 80's and gave him the name "Wayne R. Sneeden III", the same name as _G.I. Joe_'s Beachhead. The toy bios for _COPS_ were written by Larry Hama, who also wrote most of the character profiles and Marvel comic book issues of _G.I. Joe A Real American Hero_.
    -   The GI Joe 25th Anniversary toyline featured a figure named "Specialist Trakker" whose bio established MASK and VENOM as divisions of GI Joe and Cobra. This is a case of Retroactive Continuity as _MASK_ was made when Kenner was still a competitor to Hasbro and thus was obviously not made with the idea of slotting it in the _GI Joe_ universe.
-   All LEGO® play themes take place in the same shared universe, some examples.
    -   Johnny Thunder from Adventures is the grandfather of Josh Thunder from Dino and shows up in _LEGO Universe_.
    -   Solomon Blaze, the leader of Blue team from Galaxy Squad is later the leader of the Ultra Agents.
    -   According to LEGO Group, Ogel (the main villian of Alpha Team) is a direct descendant of Vladek, the main villain of the Knight's Kingdom II series. Although this seemingly conflicts with previous lore stating that he is some form of immortal being who has been around forever.
    -   Chima is one of the 14 (formerly 16) realms of Ninjago.
    -   Alien Conquest links together the plots of Pharaoh's Quest and Atlantis (which in itself featured characters from _LEGO Power Miners_).

    Video Games 

-   Various id Software developers have repeatedly confirmed that the Doomguy/Doom Slayer of _Doom_ fame is the son of _Commander Keen_ and great-grandson of William "B.J." Blazkowicz from the _Wolfenstein_ series, thus putting those three franchises in the same universe. You can find quite a few Easter eggs in-game to support this as well. The codices in the 2016 reboot and _Eternal_ also introduced the ideas of The Multiverse, time travel, other heroes with crusades against Hell, and time passing non-linearly in the infinite stretches of Hell, which (along with other hints such as the presence of the Soul Cube and the password to unlock _Doom II_ being "FLYNNTAGGART") effectively serves to canonize the seemingly contradictory plots of various _Doom_ media, as well as the Doom Slayer's guest appearances in other games.
-   _Grand Theft Auto_, _Bully_, and _Manhunt_ (all developed by Rockstar Games) take place within the same universe, as confirmed by overlapping references like place names, vehicles and fictional brands. Although the HD series exists in a different universe than the Trilogy, both Carcer City and the Bullworth Academy were referenced in _Grand Theft Auto V_. _GTA V_ also mentioned Jack Marston's memoirs as an in-universe history book, which doesn't confirm that _Red Dead_ is set in the same universe as well (since, for example, _Red Dead_ uses real-world names for certain locations that are fictionized in _Grand Theft Auto_, such as "New York (City)" instead of "Liberty (City)" or "California" instead of "San Andreas"), but might imply that Jack Marston finally got over his grief and found success in his dreams of being a writer.
-   _Half-Life_, _Portal_, and _Counter-Strike_ (or at least the GoldSrc games) share a universe. _Portal_ includes references to Black Mesa and the Combine throughout the first and second games, while _Counter-Strike_ shares a lot of assets with the first _Half-Life_ (including Black Mesa branded containers, scientists, and cars) in both the original game and the _Condition Zero_ standalone expansion pack on part of originally being a mod. _Condition Zero_ throws in a few pieces of Black Mesa's fictional tech in its single player levels, such as their auto-turrets and M23B laser mines. There's also the fact that _CS_ was originally bundled with _HL_ in retail (the original came with the first game, and the Source remake was bundled with the second) and originally titled _Half-Life: Counter-Strike_, while _Portal_ was bundled with _Half-Life 2_'s episodic expansions as part of the Orange Box (_Portal 2_ was sold standalone).
-   Suda51's _No More Heroes_, _Killer is Dead_, _Killer7_, _Lollipop Chainsaw_ and _The Silver Case_ officially share the same universe. The connection is made during several scenes in _Travis Strikes Again_; such as the introduction featuring Dan Smith telling Bad-Man where to find Travis, Kamui Uehara assisting Travis in locating the Death Balls, Travis meeting Mondo on a hunt for Dracula. A scene in _The Silver Case: 25th Ward_ has someone describe a "Mr. TD" riding a motorcycle with a talking cat looking for a sphere. For extra content, _Shadows of the Damned_ is also a popular game in-verse.
-   Cing's adventure games _Another Code_ and _Hotel Dusk: Room 215_ (and their respective sequels) take place in the same universe, but are otherwise unrelated.
-   The _Super Mario Bros._ and _Donkey Kong_ series exist in the same universe, by virtue of sharing a common first game. Additionally, due to first appearing in _Super Mario World_ and _Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins_ respectively, the _Yoshi's Island_, _Wario Land_, and _WarioWare_ series are also part of the expanded _Super Mario_ universe, though in a _very_ loose technicality for the latter two, as unlike the _Yoshi_ and _Donkey Kong_ universes which have a great presence in _Mario_ games & spinoffs, the _Wario_ universes have minimal to no presence in the _Mario_ series outside of Wario himself.
    -   When Rare was still developing games for Nintendo, _Diddy Kong Racing_ meant that _Banjo-Kazooie_ and _Conker's Bad Fur Day_ were also (very tenuously) connected, but it's no longer the case since Rare was sold to Microsoft.
    -   The _WarioWare_ and _Rhythm Heaven_ series are heavily hinted to exist in the same universe: Orbulon's minions, the Space Bunnies, appear in the original _Rhythm Tengoku_, a child version of Young Cricket is playable in a minigame in _Rhythm Heaven Fever_ (and is confirmed when the second player shows up for his _WarioWare Gold_ trailer) , and _Rhythm Heaven Megamix_ features two unlockable sets starring the _WarioWare_ cast. In turn, _Game & Wario_ feature multiple background appearances by _Rhythm Heaven_ characters throughout its cutscenes.
    -   Mario and Donkey Kong both appear in the _Punch-Out!!_ games, the former as the referee in _Mike Tyson's Punch-Out!!_ (and all subsequent re-releases) and the latter as a secret challenger in both Last Stand Mode and Exhibition Mode in the Wii installment.
    -   Many other Nintendo games have references to each other that imply they share a universe. There are many examples of minor enemies from one game series having appearances in other games, although often with the names changed. For example, _The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening_ has several enemies from the _Mario_ games though that particular title has the justification that it takes place in a dream world. Although several other Nintendo games have the other games existing as games in their universe. For most games, the degree to which they are connected is left unclear.
-   Over the years, Capcom has created a hefty shared universe between several of their arcade/retro franchises, all centered around _Street Fighter_:
    -   The first, and most obvious one, was _Final Fight_. Since it started off as a sequel to the original 1987 _Street Fighter_ game (even briefly going by the name _Street Fighter '89_), it makes sense that a few characters from the original _Final Fight_ (namely Guy, Sodom, Rolento, Cody and years later Maki) would eventually appear as fighters in the _Street Fighter Alpha_ series, with stages and endings featuring cameos by other characters. Andore appears in _Street Fighter III_ under the name of "Hugo", with Poison acting as his manager. Both Guy and Cody returned in _Super Street Fighter IV_, with Hugo and Rolento later returning in _Ultra Street Fighter IV_ with Poison as a newcomer (all three being ported from _Street Fighter X Tekken_). _Street Fighter V_ saw the addition of Abigail, a Head Swap of the Andore family and the original game's penultimate boss, and Lucia, one of the playable characters in _Final Fight 3_. With the central hub of _Street Fighter 6_'s World Tour Mode now taking place entirely through Metro City, everything has come full circle.
    -   This has gone the other way as well, as Chun-Li makes a cameo in Stage 1 of _Final Fight 2_ and Cammy is a secret challenger at the Fight Club in _Final Fight: Streetwise_. (Several fans also believe that The Ghost, another pit fighter, is Joe due to their similar appearances and fighting styles.)
    -   _Saturday Night Slam Masters_ started out being connected to _Final Fight_ at first with Haggar being part of its roster, but it still featured a few cameos of _Street Fighter_ characters in stage backgrounds (Chun-Li and Honda in the original; Zangief, Honda and Balrog in _Ring of Destruction_). In _Street Fighter_ the series got small mentions, however, such as Hugo's ending in _2nd Impact_ namedropping some _Slam Masters_ wrestlers as rivals for Hugo, or Zangief's _Street Fighter V_ DLC costume "The Gief" including some references to the series in his win quotes. Supplemental materials for both series, however, provide much clearer canonical ties like that Birdie and Titanic Tim were close friends who eventually formed a tag team called the "500 Trillion Powers", El Stingray and El Fuerte shared a Lucha Libre mentor named Meteorito Jr., and Yoko Harmageddon, Rainbow Mika's mentor and trainer, was forced to retire after sustaining a Career-Ending Injury in the ring against Black Widow.
    -   _Captain Commando_ has no direct ties with _Street Fighter_, but instead to _Final Fight_ — it takes place in a futuristic version of Metro City, a sculpt of Mike Haggar is featured in the game as an bonus item, and Ginzu the Ninja is a practitioner of Bushinryu just like Guy, and backstory material indicates his father, Gou, is Guy's successor as 40th Grandmaster. _Street Fighter IV_ sort of brought some minor connection through C.Viper, whose moves and techniques are copied from Captain Commando himself and she uses a powered suit that fans like to theorize is a predecessor/prototype of the Captain's armor. Although the Shadaloo Research website's bio on Ibuki's friend Yuta Homura implies _Captain Commando_ exists as a video game, it is worth noting _Street Fighter 6_ director Takayuki Nakayama also stated on Twitter that Ginzu's father Gou is Kimberly's senpai as Guy's student, leaving the door open for a World Tour appearance<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and/or further inter-title connectivity.
    -   _Rival Schools_ has Sakura appear in the first game as an unlockable Guest Fighter (with in-game lore and promotional artwork establishing Sakky as being Childhood Friends with Hinata and Natsu), and Hinata's uniform being based on Ibuki's school uniform as seen in her _III_ ending (the implication being the two went to the same high school). School Life Simulator in the Play Station port furthered this by establishing Hinata picked up her fighting skills from correspondence courses sold by Ken (thus explaining her Shotoclone credentials), whereas Chairperson has documents about Saikyo (yes, _that_ Saikyo) she uses to train the player avatar. In addition, it's implied that Ran may be related to Dan himself, both sharing the last name of Hibiki. Most of these details were dropped in _Project Justice_ and the Hinata/Ibuki connection was ignored in _Street Fighter IV_ when Ibuki's high school turned out to be other than Taiyo High, which, when combined with the discrepancy of Sakura's blood type being different between series (A in _SF_, O in _Rival Schools_), left people wondering if the two series were truly set in the same world. This all changed with _Street Fighter V_, first when Hinata and Tiffany made background cameos in the Kanzuki's Beach stage, then followed by Akira joining the fray in the game's fifth wave of DLC, with the producer and director directly stating both series do indeed take place in the same world as well as Akira's Story directly acknowledging Sakura's appearance in the original _Rival Schools_.
    -   _Strider_ was introduced into the mythos with Season 2 of _Street Fighter V_ with its inclusion of Zeku, Guy's master and the preceding grandmaster of the Bushin style. His design and moveset contain numerous allusions to Strider Hiryu, "Original Strider" is an unlockable title of his, and he even name drops the Strider organization in his story, all of which suggest Zeku founded the Striders or was otherwise heavily involved with the organization's inception.
    -   _Forgotten Worlds_ is not really confirmed, but heavily implied by the _Final Fight_ character Two-P. Two-P was originally designed to resemble the _Forgotten Words_ second player character (hence his name, "Two-P" = Player Two). What started as a cool nod in the design has grown into the implication the two characters are one and the same, with Two-P having total amnesia of his past and having lots of little nods to the _Forgotten Worlds_ character like having one of his lines as his catchphrase, being good with heavy weapons and disliking earthworms and lizards (which appear as enemies in the first stages of _Forgotten Worlds_).
    -   _Street Fighter V_ director Takayuki Nakayama stated in the design notes for Menat that her crystal ball is "a product of a god-beast believed to have once protected the phantom desert kingdom of Alanbird." Alanbird is the Japanese name of Sangypt, one of the countries in _Red Earth_, and the god-beast is implied to be the game's boss character Ravange/Secmeto.
    -   There's also Akuma's appearance in _Tekken 7_. See below for more details.
-   A few other Capcom titles have their own shared continuity, though not necessarily with _Street Fighter_ or any of its related series. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   _Dino Crisis_ has several crates featuring the Umbrella Corporation logo. Furthermore, light gun shooter Gaiden Game _Dino Stalker_ is actually the third installment of _Resident Evil_'s spin-off series _Gun Survivor_, featuring Umbrella Easter Eggs in the form of the "Woman Drawing Water" statue seen in the Spencer Mansion's exhibition room and an abandoned Umbrella building.
    -   _Dino Crisis_ may or may not have ties to _Ace Attorney_ of all games; Shu Takumi wrote the scenario of the first game before going on to serve as the second game's director and then work on _Ace Attorney_, while the setting of original _Dino Crisis_, the Borginian Republic/Republic of Borginia, is mentioned several times through the _AA_ series.
    -   The dog that you can rescue from a bear trap early on in _Resident Evil 4_? None other than Hewie from sister Survival Horror game _Haunting Ground_.
    -   The Red Arremer clan from _Ghosts 'n Goblins_ has appeared in some of Capcom's earlier titles, establishing a small universe of sorts — they appear in _Higemaru Makaijima_ along with a whole island of enemies from the game (plus a Red Arremer is revealed as the Final Boss), they also appear as enemies in _Black Tiger_, and other creatures appear in _The King of Dragons_.
    -   And the Ur-Example in terms of Capcom's cross-continuity: main character of _Commando_ Super Joe appearing as a secondary character in _Bionic Commando_, establishing the two series were set in the same world, which was later followed-up a bit by the follow-ups and remakes. Capcom USA earlier tried to establish this connection by claiming the nameless protagonist of the arcade _Bionic Commando_ to be Super Joe in its flyer, and did this a second time to another arcade game, the otherwise-unrelated gun-n-run _The Speed Rumbler_. While the former was kinda canonized by the history recap in the _Rearmed_ website, the latter was completely ignored. The 2009 _Bionic Commando_ also has billboards sporting the logo of TRICELL as well, tying it to the _Resident Evil_/_Dino Crisis_ universe above.
-   The _Dead or Alive_ and _Ninja Gaiden_ series both take place in the same universe (owing to being developed by Tecmo/Team Ninja), complete with having characters originating in one becoming plot-integral in the other. Most notably (see the entry in Canon Welding for more examples), Ryu first crossed over to _DOA_ and canonically won the second tournament, followed by Ayane playing a supporting role in the second _Ninja Gaiden_ trilogy, with Kasumi making brief cameo appearances in _Sigma 2_ before becoming a playable character herself in _3: Razor's Edge_. Of course, characters will change looks to match the art style of the respective games. Fellow Tecmo IP _Fatal Frame_ is also in this shared universe due to Ayane's side story in _Fatal Frame: Maiden of Black Water_, and _Nioh_ turned out to be a prequel to _Ninja Gaiden_, as an ancestor of Ryu named Jin Hayabusa appears in a lategame mission.
-   While Koei's _Warriors Orochi_ was made to confirm that its series _Dynasty Warriors_ and _Samurai Warriors_ take place in the same universe, the second trailer of _Warriors Orochi 3_ more or less confirms that Koei's other games (_Warriors: Legends of Troy_ and _Bladestorm The Hundred Years War_) also are part of this setting due to the presence of Achilles and Jeanne D'Arc. It also confirms that its business partner Tecmo's series _Ninja Gaiden_ and _Dead or Alive_ (see directly above) take place there due to the presence of Ryu Hayabusa, Ayane, Momiji, and later Kasumi. Naotora Ii would later cross over to _DOA_, making an appearance in _Dead or Alive 5 Last Round_.
-   The _Ultima_ series features references to the _Wing Commander_ series. In _Ultima I_ there were spaceships that in _Ultima VII: The Black Gate_ was explained to be the spaceship of the Kilrathi.
    -   Origin seemed to be trying to establish this in all of their mid-90s games — in addition to the connections between _Wing Commander_ and _Ultima_, the manual for _Wing Commander Arena_ has, among other things, an advertisement for a _No Remorse_ movie.
-   The United Galaxy Space Force, UGSF Series for short, links _30_ Namco games such as _Galaxian_, _Galaga_, _Bosconian_, and _Dig Dug_ into the same universe, even having a clear timeline.
    -   _Dig Dug_, _Baraduke_ (or _Alien Sector_ if you prefer), and _Mr. Driller_ are set in the same world, by virtue of Taizo Hori and Toby "Kissy" Masuyo being the parents of Susumu, Ataru, and Taiyo Hori (the first of the three being The Hero of the _Mr. Driller_ series) and the events of the first _Dig Dug_ being referenced directly in _Mr. Driller_ (as the "Dig Dug Incident").
    -   Additionally, Pookas often show up in _Pac-Man_ titles, despite the _Pac-Man_ universe not being anywhere in the UGSF timeline, although considering the number of elements that overlap in Namco games in general (the Special Flag from _Rally-X_ showing up in several other games for instance), this may just be more of a tribute rather than an actual connection.
-   _EVE Online_ and the FPS _DUST 514_ are part of the same universe..._literally_. Players can accept contracts and do missions for the player-run companies of _EVE Online_, and even form their own corporations that _EVE Online_ players are able to join.
-   The _Science Adventure Series_ consisting of _Chaos;Head_, _Steins;Gate_, _Robotics;Notes_, and _Chaos;Child_ occur in the same universe. These stories take place several years apart from each other, though there are several scenes in each that make references to the others.
-   The presence of both Seath the Scaleless and Patches the Hyena (as well as some other recurring characters and elements) seem to indicate that _Dark Souls_ shares the same world and universe as the _King's Field_ series and _Demon's Souls_. With Patches returning as Patches the Spider, as well as the presence of the Moonlight Greatsword, _Bloodborne_ seems to be connected as well. Likely the only reason the connection between _Demon's Souls_, _Bloodborne_ and _Dark Souls_ wasn't made explicit is because the former two IPs technically belong to Sony, not FromSoftware.
-   Brøderbund Software tried to work the Bungeling Empire into most of its early 1980s action games. _Choplifter!_ and _Lode Runner_ had it All There in the Manual; _Raid on Bungeling Bay_ had it in the title but wasn't really a sequel to anything. Then, _Lode Runner_ is revealed to be connected to _Bomberman_ by the ending of the NES version of the latter.
-   _Space Harrier_ is set in the Fantasy Zone; several _Fantasy Zone_ games reference it to various degrees. The culmination of this was the unreleased crossover game _Space Fantasy Zone_.
-   _Marathon_ takes place in the same universe as _Pathways into Darkness_, and possibly _Halo_. There is even a terminal in the first _Marathon_ game (which is a historical record) that talks about the events of _Pathways_.
-   The entire premise of the _Reality-On-The-Norm_ project. It is a shared universe set around the eponymous City of Adventure.
-   The Tom Clancy series games (_Splinter Cell_, _Ghost Recon_, and _H.A.W.X._) share a single universe, and often have crossover cameos with each other.
    -   This is particular apparent between the _Ghost Recon_ and _H.A.W.X._ games - multiple missions in the latter have the player supporting Ghost teams, and (plot inconsistencies aside due to them coming out two years apart) _Ghost Recon: Future Soldier_ depicts the same conflict as in _H.A.W.X. 2_. There's also _Ghost Recon 2_'s plot kicking off from the sinking of the _USS Clarence E. Walsh_, an event depicted about halfway through _Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory_, and both _Future Soldier_ and _H.A.W.X. 2_ mention Voron, the Russian equivalent of Third Echelon from _Conviction_.
    -   _Rainbow Six_, the original Tom Clancy game, may also be part of the shared universe - _Vegas 2_ has one mission in which you receive support from an "NSA Agent" who dresses very similarly to Sam Fisher.
-   This easter egg from _Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag_ heavily suggests that _Assassin's Creed_, _Far Cry_ and _Watch\_Dogs_ share a universe. Considering that _ACIV_'s MacGuffin would be of tremendous use in _Watch\_Dogs_, this is unsurprising.
    -   Oliver Garneau from _Black Flag_'s Frame Narrative leaves for Chicago (where _Watch\_Dogs_ is set) during the game. In _Watch\_Dogs_, Aiden kills him as part of an optional side mission under mysterious orders from "The Brotherhood." There are also several references to Abstergo Industries, and, at one point, a child can be found playing _Assassin's Creed III: Liberation_, which is a video game produced by Abstergo Entertainment in-universe.
    -   One mission in _Far Cry 3_, which discusses "strange scientists" and "genetic memories", takes you to an abandoned Abstergo laboratory, placing this game and _Far Cry 4_ in the same universe as _Assassin's Creed_ and _Watch Dogs_. This extends to _Far Cry 2_ which is definitely set in the same universe as _3_ and _4_, due to them sharing characters and references, but whether the original or the fifth entry are still in the universe is yet to be seen. The world goes through a nuclear apocalypse at the end of _5_, that is expanded upon in _Far Cry: New Dawn_; if that doesn't happen in the mainline _Far Cry_, _Watch Dog_, and _Assassin's Creed_ franchises then it seems that _5_ branched off into an Alternate Continuity.
        -   The console-only remake of the first game, _Far Cry Instincts_, deviates from the PC-only original in several ways, in both gameplay and continuity. It was followed by two (also console-only) sequels, _Far Cry Instincts: Evolution_ and _Far Cry Instincts: Predator_. The _Instincts_ sub-series somewhat ties itself to _Far Cry 2_, as it has Jack Carver acting as an arms dealer, increasing the evidence for the theory that he is in fact the Jackal from _Far Cry 2_ (see also: the Jackal and Instincts!Jack both being former U.S. Army, while OG!Jack was former U.S. Navy). Due to Crytek leaving after the first game and not being present for the sequels or console ports, a common fan theory is that _Far Cry_ is in the same universe as _Crysis_ while _Far Cry: Instincts_ in a different timeline acts as the start of Ubisoft's _Far Cry_/_Watch Dogs_/_Assassin's Creed_ universe.
    -   _Rayman_ and _Far Cry 3: Blood Dragon_ are also video games in-universe, presumably by Abstergo Entertainment.
-   _Mega Man_:
    -   Classic, _X_, _Zero_, _ZX_, and _Legends_ are all on the same timeline despite the tone reaching further and further away from the original series with each new series.
    -   _Mega Man Battle Network_ and _Star Force_ both share a timeline separate from the original series. However, it is also implied that Lan Hikari's grandfather (Tadashi Hikari aka "Dr. Light") and Doctor Wily from those games are the same, just that in this universe internet and cyberspace-based technology took off instead of robotics technology.
-   According to a 1982 issue of _Electronic Games_ magazine, _Robotron: 2084_ takes place in the same universe as _Defender_ and _Stargate_ (aka _Defender II_). The hardly released _Blaster_ is a sequel to _Robotron_.
-   _Harvest Moon_ has a vague continuity, not helped by the amount of reusing the same characters. It has been proven that some games share a universe though:
    -   _Harvest Moon: A Wonderful Life_ and _Harvest Moon Another Wonderful Life_ take place in the same world as _Harvest Moon DS_, _Harvest Moon DS Cute_, _Harvest Moon Friends of Mineral Town_, and _Harvest Moon More Friends of Mineral Town_. The DS games take place at least a hundred years in the future from the others.
    -   _Harvest Moon 64_ is a direct sequel to the original _Harvest Moon_. The _64_ incarnations of Elli and Gray also appear _Harvest Moon: Tree of Tranquility_.
    -   _Hometown Story_ shares a universe with _Harvest Moon_. They were both created by the same man — in fact, _Hometown Story_ is considered a Spiritual Successor to _Harvest Moon_.
-   _Downfall (2009)_ and _The Cat Lady_ share a universe. The 2016 remake of _Downfall_ make this even more obvious, having The Cat Lady _herself_, Susan Ashworth, show up at the end. This indicates that _Downfall_ takes place sometime after the events in _The Cat Lady_.
-   Although it's a crossover game, _Namco × Capcom_ is a special case. The game itself has a world with the settings and characters of several contemporary Namco (_Tekken_, _Wonder Momo_, _.hack_, etc.), Capcom (_Street Fighter_, _Resident Evil_, _Dead Rising_, etc.), and as _Project × Zone_ shows up, even Sega (_Fighting Vipers_, _Dynamite Cop_, etc.) and Nintendo (_Fire Emblem_ and _Xenoblade Chronicles_) properties co-existing, and implies that _Xenosaga_ is its future. Crossover shenanigans involve other universes, then the main characters from the game (and _Xenosaga_) appeared in the _Endless Frontier_ games, which is a side realm of the _Super Robot Wars: Original Generation_ universe. This came back when characters from the _Frontier_ and _OG_ universes appeared in _Project X Zone_, then went back to _Super Robot Wars OG: The Moon Dwellers_ discussing their appearance in the previous game.
-   _BioShock_, which has ties to _Gone Home_, with one of the SNES game cartridges you can find in Sam's room being _Super Spitfire_, which references a minigame called _Spitfire_ in _BioShock 2: Minerva's Den_, which the developers of _Gone Home_ previously worked on, and from there to _Firewatch_, with one of the novels you can find in the caches being a copy of The Accidental Savior, the novel written by the protagonist's father in _Gone Home_. Also implied by this interview with Fullbright co-founder Steve Gaynor.
    
    Steve Gaynor has previously stated that the developer "very lightly implies" that Gone Home takes place in the same reality as BioShock. Gaynor's team has also inserted a small reference to Firewatch into the console version of its game.
    
-   _Tekken_:
    -   Through Canon Welding, and Akuma's Guest Fighter status in _Tekken 7_, it's suggested that _Tekken_ and _Street Fighter_ are set in the same universe (or, at the very least, a version of _Street Fighter_ exists in the _Tekken_ universe). Unlike the following DLC characters Geese Howard, Noctis and Negan, Akuma is actually present in the game's story, has established plot ties to its Big Bad, and faces both Heihachi and Kazuya in epic battles, the latter serving as the game's epilogue.
    -   The _Soul Series_ takes place in the distant past of the _Tekken_ series. The links between the two have been minimal (the most critical one being the presence of a man named "Yoshimitsu" leading a group of ninjas called the "Manji" in both, the one in _Soulcalibur_ being the 16th century ancestor of the one who comes from _Tekken_) but exist in the same reality. By extension, this would also mean that _The Witcher_ is canon to _Tekken_ and _Street Fighter_, considering that Geralt's appearance in _Soulcalibur VI_ is canon to that game's story.
    -   _Tekken_ is canon to _Xenosaga_, as Shion Uzuki can receive an email from Kazuya in _Episode I_ showing him in _Tekken 4_, which would therefore make _Xenosaga_ canon to _Street Fighter_, _Tekken_, _Soulcalibur_, and _The Witcher_. Given that _Xenoblade Chronicles 3: Future Redeemed_ ended up Arc Welding _Xenosaga_ and _Xenoblade Chronicles_, it would also mean that the _Xenoblade Chronicles_ games are canon to all the aforementioned franchises.
-   Like Capcom above, SNK is no slouch when it comes to inter-title continuity.
    -   Several of SNK's properties are set in the same universe, if _The King of Fighters_ is any indication. _The King of Fighters XIV_ backtracks slightly with its Another World Team (consisting of _Samurai Shodown_'s Nakoruru accompanied by Mui Mui and Love Heart, respectively from the pachinko games _Dragon Gal_ and _Sky Love_, all drawn into the _KOF_ world because of a rift between dimensions), suggesting that the various SNK titles that may or may not fit neatly into the _KOF_ continuity exist as part of a greater multiverse.
    -   _KOF_ itself is an Alternate Continuity to the joint _Art of Fighting/Fatal Fury_ timeline by virtue of Geese Howard being Killed Off for Real in 1995's _Real Bout Fatal Fury_ but sporadically appearing in _KOF_ alive and well starting the following year. There's also the decade or so gap between _AOF_ and _FF_, reflected by a younger Geese serving as the True Final Boss of _Art of Fighting 2_, an older Ryo Sakazaki appearing in the PlayStation port of _Fatal Fury: Wild Ambition_ as Mr. Karate II, and one of Ryo's students (Marco Rodriguez/Khushnood Butt) being included as part of the _Garou: Mark of the Wolves_ roster. Classic SNK wrestling game _3 Count Bout_ is also connected, as Big Bomberder is a tag partner of Raiden, is shown squaring off with Big Bear (Raiden's Face persona) in artwork for _Fatal Fury Special_, and is mentioned in Raiden's profile story for _KOF XII_.
    -   The _Fu'un Series_ (_Savage Reign_ and its sequel _Kizuna Encounter_) is suggested to take place in the far future of _Fatal Fury_ due to the setting (Jipang City is implied to be a futuristic/rebuilt Southtown), a young Chung Paifu receiving his hat from none other than Terry (referred to only as "the Legendary Wolf"), and Kim Sue Il being Ambiguously Related to Kim Kaphwan (presumably his descendant). Max Eagle, another one of the playable fighters, works for the SWF (Southtown Wrestling Federation) first mentioned in _3 Count Bout_.
    -   _Buriki One_ exists in a version of the _Fatal Fury_ timeline; the game marks the first appearance of the Ryo Sakazaki incarnation of Mr. Karate and Seo Yong Song is established as a pupil of Kim Kaphwan. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   In a non-fighting game example, _Metal Slug_ has featured Ralf and Clark from _Ikari Warriors_ (in their _KOF_ designs) as playable characters since the sixth installment. In return, Fio was a Secret Character in _KOF: Maximum Impact 2_ (one of two Alternate Continuities to the mainline _KOF_ games) and explicitly recognizes her comrades-in-arms. Fellow soldier of fortune Leona (also from _The King of Fighters_) later appeared in _Metal Slug XX_, the Updated Re-release of _7_, and _Metal Slug Attack_ would eventually complete the set by adding in Heidern and Whip (along with many other _KOF_ characters as playable units).
    -   _Psycho Soldier_ is a loose sequel to the events of _Athena_, featuring the goddess's descendant/possible reincarnation Athena Asamiya (another character who became a _KOF_ staple). In an interesting aversion, neither _The King of Fighters_ nor the direct sequel to _Athena_ (_Athena: Full Throttle_) clarify whether or not the goddess Athena is related to Gaia, who is established as the mother of Orochi in _KOF_ lore, like in the source material.
-   The connections between _Saints Row_ and Volition's other big franchise, _Red Faction_, have waned and strengthened throughout the years, primarily revolving around the villainous MegaCorp named Ultor, which is the driving force behind the colonization of Mars in _RF_. As early as the original _Saints Row_, the city of Stilwater hosted the Ultor Dome, featuring the Ultor corporate logos, and Ultor became a major power in the city by _Saints Row 2_. Then it had merged with the 3rd Street Saints by _Saints Row: The Third_, weakening the connection; despite an audio cameo by Shaundi in _Red Faction: Guerrilla_, which seems to be the _Saints Row 2_ version of her (granted _Guerrilla_ came out before _Saints Row 3_ and its developments), there are no mentions of the Saints as an organization. However, one of _SR3_'s two endings reinforced it again by having the main characters star in a movie about Mars, meaning that _SR_!Ultor _does_ have some interest in the Red Planet. And then it went right out of the window when the entire planet of Earth was blown up by the invading aliens in _Saints Row IV_ (it is very much intact in _RF_). However, the shared universe, or rather, shared _multi_verse was reestablished by _Saints Row: Gat Out of Hell_ and _Agents of Mayhem_, as the former had an ending that erased the Saints' entire timeline via Cosmic Retcon, and the latter established it as canon. _AoM_ contains passing references to Ultor, so it presumably never gets bogged down in Stilwater in this timeline and eventually reaches Mars.
-   Easter eggs suggest that _Dragon Age_ is a video game franchise in the universe of _Mass Effect_. Evidence for this include the Blood Dragon Armor in _Mass Effect 3_ being modeled after a suit from _Dragon Age_ (complete with the series logo on the chest) and a statue of a _Dragon Age_ ogre being seen in Donovan Hock's vault. Also, in _Dragon Age: Inquisition_, a krogan's head can be seen in the room of hunting trophies at Halamshiral Palace; apparently a krogan ended up on Thedas at some point and was killed and taxidermied.
-   _Hitman_ and _Kane & Lynch_. The titular duo from the latter makes a cameo appearance in _Hitman: Absolution_, after being seen on newspapers in _Hitman: Blood Money._ You can kill them.
-   Some of _Wadjet Eye Games_ creations are confirmed to be set in a shared universe.
-   The Infocom _Zork_ text adventures are set in the same universe as the _Enchanter_ trilogy (_Enchanter_, _Sorcerrer_, _Spellbreaker_). The _Enchanter_ Trilogy has fewer Zorkisms, but if you enter a pitch black place, you are still likely to be eaten by a Grue if you don't turn on a light source. The game _Starcross_ also has the Grue reference in both the story and the stock warning about entering a dark place. Starcross is a futuristic Science Fiction game that is played straight and its inclusion in the Zorkian universe is incongruous, despite the fact that a grue is seen in the space zoo. Game reviewers such as Digital Antiquarian have theorized that this might be due to laziness on the programmer's part as they could have simply changed the code to remove the "grue" reference or change the light source limitation.
-   Although most Disney worlds depicted in _Kingdom Hearts_ are alternate universe versions of the original properties they represent, Word of God states that the staff of Pixar worked with Tetsuya Nomura to fit the storylines of the Pixar worlds in _Kingdom Hearts III_ into the continuity of the original films, and that as far as Pixar is concerned the events of the Toy Box world is "Toy Story 2.5", meaning that the _Toy Story_ films canonically take place within the universe of _Kingdom Hearts_. The same is likely true of Monstropolis and _Monsters, Inc._, albeit without the same explicit Word of God.
-   Telltale Games' _The Walking Dead (Telltale)_ takes place in the same universe as the comic. Several characters from the comic series make appearances in supporting roles (or playable, in Michonne's case), but sadly don't stick around for very long. These cameos include Hershel and Shawn Greene, Glenn, Michonne, her daughters, Pete, Siddiq, and Paul "Jesus" Monroe. Lilly was originally intended to be the same Lilly from the comic and Season One was meant to be her origin story, until _The Road to Woodbury_ threw a wrench into that.
-   While they don't share a single universe, _Mortal Kombat_ seems to share to be connected to the same multiverse as DC Comics (or at least video games based on DC properties). This started with the direct crossover game, _Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe_, and continued on to _Mortal Kombat_ repeatedly providing Guest Fighters for DC's _Injustice_ series, which is also made by Mortal Kombat's creators. _Injustice_ would then return the favor with the Joker's inclusion as a guest fighter in _Mortal Kombat 11_. There are even hints (admittedly of questionable canonicity) that the cosmic forces at work in each respective series may be playing a part in the other.
-   Thanks to the appearance of Imran Zakhaev in _Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War_ and its integration with the gameplay and lore of _Warzone_, _Black Ops_ is set in the same continuity as _Call of Duty: Modern Warfare (2019)_. Season 2 even centers around Woods and his team attempting to rescue Adler, who is being flown in to Verdansk. With the release of _Call of Duty: Vanguard_, itself a sequel to _Call of Duty: WWII_, both games are now canon to this overarching _Call of Duty_ universe.
-   Several, possibly all, of the different franchises created by Elephant Games are confirmed to take place in the same universe. This is most evidently confirmed by the Crisis Crossover series _Detectives United_, but there are also instances of games in one series referencing the events or characters of another, such as Alice Gray (in the _Grim Tales_ series) calling James Blackthorne (from the _Haunted Hotel_ games) "Uncle James."
-   It's at least somewhat implied through shared naming conventions that the _Azure Striker Gunvolt Series_ and _Gal\*Gun_ take place in the same universe. Also, if you count _Mighty Gunvolt Burst_ as canon, _Mighty No. 9_ is also included. _Luminous Avenger iX 2_ seems to imply that a version of the _Blaster Master Zero_ trilogy (and the _Metafight_ saga by extension) is also canon to the _Gunvolt_ universe in a fashion.
-   CyberConnect2's _Little Tail Bronx_ universe is comprised of the _Tail Concerto_ and _Solatorobo: Red the Hunter_ action games, along with the _Mamoru-kun_ educational browser game and the now-defunct _Little Tail Story_ mobile RPG (both of which were Japan-exclusive). The _Fuga: Melodies of Steel_ series of tactical RPGs takes place several centuries prior to any of these other games, and is set in the same location as _Solatorobo_.
-   DRAGO Entertainment focuses on developing simulator-style games which have started to form a common continuity. _Gas Station Simulator_ possesses the most obvious connections, as playing it along with its sister games _Road Diner Simulator_ and _Motel Simulator_ will bring bonuses to the table, but they also sneak in nods to otherwise unrelated products, such as saying that Dennis grew up, moved out of the desert, and started the food truck business seen in their game _Food Truck Simulator_.

    Visual Novels 

-   _School Days_, its sequels, and several other related visual novels are all part of a shared setting called the 0verflow Universe. Nearly every character is part of the same Tangled Family Tree, due to the actions of a certain serial womanizer/rapist.

    Web Animation 

-   _Battle for Dream Island_ and _Inanimate Insanity_ apparently share the same universe, as in the Cold Opening to one episode of _II_, Nickel mentions escaping the Locker of Losers from _BFDI_ (and footage from _BFDI_ is seen at that point), which hints to the Nickel seen in the mentioned episode of _BFDI_ being the same Nickel from _II_ (it helps that Nickel is voiced by Adam Katz in both series). Now that Nickel is a regular character in _BFDIA_, it's unknown if this is still the same Nickel from _II_. Many Object Shows also apparently share the same universe, as seen through Crossover Punchlines and cameos, due to how close-knit the Object Show Community is.
-   _Hazbin Hotel_ and _Helluva Boss_, given they were both made by Vivienne "Vivziepop" Medrano. Both series taking place in Hell, with a few instances of characters and scenarios being referenced.
-   _Sonic for Hire_ and _Mega Man Dies at the End_ share the same universe, characters from each series make an appearance in a few episodes and there was Crossover between the two.
-   _If the Emperor Had a Text-to-Speech Device_ shares a universe with several other videos made by the creator's friends, known as the TTS-Verse. A mostly complete playlist of all TTS-Verse videos can be found here.

    Webcomics 

-   Webcomics tend to be chock full of Crossovers and Shout-Outs, but very few non-Spin-Off comics have Shared Universes. Among those that do:
    -   _Badly Drawn Kitties_ and _Better Days_ and _Sabrina Online_ all crossed over via the characters Lucy Koneko and Zig Zag, although various author dramas try to retcon this out of existence.
    -   _Something\*Positive_ and...
        -   _Queen of Wands/Punch an' Pie_
        -   _Girls with Slingshots_ (and by extension, _All New Issues_)
        -   _Penny and Aggie_
    -   _Melonpool_ and the Walkyverse
        -   In fact, all of the above apparently share a universe now, since characters from _Something Positive_ and _Girls with Slingshots_ have appeared in _Shortpacked!_.
        -   _Questionable Content_ as well, though mainly as the odd cameo (and an implied spacewarp between the Shortpacked store and Coffee of Doom, which is actually pretty reasonable by QC standards at least - it's since been established that the coffee shop near Shortpacked which has the same layout, staff, clientele and espresso dinosaur as Coffee of Doom is called Coffeeright Theft).
        -   Questionable Content also shows Kim Ross, cybernetic protagonist of Dresden Codak, laughing at Pintsize's mishaps in an IRC.
        -   The pre-reboot version of _Zortic_ was also part of the Melonpool-verse. Ralph and Splink were officially half-brothers. This hasn't been mentioned since the reboot.
        -   Melonpool, Ralph, Splink, and Zortic have all appeared in _The Inexplicable Adventures of Bob!_ Aparently Voluptua knows Ralph and Splink's family.
    -   _Neko The Kitty_ and _Catharsis_ not only share a universe, they share an apartment building.
    -   _The Wotch_ and _The Accidental Centaurs_
    -   Ryan North believes that his _Dinosaur Comics_ and Andrew Hussie's _Homestuck_ share a universe.
        -   Hell, with the cornucopia of Fanon and fansessions that have sprung up, it can be argued that Paradox Space itself is a shared universe, albeit one where only the creator has official rights to it.
    -   The International Comic Continuity was created specifically to make a Shared Universe.
    -   _Eerie Cuties_/_Magick Chicks_ and _Vampire Cheerleaders_/_Paranormal Mystery Squad_ take place in the same universe, as evidenced by Steph and Layla's bonded hairpins and Word of God. However, the Delacroixes and Lori's coven are different breeds of vampire following slightly different rules, and Charlotte is a _very_ different kind of witch than Mel's coven, who for as-yet-unexplained reasons are considered cryptids while Charlotte (like the Artemis Academy's magical cadets and espers) is human.
-   The _Sunstone_ and _Blood Stain_ online comics are made by a husband-and-wife pair. Each comic is separate in story, but the characters interact with each other in a Fictional Video Game named _Moonstone Gate_.
-   _Heroes Unite_ brought together existing superhero comics Energize, Hellfire and Acrobat<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  into a single universe (nicknamed the H Universe) as well as introducing new H Universe character Bombshell who launched her own series simultaneously. As time went on, more existing comics became part of the H Universe, including Blue Jay, SHELL and Vora Princess Of The Skies amongst others.
-   _Agents of the Realm_ and _Radio Silence_. Norah (the protagonist of the former) and Matt (a main character of the latter) are cousins, and have been seen video chatting with each other in their respective comics.
-   Pretty much every _Kirby_ Fan Webcomic seems to take place in the same multiverse, as several fan comics have had crossovers with one other, whether as a story arc or a cameo.
    -   _Kirby Adventure_ has had two crossover arcs with _Kirby's Dream Adventure_ and one with _20 Times Kirby_, while _Kirby Tales In Dreamland_ has had crossovers with _Kirby's Dream Experience_ and _Kirby Card Clash_.
    -   _Kirby Adventure_ at one point also had Raize and Hali trying to find the _Kirby's Dream Adventure_ dimension to ask Kaaby to help them rebuild their base after it gets destroyed during the events of "Infiltration", but their interdimensional portal transporter has a few problems and keeps sending them to the wrong dimensions, including _Kirby: The Dee Army_, _Kirby's Dream Land If... - Kirby of the Nuclear Winter_, _Kirby's Dreamland Adventures_, _Kirby Super Deluxe_, _Kirby Fun Fest_, _Kirby Arena_, _Dumbity: Kirby's Fantastic Adventure_, _Kirbyware, Inc. : Mega Minigame$!_, _A Kirby Komic_, and _Kirby's Dream Experience_.
        
        **NAVO**: NAVO not get references.
        
    -   There are also cases where a character from one comic gets sent to another, with Master Green, the Arc Villain from _Kirby Adventure_'s "Master of Puppets" arc, becoming a recurring character in _Kirby's Dream Adventure_, and " " from _Kirby Tales in Dreamland_ accidentally getting sent to _Kirby Card Clash_ by the latter comic's Author Avatar, with " "'s character arc there involving the characters figuring out how to send him back to his home dimension, eventually causing the above mentioned crossover arc with _Tales in Dreamland_.
-   In terms of _MS Paint Adventures_ comics, _Jailbreak_ and _Bard Quest_ take place in the Realm of Imagination of _Problem Sleuth_. _Homestuck_ is the only adventure to not make it entirely clear whether it takes place in the same world as the previous ones, though _Problem Sleuth_ exists in-universe as a Show Within a Show that the human cast references plenty of times. _Homestuck^2_, on the other hand, brings some of the characters back through the use of a Fenestrated Wall.

    Web Original 

-   _Aitor Molina Vs._ and _Retropokon_ usually crossover with each other. With Lemon Emon, Pesadillas del Infierno, El Rincón de LonkPlays and others in animated specials.
-   By definition, roleplaying boards such as _Survival of the Fittest_ are Shared Universes, since each handler has his own spin on the story.
-   Many Internet writing circles take the form of shared universes. Some such universes have been around continuously since the mid-1980s.
-   The Randomverse contains multiple roleplays run by different people. They include _The Death Series_, _The Insane Quest of Unfathomable Randomness_, _Smile For The Camera_, and _TV Tropes The Adventure_.
-   Jason Bortz, M. S. Patterson, and Christopher Wright share a universe informally titled "The Foldspace Universe." It's the setting for _Pay Me, Bug!_, among others.
-   "In My World" and "Inspector Dan Rather" seem to take place in the same over-the-top-ridiculous universe, although they are told from very different points of view and rarely overlap. The only "Inspector Dan Rather" story not told from Rather's delusional point-of-view seems to confirm this.
-   Several "imprints" on the superhero fiction newsgroup rec.arts.comics.creative, notably the _Legion of Net.Heroes_ and _Academy of Superheroes_.
-   The Metaverse is a slowly developing example, due to being comprised of live action videos, mostly made on a zero dollar budget.
-   Word of God has it that _The Autobiography of Jane Eyre_ is in the same verse as _The Lizzie Bennet Diaries_, and by extension, other Pemberley Digital productions.
-   The Channel Awesome Universe which consists of all the website's shows: Ask That Guy with the Glasses, Atop the Fourth Wall, Bad Movie Beatdown, The Cinema Snob, Diamanda Hagan, Familiar Faces, JesuOtaku, The Nostalgia Chick, The Nostalgia Critic, That Dude in the Suede, What the Fuck Is Wrong with You?, The Spoony Experiment, and numerous others, as well as _The Angry Video Game Nerd_. All of this comes to a head in _To Boldly Flee_, which ends up establishing a cosmic lore behind the universe all these internet critics reside in. Otherwise, _Atop the Fourth Wall_ is _the_ show that actively explores and plays with the fact that it and other review shows take place within a shared universe and creates storylines around it.
    -   Can be taken even further accounting non-TGWTG crossovers.
-   Various Creepypastas are at least implied to take place in the same Universe, given how many of them are presented as being real. The SCP Foundation and at least some of The Slender Man Mythos may be part of it too.
-   The SCP Foundation takes place in the same universe as The Wanderer's Library. Also, due to the fact that the Foundation "has no canon" it can share the same universe with anything, since it is up to the reader to decide what is or isn't canon. Several crossover stories have been written by various authors, crossing it with a wide variety of works.
-   The webseries of _The Slender Man Mythos_, with the exception of _Marble Hornets_, take place in the same universe. For example, HABIT, the main antagonist of _Everyman HYBRID_ also causes trouble in _Tribe Twelve_ and _MLAnderson0_, which is just one of many things connecting all of the works together.
-   _Mr. Coat_: Because of numerous cameos, he's part of the Reviewaverse.

    Western Animation 

-   _Rugrats_ (and by extension its sequel series _All Grown Up!_) and _The Wild Thornberrys_ share a world, as shown in the theatrical crossover movie _Rugrats Go Wild!_.
-   _Family Guy_ and _The Cleveland Show_, along with _American Dad!_ each had an episode where a hurricane appeared and passed through the houses of their respective main characters. Since the Cleveland Show is a direct acknowledged spinoff in Family Guy itself, the casts have interacted in the other show many times. American Dad and Family Guy both treat each other as shows within their own series, but at the same time have featured various character cameos for the sake of a joke.
-   A subtle link exists among four of Hasbro, Marvel and Sunbow's Merchandise-Driven 1980s cartoons — the character of Hector Ramirez, a thinly veiled parody of Geraldo Rivera, appears in _Inhumanoids_, _G.I. Joe: A Real American Hero_, _The Transformers_ and _Jem_; his creator states that this forces them into the same universe.
    -   It goes deeper in that in some cases. In the third season of the _Transformers_ cartoon, Autobot ally Marissa Faireborn has been explicitly stated to be the daughter of Joe's Flint and Lady Jaye.
    -   Also, the episode "Only Human" featured a villain called "Old Snake," who was clearly Cobra Commander — he has access to "synthoids," a technology originally seen in the _G.I. Joe_ cartoon, and briefly yells "COBRA!" before collapsing into a coughing fit.
    -   In _Transformers: Animated_ The AllSpark Almanac II, Vector Prime (one of the original 13 Transformers, who Primus himself created; he chose Vector as his time/space defender) confirms that all these shows and _C.O.P.S._ (due to the Checkpoint/Beachhead connection noted above) take place in the _Transformers G1_ continuity.
-   Since the _Looney Tunes_ characters are the teachers to the _Tiny Toon Adventures_ characters, this makes an obvious example.
    -   _Animaniacs_ also had characters from different segments cameo with each other, as well as cameos from _Tiny Toons_ and _Looney Tunes_, and it goes without saying for _Pinky and the Brain_ as it's a spin-off of _Animaniacs_. _Freakazoid!_ also popped in on _Animaniacs_, the World's Oldest Woman and Lucky Bob from _Histeria!_ first appeared on _Animaniacs_, and Brain made a voice cameo on _Road Rovers_. Though, it does get to confusing territory with _Pinky, Elmyra & the Brain_ when Elmyra adopts Pinky and Brain as pets with no mention of the events of _Tiny Toon Adventures_ whatsoever (although Word of God has said that, as loose of continuity a lot of the shows have, _Pinky, Elmyra & the Brain_ is the one show that is considered not canon).
-   While it's pretty obvious that _DuckTales (1987)_ and _Darkwing Duck_ share the same universe due to sharing one of the main characters, _The Legend of the Chaos God_ storyline in _Disney Adventures_ also placed _TaleSpin_, _Chip 'n Dale: Rescue Rangers_ and _Goof Troop_ in it as well.
    -   Something that raises the question is how this works in the case of _Chip 'n Dale: Rescue Rangers_ as normal anatomically correct humans are shown to exist in their world and the sentient animals are keeping The Masquerade.
    -   According to Word of God, _Darkwing Duck_ and _DuckTales_ are not in the same universe and the Launchpad McQuack that we see in one of the shows is just an alternate version.
    -   Disregarding what _The Legend of the Chaos God_ established (assuming it is canon), _Chip 'n Dale: Rescue Rangers_ is canonically established to be a separate universe from _Darkwing_'s as shown in the episode "Twitching Channels". On the other hand, Tad Stone's claim that _Darkwing_ and _DuckTales_ do not share the same universe has been heavily contested using in-show evidence.
    -   Similarly, the new _DuckTales (2017)_ seems to be establishing its own shared universe, with episodes referencing elements of _Darkwing Duck_, _TaleSpin_, and _Adventures of the Gummi Bears_.
        -   As of Season 3, we can add _Chip 'n Dale: Rescue Rangers_ and _Goof Troop_ and _Gargoyles_ , plus the rest of _Darkwing Duck_ and _TaleSpin_.
        -   Various Shout Outs and one fan-comic receiving Approval of God led many to believe that _Wander over Yonder_ is also in the same universe, since both shows did have Frank Angones working on them.
-   The _DC Animated Universe_ includes _Batman: The Animated Series_, _Superman: The Animated Series_, _Batman Beyond_, _The Zeta Project_, _Static Shock_ and _Justice League_.
-   It's implied by Hal's appearance and Aya in _Justice League Action_ that the show takes place after _Green Lantern: The Animated Series_, but it's not certain, especially due to some inconsistencies such as in characterization.
-   Word of God confirms that _Transformers: Prime_ and _Transformers: Rescue Bots_ take place in the same universe. This was finally confirmed in-universe by the _Rescue Bots_ episode "Bumblebee to the Rescue". It's also the reason _Rescue Bots_ is set on an island and _Prime_ is set in the American southwest. This allows the two shows to reference each other and interact while still being separate.
    -   _Transformers: Robots in Disguise_ is a sequel to _Prime_, and thus shares the same universe as well. _Rescue Bots_ final season solidified this with Bumblebee returning and now voiced by Will Friedle, as well as a direct crossover with RID's Sideswipe, with Blurr also making some appearances in _Robots In Disguise_'s third season.
-   _Space Ghost Coast to Coast_ and its More Popular Spin-Off _Aqua Teen Hunger Force_, as well as its less popular spinoffs _The Brak Show_ and _Harvey Birdman, Attorney at Law_. Space Ghost has a cameo in the _Aqua Teen Hunger Force_ movie.
-   Jorge Gutierrez has declared his works _El Tigre_ and _The Book of Life_ as sharing a universe and has made connections between characters from both works. For example, Manolo Sanchez's mother Carmen is the sister of Manny Rivera's great-grandfather Justice Jaguar.
-   _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2012)_ and _Super Robot Monkey Team Hyperforce Go!_, due to various references and _connections_ to the latter show in TMNT's fourth season, and the fact that Ciro Nieli worked on both shows.
-   While largely kept out of the shows proper, both Nickelodeon and Cartoon Network have used this premise in many of their bumper-ads and video games. Observe.
-   Craig Gerber's two shows, _Sofia the First_ and _Elena of Avalor_ (a spinoff of _Sofia the First_), are both in the same universe, known as the Ever Realm.
    -   Sofia's amulet summons Disney Princesses up to _Frozen_ (which is another story), no matter if they're from a future time period or from the "real world". One notable example is Tiana, who is from 1920's New Orleans and has to introduce herself to Sofia since she doesn't know who she is. Word of God implies that time in the Ever Realm and the "real world" run differently and that the present day of the Ever Realm in fact takes place in our equivalent of the 2010's. It's not clear if the stories of the princesses are considered fictitious and just brought to life by the Amulet or true, just somewhere else, in the Ever Realm.
        -   The tale of _Sleeping Beauty_ happened in the past, due to the appearances of the three fairies as well as Maleficent being mentioned as an infamous figure.
        -   Princess Amber is a fan of Rapunzel, which means that the events of _Tangled_ are quite well known.
        -   In one episode, a character says that the story of a princess who could control ice is fairly well known in her area, and in the episode where Olaf is a guest star, Olaf mentions that he was just hanging out with Princess Anna just a while ago. Sofia has no idea what either of them are talking about, meaning that she's unfamiliar with the story of _Frozen_.
    -   Merlin of _The Sword in the Stone_ appears.
    -   Word of God is of the opinion that any of the Disney fantasy stories that aren't explicitly stated to take place in the real world take place in the Ever Realm.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   The _Sofia the First_ Series Finale reveals that the Ever Realm includes Neverland. So if you wanted to, _Sofia the First_ also takes place in the same universe as _Return To Neverland_, the Disney Fairies franchise, and _Jake and the Never Land Pirates_.
-   _Handy Manny_ and _Special Agent Oso_ have a crossover episode. \*Doc McStuffins, and then Doc McStuffins later meeting Winnie-the-Pooh and the other inhabitants of the Hundred Acre Wood.
-   _Gargoyles_ was a failed attempt to start a shared universe. There were several plans for Spin-Off series taking place in the same universe as _Gargoyles_ that were never made, and several episodes were Poorly Disguised Pilots for these spinoffs. There also were plans for a crossover with _Atlantis: The Lost Empire_ that never happened. Eventually, on-and-off comic continuations years later let some of the spinoffs actually get made, _Gargoyles: Bad Guys_ and _Gargoyles: Dark Ages_.
-   _Phineas and Ferb_ and _Milo Murphy's Law_, both created by Dan Povenmire and Swampy Marsh, with the latter retaining much of the former's staff. The second season has the two series crossover, from which point several characters from _Phineas and Ferb_ begin making regular appearances on _Milo Murphy's Law_.
-   It has been hinted at various points that _Total Drama_ is set in the same universe as _6teen_. Lindsay mentions the Khaki Barn (a store featured in many episodes of _6teen_) in an episode of _World Tour_, while MacArthur of _The Ridonculous Race_ name-dropped Jen from _6teen_ as being her babysitter when she was six. _Stōked_ is also implied to be part of this universe as well.
-   Hanna-Barbera\-specific:
    -   _Harvey Birdman, Attorney at Law_, a satirical sequel to _Birdman (1967)_, is consisted of a cast from various Hanna-Barbera cartoons.
    -   _The Flintstones_ and _The Jetsons_ once had a crossover special.
    -   In the _Scooby-Doo_ franchise, many of its iterations post-_Scooby-Doo, Where Are You!_ are supposed to be sequels to the original series, although not all of these sequels share the same universe with _each other_.
        -   In _Scooby-Doo! Mystery Incorporated_, we get cameos from the cast of _Jonny Quest_, a feral and jailed Yogi Bear, and has an episode featuring the Dynomutt and Blue Falcon. However, these seem to be Broad Strokes of them. In addition, one episode is a crossover with _Speed Buggy_, _Captain Caveman and the Teen Angels_, _Jabberjaw_, and _The Funky Phantom_, although this turns out to be a Fever Dream Episode and all of them except for _The Funky Phantom_ are Shows Within A Show. The show ends with the implication that it's actually a Stealth Prequel to the original series, although Word of God later clarified that it lead into a Broad Strokes of the original series. Due to numerous canon inconsistencies such as the portrayal of the Gang's families, the _Mystery Incorporated_ canon can't fit with the numerous sequel series, which are where most of the crossovers take place.
        -   _The New Scooby-Doo Movies_ featured numerous crossovers with other cartoons, including with _Josie and the Pussycats_ (although interestingly, as _The Archie Show_ was produced by Filmation, there was never a crossover between _Josie_ and _Archie_, so we can't say if the two take place in the same universe as they usually do), _The Addams Family_, _The Harlem Globetrotters_, _Jeannie_, _Speed Buggy_, and _The New Adventures of Batman_.
        -   _Laff-A-Lympics_ is a crossover between numerous Hanna-Barbera shows, including _Scooby-Doo_, _Jeannie_<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , _Speed Buggy_, _Dynomutt Dog Wonder_, _Captain Caveman and the Teen Angels_, _Hong Kong Phooey_, _Huckleberry Hound_, _Yogi Bear_, _Yakky Doodle_, _Augie Doggie and Doggie Daddy_, _The Great Grape Ape_, _Quick Draw McGraw_, _Hokey Wolf_, _Pixie, Dixie and Mr. Jinks_, _Snooper and Blabber_, _Wally Gator_, _The Flintstones_, _Jabberjaw_, _Peter Potamus', and_ It's The Wolf_. Characters from_ Josie and the Pussycats _and_ Wacky Races'' were also supposed to return for the crossover, but legal issues with Filmation and Heatter-Quigley Productions respectively prevented that from happening. So... how's your head?
        -   In the direct-to-DVD continuity, there's another _Scooby-Doo/Batman_ crossover, _Scooby-Doo! & Batman: The Brave and the Bold_, except with the _Batman: The Brave and the Bold_ incarnation. Interestingly, in _The Brave and the Bold_, there was an episode where Batman (in the artstyle of _The New Adventures of Batman_) teamed up with the original series' version of Mystery Incorporated.
        -   Also in the direct-to-DVD continuity, in _Scooby-Doo! WrestleMania Mystery_, there's a cameo appearance from the female members of the Team from _Young Justice_. However, Word of God by one of the creators of _Young Justice_ clarified that this is probably a Broad Strokes version of the girls, which avoids complications with the later _Scooby-Doo_ crossover with _Batman: The Brave and the Bold_.
        -   _Johnny Bravo_ has crossed over with _Scooby-Doo_ and _The Flintstones_.
        -   Subverted. _Scooby-Doo, Where Are You!_ is a cartoon show in _Supernatural_, but due to supernatural shenanigans, the main characters of _Supernatural_ cross over into an episode of _Scooby-Doo, Where Are You!_ in a special.
        -   The Grimwood Girls from _Scooby-Doo and the Ghoul School_ appeared in an episode of _OK K.O.! Let's Be Heroes_, which also had a crossover with _Captain Planet and the Planeteers_, and _OK KO_'s Grand Finale revealed main character Mr. Gar's hometown is Monte Macabre, the setting of _Victor and Valentino_, placing them all in the same universe.
        -   _Jellystone!_, much like _Laff-A-Lympics_, features a multitude of characters from Hanna-Barbera shows living in the same town together. In addition to many of the above-mentioned shows, we also get appearances from Jonny Quest and Shazzan.
-   _The Loud House_ & _The Casagrandes_ take place in the same universe, obviously with the latter being a spin-off of the former and Ronnie Anne and Bobby starting as supporting characters on _The Loud House_.
-   _The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy_ and _Evil Con Carne_ are sister shows. _Billy and Mandy_ has also crossed over with _The Powerpuff Girls (1998)_ and _Codename: Kids Next Door_.
    -   In one episode of _The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy_, Billy unearths a Human Popsicle Fred Flintstone.
    -   The _Codename Kids Next Door_ crossover began with Billy calling Eddy, who suggests Billy calls the KND in the first place. There’s also several Freeze Frame Bonuses of various other Cartoon Network characters flying out of an explosion toward the end of the episode.
-   In _Ben 10_ sequel _Ben 10: Omniverse_, there's a crossover with _The Secret Saturdays_. During _Ben 10: Ultimate Alien_, Ben is also transported into the _Generator Rex_ universe in one episode of the latter show, so they at least exist in the same multiverse.
-   _Fairly OddParents_ and _Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius_ is an odd example. While it's stated that they live in different universes, both can travel through the other show, Timmy thanks to his fairies and Jimmy because of his inter-dimensional travelling engine. Making it an instance of Shared Multiverse.
-   _Ultimate Spider-Man_, _Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H._, and the first four seasons of _Avengers Assemble_ are in the same continuity (Earth-12041).
    -   Season 5 of _Avengers Assemble_, _Marvel's Spider-Man_, and _Guardians of the Galaxy_ are in Earth-17628.
    -   Before that, there was Earth-8096, a prototype universe of sorts designated towards several Marvel cartoons produced near the turn of 2010, including _Wolverine and the X-Men_, _The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes_, _Thor: Tales of Asgard_ and _Hulk Vs._. Notably, while they did share similarities in terms of animation styles and even voice actors, none of these works ever fully crossed over with any intersecting storylines, likely due to _Wolverine's_ early cancellation, and the eventual end of _Earth's Mightiest Heroes_ to make way for _Avengers Assemble_. As their names in the titles implied, Wolverine, the Hulk and Thor were recurring figures among these works, with the former two's first encounter being depicted twice.
-   The final episode of _Camp Lazlo_ implies that the show takes place in the same universe as _Rocko's Modern Life_ with the appearance of a character who is clearly meant to be an older version of Heffer.
-   _Amphibia_, _The Owl House_ and _Gravity Falls_ are implied to take place in the same universe, as all three shows contain references and (background) cameos that place them in the same setting as each other. On a meta level, both of the former shows were created by alumni from _Gravity Falls_, and all three feature the involvement of Alex Hirsch (who created _Gravity Falls_).
    -   _The Owl House_ to _Gravity Falls_: Eda is mentioned as using "Marilyn" as an alias in the Human World, the same name as Grunkle Stan's purported ex-wife, whose description matches Eda's to a T. Further, the mechanics/depiction of memory-reading and mindscapes in _Owl House_ is beat-per-beat identical to that of _Gravity Falls_.
    -   _Gravity Falls_ to _Amphibia_: Frog versions of Grunkle Stan and Soos appear in one episode of _Amphibia_, all the way down to having the same names and voice actor, with the clear implication that they're the amphibian world's versions of the characters from _Gravity Falls_.
    -   _Amphibia_ to _The Owl House_: "If You Give A Frog A Cookie" and "King's Tide" confirm the _Amphibia_ and _The Owl House_ connection; the former features a blurry picture of the Owl House itself taken through a flawed dimensional portal, and the latter has a Wham Shot of a news article about the events of the series finale of _Amphibia_ on Camila Noceda's iPad, complete with a photo of Anne Boonchuy.
-   _SpongeBob SquarePants_, along with its two spin-offs, _Kamp Koral_ and _The Patrick Star Show_, are implied to take place in a single universe, despite their conflicting canonicity. The shows regularly intersect with one another, with _Kamp Koral_’s Narle and Nobby appearing in _SpongeBob_ twice, Cecil, Bunny and GrandPat of _The Patrick Star Show_ appearing in one episode of _Kamp Koral_, and GrandPat briefly visiting the original _SpongeBob_ universe once.
-   In the late 2010s, there were plans to create a shared universe of adult animated series based on characters from Marvel Comics for Hulu. The planned shows were to be based around M.O.D.O.K., Howard the Duck, Dazzler & Tigra, and Hit-Monkey, with the four shows culminating in a crossover miniseries titled _The Offenders_. However, as the shows were being developed, producer Marvel Television was absorbed into Marvel Studios, causing the plans to be scrapped. Ultimately, _M.O.D.O.K. (2021)_ and _Hit-Monkey_ were the only two shows to make it to air while the rest were canceled. While the shows did share a universe, with _Hit-Monkey_ referencing events from _M.O.D.O.K._ in a news scroll, their differing animation styles and tones (_M.O.D.O.K._ being a stop motion Dom Com and _Hit-Monkey_ being a more serious 2D action show) made a crossover unlikely. Compounding this issue is the fact that _M.O.D.O.K._ was canceled after one season while _Hit-Monkey_ was renewed but moved production to 20th Television Animation with the Marvel branding being removed.
-   Several episodes of _Lilo & Stitch: The Series_ feature crossovers with _American Dragon: Jake Long_, _The Proud Family_, _Recess_, and _Kim Possible_, implying they all live in the same world.

___