Please don't list this on a work's page as a trope.  
Examples can go on the work's YMMV tab.

_"Because it is not the purpose of this program to show the further development of my relationship \[...\] I will refrain from showing much. I wouldn't want to throw my dear viewers' time down the gutter, now would I? Nothing else is as boring to tell as a story of successful love."_

Hooray! They got together! Finally! We've watched them Meet Cute, groaned at the arrival of the Romantic False Lead, sat through seasons upon chapters of Will They or Won't They?, shouted hurray at their Now or Never Kiss and this is the moment we've all been waiting for! And for good reason, because now...

Um, because now...

Uh.

The Romance Arc is the gift that keeps on giving. Whole fandoms have been known to run solely on the fuel of shipping vitriol for years on end. Though they won't admit it, people _will_ continue watching through a boring scene just to see whether Tweedle-dee can work up the nerve to ask out Tweedle-dum over there. But, for some reason, as readily as they attach themselves to potential couples, they shrug at the successful conclusion of the romance and move on. Yes, for all the grand arguments and fights over who will get with who that reach ridiculous levels of Serious Business, when everything is said and done and the characters do become an item? Past that climax point, you'll find that most of the audience has completely lost interest. On a basic level, you can blame the good ol' stock aesop of Wanting Is Better Than Having, which is at the core of the mentality which romanticizes the exact phase of "getting together with someone" beyond all reason. After all, continuing on to watch them get married, have children, and happily grow old together wouldn't be interesting in the slightest, now would it?

This may be why even in works far towards the idealistic end of the Sliding Scale of Idealism Versus Cynicism, everyone seems to stay forever trapped in a limbo of meaningful gazes and Moment Killers; writers just don't want to take their chances with this reaction. It's also probably the underlying cause of Last Minute Hookups and characters hooking up afterwards being so common. It's a rare writer who seriously builds on plain vanilla True Love as a pillar of the plot.

Another contributing factor beyond audience apathy is that writing a convincing relationship, with genuine depth of character and development, is a much more difficult feat than pouring on the quick-reaction drama and will-they-won't-they, far above Platonic Writing, Romantic Reading; for as daunting as asking someone out can be, that's the _easiest_ part of any given relationship when compared to the effort needed to maintain a healthy long-term relationship, and that effort carries over into writing romance as well. To put it cynically, Will They or Won't They is just a form of building anticipation, and anticipation is easier to craft than a satisfying payoff (and aftermath to said payoff). Once that anticipation is no longer there for the writer to lean on, weaknesses in the writing can suddenly show through that the audience was too distracted by the narrative tension to notice -- or care about -- earlier. When the writing is too thin, there's just nothing much there after the Relationship Upgrade for the audience to care about or invest in. If the writing doesn't have actual substance, the writer can only really rely on cheap narrative tricks to keep their audience. On top of that, portraying any of the problems or twists that can happen in an ongoing romance can end up being blood in the water for rival factions of shippers.

This trope may be an extreme reflection of what tends to happen, over time, to real-life relationships; after the first year, the "honeymoon" of the romance is over. Or rather, when the easy excitement of getting together is over and the couple have to actually _work_ on the relationship. Few writers seek to capitalize on the Rule of Drama potential here.

Occurs because of the same reasons as and often a reason for True Love Is Boring. Contrast with Belligerent Sexual Tension and Platonic Life-Partners.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   The finale of _Bakugan Battle Brawlers_ shows Dan and Runo _finally_ getting together, and the first episode of the sequel series, _Bakugan: New Vestroia_, has them still together. Then Runo and every other girl from _Battle Brawlers_ gets Put on a Bus.
-   After Usagi and Mamoru got together in the original _Sailor Moon_ anime, they were shown together less and less; Mamoru's personality went from "mysterious" to "two-dimensional" depending on how interested the writers were in him. Kunihiko Ikuhara at one point joked that he wished he could just kill him off and hook Usagi up with Rei, and this is clearly evident by a failed attempt at a break-up arc in _Sailor Moon R_ that tried to create new tension between the pair, followed by just giving up and largely dropping Mamoru from major plotlines altogether. This was painfully noticeable in the last season when the new writers decided to play up Seiya's unrequited crush on Usagi from the manga by trying to build it into a more explicit Will They or Won't They? arc, while Mamoru got Put on a Bus for most of the season, only returning in the last episode to reassure the audience that the main couple still existed.  
    The manga version avoids this trope by keeping Mamoru a well-developed (and much more badass) character even after the hook-up. Comparing his role in the fourth arc between manga and anime alone is dumbfounding; short version: in the former, he is a critical character to the storyline, getting focus arcs and acquiring a major power-up. In the anime adaptation, he's barely existent in the season and actually gets knocked out for the final episodes to even further reduce his impact on the plot (and his powerup became a MacGuffin for the enemy to try to use and is eventually used by Usagi and Chibiusa instead).
-   Fumiya liked Saori from _Wandering Son_ since his first appearance. After several in-series years he asks her out properly and she agrees. After that, the already minor Fumiya almost never pops up, and when he does it isn't related to Saori. You could easily mistake Takatsuki and Saori for a couple because their friendship was _significantly_ more important than Saori dating Fumiya.
-   _Kase-san_ had to deal with this quite a bit in the sequel series _Yamada and Kase-san_—they were adorable as high-school sweethearts figuring out how deep their feelings went, but after they settled down, it felt like far too many plots arose from artificial tension, jealousy, and Poor Communication Kills in their relationship, making it a lot less appealing and the story a lot more repetitive.
-   A lot of fans of _A Town Where You Live_ agree that as soon as Haruto and Yuzuki got back together the story started to go downhill. (Particularly with all the other characters that ended up Demoted to Extra or Out of Focus, the Flanderisation endured by others, Yuzuki being demoted to Satellite Love Interest and losing some of her previous personality, and Haruto's sometimes scummy behaviour in rekindling the relationship.)
-   After Carly in _Yu-Gi-Oh! 5Ds_ makes her Dying Declaration of Love to Jack and then returns from the dead, it was blatantly obvious that the writers had no idea what to do with her. To try to avoid the problem, they had her suffer Easy Amnesia and later essentially downgraded her to part of Jack's Unwanted Harem, more or less just trying to ignore the plot point and hope the audience did the same. The difficulties were so strong that they sparked a persistent rumor that it was to avoid her voice actress being in a cult.

    Comic Books 

-   _Avatar: The Last Airbender - The Promise_
    -   The comic runs into this with Aang and Katara. After they hooked up at literally the very end of the original series, the comic continuation has them as a Sickeningly Sweethearts couple and Katara being reduced to a far more secondary character, killing interest in both fans and their friends. They eventually do move past Sickeningly Sweethearts, but beyond that, there really isn't anything interestingly done with them bar maybe one moment where Katara reflects how their relationship mirrors the multicultural heritage of the colonies over which Aang and Zuko are currently arguing.
    -   Mai and Zuko had similar problems - though they'd been together in the series proper, it only got focus in a handful of episodes and they spent far more time apart than together. When _The Promise_ took the pairing to the center and removed the biggest reason for them to not like each other (Zuko's guilt about betraying his uncle), it became evident that the two had almost no chemistry, while Mai proved decidedly unsympathetic. It was so poorly received that it had people latching onto Zuko/_Suki_ after they shared a few conversations, in the hopes that maybe the comic was leading in a different direction.
-   _Spider-Man_: Peter Parker and Mary Jane, according to Joe Quesada. Peter and Mary Jane were Happily Married for around 20 years. Joey Q, resident Editor in Chief, decides that Peter being single would lead to far more interesting stories than being tied down. Cue _One More Day_, massive Ship Sinking, Quesada _instantly_ drawing more backlash than his already-controversial DC counterpart Dan DiDio ever managed. The newspaper strips, in contrast, continued to keep the duo together in a stable married relationship, while the alternate universe series _The Amazing Spider-Man: Renew Your Vows_ also kept them together while making them a Super Family Team with their child Annie May. After ten years, the mainstream versions of Peter and MJ were finally allowed to reconcile in Nick Spencer's run on the title...seemingly (and ironically) at the suggestion of Quesada himself. However, this was once again undone when Zeb Wells took over the title.

    Comic Strips 

-   It happened with Baldo and Smiley in _Baldo_, and the author of the strip later cited it as the main reason behind their eventual breakup.
-   Young on-and-off couple Edda and Amos finally did the deed in _9 Chickweed Lane_ while in Brussels for a cello competition. Since then, some readers feel they've become noticeably unlikeable. Decompression made it worse as the couple were still in Belgium for several real-time months. Those who disliked the strip feel the author seemed to be using it to play out "his unhealthy sexual obsessions."
-   Referenced in _Candorville_ by Lemont: he cites this trope as the reason he can't hook up with Susan.

    Film — Live Action 

-   In _Blue Is the Warmest Color_, though many of the film's fans appreciate it in its entirety, there are many that prefer the first chapter to the second, preferring the buildup and the most intense parts of the love affair, feeling the movie became less interesting after Adèle and Emma's grand love story eventually came to a close and the issues of the relationship/eventual breakup came into play.
-   In the _Star Wars_ sequel trilogy, Rey/Kylo has been a popular ship since _The Force Awakens_, but the way it's handled in _The Rise of Skywalker_ disappointed a lot of shippers: They're revealed to be a Force "dyad", they team up following Ben's Heel–Face Turn, they kiss after Ben revives Rey...then Ben _immediately_ dies. Some shippers felt there was little build-up to the 'romance' (the creators can't even seem to decide if their relationship _is_ romantic); Rey and Kylo spend the majority of the film as enemies with few emotionally intimate scenes, so the culmination of their relationship can feel tacked-on. Some shippers disliked that the problematic elements of their relationship (such as Kylo being a violent stalker) were never addressed. It didn't kill off the ship altogether, but many shippers were dissatisfied with the onscreen presentation.
    
    **Ricca:** It was a profoundly dissatisfying iteration on the idea of Reylo. Okay, yes, they kiss on-screen. Which is somehow less meaningful than the angry looks, or the reaching out, the hand touches \[of the previous movies\]. Then having it end there, with Ben Solo dying, redeemed _kind of_, is unsatisfying.
    

    Literature 

-   _A Court of Thorns and Roses_: For some Feyre/Rhysand shippers, their actual relationship became tedious to read about after they got together, especially by _A Court of Frost and Starlight_. The main criticisms brought up is that the story tends to shift the focus to their relationship even though there's other, more important things going on like the war with Hybern, and their relationship itself is mostly devoid of conflict and dramatic tension after the second book, consisting largely of them hooking up and constantly reiterating how much they love each other. Some readers also didn't appreciate the way Tamlin got derailed as a love interest to make way for Rhysand. This only worsened after the fifth book, due to many readers increasingly finding Rhysand's behavior problematic, while Feyre/the narrative constantly excuses it, making their dynamic come off as toxic.
-   _Don't Call Me Ishmael!_: Some fans feel that the awkward Moment Killer scenes and Will They or Won't They? between Ishmael and Kelly in the second and third books are less interesting than their initial cuteness when they first start introducing themselves in the first book.
-   _The Twilight Saga_ has an especially extreme case; Bella and Edward get over the Will They or Won't They? _midway through the first book_, and that book has three sequels (not counting _The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner_, which doesn't follow Bella and Edward, and _Midnight Sun_, the retelling of the first book from Edward's perspective). Shipping Bed Death essentially happened almost as soon as the couple got together, and the fact that every book following just kept them together (with only some minor bumps along the way) made it worse. There is an attempt to include conflict via a love triangle with Jacob, but it's undermined by the fact Bella blatantly prefers Edward. Originally, Stephenie Meyer only planned to write one sequel, _Forever Dawn_, which didn't include the love triangle and skipped right ahead to Bella and Edward's wedding.

    Live-Action TV 

-   Romance is not the main reason people watch _Arrow_. Nevertheless, many people agree that romance is badly handled in the series. The series first stuck up to the comic book-inspired romance between Oliver Queen (the titular character, Green Arrow) and Laurel Lance (Black Canary), even though the two spent most of their time together bickering and being mean-spirited throughout (Oliver had cheated on Laurel before the series started — with her sister no less, which seemingly got said sister killed, so she had plenty of reasons to hate him) which fans considered repulsive, wishing Oliver should hook up with Felicity Smoak, an erstwhile supporting character who was popular for her funny personality. Fast forward to Season 4 and Laurel was Killed Off for Real, making Felicity Oliver's sole love interest. The relationship overtook the series lore with the angst reaching to soap opera levels, which in many ways was reminiscent of the whole Oliver/Laurel problem that people were so against, while ironically Oliver/Laurel grew in popularity as their relationship smoothed out and the two became supportive friends for each other, which made killing Laurel off absolutely infuriating for many fans. Even as the show bounced back from the nadir that was Season 4, the Olicity pairing was seen as the series' weakest point (especially in contrast to how its sister series, _The Flash (2014)_ handled its main pairing) and was when the fanbase began to seriously criticize how the-then showrunners (Marc Guggenheim and Wendy Mericle) handled the show's direction. When Beth Schwartz took over as showrunner for the final two seasons, she made a point to improve and, most importantly, reduce the focus on the Olicity angst, a decision that was universally welcomed. While Olicity never regained all of its popularity, people eventually learned to at least tolerate it again.
-   _Bones_: Angela and Hodgins broke up randomly, right after dealing with their issues relating to Angela's ex so they could get married. They realized they didn't trust each other. It didn't take, and they were married in a jail cell a season later.

-   In season 4 of _Community_, Britta and Troy's relationship was interesting when it was two seasons of ship teases, but as soon as they got together, fans were unimpressed at the pairing. They wind up having an anticlimactic breakup late in season 4.
-   _Doctor Who_ is an interesting case here, since the nature of the show means lead actors come in and out of the franchise on a regular basis and so do lead writers and creatives. So naturally, that means this trope can happen over and over again, until the literal end of time! Since the series features a main character that "regenerates" upon death into essentially a new person (played by a new actor) and the supporting cast is a never-ending revolving door of people who travel with him until something happens to make them leave, this trope tends to start and stop depending on what the creative team at any given time is interested in pursuing.
    -   The franchise _before_ the revival in 2005 had a general attitude of not including romance arcs for its lead character for a variety of reasons, not the least of which was actors portraying the Doctor being _at least_ 40 on average while his companions were usually teenagers or twenty-somethings. Producer Jonathan Nathan Turner declared "There is no hanky panky aboard the TARDIS". It was obvious at _some_ point the Doctor must have had relationships since the show started with his _granddaughter_ on the TARDIS with him. The real-life off-screen romance between actors Tom Baker and Lalla Ward often translated into many viewers assuming the 4th Doctor and Romana II might have been involved in something as well. But by the end of the 80s the franchise seemed so committed to never depicting romances that even expanded universe material tried to make him functionally asexual, even going as far as to retcon his granddaughter's blood relationship to him just to confirm the man had _never_ had the sort of intimate relationships that create children or grandchildren. This naturally led to it developing a fandom that was similarly allergic to romance and primed to react badly to _any_ attempt to change this.
    -   Starting with the the one-off TV movie in the mid-90s, the 8th Doctor was depicted as having what could best be described as a fling with his surgeon Grace, kissing her more than once on screen though this never truly moved beyond UST just because they parted at the end of the movie and the pilot film was not picked up. Even so, since the standards of the Doctor being romantic at all were so low by this point, a kiss or two with a stranger was the equivalent of this trope for many so even his brief dalliance with Grace led to outrage in some corners.
    -   In 2005 the franchise returned with a new main actor, Christopher Ecclestone's 9th Doctor, and its first companion was 19-year-old Rose Tyler, portrayed by Billie Piper. New show runner Russel T. Davies was gung-ho about diving into the previously forbidden topic of romance and exploring increasingly larger amounts of UST with Rose and the Doctor, with Rose usually being the one initiating and the audience left wondering if the Doctor was going to reciprocate. Unsurprisingly, the fandom tended to be very split - older fans in particular tended to be more hostile to this direction while new fans that started the show here were more supportive. Notably the show never actually stops and hooks these two up for good, technically avoiding this trope in its literal sense... but again, when the standards for romance with your lead character are this low, something like ending the first season with the kissing version of a Cooldown Hug that could also be taken as a Big Damn Kiss moment is likely to send shippers and anti-shippers alike into a frenzy of either happiness or rage...
    -   ... only for the storyline to technically reset again because Ecclestone only stayed for the first season of the revival leaving David Tennant as the next actor to take over the part. Thus the 9th Doctor became the 10th Doctor and the show explored that technically he both is and isn't the same person that Rose fell for. The 10th Doctor was himself portrayed as a romantic though he still never commits to Rose on camera. An attempt was made to essentially both restart the UST but also sort-of have these two in a relationship that wasn't confirmed on screen. Shippers were mostly pleased with this, but even fans had some complaints that the actual tension had died off, actual romance between the characters never really took place (the only kiss they have is when someone else body swaps with Rose and is trying to use the kiss as a distraction) and "The Girl in the Fireplace" caused some rage in this circle by showing the Doctor having a time-traveling romance with Madame du Pompadour at the same time he was traveling with (but not actually dating) Rose. And by this point the anti-romance fan heads were exploding and they would react so badly to anything related to Rose that she evolved into a Hate Sink for all bad reactions to the introduction of romance into the show. But ultimately the romance would _have_ to end because Billie Piper departed the series at the end of the second season. The Doctor's only chance to say "I love you" and actually confirm he was in a relationship was conveniently cut short. The ship was essentially capped off by the fourth season finale which led to a temporary return of Rose and her conveniently hooking up with a mortal time-travel duplicate of the Doctor up to that point in time - and he _did_ say "I love you" before the two went back to their alternate universe and our Doctor was once again Forever Alone...
    -   ... except now the romance genie was out of the bottle and a new show runner wanted to go nuts with the insanity that time travel can bring to relationships. Recurring guest writer Steven Moffat created the mysterious River Song for a two-part episode in season 4 and deliberately teased that she _had_ been in a relationship with the Doctor... and thanks to time travel, this was in the future for him, but in her present. When this happened and how was deliberately left as a mystery, the show even teasing the fans by having River call knowledge of future events "spoilers." When Moffat came on board as a show runner after Davies' departure he took the idea of an out-of-chronological order romance to the absolute limit and it was always understood that a River Song appearance meant we were going to learn more about this and possibly see the romantic moments that had been hinted at finally take place. This arc essentially spanned over the tenures of three different Doctors including her initial appearance and was a central storyline in Seasons 5 and 6 despite River never technically joining the main cast. Understandably because River Song in particular was the central mystery of an entire season, how people felt about this one really depended on whether they liked River in the first place. If you liked her and learning her story, you were usually also invested in the romance and the unusual execution meant this trope was Zig-Zagged just because we were told in the _first_ appearance that they _would_ eventually have a relationship and how it would end because River dies in her first appearance. Theoretically, you can't have a shipping bed death if you've already defined the immutable end point. On the other hand, if you were one of the fans that hated River to the point of finding her a Spotlight-Stealing Squad, this romance still hit this trope repeatedly since you if already knew River and the Doctor would hook up at some point due to it being pre-ordained and exactly how it would end, learning about the "in-between" bits was less of a "romance" and more "just filling in the lore." And in the middle of all of this was Clara, introduced to the 11th Doctor but still a significant character for the 12th as well, which was more awkward given the obvious age gap between Clara and 12's actor vs 11's. Clara herself ended up very underdeveloped as a character, so her romantic ties to the Doctor could similarly been accused of being forced but again, a lot like River, the romance was secondary to the character being a bit of a walking Mystery Box.
    -   And all of _this_ is ignoring that if you were a fan that watched from the start of the revival, you've now experienced this relationship arc _three times_ with an additional awkward interjection from Amy Pond in the middle (who definitely openly loved the Doctor romantically but he was definitely openly not into reciprocating.) Since both River Song and Clara had entire season arcs using their existence as a central mystery and thus, their romantic connections to the Doctor, you could just start to feel this trope had crept in by the sheer repetition of the Doctor falling in love over and over with women who would have to tragically depart his life and the increasing struggle the writers had in trying to make new romantic partners interesting enough to draw the attentions of both the Doctor _and_ the audience. To say some fans were downright exhausted at going through this arc _again_ and never really getting any long-term romantic arc out of it would be an understatement even if they didn't actively have a problem with any of the characters themselves or their storylines in isolation.
    -   Ironically, the 13th Doctor's run seemed to largely drop romance entirely to the point that when it _did_ introduce a potential romance between the 13th Doctor (a woman) and her female companion Yaz, it was so downplayed that there were credible accusations of queerbaiting both from the fandom _and_ from television critics. It's also possibly _this_ trope is still in play because if you were one of the fans exhausted with almost two decades of the show trying to replay this arc over and over again, you may have just been grateful to not do this ride again even if the cost meant the Doctor's only on-screen same-sex relationship was a casualty of it. The new showrunner and writers certainly seemed concerned about provoking this trope's ire.
-   _Downton Abbey_:
    -   Mr Carson and Mrs Hughes: A lot of fans – and Jim Carter himself – wanted Carson to have a romance with Mrs Hughes. After they get together and wed, they only have pointless plotlines. Carson keeps badmouthing his new wife’s culinary skills – without being aware of his own rudeness.
    -   Bates and Anna: They used to be one of the most popular couples in Series 1 and Series 2 before they got together and interest faded away.
-   _Ed_. Part of the premise of the show was the unresolved romantic tension between main characters Ed (played by Tom Cavanagh) and Carol Vessey (played by Julie Bowen). They got together, ratings dropped, show cancelled.
-   _Frasier_: The jury is still out on whether Niles and Daphne finally hooking up made their relationship less or more interesting; some fans cite this as the moment when the show jumped the shark. There are other factors. Keenan and Lloyd left the show _at that very moment_ and other aspects of Seasons 8-10 were equally suspect. The eleventh season kind of bears this out, as N&D are also far more interesting there. Ostensibly, the coupling had something to do with Kelsey Grammer's ego, as he wanted the focus to shift to the title character (something also rather botched until the eleventh season). Season 11 in general was a huge reverse shark jump. But most viewers agree that Niles and Daphne got together at just the right time, as they had avoided irritating or losing the interest of the viewers by not dragging the Will They or Won't They? on too long (as opposed to say, Ross and Rachel.) One could say that while Niles and Daphne suffered from this, they didn't _have_ to, and they wouldn't have if Keenan and Lloyd had stayed. Incidentally, people forget that production problems is what made _Moonlighting_'s Maddie and Dave, this trope's poster child, suffer so severely from Shipping Bed Death: it's just more _difficult_ to pull off a good post-Relationship Upgrade romance than a UST-fueled one.
-   _Friends_: Ross and Rachel, who went through the Will They or Won't They? trek, were together for barely a season, broke up and returned to Will They or Won't They? territory for the next _seven years_. The writers themselves admitted they got them together too fast and couldn't make their actual relationship interesting. Despite the hype, many fans grew frustrated with the couple and lost interest. By the time a definitive conclusion was reached, most fans no longer cared. However, Chandler and Monica played out differently.
-   Lots of _Game of Thrones_ fans believed Jon Snow and Daenerys Targaryen would have a romance, which indeed happened in Season 7. However, the execution left many underwhelmed; they go from tentatively trusting each other to lovers in just four episodes (equalling a few weeks in-universe) and then barely spend any time together as a couple before hitting a rough patch, going from consummating their relationship to 'breaking up' in only two episodes. Dany is so devastated by Jon's rejection after they learn they're aunt and nephew it contributes to her highly contentious descent into villainy, culminating in Jon assassinating Dany after spending most of Season 8 harping on about her being the 'rightful queen'. While most viewers weren't expecting a happy ending for the couple, many felt the whole romance came off as awkward and contrived rather than a heartfelt tragedy.
-   _Gilmore Girls_: Luke and Lorelai spent four seasons as Just Friends and the most popular ship of the show, with most viewers dying to see them get together, but some thought they just didn't work as a couple. The writers went on by literally shipping off Luke for several episodes, giving the couple forced conflicts and at best having the characters putting their engagement on hold because of unrelated circumstances (such as Lorelai's conflict with Rory in Season Six), overall leaving the impression that the pair worked _better_ as friends than in an actual relationship.
-   _Glee_: While "Finnchel" are the biggest offenders of this trope, their situation is complicated enough to put them in the next section. More straightforward examples would be Blaine/Kurt and Will/Emma. The former pairing was championed as one of the first big mainstream gay pairings on TV, but Blaine's Creator's Pet status ended up turning fans sour. While with the latter, Will ended up being a jerk in the second season and it reached the point where fans started to root for Emma to stay with the blatant Romantic False Lead she married.
-   _Gossip Girl_, with Dan/Serena and Chuck/Blair.
    -   Both groups have hardcore rusted-on supporters _and_ they are Ship Mates so tend to stick up for each other vocally. Other people (mostly the Dan/Blair and Serena/Nate Ship Mates) are tired of the "Chuck does something horrible, they break up, Chuck redeems himself, Blair forgives him, they get back together" and the "Serena redeems herself, Dan forgives her, they get back together" shtick. Which in the case of Chuck/Blair is happening for about the 6th time.
    -   Dan/Blair gained fans during the fourth season but when the two actually started dating the viewers disliked it so much that the ratings plummeted to the point that the show barely got renewed for a final season.
-   During the earliest episodes of _Grey's Anatomy_, George/Izzie was a popular Fan-Preferred Pairing. However, when the show's writers decided to make it canon, some of the loudest complaints of it came from former shippers of that pairing because of how abruptly both characters went from pining after other people to wangsting over each other and how it involved a cheating subplot that made them rather unlikeable, and the pairing was quickly nipped in the bud.
-   _House_ had fun House/Cuddy Ship Tease with some Aw, Look! They Really Do Love Each Other, but in season 7 their relationship is... kindest put, a dragged-out mess, with both of them acting stupid (one brought up but ignored plot point is that House is a worse doctor when he's with her, and both of them seem fine with it), the only joy seems to be offscreen sex and House acts like even more of a dick while she's a Love Martyr. This continued after the break-up, as any friendship is gone, his annual breakdown isn't sympathy inducing because he's acting like an abusive ex, she compromises patient care to get back at him, and even though he does get nicer in season 8 after a prison stint for crashing his car into her house, she's off the show in that season and nobody seems to care about her absence much.
-   _iCarly_: The much-hyped Sam/Freddie pairing. When _iDate Sam & Freddie_ showed what an actual Seddie relationship would look like, this was the reaction of many fans. Sam and Freddie's chemistry as bickering sidekicks dissolves as soon as they get romantic and kills the UST Seddie fans saw before the arc started. Every kiss is identical and not filled with much passion. Their constant fighting is no longer cute and instead shows a dysfunctional relationship. The generally accepted reason for it is Nathan Kress and Jennette McCurdy's long friendship ruining their ability to show or feel passion for each other. They have both stated they dislike the idea of the Sam/Freddie pairing or that they want their characters to not end up with anyone, and Jennette has said that she dislikes filming romantic scenes and that kissing Nathan feels like kissing a brother.
    -   Revelations from Jennette’s memoir in 2022 revealed she had other reasons for being uncomfortable with trying to be romantic with another actor. For example, thanks to her abusive mother, she’d never even had a chance to have a relationship let alone kiss someone and shooting the first kissing scene (her first actual kiss) was incredibly traumatic as the director would scream at her and order multiple retakes. Nathan had noticed her distress during the shooting and had to reassure when it was over. All of this comes through in a final scene that for audiences radiated discomfort.
-   _I Dream of Jeannie_ was a series that seemed to be based entirely on the premise that the title character was clearly madly in love with her master Tony Nelson, who constantly deals with the headaches created by her clumsy super-powered advances on him. The fifth season had the pair married to try and stave off a ratings decline. Snuffing out the lead conflict of the show only hastened its demise, as it was cancelled after the season's conclusion. This might have been why the two reunion films involved plots breaking the couple up.
-   _Lois & Clark: The New Adventures of Superman_ didn't last very long after Lois and Clark got together. It probably wasn't helped by the many false starts; the episode where they finally got married for real was actually titled "Swear to God, This Time We're Not Kidding", and also Executive Meddling which kept the writers' hands tied because Warner insisted that the marriage in the show coincide with the marriage in the comics. The comic book writers, amusingly, say they were ready to marry Lois and Clark off for _years_ and had to wait on the TV show. So then... a case of real-life Poor Communication Kills?
-   _Moonlighting_'s Dave and Maddie. Despite this trope occasionally being known as _Moonlighting_ Syndrome, the show didn't really suffer from the leads getting together, it suffered from the leads not being in the same room for about a year afterward. There was no point at which they were together as a couple at all.
-   _Neighbours_ has practically embraced this trope, being littered with couples who fans thought had great chemistry up until the point they actually got together. One of the most egregious was Daniel and Imogen, the Fan-Preferred Couple at a time when Daniel and Amber were the Official Couple whose wedding was going to feature in the 30th-anniversary celebrations. Actors Ariel Kaplan and Tim Phillips lobbied for their characters to get together, a convoluted series of events saw Daniel accidentally jilt Amber and swiftly get together with Imogen…and fans swiftly concluded that, not only were they as dull as the previous pairing, they weren't even particularly well-suited. When Ariel Kaplan quit the show, Daniel was written out as well, and they were swiftly married off after just a few months together in which they'd already managed to break up and get back together at least twice. Word of God was that it was felt Imogen deserved a happy ending, but many fans suspected they'd just given up on any relationship featuring Daniel ever being interesting.
-   A complaint by some looking to explain a general decline in quality in the American version of _The Office_. Once Pam and Jim get together between seasons 3 and 4, they became a little more boring. The writers tried replacing them with other will-they-won't-they tensions and love triangles, such as breaking up Angela/Dwight, and then later introducing and breaking up Andy/Erin and Michael/Holly, but none of them had the same appeal as Jim and Pam's UST. Viewers complained that the show was turning into a "soap opera". This was exacerbated by trying to drive a wedge between Jim and Pam post-marriage with other people who were fawning for them, which seemed like quite a reach that either would fall for a temptation. There isn't a whole lot of drama of whether Jim would ever think of cheating on Pam considering he was so in love with her, he bought an engagement ring _the week they started dating_.
-   In _Pretty Little Liars_, this was the reaction a lot of the fanbase had when the controversial Ezra/Aria relationship went from it's forbidden sneaking-around phase to (mostly) out-in-the-open stage in season 3.
-   While it was a popular ship in Season 1, some fans of _Stranger Things_ were rather displeased with how Jonathan and Nancy got together in Season 2, thanks to Murray acting as a Shipper on Deck until he practically prods them into it. It makes their hook-up a lot more stilted than it could've been. Not helping the bed death was the Character Development Steve, Nancy’s previous boyfriend, received in the same season.
-   Couples on _Sunset Beach_ had an alarming tendency to break up if there weren't any more barriers to cross. Vanessa miscarried thanks to Virginia's attack and (temporarily) broke off her engagement to Michael. Meg was more or less kicked out of Ben's home by his irritating pimple of a son. A.J. broke ties with Olivia when she crawled back into the bottle. Perhaps worst of all, Ricardo couldn't forgive Paula for not having his back during the rape trial.
-   A rather bizarre In-Universe example in an episode of _3rd Rock from the Sun_. Sally, Tommy, and Harry use Officer Don's radio scanner to listen to the private phone calls of a woman named Andrea and her cheating boyfriend, which they treat as though it were a show. This leads to them actually meeting Andrea and Harry dating her. Harry and Andrea have a nice, drama-free relationship, causing Sally and Tommy to complain that "the show has really gone downhill since Harry was introduced". They try to convince Harry to act like a jerk so that the "show" will be interesting again.
-   On _Ugly Betty_, audiences were crying for Betty to hook up with the adorkable Ensemble Dark Horse Henry. Unfortunately, instead of focusing on the cute/funny interactions that made the couple popular in the first place, the writers decided to throw in every bit of contrived soap-opera drama they could think of for the sake of "plot." Audiences got sick of it mighty quick, and before long Henry was Put on a Bus back to Tucson with his babymama.
-   Damon and Elena used to be by far the Fan-Preferred Couple of _The Vampire Diaries_, but by season four onwards and especially season five, their popularity dwindled due to their relationship becoming stale.
-   _The X-Files_ is sometimes accused of this, but as Mulder and Scully probably got together right around the same time as some other major changes in the show (it actually happened offscreen, but it was implied they first slept together around the end of Season 7, right before David Duchovny left) it's hard to say whether to blame the hookup or other factors for the deterioration in writing quality. The producers were certainly afraid of ending the UST between Mulder and Scully, often mentioning the _Moonlighting_ Effect. Unfortunately they dallied so much we saw them get together only in the second movie.
    
    **Joe Ford**: Gillian Anderson is doing her best to sell the doting lover material but I miss that cold steel that she was wielding last season. She's so drippy whenever the subject of Mulder comes up ...I hate to say it but Scully does sound like she has completely fallen under Mulder's spell in the courtroom. She is publicly stating exactly the same sort of science fiction nonsense that she used to criticize Mulder for expressing. When the prosecution consul points out that Mulder and Scully have fallen in love and had a baby I couldn't help but agree that it appears that she has been bewitched by him and his lifestyle.
    

    Newspaper Comics 

-   Phil Foglio once commented that Hal Foster, the creator of _Prince Valiant,_ recognized the danger of this once Val and Aleta were finally wed, and solved the problem by introducing lots and lots of supporting characters who could get into romantic entanglements with each other.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Reign_ by Greg Stolze addresses the concept in the GMing chapter, which states that while a loving, happy relationship may be the most rewarding thing to be had in real life (complete with a Shout-Out to Stolze's wife), it's dull as hell for a game and risks leaving players dissatisfied whether you explore or ignore the relationship. So better to only explore troubled, difficult relationships for dramatic purposes until someone wants a happy relationship on which to retire their character.

    Theatre 

-   Erik and Christine in _The Phantom of the Opera_ are probably the most iconic Fan-Preferred Couple in the history of theatre, which meant bringing them together properly in _Love Never Dies_ seemed like an easy slam dunk with the fanbase. It wasn't. Due to various other characters being bashed by the narrative to make Erik and Christine look better, a lot of attempts on the part of the writers to make Erik out to be sympathetic when he isn't, their interactions coming across as weird and creepy, and undermining the original point of the story, that Erik letting go of Christine was a sign of maturity and growth, a lot of fans fell out of love with the pairing—and even the ones that didn't tend to file _Love Never Dies_ under Fanon Discontinuity. To add insult to injury, since it also kills Christine off, it doesn't even really give the Erik/Christine shippers what they wanted, since the two really only get to spend a few more days together than they did in _Phantom_.

    Video Games 

-   SNK can be pretty guilty of this as well. Ever since _Fatal Fury 3_ they did do ship tease regarding Terry Bogard and Blue Mary. SNK did enjoy using it at first with _Fatal Fury 3_ and the _Real Bout_ series and the earlier _KOF_ games as well. However, over the course of the 2000s, while Terry is considered iconic for SNK he didn't really have any role in the _KOF_ series anymore and is pretty much just there to appease older fans. Some have even feared that SNK would kill off Blue Mary since, unlike Terry, who used to be a main character, Mary was always a secondary one. That and Terry's girlfriends have a tendency to end up dead (in the anime, anyway). Fortunately that hasn't happened yet.

    Webcomics 

-   The Boxing Arc from the Manhwa _Suicide Boy_ made a lot of Hooni/Harim shippers to start to dislike the pairing. Basically, the arc involves her deciding to go on an extreme diet to lose her muscles so she can look less intimidating to Hooni and then deciding to give up on her passion of boxing and turning down a golden opportunity to be in a really good school dedicated to that for the same reason, it briefly works before the Arc Villain Minseon beats up both of them and Hooni gets scared of being around her again, despite this she refuses to give up on being with him and decides to recover her muscles to face Minseon in a Tournament, invites Hooni to the event and then spends the entire tournament looking to see if he has arrived, Hooni arrives later on and has a sudden Love Epiphany and they get a Maybe Ever After. This ended up upseting fans of both characters. Harim's fans hated how her interest ended up feeling less like a cutesy crush like before and more like an toxic obsession with her deciding to have her life revolve around a guy she has barely interacted with and Hooni fans hated that he had to be written Out of Character in the last two chapters for him to get interesed on Harim instead of developing the relationship more organically.

    Western Animation 

-   Played straight through the first five seasons and all four movies of _Futurama_ with Fry and Leela, culminating in a supposed Last-Minute Hookup and making ample use of the show's sci-fi elements to push the relationship to points much farther than other fandoms' ships would be able to go without becoming unable to snap back to the status quo and keep Willing Suspension of Disbelief. Avoided in the sixth season, where they are together but their relationship is not given too much screentime.
-   Happened in the second season of _The Legend of Korra_ between Korra and Mako. The first season had them at the center of a messy Love Quadrangle, which concluded with Mako leaving his girlfriend Asami for Korra. When the second season came and the writers had to show them as a couple, Korra and Mako just didn't work. They had no real chemistry together and were constantly arguing over different opinions and expectations, and their respective jobs as the Avatar and a police officer getting in the way of their relationship. Granted, this was the entire point. At the end of the season, they both acknowledge they just don't work as a couple and break up for good. The following seasons had them as just friends, and although things were a little awkward at first, they did work out fine that way and Korra found another love interest (Asami) with whom she formed a more functional relationship.
-   _Samurai Jack_: While a lot of people were hoping for Jack and Ashi to be romantically paired up a lot of them found the execution too rushed to enjoy it.
-   An odd case happens between Duncan and Gwen of _Total Drama_. Their friendship was realistic and well-received, and many fans shipped them together, though Gwen always tried to make it clear that they were only friends. Due to this, Duncan suddenly kissing Gwen in _World Tour_ (while still dating his previous girlfriend, Courtney) not only felt like it came completely out of nowhere but resulted in the infamously disliked Gwen/Duncan/Courtney love triangle storyline. When it was time to actually show Duncan and Gwen as a couple, their every interaction was awkward and forced, with none of the charm or chemistry that they had when they were just friends. To make matters worse, the writers couldn't help from dropping hints that Duncan was still into Courtney the entire time, which makes you wonder why the hell he cheated on her with Gwen in the first place.
-   Allura/Lance was never the most popular pairing of _Voltron: Legendary Defender_, but it did have a reasonably dedicated following - one that was decidedly not interested in it when it became canon. On top of reading as a rebound due to coming right after Allura's breakup with Lotor (which meant that Lance was Always Second Best in his _relationships_ as well as everything else in life) and the "wear the girl down" implications the relationship had for Allura, the writers didn't seem to have any idea how to handle the pairing or how to make interesting interactions with them. It dominated most of their scenes in the seventh and eighth seasons, and mostly came across as tedious and cliche, on top of largely eating Lance's characterization. Its culmination in Allura's death, followed by Lance inexplicably turning Altean and giving up his dreams of being a space pilot to become a farmer, just made the whole thing even less appealing.

___