_"When every private widow well may keep  
By children's eyes her husband's shape in mind."_

Just before the Big Damn Heroes scene, or just after the hero's done his Heroic Sacrifice, the girl he left behind discovers that she's pregnant. He's gone, but not forgotten. Subtrope of New Child Left Behind.

Bonus points are awarded if this is the result of them having sex exactly once. Double Bonus if it was the girl's first time, too, or if the reaction to her pregnancy later on is "Well, thanks for leaving me with a child to raise by myself." Triple bonus if the one time was a Pre-Climax Climax.

It's generally considered _very_ romantic, even in historical settings where a single mother can be expected to have a hard time of it (especially during wartime; even if he didn't die in the war itself—or at all—she can say he did), on top of all her other problems. Unsurprisingly, it is assumed in these circumstances that Babies Make Everything Better.

The intersection of Her Heart Will Go On with Babies Ever After. May involve a Birth-Death Juxtaposition, or result in Dead Guy Junior. This trope seems to be a recurring theme in horror films, sort of an extension of the puritanical belief that sex equals death. For when "Someone" wants to know about "Him", see Tell Me About My Father.

Can be gender-flipped by having the mother suffer a Death by Childbirth or other means of dying before the father discovers that she had given birth to their child.

Usually an Ending Trope, so there will inevitably be **spoilers** in the examples section. Sometimes a Beginning Trope, to introduce Turn Out Like His Father — and sometimes both, as Changing of the Guard occurs. Died in Ignorance usually accompanies this, as the father will be unlikely to ever know his partner is pregnant.

If the trope is ever gender flipped, the baby will be found somewhere around the mother’s corpse.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   In _The 100 Girlfriends Who Really, Really, Really, Really, Really Love You_, this is why Hakari was conceived - her mother Hahari had fallen in love with a terminally ill fellow student, and knowing that he didn't have long to live, she had herself artificially inseminated with his sperm so that they could be a family before he died.
-   Possibly _inverted_ in the Backstory of _Air_ when Ryuuya finds out he is slowly dying of a curse. Uraha suggests that the only way he can work to save the soul of their beloved Kanna is for him to leave a line of descendants to do it for him and offers herself to be the mother of his child. He dies when she is heavily pregnant and their child becomes the ancestor of the series' main character Yukito.
-   In _Ai-Ren_, Ai and Ikuru _both_ die, but their child - gestated in an artificial womb - is "born" and taken care of by Haruka-sensei, who possibly would have been Ikuru's lover had circumstances between them been different.
-   _Ceres, Celestial Legend_ has Aya realize that she might be pregnant while there's an important infiltration mission going on at Mikagi HQ. And shortly after, upon overhearing Suzumi's phone conversation indicating that Tooya died, she learns that she is indeed pregnant and in her third month. Considering that her lover had just died, she was less than very happy about the news.
-   _Dragon Ball Z_: Goku one-ups the other examples by not only leaving behind a (second) kid after his (second) Heroic Sacrifice<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , but leaving behind a kid that's _completely identical_ to him.
-   Mine Kujyou discovers she is pregnant by Shuro (a.k.a. Akiba) at the very end of _Eternal Sabbath_, after Shuro has died in the final battle with Isaac.
-   Emperor Hotohori in _Fushigi Yuugi_ can fall under this trope. Though he was officially married and the pregnancy wasn't necessarily discovered _after_ his death, the whole point of **having** the child was to leave behind an heir **in case he died** in the battle with Kutou. And said child, Prince Boushin and later Emperor Reitezei, looks _remarkably_ like him as well!
-   Mikan Sakura (or more appropriately, Mikan Yukihira) in _Gakuen Alice_ was revealed to be this. Her father was accidentally killed by his student Persona right after the first (and last) time he slept with Yuka, who then didn't even know she was pregnant until Mikan's uncle Kazumi, the High School principal of the academy discovered there was a new light inside Yuka's stomach thanks to his own Alice a few days later. Despite her love for Mikan, Yuka later had to abandon her baby to a kind old man in a rural area to protect her from the Big Bad.
-   A different take on this appears in _Gunslinger Girl_. After the Hilshire/Triela fratello are killed during the Turin operation, Roberta Guellfi talks of how she resents being left alone again after discovering love with Hilshire. Turns out Hilshire had a hospital preserve some eggs from his cyborg Triela, whom he once promised to help live a normal life (after she got turned into a cyborg, this was impossible due to the danger and the fatal effects of her conditioning). He leaves a letter asking Roberta to carry on in their stead; Roberta carries and gave birth to the child, eventually revealed to be a girl named Speranza, though it's not revealed if her father was Hilshire himself or an anonymous sperm donor.
-   In _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure_ Jonathan Joestar is killed by his Arch-Enemy Dio Brando during his honeymoon with Erina Pendleton. Erina wants to be Together in Death with Jonathan, but he tells her to escape and rescue a recently orphaned baby girl in the process. As it turns out, Erina was already pregnant with Jonathan's son whom she names George and who will be the father of Joseph, with the mother being Elizabeth/Lisa-Lisa aka the little girl that Erina rescued.
-   In _Koizora_, after Hiro dies of cancer, Mika reveals that she's pregnant with his child again.
-   In the final chapters of _Lady Georgie_, Abel confesses his love for Georgie while he is in prison, and they have sex. Abel is killed and Georgie finds out she is pregnant with his child, whom she names Abel Jr. This subplot doesn't exist in the anime adaptation.
-   Happens in the little-known anime movie _Like the Clouds, Like the Wind_. It's an especially sad example since the male member of the couple kills himself soon after having sex with his wife for the first time.
-   _Kinda_ what happens to Hayate after _Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha A's_. Following the Heroic Sacrifice\-slash-Suicide by Cop of Reinforce (a magically-created Artificial Human), she creates Reinforce Zwei (a smaller magical Artificial Human who looks a lot like the original). The thing is, she ostensibly refers to the latter being "born" from her Linker Core (magical heart of sorts) after it merged with the former's Linker Core, in order to live the life the former wished for. In other words, we have here an example of technological lesbian procreation for the sake of this trope. Yes, it's weird like that.
-   Marbette from _Mobile Suit Victory Gundam_, who goes from Action Girl to Pregnant Badass... and we find out about this a while after the baby's father, Team Dad Oliver, has perished in an Senseless Sacrifice.
    -   Atra in _Mobile Suit Gundam: Iron-Blooded Orphans_ does the deed with Mikazuki in order to encourage him to not throw his life away due to having nothing to lose. They don't know before Mikazuki dies in an epic last stand whether she got pregnant or not - but the ending reveals that she did and named the child Akatsuki.
    -   Also, in a Retcon from the original _Mobile Suit Gundam_, it's revealed that Icelina, Garma's fiancee, was carrying his child (and _that's_ why she wanted to avenge him). Evidently, the embryo or fetus in her dead body is some kind of MacGuffin to Team Zeon. (In the original, there was no evidence or suggestion that she was pregnant, only that she wanted to avenge her fiance out of genuine Mad Love.)
-   Meroune in _Monster Musume_ tries to invoke this when the girls fear Kimihito is about to die. Hoping to tell her children the tragic story of how their father died. Miia stops her before she can get anywhere though.
-   _My Girl_: Kazama Masamune spent the last few years of his life pining after his old girlfriend, who after a long relationship had suddenly moved away and cut off all contact with him. He was never able to move on from her and never started up any relationship since. He ends up being contacted by the girl's mother years later... to be told his old love had just died suddenly in an accident. Soon after he meets the girl's daughter, who is in fact _his_ daughter, who he had no idea existed until that point...
-   After Asuma Sarutobi dies in _Naruto_, Kurenai Yuuhi, hinted to be having a relationship with, is revealed as pregnant.
-   Gender-flipped in _Nicoichi_, when the main protagonist adopted the son of his single mother girlfriend, who had passed away after being involved in a traffic accident. This act became the trigger for the plot of the series.
-   Happens a couple of times in _Pet Shop of Horrors_.
    -   One memorable episode was about the vengeful girlfriend of a criminal Leon killed in the line of duty. D manages to break the cycle of revenge by appealing to her that she did not want her unborn child's mother to be a murderer.
    -   A second, much darker version occurs in _Pet Shop of Horrors: Tokyo_. A woman's dead boyfriend is temporarily brought back to spend O-bon with her on the one-year anniversary of his death. At the end, he prepares to return to the land of the dead, but she is unwilling to let him go. She is found a week later in her apartment with the rotting corpse of her boyfriend... and now pregnant.
    -   Another one from Tokyo involves a down-on-her-luck novelist adopting a cicada larva simply because it was unusual. Through the actions of the larva turned human boy who helps her a la _You're My Pet_ she hooks up with a composer who happened to be at Count D's the same day she was. Obviously they get together, but in true fashion when it comes to cicada's both males both die and leave the females (the man had gotten a female cicada larva) pregnant.
-   A rather....um, odd example in _Sayonara, Zetsubou-Sensei_: technically speaking, Fuura Kafuka is Dead All Along and has been possessing the twelve girls (and one guy) who received her organs, whom eventually marry Nozomu. All the girls have children by Nozomu. They all look and act _eerily_ like Kafuka.
-   Happens at the end of _Shadow Star_. There's a bit of Artistic License – Biology in there, since the father conceived the kid while dying of radiation sickness from having a tac-nuke dropped on him.
-   In a late arc of _Silent Möbius_, Katsumi Liqueur's boyfriend Roy is murdered by the Big Bad and she is possessed by a demonic weapon. After being freed from possession, she discovers a pregnancy that had been magically put on hold for several months. Their daughter is seen at the very end of the manga.
-   While never expressly stated, it could reasonably be suggested in the anime version of _Trigun_, considering the last lines of dialogue Milly and Wolfwood share.

    Ballads 

-   In the Child Ballad _Fause Foodrage_, the queen pleads for her life after her husband's death for her baby's sake.
-   Gender-flipped in "The Foggy, Foggy, Dew": "Now I'm a bachelor, I live with my son, we work at the weaver's trade..."

    Comic Books 

-   In _American Vampire_, Abi does this with Book before putting him out of his misery.
-   At the end of _Camelot 3000_, King Arthur has laid down his life in defense of the Earth, leaving the reincarnated Lancelot and Guinevere - free to be together, yet devastated to lose him - among the war's survivors. When she reads off the result of her pregnancy test, they _both_ express hope that it's _Arthur's_ child she's carrying.
-   _Captain America_:
    -   Ultimate Captain America slept with his girlfriend just before his fateful mission. The child ended up being raised practically from birth by the US Government, trying to create a new Cap. What they got was Ultimate Red Skull.
    -   Mainstream Cap also got Sharon Carter pregnant before his death. (He got better.)
-   Gender-Inverted Trope with _Deadpool_. He conceived Ellie with Carmelita the one time they had sex during a time Carm thought she was going to be killed. It's unknown if she was a virgin, but the encounter resulted in Ellie. Deadpool doesn't find out until she tracks him down much later and he chases them away to protect them. Sadly, the meeting happens in front of Butler, who kidnaps Carm and orders her death. Deadpool did manage to reunite with Ellie. They talk about Carm briefly and she asks if Deadpool knew her mom. He admits he didn't really know her, but he wanted to. He says he never got the chance and Ellie ask if she died. He silently turns away from her in grief.
-   In _ElfQuest_, Krim is revealed to be pregnant with Sust after Skot dies.
-   _Judge Dredd_: There's another rare Gender-Inverted Example in the "America" story. America Jara, a democratic protestor, is accidentally killed during an arrest to stop a terrorist attack. Her childhood friend and recent lover Bennet Beeny transfers his brain to her comatose body so they can always be together, but not before impregnating the body. He names their daughter "America" in her honor.
-   Crossing over with Real Life, in Marjane Satrapi's autobiographical comic _Persepolis_, she tells the story of one of her relatives who was in jail, and about to be executed by the government. His girlfriend bribed a guard so they could have one last night together, _wanting_ a baby to remember him by. He's not happy about it and warns her about how terrible life is for an unwed mother, especially in totalitarian Iran. Fortunately, according to the uncle that told her the story, she managed to get to Switzerland safely with her child.
-   In _Star Trek: Debt of Honor_, it's lightly implied that Romulan Commander T'Cel's adult daughter T'Kir may have been sired by Jim Kirk after they escaped the destruction of USS _Farragut_ early in the story. T'Cel leaves this universe to explore the dimension the monsters came from, but T'Kir stays behind on _Enterprise_ with Kirk.
-   Much of the last volume of _Strangers in Paradise_ revolves around the characters attempting to fulfill this trope.
-   The Wash one-shot "Float Out" of the _Serenity_ comic _Those Left Behind_ features a memorial of sorts for Wash that takes place after his death in the film. The last page reveals a _very_ pregnant Zoe. The child, a daughter named Emma, is born in the first chapter of _Leaves on the Wind_.
-   In _Three_, Damar has sex with Klaros on their final night in the gully before the Spartiates attack and kill him. She conceives twin boys, who she names after him and Terpander, the third member of their group who also died.
-   The _Transformers: Sector 7_ comic has William Simmons sacrifice his life while fighting a traitor in order to let his wife (who has just found out she's pregnant) escape before his grandfather Joseph Simmons dropped a liquid nitrogen bomb on the location in order to keep NBE-1 on ice. Even then, she only survives because of Jetfire, whose life William spared during World War II. Jetfire also tells Joseph that she's carrying William's child. Joseph tells her to abandon this life and keep her child away from it. She opens a deli and has a son named Seymour, the same guy we see in the movies.
    -   This puts a whole new spin on Seymour not wanting his mother to know about his research. It's not that she's unauthorized to know. It's that she knows this life got her husband killed and doesn't want to lose her son.
    -   This contradicts with the _Ghosts of Yesterday_ novel, which states that Seymour's father is named Walter, and he is alive and well in the late 60s. In the comic, William dies in 1954.
-   _Transformers vs. G.I. Joe_ kills off Cobra Commander in the end, but shows the Baroness to be pregnant with his child, who is implied to be this continuity's version of Serpentor.

    Fan Works 

-   In the _Hetalia: Axis Powers_ AU _1983: Doomsday Stories_, it's revealed that Sopron is this for Austria, considering that he's the father, with Hungary being her mother.
-   _A Bolt of Light_ gave Oliver Queen, Barry Allen and Sara Lance a threesome two weeks before the _Gambit_'s sinking. When she heard about the tragedy, Barry revealed her pregnancy to Moira Queen, reassuring her they would still have Ollie's child to love.
-   _Checkmate Anlashok_ has Johanna Mason coming from a long line of tributes; due to some ancestor doing something to piss off the Capitol several generations ago, at least one member has been reaped for the Games every generation. Johanna says that her mother deliberately got pregnant in order to leave someone behind due to suspecting that it would be her turn the next year, and she did indeed get reaped when Johanna was a couple months old.
-   _Child of the Storm_ reveals that Peggy Carter was pregnant with Steve's daughter when the _Valkyrie_ went down - though it was so early that no one bar time-travelling Seer Doctor Strange knew it.
-   The premise of the _Downton Abbey_ fanfic _Consequences And Control_ is that Mary finds herself pregnant with Kemal Pamuk's child after he dies having sex with her.
-   _The Differentverse_: During the group's trip through the Everfree, Derpy reveals that her husband died of a heart attack during her pregnancy, making Dinky into this trope.
-   Deconstructed by _A Dovahkiin Spreads His Wings_, as Ned was so traumatized by his sister Lyanna's Death by Childbirth he became rather controlling and smothering towards her child. He needs to be called out on this _three_ times before reconciling with his nephew.
-   _Eden, by Obsessmuch_: Lucius fathers Hermione's son, but dies long before his birth. She raises the child with Ron, never telling him the truth of who his father actually is due to promising his wife.
-   A rather weird variant in _Fate Ends_, since Shen Qingqiu died from a qi deviation only for Harry to transmigrate within his body. Yue Qingyuan decides Harry is as good as Shen Qingqiu's child, and treats him as such.
-   _Firefly_ fanfic frequently invoked this trope after Wash's death in _Serenity_, even before it was confirmed by the canon comic "Float Out", due to Wash and Zoe discussing starting a family in "Heart of Gold".
-   Gender-Inverted Trope in _Flame's Shade_. Ruby goes to a pillaged village and finds out that her half-sister's distant mother Raven has died. Raven left behind an infant daughter, who Yang and Ruby decide to raise.
-   _Frostbitten Flower_ starts with a heavily pregnant and recently widowed Celia mourning her husband Jack's death. He died a few weeks before their daughter was born.
-   _Godzilla 2000: New Era_ has Asuka Shinoda die in childbirth from radiation sickness complications after being too close to Godzilla during the 1984 attack. Her and her husband's daughter Io is remarked to look a lot like her as she starts to grow up, with her godmother and Asuka's midwife Dr. Chapman even getting teary eyed at the resemblance.
-   The end of the _Team Fortress 2_ fanfic _Gone But Not Forgotten_ reveals that Miss Pauling is pregnant with Scout's son after the latter dies on the battlefield.
-   Subverted in _Harry Potter and the Spiritus Crystalus_. Ginny stops using contraception spells in case Harry doesn't survive the final battle, but Harry can sense it and avoids sex in such cases — wizards don't look kindly on out-of-wedlock children and their mothers.
-   In HeatAndChills' _Cabin Fever_ microfic, _Cabin Fever: Promises To Keep_, this is the outcome of Paul and Marcy's one night stand. Marcy survives; Paul doesn't. Marcy decides to name their daughter after their mutual friend and Paul's true love, Karen, while giving her the middle name Pauline, in remembrance of her father.
-   With Matt's supposed death at Midland Circle in _Hell's Kitchen, Full of Grace_, Jessica thinks she's doing this when she decides to keep Peter. It isn't until after he's born does she find out that Matt survived.
-   The whole reason why everyone is going after C.C in a _Code Geass_ continuation, _In the End_.
-   _The Joestar Chronicles_ has Hollius Joestar (a male version of Holy Kujo) as this, as the son of Josephine Joestar and her lover Caesar Zeppeli, conceived before Caesar is killed in his fight against Wamuu.
-   _The Hobbit_ fanfic _Kili's Promise_ has Fili survive the Battle of Five Armies and become King of Erebor, sent back because Thorin and Kili told him to "take care of his family". He learns that Tauriel is pregnant with Kili's child, conceived before Kili left for Erebor. The rest of the story involves Fili helping to raise the child, who is named Tili. So, in a way, it's someone for both of them to remember Kili.
-   In the _Death Note_ fanfiction Light's Legacy, it's established that Misa got desperate after Light started spending a lot of time with Takada, and tried to make sure he'd stay with her using The Baby Trap. Shortly after Light died, Misa found out she was pregnant with his child, which is the only reason she didn't kill herself sooner. However, not even the daughter she had with him was enough to fill the void left in her heart, so she left her at an orphanage and then committed suicide. The baby girl — named Hikari — grew up unaware of her true parentage and thinking her biological parents were deadbeats... until she found a mysterious notebook...
-   In _The Simpsons_ badfic _Lisa Is Pregnant_, Bart dies while trying to keep Lisa from freezing to death by having sex with her. This results in her getting pregnant, and Marge opposes Lisa getting an abortion because the last living part of her child is inside Lisa, causing Lisa to change her mind and have the baby out of respect for Bart.
-   _Love Can Surprise You At Any Time In Your Life_:
    -   Lars unknowingly got Leela pregnant a week before his death, mere days before he realized he was doomed at all. Given that he was doomed to die to prevent a paradoxical coexistence with Fry, this is a potential cause of concern, as there's no precedent for a time duplicate reproducing and there's a chance the baby or Leela would also be doomed.
    -   The fic addresses how Kif's offspring are left without a father after Kif (temporarily) dies. Amy is unsure whether she'd want to raise them without Kif's help, but remarks that she's glad "everyone who passes this pond can look down and see a bit of Kiffy." This situation is what convinces Leela to keep her baby, seeing it as a remnant of her love with Lars before he broke her heart.
-   In _Naru-Hina Chronicles_, Ino has an aunt named Hotaru, who ends up having the baby of her deceased boyfriend.
-   Jeyne Westerling in _The North Remembers_, who discovers her pregnancy while at Greywater Watch, after being led there by Ser Brynden Tully for her safety. At first she's shocked, and then overjoyed because the potions she was given by her mother were actually contraceptives intended to stop her from conceiving an heir for Robb Stark. Unfortunately, the baby boy she delivers is blind and has no right arm because of this, and so the crown to the North passes to Sansa instead.
-   An _ER_ fic titled "One Candle Burns" is a re-write of Doug Ross's departure that had him going to Croatia to aid in the war effort. Carol gets word that he has been killed in the chaos, but consoles herself with the birth of their twin girls. Subverted at the story's end, when he is revealed to be alive.
-   _one day at a time (Nyame)_: Jason's adoptive daughter Helena Wayne is the biological daughter of his own adoptive father Bruce Wayne and Selina Kyle. Selina discovered she was pregnant about one month after Bruce was murdered by the Joker, which led her to leave Gotham in hopes of giving Helena a normal life. Ultimately, it didn't take: Black Mask II tracked her down ten years later and tried to force her to work for him, which caused Selina to flee _back_ to Gotham in hopes of getting the Bat-Family's protection. She was killed before she could reach them, but not before sending Helena to Jason, who would take her in as his daughter. Helena would later grow up to be Robin, Huntress, and eventually, Batwoman.
-   _Popcorn Love_, a _Once Upon a Time_ Transplanted Character Fic in which Regina is a businesswoman in New York and Emma is a college student she hires as a babysitter (only for romance to blossom between the two), and Henry is Regina's biological child by her boyfriend Daniel, who died in a car accident three days after Henry was conceived.
-   _Queens of Mewni_: Febe the Red One was almost Driven to Suicide after her husband was assassinated in an attack meant for her when she realized the nausea she felt was Morning Sickness and she was pregnant with the future Festivia the Fun.
-   In _Remembrance of the Fallen_, Tiana Lanstar is in her third trimester with a baby conceived _in vitro_ using technobabble applied to her Bajoran wife Sobaru's genome.
-   Toward the end of _A Sad Story_, Harry's girlfriend Maria tells him that he's going to be a father, and thus can't die yet.
-   A _Scream 2_ fanfic titled _Scream 2: Aftermath_ has Sidney finding out she's pregnant with Derek's child shortly after his death in the film.
-   The _West Side Story_ fic _Somewhere a Place for You, Maria_ has Maria learn that she's pregnant with Tony's child after his death. She gives birth to their daughter Felipa in the penultimate chapter.
-   Deconstructed in _A Song of Ice, Fire and Heart_, as Roxas is somewhat unsettled and annoyed by people constantly comparing him to his assumed father Ventus when he doesn't know anything about the guy.
-   Johnny Lightfoot died in the final arc of _Sonic the Comic_. In the fan sequel _Sonic the Continuation_, it's shown that he was together with Vanilla and that Vanilla was pregnant with Cream when Johnny died.
-   The _Titanic_ fandom uses this trope all the time, on the assumption that Jack _could've_ gotten Rose pregnant when they made love in that Model T.
-   In _Turning Tables_, it is after Thanos wins does Peter discover that Pepper was pregnant with Tony's child.
-   The _Legend of Korra_ fanfic _Two Wrongs and a Right_ has this and a Dead Guy Junior. _And_ a Family Relationship Switcheroo.
-   _We Must Be Killers_: The male District 6 tribute in _Nobody Decent_ leaves behind a pregnant girlfriend. Possibly subverted, as she kills herself at some point after his death in the arena and it is never mentioned if she waited to have her baby first.
-   In the _For Better or for Worse_ fanfic _Who Silenced Elly Patterson_, it's implied this happened with John and his second wife Kortney, with hints that he died not long after she gave birth to his twin sons.
-   In the _Xenoblade Chronicles 3_ fanfic _Stolen Moments,_ there's a rare female version. When the team first learns about babies (they're all born from Uterine Replicators as ten year-olds), Mio is excited about the possibility of leaving something behind despite the dwindling time on her clock. Of course, then she finds out how long pregnancy takes, so there's no way she can have a child in the one month she has left.

    Film — Live-Action 

-   _The Air I Breathe_: Sorrow finds out that she has become pregnant with Pleasure's baby after Fingers killed him. She runs away with the money from Happiness' bank robbery to start a new life.
-   The Filipino film _All My Life_ ends with Sam's love interest turned wife Louie (Short for Louisa) playing with her son by him, due to Sam dying from a fatal heart attack that rots his heart muscles, before this scene occurred.
-   The ending of _An American Werewolf in London_ is set up so that, while David is killed, his relationship with Alex ensures the possibility of a bouncing baby sequel. Although not explicitly stated, the character played by Julie Delpy in the _An American Werewolf in Paris_ was, in fact, intended to be David's daughter.
-   _Austin Powers_, the supposed reason why Scott was created. It would later turn out to be not totally true.
-   _The Babadook_ horribly deconstructs this trope. Amelia's husband died the same day that her son was born (driving her to the hospital, in fact), so Amelia had every reason to anticipate a long, happy life with her husband and child. Instead, her grief and her attempts to be a loving mother to Sam are deeply tangled, and she can't even celebrate Sam's birthday on the proper day. This furious resentment and grief is what gives the Babadook itself such power. Towards the end of the film, she screams at Sam that sometimes she wishes she'd lost her baby, and not her husband.
-   _Black Christmas (1974)_. Somewhat subverted in that the father was depicted as kind of a jerk, and the heroine may have had an abortion, assuming she never learned the truth about what actually happened.
-   The mid-credits scene of _Black Panther: Wakanda Forever_ reveals that Nakia and T'Challa had a son together around the time he was killed by Thanos in _Avengers: Infinity War_. While T'Challa was revived in _Avengers: Endgame_, he eventually succumbed to an illness at the beginning of _Wakanda Forever_. Nakia tells Shuri that at least this second time they knew what was coming, so she and Toussaint (their son) were able to prepare themselves for it.
-   In _Bones (2001)_, it turns out that Jimmy Bones’ girlfriend Pearl was pregnant at the time of his murder, as she reveals his identity to their daughter Cynthia in the film’s third act.
-   In _Braveheart_ Isabella of France, wanting to rub Edward I's nose in the fact that she will ultimately be having the last laugh, tells him that the child she is pregnant with, the future Edward III, was not fathered by Edward II, but rather by William Wallace, meaning that the reign of Edward I's bloodline is effectively over.
-   _Candyman: Farewell to the Flesh_. Paul dies, but not before leaving Annie a parting gift.
    -   The Candyman himself, whose death (after impregnating the daughter of a wealthy landowner) qualifies as terrifying.
-   Happens in the epilogue of Dario Argento's _The Card Player_.
-   A variation occurs in _Carlito's Way_. Carlito finds out Gail is pregnant before he dies, but the effect is still the same.
-   The remake of _Children of the Corn (2009)_, the movie ends with a proclamation that the cult's "age of sacrifice" has been lowered from 19 to 18. Enforcer Malachai is clearly one of the people who is now too old to live and resigns himself to his fate, leaving behind a very upset wife with a bulging belly. (This is in the original Stephen King story.)
    -   Also implied: The movie features an occult ceremony deemed _"The time of fertilization"_ by the Creepy Child high priest leading it. The ceremony includes a very vocal sex scene between two non-speaking unnamed extras. It is strongly implied that the woman gets pregnant from this. Her ceremonial sperm donor mightn't have a name, but he is addressed in the credits as "The oldest boy". So if other members of the clan were past the age of sacrifice, obviously the oldest boy must be, too.
-   _Cold Mountain_; the main character, after reuniting with his wife.
-   _Creed_: Adonis Johnson is the illegitimate son of the late Apollo Creed, who was killed in the ring before he was born.
-   In _Creep_ Josef explains to hired cameraman Aaron that he's dying of cancer, and wants Aaron to document his life so that his unborn child will one day be able to know him. This is just a lie to gain Aaron's trust and sympathy.
-   This is the surprise twist at the end of _Crush_: Kate is revealed to be pregnant with Jed's baby. It is the only reason the movie avoids an unbelievably Downer Ending.
-   In _Demonic Toys_, a cop tells her boyfriend (also a cop) about her pregnancy right before a drug bust. You can pretty much guess what happened right afterwards.
-   _Dragonfly (2002)_: at the end of the film Joe finds out that his wife Emily survived the accident for long enough to allow the locals to save the baby she was carrying. The final scene shows Joe playing with the child as a toddler, and she looks just like her late mother.
-   In the Troma/Astron 6 spoof _Father's Day (2011)_, the act of impregnating a woman makes you a target for the Big Bad, a rapist and serial killer whose preferred victims are fathers.
-   _Feast of Love_: Just after it seems like Chloe's gotten a happy life with Oscar, marrying him and expecting their baby, the death prediction about him tragically comes true. He dies suddenly of a heart defect no one knew about before while exterting himself playing football, leaving Chloe pregnant. It's softened a bit by Harry and Esther agreeing to adopt her though, so she'll at least have their support.
-   _Female Agents_: Louise finds out she's pregnant with her late husband's child early in the film, torn between happiness and worry over the danger she's in. She miscarries after being struck in the stomach during her torture by the Nazis. It is stated in the epilogue that the actual Louise married again, but never had other children.
-   _The Fly (1986)_: Veronica is impregnated by Seth Brundle before the end of the movie; although she seeks out an abortion because of the possibility the child will be a mutant, he — with this trope in mind, especially since it _might_ have been conceived before his Tragic Mistake and thus be fully human — prevents this. Because the movie ends immediately after Seth/Brundlefly's death, the question of what would become of the child is a loose end that allows for their son to be the mutant protagonist of the 1989 sequel _The Fly II_. Interestingly, the first film was _supposed_ to end with one of four filmed epilogues that would have tied up the end; in three of the four Veronica has an abortion (and one even has her subsequently carrying her previous lover Stathis's child instead), while one confirmed she would keep Seth's child after all no matter what it turned out to be — but none of the epilogues worked in test screenings, primarily because (according to David Cronenberg) Seth's death was too upsetting for audiences to be immediately followed by a hopeful coda.
-   At the end of _Gloomy Sunday_, Ilona is shown to be heavily pregnant. It isn't revealed if Laszlo or Andres is the father, however both are dead by the end, so the trope applies either way.
-   In the 2009 film _Grace_, the father-to-be dies in a car accident. The unborn child dies as well, but she gets better...sort of.
-   Forms the plot of the 2009 tearjerker _The Greatest_. In this case, parents of a dead teen take in his pregnant girlfriend.
-   _Harrison Bergeron_: Phillipa turns out to be pregnant with her and Harrison's child after he's been killed by the government. We later see him illegally watching the videos which Harrison broadcasted with a friend.
-   _How To Deal_ (2003): Halley's best friend Scarlett is pregnant by her boyfriend Michael, finding this out just after Michael had suddenly died from an unexpected heart condition.
-   _Hunting Scenes from Bavaria_: Hannelore becomes pregnant, and claims to the villagers that Abram is the father, making the already-resentful villagers hate him further. This eventually leads to a confrontation that ends with Abram fatally stabbing her in a fit of rage.
-   _In a Valley of Violence_: Ellen tells her fiancee Gilly that she's pregnant right before he leaves to die in a gunfight.
-   _Inside_. As depressing as it is, it only begins this way and gets much, much worse. The 2016 remake has a happy ending.
-   _Jane Got a Gun_: After Dan left to enlist, Jane discovered she was pregnant. When Dan did not return or write, she assumed he was dead, and life in Jane's war-torn town had become so wretched that she decided to take her daughter Mary and move West on the Bishop wagon train.
-   _Liz In September_: Eva is seen in the end with a daughter, after having previously told Liz that it's both their child. She names her after Liz too.
-   An example involving a villain in _The Love Light_. After Angela finds out that her Fourth-Date Marriage husband is actually a German spy, and said German spy plunges to his death off a cliff while being chased by a mob, she delivers his baby. She names the baby "Dolora" due to the circumstances of her birth being a total bummer.
-   Parodied in _Man Bites Dog_. After Patrick, one of the film crew, is killed, Remy tearfully gives his condolences on camera to Patrick's pregnant girlfriend. After Franco, another crew member, is killed, Remy gives the same condolences...to the _same girlfriend_.
-   _Money Monster:_ Kyle's girlfriend is pregnant, which invokes this trope as it becomes apparent the police may shoot him. They do, although unusually for the trope, his child's mother hates him at the time of his death.
-   _The Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor_: Zi Yuan was apparently pregnant by Ming when the Emperor killed him, and transmitted immortality to their daughter Lin. Thus they were briefly able to see each other two thousand years later in the final battle.
-   Subverted in _My Life_ in which Michael Keaton's character isn't expected to live long enough to see his baby born. He does anyway.
-   After Jack's suicide mission in _Oblivion (2013)_ the film skips ahead two years to show Julia with a daughter that is obviously his. Then another Jack Harper clone who had appeared earlier and also showed traces of the original Jack's memories of Julia finds them.
-   Defied in _Pan's Labyrinth_, in which a villain obsessed with his posterity is survived by a newborn son. As he's dying, the women who will care for the baby tell him point-blank that his boy won't even know his name.
-   _Pearl Harbor_ leaves Our Heroine and Our Hero together with Dead Hypotenuse's baby.
-   _People Will Talk_, this is the basis for the plot with the added complication that they never married. When the doctor tells her about her pregnancy, she is so distraught about having to break her father's heart and admit to premarital sex that she attempts suicide. The doctor tells her that there was a mix-up with the tests and she wasn't pregnant, then proposes so that when she does have the baby, there will be nothing shameful (except the fact that she will give birth about seven months after the wedding, which no one seems to notice.)
-   In _Prevenge_, a pregnant woman mourns the loss of her dead husband by killing off those responsible for his death, under the orders of her unborn child.
-   _Red: Werewolf Hunter_: This may be the case with Virginia, who in the last scene is shown reading the story of Red Riding Hood to her daughter. Although it's not explicit that her father was Nathan, Virginia's boyfriend whom she had to kill, it certainly may have been him, since Virginia could have been pregnant without knowing it yet at the time of his death.
-   Jack Bull's daughter with Sue Lee in _Ride with the Devil_.
-   Discussed in _Scream 4_. This trope is listed as one of the signs that a cop will die in a horror movie, along with being about to retire and “being better looking than the other person.”
-   In _The Shaft (2001)_, Mark's partner Jeff leaves behind a pregnant wife after being strangled to death by elevator cables.
-   _Sleepers_: Carol has a child with John, a son she names after the father, Michael, and Tommy. Her pet name for her son is Shakes.
-   During the credits of _Space Battleship Yamato_ Yuki is seen with her son from Kodai who died destroying the last Meteor Bomb. This is during the ending credits no less.
-   In Stanley Kubrick's _Spartacus_, Spartacus makes his heroic sacrifice and is crucified along with his men. While escaping out of Rome, Varinia shows her dying lover their newborn son, who will grow up to be a free man.
-   In _Star Trek (2009)_ this is used as a beginning trope. Although, not _completely_ true to form. Baby Jim Kirk was born moments before dad died, and Dad got to name him, instead of being conceived without soon-to-heroic-sacrifice dad knowing as is typical with this trope.
-   _Switch (1991)_: Gender flipped. Amanda dies giving birth, and leaves a daughter behind with Walter.
-   _Tender Mercies_: In the backstory. Rosa Lee didn't even know she was pregnant until after her husband was drafted. Her husband was killed in Vietnam soon after; the movie starts with her and her 12-year-old boy Sonny living alone.
-   _The Terminator_; Kyle Reese dies after impregnating Sarah Connor, enabling her to give birth to John Connor.
-   _The Terrorist_: Malli learns she's pregnant by a fellow cadre, who's dead (they had sex just before he died). However, rather than having the baby, she goes through with her suicide bombing mission (possibly).
-   Not of the romantic variety (at least, not human), but in _Turner and Hooch_, after Hooch dies, Turner ends up with one of Hooch's pups.
-   At the end of _They Live by Night_, Keechie is pregnant when Bowie is shot and killed by the police attempting to leave her a note before he heads for Mexico.
-   _An Unfinished Life_: Jean was pregnant when her husband died in a car crash, and named her daughter after him. Her father-in-law doesn't learn this until ten years later.
-   _The World According to Garp_: T.S. Garp is the out-of-wedlock son of a feminist mother, Jenny Fields, who wanted a child but not a husband. A nurse during World War II, she encounters a dying ball turret gunner known only as Technical Sergeant Garp ("Garp" being all he is able to utter) who was severely brain damaged in combat, whose morbid priapism allows her to rape him and get impregnated. She names the resultant child after Garp.

    Literature 

-   Xavier Lightman has sex with his wife just before the final battle in _Armada_. After his Heroic Sacrifice, we skip ahead a year to discover she's given birth to a son.
-   In Lois McMaster Bujold's novel _Barrayar_, Padma is in fact killed while his wife is in labor, but Alys finds baby Ivan if not a consolation at least a distraction from grief.
-   Subverted in Robin McKinley's _Beauty_. Grace's father suggests that she and Robbie marry quickly and "get started on a baby" before he departs for his voyage, but both Robbie and Grace refuse, preferring to wait until he returns.
-   _Ben Safford Mysteries_: In _There is No Justice_, the mistress of the second murder victim is revealed to be pregnant with his child at the end of the book.
-   In _Beyond the Summerland_, the first book of L.B. Graham's _The Binding of the Blade_ series, Joraiem is murdered right after the end of his and Wylla's honeymoon; in the epilogue, when they are bringing his dead body home to his parents, we find out that Wylla is pregnant with his baby.
-   Lila Merriweather of the _Black Blade_ series never knew her father because he was murdered before she was born.
-   In _The Black Magician Trilogy_, after the Ichani invasion in which her lover Akkarin is killed, Sonea realizes that she is pregnant by him.
-   _The Bronze Horseman_ ends with Alexander arrested by the Soviet secret police, but his wife Tatiana makes it to America with their baby (then Paullina Simons wrote a sequel getting them back together via a number of Contrived Coincidences).
-   It does not happen at the _end_ of the book, but in _A Brother's Price_ the Whistler husband died a few months before the book started. Eldest Mother had slept with him the night before the accident, but initially assumed that the early signs of pregnancy were actually the signs of approaching menopause. Social conventions hold that talking openly about a pregnancy will jinx it, so her family keeps quiet. At the end of the book it turns out to be a healthy boy. Since men are generally more susceptible to heart attacks, disease, and inherited weaknesses, this actually isn't uncommon in the book.
    -   Technically Eldie was this for Keifer to his sister Kij, five years before book's start.
-   The second book of Anthony Trollope's _The Chronicles of Barsetshire_ opens with Eleanor's husband having died between books, leaving her completely devastated until their baby was born.
    
    "And thus the widow's deep grief was softened, and a sweet balm was poured into the wound which she had thought nothing but death could heal."
    
-   _Cold Mountain_: between Inman and Ada. Apparently this is based off of the real conception of the author's great-great aunt.
    -   This book contains multiple examples of this trope. Again, its use is somewhat justified—it takes place during the American Civil War, prior to which many couples were married—and then, of course, many of the guys didn't come back...
-   _The Dresden Files_:
    -   Played with in _Changes_ when the mother dies and leaves behind a child for the father to remember her by — an eight-year-old child that the mother had until then kept secret from the world.
    -   A particularly bizarre version happens in _Skin Game_, in which it's revealed that Lash, the mental copy of the fallen angel Lasciel that used to live in Harry's head, had committed an "act of love" when she sacrificed herself to save him, resulting in the creation of a new spiritual entity formed of herself and Harry, which has been dwelling and growing within Harry's mind ever since, and now needs to leave to be able to continue its growth. Or, as Harry puts it, he's pregnant.
-   Played with in the _Enchanted Forest Chronicles_, in that Cimorene's pregnancy was revealed well before there was any hint that anything would happen to Mendanbar, and that he's not actually dead, simply Sealed In A Can. The baby turns out to be a really good thing, though, since only a member of the royal family (which is currently quite depleted) can wield the sword and release him.
-   In _Endo and Kobayashi Live! The Latest on Tsundere Villainess Lieselotte_, Fiene was conceived when Elizabeth and August decided to consummate their relationship during the last days of August's life; he died around the same time when Elizabeth found herself bearing his child.
-   In _Generation Warriors_, this happened on a society-wide level with the heavyworlders during their colony's harsh first winter. The men impregnated their wives, then committed suicide so that they wouldn't be a drain on their wives' resources, their wives could eat their bodies, and the colony as a whole could survive. Their children are not happy with the Federation of Sentient Planets, who dropped their parents into this situation with no support and are now trying to tell them how to live.
-   Inverted in Douglas Coupland's _Girlfriend in a Coma_, as Karen, the titular girlfriend gives birth while in a coma, giving her boyfriend someone to remember her by.
-   In the Backstory to Edgar Rice Burroughs's _Gods of Mars_, Dejah Thoris was consoled for losing John Carter with his son, Carthoris. It was when Carthoris vanished as well that she did something foolish.
-   In _Gone with the Wind_, after Scarlett's first husband dies she has his son. Subverted in that Scarlett is actually annoyed at how people keep saying how lucky she is to have something to remember her husband by.
    -   Played straight when Melanie and Scarlett learn that Ashley has been captured. Fearing the worst, Melanie says, "At least I've got his baby."
-   Aenea from _Hyperion Cantos_ is an extremely odd female version of this due to a Stable Time Loop. She spends several years of her life transported a few years into the future, where she has a child with Raul. She then has to leave the child behind and return to the original timeline, where she is killed about a year later. She does tell him in the "present" timeline that she had a child during this absence but never tells him it's _his_; from his perspective they are able to reunite for a time after her death.
-   _The Kingdom of Little Wounds_ looked at this trope and said "nope." Ava is left pregnant after Jacob runs away, but she miscarries. Isabel is still pregnant when Christian dies, but she also miscarries. Midi manages to carry her baby to term, but she's not sure who the father is and the afterword would suggest she's not so attached to Arthur, the man she supposedly loved, after all.
-   _The Last Dragon Chronicles_: The end of David's first story, _Snigger and the Nutbeast_. And at the end of the third book, Zanna reveals she's pregnant with David's child.
-   _The Last Werewolf_ ends with Jake's death, but Talulla already knows she is pregnant with his baby, although she never gets a chance to tell him that. In the second book in the series, _Talulla Rising_, she gives birth to twins.
-   _Lessons in Chemistry_: Calvin dies in an accident; Elizabeth gives birth to their daughter afterwards and raises little Madeline as a single mom.
-   _The Licanius Trilogy_: Raeleth and Niha meet and fall in love in the temporally displaced city of Zvaelar, then become separated again when the time bubble collapses, sending them both back to their own times. It's not until after her return that Niha finds out she's pregnant.
-   In Michelle Magorian's _A Little Love Song_/_Not a Swan_, Hilda, who is a nurse during World War I, falls in love with an injured soldier. They have sex just before he has to go back to war, and then he dies in battle. Even more heart wrenching in that when Hilda's brothers find out she's pregnant, they put her in a mental institution and force her to give up the baby for adoption as soon as he's born.
-   Gender flipped in _The Masterharper of Pern_ when Robinton's boyhood friend F'lon loses his wife Larna to Death by Childbirth. Robinton, whose own wife Casia died on their honeymoon, sends his heartfelt condolences to his old friend - but at the same time is a bit jealous that F'lon at least has a son to remember _her_ by.
-   _A Memoir by Lady Trent_: At the end of the first book, after Jacob dies saving Isabella, she discovers she's pregnant, and names her son after his father.
-   At the end of _Mockingjay_, Annie has this from Finnick. (Katniss also finds it something of a consolation.)
-   _Nighttime Is My Time_ features a deconstruction and subversion with Jean and Reed's daughter; she had told him she was pregnant with his child shortly before his untimely death and prior to that tragic event she'd intended to raise the baby. However, Reed's death was what made her decide to give the baby up for adoption, because without him she didn't have anyone to help her (her parents were too wrapped up in themselves and their bitter marriage, while Reed's family didn't even know he was dating Jean and she wasn't sure they'd support her). She was also only eighteen years old at the time. She is eventually happily reunited with her daughter though.
-   Malorie Blackman's _Noughts & Crosses_ - a pretty big plot point towards the end, with a bit of a twist. Callum gets Sephy pregnant, and soon after gets arrested for terrorism and raping Sephy (the latter is a lie, it was consensual) but Sephy's dad, a high-ranking government official, offers them a choice: he will free Callum if Sephy has an abortion, or if she keeps the baby, Callum will be hung. They choose the latter, resulting in this trope and a Heroic Sacrifice of sorts from Callum.
-   In Sharon Draper’s _November Blues_, the story starts with the titular character November finding out that she is pregnant with the child of her boyfriend, who died in a tragic hazing accident prior to the events of the book.
-   In Robert Buettner's _Orphanage_ the besieged Ganymede Expeditionary force have finally located the enemy base. Because it's on the other side of Ganymede and they are about to be overrun, their only hope is for their mothership to bombard the site the next time it overflies the target. The ship's captain Metzger confesses that their computers are out and that it'll be another orbit before they can take the shot, which will too late. The expeditionary force's CO then tells Metzger that Mrs Metzger, currently on the surface, is pregnant. Evacuating the rest of the crew, Metzger manually pilots the ship to crash into the enemy base, saving the expeditionary force and his unborn child.
-   After Claire leaves Jamie in the 1700s, their daughter Brianna fills this role at the end of the second book in the _Outlander_ series.
-   Subverted in the _Percy Jackson and the Olympians_/_The Heroes of Olympus_ novels, seeing as male gods love to impregnate female mortals and then leave, never to see them or the kid again. This is Percy's main criticism of his father, Poseidon. However, it is subverted by the fact that some of them occasionally visit their lovers/kids (like Hermes, for example, though it is rare). Most are pretty much out of the picture though.
    -   You could also argue that the female gods pull similar shit on male mortals, deliberately having a one night stand to purposely impregnate herself, and then dumping the guy with a baby nine months later with no convictions to pay child support or help raise it. (Like Athena, for example)
-   Both of Cathy's sons in _Petals on the Wind_ were born after their fathers died. Jory's father Julian killed himself shortly after Cathy found out she was pregnant, and Bart Jr.'s father was killed when Foxworth Hall burned down shortly after his conception.
-   A side plot in Jill Paton Walsh's _A Presumption of Death_ concerns a young RAF aviator who has disappeared, leaving a pregnant fiancee in great want. Harriet determines that he died the day after the two of them consummated their relationship, but that the military is covering up his death because they planted false information about Norwegian defences on his body, then secretly dumped it off the coast of Germany to be found by the Nazis. Lord Peter is able to convince the military to declare the young man dead, which frees up his estate.
-   At the beginning of _Private Wars_, Tara Chace learns she is pregnant by her lover Tom Wallace, who died at the end of _A Gentleman's Game_.
-   In _The Rapture of Canaan_, James commits suicide out of fear when he learns that he is the father of Ninah's unborn child.
-   In _Reaper's Gale_, book seven of the _Malazan Book of the Fallen_, Seren Pedac discovers she is pregnant after her love interest Trull Sengar has a particularly random bridge dropped on him via a random knife In the Back. It even manages to check all the bonus points: they have sex exactly once, on the night of the book's final, and it's also the latter's first time (technically). At least that last part is gender flipped.
-   _Red Queen_: Farley finds out that she is pregnant with Shade's baby shortly after he dies. She plans to name the baby after him if it is a boy, but it ends up being a girl, so she names her after her mother Clara instead.
-   In _The Red Tent_, Dinah becomes pregnant by Prince Shalem, which she discovers after her Jerkass brothers kill him. She has a Gut Feeling that the baby is a boy, and wants to name him Bar-Shalem ("Son of Shalem"). But, her mother-in-law doesn't want any mention or reminders of the son she lost, so she takes the baby to raise as _her_ son, and calls him Re-Mose instead, telling him that he's an Egyptian and relegating Dinah to his glorified nursemaid.
-   The _Sally Lockhart_ novel _The Shadow in the North_. Though this does address the "unwed mother in 1870s England" issue by making the custody of Sally's child a plot point in the next book.
-   Part of the backstory to _The Scholomance_. Gwen Higgins' lover Arjun saved her from a Maw-Mouth on their graduation day about seventeen years back, going into it's gullet in her stead as he told her he loved her. Galadriel was born six months later, and favors her Mumbai-born father greatly.
-   At the end of _Secret Sacrament_ by Sheryl Jordan we find out that Gabriel has (and will no doubt die of) the disease that has been plaguing the Shinali and it's also revealed that his Shinali girlfriend is pregnant. The sequel is about his daughter.
-   _The Silmarillion_ has this among two brothers, Hurin and Huor. Huor is killed and Hurin is captured after the Nirnaeth Arnoediad, with their wives giving birth to children months after the battle.
-   _A Song of Ice and Fire_:
    -   Queen Rhaella Targaryen was pregnant with her daughter Daenerys when King Aerys II was killed in the Sack of King's Landing.
    -   Tragically subverted with Daenerys' son, Rhaego. In hindsight, her husband, Drogo, was going to die either way; had she not agreed to revive him using Blood Magic, she would have given birth to his healthy baby. Instead, Rhaego is rendered stillborn to revive Drogo into a vegetative state, forcing Daenerys to kill him to end his suffering, meaning she loses her husband _and_ son.
    -   Gilly gives birth to her son by Craster around the same time that he is murdered during the mutiny at his keep.
-   _Stinger_: "Treasure" Lochett died giving birth to Cody, whose distant father only comes out of The Mourning After enough to appreciate this trope (in a Heel Realization manner) during the main story, almost twenty years after her death, when their son is in danger.
    
    _Treasure was in Cody. She had left him part of herself, and he’d tossed the gift aside like a snotty rag._
    
-   _Tandia_ by Bryce Courtenay (sequel to _The Power of One_) ends with the protagonist Peekay dead but the woman he loves - Tandia alive, safe and carrying his baby in Switzerland
-   Similar to the midpoint of _The Thorn Birds_, where Meggie becomes pregnant by Father Ralph just before he leaves her and returns to the Church and specifically says that this baby will be a part of him that she can keep. The child becomes one of the two major protagonists of the second half of the novel, and is a prime example of the "Turn Out Like His Father" trope. Her mother Fee did this with her son Frank, since she and his father could not be together (he was married).
-   _A Thread of Grace_: Claudia and her fiance play this trope very straight at first. They get married, have sex (her first time), and he dies in an attempt to save the local townspeople. They even marry knowing that he's likely going to be dead by the end of the week. Subverted in that the child is born premature and dies two days later.
-   _Timeline-191_: When Yossel Reisen dies in World War I, his fiancee Sophie names her unborn son after him. Yossel II grows up just in time to serve in World War II, though he survives.
-   _Time Scout_: Carl's got a baby on the way.
-   In _A Tree Grows in Brooklyn_, Katie is pregnant when her husband dies. Annie Laurie Nolan is born five months and three days later.
-   Gender-inverted example in the _Twilight_ book _Breaking Dawn_. Vampire-human hybrids always kill their mothers during childbirth, leaving the fathers with only the hybrids as consolation. This happened to Joham, a vampire who impregnated three human women who died giving birth to his children, and nearly happens to Edward when Bella ends up dying after delivering their hybrid daughter Renesmee, until Edward decides to turn Bella into a vampire at the last minute.
-   In the Ngaio Marsh book _Vintage Murder_, an English theatre impresario is killed during a theatrical tour of New Zealand. His wife, the leading lady, is suspected of having committed the murder along with the leading man, with whom she is supposedly having an affair. It turns out that the wife had indeed fallen in love with her leading man but refused to have an affair, citing moral grounds; after her husband's death, she agrees to marry the leading man only to discover, joyfully, that she's pregnant with her husband's child. The killer is the deceased's business partner, who has a secret gambling problem.
-   In _The Wheel of Time_:
    -   Elayne becomes pregnant by Rand shortly before the Last Battle in which Rand is prophesied to die. Subverted when a timely "Freaky Friday" Flip lets him survive, although he and his lovers intend to keep that fact a secret.
    -   The prequel _New Spring_ discusses the trope: a young Moiraine is confused at how frequently it happens, given how inconvenient it is for the widow, whereupon an older and more worldly Aes Sedai points out that there are certain things couples tend to do when it might be their last night together.
-   A twisted version in _Who Is The Prey_: He Yan ends up having Fu Shenxing's baby after he dies, as Yuan Ze pleaded with her not to abort it, saying the baby was innocent of Fu Shenxing's crimes. It's unknown exactly how she feels about the child.
-   In Jasper Fforde's _The Woman Who Died a Lot_, when Thursday is attacking her irresponsibility, one of Tuesday's defenses is that she might get this trope if Gavin does indeed die on destiny's schedule.
-   _The World According to Garp_: "He said 'Garp', then he said, 'Good!', then he died."

    Live Action TV 

-   Genderflipped in _Angel_, where Darla dies giving birth to Connor.
-   In the _Black Mirror_ episode "Be Right Back", a woman's boyfriend is killed the day after they move into their new house, and she discovers shortly afterwards that she is pregnant. Her grief drives her to use new software to create a clone "substitute" of him.
-   Referenced in _Bones_: In "The Critic In the Cabernet", Brennan decides she wanted to have a baby via artificial insemination, and wants Booth to be the donor. Later, after Booth starts to hallucinate Baby Stewie haranguing him, Brennan has him rushed to the hospital, where he is diagnosed with a brain tumor. Before the surgery, Booth tells Brennan that if he doesn't make it, he wants her to use some of his "stuff" to have a baby.
    -   Then later, just before Sweets dies, we find out Daisy is pregnant with his child. Overlaps with Dead Guy Junior, as the boy is named Seeley Lance Sweets-Wick.
-   Played with in an episode of _Chicago Hope_. A woman suffers a miscarriage and her husband dies of a heart attack on the same day. She convinces the doctors to artificially inseminate her with her husband's sperm before they too die off and she successfully becomes pregnant.
-   At the conclusion of the Mini Series _Children Of The Dust_, Rachel is seen embracing the child of the man she'd loved since they were children—her being white and him being Native American meant they could never be together and he was killed by a mob after killing her abusive husband.
-   Genderflipped in the finale of _Chinese Paladin_, when Ling'er dies in a heroic sacrifice, leaving Xiaoyao to return home with their infant daughter. For additional irony points, the baby is named after Xiaoyao's ''other'' dead love interest.
-   In a non-romantic gender-flipped example, several young women were kidnapped and forced to bear children for an evil infertile couple on _Criminal Minds_. One of the captives was murdered after having a girl (the couple wanted boys to act as a surrogate for their own stillborn son), but genetic tests revealed that a toddler raised by the couple was actually her son, leaving her parents with Someone To Remember Her By. The grandparents are also granted visitation rights to their granddaughter, who has been Happily Adopted.
-   _Downton Abbey_:
    -   Genderflipped. Sybil dies from eclampsia just hours after giving birth to her daughter, leaving Branson to raise the baby alone.
    -   Happens in the Series 3 Christmas special when Matthew Crawley dies in a road accident while driving back to Downton just after Mary has delivered their baby.
    -   DA also subverts the romantic aspects. Housemaid Ethel's upper-class lover has already rejected their illegitimate child by the time he is killed in World War I. The consequences of unmarried motherhood in the early twentieth century are not pretty for Ethel; then the father's parents swoop in offering to raise the baby so that _they_ can have someone to remember their son by. Ethel refuses but by S3 has descended even further into poverty and prostitution, and eventually decides she must give up her child to his grandparents for his own good.
    -   A more traditional example is Edith, who gets pregnant after spending one night with her lover, Michael Gregson- who then goes to Berlin and disappears. It is later confirmed that he was killed by the brownshirts.
-   _EastEnders_ had Abi Branning having an affair with Steven Beale, the fiancee of her sister Lauren. This resulted in her becoming pregnant with his child and after his death from injuries he received trying to rescue Abi from a fire, she decided to keep the baby. And Lauren never found out about it!
-   Subverted in an episode of _ER_, in which a woman claims she is pregnant with her deceased husband's child. In fact the "pregnancy" is a nasty teratoma with hair and teeth.
-   Played straight in season 3 of _Eureka_, though this is also a case of Real Life Writes the Plot, as the woman who plays Allison Blake was really pregnant.
-   _Everwood_: Defied. One episode featured Dr. Brown's patient whose husband died several years ago, but tried to invoke this trope during his illness. He made her promise to have in vitro with his sperm and have his child. He really longed to propagate. She wants to do it for him, but it took her a long time to recover from her grieving and prepare to go through it. She's also in a new relationship. Her new spouse originally claimed he was OK with it, but in fact he was very uneasy about the whole thing and wanted to conceive his own child. She considered breaking up with him but Dr. Brown ultimately convinced her that it was unfair of her late husband to ask her for such a thing and that she's not bound to fulfil his wish.
-   In the _Farscape_ episode "Taking the Stone", one of the young hedonists, Das, leaves behind a pregnant girlfriend after committing ritual suicide. It isn't considered a tragedy (at least, by the hedonists), since their society demanded it, and the alternative was becoming an outcast and slowly dying of radiation poisoning. The girlfriend isn't affected at first, though, despite being heavily pregnant, later tries to get drunk.
    -   In a way, Aeryn Sun's son D'Argo Crichton-Sun could be considered an example. John Crichton was "twinned" in one episode and in the next the party split in half for multiple episodes and the two Johns went with different groups. The John Crichton who was with Aeryn developed a relationship with her, then died shortly after. It took a while after the group reunited for Aeryn to get together with the other Crichton, by which time she was confirmed to be pregnant by the dead Crichton, the live one considers it his son all the same though.
    -   Rorf and Rorg, a mated pair of Scarily Competent Tracker bounty hunters first introduced in "'Til The Blood Runs Clear". When they return in the second season Rorg is pregnant, which is what motivates Rorf to accept the cast's job offer. Rorg stays behind due to her pregnancy and Rorf ultimately dies taking a bullet for Crichton without meeting his offspring. A fellow conspirator promises to deliver Rorf's share of the profit from the job to Rorg and her children.
-   Invoked in-universe in _FlashForward_: Demetri Noh, having seen nothing in his flashforward, fears he's doomed to die. Janis, his lesbian coworker, laments that she won't conceive a child in time to have the sonogram/pregnancy she sees in her flashforward. Demetri proposes sleeping together so that he can have a kid before he dies, and she will get her baby.
-   _Grey's Anatomy_ combined this with a Time Skip in the two-part episode after Derek's death: a grieving Meredith flees town with her two children and at some point finds out that she's pregnant again. She returns to Seattle a year later after the birth of her daughter Ellis.
-   _Jeremiah_: Gender-Inverted in "Tripwire". Blind Seer Damien is the son of a victim of the Big Death who was born just as his mother died of the disease.
-   _Kamen Rider Kiva_: Maya got pregnant with Wataru shortly before Otoya died.
    -   _Kamen Rider Decade_: Gender-flipped in World of Kiva, where AR Wataru's father is the Fangire King and his mother, a human, has died; leaving Wataru as his father's only memory of her.
-   Parodied in _The Kids in the Hall_, with a sketch where recurring character Flying Pig is killed by flying into power lines. Then, we see some pregnant chick lifted off her feet. That's right, she's having Flying Pig's baby!
-   _The King's Woman_: Subverted. Shortly after Han Fei's death, Lady Han discovers she's pregnant with his child. Unfortunately, by the time she learns of her pregnancy, she's become one of Ying Zheng's concubines. Another concubine has her assassinated while she's still pregnant.
-   _Law & Order_:
    -   In one episode of _Law & Order: Special Victims Unit_, a teen girl, as part of a pregnancy pact, has sex with a schizophrenic homeless man in his early 20's. The girl's brother reacts by castrating and immolating the homeless man. After both the girl's brother and mother are sent to prison the girl is left pregnant and alone, but is taken in by the homeless man's father, so that he can support her and his grandchild.
    -   Inverted and then cruelly subverted in another episode of SVU. A female soldier had her eggs frozen before being deployed to Iraq, so her husband could have their child in case of her death. Unfortunately not only she died but the eggs ended up destroyed too.
    -   Happened in an episode of the original _Law & Order_. A hospital orderly who raped a comatose woman is discovered to have done so because her mother paid him; she knew her daughter didn't have long to live, and wanted a grandchild while she still could have one.
    -   In an episode of _Law & Order_, the cops and prosecutors are surprised to learn that the much younger Trophy Wife of their victim not only isn't a Gold Digger and is genuinely devastated by his death, she's equally devastated by the fact that she _can't_ invoke this—she suffered several miscarriages and the surrogate they hired ran off with the baby.
-   Gender flipped at the end of _MacGyver_, when Mac discovers that the girl he loved and wanted to marry back in college had given birth to his son, and he now has someone to remember _her_ by.
-   _Mayfair Witches_: Deirdre discovered she was pregnant from her tryst with Patrick after his death (which she believes was a murder to keep them apart), and was very depressed for much of her pregnancy as a result. It's later revealed however that Rowan's father was Cortland, due to him raping Deirdre, who's still living.
-   _Mirai Sentai Timeranger_: Subverted at the end where Honami Moriyama gives birth to the child of Domon/TimeYellow. Why is it a subversion? Because Domon doesn't really die, he just goes back to his time. In _Kaizoku Sentai Gokaiger_ episode 40, Sixth Ranger Gai Ikari meets Honami and her son (named Mirai<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> ) and even sends a photo of them to Domon when GoJyuDrill returns to the 31st Century.
-   _Mouse (2021)_: Hong-ju was pregnant with Yo-han's child when Yo-han died.
-   _NCIS_:
    -   Genderflipped but otherwise played completely straight at the time in the season 13 finale. The team finds out Ziva died in a bombing, leaving Tony heartbroken. A few minutes later, we find out that Ziva was pregnant with Tony's daughter, Tali, whom she had been raising on her own. This eventually prompts Tony to retire from NCIS to raise Tali. Ultimately subverted in season 16 when Bishop discovers that Ziva is in fact alive (and Ziva leaves her a note asking her to keep it secret), though it's not known if Tony and Tali know the truth yet.
    -   Another version in the episode "Seek", when the team reunites the victim's widow with the bomb-sniffing dog he had been paired with (they had raised him from puppyhood to one year before he was deployed). She outright says that having him makes her feel like her husband is still with her.
-   _NCIS: Los Angeles_: Very fond of this trope. At least 5 murder victims have left behind pregnant wives/girlfriends so far and they are only in Season 5.
-   _NOS4A2_: Just after losing her boyfriend in the effort to stop Manx, Vic learns that she's pregnant by him.
-   On _One Life to Live_, after Patrick is "killed", his pregnant widow Marty is comforted by her archenemy Blair of all people, who reminds her that at least she has his baby. Blair herself was in this position two years earlier when Todd was presumably murdered.
-   Happened to Karen after Keith dies in _One Tree Hill_. She has a daughter she names Lily.
-   _Picket Fences_: Gender-Inverted in multiple episodes.
    -   In "Thanksgiving," a woman who has cystic fibrosis and will die from it in a few years discusses wanting to have a baby first.
    -   In "The Body Politic," a brain-dead car accident victim is pregnant, and her husband and mother go to court arguing about whether to keep her on life support long enough for her child to be born, with her husband calling that idea one of the only things he has left after her accident and discussing how the baby will have her eyes.
-   Dr Sara in _Prison Break_, with Michael's baby.
-   Inverted in an episode of _Private Practice_. An older women (about sixty) and a young man (thirty) are married. The woman is nine months pregnant after being artificially inseminated, ready to have her baby. The baby has complications, Addison fixes it, but the mother dies after giving birth due to complications associated with her age. The woman very nearly says this trope's name.
-   _The Purge_: Rick and Jenna's baby turned out to be this for her.
-   _The Shadow Line_ has Jonah Gabriel's wife, who gives birth to his son after he's been shot dead.
-   Painfully subverted in _Skins_ when Jal terminates her pregnancy by recently deceased Chris. This is particularly heartbreaking because the condition that has just killed Chris is genetic and had also killed his brother some years before. Had Jal chosen to invoke this trope and have the baby so she could hold onto Chris, she would have also chosen a life of constant fear that her child might die from this condition at any moment. It is heavily implied that this exact fear is what led Chris' mother to abandon him in the first season.
-   _Stargate Atlantis_: Teyla's pregnancy seemed to be going this way, as the (previously unmentioned) father of her child was kidnapped by Michael and (as she found out later when she was also kidnapped), experimented on. Ultimately subverted when the Big Damn Heroes rescue Teyla, her baby, _and_ Kanaan, and Dr. Keller is able to undo his mutation.
-   At the end of _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_ with Kasidy, who was revealed to be pregnant with Ben Sisko's child in an earlier episode. This is a variation as Sisko isn't dead; he's gone to live with the Prophets, and nobody knows when he'll be back.
-   Gender flipped in _Star Trek: The Next Generation_ episode "Reunion". K'ehleyr, who Worf had sex with in second-season episode "The Emissary", introduced him to their son, Alexander, then was murdered.
-   _Tidelands (Netflix)_: Not long after they find out that Violca is pregnant with their baby, Colton's killed.
-   _The Walking Dead (2010)_: Glenn is killed while Maggie is pregnant with his child, although in this case, they both already knew this before his death.
-   _The War of the Worlds (2019)_: Sometime after the invasion, Amy gives birth to her and George's son, named George Jr, after George has been killed protecting them.
-   Baby William becomes this for a short time on _The X-Files_. Luckily, Mulder isn't as dead as we thought.
-   _Your Honor_: In Season 2, after Adam was accidentally shot and killed, it turns out that Fia gave birth to their son.

    Music 

-   The end result of the story of "The Hazards of Love", The Decemberists 2009 concept album.
    -   Actually a subversion, as the lyrics of the last song imply that the whole family - father, mother, and unborn child - die together. There is no mention of the child's birth or a miscarriage, and Margaret is obviously in the sinking boat with William when the river claims them (she is described as arranging rocks around the hull to weigh it down). A better Decemberists example of this trope would be "Yankee Bayonett," a surprisingly cheerful love song between a pregnant woman and her dead soldier lover.
-   The Kingston Trio's "Ballad on the Shape of Things" ends this way:
    
    _"Triangular is the garment thin  
    That fastens on with a safety pin  
    To a prize I had no wish to win...  
    It's a lasting memory  
    That my true love gave to me!"_
    
-   "Never Went To Church", by British rap group The Streets, plays with this trope. It's about a man, the narrator, lamenting his father's death and emulating his actions, both on purpose and subconsciously. In the last verse, it is revealed that the narrator himself embodies this trope.
-   The Statler Brothers song "Silver Medals and Sweet Memories", with the narrator's father never returning from World War II.
-   _Tommy_. Subverted in that the father comes Back from the Dead to kill the mother's new lover (or to be killed by him in the film adaptation).
-   Gender-flipped in the music video for Travis Tritt's 1994 song "Tell Me I Was Dreaming". The song is the second of a trilogy (with 1991's "Anymore" and 1998's "If I Lost You") where Tritt plays a Vietnam veteran in the music videos of the trilogy. In this video, his wife, who is heavily pregnant, falls off a boat dock and hits her head on the way down. Their child is born, but she dies. The baby is even named after his wife, Annie.

    Roleplay 

-   This happened to Devora Brukhis in _Cerberus Daily News_, with one twist - _she_ was the one who went off to war, leaving her boyfriend behind. He was killed in a terrorist attack a few days before she found out she was pregnant.
-   _Fire Emblem on Forums_:
    -   _Final Hour_: Catherine, who ends up with Harlan shortly before his death and winds up pregnant with his child in the epilogue. The child, Amber, is a major character in the sequel.

    Tabletop Games 

-   In the storyline accompanying the _BattleTech_ game, Kitsune Kurita is a gender inversion of this; mother dies, father lives on. He was secretly born to Omiko Kurita, fathered by Victor Davion. Both their families and realms they ruled were traditionally enemies but found a mutual greater enemy in the Clans at the time. During a summit to discuss the Clan threat, the two took a shine to each other, and it blossomed into an illicit romance over time. Omi was later killed by an assassin hired by Victor's treacherous sister, and he thought her gone forever... until Kitsune came back years later, already a man and making a name for himself, and declaring to the whole Inner Sphere his true parentage. A cabal of reactionary Draconis hardliners were disgusted to learn their prospective Puppet King was "tainted" with Davion blood, and FedSun hardliners painted Omiko as some Kurita harlot who seduced and corrupted gallant Victor. Victor himself? He was just elated to see _some_ legacy of his romance with Omi survive. Omi chose "Kitsune" for the boy's name, in honor of his paternal grandfather, First Prince Hanse "The Fox" Davion.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   _Werewolf: The Apocalypse_ had the were-bull Apis, who were midwives and matchmakers, had a ritual to create a baby, grown inside the earth. While it would work on any two parents, provided both were at one point capable of siring children, the stereotype of its use was that if a woman died young, her widowed husband would take a lock of her hair to the Apis, so they could create the baby she would have borne.

    Theatre 

-   In _Carousel_, Billy dies before his daughter Louise is born. He does get brought down to earth so he can visit her before meeting his judgment.
-   Elizabeth Proctor in _The Crucible_, although her husband knew she was pregnant (as it saved her from being executed for witchcraft like him).
-   This is how Frollo views his nephew Quasimodo in _The Hunchback of Notre Dame_ following the death of his estranged brother Jehan. His treatment of Quasimodo, however, makes it clear he just wants to control him in the way he couldn't control his late brother.
-   Subverted with Serafina in _The Rose Tattoo_. The shock of her husband's death causes her to have a miscarriage.
-   In _There Shall Be No Night_, Erik and Kaatri get married right before he goes off to fight in the Winter War against the Soviets. Not long after the family gets word that Erik has been killed, Kaatri finds out that she's pregnant. The family sends her to America to have the baby in safety.

    Video Games 

-   The second campaign of _Age of Empires III_ ends with the hero's Native American girlfriend giving birth to his son. Since the campaigns follow a family over six generations, it was practically the only way that one of the hero characters could make a Heroic Sacrifice.
-   In _Batman: Arkham City_, if you look near Harley's old outfit from the first game, there is a positive pregnancy test on the floor; The Joker dies at the end, making this a villainous example.
    -   Also, she can be heard briefly singing to the baby during the credits at the end.
    -   However, the _Harley Quinn's Revenge_ DLC heavily hints that Harley is not actually pregnant, having instead gotten a false positive after many negative tests. It might be even worse, since it's been speculated that losing the Joker caused enough stress to create a miscarriage. Hence the reason her methods are both erratic and self-defeating, insanity notwithstanding.
-   _Baldur's Gate_ has the silver dragon Adalon in _Shadows of Amn_ invoke the trope. She and her mate were engaged in a pitched battle, and the male dragon died in the assistance. When Adalon was granted a wish for her service, she tried to resurrect her husband with it. When that failed, however, she asked for dragon eggs that were impregnated by his ghost, which works.
-   Another gender-flipped example in the After Story of _CLANNAD_, with Nagisa dying giving birth to Ushio, leaving Tomoya alone. Subverted, the True Ending fixes this and Nagisa is saved.
-   In the "Severed" DLC for _Dead Space 2_ Lexine is pregnant with Gabe's child; both the Government and Religion of Evil had plans for her. Gabe sacrifices himself in order to allow Lexine to get away from the Necromorph-infested Sprawl.
-   This can potentially occur at the end of _Dragon Age: Origins_. When a Grey Warden slays an Archdemon, both of their souls are destroyed, and both perish. If the PC is male and romances Morrigan, she will want him to make love to her on the eve of the final battle, as part of a magic ritual where they will conceive a child that will absorb the soul of the Archdemon instead of him, and save his life. However, if he refuses to do so, she gets upset and leaves, and if he subsequently slays the Archdemon himself, he will die. The epilogue in that case reveals that she already became pregnant at some point before the endgame (since the ritual was refused), and is now carrying his child. Said child is then encountered in _Dragon Age: Inquisition_ if the relevant world state is imported; if Alistair is the Grey Warden ally, he and Morrigan have a remarkably civil conversation about the boy's father.
    -   Discussed in _Dragon Age II_ between Aveline, whose husband Wesley dies during the prologue, and Bethany. They have a serious conversation about why Aveline and Wesley never had children, and then Bethany asks whether Aveline regrets it now that Wesley is gone. Aveline (not at all unkindly) tells Bethany that the subject is too personal.
-   After completing the bonus dungeon in _Dragon Quest VIII_, the origins of The Hero are revealed: a girl from the Dragovian Tribe visited the human world and fell in love with a human prince. The girl's father disapproved of their courting, and took his daughter away, back to the Dragovian Village. The prince searched all over the world for his lost love, eventually dying just before he could reach the village. The girl was heartbroken, but soon after she received word of his demise, she discovered she was pregnant with his child...
-   In the final route of _Duel Savior Destiny_ Taiga goes off to fight an eternal battle. Apparently, though, he had gotten Crea pregnant a few days before despite being unconscious during their only time together. He does return a few years later, though.
-   Occurs in _Ever17_. Tsugumi is pregnant with Takeshi's children after he dies on LeMU. However, subverted because he gets better.
-   _Fire Emblem_:
    -   One of the more absurd examples occurs in _Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn_. Ena discovers she's pregnant with Rajaion's child 23 years after the last time it would have even been possible for him to get her pregnant. Additional materials reveal that the child even becomes a Dead Guy Junior. This could be explained by the fact that she's a dragon, but it becomes confusing again when the sporadic accounts of Ena's almost-sister-in-law Almedha's pregnancy makes it clear that it did not last nearly as long. (Though to be fair, _Almedha's_ baby daddy was a human and their kid was a Branded...)
    -   This can potentially happen in _Fire Emblem: Awakening_, if a married first generation male character who isn't a Lord is killed in battle while his girlfriend/wife survives to the end, since their Kid from the Future is slated to be born after the game's ending. This might also happen to a Second Generation male, should said girlfriend/wife be a Female Avatar.
-   In _Grand Theft Auto IV_, this shows up at the end if the player chooses the "Deal" ending and Roman dies at his wedding. Malorie reveals she is pregnant after Niko avenges his death. In the "Revenge" ending, this doesn't apply.
-   _Horizon Forbidden West_: After Varl's death, Zo reveals to Aloy that she's pregnant with his child.
-   _Knights of the Old Republic_: The canonical version is that LSM!Revan trucked off to the great unknown to fight the True Sith, never returning, and leaving Bastila knocked up (with the likely prospect of exile, among other consequences). Their descendant Satele Shan is a major NPC in _Star Wars: The Old Republic_.
-   _The Last of Us Part II:_ Dina reveals to Ellie that she's pregnant with Jesse's child at the end of their first day in Seattle. Jesse isn't told when he shows up, but he guesses it anyway. Jesse is killed by Abby on their third and final day in Seattle. Several months later, Dina gives birth to their son, who she and Ellie name JJ after both Jesse and Joel.
-   _Mass Effect_ has a sidequest where Shepard has to resolve a debate between a woman, Rebekah, and her brother-in-law, Michael. Rebekah's husband, Jacob, died recently and she's pregnant with his baby. It turns out Jacob had a rare heart defect that could shorten the baby's lifespan. Michael wants the embryo to get routine genetic therapy to eliminate the possibility of the baby developing the same condition, but Rebekah refuses because it has a tiny chance of killing the baby.
    -   After the Time Skip in the sequel, the two can be seen again in the Citadel, discussing other ways to improve the health of the new toddler, also named Jacob.
    -   The couple are seen arguing _again_ in the third game, this time over whether Jacob should be allowed to socialize in daycare or if he should be kept at home to minimize the danger to him during the Reaper War.
    -   If you encouraged her to hook up with Charr in the second game, Ereba will be pregnant with his baby in the third game. Unfortunately, he gets killed after only six months of marriage. You have to bring her his final letter.
    -   It isn't outright stated, but in her scene before the final push on Earth, it's hinted that a romanced Liara is impregnating herself when she telepathically shares a memory with Shepard.
-   _Metal Gear Solid_: While it has been known that Solid Snake is a clone of Big Boss since very early in the series, it's revealed near the end of the series that he wasn't grown in a test tube but inside an actual woman. The clones were created by the Patriots when Big Boss appeared to be mortally wounded, and the woman who volunteered was his occasional girlfriend EVA, who (by her own account) loved him and wanted this trope to happen.
-   The ending of _Muv-Luv Unlimited_ has Takeru's girlfriend and their daughter standing on a field of a distant planet, looking towards the night sky in the direction of the Earth. Takeru himself had died in the last stand of humanity against the BETA back on Earth.
-   Played with in the ending of _Overlord: Raising Hell_. After you complete the Bonus Level of Hell only to get stuck down there, the final cutscene shows Gnarl reminiscing on the sinister exploits of the Villain Protagonist, and discovering that the Overlord's mistress is bearing the Overlord's child. "Evil always finds a way..."
-   In _Sampaguita_ (the 3rd game of the _Yarudora_ series), this happens in the 3rd Good Ending: the main protagonist ultimately dies, and his soul lingers for several years in Japan, before he finally manages to go find his lover Maria; she's now returned to her native Philippines and lives with her family. She now has a child, who's the fruit of the time she and the protagonist spent together during the storyline. The child is able to see his father's soul, so they can meet for the first time.
-   Noh is implied to be pregnant in her ending for _Sengoku Basara 2_, despite the fact that historically she never bore Oda Nobunaga any children.
-   _Soul Calibur V_: Sometime between the conclusion of _SC IV_, yet prior to _V_, series' protagonist Xianghua and Kilik finally consummated their feelings for each other. But since he was still plagued by feelings of guilt, due to being infected by The Evil Seed, he left her before she awoke and departed for the Astral Chaos to train, in hopes of purifying himself. Kilik hasn't been seen, or heard from since; leaving Xianghua to wonder what's become of him and ultimately marry another man to rebuild her life on her own. What he didn't know is that he had left her with child: their then-unborn son, Xiba.

    Webcomics 

-   _AntiBunny_: Though Mors dies, his wife Knell survives to later give birth to their child.
-   Suspecting he might die if he goes off to war, Candi invokes this trope by trying to get herself pregnant with Donte's child in the _Ciem Webcomic Series_.
-   _Fans!_ has a two-in-one: the time-travelling Joseph Oberf was born after both his father (Rikk) and his genetic mother (Rumy) were killed, since he was implanted as a fetus in his birth mother (Ally).
-   In _Girl Genius_, Oggie, a member of the trio of Jagermonsters that frequently are in Agatha's party, is a rarity among his long-lived brethern: he has descendants. He takes solace in that he never has truly completely lost his beloved wife, because he can see glimpses of her in all of their descendants. This page and the next show Oggie reminscing fondly about her and their shared legacy.
-   A decidedly skewed version occurs at the end of _It's Walky!_: After Walky's heroic sacrifice, Joe mentions that they may be able to resurrect him using Imported Alien Phlebotinum, but only if they can find a complete genetic sample. Cut to Walky's deeply religious (and assumed-to-have-been virginal) girlfriend Joyce looking _extremely_ embarrassed.
    -   It should be noted that she was only "assumed to be virginal" by the other characters—there was a month-long storyline about Walky and Joyce's first time having sex (and then the multiple times they had sex afterwards) that came right before the final storyline (and served as foreshadowing for this moment), so the readers were certainly in on the joke.
        
        **Joyce:** Premarital hanky-panky saved Walky's life. I'll never hear the end of that...
        
-   _My Daughter Is A Zombie_: Jeonghwan starts a romance with his childhood friend Yeonhwa before a resident in their town finds out his daughter Su-ah is a zombie. He plans to skip town without saying goodbye, but he is caught by soldiers, asks Su-ah to bite him, and is shot as he turns into a zombie. Yeonhwa has a child by him, and his mother wonders when they had the time to get busy.
-   In the backstory of _The Order of the Stick_, for the black dragon and his mother.
    -   Also Durkon and his mother. That is, if the story he first heard telling him about his father is true.
-   _Whale Star: The Gyeongseong Mermaid_: Yeongyeong lost her husband to torture by the Japanese and now raises their infant son without him.
-   In _Wurr_, the dog Niavel, who "got involved with hellhounds," was recently confirmed to be pregnant with what are likely the now-deceased Issan's pups.

    Web Original 

-   An interesting variation that circumvents the pregnancy occurs in _Red vs. Blue_. In it, there are several A.I. programs that are eventually revealed to all be severed fragments taken from a single, original A.I. known as Alpha, which was in turn copied from an actual human mind. Later, it is revealed that Church, one of the main characters of the series, is actually what was left of the Alpha A.I. implanted into an artificial body (something that he himself was unaware of). Long story short, Church, or rather, the Alpha A.I., dies for real. Shortly before his death, however, Caboose is entrusted with Epsilon, one of the A.I.s that were severed from the Alpha A.I. (in this case, Church's memory), which he decides to befriend, raise, and basically use as a Replacement Goldfish for Church, which isn't especially hard since Epsilon remembers being named Church and acts just like him and Caboose loves to tell him stories about the Alpha. Interestingly, the Reds and Tucker don't seem to be aware of the switch, despite "Church" not remembering who they are since Epsilon was severed from the previous Church before they met him.

    Western Animation 

-   Subverted in the _Bob's Burgers_ episode "Ear-sy Rider." A biker gang mourns the loss of their leader, Horny Dave. His lover, Mudflap, is heavily pregnant, and her fellow gang members assume it's Horny Dave's baby. However, when she goes into labor at the restaurant, she confesses that Horny Dave had a vasectomy in 1993 and the actual father is Critter, the new leader, as Mudflap had an affair with him before Horny Dave died.
-   An episode of _Clone High_ parodies this trope at the end of a film Abe Lincoln made, with a random human woman revealing she's pregnant right before the giraffe protagonist's Heroic Sacrifice.
    
    **Girl**: I have your baby in me, Giraffe!
    
-   In _He-Man and the Masters of the Universe (1983)_ and its reboot, this is the origin of the Sorceress's daughter (who is revealed to be Teela). Though some hints are dropped that her biological father might not be dead after all.
-   _OK K.O.! Let's Be Heroes_: In "Big Reveal", Carol confines that K.O.'s biological father is Laserblast; she discovered she was expecting shortly after Laserblast was apparently killed in the "Sandwich Incident". Though it turns out Laserblast is not only alive, but now the supervillain known as Prof. Venomous.
-   _Primal (2019)_: Mira and Spear conceive a child while the latter is suffering hideous burn injuries and looking likely to die. It's left ambiguous whether he actually does, but this trope was clearly the plan. Fang's clutch by Red also serves as this.
-   In _Star Wars Rebels,_ Kanan Jarrus and Hera Syndulla bicker Like an Old Married Couple, and while there's not much else the writers can depict on a kid's show, adult viewers mention that they still ACT like they're in a rock-solid relationship, especially since they've worked together for ten years in one of their prequel novels. It eventually turns out that they've had a romantic/sexual relationship going on since before Kanan's Heroic Sacrifice, because the epilogue shows her raising his son.

___