Alice desires Bob. Well, more Bob's DNA than Bob himself. She totally believes that her genes + his genes = Alice and Bob Squared—a child that contains the best of both of them. Genetics tend to not work that way, but don't tell that to Alice. In this scenario, it is almost always the female chasing the male's genes.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  As often as Alice will openly state her intentions, she'll also work to secretly procure Bob's DNA (which usually leads to a Luke, You Are My Father scenario).

A frequent variant is that The Omniscient Council of Vagueness want to get Alice and Bob together for the purpose of conceiving The Chosen One and/or a Tyke Bomb. This scenario almost always involves a Gambit Roulette or a Gambit Pileup if there are other OCOVs looking to prevent said conception.

Sub-Trope of Chosen Conception Partner, which differs in that both parties are fully aware of what's going on and are fine with it.

To qualify as an example of this trope, the pursuit with intent to breed is the thing—said wunderkind actually coming to be is a bonus.

The Chosen One, Half Human Hybrids, and Tyke Bombs are often the result of such a pairing. Or you could just end up with a Stalker with a Crush. Lamarck Was Right and Superpowerful Genetics often come into play.

Do not confuse with Playing with Syringes.

Compare with the Super Breeding Program, Only You Can Repopulate My Race, and Mars Needs Women. A much more mundane variation is The Baby Trap.

If The Bad Guy Wins with this sort of motivation, their victim may proclaim, "That Thing Is Not My Child!"

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _2001 Nights_ had stories on a group of New Generation, a new strain of humans who became adapted to space, collecting genetic samples (both through sexual intercourse and laboratory methods) from older generation males. Later, the final chapter explained their motives for collecting primeval genes—including almost harvesting children of 400-year-old DNA from the beginning of the manga—which are needed to diversify the gene pool for their eternal voyage on board their ship Tachyonian.
-   Diva would become this to Riku in _Blood+_, reaching the extreme of raping and then killing him.
-   In the hentai anime _DNA Hunter_, Mai and her co-workers are basically contracted to carry out this trope: they sleep with specific men in order to obtain sperm for female clients. Mai herself is a more benign example, since her fiancé Yuji died in an accident and she's working to get enough money to have a procedure done that will allow her to use Yuji's DNA (extracted from a cigarette) to have his child.
-   Becomes a major plot point in _The Five Star Stories_, where budding Mad Scientist Meeth Silver Ballanche uses a sample of Sword Saint Douglas Kaien's DNA to impregnate herself. Their offspring, Maximum HOLTFORS Ballanche Kaien does indeed grow up to be the ultimate lifeform and even ascends to become a member of the series' small collection of Physical Gods.
-   A possible example in _Kaze no Stigma_. Ayano's dad might just be trying to set up the Bodyguard Crush between her and ultra-powerful Wind Contractor Kazuma for the short-term gain of entering someone that powerful into the family, but it seems rather more likely that he's planning for the long term - unfortunately, the series ended with the writer's death before we could find out what the offspring of a Wind Contractor and a top-notch Fire Mage would be like...
-   Interestingly enough, this turns out to be the reason Orochimaru from _Naruto_ wants to take over a Cursed Seal-compatible Uchiha's body: so that he can attain Sage Mode, awaken the Rinnegan by infusing his host with Senju DNA, and become the next Sage of Six Paths.
-   Ringo Oginome's real goal and the corollary of her "Project M" (in which "M" = "maternity") in _Penguindrum_. Ringo's dead sister Momoka had planned her whole life with the goal of being happy with her boyfriend Tabuki, culminating with her writing in her diary that she and Tabuki would have kids. Desperate to get her and Momoka's parents back together, Ringo took up Momoka's goals to "become Momoka" and mend her broken family life, therefore she wanted to be impregnated by Tabuki. And she didn't stop at ANYTHING to try getting her "happy ending"... at least until her friend and future Love Interest Shouma LOUDLY called her out on it, got hit by a car to protect her, and later told her "you should Be Yourself, not your older sister".
-   _Peter Grill and the Philosopher's Time_: Once Peter Grill won the title the World's Strongest Man, females of all races want his seed to create powerful children, not caring about his consent or that he already has a fiancee.
-   Similar to _Wicked City_, but played much, much lighter: Koshi and Momoko's Arranged Marriage in _Sumomo Mo Momo Mo_ is for the purposes of siring a child to cement a treaty between two powerful martial arts clans.
-   _Tenchi Muyo!_:
    -   Washu Hakubi has a combination of reasons for being interested in Tenchi. Part of it is For Science!, since she's trying to find the entity that made her and her sisters, and Tenchi doing some nice hax during his battle against Kagato is what sparks her interest, part is wanting to harvest his DNA (with or without his consent), and part is that she genuinely loves him but is just a lonely introvert who has no idea how to treat people outside of the context of a lab and wants to have Tenchi's baby, and only his. Plus, she gets to annoy her daughter Ryoko, who also loves Tenchi. Material released after the series shows that eventually she gets her way and is actually the first girl of his harem to get pregnant.
    -   Spin-off _Tenchi Muyo: War on Geminar_: In the world of Geminar, males who can pilot the Humongous Mecha are exceedingly rare, and are treated more like stud horses than warriors, expected to be paired with other pilots to create a stronger new generation of future pilots; political control of a strong male pilot is a large bargaining chip. Later, it's revealed that the Neglectful Precursors who created the mecha also created ArtificalHuman pilots, and could even send them to other worlds to breed with the natives to create still stronger children to be brought back—which is _apparently_ how series hero Kenshi Masaki, Tenchi's half-brother, was conceived, with supplemental material confirming that his mother Rhea was one such Artificial Human.
-   In _Wicked City_, human special agent Taki and Black World operative Makie were intentionally paired off by the Black Guard in hopes of conceiving a child that was half-human, half-Black Worlder to be part of the peace treaty between the two worlds. They were assigned to protect a dirty old man, who turned out to be a powerful psychic assigned to protect _them_ and steer them in the direction of mutual respect and physical attraction while fighting off Black World extremists bent on disrupting the coupling. The fact that said conception boosted Makie's demonic abilities was an unexpected bonus.

    Comic Books 

-   _Batgirl (2000)_: This was what happened with David Cain and Lady Shiva, who he saw as the only one worthy to bear his child, who he would shape into the world's greatest assassin. Their daughter was Cassandra Cain.
-   When _Batman: Son of the Bat_ was brought back into continuity in _Batman (Grant Morrison)_, the consensual encounter between Batman and Talia al Ghul that conceived a child was retconned into Talia drugging and raping Bruce in order to produce an heir in Damian. In later interviews, Grant Morrison admitted that it wasn't a deliberate retcon: they were going off faulty memories of _Son of_, rather than just re-reading it, so got some important details wrong when (re)introducing Damian (like it being a consensual encounter).
-   In the old _Champions_ line of comics, the fact that eventual Champions member Sparkplug, a bit of a Cloud Cuckoo Lander raised and brainwashed by South American Nazi refugees, would try to hit on just about every male superhero whose genes she thought would complement hers nicely for purposes of producing 'superior' offspring became something of a (arguably mildly creepy) Running Gag.
-   This is the job of Amazon Breeders in _Gold Digger_. As the only fertile members of their tribes, their job is to find suitable men for giving birth to the next generation.
-   In _The Incredible Hulk_, Thundra's interest in the Hulk was retconned from her wanting to test her strength against the ultimate opponent to her wanting to procure the Hulk's DNA to conceive a warrior who could break the stalemate between her all-female nation and the all-male opposing one. "Lyra, Daughter of The Hulk" is the result of this.
-   In _Invincible_ #110, Anissa, one of the female Viltrumites, approaches Mark about conceiving a child with her. She needed to fulfill her racial duty by bearing a child but refused to sleep with an Earthling to do so. Mark, as a half-Viltrumite, was good enough for her purposes. When Mark refuses, she beats him into helplessness and rapes him. The next time she appears, she has a son and a human husband and was expressing regret over her actions to conceive said son.
-   In _Isabellae_, currently printed in North America by Dark Horse comics, Dreide was a young girl of the Eire of Ireland. She was given a mission by the druids of her people where she left Ireland never to return. For years she learnt sorcery from many great magicians around the world, until the next part of her mission which is to find and marry the master samurai Edo Ashiwara to have her twin daughters by him. These daughters would be key to the resurgence of the Eire.
-   In the New 52 run of _Legion of Super-Heroes_, a hostile alien race called the Dominators decides to even the odds against the good guys by combining their genes with those of other races to breed superior warriors. They are already trying it with the Daxamites (beings similar to Kryptonians) and kidnap Brainiac 5 and Dream Girl for their genes.
-   In _Red Robin_ #12, it is revealed in The Stinger that everything Ra's al Ghul did in the series up until that point was to test Tim Drake. Ra's now knows that Tim will sire a worthy heir—and a mysterious female companion assures him that she'll "get right on that". The results got Tim on the Attempted Rape page. He even lampshaded that this was how they got Damian.
-   One of the major plotlines of _Starman (DC Comics)_. Jack Knight was raped by the second Mist (daughter of the first) primarily so that she would have a bargaining chip. Jack eventually gives up superheroing entirely to raise his son.
-   _Superman_:
    -   In the comics and at least one episode of _Superman: The Animated Series_, alien queen Maxima wanted Supes, both as a perfect mate and a genetic goldmine. His consent was purely optional, as far as she was concerned.
    -   Also, this can be seen as the motivation behind the creation of Connor Kent/Kon-El Superboy, who is a clone made from the genes of Superman and Lex Luthor. Luthor obviously denies this interpretation vehemently.
-   This happened to poor _Tom Strong_ **twice** with different women, one a Nazi eugenicist who knocked him out and extracted him, and one an alien insect-queen with powerful pheromones.
-   After Thor gave up his soul to save Valkyrie in _Ultimatum_, Hela the Norse goddess of the underworld wanted him to give her a son. In return, she promised him a favor. The day after the deed, Thor demanded a means to return to the living world, she said that it would require someone else to die in his place. When Thor threatened to kill her to fulfill the requirement, Hela then revealed that she was already heavily pregnant with his son thanks to the fluid nature of time in the underworld. She remarks that their child is already a strong warrior given the way he kicks.
-   In the _X-Men_ comics, Mr. Sinister desired a child that combined Scott Summers and Jean Grey's genes, so when Jean Grey "died", he created a clone of her (Madelyne Pryor) and sent her after Scott. (Their son got hit by the Timey-Wimey Ball and ended up as Time Traveling badass Cable.) Of course, it turned out Sinister was right and every one of Jean and Scott's genetic offspring (Cable, Rachel "Phoenix II" Summers, Nate "X-Man" Gray, Cable's evil clone Stryfe) turned out to be a Person of Mass Destruction. And yes, Scott and Jean really have had four children without Jean ever actually giving birth.
-   One of Phil Foglio's _XXXenophile_ stories involves the Devil finally getting his chance to produce The Antichrist, and picking his "perfect couple" at a singles' bar. When God keeps talking about how cute and innocent they are, the Devil keeps pushing them to get kinkier as a result, and the astrologically correct time passes without the couple ever engaging in vaginal intercourse—meaning no Antichrist is conceived.

    Comic Strips 

-   This _Dilbert_ comic.

    Fan Fiction 

-   _Blessed with a Hero's Heart_: Chris the Thief becomes this to Wiz when Izuku reincarnates her as one of the Avariel (a race of winged elves favored by Eris that went extinct in the last demihuman war). She's determined to start a breeding program to repopulate the race with her, but Izuku and his companions are having none of it.
-   _Child of the Storm_ has Sinister up to his usual shenanigans, genetics-wise, though in a slightly different fashion:
    -   He telepathically manipulates Mrs Figg and Dumbledore's other observers to hide how Harry's being treated by the Dursleys so he can have free rein to study him (being intrigued by the potential impact of magical genes mixing with the psychic potential of the Grey family, to whom Lily was related - he was very surprised when he found out that thanks to James having been an amnesiac incarnate Thor, there was a good deal more to Harry than met the eye).
    -   He kidnapped Rachel Grey, Jean's twin sister, as a newborn and faked her death by replacing her with a dead baby girl, raising her to become his Hound and 'case study' - and only the intervention of Doctor Strange prevented him from grabbing Jean as well for a similar fate.
    -   He also stole Scott Summers' DNA, looking to find out why Scott's father, the son of a powerful mutant - Colonel Alex Summers a.k.a. Havok - didn't have powers, and was surprised to find out the potential power of the Summers' genome. He used it to create Remy LeBeau a.k.a. Gambit.
    -   He's also mentioned as having been a lurking presence in Nazi death camps, known as 'Nosferatu', who creeped out even the Nazis, and who sticks firmly in Magneto's memory.
-   _Eye Of The Fox_ has a Gender Flipped version in a scene in which Kyuubi all but states that the _only_ reason he'd want a son and heir was because of the Superpowerful Genetics the mother possessed as he laments the boy's suicide attempt as 'reflecting badly on _him_.'
-   _Mandie's New Target_: Princess Mandie lusts for Danny Phantom, wanting him as her husband so that they could breed powerful warriors and make the Boudacian army great enough to conquer the universe. Danny has no desire to father a dictator's children so that she could raise them into being stronger dictators.

    Films—Live-Action 

-   Happens to the protagonist of _Cthulhu_. As he's gay, he turns down an offer to be a Chosen Conception Partner, whereupon the woman concerned drugs and rapes him.
-   _Don't Breathe_ has a Gender Flip of this trope. The Blind Man attempts to do this with _his own_ sperm to one of the protagonists. Laser-Guided Karma comes not long after.
-   The Japanese movie _Hush!_ features a variant. The woman with the test tube (or rather a pipette), and later two turkey basters is a bit persistent, but the actual Stalker with a Crush is completely oblivious of her stalkee's homosexuality.
-   In _The Private Life of Sherlock Holmes_, a Russian dancer wants to mix her DNA with Sherlock Holmes' to get the perfect baby. He gets out of it via a Sorry, I'm Gay.
-   _Wolves_: Connor Slaughter. He's getting older and wants a son to continue his legacy. He's decided Angel will be the mother, whether she likes it or not, because like him she's from the "old lines".

    Literature 

-   The Nartec of _Animorphs_ attempt this with any humans who they stumble across... but their methods of DNA extraction are fatal to the victim. Ax is actually offended that they were not interested in his DNA before discovering that truth.
-   This is why King Pelles wants Lancelot to father a child with his daughter Elaine in Arthurian myth, because combining his line of Grail-keepers with a "perfect" Knight in Shining Armor (who may have been descended from Joseph and Mary) would result in the Ultimate Christian Knight - Galahad.
-   In one of Stephen King's short stories, _Dedication_, a black housekeeper working in an expensive New York hotel is determined that her unborn child will be successful, so she visits a _bruja_ who casts a black magic spell that requires that she consume the cold semen left on the sheets by a frequent visitor of the hotel, a famous, racist white author. The story is written from the mother's perspective, told while drunk, after her now-grown son pens his first bestselling novel - whose style nearly matches the first author's, as well as his autograph.
-   The fourth book in _The Demon Headmaster_ series has a non-romantic (thank _God_) case. The Headmaster decides to prove his "emotions are a weakness" creed through LEGO Genetics. As Dinah has stopped all of his previous evil schemes, he deems her worthy of contributing the human DNA to his hybrid.
-   This is basically the Modus Operandi of the Bene Gesserit Sisterhood of _Dune_ - breeding together people with the right genes in order to produce the Kwisatz Haderach... whether that means matchmaking, blackmail, or outright rape is of little concern to them as long as the right children result. The ultimate goal was supposed to be the daughter of Duke Leto Atreides and Jessica, paired with Feyd-Rautha Harkonnen... but Jessica went against orders and bore a son, Paul, who threw a wrench in their plans in more ways than one. Ironically, in the end, they did wind up getting their God-Emperor, Paul's son Leto II, who also engaged in his own, 3500-year-long breeding program.
-   _Forgotten Realms_: A Red Wizardess of Thay once disguised herself as Azoun IV's wife and seduced him, intending to bear his child and then seize the throne of Cormyr in a Succession Crisis. Her scheme is subverted because Azoun fathered so many bastard offspring as a young man that Thay's candidate for the throne would have to get in line behind hundreds of older half-sibs.
-   This is the main plot point in _The Granite Shield_. A divine monarch denies his divinity, and a woman from a neighboring kingdom seduces him, bearing his firstborn in order to rescue her god. She does this with the consent and aid of her own husband.
-   In _Hannibal_, Barney (the intern at the facility Lecter was imprisoned at in _The Silence of the Lambs_) was hired by Mason Verger's sister for this purpose in a rather odd twist: she's infertile, and wants Barney to help obtain Mason's semen to impregnate her lesbian lover. It's the only way for the child to be a blood relative and inherit a trust fund. She eventually gets what she wants, with the aid of a cattle prod.
-   In Phyllis Ann Karr's _The Idylls of the Queen_, Morgan Le Fay explains her long pursuit of Lancelot as wanting to grow her own hero with his assistance. She gave up on it when she passed menopause.
-   A Maghuin Dhonn witch attempts this on Imriel from _Kushiel's Legacy_ as a way to thwart a prophecy. He doesn't go for it.
-   In the _Lensman_ series, the Arisians have apparently been manipulating human history to produce beings that would one day be able to show mental powers beyond their own.
-   This is the basis of the plot of _Maburaho_; Yuna, Rin, and Kuriko were all ordered to get their hands on Kazuki's powerful genes for the good of their upper-class family bloodlines. On the other hand, Yuuna at least had already been in love with him since childhood. And as the series goes on, Rin and Kuriko start to love Kazuki unconditionally as well.
-   In Roald Dahl's _My Uncle Oswald_, Oswald develops a powerful aphrodisiac drug and with help from a female accomplice, decides to use it to steal sperm from brilliant and successful men (such as Albert Einstein and Pablo Picasso) and sell it to women who want their children to be fathered by geniuses.
-   _Pilgrennon's Children_: Pilgrennon was trying to develop an autistic clone of himself, but when it was born, it died. He decided that he must have accidentally duplicated a fatal recessive, so he decided to cross the DNA with someone else's. He stole Jananin Blake's ova because she had Asperger's, and because she was a genius and Pilgrennon wanted her intelligence passed down to future generations. Dana and Cale are the result of his breeding project.
-   In Steve Alten's _Resurrection_, Lilith tries to get Jacob's seed in order to produce a pure Hunahpu offspring. She eventually succeeds and gives birth to Devlin, who is far more powerful than both his parents.
-   In _Tasakeru_, there's a rather literal usage of this in Book III, in which a wolf who named himself Stalker creates a hybrid of all eight sentient species by stealing blood from each of them...
-   In the _Temeraire_ series, Iskierka (the draconic equivalent to a Bratty Teenage Daughter) became obsessed with mating with Temeraire, convinced that any offspring of theirs would inherit both her fire-breathing and his _Divine Wind_ abilities. Never mind that everyone—including her own captain—tells her that Breeding Does Not Work That Way. And even if it did, Chinese Celestials (like Temeraire) don't breed true.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  She's eventually proven right as she does indeed have an egg conceived in mating with Temeraire, and the dragon from it has both abilities - but it also has an even worse character than Iskierka ever had, making even Iskierka herself angry with her offspring at times.
-   In _The Song of the Tears_, the third series in Ian Irvine's _The Three Worlds Cycle_, it turns out that Maigraith has spent the last few generations obsessed with creating a new, perfect combination of the world's 4 human species as a monument to Rulke, her dead lover.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Arrested Development_: Kitty wants George Senior's baby, and ends up with a cooler full of his sperm.
-   _Battlestar Galactica_: During the New Caprica arc, Leoben Conoy introduces Kara Thrace to their daughter to enforce more bonding between them, which he conceived from his own sperm and Kara's stolen ova from Caprica. It's later revealed to be an unrelated child when the girl is reunited with her real (human) mother.
-   This happens on _Boston Legal_ with recurring character Missy. She gives a man she was briefly dating fellatio then steals the condom and takes it to a doctor to get inseminated without his knowledge. She does not seem to understand that his lack of consent in this regard is serious. He is pissed enough to try and sue her into having an abortion, as he neither wanted children, consented to unprotected sex, and did not want to be an absent father. He ends up losing the case but agrees to be a present father (he hated his father for abandoning him and didn't want to do the same). However, he categorically refuses to enter any sort of relationship with Missy.
-   In _The Boys_, while holding his ex-girlfriend Maeve prisoner, Homelander threatens to harvest her eggs if she kills herself.
-   Suspected, but ultimately subverted in _Criminal Minds._ When the team realizes a woman is abducting healthy, attractive men, they believe she's looking for the ideal genetic partner. When she then abducts a pregnant woman, they fear her timeline has been moved up and she needs a baby _now_, genetics be damned. They're completely on the wrong track. She's killing the men to bring vitality to her _farm_, and she wanted the placenta for its nutritional value, not the baby.
-   An unusual variation occurred during an episode of _CSI_, in which Lady Heather tracks down and sleeps with the man she suspects of murdering her daughter simply so she can retrieve the condom and turn it over to Grissom as evidence.
-   An episode of _Doogie Howser, M.D._ had a new female department head try to get artificial insemination using Doogie to produce a genius child, but Doogie thought she meant the old-fashioned way. Their coworkers called her out on how creepy this was.
-   In _Elementary_, one of Sherlock's casual lovers wanted him to be her sperm donor, reasoning that his intelligence and heroism should be preserved for future generations, something that his Child Hater self was unlikely to take care of on his own. She was also implied to have been semi-bribed into it by Sherlock's father. She was more gracious about it than most entries on this list, though, and ultimately took no for an answer.
-   Though _Farscape_ has far less stalking than most examples, John being blackmailed into marrying Katralla because he is the only male they have found who can give her healthy children definitely has hints of this trope. It comes even closer when it is revealed that Katralla is pregnant via test tube (and completely without John's knowledge) at the end of the trilogy.
-   _The Good Wife_ had Isobel Swift, who impregnated herself by creepy rich murderer Colin Sweeney, getting his sperm through performing fellatio after learning how to deliver it with a turkey baster. She then showed up years later with their son to launch a paternity suit, but surprisingly Sweeney doesn't put up a fight and decides to raise him with her. It turns out they were made for each other, both being very manipulative, sleazy people. One can only pity the kid with these parents.
-   On _Green Wing_, when Mac is in hospital in a coma, Stalker with a Crush Sue White takes the opportunity to sneak into his room and manually collect his DNA, and then impregnates herself on the desk in her office with a turkey baster. Later she gives birth to a lion cub. Yeah, it's that kind of show.
-   _Law & Order: Special Victims Unit_: "Design" has the cast investigate a possible rape; it turns out the _woman_ rendered the man (who they thought did it and had already made his life Hell) unconscious and then stole his sperm for her father's crazy genetics program. At the end of the episode's first part, she had given birth to the guy's kid. It turns out she actually made a living off of this, selling the sperm from several successful men to a eugenicist fertility clinic.
-   In _The Love Boat_ episode "The Perfect Match," a woman who feels ready for motherhood but not marriage searches an insurance company's computers for the perfect man, stalks him to learn all about his interests, and follows him aboard to conceive the perfect baby.
-   An _NCIS_ episode has a Navy woman invest in an expensive computer program to see what the babies would look like for each man she dated. The fun part is that the team can't help but use the program themselves to find out what Gibbs and Shepard's kid might look like.
    
    **Abby:** Aww...you and the director make nice Gibb-lets, Gibbs.
    
-   In the _Parks and Recreation_ episode "Ann's Decision", Ann decides she wants to have a baby via sperm donor and surreptitiously interviews all the suitable males she knows (claiming it's for a men's health study) in order to find out which one is the best. One of them, the former local high school basketball star, immediately figures out her plan and claims that all the women in Pawnee want his sperm. She almost picks The Douche, until Leslie tells him her actual plan and he mocks her on his radio show.
-   On _Picket Fences_, the sheriff and his ex-wife went to court over custody of his stored semen, with which she intends to impregnate herself.
-   _Ray Donovan_: During a night of passion with a famous NBA player, the woman secretly puts some of his semen in a vial and passes it to a limo driver outside who has a freezer in the trunk of his car. Donovan notes: "Every time he pulls up, some girl hits the NBA lottery nine months later".
-   One episode of _Spin City_ involved Mike's recent ex notifying him that she had saved one of his used condoms (theoretically one that didn't include a spermicide treatment) in her freezer and planned to conceive a child using it. Turns out, having thrown the condom away, he had no legal claim to it (DNA should be another matter, but just go with it). Fortunately for him, after all his Zany Schemes to get it back fail, a city-wide blackout assured that she would be unable to properly maintain the sample.
-   In _Star Trek: Voyager_, Seska took Chakotay's DNA in order to conceive his child. Unfortunately, she didn't plan it very well. As she had also been sleeping with Maj Kulla, assuming that they just weren't genetically compatible, she ended up conceiving his child instead. She was clearly pissed.
-   _Supernatural_: Sam and Dean's parents were apparently matched up by "cupids" trying to breed human vessels for Michael and Lucifer.
-   In _Watchmen (2019)_, a woman working for Adrian Veidt stole a vial of his sperm and used it to impregnate herself. The result was Lady Trieu.

    Mythology and Religion 

-   In the mythological _Alexander Romance_, the queen of the Scythian Amazons, Thalestris, courted Alexander the Great for this purpose, considering him the only man worthy of fathering her child. This seems to have been an embellishment of a real instance where a Scythian chieftain offered Alexander his daughter as a wife, mixed with the known fact that there were warrior women among the Scythians.
-   According to the _Malleus Maleficarum_, this was how demons reproduced in the human realm, not being capable of conceiving children themselves. A succubus would seduce a man and collect his sperm. She would then pass it on to an incubus, her male equivalent, who would then mate with a human female. The resulting child would be a cambion, a half-demon. This admittedly ignores the fact that it is still human sperm being used in the insemination (Heinrich Kramer was writing without modern knowledge of genetics and the biology of sexual reproduction). Incidentally, this was one of the occult subjects that David Bowie became obsessed with during his cocaine addiction in The '70s.

    Tabletop Games 

-   In the backstory to _Magic: The Gathering_, Urza conducts various breeding programs in order to obtain the ideal warriors to combat the pending Phyrexian invasion. After several millennia, hero of the Weatherlight Saga Gerrard Capashen is born. Gerrard is not pleased when he learns this.
    -   Sisay, Crovax, and Hanna are also products of the programme.

    Video Games 

-   The main reason Morrigan joins you in _Dragon Age: Origins_ is to complete a ritual that requires she be impregnated by a Grey Warden before the Archdemon is slain. Love and physical attraction are entirely beside the point; at first, anyway.
-   _EXTRAPOWER: Attack of Darkforce_: The lady bem's obsession over the bem Gradius is motivated by the desire to combine their genes to produce superior offspring. Unfortunately for her, the assimilation of the human Hans has made Gradius inherit Hans's feelings for Martina, now the bem Flamberge, and disgust towards her.
-   In _F.E.A.R. 2_, it is implied that the reason Alma has been constantly launching sexual assaults on protagonist Michael Beckett while killing/ignoring the other squad members is that he has the strongest psychic powers and by extension the best genes. As the endgame shows, she succeeds.
-   _Fire Emblem_:
    -   _Fire Emblem: Genealogy of the Holy War_ sees Manfroy hunt down the descendants of Loptous in order to breed them together, thereby providing a host for the evil god. He succeeds. This incestuous evil plan works because genetics _do_ work that way in the game. The whole thing is played very much for the Squick, and to show just how much of an irredeemable bastard Manfroy is because a) one of the required children is _the main character's wife_ (Sigurd's spouse and one of the local White Mages, Deirdre)), b) the other child is a former Well-Intentioned Extremist whose life sucked ever since he was a little boy, Duke Alvis and c) the future host (their kid), Prince Julius, formerly sweet yet frail. Said plan is also Manfroy's perdition... Alvis and Deirdre _happened_ to have **twin** kids, with the non-Loptous child being Princess Julia, the person able to wield Narga... the magic that works directly as _the opposite to Loptous' powers_. And not only that, but she managed to join La Résistance - led by her _other_ brother (Deirdre's son) with Sigurd, Seliph, an excellent warrior who inherited Sigurd's own Holy Blood...
    -   _Fire Emblem: Three Houses_ has a similar theme with Crests, which are inherited and grant special abilities and the ability to wield powerful Relics as weapons. It turns out that Sylvain is afraid of being used this way by the women he dates and secretly holds them in contempt for desiring him only for his Crest.
-   In _Haunting Ground_, this turns out to be what Riccardo, the keeper of Belli Castle, wants from Fiona. He is one of Lorenzo's many "failed" clones to be bearers of Azoth, and is technically Fiona's "uncle" due to being her father's "brother". His goal is to impregnate the poor girl so that he can be "reborn" with Azoth as a means of living forever. And yes, this is exactly as disturbing as it sounds.
-   In _Mass Effect 2_, this turns out to be the motivation of the Reapers, who do this to _entire species_.
    -   Liara also says in the first game that there are some asari who treat reproduction in such a manner. Because the asari prefer mating with non-asari for a greater randomization of genes, any asari/non-asari pairing is considered preferable by the asari, and while some choose to raise the child with the father, some pairings are simply done in the name of reproduction and end after the single encounter gets the mother in question pregnant.
-   In _Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots_, the Patriots conspire to do this to Big Boss, to the point where he reacted almost as if he had been raped and abandoned by them. Notably, while Zero was in it as part of a plot to create Big Boss-like heroes through which he could control the populace, and Para-Medic was presumably motivated by science, EVA was the most eager to steal Big Boss's genetic material and her motivation was to forcibly have the beautiful children of the man she had a one night stand with years ago. It's played as sympathetic.

    Webcomics 

-   Elaine of Carbonek in _Arthur, King of Time and Space_, as above.
-   In _Evon_, while the other members of The Cabal want Evon for her Focus potential, Maximus thought this was short-sighted and sought to use Evon to breed an entire army of Focuses. (A plan ultimately thwarted by Feneris)
-   In _General Protection Fault_, a splinter group of The Brotherhood Of The Twisted Pair (a group of Illuminati-like hackers) believed that either Sharon or Fooker was their legendary "Geek Messiah." When a battery of tests failed to show any real difference in Sharon and Fooker's "l33t skillz", the group decided that neither Sharon nor Fooker was The Chosen One - their future child was. And much to Sharon's annoyance (and Fooker's amusement), the Brotherhood set about making sure said conception happened.
-   Among the drow nobles in _Drowtales_ this is in and of itself not unusual, with many noble women specifically choosing mates so their children can inherit rare and/or desired magical abilities and everyone knowing about it and being fine with it, but Snadhya'rune Vel'Sharen's attempts to gain access to a certain Anti-Magic ability unique to Quain'tana Val'Sarghress resulted in her taking Quain's daughter Mel'arnach under her wing in order to have a child. What's unusual about this is both of them are women, and Mel didn't even know about Snadhya's intentions or that the child even existed for many years and the eventual child, Kalki, didn't wind up inheriting the desired trait after all.
-   In _Scandinavia and the World_ Denmark catches Sister England trying to steal his...ahem, used tissues. He chases after her offering to give her more sperm.
-   In _Yet Another Fantasy Gamer Comic_, the Orcs' chief deity, Gruumsh, was behind the conception of Jone (and other half-human/half-orcs, including Glon), looking to create a perfect warrior who could unite humanity and the orcs under his banner. Jone did indeed turn out to be a near-unstoppable fighter... even when Gruumsh wanted her to stop.
-   In _Magellan_, it turns out Charisma was conceived this way by her mother Evangaline. She was a Loony Fan of one of the most famous superheroes in the world, Epoch, and somehow managed to get ahold of his sperm. The story of how she did it has yet to be fully revealed. This allowing her mother to get around the Man of Steel, Woman of Kleenex problem most Flying Bricks experience in this world.

    Web Original 

-   _The Colmaton Universe_ has two generations of the rare female version. A Government Conspiracy extracted Bobbi's (aka Medic Mouse) eggs while she was recovering from the atomic blast that triggered her powers. Said group then found a couple undergoing IVF and switched the birth mother's eggs with one of Bobbi's, producing Kuwanna (Ranger). Kuwanna's ex-boyfriend was in on the conspiracy and they conceived a daughter, Nandi, who was removed as an embryo during an appendectomy before Kuwanna knew she was pregnant and gestated in a Uterine Replicator. Both Bobbi and Kuwanna were horrified and furious when they learned about all this, but after rescuing Nandi from her father they started living as a (rather unusual) family.
-   In _Tasakeru_, there's a rather literal usage of this in Book III, in which a wolf who named himself Stalker creates a hybrid of all eight sentient species by stealing blood from each of them...
-   _Whateley Universe_: Envy's mother, a notorious Supervillainess called The Black Strega, was born into an Ancient Conspiracy Breeding Cult of mutants called The Bloodline but renounced the group when she was in her teens. After Fino's transformation into Fina, a rogue Bloodline member calling himself 'Robur the Conqueror' (a Devisor who is looking to up his prestige in the group by improving his 'contribution' to their Super Breeding Program) kidnaps Fina so he could extract her eggs, which he intends to combine with his own sperm for the People Farm aboard his airship. He also tries to force her to marry him and have children with him directly, to bump his status even further. This doesn't end well for Robur once Strega finds out where he's taken her.

    Western Animation 

-   _American Dad!_ has an odd example where this happens between a married couple. Francine, feeling lonely due to her son Steve's growing independence, says "Let's Have Another Baby" to Stan. Stan has the opposite attitude, looking forward to the time when the kids will leave the home for good. After he gets a vasectomy, Francine finds out that Stan banked some sperm back in the '80s and goes to the CIA storage facility with the intent of getting her hands on his "swimmers".
-   _Archer_, when Lana takes advantage of Archer having frozen some of his sperm to become pregnant.
-   On _The Cleveland Show_, Cleveland runs into a woman who had a crush on him in high school and starts hanging out with her because of the boost to his ego. Eventually she drugs him, ties him to her bed naked, puts on a pair of latex gloves... let's just say the finale involves a fertility doctor, a turkey baster, and, for some reason, hot air balloons.
-   A slight variation in the DC Animated Universe: Amanda Waller wanted to create another Batman, but rather than do it the old-fashioned way, she hunted up a couple with similar psychological profiles to Bruce Wayne's parents, rewrote the father's sperm to match Bruce's DNA, then arranged to have the couple killed when the young proto-Bats reached the proper age. The assassin (whom the show heavily implied was the Phantasm) backed out at the last minute, but in a stunning Contrived Coincidence, the kid's father was killed a few years later anyway. The result? Terry McGinnis.
-   In _Frisky Dingo_ Grace Ryan uses some of Xander Crews' sperm she froze to impregnate herself. An unrelated ant-mutation causes it to go horribly, horribly wrong.
-   On _Metalocalypse_, Lavona Succuboso and her Amazon Brigade, Succuboso Explosion, want Nathan Explosion's sperm so they can give birth to an army of perfect heavy metal warriors. Interestingly enough, Lavona's perfectly fine with Nathan dying after she gets the DNA. They are thwarted by Murderface Taking the Bullet the first time, and the second time by a drunk Toki whacking her with a vodka bottle.
    -   Also Toki's Internet girlfriend. Toki, taking the advice of his penis (don't ask), bails by jumping out the window. The matchmaker company that set them up beats up Murderface in revenge.
-   In _Moral Orel_, Stephanie thwarts Reverend Putty's flirtations by revealing that he's her father by way of this trope. Putty is rather pissed that his _trash can_ got more action than him, and also he (who would love nothing more than to lose his virginity) would have impregnated her mother the old-fashioned way if she had just _asked_. They salvage the emerging relationship and bond as father and daughter.
-   Inverted in _Sealab 2021_: while Debbie _does_ want a baby, it's the potential fathers who compete to be the one to impregnate her. She ends up deciding she doesn't need a baby because they're all manchildren anyway.

___