**Linus:** If I am elected school president, I will purge the kingdom! My administration will release us from our spiritual Babylon! My administration will bring down the false idols in high places! My administration will...  
**Charlie Brown:** I wonder why the principal looks so pale...

The Student Council President (_seitokaicho_ in Japanese) is the Club President for the Absurdly Powerful Student Council, and the Class Representative for the whole school.

Depending on the series, he or she may be a Supporting Leader, the Alpha Bitch, the Big Bad, Messianic Archetype, Ojou, Sheltered Aristocrat, a Magnificent Bastard or just another student. Note that some of these tropes can overlap.

The British version (in certain schools) is the Head Boy/Girl, who is in charge of the prefects (student volunteers with various roles), and is _usually_ appointed rather than elected. The stereotype is for them to be either a nigh-perfect Big Man on Campus Renaissance Man/Woman, or the toadying epitome of the Teacher's Pet, and either way to be destined for a career in politics. Mixed schools may have one of each, who may or may not be a Ruling Couple.

In terms of rank, about the only authority tropes arguably as low as this are the landlord and the Class Representative. For the next step down, see Absurdly Powerful Student Council. For the next step up, see Schoolteachers.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Angel Beats!_: Tenshi/Angel alias Kanade Tachibana is this until the SSS swaps her test papers with fabricated ones that have all the wrong answers, resulting in her being removed and replaced by Ayato Naoi. Later on, though, the deception is revealed, resulting in Angel being reinstated.
-   In _Armed Girl's Machiavellism_ who is in charge at the two Symbiosis Schools and how they got there has heavy influence on the plot:
    -   At Aiichi the role of leader of the "Supreme Five Swords" (who serve as the student council equivalent) is appointed by their predecessor, or at least on their suggestion. During the series it's Onigawara Rin who has the job... Much to Hanasaka Warabi's chagrin, who, being a year older and having served in the Five Swords for longer, had been expecting to receive the job in her final year, and even suggested Kikakujou as an alternative. This leads to Hanasaka's grudge against Onigawara, culminating in a sword duel and Hanasaka gaining respect for Onigawara after losing.
    -   At Hokkai the leader of the "Six King Swords" is chosen by combat... Meaning one can take the job by defeating or forcing to surrender the incumbent. This is how Nonomura Kigisu obtained the role, forcing Soda Uki to surrender after crushing and ousting his loyalists among the Six Kings... But Soda holds a grudge for this and Nonomura reversing his orderly but oppressive policies in favor of the indiscriminate fighting that reigned before Soda's term, resulting in Soda and Nakasone, who has her own grudge, launching a coup while the Six Kings are visiting Aiichi, that gets invaded by Soda's loyalists and Nakasone's biker gang.
-   _Asteroid in Love_ has Misa Kinohata, the older sister of the protagonist Mira. She is well-respected at school, has a Teen Genius reputation, and probably popular with the girls due to her cool demeanour. Beneath this, though, belies something else: she is, essentially, a mathematics nerd who has very poor communication skills.
-   _Bleach_:
    -   The 22nd Student Council President is Mizuho Asano, Keigo's willful and plucky older sister, who is obsessed with Ikkaku because she has a fetish for bald guys. The anime made filler episodes that ratcheted up her levels of cheerful crazy to entirely new heights.
    -   After the Time Skip, Uryuu Ishida is the president. When a gang from a neighbouring school come looking for Ichigo to cause trouble, Uryuu intervenes to throw them out of the school grounds (and to spare Ichigo a fight since he's going through a Brought Down to Badass phase). Ichigo chews Uryuu out for fighting since it'll damage the president's reputation.
-   _The Cherry Project_: Chieri is the popular student council president, but really isn't too powerful. She just has to organize fundraisers, much like a normal American one.
-   _Code Geass_: Milly Ashford... not the first to attempt making the World's Largest Pizza, but probably the first to attempt it using an outdated mecha prototype. Her Absurdly Powerful Student Council is also justified since her family _owns the school_ and her grandfather is the headmaster. And the Humongous Mecha, to boot.
    -   Lelouch himself is her vice-president, and he takes the role very seriously. One might not expect a banished prince living in hiding and planning a revolution to care so much about making the school festival perfect, but he does.
-   _Cute High Earth Defense Club LOVE!_: Kinshiro Kusatsu who also happens to be Chevalier Orite, one of the enemies of the Defense Club.
-   _Dear Brother_: As the closest to an Absurdly Powerful Student Council in Seiran University High School is the famous Sorority, its leaderess Fukiko "Miya-sama" Ichinomiya is both the Student Council President _and_ the most important of the Oneesamas towards the cast. Pity she's not... very well in the head, though.
-   _Fortune Arterial_: Iori Sendou. The school treats him like a celebrity. Also a vampire.
-   _Freezing_: Chiffon Fairchild. After she dies, Ticy defeats Arnette and becomes the new President.
-   _Fruits Basket_: Yuki Sohma is elected Student Council President of his high school during his second year; despite initially refusing to run for the position due to his self-esteem issues, he eventually decides to do it after all in order to improve himself. His older brother, Ayame Sohma, was also Student Council President when he was in school.
-   _Fujimura-kun Mates_: Shizuru. A very unusual one, as she is an adorable ditz who is constantly lost and nearly unable to function in her daily life without the assistance of her very capable vice-president. Later on she pass this title to Fujimura.
-   Sumi Sain from _FullMaPla_. She's said to be very good at dealing with budget arguments... because she's so annoying that people would rather reach an agreement than have to deal with her.
-   _Girls und Panzer_: Anzu Kadotani. She's responsible for bringing back the tankery club, recruiting all the students (threatening Miho with expulsion if she doesn't join, although it's unclear how much she meant it and/or could carry it out), and also was responsible for brokering a deal with the government to stop the school from being closed if they win the tankery tournament (as well as doing so again in the movie after the government goes back on the deal). She wasn't actually going to expel Miho, either. She was using Exact Words to make it sound like it, but in reality it was actually a veiled hint about the school's imminent shutdown.
-   _Haunted Junction_: Haruto Hojou. Subverted, because Haruto _really_ wishes he was NOT the President, so his vice-president Mutsuki Asahina acts more like a leader than he ever does.
-   _Hayate × Blade_: Amachi Hitsugi takes this trope to rather extreme levels, seemingly taking pleasure from watching students try to keep up with her zany ideas.
-   _Hetalia: Axis Powers_: England, in the Gakuen Universe. He's not a particularly liked one though, due to his Tsundere and Jerkass outer qualities.
-   _Heaven's Lost Property_: Mikako Satsukitane: The local Yakuza Princess, whose sadistic streak can match any psychopath, are only played for laughs. Also the student council president. Almost lost the position of president because she was failing one class. Ethics.
-   _Horimiya_: Sengoku. His Childhood Friend Hori and the rest of their friends often take advantage of this by hanging out in the student council room in their free time (since it's one of the few places in the school with a heater and air conditioner).
-   _Kaguya-sama: Love Is War_: Miyuki Shirogane, who is noted as being an extreme Workaholic. He's also a Penny Among Diamonds. His unnamed predecessor also shows up a few times, and Iino succeeds him after he graduates near the end of the series.
-   _Kill la Kill_:
    -   Satsuki Kiryuin rules the school like a military dictator with the aid of Honnouji Academy's Absurdly Powerful Student Council, who are empowered by special school uniforms that make them nigh-invincible. Because her mother happens to be the chairman of the school's board of directors, her authority goes beyond even that of the school principal.
    -   Ira Gamagoori used to be one in middle school. He's now Satsuki's Disciplinary Committee Chair and serves loyally under her.
-   _Love Live!_: Most of the main idol groups in the franchise have their resident council presidents join their groups after acting as Obstructive Bureaucrats beforehand.
    -   In the original _Love Live!_, Eli Ayase looks down upon school idols activities and antagonizes the group for most of the first season, though vicepresident Nozomi Tojo keeps helping the group until Eli sees the errors of her ways and they both join. Later in the second season, Honoka succeeds Eli as student council president and some focus is given to the responsibilities she must face.
    -   In _Love Live! Sunshine!!_, Dia Kurosawa plays a similar role to Eli in antagonizing the main group and disapproving of their activities, but is later revealed to be a big school idol geek who tried to be an idol along Mari and Kanan as the original Aqours, and antagonizes them in hopes they wouldn't go through the same pains they did.
    -   _Love Live! School Idol Festival ALL STARS_ had Nana Nakagawa AKA the true identity of Setsuna Yuki, who seemingly fills this role but in reality wanted to see if the main cast was really serious to keep the school idol club open before joining back right in the prologue. Later on, Shioriko Mifune gets to become student council president and fills the more traditional antagonistic role by claiming how they're wasting their talents, before being convinced to join. The anime adaptation, _Love Live! Nijigasaki High School Idol Club_, doesn't have Shioriko be antagonistic towards the main cast and doesn't even become student council president until the very end, leaving Nana/Setsuna to use her position to give the club a few more advantages.
    -   _Love Live! Superstar!!_ has Ren Hazuki, although she doesn't starts as student council president, she was antagonistic towards the protagonists before she became one and continued to do it on the mistaken belief that her late mother hated to be a school idol, before she instead joins.
    -   Subverted in _Link! Like! Love Live!_; the student council president, Sachi, is a secondary character with no signs of antagonism towards the school idol club, nor is she a member, instead she's a former member of the club who was part of it the previous year, with circumstances that strained the relationships between the members making her leave. The one time she acts in the classic Obstrusive Bureaucrat way, it's played in an over-the-top way to make it blatant she's trying to shape-up the first years to be better.
-   _Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha ViVid_: Els Tasmin is the head student representative of her school, and maintains a strict, authoritarian personality during the tournament. Naturally, she has some distaste for the tourney audience favorite and resident Delinquent, Hallie Tribeca.
-   _Maid-Sama!_: Misaki Ayuzawa, the title maid. The fact that she works as a maid is something she has to hide very carefully due to also being President. Moreso one who's branded by the boys as the "Demon Pres.".
    -   Tora Igarashi, the president of the expensive private school Miyabigaoka, is of the Arc Villain variety. As he later pulls a Heel–Face Turn, and becomes a Jerk with a Heart of Gold.
-   _Maken-ki!_: Takaki Furan currently holds the office at Tenbi Academy and is the de facto Big Good of the series. While typically known for being reserved, she's strict and expects the student council to perform up to standards. Or else. But in most cases, it isn't necessary since she has Yuuka to help keep things in order.
-   _Manabi Straight!_: Manabi, who is nothing at all like the others on this list. Partly because she is a New Transfer Student when elected as President. But she makes friends with Takako Kakuzawa, who is a more typical Student Council President at another high school.
-   _Marginal Prince_: Joshua Grant kinda averts it. He is mentioned as the president, but everything you ever see him doing in this position is introducing Yuuta to the school (and helping him out with registration issues) and taking a certain theatrical role during the school's cultural festival.
-   _Medaka Box_: Medaka becomes this with an overwhelming 98% vote at the start of the series, setting up a suggestion box to be of service to the student body. Next year, Zenkichi beats her, with only the remaining 2% having voted for her re-election.
-   _My-HiME_: Shizuru Fujino. In the prequel novel "Natsuki no Prelude," it is implied that the main reason why she ran for President was to get Natsuki access to school records for her investigation.
-   _My Monster Secret_: Shirogane Karen fills the role here. Unusually, she's held the position for 20 years, somehow without any of the actual student body noticing that they've never had elections or that she's always been there. Even though at one point she delivers _both_ the "outgoing president" speech and "new president" speech within minutes of each other.
-   _My Wife is the Student Council President_: Both Ui and Hayate were running for the position at the beginning of the story. Ui won by landslide, partially thanks to her status as The Ace, partially thanks to her platform of "Liberalization of love". Hayate ended up becoming the vice-president.
-   _Penguin Revolution_: Ayaori is Student Council President, but his school persona is that of a vague and ineffectual nerd, leaving the Vice President - Ayaori's adoptive brother Ryo, cross-dressing as Ojou "Ryoko" - to do most of the work.
-   By the time of _Please Twins!_, Ichigo Morino has become this at her school. She's more mischievous than actively malicious, and often goes out of her way to give a hand to those who ask for help.
-   _Pretty Cure_ has quite a few who serve as presidents in their civilian lives.
    -   _Yes! Pretty Cure 5_: Karen Minazuki.
    -   _HeartCatch Pretty Cure!_: Itsuki Myoudouin.
    -   _Smile Pretty Cure!_: Reika Aoki is a different case - she's Student Council _Vice_\-President. Near the end of the series, she finally upgrades to full President.
    -   _Doki Doki! PreCure_: Mana Aida marks the first time a _Pretty Cure_ protagonist is President.
    -   _Go! Princess Pretty Cure_: Minami Kaido.
    -   _Star★Twinkle Pretty Cure_: Madoka Kaguya.
-   _The Prince of Tennis_: Supplemental materials imply that Keigo Atobe and Kunimitsu Tezuka are their schools's student council presidents.
-   _Princess Princess_: Arisada, a Manipulative Bastard who has the entire school in the palm of his hand. Somehow an Ensemble Dark Horse, perhaps because he's a former Princess.
-   _Reborn! (2004)_: Kyoya Hibari. He actually runs the Disciplinary Board (think Safety Patrol or Prefects, only more mafia-like), the actual student council is not seen. Acts like a delinquent more than a President, and runs the Council as his own personal gang. Adelheid Suzuki of the Simon Famiglia also quite qualifies.
-   _Rosario + Vampire_: Hokuto is introduced as this, and proceeds to use his position to try to reveal the existence of monsters to humans and throw both worlds into chaos.
-   _Saki_: Hisa Takei is not only president of the mahjong club, but also this, although she clarifies that she's Student _Congress_ President, and prefers that the mahjong club members call her by her title of Club President.
-   _Seitokai Yakuindomo_: Shino is an efficient, albeit perverted, student council president, complete with The Ace traits. Later on in the series she starts grooming her vice-president Takatoshi to inherit the position when she graduates (since nobody else wants the job).
-   _Sket Dance_: Brilliant, but Lazy Soujiro Agata. Later when he steps down to focus on college entrance exams, Vice President Sasuke Tsubaki takes his place. Who is later succeeded by Kiri Katou.
-   _The Story Between a Dumb Prefect and a High School Girl with an Inappropriate Skirt Length_ has president Yamato Nadeshiko, an Ojou with a playful streak, who sometimes wears a skirt, bares her midriff, and lets her hair down for a seductive Gyaru Girl persona. She mostly uses her "gal version" to toy with Vice President Kaoru Kogori.
-   _Tantei Opera Milky Holmes_: Henriette. She's also the thief Arsene, but it's not like the heroines know that.
-   _Tokyo Majin_: Misato Aoi. Her council isn't as absurdly powerful, she's not seen carrying out her duties apart from the graduation preparations, and she usually hangs with non-council-members (which is to say, the "demon-buster team").
-   Kaname Kuran in _Vampire Knight_ is the president of the Night Class, whose entirety is made up out of vampires. Aside from having absolute power over the entire class and being pretty much en par with the school's headmaster, he's got lots of influence over the rest of the vampire world, too.
-   In _Witch Craft Works_, the student council president (and most of the student body) oppose school Princess Ayaka Kagari getting close to the main character Honoka Takamiya. In response, Ayaka uses her power as Princess to depose the president and install Honoka as her replacement. She also takes over the post of vice president and demotes the original vice president to "Vice-vice president."
-   In _Yamada-kun and the Seven Witches_, the student council president by and large has the power over the school, so it's a position that many people strive for. There have been five of them during Yamada's school time, due to one of them leaving the post early because of a vote of non-confidence, and another one having a short term: Haruma Yamazaki (the Big Bad of the first part of the story), Toranosuke Miyamura (Yamada's lancer), Shinichi Tamaki (another of Yamada's friends, taking over after Miyamura), Yuri Miura (a former enemy who takes over at the end of Yamada's third year after Tamaki's short term), and Amamiya who was Yamazaki's predecessor. Nene Odagiri was runner-up to Miyamura, and Masamune Ichijo to Tamaki.

    Comic Books 

-   Tyler is the class president of _PS238_, despite the fact that he never ran for election. This was do to the fact that everyone in the class hated the two actual candidates and voted for him as a write-in candidate. So far his duties as class president have consisted entirely of holding a ribbon-cutting ceremony for the new computer lab.

    Comic Strips 

-   A 1964 run of _Peanuts_ strips had Linus running for class president (concurrently with an actual Presidental election) with Charlie Brown as his running mate and Lucy as his campaign manager. Unfortunately, it was also around Halloween, and Linus couldn't resist using his final campaign speech to proselytize about the Great Pumpkin. This was adapted into the animated special _You're (Not) Elected, Charlie Brown._

    Fan Works 

-   In an allusion to his canon self's political background, the _Persona 5 Adult Confidant AU_'s depiction of Toranosuke Yoshida portrays him as Shujin Academy's student council president.
-   Drew from _Total Drama Legacy_. Just as his mother Courtney constantly brought up the fact that she was a CIT, Drew constantly brings up the fact that he's a student council president. Like many examples of this trope, he's portrayed as a dictatorial, antagonistic, and destined for a career in politics.
-   Jack Fairfax of _The Simpsons: Team L.A.S.H._ is not only the student council president of Springfield Elementary, but also the illegitimate son of Mayor Joe Quimby (and... well... you can really tell). He's the most popular boy at the school, a ladies' man, and a very skilled politician- although he is known to be rather egotistical.

    Films — Animation 

-   In an earlier version of _Turning Red_, Mei was going to run for class president against Tyler.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   Tracy Flick attempts to become the class president in _Election_. She starts off running unopposed, only to be met with Jim McAllister, the history teacher who bears a personal grudge against her after getting another teacher fired. However, the position is deconstructed, since the film pretty much establishes that the whole thing is one glorified popularity contest. When she actually becomes class president, she discovers that the position is essentially _powerless_, and spends her entire term futilely trying to get _anything_ done.
-   Rachel Witchburn in _Sydney White_, who happens to be the Alpha Bitch and maybe the Big Bad...
-   Richard Bagg in _National Lampoon's Van Wilder: Party Liaison_, an obnoxious frat boy who _sits on the voting panel for expelling students_.

    Literature 

-   Shirayuki from _Aria the Scarlet Ammo_. She states this after having her skirt flipped by Riko, thinking that could hurt her image.
-   _The Asterisk War_: The Asterisk city's six schools each have a student council president, who have varying degrees of power depending on how they get elected. For example, at one school, the President is elected through a battle tournament, in which case her power over the students is very high. However, at Arlequint, a research institution, the President is typically chosen as a compromise between several powerful factions. However, the Presidents themselves are part of a pan-school council which has implausibly broad powers to direct school affairs, answering only to the Integrity Enterprises Foundation (which is essentially the world government).
-   In John Powers' book _Do Black Patent Leather Shoes Really Reflect Up?_, the last thing any student wants is to be elected President of the Student Council. Only the most disliked students (the "fat and ugly kids") get nominated or voted into student offices; "winning" the presidential election means that student is THE most unpopular one in the school.
-   The unnamed Student Council President from the _Haruhi Suzumiya_ novels acts as the Magnificent Bastard variety, primarily to fit with Haruhi's perception of the Absurdly Powerful Student Council and give her an "enemy". The President actually laughs about how ridiculous his role is. But soon, he starts taking it more seriously...
-   _High School D×D_: Devil princess Sona Sitri holds this position at Kuoh Academy, along with her peerage who form the ranks of her Absurdly Powerful Student Council. It's actually a cover for her role as a guardian of The Masquerade in the surrounding city.
-   In _The Man In The Corner Room_ by Asi Hart the main character, Peter, is the president of a university student council whose only purpose is to create connections for its members future political careers and supply the students with vending machines.
-   _Strawberry Panic!_: Miyuki Rokojou, Shion Tomori, and Chikaru Minamoto are the student council presidents of each of Astraea Hill's three schools. Plus Shizuma Hanazono as the Etoile.
-   _Student Council's Discretion_: Kurimu Sakurano. She's a bit of an airhead compared to most of the examples on this page.
-   _Unlimited Fafnir_: Mitsuki, the younger sister of protagonist Yuu, is one.
-   Double Subverted in Daniel Pinkwater's _Young Adult Novel_. The president of the Himmler High School student council has no real authority, and Kevin Shapiro didn't want the position anyway. Yet the overwhelming popularity that elected him to that position also makes him king of the school.
-   In _The Secrets of Drearcliff Grange School_, the Head Girl is Sidonie Gryce, the worst of the "terrors" of Tamara House. In _The Haunting of Drearcliff Grange School_, it's Prima Haldane of Goneril House, who is less openly sadistic, but much more of a stickler, willing to report _anyone_ for _anything_. Oddly, the second book claims this is the first time the Head Girl didn't come from _Arial_ House, even while namechecking Gryce.

    Live Action TV 

-   _The Brady Bunch_:
    -   "Vote For Brady," from the first season, saw Greg running for class president against his stepsister, Marcia. The episode begins with partisan politics but ends with Greg showing character by refusing to go along with his (soon-to-be-ex) friend's planned dirty trick to make an unflattering accusation against Marcia. In the end, Greg's integrity is rewarded by him becoming class president (in what now becomes a one-person race, as Marcia steps aside, never explaining that she had overheard Greg outright reject the dirty trick plan).
    -   "My Sister, Benedict Arnold," where Greg complains that a class rival, Warren Mullaney, had beaten him (presumably earlier) for class president, and — sour about the outcome — unfairly claimed that Warren "made a bunch of phony promises he didn't keep."
-   From _Degrassi: The Next Generation_ there's Ashley Kerwin, Liberty Van Zandt, Holly J. Sinclair and Sav Bhandari, in that order. In the beginning of the series the popular but serious Ashley was going to run unopposed but her step brother got his class-clown friend to run against her. The spoiled Holly J was unopposed for her first three years of High School but faced, and lost a stiff election in senior year to Sav.
-   Paris Gellar (former socially-awkward Alpha Bitch, still awkward) served in this capacity during the third season of _Gilmore Girls_. She was only able to get elected by having Rory as her VP to soften her image (people respected Paris' abilities and focus, but were terrified/put-off by her personality so she needed a softer, friendlier running mate who would have her back). Turned into major drama when the Senior-class Rep (a previously unseen Alpha Bitch at the school) felt she was getting snubbed in meetings (her not-so-great ideas were just being dismissed right away by Paris) and went all Machiavelli using Paris' social insecurities. Eventually, she helped push Paris back into full-on Alpha Bitch mode against Rory for a while, but never really seemed to get anything out of it for herself.
-   _Mr. Student Body President_ centers around this trope. Tyler Prendergast is the, well, Student Body President of Berenger High School. Despite being the protagonist, he has no qualms about threatening and cajoling to get what he wants, even blackmailing the Principal. Fitting for a High School spoof of the Government Procedural.
-   Martin Qwerly from _Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide_. Technically, he was VP and the weasel was president. Also, he only ever did one important thing.
-   Daphnie Powell from _No Ordinary Family_.
-   _Our Miss Brooks_: Harriet Conklin is Student Council President at Madison High School. As such, and especially as she is the daughter of Principal Conklin, she has . . . absolutely no power whatsoever.
-   Duncan Kane from _Veronica Mars_.

    Podcasts 

-   Harmony from _Sequinox_ is the Vertumnus High Student President and usually has her finger on whatever is going on in the school—which causes some trouble for the Sequinox girls trying to hide their superheroic activities.

    Video Games 

-   Sasara is one in _Aquapazza_. Amusingly, she's the only schoolgirl not in uniform; she's cosplaying as a valkyrie.
-   Elsa, the main character of _Black Closet_. In which being student council president is more or less like being head of the secret police.
-   Jin Kisaragi from _BlazBlue_. Aside from being able to graduate at the top of his class and gaining the rank of "Major" at an Improbable Age.
-   Tenshouin Eichi in _Ensemble Stars!_ is the school's 'Emperor', the head of the Absurdly Powerful Student Council which at one point held total control over their fellow students' futures in the idol industry. However, while Eichi is a very talented heir who is highly regarded by the school's board (mainly due to his family's money) and he has both a massively inflated sense of self-importance and a manipulative streak, he's not especially strict about school rules and tends to leave most of the actual student council work to his right hand Keito. Rei was also the student council president briefly, despite being a rebellious student who was held back a grade, but he only did it on Keito's recommendation as part of a plot to sabotage him. After the current year ends, Mao becomes the new president, though he's really more of a hard working behind the scenes type who feels _very_ weird being referred to in any kind of flowery superior way like Eichi typically enjoyed.
-   _Growing Up_: Wanting to take after his father in politics, Charles actively runs for student council president, even if he's unopposed, using his confidence to win his voters over. You can support him by voting for him.
-   Nana Nakagawa in _Love Live! School Idol Festival ALL STARS_. Like the previous two series' (_Love Live!_ and _Love Live! Sunshine!!_) Presidents, The initial arc started by her rejecting protagonists' request forming school idol club unless they are able to find 10 members. When they got 9 members and starting tracking on famous school idol _Setsuna Yuki_, Nakagawa showed up in front of them, congulating on their resolve before revealing herself is Setsuna they are finding for, and joining them.
    -   Twisted and subverted in later chapters - Setsuna Yukis real identity was accidentally revealed by Mifune Shioriko. Believing that it is bad to school, Shioriko forced a immeient Student Council President re-election and Nakagawa lost. The following arc featured Shioriko trying to shut down the school idol club, but unsuccessful due to member's determination (and interventions by outsiders).

-   _Persona_:
    -   In the original _Persona_, Takahisa Kandori was St. Hermelin's eighteenth student council president during his time there. The unnamed current president considers him a great role model.
    -   Yasuo Inoe from _Persona 2_ made a Deal with the Devil to become his school's student council president. In return, he spreads reality-changing rumors and helps them mine Kegare from his classmates.
    -   Mitsuru Kirijo from _Persona 3_ actually has a justification for how much power she has. The school was built and is still owned by her family's Kirijo Group, one of the most powerful corporations in Japan, and they have a say in the inner workings of running it. The teachers are thus rightly terrified of angering or otherwise disregarding Mitsuru in any way, since she really does have far more power than they do.
    -   _Persona 4_ has a brief cameo by Mitsuru's unlikely successor, ex-Shrinking Violet Chihiro Fushimi, who was Treasurer in the previous game.
    -   A new girl in _Persona 4: Arena_ appears to be this at Yasogami High School, but her true identity is that of Robot Girl Labrys, previously mentioned in a Japan-only _Persona 3_ audio drama. Her mind created a fantasy for her where she's this at Yasogami High School, in an attempt to fulfill a wish of the source of her personality, an ill girl whose condition prevented her from going to school.
    -   _Persona 5_ has Makoto Niijima, who like Mitsuru is both president of her school's student council and a party member. Interestingly, Makoto is a Deconstructed Character Archetype of this kind of character. All the fantastical elements such a role would normally have in anime are removed, instead focusing on what the position does to Makoto's psyche. Instead of being beloved by all, impossibly perfect, having a level of authority higher than the teachers, and basically being the goddess of the school (like Mitsuru was), Makoto is none of these things. She's shown to be a completely powerless glorified gopher for the faculty, all the students hate Makoto's guts because they wrongfully assume she was helping to cover up coach Kamoshida's sexual abuse, her need to have high grades and get into a good school weighs on her even after joining the Phantom Thieves, and she's constantly stressed out by her numerous responsibilities. The stress actually ends up forcing her into dangerous decisions, and when she's finally confronted with authority that intends to completely destroy her mentally, she _snaps_ and rebels, finally becoming a Persona user that _despises_ abuse of authority.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   A few characters in the _Trails Series_ were this or ended up becoming this. Examples include Lechter Arundel in the _Sky_ series, Towa Herschel in _Cold Steel I and II_, and by _Reverie_, Ash Carbide set a few months after _Cold Steel IV_, and Renne Bright at the future Calvard arc.
-   _Twisted Wonderland_: Noble Bell College, due to its smaller size, has a student council whereas bigger schools with house systems like Night Raven College don't. Its council president is Rollo Flamme, a seemingly authoritative and polite young man with a dark secret, based on Judge Claude Frollo.
-   As _Yandere Simulator_ is a game that has a heavy anime influence, it's only natural that one of your rivals happens to be one. She's described by YandereDev as a strict disciplinarian, who is also a little Sue-ish. She can be seen on a laptop in the Student Council room, during which she can go on a speech about how a "vulgar creature" needs to be exterminated. Of course, like all rivals, it's possible to kill, socially sabotage, or otherwise harm her.
-   _Pokémon Scarlet and Violet_: Nemona is one to Naranja/Uva Academy.

    Visual Novels 

-   Ryuudou Issei from _Fate/stay night_. He's a minor character and his status as council president doesn't have much impact on the plot. Rather, it seems to be so that the story can demonstrate Shirou's pathological altruism by having Issei ask him to do repair work around the school.
-   Orihime in _Kara no Shoujo,_ who is idolized by the school body.
-   Shizune Hakamichi from _Katawa Shoujo_. Granted, there's only one other member of the Council (unless Hisao joins), her interpreter Misha.
-   _Love, Election & Chocolate_ partially revolves around electing the new president.
-   Though there is an official one in _Majikoi! Love Me Seriously!_, they don't seem to do much. In the Ryuuzetsuran path Hideo usurps this role, though not without good reason.
-   Ava Crescentia and Kayto Shields of _Sunrider_ were the president and vice-president of the student council respectively in their youth. Ava tried to bring about positive change for the school during her tenure, but was so overbearing that she drove all the other council members away, which made her realize that she wasn’t cut out to be a leader. Eight years later, their positions are reversed: Kayto is captain of the _Sunrider_ and Ava is his Number Two.
-   Homura Akai in _Tokimeki Memorial 2_, and when she graduates, her Arch-Enemy kohai Mei Ijuin takes the mantle. Let's just say that neither of them are your typical anime and video game Student Council President : the first is a lazy tomboy who was forcefully put in that role by the school headmaster, who hoped to make her a better student, and she instead used that opportunity to make things fun and wacky ; the second is a quirky Mad Scientist Tsundere. Hilarity Ensues.
    -   In _Tokimeki Memorial 4_, Deuteragonist Yuu Satsuki is the Student Council President of the Modern Kirameki Saga, and when she graduates, main heroine Maki Hoshikawa takes the mantle. Unlike ther Hibikino counterparts above, they take the role seriously, Yuu especially.
-   Remi Himekawa from _True Love Junai Monogatari_ is both the _vice_ president of the student council and one of the love interests in the game. She's rarely seen doing actual work, as the MC meets up with her either in the halls or outside school - but she sometimes speaks about the School Festival she's working on. And she's kidnapped in the middle of it.
-   Jessica Ushiromiya from _Umineko: When They Cry_ is a somewhat unusual example in that she's only the student council president because her parents forced her to take the position, but she was still popular enough to be voted for anyway despite her reluctance.
    -   In the Alternate Universe shown in Ep 7 she has an older sibling, Lion, who was president in middle school and high school and wasn't reluctant about it at all.
-   _Yumina the Ethereal_ starts with Nayuta Kagura who makes it quite clear believes Hobbes Was Right, however, the main cast start trying to take over because whoever becomes the council president can add or change any one rule they want.
-   Kyoka Oneesama from _Yin-Yang! -Xchange Alternative-_. Not only is Mistress Saionji Kyoka Oneesama the school council president, but she also does nearly all of the work of the student council - the rest of us are just her pets&sex slaves (Yes, really. It's that kind of game.)

    Webcomics 

-   _Giant Days_ features a university Girl Posse who were all formerly Head Girls of their respective secondary schools. They try to recruit Esther into their clique and respond aggressively when rebuffed (turns out all Head Girls are required to train in a fighting style...)
-   Matt Cohen of _El Goonish Shive_ is school council president at Moperville North, and head of the absurdly power_less_ student council. This generally means that he has to go along with whatever hair-brained scheme the principal is currently using to "preserve order" and "save the students from themselves." Despite being told to stick to the cards when making the announcement about the uniforms, he manages to get his contempt for the whole system across quite well.
-   Gaia and Sebastian (Seb) Fox from _Falconhyrste_.
-   _Magick Chicks_: Faith Abbot is introduced as the student council president at Artemis Academy, in addition to being the most powerful esper in the academy's history, and the most popular student on campus. Following the events of chapter 15, she steps down and appoints Melissa as her replacement.
-   In _Precocious_ Dionne manages to win the student council elections on a campaign of open corruption. Considering that they only have a council because the students revolted it shouldn't be too surprising.

    Web Original 

-   Since _Survival of the Fittest_ features high school students, it's not surprising that student council politics come up:
    -   Andrea Valandingham from version three, who seems to be more on the heroic side and is good friends with several of the other councilors. Along with being one of the smartest people in the school.
    -   Naomi Bell from Version Five is a more ruthless version of this trope Sacrificial Lamb who is murdered by a scorned rival for her presidency.
    -   Version 6 has Emma Luz, who is more of a Nice Girl variant, though no less ambitious. She's framed as an Extracurricular Enthusiast who loves her school and ran for President to help improve it. Unfortunately, being in SOTF breaks her spirit enough that she eventually becomes jaded and distrustful of most of her class.
    -   SC2 over at _Survival Of The Fittest Mini_ has Eris Marquis get this position at Denton (she originally wasn't in V3, with the above Andrea having the position). She's more of an Academic Alpha Bitch.

    Western Animation 

-   _City Island (2022)_: "President Watt" is about Watt becoming the second-grade class president. At first, he wants to do everything by himself, but he finds that things get done faster if he shares the workload with others.
-   _Codename: Kids Next Door_: James Nixon McGarfield, the president of the fourth grade class (which the main characters are in) at Gallagher Elementary, plays a major role in several episodes. He starts out good but eventually pulls a Face–Heel Turn and is removed from office.
-   An episode of _The Fairly OddParents!_ had Tad and Chad in this role, with Timmy running against them in a school election.
-   In _Fillmore!_, the student council president at X Middle School is Robert Chestnut, a highly decorated retired safety patroller and Big Man on Campus who used his reputation as a safety patroller to be elected president. The Chestnut lineage inspires a great deal of respect in X Middle School due to Robert's older brothers Chuck and Chippy, the "Wonder Twins", being the only two Safety Patrol officers more decorated than him. However, his obsession with preserving the reputation of the Chestnut name results in him destroying a flawed shipment of "Lobstee the Lobster" claws that was accidently caused by his own terrible handwriting, and then convincing fellow student Oscar Mabini to take the fall for the disappearance of the claws so he could ensure that his younger brother Peter would get recognition.
-   Subverted in _Invader Zim_ — the Student Council President turns out to have none of the power it is perceived as having, and is actually brainwashed by the school, making it a political puppet.
-   In _Recess_, King Bob effectively holds this role, having supreme authority over every other student in the school.
-   In _You're (Not) Elected, Charlie Brown_, unlike the series of strips it's based on, Linus actually wins the election, and learns the class president has no power whatsoever, least of all to fulfill his grandiose and borderline messianic campaign promises.

___