_"You should learn to rely on other people. Having friends is a good thing... surprisingly."_

A character with a Sugar-and-Ice Personality has two distinct sides, one cold and distant, the other warmer and more open. In some cases, the differences between the two aspects of the character's personality are so radical as to be shocking coming from the same person. Often this extreme polarity is due to some form of traumatic experience or social awkwardness, though occasionally it might resemble a full-blown Split Personality or one-man Red Oni, Blue Oni or Good Cop/Bad Cop. Their dual nature could also simply be the way they are, with no explanation otherwise given.

The cold side can have a few different variants, though the Ice Queen or Ice King is probably the most common, mixing aloofness and distance with a certain harshness and lack of sympathy. Another manifestation of this side is as The Stoic, being simply unemotional and unresponsive rather than harsh. Occasionally this could be part of their personality may resemble a full-on Emotionless Girl, or include the sharp-tongued aspects of The Snark Knight.

The warm side, on the other hand, is usually quite kind, open, and emotive. Some variations can be very animated when in the right situation, though others may be Shrinking Violets, uncertain how to interact with others when not acting tough. Even the shy-types, however, usually wear at least a small smile or sport a Luminescent Blush to indicate that they are far more emotionally reactive than their cold side.

Usually, their cold side is the one everyone is used to, with the warmer side only glimpsed in response to specific triggers. In many cases, all it takes is getting to know the person before the warm side begins to make an appearance.

More rarely, the frosty side is the seldom-seen aspect and is only evoked when they are confronted by something they find annoying or tedious. Often this is a bumbling Love Interest who doesn't know what he's done wrong. While there are occasions where the cold side is a mask, this by no means describes all examples. In such cases both sides are genuine aspects of their personality, the character is simply compartmentalized to a much greater degree than most people are.

Compare Not So Stoic and Stoic Woobie. Sometimes related to Beneath the Mask. A Sister Trope to Tsundere (which is basically "Sugar and _Fire_"). Anime fandom refers to this character as a _kuudere_ (a portmanteau of _kuuru_, "cool" in Engrish, and _deredere_, "lovestruck"). Rei Ayanami Expy is a specific subtrope with a particular set of characteristics. In Myers–Briggs and in a Four-Temperament Ensemble, this is a typical trait of I<sup>_</sup>T<sup>_</sup> and the Melancholic, respectively, though occasionally it can apply to the other types and temperaments. Not to be confused with An Ice Person, though sometimes they overlap.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Ai no Kusabi_ has Iason Mink who is an Artificial Human that expressed very little emotion until he fell in love.
-   Angel from _Angel Beats!_ seems like a straight Emotionless Girl in the beginning, but starts to show flickers of emotion and humanity starting in Episode 5, when the protagonist speaks to her and learns her real name. This is a weird case because she's the antagonist ...not. After the whole Naoi business she's a straight ally to Otonashi, and, eventually, all the SSS. In the final episode, she drops the cold facade entirely now that almost the entire cast has moved on. She spends the episode smiling, humming and singing about tofu, and being the most adorable thing ever.
-   Yuu Nanami of _Asteroid in Love_. She comes off as overly serious and even cold, but she gradually becomes closer with her fellow club members.
-   _Attack on Titan_ provides numerous examples, all completely justified due to the Crapsack World they live in.
    -   Mikasa. Extremely stoic and aloof, yet she's caring and fiercely protective of her adoptive brother Eren and also has a soft spot for Armin.
    -   Annie Leonhart is a cold and distant Dark Action Girl, but Eren and Armin both state that she hides her true kindness. Her gentle smile and playful teasing of Eren while teaching him to fight seems to suggest there's some truth to their belief.
    -   Bertolt Hoover is extremely soft-spoken and comes across as being The Stoic due to his tendency to linger silently in the background. But once he begins getting more attention, it becomes clear he's caring but painfully shy. It's justified in an incredibly tragic way, as he doesn't have the luxury of showing his warmer side to people due to being The Mole.
    -   Levi shows hints of this, normally coming across as harsh and cold. But he can show surprising kindness to others, usually in very subtle ways. Considering that he's the World's Strongest Man among a Red Shirt Army, letting people get too close rarely ends well.
    -   Hange Zoe is one of the rare flipped versions, usually being very warm, kind, and easygoing. But when the situation calls for it or the stress is becoming too much for anyone to bear, Hange quickly becomes cold, harsh, merciless, and prone to violent bouts of anger.
-   Sakaki from _Azumanga Daioh_, natch. So, so very compassionate and cute on the inside, but outside, she looks like a cold, tough Huge Schoolgirl. She manages to break out of her cold, reticent shell once she finally manages to pet a cat without getting hurt. A Shrinking Violet, but only because she laments never being cute as a child. Her coldness isn't a façade she's putting up to fool everyone, but something she does _completely by accident_.
-   Zazie in _Battle Angel Alita: Last Order_ always tries to hide her shy and sensitive nature behind a facade of an always cool and professional soldier, though not always successfully. For example, it didn't take the twins long to notice her admiration of Alita and start teasing her relentlessly.
-   Casca from _Berserk_ is a mix of this and the Defrosting Ice Queen. She starts off distant, cool — even cold — and collected but temperamental toward her comrades, but after awhile, she starts showing a sensitive side that no one would ever have expected from a woman of her profession once Guts defrosts her (which would make her behavior and personality a lot more understandable other than the whole Love Triangle thing, since Casca is the sole female member in a group of mercenaries AND she's second in command, so she must always put on a facade of seriousness so that her male cohorts would not falter under her command).
-   _Black Clover_:
    -   Yuno is usually very calm and emotionless, speaking only when he needs to and is often brutally honest in the process. However, he's much kinder around his foster siblings and Asta, even attacking him with his magic to make him look good at the Star Festival, and eventually some of his comrades in Golden Dawn. He shows himself to be very protective of those he cares for, fiercely fighting to save his foster family from a reincarnated elf.
    -   Noelle Silva has a Tsundere disposition. She usually acts aloof and haughty, bringing up her status as a royalty, but will show a softer, kinder side to those close to her, especially the Black Bulls, who accepted her in spite of her shortcomings, and Asta, who she's in love with.
-   _Bleach_:
    -   Byakuya is aloof and stoic on the surface. Underneath, he's Not So Stoic, being very compassionate, having very deep feelings for the people he becomes attached to and he's even hiding a Hot-Blooded temper that tends to reveal itself as Tranquil Fury whenever triggered. The reason for his mask is that he's an extremely high-ranked noble who had to learn decorum as befitted his social position. As a child, before he'd learned such social graces, he had a Hair-Trigger Temper and everyone knew it.
    -   Ryuuken is such an aloof, stoic, bitter man that his son actually believed his own father wanted to kill him, and Ryuuken himself has claimed he doesn't care whether his son lives or dies. Beneath the Mask, lies an incredibly gentle, compassionate personality whose only partially explained traumatic past forced him to learn how to hide deeply caring emotions behind his jerk facade become a dedicated Stepford Snarker and assume a stubbornly Heroic Neutral position, all for the sake of protecting his only son's life.
-   Percia in _Boarding School Juliet_. One minute she's cuddling her boyfriend, the next she goes 'Okay, back to business' and pushes him away while outlining her plan.
-   Karl-Heinz Schneider from _Captain Tsubasa_ looks cool, professional and proud (especially when he's on the soccer field), but, _holy shit_, he's loving towards his parents and his little sister.
-   When she is first introduced in _Case Closed_, Ai Haibara is distant to others around her, and has been left very cynical and jaded due to life within the Organization and the loss of her older sister. The true sugar within the ice only shows itself in certain situations, such as when she's around animals. The friendship of the actual children around her and Conan gradually bring her out of that shell over the course of the story, as later chapters feature her smiling more frequently and willingly engaging in the childrens' activities more often.
-   In _The Case Files of Jeweler Richard_, Richard is generally very reserved, distant, and formal with everyone, but always very, very studiously polite. Once he gets to know someone, he is shown to be very tender and caring, with a tendency for overwhelming displays of affection.
-   Fiore from _Chrono Crusade_ comes across this way because of her outward Emotionless Girl personality. She believes herself to be completely without emotions and can often be blunt (in a very polite sort of way), but when Joshua gets into a fight she later admits with tears in her eyes that she was "so worried", and she goes out of her way to make sure all of the Sinners eat their veggies.
-   _Code Geass_:
    -   C.C. First impression: cool, cynical, indifferent. Deep inner side: oh so warm.
    -   Little Miss Snarker Anya, too. She tries to act aloof all the time, but she's much more emotional than she lets on.
-   Lucy from _Cyberpunk: Edgerunners_ initially acts withdrawn and cynical, and she at first gives David the cold shoulder after she traps him with a Manic Pixie Dream Girl act to bring him to Maine's crew to retrieve Maine's paid-for Sandevistan implant. However, she falls in love with David after he joins Maine's crew and she starts becoming afraid of him dying or being exploited by Arasaka. Once she becomes an Official Couple with David, she is shown to be genuinely caring and loyal to a fault towards those close to her.
-   _Darker than Black_:
    -   Hei, who is Stoic and can be a Jerkass, but is actually still traumatized from Heaven's War, and _God help you_ if you mess with his True Companions.
    -   Yin. She's supposed to be a Doll unable to feel any kind of emotion, but as the series progresses she shows more and more capacity to express human feelings.
    -   Then there's Kirihara, who is cool and professional at first glance, but almost Moe when she's not on the job.
-   _Death Parade_ has a couple:
    -   The Nameless Dark-Haired Woman is a reversed example. She is generally one of the more personable and friendly recurring characters, but is very cold, quiet, and formal when she’s working. In this case, its a Justified Trope as her job as an assistant to a Psychopomp requires some emotional distance, and it isn’t until she finds out that she is a dead human that she begins to drop the act around the guests. However, she still shows shades of this towards Decim from time to time, like getting irritated with him during his No Social Skills moments, or when he doesn’t say anything about her cooking.
    -   Nona seems to do this intentionally, and it’s hard to tell which side is more authentic. She’s chipper and cheerful one moment, but then will coldly chastise and insult her staff the next. When she is introducing the Dark-Haired Woman to the job, she mostly behaves like a friendly tour guide, so the latter gets surprised when she see’s Nona pull Decim down by his shirt so she can scold him.
    -   Mayu is extremely sweet and friendly towards her crush Harada, a famous male idol, but acts very rude and disgruntled towards Ginti. She notices this at one point and stops herself, worried that Harada might see her angry face.
    -   Decim shows a much softer side to his assistant than he does to anyone else, which is extremely strange for an Arbiter. While he’s usually quiet, cold, and aloof, he is very vocal about his interest in her and eager to open up to her about his hobbies. By the end of the series, he’s even able to smile because of her.
-   _Dragon Ball Z_:
    -   Android 18 is very cold unless she is with Krillin and their daughter, in which case she drops her coldness and shows her warmer side.
    -   Piccolo counts to some extent. He is cold, dispassionate and aloof, but has a soft spot for Gohan.
-   For all of her Yandereness, Lucy from _Elfen Lied_. She's cold and deeply cynical, but only because she's been hurt so badly every time she lets her guard down. She may slaughter humans without hesitation or remorse, but her capacity for love is still very real.
-   Eureka from _Eureka Seven_ is like this at the beginning of the series. She switches between being pretty much an Emotionless Girl and a kind girl who is a loving mother to her adopted children. Her warmer personality eventually takes over thanks to the influence of her lover Renton.
-   Himura "Maria" Maruko of _Eyeshield 21_ was like this in the past, being a Stoic on the outside and The Heart on the inside. Then Reiji "Marco" Maruko took over the team, instituted a Second Place Is for Losers\-driven reign of terror, and started crippling opposing players, all in the name of his crush on her; this drives her straight into Emotionless Girl territory.
-   _Fairy Tail_:
    -   Erza is very serious and stern, especially when she's introduced. However, she's a caring and loyal friend just like everyone in the guild. She also shows a very soft and vulnerable side around Jellal.
    -   Juvia has shades of this, especially during her earliest appearances. Normally a rather gloomy Emotionless Girl, her iciness literally melts the moment Gray enters her life. She thus begins alternating between her usual gloominess and gushing over him the moment she so much as hears his name (heaven forbid the one who mentions him is another girl and/or wants him dead), until her warmer personality gradually takes over.
    -   Zeref has a personality like this. Though he hasn't been shown acting particularly warm, he has a side to him that's calm and worries about the well being of others, which is how he behaves half the time. The other half of the time he's downright murderous.
    -   Rogue spends most of his time not emoting or expressing interest in anything (other than Gajeel), but when one of his guild members gets kicked out in a way that makes his Exceed companion worry that they may go next, Rogue gets a Pet the Dog moment smiling and assuring Frosch that he'll be there to make sure that doesn't happen.
-   Erina Nakiri of _Food Wars!_ is introduced as an Academic Alpha Bitch very much aware of her talents as a chef. She's very beautiful and popular, but her haughty and perfectionist attitude tends to keep her admirers at bay, so she doesn't have many friends. As the story advances, she's shown to be surprisingly warm and kind to those she considers her friends, but her father's abusive conditioning led her to isolate herself from most people, and she finds it hard to reach out to others (at least until Soma comes along, and thanks to him she starts to drop the "Ice" part of her personality).
-   Despite being often pegged as Tsundere, Haruka from _Free!_ shows shades of this with his cool and quiet demeanor. His sugar side mostly arises when in the proximity of large bodies of water.
-   _Fruits Basket_: Yuki is hostile toward Kyo, Ayame and polite but indifferent toward anyone else, but he's incredibly nice and sweet to Tohru. His Character Development involves him trying to open up to people other than her.
    -   Tohru seems to invoke this reaction in almost anyone she meets, due to her loving nature. Her two best friends Arisa and Hana are overly protective of her, Hatori shows a soft spot for her, Black Haru thinks she's cute, Tsundere Kyo is noticeably a lot gentler when she's around... the list goes on.
-   _Fullmetal Alchemist_:
    -   Riza Hawkeye wasn't always as stoic as she is today. Roy Mustang can spark off quite spectacular reactions from her, and she has a cute puppy that she adores. She's also shown demonstrating kindness to the Elric brothers and Winry Rockbell, and there are indications that, Mustang aside, she really cares about the members of her military team.
        
        **Kain Fuery**: I didn't know the Lieutenant could be so cold.  
        **Roy Mustang**: Don't worry. Lieutenant Hawkeye may seem tough, but underneath all that, she's got a gentle heart.
        
    -   Sloth from the 2003 anime version qualifies as well, being apathetic and at times patronizing on the outside, but inside is warm and caring. Possibly justified by her being a homunculus of Trisha Elric, the brothers' stern but loving mother.
-   Hikitsu the Genbu Warrior from the _Fushigi Yuugi_ series scares off those who are first meeting him because of his harsh and cold persona, but those who befriend him and gain his trust discover that he is actually a very nice guy.
-   Osamu Sugo from _Future GPX Cyber Formula_ is calm, levelheaded and professional most of the time, but acts warm to certain characters, _especially_ Hayato and his sister Asuka.
-   Yuki Eiri from _Gravitation_ is cold and aloof because of a troubled past, but gradually warms up to his love interest Shuichi, even breaking down in tears for the first time in six years in front of him. This is much more true for the anime, where he rarely (if ever) loses his cool, as opposed to the manga, where he seems to lose his temper with Shuichi more easily.
-   Inori Yuzuriha from _Guilty Crown_ is stoic to the point of appearing emotionless, yet she's one of the sweetest and most caring characters in the series.
-   In _Happy Yarou Wedding_, Yuuhi had always been considered to be really cold-hearted by his girlfriends but he was really just afraid of letting people in. The more time he spends with Todou and Shouta, the more his warm side comes through.
-   Yuki Nagato from _Haruhi Suzumiya_. Although she appears to be an Emotionless Girl, she's actually a very kind and caring girl. She was just ill-equipped by her creator to actually express emotions. Her other side is seen mainly in the _Disappearance_ book/movie, involving an alternate universe that she created in which she's a Shrinking Violet instead of emotionless; and in the related spinoff _The Disappearance of Nagato Yuki-chan_, which further develops this version of her character.
-   Tsukikage Yuri/Cure Moonlight from _HeartCatch Pretty Cure!_ initially acted cold and aloof around her fellow Cures, but showed a more compassionate side to her friend Momoka, her mother, and, on one occasion, a runaway child. She defrosts slightly after joining the team, but still keeps many of her Sugar And Ice aspects.
-   Ai Enma from _Hell Girl_. She's forced to repress her emotions in order to carry out her job as the Hell Girl, but she allows herself to show a more caring and compassionate side around her True Companions. She also can show sympathy to her clients.
-   _Hetalia: Axis Powers_:
    -   Switzerland: This gun-toting and cynical xenophobe with a Hair-Trigger Temper melts like butter when his little sister Liechtenstein is around.
    -   Sweden, who is a Huge Schoolgirl in the body of The Big Guy. Scares everyone with his Face of a Thug, but he's quite the playful guy on the inside, as his profile mentions.
    -   Austria, too. Seen in the strip right after the "Chibitalia" chapter, where much to Hungary's shock he takes up the rest of Chibitalia's daily chores for once. Also seen in the Valentine's strip, when Germany pointed out that Austria would get lost if he went out to purchase a present for his ex-wife Hungary, he opted to make her a gift and ask someone else to give it to her. She was very much "aaaawwww" when she found out.
    -   Iceland was mentioned to be Hot-Blooded inside and keeping it cool outside. This was thought to be an Informed Attribute... but he was shown in one of the Nordic strips being cool in the beginning and almost losing it at the end.
    -   Japan shows little emotion on his face, remains relatively stoic even when angry, and is the epitome of Inscrutable Oriental overall... but he genuinely cares for his friends and tries his best to get along with them, even when they confuse or baffle him. It is often interpreted that his excessive politeness and seeming indifference at times are more a product of him not quite knowing how to deal with others with personalities vastly different from his own, rather than him being condescending or disdainful toward them. He keeps close relationships with both America, in spite of his often patience-testing personality, and Greece, with whom he shares a love of cats.
-   Kako Kurai from _Hitoribocchi no OO Seikatsu_ who is the public morals officer of Bocchi's class who does not hesitate to harshly scold her classmates wearing uniform untidyly and sporting improper posture. She comes across as distant having a policy of not making friends since she believes it makes her weak. This is contrast to Bocchi who is aiming to befriend her whole class in spite of her social anxiety. In spite of her policy, Kako genuinely enjoys interacting with Bocchi and let herself laugh at one point.
-   _Hyouka_:
    -   Houtarou Oreki. He may initially appear stoic and emotionless but in fact has a caring inner side.
    -   Fuyumi Irisu. In the final episode, Houtarou gets suspicious when she asks his opinion on why the procession took a different path than it was supposed to, but Irisu replies that she was honestly curious. She may be a manipulative, apathetic girl most of the time, but Irisu can actually be somewhat friendly when she doesn't have a goal in mind.
-   Rin Shibuya from _THE iDOLM@STER: Cinderella Girls_. She's stoic, aloof, and may come off as unfriendly looking, but she's actually a very kind girl who's no stranger to being close and friendly towards others. In fact, it didn't take Uzuki much effort to befriend her, and Rin's smiles come around more frequently than most.
-   Kan'u Unchou from _Ikkitousen_. For the most part, she is The Stoic, indifferent Action Girl. But put Ryuubi nearby...then she goes Les Yay sweet to the max. In _Great Guardians_, it even bordered on Psycho Lesbian for a while thanks to a MacGuffin.
-   Karuta from _Inu × Boku SS_ is a very cute and sweet girl, but she's usually very stoic and quiet.
-   Ryousuke Takahashi in _Initial D_. Not so much in the anime where he's _always_ distant, but there is occasionally some emotion shown in the manga.
-   Eucliwood "Eu" Hellscythe from _Is This A Zombie?_ may appear to be very cold and expressionless, but this is a facade she's forced to put on because if she expresses strong emotions her powers will go out of control. In the rare occasions she lets her emotions out, she's very cute and sweet.
-   _K_:
    -   Kuroh Yatogami, one of the main characters, is a stoic man of few words and a strong sense of duty. He is not fazed at the prospect of killing protagonist Shiro and is initially presented as distant. However, he shows respect to people he trusts and slowly opens up and supports Shiro and Neko.
    -   Reisi Munakata is just as distant as Kuroh and seemingly even colder as an individual, but he genuinely cares about his clan and his old friend, Mikoto. He only shows affection a few times, and it is subtle.
-   Tsubomi Kido from _Kagerou Project_, usually involving her putting up a arrogant, tough girl _Bokukko_ front to appear stronger and more leaderly. Various characters point out how scary and intimidating she can be, but she also has a very kind and motherly side to her that's noticeable as well. Her sugary side usually comes out when she's around animals or other cute things, when she gets excited about something, or when something happens to her close friends and family.
-   The titular Kaguya from _Kaguya-sama: Love Is War_ is shown to have a loving, friendly side - represented in her internal, metaphorical courtroom as Kaguya (Moron) - and a harsh side fittingly called Kaguya (Ice).
-   Tomoe from _Kamisama Kiss_ is normally rude, self-centered, confrontational, distrustful of others, and a general all-round Jerkass. But once in a while he will show a kinder and gentler side, although it usually takes a lot to get him to show it.

-   In _Karakuri Circus_, Shirogane initially comes off as somewhat haughty and cold, but later her inherent sweetness shows through.
-   _Kill la Kill_:
    -   Ryuko Matoi. At the start of the series, she's an aloof drifter driven by stone-cold vengeance for the death of her father. When taken in by Mako and her family, however, she's shown to be as sweet and cheerful as any other ordinary girl. At that point, her personality see-saws between fighting the student council members out for her neck and having lunch with her best friend.
    -   Satsuki Kiryuin. She acts cool, distant and arrogant in public, staying in control of her emotions at all times, but allows herself to smile and relax a bit more among the select few she genuinely trusts and respects.
-   Phos from _Land of the Lustrous_ is this trope, after they becomes more cynical. On the outside, they are inconsiderate and thoroughly Conditioned to Accept Horror, so few emotions show on their face. On the inside, they are suicidally devoted to ending the war because it claimed Antarcticite and Ghost's lives, and deliberately draws Rutile's anger onto themselves because doing so is the only way to save Padparadscha. Their insensitivity comes less from cruelty than ignorance of people's feelings, which they had even in youth.
-   _Magic Knight Rayearth_ Lantis comes off as distant, cold and perhaps even a little snarky in the first few episodes; going as far as drawing suspicions of being a spy for the enemy. Turns out he really is a big softie underneath all that reserved aloofness.
-   Yue from _Magical × Miracle_ is fairly cold to everyone, even those he cares about, although he goes through times when it looks like he's starting to soften up towards his friends.
-   _Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha_:
    -   Dark Magical Girl Fate, particularly during Season 1. She initially seems cold and unfeeling, solely focused on pleasing her mother, but shows a kinder and gentler side over time. Later seasons has her warm side coming out more, with the cool part being reserved for combat.
    -   Lady of War and Fate's Worthy Opponent Signum from the second season onward qualifies, too. After centuries in service of selfish, destructive owners of the Book of Darkness, she developed a perfect Stoic personality...then along comes Hayate, who wastes no time adopting the Wolkenritter and letting them know the warmth of a family for the first time. Her facade melts away. Then comes the third season and her Unison with Agito, who is a literal fire elemental...

-   Loco from _MÄR_ acts very cold and aloof due to her excessive loneliness. She does come to develop a soft spot for her Cat Girl partner Chaton and shows that she can be a caring person when she wants to.
-   _Mobile Suit Gundam Wing_:
    -   The protagonist Heero Yuy is more often credited as The Stoic, but this trope is a better match for him. He never actually denied his emotions; he just tries to keep them in check because being overly emotional on the battlefield can get you killed. At the start of the show he mostly seems to be shouldering the burden of Operation Meteor (and the lives it'll cost) all by himself, but interaction with people like Relena, Duo, and Quatre causes him to accept the idea that he isn't alone.
    -   Heero's teammate Trowa Barton also fits in this mold. Having been raised by mercenaries after the death of his parents and being separated from his older sister, he is very methodic and coolheaded, but he has kept the core of his warm and kind heart intact. Noticeably, he counsels the aforementioned Heero when he's recuperating after destroying his Gundam, and gives a very long speech to Quatre about his gentleness before his Mobile suit blows up and he's rendered with Trauma-Induced Amnesia.
-   In _Mother Keeper_ Jim acts very cold, confident and snarky, Ricalna thinks she's a complete jerk at times, especially when she forces him to fight his own sister. Syal, however, is used to Jim being kind to her even when Syal had stabbed her, a side Ricalna only sees after he helps Syal.
-   _Mr. Right Turned Out to Be a Younger Woman!?_ has Risa Takagai, Haruki Shiina's kohai from work. She's serious and brutally honest, to the point of having a reputation as an Ice Queen around the office, but she's a caring person at heart. Despite criticizing Shiina at times, she doesn't want to lose to Shiina, and when Shiina's coworkers jokingly call her "an old man," Takagai speaks up and calls them out on their insensitivity toward Shiina.
-   _My-HiME_: Natsuki and Shizuru, though in opposite ways.
    -   Natsuki is a standard Sugar-And-Ice, coming off initially as cold and closed off, with moments of kindness peeking through from time to time, such as in episode 4 when she drapes a blanket over a sleeping Mai, or coming to Mai's defense and delivering a Kirk Summation to Nao when Nao tries to give Mai a Hannibal Lecture about Mai's treatment of Takumi and Mikoto, and she rescues Akane from a First District facility and puts her in a hospital for treatment.
    -   Shizuru is the rare type of Sugar-And-Ice person who shows the sugary side most often, being sweet and cheerful to her classmates. But threaten Natsuki, and she will calmly and efficiently murder you, all with a serene smile on her face.
-   _Naruto_:
    -   Itachi acts emotionless and blank whenever we see him after the Uchiha Massacre, and he's polite but distant in interacting with everyone. Then we see him in his past with Sasuke, and he's rather..._sweet_ with his little brother. Later it's shown that he only let out his real personality whenever he was alone with his brother or thinking about his brother.
    -   Neji has a similar personality now after Naruto's Therapy no Jutsu. He's still rather stiff and stoic in general, but now his repressed affection for Hinata has come back and Neji has become super protective of his cousin, partially as an atonement for the grief he had caused her earlier.
-   _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_:
    -   Yue Ayase. While usually the stoic voice of reason, being part of a Love Triangle with her best friend causes her to break down and reveal a very warm side.
    -   Setsuna. She strives to maintain her cold, levelheaded swordswoman persona, but what she really wants more than anything is to overcome her weaknesses so that she will be capable of protecting Konoka. Notably, Konoka doesn't really care for the whole "emotionless, intellectual warrior" thing, and actively tries to bring out Setsuna's warmer side. It works.
    -   Princess Arika. Driven by The Chains of Commanding, she shows herself as an extremely cold and distant princess, when she's actually an emotional and compassionate woman. We see flashes of Tsundere when Nagi provokes her, though.
-   Rei Ayanami from _Neon Genesis Evangelion_ is a mix of this and Defrosting Ice Queen. In the beginning, she could be mistaken for an Emotionless Girl, aside from her warmth towards Gendo. She lights up when he speaks to her, and smiles sweetly when she looks at his glasses. She later warms up to Shinji, especially in the manga, and dear God can she be gooey-sweet over him. Her affection for him grows to the point that even when she becomes _The End of the World as We Know It_ (this after having _died_ and _forgotten her experiences with him_), she _still_ cares for him, given that it was his anguish over Asuka's gruesome death that prompted her to finally betray Gendo and put Instrumentality in Shinji's hands...
    -   _Rebuild of Evangelion_ only takes this trope further.
-   Mirielle of _Noir_ is, for most of the series, an Action Girl assassin who only occasionally lets her soft side show, but late in the show when she finds Kirika's heartfelt note she starts crying.
-   _One Piece_:
    -   Boa Hancock pretends she is a cold person and a jerk to her people and acts cruelly to her enemies, but becomes as soft as a marshmallow whenever Luffy's around.
    -   Nico Robin. She's usually calmly cheerful as opposed to showing no emotion at all, but she's still very cool-headed and keeps herself distant from others out of fear that they will eventually betray her. The Straw Hats are the only ones who have earned her trust and are able to see her open and caring side.
    -   Trafalgar Law. He seems cold, heartless, and a tad evil, but actually harbors deep feelings of affection towards his late father-figure Corazon and members of his own pirate crew. Usually calm and calculating, he can be blinded by hot-blooded fury, especially concerning Doflamingo. The guy is also generally polite in his speech and even takes off his hat at the dining table but didn't hesitate to rudely flip other people off, either.
-   Asuka, the main character of _Otomen_, tries his best to act like the pinnacle of stoic manliness, but in reality, is enamored with all things girly and adorable.
-   Dr. Atsuko Chiba from _Paprika_. Always cold and serious in the real world, her warm and silly side only comes out when she's in dreamland as Paprika, who's modeled on her secret crush.
-   _The Prince of Tennis_:
    -   Tezuka had kept a cool, neutral face throughout the whole series, but when Seigaku won the Nationals, he is revealed to have a very nice smile. You know it's a big deal when Inui thought it was necessary to actually _catch it on film_.
    -   Inui himself is typically very calm and analytical, and not prone to outbursts, but he does have two particular soft spots, for Kaidoh and his childhood friend, Yanagi. Inui offers to mentor Kaidoh early on, to help him perfect his Boomerang Snake shot, and they develop a great deal of trust in each other, culminating in their doubles match in the last round of the national tournament, where it's Kaidoh's determination that pushes Inui forward and Inui's reassurance that prevents Kaidoh from losing himself the way Kirihara sometimes does. With Yanagi, the way they parted clearly affects him, and he is clearly Yanagi's biggest fan in the sequel series, warmly praising him when he watches his matches and even running to catch him before he can fall after a particularly draining match against Yanagi's mentor.

-   Trip/Shooti from _Pokémon the Series: Black & White_ is mostly a cold, cynical Jerkass, but he does show a softer side to Ash on one occasion, where he protects and helps Ash move a huge swarm of Venipede to a safer location. The minute Ash tries to congratulate him, Trip instantly avoids eye contact. He also shows this side more often in regards to Alder, whom he idolizes.
-   Fakir in _Princess Tutu_. Cold and hostile toward a girl named Duck who keeps sticking her nose in his business; sweet and vulnerable around that duck he found in his locker one day. Naturally, he's mortified when he finds out it was the same person.
-   Homura Akemi from _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_: When we first meet her, she acts quite cold, and is very cynical in regards to being a Magical Girl. But as the series goes on and the Awful Truths about actually being a magical girl come out and we get more emotional reactions from her, it becomes quite clear that she's in this to protect Madoka. Episode 10 eventually reveals that the multiple Bad Futures she went through, such as one were Madoka dies and becomes a Witch, made her into the Broken Bird she is today.
-   _The Quintessential Quintuplets_: Miku, the middle sister among the titular quintuplets, is very withdrawn and distant at first, but once she opens up to Fuutarou and accepts him as their tutor, she's shown to be a real sweetheart, and perhaps the second nicest out of the five after Yotsuba.
-   _Rebuild World_: Akira’s personality being split like this is clearly shown to be the result of trauma. Being used and betrayed by everyone he met before the story begins left him The Paranoiac, and he has a Trauma Button about falling into a Honey Trap that gets triggered by Sheryl and Carol, resulting in Akira switching modes especially often with them. While Akira often being warm with Elena and Sara eventually ends up in them crossing a line that sets them down a Must Make Amends arc when they finally see an Akira that feels betrayed.
-   A literal Ice Princess, Mizore from _Rosario + Vampire_ is very stoic and emotionless when the situation demands it. If she becomes emotional, she either considers you a close friend or you're about to get your ass handed to you.
-   _Rozen Maiden_:
    -   Shinku. She may appear to be nothing but a cold, bossy bitch, but she actually has a kind-hearted nature deep down. She treats Jun coldly and like a servant. However, she shows that she does care deeply about him. Her behavior overlaps with Tsundere, as she also constantly abuses him verbally and physically.
    -   Souseiseki acts serious, levelheaded and unattached in order to fight in the Alice Game as she believes it's part of her duty as a Rozen Maiden. However, she's shown to be very caring and kind to her twin sister Suiseiseki, the only doll she doesn't want to fight.
-   Tomoe Yukishiro from _Rurouni Kenshin_. Stoic and aloof, giving the impression of being an Emotionless Girl. Eventually, it's revealed that Tomoe is a very emotional person, hiding great sadness over her fiance's death at Kenshin's hands. In the end, she's able to show her warm side to Kenshin before sacrificing herself to save him.
-   _Sailor Moon_:
    -   Setsuna Meiou, a.k.a. Sailor Pluto: she gets mistaken for an Emotionless Girl at first, but it turns out that she's just sad and lonely, having to guard the time gate while watching her life go by. It makes sense that she is guarded because she is a Sailor Soldier first (installed at the gate as a very young child) and has to come up with a civilian identity later.
    -   Also, Michiru Kaiou, a.k.a. Sailor Neptune. She is very calm, cool and collected, as well as extremely dedicated to her Senshi mission...but she can also be very gentle to those she loves (if in a very princess-like way, befitting an Ojou like her), particularly her girlfriend, Haruka.
    -   Rei Hino (Sailor Mars) is similarly stand-offish, but kind in the original manga and live-action adaptation. She acts more like a Tsundere in the anime.
-   Hyoga from _Saint Seiya_. When the series began, Hyoga was depictaed as cold and calculating, and he was often seen keeping distance from the other saints. During the battle with Phoenix Ikki, his tender side was revealed, and he slowly began to display his true personality.
-   Sanzo from _Saiyuki_. You have to be looking really really hard for the sugar parts because his natural personality is combined with his desire to appear as prickly as possible to make sure no one around him thinks he's gonna protect them (and therefore not getting friends that need protecting). But in his calmer interactions with Goku (when he's not hitting him over the head) he generally gets a little smile on his face. When Goku was a kid and no one was around to catch him he even smiled and commented that Goku's cheeks looked like dumplings. In a more literal sense, he's an ice princess who loves sugary things.
-   Anti Villains Mutsu and Akitsu, two of the main antagonists from _Sekirei_. Mutsu is serious and stoic Master Swordsman, while Akitsu is an Emotionless Girl in fitting with her elemental powers. Both are eventually shown to be kind-hearted individuals, utterly devoted to their Jerkass Woobie master, and offering words of sympathy and encouragement to the heroes. One is merely distant because he's the Only Sane Man surrounded by overbearing personalities, while the other is an incredibly tragic Broken Bird.
-   Lain from _Serial Experiments Lain_, one of the contestants for the role of creepiest Emotionless Girl, Mind Rapes _herself_ (or something...) and the façade shatters completely. Since Lain is the viewpoint character for most of the series, the effect isn't quite as strong as it could be; the viewers get frontline seats to her internal turmoil, and she's far less aloof when she's alone with her thoughts, which is quite often.
-   While Anna Kyoyama from _Shaman King_ may seem like a cold-hearted, hard training thoughtless bitch at first, she undoubtedly has her kinder and more caring side to her that begins showing later on in the series.
-   _Shugo Chara!_:
    -   Amu Hinamori, the main character, is known as the "cool and spicy" girl at school because of her unique fashion style and her blunt attitude. However, she actually just wants to be normal and girly, and it's actually because she's shy that she puts on a cool girl act.
    -   Rima. First impressions: dainty, spoiled, yet cold. She's really actually a sweet girl and just needed time to warm up to Amu and her friends. Plus, as serious as Rima is, her "would-be self" is a clown because she wants to make people laugh.
-   Noël Kannagi from _Sound of the Sky_ shows little emotion and says very little; however, she's severely emotionally scarred by her part in the Invisible Reaper, warms to Kanata and Kureha inside of a few months of Kanata's arrival, and wants to become 'a lovely wife'.
-   Barnaby Brooks Jr. from _Tiger & Bunny_ is an odd version of this. When in front of the camera he seems like a charming young man, but he is cold, untrusting and aloof to other heroes. Over time however, we see these are both masks to hide his more emotional real self. His partner is the only one to really see his true sweet side.
-   In _Watashitachi no Tamura-kun_, Souma acts harsh and cold to people when she is first introduced, but really would like nothing more than to make some true friends and find love.
-   Yuuko Ichihara from _Xxx Holic_: for a large portion of the series, she appears to be a rather cold-hearted, calm and calculating woman that seems pretty cynical and grants people's wishes with rather sinister consequences. Later, however, she starts showing her warm, affectionate side towards Watanuki...which is made all the more obvious in the touching scene in the manga where she disappears after telling Watanuki that her only wish is for him to continue living, and in turn he swears to wait for her forever.
-   Urara Shiraishi from _Yamada-kun and the Seven Witches_, most often showing her sugary side towards Yamada, her eventual boyfriend. Throughout the series, probably because she gets friends and learns to interact with people, her ice side changes from cold and somewhat rude to very stoic but otherwise quite friendly.
-   Yako of _Yurara_ is usually aloof, snarky and sometimes downright mean, but when he finds himself alone with the woman he loves he becomes flustered and insecure.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh! VRAINS_
    -   Yusaku Fuijiki the main protagonist is very stoic, cold and ruthless. He appears to be apathetic and indifferent to his surrondings, but he is actually very compassionate, caring and has a slight playful side to his personality which he only shows it to his partner Ai.
    -   Aoi Zaizen the main female lead is cold and distant towards her schoolmates, but as Blue Angel, she is a cheerful Genki Girl.
    -   Jin is very stoic and aloof, yet he's also very gentle and caring when he is with his older brother Kusanagi.

    Comic Books 

-   Cyclops is a male version. He's not especially confident or good at expressing emotion, so he mostly spends his time buried in a pile of paperwork and hiding his crippling self-doubt behind a stone wall. Unfortunately, this also means that he can't explain his actions to the people he leads, so they think he's a Well-Intentioned Extremist. Before her death, Jean Grey, his wife, helped to mediate between Cyclops and the team, but after her death, Cyclops hooked up with Emma Frost, who similarly has trouble relating to people (mostly because she's very blunt and patronizing, rather than being serious and to the point), and watched as over 90 percent of the mutant population was depowered and decimated, followed by two thirds of what's left being slaughtered and him being forced to relocate the X-Men to a military bunker, he basically ends up getting to the point where, whenever there's trouble, he's cold and calculating, moreso than usual, and constantly prepping for war, while retaining his slightly calmer dorky side whenever he has time to be friendly, which sadly became less frequent as time went on until he ends up losing half of his team.
-   Raven from _Teen Titans_: the comic had her defrost for Robin...Not that he notices.
-   X-23 from the _X-Men_ and _X-Force_ acts cold around other people. Alone, however, she's an emotional wreck who can't reconcile the trauma of her Tyke-Bomb training with her growing desire to be free and express herself. (She was trained all her life to repress feelings and never bond with anyone, so, gradually... she forgot how.) Unfortunately, this is often a Self-Fulfilling Prophecy — she doesn't know how to be social with her peers, so they take her awkward silences to mean that she has no emotions or humanity at all, so they isolate her from the group and call her a "monster", so she never learns how to relate to other people, so she never learns how to let go of her depression, so she doesn't know how to be social with her peers.... (Admittedly, though, it doesn't help that she sees nothing wrong with killing people—something which horrifies her fellow teenagers. Even in her good moments, X-23 looks and speaks in a very creepy way.)
    -   She gets better after breaking out of a mental Epiphanic Prison and leaving the X-Men. During the journey to find herself that follows, she bonds with Gambit and Jubilee, who also have emotional trauma (What did you expect? It's the Marvel Universe) and understand her Kuudere nature. Her life evens out after that—she's not normal, but she's a healthier example of the trope, and she's slowly making peace with herself.
-   Batman, believe it or not. Though he never becomes specifically open and warm, his cold and authoritative demeanor works in tandem with deep compassion and fairheartedness that only reveals itself in certain situations — most often in regards to his adopted "sons" and Alfred.
    -   The most recent arc of _Batman And Robin_: Batman actually tells Damian that he's proud of him, the highest praise he ever gives, and then he hugs him. Manly Tears were shed.
-   Gert from _Runaways_ is a Deadpan Snarker who mistrusts adults even more than the rest of the team, which is really saying something. Only the few people who have earned her trust get to know the animal lover and loyal friend hiding behind her prickly exterior.
    -   Later member Klara is an even more extreme example — she is often appallingly rude to strangers, owing to her abusive backstory giving her a lot of difficulty with trusting other people. She is, however, extremely loyal to the Runaways, particularly Molly and Karolina, who were directly responsible for saving her from the aforementioned abusive past.
-   The Martian Manhunter: aloof and alien on the outside, kind and compassionate on the inside.
    -   He's addicted to Chocos. That's the first clue. There is no such thing as a genuinely cold, aloof person who compulsively munches on chocolate.
-   Unintentional Ice Queen Machiko Noguchi from _Alien vs. Predator_ didn't realize that she should have integrated herself into the colonists when she arrived at her new executive job, instead of spending three months hardly communicating with them at all. She's actually rather caring and considerate, but that's not how she presented herself.
-   Miho from _Sin City_ seems almost completely unemotional, but there have been moments in which she showed genuine affection for a select few people. The prime example is in _Family Values_, where she lies on Dwight's lap and takes a nap.
-   Midnighter from _The Authority_ is a stoic, gritty, brutally violent Anti-Hero in the field, and a Deadpan Snarker in general. So far, so Batman-expy. However, interaction with his partner and husband Apollo, their daughter Jenny, or just kids in general reveals a surprisingly sweet and tender side.
-   Cyclonus in _Transformers: More than Meets the Eye_, who was The Dragon to the Big Bad in the previous series before a Heel–Face Turn, who is also very stoic and gruff, rebuffing everyone but his roommate, Tailgate.
-   Doctor Octopus from the _Spider-Man_ comics. He has been shown time again to wanting to be left alone but also craving the closeness of others. Even after the "The Superior Spider-Man" run, Octavius still had the inkling to help others.
-   Kate Kane, particularly when on duty as Batwoman, can often be stoic, aloof, harsh, and very violent. But she also loves kids, has a sense of humor, and is generally friendly to people she likes. She's also more emotionally open with her romantic partners and close family.
-   Robbie Reyes, the _All-New Ghost Rider_. While he's not rude, he's very cold, direct and quiet around most people. He's slightly more open to his Love Interest Lisa, almost acting on their shared mutual attraction to each other though remains withdrawn. But when it comes to his little brother, Robbie dotes on Gabe, laughs and plays with his brother, and will do anything he can to keep his brother happy.
-   Cassie Sandsmark in the New 52 is a tough, brash, fierce, and short-tempered individual who's prone to violent outbursts and sardonic comments. However, she's quite compassionate towards innocent, defenseless animals and is very protective of her friends, _especially_ Tim Drake.

    Eastern Animation 

-   _The Haunted House: The Secret of the Ghost Ball_:
    -   Gauen is cool and subdued, probably as a result of the trauma of losing her sister and years of bullying and shunning by her peers. Once Hari befriend her, Gauen starts smiling more, and it's clear that under the surface she's a sweet and loyal friend who cares deeply about others.
    -   Kanglim Choi is a male example. He is indifferent and even harsh towards his classmates but will help those in need and acts warmer towards Hari, especially when they're alone. He also had no trouble opening up to the children he befriended in episode 15, even realizing his feelings for Hari after one suggested it.

    Fan Works 

-   Nova Shine in _The Apprentice, the Student, and the Charlatan_ first shows up rather snarky, with no shortage of Trollish inclinations, and plenty of irritation shown if someone tries to get to know him a little too much. However, after developing a bond with Twilight Sparkle, she starts to bring out his more tender side, such as when he's around foals or when she finally is able to get him to talk about his past.
-   Orion Black from _The Black Sheep Dog Series_. He's well-known among his circle as being cold-hearted and unfeeling, even by the standards of his family, that even his sons (especially Sirius) finds him frustratingly inscrutable. Those who are observant and knows him well enough, such as his sister Lucretia and Dumbledore, knows that he takes after his soft-hearted mother rather than his cantankerous father. He usually reserves his tenderness for his immediate family, and is more willing to show affection and offer comfort when they need it than Walburga.
-   _Cardcaptor Rad_ has Red Alert; he's the blunt, harsh and critical Autobot medic, but he can be just as awkward and has his kinder moments.
-   In the _Death Note_ fanfic _A Charmed Life_, Light Yagami is generally very cold with most people with only a few exceptions but he is more open, honest, and even _playful_ with Ryuk.
-   _Child of the Storm_:
    -   Nick Fury is implied to be this, though he has yet to show more than the slightest glimpse of his softer side. According to all those who used to know him, he was a much more relaxed and friendly guy back when he was liaison to the Order of the Phoenix, being drinking buddies with Lovable Rogues Sirius Black and John Constantine and Like Brother and Sister with Lily Potter to the point where he was second choice to be godfather to Harry. Then Lily and James were killed (while James didn't exactly die, since he was Thor in a mortal body, this was far from apparent at the time), Harry was given to the Dursleys and a lot of the Death Eaters got clean away, a Cynicism Catalyst that turned him into the cold, ruthless and manipulative man that he is today.
    -   Maddie, post-Heel–Face Turn, is a textbook example, having been raised as a Tyke Bomb and a Living Weapon, suffering enough emotional abuse to leave her utterly certain that this was all she was meant to be. As a result, she often defaults to Spock Speak and an apparently cool and emotionless demeanour but has a softer, sweeter side that tends to emerge around Remy, Jean, and Harry.
    -   Harry develops one after the _Forever Red_ arc in the sequel, being cold and distant from anyone who he wasn't close to to begin with (in between explosions of temper, that is), showing his warmer and more affectionate side only intermittently. This comes from a very nasty case of PTSD that takes a while to deal with.
-   As exemplified in Literature and Live-Action TV below, Sherlock Holmes in _Children of Time_. He starts the series being more like Watson (which is a very good thing), but slips (arguably _back_) into being a Kuudere, somewhere between Types 1 and 2. Thanks to the events of "Burn", this is the Holmes that Beth Lestrade meets rather than the Lighter and Softer Holmes of the first half of the series.
    -   It also deconstructs this when he became more of a jerk.
-   Like their BBC/Literature counterparts, Holmes and Watson have this in _Deliver Us from Evil Series_ fic Mortality. Though Mortality shows Watson's protective side, definitely and, also, while interrogating a criminal, he's calm. And when Watson is begged for mercy in want happened to Holmes he proceeds to calmly and coldly murder the captured criminal. Holmes seems to be a lot kinder after the events, and glad to have a friend like Watson.
-   _Hetalia: Axis Powers_ fanfic _Gankona, Unnachgiebig, Unità_: Although Germany yells at Italy at a constant basis and is strict towards him, Germany is also is kind and gentle towards him as well.
-   In _I Hope You're Prepared For An Unforgettable Wedding!_, Principal Skinner is said to have this kind of personality.
    
    _Yes, he was stern and no-nonsense towards the majority of people, but when he was with the ones he held most dear, he became a total sweetheart, like some kind of reverse Jekyll & Hyde. Indeed, Chalmers was very fortunate to have someone as considerate as him as a partner for life._
    
-   _Bloodborne_ fanfic _The Night Unfurls_:
    -   Kyril Sutherland comes across as an apathetic and unfriendly person due to his brusque, impassive and brooding demeanour, something expected for a Hunter experienced with bloodshed from the Night of the Hunt. However, simply be a decent person instead of a jerk, and he will return the favour with kindness and, surprisingly, loyalty. The Hunter also appreciates those who show a useful skill or two (e.g., sneaking around, doing paperwork, or even making delicious food!) instead of picking a fight with him for no reason other than Underestimating Badassery. Towards his subordinates, he is a stern leader, but never callous. Starting out the story as a tight-lipped man who opens up to no one but his doll confidant (who sees the Hunter as kind even if he doesn't show it), he gradually develops sympathy towards the weak and the downtrodden, even providing solace to the traumatised. It is worth mentioning that in spite of the above "sugary" moments, Kyril _does not_ become more expressive or buddy-buddy — the "ice" part is an integral, persisting part of his personality, neither a shell nor a facade.
    -   Olga Discordia. "Ice" to the world (ironically, she uses fire magic), "sugar" towards Chloe. Celestine and Kyril are later included in the "sugar" part.
-   _Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Defenders of Warmth_ has Vulpix, who is unsure how to interact with anyone who is not Bulbasaur/ Sage until after The Solstice Games. The reason for this is she does not remember how to act around other pokémon.
-   _The Story of Apollo, Daphne and Luca: An Italian Tragedy_: Bianca is reserved, impassive and introverted, but is not afraid to show a warmer and more caring side to people in need like Giulia, who had a very bad fight with Luca and stopped to talk to him for the rest of the week.
-   _A Taste of the Good Life_ has Silver Scroll, who at one point switches from coldly offering her brother legal advice about the risk he's taking by looking after Scootaloo without informing Foal Protective Services about her situation, to glomping him and calling him a softie for taking her in.

    Film — Animation 

-   In _Epic (2013)_, Ronin puts up a cold exterior which he only drops around people he's close to, like Tara.
-   Queen Elsa in _Frozen_ puts up with an aloof personality due to trying to keep her ice powers in check, but shows a more childlike side when she's allowed to let loose with her powers.
-   Master Tigress from _Kung Fu Panda_ is normally cold and aloof as the result of Master Shifu not showing enough affection for her when she was growing up. Though it takes a while, Po eventually gets her to show her softer side.
-   The Bog King from _Strange Magic_ is normally a grouchy hostile Evil Overlord who seems to wear a permanent snarl on his face but also has a secret romantic side that he shows to Marianne.

    Film — Live-Action 

-   _Bandslam_: Sa5m acts like the Emotionless Girl and standoffish at first. However, it soon turns out she's actually warm and kind inside, though her soft side warrs with the other half. It's possibly due to having had a stutter, which made her self-conscious.
-   Severus Snape in the _Harry Potter_ film series. Jerkass, targets Harry and friends in particular, and all-around not-nice guy. But, as is eventually revealed, he has a deeply buried soft side that he has rarely been able to acknowledge since the traumatic events of his past, and his ultimate motivation is love.
-   By the end of _The Heiress_, main character Catherine Sloper has developed this personality (previously being a Shrinking Violet). She is as kind and friendly as she always was with people she likes. With people who get on her bad side, she is a complete ice queen.
-   _The Hunger Games_: Katniss Everdeen is "sugar" to Prim and Gale, "ice" to pretty much everyone else, including her mother. But she warms up to her and a few more people over the course of the film series.
-   Brittany in Lake Placid _The Final Chapter_ is kind of rude or icy in general, especially around her rival Chloe but is more prone to smiling or moments of vulnerability when alone with her boyfriend or with Elaine
-   This trope describes the film version of Mary Poppins quite well. She puts up a stern and professional demeanor to avoid growing emotionally attached but is very kind and nurturing on the inside.
-   _Me Before You_: Camilla Traynor, at first glance. It becomes apparent during the overheard conversation that tells about Will's membership at Dignitas and when we see her desk faces a collage of press cuttings and photos of Will, that she's closer to Mama Bear in outlook. Her breakdown at Louisa's revelation that the trip to the Caribbean failed to change Will's mind about suicide shows just how thin the Ice Queen front really is, and it is devastating to see.
-   _Moneyball_: Billy has an explosive temper to the point where him smashing or throwing things is a Running Gag and keeps his distance from the team members so as to not form personal attachments to them, but he is a friendly, if a bit aloof, guy most of the time, is a loving father to his 12-year-old daughter, and forms a genuine friendship with Peter. However, it is implied that his temper is from a depressive funk and not reflective of his actual personality, as he stops angrily breaking things once the Oakland A's begin to perform well and things start looking up for him.
-   From flashes of rage, to her quiet, lovely moments, Lee Leander, from _Remember the Night_, is the epitome of this trope.
-   _The Rocky Horror Picture Show_: Riff Raff's general demeanour is cool, unfeeling and sadistic, but when he's alone with his sister Magenta he's warm, sweet and even rather cheerful.
-   _Sunset Boulevard_ has a very dark example in Max von Mayerling, Norma's butler and first husband. He's cold, uptight and extremely professional, but he does his best to keep Norma's delusion intact and it's clear that he's still in love with her.
-   _We Are the Night_: Charlotte. She's largely cold and indifferent to others. However, at times she displays kindness. It's implied to result from her depression, so she may well have been warmer in the past.

    Literature 

-   Stephen Maturin in the _Aubrey-Maturin_ series. An ever-suspicious, untrusting, icy-eyed intelligence agent who can kill without blinking — and a compassionate, liberal-hearted doctor, who adopts orphans, lends money without a thought, campaigns against slavery and sexism, and cares deeply for his patients and his friends.
-   In _A Brother's Price_, Princess Trini is extremely cold towards potential husbands, and towards people who bring up the topic of a potential marriage. This is because her late husband was a rapist asshole. The only man she likes is her cousin Cullen, of whom she's very fond. If she's told that a man is in _danger_, she's very protective, and when she and her sisters marry Jerin, Trini is shown to be the one who cares most about his wellbeing; she prevents her younger sisters from clinging to his legs when he wants to go somewhere, and brings him food in their wedding night, contrasting her favourably to Ren, who is earlier shown to care more about getting into Jerin's pants than about the fact that he might be hungry.
-   _A Court of Thorns and Roses_: Feyre can be exceptionally kind and warm to her friends, but tends to be aloof to others.
-   _Discworld_:
    -   Vetinari is cynical, sarcastic, pragmatic, and a Manipulative Bastard, but there are a couple of characters he seems quite fond of, and in _Unseen Academicals_, when he's with characters like Margolotta or Ridcully, with whom he's quite comfortable, he actually gets relaxed enough to make _jokes_. He also took good care of his dog Wuffles, even when the dog was well into old age. When he died, Vetinari had him buried in a nice spot in the garden, and still puts dog treats on the grave.
    -   Granny Weatherwax is the poster child for Never Mess with Granny. She's dueled wizards, dethroned mad kings, tamed wild unicorns, outsmarted vampires, and couldn't have been more of a hardass while doing so. Multiple _species_ have names for her which translate to "Avoid at all costs." But she also Wouldn't Hurt a Child, kept love letters from her youth, has a pet kitten she keeps safe under her hat and is in all ways _the_ person you should turn to when you need help.
-   The knight Sparhawk, protagonist of _The Elenium_ series by David Eddings, fits this trope very well. He's a force to be reckoned with on the battlefield, will tolerate absolutely no disrespect to his queen or his god, and wears intimidating black armor to further emphasize the idea that this is someone who doesn't mess around. Within his own circle, however, he's a very warm individual — he loves his fellow knights as brothers, adores the woman who instructed him in magic, and later in the story is a devoted husband and father. His most personal enemy was once his closest friend, and even when they duel to the death, it's clear that they still love and respect one another.
-   Silas from _The Graveyard Book_ is one — he's The Stoic most of the time, but Bod triggers his occasional moments of warmness.
-   _Harry Potter_:
    -   Professor Minerva McGonagall is incredibly stern and uptight... until her students are threatened or hurt. She also apparently giggles a lot when drunk.
    -   Severus Snape is sarcastic, mean, and downright abusive towards some of his students but he loved Lily Evans and was quite kind to her.
-   _Honor Harrington_:
    -   Honor is perfectly willing to face down her enemies with nothing but an icy glare on her face, even with her life and the life of those around her in the balance, but the several books in the series make it clear that she's a completely different person around the ones she loves. Which makes her love's death in the fifth book that much more tragic, and her vengeance that much colder. Her cool, stoic and professional exterior is not only a way to cope with all the crap that life insists on heaping on her, but also a strong leash on a certain deeper and darker side of her personality.
    -   Victor Cachat is a stone-cold Determinator, the living blade of the Republic and one of the precious few people capable of killing at a proverbial drop of a hat, but he turns into a somewhat prudish, naive Wide-Eyed Idealist slumboy with the personality of everyone's favorite kid brother at the blink of an eye. Just don't try to stand between him and Haven's best interests, or those whom he personally vowed to protect. Precisely in that order.
    -   President Eloise Pritchart, of the restored Republic of Haven. In public, she was a cold, cruel, merciless Political Officer. Behind closed doors, she was in a romantic relationship with the admiral she was supposed to be riding herd on, and the complete opposite of cold, cruel, and merciless. Once she became President, she puts on a Tough Leader Façade — but was still quite warm and personable in private.
    -   Queen Elizabeth III switches between a woman who is described as taking grudges, stuffing and mounting them to the wall and never forgets or forgives someone who has insulted or threatened her family or her kingdom, and a woman who takes impish delight in disconcerting stuffy members of the aristocracy, has a warm and loving relationship with her family, and is kind and generous to those who she feels deserves it. Once she and Pritchart get to know each other personally, the mutual animosity is quickly replaced by wary trust and then actual friendship.
-   Katniss Everdeen from _The Hunger Games_ fits this trope to a T. She prides herself in appearing cold and aloof, though she gets very protective and sweet to anyone she considers fragile or broken, like her little sister, Rue and injured boys.
-   Sidonie of _Kushiel's Legacy_: the realm at large thinks that Sidonie has ice water running in her veins. And yet, once you get her behind closed doors...
-   Knight-Captain Ice from _The Legend of Sun Knight_: As the Ice Knight, he is (in addition to using ice magic) expected to act cold and distant, rarely speaking and never being friendly to anyone. Since the premise for the series is that the twelve knights aren't who they're expected to be, Ice is secretly a kind person who wants to be friends with everyone. Since he's not permitted to smile and hold friendly conversations, he conveys this by making sweets for everyone he cares for.
-   Nicol in _My Next Life as a Villainess: All Routes Lead to Doom!_ is rather sweet and head over heels in love with Katarina, but because he's a bit awkward and not naturally inclined to be expressive she hasn't the faintest idea, though she does recognize that he's a nice guy with a gorgeous smile.
-   Mr. Darcy, from _Pride and Prejudice_ comes off as extremely cold to the point of being rude. In reality, he is merely very reserved and rather socially inept; his loyalty to and passion for those he cares about runs deep — but only those he cares about get to see his kinder side. The prime example is exemplary concern for his sister's well-being.
-   In _Rebuild World_, Akira is ice-cold to most, abandoning others as he sees fit and not hesitating to shoot someone if he deems them a threat. But he's able to let his guard down around a select few people: Shizuka, Sara, and Elena, who give him unconditional kindness and support. They're the only people he's excited to see and he's able to act his age around them instead of being a paranoiac. Shizuka also notes how childishly excited he is when getting his first augmented suit or a new gun. Even this is a massive improvement from his days before meeting Alpha where he didn't trust _anyone._ As he continues to develop more relationships, he becomes emotionally aware enough to apologize to Sheryl in advance in case he vents his anger on her after being put into a sour mood. In the same conversation, he declares his intent to murder the information broker who marked him as an easy pickpocketing target.
-   Eddard Stark from _A Song of Ice and Fire_, who is sugar to his family and ice to the rest of the world.
-   _Star Wars Legends_: Mara Jade falls under this trope pre-_Hand of Thrawn_ duology; once she's married to Luke, however, she mostly reverts to a mixed-type Tsundere (she can get rather testy under certain circumstances). It's mentioned a few times that her habitual sarcasm is a tactic — angry people say things they might normally keep quiet, and angry people just in general don't think as well, so they don't fight as smart.
-   In the historical novel _The Sunne in Splendour_ Edward IV is The Casanova, a doting big brother and father, jovial, approachable and even tries to come to terms with most of his enemies. However, if you cross him or are a threat to him, he is absolutely terrifying. He's aggressive and fearless on the battlefield, breaks sanctuary to execute his enemies and even has his brother executed and murders the the mentally infirm, innocent Henry VI himself because he doesn't want to order one of his men to kill an innocent man.

-   Peggy from _The Tales of Alvin Maker_ is like this when she first appears in the second book. When Taleswapper asks her mother about Peggy, she tells him she's gone too cold for anyone to tolerate her. He carefully refrains from telling her that ice can only be thawed with warmth and then proceeds to get smiles and laughs from Peggy in private.
-   Femysade in the novella _A Taste of Honey_ can be caring and sweet when it fits into her plans, and she really loves Aqib, but she is also quick to behave coldly towards him in public due to No Social Skills and even threatens to kill him should he ever betray her.
-   Crowfeather from _Warrior Cats_ comes off as cold and heartless to most of the world, except for Feathertail, and later, Leafpool. Both are his Love Interests, and his relationships with both end badly. This is later deconstructed as he Took a Level in Jerkass. He doesn't show love to his son (who later turns evil directly because of Crowfeather's neglect) and makes it blatantly clear to Nightcloud that he only took her as his mate to make Wind Clan trust him again. And because of emotional and legal shenanigans, he breaks up with Leafpool and treats her like crap every time they meet, openly despising her and disowning the children he had with her. Also, Feathertail dies — ironically, urging him with her last breath to _not_ use her death as a further excuse to close out the world. Guess what he does. So by the time the fourth series rolls around, he's just a plain Jerkass with no redeeming traits. Should have added a little more sugar there, buddy.

    Live-Action TV 

-   Max Black on _2 Broke Girls_ is cynical, dark, and self-described as being "dead inside" (likely the result of her Hilariously Abusive Childhood), but is actually deep-down a good person and has shown genuine friendship towards Caroline, including letting her move in with her after just barely meeting her, and Earl the diner cashier, who is the only one she is not sarcastic or snarky to (but rather _with_, as they mock everybody else _together_).

-   Susan Ivanova of _Babylon 5_ was like this, especially in the earlier seasons. Very stiff, serious, and formal, she even went so far as to not use contractions on at least one occasion. After a while though, she started letting her hair down (literally and figuratively) and showed a kinder, more vulnerable, and sometimes hilarious side. Throughout she maintains her professionalism while on the job, though she does become more of a Deadpan Snarker, especially when irritated. Word of God is that this was at the request of Claudia Christian, who wanted a chance to be funny with her character.
-   Captain Apollo from _Battlestar Galactica (1978)_ maintains his stoic demeanor while on duty, but often displays warmth and openness towards his friends and family, especially his father, his adoptive stepson Boxey, and Starbuck.
-   In _Blake's 7_, Avon: _"I have never understood why it should be necessary to become irrational in order to prove that you care, or, indeed, why it should be necessary to prove it at all"_ but goes to great lengths to rescue his companions and defends the alien crewmate Cally in his own inimitable style (_"She's more human than I am."_) when the other humans head into a little Fantastic Racism.
-   Temperance Brennan from _Bones_ so seldom shows her soft side that it's easy to think she doesn't have one, but she does. This can be seen, for instance, in an early episode where she's talking to a boy who, like her, grew up in foster homes.
-   _Bridgerton_: Kate Sharma is so devoted to her family and quickly fits in with the Bridgerton family but Anthony. Despite spending the early episodes being the pain in his ass, upon seeing Anthony in trouble when she's stung by a bee, she instinctively calms him down.
-   Prue Halliwell on _Charmed_ is cold with most people, with her warm side mostly shown towards her sisters Piper and Phoebe.
-   _Chuck_ has Sarah Walker, who has a tendency to mask her emotions due to many traumatic events in her life. However, she is very warm and loving on the inside.
-   Emily Prentiss from _Criminal Minds_: detached and sarcastic with most people (to the point she finds her love life disappointing and prefers to live alone with her cat), but warm and friendly with the rest of the team, especially in Season 7.
-   _Daredevil (2015)_:
    -   Matt Murdock has a bit of this going on. He can be very chivalrous with Karen and Foggy, while also being a bit more abrasive in his interactions with other people.
    -   Karen Page has a very bubbly personality that is very prevalent whenever she's around Matt and Foggy. However, this is all a mask to a much darker side of herself, as she's also got a very shady past and she personally killed James Wesley.
-   _Degrassi_:
    -   Spike in _Degrassi Junior High_ and _Degrassi High_ has this in spades: on one hand, she is notoriously aloof towards Shane, the boy who she had sex with and later became pregnant, to the point where she doesn't let him see baby Emma after she is born. Her avoidance of Patrick, her next boyfriend, begins to make it clear that Spike may have legitimate trust issues, and the lack of a father being seen doesn't help. On the other hand, she is polite and even quite compassionate towards others, though only really to her close female friends (Liz especially); in fact, one of her most well-loved moments is in _Degrassi: The Next Generation_ when she counsels Emma's best friend Manny, who herself was dealing with Teen Pregnancy.
-   Bree from _Desperate Housewives_, especially in the early seasons: formal and coldly polite towards most of the people, but warm and loving (or at least the best she could show) towards her best friends and her family.
-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   The Fourth Doctor has this as one of his gimmicks, particularly in his mid-to-late period. He's the funniest, warmest, loveliest, most charming person you could possibly imagine, but he can turn it on and off like a switch, suddenly becoming completely frightening, alien and emotionless and prone to righteous Tranquil Fury. Steven Moffat described how "when that famous grin leaves his face, it's like winter in a moment." Real Life Writes the Plot is heavily at play here: Baker suffers from bipolar disorder, which was not diagnosed until well after he left the role, and much of the Fourth Doctor's periodic and extreme shifts in disposition were reflective of how variable his actual psychological state was between manic and depressive periods; Douglas Adams, who served as script editor during the show's seventeenth season, once stated that "Tom is one of those people who oscillated between being one of the most wonderful, awesome, engaging people you have ever met, to someone you would gladly shove off a cliff."
    -   The Twelfth Doctor also has this personality but it's the _ice_ side that dominates from the beginning, which causes him a great deal of trouble in Series 8, his introductory season — reaching a low point when loyal companion Clara Oswald temporarily abandons him over it when a well-meaning choice to let her and humanity make a key decision about its future, rather than just fixing everything himself, comes off to her as him being condescending and cruel and no more. He eventually defrosts enough that his sugar side turns up more frequently in Series 9, but even then, it usually is only around certain people — Clara, children, his number one fan Osgood, and River Song being the key examples.
    -   In contrast to Twelve, the Thirteenth Doctor tries so hard to at least appear nice that when she backslides into no mercy to her enemies, or cuts off herself from her companions and snaps at them, it comes as more as a shock. She also favours repression, while her last four incarnations went for the Manly Tears.
-   Carson from _Downton Abbey_ is incredibly stuffy most of the time, but demonstrates a softer side with certain people and/or when no one will find out. For instance, he refuses to go to the fair with the rest of the staff, just because they'd feel the need to be on their best behavior if he was there, and instead spends the day with baby Sybbie.
-   _Firefly_:
    -   Zoe is cold towards everyone, although she does occasionally show glimpses of a softer side around those she cares about. Especially her husband Wash, toward whom she can be genuinely warm.
    -   Simon acts frosty towards strangers, but as you get to know him it's obvious that this is mostly a consequence of being a Fish out of Water as well as a side order of No Social Skills. He is particularly warm towards River.
    -   Even the simpleminded but brutal and traitorous ruffian Jayne hides a soft spot for his family, adores his momma, and "works" hard (at crime, violence, and selling out his comrades) to be a good son and send money home to support her and, apparently, his younger siblings.
-   _Game of Thrones_:
    -   Like his book counterpart, Ned Stark has this. His son Robb seems to have inherited it.
    -   Stannis leans heavily on the icy side, but his interactions with Davos and Shireen show that he also cares deeply for some people, although he's not good at showing it.
-   On _Gilmore Girls,_ Jess is acerbic and sarcastic with pretty much everyone except Rory, with whom he shares a Commonality Connection of literature, music, and pop culture. Rory calls him out on it on more than one ocassion.
-   In _Glue_, James seems cold and aloof, yet he's very warm and affectionate in interactions with best friend Rob and boyfriend Cal, and deep down he's an all-around sensitive soul.
-   _Horatio Hornblower_ in the A&E series: his introverted nature, combined with the need to maintain a professional demeanor as a naval officer, doesn't lend itself to much emotional demonstrativeness. He does, however, open up to a few people, mostly some of his fellow officers and a few trusted sailors, and he just _tries so hard_ to do the right thing. Unfortunately, despite his awareness of his inadequacy, he acts mostly cold towards his wife Maria, who adores him unconditionally in return.
-   ADA Rafael Barba from _Law & Order: SVU_ is a tough, no-nonsense Rules Lawyer who is brusque and sarcastic to pretty much everyone he works with. The first exceptions are his childhood friends Eddie Garcia and Alex Muñoz, seen in the episode "October Surprise"; he's warm, friendly, and open with them, including _hugging_ them. The other exception is his close friend Olivia Benson, who brings out a much softer side to his character; he is always openly concerned for and gentle with her when she's going through a rough time, and sometimes even tender in a way he isn't seen to be with anyone else. (Perhaps uncoincidentally, actors Raul Esparza and Mariska Hargitay ship their characters in real life and have gone out of their way to develop Benson and Barba's close relationship onscreen.)
-   Prince Arthur from _Merlin (2008)_ has to maintain a professional, calm demeanour in front of the court and his knights, but relaxes considerably when he's with Merlin, and more so with Guinevere.
-   Mabel Mora from _Only Murders in the Building_ is aloof, blunt, often unfriendly and extremely slow to trust people. However, she's also capable of great empathy and shows real kindness to the select few she allows into her life. Several traumatic events in her childhood and adolescence led to her keeping her guard up, but she has a good heart nonetheless, and it shows.
-   April from _Parks and Recreation_. Her warm side mostly comes out with her eventual boyfriend Andy.
-   Dr. K from _Power Rangers RPM_ fits like a glove. She has a rather sour personality and can come across as blunt and occasionally downright mean towards the Rangers, especially Ziggy. However, her cutesy Zord Attack Vehicle and suit designs, along with her diabetic sweet tooth, show off her sweeter side.
-   Ned from _Pushing Daisies_ is usually polite yet aloof and snarky, masking his feelings due to his traumatic childhood and avoiding close relationships. Inside? Oh, so warm.
-   Mako, Shinken Pink, from _Samurai Sentai Shinkenger_: Mako's specialty is dealing with her teammates' many issues quickly and practically. Once you're righted, however, don't expect a cuddle for the sake of cuddling.
    -   The following year's Sentai, _Tensou Sentai Goseiger_, has Hyde/GoseiBlue. In episode 2, team Secret-Keeper Nozomu initially dislikes Hyde for his frosty, dismissive attitude, but warms up to him on seeing Hyde's determination to remain on earth and protect humanity.
    -   And then _Kaizoku Sentai Gokaiger_ brings us Joe Gibken/GokaiBlue. Stoic, cool-headed, and prone to glowering, he nevertheless shows true affection for his crewmates and bakes them a "thank you" cake in Episode 4.
-   _Schitt's Creek_:
    -   Moira Rose is aloof and self-centered, sometimes to the point of Comedic Sociopathy, but she gradually reveals Hidden Depths. She loves her husband, ineptly but sincerely loves her children and develops a close bond with Jocelyn over the course of the series. She even becomes a surrogate parent to Stevie in Season 5.
    -   Stevie Budd is introverted and snarky, but when it comes to her good friend David, she reveals a softer side and is always there when he needs her.
-   _Sherlock_:
    -   Sherlock is an excellent example of this trope. He is cold and aloof to people in general, is a self-proclaimed sociopath who shows zero compassion for the dead bodies at crime scenes, and is disliked by most of the police he commonly works with. But get him alone with John, and he'll laugh cheerily, smile warmly, appreciate the night sky, and try to show friendship in his own dysfunctional way. He is also very warm to Mrs. Hudson, hugging her and kissing her on the cheek in "A Study in Pink", and displaying an insane amount of protectiveness toward her in "A Scandal in Belgravia." And then there's this immortal line...
        
        **Sherlock**: Listen, what I said before, John, I meant it. I don't have friends. I've just got one.
        
    -   John. On the outside, he's definitely a likable guy, but he was pretty much stoic and distant towards Mike Stamford, as well as his sis Harry and his therapist. He definitely didn't trust Mycroft when they first meet (understandable, Mycroft was thought to be Moriarty). Also, when he's really pissed, he's calm, which makes it MORE scary, since he's ruthless, and actually going to KILL someone — particularly a criminal who is dumb enough to threaten Sherlock's life, that this sweet, mild-mannered guy is very protective of — in cold blood. Still, he's very warm to Mary, Mrs. Hudson, and Sherlock. Though, like Sherlock, he _doesn't_ get along with Anderson and Donovan.
-   _Smallville_:
    -   Emil fits this pretty well. He's generally pretty detached and awkward, but he does care about his team and sometimes shows it. (Such as the end of "Kent" when he gently tells Tess that maybe she is a better person than she thinks she is.)
    -   Recurring Character Alicia Baker is reserved or hostile around most people (initially having to keep a distance because of fear of her powers being exposed, and later because she's viewed warily after her stay in a mental hospital) but is quite excitable and warm around Clark, except during a couple Yandere scenes in her first episode.
-   _Star Trek_:
    -   _Star Trek: The Next Generation_: Ensign Ro Laren. Traumatized by the Cardassian occupation of Bajor during her childhood, she seems very frigid, but there are a few times when she shows a more sensitive side, like "The Next Phase", when she thinks she's dead, or "Conundrum", when she and the crew are struck with amnesia. In her eponymous debut episode, Guinan instinctively sees this in her.
        
        **Guinan**: Am I disturbing you?  
        **Ro**: Yes.  
        **Guinan**: Good. You look like someone who wants to be disturbed.  
        **Ro**: I'd rather be alone.  
        **Guinan**: Oh, no you wouldn't.  
        **Ro**: I beg your pardon?  
        **Guinan**: If you wanted to be alone, you would've stayed in your quarters. The only reason to come here \[Ten Forward\] is to be amongst people.
        
        -   Worf tends strongly toward the "ice" side, rarely showing any emotion other than belligerence. But when he's alone with people he cares about, a much softer side emerges. There's a surprisingly tender moment in Deep Space Nine where O'Brien can't stop Yoshi from crying, but as soon as Worf holds the baby, he falls asleep in his arms. Worf seems genuinely moved, reflecting that he hadn't been able to be with his own son at that age.
    -   _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_: Garak is a rare example of the reverse of this trope. He's warm, approachable and friendly on the surface, which is a mask hiding a ruthless, cold-hearted killer. As the show wears on, this mask is revealed to be much more complicated: He's warm, approachable and friendly on the surface to hide his ruthless, cold-hearted inner nature, which itself hides the most deeply concealed part of his personality: the warm, genuine attachments he does actually form. All three parts (the fake amiability, the ruthlessness, and the genuine affection) make up the person he is, and if that sounds confusing to the audience, it's equally confusing to the characters around him. In fact, even he has a hard time keeping track of what he's truly feeling about what's going on around him.
        -   In the same show, Odo shows his softer, caring side when Major Kira is around. Noted in "The Reckoning":
            
            **Major Kira**: You love to bring up the worst-case scenario in these meetings, don't you?  
            **Odo**: Somebody has to. Besides, everyone expects me to be dour and suspicious; I don't want to disappoint them.  
            **Major Kira**: If only they knew the real you.  
            **Odo**: That is the real me — at least as far as everyone else is concerned.
            
    -   T'Pol from _Star Trek: Enterprise_: using her cold exterior and her repressed but detectable emotions, she typically insults and berates people, but occasionally shows a compassionate side. She usually justifies both sorts of actions as logical, though it is often apparent to the viewer (and recipient) that this is mostly just a rationalization.
        -   Her actions are due less to her personality and more to her species. Vulcans are a Sugar And Ice race as shown starting in The Original Series with Spock and his dad, and continuing throughout the franchise.
-   _Supernatural_:
    -   Dean Winchester, especially in early seasons, presents as a Lovable Rogue, who is flirtatious, hedonistic, and quick with the one-liners, but when it comes to hunting, he's deadly serious and competent. And he will kill you, mercilessly, if you threaten Sam.
    -   Castiel also fits this trope. In his early appearances, he presents as a cold, no-nonsense soldier of Heaven and even makes it clear he's willing to kill innocents for the greater good. However, he also starts to sympathize with and grow close to Dean, admitting that he doesn't want to hurt innocents and sees great beauty in humanity. Later, as he spends more time among humans and his social awkwardness is Played for Laughs, he leans toward the sugar, that is until it's time for battle. He is still an angel and thus willing to smite, torture, and manipulate to accomplish his goals. In later seasons, he will volunteer to kill innocents for the greater good to spare Sam and Dean the pain of doing so.
    -   Most of the Angelic soldiers from to fit this trope, usually because they cycle between professionalism, annoyance/racism towards humans, and very warm relationships with their brothers and sisters.
    -   When she's around Crazymode!Castiel, Meg mellows somewhat into an "Ice and Sugar " personality — still cold and aggressive but with occasional warmer moments. She eventually sacrifices herself to save Castiel and the Winchesters because of her affection/love for Castiel.
-   Cameron from _Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles_: although she's generally unemotional and dangerously pragmatic, there are a few times when she does seem to show genuine affection. Also, in case it needed clarifying, Word of God has said that she truly _does_ love John, and she is certainly willing to die for him.
-   Stefan Salvatore from _The Vampire Diaries_: Stefan has two distinct and very different sides to him due to his vampire nature. When Stefan takes in a huge amount of blood, he shuts off his emotions and becomes crazy, violent, cold, careless, and impulsive. When he feeds, he feeds so violently that he ends up ripping the heads off of his victims, although afterwards he feels guilt and remorse and puts the heads back onto the bodies of his victims. When Stefan is not hyped up on excessive amounts of human blood, he is sensitive, loving, kind, compassionate, caring, empathetic, selfless, and helpful. This more human side is especially enhanced in the presence of Elena, and when Stefan is in his violent state, he cannot find it in himself to hurt Elena.
-   _The White Queen_: Richard of Gloucester can be incredibly sweet or tremendously cold, and no one has experienced the extremes of his personality more intimately than his wife Anne Neville. He's mostly "sugar" towards her when they are kids smitten with each other, during their Rescue Romance as Lady and Knight, and while they are Happily Married, with him being a doting husband. However, Richard is almost all "ice" in the last episode, not caring _at all_ that he's hurting Anne's feelings now that he loves power far more than her. For someone who used to be so warm and compassionate in her presence, it's astonishing how frosty and emotionally cruel he can be.
    
    **Richard**: The truth is \[Elizabeth of York\] is betrothed to Henry Tudor. So who is the fool if I am bedding her? If people _think_ that I am bedding her? The world will see that she is not with Tudor, but with me, and all the men who would fight for her because they loved her father will come to my side, and not to Tudor's.  
    **Anne**: _\[Trying Not to Cry\]_ So just to win your point with him, you would dishonour me?  
    **Richard**: To win a war against him, I will play whatever cards I must.
    

-   Agent Dana Scully from _The X-Files_ is very steely and professional towards most people. Even Skinner, who saves her and Mulder several times throughout their long work relationship, gets her cool and calculated side. The only person who gets her to loosen up? Her partner, Agent Mulder, naturally.
    -   This is especially true as the series progresses. By Season 7, she's holding his hand and giggling with him about getting an FBI credit card for the evening.

    Multiple Media 

-   _BIONICLE_'s Kopaka, a Toa of Ice, is a stone-cold loner and The Stoic of his team, but when it comes to his fellow Toa, he's ready to risk life and limb to ensure their safety — when Pohatu had a Disney Death, it shook him so much that he was ready to give his own hard-earned mask to Pohatu's people, and was especially joyful when he found him alive a few seconds later.

    Music 

-   The girl who's the subject of Savage Garden's "To the Moon and Back" mixes Broken Bird with this trope.
    
    _"They're saying, 'Mamma never loved her much'  
    And, 'Daddy never keeps in touch  
    That's why she shies away from human affection'  
    But somewhere in a private place, she packs her bags for outer space  
    And now she's waiting for the right kind of pilot to come  
    And she'll say to him...  
    She's saying  
    'I would fly to the moon & back if you'll be...  
    If you'll be my baby  
    Got a ticket for a world where we belong  
    So would you be my baby?'"_
    
-   Love Handel's "You Snuck Your Way Right Into My Heart" seems to describe this trope rather accurately:
    
    _"I put up barriers  
    To shield my emotions  
    A wall that you could never break apart  
    But like a ninja of love  
    Rappelling down from above  
    You snuck your way right into my heart"_
    
-   Blondie lampshaded this in "Sunday Girl":
    
    _"I know a girl from a lonely street  
    Cold as ice cream but still as sweet."_
    
-   Merle Haggard, "Ever-Changing Woman."
    
    _"There’s days she almost loves me down to nothing  
    Then turns around and hates my very soul  
    So I always wear a t-shirt and a jacket  
    Just in case that woman’s running hot or cold."_
    

    Roleplay 

-   Irene from _Dawn of a New Age: Oldport Blues_ can be reserved and outright cold to people she doesn't know, but is shown to warm up considerably around people she considers her friends, such as Mirielle.

    Theatre 

-   Not unlike the _Mary Poppins_ example listed above, this is how the 2013 stage adaptation of _Charlie and the Chocolate Factory_ approaches the Interpretative Character of Willy Wonka. A Reclusive Artist and Mad Scientist who hasn't been seen in public in 40+ years, he's preoccupied with the business of the Golden Ticket tour, reminding the tour group that "This day of punctuality/Is scheduled to the nth degree." While extremely energetic and proud to show off the wonders of his world to them, he's frosty and intimidating much of the time. When the bad kids of the group destroy themselves via their vices — and despite his warnings — he is blithely indifferent. Finding the sweeter, warmer side of his personality is a matter of appreciating and understanding his unique way of thinking, especially in regards to artistic creation/invention. He also turns out to have a Hidden Heart of Gold with regards to Charlie.

    Video Games 

-   Saki Tsuzura in _Arcana Heart_ is pretty aloof most of the time, but this mostly stems from her failure to save her friend Fiona and her resolve to not repeat the same mistake again. She considerably opens up when she's around her...uh...best friend Heart. Especially after the fight with Mildred is over.
    -   Lieselotte Achenbach is, for the most part, cold and unemotional, only really showing emotion after she realizes Mildred's plan.
    -   The sequel also adds the super serious Zenia Valov. She wastes very little words and, most of the time, she's quite confrontational, caring most about her missions. In her ending, however, she is seen tending some sort of orphanage and smiling, and the kids greet her warmly, signifying that she's really kind and sweet to children.
-   Jacqli in _Ar tonelico II: Melody of Metafalica_ is a poster child for a cynical version, constantly trying to convince almost everyone she's a Jerk With A Heart Of Jerk when in fact she's just a damaged softy. Also, don't hurt her friends.
-   _BlazBlue_'s Rachel Alucard is like this, though the caring is very hard to see. But when one considers she's playing Xanatos Speed Chess against the psychopathic Terumi, who'd do any number of horrible things if he knew she cared about any of the cast, one realizes that she is not as cold as she pretends to be. However, various endings suggest she has a good deal of sympathy for Ragna (who she asks to "not become a monster"), Noel (who she's seen standing near during her "waking up" dreams), and Nu (Who she pities as a "poor doll" who has such simple dreams).
-   _Dragon Age_:
    -   The Sten in _Dragon Age: Origins_ is the most stoic and rigid of your party members, rarely getting along with others and preferring to focus on accomplishing your goal as soon as possible. However, Leliana notes that he does indeed have a hidden Gentle Giant aspect to him (which she chides him about) and if the player improves their relationship, he proceeds to become part of the True Companions in his own way, even sometimes addressing the player character with an affectionate pet name if he likes them enough.
    -   Fenris in _Dragon Age II_ is also this. Even though he hates mages and is always brooding about his past, it doesn't hinder him becoming open to his fellow companions after his long stay at Kirkwall and their helping him against his Tevinter captors.
-   _Final Fantasy_: Usually one of the three female members of the party tends to have this.
    -   Celes from _Final Fantasy VI_, due to her Broken Bird status and the fact that she is initially cold and pessimistic before being defrosted by Locke. After the halfway point of the game, Celes becomes much more friendly towards the rest of the party and is altogether more optimistic and hopeful, to the point where she eventually becomes their unifying force.
    -   Cloud in _Final Fantasy VII_ is flamboyantly cool, never failing to point out how little he cares about things, crack a cruel, deadpan joke or show off for attention. When he lets the act drop he's chivalrous, caring, sensitive, and displays a charming, eccentric sense of humour.
    -   In the _Final Fantasy VII_ prequel _Crisis Core_, pre-insanity Sephiroth is shown to be aloof, cool, and professional...but also capable of displaying concern (about his friends Genesis and Angeal), empathy (allowing Zack to return to Midgar to check on Aerith), and humour (to the point of cracking a wry joke or two).
    -   Vincent in _Final Fantasy VII_ and his spinoff game _Dirge of Cerberus_. He speaks little and appears cold and uncaring at first. As the party gets to know him, he gradually shows a kind, helpful, and protective nature.
    -   In _Final Fantasy VIII_, Squall Leonhart is cold with everyone besides Rinoa, to whom he is a Defrosting Ice King.

-   Lightning in _Final Fantasy XIII_: an Establishing Character Moment in the introduction has her staring at a dandelion-like piece of fluff with her regular stoic expression. However, when she catches it her touch is gentle enough to keep it perfectly intact until a gust of wind blows to pieces out of her hands.
    -   Fang could also qualify. She's aloof, cold, and snarky to everyone except Vanille. In her own words "I'll tear down the sky to save her."

-   Badass Bookworm Erk from _Fire Emblem: The Blazing Blade_, in a way. He's not the easiest person to coax out of his shell and away from his books, and he's frequently grumpy and sarcastic. But his supports always end up showing his gentler side, especially his supports with Nino, Priscilla, and Louise.
    -   Lute from _Fire Emblem: The Sacred Stones_ is very similar to Erk in her bookishness; she doesn't quite seem to know how to love properly, but her support with Artur shows an attempt at a softer side. (She is a bit odd about it, though.)
        -   Also from _Sacred Stones_, we have Jerk with a Heart of Gold Colm, whose "heart of gold" really only shows in his supports with Victorious Childhood Friend Neimi.
    -   Soren from _Path of Radiance_ is only friendly towards Ike. This is explicitly mentioned by another character in the sequel; they can magically sense that someone is causing his icy heart to defrost.
    -   Yet another mage that exhibits these traits is Arthur from _Genealogy of the Holy War_. When he expresses concern for his friend (and possible love interest) Fee, she mentions how odd it is that he's thinking of someone other than himself, and he says that she's an "exception." The only other person who he shows his soft side to is his beloved little sister, Tine.
    -   In _Genealogy_ and _Thracia 776_, the Lance Knight Finn is explicitly regarded as having a Sugar and Ice Personality. His old friend Selphina lectures him on being cold to women and how this apparently ruined his relationship with Lachesis, but later Leif comments on how Finn simply "forgot" how to cry or laugh ever since the fall of Leonster. And then we have his behavior when he talks to Altena in _Genealogy_, where Finn can finally show open emotion and _cries_.
    -   Princess Azura from _Fire Emblem Fates_. Having grown up as the victim of bullying and Fantastic Racism, she has her share of issues, and thus maintains a cold and detached exterior when around people she doesn't trust to protect herself. However, when she's with people she _does_ trust, such as her little sisters or the Player Character, she's much more animated and warm, even displaying a teasing side.
-   Sol Badguy from the _Guilty Gear_ games is uncouth, hostile to nearly everyone and swears like a marine, but he has a softer side than he lets on. For example, he constantly insults Ky Kiske and calls him an idiot but in another timeline, Ky is killed and he is completely ruined by the loss.
-   Aqua from _Kingdom Hearts_ is directly stated to be one of these (not by the trope name) in an interview with Tetsuya Nomura. She's the type where we see mostly the Sugar side and is also an honor student type.

-   Snow White from _The Wolf Among Us_ is this. She tries to handle situations diplomatically, but will become snarky or angry towards those who disagree with her mentality that she knows what is best regarding the Fabletown community and the safety of its inhabitants in the modern world, as displayed by her attitude towards individuals like Bluebeard or Ichabod Crane - and even Bigby Wolf depending on the player's choices. Justified given that this behavior stems largely in part from her stepmother's attempts at killing her, sexual abuse endured at the hands of the Seven Dwarves, Prince Charming cheating on her with her sister Rose Red, and the destruction of the Homelands forcing her and all other Fables to New York, where she has resided for centuries as a disrespected secretary forced to turn down Fables when they ask for help. Underneath it all, though, she is a well-intentioned, empathetic and compassionate woman who recognizes the struggles of those around her and has not lost her grace from her old life as a princess; consequently, she is one of the few individuals who recognizes Bigby Wolf has long-since reformed from his days as the "Big Bad Wolf". Her brokenhearted expression at the murder of another Fable and the cruel attitudes of how other Fables handle it is evidence of her concern for them. Bigby is the only person she confides in, and after he is nearly killed, she willingly gives up her duties to save his life, hinting at how deeply she values him.
-   Leona from _The King of Fighters_ fears she'll be dominated by her Enemy Within (Orochi Leona) if she shows emotions openly... When the domination happened the first time, she killed her parents and everyone else in her Doomed Hometown. The second time, she beat her teammates and brother figures Ralf and Clark to almost death. Naturally, the poor girl struggles a LOT with her feelings and thoughts, and it's only around XIII that she truly can come to terms with them.
-   In _The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword_, Peatrice (the storage girl) has a boring job, which makes her seem rather uncaring about anybody who comes around, but as Link continues to visit her, she starts to like him more and more. Eventually, she begins to fall in love with Link.
-   _Luminous Arc 2_'s Fatima the Shadow Frost Witch is pretty darn stoic and cool. Her warmer side can be brought out if Roland chooses the correct dialogue choices and she becomes his love interest.
-   Xyl of _Lusternia_ was The Stoic and The Spock of the Elder Gods, generally more interested in the pursuit of cosmic knowledge than friendship. However, when with Trillilial, he shows a very different, much warmer side to his personality.
-   Miranda, from _Mass Effect 2_, is called an Ice Queen by Wilson at the beginning of the game (...before she kills him), but she warms up to Shepard considerably during the course of the game. And there's the relationship she has with her sister, Oriana.
    -   Shepard themselves can be played this way: cold and ruthless in public and on the battlefield (Renegade) but warm and friendly towards the crew (Paragon).
-   _Monster Hunter: Rise_: Minoto the hub quest maiden comes off as cold and distant, especially compared to her twin Hinoa, who's outgoing and endlessly cheerful. She just has an unfortunate case of Resting Bitch Face and self-esteem issues that come from constantly comparing herself to her sister. Underneath this, she's actually every bit as warm and friendly as Hinoa, which is especially visible when they're alone with the Hunter. Also, in the thight-knit community of Kamura everyone is aware of her issues, and they ignore her facade to be friends with her anyway.
-   _Oracle of Tao_ has Ambrosia, the hero, who is ostensibly a Tsundere. Behind this layer, however, her emotions turn out to be very guarded, and she has to go through an ordeal of sorts to finally unlock them. The best way of putting this is that she's a Mood-Swinger Kuudere with some Cute and Psycho tendencies (as a result of her mood swings).
-   Ai Ebihara from _Persona 4_: although often classified as a Tsundere, she's a lot closer to this. She starts off indifferent, but subtly thaws out as the social link progresses. You even have to _reject_ her once if you want her to stay with you.
    -   Naoto is another example. She initially comes off as a bit cold and standoffish toward the party, particularly when dismissing their investigation of the murders as a "game." Her caring side comes out after she joins the party, as well as with the protagonist if he pursues her Social Link.
-   In _Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver_, Gym Leader Jasmine (who uses Steel-type Pokémon) is described by one character as trying to hide her tenderness behind her steely coldness.
-   _Resident Evil_:
    -   Of the four principal characters introduced in the first two games, Jill Valentine is easily the most stoic and has the least-dynamic personality of the bunch. She still has a strong sense of justice and cares deeply for her comrades.
    -   As a professional spy, Ada Wong maintains an aloof, calm, and collected composure in any situation, and more often than not it seems that she is simply stringing Leon along to further her agenda. However, it becomes increasingly clear over the series that not only does she genuinely care for Leon's well-being (going out of her way to help and save him, even with orders of his execution or when she really doesn't have to), but she is also quite capable of compassion. This is easily demonstrated in her personal game scenarios, especially in _Resident Evil 6_ wherein she has numerous Pet the Dog moments.
-   Yurika Kirishima from _Rival Schools_ is a pure example — she's rather reserved and cold for the most part, but it's part of her facade as The Mole planted in Seijyun High. When she goes through her High-Heel–Face Turn, she starts to open up emotionally, with the most visible example being her Pseudo-Romantic Friendship moment with Akira in the Seijyun High ending.
-   Toona/Raven in _Rune Factory 3_: cool and seemingly emotionless, she gradually opens up if you pursue a relationship with her. Her reason for being cold is actually a fear of losing those who get close to her, due to a childhood friend disappearing in her presence, and the fact that she can turn into a Phoenix-like monster.
-   Shadow from _Sonic the Hedgehog_ is cold and distant from others, even after putting behind the past in his own spin-off title, but despite this, he has shown to care for his teammates, Rouge and Omega, and even to Sonic and his friends.
-   Lamia Loveless from _Super Robot Wars Advance_: On the outside, she's mostly cool, professional and serious, but considering that she is The Child amongst The Three Faces of Eve (being the latest version of the W Numbers and not having been around for long in the world), her inner side is very warm. In OG Gaiden, she slightly warms to Axel, who saved her life.
    -   Ring Mao acts like this towards Irm, to the point where she acts as if their relationship never existed when she gets the slightest bit mad, despite the fact that she still cares about him.
-   Leon Magnus from _Tales of Destiny_ qualifies, especially in the remake and the sequel where we see a lot more of the sugar side of his personality.
-   Emil Castagnier from _Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World_ is like this; he's usually sweet but cripplingly timid but goes through several highly\-noticeable changes when he's in a fight. This trope is eventually revealed to have been averted in favour of Split Personality, since "Emil" is a fabricated alternate persona of Ratatosk, who wiped his own memories so that he could lay low and rest after being mortally wounded.
-   The Sniper in _Team Fortress 2_. Which side he displays generally depends on whether he's currently sniping.
    
    **Sniper**: _(cheerfully if taunting; coldly if scoped)_ Wave goodbye to your head, wanker.
    
-   The MTV-inspired adventure game, _Total Distortion_ has Stevie Groovie, one of the three TV producers interested in buying music videos you create. She comes off as cold and disinterested initially, paying very little for videos she doesn't care much for. Conversely, she warms up to you if given interesting videos, with huge payoffs to match. The bank of monitors behind Stevie even change to reflect her mood.
-   Reimu Hakurei of _Touhou Project_ is most commonly portrayed as a blunt-worded, cynical and easily irritated shrine maiden who's described in profile as "alone at heart". Despite the rude demeanor, she is also a fairly peaceful person who never holds long-term grudges, remains open for making friends with humans and youkai alike, and didn't hesitate to protect/shelter characters in need on multiple occasions. Reimu's self-contradictory personality largely comes from having to balance between her duties as a youkai exterminator (ice), and her personal desire for peaceful co-existence outside of said duties (sugar).
-   Marina Wulfstan of _Valkyria Chronicles_ is an aloof sniper with several potentials and a personnel file indicating her preference for solitude — but that doesn't stop her from chasing after cute little foxes and puppies, as well as showing a good deal of commitment to defending Darcsens in the DLC packs.
-   Brynn from _Vindictus_. His comments towards the player are mostly cold and almost hostile. but he is shown repeatedly to have a soft side, especially for Tieve.
-   Roswell from _Yggdra Union_ leans heavily towards the cold side of the equation, but every now and again he shows moments of incredibly heartfelt gentleness. Interestingly, many of these moments seem provoked by Yggdra, our lovely protagonist.
-   Black Raisin Cookie from _Cookie Run Kingdom_ is initally cold and untrusting towards strangers, even going as far as attempting to ambush the main cast after one of them does not like raisin buns. However, her kind and caring side is shown later on towards those she trusts, doing anything she can to help her villagers.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Ace Attorney_
    -   _Justice For All_ has Adrian Andrews, who hides her woobieness under her cold, evasive side. She drops her coldness completely in _Trials & Tribulations_.
    -   Edgeworth definitely qualifies in the first game, a little bit in the second game, and his coldness is completely gone by Investigations, but no less snarky.
    -   Franziska too, to some extent. At first, she taunts her "little brother" by remarking about the man who killed his father, whips him, and coaches testimony from witnesses. But she also cries in front of Edgeworth and wishes to meet Phoenix again at the end of _Justice For All_, which she greets him with a whiplash. At least she's trying.
    -   _Spirit of Justice_ introduces Nahyuta Sahdmadhi, a priestly prosecutor who calmly tells defense attorneys they're bound for Hell because of their careers. It's mostly an act.
-   Misaki in _Canvas 2_ is probably the gentlest person in the cast, but her normal demeanor is rather distant and cool.
-   _Fate/stay night_:
    -   Rider is like this. She's actually a sweet and caring person, but it's difficult to show it when you're Medusa, especially when you happen to live in the Nasuverse, land of unhappy people. Look how shocked she gets at a mere 'thank you' or being told that no, Shirou does not hate her and thinks she's actually quite attractive.
    -   Saber is an obvious example herself. While she may appear to be completely stoic and expressionless, this is just a mask for the emotional conflicts left from her past life as King Arthur and eventually shows a much warmer side of herself.
-   _The Fruit of Grisaia_: While both Yuuji and Yumiko get accused of being a tsundere more than once, this trope describes them better, while Yuuji is usually The Stoic, Yumiko is the ice queen, neither of them is a particularly forthcoming person. Once they start warming up to people, however, they tend to show their sugary personality more.
-   _Galaxy Angel_: Vanilla H seems cold and distant when first introduced, though that's because her use of nanomachines requires huge emotional control. Underneath, she's a sweet and sensitive girl who cares greatly for the people surrounding her and wants nothing but to be helpful to them. From the second game onwards, although she remains quiet, she also starts to smile and be more expressive in general.
-   _Hatoful Boyfriend_ has Fujishiro Nageki the mourning dove. In his Dating Sim route, he mostly seems aloof, subdued, and like he barely tolerates the protagonist, until near the end. In _Holiday Star_ he is a bit more demonstrative and resorts to I Feel Happy, apparently aware that otherwise, the protagonist won't have a clue how he's feeling. He also demonstrates that while his friends are exhausting and frustrating sometimes, he's happy to have them and would burn a hundred times for their happiness. All along it's easier to see his contempt — when he feels it — than any of his other feelings.
    -   Sakuya also shows this personality in the original game, due to being a Sheltered Aristocrat raised to believe himself inherently better than all other birds due to his bloodline. His Dating Sim route revolves around pushing him out of his contemptuous comfort zone, revealing his more vulnerable and passionate side.
-   This is Rika Furude's real personality in _Higurashi: When They Cry_. She tries to be serious and always in control because of _centuries_ of being trapped in a "Groundhog Day" Loop, but she still has emotions and cares about others like her friend Satoko.
-   _Ikemen Sengoku_:
    -   Nobunaga Oda is a cold and ruthless warlord who's so terrifying in battle that he's been nicknamed the "Devil King" by his enemies. If the player chooses to romance him, however, he gradually displays a warmer side that likes using the main character as his Lap Pillow, is fond of sweets and cute things, and proves to still be capable of empathy and compassion despite his insistence that he'd lost the capacity to feel them long ago.
    -   Masamune Date is a case where his "sugar" personality is the more prominent one as a playful and free-spirited man who loves flirting with the main character and his "ice" personality is the more hidden one that comes out when he's in battle as a fettered commander who's willing to do anything, including threatening to kill the same main character he was flirting with just hours ago if she doesn't get out of his way, to fulfill his duties before Character Development kicks in.
    -   Even Hideyoshi Toyotomi, the Team Mom of the Oda group, has elements of this trope. He's normally an extremely kind and caring man but becomes cold and hostile towards anyone who disrespects or threatens his lord Nobunaga, including the main character when he initially believes her to be a spy or assassin. When his suspicions against her are disproved, his behavior towards her changes so radically from icy hostility to doting sweetness that she has trouble adjusting to it at first.
    -   Kenshin Uesugi is the game's most extreme example of this trope, with a healthy dose of dangerous fire for good measure. He looks, and initially acts like, an icy and emotionless person whose only passion is battle, but he proves to have a surprisingly sweet and adorable side in his route when he desperately tries to make the main character happy by having his pet rabbits cuddle up to her and taking her out to a meadow to see the full moon. Unfortunately, that sweet side of him is accompanied by a dangerous tendency to be possessive towards the main character in spite of his sincere efforts to keep it in check.
-   Mio from _Little Busters!_. Riki initially finds her in a remote garden away from anyone else, reading books on her own. In their first meeting, she's polite but quite dismissive — when he leaves, Riki notes that the meeting seems barely to have touched her at all and that as soon as he left she immediately returned to that distant world belonging only to her. However, as they become friends Mio begins to open up and shows a very sweet side to her, most notably when Riki helps her to find a book that is very important to her and she smiles, causing Riki to think she looks very pretty that way.
-   Shin from _Morenatsu_ is cold and distant to most people except to the main character, Hiroyuki. Once Shin realises that he's falling in love with Hiroyuki, Shin tries to stop the relationship due to childhood trauma but in the end, they end up together in his route. His worst ending on the other hand...
-   _Ookamikakushi_: Nemuru Kushinada starts out as stern and aloof, especially towards Hiroshi. Over time, she softens towards him and winds up becoming a friend.
-   _Piofiore: Fated Memories_
    -   Dante Falzone has a reputation of being very cold and aloof, but it is a front he puts up. He believes he is insufficient as a mafia boss, and tries to imitate the persona of his late father who was known as cunning and ruthless. He is in reality shy and at times socially awkward and can be very gentle with the heroine. He also hates bitter things but in one scene forces himself to drink an espresso because it is "capo-like" and he feels quite self-conscious that he likes sweet things.
-   Miku in _A Profile_ was raised to be cool, dismissive and aloof, which is both contrasted and enforced by the fact that at heart she's a Shrinking Violet, meaning she hides that behind the aloof behavior.
-   _Sunrider_:
    -   Ava Crescentia was raised by a strict military father who taught her to value professionalism and hard work above all else. Because of this upbringing and her role as the Sunrider’s first officer, she is distant, aloof, and at times harsh with the ship’s crew. The only exception to this is her captain and childhood friend Kayto Shields: while Ava normally warms up only slightly in his presence, Kayto causes her professional stoicism to crack on several occasions, most notably in the aftermath of the Liberation Day massacre, where she tearfully admits that she still has feelings for him despite previously having pushed him away out of fear of becoming emotionally compromised.
    -   Sola di Ryuvia is a warrior princess and Living Relic who lived two thousand years before the present day. When she wakes up from stasis, she finds herself in an era where her people’s galaxy-spanning empire has been reduced to a single backwater planet and everything she did to defend it has been forgotten. This situation leaves her withdrawn, despondent, and possibly suicidal, and she only joins the Sunrider’s crew to give herself a sense of purpose. It’s not until Kayto begins treating her like a human being, rather than a weapon, that she begins warming up to him and finds a reason to live.
-   Akira of _Togainu no Chi_ is cold towards everyone. However, when push comes to shove he shows that he truly cares about the people close to him even after they've raped or betrayed him earlier.
-   Sora from _Yosuga no Sora_. If you're not her brother, consider yourself the luckiest person on earth if you're able to see her smile. To be more precise, she is Tsundere to her brother, Yandere to _every_ other girl around her brother, and cold to _every_ other boy beside her brother. And you may have noticed already but, yeah, _she has a sexual desire for her twin brother_.

    Webcomics 

-   Paige of _Agents of the Realm_ starts off as rather cold to Norah, due to being a straight-A student and considering her a slacker, but then gets warmer once the two spend more time together. This being said, while she's friendly to her fellow Agents, she can be aloof and distrusts Jordan.
-   In A-gnosis' comics on Greek myth, the God of the Dead Hades is an antisocial workaholic who acts cold and grumpy towards humans and gods. With the shades of the dead, he's kind, gentle, and understanding.
-   _Eerie Cuties_: Brooke is typically the most levelheaded member of the cast and she's pretty snarky because of it. But she's not without feeling, which is mainly seen in her interactions with Ace and the time she exhausted herself keeping an eye on girl-Kade, so he wouldn't do anything he might regret later.
-   Susan from _El Goonish Shive_ starts out very cold, but turned out to really care about her friends. She's able to show more and more warmth as she becomes closer to the other characters and comes to terms with her past, which used to be her own ball and chain. Not that she hesitates to use the old good "Hammer Queen" look when it's called for.
-   In _Go Get a Roomie!_, Lillian's default approach towards the waking world is aloofness, but time makes it clear that she does care about the people she's with.
-   _Gunnerkrigg Court_
    -   Antimony appears to be a Defrosting Ice Queen, but despite being warm and friendly to the few people she's already befriended, when she's with her classmates in general she does things like this. When the group snuck out in "Power Station", Annie hardly talked to anyone except Zimmy and Gamma before being plunged into Zimmingham. Due to her descent and background, Annie not only used to being a loner but had more intense attitudes mostly limited to "surgical steel" and "firestorm" modes. Once the latter became quite literal, she chose to train in handling her temper. Annie certainly shows more emotion in her face than she used to, though still seems to be quite stoic and quiet around people she isn't close to.
    -   Anthony, Antimony's father, is so quiet and reserved that he comes off as rather cold. Around his best friend Donald, however, he has no problem dropping the stoic mask.
-   The zombie from _Hanna Is Not a Boy's Name_ is very subtle in his displays of emotion, except when Hanna is harmed. He also is seen with a bird perched on his finger, is visibly upset when he punches a teenage boy with More Teeth than the Osmond Family pretty damn hard in the mistaken belief he was dealing with a more serious threat, cooks breakfast for Hanna, and is generally a very nice person. However, Hanna actually takes to counting how often he smiles, because he so rarely does so. He's not particularly cold and unapproachable towards new people, but he's reserved and hard to read.
    -   When Hanna starts the smile tally, {...} is surprised to learn that he smiles so rarely, and considers making more of an effort in the future.
-   _Homestuck_
    -   Rose Lalonde goes the Little Miss Snarker route and often hides behind Sesquipedalian Loquaciousness and sarcasm. Beneath it all, she's perfectly nice and helpful, serving as John's Mission Control as they first try to figure out the nonsensical constructs of Sburb.
    -   Dave Strider is even colder in some ways — at least Rose _smiles_. Dave's face barely ever changes. Besides that, he's incredibly calm about all the bizarre crap happening in the series and very deserving of the almost-name "Insufferable Prick." Yet like Rose he's proven himself to be Not So Stoic, such as his rather sweet reaction to Rose's plan of a suicide mission.
    -   Genius technician Equius Zahhak would like to have you believe he has nothing but contempt for the lower castes. But put him beside Nepeta and he melts like butter.
    -   Dirk Strider is a pretty good example himself, proving Rose likely gets it from the Strider side of the (ecto-biological) family. Like Dave, his face rarely ever strays away from a stoic mask, but unlike Dave he doesn't hide behind snark and irony nearly as much, and is pretty openly nice to his friends for the most part, especially Jane and Roxy.
    -   Karkat Vantas might count; when you first meet him he seems to be nothing but a snappish, preposterous jackass who likes insulting others as much as he hates everything else. Then you get further into the series and learn that once all hell breaks loose, Karkat breaks just about as fast. Especially when his friends start falling like flies.
-   _Hooky_: Damien is very emotionally distant and cold, but really has soft spots for William, Monica, and his younger siblings, Dani and Dorian.
-   _I'm the Grim Reaper_: Scarlet can seem cold and consistently makes it clear to herself that she is only using Chase to find out about her past. This doesn't stop her from genuinely becoming close to him and even taking a bullet meant for him, and subsequently telling him she's a grim reaper.
-   Vaarsuvius from _The Order of the Stick_ probably qualifies — sensitive and emotional, yet cool-headed, with an air of detachment that makes them difficult to approach. Despite this, Vaarsuvius is a very loyal teammate. They also care deeply for their family and are willing to do anything to protect them, up to and including genocide. Seriously, never _ever_ threaten Vaarsuvius' family.
-   _Pixie and Brutus_: Brutus is hardened by his service in the military and seems outwardly cold at a first glance, but he absolutely cares for Pixie.
-   _Rebirth_: Li seems quite emotionally distant, but it becomes obvious she cares very deeply for Noah (possibly more than just as a boss) and even Neo as well, as she doesn’t let Noah forget how bad a parent he’s been towards Neo.
-   Wind Whistler in _Star Mares_ constantly professes her dedication to logic and reason over emotion, to the point that she can speak computer languages and her closest friends refer to her as a robot. Around her rival Moontear, her personality takes on a warmer, more heroic element, closer to her source material.
-   In _SwordCat Princess_, faerie princess Julia is generally very warm and friendly but can turn quite cold and indifferent to people's suffering when she feels threatened or when she is in a "reading" state and divining the nature of an object or person.
-   The "Su-cool" arc in the "Love Situations" category of _Tsunami Channel_ has a prime example of an honest and cool girl who is blunt and unembarrassed by her feelings of affection, while being incredibly understated and calm.
-   _Vampire Girl_: Levana throughout much of Season 1 was shown to be pretty distant, or even somewhat hostile towards other people (understandable, given that she was a vampire who didn't want to scare away people with who she was), but was also shown to often turn to Laura as a friend whenever she was in need of support, emotional or otherwise.

    Web Original 

-   TT from _Cream Heroes_ is a cat who prefers to be alone and will punch the other cats if they get in her personal space. She also hisses and screams during baths and vet visits. However she is deeply loyal to Claire, teaches the younger cats how to fight better and shows a lot of concern for both Chuchu and Nana when they return home from the vet after their respective surgeries. She's even befriended the latter and, while she has hit her, she will not punch her two kittens- even if they punch her.
-   The Mysterious Mr. Enter is a somewhat downplayed example as he is often harsh towards bad episodes of cartoons or bad animated movies (Atrocities). If anyone makes the time to know him, he comes off more as a shy, reserved, and charming fellow rather than sarcastic and ill-tempered. Said charming side is often shown in more positive reviews (Admirable) and a few journal entries like this one.
-   The Nostalgia Chick, a rare example with added fire, will only be warm to you when there's nobody else around. And she positively fawns over Todd in the Shadows.
-   _RWBY_:
    -   Blake Belladonna, who is a sharp-tongued, standoffish Badass Bookworm. On the other hand, she is passionate about protecting humanity, is calm and understanding when she isn't upset, and is somewhat of a Broken Bird, as shown in Volume 2. Very slowly, she grows to trust her teammates, particularly her partner, Yang.
    -   Weiss Schnee is starting to show her sugar side to those she trusts. While dismissive, angry, and condescending towards Ruby initially, she grows to trust Ruby as a partner and a leader, best shown when she shows a surprising amount of concern after Ruby was captured by Roman Torchwick. Also, Weiss goes from holding a personal grudge against Blake due to Blake's fierce defending of the White Fang to lending Blake some Dust to help her fight Torchwick while she battles a White Fang lieutenant.
-   Himei in _Sailor Nothing_: At first, she is almost entirely cold towards everyone, but as the story goes on her warmer side starts showing more often.

    Western Animation 

-   Mai from _Avatar: The Last Airbender_ is an outwardly Emotionless Girl and Deadpan Snarker, but she cares very deeply for Zuko and it is only around him that her emotions become visible. The comics which take place after the events of the series show that she has also developed a soft spot for her little brother Tom-Tom, greatly contrasting her shameless apathy towards his kidnapping at the beginning of Season 2.
-   Huey Freeman from _The Boondocks_ is stoic and often blunt, but when the chips are down, so is his personal barrier.
-   Trevor Belmont from _Castlevania (2017)_ is rude, sarcastic, and has No Social Skills. But as the series progresses, he warms up to his companions and even begins a relationship with Sypha.
-   Daria Morgendorffer from _Daria_ only shows affection for certain people, normally just a smile and/or blush. Towards everyone else, she is the epitome of The Snark Knight.
-   Bender's attitude toward his friends ranges from callous to the point of Lack of Empathy to openly, weepily affectionate to the point of life-threatening hugs. Sometimes in the same episode.
    
    ''All the times I said "kill all humans", I secretly added "...except him".
    
-   Agent Six from _Generator Rex_ fits the part of a Man in Black, often acting in a curt, very tactical manner. However, he cares greatly about his charge Rex (whom he rescued in the first place) and Holiday, with whom he'd have a closer relationship if he weren't so mindful of keeping it professional. He does ask her out by "A Family Holiday," but does so while keeping a completely straight face... and holding her hand.
-   _Kaeloo_: Mr. Cat can sometimes come off as this. While he's usually an angry jerk, in some episodes he shows a softer side, especially when dealing with Kaeloo.
-   _The Legend of Korra_:
    -   Tenzin seems 100% serious and proper all the time, but is very warm around his family and clearly cares very much for Korra.
    -   Lin is a stone-cold hardass but shows a warmer side when she and Korra work together to fight Amon and Hiroshi Sato and it's clear she still cares about Tenzin, her ex-boyfriend. This is played up all the more in Book 3: After crossing paths with her half-sister Suyin for the first time in thirty years, she at first wants nothing to do with her, snaps at Su's sweet and vulnerable teenaged daughter, and ultimately challenges Su to a duel. By the finale, however, she's willing to put her life on the line so that Su can kill a villain.
    -   Mako counts too: most of the time; he's a stoic strategist—notable for being the _only_ one of the four central characters who's never been seen crying on-screen—but he clearly shows affection towards his brother Bolin and his friends.
    -   Book 3 gives us P'Li, the Red Lotus's one-woman artillery. She's wryly friendly with her teammates and absolutely _melts_—once actually tearing up—during tender moments with her love interest, but is, for the most part, a Cold Sniper played straight among a group that seems otherwise Affably Evil. Being a Child Soldier can do that to a person.
-   _Miraculous Ladybug,_:
    -   Adrien is not cold, but somewhat quiet and reserved in his civilian identity; in his superhero identity Cat Noir, however, he's an impulsive Pungeon Master and Chivalrous Pervert.
    -   Nathalie Sancoeur usually doesn't show any emotions, but she cares very much about the Agreste family, her employers. She has got a Bodyguard Crush, is a Yes-Man for Gabriel and even helps him in his supervillain plans, from Season 3 onwards becoming his helper Mayura while knowing the risk of death by using a damaged Miraculous. She is also some kind of an Adoptive Mother for Adrien and tried to rescue him from the supervillain trio of Lady Wifi, Princess Fragrance and Reflekta hell bent on punishing his cousin Felix.
    -   Kagami Tsurugi usually is emotionless and cold, but she cares for her crush Adrien and Marinette, her only friend.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_:
    -   Rainbow Dash from can qualify, as can Angel Bunny. Both show their sweet side around Fluttershy, but both can be insensitive (and in Angel's case, spoiled) to their Morality Pet. Rainbow Dash also shows her sweet side around Applejack (who she sees as a friendly rival), Scootaloo, Tank, Pinkie Pie, and sometimes Twilight and Rarity too. She mellows out in later seasons, but still retains her snark and cool attitude, because after all warm colours are said to come forward when cold colours recede.
    -   Pinkie's sister Maud Pie also counts, being a nigh-emotionless stoic for most of her debut episode, but momentarily defrosting and showing her genuine affection for her little sister when she smiles at the end.
-   _The Owl House_ has Amity Blight, who begins the series as an Academic Alpha Bitch, but as the main character works to better understand her, Amity soon shows herself to be kind and cordial, ultimately joining Luz's friend group and later becoming Luz's girlfriend.
-   _Ready Jet Go!_: While Mitchell often acts like a harsh jerk in some episodes, in other episodes he's pretty compassionate and reasonable. Despite everything, he just wants to have friends and he really does care about Jet, Sean, Sydney, and Mindy.
-   Miss Finster from _Recess_ is the ultimate Stern Teacher, even a Sadist Teacher in the earlier episodes, but she really does care about the kids and Friendship Moments with them throughout the series, especially with Spinelli.
-   Rick Sanchez from _Rick and Morty_ is this, being insulting, abusive and emotionally distant but willing to save Morty and Summer.
-   X9 from _Samurai Jack_ is nothing but a Professional Killer as cold as the steel he is made of to anyone he has to kill. But he is a kind and loving companion to his dog, and deep inside he feels guilty about the innocents he has killed.
-   _Steven Universe_:
    -   Rainbow Quartz from the episode _We Need To Talk_ is both sides towards Greg Universe, _simultaneously_. She is a fusion between Rose Quartz and Pearl. Rose is using the fusion to impress Greg and to show off, but Pearl is using it in an attempt to torpedo Greg and Rose's relationship.
    -   Lapis Lazuli; sweet and playful towards Steven...bitter and angry towards everybody else. As the show goes on she slowly warms up to the other Gems, but it's a slow, hard journey.
-   Antauri from _Super Robot Monkey Team Hyperforce Go!_. He's serious, calm and collected, but he cares very much for his friends.
-   Octus from _Sym-Bionic Titan_, while a robot, apparently has emotions, which he normally keeps in check so as to be the balance between the often bickering Lance and Ilana. His warm side is shown when he's around Kimmy, who he says brings him something like "happiness". His warm side can also be seen at times around Lance and Ilana, as well as when he's watching Animal Friends.
-   Raven in _Teen Titans (2003)_ acts coldly towards everyone, partly due to attachment issues but mostly because her powers are tied to her emotions, and if she doesn't keep iron control over them at all times, she could get a dangerous case of Power Incontinence. However, she's willing to go to almost any lengths for her friends, and we occasionally see glimpses of her softer side.
    -   In the episode "Spellbound", she acted very sweet and girlish towards Malchior; however, by the end Malchior made her regret even _having_ a warmer side. For a while after the episode, she became visibly more withdrawn. Though when Beast Boy tried to comfort her, she _did_ go out and give him a hug as thanks.
    -   Played up even more sharply in the Season 5 episode "Hide and Seek." She couldn't stand having to babysit three kindergarten-age superheroes at first, but gradually she warmed up to them and turned into a full-blown Mama Bear when they were in danger. "Nobody messes WITH MY KIDS!", indeed.
    -   She's also protective of her friends. Mess with them, and you're toast.
-   _Young Justice (2010)_:
    -   Superboy is very distant and has a hard time showing his emotions, yet he's a good guy who shows a warmer side to those close to him like his girlfriend Miss Martian.
    -   Red Arrow is serious, aloof and a loner who refuses to join the team, but he still cares about his friends.

___