Follow

"Jason Blood, born of man  
A hidden evil lies within  
Spoken verse awakens sin  
And frees the demon Etrigan"

_"But I'm not my "kind", not anymore — your shadow leeches saw to that. I'm half Toa of Light, half Toa of Shadow. This was what you wanted, wasn't it? Toa consumed by darkness, Toa not hampered by things like mercy or morality. Well, now you can choke on it."_

The fight's not going so well for our hero. He's wounded and at the end of his strength, and his barely scratched opponent looks down at him and sneers. And then the hero somehow suddenly taps into a massive hidden power source within him and unleashes a can of whoopass on his opponent.

Unfortunately, it's not exactly the hero anymore. He's got glowing eyes, some new Facial Markings, a different way of talking, some new threads, and a lot less compunction about ripping someone in half. It's his Super-Powered Evil Side. Think of it as the Enemy Within when it's not the enemy, or as Jekyll and super-Hyde.

Interestingly, notwithstanding the name, this character isn't necessarily evil — he just seems like it because a superpowerful version of a normal person who has no compunctions about randomly destroying things registers objectively as "evil" on most people's scale. To be technically accurate, this is more of a Super-Powered Alter Id — this personality is the physical manifestation of the character's basic drives without having to deal with the inconvenience of higher thought processes and morality — but sometimes this character will have traits of actually being evil or even worse.

Keep in mind, of course, that as the Id not only represents one’s most base and primal desires, it also represents the instincts to survive, so once it’s let out of the subconscious it's not likely to want to go back in. Thus, the hero faces the very real threat of not returning to normal, each bout of Alternate Identity Amnesia causing him to get more worried about the next. Generally speaking, though, he's usually safe unless he starts thinking Evil Feels Good.

The narrative purpose of having a super-powered evil side is that it provides a way of saving a hero who is otherwise beaten but without making the hero look disproportionately powerful. It answers the question "why doesn't he just do that all the time?" with "because then the evil would take over." Additionally, if it leads to a Face–Heel Turn, it can serve the same purpose as Good Is Dumb in reverse — it justifies taking one member of the Five-Man Band or whatever and making him a match for his entire team while he has given in to evil. Alternatively, the evil side may escape his mind/body altogether, becoming a very dangerous Evil Counterpart.

This is the converse of With Great Power Comes Great Insanity, seeing as in this case, with great insanity comes great power.

One possible variation on this trope makes the Evil Side the _original_ personality. This creates the odd situation of an "Evil" super-powerful monster whose "Good" not-as-powerful personality is dominant for whatever reason.

This is sometimes the reason to Beware the Nice Ones. Compare with Crouching Moron, Hidden Badass, Demonic Possession, Jekyll & Hyde and One-Winged Angel. Frequently overlaps with Sealed Evil in a Can and Sealed Badass in a Can. Contrast Heroic Resolve, My Name Is Inigo Montoya, and Helpless Good Side, although that last one sometimes goes hand in hand with this. May be caused by The Corruption. One possible way of Taking A Level In Badass, and in many ways, this is what The Berserker does.

Sub-Trope of Enemy Within and Super-Powered Alter Ego. If the Super-Powered Evil Side is triggered by the character's anger or rage, then it is a type of Hulking Out.

___

## Example subpages:

-   Anime & Manga
-   Comic Books
-   Video Games

## Other examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Fan Works 

-   Played straight in _Ah! Archfall!_. Even before he had his Archs, Jago was a competent fighter but when things got rough, he could use his dark power side, known as "Papa Jupiter". At his most basic level, Jupiter can boost Jago's fighting power to the point where he can plaster ten grown men. At the full extent of his powers, he is AT LEAST as powerful as either the Almighty One or Lady Hild (possibly more so). Unfortunately at this level of power, he has no problem with killing people, even those he cares about (though he prefers enemies as they tend to fight back). As the story progresses, it's revealed that Jupiter taking over is the only thing that Jago is REALLY afraid of. This is brought to a head during the Deity Games when he faces a mirror that reflects a person's worst fears as sees the result of what a fully unleashed Jupiter can do; he devastates the world, crucifies Lamb and Damascus, beats Lind to death with a rock and uses his knife to murder their infant son. The psychic torment this causes is so great that it actually makes the mirror shatter.
-   During Chapters 27 and 28 of _BlazBlue Alternative: Remnant_, Ragna enters what's basically his Unlimited Mode. He becomes far more powerful, to the point of being an unstoppable juggernaut, but he loses all sense of control and becomes an Ax-Crazy destroyer, laying waste to the Vale docks, slaughtering the White Fang, and almost killing his friends in the process.
-   In _The Bridge (MLP)_, Monster X's Kaizer Ghidorah transformation serves as this. Monster X is a Noble Demon, while Kaizer Ghidorah is a bundle of hatred and rage. Monster X is roughly equal in strength to other kaiju like Godzilla and Gigan, while Kaizer Ghidorah can curb-stomp them.
-   _Child of the Storm_:
    -   Harry has a dark side that starts appearing after Chapter 50. While not strictly another personality, it's certainly another side of him. According to Carol (who's had a look inside his mind), like all the experiences that should have screwed him up have been locked away in a box in his mind, constituting his dark side. It's frighteningly cold, ruthlessly calculating, and while not explicitly more powerful, Carol describes it as The Unfettered, while others describe it as being frighteningly reminiscent of a young Magneto. In one early appearance, it resulted in Harry putting an entire HYDRA assault team at his mercy and nearly forcing a Psychic-Assisted Suicide after their leader took a child hostage, only being talked down by Jane. Then, a chapter later, it led to him telekinetically ripping Gravemoss' ribcage open and tearing his heart out (not that it had any long-term effect). Unsurprisingly, Carol keeps a close watch on him, as Harry does on himself, being invariably horrified by what he's done when it sinks in.
    -   Towards the end of the first book, Harry's protection is revealed as a fragment of the Phoenix Force, and the start of _Ghosts of the Past_ shows that he can tap into it. Considering the already mentioned dark side and that the Phoenix has taken him over to protect him, appearing in the gear of the Dark Phoenix and destroying everything in its way, this is rather worrying — while the Phoenix is broadly benevolent or at least, Lily, the White Phoenix of the Crown, is, the power itself is a) morally neutral, b) incredibly volatile. As a result, Loki's fear is that the two will combine and turn him into the Dark Phoenix. This fear turns out to be entirely justified.
    -   Bucky's Winter Soldier persona functions as this. He's still got the same abilities and skills, the Soldier persona is just much more ruthless, focused, and economical.
-   In _The Dark Side of the Mirror Verse_, Mirror Twilight creates the same Mana Drain device as Human Twilight did, which ends up draining mana from ponies at the party she's attending, including Mirror Tirek, resulting in it overloading and exploding (as she hadn't absorbed the World Mirror's magic to prevent such a thing from happening). This, combined with her bitterness, hatred, and envy of Princess Trixie, transforms her into Nightmare Spotlight. She promptly rips Canterlot apart to create a floating stage in the sky and attempts to kill Trixie to get revenge for the wrongs she thinks Trixie has done to her, planning to move onto everypony _else_ she feels did her wrong. All publicly before all of Equestria on a live 'show' to finally get the respect she believes she's been denied all her life.
-   _Date A Re:Live_: This _Date A Live_ has both existing and new inverse forms.
-   In _The Dear Sweetie Belle Continuity_, Twilight's research indicates that all alicorns are vulnerable to this if they swing too far to an extreme of the ideal or magic they are meant to personify, explaining Nightmare Moon. It is also implied Celestia went through this during Luna's exile. Cadance forms one, the Crystal Empress, once she learns of Shining Armor and Luna's affair.
-   There are a couple among the children of The Emiya Clan.
    -   Sakuya inherited part of the Angra Mainyu from her mother. Perhaps because of the diluted bloodline, it manifested itself as a slightly annoying second personality rather than a mad dark mode. The family calls them **Yin** and Yang to keep things simple. Yang is a bookish, modest, and generally reserved girl with mild Yuri Fan inclinations. **Yin** is an openly perverted, conniving, and slightly sadistic Yaoi Fangirl.
    -   Haru, by virtue of being a vampire, has his Dead Apostle side. It's more of a berserk mode, but an alternate future version of him, DA!Haru showcases what it could have made him into if he ever let it get out of control.
    -   Touma's ten years of torture and experimentation before being rescued left him with a cold-blooded alter ego called, ''The Ghost''. It isn't evil, but it has no moral inhibition, willing to do whatever it takes to protect those he cares for.
    -   Mana Ryougi has her alternate male personality, MANA, as per her family trait. She hates being told what to do by anyone, including herself, so she mostly ignores him. Until she has her Despair Event Horizon.
-   Count Logan is this for Beast Boy in _The End of Ends_.
-   Kallen has one in the fanfic _Fairy Without Wings_. It's the Etherious side of her soul.
-   Taiga has a variation in _Fate Game Night_ when she wields her shinnai, which she's stored all her negative emotions in (particularly hatred and anger), turning it into a pseudo cursed sword. Though its main weakness is that while she does become far stronger, the shinnai contains only a finite amount of power; once her hatred runs out, she turns back.
-   Played with in _Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality_. Harry has what he calls a "dark" side, which is extremely good at plotting and seeing through plots... but that's it. Harry, who is familiar with this trope, is _very_ put out when he discovers that it's no better at magic than him, and thus considers his "dark" side to be defective.
-   In _Heir_ by Na'hiel "Tom" the horcrux Voldemort accidentally made that resides in Harry's scar which has become sentient and very protective of his host is this for Harry.
-   _Holo-Chronicles_ has a few,
    -   Pre-evolution acts as this to most anybody who undergoes it. Temporary access to the power of one's evolved trait without the training required (or being Sora _sounds_ cool on paper, but the subject's mind and body are usually not built to handle the Diva-class power-up it gives them just yet. The result is an extremely powerful berserk talent that is gradually hurting themselves with their own strength.
    -   Vessel talents' powers are connected to various Ancient Ones (usually coming from the works of one H. P. Lovecraft), and there is generally a decent chance of them taking over. Even on its own, that's pretty insane, as _they_ can use the extremely overpowered Cast from Sanity magic granted to their vessels _for free_, but this could eventually lead to the Ancient One in question fully manifesting their power in the mortal realm. Mind you, they're so strong that they snack on lesser deities _just because_.
-   _Leviathan (My Hero Academia)_: Izuku Midoriya's quirk is the ability to transform into a titanic monster dubbed "The Leviathan" should he ever lose control of his emotions. The Leviathan is extremely powerful, flattening buildings with ease, but is completely and utterly uncontrollable. Izuku can give himself specific traits of the beast by moderating his emotions, but he's nowhere near as powerful as what a full transformation can do.
-   _The MLP Loops_: Played for Laughs. In canon, Luna went Drunk on the Dark Side, rebelled against her sister Celestia, and was banished to the moon for a thousand years. Whenever a Looper ascends to alicorn for the first time, soon after there will be a "sisters loop" where the new alicorn takes the place of Luna, with Twilight taking the place of Celestia. No matter how hard they try, the first time they experience such a loop the new alicorn will go Drunk with Power and have to be banished to the moon. Of course, this being Equestria, a lot of these dark sides are more than a little silly. Examples include "Hard Truth" (Applejack becomes obsessed with the entire country growing apples), "Danger Dash" (Rainbow Dash performs more and more pranks), "Party Pink" (Pinkie Pie won't stop throwing parties), "Flying Hatred" (Fluttershy suffers dangerous mood swings due to a curse), and "The Fashionista" (Rarity invades griffin lands in an attempt to open up more markets for her dresses). Big Mac is the only known alicorn who managed to avoid this fate on his first run, but then he hadn't actually ascended.
    
    **Twilight:** Congratulations on joining the alicorn club, it helps if you've thought of your evil self beforehand.
    
-   In _Mirrored_ while stuck in Voldemort's form Harry draws on the power of the horcrux. Subverted because while the horcrux gives him a significant boost it is acting in complete accordance with Harry's desires even the desire for Voldemort's death.
-   Something similar to the _Holo-Chronicles_ example above is the core of _Myth's Bad Ending_, with Ina being possessed by the Ancient Ones and wreaking havoc. Not only does she have the physical _and_ magical abilities to easily defeat Calli and Kiara simultaneously while they were both fighting at their strongest, but the possession also gives her a hilariously broken Healing Factor that let her regenerate from being turned to mush by Gawr.
-   In the _Pony POV Series_, Princess Luna _nearly_ reverts back into her Nightmare Moon form as a last ditch attempt to stop Discord, but manages to snap out of it. It's later revealed that at least some ponies have a similar Super-Powered Evil Side; Rainbow Dash nearly transforms before being calmed down at one point. Unfortunately, nopony is around to calm Fluttershy down when she snaps and she transforms into the Reality Warping Mad Goddess named Princess Gaia, a Well-Intentioned Extremist who seeks to turn the world into a utopia by brainwashing everyone into being happy and turning them into foals because she perceives them as being happier at that age.
    -   It's revealed in "Playtime" that Princess Gaia was simply an illusion hiding her _real_ Super-Powered Evil Side, the monstrous Nightmare Whisper.
    -   Luna explains the Super-Powered Evil Side thing a bit in "AJ's Dream": it's what happens when a single aspect of an alicorn (or being with a similar power, like a wielder of an Element of Harmony) consumes them and becomes the _only_ part of them. Nightmare Moon was when Luna's night became the only thing that mattered to her and Nightmare Whisper was when Fluttershy was consumed by her kindness. We're also shown possible Super-Powered Evil Side forms for Applejack (Nightmare Mirror), Rainbow Dash (Nightmare Manacle), and Pinkie Pie (Nightmare Granfalloon), though all of which are Alternate Universe versions of the mane cast.
    -   The final stretch of the Dark World arc introduces Nightmare Eclipse, an alternate-timeline Twilight Sparkle gone Nightmare after being consumed by the desire to make Discord suffer for what he's done, and thus created a "Groundhog Day" Loop to trap him in, deleting each world and rewinding time each time Discord is defeated so he can suffer some more... and not caring that she's casually deleting/killing millions of innocent ponies each & every time she resets the loop.
    -   In addition, the end of the Mind Games arc sees Diamond Tiara transform into a Nightmare, but as a result of Discord's psychological manipulation and breaking of her spirit rather than a facet of herself consuming her. Her theme is Discord's brand of chaos, and she earns a certain eight-pointed star symbol as her new Cutie Mark.
-   The plot of _The Power of the Equinox_ begins when Twilight Sparkle, trapped in the crystal caves beneath Canterlot, accidentally releases from a black crystal the Entity. After it takes root in her body, she transforms into a darker and carnivorous mare who has new powers, like a powerful healing factor and phasing abilities, and she can create appendages and weapons from the black substance that's attached to her. Making a point of no longer being Twilight Sparkle, she renames herself Dimmed Star. However, while more aggressive and aloof than before, she still cares about her loved ones to varying extend, and the worst things she does are done when the Entity takes control over her mind. Rainbow Dash lampshades this trope to Spike by saying that Twilight has "pulled a Nightmare Moon".
-   In the _Jackie Chan Adventures_ fic _Queen of All Oni_, the re-emergence of Jade's Queen of the Shadowkhan persona and her Start of Darkness that occurs because of it is what kicks off the entire plot.
-   _Shadows Awakening_: Jade gains a Shadowkhan form that she can switch in and out of, which gives her an edge in battle. But the more she uses it, the more The Queen's attempted corruption of her body and mind accelerates, being kept in check by only the Tiger Talisman.
-   _Shadows over Meridian_: Despite having performed a Split-Personality Merge with the Queen, Jade still somewhat has one of these — when she enters the bloodlust that comes with her new Oni biology, signified by her eyes glowing brighter and fangs sprouting in her mouth, she slips into a mindset much more like purely the Queen.
-   In _The Shadow Wars_ universe, a Nightmare can happen naturally or with the assistance of the Night Shadows, horrible parasitic possessors from a dying alternate universe.
-   Dark Cupid gets more than he bargained for in _Spellbound (Lilafly)_ when he hits Chat Noir with one of his Mind Control arrows. Since Adrien is half-fae, and his fae side is resistant to magic, the arrow merely suppresses his human side — the side that has recognisable morality and compassion and other such niceties like restraint. He proceeds to enjoy beating Dark Cupid to a pulp and would have outright killed him if Ladybug hadn't intervened.
    
    **Faedrien**: Y_o_u _ſ_h_o_u_l_d_n_’t _h_a_v_e _d_o_n_e _t_h_i_s.
    
-   In the _Tamers Forever Series_, Chaos is Takato's Super-Powered Evil Side, and the reason why pushing Takato's Berserk Button is a **very** bad idea.
-   In the _Star Trek Into Darkness_ fic _That Was A Good Fight_ this happens to Kirk as a side-effect of Khan's blood.
-   In the Death Note fanfic _Zenith, Darkness, Reverie_, this is Kira's purpose. Although the "superpower" in question is Kira's utter lack of morality and the willingness to wield the Death Note. Kali is arguably the more intelligent/strategically capable personality.
-   _Zero 2: A Revision_ has the Digimon emperor being presented as Ken's dark side whenever he shows up as a result of Demon's Dark Spores. Later, in an attempt to stall the prevent the Digidestined from entering the real world and destroy his entire army and to keep the Digidestined from evolving their Digimons so that he will remain at full power to combat Demon, Umbradevimon decides to corrupt Davis, using his own jealousy and hatred for TK against him with the help of the Touch of Evil as well as 15 black gears to create Darkheart, Davis's own evil self. Darkheart at first starts out as an obedient automaton whose only purpose is to keep the Digidestined on their toes under Umbradevimon's instructions. Unfortunately just as the Digidestined decides to enter the real world and leave some behind to stall him, Demon inserts a Dark Spore to him which gives him free will and becomes a sadistic psychopath hellbent on absorbing the Digidestined just because he can do it and to become the greatest villain of all time. Umbradevimon's plan unintentionally works a bit too well as Darkheart single-handedly managed to create the Darkest Hour for the entire Digidestined a long time (13 chapters to be exact) before he finally gets taken down.

    Films — Animated 

-   _Heavy Metal_ segment "Captain Sternn". While under the influence of the Loc-Nar, Hanover Fiste grows into a mightily muscled hulk and smashes through all opposition in an attempt to murder Sternn. Once everyone's gone, he turns back. Sternn then thanks him for getting him out of the trial... before shooting him out of an airlock in lieu of payment.
-   In _The Iron Giant_ the giant is pretty powerful on his own but friendly. You do _NOT_ want to push his Berserk Button, however.
-   Uni-Kitty from _The LEGO Movie_ is normally a Genki Girl Cloud Cuckoolander. However, it's shown she has some pretty bad anger issues, and when sufficiently pushed she transforms into a demonic, red-furred version of herself that can fly and bite Micromanagers in half.
-   _My Little Pony: Equestria Girls_:
    -   Sunset Shimmer in the first film is a nasty person, but she still has limits; she doesn't kill Twilight and she lets Spike go rather than trade him for the Element of Magic, when she has her chance. When she corrupts herself (with the Element of Magic) into a demon form, she has no such limitations and tries to fry Twilight and her friends without a second thought. She's immediately remorseful for what she's done after being turned back, and in later movies is able to harness the power of the Elements without becoming corrupted thanks to The Power of Friendship.
    -   At the climax of _My Little Pony: Equestria Girls – Friendship Games_, Twilight Sparkle's human counterpart transforms into Midnight Sparkle after being pressured into unleashing the magic inside her magic-absorbing amulet. With this power, she blasts open portals to Equestria all over the place, with little regard for the stability of the non-magical human world. She snaps out of it thanks to Sunset Shimmer.
-   The anime movie _Tekkonkinkreet_ has the main character Black get saved from space aliens by his own Super-Powered Evil Side known as "The Minotaur" which then tries to completely overtake him and show him the true power "The Minotaur" can unleash.
-   In _Turning Red_, Mei is led to believe by her female relatives that the red panda spirit is essentially this.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   In _Forbidden Planet,_ the ancient alien civilization made a giant machine that is capable of turning thoughts into reality. It turns out that the machine works even better with subconscious thoughts.
-   Donning _The Mask_ unleashes a person's Super-Powered Chaotic Side. However, when it is wielded by the villain, he becomes even more of a monster. In the comics, however, it unleashes a more "evil" side to a person, as the eponymous mask takes the driver's seat of their mind.
-   Nathan Wallace in _Repo! The Genetic Opera_ is a sweet, loving, family man. Until he puts on his helmet, at which point he becomes the merciless Repo Man.
-   The version of Venom in _Spider-Man 3_ is Peter's Super-Powered Evil Side, and it begins to affect his personality. The catch is, Venom's just enhancing Peter's latent personality traits, so out-of-costume his evil side comes across as a massive dork, and he is generally an asshole to everyone rather than being a figure of terrible power. Now for Brock, who's already portrayed as an asshole from the beginning, it's a different story. It should be noted Evil Pete isn't _that_ nice. He makes a reasonable effort to kill Sandman and is at least indifferent to whether Harry survives a pumpkin bomb to the face.
-   The premise of the movie _Split_ is a man with 23 personalities kidnaps three women to sacrifice them to a Super Powered new personality called The Beast when it emerges. Most of his personalities are decent people, and he is horrified by what he has done when his original personality briefly gets in control again. The explanation given for how The Beast has superpowers is the idea that a person with Dissociative Identity Disorder can change their bodies based on their beliefs although the Twist Ending of the movie reveals that it takes place in the same universe as _Unbreakable_ where superheroes and villains do exist.
-   _Star Wars_:
    -   Franchise-wide: It's possible for a Jedi to temporarily become stronger by tapping into The Dark Side, but with the consequence that it can become permanent. It's also not guaranteed to work since it can backfire and lead to their making stupid mistakes due to being Drunk on the Dark Side. For example, this is how Luke Skywalker defeats Darth Vader in _Return of the Jedi_ after being provoked into an Unstoppable Rage by Vader's use of the Relative Button. Palpatine even says it: "Your hate has made you powerful." Luke refuses to kill Vader after defeating him, though he comes very close, and if he had that would have led to becoming the new Vader.
    -   _Revenge of the Sith_: As explained by George Lucas, this is also how Anakin defeats Master Swordsman Count Dooku... but it has the cost of causing him to edge closer to The Dark Side. Unlike his son, he gives into his anger and kills Dooku, leading to his fall to the Dark Side later on. And despite believing himself to be more powerful because of this, it leads to him trying a reckless maneuver during his fight with Obi-Wan Kenobi that results in some horrific injuries (which are the reason he needs to wear the black suit in the original trilogy).
-   Various film adaptations of _The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde_, though this is not present in the original book:
    -   _Van Helsing_: Hyde is an ape-like man of superhuman strength.
    -   _The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen_: Hyde is essentially the Hulk, a superpowered brute who is hard to control but ultimately not _evil_.
-   In _Suicide Squad (2016)_, archaeologist June Moone inherits the powerful and evil spirit of The Enchantress, and can tap into The Enchantress's evil powers by speaking her name. Amanda Waller attempts to make The Enchantress a member of the Suicide Squad, however The Enchantress gets permanent control of June Moone early on and becomes the main villain instead.
-   _Upgrade_: STEM has far fewer qualms about killing people than Grey does, and it certainly can move Grey's body in ways that Grey, or most humans even with extensive training, can. It also turns out being an Enemy Within.

    Literature 

-   Rachel from _Animorphs_ has _two_ examples: in _The Separation_ a freak accident with a starfish morph splits her into two Rachels, a 'Nice Rachel' that's timid, ditzy, and strategic, and 'Mean Rachel' who gets all of Rachel's Blood Knight instincts but none of her restraint. Later in _The Return_ Crayak tempts Rachel with godlike power, transforming her into a steel-clawed, indestructible killing machine dubbed 'Super Rachel'.
-   In _Count to the Eschaton_, hero Menelaus also has houses the super-powered and amoral Iron Menelaus. Likewise with Del Azarchel/Iron Del Azarchel.
-   Myrren Kahliana in _Dark Heart_ discovers she has one as she learns to use her magical powers. It saves her life more than once, but when it comes out, it doesn't want to go back in.
-   _Date A Live_ has Inverse Form, a state which Spirits enter if they pass the Despair Event Horizon. In Inverse Form, a Spirit is far more powerful and also lacks any sense of restraint. Their weapon, previously referred to as an "Angel", is replaced by a darker counterpart called a "Demon King". Interestingly, it's later revealed that this is the true personality of Spirits.
-   In _Deltora Quest_, when Steven is in danger, he transforms into/releases Nevets, who usually rips apart nearby enemies, along with everyone else stupid enough to get near him.
-   Beranabus, in Darren Shan's Demonata series. As a result of being half demon, he was able to turn into one. He does this only once because he's afraid that this ability is one of these, in order to fight Death. He succeeds in his goal of sending it back into the demonata's universe, but dies in the process..
-   _Discworld_: Sam Vimes has one that he calls the Beast, which starts off as a natural part of Vimes' mind, but gains a boost in power when he's infected by the Summoning Dark, an ancient dark force of vengeance. He also has a Superpowered _Good_ Side, his "inner watchman", that calls itself the Guarding Dark and is not only capable of keeping Vimes' own internal darkness (the aforementioned Beast) in check, but also repels the Summoning Dark when it tries to take over Vimes.
-   In the _Dreamblood Duology_, Gatherers are well-trained and educated priests capable of killing people in their dreams and making them enjoy it. Reapers are Gatherers who have lost control and become addicted to the dreamblood they collect as their job. Those are capable of killing hundreds or thousands of people at the same time just to get their desired dreamblood.
-   The _Dresden Files_ have the Denarians, fallen angels sealed in silver coins. So much as touch the coin, and they get a free pass to the back of your mind, to convince you in any way they can to accept their power. Once you do, they go from backseat driver to Super-Powered Evil Side and grant you extreme power, at the low, low cost of your immortal soul. Over time, the human host starts to become as evil as the Denarian (if they weren't already).
-   _Egil's Saga_: When Egil's father Skallagrim is in a fit of 'shape-strength', he is even stronger than usual but also an incontrollable madman who kills indiscriminately. When Egil is twelve and playing at a ball game against his father and it looks like Skallagrim is going to lose, he suddenly becomes 'shape-strong' and kills Egil's best friend Thord, his nanny Thorgerd, and very nearly Egil himself.
-   In _The First Law_ series, Logen Ninefingers is known as a vicious and bloodthirsty berserker called the Bloody-Nine. However, Logen is actually a pretty nice guy who really doesn't like fighting very much. His Bloody-Nine persona is an alternate personality of unstoppable bloodlust. When the Bloody-Nine takes over, Logen becomes superhumanly fast and strong as well as nigh-invulnerable. Logen hates his Bloody-Nine side, however, because he kills everything in sight, friend and foe alike.
-   In _House of Leaves_, Johnny Truant channels his Super-Powered Evil Side against Gdansk Man. The way in which Truant thrashes him and how the book describes Gdansk Man's wounds afterwards has led to some Epileptic Trees, such as Johnny Truant **is** the Minotaur.
-   Most werewolves that aren't villainous in human form get a lot more powerful and don't mind the taste of blood when transformed. Both the _Kitty Norville_ and _Mercy Thompson_ series have werewolf choosing their animal form for combat, and the _Kitty Norville_ series portrays the Wolf as an alternate personality. The Wolf won't go out of its way to Kick the Dog, but it won't really care about taboos regarding cannibalism or murder.
-   In _The Lord of the Rings_, the bearers of the Elven Rings are terrified of acquiring a Super-Powered Evil Side should they ever come into possession of the One Ring. The One Ring would give them far greater powers than the ones they already have, but would simultaneously also corrupt any achievements that the Ring had made possible, no matter how benign their original intentions were.
-   In the _Malus Darkblade_ series, the title character can use T'zarkan, the daemon possessing him as this, but with a twist: each time it happens, T'zarkan gains a little more control over him.
-   In _The Other Kind Of Roommate_, Xander is very rightly this to Alex. On top of being ten times more of an aggressive and amoral personality, complete with every profanity known to man, plus a few he strings together, he's the half with chock full of the enthusiasm needed to use their powers' final setting.
-   In the _Paradox Trilogy_, this afflicts symbionts. The alien implant which grants a symbiont its powers can take control of the host's body in his sleep; while it isn't exactly sentient, it is full of bloodlust and hatred and will hurt anyone the host cares about if it can.
-   Subverted in _Ravelling Wrath_. The setup of the story is that the Blood God will enter Rinn's mind, giving her magic powers and making her want to kill Yali. Which does happen... but when Rinn finally lets the Blood God fully take over near the end of the story, there's no fight. Instead, it leads to valuable communication that helps the heroes learn the true cause of the conflict.
-   In _Redwall_, some animals (usually badgers) can go into a berserker rage called the "Bloodwrath" which makes them _extremely_ powerful, and able to totally ignore pain... and also no longer able to tell friend from foe, meaning it's dangerous to _anyone_ who's nearby when they go into this rage.
-   In _Skulduggery Pleasant_, Darquesse and Lord Vile are the superpowered evil sides of Valkyrie Cain and Skulduggery Pleasant, respectively.
    -   Darquesse is Valkyrie's True Name, and using the incredible powers that come from knowing her True Name enhances all of her negative personality traits and causes her to revel in death and destruction, seeing everyone else as ants to be crushed at her whim, before developing a form of Blue-and-Orange Morality that is even more unsettling. She's capable of destroying the world, even potentially the universe. It only gets worse once she body-jacks Stephanie, Valkyrie's evolved reflection. Ironically, developing empathy via reabsorbing the 'Kes' fragment, exploring the world, then arranging to be reborn actually ends up making her an All-Loving Hero who _saves_ the universe, restarting it from nothing at the cost of her own existence.
    -   Lord Vile was created when Skulduggery first came back to life and fell into despair over the death of his wife and child. Being undead unlocked and enhanced his latent potential for Necromancy, and he became little more than a killing machine serving under Mevolent as that gave him the most options to kill people - he didn't care about bringing back the Faceless Ones beyond getting the chance to kill a god (which he was entirely capable of). Of all the Three Generals, he was the most feared and causes an even bigger Oh, Crap! reaction than Mevolent himself, and the plan when fighting him was 'get an army, attack together, hope someone gets lucky'. He eventually came to realize the monster he'd become and hid away Lord Vile's Necromancy-infused armour for centuries. Unfortunately, being trapped alone in the Faceless Ones' realm for a year weakens his resolve to keep Lord Vile locked away, and his subconscious started to reanimate it. He made his long-anticipated return by casually slaughtering a previously unstoppable Russian assassin who'd beaten Skulduggery, Valkyrie, Tanith, and Ghastly just because they were between him and his target, then beat Skulduggery to a pulp, before vanishing after informing him that he was back to find and kill the Necromancers' new Death Bringer. When said Death Bringer, a necromancer altered into a Humanoid Abomination capable of killing millions and who just absorbed the lives of several hundred powerful sorcerers, faces him, she can beat the armour. But when Skulduggery reclaims it, it's all Valkyrie can do to prevent him from killing them both in seconds, and the only person who can fight him evenly is _Darquesse_. Oh, and his ultimate goal is to kill everything.
-   _Star Wars_: Exar Kun, Darth Vader, Ulic Qel-Droma, Darth Malak... when a Jedi falls to the Dark Side, it's time to get out of Dodge.
-   _Trapped on Draconica_: Halfway transforming into Mordak makes Kalak far more powerful but it also makes him a mindless killing machine.
-   Philuffy in _Undefeated Bahamut Chronicle_ has her Abyss state, which greatly increases her strength, regeneration, and even mental capabilities. This is due to being implanted with tissue from the Puppeteer Parasite Yggdrasil, so when she first used this power it rendered her susceptible to its control. After Yggdrasil's death, this is no longer a risk. The state isn't inherently evil, but it does make her susceptible to control by horn flutes (a type of artifact that can control Abyss).
-   _Villains by Necessity_: Sam, courtesy of Valeriana's medallion. He grows stronger with its power and gains an ability to enter a shadow world, but also makes him grow evil and is very addictive.
-   _Wild Cards_:
    -   The Radical has the combined powers of all other alter-egos of Captain Trips, thus making one of the most powerful aces. He's also, depending on where you stand, a Well-Intentioned Extremist or a full-blown villain. Obviously he won't let Trips take back the control of his body.
    -   Greg Hartmann is an amoral, egoistic, and hypocritical politician who doesn't care about whom he uses, kills, maims, or hurts in his hunt for power. He is clearly an evil character, but he is absolutely lovely compared to his alter ego Puppetman, a complete sadist and sociopath who uses his potent emotion manipulation power to bring out the worst in everyone and only lives to revel in the violence and horror he creates.
-   In _Wings of Fire_, Clay thinks he has a suppressed bloodlust in him due to having attacked the other dragonets at their hatching, causing the dragons raising them to think he's a monster. It turns out to be subverted when it's revealed that Clay's "attack" was Big Brother Instinct, helping the others hatch.
-   Stormform in _Words of Radiance_ grants the Parshendi the power to call lightning and invoke an Everstorm, but in order to enter it you have to bond with a spirit of pure hatred.
-   In _The Zombie Knight_, hyper states count as this when the reaper-servant pair isn't old enough and well enough synchronized to control them. For years after they first unlock the state, using it puts them in a state of self-hypnosis where they're driven solely by the desire to attack. When Harper and Darsihm (bonded for ~30 years) use _pan-rozum_, the fact that they were able to maintain a small "whitelist" of souls they shouldn't target was an amazing feat of control, and even that was nearly a disaster since there were hostages around whose souls they hadn't memorized.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Arrowverse_:
    -   _The Flash (2014)_: In the third season, Caitlin starts manifesting her Earth-2 counterpart's superpowers. Eventually, this starts to result in the Killer Frost persona taking over, complete with white hair, icy blue eyes, and a reverbing voice, not to mention the cold powers. It's made clear that Caitlin and Frost are constantly struggling for control. This is foreshadowed by Frankie Kane, whose body is occasionally taken over by her Flashpoint counterpart Magenta, with glowing magenta eyes, an evil smile, and metal control powers. Barry is able to talk Frankie into reining Magenta in, though. (As for Caitlin, after a several-episode run in full Killer Frost mode, when Savitar is on the verge of finishing Cisco off, she finds she can't bring herself to allow it, and returns to Team Flash for the final battle — but _not_ to her original pre-powers personality. Even she isn't sure who she is anymore, and pulls a 10-Minute Retirement while she rediscovers herself between seasons.) Frost eventually develops into more of a Jerk with a Heart of Gold, acting as a Superpowered Alter Ego to Caitlin.
    -   _Supergirl (2015)_:
        -   Samantha Arias is an average single mother who eventually discovers she has Kryptonian powers, but can't activate them at will, only during stressful situations. Her cold and ruthless "Reign, the Worldkiller" persona has full control over her powers and is even more powerful than Supergirl. In their first fight, she beats up Supergirl so badly she is broken and bleeding and needs to be hospitalized, while Reign doesn't have a scratch on her despite taking several hits. Eventually, Samantha manages to destroy her Reign personality, but this causes her to lose her powers, basically leaving her an ordinary human.
        -   Brainiac-5, or "Brainy," is the White Sheep of the extended Brainiac clan. It turns out he is only able to maintain his emotions and more heroic outlook by boxing up his Genetic Memory. When tortured, his cybernetic brain glitches, all the boxes open, he _slaughters_ his captors, and then casually sacrifices his own allies for the sake of the mission.
-   Lori developed one in the _Big Wolf on Campus_ episode "Manchurian Werewolf" after being bit by a brainwashed Tommy. She became a member of the werewolf syndicate. Merton also got a dose of the evil life in "Everybody fang chung tonight" and "Boy who tried wolf" where he become a vampire and a werewolf.
-   _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_ has two of these:
    
    -   If Angel loses his soul (due to the lingering effects of a Gypsy Curse), he becomes the brilliant and formidable Angelus, widely reputed to be the most vicious vampire in history. As Cordelia Chase once queried about Angelus's evident genius compared to his heroic alter ego's, "...what is it about evil that jacks up the I.Q. points?" More emphasis on the evil, though.
    -   Played with for a bit in his own series when he became a Knight Templar version of himself: as Angelus, he'll gloat and joke and dream up sadism. As a frightening mix of the two, Angel is basically the most vicious vampire in history, on _our_ side.
    
    Let them fight the good fight. Someone has to fight the war.
    
    -   When Willow is pushed to the snapping point, she unleashes a Super-Powered Evil Side in a BAD way, replete with utterly delightful badass one-liners. "I. OWE. YOU. PAIN."
    -   The depth of this is such that Willow, the cutest, sweetest, and most innocent of the Scoobies at series start, becomes the only non-Giles member of the Scoobies to have directly murdered an innocent person. (Glory wasn't innocent, but the human Ben was.)
    -   The emphasis here is on the superpowered — Dark Willow is arguably the most powerful known being in the Buffyverse.
    -   As time goes on, Willow seems to have her Super-Powered Evil Side under control. It's more that she turns evil when she uses powerful black magic, and/or is driven by negative emotions like grief and fury, but reverts to good when she stops. A scene in Season 7 demonstrates this effectively: while using a powerful barrier spell to protect an innocent girl from a spider demon, Willow gets the black eyes and black hair, and also calls the girl a bitch. After the demon leaves, she goes back to normal and apologizes to the girl.
-   _The Crow: Stairway to Heaven_: In lieu of 22 non-stop episodes of a demented supernatural killer running about creating mayhem, the TV series of the film of the comic book created a personality split for Eric, where the Crow persona takes over when he becomes enraged or is under particular stress, or someone uses magic to make it happen.
-   The Doctor from _Doctor Who_ is seen as this by John Smith, his temporary human self in "Human Nature/The Family of Blood".
    -   The Time Lord Victorious and the Valeyard both qualify as this to the Doctor.
-   In the _Farscape_ universe, starving Delvians start sprouting growths that paralyze any predators that touch them, turning would-be predators into prey. If that doesn't help, they'll start emitting spores, gradually paralyzing any and all lifeforms in the vicinity. In this state, higher cognitive functions are compromised, gradually turning them more and more feral. And if the said Delvian is Zhaan who was nice only due to her Heroic Willpower in the first place...
-   Every heroic vampire protagonist or Supporting Character: see _Forever Knight_, _Angel_, and _Moonlight_.
-   Niki in _Heroes_ has her amoral alter ego Jessica, who has sole control of her super strength until the finale, when Niki finally gets to use it for herself. She might have used it once on impulse a few episodes prior to stop an attacking policeman — this is debatable. In the second season, it was explained that some people suffer a dissociative break to cope with the new reality of being a metahuman. When Niki conquered the Jessica persona at the conclusion of the first season finale, she manifested a third personality named Gina several weeks later.
-   _The Incredible Hulk (1977)_:
    -   In "Dark Side", David suppresses one side of his brain and succeeds only in letting his, well, dark side take over. He still doesn't kill anyone, but the usual halfway-point-Hulk-out-that-doesn't-affect-the-plot is much more interesting than usual.
    -   This was played with in another episode, wherein David discovered that a small-town scientist had succeeded in creating a Hulk-like creature decades ago. Reading through the scientists' notes in hope of getting insight into a cure for his own condition (while being assisted by the now-elderly lab assistant who had originally transformed many years ago), David reads an observation by the scientist that the creature is murderous and cruel, and notes that he believes it is due to the inherent personality of the human subject. Cue an Oh, Crap! by David as he realizes there's a secret reason why the lab assistant is being so helpful in trying to recreate the process that made him into a Hulk. The early Hulk wasn't an evil side, it was just the _already_ evil personality of the lab assistant with the strength to do as it pleased.
-   A really beautiful Deconstruction is the British TV series _Jekyll_.
-   _Kamen Rider_:
    -   In _Kamen Rider Kuuga_, Kuuga's Ultimate Form could possibly make its user become the ultimate evil and destroy the world and has a kick capable of doing said act.
        -   The _Kamen Rider Decade_ version of Kuuga also possesses this form but unlike the original, he remains the evil 'Black Eyed' version his entire run in this form. Taken further when he gains Rising Ultimate form which first used as a mind-controlled Dragon by the Big Bad.
        -   Decade gains an evil alternate form in his Violent Emotion form, which turns him into a destroyer of realities.
    -   _Kamen Rider Blade_: The Joker Undead is a feral Wild Card that can only fight and destroy. Thanks to the Mantis and Human Undead, it had developed an identity as Hajime Aikawa, who suppressed any notion of his true nature out of fear.
    -   _Kamen Rider Kabuto_'s Tsurugi Kamishiro is actually the Scorpioworm, who manages to overpower both Cassisworm Clipeuses when he was unable to defeat even one as Kamen Rider Sasword.
    -   _Kamen Rider OOO_: PuToTyra combo can easily deal even with complete Greeed and also is the only combo capable of destroying the regular medals. Unfortunately, the forbidden medals can move on their own and take control of Eiji, turning him into a snarling, animalistic berserk.
    -   One of the means of making war hell in _Kamen Rider Build_. The Hazard forms are capable of steamrolling anything below Evol Driver and are a solid competition even to it. They are not a triumph card, but a Godzilla Threshold as the raw power unleashed overloads the user's brain and shuts down their conscious mind, all in a matter of minutes. What's left is no more than a silent, precise Attack Animal destroying everything in sight. The first time Sento used it traumatized everyone there to see it and shattered his already fragile mental state.
-   In _Lost Girl_, Bo has a major Super-Powered Evil Side, draining a whole room of people of their life force when someone is about to kill her lover.
-   In _Power Rangers in Space_ this was one of the biggest parts of the entire plot. Astronema was actually the Super-Powered Evil Side of Karone, who was Andros' sister, kidnapped and brainwashed as a child. When she found out she made an honest attempt at a Heel–Face Turn, but the Dark Specter had other ideas, and she was brainwashed into being even worse than before. Eventually, her evil side was banished forever by Zordon's Heroic Sacrifice, and she became a hero in her own right in the following season.
-   In the live-action _Pretty Guardian Sailor Moon_, Sailor Moon's alternate persona Princess Serenity is a Super-Powered Love Makes You Evil Side. The second half of the series is spent just trying to contain her, and upon the realization she can't be contained, at least minimize the damage she causes.
-   _Smallville_:
    -   Clark's "Kal" persona when he is affected by red kryptonite.
        -   The episode _Exile_ deserves a special mention. It is a full episode of Clark doing everything ever linked to the word Superdickery, including but not limited to robbing banks (beating up the would-be robbers on the way), roughing up Chloe after she spent two months trying to convince him to go home, making a deal with a crime boss to break into a high-security vault and coming to actual blows with Jonathan. Oh, he stole and destroyed Chloe's class ring too. He is actually affected by the red kryptonite in Chloe's ring, and breaking it finally frees him from his Super-Powered Evil Side.
    -   There's also Kal-El, Clark's Enemy Within who uses his powers a lot more efficiently and can even fly.
    -   Isobel the witch becomes this for Lana in Season 4.
    -   Davis Bloome in Season 8 has perhaps the ulitmate Super-Powered Evil Side in Doomsday, an alien Serial Killer and Person of Mass Destruction that is trapped inside of him. The good news: it's possible to repress Doomsday. The bad news: the only way to do it is for Davis to commit murders as himself, a fact that slowly drives him insane, even as it lets him access Doomsday's power while he's in his own body.
    -   Gordon Godfrey has Darkseid in Season 10.
-   _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_: In "The Alternate" episode, Odo temporarily gets a Super-Powered Evil Side after being exposed to a psychotropic gas on L-S VI. Its effects cause him to involuntarily transform into a monstrous form, driven by rage and self-preservation.
-   Sam Winchester, _Supernatural_. When he taps into the demonic "special child" aspect, he is extremely powerful (telekinesis, exorcism, torturing/killing of demons, immunity to attacks by demons) but loses all his humanity and morality and becomes arrogant, violent, and cold. His eyes turn yellow or black on a couple of occasions.
    -   And Dean Winchester, in a way. In Season 10, The Mark Of Cain turns its bearer into a heartless evil murderer who loves brutally killing everyone, and has the potential to turn them into a demon, and demons tend to have super-strength. In the past, Dean would punch an angel and doing it is like punching an iron wall; Painful. In Season 10, the Mark turned Dean into a demon, he was cured and turned back into his human self, but the Mark still affected him and slowly turned him into this cold-blooded killer. It also enhanced his raw physical strength because he managed to beat the crap out of Castiel; an angel he already punched before, but it didn't even leave a mark and he nearly broke his hand hitting him. Yet Dean was able to beat the same angel into a bloody mess and leave him laying on the floor with probably a broken nose. Now, granted Castiel wasn't at full strength at the time, but Dean also punched Cupid once and almost broke his fist, and surely Castiel would still remain stronger than a low-ranking Cupid, even when he's half-de-powered... right?
-   _Tokumei Sentai Go Busters_ and _Power Rangers Beast Morphers_ have the Blue Ranger Ryuji/Ravi. He has Super-Strength, but the longer he uses it the more he risks becoming a violent berserker, attacking even his teammates. However, at least once, he pushes himself into that state on purpose to overcome one of the Co-Dragons.
    -   _Beast Morphers_ also gives this to the Red Ranger with his Fury Mode upgrade, a set of armor with enhanced durability, and Wolverine Claws powered by an energy source stolen from the villains.
-   The 'good' vampires on _The Vampire Diaries_ are this when their humanity is turned off:
    -   Subverted. Stefan Salvatore is a great example of this when he becomes Ripper!Stefan.
    -   Elena Gilbert's non-humanity side is also subverted. Not necessarily different in physical strength, but also much more cold, arrogant, ruthless, and calculating, so the Salvatore brothers have to keep a sharp eye on her. They did their best trying to bring her back to her old self again. She also happens to be extremely fearless when she's in this phase.
    -   Caroline Forbes is a pretty straight example. She was even more capable of putting her brute strength and compulsion abilities to use without hesitation, especially when she forced Stefan to turn his humanity off to save his niece.
-   _Wynonna Earp_: Waverly is a Nephilim whose only known abilities are a combination of Healing Hands and Touch of Death, but when her angel half takes her over, she gains wings, a lot of power, and a complete apathy towards humans that is only broken when Nicole trades her ability to leave the Ghost River Triangle to get Waverly's humanity back.

    Music 

    Mythology & Religion 

-   Egyptian Mythology: In the _Book of the Heavenly Cow_, Ra sent Hathor — the matriarchal bovine goddess — to punish a group of mortals who had conspired against him. Hathor transformed into the leonine war-goddess Sekhmet and decided to just kill everything instead, and was only stopped and turned back into Hathor when Ra tricked her into getting drunk on beer dyed to look like blood.
-   Kali is this to Durga/Parvati in Hindu Mythology. Durga in warrior mode could not defeat a demon who spawned new demons from each drop of blood that hit the ground, so she became Kali, who drank each drop before it could hit the ground, then killed the demon. But then she went on a rampage that only stopped when she injured her husband, the shock turning her back to the gentle Parvati.
-   Older Than Print: Cuchulainn in Irish Mythology has a prime example of this kind of Unstoppable Rage. In the epic, _Táin Bó Cúailnge_, he enters a "Ríastrad" or "Warp Spasm." In this state he transforms into a horribly mutilated monster whose very appearance is enough to scare enemies away. The catch is that, while in this form, Cuchulainn may not know friend from foe. (See _Sláine_ from _2000 AD_ to see just _how_ mutilated he looks.) In some stories, Cuchulainn must wear a special girdle or harness to keep his body from tearing itself apart when the warp spasm takes him.

    Professional Wrestling 

-   Delirious will swap out his green attire for red attire when one of his enemies has made the mistake of making him _really_ angry, using more heelish tactics and weaponry, and even spitting poison mist in people's faces.
-   There are hints that this is what is happening when Finn Bálor puts on the Demon war paint for big matches.
-   This was Mick Foley's schtick for a while in the WWE: when he needed a "boost" for a match, he'd come out as either his Mankind or Cactus Jack persona.
-   This trope is a tradition in Japanese pro wrestling, where many wrestlers unveil an evil persona to face a special threat or to play mind games with a rival, and sometimes get in storyline overcome by these personas and turn fully heel because Evil Is Not a Toy. Among them there are Keiji Muto's "Great Muta" and his many emulators, The Great Sasuke's "SASUKE", Hard Gay's "Super HG", BxB Hulk's "Killer Hulk", Gamma's "Gamma Daio", Kikutaro's red mask, and many others.
    -   In 1996, Japanese wrestler Jushin Thunder Liger, who traditionally played the role of a face, unveiled his "Kishin Liger" heel persona, when he wrestled heel wrestler the Great Muta, who mid-match ripped Liger's mask off, revealing his "oni face". Liger's wrestling style would become notably more aggressive and heel-like in this persona.

    Puppet Shows 

-   An episode of _Mr. Meaty_ had Parker (who is normally calm under pressure because he just blissfully takes all those insults people kept throwing at him in) turn into a Hulk-like monster due to being unable to hold all those insults in any longer.

    Roleplay 

-   In the DCU role-playing universe of _JLA Watchtower/DC Nation_, Fauna, a sweet, quiet Granola Girl shapeshifter has this problem if you push her too far. Also, the more complicated her shapeshifting or extensive the use of her other abilities, the more feral she becomes.
-   Simon from _Dawn of a New Age: Oldport Blues_ has an evil split personality known as the Dark Dragon. While both of them are capable of manipulating plasma, Dark Dragon is capable of doing so to a much stronger degree than Simon and also lacks the inhibitions that make Simon hesitant to use his power.
-   In the fandom role-play _Infamous: After the Blast_ and all of its subsequent storylines, the (debatably) main protagonist, Felix Shane, is revealed to have this. Originally thought to be a form of Dissociative Identity Disorder or something similar, it's later revealed that Felix Shane does not, in fact, have any alternate personalities. Instead, he actually WANTS to murder all the time, but holds that side of him back whenever possible. However, when he does let it out, he becomes significantly more powerful, as he's no longer holding himself back. This side of him is his Psych/3rd "personality." Contrast with his Shadow/2nd personality, who has the same effect but is released through his indomitable rage.

    Tabletop Games 

-   In _Dungeons & Dragons 3.5_, there is a prestige class called Frenzied Berserker. Once they've Frenzied, which is like a Barbarian's Rage but moreso, they attack until either the frenzy runs out, they are incapacitated/dead, they pass a will save, or there's nobody nearby.
-   _Exalted_ has a couple instances where the characters go temporarily insane on some level:
    -   The Solar Exalted might have this particular category nailed; one of their abilities — Ascendant Battle Visage — places them into a battle trance that physically changes them to reflect their Battle Aura, and grants them intense and brutal combative skill. Remaining in this state too long, however, sends them into an Unstoppable Rage, at which point they become even deadlier, and fight until either they're dead or everything else that might be considered an enemy is dead.
    -   The Ghost-Blooded (in the 1st edition at least) could learn a certain Arcanos called Lower Soul Ascendant, which fits this trope to a T — increased physical power at the cost of embracing sociopathic behavior.
-   The _Chronicles of Darkness_ keeps much of this:
    -   In _Vampire: The Requiem_, vampires have the Beast within, which compels them to feed.
    -   In _Werewolf: The Forsaken_, werewolves have two degrees of rage: one where they have to kill _something_, and another where they have to kill _everything_.
-   This crops up in the various _Old World of Darkness_ Role-Playing Games, especially those featuring Vampires and Werewolves.
    -   One Tag Line for the original _Vampire: The Masquerade_ was "A Beast I Am, Lest A Beast I Become" — leeches had to allow themselves little atrocities like controlled blood-drinking to avoid being consumed entirely by the madness of their inner blood-hunger. However, while in the thrall of such a state, vampires can ignore wound penalties, which is a significant combat asset.
    -   _Werewolf: The Apocalypse_: Werewolves, on the other hand, don't tend to view their own berserk frenzies as "evil" (after all, Rage is a gift from Luna... and they have plenty of reason to be really, really pissed off). However, if they give in to their Rage _too_ fully, they can enter a state called "Thrall of the Wyrm," just like a normal frenzy, except that it's inescapable, and tends to provoke rather horrific behavior (typically either cannibalism, rabid dismemberment, or... erm... defilement).
    -   In _Changeling: The Dreaming_, changelings can get magic ("Glamour") from normal humans in two ways — the first is by inspiring them to do something incredible. The second is to "ravish" them — make them feel despair. One example of this involved convincing a small child that the Fae in question had just _murdered the Tooth Fairy_.
    -   _Wraith: The Oblivion_: Wraiths have got their Shadow, a second personality usually existing within the wraith trying to make them give up their struggles and descend into nonexistence or permanently hand over control of their body. Depending on the Shadow, this might take many forms, some direct and some seemingly helping the wraith. The latter type often has ways to enhance the wraith's body when temporarily in control — better attributes, more magic powers, or even items appearing only during the Shadow's catharsis. Such wraiths then always have the ability to let their Shadows handle combats too tough for them but are generally loathe to do so because there's no telling what else the Shadow might do while in control.
    -   _Kindred of the East_: Being a kind of vampire, Kuei-jin must keep their amoral lower soul (P'o) under control, lest it takes over them in a frenzy of carnage. It's not an easy thing to do since each Kuei-jin's P'o is out of balance, compared to the living. Some Kuei-jin Dharma try to make good use of this evil side, though.
-   And to round out White Wolf's systems: In _Scion_, the Scion Companion supplement adds the Tuatha Dé Danann to the playable pantheons. One of their pantheon-specific abilities? The "Ríastrad" mentioned in the above mythology entry.
-   Highly common in _Warhammer 40,000_, and one of the reasons Space Marines (Grey Knights in particular) are required to pass such rigorous and often deadly mental trials as a method of prevention. The most obvious are the Blood Angels Chapter and its successor chapters, whose members are known to succumb to a condition called the Black Rage which increases their already Super-Soldier levels of strength and vitality and turns them into frothing berserkers who seek only death, often organised into aptly-named Death Companies led by skull-helmeted Badass Preachers. The Eldar however create one of these _intentionally_, inducing a form of split personality disorder so that in battle they can fight with unhindered skill and brutality while retaining absolute control over themselves the rest of the time. Then there's Chaos, which, being The Corruption and Always Chaotic Evil personified, fully embraces the added power this trope provides with no concern for the consequences, because "sanity is for the _weak_". And then there's the Possessed Marines, who have a Super-Powered _Super Evil_ side.

    Toys 

-   Takanuva gets one of these in _BIONICLE_, after having some of his Light drained by a Shadow Leech.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Akai Ito_: Tsuzura's fox-mage mode. It's even played as what-do-you-mean-it's-not-rape the first time she taps into it and can't control it.
-   _Aoi Shiro_: All who wield the <<Sword>> are prone to this, but Sword-Demon Kaya (your Back from the Dead Rather Wrongly big-sister-figure) especially... leading to a lot of Nightmare Fuel Bad Ending.
-   _Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc_ plays with the trope.
    -   Toko Fukawa is an extremely antisocial, socially awkward shut-in yet extremely successful romance novel writer. Her split personality is a serial killer who turns out to be immune to explosions. However, said serial killer swears to stop murdering just because of the guy they have an obsessive crush on even though he hates them both. She not only doesn’t break said oath but becomes heroic in her own right in Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls, which also shows she possesses the ability to leap impossibly high, cut through steel with her homemade scissors, is absolutely immune to damage, can make a giant death ball of scissors and is precise enough to cut someone’s clothing off them in combat. All while, depending on the localization, being named Genocider Syo or Genocide Jack.
    -   For a measure of evil, Izuru Kamukura is also this for Hajime Hinata in _Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair_. However, he’s only involved in evil because he’s not sure if good or evil will solve his boredom issues.
-   _DRAMAtical Murder_:
    -   Aoba Seragaki has the ability to control other people and enter their minds with his voice alone but the more he uses this ability, the more a darker, more powerful side of him that wants to destroy everything in its path threatens to consume him completely. In the True Ending, though, it's revealed that his "evil" side was actually more lonely and misunderstood than evil and happily remerges with Aoba after Aoba fully remembers and accepts him.
    -   Aoba's potential Love Interest Koujaku turns out to have one as well. His Power Tattoos cause him to go into a massive Unstoppable Rage in the Bad Ending, reducing his mind to a bestial state. This is also what caused the death of his family when he was younger.
-   _Hatoful Boyfriend_ has, during Anghel's endgame, a boss fight with Himnesia, which looks like a Giant Space Flea from Nowhere. But dissect the things Anghel says there and elsewhere, and other characters' motivations, and official art, and some fans come to the conclusion that Himnesia is his evil side. And that he's a representation of the plague implanted in Anghel.
-   Many characters in the Nasuverse have an "inversion impulse", the desire to go psycho and unleash the full power of their bitchin' superpowers on the world in an orgy of murder, due to their monstrous bloodlines.
    -   The Big Bad in the _Tsukihime_ fighting game _Melty Blood_ uses his powers to summon Doppelgangers of several characters superpowered evil sides, leading to characters fighting their dark halves; probably the biggest example being Nanaya Shiki, the evil murderous side of Tohno Shiki from the original VN.
    -   One particular exception to this "evil doppelganger made by the Big Bad" is Archetype Earth: She is a fragment of Arcueid's subconscious, and if she wakes up and takes over her host, she can show how utterly powerful Arcueid could have been compared to her usual self, such as casually trying to destroy the world on a whim.
    -   In the Heaven's Feel route of _Fate/stay night_, Sakura Matou lets loose a Super-Powered Evil Side powerful enough to kill most of the other participants of the Holy Grail War, as well as create a Super-Powered Evil Side of Saber.

    Web Animation 

-   _Dreamscape_: Keela's released form, which gives her Black Eyes of Crazy, her scythe grows HUGE, and she turns totally evil.
-   Flippy from _Happy Tree Friends_ subverts this. Whenever he's reminded of the war he served in (strongly implied to be a fictional equivalent to the Vietnam War), his Split Personality appears and starts gleefully and efficently killing everyone around him. However, the episode "Double Whammy Part II" reveals that the good side is just as badass, to the point where he manages to (temporarily) kill the evil side. He just doesn't have a reason to utilize these skills most of the time, lacking the evil side's bloodthirst.
-   _Red vs. Blue_: A fairly goofy example occurs in Episode 40: in order to fight off a horde of "noobs" in Battle Creek, Caboose gets in touch with his "angry side", which results in him gunning down the noobs while shouting bizarre threats like "I will eat your unhappiness!" and "Your toast has been burned, and no amount of scraping will remove the black parts!"
    
    **Caboose:** Now I'm thinking about kittens... chickens covered in spikes... that... makes... me... an-gry... YYAAARRRRGGHHH!  
    

    Webcomics 

-   In _Alice and the Nightmare_, Alice is implied to have something like this — whenever she gets angry, her eyes start to glow and she spills red dust (sign of dream magic) around. It seems that the medicine she takes daily keeps it at bay.
-   _City of Blank_: Rex has one which comes out when he's unconscious and near death, which is capable of using his various Red Blank abilities. This version of Rex has a complete disregard for human life, and even the lives of many blanks, and seems to resent Rex somewhat, though he also cares about him. It's eventually revealed that he's been a part of Rex since the beginning, and is implied to have also taken over his body in the presence of unmasked humans back before they got a face. Oddly, Jericho doesn't seem to have one, despite being a Red Blank as well, but he does seem to be less callous in flashbacks, back before he learned to use his abilities.
-   Roger in _College Roomies from Hell!!!_. Unleashing his werecoyote side is often the Roomies' only way out of a tight spot, but he has trouble controlling it, and he's been warned by another werecoyote that sooner or later he'll be unable to change back. He actually has a second werecoyote form that is a stronger embodiment of this trope.
-   _8-Bit Theater_:
    -   Black Mage encounters himself in the Castle of Ordeals, where the Light Warriors have to face symbolic representations of their own flaws. However, the only thing that could represent Black Mage's flaw (Pure Evil) was himself, as nothing else was evil enough. Then it turned out that even his own duplicate didn't quite represent some of the more evil things he'd done, which corrected itself as the real Black Mage ran through them by becoming even more evil (as well as powerful). He then absorbed his own evil and power back into himself, eventually unleashing it to destroy four other incredibly evil beings, whose own evil and power he then absorbed, giving him an evil aura as well as incredible magical power.
    -   Later omniscient superwizard Sarda (a.k.a. The Omnipotent Jackass) has absorbed Black Mage's Super-Powered Evil Side. Lampshaded thus:
        
        **Sarda:** Who _knows_ what kind of sadistic and impossible stuff I'll do now.
        
-   _El Goonish Shive_:
    -   While "Fallen Grace" (a.k.a. "Dark Omega Grace") falls much closer to the Crouching Moron, Hidden Badass type, she still deserves mention here. Not only is Fallen Grace actually willing to use her shape-shifting powers as a weapon — unlike the pacifistic (NOT Technical Pacifist) Grace — she's also got access to the Lespuko Spurs; special claws that retard healing, thus neutralizing the advantage of the Healing Factor. She's also got horns, Hellish Pupils, and a whole lotta spikes.
    -   Once magic trade-offs are explained to Elliot, he points out he could trade an Evil Costume Switch for more power. Which he eventually does. "Evil" Cheerleadra still has Elliot's goals (and not, for instance, an implanted desire to take over the world or something, which she could just resist), but she is much more ruthless in doing so. Essentially, she's a bad guy because, unlike regular Elliot, she's not constantly worried that she might be.
-   Graveyard Greg of the _Gaming Guardians_ has two separate and unrelated evil sides. Not only is he a werewolf, with an animalistic but self-aware wolf personality, but he's also possessed by a voodoo spirit that can take control of him at times. Greg has retained control by pitting them against each other, until they decided to team up to suppress him, becoming a zombie wolfman that calls itself "Mange".
-   In _Goblins,_ Dies Horribly has a magical, green arm that acts as a sort of Empathic Weapon most of the time. But when Dies is severely threatened, the arm tends to take over his body and slaughter everything in the immediate vicinity in creatively gruesome ways.
-   In _Gnoph_, Will's symbiotic partner Lyss usually acts as a Bond Creature; but when he passes out and she takes full control of his body, she acts like an example of this trope, due to being Ax-Crazy and having no compunction against killing (or _eating_) humans.
-   In _Hazard's Wake_, Araceli has a superpowered dark side that is not necessarily evil, but leads to overkill when it manifests.
-   Played with in _Homestuck_: both of Gamzee's personalities are Ax-Crazy Omnicidal Maniacs. They're just kept merged and stable due to Gamzee's addiction to sopor slime. Rose's temporary grimdark transformation may also count.
-   In _Jack_, the eponymous character, a personification of the sin of Wrath and the Grim Reaper, will occasionally enter a kind of "Wrath Mode". In this state, he will be overcome by his sin and gain a boost of power. He later absorbs and seals the sin of Lust, who talks to him, hassles him, and will sometimes help him in fights through his cloak.
-   _Last Res0rt_ has Jigsaw, since apparently all vampires in her galaxy can transform during their Unstoppable Rage.
-   In some of Zeurel's Original Character Tournament entries such as Law Of Talos and Escape From Nevara, Black Ace is this to Spoiler.
-   _Webcomic/Lone_: All witches have this. It's called an effigy, and it's a part of their soul presumably corrupted by the demonic essence that gives them their magic. Lone's is particularly, and it's constant attempts to take over her body are actually the cause for her seemingly weak magic. It finally succeeds at the end of Season 1, and not only paralyzes the Demon Twins but rips Red Lone's soul out of the afterlife to act as its puppet. Although we haven't seen any others, Lone's effigy seems to be the manifestation of all the trust issues she doesn't have but logically should; it thinks that everyone, from her friends to her family to her master, will end up hurting her (which is kind of a fair assumption in some cases), and the only people it seems to care about are Lones. It also resents Lone, due to the fact that the first time it took over, Lone actually let it due to rage over a bully killing her cat, but not wanting to take responsibility for the ensuing chaos. It also talks using we/us pronouns, and uses the same pronouns to refer to Lone, which can get confusing.
-   Franken from _Noblesse_ slips back to his Mad Scientist persona when he unlocks his power, which allows him to curb stomp _absolutely everyone_. His Slasher Smile has to be seen to believe it.
-   Subverted in _The Order of the Stick_: It initially looked like the comic was going down this path when Vaarsuvius made a deal with three fiends in order to save the lives and souls of his/her family. Having successfully rescued them from a dragon, (s)he then proceeded to use epic magic to slaughter as many as a quarter of the black dragons in existence, in what was widely held to be a Moral Event Horizon by the audience. The next strip reveals that, contrary to what the devils said earlier, the power-up had no effect on Vaarsuvius' ethics and that whatever atrocities (s)he just committed were all of his or her own doing. The fiends had lied to her in order to induce a nocebo effect.
-   The Nations as People series _Polandball_ has Germany. Though Germany's normally depicted as an amicable Straight Man and elder statesman, when he gets really pissed (usually at Greece for not paying debts or Poland for existing), he morphs into the Reichtangle, an enigmatic figure representing the German Empire. The Reichtangle is a rectangle where everyone else is a ball, and usually appears saying "Guten tag" before murdering everyone else.
-   The talkative Lovable Coward RGB of _The Property of Hate_ has Negative, a Shadow Archetype both visually and in that he acts completely opposite to how RGB normally does.
-   In _Rise Of The Heroes_ Andrew LaCondore slips into a twisted version of himself after submerging and drowning at sea. It is referred to as an 'Overlord' form by Cate. Needless to say, it comes with a crazy amount of strength and the ability to manipulate dark flames.
-   In _Roommates_ Goblin King Jareth has one. Technically it's his original personality, but his love and gratitude for the girl he choose, the camaraderie he feels for his friends, and his own desire to change make him suppress it. Not that it helps much, even his "Good" side is an "easily entertained but frequently bored trickster" (great intentions but sucks in this whole good thing) the "Evil" one is an "amoral ruthless fae lord" (Fourth-Wall Observer meets The Fatalist and his role in the story tends to be: Villain).
-   Demons in _Slightly Damned_ have a berserk form that they can change into which greatly increases their strength and power at the cost of being consumed by uncontrollable rage such that they attack everything they see (including themselves if they are alone) and usually causing them to die from exhaustion, so they only do this when they are likely to die anyway. Buwaro was born with a condition that causes him to go berserk involuntarily when he isn't asleep or wearing a special pendant.
-   Used in _Snowflame_: Possessed by the Odd Job God Goddess of Cocaine, Snow Flame is the Super-Powered Evil Side of Fabian Orozco, a former drug trafficker.
-   _Sweet Home (2017)_: Each infected person develops one of these. They serve as a means of determining exactly how those that were infected will end up mutating. Hyun's in particular is very eager to play mind games with him.
-   Trace Legacy of _TwoKinds_ has _two_ of these. Whenever he gets extraordinarily pissed off, his memories of his old life cause a person shift (visually represented by his eyes and part of his hair turning red). However recent comics have seemed to show this side is merging with its current persona. (As the racist evil side is shown defending Keidran, which is something only his normal persona would do.) On the other hand, utilizing Black Magic results a different but even more psychotic personality (visually represented by his eyes and parts of his hair turning black). While Templar!Trace is a complete reversion to his old evil personality and goals, Dark!Trace retains all his current goals and desires... at least at first.
    
    **Templar!Trace:** ... they should have a festival for me... These Keidran don't deserve anything.  
    **Dark!Trace:** Are you the one hurting Flora? No matter... I'll just kill you all and sort it out later.
    

    Web Original 

-   In _Tales of MU_, the side of Mackenzie that some fans have taken to calling Kenzie is two details off from being a textbook example of a Super-Powered Evil Side: First, Kenzie is triggered by hunger instead of desperation in battle. Second and more distancing, the closest thing to a superpower Kenzie has over normal Mack is _being willing to hurt people that are trying to kill her_.

    Web Videos 

-   In the "Angry Video Game Fag" by Ebeeto, Ebeeto "transforms" into The Angry Video Game Fag whenever he is angered enough. The transformation comes complete with a video-game-inspired cutscene.
-   Spoony treats Dr. Insano as this in _Kickassia_.
-   Dark Nella from _The Nostalgia Chick._ Technically she's supposed to be a Cosmic Horror possessing a clone of Nella, but one episode randomly has Nella start to turn evil again before the Chick forces her glasses back on.

    Western Animation 

-   In _The Adventures of Teddy Ruxpin_, if an Illiper (like Prince Arin and Princess Aruzia) consumes Vitamin Z (an ingredient in the Jungle Grunges' famous gumbo), they are transformed into an armor-clad warrior who is much stronger, but also mindlessly violent, attacking everything and everyone in sight. The transformation wears off by being doused in water. Arin's transformation is dubbed the Iron Warrior, and Aruzia's is the Aluminum Amazon. In "A Race to the Finish", the two of them decide to willingly use this form's power to fight off some of M.A.V.O.'s bad guys, and have to be snapped out of it by having buckets of water thrown at them afterwards. There's still a significant amount of collateral damage caused to the Grunge village.
-   _Adventure Time_ has the Ice King as an odd, somewhat tragic, and not-so-_evil_ example. It's not immediately apparent, but when his backstory is revealed it turns out he _used to be_ a normal, sensitive guy who discovered an ancient crown that gave him magical powers which allowed him to survive The End of the World as We Know It. Unfortunately, it also drove him more and more insane each time he used it, until, by the time of the series, he's locked into his Crazy/Evil Side full-time and can only vaguely recall his own origins and who he used to be.
    -   The series also has Sweet P Trunks, the adoptive child of Tree Trunks and Mr. Pig. A humanoid kid who is huge in size and also happens to be The Lich after being turned into a human with the Blood of The Citadel's guardians. While Sweet P is innocent and loving as any child, The Lich is still somewhere inside him, and if he feels cornered and threatened, he _will_ take over. The King of Ooo and Toronto learn this the hard way.
-   In _The Amazing World of Gumball_, the titular character gets two:
    -   In "The Flower", Gumball gets possessed by a physical manifestation of his own jealousy of seeing Nice Guy Leslie with his love interest Penny. Unfortunately, he doesn't get any smarter and he still retains Gumball's poor physical strength.
    -   In "The Name", when Gumball is told that his birth name is Zach, it results in Zach becoming his own person who tries to erase Gumball from their mind by rewriting his memories of his greatest failures into victories. Subverted as Zach isn't _that_ much more competent than Gumball, just a heck of a lot more egotistical.
-   A literal form of this is _The Batman_ version of Clayface. Just using his powers turns him insane and monstrous.
-   In the episode _Never Fear_ of _The New Batman Adventures_ (the one after _Batman: The Animated Series_), Batman inhales an anti-fear toxin made by the Scarecrow. As a result, Batman has no fear. NONE. Bruce Wayne (in disguise) infiltrates some facility and is caught by the Scarecrow. Bruce awakens in a zoo, where the only exit is next to the crocodiles' cage. From a high hill, the Scarecrow confronts him. Bruce plays dumb, pretending to be a petty thief who was simply snooping around for loose cash. Scarecrow shoots him with a gas gun and then dares him to approach the crocodile cage. Bruce crosses over the cage without fear and is tackled by the beasts. As he goes under, a red stain dots the water, and the Scarecrow leaves, satisfied. Suddenly, Bruce reemerges from the water, and as one crocodile's body floats up, he walks away looking unharmed. This later worsens as he loses his fear of _killing_...
-   _Ben 10: Omniverse_: After Malware and his conspirators use Phil Billings as a test subject for their Nemetrix experiments, Phil is left sharing his body with a Terrorantula form that periodically takes control and goes on rampages. He seeks out Ben and the other Plumbers, begging for help to control his monster-self. And then it's horribly subverted, as it turns out that _Phil is dead_; the Terrorantula persona long ago usurped total control of their shared body, purging Phil's soul from it… and leaving the Terrorantula with the intelligence to fake being Phil in order to manipulate the protagonists' lingering feelings for their Evil Former Friend.
-   The 2006 revival of _Biker Mice from Mars_ has Stoker turn into an insane rat-like beast called Stoker Rat.
-   In _Dex Hamilton: Alien Entomologist_, Zap can turn into a giant destructive bug if his DNA becomes unbalanced.
-   In _Earthworm Jim_, whenever Jim's puppy sidekick Peter is injured, he turns into a hulking, ravenous mutant whose sole goal in life seems to be beating Jim to a pulp. In a joke inversion, Peter's Evil Twin is evil when "normal", but his mutant form turns out to be _good_.
-   Distinctly more of a Superpowered Id than Evil Side, but Freakazoid! is like this to mild-mannered nerd Dexter Douglas.
-   A flashback in Episode 19 of _Generator Rex_ reveals that Rex can turn into a savage biomechanical Giant Robot Evo. One of the reasons White Knight is so hard on Rex is that he is afraid of Rex becoming that monster again. Rex himself has no clue he can do this thanks to his amnesia.
-   _Grossology_: Chester accidentally gave himself one in a freak lab accident — the dark-skinned, black-eyed, and destructive Kid Rot.
-   When audiences found _Invader Zim_'s Robot Buddy GIR cute, the writers created an episode called "GIR Goes Crazy and Stuff", where Zim actually fixes him — and he becomes suddenly destructive and hyper-competent, determining the only way to conquer Earth is with Zim out of the picture...
-   The Shadow Thief from _Justice League Unlimited_ was eventually revealed to be the Super-Powered Evil Side of Carter Hall, who subconsciously willed him into existence out of a desire for a villain for him to defeat. He later attempts to kill Green Lantern so that Carter can be with Hawkgirl.
-   _Kaeloo_: Kaeloo's alternate form, Bad Kaeloo, who has Super-Strength and whose actions are beyond Kaeloo's conscious control.
-   _Kim Possible_: Ron Stoppable is ordinarily a likable goof, but he's been zapped a couple of times with Applied Phlebotinum with superpowered evil results. The first time, the device was malfunctioning and gave him a transfusion of Dr. Drakken's evil, turning him into the insane, fiendish, blue-skinned, cleverer-than-Drakken-by-a-long-shot "Zorpox the Conqueror." The second time, the device was a properly-working instant Mirror Morality Machine. A lot of this comes from Ron actually being Brilliant, but Lazy and often needing some negative event (such as Kim being in danger) to motivate him; these devices remove the "lazy" part to make him inexplicably hyper-competent to the point of being slightly unnerving (enough to cow Shego into obedience) — he mastered the art of having multiple plots within what may well have been hours of his conversion, and showed himself to be a serious, focused martial artist, at least the equal of Kim. Granted, he HAS had secret ninja training...
-   In _Kipo and the Age of Wonderbeasts_, Kipo discovers that, in moments of stress, she grows fur and gains superhuman physical abilities. In Season 2, it's revealed that this is because she has the ability to turn into a Mega Jaguar. However, if she actually transforms, she risks losing her mind to the jaguar's instincts like what happened when her mom turned into the Mega Monkey.
-   To a degree in _Miraculous Ladybug_', this is the state of nearly all the villains - beyond the primary villain Hawkmoth. Hawkmoth recruits supervillains by creating evil alternate personalities of ordinary citizens - most of whom are part of the supporting, and occasionally even main cast - born from their negative emotions, who he then gives superpowers to. Since they're controlled by Hawkmoth they don't stay with the characters who turn into them, but otherwise fit the bill - including usually pursuing what their normal personality wants in maniacal ways.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_:
    -   The central example of this in the show is Princess Luna, whose jealousy and bitterness (and according to Word of God, an inkling of dark magic) transformed her into the evil Nightmare Moon, bent on plunging the world into eternal night so that ponies would have to acknowledge her night's beauty whether they wanted to or not. She snaps out of it after a thousand years of isolation and a magic rainbow to the face.
    -   The same thing happens to Rarity in the comics, making the "superpowered" bit all the more obvious as she is able (with some help) to provide a serious challenge to the rest of the cast put together.
    -   A dream sequence in "A Royal Problem" introduces Daybreaker, a hypothetical superpowered evil side for Princess Celestia. Unlike Nightmare Moon, the trigger for this transformation is stated to be Celestia realizing that she has the power to do whatever she wants whenever she wants, and all that's stopping her is her caring about others.
    -   Dragons are prone to greed, and the greedier they get, the bigger and stronger they get, which makes them even greedier. In "Secret of my Excess", a few extra gifts on his birthday awaken Spike's dragon greed, and he becomes a huge rampaging full-grown dragon taking everything he wants from Ponyville. He snaps out of it when he is reminded of his moment of generosity earlier in the episode.
    -   The Season 8 episode "Sounds of Silence" reveals that when a Kirin gets angry, they turn into Nirik, creatures made of fire. The last time they changed, they accidentally destroyed their home, which led to them resorting to silent stoicism via Emotion Suppression and a vow of silence to avoid such an outburst. They eventually learned that they can still control themselves in this form though and use it for good.
-   _OK K.O.! Let's Be Heroes_:
    -   K.O. has one named T.K.O., who is a Blood Knight and is also an Emo Teen parody who steals his mother's eyeshadow and was initially mistaken for an emo phase. He lapses into T.K.O. when he feels helpless or angry. However, T.K.O. is an unusual example in that he's not strictly _evil_ so much as he is rebellious, angry, and violent; on occasions when that violence is aimed in a reasonable and useful direction, he can be something approaching _heroic_. K.O. and T.K.O. can interact with each other inside of their mind.
    -   His father has one of these as well, apparently due to having experimented on himself. Unlike K.O., he's initially unaware of it, having absolutely no memory of anything that happens while his alter ego is in control.
    -   In the penultimate episode, both are dealt with permanently. When Shadowy reveals that he was just using T.K.O. all along, T.K.O. promptly punches him out of Venomous and stomps him into nothing. K.O. meanwhile finally accepts that T.K.O. isn't some parasite forced on him but rather part of himself that he had always tried to deny. T.K.O. **is** K.O. and always has been. This leads to K.O. and T.K.O. undergoing a Split-Personality Merge.
-   _The Owl House_ ends up subverting this — Eda suffers from a curse that causes her to transform into a violent rampaging monster called the Owl Beast, which Eda and everyone else assumes is this. But it's revealed in Season 2 that the Owl Beast is actually a separate creature imprisoned in Eda's body and it ultimately wants to be free from the curse just as much as Eda does. Learning this allows Eda to form a truce with the Beast, giving her access to its powers (provided that she asks politely and eats some voles for it).
-   In an episode of _The Real Ghostbusters_, an accident causes Slimer to start turning into a huge, demonic, bestial version of himself that the heroes name "Big Green", who sort of becomes a type of Split Personality. Once they find out what happened, Egon manages to separate them into two ghosts, and then defeat Big Green without hurting Slimer.
-   _Teen Titans (2003)_:
    -   A splashing of chemicals prompts good-natured vegetarian Beast Boy to turn into a surly, meat-chomping bad boy who later turns into an anthropomorphic wolfman that was capable of taking on the entire team (as well as another wolfman). Later it's explained that, instead of turning Beast Boy into an actual lycanthrope, the chemicals only unleashed what was already there (which makes no sense considering that they also changed Adonis), and he's given an antidote so that he won't transform against his will. He once again manifests this hidden wild side in a battle against Slade, slicing through a number of his goons before Slade puts a stop to it with his own supercharged powers. Possible subversion: It's made quite clear that "Man-Beast" isn't evil, just a really powerful, rather intelligent animal. Like any animal, it becomes hostile when scared, but generally it keeps to its human form's wishes. Beast Boy still expresses concern that it's still inside him at the end of the episode. He does seem to have acquired a degree of control over it later on, though he rarely uses it. In its first appearance, though, the Beast is more like the Hulk — not evil, but uncontrollable, volatile, and dangerous.
    -   There's Raven's "Daddy Issues". Dr. Light should **really** have backed off as she warned him.
-   Mike of _Total Drama Revenge of the Island_ has an extremely comical case of multiple personality disorder, then in _Total Drama All-Stars_ it's revealed that he has a sinister, Matthew Patel\-like personality named Mal (known as "The Malevolent One") that his other personalities have previously kept at bay. The question of whether Mike is their body's original personality or Mal is the original and Mike is Mal's Helpless Good Side who took control is brought up, but not resolved.
-   _Transformers_:
    -   An Applied Phlebotinum instance is Rhinox being turned into a Predacon in the _Beast Wars_ episode "Dark Designs". He's an ideal minion on the surface, but beneath it, he's cunning, capable, and extremely aggressive, quickly taking it upon himself to create chaos in a takeover bid, which almost works until Megatron applies Reverse Polarity to the Applied Phlebotinum just in time to keep Rhinox from finishing him off. Good thing for Megs that Evil Rhinox just had to gloat like any other bad guy would have, huh?
    -   Megatron clearly learned his lesson from his ill-fated attempt at turning Rhinox evil in _Beast Wars_. He placed a Restraining Bolt in Tankor that would immobilize him if he ever tried to directly attack Megatron.
    -   Another example involving Rhinox shows up in _Beast Machines_ when it was revealed that Tankor, The Brute tank that had been hounding the Maximals all season was really Rhinox in a sort of Brainwashed and Crazy situation. Sadly things got even worse after Optimus Primal freed him from Megatron's control and he turned against his former allies and started an Evil Plan to take over Cybertron.
    -   Some poor, misguided fools seem to have heard that G1 Grimlock is capable of combining with the Dinobots to create "the Beast," a terrifying titan of destruction and primal rage. **These people are damned liars.** Or at least, weren't aware that the sheer suckitude of that Story Arc was so much that Unicron and the Autobots teamed up to wipe it from space and time.
-   In _Winx Club_, Lord Darkar uses his dark magic to turn Bloom into her Superpowered Evil Side in the form of Dark Bloom, who is Bloom with a black version of her fairy outfit and demonic yellow eyes. And he does it twice with her in the second season. Once to have her ship off Alfea's Codex piece to him through his Team Pet Kerbog, and again to have her help him open the portal to Realix with the four Codex pieces where he can acquire the Ultimate Power. Both times had her turned back to normal in the end — for the first time, the impostor Professor Avalon used his wand to lift the spell, and for the second time, it was Prince Sky who changed her back through his words of kindness, especially his "I love you" line, after which she returns the Ultimate Power to its rightful place to Darkar's shock and dismay.
-   One episode of _Xiaolin Showdown_ was about Dojo transforming into an evil monster and destroying everything in his path after Omi accidentally frees him from his cage.
-   Coop on _Yin Yang Yo!_. In his regular form, he's weak and nerdy. However, when he's infused with The Night Master's power, he becomes a match for Yin and Yang. Later on, Yin also gets an evil side to her when some of the Night Master's power corrupts her.

___

## Sasuke's cursed mark

The first time Sasuke used the Curse Mark, it turned the quiet, caring loner into a sadistic maniac out to massacre the Sound Ninja Zaku Abumi because the latter hurt Sasuke's teammate Sakura Haruno.

### **Alternative Title(s):** Superpowered Alter Id, Superpowered Neutral Side, Jekyll And Super Hyde

-   Superpower Disability
-   Price of Power Index
-   Super-Power Meltdown

-   Rage Breaking Point
-   You Wouldn't Like Me When I'm Angry!
-   Temper-Ceratops

-   Stepford Smiler
-   Internal Conflict Tropes
-   To Be Lawful or Good

-   Super-Powered Alter Ego
-   Split Personality Tropes
-   Talking to Themself

-   Split-Personality Takeover
-   Face–Monster Turn
-   Tragic Monster

-   Super-Persistent Predator
-   Villains
-   Superpowered Mooks

-   Suddenly Shouting
-   Anger Tropes
-   Suppressed Rage

-   Super Supremacist
-   Evil Tropes
-   Surrounded by Idiots

-   Sentient Phlebotinum
-   QuoteSource/Other Media
-   Wonder Twin Powers

-   Super Hero
-   TimeImmemorial/Tropes O to S
-   Superpowerful Genetics

-   Superman Substitute
-   Hero Tropes
-   "Super Sentai" Stance

-   Superpowered Date
-   Superhero Tropes
-   Superpowered Mooks

-   Stages of Monster Grief
-   Werebeast Tropes
-   This Was His True Form

-   Superpower Lottery
-   NoRealLife/Tropes P to S
-   Supervillain Lair

-   Ear Fins
-   ImageSource/DC Comics
-   Fables