Float like a butterfly, sting like a bee.  
Try to dodge bullets, and you'll end up like me.

_"It doesn't seem possible, but I guess TV has betrayed me."_

Say you're watching your favorite action movie. Bob is in a car chase and the bad guys are right behind him. He sees a sharp turn up ahead next to a brick wall. Thinking ahead, Bob decides to drift at the last second so he can cause his pursuers to crash and escape. However, Bob is not an experienced drifter, so instead of drifting, the car flips, barrel rolls and smashes into the wall, letting the bad guys catch up with him.

This is what is probably going through your mind: "Huh? _Wait!_ **What?** Did that just happen? I mean… that _is_ how it would happen in Real Life, but…" A Surprisingly Realistic Outcome happens when a work subverts narrative conventions by deriving an outcome from realistic principles, temporarily removing otherwise fictional logic. We can often anticipate results based on the story's narrative pattern; this trope subverts those expectations by momentarily employing more realism than its norm.

This trope _isn't merely a Plot Twist_. To minimize stress on editors, _make sure_ your example is _Surprising_, _Realistic_, and an _Outcome_:

-   **Surprising**: A moment needs to be _objectively_ surprising to qualify, meaning a Surprisingly Realistic Outcome requires an Expected Unrealistic Outcome for its genre. We expect unexpected events in fiction, as stories would be boring if everything _always_ happened according to plan. Unlike a regular Plot Twist, a _surprisingly_ realistic moment deliberately guides audience expectations in one direction, only to suddenly avert the Artistic License or Rule of X necessary for that outcome. In doing so, it highlights how unrealistic it was for the viewer to expect that in the first place. Also, character reactions cannot qualify under this trope, as real people's emotional and psychological responses to a situation vary _wildly_. We can't say any response is necessarily unrealistic in fictional scenarios, and not even the character's author can know such things.
-   **Realistic**: The outcome _must_ be possible in Real Life. An example with even the slightest bit of Applied Phlebotinum isn't this trope. Real people can't actualize Functional Magic, Fantasy, Science Fiction, and the like, so it's impossible to tell how things would _really_ turn out when such elements exist. Powers possessing a Logical Weakness or a subversion of Required Secondary Powers should go under those respective tropes.
-   **Outcome**: This convention-defying realistic consequence has to _actually happen_. Simply pointing out how something wouldn't work the way it does in fiction doesn't count. Also, to curb potential misuse, check if listing your example as a subversion of a specific trope would work better. If it does, there's no point in putting it here. Also, it should happen _during the story_ as a consequence of an action or event. Innate traits or features of a character or setting that have been there since before the story don't count, even if there's a logical reason for them.

A Surprisingly Realistic Outcome differs from Deconstruction in several ways:

-   **Expectations**: Once we've identified a work as a deconstruction, we should be able to anticipate how it handles certain tropes, differing from how this trope _must_ be surprising. While a deconstruction will sometimes _lead_ with a Surprisingly Realistic Outcome, the consequences down the line won't surprise us anymore.
-   **Timing**: Because a Surprisingly Realistic Outcome is a _subversion_ and is often jarring, it's supposed to be a momentary trope. Deconstructions typically weave themselves into the fabric of a story, creating something lasting for at least a significant portion of the work.
-   **Realism**: A Surprisingly Realistic Outcome subverts expectations by refusing to have things work how one would expect from fiction, meaning it excludes _all_ Applied Phlebotinum. A deconstruction discusses or plays with assumptions underpinning a trope or theme. Deconstructions don't necessarily involve objective realism, as they can include examining a Logical Weakness or a subversion of Required Secondary Powers. While we can _deconstruct_ the workings of Applied Phlebotinum, we can't make it _realistic_.

Video game examples overlap with Unexpectedly Realistic Gameplay. Anti-Climax _might_ run in parallel but doesn't require realism. Fridge Logic is when the realistic outcome exists only in the audience's mind. Extraordinary World, Ordinary Problems is about mundane problems still existing in fictional settings. Puff of Logic is when an unrealistic outcome abruptly becomes realistic after someone mentions the unrealism. An Unbuilt Trope deals with situations where the Expected Unrealistic Outcome didn't exist at the time and veers more towards this trope.

Please do not add any real-life examples, as this trope is about differing expectations between reality and fiction. For cases of fiction making you expect the wrong things in real life, see Reality Is Unrealistic and Television Is Trying to Kill Us.

___

## Example subpages

-   Comic Books
-   Films — Live-Action
-   Live-Action TV
    -   _Game of Thrones_
-   Video Games
-   Western Animation

___

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

-   A British NHS advert from the late 2000s featured a crowd of people watching in awe as a Batman-esque superhero scaled a building scaffold dramatically and acrobatically to retrieve a lost balloon. When the hero reached the top, he slipped off the pole on which he was precariously balanced and fell down the building. The audience then sees an unpleasant shot of the ordinary man twitching blankly on the concrete floor. "Too much alcohol makes you feel invincible when you're most vulnerable," says the narrator. It was an effective advert.
-   One Cartoon Network ad has a police officer chasing a thief into an alley. When he goes into the alley, he finds the thief now dressed in drag and trying to flirt with the officer. The officer isn't fooled and immediately arrests him. A caption then appears saying, "You are not Bugs Bunny.''<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   A commercial for Big M (an Australian brand of flavored milk) has a man walking along with a carton in his hand. He sees a piano roll out of a moving van and down the street, heading directly towards an old lady struggling to walk her dog. The man puts down his chocolate Big M and runs after it, jumping onto a passing garbage truck and then a motorbike to get between the woman and the piano. But when he turns and puts his arms out to stop the piano - it doesn't stop, taking him, the woman, and the dog (pulled by its lead) with it. Cue the slogan: "Think Big! But not too big."
-   A Dr. Pepper TV ad had two men moving a pinball machine down the stairs. A snapping noise, and one of the guys is in pain. A doctor with a can of Dr. Pepper comes near the guy, complete with a Dubstep song. The guy seems happy until he resumes being hurt and is about to let go of the machine, which would make the machine crash into the wall.
-   A series of New Zealand safety PSAs presented several people acting like they're in standard commercials by talking to the camera while walking or working. In doing so, they don't see where they're going, so they trip, slip and fall. HARD. They are _not_ comical pratfalls; the impact makes it clear they have broken bones at the very least.
-   Sprite's "Obey Your Thirst" campaign in The '90s was a series of commercials about subverting and mocking advertising tropes.
    -   One of the most famous was the "Grant Hill Drinks Sprite" series of ads, which parodied Cereal-Induced Superpowers. In one of them, a kid spots NBA player Grant Hill drinking Sprite, and thinks Sprite will make him a basketball player. He quickly disproves himself by drinking Sprite and then failing a slam dunk, falling on his ass.
        
        **Announcer:** If you want to make it to the NBA... practice. If you want a refreshing drink, obey your thirst. Sprite.
        
    -   Similarly, another has a bunch of young guys driving around in a convertible in slow motion, bouncing the car on its wheels to look cool. The car stops, and one guy leaps out of the car and starts dramatically chugging back his Sprite. When he turns the cap, the bottle _explodes and covers him in soft drink_ — because all that bouncing shook it up. He does not look good while shrieking and dripping wet.
    -   Yet another commercial delivers a one-two potshot at both Sunny Delight and Kool-Aid as a mother brings some "Sun Fizz" beverage to her son and daughter, but before the children could even get a sip, the mascot emerges from the bottle and tells them how delicious Sun Fizz is. Rather than amazement and wonder, the family scream in terror and flee with the mascot in pursuit. It even made the dog run away. The mother trips over the vacuum and the daughter screams while the mother tells them to run as it cuts to the Sprite motto of "Image Is Nothing, Thirst Is Everything Obey Your Thrist".
        
        **Announcer:** Trust your gut, not some cartoon character.
        
-   In adverts for _Hostess Fruit Pies_, the products advertised usually successfully serve as a Delicious Distraction long enough for the hero to complete their task. In this one, The Joker throws some of the pies at some police officers who want to arrest him...and immediately gets arrested the moment he tries to sneak out.
-   The an M&M's commercial that introduces a Chocolate bar character that flirts with _Tia Carrere_, The character melts in a lounge chair while sunbathing when Red and Yellow aren't effected because of their candy shells and even if they were effected the shells would keep their chocolate inside unless they get cracked open.
    -   In one add campaign where Yellow trains a dog to track a Gray imposter M&M, The dog instead chases after Red and he proclaims that "Dogs can only see in black and white". Although in recent years it's proven that dogs can see color but can't see the color red.
-   Played for laughs in this Limu Emu and Doug commercial for Liberty Mutual Insurance, which is also a tie-in commercial for the film, _Spider-Man: No Way Home_. Doug believes if he gets bitten by a spider, he will gain the same powers as Spider-Man, which he believes will make him better at selling insurance. Instead, an ambulance rushes him to the hospital while his skin breaks out from the spider's venom.
    
    **Doug:** Did it work?
    
    -   The short version of the ad ends with Doug giving a thumbs-up and saying he's okay as paramedics load him into the ambulance.

    Anime and Manga 

-   _Blood Blockade Battlefront_: Chain easily wins a drinking contest seen with several empty shot glasses after her victory. The Stinger of that episode shows how the drinking contest left her hunched over her toilet at dawn, violently vomiting.
-   _The Dangers in My Heart_: Yamada gets hit in the face by a basketball during gym. The series being as lighthearted nature as it is, she comically hops back up as if nothing is wrong. Then her nose starts bleeding profusely a few seconds later, and she has to be escorted to the nurse’s office, and leaves early. She also had to cancel a modeling shoot and spends the next few days with a nose plaster. The whole thing is treated seriously by every other character.
-   _Fairy Tail_
    -   Proud Beauty Lucy Heartfilia gets oggled by Spear Carriers or Mooks from time to time. When this happens, Lucy sends them flying in Pervert Revenge Mode. However, at one point, main protagonist Natsu walks in on Lucy in the shower. Lucy goes into Pervert Revenge Mode again and tries to hit Natsu with a flying kick. Natsu — a powerful fighter many times physically stronger than Lucy — just blocks the kick, causing Lucy to fall flat on her face in the bathroom. Lucy lays on the floor in shock while Natsu says that Lucy's combat technique needs work.
    -   When the crew goes off on an S-Ranked mission to save an island from a curse that turns people into demons, they find that there is a demon on the island that was sealed away in ice, and the villains are trying to thaw it out. The villains manage to get the ice melted, only to find to their horror that the demon inside was already dead. Turns out being frozen in ice for several years is fatal, even to demons. The villains end up in a mix of shock and grief that their victory was instantly rendered worthless.
-   In _Great Teacher Onizuka_, after the title character gets rejected from the teacher position, he gives up and travels to Akita to train as a truck driver. Then he receives a phone call, telling him he's been accepted after all, but must make it to the school in Tokyo within three hours to get the job. A trip from Akia to Tokyo usually would take around eight hours, so Onizuka hijacks the truck and rushes towards the school, ignoring all road rules. You'd expect him to dramatically arrive Just in Time... but he doesn't. By the time Onizuka arrives in Tokyo, he's dismayed that he's already several hours too late. No matter how great Onizuka's resolve is, he can't make a truck travel faster than it's physically able to go. (Lucky for him, he still gets the job.)
-   _Interspecies Reviewers_: When copy-cat reviewers show up, rather than being antagonists, they are treated as a slight annoyance after initial outrage. The titular reviewers live in a world without the internet, so finding all their competitors to make them stop would be impossible. Furthermore, Zel points out that the concept of posting reviews on businesses is not something that the reviewers could claim as intellectual property — you can't copyright an idea, after all. This leaves the heroes with no legal means to stop anyone else from playing Follow the Leader in-universe.
-   _Karate Shoukoushi Kohinata Minoru_: The sequel _Karate Shoukoushi Monogatari_ takes a shot at martial arts masters humiliating and expelling unworthy students. The Reinan High Judo Club captain had the club harass a member into quitting, because the captain didn't think the harassed student had potential. Unlike most works where such actions are acceptable, the student immediately filed a complaint to the Student Council, forcing the captain to transfer away.
-   _Kengan Ashura_:
    -   Kiryu has a dramatic reality check in the Kengan Annihilation Tournament. Despite having an unresolved rivalry with Ohma, he loses handily in the second round to the fundamentally superior Gensai Kuroki and _not_ in an epic grudge match in the finals to Ohma.
    -   In _Omega_, Haruo's still overweight despite training under Sekibayashi due to overeating on the meals he's given and occasionally slacking off to play video games. While Haruo has recovered his niceties and warrior spirit, he did spend years indulging in vices, and that will still take time for him to get over them regardless of his desire to improve himself.
    -   Koga is The Protagonist, has The Gift for martial arts, and spent half a year intensely training to be ready for the Kengan vs Purgatory tournament. Except a few months of training isn't enough to get on the level of fighters who have years of experience under their belt. On top of this, he gets injured fighting against multiple armed opponents just a month before the tournament, which is not enough time to fully recover from multiple stab wounds and deep lacerations. Even Koga admits that he is both too injured and too inexperienced to participate and bows out of the tournament.
-   _KonoSuba_: The heroes beat Verdia and saved the town, but in doing so caused so much collateral damage that the reward is basically taken away right as they get it. Sure they saved the place, but essentially flooding a town is going to cause massive amounts of structural damage, and someone has to pay for it.
-   In _Let's Make a Mug Too_, the main character prepares to enter a ceramic art contest, over the course of several episodes. An entire episode revolves around her finding an original idea for her art piece: a ceramic _zabuton_ seat—a concept she's very proud of, despite the skepticism of those around her. Surely her determination and originality will win her first place! ...except not; in the end, she doesn't win first place, or indeed _any_ place, instead just getting a participation prize. For all her effort, she _is_ a beginner competing against many more experienced artists. As for the ceramic _zabuton_, turns out it's completely impractical, and it shatters into pieces the moment someone heavier sits on it. That said, this being a feel-good slice-of-life series, the moral is that the participation and having fun with your friends is more important than being stunningly successful.
-   _Lupin III: Part II_: In one episode, Lupin steals a 200-year-old bottle of wine commissioned by Napoleon. When the gang opens it and has a sip, they immediately spit it out in disgust, because the wine has turned to vinegar. As Lupin and his crew find out the hard way, wine doesn't mature forever; the vast majority of wine should be drunk within five years of being bottled, and _all_ wine should be drunk within fifty years. In short, the only value the wine had was the sentimentality behind it, which the gang has now rendered worthless.
-   _Sailor Moon_:
    -   Minako has the most experience of the Senshi but she is still a teenager and later seasons showed her as The Ditz. Season one reveals that when Artemis awakened her, she was living in London and working with a cop named Katerina. They also both fell in love with the same guy, Alan, who was Katerina's age. After Sailor V nearly died in an explosion, she saw Alan comforting a grieving Katerina, who believed they lost her. Minako tearfully decided to let them go and faked her death so that they would be happy together and she could rip the Band-Aid off with her hopes about starting a relationship with Alan. Even without Kunzite brainwashing Katerina, she has an appropriate reaction to finding out a Kid Hero was alive after all this time: what happened with Alan was not important as the fact that she thought Minako was _dead_ so it's partly a What the Hell, Hero? and Anger Born of Worry. She expressly says that Minako's life was more important to her than any relationship drama. In fact, Minako herself realizes that her actions were foolish and convinces a murderous Usagi to heal Katerina after Kunzite turns her into a youma. After that happens, Minako and Katerina apologize to each other; Katerina for treating Minako like a child and not a friend, and Minako for hurting her badly.
    -   Usagi, Ami, and Makoto attempt to confront a villain in a narrow alleyway. However, there isn't enough space for all of them to fit, and they end up tripping over each other while trying to strike their signature poses.
-   _Tenchi Muyo!_: Ryoko and Ayeka's emerging rivalry wrecks an old-fashioned hot springs resort for a silly gag. Five episodes later, the gang returns to the resort to find it's _still_ a complete disaster. The elderly owner forces the others (sans Sasami and Washu) to fix the mess, as only a few months have passed since then.
-   In _Toriko_, the titular character is a Gourmet Hunter who goes on expeditions to recover foods from exotic locales, while being accompanied by the chef Komatsu who's interested in seeing the foods he works with in the wild. After several such trips, one arc opens with a mention that Komatsu won't be tagging along this time, as the expeditions may be Toriko's job but Komatsu has been using his vacation days and thanks to the previous trips he's run out.
-   In _World Trigger_, Osamu is aware that he is the weakest link on his team, so he spends a week improving his combat skills with some of Border's best agents and banks on the results of his intensive training to help his team win the next match. Instead of being treated to the payoff that usually follows a shonen training arc, his misplaced confidence makes him less cautious to his surroundings, resulting in him and his team being defeated horribly. Osamu learns the hard way that hard work takes years to bear fruit and rival characters also train hard, so catching up to their level in the time frame he is gunning for (roughly a month) is impossible for someone with no talent like him. He is told that focusing on developing strategies and learning support skills instead would be a more reasonable and practical goal to strive for at the moment.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh!_:
    -   In the KC Grand Prix anime filler arc, the Arc Villain Siegfried unleashes a devastating virus on Kaibacorp's servers. Yugi manages to stop the virus, but Siegfried is content that his virus has already destroyed most of Kaibacorp's data. Kaiba promptly reveals how he just restored the destroyed data from a backup server.
    -   In Battle City, Jounouchi is set to duel Rishid on the Kaibacorp blimp. Uniquely, this fight is the only time the series realistically shows the weather at such altitudes. Because they're at least several thousand feet in the air and high winds are frequent, Jounouchi can barely keep his balance at first and almost loses his cards.
    -   The franchise generally plays The Magic Poker Equation straight as an arrow, which makes it genuinely surprising in _Yu-Gi-Oh! 5Ds_ when redeemed villain Aporia ends up in a situation where he _has_ to draw one specific card with a one in thirty-four chance of doing so or lose the game, announces that he has complete faith in himself and trusts his deck, and... doesn't draw that card.
    -   _Yu-Gi-Oh! ARC-V_:
        -   Various characters duel against Z-ARC, with others taking the place of previous fallen members. At the beginning of the duel, Z-ARC activates two cards that increase his Life Points by damage he would otherwise receive. One of Jack's monsters launches an attack on Z-ARC... and that happens. Jack wasn't there when it happened, so there's no way he would have known, unlike other duels in the franchise where characters who arrive late are somehow able to figure out what's going on. Lampshaded by Z-ARC in the English dub.
            
            **Z-ARC**: Maybe if you showed up for class on time, you would've known that my Supreme King Gate Zero's Pendulum ability protects me from any damage. In fact, my Supreme King Gate Infinity converts all that damage into Life Points for me. Too bad all your buddies didn't fill you in!
            
        -   In episode 19, Nico stands on his seat on the bus while talking to Yuya. When the bus stops, he is, of course, knocked off before the camera cuts to a sign that asks people to sit properly in their seats.
    -   _Yu-Gi-Oh! VRAINS_: In episode 8, When Akira tries to follow Aoi into the emergency room, a nurse holds him back because he's not allowed.
    -   _Yu-Gi-Oh! GO RUSH!!_: Kuaidul Velgear's initial deck is composed exclusively of the ace monsters of the various people he's captured in his pocket dimension and a handful of their spell and trap cards, 39 cards in total (one from each person) plus his own Signature Mon. He wins his initial duel to Yudias and has the deck stolen. In the rematch, Yudias finds the deck unwieldy and difficult to use, because he's using a deck with no low level monsters, a spell/trap count in the single digits, and consisting of an assortment 40 cards from 40 different decks.
-   _Yuri!!! on Ice_:
    -   Despite being able to mimic Victor's impressive programs, Yuri is hampered by his tendency to comfort eat. In most sports anime, that would be a cute quirk... but Yuri isn't a rookie teenager, he's a professional athlete and his food preferences count against him, even though it's fairly mundane rather than obviously unhealthy.
    -   Yurio is set up as Yuri's big Rival in the first episode. He even has all of the hallmarks of a typical sports anime rival: a Teen Genius, the best skater in the junior division, a connection to the main cast, and even a bit of a temper problem. You think that the story would be about them fighting neck-and-neck against each other... but after Episode 3, they don't meet in competition again until the Rostelecom Cup. Both Yuris have very different paths to follow in their competition season, meaning that they don't see each other often, and Yuri doesn't really see Yurio as a rival at all. Until Episode 8, the most one hears about the other is from the news.

    Fan Works 

Crossover

-   _Boldores And Boomsticks_ (_Pokémon_ & _RWBY_):
    -   When trying to reach the lab floor in the Aether Foundation's building in the middle of a Grimm attack, Lillie has the idea of using the air vents - but she soon finds herself on her own, because neither Team RWBY nor her brother Gladion are small enough to fit, and the only Pokémon that could follow her quickly gets lost in the maze of vents.
    -   After defecting from Aether Foundation, Faba boasts to Salem that his virus will have completely wiped their database and they won't be capable of conducting any more wormhole experiments as he now has the only copy of their experimental data. The scene cuts away to Wicke learning that the database has indeed been wiped beyond recovery, with the IT worker having no idea what program Faba used to do it. However, he's already uploading from their offsite backups and will be finished in a couple hours with only the last few hours of data missing. Wicke ponders how Faba failed to realize they'd have backup databases in case anything happened.
-   _Exodus_ (_Big Hero 6_ & _Worm_): Although Taylor surviving two point-blank headshots to the back of her skull is nothing short of a miracle, her brain gets so messed up that she can't recognize basic human interactions, much less words and language. Similarly, spending the majority of her time recovering from the experience leaves her so physically weak she has to go through six months of physical therapy.
-   _Infinity Train: Seeker of Crocus_ (_Infinity Train_ & _Pokémon Journeys: The Series_): A problem with Goh throughout the story is that he constantly is ungrateful every time Chloe gives him his homework sheets (not out of _malice_, mind you, but more because he's more focused on his Pokemon goals to pay attention). By the time Act 2 starts, in which it's noted that Chloe has been on the Infinity Train for around 2 and a half months and Goh hasn't gone back to school since then, two upperclassmen note that due to the situation at school — the students from his old class got expelled for bullying Chloe — that no one has given him his sheets. While Chloe chose to deliver them out of being friends, his classmates have no reason to do so and refused to pick up the slack.
-   _The Reaping of Hatsune Miku_ (Vocaloid & _The World Ends with You_): Ritsu attempts a Punch Catch against Momo during Day 6 of the last game of _Journey_. The narration describes a crack coming out of his arm, and he later shows pain when he has to use that hand while defending.
-   _Revelation (Helluva Boss/Hazbin Hotel)_: The end of chapter 6 has Octavia shot in the leg while escaping the Guard and her injury averts Just a Flesh Wound. Her wound is severe enough that she would've bled out or died of an infection had Moxxie not managed to get her to a hospital for treatment.
-   _Shadows Over Hell_ (_Hazbin Hotel_ & _Helluva Boss_): While the body armor I.M.P. wear during their attack on the cult does save their lives on multiple occasions, the blunt trauma by feel from the impact of the bullets, leaves their bodies battered and bruised.
-   _Takamachi Nanoha of 2814_: Upon hearing that Morgana is heading to Fuyuki City in Japan, the Justice League decides to send Flash and Wonder Woman ahead as reinforcements, with Flash noting his top speed can have them there in a few minutes. When we cut to them later, they're in _another city entirely_ asking for directions, since the man has never been to Japan before, and thus has _no idea_ where Fuyuki is and how to get there. Even using the directions proves difficult since all the signs are in Japanese, which he can't read, and the two end up being the last to arrive.
-   _Cursed Blood_: In the first chapter, Izuku tries to act as a Bullet Proof Human Shield, only for the bullets to go right through him and into the girl he was protecting.
-   _My Hero Academia Marvel-verse_: Izuku tries to channel his inner Solid Snake and sneak past an Inner Demon using a cardboard box. He is promptly captured and held hostage.
-   In the _A Certain Magical Index_/_Puella Magi Madoka Magica_ crossover _Walpurgisnaught_, Touma picks up one of Homura's guns and uses it. Since he had never handled a gun before, the noise hurts his ears, and the recoil hurts his arm.
-   _History's Strongest Shinobi_: How Ino and Kiba are ultimately dealt with, is that Shikamaru and Tenten just involve the authorities after their assassination mission fails, at which point it's revealed that both the former were in Japan on a tourist visa, smuggled in illegal weapons and were using false identification. Naturally, they are arrested and set to be deported and the moment they get back to their countries of origin they're going to be prosecuted for their actions regardless of their ages.

Danganronpa

-   Happens twice in Chapter 5 of _Danganronpa: Memento Mori_:
    -   Madoka attempts to create an improvised explosive device to try and murder Ayane, with no prior bomb-making expertise, no instructions, and while in the throes of a Mushroom Samba. Madoka promptly turns out to not be an Instant Expert, and the bomb fails to go off.
    -   Later on, despite Madoka's attempt to kill her, Ayane attempts to save her life after she gets attacked herself via a Shot to the Heart. As Ayane is a prosecutor, not a trained medical professional (and even they would discourage stabbing someone in the heart with a giant needle), she not only fails to revive Madoka, but ends up killing her by mistake.

Infinite Stratos

-   In _The Final Straw_, when Rin attacks Ichika after Charlotte reveals her gender, Laura is too late to shield him. Being attacked with an IS's weapon meant to be used on other IS nearly kills Ichika, and he's forced to undergo multiple surgeries to survive, including several organ transplants and the replacement of his limbs with cybernetic replicas. Plus, it's implied that he's suffered a bit of a personality change due to the damage in his brain (although that could also just be his infinite patience running out).
    -   Meanwhile, Rin is expelled from the Academy and arrested for attempted murder, while China (the country she represents in the Academy) suffers international backlash on account of them sending someone that was a clear potential danger to another student - particularly when that student is the only man that has been proven to be able to use an IS.

_Jackie Chan Adventures_

-   _Jackie Chan Adventures: Olympian Journey_: Rachel, when fleeing Eros Drew's minions, finds herself too large to fit in an Air-Vent Passageway. She has to go up to the rafters, and even the below-average Jade finds it a tight squeeze.

_Kim Possible_

-   _At the Centerfold of the Storm_:
    -   When GJ cracks open Henchco.'s mainframe, the dirty secrets aren't all in one digital bundle. It's a _sprawling_ mass of data, and GJ is _swamped_ trying to process it all.
    -   The fic reveals the fate of Team Go's parents: They died, aka, what _normally_ happens when one takes a meteor with enough force to blow up a treehouse.

_Love Hina_

-   _Contract Labor_: Without Steel Eardrums like most fiction, one of the mercenaries on Seta's dig becomes temporarily deaf from firing his rifle inside a cave.

_Miraculous Ladybug_

-   _Miraculous Alliance_: Shortly after they start dating, Adrien and Marinette try making out in a broom closet like in the movies... Only to find it too cramped and cluttered to do more than deliver each other Amusing Injuries.
    
    **Adrien:** This was a bad idea. All those movies lied to me. Broom closets are not good for making out.
    

_My Hero Academia_

-   _Ignited Spark_: Nejire constantly hitting her head in the battle trial results in her getting a concussion.
-   _Quirk: Magical Girl Mascot_: At I-Island, a group consisting of Tsuyu, Toru, Mina and some Pro Heroes go through the air vents. However, unlike most media, which treat this as a good way to move around sneakily, the noise they make climbing through the vents gives them away.

_My Little Pony_

-   This Equestria Girls fan-comic has the girls changing in the locker room. Applejack opens her locker to find Principal Molestia inside with a camera and a nosebleed. Rather than being Played for Laughs as Molestia tends to be, the comic's last panel sees her arrested.
-   _Marionettes_: The Traintop Battle shows how the extreme wind makes even moving on top of a train difficult, which most works don't even consider.
-   _Spectacular Seven_: During the Snowball Fight in _Volume II_, Sunset tries dashing across the snow and ice. Unlike most works where such a thing is a fun pastime, she slips and falls almost instantly.
-   Pinkamina in _Ask Pinkamina Diane Pie_ tries to lick a knife dramatically. Because she isn't paying attention to the angle, she ends up slicing her tongue.
-   _Fall of Starfleet, Rebirth of Friendship_: While boarding Serpentari, The Umbra Circle mugs a group of Starfleet soldiers for their uniforms. However, the uniforms they acquire do not fit them and they have to repeat this method a few times before everyone gets a uniform that fits them.
-   _The Lost Element_: An alarming example occurs during "Homo Pinkius" where Pinkie Pie tries to ice skate while stuck in a human form and falls through thin ice during a pirouette. James even lampshades Pinkie's shtick by expecting her to pop back up while partially encased in a block of ice, but this is not the case as she surfaces while flailing and shrieking in pain from the intense cold, forcing James to act quickly to save her from suffering an icy fate.

_Pokémon_

-   In _Pokemon: Shadow of Time_, a man is nearly deafened when he fires a loud gun in an enclosed space, averting the conventional trope of Steel Eardrums.
-   _Traveler_: In a clean aversion of Convection, Schmonvection, Ash develops breathing problems after challenging Moltres atop Mt. Ember. Volcanoes pump out torrents of smoke and toxins, and most works don't even consider how unsafe they'd be to inhale.
-   In _The Road to be a Pokemon Master_, Ash, Gary, and Serena steal some Team Rocket uniforms to infiltrate the Rocket-occupied Silph co. At first, it seems that the deception worked until Proton reveals they knew about them all along. Uniform or not, Ash, Gary, and Serena still are and look like eleven-year-olds. The youngest Rocket grunts are at the very least in their late teens.
-   _The Sun Soul_: A bug catcher pulls out a knife in his leg, which this fic portrays more accurately than most fiction. Blood gushes out immediately since the blade had sliced the femoral artery, and keeping it in was the only thing holding the bleeding.

_Once Upon a Studio_:

-   _Once Upon A Studio: Version 2.0_: While watching the botched first attempt at the group photo from inside, Cinderella and Rapunzel discreetly admit that _regardless_ of whether or not Goofy was chosen to take the photo, a mishap of some kind was pretty much inevitable, as while everyone was bright and chirpy prior to Goofy's accident, there was no doubt an air of unimaginable pressure regarding such a truly epic milestone.
    -   Cinderella, however, remains optimistic that they'll find ''some'' way to turn it around. She, Rapunzel and Moana, along with their respective Princes and a few other characters then head downstairs as quickly as possible in an effort to help make the group photo a reality.

_Psychonauts_

-   _Later, Traitor_: When Pepper finally takes her puppet Sally off her hand in Chapter 31, she isn't able to move it. It turns out that keeping your hand locked in a certain position inside a hunk of wood for a few years isn't exactly healthy for its bone structure.

_Star Wars_

-   _The Gray Jedi Series_ When Zari falls out of the _Vindicator_, then uses the Force to launch herself back up, she falls short, and Des tries to catch her, but only to be pulled down with her.

_Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles_

-   _Like Father, Like Son_: In chapter 2, Draxum flings Leo and he collides into a metal billboard. This leaves him noticeably stunned and the next chapter outright confirms he has a concussion from it.

Tolkien's Legendarium

-   The very first Sue in _The Game of the Gods_ prepares to enter Middle Earth, recites a "spell" that will open a portal there, then takes a running leap towards her television. She ends up simply crashing headfirst through the screen and dies of a massive head wound.

_Total Drama_

-   _She's Not So Famous_: After triumphantly reclaiming her camera from Chris, Millie tries to escape back out through the vent like Annie did... but she lacks Annie's height and upper body strength, so she can't jump up there by herself and gets accosted by security.
-   _Total Drama Voyage_: As Team Heather learns the hard way in "Food Disservice," the cooking skills Mike picked up from Manitoba may be good for wilderness survival, but don't translate well to refined restaurant dining.

Worm

-   _Here Comes The New Boss_: In _7.1_, an Empire goon tries to turn a glass beer bottle into a weapon by breaking it. While great in theory, the bottle completely shatters and shreds his hand. He's left bleeding out on the floor as a result.

_Yu-Gi-Oh!_

-   _Being Dead Ain't Easy_: Yami Bakura offers Kaiba a Deal with the Devil: he helps Joey in exchange for control of Kaiba's company. Since he held up his end of the bargain, Yami Bakura successfully becomes CEO of KaibaCorp. However, since his host has no idea what's going on and neither of them knows _how_ to run a company, Yami Bakura doesn't enjoy it as much as he thinks he would, and gives it back.
-   _A Mother's Touch_: Yuri's plan to kidnap Yuzu hits a snag when Yoko takes her away from him as he realizes he _has no idea_ how to navigate Maiami City. It turns out kidnappings only work if you have a general layout of the location in mind, not to mention that he doesn't have a way to move around the city.

Unsorted

-   _The Blood of the Covenant_: When Aang takes his new friends to the Southern Air Temple, Kallik faints due to the altitude. Aang is horrified and quickly explains that the monks used to warn him about bringing visitors, as the thinner air can make some people sick.
-   _My Arms Are Blue!_: During a spice-eating contest, Sonic attempts to cool his mouth with water. He learns the hard way that this just makes the pain _worse._
-   _Oneesama_: In a harrowing subversion, Miss Maria treats Shizuru giving a Skinship Grope to Natsuki as severe sexual harassment, and Shizuru risks expulsion.

    Films — Animation 

-   _An Extremely Goofy Movie_: Goofy, suffering from Empty Nest Syndrome after Max leaves for college, gets distracted at work and causes an accident. While up to this point, Goofy's clumsy antics are usually Played for Laughs, this time, the antics kick off a set of Disaster Dominoes that end up destroying all the equipment. He ultimately gets fired due to the damage he caused.
-   _Ratatouille:_ In order to get the meal served to critic Anton Ego, the protagonists have to tie up a health inspector and use rats to cook the food. The restaurant gets shut down.
-   In _The Sea Beast_, Jacob gets ready to break his spear on his thigh to signify that his days of hunting are over... only for the spear to remain unbroken, while his thigh gets into a much more painful state. It works in the climax, when he has a wooden spear.
-   _The Seventh Brother_: A lost puppy lives with some rabbits for several months and seems to remain well-fed the whole time. In fact, the story runs almost entirely on "kid movie" logic for the most part, but near the end the rabbits have to find a way to bring the puppy back to human civilization because, as it turns out, dogs can't live on grass and carrots the way a rabbit can, and he's suffering from malnutrition.
-   _Smallfoot_: After spending some time in the yeti village on the mountain, Percy starts suffering from high altitude sickness due to the lack of oxygen on such a high peak.
-   _Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse_: Miles tries to get kicked out of Visions Academy by purposely bombing a true-false test, intentionally getting every answer wrong. But Miles is surprised when the teacher points out that if Miles was truly guessing blind on a true-false test, the law of averages means that he should have gotten at least some of the answers right.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> The only way to get all the answers wrong on a true-false test is to know all the _right_ answers, and deliberately fill in the wrong ones. The teacher promptly gives Miles a perfect score and tells him that she won't let him quit Visions Academy that easily, much to Miles' dismay.
-   _Zootopia_: A mild example with former Mayor Lionheart. It's discovered near the end of the film that the main plot was a setup and he's partly been framed by his own assistant, but as he's still guilty of false imprisonment and kidnapping in his efforts to contain the Night Howler problem, he's still in jail and has to serve his sentence. Also, while she solved the Night Howler case, Officer Hopps is also still a Rookie in her first year on the job (now partnered with another rookie), though many of the officers start to respect her more. As such, at the end of the film, Judy and Nick are on patrol duty rather than investigating major cases and their assignment for the day is chasing a traffic offender (a street racer).

    Literature 

-   In _Ascendance of a Bookworm_ the main character transmigrates into what is basically medieval Germany as a sick little peasant girl. She has a lot of miscellaneous knowledge on how to make various things, but unlike the isekai standard of becoming a beloved celebrity overnight for inventing dozens of modern inventions, she finds it nearly impossible to make much of _anything_ for a long time: the tools just don't exist and she doesn't have the resources. It takes a solid year to even create paper and doing so doesn't improve her social position at all. It makes her a bit of money, but that's about it. If anything, she needs to not make it too obvious that she's behind her subsequent Giving Radio to the Romans products until she gets proper protection from the local Supernatural Elite because it might attract the attention of people who see her "inventions" as a threat to their livelihood.
-   _The Asterisk War_:
    -   Kirin's katana, Senbakiri, is a completely mundane metal sword. This means that it has no chance of causing appreciable damage on the robot AR-D, averting Katanas Are Just Better.
    -   Ser Veresta is damaged at the climax of the Gryps Final, and Ayato pulls his backup sword lux. His opponent, Team Lancelot leader Ernest Fairclough, promptly drops his own Orga Lux and draws his own backup weapon, hoping for a climactic sword duel with a man he sees as Worthy Opponent. Instead, he snafus his own team's defensive teamwork and all of Ayato's teammates promptly gang up on him, since it's a five-on-five match in which breaking the leader's badge wins it—which Claudia promptly does. Should've just challenged him to a regular duel, Ernie.
-   Chuck Barris's _The Big Question_: The titular Deadly Game is cancelled two weeks after its premiere in the wake of massive protest. Because, surprise, televised murder is _illegal_.
-   _Diary of a Wimpy Kid_: _Dog Days_ has Greg claim a bicycle some neighbors threw away so he can get to the pool and carry stuff easier. It falls apart in four days, as a bike someone threw out for anybody to take is almost certainly defective.
-   _Find Layla_: Layla is an aspiring scientist with a poor and neglectful home life. She decides to film the various fungi in her run-down apartment for a biology contest. The video goes viral but forces Child Protective Services to take her and her little brother due to unsafe living conditions.
-   _Honor Harrington_: Honor is made a countess after the events of _The Honor of the Queen_ but is never seated in the House of Lords, still being on active duty at the time. The first time she does take her seat is at the climax of _Field of Dishonor_, where rather than take part in the business of government, she uses it as a chance to challenge her enemy Pavel Young, Earl North Hollow, to a Duel to the Death for his part in the murder of her boyfriend (he's been working very hard to avoid her after she killed the actual triggerman in a prior duel). This is also the _last_ time she sits in the House of Lords, as the chamber promptly votes to expel her from Parliament for abusing her seat to settle a personal matter (although Honor doesn't care overmuch). It also leads to her becoming persona non grata in the Navy for the next book. Even when you're the protagonist, actions have consequences.
-   _Little House on the Prairie_:
    -   Pa illegally settled in Native American territory. He's convinced that as long as they don't argue with the locals, all should be good. That's not what happens; the government in a moment of goodwill forces the settlers off the land to honor the treaties.
    -   A similar event happens to Laura’s Uncle Tom. Like the Ingalls, his traveling group also chose to make a permanent settlement in the middle of Indian territory, which the natives did not take kindly to. The US Army arrives on the scene as the settlers are being besieged, but to their great surprise, the Army marches them right out of the fort before setting it on fire. Charles and Caroline are outraged, but Tom quickly reminds them that a group of half-starved and battle-weary pioneers could hardly have made a stand against actual soldiers.
    -   Eliza Jane Wilder's last class ends in bedlam when the school board walks in, and she tries to defend herself by throwing Laura under the horse carriage, as it were, scapegoating her for the chaos. It doesn't work; the board fires her or she resigns from the disgrace of all the boys rebelling because they made the choice to undermine Ms Wilder's authority. If you can't manage your students, as Laura notes in the next book, then you're not fit to be a teacher. Even though Ma and Pa tell Laura she needs to respect her teacher, they get her side of the story and admit that it wasn't her fault because Nellie decided to cause trouble.
    -   Almanzo as a wedding present to Laura buys her a new house with many fancy fixings and supplies for cooking. She appreciates it. Come the next book, they're in heavy debt from all of the purchases. Laura lampshades it as she's calculating their losses. (This also helps to explain why she gets so upset in _The Rose Years_ at Almanzo buying her a new stove.)
-   _The Magicians_: Quentin gets his head smacked against the stone floor in a fistfight with Penny. After being superficially treated for the bruises, he tries to go about his day but abruptly vomits up his dinner and passes out. It's not a Tap on the Head, and he's suffered a concussion, earning him a stay in the infirmary and a stern talking-to from the Dean.
-   In the young adult book _Skinnybones_ by Barbara Park, Alex Frankovitch is running towards first base in a Little League game, with Jerk Jock T.J. Stoner just about to get him out. Alex, in the spur of the moment, starts jumping up and down, waving his arms, and screaming "BOOGA BOOGA!" at T.J. to distract him. T.J. thus misses the ball, which allows Alex to eventually reach second base, ecstactic about finally having got one over on T.J. in baseball. However, Alex is quite surprised and disheartened when the umpire calls Alex out anyways, since he intentionally interfered with the play at first base by distracting the first baseman. Even the moral victory of embarassing T.J. doesn't last long for Alex, as T.J. is naturally angry at Alex humiliating him. When T.J. looks like he's about to beat Alex up for the embarrassment, it ends up causing a shocked Alex to flee from the Little League game, run to his house, and lock himself in his room.
-   _So This is Ever After_:
    -   The entire beginning of the novel plays this for laughs by showing the triumph of the hero's party over The Vile One to be much less cinematic than he pictured. He thought he would be able to cleanly behead The Vile One, raise his decapitated head as a trophy, and subsequently, declare his love for Matt and maybe even kiss him. He doesn't get to do any of those things, as beheading someone ends up being a messy and tough affair that soils everyone with blood. He also feels no desire to raise the head because it would be hard since he is bald and it would be really gross to touch a decapitated head as he notices. Matt and Arek are also not in any position to for a romantic declaration, being bloodied, dirty, tired, and sweaty, which makes the entire scene much less picturesque than he wanted.
    -   Further, when Arek finds himself thrust into kingship as the last heir from the former ruling dynasty is dead, he and his friends quickly struggle with going from commoners to ruling a kingdom.
-   _Son of Interflux_: Every time Phil attempts to deliberately invoke True Art Is Incomprehensible for art class rather than put in hard work and thought (like by putting a wedding cake on the roof of his car and driving through a car wash), he just makes a mess and/or comes up with something that most people find unimpressive.
-   In the novel _Fear_ by Ronald Kelly, once of the good guys is lynched, and while does dangle for about a minute, the others manage to rescue him. Happy ending, right? No, that brief dangle was enough to crush his windpipe, and he dies shortly after.

    Music 

-   Fefe Dobson's "Stuttering" music video is about her preparing to confront her cheating boyfriend in a seedy motel after the other woman has stepped out. She even puts on the other woman's jacket while she waits for him to come out of the shower. Turns out it's not her boyfriend, and Fefe immediately leaves, embarrassed. The video goes to some weird places from there, but it's an interesting twist on the usual cliche.
-   Johnny Cash's "One Piece At A Time" has this Played for Laughs. Its protagonist resolves to make himself a Cadillac for free from parts that he stole while working at a General Motors assembly plant. The scheme takes several decades to complete, and at the end of thirty years of work, comes out with a machine that's almost impossible to assemble and looks like an ugly mess of a thing, with a title that weighs sixty pounds. The protagonist still loves it, though.
-   The music video for Cher Lloyd's "Want U Back" features the singer and three friends of hers trashing a diner and causing mayhem... so by the end of the video, the police have been called and all four of them are led away in cuffs.
-   The song "Scalp" by Atmosphere features the narrator describing his night. He goes to the bar and meets his friend Sonny, who offers to pay him for retrieving a package from a tattoo parlor. One expects the protagonist to follow through with his task, possibly finding something surprising in the package along the way, but instead, he is killed in a car crash immediately after leaving the bar. This is what happens when you actually drink $50 worth of alcohol and then drive at night.
-   Eminem's songs often run on Amusing Injuries, but occasionally he will portray violence more realistically.
    -   "Brain Damage" is a song about an over-the-top encounter between a disaffected kid and his school bully full of Zany Cartoon voices and hinting at Concussions Get You High (Slim's brain damage led to people assuming he was on drugs). But the description of brain damage symptoms (Slim's disturbed vision and foggy behaviour) is authentic, based on Eminem's own real-life experiences of it. Until Slim's mother hits him over the head, causing his entire brain to fall out onto the carpet, so he picks it up and calls her a cunt.
    -   "Bad Guy" features Stan's brother Matthew trying to murder Eminem in revenge for what happened to his brother. The attempted killing involves Matthew doing 90 on the freeway the same way Stan once did, but all it does it attract attention to him and get cops on his tail.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Ace Attorney_:
    -   In the last case of the first game, when all hope seems lost, Larry shows up and demands to be a witness to the event. Unlike most moments where an immediate, dramatic conclusion happens, the judge calls a recess. Having a witness show up last minute requires the prosecutor team to have time to interview the witness. Also, letting someone talk without context for their evidence is a possible risk.
    -   In the final case of _Justice for All_, Gumshoe calls Phoenix to tell him he's found decisive evidence while driving. He almost immediately gets into a car accident, stopping him from getting to the courthouse.
    -   The final case of _Investigations_ takes place in an embassy, so the killer naturally attempts to exploit his extraterritorial rights. This eventually leads to his home country revoking his diplomatic immunity, allowing Edgeworth to take him down.
    -   _The Great Ace Attorney_:
        -   While Ryunosuke uses Sholmes' new scientific inventions to uncover evidence several times, Lord van Zieks and the judge refuses to accept it as official evidence since those inventions and techniques are untested in the scientific world.
        -   In the end of the first game, Ryunosuke temporarily loses his right to practice law in Great Britain over his actions in Case 1-3 because he unwittingly presented tampered evidence and false testimony to get his client acquitted.
        -   It's been noted that Lord van Zieks prosecuted the Professor trial despite being a rookie prosecutor and having a clear conflict of interest, seeing how his brother was one of the murder victims, and failed to remain objective during the trial, missing little details that could have changed the course of the trial. Mael Stronghart did this deliberately so the otherwise logical Lord van Zieks _couldn't_ prosecute fairly and wouldn't catch on that Genshin Asogi was framed and realize that it was his own brother who was the Professor.
-   _Cinders_ initially leads the player to assume that Carmosa hid Cinders' father's will because it would reveal Cinders as the true heir. However, if Cinders chooses to search, she quickly finds it, revealing the will left everything to _Carmosa_. Hiding and lying about such a document is _incredibly_ idiotic, which Carmosa is _not_. Carmosa hid it because it's a sensitive legal document. Carmosa and Cinders' father had a good relationship, so it makes sense for him to leave everything to his new wife. His daughter wasn't in consideration, considering she's all but stated to have been a minor when he died.
-   _Collar × Malice_:
    -   In the common Bad Ending, Ichika decides to work alone to solve the X-Day crimes because she doesn't trust the detective agency. She is a rookie cop with little investigative experience and no connections. Naturally, she isn't able to solve anything and X-Day still occurs.
    -   Sasazuka deliberately taunts Souda, believing the latter is inexperienced with guns and would not actually use the gun. In one of his Bad Endings, this belief would get Ichika killed because she pushed Sasazuka out of the way when Souda became deranged enough to shoot at Sasazuka.
    -   Mochida and Minegishi quickly catch on that Ichika is seeing Yanagi's group and that she is involved with the X-Day crimes to some extent. After all, the police via Okazaki and Yoshinari are monitoring the detective agency closely.
    -   Some Bad Endings occur and Ichika can get attacked and killed if the player chooses to take a different path to take home or wander at night alone, despite multiple warnings it was dangerous at night.
-   In _Nightshade_:
    -   Enju's father and her village are quick to abandon Enju when she is accused of killing Hideyoshi. The idea that one of their own shinobi tried to kill the feudal lord, truthfully or falsely, would cause the country to declare war against their small village, something that would surely eradicate everyone in the village.
    -   Tying into that, on certain routes, Enju's friends are ordered to kill her. Despite having conflicting feelings, they still go through with the order as their families' lives are on stake if they failed to complete their mission.
    -   Even if Enju successfully defeats all the shinobi hunting her down and/or find out Hideyoshi is actually alive in some routes, she is still unable to return home since she is still officially branded the murderer of Hideyoshi.
-   _Piofiore: Fated Memories_:
    -   Dante and Lili both drink a drugged wine Nicola brings them without realizing it but are not knocked out instantly. They continue their dinner and conversations long before Lili starts feeling drowsy.
    -   In Gilbert's Bad Ending, Orlok dies after taking a hit to protect Lili. Unlike most instances where the love interest can keep fighting after sustaining multiple injuries, sometimes it only takes one to cause severe internal bleeding.
-   In case 4 of _Tyrion Cuthbert: Attorney of the Arcane_, the judge tries to hold Tyrion in contempt of court when he jumps down from the gallery, goes up to the prosecution's bench, and asks permission to cross-examine the witness. Needless to say, a defense attorney watching a trial should not suddenly prosecute it, specially when the two attorneys belong to the same law firm. Luckily for Tyrion, Prosecutor Steelwind already predicted he would do that and allowed him to be her official replacement.

    Web Animation 

-   In _Camp Camp_, Max and co. manage to successfully hijack the bus and escape from David and Gwen, only to be caught shortly after when they crash the bus because none of them know how to drive.
-   _Cyanide and Happiness_: In this short, a barbershop quartet attempts to perform surgery, happily singing what they need ("Scallllllpeelllll..."). Their patient suddenly goes into cardiac arrest, and the singers can't do anything—because they're a _barbershop quartet._ They then lament the fact that they're not doctors, at which point a real surgeon enters the room and stares at the dead body in confusion.
-   _Dr. Havoc's Diary_:
    -   Firing a gun without a Hollywood Silencer inside a nuclear submarine will grant you a high-pitched, ear-shattering ringing noise. You're lucky if you _don't_ go completely deaf after that.
    -   Because he's in a secret bunker 20 feet underground, Dr. Havoc can't properly acquire wi-fi.
-   _Eddsworld_: At the end of the episode "Saloonatics," Edd tries to have an inspirational moment by drinking from his wild west ancestor's cola. Despite the rest of the episode portraying such cola as giving you a harmless sugar rush, it then cuts to him vomiting into a toilet. A baffled Tom asks why he'd drink from a 100-year-old bottle of cola.
-   _Homestar Runner_:
    -   The book _Where My Hat Is At?_ ended with Homestar, having found his hat, arriving at the Big Game "just in time to score the winning run." It's left to interpretation whether this means he showed up in time to go up to bat and scored a home run or if he just ran onto the field at home plate and somehow didn't get thrown out for disrupting the game. When the book was remade as a cartoon ten years later, the Brothers Chaps decided to go with the latter, minus the not-getting-thrown-out part:
        
        **Homestar:** Safe!  
        **Umpire:** Uhhhhhh, whaddaya doin'?  
        **Homestar:** I found my hat just in time to score the winning run.  
        **Umpire:** Uh, no, actually it's the bottom of the second, your team's down by 94 points, and you just illegally ran onto the field!  
        **Homestar:** Get this, it was between the milk and the Cold Ones!  
        **Umpire:** Yeah, yeah, you need to head back to the dugout before I toss you out of here, buster!  
        **Homestar:** Man, Mr. Umpire, you sure have a funny way of pronouncing... "Homestar Runner's team wins!"  
        **Umpire:** ...Yeah, you're suspended from the league.
        
    -   The _Dangeresque: Puppet Squad_ episode "The Hot-Jones Hijack!" involves the villain attempting to kill the heroes by throwing them in a deathtrap involving a "robotic Santaman"—that is to say, a motorized dancing Santa toy with a pair of knives taped to its hands. Since the _Dangeresque_ films tend to feature (deliberately) awful special effects, you'd expect it to still be treated as a threat... but then a later scene reveals that it met the fate you would expect of such a deadly weapon, which is to say that it lost its balance and fell over to do nothing but spin around uselessly.
-   _The Most Popular Girls in School_:
    -   Rachel carrying her luggage in a trash bag ends badly, as trash bags tend to rip when holding too much weight.
    -   Sorry, Brittnay, but being unarmed and having just come out of Force Feeding will not have you Curb-Stomp Battle Team France as you did with The Expendables.
-   _Red vs. Blue_:
    -   After a history of the Reds and Blues learning to cope with Caboose's habit of getting team-mates killed while trying to help them, that ends when he's reassigned. He is sentenced to the brig and tied up as soon as his new C.O. realises how Lethally Stupid he is.
    -   Washington is an established Made of Iron Determinator, continuously bouncing back from injuries that would leave anyone else a blubbering shell of a person. Indeed, he seems to start recovering from being shot in the throat at the end of Season 15. However, Season 16 reveals severe brain damage due to his brain losing oxygen for one minute, leaving him as a Mood-Swinger with short-term amnesia.
    -   It's repeatedly pointed out and shown that Felix is far more skilled than the Reds and Blues and that none of them individually are a match for him in a physical fight. In the Season 13 finale, he chooses to go after them despite being injured and unarmed, assuming he'll easily beat them. Since the Reds and Blues are both heavily armed and outnumber him, he's rather easily beaten and killed in a Curb-Stomp Battle.
-   _RWBY_: In Volume 6, Maria and Weiss have stolen an Atlas military airship and the Atlas base radios them to try to figure out why they're not on course. Maria dismisses Weiss's concern and says she can bluff the radio operators at the base because she knows their lingo. The bluff fails, and the operators note that while the lingo was correct, Maria has the voice of an elderly woman and the ship's assigned pilot wasn't an old lady.

    Webcomics 

-   _The Adventures of Dr. McNinja_: A resident superhero flips over a room full of bad guys shooting at him. The hero ends up dead, riddled with bullets.
-   At the end of _Dubious Company_, the insane God-Emperor Kreedor is defeated and The Empire is taken over by the noble General Izzor and his lieutenants. In the last few strips it shows them struggling to transition a society that has been engaged in expansionist wars for decades to peace: Izzor notes that because Kreedor funded the military to the exclusion of everything else the country has a bloated military, a crumbling infrastructure and economy in ruins; multiple regions are on the verge of rebellion; when they announce to the soldiers that the war is over and they can go home, the now unemployed troops are furious because now they have no livelihood and don’t know anything else; recently annexed territories are left in chaos when the Empire withdraws leaving no functioning government behind and with some people calling for reparations. It's lampshaded when someone notes that it doesn’t go like that in the stories.
-   _Paranatural_: Spender briefs the club while facing the window, which makes for a dramatic image with the sun shining on him. There's a short pause after he speaks, and it turns out they can't hear him very well because he's facing away from them.
-   In a _Team Fortress 2_ comic, Saxton Hale grabs a flying eagle after being dropped out of a plane, announcing his intention to have the eagle fly him to the ground safely. Since Saxton runs on Rule of Cool, you'd expect this to work, so it's a shock when the eagle turns out to be unable to fly while carrying a person.
-   _Weak Hero_ thrives on the underdog heroes never losing and overcoming all injuries and trials to take down their opponents. Alex spends all of Season 3 angsting over his need to power up, removes a Power Limiter he didn't know he had, and acknowledges how to overcome his mental blocks. Expectations of his victory were high when he faced off against Dongha. Dongha mocked him for thinking his willpower would allow him to win and dislocated his arm, the most brutal injury inflicted on a protagonist yet. Alex lost unequivocally, with Gerard needing to come in at the last minute to save him.

    Web Original 

-   A number of _Civvie 11_ videos featured hints that Civvie was planning to escape the prison that the series was set in and detonate a bomb, with him doing brief asides of talking to contacts or requisitioning weapons. This culminates in his _Unreal_ video, where he finally puts the plan into action... and his handlers inform him that they figured out the plan and defused it some time ago, since he was discussing the details of how he was going to do it in a publicly-available YouTube review show.
-   _Critical Role_: In Campaign 2, Beauregard tries to invoke And Show It to You in her "How do you want to do this?" on a giant minotaur demon. Because the heart is roughly the size of a beachball and she has no knowledge of the creature's anatomy, this takes a lot of effort and ends up looking a lot less cool than she envisioned.
-   _Dream SMP_: Immediately after winning the election, Schlatt - already established as being not the most physically fit and somewhat frail - begins downing alcohol by the truckloads and using steroids to compensate for his lack of physical strength. His unhealthy lifestyle and the impact on his health are largely Played for Laughs and fever factors into the main plot, until the first season finale, where he anticlimactically dies of a heart attack while being surrounded by Pogtopia after losing the final battle. As it turns out, his heavy substance abuse posed a genuine threat to his life, and he likely would have died regardless of whether or not he won.
-   _Shepard's Mind_: When Shepard tries to eat a chocolate bar, he immediately realizes how awful it tastes after he swam through sewage in his adventure.
    
    **Shepard:** That was maybe not a good thing to put in my mouth.
    

___