**Rory:** Where's Nephew?  
**Amy:** He was standing right where you materialized.  
**The Doctor:** Ah. Well... He must have been redistributed.  
**Rory:** Meaning what?  
**The Doctor:** You're breathing him.

Powers like teleportation can be very dangerous if you don't look where you're going. If you teleport into someone else, or someone else teleports into you... splat.

The term comes from early First-Person Shooter Video Games, where it is possible to teleport or respawn in the same space as another player. But the hitboxes lining up could cause a lot of trouble, so usually what happens is the person who was there first dies, and the person teleporting in is perfectly fine. It's called the "last one standing" rule. Whoever is the last one to arrive, survives.

This is also known as interpenetration, especially when there is no exploding involved.

In the cases where this is harmful to the teleporter, the dangers of teleporting into a space currently occupied by air and dust are usually ignored. This can be handwaved by stating that the teleporter is capable of displacing gases, liquids, and minuscule solids therein, or by the fact that compared to about every other substance humans normally deal with, air is very thin stuff.

The usual aversion is Swap Teleportation. Then, if you appear inside a mountain, a statue appears at the starting position, but you're still Buried Alive unless you can teleport again immediately (bearing in mind that being entombed this way tends to impair one's ability to speak, move, or indeed think clearly.) In this case, any living being who is teleported _into_ will be horribly eviscerated, while the one doing the teleporting may be merely psychologically traumatized.

The opposite of a Portal Cut (a perfect guillotine made by disconnection of the gate's surfaces while someone or something is passing through, or otherwise using partial teleportation to cut something apart). If the teleporter isn't fine tuned, expect a Teleporter Accident to result.

See also Portal Slam (when there's something in the way when you try to _enter_ a teleportal). Can be used to defy Inertia Is a Cruel Mistress by destroying the offending obstacle, or as Weaponized Teleportation. The supertrope is teleporting things to anyplace that's inherently extremely dangerous even if it's not actually inside a solid object, such as into deep space, over lava, or 100 feet straight up. A No-Flow Portal may be deliberately designed to have this sort of effect on the unwary.

Not to be confused with _Telefang_.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

-   Occurs suddenly and horrifically in an ad for the Australian Central Institute of Technology, when Aaron teleports into a clothing rack which goes through his chest, then makes it worse by teleporting into a staircase, with railing through his jaw, and the steps severing his arm and lower torso.

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Bleach_: When Hachigen Ushoda's arm is affected by Barragan's corrosive powers, he uses one of his barriers to cut it off, then teleport it into Barragan. Since Barragan isn't immune to his power on the inside, he disintegrates himself (nevermind the damage from have a arm shoved into his chest).
-   _A Certain Magical Index_:
    -   Awaki is a Level 4 Teleporter like Kuroko, and was on her way to becoming Level 5, but she had an incident where she miscalculated her teleportation and ended up getting her leg telefragged into a wall, panicked, and ended up tearing a large amount of skin and muscle off. Her leg has since been healed, but the trauma was so terrible that she is paranoid about teleporting herself and takes an extra 3 seconds to recalculate, and anything that reminds her of the incident terrifies her. The stress when she actually does manage to teleport makes her unable to do it consecutively more than 3 or 4 times and makes her vomit. Ironically, she's forced to relive the experience during the Battle Royale Arc when she teleports while her powers are affected by AIM Jammers and gets her feet telefragged into the ground. This time, however, as a sign of Character Development, she forces herself through the pain and shock and keeps attacking her foe to bring them down despite tearing her skin and muscle again to break free.
    -   Telefragging is one method fans have thought up to get around Accelerator's "I'm invincible" powers, but the author accounted for this as well: teleporting involves 11th dimensional movement, so there is still a _vector_ of movement with teleportation, meaning Accelerator would just reverse the teleportation like he does everything else.
-   _A Certain Scientific Railgun_: Kuroko explicitly states her teleporting one object into another displaces the material occupying the old space, regardless of what either object was. At one point, she tears down _a building_ by teleporting sheets of glass into its support pillars. She also threatens to teleport her needles into people. She only tries this once, however, and it misses (the target was an illusion that she fell for).
-   In _My Hero Academia_, not doing this is one of the few Required Secondary Powers that Mirio has- while he falls through the floor whenever he uses his Intangibility quirk, matter can't overlap so he just gets propelled outside of whatever he was in.
-   _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_: The cast has just traveled a ten-day leap backwards in time to Set Right What Once Went Wrong, unfortunately without enough time to give any idea as to _where_ they would appear. They nearly fell several thousand feet, but afterward one character remarked about their luck of not appearing inside a rock.
-   The Dimension Sword technique in _Rosario + Vampire_ is a combination of Tele frag and Vibroweapon. By shifting dimensions, a user can pass through objects unchallenged — and by shifting back, they will promptly _destroy_ whatever they are currently within — from a block of wood to a suit of armour to human flesh. The most efficient form is doing this 'shift away, shift back' action _one hundred times per second._<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   _Steins;Gate_: Some of the experiments of CERN got stuck in various places due to the Earth moving, meaning time-travel is pseudo-teleportation if no coordinates are set.

    Comic Books 

-   This happened to Cable & Deadpool in their eponymous comic, Cable accidentally teleporting into Deadpool and fusing the two of them together.
-   In _Exiles_, team teleporter Blink has done this, both intentionally and while under someone else's control. While fighting Hyperion, Blink fakes a redirect portal to distract him, then uses her power to fill him with sand. Due to one of his abilities, it didn't last very long. Fortunately, in the end Hyperion is sent back to his own reality. The reality where he had caused the deaths of everyone else on the planet, leaving him the only person left on Earth.
-   In Alan Moore's seminal _Miracleman_, one of the first moves in the climactic fight against Kid Miracleman is to teleport him into a wall. It doesn't work at all; he breaks out instantly. It does, however, work when the Warpsmith tries it the other way around — teleporting a chunk of asphalt and rebar into Kid Miracleman's head, and an I-beam through his chest. Even this isn't immediately fatal.
-   _Disney Ducks Comic Universe_: Don Rosa points out that it can also happen with time travel: what if, in the age you're travelling to, there's a tree right where you stand? It's what sets in motion the plot of _The Once and Future Duck_. The Ducks resolve to use a Time Machine invented by Gyro in the middle of Stonehenge since they can be certain that no other structures will have been there for several thousands years.
-   _JSA Classified_: The unfortunate S.H.A.D.E. scientist who tried to steal an H-Dial by moving forward in time to a point when he thought the lab would be empty loses a leg when Johnny Mimic taps into the echo of his plan, and mindset and moves a chair to sit right where his leg is about to rematerialize.
-   In the 2014 relaunch of _Paperinik New Adventures_, the Raider, after showing the ability to use his chronosail for Teleportation, moves a gigantic planet-moving engine inside a slightly smaller Evronian space station, blowing up both.
-   An accidental version happened in the first volume of _Powers_. As mobster Johnny Royalle is starting to walk away from detectives questioning him, with the intention of teleporting elsewhere, Detective Deena Pilgrim grabs his arm. Cue an alarmed look on Royalle's face as his portal opens... with the arm that Pilgrim is holding onto pulled outside the portal thanks to her grip. That arm is promptly cut off as the portal closes. Eventually, years and volumes later, it would be confirmed that Royalle in fact died as a result of this.
-   In _The Savage Dragon_, the time-travelling villain Darklord was originally dispatched this way. After beating several heroes near to death, he leapt through a teleporter in order to get to Earth. What he did not count on was that the teleporter had previously been given a virus and was in the process of shutting down. Half of him arrived on Earth but the other didn't. Keep in mind, since Darklord was a time-traveler, this didn't really stop him from showing up again.
-   In the _Terror Titans_ miniseries, Dreadbolt induces this in his father, Bolt, by interfacing with his suit and forcing him to teleport halfway into a brick wall, killing him.
-   _Top 10_:
    -   Travelers are killed when two vehicles fuse together like this. It's treated like a traffic accident (albeit a gruesome one).
    -   Wolfspider lost his legs in such an accident. He takes a _personal_ interest when some jerk causes such a crash. Very personal.
-   _The Transformers (Marvel)_: This<small>◊</small> was the result of Megatron and Ratchet getting caught in the interdimensional void when an explosion sent them into an open portal between Cybertron and the Earth-bound Ark.
-   _Watchmen_ plays with this: Veidt's "alien" telefrags on its arrival in New York, likely killing a few people this way, but the great majority of its victims are killed by the enormous psychic pulse of its death.
-   _X-Men_:
    -   Marvel's most famous teleporter, Nightcrawler, in the Age of Apocalypse is shown once teleporting away from an enemy — taking several of the foe's _fingers_ with him. He does it again later, with Dead Man Wade's _head_.
    -   The Regular continuity Nightcrawler has _threatened_ this on several occasions, scaring opponents into submission by telling them he'll teleport their arms off. In practice all he really ever does is grab someone and 'port them a few times until they pass out, as teleporting is depicted as extremely uncomfortable for those not used to it.
    -   Rogue, using Nightcrawler's power, teleported Nimrod's arm off the first time the X-Men encountered him. (Nimrod being a robot gets around the heroes-don't-kill thing.) Nightcrawler tried to do the same thing later on, and Nimrod demonstrates why using the same tactic against him twice is a bad idea.
    -   Nightcrawler gives his fear of telefragging as reasoning not to teleport into a place that he hasn't seen, and in some versions that isn't within sight of his location.
    -   Nightcrawler _willingly_ telefrags himself by teleporting in the way of Bastion's blow against Hope and gets an _arm_ stuck in his chest for his efforts. He teleports Hope away, taking Bastion's arm with him, and clings to life just long enough to make sure that Hope is safe with Cyclops before dying.
    -   In _Uncanny X-Force_, an Alternate Self of Nightcrawler eliminates the Blob this way, by teleporting into a shark tank, grabbing hold of a great white, and telefragging it and himself into the Blob's _stomach_. It's not shown what happens to the Blob's insides, but it's pretty well implied.
    -   In Kevin Smith's _Spider-Man/Black Cat: The Evil That Men Do_, Nightcrawler remarks on the effects of killing someone by teleporting into their body. He avoids the act based on the squick factor, and because he doesn't kill people. The villain of the piece, Francis Klum, performs this on his brother to prevent him from raping Black Cat.
    -   Multiple Man (during a stint with the government-backed X-Factor) once did a variant of this against Mellencamp of the Acolytes of Magneto - Madrox rammed his fist down Mellencamp's throat, and then used his Self-Duplication power to manifest a dupe in the otherwise Nigh-Invulnerable mutant's throat. It worked, though Mellencamp has a Healing Factor and eventually recovered (it took some time, though).
    -   In one post-Decimation storyline, Iceman is teleported into the middle of a wall. Luckily, having ice in place of flesh makes this non-lethal.
-   The first issue of _The Elf With No Name_ mentions a few rules about teleporting. Among them: "If you teleport into someone, at least one of you will die."

    Comic Strips 

-   In a Virgin Comics _Dan Dare_ issue, a team of commandos is poised to rescue Dare from the Mekon's battleship via jumping by dead reckoning directly into the landing bay. It's a risky move no matter how confident they are in the maths. When they arrive, they have the top halves of some very surprised enemy troopers sticking out of the deck into their ship. Their intrepid pilot was less lucky; the nose of the ship, and part of his head, were embedded into a parked shuttle.
-   In a Sunday strip of _Dilbert_, a future version of Wally, conducting some highly unethical time travel, accidentally telefrags a past co-worker when attempting to get a fresh cup of coffee from the past.

    Fan Works 

-   In _The Bridge_ it's brought up but dismissed with Gigan's teleportation ability, which works through swapping Gigan's current position with an equal volumed hunk of liquid or gas matter where he's "jumping" to; but it can't work with all but extremely small bits of solid matter like dust.
-   Avon and Vila are accidentally swap-ported into a vaultful of banknotes in the _Blake's 7_ fic _Cavitation,_ resulting in a bad case of claustrophobia and the fastest heist in history.
-   _Child of the Storm_ this is explicitly weaponised as an off-shoot of the New Bifrost project (Earth's variation on the Bifrost, which uses similar ideas to build a functioning Vortex Manipulator, teleportation gates, and a 'Nexus Engine', an internal teleporter that can move something as large as a super-sized helicarrier - or the size of Camp Bastion, if Sinister's technology is based on the same principles), and the results are called 'Nexus Bombs'. They function by targeting an area or a sufficiently large foe and teleporting them without a set destination, essentially scattering them across about 2000 kilometres and multiple dimensions, and they're shown to be hideously effective.
-   Defied in _The Maretian_, where the Sparkle Drive is equipped with a collision avoidance system. A system with _slightly_ too much freedom in deciding how to avoid the obstacle...
-   Discussed at one point in _My Little Pony: The Mentally Advanced Series_.
    
    **Applejack:** Aren't y'all worried about teleporting inside somepony?
    
-   _Poké Wars_:
    -   Sabrina states she will not teleport from city to city due to the risk of this trope happening.
    -   Likewise, Lugia does not allow Mew to teleport himself and Latias to Alto Mare due to the imperfection of her memories, which could lead to this trope.
-   In _The Stars Will Aid Their Escape_, Twilight, Shining Armor, and the remaining Royal Guards deliberately invoke this in order to eliminate the Dark Young.
-   Averted in the _Triptych Continuum_. A teleporter can displace gasses, liquids, and extremely small or fragile solids (i.e. dust, blades of grass, and the like) at her arrival point, anything more substantial results in the teleporter being displaced in a quasi-random direction (never down) until they have enough clear space to materialize. Unfortunately, the further the teleporter has to go to find a space, the faster they'll be moving when they do reappear.
-   Legion in _We Are Legion_ manages to defeat Amazo after it uses Martian Manhunter's phasing ability by filling the space it occupies with bugs. Once it switches to Superman's powers and becomes tangible again, Amazo explodes.

    Films — Animation 

-   This is discussed in _My Little Pony: Equestria Girls – Rollercoaster of Friendship_. The film's antagonist, Vignette Valencia, has a magical phone that can teleport people to a certain room. After the girls escape the room, they realize Vignette is going to target a large crowd next and they must stop her. If they all get sent to the room at the same time, it will become "Squish City".

    Films — Live-Action 

-   In _Back to the Future Part III_, Doc explains the reason they're out in the middle of the desert is because the De Lorean will have plenty of run-off space in a wide-open area. Sending Marty back to a place that is populated or geographically unknown would be _very_ dangerous idea; there's a risk he could easily crash into someone or something that once existed there. Doc doesn't clarify if this also extends to materializing _inside_ something that once existed as well, but the implication is that it would be just as much of a danger. In an example of Mythology Gag, Doc warns Marty that he might crash on a tree that was there 100 years ago... unaware that the first thing Marty did when he first traveled back in time was crashing on a tree that was there 30 years ago.
-   In _Dungeons & Dragons: Wrath of the Dragon God_ (the infinitely better sequel to the original _Dungeons & Dragons (2000)_ movie), teleportation requires being able to accurately visualize the target location, lest this trope occur. The heroes thus search out a scrying mirror that shows images of places the user has never been. The inventor, however, as a cruel joke didn't make it perfect, so the images have a chance of being slightly off. The mortal he gave it to ended up in a wall. The mage on the team gets it somewhat better: her team is fine, but her arm is in a wall, which they then must lop off to teleport again.
-   The way the Fantastic Four gain their powers in the 2015 film is implied to be this, as rocks and fire from Planet Zero get into the pods of Ben Grimm and Johnny Storm, respectively, as they're being teleported back to earth, whilst Sue Storm (who didn't go on the mission) accidentally gets caught in the blast radius as the teleporter comes back.
-   In the end of the remake _The Fly (1986)_, this seems to be the result of teleporting someone with an inanimate object: Brundle is fused with pieces of the telepod itself, and the pieces semi-randomly fill up his body.
-   _Galaxy Quest_ plays with this. The Thermans have built a teleporter, in the erroneous expectation that the "crew" will know how to use it...
-   _The Philadelphia Experiment_ has sailors fused into the deck of the ship during the title experiment.
-   At the end of _The Rocky Horror Picture Show: Let's Do the Time Warp Again_ when Riff Raff and Magenta beam off to the planet Transsexual in the Galaxy of Transylvania, they demolish one of the castle's towers on the way out.
-   The original _Stargate_ film: There's a deleted scene where it is shown two Horus Guards apparently tried to come through the gate while it was buried. This left them _flash-fossilised_ in solid rock. This scene is restored in the Extended Cut Blu-ray.
-   In the _Terminator_ canon, time travel destroys everything in its path, leaving a spherical hole around the point where the time traveler arrives. In the original script for the first film, however, Reese was sent back with another soldier, who was killed on arrival when he materialized halfway through some of the scenery.
-   _X-Men Film Series_:
    -   In _X2: X-Men United_, Nightcrawler cites this as the reason he refuses to teleport anywhere he can't see — "otherwise I could wind up inside a wall".
    -   In _X-Men Origins: Wolverine_, John Wraith has a similar teleportation ability. When he fights Victor Creed, Creed uses his knowledge of Wraith's fighting style to lead him, causing Wraith to reappear in just the right position for Creed to get a solid grab on Wraith's spinal column, which he then rips out when Wraith tried to 'port again.
    -   Azazel uses the "100 feet up" variant quite a bit in _X-Men: First Class_.

    Literature 

-   From _Almost Night_, Jaspike kills several people by phasing his hand through their head and rematerializing.
-   Older Than Television: In Amazing Stories, Charles Cloukey published his story "Anachronism" where Mr. Wentworth is killed by an iron ball being teleported into his brain.
-   Mentioned as a concern in the _Halo_ novel _Ghosts of Onyx_ where two human ships had tried to engage their FTL slipspace drives without sufficient power and were turned into atomized pieces.
-   One of the _Magic: The Gathering_ books had a character with an item that let her teleport anywhere by intoning where she wanted to go three times (_Wizard of Oz_ style). She uses it in a way probably not intended by the person who gave it to her when she says the name of one of the villains three times. Ludicrous Gibs result.
-   The protagonists of Robert A. Heinlein's _The Number of the Beast_ worry about what would happen should they accidentally end up inside solid rock, mainly because their best guess is that it would create an explosion the size of a small star. Thankfully they're careful (or lucky) enough that it never happens. It is also brought up in passing in _The Door into Summer_.
-   _The Stars My Destination_:
    -   In this novel by Alfred Bester, telefragging was used as an incarceration device. In the novel, every human has learned how to naturally self-teleport (called Jaunting), which made it rather difficult to detain prisoners. The method that governments used was to put the prisoners into jails which prevented them from having any knowledge of their present location (by being deep underground and in the dark, for instance). Knowing where you are, and where you're going are prerequisites for safely Jaunting. By preventing prisoners from knowing where they are, they could not Jaunt to where they'd like to be without a very large chance of ending up somewhere else entirely... like inside a mountain. Occasionally a prisoner would go insane from the isolation and attempt a "Blue Jaunt" (as in "into the wild blue..."), which was just a fancy way to commit suicide.
    -   This also happens in one of the jaunting hubs during a major evacuation. The effects are not dwelt upon.
-   _Discworld_:
    -   When someone teleports, whatever was at their destination is sent back (see swap-porting above). In _Interesting Times_, Rincewind points out this isn't much better:
        
        **Rincewind:** So I'd still be in the middle of a mountain but in a me-shaped hole? Oh good, instant fossil.
        
    -   Rincewind doesn't use this however, as the method used to move him (in _Interesting Times_) does use the intervening space. The explanation does however pertain in the case of Ridcully transporting himself and Granny Weatherwax in _Lords and Ladies_. In fact, this actually becomes a plot device later on.
    -   The issue is side-stepped by relating the mass of objects, rather than the space occupied — this becomes a Deus ex Machina solution in the case of Rincewind, Lord Hong and the Barking Dog
-   Terry Pratchett also references the idea in _Johnny and the Bomb_, where Kirsty points out that trying to occupy the exact same space as another object is likely to cause the atomic nuclei to fuse, with interesting and deadly consequences.
-   In one of the earlier _Dragonriders of Pern_ books, a party exploring some of the abandoned corridors of Benden Weyr came across a Weyrling pair (a young dragon and his equally young rider) encased in rock after a bad jump _between_. They had no idea who they were or how long they'd been there. (We do find out who it is in _Dragon's Blood_). A more frequent danger for the Dragonriders is simply not coming out the other side of a jump.
-   In the _Harry Potter_ universe, the Floo Network (basically magical teleport conduits) and use of Portkeys (charmed objects designed to transport the user to a designated spot) are monitored and regulated to avoid such collisions. Apparating is also restricted to adult wizards and witches for this reason, as there's a good chance that parts of the wizard or witch could fail to appear in the right places (a phenomenon known as "splinching"). This happens to Ron in _Deathly Hallows_, and it's not pretty. Fortunately, wizarding medical science can treat pretty much everything other than death, curse injuries and (for some reason) eye maladies, so while messy, injuries resulting from failed apparition can generally be rectified with a minimum of fuss, assuming of course that you're _not_ currently on the run from the Big Bad.
-   _The Belgariad_:
    -   Relg the Ulgo once used his power of phasing through rock to kill an attacker by phasing both of them into a boulder, then phasing just himself back out, leaving two hands gruesomely protruding from the boulder.
    -   He also used a more conventional tele frag to create handholds in a rock wall, allowing the rest of the party to easily scale it, by phasing his hand in and out, instantly powdering the rock in fist-shaped holes.
    -   Belgarath repeats this trick on The Dragon, Belzedar, burying him in rock far underground. He's not dead, though.
-   May have happened in Piers Anthony's _Mode_ series. Darius can teleport himself and others safely to any location he's familiar with. (He names a general area, visualizes it, and the magic presumably does the rest.) When the group is attacked by two soldiers, he teleports them to their castle, which can just be seen on the horizon. When another character asks if he's ever been there, he says, "No. So their arrival may be unpleasant".
-   In _The Tomorrow War_, jumping ships absorb anything in the targeted space. So it's wise to chose a destination without an atmosphere or excessive dust. Or too strong a solar wind. And they have lots of redundant systems to survive this constant contamination. Exclusion: ships able to hang in transition state (submarine-like) exit into the normal space more slowly and somehow displace thin dust or gas. Also, volume carried by single jump drive is limited, so big ships have several, and when one of the drives or their synchronization fails, the ship is Portal Cut by the jump.
-   In the short story 'Via Vortex' of the _Sideways in Crime_ alternate history anthology, the victorious Nazis use Pseudo-Science to teleport around the world. When you are teleported somewhere you need an equal amount of human flesh to recreate yourself. Convicted criminals supply said mass. The teleport booth has a built in shower to clean out either the original disassembled 'you', or any leftover mass from the victim you reappear within.
-   The Warlock's kids from the _Warlock of Gramarye_ series like to play by 'porting rocks inside of trees. Boom! Try it yourself, it's great fun, if you can surround yourself with impenetrable forcefields to avoid splinters. And be sure to telepathically scan the area first so no innocent bystanders get hurt. 'Kay?
-   In David Eddings' _The Shining Ones_, Bhelliom mentions how unusual it is for two objects to share the same space. When asked about it:
    
    **Bhelliom:** I beg of thee, ask him not to continue this line of inquiry. The answers will greatly disturb him.
    
    -   Although it's unclear from the context whether this trope or its hard aversion is the implication. Aside from the questioner being a soldier used to searching for more efficient ways to kill, this dialogue parallels previous conversations in the series touching on the subject of how basic concepts such as "matter", "distance" and "time" don't really exist in a form the human cast would recognize and how upsetting overturning these concepts can be. All the transport magic in the series originates from beings with more direct perceptions of reality; it's possible Bhelliom meant it would be less disturbing to think about telefragging than the implications of why it's perfectly reasonable for multiple solid objects to share the same space _without_ telefragging.
-   _Doctor Who_ Expanded Universe:
    -   The _Doctor Who New Adventures_ novel _Transit_ has a teleport network spanning the Solar System, where trains are sent through the gates. There are occasional references to the Bad Accident, which is eventually explained as what happened when two trains tried to materialise in _almost_ the same place at the same time. They ended up merged together. And so did everyone on board.
    -   Also referenced in the _Doctor Who Missing Adventures_ novel _The Dark Path_, as a semi-standard military tactic used to cripple starships (e.g., by teleporting someone or something into the location where a ship's pilot is sitting) without actually damaging the ship itself — and yes, the technique was actually referred to as "telefragging".
-   In the _Young Wizards_ sidestories, the Feline Wizards, Arhu is arguing about the dangers inherent in the place they're going. His older partners warn against cave-ins, at which points he mentions teleporting out or simply phasing through the rock. Irritated at him being right, they pull out an unlikely and convoluted scenario involving the Gates warping the reality of the rocks he's working on, getting him stuck inside and destroyed because the rocks are "older". His elders have been working with the Gates for years; they _know_ that this kind of thing can happen; in fact, they've probably _seen it_. In this case, however, it was just a scare tactic - such things are possible, but they wanted him to shut up and listen since the arrogant attitude would cause dangers in itself.
-   John Birmingham's story _Weapons of Choice_ sees a time-travelling naval flotilla from 2021 shoot back in time to 1942. It telefrags the US Carrier Strike Force en-route to do battle with the Japanese at Midway. One ship from the future "intersects" with a ship in the past. The book even mentions two fused crewmembers going into a frenzy caused by pain and shock (as well as their mismatched blood types poisoning one another) and kill one another. They end up scuttling both ships. Another ship gets Portal Cut (it was too close to the edge of the Transition), and its reactor promptly blows up.
-   James H. Schmitz's _Telzey Amberdon_ story "Sleep No More". Telzey is being pursued by a teleporting monster that homes in on its target's mind. She mentally projects an image of herself being inside a nearby mountain, and when the monster teleports to that location and merges with solid rock there's an explosion.
-   Dean Koontz's novel _The Bad Place_. Frank Pollard has a problem: when he teleports, small pieces of nearby objects end up being permanently embedded in his body. As the porting is somewhat uncontrollable and resulting in more and more outside mass being incorporated, the book ends with him forcibly teleporting his villainous brother again and again until their bodies have merged and enough outside mass has been worked in to make the final configuration unable to survive.
-   In Michael Grant's _Gone_, a cat teleports into a book, and the results are not pretty.
-   In the novel _Mindbridge_ by Joe Haldeman, interstellar travel works by teleporting everything in a set area to another planet. After a certain amount of time, everything within a limited radius of a special beacon is teleported back. Once, they tried to give two beacons to different members of the exploration crew, and the results were... the Fantastic Nuke level of not pretty.
-   This little ditty from _The Restaurant at the End of the Universe_:
    
    _I teleported home one night, with Ron and Sid and Meg,  
    Ron stole Meggy's heart away, and I got Sidney's leg._
    
-   _Star Trek_ Expanded Universe:
    -   In _My Enemy, My Ally_, Spock and the Captain are playing a four-dimensional chess game, which uses a small transporter to "time out" pieces to reappear in the future of the game. When Kirk is about to concede, McCoy asks to play it out, and arranges things so that several of his lesser pieces reappear in the same location as Spock's most important ones. A disapproving (and losing) Spock dubs this strategy Kamikaze Chess.
    -   In the _Star Trek: Voyager_ novel _Pathways_, Harry Kim manages to tele frag his own foot because he stepped off the transporter pad just as it was dematerializing him. He rematerialized with his foot inside a rock wall. The transporter they were using had been hacked together out of spare parts, with none of the normal safety features of a regulation one.
    -   Used intentionally by Mackenzie Calhoun in a novel using a portable transporter that can send anything a short distance away using voice commands. Mac needs to destroy a generator, but he is in the process of being pummelled by an enemy near the generator. He slips the transporter (which is the size of a coin) into the enemy's pocket and tells it to transport 5 meters to the right, which happens to be the generator. Unlike normal transporters, the portable version doesn't check first to make sure there's space available, resulting in the bad guy fusing with the generator, killing the former and destroying the latter.
    -   Avoided in "Inferno" book 3 of the Millennium trilogy. Due to being in a different pocket of time than _DS9_ (don't ask it's complicated and a tad confusing) a transporter lock couldn't be achieved. So O'Brien manually set the coordinates to a room he knew would be empty and to a couple feet off the floor to avoid transporting into anything/anyone or even the floor... the landing was a little rough.
    -   In the _Star Trek: The Next Generation_ novel _Into the Nebula_, the titular nebula causes sensor interference that renders this a risk if the transporters are used. At first, it's thought that the margin of error of 100 meters wouldn't be that much of a problem when beaming down to a planet so long as they choose a suitably empty area...until Chief O'Brien clarifies that this is 100 meters in _all_ directions, including up and down.
-   In Fredric Brown's _What Mad Universe_, it is stated that a starship's teleporting drive should only be used to travel into outer space. If you try to emerge in a place which already contains air, it's not pretty.
-   This is a concern for Travelers in _The Grimnoir Chronicles_, to the point where it's mentioned that while Travelers aren't all that rare, Travelers who survive to adulthood are _very_ rare. Faye gets lucky - she only ends up with a bug stuck in her foot when she teleports without checking if the space she's jumping to is empty. Most mistakes of that nature are fatal.
-   In the _World of Tiers_ series by Philip José Farmer, swap-porting and Portal Cut are introduced right from the start and stay important throughout the series.
-   In Russian humorous SF short story _Monument_ by Yevgeniy and Lubov' Lukins the First-Person Peripheral Narrator "proves" that teleportation is impossible because of telefragging. Then his friend acquires the power of swap-porting, that cuts the shape of his body and clothes out of any material. And covers the township with monuments to himself.
-   The Displacers used by The Culture manifest as a "caisson" field that appear around the target and shrink to a point to remove it, and it its destination expand from a point to the full size of the displaced object, then vanish. Careful Minds expand or contract the field carefully so as to push the air in the target area out of the way or allow it to diffuse in... rapid displacements are effectively explosions. Displacement into sealed areas is done carefully to prevent the container from bursting (or the pressure from crushing the displacee).
    -   It's revealed in _Matter_ that an attempt to displace something through a four-dimensional barrier like the interior of an Iln Shellworld leads to the object's mass converting to energy on contact, similar to an antimatter explosion.
-   Farslayer the Sword of Vengeance in the _Book of Swords_ series kills its targets this way. Once Farslayer is swung with a target in mind, it becomes a ghostly blade that relentlessly seeks out its target no matter where they are hiding and only becomes solid again after it has embedded itself in the target's heart. The catch is that the sword remains stuck in its victim, so anyone seeking vengeance for the victim (hence the title "Sword of Vengeance") who has a good idea of who is responsible (and the Sword can understand vaguely worded instructions on the order of "kill whoever did this", even if the holder doesn't have the slightest idea who that person might be) can throw Farslayer right back. Two feuding families were wiped out this way as they kept launching Farslayer at each other.
-   In _The Stars At War_, when multiple vessels transit a jump point at the same time, they are randomly repositioned, possibly resulting in two ships appearing in the same place and being destroyed in a huge explosion. With large battle fleets, interpenetration losses are almost certain for simultaneous jumps. The Bugs do it anyway in combat situations, considering the superior concentration of firepower worth the losses; the civilized races jump sequentially, and make up for their slower arrival by sending a wave of robotic missile pods through first.
-   In _The Zombie Knight_, Ibai Blackburn's favorite combat trick is to teleport enemies into walls, resulting in instant sculptures. However, the tactic failed when he tried it on Asad Najir, since even Marshrock's soul-empowered walls are no match for Asad's passive defense.
-   In one of the _Zachary Nixon Johnson_ novels, the villain is ultimately defeated by causing her to teleport into a wall.
-   _Ciaphas Cain_:
    -   Played for Laughs in _For the Emperor_ when Amberley Vail dives for a gun and is shot at mid-dive, causing her displacer field to activate. This teleports her safely out of the way of the bolter shot but Cain hears a crash and "some unladylike cursing" from her. Amberley's accompanying footnote briefly explains that a displacer field conserves momentum (in other words, speedy thing goes in, speedy thing comes out) and concludes that "it was a stupid place to put a table, anyway".
    -   In _The Traitor's Hand_, the Valhallan 597th hits a Chaos installation only to have a group of World Eaters Chaos Space Marines teleport into the facility ahead of them. They had just teleported from ships orbiting on one side of the planet to literally the complete opposite side, and Cain wonders to himself how many World Eaters are now entombed thousands of kilometers underground.
-   While extremely rare, there is a chance in _Star Carrier_ for a ship exiting meta-space to hit another ship, resulting in both of them exploding spectacularly, regardless of their size. Usually, when a fleet jumps together, the ships' AIs coordinate the jump using protocols meant to prevent this sort of thing. Unfortunately, when combined fleets of multiple countries jump together, their protocols may not match up. In one novel, this results in a Russian ship slamming into a USNA ship that has just arrived.
-   In the Russian _Death Zone_ Shared Universe, each of the Five Zones has a perpetual twister at the center, representing the point of a dimensional link between the Zones and the mysterious Node. In a certain area close to the twister, people can use a special device to shift between the Zones. While that area is pretty empty, there's always a small chance for a person to end up inside an object during the shift. Then again, this is hardly the worst thing that can happen in the Zones.
-   In Octavia Butler's novel _Kindred_, one of Dana's uncontrolled Time Travel trips costs her an arm when she arrives in the present too close to a solid wall.
-   In the _Starfire_ novels, ships normally proceed through jump points one at a time because there's a risk that ships going through simultaneously could intersect when they emerge, which results in their immediate destruction. As a result, jump points can usually be defended because defenders should theoretically always have more firepower that only has to focus on one ship at a time. If an attacker is desperate (or uses We Have Reserves tactics), sending a mass of ships through at once will inevitably result in at least some of them interpenetrating, but enough could survive to clear a space big enough for the rest of the fleet to come through normally.
-   Mentioned in Isaac Asimov's _Nemesis_ as a possible danger of hyperspace travel; it's noted that a ship materializing inside another object would be instantly destroyed in a nuclear explosion. Fortunately, it turns out that this is impossible, as superluminal travel produces a gravitational repulsion effect which would be powerful enough to push the ship and object away from one another before they had a chance to merge.
-   The first of Neal Ascher's _The Polity_ novels, _Gridlinked_, has this as its very first scene: A Portal Network malfunctions causing planetary scale desolation.
-   _Future Times Three_: A variant not exactly due to teleportation. At some point, the protagonist switches off the Just One Second Out of Sync setting of the time machine, which allows him to become ghost-like, while he goes through a cloud of smoke. The smoke merges into his blood and he barely survives from severe carbon dioxide poisoning.
-   _Shadow of the Conqueror_: When Daylen is experimenting with his newly acquired Lightbinding powers, at one point he accidentally makes himself intangible and starts sinking into the ground. In a panic, he immediately makes himself tangible again. Since his feet are now occupying the same space as the ground, they end up exploding into a bloody mess with enough force to launch Daylen spinning into the air. Luckily, this is also when he discovers his ability to regrow missing limbs.

In the _Horus Heresy_ novel "Know No Fear", an Ultramarines assault force teleports from their fleet flagship over to an orbital yard that's been seized by the traitorous Word Bearers. Of the fifty Space Marines in the assault force, four are killed by teleportation mishaps; one Ultramarine fails to reform at all and is turned into bloody sludge, two are fused into a bulkhead, and the fourth is fused into the deck from the waist down, which is so painful that the stoic and unflappable Space Marine is left screaming in agony and has to be put out of his misery. It should be noted that this is considered a success by _Warhammer 40,000_'s standards.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._:
    -   In the season two finale, Gordon abuses his teleportation powers while fighting Coulson's team and winds up impaling himself on a pipe that Fitz was wielding.
    -   In the season five premiere, the team gets teleported to the Lighthouse space station. When they arrive, May ends up with a piece of rebar through her leg.
-   _Babylon 5_:
    -   Jump points destroy everything around them. This is used by Minbari as weapon in the movie "In the Beginning" and attempted by Scary Dogmatic Aliens in the episode "A View from the Gallery".
    -   Opening a jump point inside an active jump gate is called the "Bonehead Maneuver". It got that name because it's pretty much a suicide attack, since a larger ship wouldn't have the speed to get out of the blast radius in time, and a smaller ship wouldn't have the power output to open its own jump point in the first place. Not even warships built by the First Ones can survive it. White Star corvettes used by the Rangers have both the requisite escape speed and self-jump capability, however.
-   _Battlestar Galactica (2003)_:
    -   During a rescue mission, one of the Raptors in a squad miscalculates its jump and arrives inside a mountain.
    -   In "Someone to Watch Over Me", when Boomer jumps while fleeing _Galactica_, she tears out a section of the hull because she's too close.
    -   And then in the finale, "Daybreak", an entire squadron of Raptors jumps out from _Galactica_'s sealed-off flightpod. It happens ridiculously quickly, but Freeze-Frame Bonus watching reveals the maneuver absolutely _ruins_ the flightpod with the damage it causes.
-   Used in the _Blake's 7_ episode "Cygnus Alpha" when BRIAN BLESSED's character, while explaining his thirst for power in his usual manner, accidentally steps onto the teleporter. The crew of the _Liberator_ tries to send him back to his planet... but unfortunately for him, it's out of range.
-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   The TARDIS herself seems to have safeguards in place that prevent this. It's been shown that when she _does_ decide to materialize around someone or something, they get deposited safely inside the console room.
    -   "Nightmare of Eden" begins with a hyperspace traffic accident that results in two spaceships interpenetrating.
    -   "The Time Monster" and "Logopolis" demonstrate that when two TARDISes try to materialize in the same space, they somehow **both** materialize simultaneously in both the outside world and the other's console room, leading to Mind Screwy but harmless effects. However, "The Time Monster" also explains that it is possible to override the safety features and cause a "Time Ram", which is a straight example of this and will destroy them both.
    -   In "Remembrance of the Daleks", the Doctor sabotages a Dalek teleporter so it telefrags _itself_, with the Dalek's insides and outsides trying to occupy the same space.
    -   In "The Doctor's Wife", Nephew is "redistributed" when he happens to be standing right where the Doctor's makeshift TARDIS materializes.
    -   In "The Husbands of River Song", River tries to take off in the TARDIS, having just stolen a tyrant's detachable head. Unfortunately, the safeguards detect his body _outside_ the ship and the engines shut down automatically.
-   _Earth: Final Conflict_:
    -   An episode has a man build a teleportation device, which he uses to teleport bombs directly to the target to perform assassinations. When his hideout is discovered, he promptly teleports himself to a warehouse he owns, only to be half-embedded in some shelves, which had been moved when the feds raided the place earlier. Realizing he is pretty much dead, he chooses to destroy his creation to prevent it from falling into the Taelon hands. He does this by teleporting to the same exact location. According to Augur, this will create an anti-matter explosion.
    -   Another example in the final season, when an Atavus female uses a modified ID portal to go back to the distant past, when the Atavus ruled the Earth, and humans were still cavemen. Renee goes after her and then jumps back. The Atavus female enters the portal, but Renee has already turned it to face a wall. The Atavus ends up embedded in it.
-   _Eureka_: The season 4 episode "Crossing Over" had objects from 1947 being pulled into the present by an unstable wormhole. Red Woods through the rotunda, a fighter plane through the wall of Cafe Diem, a nuclear warhead through the infirmary, and worst of all an unfired 50 caliber bullet in the chest of Joe Lupo (luckily missing her heart and lungs by a cm).
-   In an episode of _Fringe_, a building from the other universe ends up in ours, resulting in a man being fused with parts of the building as well as his own duplicate.
-   _Impulse (2018)_: Henry unintentionally kills Bill Boone this way in "New Beginning" when he's threatening her and she teleports away to safety, ripping his arm off as he's standing close by, from which he bleeds out.
-   This is the fate of an admiral in _Other Space_, resulting in new rules against leadership being the first to explore new worlds.
-   _Sliders_:
    -   The timer has safeguards to ensure that our heroes always slide into open air over solid ground. When malfunctioning, it's been known to send them into a broom closet or in the middle of the ocean.
    -   Or, in a memorable incident, half of them high in the air, landing on a window washer's rig, and the other half safely on the ground.
    -   Another example had the portal open halfway in a building with two of the heroes ending up inside and two outside.
-   _Stargate SG-1_:
    -   The aptly named "Iris", a Dilating Door that covers the wormhole of the SGC's Stargate. Anyone trying to enter unannounced ends up obliterated against it, because the iris is so close to the wormhole that not even a molecule can reintegrate without hitting it. A season seven episode shows the latest Goa'uld Big Bad Anubis having duplicated the SGC's iris at one of his bases with a force field across the Stargate impenetrable except to his Kull Super Soldiers. In _Stargate Atlantis_, the city of Atlantis has a similar force field that can be raised across its own Stargate.
    -   The short-range transporters used by the Goa'uld have safeguards against this — anything within the descending rings gets exchanged with whatever is within the rings on the other end.
-   _Star Trek_:
    -   _Star Trek: The Next Generation_:
        -   "The Schizoid Man" has the _Enterprise_ jump to warp while executing a transport, as they were in a big hurry for another emergency and needed to offload the away team as quickly as possible. The transport doesn't kill anyone, but it has the effect of causing the away team to be briefly shifted a few meters from their destination. Deanna remarks that she thought she was inside a wall for a few moments, which Worf explains is exactly what happened.
        -   In "In Theory", a nebula destabilizes the matter within the ship, causing it to warp or become briefly intangible. Some poor crew member ends up falling partway through a floor before it becomes solid again. Not actually teleportation, but the end result is remarkably similar.
        -   In "The Pegasus", the title USS _Pegasus_ has a Tele-Frag-like encounter with an asteroid, thanks to a cloaking device that makes the ship intangible. It broke while the ship was drifting through an asteroid field, and the ship ends up embedded halfway inside solid rock.
    -   Deliberately invoked in the _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_ episode "The Darkness and the Light". The villain of the episode plants a "remat detonator" on one of his victims just before Dax and Worf beam her up. The device scrambles her pattern mid-transport, leaving a smoking ruin of flesh and bone when what's left of her rematerializes on the pad. Dax even admits the transporter _should_ have detected the device before energizing, but somehow didn't.
    -   The _Star Trek: Voyager_ episode "State of Flux" has a malfunctioning food replicator (which works by a variation of the transporter technology) fuse an alien halfway into the floor.
    -   In episodes of _Star Trek: Enterprise_, a Red Shirt (uh, Red Stripe?) who gets beamed up during a windstorm in a forest appears with leaves and sticks stuck in him, while another who gets beamed out in a sandstorm gets a dermis full of sand. They live, though. These kinds of thing happen when the transporter's still in beta. All things considered, by far not the worst thing to happen to anybody because of the Transporters. Though it is understandable why nobody wants to actually _use_ that thing on the show.
-   _The X-Files_: A case of accidental telefragging in the two-part "Freaky Friday" Flip episode "Dreamland I & II". During a test run with an experimental and top-secret aircraft by the more secretive parts of the military, something went wrong that had space-time warping in the area. The results? One of the pilots is fused to a boulder and still breathing, a lizard is found with its head inside a rock and somehow still alive, a clerk in a nearby gas station is found sunk on the ground up to his waist, a couple that were getting intimate is found fused together by their friend, and Mulder finds a pair of dimes intersecting each other at a right angle. Mulder also trades his consciousness with an Area 51 worker, hence the "Freaky Friday" Flip.

    Roleplay 

-   Jacob from _Dawn of a New Age: Oldport Blues_ can rewind objects and then have them replay their actions. Any object that he rewinds is immediately teleported back in its path to the place where the rewind starts. If something else has come to occupy that space in the meantime, then the results can be messy. Jacob first found this out when he accidentally rewound a screwdriver into Barbra, killing her (fortunately, she's immortal).

    Tabletop Games 

-   In _Battletech_, the odds of telefragging when a JumpShip jumps are astronomically slim due to the vastness of space, to the point that it's only been recorded in one incident in over a thousand years of JumpShips being used, during a massive invasion. However, the annihilation of whatever interplanetary medium matter was in the destination point when a ship jumps in-system emits an electromagnetic pulse which is easily detectable.
-   _The Compleat Arduin_, _Book 2: Resources_. If the caster of a Tandoora's Teleportation Spell rolls a miss and ends up in a solid object (like a ceiling or a floor) they suffer immediate and permanent death.
-   In _Continuum_, the rules specifically state that "spanning" (instantaneous travel through space and/or time) carries no risk of materializing the spanner in a wall or solid object. Air and liquids part to make space for the spanner. When trying to span into a solid object, you will be placed near the object instead. Of course, that does not mean that spanning there is _safe_, just that you will not occupy the same space as another object. You're still pretty much screwed if you span into the bottom of the ocean or into a furnace. The reason for this protection from materializing inside another object becomes clear when you learn about the mechanics of spanning: Basically, your body is broken down at one end and rebuilt at the other by nano machines. Much of the details of this process is handled by the nano machines rather than the user, including the exact location. As such, the programming automatically avoids solid objects.
-   _Dinosaurs Attack!_: Dinosaurs and other prehistoric creatures are being randomly transported from prehistoric times into the present day. One unfortunate man has the horrifying misfortune of being on the spot where a tyrannosaur materializes, resulting in him being fused to its abdomen. It doesn't kill him, but his best friend thankfully performs a Mercy Kill.
-   _Dungeons & Dragons_:
    -   Teleportation spells tend to feature a failsafe that, in the event of a spellcaster accidentally attempting to teleport himself into a wall or some other invalid location, will shunt the spellcaster to the nearest valid (read: empty) square. However, if said square is too far away from the initial target location, the spellcaster starts taking damage with every square he is shunted through. Some of the more safe variants shunts you into the Astral Plane if you can't be shunted to a nearby square. That may or may not be a bad thing, depending.
    -   In the 1<sup>st</sup> and 2<sup>nd</sup> editions there was no failsafe: if you teleported into a solid object, you died. That's one of two reasons why wizards who weren't feebleminded too frequently tend to _scry_ on poorly-known locations before jumping there, when possible. From _AD&D 2_ on, there's also a variant of _teleport_ that's two spell levels higher and which simply fails rather than depositing the caster off-target (even if that arrival point would also be safe).
    -   The Blood Magus prestige class in 3<sup>rd</sup> edition has this as an ability. You can teleport by simply entering one living being, and coming out of another one you know, wherever they are. It's normally harmless for everybody involved, but if you wish, you can make what the game charmingly calls a "catastrophic exit", literally exploding your way out of the destination point.
    -   2<sup>nd</sup> edition has an _immunity to metal_ spell that makes a creature intangible to metal, thus weapons go harmlessly right through it. That's normally an excellent defense, but if metal intersects the body when the spell expires or is dispelled, the subject is instantly killed. Thus, although it's a dangerous proposition, the spell could be used on an enemy before luring it into crossing something metallic, like cell bars, and then timely dispel it.
    -   Spectral lurkers are a 3rd Edition monster that hunts by taking advantage of this. The beasts are naturally incorporeal, but they can also "incorporealize" anything in the clutches of their tentacles (which can affect both solid and ethereal objects). The lurkers thus snatch a victim, drag them into a solid object, and let them go, so that the re-solidified victim is shunted back into an open space, taking unavoidable, non-specific damage all the while. Rinse and repeat until the target is dead.
-   In _GURPS_ the default version of teleportation doesn't do this. Even a Critical Failure lands you in an open location. You can take a limitation to buy the power more cheaply at the risk of telefrags.
-   In _Hc Svnt Dracones_ this is a risk with Cuil 3 Dislocation implants, you have a chance of materializing _inside_ the planet instead of _on_ it, which is instant death.
-   In both _Hero System 5th_ and _6th_ editions, you can't teleport into something solid. A teleporter's "natural safety system" will automatically shift him to the nearest clear area big enough for him. However, this is a severe shock to that teleporter's system, and you don't get any defenses against that damage, so better hope the GM rolls low.
    -   That said, a common special effect used by characters with the Teleport power and a related Killing Attack is "I teleport over to him with my fist appearing in his guts". A power built in this way would only damage the teleporting character if it was specifically built that way for some reason.
-   _Mage: The Awakening_: A master-level spell in the Space arcanum violently teleports two or more targets into each other. It's not permanent or necessarily lethal, but deals Aggravated damage to everything affected.
-   _Paranoia_, on the other hand, does _not_ have this kind of pleasant upgrade to the Teleportation power. One bad roll and you can wind up as mincemeat.
-   In the _Starfire_ series, ships travelling via wormhole reappear in a random position. Normally a fleet will pass through one by one to avoid accidents, but if the race involved doesn't care about losses the ships can pass through simultaneously. They risk reappearing in the same space and blowing up. The novelizations also use this one, especially _The Shiva Option_.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_:
    -   The Orks of use a heavy weapon called a Shokk Attack gun, that fires a small orkoid called a snotling through the Warp (40k's version of hyperspace and hell) to emerge inside its target. Consider also that the Warp is, at best, insanity inducing, so this gun basically teleports a gibbering, homicidally mad imp into either your vehicle's cockpit... or a unit's abdominal cavity. Hilarity Ensues (as does Squick) and that's when it _works_! The sheer amount of mishaps a Big Mek can have with it is both hilarious and terrifying to both sides of the fight.
    -   In earlier editions they also had a support gun that could teleport enemies randomly. This had predictable results if they were teleported _down_.
    -   Most forms of personal teleportation in _Warhammer 40000_ present an inverted risk: teleporting into an enemy makes YOU roll on the "Deep Strike Mishap Table" — this has a chance of making your personal teleporter _explode_ — but does nothing to your foe (the same mechanic is used for paratroopers getting shot down and tunneling units suffering a cave-in).
    -   Also, daemon summoning usually results in the major daemon appearing "in" the caster or sacrificial victim.

    Video Games 

-   In _Marathon_, if one stands on a teleporter exit point when another goes through the teleporter, the player on the exit point will be launched at high speeds in a random direction. If the teleporter is in a narrow hallway and it sends the launched player into the wall next to the exit point, expect Ludicrous Gibs, because they'll probably both have rocket launchers out.
-   In the _X-Universe_ series of games, ships travel between different sectors of space through jumpgates. Jumpgates are two way, meaning that ships both enter and leave sectors from the same portal. Meaning, you can use your jumpdrive to jump to a distant sector for a mission... right as a 5 kilometer long vessel is entering the jumpgate's event horizon (where _you_ are). The Terran sectors in _X3: Terran Conflict_ were notorious for this, as they have very active military patrols which fly between the smaller Terran gates very often. The issue became so annoying in _X3TC_ that the developers changed how smaller ships enter the gate in an update — they now fly towards it from slightly above or below, and enter the gate at its very edge, rather than the direct center, which capital ships use, in order to avoid any chance of being rammed to death by an inbound or outbound capital ship.
-   Telefragging got its name from the _Doom_ series, where if someone teleported in and you were standing at that exact spot, you'd get reduced to Ludicrous Gibs and the teleporting player would be awarded a frag.
    -   _Doom_: The initial release of the game did not have telefragging. If you tried to use a teleporter and an object or enemy was standing on the destination point, the teleporter would simply not work. This counted as a Game-Breaking Bug, as many levels could no longer be completed if an enemy got "stuck" over the destination point and made the teleporter unusable. This was fixed in a later release by making the incoming entity frag whatever is standing on the exit point, and this evolved into a gameplay mechanism.
    -   _Doom II_: The Final Boss shoots cubes that cause monsters to teleport in when they hit the ground. If you are standing at one of the spots where a cube hits, you will die instantly even if you have God Mode on (this is because God Mode only protects against attacks that do less than 1,000 damage, and telefragging does 10,000). Interestingly, monsters aren't allowed to telefrag outside of the final level. This can clearly be seen on many maps, where a huge horde of monsters teleports in — one monster at a time, shortly after the previous one is killed.
    -   _TNT: Evilution_ uses this combined with another bug in the final map, where the player has to navigate a series of platforms; and if they take the wrong path, they will be teleported into a second copy of themselves, promptly telefragging _themselves_.
    -   A truly horrific version crops up in the novelization of the first game, where the Japanese female Marine and her CO are fused at the head upon using a teleporter. Their immediate solution? Blow their brains out.
-   _Heretic_ and _Hexen_, being Doom-engine-based games, naturally have telefragging, though they may or may not have the restriction mentioned above of non-boss monsters not being allowed to telefrag. There are probably few Hexen players who haven't been telefragged by Korax at least once. And careful when playing co-op! If two people enter a teleporter in quick succession or even simultaneously, a double tele frag is the usual result.
-   _Quake_:
    -   Shub-Niggurath (named after one of HP Lovecraft's Eldritch Abominations), the final boss of the original game, is only killable by this method. There's a weird looking spiked sphere that flies around the boss room and deposits the player wherever it happens to be when you go into the teleporter, and at one point, the pod goes into Shub's body. If you go into the teleporter at that point, the result is a VERY messy demise for the Hell-Mother.
    -   In _Quake Champions_ the character Ranger (who was the player character of the original Quake) possesses an ability called Dire Orb that is capable of telefragging other players if activated at the right moment. His character description explains that he acquired this Orb from Shub-Niggurath's steaming remains.
    -   In multiplayer _Quake_, for those lucky enough to have played over LAN and not dial-up, nested telefrags were quite common. Player A respawns and telefrags Player B, who respawns and telefrags Player A who telefrags Player B who telefrags Player A ad infinitum. Naturally, this problem decreases rapidly with the size of a map and quantity of respawn points on it. Sometimes, the match might even _start_ with a few players getting telefragged. _Quake II_ multiplayer introduced a server option called "Spawn Furthest" which would always try to use the respawn point furthest from all other players to prevent this from happening... at least, as long as an unoccupied point is available.
    -   Like in _Doom_, enemies can only be telefragged by players, not vice/versa. Unlike in _Doom_, any monsters that attempt to teleport into a space occupied by a player will die as if the player teleported into them. Players can sometimes weaponize this by standing on the exact spot a monster is supposed to teleport into to preempt an ambush.
    -   In another instance of "reverse telefrag", attempting a telefrag on a player with the Pentagram of Protection causes the inbound player to explode instead. The explanation is that the inbound player "feels Satan's power". However, should both players have a Pentagram active at the same time, they'll _both_ explode on the inbound player's arrival.
    -   In _The Seal of Nehahra_, a four-hour long machinima fully rendered in _Quake_ which expands on its plot, an Ogre named Zin accidentally telefrags a Death Knight standing on a teleporter pad. It is this incident which inspires Sergeant Lawrence Maxwell to orchestrate the aforementioned teleporter and spiked sphere in Shub-Niggurath's Lair.
-   _Homeworld_ in multiplayer opening a hyperspace portal on top of another ship would result in both ships being destroyed. With super bad luck this could result in a destroyer opening a portal on top of a fighter and being destroyed, or with super good luck a frigate opening a portal on top of a carrier or even an enemy mothership instantly destroying it.
-   _Homeworld: Deserts of Kharak_ reveals that the hyperspace core in the Khar Toba has caused interference to the local hyperlanes. As a result numerous starships crashed _into_ the planet over the centuries.
-   _Team Fortress 2_:
    -   Used in cases where, if an enemy is standing on top of a Teleporter and a player uses it, they are awarded a kill (if both players are on the same team, nothing happens) - even if the enemy is Übercharged. A common strategy for Spies is to sap a Teleporter entrance and stand on top of it so that when the Engineer breaks the sapper, the Spy teleports through, kills the Engineer in doing so, and can sap his buildings with impunity.
    -   An Engineer can also tele frag by using the Eureka Effect to teleport to his Teleporter exit while an enemy is standing on it.
    -   The Helltower map gives the players access to an assortment of spells, one of which is Teleport. Targeting the ground under an enemy's feet with this spell will teleport you into them and kill them instantly. It even has its own kill icon.
    -   See also this video.
-   A staple of the _Unreal Tournament_ series, through use of both teleporter gates or the Translocator Beacon. Also, a damaged Translocator beacon would always telefrag the _user_ and credit the kill to whoever damaged the beacon, making it a good idea to leave the beacon in an out-of-the-way area when not using it as a rapid approach device. Damaged beacons cannot be automatically recalled, either; they must be manually recovered. If you have Improbable Aiming Skills, you could shoot the translocator beacon of anyone trying to rapidly approach with it while it's still flying through the air. The personal teleporter refuses to activate when the beacon is under the foot of an ally, but a teleporter gate allows a player to kill allies, even when friendly fire is turned off, and like in the _Quake_ examples, if there are more players in a match than there are spawn points, it's perfectly possible for one or more of them to telefrag someone else as the match starts, even teammates.
-   Discussed in _World of Warcraft_ in the "Schools of Arcane Magic" books:
    
    _Make absolutely certain you know your destination before attempting to teleport... attempts to cast a teleportation "on the fly" often result in one very dead mage inside a wall, chair, or another mage. And I don't mean in a fun way._
    
-   The teleport pads in _Tribes_ (which either came with the base game or one of the most popular mods ironically played more than the real game itself) killed you if you stood on them when someone was coming through. It also would kill you if you were too heavy.
    -   In _Tribes 2_, vehicle pads will instantly kill any player standing in the way of the vehicle it's about to start building. Usually it accidentally telefrags an ally, but some players bait enemies into flying at them over the vehicle pad, then immediately build a flying vehicle as the enemy passes over, instantly gibbing the enemy player.
-   In the old _Ben 10_ Adobe Flash game _Battle Ready_, having the Omnitrix time out while phasing through walls as Ghostfreak would be an instant Game Over.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   _Crusader_:
    -   Though you can't teleport into anyone else, telepad mishaps can kill — once, even to advance the plot!
    -   And then in the second game, one gets a weapon to sabotage telepads, killing anyone incoming on them. You can tele frag _yourself_ that way if the pad was supposed to be your escape route later on. Time to start the level over again...
-   Ill-designed maps in old FPS games (or ones subjected to abuse beyond all reason) have been known to reach a state where each character returns into play before the previous one has had time to get out of the way, causing the creation of the gib fountain.
-   It's a lot worse when you don't get telefragged by bad spawns. Spending the first five minutes of a round of _Counter-Strike_ trying to get separated from the person who spawned inside your head is not a good way to relax.
-   In _Halo: Combat Evolved_'s multiplayer, if you try to go through a one-way teleporter, and somebody else is in the receiving end, you'll be blocked out for quite some time. The guy blocking will have his screen go white and his controller vibrate, and then finally he'll die and the teleporter will be sent through, receiving a tele frag for his effeorts. However, since this takes time to do, the guy trying to teleport may end up screwed if he's relying on the teleporter to escape from death, and the guy blocking will be completely unharmed. This was dropped in the Mac/PC port, where corking the exit is a major part of strategy. Unfortunately, there is still one _very embarrassing_ type of tele frag: If unattended vehicles are set to respawn and you're standing at the wrong spawn point, it will literally pounce on top of you for an instant kill.
-   _The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past_, as well as _Oracle of Ages_, avoid this with travel between their two worlds/time periods. If you try to transport yourself into a solid object you'll flash for a bit and then be kicked back to your original position, able to adjust your position and try again.
-   _Castlevania_:
    -   A boss in _Castlevania: Order of Ecclesia_ uses a glyph to pass through walls to avoid the explosions of the bombs he fills the room with and carries an infinite amount of Super Potions, making it impossible to kill him the normal way. Absorb the glyph while he's inside the wall and he dies instantly.
    -   In _Castlevania_, Dracula has a nasty habit of teleporting on top of Simon, regularly enough it may even be deliberate. It doesn't kill the player instantly, but does take a quarter of his life meter off, and is just one part of what makes the first phase of the boss fight such a challenge. Fortunately, the player gets a bit of warning as Dracula is initially intangible when he ports in, but the player has to be _fast_ to move out of the way before the Count materializes fully.
-   _Iji_:
    -   Komato Assassins carry a device that allows them to teleport around at will. They mentally map out the area prior to the fight, and are trained to stop pursuit if the prey leaves that area to avoid teleporting into a wall. As part of the backstory, Assassin Asha got too wrapped up in the pursuit of an enemy, ignored his training, and lost his arm in precisely this fashion.
    -   Also, Sector 8 has a Trapmine — an item you can set on a teleport pad that goes off when anyone teleports through it, instagibbing the sucker that uses it (except in version 1.6) and rendering the teleporter unusable. Do NOT use it when Dan tells you to: save it for a later teleporter in the same sector, where it is much more needed.
-   The Malor spell in _Wizardry_ involves teleportation via punching in grid references for the desired area. The catch? Punch it in wrong and you could appear inside a rock or some other undesirable place, killing the entire party.
-   In _Roblox_, the CFrame system actively tries to keep players (and other objects) from sticking into each other, even if they have disabled collision. (Sidestepped by scripting and simultaniously anchoring the bricks, preventing flying stuff from going everywhere. For non-CanCollideable objects, the physics object "BodyPosition" also works.) Sometimes it also leads to players stacked up on a SpawnLocation. Telefragging must be deliberately scripted into a place (and even then it's hard.) The trope is also played straight with Regeneration Buttons: If a player stand where an object is created when the button is pushed, they are trapped inside until either they reset themselves (many in-game items have been created to do this in the most humorous way possible) or a benevolent player triggers the regen again, which normally has a delay timer. Sometimes, a place creator may actually put the regen button right below where the seat of a vehicle appears, causing the player to instantly get control of the vehicle. Kid-friendly Ludicrous Gibs result if a player dies in any way (being a Lego-like game, they literally fall apart, no blood involved, though a player's head may roll away to who-knows-where, taking the camera with it since the camera only watches the head, not the player as a whole), and if they were the driver of a vehicle, it also falls apart.
-   _Achron_ features a time specific version of this called "chronofragging". When a unit travels through time, if the location at the arrival time is occupied, the unit will chronofrag whatever unit it runs into, dealing significant damage to both units. This can most easily happen if you set a unit near a chronoporter. If the unit is standing idly for a while and gets sent back in time, it will still be standing in that spot in the past (since it hasn't moved) and will frag itself. Traditional Telefragging, however, is prevented. They just teleport slightly to the side.
-   In _Star Control_ and _Star Control 2_, the special power of the Arilou spaceship is random teleport through the battlefield (a Colombus-effect bubble of space around planet). There is a small non-cumulative chance every time you teleport to end up inside the planet<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . This doesn't end well for you.
-   In _Mighty Flip Champs!_, teleporting into a wall would kill you.
-   In its Spiritual Successor _Mighty Switch Force!_, you can (and are occasionally required to) tele frag enemies by switching while an enemy is standing in front of a background block. You can quite easily do the same thing to yourself if you aren't paying attention or your timing is off, and in fact this becomes one of the biggest hazards in some later stages.
-   Before Legend Entertainment got awarded with the job of making _Unreal II: The Awakening_, they made a FPS based on _The Wheel of Time_ universe with a magic system that used Ter'Angreal as the weapons.
    -   One of the Ter'Angreal available in multiplayer was "Swap Places", which experienced players could use to set up a Tele Frag on their opponents. For example, sic Swap Places on your opponent, don a Fire Shield and jump into the lava. Or use it to drop the player into the ring of Explosive Wards you set up beforehand; if they're running, momentum should do the rest. Or fire it at the guy who trapped you in ice with Freeze.
    -   There's also Shift, which shifts you ahead about 5 feet and breaks the lock of any tracking weapons on you. It's good for escapes, but it's possible to tele frag yourself into, say, an incoming fireball.
-   In _Star Trek: Elite Force_ multiplayer, if two or more players (or bots) try to enter a teleporter simultaneously, both will be killed in the ensuing "transporter accident".
-   _Command & Conquer: Red Alert_:
    -   The Allies's Chronosphere was based on the legend/myth of the Philadelphia Experiment from the second World War, which was an experiment to attempt to create cloaking technology that twisted space and time enough to make the ship "teleport" back and forth between the docks of two different countries, which caused some of the crew to burn up, fuse with the ship's hull, or plain disappear. According to the original lore the remaining surivors went insane after the experience.
    -   The original game let the Allied chronosphere perform this on when used on an APC, always disintegrating the passengers. You could only chronoshift into an empty space, though, avoiding the most common kind of tele frag. It was also possible for overuse of the Chronosphere to create a "Chrono Vortex", a swirling distortion of space and time which would destroy things that were too close to the distortion.
    -   _Red Alert 2_ enabled it as a viable tactic. One could even transport enemy units, meaning you could force a friendly-fire tele frag. By RA 3 you can destroy a construction vehicle using a Chronosphere and a dog.
    -   _Red Alert 2_ also features accidental teleportation: if you chronoshift units onto uneven ground, units that end up on higher elevation may end up inside the ground and explode.
    -   For a more interesting variant, you could also chronoshift enemy land units into water and watch them die. Sadly, the expansion made this less useful, as more amphibious units got introduced in _Red Alert 3_. Fortunately, this tactic also works with impassable pieces of terrain, so even an amphibious unit can be telefraged if you have cliff or even a building handy.
    -   There's also teleporting sea units onto land. Nothing quite like bombing an opponent's war factory...with _a pair of aircraft carriers_.
-   In _City of Heroes_, you can only teleport (or teleport other people) to places you can see, but this is mainly due to game mechanics. Additionally, the game mechanics actively prevent this from happening; if someone is standing at another character's teleport destination, one of the two characters will be pushed aside.
-   Mentioned in _BioShock_ in some Mooks random dialogue when examining a corpse, "The subject... appears to have been ripped apart from the inside... probably a failed teleport".
-   You can pull this off in _Spelunky_ if you're incredibly careful about it. The main use is to kill shopkeepers without it being counted against you.
-   In _The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion's_ "Shivering Isles" expansion, the Daedric prince Sheogorath (the ruler of the dimension the game takes place in) executes those who break his laws by teleporting the condemned to a point well above the execution grounds, and letting them fall the rest of the way there.
-   In _Eternal Darkness_' Trapper Dimension, the player character uses teleporters to move throughout the area. If a Mook happens to be standing where the exit is, they'll be reduced to little chunks. There's usually a Horror standing on at least one of the exits.
-   _Gauntlet_ has teleport squares; beaming in from (not on) one of these could Tele Frag just about anything. Even Death.
-   _E.Y.E: Divine Cybermancy_ features "The Dragon" psychic ability. When it is used while targeting an organic enemy, it'll instantly teleport the player inside the enemy, and cause the enemy to explode in a shower of blood.
-   In _Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast_, characters enter and respawn in a versus match through a beam of energy. Getting hit by one of these beams results in getting "crushed into another dimension by x". A more amusing example is setting the number of bots to 10 and starting up a match in the Imperial Labs: Raven map. Because of how incredibly small the map is compared to other areas, spawn points are cluttered up, if not, overlap with one another. No matter what you do, you will ALWAYS start up the game automatically telefragging an enemy or an ally, or several people at once.
-   In _PlanetSide 2_, vehicles are constructed instantly on the vehicle pads when a player requests one at a vehicle terminal. Any player or object standing on the pad when the vehicle is built will instantly die, with no exceptions. Pity the poor tank pilot who accidentally backs up onto a pad when another player on his empire builds a Flash ATV. The first game was more forgiving, giving the dope on the vehicle pad two or three seconds of warning.
-   In _Star Fox Adventures_, it is rare but possilble for the bat enemies in certain locations to respawn inside a cave wall. This causes them to be eternally stuck in the spawning animation, and never be replaced.
-   In _Dragon Age: Inquisition_, the Fade Cloak spell, which allows the user to briefly phase through foes and their attacks unharmed, can be upgraded with "Decloaking Blast", which deals massive damage and knockback when the user rematerializes within an enemy.
-   In _Ittle Dew_, you can use the Portal Wand to warp enemies onto spikes for an instant kill. Petal Slugs can only be killed this way.
-   In _The Third Lightning_, the final stage involves traversing an alien dimension that constantly phases in and out of reality. You must maneuver your ship into a circular dimensional "warp" that drifts through solid walls as they appear. But the warp itself can disappear and reappear elsewhere and if you were inside the walls when the warp fades out it's instantly fatal.
-   Discussed in _Shadow Warrior (2013)_ with regards to Hoji's chi portals. After the second one nearly drops Wang off a cliff, he starts chewing Hoji out. Hoji responds that he's still rusty with the portals; if he tried to make them closer to the ground Wang might materialize several feet _under_ground. Wang withdraws his complaint.
-   In _Dofus_, this is an explicit power of the Xelor class. It even calls the ability "Tele frag". (It's not an instant kill, however, but a debuff that makes other Xelor spells more powerful when used on a Telefragged target)
-   In _Minecraft_ Tele-Frag appears mostly as a result of glitches:
    -   Using an enderpearl to teleport may cause you to become stuck inside a block and possibly suffocate and die.
    -   An animal that goes through a netherportal may become stuck in the blocks of the portal when re-emerging on the other side, resulting in it suffocating and dying if you can't get it out in time. Making a larger portal reduces the risk of this happening.
-   In _Warp_ tele-fragging is your #1 offensive option but is 100% completely optional after tutorial section, just know it will count against you if you do it too much leading to the Downer Ending or Meh ending.
-   _Titanfall 2_: Exiting Phase Shift inside another enemy Pilot will kill them, though this is not easy to pull off (since you can't see enemies while shifting). There's even a Pilot execution where the executing player phases into their target deliberately, exploding them from the inside.
    -   The Ronin-class Titan can also use Phase Shift. However, if it tries to phase in on a point where an enemy Titan is standing, the Ronin is instantly destroyed instead.
-   Some games of _Quadrax_ series allow you to teleport between portals. Guess what happens when you teleport into one with stone block in it. Same effect can be achieved if you teleport a block to a place where a character is.
-   _Splatoon_ has the Super Jump technique, which lets you jump straight to the location of an ally, a Squid Beakon, or your spawn point; basically a teleport. Problem is, in the case of the former two, enemies can see your landing spot if they're nearby and ambush you accordingly. _Splatoon 2_ has a counter in the form of the Splashdown special, which can not only be executed by itself to slam down on an opponent from above, but can also be performed in conjunction with a Super Jump to punish Super Jump campers.
-   In _Fell Seal: Arbiter's Mark_, a late-game boss can use teleportation magic to warp one of your units into another unit’s space, killing the latter and heavily damaging the former.
-   Roger gets this in the beginning of _Space Quest 6_ when a teleporter malfunction re-materialized him with his legs below the ground which he can simply pulls himself out.
-   _Dishonored: Death of the Outsider_: Billie's Blink\-equivalent Power is Displace, which places a silhouette that can be teleported to. If anyone is standing inside the silhouette when you teleport, they will explode into pieces but you will take some damage. There's a bone charm which causes Displace to not cost Mana if you teleport next to a person, but causes _you_ to get telefragged instead.
-   _Path of Exile_: The Bodyswap skill is a gory version of this, where you target an enemy or a corpse, _explode your current body_, then recreate a new body at where you targeted the skill, creating the same explosion.
-   _Scarlet Nexus_: Discussed, not shown. Luka, in a conversation about his Psychic Teleportation, gets asked what would happen if he teleported into a tree. According to him, it would cause a nuclear explosion.
-   In _DUSK_, it is quite possible to do this, although the player will rarely be able to get much of a chance to. There is an achievement tied to telefragging the Guardian boss at the end of Episode Two, which will also instantly kill it.
-   The Reaper weapon from _The Persistence_ lets you weaponize your teleportation by appearing right where an enemy is and reducing them to paste.
-   One of these having occurred on a large scale is vital to the backstory of the setting of _Xenoblade Chronicles 3_. And by "large" scale we mean "planetary" scale.

    Visual Novels 

-   This is implied to be the horrific fate of some of the test subjects of SERN's time travel experiments in _Steins;Gate_. Each one was "gellified" resulting in their bodies literally becoming a green gel and the victims winding up **inside** of walls and other places not fit for human survival. To add insult to injury the name of the report detailing these test subjects' deaths is called the Jellyman's Report. The worst part? In the visual novel, it's revealed in the report that these are only 14 of the test subjects whom were found. The rest are presumably dead underground or in other difficult and impossible-to-reach places. The fact that each dead test subject's profile contains the phrase "Error. Human is dead, mismatch." doesn't help either... Hearing/seeing Okabe skim through the report, repeating this phrase over and over again, also makes it begin to sound like a Madness Mantra.

    Web Animation 

-   _Bino the Elephant_ has Bino teleport out of hell... right into where the Professor's wife was standing. It leaves a _big_ mess.
-   _DSBT InsaniT_: Killer uses this tactic with Dimension Claw, like emerging out of peoples backs.

    Webcomics 

    Web Original 

    Web Videos 

-   Discussed in _Critical Role_. The Mighty Nein, being pursued by Trent Ikithon, decided to put three of their number into the Happy Fun Ball to cheat the creature limit of the Plane Shift spell. Two problems: time passes far slower inside the Happy Fun Ball than outside of it, and the people on the outside have no idea when the people on the inside are going to pop back _out_, meaning they could do so mid-Plane Shift back to the Material Plane. Marisha describes what that would look like as "like throwing a slurpee out a car window."
-   _Freeman's Mind_:
    -   One of the cleverer moments from the series is when Freeman speculates that this is why things at Black Mesa keep falling apart: the aliens are creating big them-sized holes in everything by teleporting indiscriminately and getting stuck in the walls. He even fears that Lambda Core's reactor is facing imminent meltdown and possibly China Syndrome because an alien has teleported inside it after the announcement system mentions that there's a "biological contaminant" inside the reactor.
    -   Gordon later starts fearing that this could happen to him if one of the aliens teleported inside him. This almost happens Episode 55, causing Gordon to have a major freakout.
    -   After seeing human bodies, supplies and ammunition littered all over Xen, Gordon starts suspecting that Black Mesa has been doing research awfully similar to the _Steins;Gate_ example mentioned above by dumping loads of people to random coordinates around Xen, with most of them ending up floating in space, in the middle of enemy territory or dropping down from high altitude.
-   TomSka:
-   Happens in an episode of _Voltz_ with Sips and Sjin, who were inside their base when it ended up being restored to the way it was — that is, pure mountain — by a World-Healing Wave, courtesy of "rejuvenation missiles" fired by Ridgedog and Duncan Jones. As a result, they suffocated to death.

    Western Animation 

-   In the _Adventure Time_ episode "A Glitch Is a Glitch", the Ice King gets his comeuppance for his unsuccessful attempt at having a glitch monster destroy the entire world (except for himself and Princess Bubblegum) when a house that had been destroyed re-materializes right where he's standing and traps him in its walls.
-   In _Invader Zim_, Zim invents a time portal to send an assassin robot back to Dib's childhood to kill him. Because of its "incompatibility" with the portal, he has to send plush-toy pigs instead. After successfully using them to kill Dib through various childhood accidents, Dib (resurrected by his father) catches on to what's happening and attacks Zim's lair with Giant Mecha. Zim hurriedly scrawls a message to his past self on the last pig, which successfully ends Dib's assault... because he accidentally lodged the pig inside his brain.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_:
    -   In the episode "Lesson Zero", Twilight Sparkle deliberately teleports into a beach ball, causing the ball to expand and pop (with seemingly no harm to herself).
    -   In "Baby Cakes", Pinkie Pie pulls off an Offscreen Teleportation inside a small cake she made to celebrate the twins becoming one month old, making it — in essence — explode.
    -   In "Do Princesses Dream of Magic Sheep?", some of Luna's apparitions into a dream are through existing items — like a dress, a cake or an apple flower — which get destroyed in the process.
-   _Rick and Morty_:
    -   In the episode "Mortynight Run", Rick opens a dimensional rift in the place that an alien is standing, which consequentially splits the alien in half.
    -   In the Season 3 premier, Rick telefrags an entire space station... within another space station.
-   _SpongeBob SquarePants_: SpongeBob visits Sandy and sees that she made a teleporter. Because he's running late for work, he asks her to send him to the front of the Krusty Krab... just as Squidward is opening the door. SpongeBob appears with part of Squidward's arm stuck in his mouth and it only gets worse when the machine malfunctions. SpongeBob and Squidward are both brought back to Sandy... completely fused together, Sandy tries hard to separate them but fails. Squidward has to perform, so he tries to hide the SpongeBob parts under a cape, but they are revealed. However, the audience seems to be impressed by this "freak" and they applaud. Sandy charges in with a "separator" she just invented, and not hearing Squidward's screams to leave them (he loves the applause), separates them. As most people get bored by the "normal" Squidward and SpongeBob and leave, Squidward freaks out and starts hitting random buttons on the separator to try to fuse back together. It explodes, making Squidward, SpongeBob, Sandy, Patrick, Mr. Krabs, Pearl, Larry, and Mrs. Puff all fuse together into a disgusting blob.
-   In _Transformers: Prime_, Smokescreen uses a phase-shifting device to embed Knock Out in one of the walls of the _Nemesis_. Megatron, incensed by the latter's failure, just leaves him there until he has need of the doctor's expertise.
-   Nightcrawler pulls the "teleport your arm off" schtick with Spiral in _Wolverine and the X-Men (2009)_. Although in this continuity, she visibly has four robotic arms, and after he yanks the fourth one off he drops them at her feet, smirks, and states she should surrender because he's "run out of fake ones" to take. (Spiral, in every continuity but this one, has six _natural_ arms, some of which are _part_ mechanical due to injuries received over the course of a long career as The Dragon.)
-   The telefragging is present in _X-Men: Evolution_ — but not for the party you'd think. Scarlet Witch messes up Nightcrawler's powers and causes him to teleport into a sign. The sign is pushed apart by Nightcrawler appearing in the middle of it. What would happen if it had been a _person_ is left to the imagination.
-   _Young Justice (2010)_:
    -   Amazo can use powers copied from superheroes, but only one at a time. After it used Martian Manhunter's power to phase through an attack, Superboy stuck his fist inside its head as it switched to Superman's power to counterattack. It didn't end well for Amazo.
    -   In "Before the Dawn", M'gann (who also has phasing powers) suffers this when she attempts to phase through a door and a villain shifts the density of the door to match hers. Doesn't slice and dice, but it does knock her out until someone drags her out of the wall.

___