Hope you don't mind if I pick your brain for a moment, human...

_"We need no language. We can project our thoughts long distances."_

Space travelers and extraterrestrials are often telepathic. This has two advantages: 1) We assume they can "think" to others in a way that the recipients' minds will translate into their own language, an elegant version of Translator Microbes for communicating with people from different planets. 2) By some absurd Applied Phlebotinum it is assumed that telepathic communication is instantaneous anywhere in the universe, allowing instant communication across the light-years.

In many far-future science fiction stories, movies and games, it is assumed that human evolution will eventually result in the development of Psychic Powers for the entire human race. As most of those same stories involve space travel, this could be interpreted as humanity _becoming_ the telepathic spacemen.

Compare Space Elves Type II (Enlightened Mystic Race) and/or Proud Scholar Race. See also Sufficiently Advanced Aliens.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Gundam_:
    -   The _Mobile Suit Gundam_ Universal Century continuity has Newtypes who can, among other things, communicate with each other telepathically. It's initially assumed that this is the result of humans evolving to adapt to living in space, and in the UC continuity the specific mechanism is understood well enough that a) weapons exist to take advantage of this without having to rely on electromagnetic signals, and b) surgically altering otherwise normal 'Oldtypes' into Cyber Newtypes (typically with the added cost of mental instability) is an option. Newtypes were originally hypothesized as heralds of a peaceful age in which everyone would truly understand everyone else without miscommunication, but the reality is much more cynical: not only do Newtypes invariably seem to end up as living weapons, their abilities making them the most lethal soldiers of the Universal Century (hence the demand for Cyber Newtypes), but it’s made clear that two Newtypes can understand each other perfectly and still be mortal enemies.
    -   _Mobile Suit Gundam 00_ also uses this trope with the Innovators, a group of Artificial Humans who were created to lead mankind to the stars. They don't seem to be very good at this, considering so far all they've used their powers for are killing. Then we have the appearance of the "true" Innovators, evolved humans rather than engineered clones. Their telepathy is more powerful, and with the presence of large amounts of GN Particles, can telepathically connect everyone within the field. One of them (Setsuna) even uses these powers to communicate and broker a treaty with a group of Starfish Aliens called the ELS. The epilogue implies that the entire human race is slowly transforming into Innovators.
    -   _Gundam X_ deconstructs this. The Colonies follow a 'Newtypism' ideology, essentially this trope as a political movement. It quickly becomes clear that the Colonies do not actually have any Newtypes among them, and in the series perhaps _5_ emerge (if you don't count the Frost brothers), all from _Earth_. At the end, D.O.M.E. makes it clear that the "Newtypes" that appeared were basically _mutants_, and their abilities merely individual talents that happened to be similar to each other.
-   The Human Alien mages of _Lyrical Nanoha_, who possess Magitek that allow casual travel between planets and can telepathically communicate with each other as a basic ability.
-   The Nameks from _Dragon Ball Z_ are stated to have this role. As are the Yardrats, according to Goku, and presumably whatever race King Kai comes from. It seems to be one of the setting's common superpowers that comes with (or at least becomes possible with) attaining a certain threshold of ki control and power level; Goku also demonstrates it at least once, although it shows up inconsistently. King Kai has an apparently unlimited ability to open telepathic communication with anyone in the universe, _from outside the universe_, and direct physical contact with him (normally in the form of a hand on his shoulder) allows anyone else to piggy-back on that ability even if they have no telepathy of their own.
-   Tony the alien from Area 51 in _Hetalia: Axis Powers_ at one point seems to transfer his thoughts full of offensive language to England when America introduces them to each other. America, since he did not hear it, thinks they are getting along fine.
-   In _Vandread_, Hibiki encounters a group of humans in an asteroid belt who have the ability to communicate telepathically. They can't speak normally, because Earth stole their voices.
-   In _Heroic Age_, some species are capable of telepathy, most notably the Silver Tribe, who use it extensively as a means of communication, and even politics.
-   In _God Mars_, telepathy is the most common psychic power seen among the aliens. They're able to communicate over large distances and even speak to the dead under certain circumstances.

    Comic Books 

-   The DCU
    -   Martian Manhunter and all other Martians use telepathy as their primary method of communication, though there are very few martians left. J'onn J'onzz is generally considered the most powerful telepath in The DCU. The Saturnians, who live on Saturn's moons and are descended from a Martian colonizing attempt, are also telepathic though do not rival true Martians in power.
    -   _Wonder Woman (1942)_: Saturnians, whose Empire Wonder Woman prevents from carrying out its planned invasion of earth, have low level telepathy they use to communicate without being overheard and talk to humans without the humans realizing the language is wrong. As Di also had low level telepathy in the Golden Age their tricks do not work on her.
    -   _Legion of Super-Heroes_: Saturn Girl and her people from Titan, the moon of Saturn, are telepathic. In one storyline where the UP's regular Subspace Ansible system was no longer functioning, "Titanet" became the main interplanetary communication system.
    -   While humanoid Kryptonians like Superman are not telepathic several wild animals from Krypton are/were, most notably the Kryptonian Thought Beasts, which use their prey's fears to attempt to distract and disable them.
    -   Xtar's telepathy is not wholy compatible with human biology, but allows him to communicate clearly with Uplifted Animal Rex the Wonder Dog.
    -   Green Lantern R'amey Holl develops a form of telepathy after her metamorphosis.
    -   Tamaranians like Starfire possess a mild form of touch telepathy.
-   _Top 10_'s Glusko the Spaceman is a former Kosmonaut who got his telepathy during a space mission. He also has a telepathic space chimp named Tanya.
-   Guardians of the Galaxy's Cosmo the dog, who became a telepathic space alien (by 'citizenship' if not birth) in a couple of issues of Nova when he was sent out on a Soviet space probe. He has a Russian accent.
-   Allen the Alien from _Invincible_, as well as Viltrumites and other aliens capable of unassisted space flight.
-   The elves from _ElfQuest_ are eventually revealed to have originated as a variant of this, and the future for most of them is the same. The humans on the planet are also eventually revealed to be heading toward being on a par with the elves in telepathy and other "magic" powers.
-   _Shakara_: The Psico Collective are one of the most powerful species in the universe due to their innately vast psychic and telekinetic powers. Their bodies are very frail, but their floating eye-shaped heads can combine into a Hive Mind.

    Fan Works 

-   In _Abraxas (Hrodvitnon)_, not only is Ghidorah an alien kaiju, but it can communicate telepathically with Monster X and the Many from afar and even form psychic links with them.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _A.I.: Artificial Intelligence_: Aliens that communicate in this manner reveal their intentions to David as said.
-   The aliens in _Annihilation (2018)_ seem to communicate telepathically, through their eyes, when in human form.
-   In _Independence Day_, the aliens are said to communicate with each other via "some kind of extra-sensory perception." They don't seem able to manipulate or read human minds at a distance, though one alien controls a dead scientist through physical contact in order to speak with the main characters. It also made direct contact with the President's mind. It gave the President a crippling headache, but it got the message it wanted to convey across.
-   In the MonsterVerse, King Ghidorah is stated to be an extraterrestrial monster, and it's also confirmed in _Godzilla vs. Kong_ that his heads used telepathy to communicate with each-other. While the franchise has hinted that a couple other Titans might have psionic capabilities, Ghidorah is the first _explicitly_ confirmed case as well as the only one who's an alien.
-   _Supersonic Saucer_: Meba and the Venusians are able to do this, with Meba been able to use this to communicate with the children he meets with both words and images. However, Meba's telepathy appears to have a limited range - most likely due to him been only a youngster.

    Literature 

-   In _Adaptation._, the Imria have a form of telepathy/ empathy that allows them to sense emotions.
-   _The Stainless Steel Rat_: Communication is handled by professional "Psimen" who send telepathic telegrams (telepathegrams) across the universe to other psimen on your own planet who then phone your message in to your boss for you. For a fee, obviously.
-   The Wellsians are revealed to be telepathic in the _Copper-Colored Cupids_ short story _The Resurrection of the Wellsians_. In an extreme example of alien telepathy covering long distances, the resolution of the tale hinges on their ability to project psychic message, albeit in garbled form, into _other dimensions._
-   The Andalites from _Animorphs_, as well as anyone who uses their morphing technology (which is a nice work-around for the issue of "How can your team communicate when everyone is a rat"). The first book seems to indicate that normal humans can do this too, as long as they focus and the recipient is in morph, and that one can broadcast images as well as verbal communication this way, but neither of these ever come up again\- it's commonly accepted that the author just screwed up on that bit, and it was fixed in the reprint. Also Leerans (in addition to being psychic mind-readers) and Garatrons. The Yeerks themselves seem to be telepathic in a sense, but only when they're inside a host body and only for Yeerk-to-host communications. It seems to be part of their physical link to the host's brain; we find that their bodies aren't as solid as they appear and they're able to spread over and through the brain, linking their neurons to the host's neurons.
    -   There are also rules for it. With Andalites it's words. The name "thought-speak" describes what it literally is; like speaking but with thoughts. Anyone in morph can do it; it makes sense because it's Andalite technology; they made it so they could still talk the way they always do. Though it took the writer(s) a while to realize it, this means that you can do it when morphed into _another human;_ Tobias and Ax use the ability to thought-speak in human morph to their advantage late in the series. It's so similar to speech that more than once, a character hasn't realized that they didn't exactly "hear" what was spoken to them if the speaker deliberately made the sentence short and sweet. Leerans, on the other hand, transmit feelings and images as well; it's not exactly like words in your head. Leerans also have a spoken language; it consists of single syllable words. The listener will always understand the meaning perfectly, as if they were native Leeran speakers themselves. Leerans also receive thoughts and feelings from you whether you want them to or not, a passive ability that's always on; the Yeerks have few Leeran hosts because there's no hiding your intentions from one; infiltration is out of the question and the element of surprise doesn't exist. The Animorphs are very wary of the few Leeran-controllers who exist, because all you have to do is _get near one_ and that's the _end_ of having a Secret Identity.
    -   Notably, Andalites did not always have the ability for thought-speak; when the Ellimist encounters prehistoric Andalites in _The Ellimist Chronicles_, they communicate using sign language (due to their lack of mouths).
    -   Due to Painting the Medium, we know when someone's clearly not speaking normal words though we don't know how it works. Andalite-style thought-speak is written <between chevrons>, and Leeran speech (spoken or not) is in italics and underlined. Therefore, it's safe to assume that when the Ellimist starts talking in small uppercase letters it _doesn't_ sound like his harmless-looking human disguise form is speaking normally. Interestingly, his opposite number, God of Evil Crayak, _does_ speak with normal quote marks. Apparently he doesn't feel the need to communicate in a more impressive/intimidating fashion.
-   Christopher Stasheff's _Warlock of Gramarye_ novels have this in reverse; the Lost Colony of Gramarye is presently a medieval-level society, but eventually they _will_ go into space (there's an entire Time Travel war going on over it), at which point their telepaths will revolutionize interstellar communication.
-   The Kzin from Larry Niven's _Known Space_ Universe had a rare subspecies of telepath who facilitate contact with alien races (mainly calls for them to surrender, since the Kzin are Proud Warrior Race Guys). The telepaths, thought enormously useful, are not allowed to breed and are generally despised because they require an addictive drug to activate their powers, which contributes to them being rather poor examples of the race by Kzinti warrior standards.
-   E. E. "Doc" Smith used this heavily in his _Lensman_ series, making this Older Than Television, and nearly as old as the entire concept of interstellar travel. Most of the really powerful intelligent species in the galaxy are telepaths — some of them make humans look distinctly puny by comparison. However, sufficiently competent members (usually the result of a long breeding program) of any species may wear a Lens, a device which allows them to communicate telepathically. Oh, and understand any language. And crack codes effortlessly. And... well, let's just say it gets more out of hand from there. The Lens serves as the ultimate Translator Microbes and Mind Probe, and is sometimes believed to be the inspiration for the original Swiss Army Tool.
-   The _Rowan_ series by Anne McCaffrey has psychics as not only the means of communication between colonized star systems, but also the means of transportation (via psychokinetic teleport) that makes such colonies possible to begin with. From the point of view of the Mrdini, who have no psychics of their own, _humans_ are the telepathic spacemen.
-   The chieri of Marion Zimmer Bradley's _Darkover_ universe, although their rather impressive range of other powers puts them on the edge of being Sufficiently Advanced Aliens. Between interbreeding and the psi-amplifying crystals on the titular planet, some humans become telepathic spacemen as well.
-   _Time for the Stars_ by Robert A. Heinlein is all about a spaceship that exploits the idea that telepathy is instantaneous, allowing the ship to communicate over interstellar distances with its home planet.
-   The _Sector General_ series has two species of empaths, long-range emotion detectors of varying sensitivity. Others are telepathic. This is presented as an entirely biological process, the concept having apparently been more plausible back in the day, and several storylines revolve around telepathic capabilities that have been damaged, stuck on, or which come with side effects. Humans possess a vestigial, atrophied capacity for telepathy and can sometimes be contacted. The feeling is compared to having one's brain worked with a wire brush.
-   Stephen King's _Dreamcatcher_ has telepathic aliens coming to Earth. Thing is, their telepathy is _contagious_. It appears at the end that the aliens themselves may not even be _sapient_ in their own right, instead telepathically taking on the traits of sapience expected of them by the humans.
-   The Insect race in Andrey Livadny's _The History of the Galaxy_ series communicates with one another (and anyone else) using natural telepathic abilities. They are also able to use those abilities to stun opponents with a mental strike and probe them for information. Certain humans, while lacking full-blown telepathy, can form empathic bonds with others; however, this requires special circumstances. Also, since every human is from birth implanted with a small chip that is used to remotely control household appliances and the like, certain individuals who have been implanted with multiple chips are able to read other's thoughts with the use of the chips.
-   In Olaf Stapledon's _Star Maker_, telepathy turns out to be one of the key ways to communicate across the stars.
-   Interesting example in _Ender's Game_, in which the Buggers have Hive Minds.
-   The _Dune_ series is filled with these since the Spice grants psychic abilities. The ones that most fulfill this trope however are the Steersmen and Navigators of the Spacing Guild, who use their abilities to see the future and to guide the ships.
-   Handled relatively realistically in the _Vorkosigan Saga_ novel _Ethan of Athos_: telepathy results from a random mutation and is refined through successive generations of genetic engineering. The telepaths are limited in range, their ability to read minds is blocked by even thin pieces of metal and confused when there are many minds or sources of electronic noise in the area, and they can read some minds far better than others.
-   The _Alex Benedict_ series has the alien Ashiyyur, commonly known as the Mutes. Their telepathic abilities only work within a range of a few meters, however; and they can only hear thoughts, not broadcast them. They also have considerably more difficulty reading human thoughts than they do communicating with each other.
-   The colloids in _The Parasite War_ are this way.
-   In _The Planeteers_, Penton and Blake encounter several species of telepathic aliens. Also, at the beginning of the series, the Martians teach Penton their telepathic techniques so that _he_ becomes a telepathic spaceman, and he uses the skill to instantly learn languages on other planets.
-   Actually inverted in the _My Teacher Is an Alien_ series, where humans are apparently the only sapient species that are innately telepathic. However, the strain of suffering the thoughts and feelings of a multitude drove humankind to mentally isolate themselves, and the resulting lack of empathy causes them to do terrible things to one another, making humans also the only species to commit atrocities.
-   The Martians in _The War of the Worlds (1898)_ are theorised to be this by the narrator after he observes them working together without any visible means of communication, though it is never definitively proven one way or the other.
-   _The Martian Chronicles_: In "Mars is Heaven!", the telepathic Martians create a Lotus-Eater Machine to trap the crew of a human spaceship until they're all asleep, so the Martians can murder them easily.
-   _Arrivals from the Dark_ has a number of aliens races possessing Psychic Powers.
    -   The upper caste of the Bino Faata are telepathic and typically communicate nonverbally. They also utilize organic computers (they found one as an abandoned Daskin experiment) that possess psychic abilities as well and are used to control the large number of servant castes and to send instantaneous psychic messages to other organic computers even light years away. The long-term goal of the Faata is to breed all of them as telepaths, but they've yet to successfully isolate the telepathy gene even after millennia of selective breeding, and the birth rate of telepaths is incredibly low.
    -   The Lo'ona Aeo are also psychic, but their abilities are actually fairly short-ranged. One of their large family groups forms a psychic background of sorts, which is necessary for the individuals, lest they go into a panic due to isolation. They are usually only able to engage in psychic communication with others of their kind (they're also pacifistic xenophobes, so they don't really interact with other races in general, sending their Serv biorobots to do it). They reproduce like the Asari, but it requires a mental joining of three of their four sexes.
    -   The Metamorphs can communicate telepathically, even across light years, and also have limited teleportation.
    -   Some humans are starting to develop psychic abilities, but this is only because they're all descended from a Half-Human Hybrid, born from a forced artificial insemination of a female human officer with Bino Faata sperm. The psychic ability can pass on to the next generation or it can skip one or several. Centuries later, the family has grown into hundreds of individuals, and some speculate that eventually the entire human race will become psychic, despite the dilution of Faata genes.
-   In _The Lost Regiment_, some of the nine-foot tall giants native to the planet Valennia are able to leave their bodies and project their consciousness across miles to observe distant lands. A very useful ability to spy on the enemy. Based on the Big Bad of one book, the ability may be latent in every member of that race.
-   _First Contact_ has an interesting take: it describes the eponymous event between humans and equally advanced aliens. The aliens communicate by sending and receiving microwaves, leading the human captain to declare that they're telepathic. One of his officers then points out that because the aliens do not have organs to sense sound waves, from their point of view, _humans_ are Telepathic Spacemen.
-   _The Diadem Saga_: The Vryhh are wandering Human Aliens with a laundry list of superhuman abilities: improved memory, Super-Strength and reflexes, instinctive understanding of machinery, omniglotism, telepathy, and any number of other powers. Protagonist Aleytys is a Vryhh woman's Child by Rape after she was too badly injured in a starship crash to protect herself from being sold as a Sex Slave, and inherited her mother's abilities and has several of her own.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Babylon 5_ has telepaths in nearly every alien species, as well as humans. Turns out Vorlons Did It. They're so touchy.
    -   Many Centauri have prophetic dreams, Londo sees his death at G'kar's hands to save him from a Puppeteer Parasite many times, as well as Shadow vessels over Centauri Prime. Though Centauri telepaths seem to be as uncommon as human ones.
    -   The Vorlons seem to be Energy Beings with immense telepathic and telekinetic abilities of their own.
-   Cally, one of the protagonists of _Blake's 7,_ is a Human Alien revolutionary who can do this. She can send her thoughts to humans (i.e. they can hear her unspoken voice), though not read their thoughts. (She's from a clone race.)
-   In _Doctor Who_. The Doctor can do what seems to all intents and purposes a Vulcan mindmeld and other telepathic feats, such as memory-wiping also by touching the subject's temples... sometimes. It's annoying. And, in emergencies, giving people an instant infodump by means of a Glasgow kiss (banging foreheads). For obvious reasons, he'd rather avoid doing that at all.
-   _Something is Out There_ (a short-lived sci-fi series on NBC). The alien protagonist Ta'Ra is telepathic; unfortunately she's also a hot chick so she's constantly annoyed over how these Earth people want to "do _that_ with her body" (her species has a somewhat different way of making love). However it does come in handy when she teams up with a human cop.
-   _Mork & Mindy_: "Mork calling Orson, Mork Calling Orson." "One moment, Mork, I'm taking a call on another brain cell." Even Mindy can do this, by holding Mork's nose and putting her finger in his ear.
-   _Power Rangers_ has had a few psychic Human Aliens and Rubber-Forehead Aliens as rangers, such as Andros, Trip, and Zayto.
-   _The Tomorrow People (1973)_: The Galactic Federation, a space collective of telepathic species, sends communications to the human Tomorrow People via telepathy. Due to the distances involved, the messages are usually received by a telepathic _computer_ instead of directly, except in desperate cases.
-   _Star Trek_ regularly uses telepathic species. Vulcans are touch-telepaths (or at least, most of them are; Spock's half-brother Sybok is an example of a Vulcan who doesn't require physical contact); they usually can't communicate over distances, but Spock has used a mind-meld to communicate with aliens on occasion and can perform subtle mind-influence at close range. And then there's the _katra_ business, using a mind-meld to cheat death.
-   Early episodes of _Star Trek: The Next Generation_ gave The Empath Deanna Troi the ability to communicate telepathically with Riker. This was dropped later on, though. Betazoids can telepathically communicate with each other; Lwaxana prefers this but Deanna considers it rude to do when among species that can't pick up on it. Unlike Vulcans, Betazoid telepathy works at very long range. Even Half-Human Hybrid Deanna can sense people on a planet's surface while she is on the _Enterprise_ in orbit.
-   _Star Trek: The Original Series_:
    -   The first pilot episode, "The Cage", features the Professor X\-level telepathic Talosians, making the first _Trek_ aliens _ever_ (other than Spock, that is) qualify. They aren't _nearly_ as nice as most of the other examples here, though.
    -   The episode "The Immunity Syndrome" does feature Spock telepathically picking up (at interstellar distances) a message of sorts from a group of Vulcans. Said message being the death of the four-hundred or so Vulcans in that group.
-   _Star Trek: Enterprise_: Trip and T'Pol find their "intimate relationship" has unexpected consequences when they find themselves sharing the same daydream, despite being on completely different starships.
-   Discussed in the _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_ episode "Little Green Men", in which Quark, Rom, and Nog accidentally end up at Roswell. The scientist examining them is surprised that an advanced alien race is _not_ like this. In fact, Ferengi are stated by telepaths to be impervious to scans due to their strange brain structure.
-   Orsian twin pairs from _Tracker_.
-   In _Stargate SG-1_, the Ancients gained this as one of their powers when nearing the Ascension threshold. A number of humans (not all of them from Earth) have also gained telepathic powers by various means. Nirrti used an Ancient DNA manipulator to experiment on humans of one planet, some of whom became telepathic. Khalek, genetically-engineered by Anubis, is also able to read minds, as well as Mind over Matter abilities. In an episode of _Stargate Atlantis_, McKay can also read minds when nearing the threshold and is even able to impart knowledge on someone else.
-   In _Lois & Clark_, Superman finds out that he is a member of a Telepathic Spacemen species when he encounters a group of survivors from Krypton. The only reason he never knew he was telepathic was that he had no-one to "talk" to before.

    Pinballs 

-   In _Time Cruise,_ the inventor Eric gets instructions for Time Travel from an unnamed race of telepathic extraterrestrials.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Warhammer 40,000_:
    -   Astropaths are the Imperium's only method of communicating over stellar distances. Unfortunately, since the transmission medium is essentially a cross between Hyperspace and Hell, they tend to live unhappy (and short) existences. The Astronomican beacon they use to navigate is Powered by a Forsaken Child, it burns through the lives of ten thousand psykers _every month_. Psykers have to undergo a process called soul-binding which causes them hours of agony at the hands of their Physical God, invariably destroys their sight, and often other sense, and sends large numbers of candidates insane; all in order to be able to pass messages safely without getting dragged into the Warp when they send messages. Or, for that matter, that if you're found by the psyker-hunting Black Ships, you have around a 90% chance of being 'selected' to undergo this honour. _GrimDark_ indeed...
    -   All Eldar are psykers by nature, but the Dark variety are wary of psykers for fear of attracting the attention of Slaanesh and hence their psyker potential has atrophied over the millennia. The Craftworld Eldar do not share this compunction, although most of them have their psyker potential blocked at birth and slowly regain it by following the Path of the Seer, for the same reasons mentioned above. Many of the most powerful psykers in the whole galaxy are Eldar: during the 13th Black Crusade, the noted Cadian general Ursakar Creed took a contingent of the above mentioned sanctioned psykers to a meeting with the High Farseer of Ulthwe, Eldrad Ulthran, only for each and every one of them to be incapacitated by Eldrad's mere presence.
-   The Zhodani are an empire ruled by telepaths in _Traveller_, though they are a race of Transplanted Humans rather than aliens.
-   The V'sori in the _Savage Worlds_ setting Necessary Evil are highly telepathic. They communicate telepathically, can detect any other nearby telepath, which include the Atlanteans and Half-Breeds, both of which are playable races. While V'sori blood may be a cause for a player's telekinesis, most V'sori are actually not telekinetic.

    Video Games 

-   The Re'Lu from _Deadlock_ are telepathic aliens, whose access privilege to your brain includes both read and write, incidentally.
-   The Furons in _Destroy All Humans!_, who can do Mind Probe, Mind Control, and Mind over Matter.
-   The Vell-Os in _Escape Velocity Nova's_ are telepathic post-humans who fly in shells of solid telepathic energy. There are also the Polaris, who are less powerful telepaths with technologies at least a century in advance of the rest of humanity, and use both of those things to back up their isolationism. And then there is the masters of the Heron-style of martial arts, who _also_ appear to develop a sort of telepathy. It is left uncertain just how much this trope will apply to the rest of humanity, not because humanity won't develop species-wide psychic powers (that is made clear) but because it might not happen until the point just before they all Ascend to a Higher Plane of Existence, leaving the 'spacemen' thing far behind them.
-   The Nihilanth from _Half-Life_ communicates with Gordon Freeman by telepathy, and does so the minute you teleport to Xen.
-   The Empyreans from _Iron Marines_ are humanoid aliens with Psychic Powers and are allied with the Iron Marines. They use their psionic powers to great use, be it forming Psi Blades and using Teleport Spam to shred enemies, stunning enemies and projecting Deflector Shields onto allies, or quickly travelling as a ball of energy and channeling psychic beams that increase in intensity.
-   The Martian Xeno Teleptaths in _Jeff Wayne's War of the Worlds_, who actually _weaponize_ this through both a short range psychic attack and several flavours of Mind Rape.
-   _Kirby and the Forgotten Land_: The force responsible for bringing Kirby and friends to a new world turns out to be the Big Bad, Fecto Forgo, a psychic alien invader who wants to assimilate its "other half", Elfilin, so it can regain its true form and start killing things again.
-   The Chozo from _Metroid_ have psychic powers, and it's implied that Samus, who was infused with Chozo DNA, has some psychic capabilities herself.
-   The Starmen from the _Mother_ series have access to psychokinetic powers and teleportation. In an interesting twist, the secrets of PSI can be taught to other races, leading to humans developing it when the protagonist's great-grandfather was abducted by aliens but escaped with the secrets.
-   The godlike humanoid Kamir in _Other Space_ utilized their blindingly powerful telepathy to help them search for appropriate lifeforms for their evolutionary experiments.
-   Elgyem and Beheeyem from _Pokémon Black and White_ are Psychic-type aliens. Deoxys, Solgaleo, Lunala, and Necrozma are also Psychic-types that came from space.
-   The mind worms in _Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri_. These tiny little white things stun you from afar, burrow through your skull and lay their eggs in your brain. They move in enormous swarms called boils. They appear (in a hard sci-fi setting) a few decades after humans land on the planet and have no other prey, causing mankind to realize that it might just be in trouble here. They _can_ be beaten (flamethrowers work quite well, according to the fluff), but one must be mentally strong in order to overcome their psychic attacks. What good is a flamethrower if you're too stunned by fear to push the button?
-   Aliens have various psychic abilities in _The Sims_ series. In _The Sims 3_, full-blooded aliens can "Scan", which leads to them discovering the target Sim's traits. In _The Sims 4_, aliens can also "empathise" with Sims to feel their emotions.
-   Word of God for _Sonic the Hedgehog_ states that powers like Silver's telekinesis and Blaze's pyrokinesis are a common occurrence two-hundred years into the series' future. Although it was the non-canon _Sonic the Hedgehog (2006)_ that promoted the concept, it might still hold true for the _Sonic Rivals_ series (and although space travel hasn't become a common occurrence yet, humans of the series have quite advanced space technology as it is).
-   The Protoss in _StarCraft_ fit this to a tee. The humans are also apparently in the "developing into the telepathic race" stage, and the Zerg have their own, different forms of telepathy too. In fact, the difference in psionic powers between the Protoss (offensive) and Zerg (Hive Mind control) is a plot point; both races were originally meddled with by precursors with the eventual goal of unifying, but this failed. They then went to war and the Zerg, outclassed by the Protoss, searched for a new species they can assimilate and use its psychic powers to defeat the Protoss. Enter: the humans.
-   In _Stellaris_, one of the end-game ascensions is the option to turn some and then all of your citizens into psychics, which make them better at researching, fighting, piloting, and give them the abilities to see the future, project the most powerful shields in the game, and teleport faster and farther than any other FTL drive in the game. A sufficiently powerful group of them can commune with an alternate plane of reality called the Shroud, where you can make deals with the incomprehensible entities that reside there.
-   The _Subnautica_ series has the Architects, a post-singularity civilization that set into motion the events that the player characters find themselves falling into. _Subnautica: Below Zero_ explains that each Architect is part of a Hive Mind in constant contact with one another, except this is a technological construct akin to a wireless network rather than "organic" telepathy. Which is why the Sea Emperor was unable to communicate with its Architect captors and explain why they couldn't get its eggs to hatch.
-   _Sword of the Stars_ gives us three races: the dolphin-like Liir, the generically-engineered marsupial Zuul, and the ancient feathered serpents Morrigi.
    -   The Liir communicate telepathically among themselves and also use Mind over Matter in lieu of hands (flippers aren't very useful for that). They are generally nice, but if they consider you Suul'ka (the enemy), then you are totally screwed. Oh, and they're also the best researchers in the game, so they will have the best tech before you know it. The Suul'ka are insane Liir elders, who have refused to allow the Square-Cube Law to kill them and moved to live in space. They used their powerful abilities to enslave the younger Liir and to devastate the Morrigi civilization by turning half of them against the others. They also created the Zuul as living weapons. Their abilities are strong enough to allow them to fold space at will. The other Liir use a low-level technological form of this called stutterwarp, which teleports their ships thousands of times per second, simulating Newtonian movement and even allows FTL since the ships aren't actually moving.
    -   The Zuul form of telepathy is generally used for Mind Rape or other races, which is how they learn new tech (in the fluff anyway). This is also how they determine leadership, with the strongest telepath becoming Dominus. Only Zuul males possess powerful telepathy, though, as their females aren't really sentient and serve as their frontline troops. In the fluff, a Liir has managed to "infect" a Zuul with its peace-loving nature. As a result, a whole new faction of Zuul formed and eventually joined the Liir in opposing the other Zuul and their masters.
    -   Morrigi telepathy is generally restricted to their males, who use "glamour" to appear as angelic beings to more primitive minds, which is why many races have myths of wise dragons coming down from the sky. During mating season, Morrigi females are also attracted to those males capable of charming them with their "glamour". On the other hand, the males are more attracted to those females who are able to resist their "glamour".
-   _X-COM_ has the Ethereals, the ruling caste of the alien invaders (who despite their name do have physical bodies).
    -   In fact, many of the species from the X-COM series are telepathic. Sectoids are budget versions of the Ethereals psionics-wise, then there's the giant Psimorphs from _XCOM Apocalypse_. The species from _XCOM Terror From The Deep_ essentially use telepathy but it's called "Molecular Control" and works via implanted chips.
    -   A number of psi-_weapons_ are specifically designed to amplify telepathic projection to injure, confuse, or control creatures in the X-COM games as well. Which makes sense... up until the _ship-mounted psi-blasters_ of _X-COM Interceptor_. Huh?
    -   _XCOM: Enemy Unknown_ explains that the Ethereals are in fact obsessed with psionics, and have traveled the galaxy looking for a species that can combine "the Gift" with physical robustness, which they hope will serve as a key ally as they face "what lies ahead." By the end of the campaign, they're _very_ excited that humanity is developing into a likely prospect... to the Ethereals' detriment.
    -   _XCOM 2_ still has the Ethereals, now ruling a Vichy Earth from the shadows, but they have since used human DNA to improve other psionic species like the Sectoids. The _War of the Chosen_ expansion also added ADVENT Priests and the Chosen Warlock, an Ax-Crazy zealot and the most powerful psionic in ADVENT's army next to the Elders themselves. The Ethereals' reasons for invading and staying on Earth are also expanded upon, as it is revealed that they are a Dying Race and have been searching the cosmos for a cure for their failing bodies, finally finding it in using the DNA of millions of psionically compatible humans to create new host bodies for themselves: the Avatars.

    Webcomics 

-   Leono from _Sluggy Freelance_ has this ability, though it only works among his own species and is only really displayed once.
-   In _Outsider_, the Loroi are galactically (in?)famous for this; protagonist Alexander Jardin realizes that he is on a Loroi ship by observing a nonverbal communication. This also creates one of the major plot points, in that Alex appears to be completely resistant to Loroi telepathy, which means that he's regarded with anywhere from guarded suspicion to barely-concealed hatred by many Loroi, as their culture generally considers verbal speech to be untrustworthy and relegates dealing with non-telepathic aliens to their Mizol caste, who specialize in diplomacy and inter-species relations. As Alex was part of a mission to establish contact with either the Loroi or their hated enemy, the Umiak, trying to be an ambassador for humanity when the species you want to establish ties with doesn't trust you because you can't communicate in the way they prefer is a major stumbling block.
-   Most species in _Vexxarr_ are telepathic, which makes sense since many of them are Space People who need to be able to communicate through hard vacuum.
-   In _Trying Human_, both Lizard Folk and The Greys, but the Greys are much, much stronger with it, also having loads of Mind over Matter. Also, the Greys have somehow lost language and communicate with other species by "reflecting their voices" which is how Pigment can speak French.

    Western Animation 

-   The gems in _Steven Universe_ are a space-faring race, and a few types of them have Psychic Powers, such as the precognitive Sapphires. Steven has several empathetic powers, including dream walking, at least some of which he inherited from his mother Rose Quartz. The Diamonds each have a unique psychic power, and all seem to have a Psychic Link between each other, which is implied to be the actual reason for Steven's aforementioned power.

___