According to female stereotypes, there are two known facts about tomboys and girly girls. Tomboys are mean, rude, aggressive, and violent, while girly girls are kind, polite, gentle, and passive. Right? Well, often the opposite is true. In some cases, tomboys are nice, while girly girls are mean.

The Tender Tomboyishness, Foul Femininity trope is about Nice Girl Tomboys, and Jerkass Girly Girls.

This trope is quite common in stories set in high school where the Alpha Bitch is very feminine while the main heroine is very likely to be tomboyish to some degree. It also can be found in Action Girl\-centric media with female villains, where the heroine is a noble, tomboyish warrior, and the villain is a feminine baroness.

Obviously, a Sub-Trope of Tomboy and Girly Girl. Compare Real Women Don't Wear Dresses. See also, Nothing Nice About Sugar and Spice, Slobs Versus Snobs, and Makeup Is Evil. May overlap with Screw the Rules, I'm Beautiful!; Wasted Beauty; Polite Villains, Rude Heroes; True Beauty Is on the Inside; Ugly Hero, Good-Looking Villain (if tomboyish girl is Hollywood Homely); Shabby Heroes, Well-Dressed Villains; and Privileged Rival.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Candy Candy_: Candy is a nice and compassionate tomboy, while Eliza is a mean and girly Rich Bitch. It's no wonder that almost every boy Eliza falls for ends up pining for Candy instead.
-   _Case Closed_: Ran is a karate champion, and very patient and kind. Her friend Sonoko is a rich, boy-crazy Valley Girl, and is far harsher and more shallow than Ran.
-   _CLANNAD_: Ushio is a young tomboy who plays baseball and with boy's toys and is also an outgoing Nice Girl. Her best friend Fuko, who is considerably older, is more feminine, adores starfish, and is also rather brash and immature.
-   _Inazuma Eleven_: Downplayed with Touko and Rika. They are both sporty girls, but Rika is generally more interested in feminine activities like cooking, fashion, and cute guys compared to Touko (despite ironically being a richer girl). Touko is more level-headed and tends to get along well with everyone on the team, although she's not above annoying Aki and Natsumi by intentionally getting close to Endou. While Rika is not a complete meanie, she has some selfish moments, such as tricking Ichinose into marrying her (which ultimately doesn't happen) or pulling a Pushed at the Monster on Touko and Haruna.
-   _Kill la Kill_: The heroine Ryuko Matoi is a tough Japanese Delinquent with a soft spot for Mako, Senketsu, and Mako's family. Nui Harime, on the other hand, is by far the girliest character in the series, the more villainous of the true Big Bad's Co-Dragons, and gleefully gloats about killing Ryuko's father once she meets Ryuko for the first time.
-   _Lady!!_: Every Alpha Bitch Lynn meets (Sophie, Mary, Vivian) is always hyperfeminine and place great importance on their appearance, desirability to men and popularity. Donwplayed with Lynn - while she is girly herself, she enjoys "boyish" actions such as riding horses and wild sports.
-   _Little Witch Academia_: Among the main trio, the outgoing Akko is a tomboy in personality, and the bookish introvert Lotte can be considered a tomboy in looks. The former is an All-Loving Hero, while the latter is a gentle soul. Their friend, Sucy, on the other hand, is pretty feminine in looks... and really, really loves her poisons. It's to the point of Heroic Comedic Sociopath antics, in the anime.
-   _Magic Knight Rayearth_: Hikaru is a boisterous tomboy who has a soft spot for animals (She has a dog back home, and is most gentle to Mokona). Umi, however, is a Proper Lady who is ill-tempered, not to mention abusive to Mokona. Downplayed in a sense that _both_ are heroines, Umi just had problems with her own short temper despite being girly and sometimes Mokona really doesn't help things by being vague or just pushing her straight to Butt-Monkey territory.
-   _Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid_: Miss Kobayashi is a tomboyish computer programmer who drinks, wears androgynous clothing, and is very friendly and nurturing. Tohru, her perky maid, is frequently unpredictable and temperamental.
-   _Neon Genesis Evangelion_: Misato is a slovenly, hedonistic, headstrong tomboy who is also very motherly, supportive, and outgoing. Ritsuko, her more elegant colleague, is rather pessimistic and unscrupulous.
-   _Nichijou_: Among the Boke and Tsukkomi Routine cast, there is a main trio. In it, the tomboy Yuko rarely messes with anyone on purpose, being a by-and-by nice Genki Girl who's left to react to a lot of madcap antics (seen in how sweetly she reacts to an alleged love confession by a female friend, despite not being ready to hear it). Her feminine-looking and quiet friend Mai, on the other hand, takes being a Heroic Comedic Sociopath to the next level, _especially_ around her...and likewise, their feminine-looking friend Mio _will_ occasionally go all out pulling wrestler moves on 6 people and a goat just to avoid having to explain her...very sexy artwork based on no one she's into IRL.
-   _Ojamajo Doremi_:
    -   Aiko has a somewhat explosive temperament but is generally portrayed as a sports-loving tomboy and a good girl with nothing but good intentions for both her divorced parents and her friends. While Onpu is presented as a very recognized and elegant singing girl but is also a spoiled and selfish girl who uses magic for her own benefit regardless of whom it affects, especially in the first season. Downplayed after Onpu's Heel–Face Turn, but she can be a bit cocky and rude sometimes.
    -   Doremi herself is a graceless Big Eater who gets in trouble at school, rarely wears feminine clothes, and is not ladylike at all, but still a very good-natured and friendly girl. Her rival Reika Tamaki is a haughty, well-dressed, and narcissistic Academic Alpha Bitch who brags about being prettier, richer, and smarter than everyone else.
-   _Ranma ½_: Despite an unwanted reputation as a tomboy, Akane is quite feminine in appearance, but also has a violent temper. Meanwhile, Ukyo mostly wears men's clothing (and is visibly more androgynous than Akane in the manga), but is more kind, affectionate, and even-tempered. She also has a friendly relationship with Ranma, which gets him to call Ukyo "cute", unlike Akane. However, as Akane is the primary love interest, she is still a sympathetic character overall, and Ukyo becomes much more violent and scheming later in the manga, throwing this dynamic entirely out the window.
-   _Revolutionary Girl Utena_:
    -   Downplayed for Juri Arisugawa and Shiori Takatsuki. Juri comes off tomboyish, dedicating a lot of her time and energy into fencing to the point she's captain of the team, and overall having a "cool" vibe. While she has an ugly side to her that appears at least once around Anthy, compared to Shiori -and as seen in their relationship- she's much more passive and emotionally vulnerable, and among the entire cast, she's one of the few with more redeeming qualities. Shiori on the other hand is very delicate and feminine, emotionally vicious against apparent friends and foes alike, and never holds back in a fight.
    -   Played with and deconstructed for Utena Tenjou and Anthy Himemiya. Taken at face value, Utena and Anthy are stereotypes of "tomboy and girly girl" — rather tomboyish Utena fights in a knight-like way wanting to become a "prince," and the "princess-like" Anthy supports her with her Rose Bride magic. Utena, however, is always affable and overall sweet around the emotionally isolated Anthy, which over the course of the series is what helps develop their friendship into something more genuine. As the series goes on, it becomes very apparent that there's more going on with Anthy Beneath the Mask, and at the same time, that Utena has a lot of hypocrisy she's not confronting. By the time they do confront those sides of each other, Utena's shown herself, and the witch, Anthy, has stabbed her in the back. But Utena doesn't give up hope, regardless.
-   _Sailor Moon_: Doubles as a Red/Green Contrast. We have Makoto Kino, who was painted as a delinquent due to her frightening nature. Turns out that she is a Nice Girl who would love to make friends and had a tragic past due to being expelled and dealing with the passing of her parents. She is even the most patient and motherly of the inner senshi. Rei Hino is (or was) rude, vain, snooty, and snarky towards Usagi, even poking insults at her. Nonetheless, she still has a golden heart inside of her and went on better terms with her, too.
-   _Takopi's Original Sin_: Zig-zagged with Shizuka and Marina. Shizuka is unkempt and wears plain t-shirts and shorts, and initially is the victim of bullying by haughty, stylish Marina, who torments her with her Girl Posse. However, the timeline where Marina dies has Shizuka slowly becomes more manipulative and unhinged, while the timeline where Shizuka lives to attend high school puts the spotlight on Marina's own crappy home life. Both are portrayed sympathetically in addition to showing what would drive them to do their deeds, and the Flash Sideways from other timelines help them to end the story as friends.
-   _Urusei Yatsura_:
    -   Benten is a tough trigger happy tomboy who is a genuinely loyal friend to Lum, while Ran is The Fake Cutie who dresses and acts very girly, and is also a False Friend who secretly hates Lum.
    -   In one chapter, the Raised as the Opposite Gender Ryuunosuke hangs out with Ran in order to become more feminine like her. Ryuunosuke is brash and short-tempered, but she's usually portrayed as more sympathetic than Ran. Ryuunosuke is a butch girl who would like to be more feminine, while Ran hides her manipulative nature behind her cutesy, girly appearance.
-   _Voltes V_: The Token Girl of the Voltes Team, Megumi Oka, is a Tomboyish Ninja, who wants to follow her dad into being a great ninja. However, the sole female member of the Boazanian's Earth Invasion Force, Katherine Rii, dresses in a Fairytale Wedding Dress, dislikes engaging in combat, and is frequently called beautiful by other characters. Megumi also reacts to Ippei's crush on her with Trolling or annoyance, but Katherine has an obvious crush on Prince Heinel.

    Comic Books 

-   _Archie Comics_: Betty and Veronica were originally both girly, but by the 60s, Girl Next Door Betty gets a Tomboyness Upgrade and starts showing masculine skills, while Veronica remains a girly Rich Bitch.
-   _Emma Frost_: Emma's sisters Adrienne and Cordelia qualify. Adrienne is the most feminine of the Frost sisters with her interest in fashion and beauty, and a manipulative sociopath who is willing to throw her own siblings under the bus to get their father's approval. Cordelia is a Goth with piercings, tattoos, and short hair, and while she does initially appear abrasive, she is the only one in the family who shows concern when Emma is held for ransom.

    Comic Strips 

-   _Dennis the Menace (US)_ does this with Gina Gilotti and Margaret Wade. Gina wears sneakers and jeans and plays sports with the boys, getting along fairly well with them. Margaret, on the other hand, wears a flouncy skirt and pushes a doll in a baby carriage. She also frequently gets into arguments with Dennis and is bossy toward him and Joey.
-   _Peanuts_: Peppermint Patty is a tomboyish Passionate Sports Girl who almost never wears dresses and is rather laid-back and friendly for the most part. Lucy often wears a blue dress, is more openly flirty and romantic, and does not get along with others whatsoever.

    Fan Works 

Crossovers

-   _Infinity Train: Blossoming Trail_:
    -   Downplayed. Chloe Cerise is a Girly Girl with a Tomboy Streak who loves softball and horror stories. Her bully, Sara Diktalyis is into feminine and girly stuff and constantly berates the former out of envy and spite while hiding the fact that she _also_ was into nightmarish things.
    -   In a weird case, Chloe Cerise and Grace Monroe also fit this dynamic. Chloe is still her girly girl self compared to the short-haired, pants-wearing Grace but again the softball-playing, demon-summoning Chloe is the heroine while Grace is a den-mother to a murderous cult.

_Luca_

-   _Too Much Too Much_: Giulia and Vallea have tomboyish personalities and are caring, kind and friendly, while the feminine and elegant Serafina is a snooty and mean-spirited Alpha Bitch.

_Total Drama_

-   _Total Drama Legacy_: Storm and Emilia. Tomboyish Passionate Sports Girl Storm is kind, friendly, and fights fair, while girly Proud Beauty Emilia is mean, spiteful, and a Combat Pragmatist.

    Film — Animated 

-   _Antz_: Azteca works as a digger and is a nice friend to her co-worker Z. Z's Love Interest Bala is a rude and snobby princess... at first.
-   _Cats Don't Dance_: Danny's Love Interest, Sawyer, is a sarcastic but compassionate working girl with a Hidden Heart of Gold. Meanwhile, the movie's antagonist Darla Dimple is a cutesy Spoiled Brat with no redeeming values and a hatred of animals who wears lots of pink.
-   _Encanto_: Between Mirabel's two sisters, the buff, athletic Luisa is much kinder to her than the prim, feminine Isabela, who is more of a Big Sister Bully. Subverted; as it turns out, the weight of expectations is very hard on both of them, and Luisa wishes to be more feminine, while Isabela is only lashing out because of the pressure and wants to be more tomboyish. By the end of the movie, both of them have achieved their goals of expressing their true selves, and they have a better relationship with each other and with Mirabel.
-   _My Little Pony: A New Generation_: Downplayed with sisters Zipp Storm and Pipp Petals. When first introduced, Zipp is nicer to Sunny and Izzy while Pipp is more dismissive. Though once she gets to know them, Pipp follows her sister's example and befriends them.
-   _Oliver & Company_: Rita, of Fagin's Gang, is a kind and street-smart Lovable Rogue who acts as a protector and mentor of Oliver. Georgette, on the other hand, is a very vain and selfish show dog who instantly berates Oliver when he comes into her life.
-   _Robin Hood (1973)_ provides a gender-flipped example in King Richard and Prince John. King Richard is a warrior king (he fought in the Crusades) and a Reasonable Authority Figure, while his brother Prince John is skinny, whiny, effeminate and a Royal Brat.
-   _Wreck-It Ralph_: Vanellope is a tomboyish Passionate Sports Girl who, despite her faults, is pretty easygoing as long as you get to know her. By contrast, her rival Taffyta is a snobby, fashion-obsessed Alpha Bitch who makes it her mission to undermine Vanellope by doing everything it takes to prevent her from competing in the races. When the game is reprogrammed, however, Taffyta not only makes a Heel–Face Turn but also sincerely apologizes to Vanellope for mistreating her and accepts her friendship.
-   _Zootopia_: The hero Judy Hopps is a feisty but kindhearted police officer who dresses rather masculinely when not in uniform and joins the police force in a genuine effort to make the world a better place. In contrast, Assistant Mayor Bellwether, the movie's villain, dresses very femininely, and behaves with many feminine mannerisms, and wants to keep the predator population under the thumb of the prey population.

    Film — Live-Action 

-   _Bumblebee_: Charlie is a tomboyish Wrench Wench who wears sleeveless band shirts and short shorts. She is also quite friendly and welcoming, developing a close friendship with both Bumblebee and Memo. Tina, on the other hand, is a stuck-up, condescending Alpha Bitch who loves fashion.
-   _A Cinderella Story_: Sam is a Nice Girl heroine who likes baseball and wears a Tomboyish Baseball Cap. Her rival Shelby is the typical Alpha Bitch cheerleader.
-   Downplayed in _Fred The Movie_. Fred's goth friend Bertha is a little rough around the edges but proves to be a loyal and supportive friend throughout the movie. His girly crush Judy, meanwhile, is very polite, but notably didn't invite Fred to her house party and didn't make much of a protest when he got bullied out of it by Kevin.
-   _It (2017)_: Beverly Marsh is a bold, adventurous girl with Boyish Short Hair who is one of the main heroes. Her rival, Greta Keene, is a rude, snooty Alpha Bitch.
-   _Jennifer's Body_: The eponymous Jennifer Check is a shallow, vain, and sexually active Jerkass and becomes even worse after she is killed and resurrected as a demon. By contrast, her best friend Anita "Needy" Lesnicki wears glasses and less feminine clothing, and is The Hero of the movie.
-   _Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle_: Subverted. Nerdy, tomboyish Martha seems at first like the nicer, more approachable character compared to the girly, ditzy Bethany. During their time in the game, however, Martha's character flaws reveal her to be more judgmental and cynical, whereas Bethany turns out to be pretty nice and supportive. By the end, the girls wind up as best friends and help each other through their issues.
-   _Kick-Ass 2_: Downplayed. Though violent and trigger-happy, Mindy is a decent person at heart and is one of the main heroes. Brooke, on the other hand, is a spiteful Alpha Bitch with absolutely no redeeming qualities.
-   _Mean Girls_: Regina is the main antagonist of the movie and is defined by how obsessed she is with her looks. The two female characters who oppose her are Janice, who is a Goth, and Cady who starts out as comparatively less traditionally feminine than Regina. In fact, one of the signs that Cady is becoming more like Regina is that she is dressing like Regina. In the "Where Are They Now?" Epilogue, it is stated that Regina joined the lacrosse team and has become a much better person as a result.
-   _Scream 4_: The snarky Lad-ette Kirby is a heroic character, while her more "traditionally" feminine best friend Jill is a serial killer.
-   _Sky High (2005)_: Tomboyish Green Thumb Layla is one of the main heroes of the film, and is consistently nice throughout, even to Will's rival Warren. The Alpha Bitch cheerleader, however, bullies her and the other "Hero Support" students much like their other popular friends and even joins the villains at the end of the movie. The film's Big Bad, Gwen, spends most of the film being another popular girly girl, who puts on a Bitch in Sheep's Clothing routine. She acts kind at first, but starts to show her true colors when she bullies Layla in a Kick the Dog moment.
-   _Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory_: Spoiled rich girl Veruca (who wears a dress) is the nastiest character in the film, while competitive gum chewer Violet (who wears pants) can be a rude Bratty Half-Pint at times but she is not nearly as bad as Veruca. On the other hand, it's averted in the 2005 adaptation where their Tomboy and Girly Girl dynamic is even more evident, but the tomboyish Violet gets an Adaptational Jerkass and is just as malicious as Veruca, who is less openly aggressive than in the 1971 film.

    Literature 

-   _Dork Diaries_: Nikki Maxwell is a tomboyish geek who tries to fit in, while MacKenzie Hollister is a mean Rich Bitch who always shuns her.
-   _Harry Potter_ has Professors Minerva Mc Gonagall and Dolores Umbridge, respectively. The former is a Stern Teacher who acts very strict towards her students but genuinely cares about them and is a kind person overall, while the latter acts very gentle and motherly but is a cruel and remorseless woman who personally hates her own students and constantly mistreats them in a very harsh manner.
-   _The McGurk Organization_: Tomboyish, outdoorsy Organization member Wanda is contrasted with the more feminine Sandra Ennis, who regularly harasses the Organization and tries on two occasions to humiliate them by perpetrating crimes, even trying to frame Wanda for stealing a valuable silver bowl at one point.
-   _My Next Life as a Villainess: All Routes Lead to Doom!_: Catarina is a single-person example. The original Catarina was a traditionally feminine aristocrat who mercilessly bullied her brother and Maria and was an all-around horrible person. Monkey Girl!Catarina on the other hand is the complete opposite, having the personality and memories of a rather dim tomboyish otaku and is so unfailingly kind to people that she is affectionately referred to as "Lady Saint" by her peers.
-   _Mr. Men_: Little Miss Somersault and Little Miss Splendid are a downplayed example of this trope. Little Miss Somersault on the one hand is a fan of physical activity and is shown to be a kind and friendly person who uses her nimbleness to help out those in need while Little Miss Splendid, who is into fashion is a Rich Bitch and is prejudiced against "commoners" just like Mr. Snooty. The downplayed part comes in the fact that Little Miss Splendid is sometimes shown to have a heart.
-   _Polissena Del Porcello_: Girly Polissena grew up as a proper girl in a rich family and she fantasizes about being a princess. Her friend Lucrezia is far less ladylike: she grew up on the streets, loves adventures and spending time with her circus animals, and unlike Polissena, she despises royalty. Lucrezia is usually the mature and reasonable one whenever Polissena is being too bratty and selfish.
-   Stan Kirby's children series, _Captain Awesome_ has Sally Williams, a spunky second-grader who often wears shirts, jeans, and sneakers; is an avid fan of the Super Dude franchise; and is very affectionate to her pet cat, Mr. Whiskersworth. Not to mention, she is very loyal to her best friends, Eugene McGillicuddy and Charlie Thomas Jones, and helps them fight "crime" as "superheroes". Meanwhile, the trio's main foe, Meredith Mooney, is a typical Girly Girl, who wears dresses, has her hair tied up with ribbons, and is _obsessed_ with the color, pink. However, Meredith is also the class bully who constantly name-calls her enemies and mocks them whenever she has the chance. She even ridiculed Sally for being a tomboy on her first day of school.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Brooklyn Nine-Nine:_ Downplayed with Rosa Diaz and Gina Linetti, respectively. Rosa, a tough Badass Biker and the resident badass of the squad, has a Hair-Trigger Temper and is hyperviolent, but her spiky exterior hides a big heart of gold, as she proves over and over again that she cares a lot about her friends and even frequently helps them out in her own way. Gina, the fashionable Alpha Bitch who is obsessed with her looks, her phone, and dance, on the other hand, is constantly cruel to her coworkers, especially Amy and Boyle, and is self-obsessed to a narcissistic degree. She has the occasional kind moment, but they are few and far between.
-   Of _The Cry of Mann_'s three main female characters, two of them are Berry and Agent Martinez, both heroic characters who lack traditionally feminine traits. Berry being a business-running geek and Agent Martinez a serious government agent. The third is Courtney, who acts as one of the primary antagonists for a few episodes, and is known for becoming obsessed with her beauty, wearing fancy dresses, and relying on manipulation and control far more than anything. It's a bit zig-zagged toward the end when it's revealed that Courtney isn't just a spoiled Wicked Stepmother, but rather a mechanically-minded genius who invented the battle machines and made Tank fall in love with her for being so fiery and tough.
-   _Doctor Who_: In the era of the Tenth Doctor, there are companions Martha Jones and Donna Noble. Martha is the more soft-spoken of the two, but she is a moderately tomboyish woman who mostly dresses in jeans and leather jackets who became a hardened medical soldier, while the more verbally aggressive and loud Donna was seen wearing fancy elegant dresses and girly clothing far more often and spent a lot of her time with the Doctor visiting outer space spas.
-   _Downton Abbey_: Out of the Crawley Sisters, Sybil is the rebellious political activist who prefers to hang out in the garage with the chauffeur rather than attending fancy parties like her sisters. While Mary and Edith have a spiteful rivalry with each other, Sybil is by far the kindest of the three (being also Nice to the Waiter) and is adored by everyone in the family.
-   _Fate: The Winx Saga_: In this version, Passionate Sports Girl Aisha is the closest friend to the protagonist Bloom, while fashionista Stella is the most hostile towards her. This is due to Adaptational Jerkass since in the cartoon version, Girly Girl Stella was actually Bloom's closest friend since the beginning.
-   _Game of Thrones_: This is the dynamic of Jaime Lannister's two love interests. In the love triangle, unfeminine Brawn Hilda Brienne is a heroic character and Jaime's Morality Pet, while elegant and refined Cersei is a villain and a bad influence on Jaime.
-   _Hannah Montana_: Lilly is a sporty tomboy and a Cloudcuckoolander who is Miley's best friend. Amber and Ashley are bitchy school divas who hate Miley.
-   _Life with Derek_: Downplayed with Casey and Lizzie. Girly Girl Casey is not a bad person, but can often be controlling, selfish, and an Insufferable Genius. Her sister Lizzie is a Passionate Sports Girl who has no interest in girlish things (unlike Casey) and is also more patient and level-headed.
-   _Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide_: Moze is a tomboyish volleyball captain who loves wood-shop and hates wearing skirts and dresses, whereas Missy is a cheerleader captain who's always seen in stereotypically girly clothes. That said, Moze is frequently sarcastic, competitive, stubborn, short-tempered and even physically aggressive to those who piss her off on occasion. But despite her flaws, she's also an intelligent, driven, selfless and compassionate person and a very good friend under her tough-girl exterior. By contrast, Missy gets other people to do her schoolwork for her, is superficially cheerful and peppy, but that only thinly masks her true less-than-savory colors, claims to be "helping" people by insulting them right to their faces and recruiting them into a club on how to be popular which entails them to be yes-men and butt-kissers for the popular kids. Also, whereas Moze scaled back her aggression and temper (and even befriended her longtime rival Suzie Crabgrass) overtime, Missy never made amends for her cattiness, jealousy, and self-centeredness, which only worsened as the series progressed.
-   _Never Have I Ever_:
    -   Of Devi's two best friends, Eleanor is an aspiring actress who wears colorful dresses and jewelry, while Fabiola is a Butch Lesbian who likes robotics and dresses like "the janitor's nephew". While both are well-meaning, Eleanor is occasionally irrational when she gets mad at other people, while Fabiola is the nicest in the man trio.
    -   Devi herself has this dynamic with Aneesa, another Indian girl. Devi is a bookish, unathletic, boy-crazy girl who can play the harp, and is a Jerk with a Heart of Gold who is often selfish and abrasive. Aneesa is a Passionate Sports Girl who has short hair, wears sporty clothes, and is a friendly and likable Lovable Jock. Because of this, Aneesa is much more popular than Devi, and while Devi is the one more obsessed with popularity of the two, she often tries too hard.
-   Punky Brewster is a tomboy with a heart of gold (despite what mischief she commits) while Margaux Kramer is the girly-girl Alpha Bitch, calling all the other kids "peasants."
-   _Scrubs_: The two female interns introduced in season 8 are blunt, mannish Lad-ette Denise and cutesy, girly, and seemingly nice (but devious) Katie, who are even nicknamed "Jo and Blair" by JD, as a reference to another Tomboy and Girly Girl duo. Over the season, Denise turns out to be a Jerk with a Heart of Gold who befriends the main cast, while Katie remains a two-faced Manipulative Bitch who is quickly Put on a Bus.
-   _The Suite Life of Zack & Cody_:
    -   Physically adept Academic Athlete Bailey is very friendly, while rich fashionista London acts like a Spoiled Brat.
    -   Downplayed with Bailey and Maddie, respectively. Both are generally nice girls, especially compared to their foil London, and Bailey isn't overtly masculine. But Bailey is more tomboyish than Maddie, while Maddie is a straight-up Girly Girl, and Maddie is snarkier, bossy, and has a mean streak and a short temper while Bailey is more consistently sweet and even-tempered.
-   _That's So Raven_: Raven is The Fashionista who can be snarky, bratty, and selfish at times (but still a Jerk with a Heart of Gold). Her friend Chelsea is an Outdoorsy Gal who likes camping and is generally a ditzy but caring Friend to All Living Things who is less materialistic than Raven.
-   _That '70s Show_: Tomboy Donna is laid back enough to be One of the Boys and is close to Eric, while Jackie is a rich, self-absorbed Proud Beauty who looks down on both Donna and Eric.
-   _Teen Wolf_: Allison is a Nice Girl who has combat training and is skilled in gymnastics and archery, while Lydia is a vain and snobby Academic Alpha Bitch.
-   _NCIS: Los Angeles_: As the series progresses, this ends up being the case for Kensi and Joelle. Kensi is a more laid back ladette who has a more soft and kinder side and longs for normalcy with Deeks while Joelle, Callen's ex-girlfriend, is more of a dark feminine who is manipulative and filled with bloodlust and vengeance against the villain, Katya.
-   _Will & Grace_:
    -   Grace is a slovenly, unladylike Big Eater, in contrast to her assistant Karen, a stylish, gold-digging Lady Drunk socialite. While Grace is also a very flawed character, she's a more approachable person than Karen and cares about her interior design career. Most of her interactions have Karen refusing to work and insulting Grace's clothes and appearance.
    -   The show also has a gender-flipped example with Will and Jack. Will is more stoic and masculine, while Jack is overemotional and flamboyant. Although Will mocks Jack for being In Touch with His Feminine Side, he's generally far more likable and reasonable than Jack, who is portrayed as a shallow, petty, and selfish Narcissist.

    Music 

-   Avril Lavigne's "Sk8r Boi" touches upon it. The singer mentions that the "punk" male lead had a crush on a feminine and ballet-loving girl, but while she liked him would never admit it to herself and never gave him the time of day until he became a celebrity. Meanwhile, the singer is another girl who's into punk and band things, and her relationship with the boy is much more successful.

    Puppet Shows 

-   The Muppets have two major female characters: Janice and Miss Piggy. The latter is a hopeless romantic, and a hot-tempered diva who wears dresses and jewelry, and has no problem with harming people who piss her off. The former, meanwhile, is lead guitarist for the Electric Mayhem, a relaxed and friendly lady who also wears jewelry (though never as much as Piggy) and a tank top, and doesn't have a mean bone in her body.
-   _Sesame Street_: Muppeteer Fran Brill had two main characters, Zoe and Prairie Dawn. The latter is a small, pink Anything Muppet girl who can be rather bossy and very melodramatic, and is usually the straight girl to characters like Cookie Monster or Grover. The former, on the other hand, is a young monster who is always laughing and playing and is more likely to join Cookie and Grover in silly antics.

    Video Games 

-   Downplayed in the _Banjo-Kazooie_ series. The Deuteragonist, Kazooie is a snarky Ladette who has a poor view of others but is ultimately still one of the good guys. Meanwhile, the series' antagonist, Gruntilda, is a sociopathic Pigpen who longs to be beautiful by sucking the beauty out of Banjo's sister, Tootie.
-   _Resident Evil_: Claire Redfield is a motorcycle-riding tomboy who generally dresses in shirts, jeans, and leather jackets. She also has a soft, maternal side that makes her extremely protective of children, and is overall a nice person until someone gives her a reason not to be. Ada Wong, meanwhile, is more girly in appearance, wearing dresses, high heels, and obvious makeup. She is also a Femme Fatale who is cold and standoffish to those around her, and has much more combat training than Claire.
-   _River City Girls_: Misako and Kyoko are brash, fight-happy Anti-Heroes out to rescue their boyfriends, and they've received a Tomboyness Upgrade since their previous outing in _River City Girls Zero_. Their rivals are Hasebe and Mami, who in this universe are preppier, girlier, and bitchier than the two and served as their childhood bullies. Subverted in the original ending, where Misako and Kyoko are Psycho Ex-Girlfriends to Kunio and Riki, making both sets of rivals no better than each other.
-   In the _Puyo Puyo_ series, Arle Nadja is an Action Girl who is averse to acting like a proper lady but is willing to do anything to save the day. Her rival Rulue, while she does beat others up if she feels the need, is an ojou who is hopelessly in love with the Dark Prince.

    Web Animation 

-   _Camp Camp_: Nikki and the Flower Scouts have this dynamic. Nikki is a nature-loving (read: practically feral) tomboy and the nicest member of the main trio, while the Flower Scouts are a troop of girls who aspire to be proper ladies, but also ran Nikki out of the group for being too boyish. In one episode, the Flower Scouts became brutal drug kingpins who horrified the Mexican Drug Cartels.

    Western Animation 

-   _101 Dalmatian Street_: Dolly is a rowdy yet affectionate tomboy who loves hanging with her siblings, whilst her arch-nemesis Clarissa is a spoilt, bad-tempered socialite who only cares about herself.
-   _Adventure Time_: Marceline, a vampire rock star, is a gentle Cool Big Sis to Finn and Jake, whereas Princess Bubblegum, the pink-haired monarch of the Candy Kingdom, frequently threatens people with violence.
-   _Alvin and the Chipmunks_: Eleanor is a nice and caring Passionate Sports Girl, while Brittany is a vain and self-centered fashionista.
-   _American Dad!_: Zigzagged with Hayley and Francine. Hayley has a Limited Wardrobe of a black tank top and jeans and is rebellious and headstrong. Francine is a cheerful homemaker who dresses up. While Hayley often tries to do the right thing and is sympathetic, she can also be conceited, petty, and even violent at times. While Francine can be friendly and nurturing, she has also engaged in dubious behavior and exhibited signs of Ax-Crazy behavior.
-   _Amphibia_: Anne Boonchuy's friends who got teleported to Amphibia along with her. Marcy Wu is a kind-hearted Gamer Chick and is always getting into mishaps; Sasha Waybright, on the other hand, is an Alpha Bitch who's always controlling and wants everything done the way she wants. Though this is downplayed somewhat when it turns out Marcy manipulated them and is the reason they were all sent to Amphibia to begin with.
-   _Atomic Betty_: Betty is a Nice Girl and also an action-y Little Miss Badass who likes sports and comics. Penelope is a snobby Spoiled Brat who likes shopping and mocks Betty's tomboyish nature.
-   _Baby Looney Tunes_: Lola is a tomboy who likes basketball, and is usually friendly and mature, although with some Not So Above It All moments. Melissa is into girly things like tea parties, and can be a Bratty Half-Pint more often than Lola.
-   _The Backyardigans_: Downplayed and Zig-Zagged with Uniqua and Tasha. While they are both generally nice girls, Tasha, who usually plays the more feminine roles, is bit more bossier than Uniqua, who usually plays the gender-neutral roles. That said, their roles do switch up every now and then.
-   _Beetlejuice_: Lydia is a Goth girl who is very friendly to others. This is in contrast to her rival, Claire, who is a Valley Girl that likes to scold Lydia.
-   _Beverly Hills Teens_: While a lot of girls are obviously filthy rich, many of the nicer ones like Larke, Blaze, Nikki, and Shanelle, happen to carry tons of possibly masculine qualities. Whereas Bianca is second only to Tara in terms of being a Proper Lady but second to nobody in terms of being a Jerkass.
-   _Clone High_: Joan of Arc is a Dogged Nice Girl Deadpan Snarker Goth who enjoys basketball, and doesn't have much interest in traditionally feminine things like makeovers, while Cleopatra is an alpha bitchy Jerkass with an It's All About Me attitude.
-   _The Cramp Twins_: Among the two prominent female characters, Mari Phelps, who isn't particularly girly and dislikes dresses, is one of the few nice characters and one of Lucien's only friends. By contrast, Wendy Winkle is an overly feminine Rich Bitch who is obsessed with plushies and the colour pink and has stalkerish tendencies towards Wayne.
-   _Daria_ has two Deuteragonists who are prominent foils to the main character. Jane is an edgy Goth who is very close to Daria, while Quinn is a bratty fashionista who actively avoids Daria, despite being her sister.
-   _Doug_: Patti Mayonaise is a nice and friendly Passionate Sports Girl, while Beebe Bluff is a snobbish Rich Bitch.
-   _Family Guy_: Zigzagged with Lois and Meg. Lois has a Limited Wardrobe of a green shirt and brown pants while her daughter, Meg, wears pink and has a girly room. While Lois is the Only Sane Woman of the family, she's also an Abusive Parent with a fiery temper. Meg, despite being one of the nicer characters on the show, has also displayed rage issues and violent Yandere tendencies.
-   _Futurama_: Zig-zagged. Leela is quite the tomboy and is a compassionate Animal Lover and Friend to All Children, while girly Amy is more superficial and spoiled. On the other hand, Amy is friendly and naive most of the time (she can easily qualify as Spoiled Sweet), while Leela loves violence and can be aggressive (it's even her Fatal Flaw in one of the movies).
-   _Gravity Falls_: Downplayed with Mabel Pines and Wendy Corduroy. Mabel isn't so much mean as she is occasionally selfish and thoughtless. Still, she is a girly girl, and a distinct contrast to Wendy, the show's Good Bad Girl. Mabel also provides the Tender Tomboyishness to Pacifica Northwest's Foul Femininity.
-   _Hey Arnold!_: Nadine is an insect-loving tomboy who is never stuck-up, while her best friend is Rich Bitch fashionista Rhonda.
-   _Horseland_ gives us the trio of rich girls Sarah Whitney and Zoey and Chloe Stilton. Unlike the latter two who are Lovable Alpha Bitches, the former dresses more classic and tomboyish and prefers friends over money.
-   _I ♡ Arlo_: Alia is the tomboyish tiger girl who's tough with a soft side, while Furlecia is the feminine furball who's aloof and flamboyant.
-   _Kaeloo_: Kaeloo is a happy-go-lucky Nice Girl who is a Friend to All Living Things and enjoys being outdoors, whereas her arch-nemesis, Pretty, is an Alpha Bitch who cannot control herself.
-   _Kim Possible_: While both Kim and Bonnie are cheerleaders, they qualify. Nice Girl Kim is a Teen Super Spy who is good at martial arts and doesn't often wear skirts (outside of cheerleading). Bonnie is an Alpha Bitch who wears more feminine clothes and has no interest in sports other than cheerleading.
-   _The Lion Guard_: Kiara is a tomboy and is generally pleasant, while her friends Zuri and Tifu are more girly and snobbish.
-   _Littlest Pet Shop (2012)_: Pepper Clark is a tomboyish skunk who's goofy and an aspiring comedian, while Zoe Trent is a vain dog who constantly steals the spotlight.
-   _The Looney Tunes Show_: Tomboy Tina is well-adjusted and very patient with her boyfriend, while girly Lola is an obnoxious Cute and Psycho stalker. However, Lola means well despite her insanity and eventually stops being a stalker, becoming more of a Loon with a Heart of Gold.
-   _The Loud House_:
    -   Among the Loud sisters, Luna (the third eldest) is an aspiring rockstar Nice Girl, and Lana (the fourth-youngest) is a kindly Wrench Wench who enjoys Filthy Fun. Meanwhile, Lori (the eldest) is a Big Sister Bully (although later grows out of it) who enjoys teen magazines and nail polish, and Lola (Lana's Polar Opposite Twin) is an aspiring pageant queen and a Bratty Half-Pint.
    -   The sisters also have an inversion with Leni and Lynn. Leni is a major fashionista and aspiring fashion designer who makes a lot of her own clothing, but she's also one of the kindest _Loud House_ characters (albeit slow on the uptake most of the time). Lynn, on the other hand, is a Jerk Jock whose moments of kindness tend to be few and far in between.
-   _The Magic School Bus_: Dorothy Ann Hudson and Keesha Franklin. Dorothy Ann is a bookworm and closeted baseball lover who can be quite gregarious when she isn't being Captain Obvious. Keesha is of the more fashionable sort and attends an afterschool ballet class, and she's got quite the sarcastic streak.
-   _Mike, Lu & Og_: Mike is a nice girl with a Tomboyish Name and her main interest is a superhero known as Action Guy, while Lu is a Spoiled Brat who is all about being a princess.
-   _Muppet Babies (1984)_: Skeeter, Scooter's twin sister was created as a tomboy counterpart to a younger version of Miss Piggy. Although Skeeter is athletic and Piggy likes pink, lace, make-up, and tea parties, Skeeter is rather nice while Piggy is super strong, super bossy, and super un-ladylike.
-   _Muppet Babies (2018)_: The show sees a younger version of Miss Piggy and new character Summer Penguin. Piggy is a temperamental diva who wants to make everything "Fabulous", while Summer is a kind and caring artist who enjoys superheroes and detective stories.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_: Applejack is a hard-working farm girl who is always willing to help, while Rarity is vain and quite self-centered.
-   _The Owl House_: Luz Noceda is a tomboyish fantasy nerd with Boyish Short Hair and is an All-Loving Heroine. Amity Blight is an Academic Alpha Bitch who picks on those who are less powerful than her. However, she not only does gets better, but they end up together.
-   _The Powerpuff Girls_: Downplayed but present. Buttercup is the most tomboyish member of the cast, and while she can be selfish and impulsive, she is nonetheless a protector of Townsville and her sisters. Princess Morbucks is one of the more feminine characters as well as a spoiled, greedy villain in Townsville with absolutely no redeeming qualities.
-   _The Proud Family_: Downplayed and zig-zagged. Dijonay Jones is a tomboyish and party-loving Sassy Black Woman, while LaCienega Boulevardez is a feminine Rich Bitch who often wants things done her way. However, Dijonay is often a thoughtless, bratty, and ill-tempered Toxic Friend Influence for Penny, while LaCienega defrosts over time. Depending on the Writer, though, even after LaCienega defrosts, both can lead Penny into quite a mess or fly off when she needs them most, as her friend group exemplifies With Friends Like These... quite well.
-   _Puppy Dog Pals_: Hissy is a purple cat who's Bingo and Rolly's housemate who's often ill-tempered but nevertheless on good terms with them, while Cupcake is a pink dog who's mean and snobbish, and frequently picks on them.
-   _Rugrats_:
    -   Susie Carmichael and Angelica Pickles. Susie is very athletic and is nice to the babies, while Angelica loves playing with dolls and dressing up, but is mean to the babies.
    -   Betty DeVille and Charlotte Pickles. Betty is a Lad-ette who is very outgoing and motherly, while Charlotte is a Proper Lady who can be rather snobbish and arrogant.
-   _Sofia the First_: Sofia is the kindhearted heroine who was originally a commoner before being inducted into royalty, while her stepsister Amber is royalty by birth but is vain and hot-headed.
-   _South Park_ has Wendy and Bebe. Wendy is a head-strong Straw Feminist who — as episodes like "Breast Cancer Show Ever" demonstrate — is strong enough to beat up others, and while she can be a bit temperamental at times, she's usually friendly, sympathetic towards others, and is often more than happy to help out Stan and his friends whenever they encounter a problem. By contrast, Bebe is a Girly Girl who loves shoes, is a cheerleader, and is seen wearing make-up in one episode. While she isn't exactly mean, she is also shown to be the most shallow of the girls with episodes like "The List" and "Lice Capades" being good examples of her shallowness. Despite this though, several episodes show that she will do the right thing and is not heartless.
-   _Spongebob Squarepants_: Sandy Cheeks is a karate-chopping techno whiz and one of the nicest characters in the show, and Pearl is a Bratty Teenage Daughter who enjoys shopping and slumber parties.
-   _Steven Universe_: Zig-zagged all over the place with the all-female race of Gems:
    -   Many villainous Gems, such as Yellow Diamond and Holly Blue Agate, present very feminine, while more sympathetic Gems like Topaz and Bismuth are more muscular and masculine.
    -   The Rubies are Mooks for Homeworld and are aggressive and tomboyish, but are more Chaotic Stupid than outright malevolent.
    -   Peridot is more boyish than her friend Lapis Lazuli, who can be cold and aloof, but both are heroic characters.
    -   Among the main cast, Garnet and Amethyst are more masculine in their dress and behavior than Pearl, and have an easier time dealing with Earth while the feminine Pearl can be domineering. They all still get along though.
-   Inverted in _Tangled: The Series_ where the tomboy Cassandra ultimately betrays the feminine Rapunzel and becomes the Arc Villain of Season 3, while Rapunzel remains a protagonist throughout.
-   _Tiny Toon Adventures_: Downplayed with Mary Melody and Elmyra Duff. Mary wears sneakers and jeans, is into rollerblading and skateboarding, and is kind to the other toons. Elmyra wears a dress and is into dolls, tea parties, and cute things like animals, and while she generally means no harm to the animals she chases, she is viewed as The Dreaded by them, as her treatment of any animal she catches seriously harms them, and in some cases even kills them.
-   _Total Drama_:
    -   In the first season, we have Perky Goth Gwen, and Academic Alpha Bitch, Courtney. Gwen, though a snarky loner, at the start, becomes a very nice and considerate person by the end of the first season. Meanwhile, Courtney was a prissy overachiever who started out haughty and overly competitive, and became outright vindictive and mean as the series went on. Also from the first season, Gwen's rival, Heather, loves makeovers and tanning and is a complete Alpha Bitch.
    -   From the sixth season, both Jasmine and Sky are athletically inclined, with Jasmine being an Outback Survivalist and Sky being an aspiring gymnast, and are both some of the nicest contestants of their season. By contrast, main villain Sugar is a pageant queen and is also rude, a complete slob, and willing to win by any means necessary.
-   _Totally Spies!_: Of the three main characters, Alex is the most athletic/tomboyish and the nicest, while Clover is the girliest and the most selfish (though still a Lovable Alpha Bitch).
-   _Trollz_: Out of the BFFL, Sapphire is the tomboyish bookworm who has a big heart, while Ruby is the feminine leader of the girls who's always bossy and hot-headed. However, their Tomboy and Girly Girl roles are zig-zagged, as Sapphire is a Shy Blue-Haired Girl who wears a pink skirt, a pink hair bow, and pink shoes with blue flowers on top, while Ruby is a feisty Tsundere who has Spiky Hair, wears jeans and sneakers, and her favorite color is red.
-   _W.I.T.C.H._: Irma and Cornelia are on opposite ends of the Tomboy-Feminine spectrum. Irma is tomboyish and is the most friendly to Will when they first meet her while Cornelia is the most hostile, even going as far as blaming Will when Caleb gets captured by Cedric. That said Cornelia is at worst, a Jerk with a Heart of Gold.

___