_"Everything is what I **say** it is! If I decide that granite is squeezably soft, it **is!** If I decide that cows have wings, they **do!** To put it another way, cows do **not** have wings because I don't **want** them to! My imagination and reality are virtually **indistinguishable!** All existence, except me, might as well be a figment of my imagination! Maybe it **is!** I might have just dreamed all this up, including wingless cows! But then, the whole point is that it makes **no difference!**"_

Reality Warpers are capable of modifying the laws of causality around themselves, but take that to another level wherein there is no limit or range to their reality warp, extending to all of existence itself, and you have the Omnipotent: A character that is all-powerful. Either literally omnipotent, or are simply so powerful that they're virtually omnipotent within the context of the story.

There are several types of omnipotent characters.

-   Narrative Omnipotence: This type of omnipotence is on the level that only characters with Author Powers have or the writers themselves.
-   Absolute Omnipotence: The character has absolute omnipotence. As in, nothing can challenge them, and they can literally do anything and everything, logic and causality be damned as the character made those concepts up themselves.
-   True Omnipotence: The character is omnipotent. They can break even logic and causality to achieve anything, but there are others who can do this as well (sometimes they're The Anti-God). What happens if they go against each other can be a massive Mind Screw.
-   Nigh-Omnipotence/Virtual Omnipotence: The character can do just about anything that's logically possible (i.e. virtual omnipotence), or at least appear to, thus making sure Magic A Is Magic A in the process. This type of omnipotence is also more frequent than the above type to have multiple characters that operate at this level. The term nigh-omnipotent is often thrown about at this level.
-   Specialized Omnipotence: The character is omnipotent within a field or concept. Anthropomorphic Personifications are almost guaranteed to display this with the concept they embody, while a Domain Holder might be this within wherever they hold Domain.
-   Almightiness: The character is "merely" an almighty being, whose power is far beyond any other in the setting. For practical purposes though, they're basically omnipotent.

The most powerful Reality Warpers, Cosmic Entities, and Eldritch Abominations tend to exhibit this, as does your typical Genie in a Bottle. Combine this with a strong Ego, and you get A God Am I (which may or not be completely true). Combine it with Cloudcuckoolander tendencies, and you may have a Great Gazoo, or worse, a Mad God.

Because of their powers, omnipotent characters usually have Complete Immortality. Nigh-Invulnerability in contrast is a step lower than this.

Usually Omnipotence also comes packaged with Omniscience and Omnipresence as well due their Unlimited Power. If they don't actually do anything, they're an All-Powerful Bystander. When someone of this trope gets defeated, the one who defeated them is usually Even More Omnipotent. Did You Just Punch Out Cthulhu? could also be in effect.

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   Ronnie Schiatto of _Baccano!_, the resident Humanoid Abomination, is virtually omnipotent. Of course, rather than actually using his phenomenal cosmic powers for anything especially useful, he just employs omnipotence for inconsequential things like scaring small children or saving himself a long train ride.
    
    _"Do you want me to die of boredom?"_
    
-   In _Berserk_, what that can be called "God" in this world, the Idea of Evil, has specialized omnipotence. To elaborate, the Idea of Evil is created from the Collective Unconscious, as an answer to humanity's near-universal mindset of "every suffering has a reason". In actual truth, _suffering has no reason_, and so the Collective Unconscious give birth to the Idea of Evil to be the reason for everyone's suffering. Within this context, the Idea can do whatever it wants so long as it fulfills humanity's collective desire.
-   In _Bleach_, Yhwach has become this with his true power awakened with his own Schrift known as "A" of "The Almighty" who can analyze the abilities before countering them by picking a possible future to make it happen and then absorbing the Soul King after making Ichigo kill him against his will! You know you are this when you can break Ichigo's Bankai in two before he can even use it because there was a possible future that it can happen!
-   In _A Certain Magical Index_, any supreme deities in mythologies and religions are potrayed as virtually omnipotent here, and there are beings "even closer to omnipotence than them". La Persona Superiore la Dio and the Invisible Thing are examples.
    -   Othinus is virtually omnipotent, but has a weakness that her powers only work 50% of the time. Once she overcomes this, she becomes able to create, destroy, and rewrite entire universes on a whim. Her only limitations are: 1) She cannot _directly_ affect Imagine Breaker (she is more than capable of indirectly affecting it though, such as by sending Touma away to a universe and torture him there). 2) Contrary to her claims that she's far above humans, she still has a human-like mind. She almost collapses from mental fatigue at one point, and she cannot reverse her changes to the universe if _she has forgotten what changes she caused_. Though she was able to change the universe back to normal with the help of Imagine Breaker.
    -   The True GREMLIN group consists of entities that are all even closer to omnipotence, even more so than Othinus. However, they are all out-gambitted by Aleister Crowley, which is also virtually omnipotent himself, and all of them are cast down to Earth. They are then mostly eliminated by characters specifically designed to combat them, Kihara Noukan and Kakeru Kamisato.
-   Sai Akuto from _Demon King Daimao_ can rewrite reality as easily as an author rewriting his story.
-   _Dragon Ball Super_ has Super Shenron, who can grant _any_ wish with no limitations, and Zen'O, who cannot be harmed by anything, can wipe out the entire multiverse on a whim, and kill someone who has been given Complete Immortality by Super Shenron (granted, the "someone" in question negated the "Complete" part by paradoxically Fusing with a non-immortal beforehand).
-   In _Fullmetal Alchemist_, the Truth blurs the line between nigh-omnipotence and specialized omnipotence. In one hand, it repeatedly says that it is the personification of _everything_ ("I am the world. I am the universe. I am God. I am me. And I am YOU.") On the other hand, this can be interpreted as personification of truth: ("This world consists of truth, and that is I.") Either way, power-wise, it qualifies.
-   In _Future Diary_, Deus is nigh-omnipotent. His only limitations are being unable to resurrect souls (directly) and the fact that he is dying and his place must be replaced periodically by a new candidate he chooses.
-   _Haruhi Suzumiya_ is absolutely omnipotent, unbeknownst to herself. And considering her behaviour, it's probably better for the SOS Brigade to keep all paranormal stuff away from her in secret,since if she knows horrible things might ensue. She apparently already unknowingly destroyed and recreated the universe once, before the series began.

-   In _Medaka Box_, Ajimu Najimi is functionally omnipotent, in that she can do anything including changing the laws of reality, but feels bound by the Theory of Narrative Causality which prevents her from ever winning against a "main character".
-   _Puella Magi Madoka Magica The Movie: Rebellion_: While the titular character in the previous timelines was likely somewhere on the spectrum, sacrificing herself to protect all magical girls from inevitable causal mutation into Eldritch Abominations, Homura proves herself to be even closer to omnipotence than Madoka, by destroying the entire system, creating a whole new universe and imprisoning Madoka herself.

-   Hao Asakura is already far beyond any other character in _Shaman King_ before the heroes even meet him. His control over reincarnation, connection to the Spirit of Fire, and centuries of experience mean he's unbeatable from the get-go, with the next-best shamans being as nothing in comparison to his power. In a setting where resurrecting a dead person is possible (if draining) for the very powerful, Hao can perform mass resurrections after single-handedly defeating a human navy supplemented by powerful shamans. The plan to defeat Hao is to let him win the tournament and gang up on him with the five Olympus Mons elemental spirits while he can't fight back, but the heroes admit even this is fairly unlikely to work. When Hao awakens as Shaman King, he's virtually omnipotent and kills the entire cast with a thought as he prepares to reshape the world to better please himself; fortunately, Yoh expected something like this would happen when he realized even if they _were_ strong enough to win, the heroes would never be able to end the threat Hao presents with violence. Instead, the entire cast appears within Hao's mind and manage to avert the extinction of ordinary humans by reasoning with Hao instead of trying to overpower him.
-   In _Tenchi Muyo!_, The Choushin and Misaki are all omnipotent, being massively larger than all of existence combined, beyond all forms of scientific definition and logic, and completely metaphysical beings who transcend the very concept of dimensional reality itself. Then, there's an example that's _literally_ Even More Omnipotent, in the form of Tenchi's inner power as the Supreme Being, which is commonly, but erroneously, referred to as "Kami Tenchi". It is as omnipotent compared to the Choushin as they are to other beings, a being immeasurably beyond their perception, to whom they are completely insignificant.
-   _Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann_:
    -   The Anti-Spirals are not _quite_ absolutely omnipotent, but they comes close. They can manipulate probability, create Big Bangs, and create and destroy universes by themselves. Entire galaxies and super-galaxies are mere tools in its hands (literally).
    -   Simon, after unlocking his full Spiral Power potential is implied to be omnipotent. He is compared to a God at the end of the series.
-   In _Yu-Gi-Oh! ZEXAL_, anybody who can gain access to the Numeron Code can rewrite all of reality according to their will. Its only limitations are being unable to affect other users of the Numeron Code.

    Comic Books 

-   The titular character from Enigma is what would happen if God were gay, morally ambiguous, and ate lizards. It's kind of a weird comic that way.
-   The Beyonder from _Marvel Superheroes Secret Wars (1984)_ and _Secret Wars II_ believes this because as he living embodiment of a universe, he can do many things. He was later retconned into something less impressive, but until then he was nearly omnipotent.
-   In Marvel, a supposed characteristic of the One-Above-All, who is also hinted to be _the_ capital-G God. The most powerful entity stated that appears, the Living Tribunal, seems like this compared to the protagonists but it can't act without all three of its heads in agreement. So it usually does nothing. The Living Tribunal outright admits the One-Above-All is far above him. The Fantastic Four met the One-Above-All once. Fittingly, he was Jack Kirby, and mentioned that he had a collaborator. 'nuff said.
-   DC Comics
    -   The Presence is, or was, occasionally referred to as The One Above All by some, including The Spectre.
    -   The Spectre is the prime example of a character whose power has no limits except for those he places on himself. This was a probably deliberate hint that the Marvel and DC God are actually the same being. In other words, He is the most powerful comic book character _period_. Assuming He isn't simply code for "the writers".
    -   Also, The Presence is the same being as The Source from the New Gods (probably), as both are aspects of the same all-powerful being. Other aspects exist (eg. The Voice), but they are mentioned far less often.
    -   On the evil side of the spectrum, the Great Darkness is the dark mirror of the Presence, the source of all maliciousness and suffering in the multiverse. It exists in an As Long as There Is Evil balance with the Presence, in that even those who are unaware of its existence continue to serve its whims, so long as they contain the potential to commit evil.
-   Man of Miracles or M.O.M. for short in the Image Comics Universe, or at least in Spawn, S/he is also Kali and Jesus Christ, and God of the Old Testament is just his/hers son.
-   Mr. Mxyzptlk is a _Superman_ villain from the 5th dimension whose abilities makes him a Reality Warper in the 3rd dimension. Fortunately, he's more interested in messing with Superman and playing tricks than doing anything really malicious. That said, at least once he did something so utterly imbecilic he was "sorry on a biblical scale" - trying to rope The Joker into the fun, _he got scammed out of 99.99% of his power_.
-   A pair of supposed omnipotent entities in the Marvel Universe once got into a debate over this when they ran into the Celestials. One of them didn't understand why the other was so intimidated by the Celestials because they were both omnipotent and nothing should be able to threaten them; the other told her that yes, they were omnipotent, but there are "levels of omnipotence" and the Celestials are on a much higher level than either of them. This was stated as fact in the _Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe_. See Super Weight for details.
-   _Watchmen's_ Dr. Manhattan was once a human being until he got zapped by some Applied Phlebotinum that turned him into a full-blown Reality Warper in a setting otherwise filled with Badass Normals at best. Though his personal omniscience didn't really make him _feel_ all-powerful.

    Fan Works 

-   In the _Pony POV Series_
    -   the Elders are this trope. Entropy erasing her husband Havoc from existence then him _willing himself back into it_ is a common occurrence. The Windigos were _drops of Entropy's blood_ and the Fires of Friendship that destroyed them was a mere fraction of Fauna Luster's might called down by the founders. Entropy will _eat the universe_ when it dies of Heat Death one day. To put this in perspective: Discord is _scared to death_ of actually having to face his father and will _not_ break his word if he swore on Entropy's name because he's that scared of clopping her off. This, however, is also the reason they don't interfere directly unless absolutely needed: their power is so enormous _one_ of them truly entering the universe would destroy it from their mere arrival. An Avatar of Havoc's strong enough to kill Discord would destroy Equestria's _entire east coast_ just by manifesting. So they prefer to help indirectly.
    -   Applebloom briefly becomes this at the end of the Rumors Arc when she's undoing Discord and company's endgame. Due to fixing the _universe itself_, she's so powerful she can alter history however she pleases, create alternate universes to give things that don't belong but don't deserve to be erased a place to go, and even _Discord_ is powerless to do anything about it. She mainly uses this to undo all the damage Discord's plan did and Set Right What Once Went Wrong in multiple places (as well as give the mane six some recognition for their heroism). According to Word of God, during this time Applebloom was the most powerful Titan (a mortal with godly might but not the position or responsibilities of a god) that has ever or _will ever_ exist.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   The evil Djinn in _Wishmaster_ is about as close to this as would be possible while keeping the story entertaining, as he claims that his wishes are bound only by the imagination of the person making the wish. The very few things he can't do is to mess with the very basis of reality, such as killing or unmaking himself (God made his kind immortal when He created the universe), and undoing evil itself (as evil is necessary for there to be good). Every other wish pertaining to him personally is also bound by the ancient prophecy of the three wishes unleashing the Djinn hordes upon the Earth, so he can only grant wishes involving himself that don't undo his ability to grant them. Ergo, no wishing for the Djinn to turn himself into a harmless bunny rabit. However, wishing events from days ago had gone differently, preventing his initial release from whatever prison he was in and thus negating any previous wishes, is fully on the table.
-   God in _Bruce Almighty_ seems to be this. He then makes Bruce omnipotent too, aside from not being able to affect free will. There doesn't seem to be anything he can't do. However, it never occurs to Bruce to give himself omniscience, so he struggles more than you'd expect an all-powerful being to.

-   _Marvel Cinematic Universe_
    -   Dormammu was the closest to this before _Avengers: Infinity War_ as he can send entire universes into calamity, and can do some serious Reality Warping. The only reason why he is only near-omnipotent is because he's limited to his own dimension. The concept of time is also foreign to him, thus allowing Doctor Strange to use a temporal loop as a bargaining chip.
    -   Thanos upon having all six Infinity Stones, can blow up planets with ease, teleport and move space, reality warp, and skip time. There's virtually no limits to his power as he can destroy half of the universe with his Badass Fingersnap. The only thing that seems to halt him is Stormbreaker, an axe cast from the same forge as the Infinity Gauntlet and specifically forged to be anti-Thanos.

    Literature 

-   In _Cthulhu Mythos_, the Outer Gods are a group of all-powerful, all-knowing Eldritch Abominations that exist outside of reality. Azathoth in particular, is the center of all infinity, the formless, mindless, yet sentient being of unlimited power, from which all Outer Gods are born from, and _worship_.

-   The Ellimist and Crayak from _Animorphs_ both have unlimited power, and regularly cause the creation or destruction of species. While they agreed to no _direct_ interference as part of their "game," neither of them fit the All-Powerful Bystander trope - they both are skilled enough at manipulation to still cause massive changes in the history of the galaxy. A difference in these two from most of the rest of the list: they both used to be mortal. They became omnipotent through a combination of being in real space, death, Zero space, and within a black hole.
-   _The Bible_: God, of course.
-   Anthony Fremont of the short story _It's a Good Life_ is an unimaginably powerful reality warping toddler, with a toddler's amorality. He's taken the town he lives in away from the world entirely, and everyone in it is bound by his childlike whims.
-   Happens at the very end of _Brain Jack_ by Brian Falkner. Sam ends up merging with the A.I. Ursula and gaining the ability to control everything and know almost everything as well, because in this future, Everything Is Online.
-   The _Incarnations of Immortality_ have the "specialized omnipotence" variety: When they assert themselves in their particular domain, no one has the power to oppose them, not even another Incarnation.
-   The White Queen from _The Unexplored Summon://Blood-Sign_, who can destroy the entire universe on a whim. She was originally "just" the strongest being in the universe, able to defeat any opponent. After defeating the other Unexplored-Class Materials (the Anthropomorphic Personifications of the laws of the universe), they submitted to her, resulting in her current state. However, there is one thing she absolutely cannot do: making the main character Kyousuke love her again. In the past, she murdered an enormous number of people (including Kyousuke's adoptive family), for which he has never forgiven her. She could easily mind control him into becoming her toy, but then he wouldn't be himself any longer.
-   Obie from _Jack Chalker_'s _Well World_, is a sentient computer which discovers that all of reality is simply a set of equations, which he can manipulate. In his introduction, he causes one human character to have a tail. When the scientists who created Obie ask whether it worked, Obie explains that it was simpler to make it so the character had always had a tail, such that the scientists themselves were unaware that anything had occurred. Obie is a Type 2, since the master computer in the Well World has the same capabilities.
-   Almost all but the weakest characters in _Suggsverse_ are beyond absolute Omnipotence.
-   Subverted in the _Jessica Christ_ series. Everyone expects God to be this trope, but he's clearly not and in fact insists that He never claimed to be - what He said was that He was "powerful and all that," but the scribes who wrote the Bible misquoted Him. At one point, Jessica asks him if He could create a boulder too heavy for Him to lift, and He drifts off into thought of how He might do that, apparently under the impression that it was some sort of theoretical engineering challenge.
-   _Joel Suzuki_: Marshall's goal is to become all-powerful. Joel spends Dance of the Darkeye trying to become all-powerful first so he can defeat him. At the end of the book, both of them simultaneously become omnipotent, able to do anything with a thought. The existence of two omnipotent beings causes a paradox that threatens the fabric of existence.

    Live-Action TV 

-   The Time Lords of _Doctor Who_ possess impossibly advanced technologies that render Space-Time itself their casual plaything. They are also shown as to be capable of, in a desperate attempt to defeat the Daleks, causing Existence Itself to self-destruct, called the Ultimate Sanction.
-   _Star Trek: The Next Generation_:
    -   Q hails from a race of omnipotent beings known as... well, the Q. Subverted in that in an episode of _Voyager_, another Q insists that they are merely _very_ Sufficiently Advanced Aliens, just as Starfleet would appear to an Iron Age society. Nobody in Starfleet possesses Complete Immortality, apparent omniscience, or the ability to warp reality with a click of their fingers, so that's being a little overly modest. Unlike Starfleet, whose powers are dependent almost solely on technology, the Q's powers are inherent to themselves. The only known limit to their powers is the rest of the Continuum, who can collectively impose punishments like removing their powers (though they still know almost everything), imprison them or make them mortal. That and a Patrick Stewart Speech.
    -   Also the Douwd, a being who casually exterminated an entire race in an instant in a moment of anger. Probably a type 2 or 3. While he can transmute matter and simulate life, he does not appear to be able to control space or time. Thus he could neither simply send the Husnock attackers someplace else, nor truly resurrect his wife, the other colonists or the Husnock after they were dead.
    -   The EU novels have 0, a former friend of Q who is arguably more powerful than Q, but in the past was crippled to not be able to travel in time or faster than the speed of light. 0 had three associates who were close to him in terms of power: Gorgan, (\*), and The One. When the Q Continuum won the battle, Gorgan and (\*) managed to flee, while The One was decapitated and imprisoned at the center of the galaxy.
-   _Supernatural_:
    -   Castiel at the end of Season 6 after absorbing the souls of all the monsters in Purgatory. He blew the Archangel Raphael to smithereens with the snap of his fingers and broke chains strong enough to bind Death himself. However, he couldn't control his own power.
    -   God is the creator of everything except the Darkness, and Death claims that even during his own aforementioned bout of omnipotence Castiel was nowhere near the real God. However, Death is capable of killing him, and even he couldn't beat the Darkness on his own. With the S10 finale, he might not be able to kill the Mark of Cain's bearer.
    -   Death is powerful enough to kill God himself, the reason he gives the Winchesters his ring in Season 5 is because he can't bear to be bound by someone as far beneath him as Lucifer (yes, _that_ Lucifer), and he was able to break into and out of and retrieve a soul from the Cage in a few minutes, something that both Crowley, the King of Hell, and Castiel, a Seraph of the Lord, deemed impossible. However, he can be bound by ordinary humans, and his own scythe may be capable of killing him. The S10 finale reveals even he can't kill the bearer of the Mark of Cain.
    -   Given that even God couldn't beat it on his own, The Darkness can be presumed to be this, though what type is as yet unknown.
    -   Jesse Turner, The Antichrist. He can kill Archangels with a single word, but his powers only effect things within a certain radius of him.
-   _The Twilight Zone (1985)_: In "I of Newton", the demon boasts about the seemingly limitless scope of his powers. He can travel to the Andromeda galaxy and back in a microsecond, make two electrons occupy the same quantum state, has access to every piece of recorded information in multiple universes and can visit alternate histories. Sam manages to defeat him by setting him an impossible task: he tells him to get lost.
-   Ultraman King from the _Ultra Series_ is referred to as being almighty. So far there's been no limit to his power, with resurrecting someone who's been cut to pieces and curbstomping and making a moon around Belial being a cake walk to him. For reference, Belial is capable of curbstomping an entire army of Ultras by himself and only two normal Ultras are capable of fighting him one on one. Ultraman King only needs three moves to beat him, one of which was telekinetically throwing him into space. If that's not enough, in _Ultraman Geed_, _he merges with and heals the entire universe_.

    Mythology, Religion, and Folklore 

-   God is often attributed Omnipotence in monotheistic religions, but there's debate on what type. (There's also a different and slightly less technical analysis of the options on the Analysis page here.)
    -   The position that God can do anything that is _logically_ possible (while still possessing absolute supernatural power), but cannot do things that are mutually exclusive, like making a stone so big even He can't lift it, is generally the position taken by some Christian theologians and philosophers such as St Augustine or St Thomas Aquinas-God can do anything, except that which makes God "not God", so He cannot do something that removes or defies His omnipotence, including simply making Himself not omnipotent (since one paradox is that an omnipotent being can make himself powerless, but still be omnipotent, since he _is_ omnipotent-these philosophers say that He can't, thus removing the paradox). For Augustine, this is because God is perfectly rational, and is also perfect, and being perfect would not act contrary to His nature, which is to be rational, and since such paradoxes are irrational He can't do them. In other words, the question is regarded as fallacious and nonsensical, and just a trick of word play.
    -   On the flip side, _other_ Christian philosophers like Rene Descartes say that God _can_ do absolutely anything, reasoning that He existed _a priori_ to logic and is the one who tells logic what it is. The only reason such paradoxes exist is because logic acts a certain way from a human perspective, but the level of God is one humans cannot comprehend and what are apparent logical paradoxes to us are not so to God. This is called Absolute Omnipotence. By this thinking, God _could_ (to use the above example) create a stone so large not even He could lift it. And then lift it anyway.
-   Genies.
    -   Most mythologies/folk tales about them indicate the only restriction is that they are bound to their lamp/jar/whatever, and must obey the one who frees them (and this gets subverted sometimes). Some works add rules for plot convenience like Aladdin, but generally a genie = Phenomenal cosmic power, itty bitty living space.
    -   In folk tales and other fiction, they seem to be omnipotent. In mythology, however, they're supposed to be able to do many things humans can't, but also unable to do many things humans can, and often aren't bound to lamps or anything else.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Nobilis_: Nobles can do virtually _anything_ within the confines of their Estate, especially if they invested heavily in Domain and Persona, which govern (respectively) your control over the raw material of your Estate, and your control over the little "\[Estate\]ness" dial on everything else in the world.

    Video Games 

-   _Asura's Wrath_ plays around with this: Chakravartin is referred to as the Omnipotent Ruler of Gaea. And really, he is very close to his title. However, he's eventually defeated by Asura.
-   In _BioShock Infinite_, by the end of the game, Elizabeth becomes essentially the Omnipotent of that universe; she is able to "see behind all the doors", meaning she has the ability to know anything in any dimension or timeline. She is also able to open portals to any dimension or timeline, and it's implied that she becomes immortal and frozen in time, like the Lutece twins (this is NOT confirmed, though, it's only a speculation.)
-   _BlazBlue_:
    -   Anyone connected to BlazBlue Embryo, a Phenomena formed by a huge amount of seithr, can use the Embryo's nigh-omnipotent power to warp reality. Examples include the Master Unit Amaterasu, Takamagahara, and Izanami by the end of _Chronophantasma_.
    -   In _Central Fiction_ it's revealed that while the Amaterasu Unit can interfere with any and all phenomena, essentially allowing it to choose which possibility happens by Observing it, the trope is still mildly downplayed as the Master Unit is limited by possibility. Unfortunately, that just so happens to be the problem: The Amaterasu Unit cannot prevent the villains' Evil Plan because the possibility of them not being at it doesn't exist; they'll be working at accomplishing their nefarious goals no matter which timeline the Master Unit acknowledges and best case scenario it can only mitigate the harm they cause. Even the "Groundhog Day" Loop itself is ultimately revealed to be caused by the Master Unit desperately trying to give itself a "Happily Ever After", which is also not an existing possibility.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_:
    -   Though, to date, they have only been hinted-at in-game or have been mentioned dripping in heavy metaphor, there exist several "ascended" metaphysical states in the _ES_ universe. (Each has been further fleshed out by developer supplemental texts.) The first of these states is CHIM, where one becomes aware of the nature of Anu's Dream but exists as one with it and maintains a sense of individuality. (Dunmeri Physical God Vivec claims to have achieved this level.) Taking another step, the second is Amaranth, where one exits Anu's Dream to create one's own, essentially becoming the Omnipotent deity of their own universe. Considering that CHIM alone, based on a few examples in the lore such as the aforementioned Vivec (who attempts but fails to achieve Amaranth in another developer written work) and the Deity of Human Origin Talos, allows for the rewriting of reality at will, this places Amaranth at least at the Type 2 level of Omnipotence (stopping short of true omnipotence if only because it is possible for multiple beings to accomplish).
    -   These same developer supplemental texts also suggest the existence of the "Godhead", a figure who "dreams awake" all of the _Elder Scrolls_ reality. (And given the fourth wall-leaning nature of divinity in the _ES_ universe, it is implied that the Godhead is really the player and/or the developers.)
-   _Scribblenauts_ protagonist Maxwell has a notebook that grants him the power to create practically everything conceivable to the human mind aside from things that are inappropriate (which as of Unlimited can be circumvented through object creation), including adding the adjective "Unbeatable" to himself which prevents him from receiving harm, even by Death's instant kill ability.
-   _Shin Megami Tensei_,
    -   The Great Will (what God is called here), plays with the trope. In most games, he is nigh-omnipotent god. However, this doesn't prevent him from being defeated by the player. In some games, such as _Shin Megami Tensei: Strange Journey_ and _Devil Survivor_, Great Will averts this trope entirely.
    -   Also, Lucifer, while in most games he is a mere Fallen Angel nowhere as powerful as Great Will, in _Shin Megami Tensei III: Nocturne_ he becomes The Anti-God, capable of matching Great Will in almost every aspect and with our help, possibly win against him.
    -   In _Devil Survivor 2_, Polaris or anybody who becomes the Administrator of Akasha, for that matter, as well as Canopus in the Updated Re-release, is basically Great Will's Expy.
    -   In _Digital Devil Saga_, Great Will is replaced by Brahman.
-   In _Persona_ series, the various beings coming from the Collective Unconscious, being personifications of various aspects of humanity, all have specialized omnipotence.
-   _Doom Eternal_ introduces the Icon of Sin, the final boss of the game. It's mere presence warps the surrounding, and if left long enough, it will tear open _spacetime_, and thus sending the entire universe around it all the way to _Hell_.

    Visual Novel 

-   _Demonbane_ has more than a few examples, especially in the prequel novel. None is absolutely omnipotent, but a few come _dangerously_ close. Azathoth is only not absolute because of the fact that he can be (and is currently) sealed, and even then he still generates countless universes that make up the multiverse. Nyarlathotep, being the embodiment of the will of Outer Gods (including Azathoth), is only marginally less powerful than Azathoth, capable of ret-conning _two_ nigh-omnipotent beings (that a while ago was fighting each other, an eternal stalemate that slowly consumes the multiverse), out of existence. Demonbane itself, at least in its War God and Elder God forms, comes very close to the definition, doing such things as summoning versions of itself from universes that don't exist, and even, in some interpretations, _creating itself_ through an extremely complex Stable Time Loop. However, it is incapable of killing Azathoth or Yog-Sothoth, and though it is said to have defeated Nyarlathotep literally billions of times across the multiverse, it seems unable to kill Nyarlathotep either, thus making it not truly omnipotent.
-   _Nasuverse_,
    -   In _The Garden of Sinners_, Ryougi Shiki's third personality _was_ thought to be this, and has nigh-omnipotence at least. However, Word of God later states otherwise.
    -   Also, subverted by the Holy Grail in _Fate/stay night_ and its prequel _Fate/Zero_. It appears to be an omnipotent, wish-granting device, but in reality it just materializes the form of the wish from the wisher's soul. So, it can't grant wishes that the wisher themselves do not understand, as Kiritsugu learned the hard way.
-   _Umineko: When They Cry_:
    -   Featherine Augustus Aurora, who is perfectly capable of pausing the _plot_ of the visual novel she's in, when she wants a scene to play out a different way.
    -   Some of the Witches, particularly Lambdadelta, Bernkastel, and Ange-Beatrice are so powerful that the only reasons why they are not absolutely omnipotent is because of Featherine and each other.

    Webcomics 

-   All of the Author characters in _Bob and George_ have god like powers. Seeing as how The Author is the creator of the comic universe he **IS** a god there. The Helmeted Author is apparently an Author of a different universe and the Shadowy Author claims to be one at first and ultimately turns out to be a future version of the actual Author.

-   In _Homestuck_, the First Guardians are _stated_ to be omnipotent, and can also be nearly omniscient as well depending on what they were made with, but there are beings far more powerful than them in existence (such as Lord English and Andrew Hussie.)
-   In _Irregular Webcomic!_, X is Virtually Omnipotent, or, in his own words, "semi-omnipotent". He can displace a starship thousands of parsecs with no trouble at all, but

**X:** I can create a rock so heavy that I can't lift it. And then: _I can't lift it_! An _actual_ omnipotent being _would_ be able to lift it.

-   YISUN The Creator from _Kill Six Billion Demons_ was the Omnipotent, until it occurred to Them not to be so. At the time the comic takes place, YISUN is more or less indistinguishable from reality itself, and being Royalty means they can ignore their own laws set down at will. According to the author's tumblr, the answer to "could God create a boulder so heavy He couldn't lift it" in the _KSBD_\-verse is "Yes, and then YISUN would lift it anyway".
-   _minus._ is about a seemingly omnipotent child, who mostly uses her power as a toy.
-   _Schlock Mercenary_: A certain AI named Petey (who was already insanely smart, and already controlled a huge fleet of warships) manages to take over a power generator _made out of the Galactic Core_! Except for the Pa'anuri, there is practically no one who can fight him... or even last three minutes against his moderate dislike.
-   _Tower of God_
    -   The Administrators of the Tower each control one floor of the Tower and enforce its unbreakable rules. Not even Jahad, the God-Emperor of the Tower, could contest their power. Even in a setting with plenty of people with power on the level of Physical Gods, for everyone except the Irregulars, the Administrators and their rules are simply an unchangeable given. The one time somebody tries to break the Magically Binding Leonine Contract of the floor he's on, he gets disintegrated by the Administrator.
    -   Speaking of Irregulars, the most powerful one among them, Phantaminum, is according to Word of God (see the wiki) a Reality Warper with in-universe Author Powers who can't be interfered with by anyone not of the same status.

    Web Original 

-   Hermann Fegelein in _Hitler Rants Parodies_ can dismantle all logic and causality itself just for the sake of tormenting Adolf Hitler.
-   One of the terms coined by the SpaceBattles.com forums is "ROB," or Random Omnipotent Being. A ROB is used to justify ridiculous scenarios, or create events for people to talk about. A ROB is usually used as a Deus Ex Machina for a random event to set the plot moving in a quest.
-   On the AlternateHistory.com forums, the role of "ridiculous scenario justifier" is filled by the term Alien Space Bats (though this meaning is usually in the singular).
-   In _Funny Business_, Jeannette has no limits on her power. Lewis takes advantage of this to solve the omnipotence paradox.
-   The main character of "Nothing Like The Sun" can do anything at all. Despite this, she has no idea how to stop her eyes from constantly glowing as bright as the Sun. This even extends to trapping her own authors in her own world to force them to turn her glowing eyes off. Only after then does she realize that the only reason she wasn't previously able to get rid of her glowing eyes was because the authors weren't allowing it, and after they are dealt with, she just turns them off.

    Western Animation 

-   In one of the shorts of _The Simpsons_, Treehouse of Horror (the theme being dreams resulting from overconsumption of candy), Bart is an omnipotent boy who freely changes things about him for his own amusement, the whole episode being an homage to a Twilight Zone episode. After turning Homer into a jack-in-the-box, the family take Bart to a psychologist and helps Bart and Homer bond, resulting in Bart waking up from the dream.
-   Amazo after his/its return in _Justice League Unlimited_ has learned or copied the superpowers of every entity in the universe. The only power he lacks is imagination to find a purpose for all his powers. That's why he is coming after Lex Luthor, his surrogate father-figure, next. However, Chaos Magic is something he cannot deal with, as it can absorb his attacks — he left the Earth in fear when he found this out, to figure out a way to counter it... and as far as we know, he is still doing just that dozens of episodes later by the time of the Grand Finale. A little embarrassing really, since the League solved the problem themselves a few minutes after he left.
-   During the Grand Finale of _Generator Rex_, Rex himself becomes one after taking control of the Meta-Nanites. While doing so, he was capable of controlling every nanite in the world, machines in general, the elements, gravity and time\-space. He ultimately used his powers to start a World-Healing Wave that presumably cured every E.V.O. It was only temporary though.
-   _Ben 10_
    -   In the _Ben 10 (2016)_ episode, _Xingo,_ Ben accidentally brings the titular character into his reality when he goes Upgrade to fix the TV and lightning strikes the satellite dish. Xingo, despite no longer being in his own reality, still operates _entirely_ on cartoon logic. He's nigh-invulnerable, capable of seemingly unlimited shapeshifting, can materialize any object out of thin air, and is at the very least Type Two omnipotent. He's also completely incapable of distinguishing between what is harmless fun and actually _harmful_ outside of his normal cartoon reality.
    -   In the original continuity there is an alien race called the Celestialsapiens that were referred to as omnipotent. Rightfully so, as one time when Ben turned into one, he got hit with a bomb that completely destroyed the entire universe around him, and didn't get a scratch and then proceeded to re-make the destroyed universe, almost perfectly, with a thought. The only apparent limiting factor on Ben's "Alien X" form is that Celestialsapiens have three minds, and Ben is only _one_ of those three for Alien X. And pretty much the only thing Alien X's other two minds agree on is that clearing their billions of years of backlog of unresolved arguments is much higher priority than whatever current crisis Ben is dealing with, so it takes a _lot_ of persuading on Ben's part to get them to do anything remotely useful with their most likely Type 2 omnipotence.

     Real Life 

-   There is a phenomenon called Lucid Dreaming where, while dreaming, you somehow suddenly realize that you're dreaming. The ability to immediately invoke this trope may seem completely obvious, but you'd be surprised how often it simply doesn't occur to people. While normally a random and very rare phenomenon, one can learn to induce it manually.

___