The Wise Prince is an example of the non-evil Aristocrat. He's kind, honorable, and well-intentioned, but with an aura of sadness and melancholy surrounding him. His biggest priority is the protection of his people, and, unlike the pampered Sheltered Aristocrat, fully understands the hardship of an unprivileged life. He is usually a good warrior, but doesn't like fighting.

He's often short of being an All-Loving Hero but doesn't always live in the right Sliding Scale of Idealism Versus Cynicism for it. If he doesn't, his disillusioned gallantry can be just as poignant.

You'd think he'd make a perfect leader for his people, of course, but fate is particularly skilled at screwing him over in some way or another. If he does reign he feels his responsibilities perhaps too keenly.

He might start out being the Rebel Prince or Sheltered Aristocrat. The Evil Prince is his opposite (and sometimes his brother). Contemporary variants often overlap with Dork Knights.

Often the son of the Fisher King, who has gone away and left his people in disarray. Unlike other aristocrats, the Wise Prince must typically journey somewhere, which will hopefully culminate in the Rightful King Returns. If successful, expect the Wise Prince to rule long and happily as The Good King.

In terms of the ranks of Authority Tropes, the tropes that are equal are The Evil Prince, Prince Charming, Prince Charmless, Warrior Prince, and all Princess Tropes. The next steps down are The Caligula, The Good Chancellor, Standard Royal Court, and Decadent Court. The next steps up are The Good King, God Save Us from the Queen!, and The High Queen.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   The over-enthusiastic Prince Phillionel, father of Amelia from _Slayers_, seems idiotic because of his tendency to rush into battle in the hammiest way possible, but he's far smarter than Lina and co. give him credit for. Faking his own death to prevent his people from panicking over an assassination attempt, for one, along with bravely standing ground and leading the kingdom of Saillune through Zanaffar's assault during the _Slayers Revolution_ anime. His desire for journeying across the lands to fight presumably influenced Amelia in both being kind and modest in austere settings.
-   Prince Sagum of _Moribito: Guardian of the Spirit_ but only in the anime, not in the book. He's dutiful, intelligent, gentle, and friendly but finds he lacks his brother's ability to capture everyone's heart and he's obviously dying. Prince Chagum starts as a Sheltered Aristocrat but develops to this over time.

-   Female example: Princess Zelda fits most aspects of the trope in some installments of the _The Legend of Zelda_ manga, most particularly _The Legend of Zelda: Four Swords (2004)_ where she not only keeps her spirit unbroken while being held captive by Shadow Link, but effortlessly gets under his skin twice.
-   Post-Heel–Face Turn, Gaara from _Naruto_ has grown into this disposition after years of being Sunagakure's Fifth Kazekage, to the point that he's far more rational and composed than his fellow and older Kages.

-   Joshua Grant, heir to the throne of Loreto, in _Marginal Prince_ — he's modest, gentle, and his school's Student Council President to boot. It gets somewhat deconstructed, however, as he is in conflict with Loreto's royal family and spends most of the time being torn between following his personal wishes and dreams and fulfilling his role as the currently last member of the royal bloodline. At the end, he declines the crown.
-   Despite being somewhat unconventional, Veronica of _Bokura no Kiseki_ qualifies as a female version of this. While she didn't seem to have a lot of political power - her having elder brothers that are ahead of her in line for the throne are vaguely alluded to, her marriage is decided for her - she's shown to be responsible and intelligent, with a firm conviction to protect the people living under her care. Her regret over her failure to do so seems to have carried over to her Reincarnation, Harusumi. Zeze theorizes that's why he's so obsessed with protecting their school.

    Fan Works 

-   The dwarven noble protagonist in _Dragon Age: The Crown of Thorns_, being a Guile Hero, Determinator _and_ A Father to His Men (however briefly he got the chance to lead his troops) definitely qualifies. Nevertheless, the really surprising fact here is that Trian Aeducan turns into this as well, eventually.
-   By the time of _Child of the Storm_, Thor and Loki have grown into different variants on this, Loki embracing his role as The Lancer - being Thor's shadow (with all that implies) rather than being in it.
    -   Harry, meanwhile, balances this with Rebel Prince - he becomes quite wise, in a Knight in Sour Armor sort of way, but isn't overly keen on being reminded that he is a Prince of Asgard as he rather prefers being human (though that changes over time).
-   Elissa Cousland in _Shadow and Rose_ has many of the trope's attributes as described by narrator Alistair. Duncan himself, prior to Alistair meeting her, describes her as possessing unusual wisdom and discernment for her age. She's only technically a princess, being the daughter of the man who rules over a principality in the kingdom of Ferelden, but it counts; Oghren takes to calling her "Princess" because of this fact. She's Queen of Ferelden by the end of the story.
-   Ulrich in _A Desert Fairytale_ is the beloved Second Prince, and pretty much everyone under the rule of the royal family wants him to be their next king, rather than his older brother, William.
-   Prince Vince of the Neitherworld has grown into this by the time of the Contractually Obligated Chaos series. He keeps a level head throughout the nonsense and frequently figures out a way to help his friends get through whatever machinations the plot is throwing at them.
-   _Purple Days_ takes the Royal Brat that is Prince Joffrey Baratheon and, via "Groundhog Day" Loop, molds him into a wise and just prince, until he's ready to end the Long Night and rise with Sansa as the savior king of Westeros.
-   _Children of Remnant_: Jaune is genuinely trying to achieve peace between the Kingdoms and Grimmlands, and despite his young age he is accomplishing much towards that goal. It's a shame that so many different people are dedicated to actively sabotaging him and making the situation worse.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _The Lord of the Rings_: Although the son of the Ruling Steward of Gondor (a _de facto_ King), Faramir is still effectively a Prince in all but name. Being a former student of Gandalf ("wizard's pupil"), Faramir is wiser and more thoughtful than his older brother Boromir, and unlike the latter, he ultimately doesn't try to steal the One Ring from Frodo. He models himself after the idealized image of Gondor's past kings (Denethor remarks, "Ever you desire to appear lordly and gracious as a king of old"). In the novels, Faramir becomes the Prince of Ithilien after the War of the Ring, and a photo from a Deleted Scene which still hasn't been released depicts him wearing a crown.
-   Ahkmenrah from _Night at the Museum_, and probably the reason why his parents would rather give Egypt to him instead of his older brother Kahmunrah.
-   _Syriana_: Prince Nasir is the oldest and wisest of two sons of the king of a Middle Eastern monarchy, desiring to use oil profits sold on the open market to modernize his country and diversify its economy. Contrast to his Royal Brat younger brother, who is content with keeping the status quo that favors the U.S., and is ultimately named the heir by his father.

    Literature 

-   Marie Antoinette in _The Bad Queen_ tries to encourage wisdom in her daughter, the Madame Royale Marie-Therese, and help her gain a more realistic and compassionate view of the world. To that end, she makes the orphaned daughter of a servant the princess's companion and allows the girl to share in all privileges which Madame Royale enjoys.
-   _The Bible_: Prince Jonathan proves to be a wiser and more caring ruler than his father King Saul, and the earlier stories involving him tend to be optimistic... until his Tragic Bromance with to-be-king David kicks in…

-   Lloyd Alexander's _The Chronicles of Prydain_ has Prince Gwydion, the heir of High King Math son of Mathonwy. He's a noble warrior and a great leader, renowned throughout the realm for his wisdom, strength, and kindness. In _The Black Cauldron_, the companions also meet Adaon, son of the chief bard Taliesin, which makes him sort of a prince among bards; Adaon is thoughtful, wise, and extremely modest, giving young Taran excellent counsel during the course of their acquaintance. He also fits the melancholy aspect, as he laments that his quest separates him from his betrothed, Arianllyn.

-   Gwerbret Rhodry Maelwadd in the _Deverry_ series has this at the beginning and the end of his reign (the time he's actually reigning was enjoyable, but it's completely passed by in the books). King Glyn the First also had these sentiments.

-   _The Little Prince_ is an interesting case of this, since the only person under his command is a flower, and while he knows a lot about life in the sky, he's rather inexperienced outside of his kingdom. He does hit the melancholy, kind, honourable, and well-intentioned markers face first, and his inexperience is minimal compared to the various adults.

-   _Lord Peter Wimsey_: Lord Peter Wimsey. He's just a noble, not royal, but he's responsible, intelligent, and has shell shock from World War I and general doubts of self-worth to give him the air of melancholy.

-   Prince Josua Lackhand from _Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn_. He turns out to not be the king's son after all. He's also presumed dead and thrilled to get off the hook of kingship. Simon presumably takes after Josua in this respect too.
-   Prince Arutha of Krondor from _The Riftwar Cycle_.
    -   During a brief period of unclear succession when it's unclear whether Arutha or his elder brother will become king, another character notes that men would gladly die for Lyam but Arutha would manage to save them. Lyam becomes king, but as Prince Arutha still effectively rules half the kingdom and fits the name of the trope literally.
    -   Gorath, though only appearing in a single book, and belonging to the more or less Always Chaotic Evil race of moredhel (dark elves), fits the trope perfectly, complete with having a driving motivation to have his people become "more than savages", as he puts it, and being exiled, branded a traitor and being abandoned or targeted for death even by family and kin, when he tries to act for the good of his people.

-   Targaryen rulers in _A Song of Ice and Fire_ tend to be either The Wise Prince or The Caligula. Several examples of the former are:
    -   Prince Rhaegar Targaryen is remembered as this by many, a charismatic, brave, skilled warrior and musician (he also dabbled in prophecies), and is even referred to as "The Last Dragon". Barristan the Bold still thinks highly of him. In truth, he seems to have been a much more flawed man than he appeared, doing little to curb his father's cruelty and insanity. He also was either at _best_ a selfish man, willing to cheat on his wife by running away with a Northern woman who was betrothed to another man (though the aforementioned prophecies may have been a mitigating factor), or at worst a kidnapper and rapist. It's implied that he planned to depose his father eventually, after the civil war was won. Good idea in principle, but terribly executed if it hinges on winning a war in that insane king's name.

-   In _A Dance With Dragons_, we find that Varys planned to deliberately engineer the claimed long-lost Aegon into one of these. Varys claims that Aegon has received the training to be a wise and kind ruler who will care for the small folk. Only time will tell on that one.

-   Prince Ragoth, youngest son of the Taysan Empress in the _Spaceforce (2012)_ novels, is an effective diplomat. In the second book, he displays a certain degree of grace under fire when kidnapped by terrorists - in the third, he reappears and is instrumental in securing Ashlenn asylum with the Union.
-   Highprince Dalinar Kholin in _The Stormlight Archive_ is a fairly cynical one, whose time is spent doubting and wondering through most of the first book until he decides to start doing something near the end.
-   _The Sunne in Splendour_: Edmund, the Earl of Rutledge, is wise and thoughtful, contrasting with his reckless older brother, the future King Edward IV. Edmund's murder haunts Edward for the rest of his life.
-   Jack's (dead) twinner, Prince Jason, in _The Talisman_. Since they're basically the same person, this also applies to Jack himself once the Territories has had its effect on him.
-   Almost every single good noble in Tamora Pierce's _Tortall Universe_ series is like this. It's to the point where expressing any disdain for peasants is a usually clear sign that someone's a villain. (At least until _Beka Cooper_, whose commoner protagonist has to deal with a lot of classists who are annoying but not evil.) Jon is the standout in _Song of the Lioness_.
-   Cuneglas in _The Warlord Chronicles_. The most level-headed character in the main cast, the nicest by a long way. With the fairly pessimistic nature of the series, the one time he loses his head, he dies in a duel.
-   Rand al'Thor in _The Wheel of Time_ is often accused of arrogance, but considering how many powers he has gathered to himself personally and to his title as the Dragon Reborn, much of this is really a wise confidence. This wisdom derails itself more than a little when he begins to go insane from the taint on the source of magic in the books. He gets better though later on and fully becomes this trope, along with a healthy dose of All-Loving Hero.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _The Empress_: In contrast to his domineering mother, Franz Joseph is empathetic to the discontent of the people and advises his mother against warring with the Ottoman Empire because it will bring more suffering.
-   _Farscape_: A female version. Princess Katralla, thanks to her brother poisoning her DNA, can never marry the Sebacean man she loves. Since Crichton is the only man who can produce healthy heirs with her (and marriage to a compatible man is a prerequisite of becoming Empress), she chooses to marry him and give up the chance for happiness with her true love. Things work out eventually, though.
-   _Game of Thrones_:
    -   Jon Snow, the highborn illegitimate son of Lord Eddard Stark who is looking for his purpose in life. Jon begins as a Wide-Eyed Idealist Sheltered Aristocrat raised in a loving family with his half-siblings by their father Ned Stark but is resented by his father's wife, the mother of Jon's siblings, as Jon is the son of another woman. After he fulfills his Call to Adventure by joining the Night's Watch like his Cool Uncle, Jon starts to see the world for what it is, experiences its harsh realities, and develops into one of the primary heroes in the story. Though pretty impulsive, somber, and angsty, he is kind, honorable, and strives to protect the realm from the approaching Zombie Apocalypse. He finds himself in positions of leadership he did not ask for as Lord Commander of the Night's Watch and the King in the North; does his best to make the morally right decision; and is skilled in combat but doesn't enjoy killing. It is later revealed Jon _is_ a prince and the rightful heir to the Iron Throne. He is the hidden trueborn son of Crown Prince Rhaegar Targaryen and Lyanna Stark, Ned Stark's sister. To save Jon's life from the current ruling regime, Ned claimed his nephew Jon as his own illegitimate son to protect him and raised Jon as his own child.
    -   Rhaegar Targaryen, according to Ser Barristan, who considers Rhaegar the finest man he ever knew. In the _Conquest and Rebellion_ series, Jaime initially thought that he would be a better ruler than the Mad King.
        
        **Barristan:** When your brother Rhaegar led his men at the battle of the Trident, men died for him because they believed in him. Because they loved him. I fought beside the last dragon that day, my grace.
        
-   _Henry V_: The 2012 BBC version turns Henry into something like this. He starts out rather fresh-faced and dashing but becomes increasingly worn down by the weight of his decisions. He's depicted as a brave but sometimes unsure leader who is very earnestly trying to do the right thing by his people. Then he dies.
-   _House of the Dragon_: Rhaenyra Targaryen's two eldest sons, Jace and Luke, have elements of this trope. As future heir to the Iron Throne, Jace is very observant of the political goings-on, protective of his younger brother, and generally measured in his emotions and suggestions.Before his death and the end of Season 1, Luke is set to inherit an island stronghold and it's fleet, but doubts his ability to do the job well, knowing that his failure will cause negative ripples for many people. This self-awareness is in contrast with their slightly older half-uncles Aegon and Aemond, who are often much further mired in vice and and prone to dramatic slip-ups.
-   _Ice Fantasy_: Ka Suo is well regarded by the court and the people. Even though he's a Martial Pacifist who secretly dreams of living a simple but free life instead of becoming king, he's just too kind to actually rebel against his fate.
-   _Kingdom (2019)_: Prince Lee Chang is, at first, the only member of the royal court who realizes something is wrong, and only manages to convince the nobles, bureaucrats, and military that the zombies are real by bringing one in front of them.
-   _Kingdom Adventure_: The Prince in this Religious Edutainment series acts as a mentor-figure, has powerful magic, and is divinely wise. Not surprising, considering who He is an allegory for.

    Video Games 

-   _Dragon Quest_:
    -   _Dragon Quest II_: All heroes are royal who willingly leave their kingdoms to protect their people from the Big Bad who is trying to ruin the world.
    -   _Dragon Quest V_: Prince Harry used to be an obnoxious, spoiled brat until one kidnapping and ten years of slavery beat the haughtiness out of him. When he returns to Coburg, he has become a caring, thoughtful man who grows increasingly worried when he finds out the citizens are not happy with the royal family.
-   _Fire Emblem_:
    -   Most of main characters are sefless royal heirs committed to protect their people: Marth, Sigurd, Seliph, Leif, Roy, Eliwood, Ephraim, Eirika...
    -   _Fire Emblem: Genealogy of the Holy War_: Sigurd is an example of what can happen to these kinds of characters on the wrong end of the Sliding Scale of Idealism Versus Cynicism.
    -   Elincia from _Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance_ is shown to treat everyone with the utmost respect regardless of social standing.
    -   _Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn_: Pelleas is kind, honorable, well-intentioned, and all the rest... but he is also a foolish and naive Tragic Hero.
-   Prince Yumil from _Ogre Battle 64_ is one of these, complete with Evil Prince brother until he gets possessed by Danika and goes crazy, at least
-   Prince Freyjadour "Frey"/Faroush/Ardil Falenas, the main character in _Suikoden V_, fights to protect (ahem) "the crown \[he\] will never wear," as Falena is a Queendom. That means his little sister will be the lady in charge one day, despite the fact that everyone around the Prince says he'd be an insightful and beneficent leader. The player first catches up with the Prince after his mother sent him on an errand just so he could _see_ real suffering; Konami might well have written the character with this Trope in mind.
-   Prince (later King) Garr/Woodrow Kelvin of _Tales of Destiny_.

-   Prince Rurik of Ascalon in _Guild Wars: Prophecies_.
-   Female example with the titular princess from _The Legend of Zelda_. Kind, honorable, melancholy, and a warrior. And, of course, bearer of the Triforce of Wisdom.
    -   Prince Sidon from _The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_. He's a kind and gentle prince who cares deeply for his people and some of the younger Zora you can talk to praise him for how he addresses problems, like looking for a Hylian to help handle shock arrows since Zora can't, even if it upsets the elders. It's also a subtle detail but unlike his father he seemed to expect that his sister Mipha really was killed when Vah Ruta was taken over, instead of merely being trapped inside it for a century.
-   Prince Roland from _Heroes of Might and Magic II: The Succession Wars_, who had his throne stolen by The Evil Prince Archibald, so he set up a government-in-exile on the other side of the country and retook his kingdom one city at a time, showed equal parts weariness and incorruptibility in his orders to the player.
    -   Zehir from _Heroes of Might and Magic V_ is the Archmage's son (equaling him to a prince) and a very able wizard himself.
-   Though not a prince, Admiral Carth Onasi in _Star Wars_: _Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords_ strongly resembles this trope.
    -   If you follow a light-side female path with Mical, it's implied that he becomes this for the rebuilt Jedi Order.
-   Kael'thas Sunstrider, last Prince of Quel'Thalas, fit this trope to a tee at the beginning of _Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne_ (although agreeing to serve Kil'jaeden towards the end of that game was his Start of Darkness, and by _World of Warcraft_ he was an outright Caligula.)
    -   In more recent times, starting with the tie-in novel "The Shattering", Prince Anduin Wrynn of Stormwind has become this.
-   Someone at Blizzard must _really_ like this trope, since Arcturus Mengsk's son Valerian, originally a novel character who went on to play a big role in _Starcraft II_, has many of the same traits. He learned statecraft and strength from his father and the Dominion, but compassion and honor from his mother in the Umojan Protectorate. Over the course of _Wings of Liberty_, he quasi-officially joins up with James Raynor's rebellion, expressing dismay and outrage at Arcturus's brutality and lust for power, and winds up cutting ties with his father. _Heart of the Swarm_ begins with him openly collaborating with Raynor, Kerrigan, and the Umojans and he is in line to take power when Arcturus is killed by Kerrigan at the end of the campaign.
-   _Dragon Age_:
    -   Depending on how you play them in _Dragon Age: Origins_, a Human Noble or Dwarf Noble Warden can fit this role.
    -   In _Dragon Age II_, Hawke can be played as one. While the rest of the nobles in Kirkwall seem to only care about petty political posturing, Hawke is the only one who actively does anything to make the city a better place and protect it from danger. Given how Hawke arrived in Kirkwall as a refugee, before reclaiming their family fortune, they understand what it's like to be on the lowest rung on the ladder.
    -   Although only the offspring of a noble and not a prince, a human Inquisitor can also be played this way in _Dragon Age: Inquisition_.
-   Alexander of Daventry does his best to play this role even though he still thinks of himself as Gwydion of Llewdor, the former slave of Manannan.
-   In _Golden Sun: Dark Dawn_, Prince Amiti of Ayuthay joins your party as a Warrior Prince in hopes that the adventure and experience will make him a wiser prince. It works; he goes from being painfully naiive to being much more understanding... Insightful, even.
-   _Final Fantasy XII_ gives us Larsa Solidor, younger brother to Vayne Solidor and second in line to the Archadian throne. Throughout the game, he displays wisdom beyond his years, and in the end he takes the throne and uses his power to broker peace throughout Ivalice.
-   _Final Fantasy XIV_ has a few:
    -   In _Heavensward_, Ser Aymeric de Borel is the Heroic Bastard son of Ishgard's ruling archbishop. While church doctrine doesn't allow him to take any inherited title, he rose to the rank of Lord Commander of the Temple Knights and proves to be a valuable ally to the Warrior of Light, his rank tempered by a desire to improve the lives of all his people. By the end of the storyline, he takes a temporary position of leadership after his father is overthrown, and brokers an end to the Forever War between Ishgard and their dragon neighbors.
    -   In _Stormblood_, Lord Hien Rijin of Doma is the last survivor of the Doman royal family. His country having been conquered by The Empire before he was born, he has lived his entire life with the burden of being a symbol of his peoples' hopes for freedom despite never having lived in a time when his nation was free. By the time the Warrior of Light meets him, he asks his retainers if the people have the will to rise up against the Empire, or if he should surrender himself so that the Imperial forces won't harm his subjects trying to find him. When assured that the Doman people still have the spark of rebellion inside them, though, he wholeheartedly devotes himself to overthrowing the imperial occupation with the Warrior of Light's help.
-   Prince Suleiman, AKA Suleiman the Magnificent, as portrayed in _Assassin's Creed: Revelations_.
-   In _Tales of the Abyss_, Emperor Peony straddles the line between this trope and Sheltered Aristocrat: which one he is seems to depend entirely on whether the current scene needs him to be serious about anything (because he's never serious unless his people need him to be).
    -   Princess Natalia develops into a female example after discovering that she isn't actually of royal blood, having been switched with the stillborn Natalia as an infant. Understandably overwhelmed by insecurity after discovering that her entire life has been a lie, she isn't able to talk her people out of protecting her because all they care about is how much good she's done for them, and eventually she reconciles with the king, who accepts her as his daughter despite their lack of blood relation. In the end, she's humbled and her resolve to do everything she can for her people is strengthened, to repay them for their faith in her.
    -   Luke, her cousin to be precise the replica of her cousin, also develops into this after _much_ drama and development. Asch, the original Luke, was originally this and shows signs of it still, but his bitterness and rage at the world and circumstances he's in mostly drowns that trait underneath him being a Jerkass.
-   Martin van Arkand in _World's End_ is the crown prince and heir apparent of Vorona. He's a stern, helpful, upbeat young man who serves in military campaigns, loves his people, dotes on his little sister Vera, and questions the dark motivations of Big Bad Duriken. For his trouble, he's disowned, tortured by his insane younger brother, and then kidnapped by the heroes, whom he basically has to coerce to help him out.
-   Dillion in _Hellblade: Senua's Sacrifice_ is the son of a headman and a source of wisdom and inspiration for the protagonist and his people. His murder is also the driving force of the game's plot.
-   Jin Sakai, the protagonist of _Ghost of Tsushima_, is the nephew of Lord Shimura, the jito of Tsushima Island, and the lord of the noble Clan Sakai. While he does stray from the path of the samurai by adopting more 'dishonourable' methods of fighting the Mongols throughout the game, he nevertheless has a strong moral compass and genuinely cares for the people of Tsushima. It's his selflessness and wisdom towards the people of Tsushima that make him a source of inspiration and a hero among them, even after he's declared a traitor by the shogunate on the mainland.

    Web Original 

-   Prince Harald of Denmark from the _Chaos Timeline_, who (re-)discovers America.
-   _Princess Princess_: Prince Taji tells Amira that they are fortunate to have been born into a position where they don't have to work or worry about money and that they should use their power to help their subjects.

    Western Animation 

-   Former Crown Prince Iroh of _Avatar: The Last Airbender_ is this himself, and he spends the series trying to mold Prince Zuko into this, as well. He succeeds.
-   Lion-O from _ThunderCats (2011)_ with a twist. Most of the traits that make him The Wise Prince, namely curiosity about the world outside Thundera, an interest in the Lost Technology, and standing up for the mistreated Lizard Folk make his people think of him as in Inadequate Inheritor. By the time he finally does get a chance to shine and have these qualities appreciated, his father dies and he becomes the new King of Thundera and the Lord of Thundercats.
-   Alexander of Scotland in _Ivanhoe: The King's Knight_ serves as a heroic counterpart to Prince John being a good-natured individual and wants to aid in King Richard's ransom.
-   Kion from _The Lion Guard_. He's pretty intelligent for his age, a skilled strategist and tactician, and, unlike his parents (at his age) or older sister, has a lot of respect for rules. He also doesn't mind that his sister is the heir to the throne. But deep down, he's got his own self-doubt and is troubled by the idea of ending up like Scar.

    Real Life 

-   King George VI was one of the best examples. He was quiet, shy, respectable, and would have preferred being a clerk to being a King. A general all round Action Survivor. He thought he was ill-suited to his job and was something of an Iron Woobie. But he provided still-renowned leadership during World War II and is, to this day, one of Britain's best-loved monarchs, perhaps because of those qualities rather than despite them; for it is easier to suffer blood, toil, tears, and sweat if one knows that the King is trying to as well. In a way, he was The Caretaker to the entire British Empire.
-   Marcus Aurelius, last of the "Five Good Emperors" of Rome. His journal of personal musings is one of the most famous works in western thought.
-   Llewelyn ap Gruffydd, the last native Prince of Wales to be recognized as such by the English crown, was said to have been like this for most of his life. After the death of his adored wife in childbirth, however, he was something of a broken man; his brother persuaded him in that state to fight the English, with whom he had previously been on peaceful terms, and he was killed in the process.
-   King Abdullah II of Jordan aspires to this, and many of his people see him that way. He was pro-democratic reform before the Arab Spring, and when that came he didn't balk at transferring more power from the monarchy to representative government, only intervening in parliamentary politics when protests indicated that they weren't acting in their constituents' interests.
-   King Muhammad VI of Morocco is often compared to Abdullah II. Although he's less of a democrat than Abdullah, he has been very explicit that he expects to be the last Moroccan monarch to exercise any political authority. He initiated a truth-and-reconciliation process shortly after taking the throne to deal with his father Hassan II's notoriously brutal suppression of dissent (which had featured beatings, forced disappearances, killing in the streets, and some of the world's worst Hellhole Prisons). He was also very graceful about responding to the Arab Spring by pushing for democratic reforms before protests got out of hand. He's still not as popular in Morocco as Abdullah is in Jordan, but he's still widely respected.
-   Alfred the Great of Wessex is considered one of the best Kings in English history. He was also quite learned - the first English translation of "De Consolatione Philosophiae" was done by him.
-   Crown Prince Rudolf of Austria. Handsome, well-spoken, well-written, charming, educated <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , politically active liberal. Shot himself on January 30, 1889, at the Mayerling hunting lodge on the outskirts of Vienna in a Murder-Suicide pact with his mistress Mary Vetsera - that "melancholy" seemed to have been suicidal, clinical depression, according to contemporary accounts.
-   When Rudolf killed himself, Archduke Franz Ferdinand became the new Crown Prince. He had the personality of a Byronic Hero, an explosive Hair-Trigger Temper and was determined to preserve the stability and unity of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Ironically, his plan for doing so involved granting extensive political rights and representations to the Empire's many different ethnic minorities, potentially turning Austria into The Federation. He also warned against taking too hard a line with Serbia, saying that it would lead to war with Russia. The more reactionary elements of the Austrian court scoffed at this, but when his death caused World War I he was arguably speaking a Cassandra Truth.
-   Seondeok was a female example. The first queen of Silla (one of the Three Kingdoms in Korea) to rule in her own right, she was renowned for her intelligence and uncanny insight. One story related how she was able to deduce an invasion from Baekje was imminent just from the sight of croaking frogs in a temple garden pond, leading to the capture of hundreds of enemy soldiers; another told of how she was chosen as heir at a young age because of her correct prediction from seeing a painting of them that the new peonies sent from the emperor of China would have no scent when they bloomed. She was also generous towards the common people, cutting their taxes significantly.