_"When you work in intelligence, the worst feeling in the world is knowing nothing; being caught in something you don't begin to understand. Because it's not the enemy you see that gets you. It's the one you don't."_

The most basic definition of The Conspiracy is "a secretive group with an Evil Plan". Let's break it down:

-   **Secretive**. The conspirators always hide their evil agenda or even their very existence. They live as far from a Card-Carrying Villain as possible. As a result, most of them appear benevolent or neutral at first but are then revealed to have been Evil All Along, creating an atmosphere where neither the protagonist, nor the reader knows whom to trust.
-   **Villainous**. The conspiracy always plays an antagonistic role to the heroic protagonists. If a conspiracy isn't evil, it's an Ancient Tradition and is discussed elsewhere (but see Benevolent Conspiracy).
-   **Group**. The number of conspirators ranges from a dozens to thousands. Depending on the scale, the conspiracy may be between individuals or entire organizations. Some of them are Obviously Evil, some appear benevolent, some don't exist at all in the public eye. There may be an Omniscient Council of Vagueness, The Man Behind the Man, a Big Bad, The Dragon, The Mole, and tons of Faceless Goons among them. Conspiracy is like the Lernaean Hydra: every time a head is cut off, it just grows another.
-   **Evil Plan**. The conspiracy always has a very specific objective: power, profit, selective destruction, etc. Without this unifying objective, a secretive villainous group turns into a Masquerade.

There are a few basic kinds of conspiracies, though the borders between them are fluid, with one variation that lies slightly off the charts. They are:

-   **Ancient Conspiracy**: A secret society consisting of otherwise unrelated individuals who pursue some (possibly esoteric) goals that, as the name implies, is pretty old (likely going back to The Knights Templar, The Illuminati, etc., and sometimes much older than that), and very, _very_ well-hidden. Their power comes either from long-term strategic planning or mystical sources. Because pyramids are associated with ancient authority, expect the Eye of Providence everywhere.
-   **Benevolent Conspiracy**: An organization that acts like a conspiracy in many ways, but works for the benefit of the non-conspirators (thereby averting/inverting two of the four criteria of the basic definition above).
-   **Corporate Conspiracy**: A secret project originating from a private corporation, often formed for the purpose of profit. It isn't usually very old, only existing as long as the business has. Their power comes from their benevolent public image and their financial recourses.
-   **Government Conspiracy**: A secret project uniting a small number of members of a powerful but otherwise benevolent organization, usually but not necessarily The Government (hence the name). The project can hardly be older than the government itself. Their power comes from their Front Organization's resources and the trust that Muggles put into it. Could qualify as a Shadow Government if their pull is impressive enough.
-   **Nebulous Criminal Conspiracy**: An informal alliance between seemingly benevolent organizations or individuals and/or obviously evil/criminal/obscure ones. It's likely to be very recent. Their power comes from controlling everything from both sides, though they may be too loosely organized to take full advantage of this. The Syndicate isn't a conspiracy in itself because it's Obviously Evil, but it's almost always a member.

The Conspiracy is generally a great antagonist in any story, but the Conspiracy Thriller genre makes a particularly extensive use of it, being a traditional Thriller narrative centering on the conflict between The Hero and The Conspiracy. For further tips on writing both conspiracy theories and conspiracy thrillers, see Write a Conspiracy Theory. For tropes commonly associated with conspiracies, see The Index Is Watching You.

Multiple concurrent conspiracies form a Conspiracy Kitchen Sink. A character doing research on conspiracies is a Conspiracy Theorist. See also Milkman Conspiracy and Path of Inspiration (aka a Conspiracy Religion).

A reminder for when discussing real life conspiracies: almost all _known_ conspiracies are not fully declassified, and may be documented in subjective/political bias. All we can say for sure is that there _have_ been conspiracies and some have been uncovered over the ages.

___

## Examples of works/series featuring conspiracies of more than one type:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Astra Lost in Space_'s plot involves two concurrent conspiracies intertwining with one another:
    -   The first, more prominent conspiracy consists of a group of high-profile medical experts and other people of interest, attempting to extend their lives by means of memory transfer to younger clone bodies. Due to the memory transfer requiring the clone to be a mature adult, most of these clones were raised as the conspirators' children, unaware of their true relationships. However, when the government threatens to pass major genome-registration legislation, the conspirators choose to kill off their clone "children" by stranding them in deep space to cover their tracks, thus setting the series' events in motion. Most of the plot, particularly in the later half, surrounds the protagonists uncovering this conspiracy during their voyage home – while also contending with the fact that one member of their party is in on the conspiracy as well, acting as the adults' triggerman.
    -   One of the above conspirators (Noah Vix, the king of the district of Vixia) is also the current leader of a deeper conspiracy concealing the world's true history. After devastating wars wiped out most of Earth's population prior to its emigration to Astra, the remaining population agreed to adopt measures meant to destroy and cover up the existence of the wormhole technology that wrought such destruction, to prevent anything like the wars from happening again. However, this choice also required the population to agree to the narrative that humanity had always lived on Astra, turning back the calendar 100 years and falsely claiming that World War III had occurred due to the Cuban Missile Crisis going hot to cover for the discrepancies in development and population on the new planet. By the time of the series' events, most people who remember the existence of Earth are dead, and education on pre-1963 history is deliberately limited or discouraged to help sell the narrative. Although these efforts did achieve peace, the protagonists agree that the population deserves to know the truth after learning the full history from Charce, choosing to expose it upon their return home.
-   The less known thing about Bee Train's _Girls with Guns_ trilogy is that in addition to playing into three distinct action movie genres (see Trivia.BeeTrain), they also each center on a different type of conspiracy:
    -   _Noir_ pits the protagonists against a cult-like Ancient Conspiracy of Les Soldats, a secret society formed (probably) by the Cathar survivors after the Albigensian Crusade to oppose the rule of the Roman Catholic Church. Their (or rather, Altena's) Evil Plan, _Le Grand Retour_, involves reverting the Western society to Medieval norms.
    -   _Madlax_ revolves around a Nebulous Criminal Conspiracy between The Syndicate of Enfant, the Bookwald Industries, The Government of Gazth-Sonika, and the Galza leadership, who prolong the War for Fun and Profit indefinitely. Also, said war is only a stepping stone in the Big Bad's _master_ plan, which is far more destructive.
    -   _El Cazador de la Bruja_ deals with the aftermath of a Government Conspiracy called Project Leviathan, a top-secret CIA project to produce Psychic Child Soldiers. More specifically, CIA attempts to cover the whole thing up, which includes killing the few surviving test subjects, one of whom is the amnesiac protagonist.
-   _Hellsing_ has the Millennium Organization, a group of Nazi scientists that was thought to be wiped out by Hellsing but some of whom escaped out of Europe into Brazil in the aftermath of WWII. Their purpose was to develop a means of engineering vampires and build an army of them. To what end? Why, world domination of course. A large portion of their funding came from the Vatican, although we're not quite sure why. In the years leading up to the main plot of the story, they periodically released groups of ghouls as a covert way of testing the defences of the Hellsing Organization and the world in general, as well as keeping them occupied until the moment came to unleash their undead army on the world.
-   _Fullmetal Alchemist_: Hundreds of years prior to the story, the Big Bad founded the country of Amestris to further his plan. All of the highest ranking officials in the government are in on it. They're so far along in their plans that even when the protagonists figure out what's going on, they can't do anything about it, and the only reason they aren't killed is because they're needed for the plan.

    Comic Books 

-   The Marvel Universe two-issue limited series, _Conspiracy_, revolves around an Intrepid Reporter investigating a mysterious group called "Control". The investigation eventually leads him to General Edward Harrison from _The Mighty Thor_, who explains that in the wake of the attack by the alien monster Gormuu (as originally told via flashback in _Fantastic Four_ #271), Reed Richards proposed a scientific think tank addressing fantastical crises, and the military implemented it as a means to control and manipulate everything, from the use and influence of revolutionary discoveries to superhero origins. Soon after the revelation, the reporter meets S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Dum-Dum Dugan, who explains that Harrison is actually a nutcase who's been using his Black Ops resources to make his claims convincing. The comic leaves it ambiguous over who's telling the truth, as it ends just as the reporter meets an acquaintance before he heads to the abandoned mansion of one of the think tank's members.

    Fan Works 

-   In _HHB_\-era _Narnia_ fanfiction In _The Fledgling Year_, the prince’s entourage gets caught up in a conspiracy by a group called the Finii, whose goal seems to be to systematically kill off the royal line of Archenland in order to put a distant cousin on the throne. (The fic is still a WIP, so it’s not yet fully developed.)
-   One of the driving plots in _Families_ is a conspiracy by corrupt noble Olive Branch to use his media resources to discredit Princess Celestia, playing off of the public's fear after the Changeling invasion to eventually gain enough support to overthrow her. As it turns out, he didn't really care about her position, he was just trying to get into a position to force her to give him immortality.
-   _Jewel of Darkness_: One of the major components of the Myth Arc is the existence of the White Glove, a group with definite negative vibes that is so far reaching that its leader, the "Good Man", can walk in and out of the Justice League Watchtower whenever he wants. Jinx is their mole on the Titans, albeit one who is Becoming the Mask.
-   In _A Cold Calculus_ Euphie, Cornelia and Schneizel are aware of the Geass Directorate's existence, but not their true nature, and have been secretly cooperating to smooth things out in the Empire, oust their father and put a stop to the Directorate. We're clued into this when Euphie brings Milly into it. Heinrich Stadtfeld, in turn, knows about _their_ conspiracy when a money trail he followed led him to the Damocles.
-   In _'Marionettes_ there's S.M.I.L.E., also known as the Stallions in Black who seek to enforce the fate that they believe should happen, building the Marionettes and performing brainwashing innocent civilians to accomplish that goal. It turns out they were originally a Benevolent Conspiracy founded by Celestia to safeguard Equestria, especially from _her_ in the event she fell to darkness like her sister had, and be a Hero Secret Service for Equestria's heroes. Unfortunately, since then they've become more and more corrupt until they became what they are now.
-   _The Secret Return of Alex Mack_ draws in a wide variety of B-Movie monsters, which are explained as experiments by the mysterious Collective. It's unclear to the protagonists why anyone would invest billions of dollars in creating building-sized spiders, an all-consuming blob monster, or a prion disease that makes people kill each other, but eventually they learn that the Collective is made up of genetically enhanced individuals who consider themselves a Master Race and intend to cull the numbers of lesser humans to free up more resources for themselves.
-   _Yet again, with a little extra help_: Much like everything else in this fic, Played for Laughs. It's implied that the Running Gag of Konoha's religious reverence of the Ninja Log is actually a plot started by the Senju Brothers, aided by their student Sarutobi, to claim the entire world in the name of the Log, who is an actually deity or some other worldly being.
-   The _A Song of Metal and Marvels_ series has one revealed in Chapter 38 of _A Crack of Thunder_: Fury reveals that the Council switched Rhaegar's son Aegon with another baby and smuggled him to safety in Essos, and planned to send Jon there too upon his birth, so that they could be raised together and eventually retake the Iron Throne. Unfortunately for them, the Rebellion triumphed and Ned arrived at the Tower of Joy sooner than they expected, leading to Jon being taken to Winterfell; worse, Aegon died before his second nameday, leaving the whole plan to fall apart.
-   _The Masks We Wear_ has The Court of Owls, the criminal cabal from Gotham City that many think are just a nursery rhyme to scare children. They want to expand into Jump City, bringing them into conflict with both the Teen Titans and Slade.
-   _For the Glory of Irk_: The protagonists eventually realize that something mysterious is going on within the Irken Empire, as Irkens are disappearing and/or carrying out acts unsanctioned by the Tallest. As it turns out, the Control Brains are brainwashing Irkens in order to manipulate events towards a war with the Syndicate, which will force the Tallest to activate a protocol that will allow the Brains to fuse all Irkens into a Hive Mind that they can control.

    Films — Animation 

-   _Zootopia_: The reason why predators are going savage is because a group of racist sheep led by Assistant Mayor Dawn Bellwether created a Psycho Serum and sniped innocent predators with it. The ultimate goal is for the prey vs. predator tensions in Zootopia to be stoked up to such a high level that the prey species (who collectively make up 90% of the population) will unite against the predator species and ensure that Bellwether will remain in power.

    Films — Live Action 

-   _Amsterdam (2022)_: The film centers on one by a mysterious group called the Committee of Five who want to convert the US into a fascist dictatorship by recruiting the popular General Gil Dillenbeck to rally World War One veterans and take power. It was based on the real Business Plot.
-   _Marvel Cinematic Universe_: Since the comics contain a few of these, the MCU has collected several over the course of the franchise:
    -   HYDRA, first introduced in _Captain America: The First Avenger_ as a wing of the Nazi Party during WWII, returns to antagonize the heroes in entries like _Captain America: The Winter Soldier_ and _Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._ as a shadowy conspiracy. This also applies to SHIELD (whose forerunners, the Strategic Scientific Reserve, were also introduced in _The First Avenger_), which is more of a Benevolent Conspiracy and the Arch-Enemy of HYDRA. However, SHIELD is often shown to have its own flaws and, not unlike HYDRA, has also been dubiously manipulating world events by, among other things, surreptitiously monitoring and attempting to control superhumans and extraterrestrial elements. Indeed, in _The Winter Soldier_, SHIELD's unfortunate similarities to HYDRA is what convinces Captain America to insist on SHIELD being destroyed along with HYDRA after the latter is shown to have been secretly growing within the former since the Red Skull's defeat in _The First Avenger_.
    -   The Red Room turns out to be another one in _Black Widow (2021)_, an Interquel set between _Captain America: Civil War_ and _Avengers: Infinity War_. Having been established in previous Avengers films as the Nebulous Evil Organization that trained Natasha Romanoff/Black Widow and other young women as assassins, its leader, General Dreykov, reveals here that the Red Room has brainwashed Widow assassins embedded in every country on the planet, allowing them to instigate disasters and catastrophes anywhere for their own profit with the push of a button.
    -   As revealed in _Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings_, the Ten Rings itself. First introduced in _Iron Man_ as a terrorist organization, it turns out that it is actually an Ancient Conspiracy lead by Xu Wenwu, the immortal Archnemesis Dad of Shawn/Shang Chi and the "real" Mandarin, as opposed to the false one created by Aldrich Killian in _Iron Man 3_ (not that Wenwu actually adopted that name himself). It's also revealed that the previous iterations of the Ten Rings confronted by Tony Stark in the _Iron Man_ films were actually unrelated organizations which were allowed to use the Ten Rings' name for their own ends.
-   _Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country_: Following the destruction of the Klingon moon of Praxis, the Klingon Empire sues the Federation for peace. However, not everyone agrees with such an idea, specifically Federation Admiral Cartwright, and Klingon General Chang, who believe that such a peace between them could only be resolved with a war of superiority. Thus, they, and several other conspirators (such as Valeris, Spock's new protege), work to undermine the peace talks by making it seem that the bigoted Captain Kirk attacked and killed Chancellor Gorkon, then plan to assassinate the Federation President. Said conspiracy might have worked had it not been for the natural curiosity of Spock, who was able to help unravel it and ensure peace would occur.

    Literature 

-   In _Cat Girls Have Four Ears_ there are many conspiracies. Some of the conspiring factions appear to know of each other, but they don't seem aware of all the players involved. Dr. Jarvie seems involved in at least two different conspiracies, one having to do with controlling the city, the other some scheme to pacify unruly elements to disrupt another unrelated conspiracy. His cat-girl manufacturing scheme involves an entirely different black-market conspiracy against a rival cat-girl manufacturer. All that may or may not be interconnected. Meanwhile, the Big Bad of the story is conspiring to undermine society with the help of some terrorist group. The entire existence of UPPs is directed against his conspiracy. Beyond that, things get murky.
-   _The Handmaid's Tale_: A very far-right fundamentalist Christian faction called the Sons of Jacob with members within the government plotted to seize control over the US, which they then did by massacring Congress and murdering the President (acts blamed on Islamic terrorists). After this the US was reformed into the Republic of Gilead.
-   _Mrs. Smith's Spy School For Girls: Double Cross_: Abby Hunter finds a conspiracy is going on at Briar Academy. The conspiracy is that a Briar student named Jane Ann, and the Briar Academy headmaster, are gathering information from the Smith Academy students. Their intent is to deliver it to The Ghost in exchange for Briar Academy winning the Challenge for a decade.
-   In _The Sister Verse and the Talons of Ruin_, John thinks everything is this — and he's right — mostly thanks to the machinations of the setting's resident Eldritch Abominations.
-   _The Stormlight Archive_: There are several, all working to fight the Desolation in their own way, even if that means fighting each other, too.
    -   The Diagram is a group following a plan King Taravangian wrote in his most brilliant moment, detailing exactly how to put him in charge of the entire world and properly prepare for the Desolation. They have agents all over the world and work to assassinate any leader who might bring stability, since that would make them a rival. They are also aware of the return of the Knights Radiant, but count them as enemies because they know that a bunch of Honor Before Reason types would never approve of the Diagram.
    -   The Ghostbloods are a group working to find the fabled city of Urithiru, home of the Knights Radiant, for unknown reasons. Shallan initially assumed they were trying to profit off the end of the world, but the fact that most of their more evil actions were retribution for attacks against them puts them in a different light. Not to mention that they have a large number of worldhoppers among their number, which further obfuscates their motives.
    -   The Envisagers were a cult that believed in the Knights Radiant and awaited their return. They should have been just another random group of crazies, but they knew far more about the powers of the Knights than they should. They were also in the habit of trying to gain the powers themselves by putting themselves in Fly Or Die situations; none of these ever worked, and they were eventually executed for attempting suicide.
    -   On the other side, the Sons of Honor are a group who believe that if they bring about the Desolation, the Heralds will return, catapult the church back to prominence, and fix everything wrong with the world. They are unaware that the Heralds actually never left, and have little interest in fixing anything. They also have a habit of killing people who are not part of the conspiracy and assuring themselves that their goal is worth the price of a few unimportant lives. When the Desolation _does_ come, it has very little to do with the actions of the Sons of Honor, but they are still convinced that they have finally succeeded.
    -   The Skybreakers, one of the old orders of the Knights Radiant, were refounded at some point by the Herald of Justice, Nalan'Elin. Nale has been convinced (by Ishar, another of the Heralds) that Surgebinding automatically brings the Desolation closer, so he's running around the world killing as many Surgebinders as he can. He fails to see the hypocrisy of having his _own_ Surgebinders.
    -   And then there's the group that Shallan's mother belonged to. We don't see much of them, but we know that they believe the Radiants were evil and will kill any Surgebinder they see. They might be connected to Nale's Skybreakers, but it is unclear.
-   In _Victoria_, everything from the Declaration of the Rights of Man, to Madonna and rap music, to feminism, gay marriage and neopaganism is "Cultural Marxism", all part of a deliberate and long-running plot to weaken Western culture and morality and set the people up for a dictatorial communist-in-all-but-name state.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  The UN (specifically UNESCO, which funds education and the arts) is a large part of this. It's unclear how Islam fits in, as Muslims are built up as the mortal enemies of all Christendom, but are pretty hostile to all these ideas themselves. The author himself is a major pusher of the real life Cultural Marxism conspiracy theory.
-   _The Witches_ by Roald Dahl has a secret society of wicked witches whose ultimate goal is to kill all children on Earth.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Dragnet_: A number of episodes end with criminals facing charges for conspiracy.
    -   In the 1967 series episode "The Big Explosion" two Neo-nazis engage in a conspiracy to blow up a school that was recently integrated.
    -   Then in "Administrative Vice DR 29" the Dirty Cop Chris Drucker and 25 of his associates are all charged with conspiracy. Drucker is sent to prison for 1 to 14 years, while the others were sentenced to jail and probation.
-   _Game of Thrones_:
    -   Robb is murdered by a conspiracy between Tywin Lannister and Houses Frey and Bolton.
    -   Joffrey is poisoned by a conspiracy between Olenna Tyrell, Petyr Baelish, Ser Dontos Hollard and (unintentionally) Sansa Stark at his own wedding.
-   _Scandal_: It's not yet clear what the nature of this is, but a large part of Season Two's backstory seems to involve one including Olivia, First Lady Mellie Grant, Cyrus Beene, Hollis Doyle, and Justice Verna Thornton. The conspiracy resulted in throwing the election to get Grant elected, but he appears to be unaware of it, and the depths appear to go much further than that. Quinn's framing appears to have been related to this conspiracy, and it probably is what resulted in her former office being firebombed. Hollis seems to be the Token Evil Teammate; it is not clear how malicious or how implicated the other members are, but it has been stated that their actions would get them locked up for the rest of their lives. We know Olivia generally has good intentions, but it is possible that she is The Atoner for actions in her past.
-   The Masons in _Dancing on the Edge_ are presumably involved with all sorts of conspiracies but they're efforts to frame Louie for Jessie's murder deserve particular notice as they are able to do things like fake passport stamps thanks to their government ties.
-   _Orphan Black_ features the clones taking on two conspiracies:
    -   A group called the Neolutionists created the clones, monitor them and run tests on them. Known members are Olivier, Dr. Leekie, and Delphine.
    -   A group of religious fanatics called the Proletheans are hunting and killing the clones. This group includes Maggie Chen and Tomas and they used Helena as their assassin.
-   _Extant_: Of the group variety, involving both the ISEA and its parent company, Yasumoto Corporation.
-   _The Handmaid's Tale_: Fred was part of one that led to Gilead's creation. It's a group, while their exact size is unknown. He proposed they commit false flag attacks on the Congress, President and Supreme Court. This was agreed to, and they succeeded.
-   _The Plot Against America_: It's strongly indicated dissident American officials plotted Lindbergh's assassination. Evelyn also claims the Nazis coerced Lindbergh into enacting antisemitic policies and keeping America neutral, though it's unknown if she's right.
-   _Rubicon_: It turns out that a secret group of arms manufacturers have been manipulating intelligence API analyzes, profiting from catastrophic world events which kill thousands of people, including fellow US citizens. They use crossword puzzles which have been placed in international newspapers as codes to signal secret operations.

    Podcasts 

-   In _Alice Isn't Dead,_ the Character Narrator learns that her missing wife Alice was actively investigating a multi-group conspiracy with vague aims before her disappearance, gathering information on three mysterious parties: The Cumberland Project, Vector H, and Bay & Creek Shipping. The discovery of her scattered notes prompts the Narrator to involve herself more directly, going so far as to get hired as a long haul trucker by Bay & Creek Shipping, in hopes of locating her missing wife. However, agents of the Conspiracy, including a cannibalistic Humanoid Abomination, don't much care for her meddling, and its heavily implied that the Conspiracy causes or contributes to seemingly random deaths, disasters and paranormal activity, with tacit approval from at least _some_ officials.
-   _Unwell Podcast_ has the Delphic Order.
-   _Pretending to Be People_, as a modified _Delta Green_ campaign, has several.
    -   The Circle of Knowledge is a conspiracy dedicated to averting the end of the world and bringing about the rise of the Overseer
    -   The Glass crime syndicate is a criminal organization run by Marvin Glass, with the evident aims of making money and world domination.
    -   Myriad is a quasi-governmental agency that employs androids and humanoid psionic agents.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Eclipse Phase_:

-   _In Nomine_: Alemon, the Prince of Secrets, structures his faction as a byzantine mess of secret societies, cells, lodges, conspiracies and cults, infiltrating and manipulating the other Princes' organizations, human society, and one another. Each one believes itself to be the ultimate hidden puppetmasters who direct, or rebel against, Hell, Earth, and the demons of Secrets alike. In reality, the actual group in charge varies constantly, as Alaemon carefully keeps the pot stirring in order to make sure that his followers remain too divided, busy and paranoid to actually strike against him.
-   _Night's Black Agents_: The Premise is that the players are all ex-spies who have discovered a conspiracy controlled by vampires. The exact nature of said conspiracy and of the vampires themselves is determined by the GM.

    Video Games 

-   _The Longest Journey_ series loves to have conspiracies for villains:
    -   The original game had the Ancient Conspiracy of the Vanguard, a twelve thousand years old cult led by a DraicKin and aiming to forcibly reunite the technological world of Stark and the magical Arcadia, disregarding the enormous risks to both worlds' existence.
    -   _Dreamfall: The Longest Journey_ had Project Alchera, a Corporate Conspiracy by the top executives and researchers of the Japanese toy manufacturer WATIcorp to develop and spread Mind Control technology disguised as lucid dream toys. Unfortunately, none of them had any idea that there was an entire world of magic that used the same wavelengths as the project. The central AI latched on in curiosity and suddenly instant chaos, test subjects manifest in Arcadia, two worlds in danger, etc..
    -   _Dreamfall Chapters_ reveals that some of the higher-ups in the Goddess cult are doing things that their papal council have no idea of.
-   _Deus Ex_ and its follow up games (_Deus Ex: Invisible War_, _Deus Ex: Human Revolution_, and _Deus Ex: Mankind Divided_) have these in spades.
-   _Overwatch_: In Sombra's origin trailer, she reveals that she accidentally stumbled upon a thing called The Conspiracy, who had their hands in Overwatch, Talon, and other places.

-   _Resident Evil_ is starting to show shades of this regarding to the U.S. Government.
-   _Assassin's Creed_: The Knights Templar have been trying for centuries to control the world. At some point they decided the best way to do this was from behind the scenes. _Assassin's Creed III_ then reveals that Juno has been manipulating humanity from _before recorded history_ so that she could blackmail Desmond into bringing her back to rule over humanity. To this end, she did this entirely through prerecorded messages left where certain people would find them. And she did it without the entirely _benevolent_ first civilization conspirators noticing.
-   _The Secret World_, being a Conspiracy Kitchen Sink, has plenty of these. The player character joins one of three possibly-benevolent ones early in the game, who are currently in an Enemy Mine situation due to the impending End of the World as We Know It.
-   The Institute of _Fallout 4_ indirectly controls most of the Commonwealth through proxies and Synth agents who operate behind the scenes. They don't take a direct hand in running the place, but any time someone starts getting too technologically advanced and/or organised, the Institute will smother them in the crib before they can grow to become a threat to their power. As was the case with the original Commonwealth Minutemen. The Institute also have a nasty habit of monopolizing usage of pre-war technology by sending an army of Synths to where it can be found and massacre anybody around to prevent them ever finding out what it is.
-   _Persona 5_: The protagonists eventually stumble upon a hidden organization made up of businessmen, politicians and law enforcement officials who are using the Mental World of the Metaverse to secretly influence powerful members of society and cause accidents that will encourage social unrest, all in order to increase their own wealth and standing. During the Japanese epilogue of sequel spinoff game _Persona 5 Strikers_, this organization is referred to as an Antisocial Force, which is actually the real life Japanese government designation for these sorts of conspiracies.
-   _Water Womb World_ features a Catholic researcher investigating the ocean floor in search of evidence for their fringe theory that the Garden of Eden was created at the bottom of the sea, rather than being the earthly paradise presented by the church. After finding an abandoned dive mask marked with Christian imagery, the protagonist states that there are forces within the Catholic church who are aware of the truth surrounding humanity's aquatic origins, conspiring to prevent the public from learning about the "aqua-Edenic theory," and possibly eliminating other researchers seeking evidence of it.
-   _Criminal Case_:
    -   _Criminal Case: Grimsborough_ has the Crimson Order, an Ancient Conspiracy that has been controlling Grimsborough from the shadows for centuries, and many, _many_ important figures in the city are revealed to be part of them, including the chief of police.
    -   _Criminal Case: World Edition_ has SOMBRA, a Nebulous Criminal Conspiracy with cells all over the world that serve as the main threat of the whole story. Curiously, there's _also_ an Ancient Conspiracy among their ranks in the form of the Promethian Cult, who have been active for centuries and their newest incarnation functions as SOMBRA's European branch.
    -   _Criminal Case: The Conspiracy_ features two interconnected conspiracies: the Corporate Conspiracy of DreamLife that seeks to manufacture a Fantastic Drug capable of brainwashing and controlling people _and_ a serum to create a race of superhumans, and the Covert Group of Ad Astra, who are behind DreamLife in the first place.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Higurashi: When They Cry_: Those who believe the chain of murders in Hinamizawa are not supernatural in nature generally believe there's a conspiracy of some kind in Hinamizawa pulling them off. Detective Ooishi, one of the most prominent police characters, suspects the Sonozaki family of being the masterminds but has no real evidence, just speculation and a hunch. The truth is there _is_ a conspiracy... but the Sonozakis are innocent and are just as confused by the situation as anyone else. It's actually an outside Government Conspiracy that's studying the mysterious Hinamizawa Syndrome, though they are only directly behind some of the serial murders... a few of them are genuine coincidences that just happened to fall on the day of Watanagashi.

    Web Original 

-   The Wanderer's Library has a hilariously petty one. For a long time in the world of Elrich, elevators were the only method of going up. When stairs were invented, they posed a threat to the livelihood of the Elra Architectural Sub-Union, which made elevators. In order to discredit stairs, they loosen one step that the king will be going up. He falls to his death, thus making sure no one will use stairs again.
-   The first enemies Mathias fights in _Magik Online_ is a conspiracy led by a human-sacrificing cult consisting of Evermarsh's impotent human authority figures and police run by Mayor John Brown who have turned to satanic means in order to regain their former status after they were conquered by the Concordian Empire.
-   _The Church of the Sub Genius_ blames pretty much everything wrong with the world on "The CONSPIRACY" (which is apparently an acronym for "Cliques of Normals Secretly Planning Insidious Rituals Aimed at Controlling You").
-   In _Philler Space_, the Nega-Space club is a secret group dedicated to tormenting Philler.

    Western Animation 

-   In the _South Park_ episode "Sexual Healing", there is a vast conspiracy between all men in the world to keep a secret from all women in the world. That secret is... that All Men Are Perverts. All those rich and famous men who sleep with lots of women, possibly cheating on their girlfriend/wife in the process? They're suffering from the horrible disease of sex addiction, which was caused by an alien who is also a wizard casting a spell on them. It's totally _not_ because guys are horndogs and would screw any and all willing women if they had the sheer number of opportunities that rich and famous men have. Honest. Whenever any man claims that _they_ would never do such a thing even _if_ they were rich and famous, all the men's eyes briefly glance at the closest woman in the room, checking to see if she believed the lie.
-   In _The Simpsons_ episode "Grampa vs. Sexual Inadequacy", the kids are at first happy that there are no adults around, but then they begin to wonder what is exactly going on with them. They eventually come up with a theory that the Rand Corporation, the saucer people, and reverse vampires are trying get rid of dinnertime by forcing the adults to go to bed early. In a Deleted Scene, Ralph shows up and reveals that he hid in a closet and found out that the adults are actually having sex. After a Beat, Bart claims that the adults having sex is part of a mole people plot.
-   The season 5 finale of _Rick and Morty_ reveals the Central Finite Curve first mentioned in "Close Rick-counters of the Rick Kind" to be this. In essence, the Ricks of the Citadel have spent god knows how long manipulating events so that Beth and Jerry meet and produce Morty, then cloning Mortys over and over again to create a never-ending supply of human shields and yes-men. And the reason they're able to get away with this is because they _walled off an infinite corner of the Multiverse where they're the smartest person in the universe from the rest of the Multiverse where they're not_.

___