_"You might remember that these naggy junkies were a common theme in all anti-drug education of the time. It would have saved a lot of film if someone told educators that teaching children how to avoid getting expensive drugs for free is like teaching children how to escape from unicorns with a bag of magical shrieking peanuts. I can't remember ever saying, 'Fine, mister, I'll have some of your free heroin if you just get off my back.'"_

A Dead Horse Trope born from the DARE programs, PSAs and very special episodes of the early War on Drugs. The Aggressive Drug Dealer is out there trying to _force_ your kids into doing drugs. He'll approach them out of nowhere, proffer his wares, and if your kid tries to refuse, he's willing to intimidate or even attack them until they take a hit. So special training is required to "Just Say No".

This just isn't how it happens IRL. No drug dealer in their right mind would risk attracting attention to themselves that way, especially not in the middle-class environments these commercials are aimed at. Any who do so will get caught very quickly, and even if they miracously avoid jail, most buyers won't risk being seen with someone acting like that for fear of getting caught themselves. The same way children are more likely to be abducted/molested by someone already in their lives than a stranger, they're far more likely to do drugs with their peers than with some shadowy figure lurking at the playground. Most drug users have their first taste at a party or some other social setting where the substance is being shared around. From there, if they want more, they'll seek out the dealer themselves. Furthermore, despite (and some would argue because of) government policy, the market for illegal drugs is quite healthy throughout the world; the Aggressive Drug Dealer has little reason to waste time trying to bully unwilling people into becoming their customers when there are almost certainly lots of willing customers out there.

So while the "just say no" narrative would make perfect sense in a social setting, where there might actually be peer pressure to take drugs in order to look "cool", the problem was that an anti-peer-pressure message would contradict the prevailing ideology held by Moral Guardians at the time: that deviant behavior arose from anti-social tendencies, and since such "bad kids" are a shunned minority, bowing to peer pressure must if anything be a _good thing_! Not only that, any such PSAs could also break a child's idea that their parents are a bastion of safety and morality. In the strict household hierarchy of yesteryear, that last point in particular was a huge no-no.

The only option left, then, was to fabricate this villain. "Talking to your kids" by scaring them with this nightmare was a lot easier than trying to understand the social environment one's child was in, and instilling values that would stand up and that parents agreed with. It's much easier to demonize an evil outsider inexplicably hell-bent on getting Little Johnny addicted than to talk about dealing with the difficult possibility of a friend or family member encouraging you.

Thankfully, most anti-drug PSAs have been taking a different approach in the last few decades: encouraging children to be "above the influence" in all respects toward peer pressure, not just in regard to doing drugs. If your friends go get high after school, you don't have to go with them, and they'll just agree to see you tomorrow instead.

In this day and age, if a drug dealer is represented as "aggressive" in media, he will most probably be of the "shoot it out with the police and anybody who pisses him off" variety instead... who are, quite unfortunately, Truth in Television and have always been (Pablo Escobar, the Sinaloa Cartel, etc). Although even that can be exaggerated, as many drug dealers prefer to live, obviously — something that kind of behavior doesn't really encourage (if this happens, they're usually cornered, preferring death over prison, already are holding a good hand and/or are high themselves—possibly on their own drug).

A subtrope of Drugs Are Bad.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

-   In _Hip Choice_, a shady shade wearing puppet in an alleyway offers two other puppets a handful of needles, joints, and pills. They make the hip choice and say no. Then he reveals his horrible eye condition.
-   Noted as a trope that is _not_ Truth in Television in an educational video hosted by Kirk Cameron, possibly made in response to paranoid children who took Scare 'Em Straight tactics too much to heart. The video tried to explain that politely turning down a drug dealer is good enough, as they will not hire their bully friends to pin you to the ground and stab you with needles full of drugs that will give you horrifying hallucinations and make the world change all the wrong colors. The kicker was that they felt the need to animate that part of the film (and two others discussing other incorrect depictions of drugs) as "What will not actually happen to you," so it still gave everyone nightmares anyway.
-   Parodied by Progressive Insurance, which has one commercial in which spokesperson Flo hangs out in a dark alley and aggressively sells insurance in a manner that copies the standard '80s portrayal of the aggressive drug dealer.
-   Subverted in one public service announcement. The aggressive drug dealer turns out to be a trusted adult who was role-playing with the kid.
-   How about this "Snake" PSA from 1986/87? The aggressive (and not particularly subtle) drug dealer's transformation to a literal snake was definitely scary.
-   In the late '60s and early '70s, the slogan was "Why do you think they call it DOPE?" Here's the original 1969 PSA featuring an aggressive dope dealer on a playground and a Mouthy Kid who knows all about the various substances for sale.
-   _Superman vs. Nick O'Teen_ pitted Superman against a villain called Nick O'Teen who acted like this in trying to get kids to smoke cigs. He had a top hat coloured to look like a cigarette butt and yellow teeth. Nick O'Teen tries to get children to smoke cigarettes because... he's evil! Note that he never even demands money for the cigarettes, he just hands them over.
-   This early-90's anti-drug PSA featuring the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. Although it's worth noting that the dealer (a _grade school kid_, bizarrely enough) doesn't resort to any kind of physical violence. He simply calls his "victim" a chicken and then taunts him by imitating a clucking chicken.
-   Played straight in an early 90s Drug-Free America PSA. It depicts a young boy named Kevin running through a rough neighborhood on his way home. Kevin narrates about how at school, his teacher tells kids to "just say no". He points out that his teacher doesn't have to walk home through the same neighborhood that he does. And while the local dealers may be afraid of the police, Kevin says, "they're not scared of me, and they sure don't take 'no' for an answer."

    Anime & Manga 

-   In _A Certain Scientific Railgun_, the gangster Trick sells Level Upper, a sound file that enhances Esper powers in those who hear it. If people try to refuse or can't pay, he and his thugs beat the crap out of them.
-   "Iron" Goldie Musou of _Gunsmith Cats_ is a mafia capo version of this. If she wants you as a "pet", she is going to send her thugs to get you, drag you to her, drug you... and then she will brainwash you into committing an atrocity horrible enough (like killing your entire family) that you are going to willingly _remain_ a junkie because it's either that or the grief driving you insane. Her practices for getting control of distribution are no less brutal.
-   The Terraist Church from _Legend of the Galactic Heroes_ spikes the food and drinks of pilgrims with Thyoxin, a highly addictive drug that can be used for brainwashing, to effectively enslave them. And if the pilgrims catch on before they are fully addicted, they are brought to the infirmary and forcefully addicted there.
-   Abe no Kai from _Lone Wolf and Cub_ is a variant in that he gets people addicted to a drug called afuyo, which triggers _severe_ withdrawal symptoms, essentially enslaving people through their addiction to it.
-   _Nyankees_ has a _cat_ equivalent. Mr. Moke deliberately gets other cats high on catnip by shaking his fur and scattering catnip dust on them.

    Comedy 

-   Mocked as unnecessary by Chris Rock.
    
    Yo man, drug dealers don't sell drugs. Drugs sell themselves. It's crack. It's not an encyclopedia. It's not a fucking vacuum cleaner. You don't really gotta try to sell crack, OK? I've never heard a crack dealer go, "Man, how am I going to get rid of all this crack? It's just piled up in my house".
    
-   Comedian Richard Sarvate says that the impression he got from programs like D.A.R.E. was that he would leave school and immediately he would have to dodge an assault of flying needles. The complete absence of drug pushers made him think he must be doing something wrong. He learned later in High School, "They only offer drugs to the cool kids. I was in no danger".

    Comic Books 

-   _Archie Comics_ would occasionally have anti-drug mini-comics in the books. One specific example has two children accosted by drug dealers, complete with the girl crying "Oh, Jimmy, I'm scared!" They are saved by two generic superheroes.
-   One bizarre example pops up in a Captain America anti-drug comic where Cap has to fight this type of drug dealer. Who also happen to be a race of aliens who seek to subjugate humanity by using drug addiction to weaken humans.
-   _Diabolik_ provided a Justified example, with the drug dealers forcefully addicting inspector Ginko to heroin to completely ruin his life in revenge for him busting too many mob operations.
-   _Killing and Dying_: Dennis is a drug dealer who regularly pops up around a young man named Bobby and keeps trying to get him to buy.
-   One of the deservedly obscure _Tandy Computer Whiz Kids_ comics took this to absolutely ridiculous levels. The villains are completely focused on getting kids hooked, apparently For the Evulz — profit doesn't even seem to be a factor; apparently they just want to addict people to drugs.
-   This strange species of drug dealer turns up in the _Teen Titans_ anti-drug specials (produced as part of the "Just Say No" initiative). The fact that Speedy (Roy Harper) was absent from those is rather telling...

    Fan Works 

-   In _RWBY ABRG_, Weiss' family sells dust as a drug as an Open Secret. Weiss has been forced to sell it by her abusive father for years. She usually goes up to random people and tries to sell it to them out in the open, though she isn't violent about it. In the ninth episode, Blake finally has enough and yells at Weiss about trying to sell to vulnerable people. Yang lampshades that their argument isn't something that should be talked about openly in the streets.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   The main antagonists of _The Black Godfather_ are a heroin ring willing to start a Mob War to keep their product flowing.
-   _The Crow: City of Angels_: Judah Earl specifically pushes drugs that are manufactured to kill the user. When his more business-minded underling objects to this, Judah orders him killed.
-   _Enter the Dragon_: Turns out that Mr. Han can afford his private island fortress and Thug Dojo by making cocaine in a laboratory concealed within said island and selling it (he even invited Roper in the hopes that he would become his agent in his planned expansion to the States)... and abducts women from the streets of Hong Kong and gets them forcibly hooked in order to "create demand".
-   The two corrupt hicks in _Foxy Brown_ hold the title character hostage and deliberately get her addicted to heroin. Or, at least, they try to.
    -   This is a variation seen in other exploitation flicks of the 1970's, in which someone, not always a drug dealer, actually _captures a woman and gives her heroin while she's unconscious_ in a deliberate bid to get her addicted. Not only does this happen in _Foxy Brown_, but also in _Thriller: A Cruel Picture_ and _The Sinful Dwarf_.
-   Slick in _Hobo With a Shotgun_, who gleefully maims a kid who owes him money, but then _shoves the poor kid's face into a pile of cocaine_. That Slick would casually wander around with such a big pile of cocaine is, of course, yet another of the over-the-top touches that make this film what it is.
-   _I Come in Peace_: A Space Whale Aesop version of this in the Big Bad: an alien drug dealer that gains his alien drugs by _forcing a heroin OD on his victims and draining their cerebral fluid while they are dying_, and plans an Alien Invasion that will turn Earth into a galactic drug lab.
-   Poppy Adams, the Big Bad of _Kingsman: The Golden Circle_. In spades. As in, she taints her drugs so she can do a Poison and Cure Gambit and then holds the _millions_ of people who used said drugs as hostages with full nation-wide legalization of recreational drugs as her main demand.

-   A latter Bond example is Franz Sanchez of _Licence to Kill_, a man who takes Pablo Escobar's concept of "Plata o Plomo" ("Silver or Lead") to the ultimate consequences and not only has the dictator general of the Banana Republic he lives in wrapped around his finger ("you're only a President… For Life") but he has an Evil Plan to shoot down passenger airplanes to strong-arm the DEA to back off.
-   This was the Evil Scheme in the James Bond movie _Live and Let Die_ — Mr. Big intends to flood the US with free heroin, driving the Mob out of the market, then cornering it at a highly inflated price to the multitudes of new addicts.
-   The main antagonists of _Lovely But Deadly_ are drug dealers who specialize in minors and control entire schools.
-   _The Man with the Golden Arm_: Louie the heroin dealer is awfully aggressive in trying to get former addict Frankie to use again. Justified in that Louie is also involved with a lucrative illegal underground poker game, Frankie is a skilled dealer, and the heroin is a means of control to bind Frankie to Louie and get him into the poker game.
-   Frankie Lideo, the villain of _Moonwalker_'s "Smooth Criminal" segment. It's a particularly egregious example since, unlike your average Aggressive Drug Dealer who's in it to get kids hooked so as to keep a healthy flow of customers, he appeared to be in it for the sheer malicious joy of getting kids hooked on drugs (and maybe make the history books. And they better spell his name right!).

-   In _Pusher 3_, Kurt insists on giving Milo some of his heroin. Kurt knows that Milo is a recovering addict, and he has a beef with Milo for his actions in the second film.
-   Chris-R, the ruthless drug dealer from _The Room (2003)_, who is willing to sneak into Johnny's apartment while he and _three other people_ (Lisa, Mark, and Claudette) are inside, and then work his way up to the roof and force Denny at gunpoint to give him the money, but can't wait five minutes for it to arrive.
-   _Thoroughbreds_: Tim is a particularity pathetic variant, who talks the talk, but doesn't ultimately walk the walk. He wants to be a big-time drug lord, but only sells the children because deep down, he knows he can't compete with the really tough guys. He attempts to push his merchandise at a party some high schoolers are holding, but they just tell him to leave. It's pretty clear that Tim is seen as a loser by everyone, except perhaps himself.
-   In _Underworld U.S.A._, the kingpin Connors tells Gela, his head of narcotics, to make up lost revenue by selling to 10- to 15-year-olds, and instructs him to have his 'product men' target schools.
-   Inverted in _Walk Hard_, as each time Dewey stumbles upon Sam doing drugs, the conversation starts with Sam saying "You don't want _no part_ of this shit". The first one (marijuana) in particular is hilarious, as Dewey keeps guessing reasons why it's so bad, only to be corrected each time that it doesn't give you a hangover, it's not habit-forming, you can't OD on it, it makes sex even better, and it's not only not expensive but ...
    
    **Sam:** It's the _cheapest drug there is._ You don't want it!  
    **Dewey:** I _think_ I kinda want it.
    

    Literature 

-   The _Doctor Who_ Eighth Doctor Adventures novel _The Eight Doctors_ has a Very Special Subplot involving one of these. Justified — maybe — by the fact that the drug dealer is a schoolkid whose classmate intends to tell on him, and he hopes that by forcing her to take crack, he'll get her addicted and she won't want to tell on him anymore. However, the fact that a teacher claims that, "One single rock is cheap enough. Some dealers even give the first one away. It's a good way to make new customers, especially young ones," is about when you start to realize that you are reading a book propelled solely by Narm Charm.
-   Averted with drug dealer Skizz in the early _Fearless_ books: He isn't trying to force anyone to get hooked and he only goes after Mary Moss (who is working on getting clean) because she still owes him five-hundred dollars. When this puts him on Gaia's bad side, he seemingly decides that it's more trouble than it's worth and backs off, only to get killed by a CIA hit squad on the orders of Gaia's dad (long story).
-   Parodied in the Discworld novel, _Feet of Clay_, where dealers try to sell the drug 'slab' to troll-children. The troll watchman Detritus runs his own version of the "Drugs — Just say no" posters, aimed at the _dealers_: "Slab: Just say AarrghaarrghpleasennononoUGH". Considering the reputation of Detritus and his converted siege-crossbow 'The Piece-Maker', it's probably one of the more effective methods of scaring 'em straight.
-   Mocked, as early as 1967, in _From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler_. A small boy finds a chocolate bar on the ground and his twelve-year-old sister tells him that it was probably put there by a drug dealer and full of "dope" to get him hooked. Even allowing that it was a more innocent time, it was partly used to illustrate the character of the sister as someone less worldly-wise than she thought, and extremely prone to pointless worrying.
-   In Glen Cook's _Garrett, P.I._ series, the crime syndicate has been known to use drug addiction as a method of recruiting and controlling underage prostitutes. Garrett is not happy about this.
-   After the protagonist of _Go Ask Alice_ tries to go clean, her drug-using ex-friends start bullying her and threatening her in order to get her back on drugs.
-   In Hal Clement's novel _Iceworld_, the protagonist is sent to infiltrate a criminal syndicate that has discovered a drug vapor that addicts those who inhale it with one dose. The story takes place among aliens who live at very high temperatures, and the drug is tobacco, acquired via robot probe from a human who has no idea why the aliens are willing to trade gold for cigarettes.
-   Justified in Harry Turtledove's _World War_ series: Humanity discovers that ginger is a powerful and highly addictive narcotic to the aliens trying to invade Earth. Thus they try to spread it to as many of the aliens as possible in order to disrupt their invasion, not just by turning soldiers into useless drug addicts but because it compounds the war weariness that they'd been feeling as a result of their invasion not being the Curb-Stomp Battle they expected it to be. Since it also activates their mating instincts, it also disrupts the aliens' society by introducing them to formerly foreign concepts like romantic love, marriage, prostitution and (more worryingly) rape.
-   The talking cats in Catwalk Corridor in _Modelland_ try to push drugs on the students. Deconstructed in Pete's Exhaustive Review of Modelland:
    
    "A key sign that someone doesn’t know much about drugs is this: A story where a drug dealer is desperately trying to give away all of her drugs. There’s that classic story about how the first taste is free, but come on. They’re drugs. I can give them away to you or SELL them FOR MONEY to someone else. This is how drug dealers work. Think of it, I don’t know, like a business. Do drywallers do one wall of a house for free, leaving you wanting more? Fuck no".
    

    Live-Action TV 

-   In the Taiwanese Series _Black and White_, Gao Yi sends a subway train full of hostages hurtling down a dead-end spur while simultaneously aerosolizing a potent narcotic so everyone on board is zoned and now hooked on it.
-   Jesse in _Breaking Bad_ turns into one of these when he needs to persuade a shy young girl cashier to accept payment in meth for the gas he just pumped. Though she's never done meth before, she's apparently not opposed to drugs in principle (she mentions she's smoked pot "a lot") and after some initial reluctance ("That's stuff's really addictive, right?") she seems to mainly be afraid she'll get caught. Which, if you squint just right, seems a lot like one of the writers believes in the "gateway drug" theory.
-   Viciously mocked by Chris Rock on his HBO special _Bring the Pain_:
    
    Drug dealers don't really sell drugs. Drug dealers _offer_ drugs... You say "no", that's it! Now Jehovah's Witnesses, on the other hand...
    
-   Parodied in _Brooklyn Nine-Nine_ when Jake meets up with Isaac, an informant of his and a former drug dealer who gets offended when the cops refer to him as a drug pusher:
    
    **Isaac:** Dude, drugs don't need pushing. They push themselves. People _love_ drugs.
    
-   Wayne Brady is on on the _Chappelle's Show_ episode with him, with scenes right out of _Training Day_. "This ain't no damn after-school special! SMOKE IT!"
-   Parodied in an episode of _Engine Sentai Go-onger_. Gunpei offers a child a suitcase full of candy in exchange for his missing Engine Cast, but his trench coat and sunglasses lead the child to mistake him for this trope and run away screaming.
-   _Euphoria_: Mouse simply won't take "no" for an answer when offering Rue fentanyl. Justified as she's already a drug user, and he wants to make a sale (she either gives him the money or sex). Fezco thankfully rescues her by paying for it.
-   In the "Blue Paradise" episode of _The Flash_ series, said drug's creator produced a huge batch with plans to release it in a cloud over the entire city. Somewhat justified in that this drug was explained to be EXTREMELY addictive. Plus, the drug's creator frequently used his own products.
-   Averted in _Friday Night Lights_, Luke injures his hip, and becomes reliant on painkillers to play at his usual level. He quickly blows through his prescription and heads into East Dillon to get more, however, the dealers he approaches take one look at the clean-cut white stranger dressed like a ranch hand and immediately clam up, likely assuming he is a very inept undercover cop.
-   Spoofed in an episode of _Friends_. Ross, after accidentally injuring a Girl Scout, attempts to make amends by selling cookies on her behalf. Monica resists buying any, having been addicted to them as a child, but Ross tries to persuade her by giving her the first box for free, claiming that "all the cool kids are eating them".
-   Parodied on _Good Eats_, in the episode "Live and Let Diet" with a guy dressed as a milk carton trying to tempt Alton into eating cookies. (Which Alton cites as the reason he's stopped drinking milk.)
-   _In the Heat of the Night_: The two-parter "A Small War" has a gang of these coming from the "big city" of Jackson (the state capital of Mississippi) and setting up shop in Sparta, especially among the high school kids.
-   In _iZombie_, Blaine was a regular drug dealer (sleazy, but not too pushy) before becoming an intelligent zombie, but afterward, he pairs this trope with the Poison and Cure Gambit, deliberately infecting rich people and then charging them through the nose for the only substance that can prevent them from progressing to the mindless shambling stage. He also infected bodybuilders to serve as The Big Guy, and the city's police chief to help cover up the suspiciously high number of disappearing homeless people and troubled teens. Given that the "drug" he's selling is the product of murder, he certainly sells the aggressive part.
-   _Kamen Rider_ frequently uses a Fantastic Drug as a type of monster-maker, which can lead into this trope:
    -   _Kamen Rider Fourze_ builds one arc around the first episode's Switcher dealing with his lingering addiction to the Zodiarts Switch even months after his last hit, with the Scorpio Zodiarts pressuring him into taking a new one.
    -   _Kamen Rider Zi-O_ has Swartz use this method of turning victims into Another Riders: where the other two Time Jackers give their chosen offers in positions where they can't or won't refuse, Swartz simply doesn't take no for an answer and shoves the transformation trinket into their chest anyway if they try to turn him down.

-   _Obi-Wan Kenobi_: In Part II, Obi-Wan meets a spice dealer who goes as far as giving him a free sample.
-   Subverted in _Santa Clarita Diet_. When newly-zombified Sheila tries to limit her cannibal diet to monsters whom nobody will miss, she overhears her daughter Abby's friend talk about her ex-boyfriend, a "pedophile who sells drugs to children". The perfect choice? Not quite. It turns out Abby's friend had lied to him about her age and he promptly broke up with her when he found out. And "selling drugs to kids" sounds far more sinister than the more accurate description of selling pot to teenagers. And the primary reason he got into it in the first place was to help his sister financially when she got divorced.
-   In _True Blood_, the werewolf JD Carsons tells his pack to drink vampire blood (it greatly enhances physical attributes and gives a Healing Factor, but is highly addictive and has nasty withdrawal symptoms). When some refuse, he beats them up and force-feeds them the blood. His goal was to make them stronger and make them addicted so they can not leave and obey him more easily.
-   _Veronica Mars_: When the PCH bikers are selling drugs for the Fitzpatricks, the Fitzpatricks are not happy with how little they are selling. The bikers say it's a matter of supply and demand, to which Liam replies "You have to create demand. It's called drug _pusher_ for a reason".
-   Occasionally, the villain of the day in _Walker, Texas Ranger._ Since the focus of the show is Walker kicking ass, the theme seems to be "If You Just Say No, Drug Dealers Will Kill You, Unless Chuck Norris Is There to Protect You".
-   _The Wire_:
    -   Justified when Police Captain Colvin cruises up to a corner crew of drug dealers, causing a dealer to mistake him for a hesitant customer. The shocked Colvin gives increasingly less subtle clues that he's a cop, but the dealer keeps trying to make a sale. Finally, when Colvin puts on his police cap, the kid figures it out and scampers off. This trope was Truth in Television for Baltimore, at least, at the time. Dealers would scatter free heroin along the sidewalk to fish for new customers and keep junkies hooked.
    -   _The Wire_ also shows the various crews handing out free samples, called "testers" in the show, at fixed intervals. This is not only to keep the addicts around but apparently to demonstrate how strong (or weak) the current package is.

    Music 

-   Christian Rock group 4Him have a song called "Freedom", which is about people searching for true freedom apart from Jesus, but not being able to find it. One such seeker is a child who defines freedom as "the hour when school would end and he could play"...but first he has to "get by the dealer selling drugs in the middle of the hall at grammar school". Yes, apparently this dealer openly practices aggressive sales tactics _in the middle of the hall_ at an _elementary school_. The song makes the same mistake as the TMNT commercial noted above; dealers don't hang out _inside_ schools, they do not try to bar kids' way to force their product on them, and they certainly don't do so at an elementary school, where no children would have any money with them even if their tactics worked.
-   Early appearances of Eminem's Slim Shady alter ego parody this moral panic (especially in the way it coalesced around Gangsta Rap) by making Shady a drug dealer who desperately tries to push his products on children, but is so Stupid Evil and not even cool that he's impossible to take seriously. The best example of this is in "I'm Shady", in which Slim is portrayed as a rather mediocre drug dealer who sells weed, psychedelics, mislabelled aspirin and legal ephedrine supplements, but is successful because if people don't buy his drugs, he murders them and their family:
    
    I just wanna scare somebody with a gun threat  
    When they high off of drugs they haven't even done yet  
    So bring the money by tonight  
    'Cause your wife said this the biggest knife  
    She ever saw in her life (Help me, help me)
    
-   Inspiring an alt-title for this page, Hoyt Axton's song "The Pusher", made famous by Steppenwolf, is about the evils of drug-pushers which featured the lyric "God Damn the Pusher Man".
-   From _Songs by Tom Lehrer_, Tom Lehrer's tribute to a "lovable old character" who had "never been properly recognized in song", "The Old Dope Peddler":
    
    He gives the kids free samples,  
    Because he knows full well  
    That today's young innocent faces  
    Will be tomorrow's clientele.
    
    -   Recorded in 1953 and composed in 1948, the song portrays the Old Dope Peddler as if he were selling candy, not dope. It's Played for Laughs.
    -   In 1982, he wrote in The Washington Post that he found the song "almost chilling".

    Pro Wrestling 

-   Darren "Droz" Drozdoff lead a _very_ short-lived stable with his piercing artist Prince Albert and Key. Key (played by Vic Grimes) was implied to be the stable's coke dealer - he wore all white, and even his name was a reference to kilos (the standard unit of measurement for cocaine). Key lasted under a month with only one match to his name.
-   Razor Ramon was derived from the _Scarface (1983)_ movie and Razor was clearly meant to be one of the criminals released from Cuba's jails and dumped on Miami's shores as part of the Mariel boatlift.

    Radio 

-   In one episode of _The Now Show_, the guest standup describes living in a neighbourhood where there's an aggressive drug dealer on every corner, and that her mother only visited once. Describing her as someone who is scrupulously polite and hates saying no to people, but also has a determined understanding of the proper way of doing things, she claims she arrived clutching a bag of smack _and a receipt_.

    Tabletop Games 

-   The _Dungeons & Dragons_ supplement _The Book of Vile Darkness_ describes a demon who managed to possess a blue dragon. The first thing the demon did was force its new host to take some luhix, a viciously addictive drug made from Abyssal plants. Each day one of the demon's subordinates planeshifts to the dragon's lair with another dose of luhix, so even if the dragon succeeded in freeing itself from the demon, it would then be cut off from a means of sating its addiction and staving off the brutal withdrawal symptoms.
-   In _Exalted_, the Guild imposes trade embargoes on any nation that dares to try to keep itself drug-free. Since the Guild basically controls all international commerce in Creation, this is usually enough to bring a government to its knees fairly quickly. If it isn't, the Guild is not above hiring a mercenary army or two to invade the offending nation, depose its rulers, and install a Guild-backed puppet on the throne.
-   In the post-cyberpunk RPG "Fates Worse Than Death", the Drug Lords have recently managed (after years of hard work) to produce the "holy grail" of illegal street drugs: a drug that is dirt cheap to create, is instantly addictive, and has _no effects whatsoever_ except for absolutely horrible withdrawal symptoms. No more of this tedious "convincing people to buy drugs" crap: their pushers just grab you while you walk down the street, give you one injection, and from that point on you have to pay them ridiculous prices to avoid the withdrawal symptoms of doom. Yet the drug is cheap enough for their victims to make? _That_ formula won't be staying secret for long...
-   Subverted in _Myriad Song_, the "Pusher" career is mechanically a medic who's good at lying, and whose "medicine" is powerful but has a chance of getting the "patient" addicted.
-   _Paranoia_ adventure _Send in the Clones_. When the PCs meet Hall-Y-Wud-5, he'll try to hook them on the drug he pushes, co-cola. He'll persuade them to try it with a sales pitch, and will offer them a free taste ("First hit is no charge").

    Theatre 

-   Closely related — the Bad Idea Bears in _Avenue Q_ exist solely to try to push other characters into having more sex and alcohol.
-   Conversed in _The Lieutenant of Inishmore_. Padraic is convinced that James Henley "pushes his filthy drugs on children" while James claims that he sells reasonably priced weed to university students. To top off the Comedic Sociopathy, Padraic is perfectly fine with him forcing Protestant children to take drugs, but James sells to Catholics too...

    Video Games 

-   In _Anbennar_, the state of Myxk is run by Religion of Evil pirates who make a magical drug called "Demon's Blood", which is basically cocaine that also gives you visions from Hell. Their primary occupations are a) using the drug for dark rituals, b) forcing slaves to take the drug, and c) waging war to force other countries to legalize the drug and surrender treaty ports for Myxk to sell it from.
-   _BioShock_: Frank Fontaine was a variant. After discovering ADAM, a horrendously addictive substance that gives the user superpowers, he starts marketing it to Rapture's populace. He never _forces_ people to take the drug, but given all the things ADAM can let you do, and how one side effect of ADAM overuse is violent insanity, eventually even people who didn't want to take the drug had to splice themselves in order to fend off other splicers, meaning that they also had to come to Fontaine. Of course, the brutal civil war brewing because of Ryan's descent into tyranny didn't help matters any.
-   A random encounter on the road in _The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim_ is a stranger who will offer you some Skooma. You can buy some, refuse, or threaten to report him for dealing in illegal substances - choosing the latter will cause him to attack.
-   _Fallout_:
    -   In _Fallout 2_, Jet was specifically engineered to be extremely addictive but only produce a short high, so customers would need to buy more frequently. However, the dealers aren't particularly pushy, since the client base in the three areas it can be found (New Reno, The Den, and Redding) are well-established. However, if you take on the quest to solve the Jet-overdose murder of Chris Wright, his father will insist that the boy was forced to take the drug; he's vehemently anti-drugs, has made his stance clear to his whole family, and refuses to even consider the alternative of his son doing it voluntarily. It eventually turns out that it was actually an assassination, as completing the quest reveals that the victim was poisoned and that the initial suspects (the mob family that controlled the Jet supply) weren't behind it, it was actually a different family that was trying to provoke a war between the two (which would, of course, leave both badly weakened to the point that the third family could fairly easily take over both of their territories).
    -   In _Fallout: New Vegas_, drug dealer Dixon comes across as this to the denizens of Freeside, a slum right next to a post-apocalyptic Las Vegas. He proves perfectly willing to sell a special "concoction" to the player, which ends up just being a mixture of Jet and whisky.
-   _Galerians_ features a solicitous drug dealer who identifies Rion, the protagonist, as "a good customer" based on appearance, offering free samples to show that he can cater to Rion's exotic tastes. The whole scene is jarring since it is the only indication of black market activity for Rion's drugs in the game.
-   _Kingdom of Loathing_:
    -   There is A Suspicious Looking Guy, who gives you a free sample of "Goofballs", which boost your stats for a while, but make your parents worry about you. If you don't keep taking them, you suffer Goofball Withdrawal, which for a long time was one of the worst Status Effects in the game.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Each time you go back for more, the price goes up. Aside from getting you addicted, and then price-gouging you, he's not particularly aggressive. And spoofed roughly five times a year, when because it's "Halloween" and you knocked on his door looking for "sweet treats" he's giving out free "candy" (meaning "sugar" and "artificial flavors" to get you all "buzzed") all night! (They're Rock Pops, and perfectly fine for you if you don't follow up by drinking cola.)
    -   There's also a guy in Bad Moon that will forcefully shove a pill down your throat for free, which gives you so-so spooky resistance, but make you super weak to fire and stench damage.
-   _Super Fighter_: Red Man is a drug dealer and also the Big Bad and Final Boss of this poor man's _Street Fighter_ clone.

    Web Comics 

-   In a Patreon-only strip of _Dumbing of Age_, Joyce's parents (who, it should probably be noted, are very fundamentalist Christian) have raised her to be in fear of these people, and she expects Carla to be one when Carla mentions she does weed. Joyce is _very_ shocked when an indignant Carla declares she doesn't share her weed and Joyce can find her own.
-   _Sleepless Domain_: When Kokoro tells Undine she used to date Outrageous Lime, but broke it off because she found Lime 'too hardcore' for her, Undine promptly pictures Lime as one of these, pushing a pack helpfully labelled 'The Drugs' toward a trembling Kokoro, who mutters about peer pressure. Reality...was much more mundane.

    Western Animation 

-   _Bravestarr_: The episode "The Price" has a drug dealer who is pushing a drug called "spin," which starts with causing feelings of intense euphoria but can later lead to extreme paranoia and even death. He is extremely suave and persuasive but insists on targeting people with very little (or no) money, apparently just so he can persuade them to steal what they owe, suggesting he's more interested in corrupting people rather than actually earning a profit. Also, he actually manufactures the drug himself rather than getting it from a supplier, and once Bravestarr takes out his factory, New Texas is freed from the devastating influence of spin, tying everything up in a neat little bow. Sadly, not before a young boy has died from the drug.
-   In the _Captain Planet_ episode "Mind Pollution", the villain Verminous Skumm was a dealer of a highly addictive drug called "bliss", had some people resort to stealing to get the drug, and he encouraged them to take it and wouldn't accept no for an answer. One of his clients turns out to be Linka's cousin, Boris, who he convinces at one point to get Linka addicted as well by spiking her food with the drug in return for "enough bliss to last you the rest of your life", and eventually dies from overdosing on it. Of course, Skumm's motivation was to wipe out humanity in order to create a world for rats, so profit wasn't really a concern for him. Not surprisingly, after his helicopter crashes, Skumm pulls out a slice of pizza from his pocket (with a bliss pill stuck to it), and gobbles it down. When he sees how his eyes totally bloodshot, Skumm realizes that he doped himself up.
-   A huge Massive Multiplayer Crossover inspirational film _Cartoon All-Stars to the Rescue_ including Garfield, the _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles_, _The Smurfs (1981)_, ALF, Winnie-the-Pooh, Slimer, Bugs Bunny, _DuckTales (1987),_ _Alvin and the Chipmunks,_ and the Muppet Babies (1984), was create to combat this enemy, which included a foreword from the leader of whichever country it was being viewed in, such as then-President George H. W. Bush in its American airing. It's always fun when a sitting President has to talk about a show featuring Smurfs, especially when they clearly didn't know _what_ a Smurf was five minutes before they turned the camera on.
-   Spoofed, skewered, and danced on in the _Clone High_ episode "Raisin the Stakes: A Rock Opera in Three Acts". The _eeeevil_ "Pusher" causes the entire student body to get addicted to (wait for it) ..._smoking raisins_. Ironically, he's actually far LESS pushy (at least directly) than examples that are played straight. Beyond using a bit of Reverse Psychology to create a demand, all he really does is sit in the shadows and quietly sell his wares to a willing customer base.
-   _C.O.P.S._ has a one-off villain called Addictum, who uses this as his modus operandi. During his only episode, called "The Case of the Lowest Crime"? he is seen harassing a pair of teenage girls into taking a free sample of his drugs. Unfortunately for him, his aggressive behavior (and possibly the fact he looks like a walking corpse) led to these girls calling the C.O.P.S., who subsequently arrest him.
-   The public service announcements for the _G.I. Joe_ cartoon had aggressive criminals. Two kids home alone, revealing over the phone that they are home alone. A stranger's car drives up to the house... and drives off when noticing the Joe soldier Roadblock, a tall bald black man in a skimpy top, standing on the lawn.
    -   Then there was the Very Special Episode two-parter that had the Joes and Cobras team up in an Enemy Mine scenario against an eeevilll drug dealer known as the Headman, who dressed like the Hamburglar and had gotten family members of both Joes and Cobras hooked on his stuff. Apparently, drugs are so bad that even an organization committed to genocidal acts of terrorism will gladly embark on a crusade to stop them. (Note: this was a Recycled Script from the _C.O.P.S._ example above.)
-   The _Jem and the Holograms_ episode "Alone Again", with Bobby Braddock, a sweet-talking drug dealer. Bobby, a high schooler, wants the main girl of the episode, Laura, to start using drugs and get hooked on them, giving her a few bags of free pills and then charging her $30 for new ones after he successfully gets her hooked. When she can't pay, he ditches her and her new addiction and finds someone else. While more cold than aggressive, he absolutely fits this trope.

    Real Life 

-   There actually _are_ very rare cases of this being Truth in Television, albeit not quite in the way they were depicted in the '80s and early-'90s. For example, a few of these have shown up on various _World's Wildest Police Videos_ specials, with one infamously latching on to the undercover cop's car as she drove away. These dealers are usually extremely amped up on their own product. Notice as well that they get caught because of this aggressiveness.
-   The drug-laced lollipops mentioned in one urban legend. These are not to be confused with Actiq and its generic counterparts, which are fentanyl-laced lollipops used as painkillers in pediatric oncology. Although the odd Actiq gets abused from time to time, messing with anything containing fentanyl (an opioid much, much more powerful than morphine) is almost always a bad idea; just ask anyone who survived something like the China white scare around 1988, where a fentanyl analogue was sold as heroin and quite a few junkies died of what they thought was a modest dose.
-   It's an urban myth that pimps do this to keep their prostitutes from leaving them, simply because purchasing drugs eats into their profits. However, there are plenty of prostitutes who work to support a drug habit. It's also possible for someone to be both a pimp and a drug dealer at the same time, and if any of the prostitutes working for said person were addicted to the drugs they were selling it could certainly appear as if it were a deliberate action on the part of the pimp, regardless of how it had actually occurred.
-   Undercover narcotics officers will sometimes act like this to try to catch users in the act of buying drugs. However, since actual users and real dealers (at least, those that don't take their own product, as mentioned above) are too smart to fall for this, the officers often target high schoolers or first-time users for an easy arrest, which brings up serious questions about the effectiveness of the war on drugs, and the exact definition of entrapment.
-   Every Halloween, news channels will inevitably run a story on drug-laced candy/drugs disguised as candy, and how parents should beware that these things could wind up in their children's trick-or-treat bags. There are _no_ recorded cases of this happening in real life. (There are cases of drugs being disguised as candy, but it was sellers trying to hide their wares, not giving them away to children.) Not only are drugs way too expensive to give away en masse, but even if a child got hooked and wanted more, they'd have no way of knowing who the dealer was. So basically, such a dealer would be blowing hundreds of dollars just For the Evulz of assuming some unknown kids will get high.
    -   In most or all alleged cases, the child victim found the drugs within their own home, and trick-or-treating was just a convenient scapegoat (more tragically, this also applies to poisoned candy).
-   Somewhat to the surprise of law enforcement trying to catch them, modern dealers of heroin would actually give free doses to certain customers if they didn't have the money to pay at that time. Notably, though this is only _partly_ to keep them addicted (see _Dreamland_); it's also both for the safety of themselves and their customer, since severe withdrawal symptoms can be fatal (dealers are very much interested in keeping their customers alive to keep buying from them, after all) and particularly desperate customers are also more likely to try and rob or attack their dealers.
-   And of course there's the time-honoured tactic of offering a huge introductory discount only to jack up the price afterwards, entrapping anyone who failed to Read the Fine Print, which works even better for addictive narcotics than it does for the stuff you can legally hawk in an infomercial.
-   There's also the method of spiking relatively mild drugs, like marijuana or even alcohol, with more intense and addictive ones, like PCP or better yet some designer cocktail only they sell. Not exactly forcing straight edge kids to become addicts, but it is tricking casual drug users into becoming full-blown addicts.
-   This trope is part of the reason for the disappearance and decommissioning of payphones, besides them being superseded by cell phones. According to Urban Legend, drug dealers would loiter around public telephones, both waiting for "customers" to call them, and trying to lure in new customers by offering drugs. However, there are no reliable reports of dealers ever having done this, even back in the days before cell phones were widely available, and it certainly wouldn't make much sense. Loitering around a payphone for hours and hours each day does, after all, look suspicious, and (this being the thing everyone apparently missed) looking suspicious is exactly what drug dealers _don't_ want.
-   This sort of attitude was a major cause for the opioid epidemic, with pharmaceutical companies bribing doctors into prescribing opioid medications to patients who didn't need such powerful painkillers, or prescribing them to people who did need them but in amounts so large that no human could take them as prescribed without becoming addicted.
-   President George H.W. Bush, in his first address from the Oval Office, held up a bag of crack cocaine which had been seized from a drug deal which took place just across the street from the White House. The incident was used as an example to show how aggressive drug dealers had become. Although it later turned out that the deal had been a deliberate setup so Bush could claim that dealers were "selling next to the White House" (although, from the 70's to the early 90's, DC really was Crack Central so the claim wasn't _that_ far-fetched).
-   The Opium Wars: British merchants were selling lots of opium in China, but the Chinese government then banned it, so Britain _declared war_ to force China to allow opium. (There were other provocations & factors, but that was the main goal.) It doesn't get any more aggressive than bringing in an army to help with your drug dealing.

___