_"I do not aim with my hand. He who aims with his hand has forgotten the face of his father. I aim with my eye.  
I do not shoot with my hand. He who shoots with his hand has forgotten the face of his father. I shoot with my mind.  
I do not kill with my gun. He who kills with his gun has forgotten the face of his father. I kill with my heart."_

The hero that Guns and Gunplay Tropes are for.

It should be noted that for a while, guns and bullets were considered vulgar. Point, fire, they drop dead. This is so mundane that monsters and heroes who were cool enough became Immune to Bullets. After all, if it were that easy, the police would be able to deal with it.

However, certain genres have put the "cool" back into guns. It's all about style, so expect a lot of flourishes that wouldn't work in real life, such as using Guns Akimbo.

The Gunslinger is this hero. They might be from The Western, Film Noir, Heroic Bloodshed or just plain scenery-destroying action flicks. A wandering gunslinger is often The Drifter, one specifically out to do good is also the Knight Errant, or even just a Hitman with a Heart. But overall for some reason, alongside the Cowboy, gunslingers have also become a cultural image of American people and American warrior culture abroad.

The Gunslinger comes in a few styles:

-   **The Trick Shot:** Can shoot the wings off the back of a fly from a half-mile away while hanging upside down and having to ricochet off a wall or two. Will occasionally interact with surroundings using the same pistol. They may be able to ricochet bullets off of small objects such as coins, which is made even more badass if if they can flick the coin into the air and pull off the shot in one fluid motion.
-   **The Vaporizer:** Who cares if one bullet misses when some of the 2,000 rounds will inevitably hit? And explode? This version relies on BFGs and lots and lots of dakka.
-   **The Woo:** Tends to be an expert with Bullet Time and Gun Fu, with an emphasis on pistols, very close combat, and the ability to move faster than a million different pieces of supersonic lead. Alternatively, a master of Gun Kata. The version most likely to use two guns at once.
-   **The Quick Draw:** There's a hole in your head where that thought of squaring up against this guy used to be. And what shots others happen to sneak are _intercepted mid-flight_.

The Young Gun is a Gunslinger in infancy. You get double bonus points if your gunslinger is a girl. Also expect Marked Bullets to be used. Particularly skilled gunslingers may name their weapons — whatever that implies. Gunslingers who obsess over their weapons or tend to collect them are probably Gun Nuts.

For the eponymous Stephen King hero who epitomizes the trope, see _The Gunslinger_. For the Beverly Garland/Roger Corman film (and MST3K episode), see _Gunslinger._ Also has nothing to do with mechanical arms.

Compare Superhero Packing Heat, Samurai Cowboy and Professional Killer. For a character with similar traits who uses longer-ranged weapons, see the Cold Sniper and Friendly Sniper.

Their Sword Counterpart would be Master Swordsman; while a Master Archer might perform a similar function in societies predating guns. A true master could be the Fastest Gun in the West. A Smoking Barrel Blowout usually finishes off a successful shot. Sometimes involved in a Showdown at High Noon.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Attack on Titan_: The Military Police's Anti-Human Suppression Squad turn out to be this, using special maneuver gear and dual pistols. They especially dispatch three veteran Survey Corpsmen in an instant, establishing themselves as a serious threat.
-   _Biomega_: Synthetic Human Zoichi Kanoe exhibits all types in virtually every fight he's involved in.
-   _Black Cat_: Train Heartnet combines elements from several types. He also practices Gun Kata.
-   _Black Lagoon_: The anime features two Gun Fu experts who use two pistols at close quarters as well as a huge number of gunmen (and women). One of those totes around a minigun...
    -   More specifically, Balalaika is The Trick Shot, Roberta and Gretel are Vaporizers, and Revy is The Woo.
        -   Eda, who we haven't seen fight much, appears to be a Quick Draw artist. For evidence, in the episode Calm Down, Two men, she's a faster draw than Revy, though not by much. That itself should be noteworthy, considering Revy's considerable skill.
        -   And everyone leaves out poor Mr. Chang, who is a surgeon with the more precise types.
-   _Bleach_:
    -   Primera Espada Coyote Starrk's released form is that of a traditional wild-west outlaw equipped with a pair of guns. For the most part, he has exhibited Vaporizer and The Woo, albeit in a x100 fashion.
    -   Suifeng's Bankai is a shoulder-mounted missile launcher. Pure Vaporizer.
    -   Ururu beat Starrk as the first gunslinger by hundreds of chapters. She's a Vaporizer.
    -   The Stern Ritter "N" Robert Accutrone manifests his cross as a relatively ordinary-looking pistol. This being Bleach, everything is but ordinary and the guy actually shoots out _Shunsui's_ eye. Something even Starrk couldn't do.
    -   Stern Ritter "X" Lille Barro wields a powerful sniper rifle in combat. He's a mix of Vaporizer and Quick Draw, able to blow a hole through the head of a Zero Squad member faster than she can react and whose special power, 'The X-Axis', allows him to pierce anything in a straight line between the muzzle and the target, making defense absolutely useless.
-   _Burn Up! W/Excess_: Maya, being a Gun Nut, is so crazy for her weapons that she gives them names. Vaporizer, given that most of her arsenal qualifies as "big guns" _and_ she has an itchy trigger finger. Her _Burn Up! Scramble_ incarnation leans more towards a Trick Shot, showcasing more shooting skill and less desire to just shoot.
-   _City Hunter_: Ryo Saeba is a mercenary/bodyguard who has Improbable Aiming Skills with his handgun, making him a Trick Shot.
-   _Cowboy Bebop_: Spike Spiegel borrows elements from The Woo and The Quick Draw. Mad Pierrot is The Vaporizer.
-   _Date A Live_: Kurumi Tokisaki wields a musket and a flintlock pistol that resemble the minute and hour hands of a clock. They not only fire regular bullets but also serve as the catalyst for her Time Master powers.
-   _Daimos_:
    -   Nana Izumi, Kazuya's little sister, wields a gun, in contrast to her male counterparts whoight with swords. Due to her appearance, a common Fan Nickname for her is _Candy Candy_ with a gun.
    -   Raiza, despite using a whip as her main weapon, is surprisingly skilled with a gun and manages to defend Richter from the Miwa and the United Nations troops when he attempts to take them into custody.
    -   Sayuri, the one-time character from the Utopia arc, shoots at a Baam soldier with precision at her first try.
-   _Daltanious_: When Kento isn't in his Super Robot, this is his main weapon. It's implied he self-taught himself how to use a gun, being forced to survive in a post apocalyptic Earth ravaged by an Alien Invasion.
-   Kuara Tachibana from _Dancougar Nova_ is a Super Cop who uses a pistol in action. Even when in the mecha, she handles the guns.
-   _D.Gray-Man_: General Cross Marian uses Innocence in the form of a revolver. He's a combination of Vaporizer and The Woo, and definitely qualifies as one of the most badass characters in the series.
-   _Death Note_: Despite the series having lots of characters from different law enforcements, guns are actually rarely used, since the main plot is about investigations. The idealistic yet rather incompetent Touta Matsuda proves to be a very good shooter, having shown his proficiency with hand guns during two major occasions, and he manages to avoid killing Light despite hitting with bullets multiple times. The only other notable gun user is Watari who is a Friendly Sniper instead.
-   _Fairy Tail_: Bisca is the female half of a gunslinging Battle Couple with Alzack. Neither of them seems able to admit their feelings for one another.
-   _Fullmetal Alchemist_: In several displays of skill, Riza Hawkeye combines ALL FOUR of the above types. Trick Shot is shown in her incredible long-distance sniping skill, while Vaporizer and The Woo are shown in her battles with the homunculi. Finally, Quick Draw is shown in Roy's fight with Scar.
-   _Grenadier_: Rushuna Tendo combines Trick Shot and The Woo into a uniquely anime gun-style, and at one point engages in a full-scale Gun Kata duel with a rival in the final episode. She also covers The Quick Draw — while wielding one six-shooter, she has outshot a multi-barreled machine gun by not only shooting the bullets out of the air but hitting them so precisely they then blocked entire chains of other bullets. Then there's her insane trick of how she _reloads_ her six-shooter.
-   _Gungrave_: Brandon Heat, also known as Death Beyond the Grave. During his human life, Brandon preferred Trick Shot, The Woo, and Quick Draw. After coming Back from the Dead as Beyond the Grave, the super-human strength of his undead state allowed him to carry big enough guns (the Cerberus handguns and the coffin) to add The Vaporizer to the list.
-   _Gunslinger Girl_: As indicated by the title, all of the girls taken in by the Social Wellfare Agency are extremely skilled with various types of guns. They're also Tykebombs as they have been converted by the SWA into cyborgs and given paramilitary training to become assassins for the government. The girls' handlers are from a variety of police and military organizations.
-   _Gunsmith Cats_: Protagonist Rally Vincent is most definitely a Trick Shot. More bizarre tricks with a pistol than you can shake a stick at.
-   _Hellsing_:
    -   Alucard. Despite winning big on the Super Power Lottery, he still loves shooting up monsters with two oversized Hand Cannons and is an _absolute beast_ with them. Turning all his enemies into swiss cheese and seemingly having Bottomless Magazines.
    -   Integra Hellsing is a skilled markswoman and swordswoman. Heinkel Wolf also Duel Wields pistols. Seras Victoria and (to a slightly lesser extent) Rip van Winkle qualify more as Small Girl, Big Gun.
    -   Seras Victoria, meanwhile, is a solid Vaporizer. The Harkonnen (her weapon) weighs well over 100 pounds and can blow up an airship. And let's not talk about her wielding Guns Akimbo flak artilleries...
-   _Isabelle of Paris_: Geneviève is a Proper Lady, but when she sees the Prussian police officers attack her boyfriend Jules, her Overly Protective Girlfriend instincts kick in and she manages to shoot the man wrangling Jules, despite her eyes being shut. She has an instant My God, What Have I Done? moment afterwards.
-   _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure_:
    -   _Stardust Crusaders_ features a villainous example in Hol Horse, who is a Trick Shot thanks to his Stand, the Emperor, being a revolver that lets him control the trajectory of its bullets. Unfortunately, he is a Boisterous Weakling who doesn't do much much except shoot glass for his partner, J. Geil, to attack through, and while he does nearly kill Polnareff, it's through Avdol's interference that he fails. The games, however, shows him how he fights at his full potential; being able to not only actually land his trick shots, but is also a master of keep away, medium-to-ranged combat, and varying setups for his powerful Supers.
    -   From _Golden Wind_, Guido Mista is an exemplary Trick Shot, and uses his Stand, Sex Pistols<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , in conjunction with his revolver in order to perform some truly outrageous stunts with bullets. He has a couple Woo-like tricks up his sleeve but is ultimately too slow to really qualify as one — especially given his unfortunate tendency to get hit by his own shots.
    -   Another example is Ringo Roadagain from _Steel Ball Run_. Ringo is a very solid Quick Draw and has some Trick Shot in him, but that's a subtle subversion. He knows the most accurate distance for just about any revolver out there and he never fires one step outside of that range, which is why he never misses.
-   _Jormungand_: Child Soldier Jonah is both The Trick Shot and The Quick Draw, which is quite unnerving to his mercenary teammates due to his young age. He also is not afraid to do a bit of Vaporizing when the situation requires it.
-   _Kämpfer_: Akane is normally a nice, quiet girl. Upon her transformation into a Kämpfer however, her badass side appears along with a gun, and then starts firing at pretty much everything in sight she decides she doesn't like.
-   _Kino's Journey_: The titular Kino is a formidable quick draw, often seen practicing it and later putting it to use with very effective results.
-   _Lupin III_:
    -   Daisuke Jigen, one of Lupin's frequent partners-in-crime, is an expert shot who uses a custom .357 Magnum revolver to be the Trick Shot, The Woo, and the Quick Draw (0.3 seconds). Because of his strength in an array of guns, including rocket launchers and sniper rifles (which he _shoots from the waist_ in _The Castle of Cagliostro_), he also qualifies as The Vaporizer. He actually dislikes More Dakka, saying that shooting _more_ shots isn't better, especially when _one_ will do the trick. He proves it in _Lupin III: Stolen Lupin_, where he has a _broken_ gun and one bullet. This against an enemy with automatic weapons in each hand.
    -   Lupin himself, as well as Fujiko and Zenigata, are also good with their guns, but Lupin's the clear number two. His use of misdirection and disguise make him a better Trick Shot than Jigen, although many movies have Lupin's gun wrecked before he can fire.
-   _Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha StrikerS_: Teana Lanster is a Magical Girl gunslinger who uses The Woo style. _StrikerS Sound Stage X_ shows her adding some Vaporizer to her fighting style in the form of Starlight Breaker. Force's Arnage is a solid Vaporizer — Quad Gatlings, ho!
-   _Medabots_: KBT-type Medabots, including Metabee, are designed for shooting techniques. Metabee is both a Trick Shot, with his precision-firing revolver on his right arm; and a Vaporizer, with a quick-firing submachine gun on his left arm.
-   _My-HiME_: While her guns are very small, Natsuki is definitely a Vaporizer (since her CHILD can fire missiles and incredibly powerful beams of ice.) Her _My-Otome_ counterpart gets a personal BFG.
-   _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_: Mana Tatsumiya and Yuna Akashi. Mana is a combination of Trick Shot and The Woo: she dual wields _Desert Eagles_, which is perhaps only marginally made believable by her size and is so skillful with a sniper rifle that she can also use ricocheting to work around the fact that her targets are behind a wall, but in close-range combat, she falls into Gun Fu mode. Yuna is an obvious Quick Draw who uses twin pistols.
-   _Noir_: Kirika has a near-mystical gift for firearms, accurately shooting without looking or while performing leaps, rarely if ever missing; she is explicitly The Trick Shot. As one fan review put it, "Kirika isn't a Ninja, she's a witch."
-   _One Piece_: Being a series about pirates on the high seas, it has its fair share of characters who embody this trope, both among good guys and bad guys:
    -   Usopp somehow manages to be a Trick Shot without ever actually using a firearm (at least not one using traditional chemical propulsion). Apparently, he inherits it from his father, who, while we never see being engaged in any particularly amazing examples, brags about being a Trick Shot all of the time.
    -   Braham falls squarely within The Woo, darting about with jet-propelled shoes as he fires at his enemies. A style as acrobatic as his is necessary due to the nature of his guns, however; his ammunition is low-damage but emits bright flashes of light when he shoots, meaning his fighting style is designed around disorientation.
    -   Vander Decken IX has this trope as a superpower: He ate the Target-Target Fruit, which allows any projectiles launched via his actions to always head toward their mark. The only ways to get them to miss are to either put something in the way that will stop the projectile or to knock him out before the projectile reaches its destination.
    -   Jean Ango is the Quick Draw to Usopp's Trick Shot — he doesn't carry firearms on him either, and instead he is an incredibly fast and accurate shot using weapons he steals from his adversaries mid-battle. They don't even have to be guns. He _throws_ things with as lethal aim as he shoots.
    -   The entirety of the Firetank Pirates has traits of The Vaporizer, with every member carrying Tommy guns who won't hesitate to shoot anyone who looks like a threat. Makes sense, considering they're themed on The Mafia. In addition, they keep themselves on top with the most advanced long-range weaponry available, and Gotti has a minigun for a prosthetic arm. Their leader, Capone Bege, uses his unique take on the sizeshifter ability to turn himself into a deeply unusual and powerful version of this. He can redefine Walking Armory by making himself a living fortress with his crew (and their weapons) shrinking down to man the fortifications, letting them fire off entire cannon barrages that return to their normal size once they leave his body. The end result is that a pudgy, unassuming little guy has the literal firepower of a battleship.
-   _Outlaw Star_: Depending on the weapon he's using, Gene Starwind alternates between Trick Shot (pistols), or The Vaporizer (machine guns or rocket launchers).
-   _Panty & Stocking with Garterbelt_: Panty Anarchy has traits of _all four types_. To be clear, she has the Improbable Aiming Skills of the Trick Shot, the explosive firepower of the Vaporizer, the preference for pistols and Super-Speed of the Woo, and the quick reaction time and ability to Shoot the Bullet of the Quick Draw.

-   _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_: The anime features two Magical Girl Gunslingers, both Vaporizers. Mami Tomoe, prefers Gun Fu with a supply of single-shot muskets, but finishes with a BFG. And Homura Akemi, who combines her gunslinging composed of many military-grade weapons (including machine guns and RPGs) with lots of explosives and stopping time, giving her a Prestige Class of Woo or Quick Draw, depending on how you look at it.
    -   In _Rebellion_ Mami and Homura end up having a gun fight. It was technically a draw, though Mami wins through non-gun-related sneaky tactics.
    -   The spinoff game/anime _Magia Record_ has Aimi Eri, a straight-up magical cowgirl complete with revolver and ten-gallon hat. Probably falls under Trick Shot, as she has multiple abilities that let teammates ignore enemy evasion, and her name sounds suspiciously close to "Aimer."
-   _Reborn! (2004)_: There are several examples of gunslingers, but overall less than you'd expect from a series about The Mafia.
    -   The eponymous hitman himself, Reborn, is an undisputed master of the Trick Shot. In one instance, he appears to misfire at the ground, only to have the bullets emerge from the earth _several seconds later_ to strike his target with perfect accuracy.
    -   Xanxus, leader of the Varia, dual-wields Dying Will Guns that shoot out a beam of his highly destructive Flames of Wrath. Xanxus follows the path of the Vaporizer, as his named techniques largely involve him unloading a constant barrage on his opponent without any finesse whatsoever.
    -   Fabio, also known as Vongola VII, was the inventor of the original Dying Will Gun. It's unknown what type of style he used, but he only used a single gun compared to Xanxus's two, and he also possessed a much weaker Dying Will Flame to use for his bullets.
-   _Saiyuki_: Genjyo Sanzo is definitely The Trick Shot, being able to shoot a seed implanted next to Gojyo's heart by Chin Yiso without hitting the heart. In _Reload_, he also managed to hit Ukoku with a pistol 3 times the size of his weapon of choice...which he had never fired before, not even once...while suffering from multiple broken bones. Said pistol had belonged to another Gunslinger in the series, Gatto Nenehawk, who was a The Vaporizer and used HUGE twin pistols.
-   The title character of _Madlax_ also fits under The Trick Shot, though she ventures into Gun Kata territory (and thus The Quick Draw) during the final episodes.
-   _Samurai Gun_: Befitting its name, the Steampunk Historical Japan setting features gunslingers heavily. The main character Ichimatsu and by extent the other Samurai Guns, are a combination of The Trick Shot and The Woo. Vaporizers show up in several episodes of the anime, including a minigun-toting Implacable Man who is only fighting because it's the only way to keep up the supply of medicine he needs to keep his sick mother alive. The main member of the Anti-Samurai Gun Unit (in the anime, at least) is actually a blend of several types; his primary weapon is a Steampunk Uzi, but he has the same bullet-dodging training as a Samurai Gun and once proves accurate enough to shoot his opponent's bullet out of the air.
-   _Soul Eater_:
    -   Death the Kid is a combination. His usual style of a (literally) inhuman turn of speed, close-combat, and Gun Fu makes him The Woo, whereas Death Cannon and his other soul resonance attacks make him The Vaporizer.
    -   The Thompson Sisters themselves also fit the trope. While they're technically the weapons of Death the Kid, they've both shown the ability to fight using each other quite proficiently. Even more so now that Patty's become Liz's meister and Kid's possibly gone through a Face–Heel Turn.
-   _Symphogear XV_: Chris Yukine switches from crossbows to double revolvers for Ichaival's base attacks.
-   _Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann_: Yoko has elements of Trick Shot and Vaporizer. She carries an oversized, high-energy sniper rifle with her wherever she goes.
-   _Trigun_:
    -   Vash embodies Trick Shot, The Woo, and The Quick Draw, as he tries to _avoid_ gunplay whenever he can, but when he gets into it, nothing can beat him. His traveling partner Nicolas Wolfwood completes the set as the embodiment of The Vaporizer (with some Woo thrown in), complete with a combination rocket launcher/machine gun/shotgun/pistol rack in the shape of a _cross_.
    -   The Bernardelli girls, Meryl Stryfe and Milly Thompson, also count as this, Meryl, despite packing 50 derringers under her cape, is shown to be a Trick Shot artist, able to aim accurately on the run. Milly (who normally carries her huge Stungun under her cape) would be a Vaporizer if not for the fact her weapon is less-lethal.
-   _Trinity Blood_: In the anime, most of the heroes gunsling quite a bit, particularly the Guns Akimbo, M13 Jericho\-wielding android Tres Iqus who has all three styles pretty much nailed (given that Gunslinger is actually his callsign this isn't at all surprising).
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh! GX_: Austin O'Brien is a gunslinger duelist who fires trading cards from his duel disk, which doubles as a gun. Said trading cards explode upon impact for some unexplained reason. He duels this way too. Everyone else in the show is The Beastmaster, commanding their monsters to attack. He just shoots you repeatedly with Blaze Accelerator (which uses cards as ammo).
-   _Zombie Powder_: C.T. Smith had Trick Shot and The Woo in spades, with a splash of Quick Draw due to his super speed.

    Comic Books 

-   Batman foes:
    -   Deadshot is a villainous example of Trick Shot. In _Secret Six_, he's a combination of Trick Shot and Quick Draw, though he occasionally becomes a Vaporizer when facing someone with Contractual Immortality and Dodge the Bullet skills.
    -   The Trigger Twins dress like cowboys and theme their crimes around Wild West motifs. They are Quick Draws, with occasional flashes of Trick Shots.
-   Deadpool combines all four styles to go along with his own insane brand of Confusion Fu. He is frequently depicted firing two guns while performing all sorts of insane acrobatic feats. He has been shown to pull off shots that should be statistically impossible. He can pop a cap in someone before they even know they're dead. And being an Ax-Crazy gun for hire he isn't afraid to pump someone with enough bullets and explosives to hold back an entire army.
-   The series _East of West_ is filled with all types of gunslingers, which is to be expected from a comic book series that draws a heavy amount of inspiration from the Western genre. Just about every major character is expected to be some sort of master gunman, but the two most notable ones are The Ranger and The Horseman of Death. Both of whom possess superhuman levels of marksmanship, making Trick Shot experts.
-   Grifter of the _Wild Cats Wild Storm_ is always depicted wielding two guns at once in just about every appearance he's made.
-   _Judge Dredd_ is a solid Trick Shot thanks to his years of practice. And as a nod to his Space Western motif, he also shows skill as a Quick Draw expert.
-   Agent Graves and The Minutemen from _100 Bullets_. Special mention goes to Minuteman Willie Tymes, whose skills as the Trick shot earned him the nickname "My first shot is my last"
-   Kidd Twist from Joss Whedon's run of the _Runaways_ is a villainous example of a Trick Shot. He wields a pair of Magical Revolvers that allow him to hit any target he lays his eyes on and will never miss. This includes being able to fire and have his bullet _curve through obstacles_ and hit his target with a clean shot.
-   _Preacher_:
    -   The Saint of Killers is a Trick Shot (no matter how he shoots, he will kill), Vaporizer (infinite bullets), and Quick Draw (apparently he doesn't even draw, he is instantly pointing at the poor guy who encounters him).
        
        **FBI Agent**: So he drew on you and started shooting.  
        **Sheriff Root**: Ain't what I said. I said there was a blur and then shooting. I didn't see no draw.
        
    -   Tulip O'Hare has also shown considerable skill as a Trick Shot in the few occasions we've have seen her wield a gun.
-   Described as equal parts scarecrow and zombie gunslinger, the Gunwitch is a silent undead golem with unerring marksmanship from _Nocturnals_. A Trick Shot with strong elements of The Woo and Quick Draw.
-   Being a Vietnam War veteran, The Punisher mainly uses Trick Shot (rifles) or Vaporizer (machine guns and explosive launchers), but occasionally utilizes The Woo (twin pistols) and even Quick Draw (quickdraw with one pistol).
-   Tommy Monaghan the titular protagonist from _Hitman_ is a combination of the Woo, Trick Shot, and has shown shades of the Quick Draw.
-   The protagonists in _Sin City_ all use guns. Hartigan is a Quick Draw since he usually draws and fires a single shot without having to move too much (he is pushing sixty with a bum-ticker, after all). Dwight is The Woo. He usually has Guns Akimbo and does a lot of fancy footwork to avoid getting shot. Wallace is a Trick Shot, as evidenced by the fact that most of his shots are impossible to perform. At the end of his story, he shoots an entire warehouse filled with assassins before any of them manage to fire off a single round. Marv rarely uses a gun even though his is the most famous due to its name. From what we see, he's more of a quickdraw.
-   Being an amalgamation of every western gunslinger in fiction, Jonah Hex is naturally a professional in the Trick Shot and the Woo. And is the undisputed king of the Quick Draw. For example, he is the _only_ person in The DCU who has been able to outdraw _Batman_ in a duel.
-   Jules from _Bazooka Jules_ is an extremely good shot with any type of gun, big or small, despite not having any combat experience. It's all thanks to a micro-robotic weapon that fused with her body called The Symbiote. It can provide her with any type of gun she needs when she's in danger and it also assists with her aim.
-   Lucky Luke is an Affectionate Parody of the classic western cowboy who takes the Trick Shot and the Quick Draw to illogical extremes. The phrase "faster than his own shadow", should give you an idea of the kind of gunplay antics he usually gets up to.
-   Spawn is _the_ quintessential example of a Vaporizer. It makes sense seeing as how he is the poster child for the era in which it was commonplace for superheroes to be drawn wielding comically oversized weapons.
-   Wesley Gibson from _Wanted_ is the undisputed _god_ of all four styles. He demonstrates his Trick Shot skills by shooting the wings off a fly and always landing perfect headshots without even _looking_ at his victim. As well as always being depicted firing away with a gun in each hand while performing all sorts of acrobatics. And he later displays his Vaporizer skills by laying waste to his enemies with a Gatling gun. Justified in that his marksmanship abilities are actually a genetic ability that he inherited from his father, who was known as the greatest supervillain who ever lived.
-   Plenty of characters from the _The Walking Dead_ use guns but it's Andrea's skills as the Trick Shoot that stand out. As she is always seen landing perfect headshots. Made even more impressive by the fact that she never even handled a gun before the zombie apocalypse
-   DC Comics Golden Age character Vigilante is one of the earliest examples of this trope in comics. True to his roots as a classic gunslinger, he is naturally a professional Trick Shot and Quick Draw expert.
-   The X-Men have several of these among their ranks.
    -   Cable and Bishop are both perfect examples of the Vaporizer. Not only that but they are routinely depicted firing guns that are even larger than they are! And considering the large stature of both men, _that is saying something_
    -   Longshot and Domino both use their mutant power to subconsciously alter probability in their favor, so if there's a trillion-to-one chance of them landing a perfect shot, you can bet that they _will make that shot._
    -   And lastly we have Fantomex who specializes in the Woo.
-   Roy Harper became this when he went from Speedy to Arsenal. He's a master of the Trick Shot and The Woo.
-   Typical of Marvel Comics' western heroes of The '50s and The '60s, the Rawhide Kid is equal parts Trick Shot and Quick Draw, able to draw with blinding speed and always disabling his opponents without killing them.

    Comic Strips 

-   In _Rick O'Shay_, gunslinger Hipshot Percussion is a major supporting character. Several storylines feature his reputation as one of the best shots in the West.

    Fan Works 

-   In _The Butcher Bird_, Bertram Lauren is this, as a mixture of The Woo and The Vaporizer.
-   Charlotte "Charlie" Duncan of _Sapphire Eleanor Rose Suzette De Mont Vs Canon_ is never seen without her BFG.
-   In _Fallout: Equestria_, most of Little Pip's party counts.
    -   Calamity is a solid Trick Shot, pulling off kill shots while performing complex aerial maneuvers, being the team's dedicated sniper with the BFG _Spitfire's Thunder_, and being skilled in magical energy weapons.
    -   Steelhooves is The Vaporizer taken to the next level! His go-to weapons are a missile launcher and GRENADE MACHINEGUN! While his raw firepower is a great asset to his friends, it's also frequently an inconvenience as he leaves little to scavenge from.
    -   Little Pip herself is something of a Woo. Her telekinesis allows her to wield multiple weapons at once (not always guns even), makes frequent use of S.A.T.S to invoke Bullet Time, and her weapon of choice is a scoped revolver.
-   In _Poké Wars_, Dawn is mostly a Trick Shot but has some Woo tendencies. Her supernatural accuracy places her in the Trick Shot category but her penchant for using dual pistols at close range places her in The Woo category.
-   In _Child of the Storm_ the Winter Soldier falls into Trick Shot and Quick Draw with a touch of the Woo — he's capable of moving fast enough to turn and shoot a master assassin who has snuck up behind him and is holding a gun to his head before the other man can even shoot. The Trick Shot is also sort of inevitable since his grandson is Clint Barton.
-   _Bad Future Crusaders_: Apple Bloom is mostly a Quick Draw. Having grown up in a country more technologically advanced than Equestria (and fought in a civil war), she is very proficient with her hoofgun.
-   In the _Discworld_ of A.A. Pessimal, the fast draw of pistol crossbows — left-handed, right-handed, or both together — is an Assassin skill, taught by Miss Alice Band. The very Ankh-Morporkian Nice Guy Tim Bellamy is sent out to be a Guild field agent in the Semi-United States of Aceria. One day he is challenged in a saloon by a local hard guy, who figures the tenderloin with the faggoty accent will be an easy pushover. Tim is sore that the girl he was unsuccessfully in love with is getting off with somebody else, and he is getting pissed in both senses of the word. He then demonstrates the Assassin fast draw. And brings a new skill to the Wild Widdershins of Aceria in the process.
-   _The Gunslinger Hero: Flintlock_:
    -   Izumi. While she doesn’t exclusively use guns, her main source of combative prowess comes from the absolute power of lead-based projectiles.
    -   Pony falls under this by virtue of her excessive use of Sweet Business, classifying her as The Vaporizer.
    -   Momo is also showing signs of this as time goes on.
-   _The Logia Brothers_: Usopp is even more of a Trick Shot and Quick Draw than in canon since instead of a slingshot, he has a quartet of revolvers and a rifle which he received from his father, which he uses to great effect. In his trademark fighting technique, he juggles the revolvers in a way that allows him to fire all of them near simultaneously.
-   _A Crew for a King_: Under the more pragmatic Nojiko's influence, Usopp fully steps into his sniper role, trading in his slingshot for a sniper rifle and several other guns, which he continues to make his customized ammo for.

    Films — Animation 

-   Rattlesnake Jake in _Rango_ is a combination of type B and D, and Rango claims to be a type A, and on one occasion, is one due to dumb luck

    Films — Live-Action 

-   Gold Rush-era Australia had its own gunfighters, known as Bushrangers, with names like Captain Starlight, Bold Jack Donahue, Captain Moonlight, Black John Caesar, and Captain Thunderbolt. As Ned Kelly, Mick Jagger dual wields Colt revolvers, The Outlaw Michael Howe favors flintlock pistols, and as Mad Dog Morgan, Dennis Hopper uses a pair of shotguns. Williamson, the badass longcoat of Kiwi film _Utu_ also fits this trope, and carries a four-barreled shotgun.
-   Parodied through exaggeration with the Waco Kid in _Blazing Saddles_, who, at one point, blasts the guns out of like seven people's hands in three seconds.
-   _Bring Me the Head of the Machine Gun Woman_: The Machine Gun Woman is a combination of The Vaporizer and The Woo: able to lay down More Dakka with her machine guns, or dance her way through a firefight without receiving a scratch.
-   Clint Eastwood plays Western characters who are Quick Draws and Trick Shots, including the _High Plains Drifter_, _The Outlaw Josey Wales_, and the _Pale Rider_.
-   _Collateral_: Vincent is a Quick Draw, taking down two assailants in under two seconds. It's even mentioned by one of the actors in the documentary at 3:00. He is ruthlessly efficient, preferring to put down his enemies with the Mozambique Drill.
-   The Mariachi from _Desperado_ is a quintessential Woo with undertones of Trick Shot. This departs from the "Accidental Hero" played straight in _El Mariachi_, who killed his adversaries almost unintentionally. Common to expanding characters in this trope, flanderization overtakes this character and others in _Once Upon a Time in Mexico_.
-   The titular character in _Django Unchained_ qualifies as a Quick Draw with hints of Vaporizer during the bounty hunting montage.
-   The Man With No Name, from Sergio Leone's _Dollars Trilogy_ is a Quick Draw and Trick Shot, often being the first and the last to fire in most given situations.
    -   Colonel Douglas Mortimer from _For a Few Dollars More_ is primarily a Trick Shot, taking out a man from the other end of the street with a pistol shot. He also has a Quick Draw to rival the Man with No Name, as evidenced by the film's final duel.
-   In _Ebenezer (1998)_, a setting update of _A Christmas Carol_ to the Canadian frontier, Ebenezer Scrooge is an expert marksman and quick-draw. His partner Marlowe was also this in life, to the point that when Scrooge shoots at him he draws on him, forgetting he's a ghost and nothing would happen.
-   _Equilibrium_'s Grammaton Clerics are masters of the Gun Kata, which takes the Woo to new heights of badassery, particularly in the person of protagonist John Preston, who can blast up a good number of Sweepers in a matter of seconds with his dual automatic Berettas.
-   Barney Ross from _The Expendables_ uses pistols as his weapon and is one of the fastest shooters in the series.
-   In _The Fastest Gun Alive,_ _Glenn Ford_ plays a store clerk who gets tired of the overblown stories of the townspeople and shows them how fast he is, shooting two silver dollars in the air. Unfortunately, this draws the attention of an outlaw who will start killing people if Ford does not face him. The truth is that Ford is the son of a famous sheriff who taught him to shoot, but he never worked up the courage to face anyone. He changed his name and hid from his past. In the end, Ford has to prove himself.
-   Max Kennard from _Gangster Squad_ is primarily a Trick Shot, able to shoot a can six times in the air while cocking the gun for each shot. He _does_ have some elements of the Quick Draw as shown during the climax where he takes out a machine gunner, breaking cover, drawing, and shooting before the gunner can get a bead on him.
-   Martin in _Grim Prairie Tales_ is a Quick Draw so confident in his abilities that he only loads a single bullet in his gun before a gunfight: although this is also a mind game he plays on his opponents to psych them out.
-   Jimmy Ringo in _The Gunfighter_ is a Quick Draw, with the reputation of being the Fastest Gun in the West.
-   Two of the Professional Killers in _Guns, Girls and Gambling_ qualify as gunslingers. The Blonde is The Woo: dual wielding twin Glock 17s and diving and flipping through gunfights. The Cowboy is the Quick Draw: packing a pair of Colt Peacemakers in a fast draw rig and lethally accurate with either hand.
-   Tequila Yuen from the John Woo movie _Hard Boiled_, being a Heroic Bloodshed hero, is classic Woo, with elements of Trick Shot with the trick he pulls with the primer and how he finishes off Johnny Wong in the finale. His arsenal gets expanded in the Sequel game, _Stranglehold_ (see below under Video Games).
-   John Wick is a much more grounded Woo, preferring to use point-blank pistolwork in conjunction with sambo grappling techniques and rather brutal melee.
-   _Last Man Standing (1996)_: Bruce Willis' hero is a pure Vaporizer that is a sort of a noir deconstruction of classic Quick Draw gunslingers. His style reflects the supposed changes in the times — fabled revolvers replaced by generic, mass-produced automatics, one-on-one duels by inglorious ambushes and indiscriminate slaughters, and legendary gunslinger finesse and honor by sweaty, chaotic shootouts, rather awkward (which distances him from the Woo) and taking a bloody toll on the hero — so long as the title phrase rings true.
-   In the movie, at least, of _The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen_, Tom Sawyer is a solid example of Vaporizer, but Quatermain is a far superior example of Trick Shot.
-   Liberty Valance is a Quick Draw, which is why he is able to terrorize the territory.
-   All seven of the _The Magnificent Seven_ are expert gunslingers recruited by Chris to defend a small Mexican town from bandits. Britt is unquestionably stated to be the best Quick Draw alive with both gun and knife and proves it, though it's not enough to keep him from being killed in the climactic firefight.
-   In _Maverick_, the eponymous character reveals himself to be a Quick Draw, but is not an actual gunfighter, preferring to bluff his way out of conflicts. This is in contrast to the original tv series, in which both the Maverick brothers are said to be incredibly _slow_ on the draw. Bart once claimed that Bret could outdraw him any day of the week and that Bret's nickname was "The Second Slowest Gun in the West".
-   Jack Sparrow in _Pirates of the Caribbean_ is a Trick Shot. Most of the fighting he does is melee, but when he takes up a gun it's always to do a single shot which _needs_ to count. To wit, he fires a gun once per film in each of the first three films <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . The shot from the third film is particularly impressive since he’s swinging high up on a rope on a ship in a storm.
-   Sharon Stone's character Ellen in _The Quick and the Dead_. The entire movie centres around a quick-draw competition, so the entire cast is filled with gunslingers. While most are Quick Draws, Cort and Ace are also Trick Shots.
-   John _Rambo_ is the prime example of the Vaporizer, blowing through bad guys with fully-automatic machine guns.
-   Robocop, although before his cyborgification he was a fairly poor shot who twirled his pistol to impress his son. Afterwards, though, he gained Improbable Aiming Skills and a Hand Cannon, as well as being Immune to Bullets. And continued to twirl his pistol.
-   Helen Mirren in _Red (2010)_ with a 50 Cal. Machine Gun shows that this trope isn't exclusive to younger Action Girls.
-   Alice in the _Resident Evil Film Series_ is a pure Woo, primarily wielding dual pistols or shotguns, though she's not averse to using other weapons as needs be against both Umbrella and the zombies they create.
-   Roycephus Pulsipher of the _R.I.P.D._ is able to shoot a two-headed foe with both hands while both are jumping through the air.
-   In _Seven (1979)_, Cowboy has modelled himself after Wild West gunslingers and definitely fits the mold. Primarily a Trick Shot from the one serious example of his gunplay seen in the film, where he shoots and kills Butterfly with a single shot at extreme long range under extremely challenging conditions (his target was in the ocean; moving on a surfboard at the time).
-   Smith from _Shoot 'Em Up_ combines Trick Shot and The Woo in such an over-the-top fashion you can't help but laugh at the ludicrous amounts of carnage he dishes out.
-   Since _Star Wars_ has elements of the Space Western, it's no surprise that it would have its fair share of galactic gunslingers — including everyone's favorite scruffy-looking nerfherder, Han Solo, who trusts his blaster more than hokey religions and ancient weapons. His backstory movie, _Solo_, would show that his mentor Tobias Beckett also qualifies, especially when he goes Guns Akimbo.
-   Jason McCullough from _Support Your Local Sheriff_ is both a Quick Draw and The Trick Shot (shot a bullet through the hole in a washer). He also realizes that getting a reputation as such is a good way to get killed.
-   In _Terror in a Texas Town_, The Dragon Johnny Crale is a Quick Draw, who is trying the fact his right hand has been replaced by a prosthesis; forcing him to draw with his left.
-   Both Doc Holiday and Johnny Ringo of the Film _Tombstone_ are quick draws with a bit of woo thrown in. Of course, "There can be only one."
-   Lola from _Transporter 2_ dual wields machine pistols.

-   Agent Zero from _X-Men Origins: Wolverine_. Pistols, rifles, anything!

    Literature 

-   _A Brother's Price_: The Whistler family. All of them. It is mentioned at one point, that their children are given toy guns as toddlers, and real guns at eight years. Jerin's twelve-year-old sister shoots some bandits, which doesn't surprise him much when he hears about it.
-   _The Dark Tower_:
    -   Roland Deschain of Gilead, the Last Gunslinger. As it is fairly realistic in terms of gunplay, Roland only exhibits types Trick Shot and Quick Draw. He seldom has enough ammunition to be a Vaporizer type (and would probably consider it to be obscenely wasteful) and is only The Woo insofar as dual wielding (albeit briefly), at one point gunning down 58 people attacking him as a mob. Considering he's using single-action revolvers, and can only dual wield by thumbing the hammers, doing it at all is quite impressive. Not to mention the only reason he stops Dual Wielding is that he loses two fingers off his right hand, and is rendered unable to hold a gun in that hand. Later, more gunslingers are added to Roland's _ka-tet_:
    -   Eddie Dean, The Lancer.
    -   Eddie's eventual wife, Susannah Dean. Extra points for the fact that she has no legs.
-   _The Last of the Mohicans_. Hawkeye (Natty Bumppo) is America's first Gunslinger in literature, with Improbable Aiming Skills. On film, he's capable of Dual Wielding — frontier long rifles! And reloading a musket _on the run_. He can also pick off a running man at 200 yards with a muzzle-loader, and in _The Leatherstocking Tales_ he does frontier William Tell tricks, including firing a musket-ball _into_ another musket-ball which his compatriots had used to drive a nail into a post at 50 yards.
-   _The Executioner_: Mack Bolan has shown Trick Shot, Vaporizer, and even The Woo tendencies at times, although not to a superhuman extent, as have his homages like The Punisher.
-   Matthew Stark in _Cloud of Sparrows_ is a somewhat more historically accurate version than usual. He's a dirty, coarse, violent man who nevertheless is good at heart. He's also able to out-reflex ninjas.

-   In _War of the Dreaming_, Pendrake (an expy/homage of The Shadow) is a Trick Shot and The Woo.
-   In _Count to the Eschaton_, Menelaus is a Trick Shot and Vaporizer, who uses a smartgun which he has programmed to deliver its payload more efficiently. Somewhat hilariously, Menelaus' gunslinging skills make him a valued "junior partner" for his law firm employers...
-   Lewis Wetzel from Zane Grey's _Betty Zane_ is similar to the _Last of the Mohicans_ example: a trick shot who can drive nails with bullets.

-   Holly Short and Vinyaya in _Artemis Fowl_. The latter requested for elecftric runs during a goblin rebellion despite not having to fight due to her desk job position but the same desk job position gives her a lot of power. She didn't miss.
-   Trigger of the _Seekers of Truth_. She carries a rifle that can fire any ammunition grenade-sized or smaller.
-   Medea Bentacore in the _Eisenhorn_ novels keeps her father's Glavian needle pistol on hand.

-   In _The Han Solo Adventures_ (some of the earliest books in the Star Wars Legends universe) Han Solo had several run-ins with a professional gunman named Gallandro, a mercenary renowned for being the fastest gun in the galaxy. Exploits attributed to him include hunting down a crime family, single-handedly hijacking a star-liner, and forcing the Assassin's Guild to default on a contract (by hunting down and killing half of their Elite Guard). The same books also established that Han himself has a bit of the same kind of reputation, although not to the same degree.
-   _Revelation Space Series_: In _Chasm City_, it's said of the protagonist that he can take out specific brain functions with a shot, making him a Trick Shot. He laments to another character that he was never actually _that_ good, but says that he did come close.
-   Lt. Karrin Murphy of _The Dresden Files_ is possibly this trope's Patron Saint. (Given the series, that could be literal — especially since she's almost certainly at the top of the very short list of candidates to become a new Knight of the Cross - and later post-mortem is set to become one of the Einherjar, after reaching Valhalla.) She wades into battlefields and underground lairs of the _things_ that go bump in the dark, armed with only a selection of guns (her later favoured gun is P90. It was a present from an ex-boyfriend), a badge, and five feet of Badass Adorable. Despite that, she's covered Harry's back with surprising success, doubly so for a muggle. She even gets her own chance at narrating in _Aftermath_.
    -   Supernaturals (e.g. Thomas and Lara Raith. Harry complains that Thomas doesn't even practice, yet nails a target from over a hundred feet away with a pistol. On a boat. In Lake Michigan. At night) play this trope awfully straight, hitting Trick Shot, The Woo, and Quick Draw. Justified — they do have supernatural powers and are capable of absurd feats like grazing skin layers off with a shot, ignoring recoil, and blurring speed. Fortunately, magic is faster than bullets.
        -   Among supernaturals, the best is Jared Kincaid a.k.a. the Hellhound, who looks human but is very definitely not, with Dresden directly citing his gunslinging skills as giving him away. He combines Trick Shot, The Woo, and Quick Draw, and he's probably the best of the lot - and has an appreciation for others who're good, as he's Murphy's aforementioned ex boyfriend. On one occasion, he nails two Fallen Angels in host bodies through the head while they're falling through broken glass, well before they hit the ground.
    -   The more forward-thinking (younger) among the Wardens and Knights of the Cross are known to carry heavy pistols and _assault rifles_, and use them proficiently to the point where Harry draws his revolver in _Dead Beat_ and suggests shooting Cowl in the back. Ramirez, young Warden poster boy and owner of a Desert Eagle and multiple grenades says this is why the young wizards like the way he thinks.
-   Chess Pargeter of Gemma Files's Hexslinger Series hits Trick Shot and Quick Draw above, both killing a man with an over-the-shoulder shot without even looking and later shooting a would-be avenger twice (while _sitting down_) before the young challenger can even draw his pistol. (He does, however, have an advantage: unknown to him, he's a latent and partially-manifested "hex", a ridiculously powerful natural magician, and has been unconsciously channelling his powers into his gunplay.)
-   _The Exile's Violin_: Jacquie is a terrific shot but Jean de Roix is so good he has this as a nickname.
-   _The Worst Shots in the West_ has Tim and Tom, two old, near-blind gunslingers, with really high Accidental Aiming Skills.
-   Agents of the Gun in _The Half-Made World_ are a darker take on the trope; their superhuman gunslinging skills are provided as part of their Deal with the Devil with the demonic guns they carry, and they're compelled to carry out the will of their weapons until their inevitable violent death. On the plus side, they're basically the celebrities of the half-made West, and their exploits are remembered in the form of ballads and folk tales.
-   Matt Hollis from the _Valducan_ series Urban Fantasy published by Ragnarok Publications is one of these. This is, in part, due to his Impossibly Cool Weapon, the revolver Damoren.
-   _The Undertaker_ features Barnaby Gold; an undertaker turned gunslinger. Gold is primarily a quick draw, although he wears his left-hand gun on a swivel on his belt, which allows him to turn and fire it from under his long black coat.
-   One of the two title characters of the _Wax and Wayne_ books is Waxillium 'Wax' Ladrian, a Mage Marksman with the ability to telekinetically push metal away from himself. In a pinch, he can kill you with a bullet without even bothering to load it into a gun, in fact. He mostly uses his ability to approximate flight or deflect incoming rounds, but occasionally uses it to increase the effective muzzle velocity of the bullets he fires. He is known for his precision shots while dual-wielding revolvers, and has managed to land a headshot on someone with a hostage by firing a bullet out of a bubble of sped-up time, then having his friend drop the bubble at the exact instant he fired a second round with a heavy steelpush behind it to deflect the first one to right where it needed to go.
-   Graeme and Piper Walsh of Diane Morrison's Weird West / Fantasy Americana serial _Wyrd West Chronicles_ are Young Guns described explicitly as Gunslingers, which are a form of gun-toting Paladin. Graeme is a Guns Akimbo Mage Marksman who makes extensive use of **Quick Draw** and Bullet Time, and Piper is a Friendly Sniper Girl with a Gun. Gunslingers in the setting also make use of Improbable Aiming Skills and a form of Marked Bullet.
-   _Gatling_: Unusually for a Western series, the title character is The Vaporizer; carrying a Light Maxim Gun that has been modified to allow him to fire from the hip. The sheer amount of bullets he can pump out allows him to take on entire gangs.
-   John Henry Booth in _Cthulhu Armageddon_ is both the Trick Shot and the Vaporizer. He's implied to also be the Quick Draw but that is somewhat useless when dealing with monsters and eldritch horrors. It helps that his pistols tend to be magical, though, and he once shot to pieces a _shoggoth._

    Live-Action TV 

-   Most characters on _Brooklyn Nine-Nine_ are this by necessity since it centres on an NYPD precinct, but it's rarely shown as the characters are very hesitant to use their sidearms. At one point, main character Jake effortlessly shoots the Penis, Brain, and Jaw of a silhouette target (the PB and J, as he calls it) with pinpoint accuracy. His love interest Amy is no slouch either, at one point non-fatally shooting someone in the leg with such accuracy that it doesn't cause any lasting damage. Their duty sergeant, Terry Jeffords, is noted to be the precinct's top marksman.
-   _Criminal Minds_ has Aaron Hotchner, Elle Greenaway, Emily Prentiss, and Jennifer "JJ" Jareau, all of whom are incidentally very good shots (Emily is probably the worst shot out of all of them, but that's not really saying much, since the only time she's ever really \*missed\* was about thirty seconds after getting a concussion in a car crash). Hotchner is notable for wearing not only a pistol on the belt but in his boot while in the field. JJ once even killed an UnSub with a perfect headshot through a glass-paned FBI door. Technical Analyst Penelope Garcia has only held a gun once.
-   Wesley's forte in _Angel_, though it takes a few seasons (and Character Development) for it to kick in. While he is primarily Guns Akimbo, he also has _insane_ Improbable Aiming Skills. Gunn and Fred occasionally use guns as well, but without Wesley's showy movies.
    -   Lampshaded in "Lineage". We cut from slo-mo Wesley firing two pistols in mid-air to Fred, in real time, sighing, "Yes, thank you, Wesley, I'd love a gun."
-   _Firefly_:
    -   Mal is a shining example of Quick Draw, the stuff of legends. The fact that he hits anything at all is amazing, but at one point in _Serenity_, he shoots the Operative's gun out of his hand. From a _quick draw_. And the Operative's gun was **already drawn.** It might as well be a Charles Atlas Superpower.
    -   In the episode "War Stories", River pulls off a Trick Shot.
    -   Zoe might be the character known for accuracy, but Jayne seems to be even better at it than she is when he's trying. Most notably, he's the only member of the crew to ever use a sniper rifle: in the first episode, when he shoots the hat off his target.
-   _MacGyver (1985)_: MacGyver's arch-nemesis Murdoc appears as a stereotypical black-clad gunslinger (seemingly a Quick Draw) in the All Just a Dream Cowboy Episode "Serenity".
-   _Red Dwarf_: In the episode "Gunmen of the Apocalypse", the Dwarfers enter a "total immersion videogame" (basically, present-day VR cranked up to 11) version of Kryten's mindscape while he works on forming an antivirus program for the problems currently plaguing Starbug. In order to even the odds against whatever might await them, they hack in superpowered avatars from a Western-based TIV. The avatar Cat chooses is a Mexican gunslinger nicknamed _The Riviera Kid_, a character capable of shooting bullets out of the air mid-flight... and this. And yes, the brief dance and Spanish guitar riff at the utterance of his name _is_ mandatory.
-   _Farscape_'s Aeryn Sun. Especially impressive when compared to the male lead, who attempts to fire a gun only to have to throw it away as it explodes. Even after taking a few levels in badass, said male lead is nowhere near Aeryn's level when it comes to gunplay (Aeryn wouldn't trust him around her BFG until things got _really_ desperate—to his credit, during that instance, he _finally_ handled the thing competently).
-   Mossad liaison Ziva David from _NCIS_. Always lethally skilled with firearms (and everything else up to and including Kleenex and rubber bands), in an episode she exhibited the ability to dual wield a semiautomatic pistol and a revolver (at 90-degree angles to each other, no less) in a shootout to protect a Federal witness in their hideout hotel. Result: two dead Mooks, dead via simultaneous Pretty Little Headshots, and Ziva, not so much as scratched, calmly reholstering as McGee and the terrified witness crawl out of the hotel bathroom.

-   _Power Rangers Lightspeed Rescue_ almost always resort to using their guns. In fact, they have more gunplay than the other teams. Justified due to the fact that it was a military operation, not some wizard, granting the rangers these powers.
-   Kid Curry from _Alias Smith and Jones_ shot the gun from another gunfighter's holster before the man could draw; in the pilot, he tossed a bullet into the air and then hit it by firing another. Therefore, both Trick Shot and Quick Draw apply to him.
-   The Lone Ranger tended to shoot guns out of bandits' hands with either hand.
-   In _The Adventures of Brisco County, Jr._, Brisco is able to do any kind of trick shots and Quick Draw, demonstrating one and/or the other basically in every episode.
-   Wrangler Jane of _F Troop_, known to be the best shot at Fort Courage, which makes her closest to Trick Shot.

-   Kara "Starbuck" Thrace of _Battlestar Galactica (2003)_ is a pilot who is described in canon as the best shot in the Fleet, in or out of a Viper cockpit. She gets to show off plenty of both skills.
-   The only thing sexier than Samantha Carter on _Stargate SG-1_? Samantha Carter with a P90. Vala's pretty cool too, though she prefers zats and pistols.

-   _Doctor Who_:
    -   River Song likes energy handguns, and once used them to threaten the Roman Army into helping her. Liz 10 also carries two Steampunk laser pistols.
    -   The Doctor's full-time companions generally avoid guns, but some of them end up here anyway. Sarah-Jane demonstrates surprisingly good marksmanship for a reporter in "Pyramids of Mars", Ace takes out a Dalek with a rocket launcher in "Remembrance of the Daleks" (she aims for the eyepiece), and both Rose and Martha get in on this in the revival.
    -   In "A Town Called Mercy", Eleven faces a character in Series 7 literally called the Gunslinger... except he's a cyborg.
-   _CSI: Miami_'s Calleigh Duquesne, resident ballistics expert.
    
    **Horatio:** What do you get when you mix a six-foot man with a three-foot gun?  
    **Calleigh:** Hot flashes. But that's just me.
    
-   _Justified_:
    -   Both Raylan, as a Quick Draw (befitting his Cowboy Cop status), and Tim, as a former Ranger sniper with Improbable Aiming Skills.
    -   In the final season Markham brings in Psycho for Hire Boon who is an excellent shot and just as fast as Raylan. Boon ends up challenging Raylan to a Western-style shootout and is a fraction of a second slower than Raylan. Boon ends up with a bullet in the heart and Raylan ends up knocked down after Boon's shot grazes his head.
-   In _MythBusters_, have you ever noticed that when the build team is testing a gun myth, Kari Byron tends to bring the biggest weapon to the party? Kari said in a behind-the-scenes interview once that, being a good Californian, she was very anti-gun before working with Mythbusters, and after their second or third gun myths special, she found that she had turned into a gun nerd along the way. She now privately owns several firearms of her own and never seems to be far away when they're testing gun myths on the show.
-   _Shadow and Bone_'s Jesper exhibits traits of all types excepting The Woo:
    -   His gunslinging prowess primarily revolves around being the Trick Shot. For example, in his Establishing Character Moment as a casino enforcer<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , he tosses a coin into the air and blows a hole in it, proving it as a counterfeit.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Later episodes see him shooting the chain and then letters off of signs to distract a few guards while Kaz sneaks past them, and even shooting a card out of Inej's mouth to qualify for a travelling carnival, _with his back to her and aiming via looking in a mirror._
    -   He also heavily draws upon the Quick Draw, as was primarily shown in the aforementioned sign-shooting distraction. There, Jesper shot the signs so quickly that the guards _didn't even know that it was him_ who shot the signs out of shape.
    -   In Season 1, Episode 3, he briefly becomes a Vaporizer, killing a dozen volcra in quick succession who were swarming the train that he was on, without missing a single Boom, Headshot!. _One-handed._<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   _Star Trek: The Next Generation_:
    -   _Guinan_ of all beings. She's a better Trick Shot than Worf on the phaser range, and when a Bar Brawl breaks out she's the first to pull out a gun almost as big as she is.
    -   In "A Fistful of Datas", a holodeck malfunction gives a whole host of Western characters the strength, speed, and skill of Data, making them all lightning Quick Draws.
-   _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_: Kira Nerys joined the Bajoran Resistance at _twelve_. For the love of God, if you hope to survive an encounter with her, _do **not**_ let the woman get her hands on a phaser! Otherwise you'll be even _more_ screwed than you already are.
-   The Big Bad's henchgirl from _Der Clown — Payday_ seems to always carry a machine gun with her. And yes, she can shoot it better than any SWAT member. Subverted by the heroine who tries and first fails to shoot the same type of gun. She even asks for a manual after she picked it up.
-   Ashley of _Sanctuary_. Her entire job is pretty much shooting things.
-   Lucas McCain, the title character of _The Rifleman_, is a crack shot with a lever-action rifle.

-   _Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's The Lost World_: Roxton is the best with guns, but Malone and Marguerite are no slouches. Only Veronica doesn't use guns, but she doesn't need them.
-   Paladin on _Have Gun – Will Travel_ is a Quick Draw. At one point, he goes toe to toe with a hired gunman with a 12-man tally; Paladin is so much faster that the hired gun draws first, yet dies without firing a shot.
-   _Hec Ramsey_: Hec has a fearsome reputation as a gunslinger (a Type D), and it is this that gets him hired as deputy police chief of New Prospect. However, Hec has decided that the age of the gunslinger has passed, and he is working on becoming a scientific detective. This doesn't mean that he can't throw down with the best of them when the need arises, though.

    Music 

-   A man actually named The Gunslinger was a member of The Protomen.

    Pinballs 

-   Heavily featured in _Cactus Canyon_, with multiple game modes — "Quick Draw", "Gun Fight", and "Showdown Multiball" — devoted to this trope.

    Podcasts 

-   The bounty hunter Moira Quicksilver in _The Endless Night_, also a distinct example of Guns Akimbo with her two pistols Righty and Lefty.

    Radio 

-   _The Lone Ranger_ is a Trick Shot and Quick Draw. He is a Technical Pacifist who specializes in Blasting It Out of Their Hands.
-   In _The Six Shooter_, Britt Ponset is a drifting Cowboy whose skill with a pistol earns him the nickname 'the Six Shooter'. He is primarily a Quick/draw and a Trick Shot.

    Roleplay 

-   Clint Wayne and Angel Eyes in _Dino Attack RPG_ are a duo of gunslingers. The former is shown to be a Quick Draw, while the latter is another... with a _rifle_. Atton Rand openly admitted that Clint Eastwood and Lee Van Cleef's performances in Sergio Leone's Spaghetti Westerns were a major influence for both.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Warhammer 40,000_:
    -   _Necromunda_: A popular archetype. Among the House gangs, if you're not a Gunslinger, you're probably a Young Gun. You have rifle-wielding snipers for Trick Shot, heavies who carry one of a variety of BFGS, or a melee fighter who dual-wields pistols or a pistol and close combat weapon.
    -   The notorious Cypher is well-known for wielding a pair of exquisitely crafted pistols (not similar; one is a bolt pistol, the other is plasma). Not to mention outdrawing and killing one of Abaddon's Terminator bodyguards so fast that even Abaddon nearly missed it. It's reflected on the tabletop too — he was the only character in the game that could fire both pistols twice in one turn. In his current rules, he has the highest Ballistic Skill in the game.
    -   Sisters of Battle (Witch Hunters) give us the Seraphim, power armoured ladies with jetpacks who dual-wield automatic microgrenade launcher pistols. Or, alternately, dual-wield flamer pistols, or, if you really want to splash out, microwave pistols that can turn a super-heavy tank into slag. Their gun fu is so awesome that everyone around them feels just a little bit braver for having them there.
    -   Most armies have got some characters specializing in gunfire. Being the Trope Namer for More Dakka, many qualify as The Vaporizer:
        -   Marneus Calgar, possibly, with submachinegun microgrenade launches strapped to his forearms. Definitely a Vaporizer.
        -   Maugan Ra is a Vaporizer, carrying by himself a heavy machine gun that normal Eldar have to strap to an anti-gravity platform to lug around and is easily twice as effective as Shadowsun or Calgar when facing enemy infantry.
        -   Commander Shadowsun also qualifies as a Vaporizer, assisted by powered armor, what with carrying two anti-tank weapons.
        -   Dark Eldar tend towards the choppy end of the scale, but their Haemonculi can carry a device called a Hexrifle: a sniper rifle that turns the target into a statue.
        -   The Imperial Guard have more than most due to their shooty nature, but special mention must go to Quick Draw Guardsman Marbo and his sniper pistol, and Vaporizer Gunnery Sergeant Harker, who carries a heavy bolter (a weapon normally carried by two men and fired from a tripod) around.
        -   The Vindicare Assassin is a classic Trick Shot, as he is at the moment the only model on the table that can single out a specific model in an enemy unit with a gun and blast a hole in his head, and carries special ammunition that lets him do things like make tanks explode with a sniper rifle. In _Dawn of War_, an infiltrated Vindicare Assassin is possibly the best secondary commander unit in the game.
        -   The Kelermorph, a being created by mature Genestealer cults, is specifically engineered to embody the archetype of the mysterious, impossibly skilled gunslinger to attract the oppressed to the Cult. He's a mix between Vaporizer and Trick Shot, given his extremely high Ballistic Skill, six normal shots per turn and an extra shot for every one of those initial six that hits, representing how his enchanted sense and reflexes allow him to spray out hails of bullets in the time it takes for his foes to let off one short while making sure each bullet goes precisely where he wants it to go.

-   _Feng Shui_: Anyone with Gun Schticks and/or a high enough Guns skill is a Gunslinger in terms of this trope. Maverick Cops, Killers, and Ex-Special Forces guys are especially exemplary of the trope, but Spies, Gamblers, Magic Cops, Masked Avengers, Monster Hunters, Cyborgs, and even Medics can qualify as well, along with any other archetype who spends XP on Gun Schticks and the Guns skill. What type your gunslinger character generally is depends on what Gun Schticks you give your character. Trick Shots prefer Eagle Eye, Shoot Weapon, Sabotage Shot and other schticks that allow them to perform crazy feats of accuracy. Vaporizers generally go for Carnival of Carnage and 10,000 Bullets to maximize the mook slaughter, along with Cover Fire, Bullet Storm, Lightning Reload, Who Wants Some, and a good automatic weapon capable of More Dakka. Woos can use pretty much any schtick out of the books, though Both Guns Blazing, Carnival of Carnage, Slow Mo Vengeance, and others are primarily used by them. Quick Draws, as per the name, generally buy up lots of Fast Draw in order to act ahead of everyone else in a given sequence.
-   One of the more common character types in _Deadlands_. Some hucksters (called 'hexslingers') combine magic with gunplay to give them an extra edge.
-   The aptly named advantage "Gunslinger" in _GURPS_ makes you into a type Trick Shot, The Woo, or Quick Draw.
-   There's a Gunslinger O.C.C., in the _Rifts_ megaverse. Specifically, they can be any combination of Trick Shot, The Woo, or Quick Draw. In-game fluff describes them as assassins, hitmen, and mercenaries who specialize in close combat and dual-wielding pistols. They also have a psychic equivalent, the Psi-Slinger.
-   _Exalted_ has _entire martial arts styles_ centered around dual-wielding badassery. Well, okay, you're really wielding pocket flamethrowers, but still...
    -   _Shards of the Exalted Dream_ gives us the Solar Firearms tree, which has stuff for _all four_ types (as does its Abyssal mirror). What's especially hilarious is that with sufficient strength, you can use the Guns Akimbo Charms, Sun-Dog Gunslinger Stance (Solar), and Murder of Crows Posture (Abyssal), while dual-wielding godcannons, which are guns _the size of men_.
-   _Pathfinder_ has the Gunslinger class, which uses flintlock pistols and muskets (in the default setting; there _are_ rules for more advanced firearms like revolvers and shotguns). Gunslinger characters have a resource called Grit which is used for pulling off crazy gunslinging stunts and is replenished with daring deeds, as the Gunslinger is not just a class about shooting things but a class about being really ballsy while you shoot things. There is also the Amateur Gunslinger feat, which gives access to a small Grit pool replenished as for a true Gunslinger, and a single basic Gunslinger stunt (most class variants that add in some gunslinger flavour tends to give it as a bonus feat).
-   _Heroscape_ has several according to their bios, but only Deadeye Dan has actual effects that make him this. He's a Trick Shot who has two abilities: one which gives him a half chance to deal one damage (which is deadly to characters with one life and high defence) and the other which gives him a one-tenth change of **instant killing** _**anyone**_.
-   Despite Fantasy Gun Control being common in _Dungeons & Dragons_ settings, this hasn't stopped gunslingers from appearing.
    -   The _Greyhawk_ campaign gives us Murlynd, demigod of Magical Technology, and his White Paladins. Murlynd himself is styled after a Wild West sheriff, and he and his clerics and paladins are the only ones who can wield firearms in the setting.
    -   In 5th Edition, a Fighter with the Battle Master martial archetype and the Gunner feat can be built as a Trick Shot and/or Quick Draw, being able to use maneuvers with the guns such as getting bonus on initiative rolls to attack faster or disarming their opponents with their shots.
-   In d20 Modern, there is an actual advanced class called Gunslinger. Unlike most fiction gunslingers, his abilities are mostly Boring, but Practical: Getting untyped bonuses to attack rolls (Trick Shot), increased benefits from cover. He can also shoot more often than other characters (Vaporizer), and is such a good shot that he reduces cover bonuses his enemies gain against him (Trick Shot).
-   The _Iron Kingdoms_ gun mage is a gunslinger with magic; a sorcerer who uses his or her specially made rune-engraved firearm (typically pistol/s, but a few can use rifles) as a focus for spellcasting. They can imbue their bullets with spells, allowing them to pull off all sorts of trick shots and effects, from shooting through walls (Trick Shot) to creating a localised lightning storm where the shot hits (Vaporizer). They exist as Cygnaran and Mercenary models in the wargame and as a playable class in the RPG. The most famous signature character gun mage, Allister Caine, is also adept at teleportation magic, making him a capable Woo and Quick Draw as well.
-   The term "Swordsman School" is used rather loosely in _7th Sea_ and includes many schools based around weapons other than swords. Most relevant to this trope are the Montaigne Rois et Reines school which specializes in the use of a musket with a fixed bayonet, and the Vendel Rasmussen school, focused on pistols. Rasmussen even has a swordsman knack called "Trick Shot." These being 17th-century firearms, both schools emphasize training far beyond the norm, allowing unusual aim, effective range, and reload speed. A master of Rasmussen can reload a pistol in a single action, while a character without the Reload Swordsman Knack would take several entire turns (with 2-5 actions per turn) to do the same.
-   The Ortegas of _Malifaux_ are an entire Badass Family of gunslingers, led by Perdita, who is both a Trick Shot (able to ignore cover and armor) and Fast Draw (able to get in a shot before any other model can get theirs off). Her brother Santiago is a classic Vaporizer whose dual pistols can theoretically get off 16 shots per turn where two is average and four is amazing.

    Video Games 

-   _Ten Thousand Bullets_ is chock-full of these. Expect plenty of Gun Fu. Somewhat necessary in that you can die quite easily even in stage one.
-   _Akatsuki Blitzkampf_ gives us Anonym, a Church Militant Lady of War who uses two plated Webley revolvers as her weapons. She has traits of both The Woo and the Trick Shot: on one hand, she has quite the expertise in Gun Kata, on the other her fighting style relies a lot on her shooting her opponents before they can approach her since, if she runs out of ammo (after six attacks), she has to quickly recharge and that leaves her completely vulnerable for some seconds.

-   Rusty Nails in _AMC Squad_ is a mix of the Trick Shot and Vaporizer types (with a hint of The Woo when Bullet Time kicks in), as befitting of a First-Person Shooter protagonist.
-   _Arcanum: Of Steamworks & Magick Obscura_ allows the player to act as a Vaporizer (with firearms with enough fire rate) and/or Type D (with a long-range rifle or handgun, especially if you play in turn-based mode).
-   _Atlas Reactor_ has several freelancers primarily wielding guns and evoking this trope:
    -   Lockwood is a cyberpunk gunslinger, dual-wielding pistols, and being a mixture of the Trick Shot and The Woo. His primary attack is a trick shot that bounces off walls, and he dual-wields when using his area-of-effect attack and his ultimate, the latter of which is a long-range Dash Attack that hits everyone in the vicinity of his movement.
    -   Elle is closest to The Woo, with her weapon of choice being a shotgun. She excels in fast movements and getting in close before blowing enemies away, and has the ability to perform an Unnecessary Combat Roll almost at will to dash behind corners and cover. Her ultimate goes into Vaporizer territory, being a massively overcharged shotgun blast that blows both her and any targets away.
    -   Juno is a firm Vaporizer, dual-wielding laser miniguns attached to a harness. Her basic attack is a pair of giant cones that hit everyone inside, and her ultimate overloads her guns into firing a giant Death Ray that incinerates anyone crossing its beam.
-   The Kid in _Bastion_ is a combination Vaporizer and Quick Draw with dueling pistols (with a side of The Woo in that he dual wields), being capable of drawing, locking on, and emptying both guns into anything essentially as fast as you can click. One special attack moves into Trick Shot territory. He also gets bonus points for reloading solely by Gun Twirling.
    -   Use of the Scrap Musket can put him squarely into Vaporizer, particularly with the special attack unloading around half a dozen shots in rapid succession. From a single-shot, muzzle-loading, shot-firing _musket_. There's also the Army Carbine and the Fang Repeater, the latter of which is A and B thanks to a high rate of fire and homing projectiles when appropriately upgraded.
-   Vermilion from _Battle Arena Toshinden_ is a Vaporizer, carrying a peacemaker in one hand, and a _shotgun_ in the other.
-   Created by the same person who created _Devil May Cry_, _Bayonetta_ takes all 4 types to truly outlandish degrees. From regular handguns to shotguns to ROCKET LAUNCHER TONFAS and so many other weapons, Bayonetta is currently one of the most insane examples of the gunslinger in video games so far.
-   _Blood_'s Anti-Hero protagonist Caleb is described as a gunslinger in the manual. In the game itself, the closest thing to a revolver he uses is a flare gun.
-   _BloodRayne_ has countless Throw-Away Guns. Though they aren't Rayne's main attack in _BloodRayne 2_, she has a nice pair of blood guns that (without Hand Wave) cover the typical arsenal.

-   _Boktai_, anyone? Both Django and his spiritual successor Aaron use Solar Guns, drawing from all three schools. In Aaron's case, the Witch is the Trick Shot, the Ninja is the Woo, and the Bomber, Dragoon, and Knight suit the Vaporizer fine.
-   One of the three skill trees for Mordecai in _Borderlands_ is called Gunslinger, and focuses on pistol and revolver skills. The highlights are getting shots that do 100% more damage after a kill and occasionally getting a free bullet.
    -   Borderlands 2 has both Axton the Commando and Salvador the Gunzerker as Vaporizer gunslingers. Axton's "Gunpowder" skill tree focuses on mid-range combat with guns and meshes well with Torgue guns (and occasionally Tediore) while Salvador's "Gun Lust" and "Rampage" focuses on rapidly swapping between weapons or gunzerking most, if not all, of the time to tear apart the banditry of Pandora. Zer0 the Assassin, in sniper builds, is a Trick Shot who lives or dies by putting bullets into critical hit locations; with B0re, he can put shots through two enemies who are lined up, and the second will actually do _more_ damage (he can also move into Vaporiser, with skills that let him increase firing speed in a short period after scoring a kill and occasionally fire two bullets at once). Gaige the Mechromancer is a weird Trick Shot/Vaporiser hybrid when specced into Anarchy; Anarchy builds faster if you can empty clips quickly, encouraging her to fan the hammer on a Jakobs pistol, while the Close Enough and The Nth Degree skills give her an incredible ability to ricochet misses into enemies from behind...which is kind of hilarious, given that if Anarchy didn't cause her accuracy to drop like a rock, she wouldn't need so much focus on ricochets to begin with!
    -   In Borderlands: The Pre-Sequel!, Nisha the Lawbringer is a gun-slinging Combat Sadomasochist cowgirl. Her skills allow her to automatically aim at enemies, ricochet shots towards enemies, and dual-wield pistols.
-   _Brawl Stars_:
    -   Ricochet, AKA Rico is a pure example of the Trick Shot, with his special gimmick being pellets that bounce off a limited number of walls, allowing him to hit enemies in various strategic ways if he can't hit them straight on. His Limit Break is firing rounds that have no limit to how far they can bounce.
    -   Colt looks like your classic western gunslinger, Dual Wielding two revolvers, but in practice is more like a combination of the Trick Shot and Vaporizer. Because he's from a video game that plays fast and loose with the laws of reality, he's able to fire ridiculous amounts of lead at speeds rivaling real-life automatics. Colt's Limit Break allows him to obliterate any unfortunate walls in his path with a barrage of bullets. He can also use a Trick Bullet to shoot through walls, which can be used in a number of strategic ways.
-   _Call of Duty: World at War_ has two achievements in one level based around performing some Trick Shot marksmanship. At the beginning of "Vendetta," you can earn "The Professional" for only using five shots (without reloading) to clear out the first area (your targets are seven soldiers and an attack dog), while you earn "Gunslinger" for killing a German general with a pistol; said general is about a hundred yards away, has cover, and you only have a pistol if you found it early in the level (you will not find more ammo for it).
-   _Call of Juarez: Gunslinger_ centres around former bounty hunter Silas Greaves recalling his days as one, though his claims are questionable. In gameplay, this primarily overlaps with "The Woo" through a Bullet Time mechanic (that can even be augmented with snap-aiming and trick reloads, among other things). Some boss battles also cover "The Quick Draw" through showdowns, where players must carefully focus and tactfully draw lest they be shot first.
-   The Alchemist from _Cardinal Quest 2_ has the unlockable "Gunslinger" Perk. Gunslinger Alchemists sacrifice the ability to wield melee weapons and the ability to Craft items in exchange for starting with the Pistol skill. The Alchemist can still acquire the Pistol Skill in the skill tree, meaning the Alchemist can effectively dual-wield pistols.
-   The Amnesiac Hero of _Cave Story_, Quote, is a gunslinger of the Vaporizer variety. He carries a huge variety of highly improbable evolving guns and carries enough ammunition to obliterate a super-tank supported by various mooks. He has a sword too, but it exclusively fires sword beams.
-   The Appropriately named Gunslinger boss enemies in _City of Heroes_ qualify as Trick Shots. How good are their trick shots? These Badass Normal soldiers can knock down and set on fire the most powerful player-controlled superheroes and supervillains in the game.
    -   The Dual Pistols powerset features Trick Shot attacks and a couple of Vaporizer attacks such as firing bullets in the sky so they rain down on enemies.

-   The "munitions" power set in DC Universe Online grants this ability.
-   The Hunter class in Destiny 2 and it's original have Gunslinger as one of their major subclasses, with perks that involve precision shooting and an ultimate ability that draws a revolver loaded with sunfire that shoots a few high-damage bullets. It can even be fan-fired.
-   Dante from _Devil May Cry_ blends all four types together, with near-flawless accuracy and Offhand Backhand shots, a crazy rate of fire and a variety of explosive weapons, superhuman agility, and the ability (both in and out of cutscenes) to draw quickly yet still fire accurately. Of course, he has a Style explicitly named Gunslinger that enhances his firearm moveset. Nero aspires to reach the same level of competence but isn't there yet.
    -   In _Devil May Cry 3: Dante's Awakening_, where the Style system is introduced, a gunslinger-style Dante has a different specialization for each gun he obtains:
        -   Ebony and Ivory are Dante's trademark handguns, they allow him to shoot two targets at once, as well, as a couple point-blank moves. The shotgun also allows Dante to move it like nunchucks while shooting everything around him. (The Woo)
        -   Spiral Sniper Rifle (trick shot) Dante can bounce bullets to hit several targets
        -   Kalina Ann (The Vaporizer) is a Bazooka that also features homing missiles
    -   And as of 2015, _Devil May Cry 4: Special Edition_ makes Lady playable for the first time in the series. As the true owner of the Kalina Ann, her style incorporates a lot more explosives; different kinds of missiles and grenades, but she also uses dual handguns and shotguns with some of the moves Dante uses, in addition to her own rapid-fire shots
-   Pleinair and Asagi in _Disgaea_.
    -   In the second game, there's Rozalin and the Gunner class, the third has Salvatore and the Gunslinger class, and the fourth has Vulcanus/ Artina.
    -   _Disgaea 5_ hands this role over to Seraphina. Incidentally, not only does Asagi comment on there being two gun-wielders in the party once she joins, she also heralds the unlocking of the Asagi class, all of whom share Asagi's aptitude for gun-wielding.
-   _Dungeon Fighter Online_ has the gunslinger class that can advance into three Vaporizers: The Launcher, which specializes in heavy weaponry; Mechanic, which builds robots that either explode or shoot things for him/her; Spitfire, which can use special rounds and explosives; and a Woo / Quick Draw, Ranger, which uses melee kicks and quick shots.
-   This is every single character, playable or otherwise, in _Enter the Gungeon_ except for _maybe_ some shopkeepers, and even they might be hiding some crazy skills with a gun. The player characters can fit any type depending on the weapons they have, and if they pick up enough during a run, they can end up being all four at once.
    -   A later update added an actual character called the Gunslinger, who is the past form of The Lich before he became the Gungeon Master. Fittingly, his mastery of firearms surpasses every other playable character, to the point where his passive grants him all weapon synergies for free.
-   Reaver from the second _Fable_ game is Trick Shot and Quick Draw. Makes sense, considering that not only is he the Hero of Skill, but also that by the time you see his fighting skills in action, he's had hundreds of years to practice his shots.
    -   Your player character itself is a Trick Shot, as maxed skill lets you hit from any distance, and kill with one shot.
        -   The Time Control spell lets you move toward the Woo and Quick Draw types by dropping a pack of bandits before they have time to get their guns out.
-   The main character from _Fallout Tactics: Brotherhood of Steel_ could be made into a Vaporizer in turn-based mode. Start with a high agility character who takes a starting trait that lowers the AP cost of shooting, which can later be coupled with a perk that further reduces the cost and another that halves reload time. Since the game's revolvers inexplicably shoot faster than all other pistols, using one you can fire six shots, reload, then get off three more before the other guy even gets to move. And when not using turn-based mode, your character's shooting animation is slightly quicker than normal, making him a Quick Draw. Nifty as enemies flinch and are stun-locked even from small damage, so even a huge mutant soldier can be cut down by one dude with a six-gun.
-   From the _Final Fantasy_ series
    -   Barret Wallace and Vincent Valentine from _Final Fantasy VII_. Barret is a Vaporizer who uses his Arm Cannon to pepper enemies into oblivion with More Dakka, while Vincent is a Trick Shot and Quick Shot with his various firearms, with a focus on dealing out quick and decisive shots.
    -   Irvine Kinneas who can be each different types on depending on the ammo type he uses and Laguna Loire who is a Badass Normal who is a Vaporizer with his signature machine gun. For his appearance in _Duodecim_, Laguna was promoted to being capable of wielding more gun types than your average FPS protagonist. Aside from his signature machine gun, he also acquired a shotgun, a Sniper Rifle, a multi-rocket launcher, a bazooka, and several weapon fixtures from a technologically advanced _airship_ which each fire various flavours of laser (one of which being called down from an _orbiting satellite_). All of this, PLUS the few types of grenades he also gets to use.
    -   Between _Final Fantasy X_ and its sequel, the protagonist Yuna morphed from a White Magician Girl messiah to a Stripperiffic Gunslinger with an attitude to match. She was probably closest to The Woo.
    -   Lightning pulls off enough trick shots with her gunblade to qualify for Trick Shot. One of her normal attacks is shooting an enemy mid-backflip. Sazh isn't nearly as skilled at using guns as the other entries but has some elements of Vaporizer and Quick Draw.
    -   _Final Fantasy XV_ has Prompto as the resident gunslinger, unlike the other party members he is not from a trained military background uses guns because of their relative ease of use. He hits all four styles of gunslinger depending on the attack, having the ability to do precision attacks, surprising rapid fire, clumsy but accurate Gun Fu, and some pretty nifty trick shots.
-   _Gunfighter: The Legend of Jesse James_ has the titular outlaw, Jesse James himself, an expert marksman in the Wild West cap\[able of outgunning hordes and hordes of enemies without breaking a sweat in both games.
-   In _Guild Wars 2_, half the classes can use guns, but only the Warrior (with rifles) and the Thief (with pistols) really fit this trope, which usually overlaps with The Musketeer after weapon-switching gets unlocked.

-   Anne in _Jurassic Park: Trespasser_ uses a variety of guns and, because there is no HUD, counts the number of rounds remaining in the weapon out loud.
-   _League of Legends_ features a number of Marksmen who use guns, and to varying degrees fit this trope. That being said, a few are very clearly meant to invoke the tropes:
    -   Lucian, a trenchcoat-clad hunter of the undead directly inspired by movies like The Matrix and Equilibrium, blends the Trickshot and the Woo. His ultimate, The Culling, sees him firing a stream of light blasts in one direction like a Vaporizer.
        -   It also helps that Lucian's title during the beta testing was "The Gun Templar".
        -   His wife, Senna, was likely this in life—in fact, Lucian still uses her pistol from that time. While her undead state sees her toting around a \*very\* slow relic cannon instead, she still has elements of the Trick Shot with her Piercing Darkness ability (which lets her fire attacks through allies, enemies, and turrets to hit distant foes or heal allies.)
    -   Miss Fortune has the traits of Woo with her dual pistols, and traits of a Trickshot with her ability "Double Up", which ricochets off of one enemy and into another. However, she leans more towards the role of a Vaporizer with her abilities "Make It Rain" which drops a hail fire of bullets from above, slowing anyone who passes through it, and her ultimate ability "Bullet Time" (no not that Bullet Time) which fires wave after wave of bullets in a large gone area, requiring her to stand still during the duration of the ability.
    -   Jinx is the very definition of "a Vaporizer", a psychopathic outlaw toting around a large Machine Gun she affectionately refers to as "Pow-Pow" and a rocket launcher she calls "Fishbones (whom she talks to on occasion).
    -   Jhin is a masked madman that acts as a mix of a Trickshot and a sniper.
    -   Graves is League’s best example of a Quick Draw, a shotgun-wielding “cowboy” with a focus on burst damage.
    -   Some skins see champions gain this as an alternate fantasy for the character. Twitch normally uses a crossbow with poisoned bullets, Mafia Twitch becomes a Vaporizer with a Tommy gun.
    -   Teamfight Tactics, an auto-battler spin-off of League, used Gunslingers as a class.
        -   Lucian, Jinx, Graves, and Miss Fortune all returned as Gunslingers.
        -   Tristana acts as a downplayed Vaporizer, thanks to her giant cannon and emphasis on basic attacking.
        -   Gangplank uses his sword to autoattack. His ability, however, evokes a Trickshot—he uses a shot to ignite a chain of powder barrels.
        -   The set bonus (extra attacks at random enemies in autoattack range) is more of a Trickshot mechanic.
        -   Lucian returns in Set 2, this time as more of a Vaporizer (using his ult instead of his dash.)
-   Sundown from _Live A Live_ is a Vaporizer (see his ultimate attack, Hurricane Shot, which fires more bullets than any four revolvers should ever be able to carry). Of course, he's ALSO a Trick Shot (Multi-Counter, which animates as him turning his back to the enemy and shooting through his poncho as a counter to almost any attack, and Pierce Shot, which hits all enemies in a line). In-universe, Sundown is also a Quick Draw, as he's described as having "an arm as quick as lightning" (Neo Shot Storm, which can hit up to around six times, all before his opponents can react). Mad Dog, from the same game, is also a Trick Shot, as all of his attacks are essentially trick shots.
-   _Kingdom Hearts_ has Xigbar, who stands out as the only major character to fight with guns. He mostly fights like the trickshot, teleporting around upside-down and bouncing bullets off of walls. By contrast, he fought more like The Woo when he was the human Braig, where he ran around on foot at super-speed instead, and didn’t do any ricocheting. This is likely because becoming a Nobody was what enhanced his powers enough to pull off the teleporting and ricocheting abilities that he displayed as Xigbar. In both incarnations, he becomes The Vaporizer during his Desperation Attack, trading out his usual guns for machine guns. And in his _Kingdom Hearts III_ data battle, he uses The Quick Draw style for a special attack, covering all four styles across his many boss fights through the series. The trope is Averted for his original persona, Luxu, who fought with a Keyblade.
-   Commander Shepard of the _Mass Effect_ series falls into **every** category if you play as the Soldier Class; Adrenaline Rush allows Shepard to hit nearly any point of an enemies body (Trick Shot), The Revenant has an insanely large ammo clip and will completely obliterate anything in its path (Vaporizer), Shepard, as previously stated has Adrenaline Rush which slows down time to a crawl allowing for complete domination in CQC (The Woo), which will also allow Shepard to kill enemies before they're even aware of his/her presence. If you're an Infiltrator, your main gun is the sniper rifle, letting you pull of some Alan Quatermain Trick Shots. In cutscenes, every Shepard is a Quick Draw, being able to pull off very impressive shots and doing so _very_ quickly.
    -   As far as supporting characters go, Garrus is a mix of Trick Shot and Quick Draw (during his Establishing Character Moment he headshots a hostage-holding thug without harming the hostage, and without looking), Legion is a serious Trick Shot, and in the third game Ashley is a massive Vaporizer thanks to the Marksman power, which significantly boosts her firing rate for a short time- combine it with a fast firing gun with a large clip like the Revenant or the N7 Typhoon and she'll put out an impressive wall of suppression fire.
-   _Max Payne_ is The Woo. Really, all that was missing from the game's bullet-time antics were the frickin' doves.
    -   On the occasions the player gets to take control of her, _Max Payne_'s Mona Sax shows why she's notorious as a cleaner. Her default weapon is a Desert Eagle (which can be _dual-wielded_) and her sniping rifle of choice is a Dragunov.
-   The _Metal Gear Solid_ series has an example of each. Revolver Ocelot is a Trick Shot, Vulcan Raven is a Vaporizer, and The Boss is a Woo. Snake himself is a Quick Draw, but it almost never comes up.
    -   The Boss is The Woo _and_ The Vaporizer. Look at The Patriot: a rifle with the barrel cut short. Size of a pistol, power of the rifle, and infinite ammo. Yes, the infinite ammo part is canon. And yes, she takes full advantage of it. She also takes away your gun, takes it apart, and hands you back the pieces.
-   _Mortal Kombat X_: Erron Black is an Outworld gunslinger, and fits the standard look with a face mask.
-   _Nexus Clash_: Most Squishy Wizards become gunslingers to make up for their lack of defense with a good offense — an offense good enough that it had to be nerfed multiple times to become _just_ one of the most lethal combat styles in the series.
-   _Nintendo Wars_: Grit appears to be this, being the indirect combat specialist (though even the direct combat units use guns...) of the _Advance Wars_ series, and he even carries a gun in his portrait. His mannerisms seem to be based on a Western hero.

-   _Overwatch_:
    -   Cassidy/McCree is the most obvious choice, being both a Quick Draw and Vaporizer styled after Western cowboys.
    -   Trickshots include Soldier 76 and Widowmaker.
    -   Vaporizers are common, including Cassidy/McCree, Reaper, 76, Tracer, Bastion, Torbjorn, and Roadhog.

-   Aya Brea, the heroine of the _Parasite Eve_ series. She's also got some deadly magic to back her up; in the sequel, one of her spells is to simply boost the power of her gun's bullets.

-   There's a whole class of these in _Ragnarok Online_, with any one of the types available depending on how you build one up and what weapons you use.
-   Gilder from _Skies of Arcadia_ is a definite Woo. His first S-Move is even called 'Gunslinger'.
-   Saika Magoichi from _Sengoku Basara_, being basically a Walking Armory, can fulfill most of the above roles, but is closest to Type B. She commonly carries around magnums, a shotgun, a tommy gun, and a heat-seeking rocket launcher (detonation charges or air support optional) and uses a combination of them to blow her enemies to bits.
    -   Her predecessor Nouhime, despite also being a Walking Armory was more of The Woo with a focus on Gun Kata\-like moves.
-   Several games in the _Shin Megami Tensei_ franchise and its spinoffs let the human characters wield guns as secondary weapons. Some characters, however, use them as their main weapon.
    -   _Shin Megami Tensei IV: Apocalypse_: Despite having become the Fairy Queen in _Shin Megami Tensei IV_, Nozomi still primarily uses firearms.
    -   _Persona_:
        -   _Persona 2_: Maya and Katsuya wield pistols, though only Maya duel-wields hers. Additionally, Eikichi has a machine gun disguised as a _guitar case_.
        -   _Persona 3_: Aigis and her very literal firearms is a Vaporizer. Takaya also wields a revolver.
        -   _Persona 4_: Naoto wields a handgun, and _Persona 4: Arena_ reveals her to be the Trick Shot, including ricochets and single-shot instant kill. By comparison, Adachi much prefers Pistol Whipping his opponents.
        -   The original _Persona_ and _Persona 5_ let everybody carry some sort of ranged secondary weapon, from pistols over shotguns to _grenade launchers and Ray Guns_. The definite example however is the Persona Satanael in _5_, which kills Yaldabaoth with a single shot from its BFG.
-   _Plants vs Zombies: Garden Warfare 2_: Kernel Corn is a mix of the Woo and the Vaporizer, being able to make a massive forward flip, peppering the ground with corn, or fire both husks straight at a zombie for an explosion of popcorn. Or just spray and pray for when the above two don't work.
-   John Marston and Arthur Morgan, the player characters in _Red Dead Redemption_ and _Red Dead Redemption II_ respectively, already start off pretty good, being fairly experienced grizzled western outlaws. However, you can gradually make them master gunslingers the more you level up the "Dead Eye" ability, which enables the player to slow down time, precisely target their shots, and then fill the nearby enemies with lead very rapidly. There are also sub-games where you can be challenged by various NPCs into an old-school quick-draw duel, thus gradually making the character a combination of The Woo and the Quick Draw.
    -   In _Red Dead Online_, your player character can also become this (although given the online format, "Dead Eye" has less functionality in the main game (in particular, while you can still use it to target, it doesn't really slow the game down for non-NPCs). However, should you choose to play a high-honor character in the Online mode, your story will be called "The Path of the Gunslinger".
    -   Another character worthy of mention is Micah, who dual-wields double-action revolvers to achieve a blistering rate of fire that can negate the effects of "Dead Eye", making him a prime example of the Vaporizer.
-   The nameless Gunslinger from the point-and-click Play Station and PC game _Silverload_. He does not fit neatly into any of the types because he's controlled by YOU, plus the fact you have limited ammo for the shooting scenes. Good players can turn him into a Type A/D.
-   Maria from _Star Ocean: Till the End of Time_ sports guns, some kung fu, and the ability to manipulate matter and energy with her mind.
-   _Star Wars_:
    -   A playable subclass for Smuggler characters in _Star Wars: The Old Republic_. Mechanics-wise, a Type C as the class rains down ridiculous amounts of dakka on unsuspecting opponents, relying on fast AOE attacks. The Mercenary Bounty Hunter sub-class also takes the Vaporizer approach.
    -   Carth Onasi in _Knights of the Old Republic_ and Atton Rand in the sequel both have elements of types Vaporizer and The Woo, stretching into Quick Draw during some cutscenes. Interestingly, Mira in _Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords_ is the only female party member in the entire series who specializes in ranged weapons instead of melee weapons. Technically, she can be equipped with other weapons like most party members, including lightsabers if you turn her into a Jedi, but she's always most efficient with a blaster or two in hand. Some of their Improbable Aiming Skills can be explained; Mira and Atton are known to be Force Sensitive, adding enhanced intuition and reflexes. Carth's broadly hinted to be the same.
    -   One of the targets hunted by Jango Fett in _Bounty Hunter_ is a gunslinger named Longo Two-Guns. His gang occupies a town on Tatooine, resulting in a level not unlike an old western movie.
-   Inspector Tequila Yuen, of _Hard Boiled_ fame, demonstrates _three_ styles with his Tequila Bomb attacks in the game-only sequel _Stranglehold_:
    -   The Precision Aim (Trick Shot) is a sniper shot performed with any gun that can take someone out at long ranges with pinpoint accuracy.
    -   The Barrage attack (Vaporizer) allows you to rock and roll on full auto, tearing scenery and mooks apart.
    -   The Spin Attack (The Woo) takes every mook in your general vicinity out in true cinematic style, and as an added bonus, you get the doves flying in slow-mo while you're at it.

-   _Target Of Desire Episode 1_: Maia is packing heat, but that's not the only thing she's packing. Hi-o.

-   Ramiro Cruz from the _Total Overdose_ video game is The Woo, able to run off the sides of walls, slow down time and do all sorts of cool stunts.
-   Any female character in _Valkyria Chronicles_ has a portrait shot in the Personnel tab showing them in dramatic poses with guns. Props go to Sniper Marina who after a successful snipe shot loads her gun onto her shoulders and tosses off a bond-one liner.
-   In _Vindictus_, Kai's second weapon type is a Schizo Tech crossbow/machine gun. He uses elements of all four basic types.
-   In _Warframe_, this is all Tenno and their Warframes, but there is one Warframe that stands out among the others in this area: Mesa. Her abilities are all about ranged combat, to the point that her passive abilities bolster usage of single or dual-wielded pistols, and grant extra health for not bringing a melee weapon. That said, even the melee weapon associated with her, the Redeemer, is also a gun.
    -   It's worth noting how she also hits all four variants: her Exalted Dual Pistols, the Regulators, give her automatic Woo credentials and one of her best maneuvers is jumping through the air while firing; she can pull off perfectly accurate Trick Shots like shooting behind herself in the blink of an eye; she can Quickly Draw her Regulators and switch between targets just by looking at them; her bullet output of up to 50 rounds _per second_ allows her to Vaporize targets on par with miniguns.
-   Rubi Malone of _WET_ is a Gunslinger who likes to do acrobatic Gun Fu combined with up-close and deadly katana work.
-   All the main characters in the _Wild ARMs_ series, but _Wild ARMs 3_ gets special mention since everyone in your party is a gunslinger. To Specify:
    -   In _Wild ARMs_ Rudy is a solid Type B. Employing a combination of both the standard More Dakka approach and variations of Wave-Motion Gun.
    -   Since _all_ of the leads in _Wild ARMs 3_ had ARMs they _almost_ got to be class representatives each:
        -   Jet is The Vaporizer, equipped with the machine gun— though in-game he could be considered a partial Quick Draw too thanks to having the best speed.
        -   Clive is a Trick Shot, no fancy tricks but was the most accurate bar none thanks to his sniper rifle
        -   Virginia is a combination of all the classes and her status as something of a Jack of All Stats in-game shows it.
-   _WildStar_ has the Spellslingers, a magical variety who use mystic runes, the power of the universe, and their own sharpshooting to devastate their opponents.
-   Jr. from _Xenosaga_ plays this trope straight, wielding Guns Akimbo in the Trick Shot style. His special attacks tend to involve ricocheting bullets off coins to the point in one of his moves, he throws more than a dozen coins, fires a single bullet, and the bullet bounces off every coin hitting every enemy.
    -   Billy in the Spiritual Predecessor _Xenogears_ is another Gunslinger, mostly Trick Shot style or maybe The Woo depending on playstyle. He is also one of the best healers in the game by virtue of being a priest or training to become one. Notably his last deathblow forgoes the main types he displays and delves straight into The Vaporizer where he unloads every gun he's carrying and even briefly jumps into an FPS-like view while firing his handguns before finishing with his shotgun.

    Web Animation 

-   _Red vs. Blue_ has many.
    -   Freelancer Agent Carolina is The Woo, combining her Dance Battler moves with light one-handed guns (such as a Magnum or a pair of Plasma Rifles).
    -   Agent Texas is the same.
    -   Agent South Dakota as well.
    -   Agent Wyoming is a Trick Shot.
    -   Agent North Dakota is the epitome of Trick Shot, at one point shooting a swarm of missiles out of the air with a pair of Sniper Rifles, firing ridiculously quickly.
    -   Agent Washington is a Trick Shot. He's not only extremely proficient with his Battle Rifle but once destroyed a Hornet by shooting the controls while it was trying to dodge, while he was in free fall.
-   In _RWBY_, most characters carry outrageous transforming weapons which serve as both firearms and melee weapons, but some really put an emphasis on the gunslinging side of things.
    -   Emerald has a pair of large revolvers which she is an unnervingly good shot with, and she has a tendency to twirl them like she's in a western.
    -   Coco is the resident Vaporizer, toting a _huge_ gatling gun that can mow down swarms of weak enemies or steadily wear down a tougher one.
    -   Ironwood carries a powerful pistol which he uses to make incredible trick shots, such as firing over his shoulder and nailing an opponent behind him without even looking. He's also highly proficient in Gun Fu and capable of lethal Pistol-Whipping.
-   This trope is the claim to fame for _Pico_ of _Newgrounds_. Most often, he's a Vaporizer, preferring an AK-47 or a brace of Uzis to blast his opposition.
-   _Helluva Boss_ features Moxxie, the team's gun specialist. Moxxie typically wears an impish variation on a tuxedo and enjoys opera and Broadway musicals. He's also a Trick Shot, once shooting the rope holding up a sandbag in just such a way that the falling bag took out the cherub catfighting with his wife, while he himself was swinging from a rope. He's also a Woo, using two submachine guns to cover his boss, then switching to a pair of revolvers without even looking at who was handing them to him. He's also shown hints of being a Vaporizer, slam-firing a shotgun fast enough to kill a team of charging enemy agents.

    Web Comics 

-   Gordito from _The Adventures of Dr. McNinja_ wields Guns Akimbo with Improbable Aiming Skills — enough skill to earn the respect of the McNinja family. His late father, The Amazing Flying Shooting Juan, was even better.
    -   The Amazing Flying Shooting Juan's greatest trick deserves some explanation:
        -   An audience volunteer picks a card without giving Juan any hint which one.
        -   The whole deck is thrown into the air as Juan leaps from a high platform into a small water tank.
        -   On the way down, he shoots the volunteer's card out of the air.
        -   The shot propels the card into an entirely different part of the city and into the leg of a person.
        -   The person shot is knocked into a police station, at which point they are identified as the person who looted the volunteer's apartment some time ago.

-   _Homestuck_'s Jade Harley is an expert markswoman and has her Strife Specibus allocated with the Riflekind abstratus.
    -   On the Troll side, we have Eridan Ampora, who wields an energy rifle from the back of a flying seahorse, and is VERY proud of his gun.
    -   Jake English likes guns a great deal and has allocated his specibus to 2xPistolkind.
-   The Scarecrow of _Goth Oz_ is a Sociopathic Hero who always carries a shotgun around with him.
-   _The Last Days of Foxhound_: Revolver Ocelot was already a Trick Shot in _Metal Gear Solid_ and its sequels, but this webcomic upgrades him to the point where his shooting is closer to magic than marksmanship. His feats have included shooting the hostage taker _through the hostage_ without harming the latter and hitting a bird with his pistol pointing _into his mouth_.

-   Amical from _morphE_ is so good with a gun that he can fire ten shots at five people with each bullet aimed perfectly at their respective hearts and foreheads. He is also a powerful enough mage to stop all ten bullets before they reached their mark.
-   In _The Wolf at Weston Court_ renegade Faerie soldier Nova Petrov shoots a knife out of a Dwarf's hand.
-   _Runners_ features the Casual Danger Dialogue prone, Leap and Fire adherent Trick Shot Candy Bandit, or Cember Kogi. He once (to our knowledge) made a bet on his own Improbable Aiming Skills and won easily.
-   Near everyone uses them in the first two issues of _Sonic: The G.U.N. Project_, including the titular hero Sonic (though he still does uses speed and spin-dashes). Shadow of course is an absolute beast in the duel-wielding department.
-   In _El Goonish Shive_, Grace assumes the role of a duel-wielding pirate in the "Parable" storyline.

    Web Original 

-   _Whateley Universe_:
    -   Hive looks like a 17-year-old blonde. Shoots like a 50-year-old master sniper.
    -   Or Eldritch, looks like a young woman, shoots like a psychotic heavy-weapons range instructor; Generator might qualify too depending on your definition of 'girl', Loophole is quite proficient with her .45 handgun, and Bladedancer is secretly training with guns to surprise her opponents, while Bunker specializes in explosive ordinance (Girl With Bazooka)... considering the setting and the fact that training is readily available it's not uncommon to come across a girl that packs a gun or at least is proficient with one.
-   The Armada Marines of _Damsels and Dirigibles_, an AlternateHistory.com production, and a lot of the other female characters.
-   Simon Heller, a character in The Unwaking setting from _The Wanderer's Library_, is a Gun Marshal. What that entails is not exactly explained, but seems to involve an empathic connection with all guns.

    Web Videos 

-   Neogicians from _Noob_ combine this with The Engineer and add a Bio-Augmentation extra for those that play in the technologically advanced faction.
-   From _Critical Role_, we have Percy, resident Gadgeteer Genius and long-range fighter par excellence. Though to even build a pistol in the first place he needed some help.
-   _Mahu_: In "Frozen Flame", prince Arius is quite skilled in the use of his musket.

    Western Animation 

-   Crazy Stunts in _Skysurfer Strike Force_. It helps that his guns have more than one use, but also his Improbable Aiming Skills while in mid-flight on a Hover Board.
-   Shane Gooseman from _Adventures of the Galaxy Rangers_ — it helps to be a genetically engineered Super-Soldier with better-than-human senses and reflexes as well as Clint Eastwood Expy.
-   _Looney Tunes_: Bugs Bunny shows prowess with his pistols in "Wild and Woolly Hare".
-   In _The Legend of Vox Machina_ Percy is the only one in the entire world, as it is otherwise a standard fantasy setting. Interestingly, when he created the pistol, it was not entirely his own work. It required a Deal with the Devil to get his revenge with a demonic weapon of science. And as shown when he looks into Dr. Ripley's bag, his mistake is beginning to spread.

    Real Life 

-   Annie Oakley. Legend has it that she could pin an ace of hearts card to a tree, walk twenty yards away, then shoot the heart right out of the center.
-   Wild Bill Hickok served as a marshal during the height of the Wild West. He was so fast with his guns that he was able to fend off an ambush in what is really the _only_ "Showdown at High Noon" type of gun battle on historical record.
-   The White Tights of urban legend, an Amazon Brigade of blonde, white-clad sniper women with a hate-on for the Russians.
-   The late Bob Munden was a wizard with his single action .45LC revolver. A real-life Lucky Luke, Munden was capable of drawing his pistol faster than the blink of an eye (literally). He could shoot multiple targets faster than the eye is able to process, split playing cards edgewise, and was able to use the reflection of a diamond ring to aim at his target.
-   D. A. "Jelly" Bryce. He began his career with the Oklahoma City Police Department, for which he "interviewed" by fast-drawing and shooting a target group that could be covered with a silver dollar. J. Edgar Hoover himself waived the college degree requirement in order to hire the guy, who was known to practice his fast draw in front of a mirror for eight hours straight at a time. As a "special negotiator", brought in to deal with hostage situations and stand-offs—with terminal consequences for the suspects who chose to try to out-shoot him—he became so well-known and so feared that law enforcement only had to _call him to the scene_ and suspects would surrender without a fight. In 1945, _Life_ magazine ran an article on Bryce, featuring a series of stroboscopic photos that documented his speed demonstration of holding a coin at his shoulder height, dropping it, drawing his gun, and shooting the coin before it passed the level of his waist. That trick shot only took _two-fifths of a second_.
-   The monster truck industry had Scott Hartsock (1962-2021). A former gunsmith turned monster truck owner-driver, who owned and drove the Gunslinger monster truck from its debut in 1992 until Scott's passing in 2021. Scott and the Gunslinger were a big fan favorites and a staple of many monster truck leagues (including Monster Jam). Scott was also a well-known gun enthusiast and gunman outside of monster trucks, including hobbies like hunting and fishing. He was also well known for being one of the friendliest drivers one could ever meet and had a smile so big that he could brighten up anyone's mood, and overall, considered one of the best independents in the business. Unfortunately on July 15th, 2021, Scott would meet his end when he was killed in an Amtrak accident. He was on his way to a monster truck event in Byram, MS when his hauler for the Gunslinger broke down in Alabama and needed help getting it to the speedway. So while he did get help from a wrecker, both him and the wrecker driver were killed when the train struck the tow truck while trying to cross the railroad track to enter the speedway that the show took place at. Gunslinger monster truck survived and was recovered. But it's future as of right now remains uncertain until recently when the Hartsock family announced on Facebook about plans for inquires on buying the truck. Though Scott is gone, his legacy will live on forever. And will always be remembered as one of the best independents to have ever competed.
-   Jerry Miculek is a combination of the Trick Shot (capable of putting shots onto a target two hundred yards away from a pistol in both conventional and upside-down grips) and the Vaporizer (holds numerous speed-shooting records, including eight shots on-target from a revolver in under one second, and eight shots divided between four targets in 1.07 seconds).

___