_"It can be inferred that we've been too soft on Kenichi. Therefore, I've designed a training program especially for him. It's called... 'Making His Whole Life About Fighting Even If He Dies!'"_

Characters in fighting, sports, and other My Kung-Fu Is Stronger Than Yours series have a tendency to go to extremes when doing their training. Whether it's a regimen concocted by a harsh (or just sadistic) mentor, or self-inflicted, expect to see our heroes go through training that would incapacitate or even kill an ordinary human. When played straight it's always worth it. Conversely, if it's an antagonist putting their minions through this, it often serves to show how evil the antagonist is.

The consequence is usually Charles Atlas Superpower.

Hey, no pain, no gain. Ergo, according to this trope, a lot of pain, a lot of gain.

Should problems during the training crop up, then the leader will vocally try to claim that Weakness Is Just a State of Mind, and force them to continue on.

Frequently occurs in a Deadly Training Area sometimes combined with a Batman Cold Open (or Danger Room Cold Open in the case of groups). For Training From Hell for a whole army, see The Spartan Way. Frequently overlaps with Imposed Handicap Training. For the parental or paternal figure version see Tough Love. When used specifically as punishment for whatever reason or offense, see Physical Fitness Punishment. May result in Sacrificed Basic Skill for Awesome Training if done from childhood. See also Improvised Training, when they have no equipment or money with which to train. See Look What I Can Do Now! for the aftermath. Compare Test of Pain, where a character has to endure tests of pain endurance as a way to measure their strength of will and resolve.

___

## Example subpages:

-   Anime & Manga
-   Films — Live-Action
-   Literature
-   Live-Action TV
-   Video Games
-   Real Life

## Other examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

-   Used in a series of commercials for an auto parts store in the US. Ads so far have included employees changing a battery in a car while in freefall; and running through the savannah carrying a muffler, with raw meat tied to them and lions chasing them.

    Audio Plays 

-   Physical Education teacher Kagetora Chouno from _Exit Tunes Presents ACTORS_ apparently doles this out in spades.
    
    **Mike:** _Chouno, that rascal..._
    

    Comic Books 

-   Martial arts training in comics, particularly from Lady Shiva, often seems to consist of brutally attacking someone with negligible experience until this somehow causes them to develop proper form and build. In reality of course, being beaten up by an immensely more skilled opponent is not a very good way to learn to fight.
-   Justified when she trained Batman in _Knightsend_, but only because he was an already experienced fighter trying to recover his abilities after months out of commission. Robin (Tim Drake), when he trained briefly under Shiva, didn't get as much out of it.
-   Batgirl III (Cassandra Cain) was brought up under Training From Hell so over-the-top it entered the realm of self-parody at times. Her workout program was said to have killed or driven insane all others who tried it. Of course since it included never learning to read or speak and only having contact with one person, social maladjustment at the very least would be expected. When Cass trained Stephanie Brown in turn, the training mostly consisted of her being knocked down with one punch, over and over again, although this may be because at the time Cass was more interested in moping than sparring.
-   _Black Widow:_ The Red Room, the Soviet spy training program Natasha was put through starting as a child, all to turn her into a master spy.
    -   Nadia Pym, the second Wasp, was also "recruited" into the Red Room. She got off slightly luckier, as her handlers realised she was a child prodigy and moved her to the much less hellish science program, but she still has some of the combat training. _Wasp (2023)_ has her mention that since the Red Room was operating post-communism, they had no budget for food and no longer encouraged sharing, and the recruits often had to literally fight for their meals.
-   Brody is put through this to unlock his psychic powers in _Brody's Ghost_, a training that included weeks of constant exercise, learning combat, and being subjected to what was essentially torture (ten days of _uninterrupted_ isolation, for example.)
-   Very controversial example in the Dark Horse _Conan the Barbarian_ comic series, which introduced a female warrior called Janissa whose "training" by her Evil Mentor, the Bone Woman, involved being repeatedly thrown into a pit full of demons and gang-raped by them until she learned to fight back.
-   During _Dark Reign_ Norman Osborn ordered Ares, Greek god of war, to train a special squad of soldiers. The speech Ares gave potential members of his team had him mentioning the possibility they can end as "bags of broken bones and blood" and that he will choose those who are worthy... or those he just wants to see in pain. Later he proved he wasn't kidding — his first lesson was "I will be shooting at you from a BFG, try to survive."
-   The titular _Empowered_ goes through a workout session at the hands of her friend Ninjette that involves tree-hopping, swimming across a shark-infested bay, and shooting toys out of the air.
-   G.I. Joe, of course. This applies both to the Joes and Cobra. Most of this is merely hinted at in the character profiles, but one issue of the Marvel comic focused entirely on the training of new Joes. In addition to some grueling-but-expected training, it included having to watch a horribly boring training video about traffic safety for several hours without falling asleep — _three times_. The Cobra file cards especially go into the horrible stuff you have to do to become an Eel or one of the the various types of Viper. In most elite Viper programs, _surviving_ training is how you graduate. One might think that Larry Hama was exorcising some demons from his own time in the military...
-   _Judge Dredd_:
    -   Judges undergo a fifteen year training programme at the Academy of Law. Minor infractions (such as crying) can result in expulsion. Regular sessions in a Deadly Training Area occur where cadets are trained in live fire conditions. After ten years, cadets undergo a "Hotdog Run"; a training mission in the Cursed Earth, a lawless, mutant-infested radioactive wasteland that is the result of nuclear war. At the end of their training, they must undergo an on street assessment with a senior judge, which involves going on patrol and passing sentences on crimes. Minor mistakes can result in automatic failure. Even a near perfect patrol doesn't guarantee a rookie their full eagle, especially if a rookie is assigned to Dredd.
    -   The novel "Cursed Earth Asylum" makes Judge training even Darker and Edgier by going into greater depth what happens to cadets who get expelled. Not only are they forbidden to ever hold a job again, but they may even be subjected to brain surgery and memory erasure to remove sensitive information or lower their aggression levels.
    -   The Law Academy in the dimension that the Dark Judges hail from is even worse. Primarily because a cadet in Joe Dredd's dimension, should they fail their evaluations, are simply kicked out of the academy and become citizens; on Deadworld they would have been shot. No surprise, since they were trained to become effective killers and torturers more than simply cops trying to keep the peace. It was apparently pretty standard for tutors to mutilate their students in order to raise morale.
-   In _Kick-Ass_, one of Hit-Girl's lessons consists of her father shooting her just so that she knows what it feels like, when she’s only ten years old. In _Kick-Ass 2_, Hit-Girl trains Kick-Ass by hiring mentally challenged brutes to beat him up.
-   Fairly subverted in _The Middleman_ when Wendy begins her training with Sensei Ping. After a long sequence with Ida and The Middleman telling her how strict and ruthless a teacher Sensei Ping is and how unlikely she is to survive the first day, she bounces out of the training room, out of breath but mostly unhurt, yelling, "That was AWESOME!"
-   Justified in the French comic series _Requiem Vampire Knight_. The training to become a Vampire Knight is hellish, and conveniently _located_ in Hell. Of course, you will be fighting hellcreatures in Hell so...
-   The Valiant one-shot _Ultimate Warrior's Workout_ featured the titular wrestler revealing how he maintains maximum Destrucity. His regimen consists of lifting a giant statue, flinging cinderblocks in a stadium with enough force to wreck the place, dodging logs rolling down a steep hill, withstanding the waves of a stormy sea, and finally lifting a table covered in junk which he adds something to every time so it's heaver with every lift. Some of Warrior's "workouts" (the lifting the statue and table) can be seen as Fridge Brilliance since working out while off balance forces more muscles to engage, especially the core, and a stronger core helps to prevent lower back injuries.
-   In _Usagi Yojimbo_, Usagi is trained in a roughly standard way, but with an exception that made it hellish for a bit: Katusuichi started hitting Usagi with a bamboo stick at random times, day and night, such as when he was asleep. Although the rabbit kitten feared his teacher had gone mad and lived in constant fear for a bit, he later noticed that he developed the lifesaving habit of being constantly alert for danger and appreciated the spirit of his teacher's training.
-   Deconstructed in _Wanted_. The main character's initial training consists of being tied to a chair and having a guy twice his size pummel him for a few hours every day. It turns out the point was not to make him able to fight but _willing_ to kill someone. This has some basis in Real Life military training programs; primarily it builds up a person's ability to handle pain and exhaustion, but it also builds up a lot of repressed anger.
-   Marvel Comics _Warhammer 40000: Marneus Calgar_ has a training sequence where a young Marneus Calgar, his servant Tacitan, his friends Kato and Severan are being trained by a failed Space Marine aspirant named Crixus. Crixus has the boys do things like run through Ambull herds, fight wolfpacks, and chaining themselves while one member takes watch. New boys join the four... and die, then more boys come and bond with the increasingly brutal Kato and Severan — while Marneus and Tacitan are isolated from this group and even bullied by them. Commander Marneus Calgar reminisces on this, he notes that Crixus was actually training them improperly — leaving many important lessons out. This was deliberate, Crixus instead was corrupting the boys with his teachings as he became a worshipper of Khorne the Blood God after he failed Space Marine initiation for being too bloodthirsty. Only Marneus and Tacitan stayed pure, the other boys became Chaos cultists under Crixus.
-   Similar to Cassandra Cain, X-23 was brought up under Training from Hell for the purpose of becoming an assassin for hire. Unlike Cassandra she was given an extensive education, although only because her handlers wanted her to be able to blend in with "normal" people to carry out missions. Of course it still causes her problems after escaping when she's actually _trying_ to be normal, anyway. The training itself gets played with a bit in the events detailed in _X-23: Innocence Lost_ and the follow-up miniseries, _Target: X_. Laura's sensei certainly wasn't _easy_ on her but was nonetheless fair and treated her with a great deal of affection. What Rice and Kimura did to her, on the other hand...
-   The Danger Room from the various incarnations of _X-Men_. If the Danger Room's not around, there's martial arts studies with Wolverine, which usually involves students being knocked on their asses over and over again.

    Fan Works 

-   In _Amazing Fantasy_, Peter gets Izuku to push his spider powers by putting him through ridiculous amounts of physical training, making him carry literal tons of equipment, having him lap a city several times, and leaving dangerous objects lying around to train his Spider-Sense. Izuku admits it wasn't fun, but he also knows it's necessary if he's going to get into the school of his dreams.
-   Ozai trained his daughter Azula mercilessly in _Ash and Petals_. An example is when he made her train barefoot on broken glass at age 13.
-   _A Backwards Grin_: Mawile is put through this after Paul catches her, and it initially seems to be just torture by way of his Elekid repeatedly shocking her for not using Fairy Wind fast enough. However, Paul later uses this experience to make her learn Thunder Fang, briefly making her reconsider whether to leave him. Emphasis on "briefly."
-   _Boldores And Boomsticks_: Team RWBY begins Casey and Lillie's Huntress training by working them to the point of exhaustion for weeks. They make it clear that this is only possible thanks to Aura enhancing their ability to heal.
-   In _Beautiful Light_, Cyrus' method of training is this way. For example, he stabs a 7-year old Mitsumi in the arm and then has her do pull-ups to teach her pain tolerance.
-   In the _Harry Potter_ AU _The Darkness Series_ Harry gets dueling lessons from Voldemort at the end of which he frequently has to work on reattaching limbs.
-   _Dragon Ball Z Elsewhere_: Yamcha tries to undergo one of these, using a gravity chamber up to 400G (and ending up in the hospital the first time) and entering the Room of Spirit and Time. According to him, he has become probably stronger than Krilin (mostly, because he guesses Krilin has stopped training since he married C18) and maybe even stronger than Ten-Shi-Han. He anyway realizes that no matter the training, the human body has limits (the aforementioned 400G) that a Saiyan can easily surpass.
-   _Dungeon Keeper Ami_ features this as a major facet of the Duel Arc. Ami has been forced into what amounts to a thinly-veiled public execution for angering one of the dark Gods. Her opponent, a Hornered Reaper, was one she'd managed to drive off once, and even beat, but all through means that would be stripped away for the duel. As a result, Cathy, commander of Ami's personal troops, trains her in melee fighting. At one point said training included sparring against one of her employees... a young _dragon_.
-   In _Emergence_, to prepare to retrieve Yang in Syria, Joe takes Sam and Ruby to a military obstacle course and firing range. While Ruby clears the course with ease, Sam has a really tough time, especially since the course gets peppered with non-lethal but painful rounds to simulate an actual battle. He does a bit better on the firing range.
-   Ron Stoppable subjects himself to such training in _Endless Summer Days_ by learning how to cook bacon naked. As Ron explains to Betty Director, it improves his dodging, stability on slippery surfaces (due to the grease on the floor), ability to recover from slips and falls, and his pain tolerance. Betty never believes the last bit until she tries it and gets hot grease on her nipple.
-   In _Fate of the Clans_ this is what Cú Chulainn equates his training in the Land of Shadows as, with Scáthach being Drill Sergeant Nasty / Sadist Teacher.
-   _Fate/Harem Antics_: Once Saber becomes the new gym teacher, she makes the students run drills like in her old army. Several students complain that she may be hot, but she's a demon. She also trains Shirou in swordsmanship by kicking his ass until he can defend himself.
-   Deconstructed in _The Games We Play_. Jaune's mother put all his sisters through this sort of thing, and while they grew up to become powerful Huntresses, they're also badly traumatised by the ordeal and barely on speaking terms with her.
-   _Guardian_ shows Yuna's summoner training edge into this when the Yevonite priest has her practice water-walking over the depths, even though she's not a strong swimmer, and allows her to continue doing so even after she nearly drowns and becomes feverish. When Lulu protests, he threatens her with penance for interfering with a summoner's duty.
-   In _Incarnation of Legends_, Bell manages to create his own magic on the first try, so Brunhilde and Hrist decide to "help" him cultivate it by dragging him away to perform it over and over while making him chug Mind Potions to avoid Mind Down. Even after he points out that they said he could die from overuse, Brunhilde laughs it off and says that he won't die unless he's killed and that they're going to become _best_ friends. Bell cries for help from Kojiro, who says he'll be off to save France while turning his back to him.
-   In _I Reincarnated As A Minor Villainess And Survived Past My Death Scene_, Commander Broden is deeply upset to see the Duchess endangered in spite of his best efforts, so he focuses on making his soldiers the best he can — he makes them climb walls in full armor and race-holding porcupines. By the way, he picked the porcupine relay because the Duke vetoed buying live bears for wrestling.
-   In _It's Always Bunny In Mustafu_, Izuku's canon training is amped up by Miruko coincidentally overhearing a conversation between him and All Might and deciding to help, citing that All Might's plan wouldn't teach Izuku _how_ to use One For All. His new exercises include doing pushups with his feet elevated and Rumi sitting on his back, maintaining horse stance while carrying weights and being kicked in his sides, and having to practice high kicks in chest deep water.
-   Played with in _Knights of the Realm_: the training Twilight Sparkle, Sunset Shimmer and Trixie undergo a terrifying training under Princess Celestia from a young age to become Knights of the Realm, but the training is just as bad on _Celestia_ due her apprentices getting progressively crazier and causing increasing amounts of damage (at one point Twilight Sparkle destroyed _half of Canterlot_). It was so bad that, when new apprentice Knights appeared, Celestia fostered the job on the three Knights because she's still traumatized.
    -   Played straight with the new apprentices' training, whose _easiest_ exercise is to pull a wagon (each) loaded with absurdly heavy cargo. And that's the basic training meant to _prepare them for the real training_. In all fairness, Twilight, Sunset, and Trixie _did_ warn them it would have been that bad (and Rainbow Dash already knew it)...
-   Played for laughs and then deconstructed in Chapter 13 (fittingly titled "Hardcore Training") of the _The Loud House_ fanfic _Loud Heroes_. Ronnie Anne offers to help training the Loud siblings to get them prepared against the supervillain Nuke, and she does so by pushing them to their limits as much as possible (except Lincoln, whom she gives more reasonable training), which according to her is like how Superman would do it. Although the ensuing Training Montage is quite humorous and _did_ help the siblings improve their abilities (as Lincoln points out later after they've defeated Nuke), all the sisters are left with bad tastes in their mouths, and Lincoln angrily calls out Ronnie Anne for mistreating them after she had promised that they could trust her in helping them for their superhero duties. Lincoln does regret what he said to Ronnie Anne, which caused her to leave crying and him to experience a brief breakdown, and apologizes to her following the contribution she made herself in Nuke's defeat (in addition to the sisters, who admit that they only spoke with their anger too).
-   In _Mega Man: Defender of the Human Race_, Proto Man puts the Robot Masters through this in episode 9. It pays off, and they defeat Mega Man in a fight.
-   _Naruto_:
    -   Many fanfics do this for ANBU selection. Ideas have included having two weeks to climb a mountain with no gear or chakra (knives are placed at the top at the one-week mark and each member can only take their own knife), enduring interrogations that range from eight-sixteen hours a day for two weeks to thirty-one hours twenty-seven minutes (which is merely the minimum to pass) of continuous interrogation and having to evade current ANBU while stealing notes (also guarded by current ANBU) and getting beaten and branded every time you're caught.
    -   _Danzo's Team_ has this for all of Team 7's training. Naruto's in particular stands out as he learned how to fight with a tanto by having his teacher try to kill him with one. He was also taught how to train his sensor abilities by drinking a poison that eliminates all normal senses then being locked in a cave system and having to use chakra emitting devices to find his way out.
    -   _More Than Enemies_: A self-imposed one after Orochimaru stole Sasuke's eyes and once Shi-chan persuaded her disaster was upon them (i.e., the Oto and Suna invasion). Sakura wakes up at dawn and goes to train with Itachi who put her taijutsu, aiming, and chakra reserves up to par in a way only a perfectionist can. Soon enough, he makes her do her katas while using the Air Walking technique. Once Itachi leaves the village to return to his duties, she keeps doing the same but replaces their spars with other things. She pits herself against Academy kids or a flock of her summons to accustom herself to fight against several opponents at the same time. At 9, she has her shift in a very busy restaurant where she has to keep moving while still tired and stick the dishes with chakra so they don't fall. Whenever she can, she refines her chakra control with chakra threads. At night, she performs various odd jobs, several of them also including physical activity. When she is done, she sometimes practices her katas. As expected, though her training yields more than satisfying results (particularly in terms of her chakra capacity), one day she collapses from exhaustion and doesn't wake up for four days. This insane training also has the pleasant side effect of improving her sleep seeing she's too tired to have nightmares about Orochimaru and Itachi's illness.
    -   In _Naru-Hina Chronicles_: ANBU training is already this, but Touji piles it on even further in an attempt to break Naruto.
    -   Team 7's training in _Team 7's Ascension_ _starts_ with Kakashi throwing each of them into a different part of the Forest of Death with only a backpack of supplies (which doesn't include food or water) along with two scrolls: one containing a chakra control exercise and the other a jutsu. Their goal is to survive there for _eight weeks_. He also cashes in a favor the Daimyo owes his clan to have Naruto learn politics for a month, Sasuke swordsmanship (without chakra), and Sakura etiquette. Then he makes them live in a training ground that has no water, almost zero vegetation, and few animals. The trio is forced to rely on Naruto's water jutsu for water and Sasuke's Sharingan to find animals to eat.
-   _Star Wars Vs Warhammer 40 K:_ Potential recruits for the Crimson Razors chapter of Space Marines are preteen boys grouped into squads, with the squads then being made to fight to the death for months. Then, at the end of this training regime, comes the Deadly Graduation, which will _at best_ leave only a single boy from each squad alive. **Then** the boy has to survive undergoing Bio-Augmentation, after which his _real_ training will start...
    -   _True Potential_:
        -   Anko is quite fond of this. Most of the time, her students are completely exhausted by the end. Naruto, when he gets his own genin team, emulates her in his own way.
        -   In Chapter 6, when her students are complaining about her training, Anko tells them it's not that bad and they should see what Gai does to his own genin squad.
-   _The Night Unfurls_: Justified.
    -   Training as an apprentice hunter under Kyril is strict, but not outright demoralising. Best exemplified by how the four plus the Good Hunter spar — they rarely hold back, and they do get hurt, but the fact that wounds heal quicker in the Dream means that there would be no life-threatening injuries. In particular, Chapter 32 informs that Kyril's apprentices have to face their trials in the Chalice Dungeons to further hone their skills. Yeah, including the Defiled Chalice Dungeon, presumably. Then again, it is assumed that in real combat, people fight to kill, especially in a Crapsack World like the _Kuroinu_ 'verse and any sort of battlefield, so such training is justified.
        
        **Kyril:** It (becoming a Hunter of Monsters) is a commitment many make, but few actually uphold. This is not a promotion, it is a burden that you and you alone will shoulder. You will fight, you will struggle, and you will fall. You will see the worst things a man can do to another living being. In this war, that is the truth you will know.
        
    -   If the way how Drill Sergeant Nasty Bergen treats his recruits is of any indication, this trope is Played Straight for military training in Eostia. Tired recruits galore, but Kyril and Bergen intend to weed out those unsuited for combat or any trace of liability. Makes sense.
-   _Oogway's Little Owl_: After Taylor starts training in the Jade Palace, Shifu puts her through the wringer; he _starts_ with having her run up and down the steps to the palace until she collapses just to see what her current limits are, then following it up with four hundred push-ups. This is just as much to get her into fighting shape as it is a test to see if she'll quit when it gets too difficult. She doesn't. Oogway later reveals that he spent a long time cultivating the Valley as a place where Chi can flow more easily, allowing people to undergo training that would be extremely dangerous, even fatal, anywhere else.
-   In _Origins_, there's a whole school dedicated to this. Fittingly, Jack is one of the instructors, and it is _expected_ that students will, in the course of training: break bones, suffer severe internal injuries, lose limbs, be Overdrawn at the Blood Bank and pay attention in class. It's called the KOMBT School, so this whole schtick isn't surprising. The rationale for allowing such ridiculously-physical training comes from bacta which patches any of the aforementioned torments up in a jiffy. Armando Bailey goes through a shorter one as well, having to dodge disruptor blasts and blacken his hands from using his latent powers, among other things.
-   _Pokémon: The Great Adventure_ has Ash's surrogate father and mentor send him to train with the Elites in preparation for the Indigo Conference, one Elite per week. Ash goes through some very hard stuff, including being used as a giant Onix bait and ending up with a giant _Steelix_ attacking him, forced to read books after books about Pokémon and assimilating them in a week, having to climb the food chain of a haunted powerplant ruled by a giant Haunter and having to fight all four Elites and his mentor in basically one-sided fights. However, the reward was totally worth it.
-   In _Pokémon Reset Bloodlines_ after the Fuchsia Gym, Iris decides that Ash and the others have to become stronger to face future threats, dragging them to a _very_ harsh training regime. It's a bit downplayed by the fact that she doesn't go overboard with it, though Misty does find it slightly annoying, and Anabel is not as fit for physical activities as the others.
-   In _Promises of a Wandering Hero_, in order to prepare Motoko to face her sister Tsuruko in combat in three years, Shirou trains her by fighting Motoko at slightly above her level. If by the end of the spar, she hasn't hit him once, he goes all out and beats the hell out of her. They do this every day: first thing in the morning, and again after dinner. Despite being in amazing shape, the training is rough enough that Motoko throws up afterwards.
-   _Remnant Inferis: DOOM_: In Beacon Academy's case it's downplayed. Even when the Slayer is drilling Teams RWBY and JNPR, they are not in fear of serious injury. It's implicitly played straight in regards to the Slayer and his youth spent with the Night Sentinels, however.
    
    **Night Sentinel Drill Master:** From this moment onward, shitlings, your existence is pain.
    
-   In the _Harry Potter_ fanfic _Rebuilt_, Bellatrix puts Harry through this. Her first training session involves waking him up by throwing water over him then chasing him around the lake ten times, beating him with a stick when he slows down. Harry views Lucius's efforts at teaching him to act like a lord as this, too. While not as physically violent, they involve spending _three hours_ learning about different sorts of cutlery.
-   All of the Sailor Scouts get this from Jason in _Sailor Moon: Legends of Lightstorm_, which explains why they are deadlier than most (if not all) other incarnations.
-   _Second Wind_: Luffy and Zoro begin training the rest of the crew in Haki in Chapter 15, once they’ve entered the Grand Line. It’s not only strenuous, but somewhat demeaning.
-   In _Slice of Souls!_, Ciaran's dads put her through this when she was a teenager, waking her up in the wee hours of the morning, making her run for miles, go through an obstacle course and do all sorts of strength training and CrossFit exercises to help her fix her rage and abandonment issues as well as kick her booze and drug habits.
    -   Artorias also went through this when he became Ciaran's apprentice.
-   In the _Star Wars: The Old Republic_ fic _Remi the Grey_, Lord Scourge puts Jedi Knight Remi Syeriy through this while teaching her to use the Dark Side. Examples include refusing to let her treat injuries, encouraging another Sith to sexually harass her, and forcing her to watch a whole shipment of slaves (including very young children) get sold off to the scum of the galaxy while tied up and completely unable to do anything to stop it.
-   Anko does this to her team in _A Teacher's Glory_, but intersperses it with breaks to train their minds and behaviors, such as taking Sakura on shopping sprees every ten days where they get all dolled up and practice infiltration skills by imitating useless noblewomen.
-   Attempted in _Teal'c's Wish_ by SGC to make Xander stay back from the front lines and "be coddled" and get Faith to quit. Instead both blow right through the training, Faith because she's a Slayer and Xander because of his various magical mishaps/possessions.
-   _Their Bond_: At age eight, Impa was cast out into the desert as part of her Sheikah training. Even the Gerudo find the training absurd.
-   In _This Bites!_, as soon as Cross has it hammered home exactly how dangerous being an ordinary human in a World of Badass is, he begins training under Zoro, who proves to be a Drill Sergeant Nasty. Not long after that, he ropes Usopp (and Carue) into joining him, and persuades Sanji to train Nami and Vivi.
-   In _Through The Cracked Mirror_, Mukuro provides some details on what her training in Fenrir was like. She was only referred to as 35 and awakened every day at 4AM with a bucket of ice water, then told to run it off. Out of the 35 recruits her group started out with, only 10 survived it all.
-   _Through Her Eyes_: Taiyang's default standard for his daughters and student alike. Blake is shocked to realized that Ruby and Yang consider his methods _normal_ after they're the only ones not completely floored by the _warm-up_, which is worse than the White Fang's actual _drills_, and don't think his obstacle course is any more difficult than what they normally do.
    -   In the remastered version, when Ozpin watches the footage from Ruby's fight with the Dust thieves, he wants a list of whatever insane standards Qrow has for a trainee hunter since he had called his niece "amateur hour". Ruby and Yang later reference an instance where he made them climb a cliff _infested_ with scorpions, and another where he made them look for javelins in a bay, but weighted one down so that they didn't find it for _hours_, and only did find it when they swam into the non-pointy end.
-   _To Hell and Back (Arrowverse)_: According to Amanda Waller, Ra's al Ghul poured countless amounts of resources into training Oliver, Barry, and Kara into the perfect killing machines. By the start of the main storyline, they are unquestionably the three most dangerous assassins in the world. But from what is implied by the narrative, the training itself was not a cakewalk at all, and left them scars that they've trained themselves to hide from the rest of the world.
-   In _To Prey Upon the Dead_, Ichigo is Covered in Scars and only one _isn't_ from training. His spars with "Mother Masa" sometimes end with him _impaled_.
-   _Traveler_
    -   Whenever Ash gets a chance to train with a truly elite trainer like Bruno or Lance, at least part of it includes fighting their team, which horribly outclasses his own.
    -   Bruno also trained Ash by having his Machamp use Earthquake to disturb nesting Onix and having Ash flee from them.
    -   While Ash is training under Lance, since Pidgeot can't climb Mt. Ember to build stamina, she instead has to spend hours being chased by Dragonite. Meanwhile Ash and his Pokémon climb the volcano while dodging weak hyper beams from Lance's other Dragonite.
    -   Steven wakes Ash up by dumping buckets of ice cold water on Ash then asks him a difficult question about the battle they'd had the previous day.
-   _Voyages of the Wild Sea Horse:_'
    -   Ranma occasionally reminisces of his father putting him through such regimes, usually to the horror and/or disgust of those in earshot.
    -   Ranma's training of Nabiki _starts_ with him forcing her to run laps around the ship by chasing her and attacking her with Shampoo's dao.
-   _Yu-Gi-Oh: The Shaman Tournament_, a crossover of _Yu-Gi-Oh!_ and _Shaman King_, has Montoya offer this to Miranda after he defeats her. The training in question is "the Three Hells", areas he designed to stretch one's spiritual energies. The first is the Hell of Silence, one week in total sensory deprivation. The second is the Hell of Noise, a room designed to trigger immediate Sensory Overload. The last is the Hell of Ice, a giant walk-in freezer that the trainee must cross without proper clothing. The _actual_ test in the Hell of Ice is defeating the gigantic ice demon Montoya has bound to the room.

    Films — Animation 

-   Turned on its head for _Hercules_ where the training is worse for the trainer rather than the trainee. For instance:
    
    **Phil:** _\[whilst standing next to a line of targets\]_ Rule number 95 kid; concentrate!  
    _\[Hercules throws several knives which all very nearly impale Phil in the next shot\]_  
    **Phil:** Rule number 96; AIM!
    
-   _Kung Fu Panda_:
    -   In the first movie, Po gets abused by a dummy that knocks out a tooth, gets ensnared and cooked by the training devices ("There is now a level zero"), and gets beat on by four of the Furious Five and Master Shifu (although it could have been worse — if Shifu had had Tigress face Po, she probably would have killed him). This is actually a subversion at first: Shifu doesn't want Po to actually complete the training, he wants Po to give up and go home. After Po refuses to give up and Shifu changes his mind, the training gets less hellish but still rather difficult.
    -   Also from the first movie, Tai Lung was pushed by Shifu to train until his bones cracked. It should be noted that this is Truth in Television; serious practitioners of kung fu really _do_ train that hard.
    -   _Kung Fu Panda 2_ reveals that Tigress punched ironwood trees for _twenty years_ and now feels absolutely nothing on her whole body. Keep in mind she doesn't just not feel pain, but _anything_. It would really suck if she wanted to get a massage, or if she and Po got together. And yes, real martial artists do things like this.
-   In _Mulan_ the training montage involved running through a field while being shot at by Arrows on Fire.
-   In _Mulan II_, it is averted by Mulan, who begins teaching the girls to fight by telling them that one should be gentle and kind to others, in a reverse of the scene with Shang from the first part of the film.

    Manhua 

-   In _Bowling King_, this sort of training is somehow necessary to be a successful _bowler_; Details aren't exactly forthcoming as to, like, _why_ (other than bowling being seriously Serious Business), but on his first day of training Shautieh is forced to run for over three hours straight as a warmup. Later, he's made to mime sitting down while playing mahjong with ugly women, with the stipulation that if he loses or falls down they get to kiss him.

    Music 

-   Backstage footage of GACKT and his band preparing for concert is nothing but this. Gackt and his back up dancers' "training" includes lifting each other as weights and taking turns punching and kicking each other in the stomach over extended periods of time.

    Poetry 

-   The Shel Silverstein poem "The Runners". The illustration reveals that the reason why the track team is so fast and jumps so high is because their new coach is a lion who chases them across a Death Course with spiked pit traps.

    Pro Wrestling 

-   Training for Professional Wrestling in general seems to be this. It may be "fake", but it is highly dangerous, especially when coupled with the lack-of-experience of the participants, which leads to mistakes. Embarassing, painful mistakes. Many wrestlers have stated that the training they received was harsh, unforgiving and sometimes borderline torture, particularly in the Old School days, but it still isn't easy now.
-   The Hart Family Dungeon. Stu Hart trained dozens of notable wrestlers, including his own sons.
-   What Shane puts Vince through to prepare for the Royal Rumble.
-   This is basically a fraction of what the Iron Sheik's AWA training camp was like, according to both Ricky Steamboat and Buck Zumhofe.
-   The infamous NJPW dojo combines this trope with Japanese Spirit. "Young Lions" reared in the hierarchical New Japan system are not only subjected to rigorous physical training, but also obliged to perform chores and menial tasks such as cooking, cleaning, and attending to veteran wrestlers during and after matches. Given the consistently high caliber of talented, disciplined wrestlers the company has produced over the years, the system is not without its merits.
-   Similarly, All Japan Women's Pro-Wrestling's dojo. American wrestler Leilani Kai, who trained there, said:
    
    "We got up at 5 a.m. Running and skipping rope were a big part of our conditioning program. We would take the same bumps over and over. Each day we gave and took a hundred body slams. Our trainers also taught us kick boxing and the use of martial arts weapons. Before going to Japan I thought I had good wrestling skills. The skills that were learned in Japan were extreme to me. Moolah's school was the best school in the U.S. The skills learned in Japan started where Moolah's school left off."
    
-   Decades ago, all professional wrestling training was like this. If you wanted to become a professional wrestler, and didn't know someone in the business, you had to find someone who would be willing to train you. Then you'd get the hell beaten out of you for the first several days. It wasn't uncommon for this to include the breaking of bones, especially the leg. All of this was to make sure that you were serious about becoming a wrestler, had the mental and physical toughness required to finish the training, and had the endurance needed to perform as a wrestler before you were smartened up to the aspects of Kayfabe.

    Roleplay 

-   In _Dawn of a New Age: Oldport Blues_, aspiring judoka Jemimah puts herself through rigorous 'old-school' training regimes, such as push-ups on gravel and leg sweeps practiced on solid trees.
-   Sharon Kulikov from _Survival of the Fittest_ was apparently put through this — by her own father, no less. Ironically the training doesn't help much when she gets into a confrontation and takes an axe to the back of the head, though her training didn't really involve combat techniques. Barry Coleson High's baseball and football teams also apparently went through an extremely rigorous training regime — described as military-esque — that would've cost their coach his job if it weren't for the fact that they're very highly skilled teams because of said training. The baseball team's practices apparently involve three miles' worth of laps around the entire campus at the start, hundreds of the same drills over and over, physical workouts, and being forced to do eighty pushups every time the player makes a mistake.
-   _We Are Our Avatars_: Every Feccian Bladesman's training was this to some degree; for Zeke, it was this Up to Eleven. Justified, for if he was going to have any chance of going toe-to-toe with another Feccian Bladesman, he'd need all the advantages he could get.

    Tabletop Games 

-   The Crusader in _13th Age_ puts his paladin recruits through a gruelling experience more reminiscent of psychological torture or a lengthy tour of duty in Vietnam than the more traditional "squire" form of training. Washouts tend to be left with serious psychological scars.
-   _Ars Magica_: Believing that conflict is essential for growth, magi of House Tytalus subject their apprentices to fifteen years of enslavement, continual overt and secret tests, and arbitrary punishments, ending only when the apprentice can defeat the master at a challenge of the master's design. Tytalus magi start with a higher Confidence score and, often, a lifelong rivalry with their masters (this is actually a Flaw a character can take, "Tormenting Master", which amounts to "Once a year your Parens takes a two-week vacation devoted to ruining your life").
-   _Chuubo's Marvelous Wish-Granting Engine_: the Prodigy gained three ranks in The Ace by spending a long time in remarkably horrible training. One quote involves surviving for long periods on nothing but ice chips. It's no wonder she believes Hope Is Scary.
-   In _CthulhuTech_ this is how Tagers are prepared to bind with their symbiont. First, they're practically tortured and emotionally manipulated by their instructors for at least six months, in order to learn how to maintain complete control over their bodies and minds. Then, they undergo the Rite of the Sacred Union, a three-day ritual in which they can't eat, drink, or sleep, having to remain focused the entire time. If _everything_ goes correctly, they permanently fuse with a monster from beyond space and time. If something goes wrong, well...
-   _Exalted_: Since the basic idea of Exalted is that you can be awesome if you put an effort into it, this is everywhere for both mortals and Exalts alike. Lore and War charms exist primarily so _you_ can give this For The Peaceful Villager.
    -   In the case of Abyssals or Infernals, it's Training _in_ Hell or Training _by_ Hell. These are not for the faint of the heart. A certain Infernal-only Martial Arts can be taught faster through _nightmares_.
    -   Since charms learned by an Infernal are also learned by her Yozi master, this can potentially results in a Training _for_ Hell. Insert Soviet reversal here.
    -   Although it is technically training from _heaven_, the training of a newly exalted Sidereal by the elders of the Five Score Fellowship is as harsh and demanding as the previous examples. Sidereals are the keepers of fate, they are well aware that their work is crucial to the very existence of the world as they know it, and they don't take training new recruits lightly.
-   _Mage: The Ascension_ features the Golden Chalice, a sub-faction of the Euthanatos that is effectively a fate-bending special operations group. Their training is said to be 24 hours a day for two weeks straight, with only the bare essentials of magic to keep contenders from dying.
-   There are a number of careers in _Rocket Age_ that have the incredibly harsh training regimes. The Legion Martien (the French Foreign Legion on Mars) leaves a trail of ruined men in its wake and the Nazis have a number of brutal training regimes with high attrition rates, some of which require surgery. The Martian warrior caste also have universally harsh training regimes but they can take it.
-   Any martial art in _Street Fighter: The Storytelling Game_ could be done this way, but trying to master Bison's Ler Drit style or Vega's Spanish Ninjitsu is a particularly unpleasant pair of cases. Vega's standard training is to trap aspiring students in an orchard with one or more wild bulls, where they must either master the style's requisite agility or be fatally gored/trampled. As for Ler Drit... the _lucky_ ones just die outright when they fail. The _unlucky_ ones burn out their very souls, reducing them to Technically Living Zombies called Revenants.
-   The Space Marines from _Warhammer 40,000_ are the masters of military Training From Hell. A typical recruit is a teenager when he endures his first trial. These trials are various but always potentially lethal: on a Feral World, the recruit could need to hunt and slay the fiercest predator on the planet, or survive in the outlands for an extended period; he could find himself in a duel with a real battle brother (a hulking monstrosity, eight feet and 800 lbs of carbon hardened bones and pure muscle mass); or the psykers of the Chapter could simply decide to Mind Rape him and see if he survives. If the young boy passes the trial, for years he will be gruelingly trained, cut open and stuffed with additional organs (some Chapters shun painkillers and assistance, or sometimes even properly sterilized surgical equipment; if he dies from the wounds, he's not a good Neophyte), pumped full of drugs and conditioned by the Chapter Librarian. If he survives past his 18th birthday, he will become a full fledged Space Marine... Scout, and from there spend decades fighting until he is deemed worthy of being a Space Marine. Most of the recruits die; the unlucky ones are crippled for life, their mind is shattered and their planet will look at them as the living epitome of failure (some chapters use them as servants and support crew, which they're quite good at: no one wants to be the guy who let down the Chapter _twice_). The real unlucky ones are stripped of their free will and become Servitors to the Chapter officers: Fate Worse than Death, indeed...
    
    -   And don't think they take just any 10-year-old. No, they take only the strongest, most savage kids ten years of survival on the planet has to offer, and often make them fight each other. The Black Templars comic has a recruiting battle-brother declare that _four_ such recruits, on one planet, is exceptional good luck (though in this case they were all young men).
    -   Chaos Space Marines, what with being devoted to various horrifying gods, are even _worse_. Let's hear it from Fabius Bile, Mad Scientist extraordinaire:
    
    Each of the Legions has now nominated aspirants seeking to throw themselves upon our mercy in the vain hope that we may deem them worthy to join our ranks. Those loyal to the shrunken corpse on Terra still cling to their own processes by which perhaps one in a hundred neophytes may survive to become a battle brother. The methods I have developed over the last millennia are more stringent, for we must be pure in our hatred and hard of heart, body and soul. Fewer than one in every thousand survive, and I strive each day to lengthen these odds still further.
    
    -   The Grey Knights make the Chaos Space Marines seem like pussies. First of all, one has to be a psyker and quite powerful to even qualify for the dubious honor of choosing between being food for the Emperor or trying out for the Grey Knights. If he chooses the latter, he will be dropped on Titan with hundreds of thousands of other aspirants with the goal of reaching the Grey Knights' Fortress Monastery thousands of miles away. The journey includes passing through all kinds of horrifying terrain, surviving the elements, and horrors both real and psychic. Maybe one in a hundred thousand survives to reach the Gates of the Fortress Monastery. And this only qualifies him to begin training more arduous than the one described above for normal Space Marines, because the aspirant must hone both his physical and psychic qualities (Including 666 different types of Mind Rape). Maybe one in a million survive to become Grey Knights.

    Visual Novels 

-   Subverted in _Fate/stay night_. Shirou goes through training every night in magic that nearly kills him and terrifies anyone who sees it. This is, in fact, because he is really bad at practicing. It does essentially nothing for him. Another subversion comes in his sparring with Saber, where she points out that there's no way he can really hope to learn anything in such a short time so she'll just teach him to sense killing intent and get used to battle so he reacts better.
    -   Played straight with the methods of Zelretch. He's notorious for periodically showing up at the Clock Tower and choosing out a few trainees. On the one hand, training under one of the few living practitioners of true magic, the man who killed an Eldritch Abomination bare handed? Sounds great! On the other hand, everyone he's ever chosen is currently either dead or insane.
    -   And then there’s Zouken Matou, who puts his son and granddaughter through a horrific training regimen involving injection of flesh eating _worms_ in order to nurture thier magic potential (and because he likes seeing his son suffer). Unlike most examples, this is clearly meant to show Zouken as an irredeemable monster.
-   In _Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney_, spirit medium and Phoenix's sidekick Maya Fey searches for a freezing waterfall to stand under for eight hours as part of her training. After failed attempts with Phoenix's shower and the local fire station, one of the characters during the ending sequence says that Maya did find a freezing waterfall... and caught a cold.
    -   Taken to an even greater extreme in _Trials and Tribulations_; the initial premise of the fifth case is a trip to a Hazakura Temple, a training temple for spirit mediums. One of the training courses Hazakura offers is the "Special Course," in which the trainee sits on a block of ice while being doused in "spirit water" and chanting a spell 30,000 times.
    -   Also, a mini-manga released in Japan with the DS remake of the first game shows a training montage the night before Phoenix's first court case. If Phoenix gets so much as a small detail wrong, Mia hits him with a shinai so hard, it breaks. The title approximates as "Phoenix's Special Training From Hell".
-   In _Yo-Jin-Bo_, Tatsunami Ittosai eventually reveals that as a child he was put through Training from Hell by his father, who believed that A Real Man Is a Killer. Ittosai is the only one of the guys who is completely unfazed when Kasumimaru uses a ninja technique to blind him, commenting that his father used to blindfold him and attack him until he learned to defend himself without being able to see.

    Webcomics 

-   In _The Adventures of Dr. McNinja_, Gordito and Sean are forced to train to fight against 21 different spells within 24 hours. Their training includes being attacked with a flamethrower and having swarms of insects and snakes unleashed on them \[1\].
    -   KNIIIIIIIIIIFE EEEEEEEEYYYEEEE ATTAAAAAAAACK!
    -   This trope is basically the entire ninja method of child-rearing.
-   _Angel Moxie_: A bunch of high-level literal demons get released for our heroes to practice on.
-   _Collar 6_. Mistress Sixx whips Laura severely to train her for pain tolerance.
-   _Dragon Mango_: Lord Sherbert teaches the ''Sherbert School of Incredibly Dangerous Swordplay''. He is said to have "more fatalities than graduates", but an Elf who makes it through can withstand wearing an _iron_ armor without even twitching from pain, while a simple direct contact with iron can kill an untrained Elf. His current pupil, an alumnus from another such school, _asks for more_: When he learns the girls are in danger, he asks Sherbert to crank it up so he can quickly graduate and rush to their help. Even Sherbert is surprised.
-   In _Demon Eater_, the main character Saturno is going through this at the hands of the members of the Human Club.
-   _Errant Story_ characters Chris and Sara both get a dose of this en route to becoming Ensigerum monks, but the circumstances aren't exactly the same: the Powers That Be are trying to bring Sara to the usual Ensigerum time-ninja status, but they're just hoping the training _kills_ the other guy. Remarkably, it doesn't.
-   The Avatar in _Fire Emblem New Mystery_ trains obsessively; most of their supports involve people variously expressing shock at how hard they're working or completely failing to keep up with them in sparring. Apparently this was started by the Avatar's grandfather, who was of the opinion that the correct solution to fatigue was to extend the training session.
-   Subverted in _Fite!_, where Gorgado's harsh training seems to make Lucco weaker rather than stronger, and is more like a strange form of torture.
-   Agatha's lessons with Zeethain _Girl Genius_.
    
    "So the death thing this is supposed to prevent... why is it bad?"
    
-   The T-Girls of _Jet Dream_ undergo extensive training in "Combat Femininity," with the purpose of acclimating themselves to their new bodies and defying Different for Girls with extreme prejudice.
-   _Homestuck_ has Dave's Bro, who quite frequently accosts his younger brother and beats his ass (Although Domestic Battles referred to as strife seem to be the norm in the Homestuck verse) in a total Curb-Stomp Battle simply to toughen him up (or maybe just for laughs). His Alpha Universe counterpart, Dirk Strider, isn't much better — he sends his friend Jake battlebots that utterly destroy him _on their easiest setting_ in order to prepare him for Sburb.
    -   There are a fair number of distinct parallels between Bro's relationship with Dave and Jake's interaction with the "Brobot;" In both cases, Bro/Brobot present a seemingly impossible standard for Dave and Jake to live up to, because Bro/Dirk honestly believes that's what they need to succeed. However, both Brobot and Dave's Bro also serve as protectors to their charge, dealing with threats that pose a genuine threat to Dave or Jake's safety, and it's worth noting that Dirk holds himself to the same standards; he constructed Sawtooth to present a similar challenge to himself.
-   Marena and Ten Winds from _Keychain of Creation_ start putting Secret through this when they discover how low her Stamina score is.
    
    **Ten:** You'll run or we can do the bee training again!
    
-   Cale from _Looking for Group_ spent his whole teenage years being beaten to unconsciousness by a group with sticks while blindfolded until he wins.
-   _Magick Chicks_: Melissa had no idea what she was signing up for when she agreed to let Tiffany whip her into shape; especially since the wand had taken a liking to her. Meaning, Mel didn't have much of a choice, even her sleep. Her regimen included having to do dozens of single-handstanding pushups, sit-ups, sparring sessions, and parkour-style Roof Hopping. But about a month later, it paid off when she laid Rain out in seconds flat, from pure muscle memory.
-   In _Misfile_, Ash basically flat-out told Emily she would be put through this in preparation for her first race.
-   Hilariously subverted in _One-Punch Man_: Everyone thinks Saitama went through this to get his ridiculous power, but his training of "100 push-ups, 100 sit-ups, 100 squats, and 10km running EVERY SINGLE DAY!!!", while tough, is severely underwhelming for all that hear it. Genos even states how that's just standard strength training.
-   In _Our Little Adventure_, Angelika receives this from Candesco the Nemurik Cleric in order to cheat her way back to Level 8. She gets what she wanted, but she ends up getting skewered repeatedly and nearly boiled to death during these fights.

    Web Original 

-   YouTube's BillyMC went through this when his very first LP was _Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels_. It took him a year in real time to beat it. However, he's since proven to be very good at easier — still fairly difficult — Mario games, like Super Mario Bros 3. He's also proven to be very good at games mostly considered Nintendo Hard since, having beaten The Karate Kid in only two Let's Play videos, _Castlevania_ in four, and _Ninja Gaiden_ in just _five videos_ .
-   Parodied in CalebCity's How anime Senseis teach ANYONE that isn’t the main character, where the master, as a lesson in never letting your guard down, strikes the student with a hard shot to the stomach. The master eventually realizes his mistake when the student is unresponsive.
-   The creed of "Strike First, Strike Hard, No Mercy" is the basis for the type of training the students of _Cobra Kai_ undergo. They were looking only to be able to deal with a bullying epidemic. Sadly, the three star students in particular wound up taking the creed a little too far (as their performance at the All Valley Championships as well as Johnny's reaction to the aftermath indicate).
-   Agents of the Organization from _LIS\_DEAD_ are put through extreme training pretty much from birth
-   Training for PPC agents is inconsistent at best, and can range from this (if you're lucky enough to get a thorough agent trainer) to being thrown into your first mission without any instruction whatsoever.
    -   Any fanfiction author unlucky enough to be "invited to attend" an Official Fanfiction University will go through this.
-   In _Pyrrhic_ Joshua and his brothers were subjected to this by Sister Grace, with probably the least terrible thing mentioned done to them being _waterboarding_. It's implied that the reasons she did this was to prepare him for the supernatural aspects of the world that no one else knows about.
-   In the Questden story _Chop's Dojo_, Chop takes advantage of the neighboring magic school training healers. Given his dojo's typical training day involves running, hot coals, push-ups, running while carrying hot coals, and push-ups on the hot coals, the junior healers get plenty of training material.
-   _The RPG Fanatic_: At the end of the Castlevania: Curse of Darkness review the Student Sword forces the Fanatic to fight zombies as part of his ongoing "hero training".
-   Mercury Black was trained this way in _RWBY_, describing every day as a beating. Deconstructed viciously as Mercury is extremely bitter over the abuse he suffered and had his Semblance removed in the process, with his father calling it a 'crutch' and promising it back when he got 'strong'. The training culminated with Mercury killing his father, but he neither recovered emotionally nor regained his Semblance. It makes him a foil to Yang, whose father trained her in a reasonable, practical manner, with plenty of support, teaching her to fight smarter in lieu of relying on her Semblance. She also became a better fighter than Mercury when they fought again at Haven, having actually grown as a combatant and using her newfound intelligence to outsmart him and Emerald.
-   _StacheBros_: Deconstructed in "Bowser's Minion Academy". When Bowser is tired of his minions failing to defeat the Mario Bros., he hires Kamek to put them through rigorous training montages in the hopes of strengthening them. However, a week's worth of harsh training only lowers the morale of the minions, leading to them either dying, being reduced to weakened states, or defecting from the Koopa Troop, which makes Bowser force Kamek to become a minion.
-   In Season 2 of _Stupid Mario Brothers_, Link trains the Mario Bros. to prepare for their fight against Nox Decious. It is however subverted when the training turns out to be a round of Super Smash Bros. which the Mario Bros. take seriously.
-   In _Void Domain_, Genoa puts her daughter, Juliana, through highly realistic combat. When Juliana finds a way to defend herself better, Genoa simply stops holding back quite so much.

    Western Animation 

-   Wolf Den base in _Adventures of the Galaxy Rangers_. A bunch of Artificial Humans designed as living weapons put through grueling training like fighting giant mecha while being shot at with _live ammo,_ being drugged with experimental substances, and casually being used as guinea pigs by their creators. The other students were happy to "weed out the weak" from their numbers, and didn't particularly care about little things like "casualties." That's _before_ the Jerkass Corrupt Bureaucrat dosed all but the youngest with Psycho Serum.
-   _Avatar: The Last Airbender_:
    -   In _Avatar: The Last Airbender_, Toph psychologically trains Aang to Earthbend by doing things such as verbally abusing him, stealing his nuts and staff (literally his staff and bag of nuts), and not helping him protect his friend. Her physical training involves such tasks as running an obstacle course while carrying a boulder on his back, jabbing his hands through solid stone, and sending a giant boulder crashing towards him while blindfolded. However, this is a much softer example than most others on the page: Toph may be harsh, but she didn't give any exercise she didn't think Aang could handle, and the training itself is more harsh as opposed to downright brutal (Plus, she only verbally abused him when he chickened out of one of the exercises, and even then she didn't do it for that long). And it is also for the best that Toph is a Stern Teacher to Aang, since he has a tendency to not taking his training seriously which is not good if the group wants to end a hundred-year war and their enemies chasing them.
    -   _The Legend of Korra_:
        -   Tarrlok and Noatak/Amon are subjected to horrifying bloodbending, now illegal, training by Yakone, their father and the first known bloodbender capable of bloodbending without the help of a full moon. This training includes bloodbending _one another_ as children. No wonder both sons end up being messed-up individuals who end up becoming Korra's major adversaries.
        -   Airbender conscripts in the Earth Kingdom are abducted, thrown in a secret facility, and have stone discs flung at them for hours on end. Having energy spare to defend a fellow trainee is considered proof that you don't have enough discs being thrown at you, a situation they will happily remedy.
        -   Toph shows up again in Season 4 and offers to help Korra get out of her post-Season 3 Heroic BSoD. She subjects Korra to much of the same verbal abuse she subjected Aang to while also beating the snot out of the younger Avatar. While she did it mostly because it was fun, her actions did set Korra on the path to healing both physically and mentally.
-   In _The Boondocks_, Colonel Stinkmeaner goes through a literal version of this after Granddad accidentally kills him, and Stinkmeaner is taught kung fu by the Devil himself so he can return to Earth and have his revenge. Stinkmeaner apparently doesn't think it's so bad, as he claims he's having the time of his life. He also called the Devil a "bitch-ass nigga" _to his face_.
-   The _Cow and Chicken_ episode "Sergeant Weenie Arms" has the titular sergeant training Chicken, Flem and Earl to become manlier by making them do ludicrous acts such as shaving with smooth rocks and cutting down a tree with their faces. The next day, they wake up muscular and he congratulates them with dolls, saying that men shouldn't be afraid to play with dolls.
-   _Dragons: Riders of Berk_: Gobber claims that his father taught him to swim by threatening to kill him.
-   In an episode of _The Fairly OddParents!_, Cosmo and Wanda retreat to Fairy World to renew their fairy licenses; Jorgen von Strangle sets up a hellish training regimen as part of the renewal process, which includes doing 10 million push-ups.
-   The cartoon version of _G.I. Joe_ isn't as intense. However, in the multi-part series where Sergeant Slaughter first appeared, the Joes almost suffered a big setback after letting themselves get overconfident, so Gen. Hawk asked Slaughter to take over their training routines personally. Long story short, it was a good idea.
    -   In a later series, Slaughter is put in charge of an elite force called the Renegades, who he trains even harder. (The Renegades are a group of mostly-reformed thugs who need serious discipline to work with the Joes.)
-   _Generator Rex_: Providence recruits go through 'Pain Week' during basic training — five days, one-hundred and twenty hours, of solid drills and exercises, with no breaks to eat or sleep. The trainer outright says that the goal of Pain Week is to force any recruit who couldn't handle fighting deadly monsters on a regular basis to quit early ... then walk down the long stairs from Providence's apparently cliff-top base and somehow get across a freaking _desert_ to the nearest city. That's right, even the _washouts_ get a little extra hell.
-   _Molly of Denali_: In "Have Canoe, Will Paddle", Connie forces Molly, Tooey, and Trini to undergo rigorous training with odd tasks such as balancing water balloons and trying to lift watermelons covered with butter.
-   _Ninjago:_ Master Wu subjects the ninja to some at the beginning of season 11, when he feels they've become soft and complacent. It mostly involves beating the stuffing out of them, or randomly setting an (incredibly vicious) electric chicken on them. He turns out to be right when a new disaster rears its head, and the ninja are off their game.
-   _The Ren & Stimpy Show_:
    
    **Interviewer:** Which animation show was the most rewarding and why?  
    **Chris Reccardi:** I would have to say Ren and Stimpy. But rewarding like getting ten root canals, and then growing new super-teeth later.
    
-   When _Samurai Jack_ asked to be taught to "jump good", the tribe of ape-people he'd befriended tied rocks to all his limbs and a giant boulder to his back, then ran him around the forest performing chores and surmounting obstacles. When he started, he could barely move under the weight; when he finished his training, the stones' removal left him feeling so much lighter that he virtually floated away with the smallest of efforts.
    -   Season Five has the Daughters of Aku, an Amazon Brigade of assassins who were born and raised for the sole purpose of killing Jack. Training ranged from being forced to fight a giant muscular woman as children to being shot with flaming arrows in the dark to hone their senses. They are not allowed to see the outside world, any distractions are punished with repeated punches to the face, and their final test is a battle to the death with their trainers (except for the High Priestess, who stays alive to declare their training complete). The result is that they are brutally efficient and far more dangerous than the typical foes that Jack faces.
-   _Steven Universe_:
    -   Deconstructed in the episode "Coach Steven". Steven tries to work out extra-hard so he can be stronger, but instead he wears himself out, and the next day he's too exhausted and sore to stand up.
    -   Also deconstructed in "The Test", where each of the Gems designed a chamber to put Steven through his paces mentally and physically, with Garnet's looking especially threatening (fire walls, spiked crushers, etc.). It's only when a crusher stops inches before hitting Steven and he walks right through a fire wall does he realize that the chambers were designed to let him succeed and keep him out of danger, even if he failed what he was supposed to do.
-   _Supa Strikas_: Many episodes focus on a player or players going somewhere remote to refine a skill to take on the team of the week. This usually involves an extreme form of training.
-   Col. Hunter Gathers favors this method twice in _The Venture Bros._. First, in a series of flashbacks, he is shown training future One-Man Army Brock Samson. He introduces himself with a steel baton to Brock's kneecap and later, after learning that Brock can't swim, forces him into a swimming pool with armed frogmen and a shark while Hunter tosses grenades into the pool. In another episode, when Hank Venture tries to join SPHINX (Sphinx!), he puts Hank through a series of difficult tests trying to ensure he fails. Hank, having endured far worse in his life as a boy adventurer and having learned directly from Brock Samson, passes every test, much to Hunter's surprise.
-   _Voltron: Legendary Defender_: Altean training regimes largely revolve around throwing the Paladins into dangerous situations and hoping they bond with each other. For the most part, this is safe enough... except, of all things, for the _language lessons_. Pidge tries to learn Altean, and is shown a holographic animal, and told to repeat the name she just heard. Every time she gets it wrong, the animal gets bigger and angrier, and will eventually attack if she doesn't get it right. Then the lesson changes to a more dangerous animal with a more complicated name.
-   _Where on Earth Is Carmen Sandiego?_ had an episode that showed what went on in a V.I.L.E training program, which includes rappelling up the side of a life-sized mockup of the Leaning Tower of Pisa (or perhaps the _real deal_ — Carmen _did_ like to steal oddball stuff like national monuments).
-   _Xiaolin Showdown_: The first week at Master Quon's temple sees the monks woken before the sun rises and run through a course of death machines till they drop, while being shouted at. Its all part of a secret plan to fool the villain but doesn't make it any less painful, especially since only Raimundo knew.
-   _X-Men: Evolution:_ Played for mild laughs in one episode where the X-Kids go to a wilderness camp with their rivals in the Brotherhood. The alternative was survival training with Wolverine. Jean's the only one who tries to see the positive in this.
    
    **Jean:** At least \[Professor X\] gave us a choice: Survival training here or survival training with Wolverine.
    
    **Rogue:** Some choice.
    
-   This becomes an unintended case in the episode "Failsafe" of _Young Justice (2010)_ when Miss Martian was overwhelmed by Artemis's "death" and her telepathic powers overrode hers and the rest of the team's conscious knowledge that the scenario was fake.

___