**ELANA IS WITH US NOW. ELANA IS US NOW.** (Source)

_"Her eyes shone with supreme truth and understanding. The light of the cosmos with all its visible and invisible rays danced like multifaceted fractals in her vision, undimmed and unveiled, brighter than a thousand suns. Her frail flesh, no longer able to bear the weight of the revelation gave way to transcendence. Tongues of scarlet flame descended upon her and became consumed by it. She embraced utter annihilation and thus, ushered her rebirth._

_She is our Archempress, our blessed Matriarch. May her reign be eternal, now and always. We humbly prostrate in exaltation and despair. For this we are now anathema."_

The Eldritch Abomination is defined by being alien, horrific, inhuman, unnatural. They may be painful to look at, use dimensions humans can't perceive, or are just covered in tentacles... But what if that thing used to be human?

While there are many "classical" monsters that used to be human, such as vampires, werewolves and zombies, they have some element that is recognizably human. You would not know these things had once been human if it wasn't stated in story. Sometimes, the transformation was a desired outcome of a person's goal to Ascend to a Higher Plane of Existence. Other times, the transformation was involuntary, caused by some eldritch contagion (future sapience is not necessary). If the transformation causes them to turn evil (or were already evil while still human), then there may be some Transhuman Treachery involved.

This is a subtrope of Was Once a Man and Eldritch Abomination, often the result of an Eldritch Transformation. They are often (though not always) a Humanoid Abomination. If the transhuman became an abomination through genetic mutation, then they're also a Genetic Abomination; or through cybernetics they became a Mechanical Abomination instead, or via necromancy became an Undead Abomination. There may be some occasional overlap with Demon of Human Origin, Deity of Human Origin, or Angelic Transformation.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _AKIRA_:
    -   Tetsuo acquires fantastic powers, almost to Reality Warper levels. As his powers increase, he becomes more unhinged and less able to keep them in check. Tetsuo ultimately mutates into a billowing mass of flesh, a Blob Monster that takes up most of a football stadium, crying out to his best friend Kaneda in a desperate attempt to cling to his last sliver of humanity and sanity.
    -   The titular Akira himself is an even bigger example, especially in the manga — while he still looks like a small human boy, his Psychic Powers have developed to the point where he dwarfs those of Tetsuo by orders of magnitude and has attained a kind of apotheosis, he's so psychologically different he can barely interact with people and his environment most of the time, and in the end he decides to Ascend to a Higher Plane of Existence.
-   _Berserk_: The Apostles are formerly human beings who made a Deal with the Devil with the Godhand, they are capable of switching between their relatively human forms and their Apostle form. Their Apostle form represents the forms of their souls within the Astral realm and bring it forth into the physical realm. However, despite their often unnatural and hideous forms, they are nowhere as reality-breaking as the Godhand, to which they are relatively just powerful physical monsters. That said, Emperor Ganishka does qualify when he reincarnates himself into a tentacled giant who resides between the physical and Astral realms, whose size dwarfs a whole city and can function as a bridge between the two realms. As a side-effect, he also becomes mindlessly destructive and spawns innumerable lesser abominations to kill and eat everything in their path. The Godhand themselves were also formerly human, who particularly impressed the existing members of the Godhand just before the Eclipse, as seen with Griffith's ascension.
-   _Bungo Stray Dogs_: Artificial Ability users like Chuuya and Verlaine are implanted and merged with entities which give them their Gravity Master powers. However, near the end of _Storm Bringer_, during a Villainous Breakdown, N releases the entity within Verlaine, Guivre, transforming the man into a mindless horror which threatens to destroy Yokohama. Guivre is thankfully defeated by Chuuya, reverting Verlaine who survives thanks to Rimbaud replacing the entity that kept him alive with his own Ability, though this weakens him.
-   _Claymore_: The Awakened Beings who are produced from Claymores that give into their Yoma side, but especially Priscilla, the strongest damn thing in the whole setting. In 3rd Extra Chapter Rigardo, by observing Priscilla, came to realize that her physical body (including her demon form), as absurdly powerful as it is, is little more than a shell that merely contains an infinite chaotic raw power waiting to be released. On rare occasions when we see her damaged a mass of deformed tentacles pours out from the wound to devour everything in their path before reforming as the missing body part.
-   Alucard of _Hellsing_ may appear to be just a very powerful vampire at first glance, until he shrugs off holy bayonets and silver bullets and turns into a shadowy mass of tentacles with too many eyes. Like every vampire, he was once human, but the horrifically inhuman parts of him come from having consumed millions of souls during his centuries as a vampire.
-   _Neon Genesis Evangelion_ is an odd example, since the definition of "human" is ambiguous within the show. That being said, the fact that the Evangelion units are gargantuan, Frankensteinien abominations wearing armor and inhabited by human souls, instead of traditional Humongous Mecha and that they are capable of incomprehensible eldritch powers definitely matches this trope tonally. The Human Instrumentality Project involved _all of mankind_ being turned into this.
-   _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_: Witches exist as twisted abominations of Alien Geometries in their own chaotic dimension hidden and isolated from the rest of reality, crafting a realm and servants to carry out some nebulous and hopeless task, and having yourself touched by a witch will mind-control you into despair and suicide. And every one of them was once a magical girl who made a contract with Kyubey to fight the witches.
-   _Rosario + Vampire_ has Alucard, a vampire who transformed himself into one by devouring other monsters. By the present day, the _only_ thing he has in common with a vampire is drinking blood; his current form is a Kaiju-sized insectoid creature with a Xenomorph-like head, Combat Tentacles, and Too Many Mouths, who wields the power to bring about The End of the World as We Know It.
-   _Sailor Moon_: Wiseman/Death Phantom is a Genius Loci Eldritch Abomination that used to be a depraved mass-murdering criminal who merged with Planet Nemesis through The Power of Hate while he was dying. This just made him more insane.

    Comic Books 

-   _Spider-Man_: Dr. Jonathan Ohn, a scientist working for the Kingpin, turns himself into the Spot—a walking portal network—after suffusing himself with Darkforce energy in _Peter Parker, The Spectacular Spider-Man_ #98.
-   _Supergod_: The series is all about a superhuman arms race amongst the nations of Earth that eventually results in humanity making their own gods. Unfortunately, these "supergods" are, by definition, inhuman, alien beings with no real connection to humanity. Of the few confirmed to have once been human rather than being built from scratch, one is Maitreya, who was implanted with tunneling electron microscope eyes and was forced to study his own atomic structure until he could comprehend it on the quantum level — the other is Morrigan Lugus, a three-faced giant formed from the bodies of three astronauts and a mass of alien mushrooms. Mentally it's an entity beyond human comprehension — its entire fungal physiology acting similar to an organic supercomputer — whose mere presence biochemically forces human brains into a state of religious and sexual ecstasy, making the humans kneel before it in prayer and masturbation. Everything that happens in the series, culminating in the deaths of every living thing on Earth, was planned by Morrigan Lugus (its appearance is basically what kicked off the disastrous superhuman arms race). All so that its spores would have plenty of raw dead material.
-   _Watchmen_: Mild-mannered nuclear physicist Jon Osterman is disintegrated at the sub-atomic level thanks to a bizarre quantum-science accident, but his mind continues to exist and very gradually is able to piece together a body. Now he's Doctor Manhattan, a Physical God capable of controlling, reshaping, and disintegrating atomic structure on a massive scale just by thinking about it. He exists outside of time as we know it, experiencing all points in his life simultaneously. He also has Complete Immortality, as his still-disembodied mind does not rely on his physical body to live — his body isn't just replaceable, it seems to just be a convenience for other human beings. As a result of his newfound powers, he grows progressively more detached from the human condition, convinced that anything he does would be so insignificant in the long run that taking action would be pointless, and unable to see the lives of individual humans as significant.
-   _Zenith_: Phase IV belatedly reveals that the Lloigor were once human — more specifically, the superhero team Cloud 9, who had evolved far beyond human form and had gotten stuck on the wrong side of a dimensional barrier in the process.

    Fan Works 

-   _Abraxas (Hrodvitnon)_:
    -   San, a rogue severed piece of Ghidorah, essentially turns Vivienne Graham into one when he fuses with her and makes them a half-human, half-Ghidorah, Two Beings, One Body newborn Titan.
    -   Likewise, the Many were created by fusing Ghidorah's experimented-on DNA to humans.
-   _The Unseen Hunt_: Jaune and Weiss essentially become _partial_ abominations after they've killed the Leviathan and the Lord of the Skies respectively: by killing those Elder Grimm in the Grimm world while being stalked by them, Jaune and Weiss have inherited their respective Grimm forms and elemental powers, and they can use the latter in both the Grimm world and the human world. At the end of the fic, Jaune fully becomes the new Leviathan Grimm when his original body on Earth is killed, leaving his soul with only his Grimm world body.

    Films — Animated 

-   The Spot from _Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse_ combines this with From Nobody to Nightmare and Humanoid Abomination. He was originally a regular human scientist who got caught in the explosion from the dimensional particle collider in the climactic Final Battle in the first movie, which turned him into a living vessel for interdimensional portals while also drastically changing his appearance to something resembling the Slender Man. After figuring out how to hone the full potential of his abilities, he decides to travel through the multiverse and absorb more of that same energy that gave him his powers to fuel himself until he becomes a living Cosmic Flaw that could radically alter and even destroy reality. And all of this is to get back at Miles, whose actions in the first movie inadvertently led to him becoming this way and dismissing him as a Joke Character and a "Villain of the Week" at the start of the movie effectively serving as The Last Straw for him.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   The aptly named Abomination in _The Incredible Hulk (2008)_ is the result of Bruce Banner's blood interacting with the super soldier serum in Emil Blonsky's body. Blonsky becomes an insane Blood Knight after the transformation and massacres the responding US Army troops before seeking out the Hulk.
-   In _The Lawnmower Man_, Jobe Smith undergoes VR and drug experiments which enhances his mind so much he gains telepathy, then telekinesis, followed by pyrokinesis, and finally, the ability to cause people to disintegrate on the molecular level. Eventually, he becomes a digital monstrosity by inserting his mind into cyberspace and plans to spread his mind across the Internet to obtain true godhood. His digital avatar only shows how much of a cyberspace eldritch creature Jobe has become by the end of the film.
-   The mook who overdoses on Jekyll's serum in _The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen_ becomes a massive, deformed beast who dwarfs the transformed doctor and appears to be driven by pure rage.
-   _The Relic_ (and the book it was based on) features the Kothoga, a hulking chimera with characteristics of mammals, reptiles and insects, which was formerly a researcher with the Chicago Field Museum.
-   Both the Salaryman and the metal fetishist in _Tetsuo: The Iron Man_. Both infected with a virus that turns their bodies into machines and scrap metal. The final film in the trilogy explains it as an experimental invention originally designed to help people with disabilities regain the use of their bodies Gone Horribly Wrong.
-   Weapon XI in _X-Men Origins: Wolverine_ is the result of Weapon X rigging the superpower lottery to turn Wade Wilson into a biological killing machine with Cyclops' eyebeams, Kestrel's teleportation and Wolverine's claws and healing factor. Colonel Stryker has direct control of him, using his creation to try and kill Wolverine.

    Literature 

-   _All Tomorrows_: Ironically enough, while the Qu re-engineered humans into a wide variety of creatures barely recognizable as human, it's the Asteromorphs<small>◊</small>, descendants of fugitives/refugees who _escaped_ the corrupt Qu, that become the most "Lovecraftian". Their limbs elongated and warped in microgravity, digits so long as to seem more like fractal extensions of their arms than fingers and if one were to look close enough, can see small hands or claws at the tips of their elongated fingers. Their torsos atrophied into little more than digestive tubes that provide thrust. And their brains swelled to outmass their terrestrial ancestors' whole bodies, thinking unfathomable thoughts as they wander the immense gulfs between the stars. Inscrutable gods indifferent to the plights of their planetbound cousins. Until the Gravitals decided to pick a fight with them and lost, at which point they decided to free their slaves and rebuild galactic civilization.
-   _Dune_:
    -   The Axolotl Tanks are female cyborgs used by the Bene Tleilax (in fact, the ONLY female Bene Tleilax are the Axolotl Tanks) to produce their numerous biological products and experiments. Many of these products fit the bill as well, such as Twisted Mentats (bio-engineered human supercomputers), Face-Dancers (shapeshifting assassins) and Gholas (clones).
    -   The Cymeks from _Legends of Dune_ are the preserved brains of the "Titans" who overthrew the Old Empire, encased in massive robotic exoskeletons. Eventually, they become the generals of the rogue AI, Omnius. They finally meet their end in the closing years of the Butlerian Jihad.
-   While the titular children in _Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children_ possess startling unnatural abilities themselves, they pale next to the hollowgasts, former peculiars that, through some horrifying means, have made themselves immune to the passage of time, feed on the souls of peculiars (though they will eat normals and animals if pressed), and are only visible to a few peculiars as horrible masses of eyes and tentacles. If they eat enough souls, they become wights, which can pass for humans but are only slightly less horrifying.

    Live-Action TV 

-   Alveus/Hive, the Big Bad of Season 3 of _Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._, is an Inhuman who's become a borderline Eldritch Abomination. He's impossibly long-lived (he went through his transformation during the Ice Age), can disperse himself in the form of small sand-like insects, and can possess corpses and control other Inhumans. His control acts more like drug addiction, warping his victims' minds into thinking that they like working for him. He does this partially because his true form is a creepy monster resembling a fusion between Cthulhu, a human, and an insect. He's insanely powerful, capable of reducing a roomful of humans into flayed skeletons in a matter of seconds and shrugging off any attacks that don't involve fire or electricity. He's also a Merger of Souls and retains the personalities and memories of every person he's ever possessed. He's not really evil, just extremely out of touch with how people actually feel, and his Evil Plan is ultimately just a desperate attempt to feel some kind of connection to mortals once again.
-   _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_: The Mayor plans to become one. Under the right circumstances, a ritual called "the Ascension" can be used to become a pure demon, of the sort that dominated the Earth during Illyria's era. The Mayor was planning and waiting for over a century to pull this off.
-   _Doctor Who_: The Bad Wolf is a temporary one. She's the result of a human looking directly into the Time Vortex, turning Rose into a Physical God who has the raw power of spacetime running through her head, at the price of the full power threatening to burn her away until the Doctor removes it.
-   _Game of Thrones_: The Night King's White Walker lieutenants apparently originate from human babies who are turned into the same kind of Humanoid Abomination as the Night King by his touch. "The Door" reveals that the Night King himself was originally a First Man who was transformed into the undead humanoid ice demon he now is by the Children of the Forest in a ritual many thousands of years ago.
-   _Reservation Dogs_: The Deer Lady is a legendary spirit that murders bad men. While she mostly looks like a beautiful young woman, she makes no effort to hide her cloven hooves. The third season reveals that she was a young Kiowa girl forced into a residential school in the first half of the 20th century. When she flees into the woods one night, she's saved by a deer and transformed into a deer-humanoid Vigilante Woman.
-   _Stranger Things_: Vecna is revealed to be none other than One a.k.a. Henry Creel, Victor Creel's telekinetic son who was transformed into what he is now by the Upside Down's lightning after Eleven sent him there with her powers.

    Mythology & Religion 

-   Scylla and Charybdis from Classical Mythology were once beautiful women who were cursed by the gods to become hideous sea monsters and then chained to the opposite sides of the Strait of Messina to pose a threat to the passing sailors.
-   The Wendigo of Algonquin lore is a former human reduced to a perpetually hungry, cannibalistic monster after they have eaten human flesh or committed some terrible act out of greed or desperation. It's said that even speaking its name puts you at risk of becoming one of them. There's a very good reason why a lot of Native Americans are not fond of talking about this thing.

    Podcasts 

-   _The Adventure Zone: Balance_: The Big Bad of the whole campaign, the Hunger, is an all-consuming, malicious plane of existence that lives only to devour every world it comes across. Its leader and mouthpiece John was once a normal human man who somehow managed to take Madden Into Misanthropy and Suicidal Cosmic Temper Tantrum to their utmost extremes.
-   _Ain't Slayed Nobody_: Around two-thirds of the way through Season 1, the Posse encounters a Dark Young of Shub-Niggurath, which stomps its way through their campfire and noms on some would-be horse-thieves. At the end of Season 1, Johnny binds himself to the Dark Young, discovering it was mind-swapped with Kate, a previously background NPC who was the assistant to eccentric archaeologist Professor "Sparky" Henry.
-   _The Magnus Archives_: Many of the Avatars serving the Fears were normal people who were unfortunate enough to tangle with something they didn't understand and, often due to desperation or terror, ended up becoming servants of them... and getting lots of creepy powers to match. Their appearances often warp, too, sometimes beyond the point of recognition. By the fifth season, the protagonist himself has transformed from a cynical, relatively ordinary man to the Archivist, an omnipotent being who can force people to answer any question he asks and can turn the full force of the Eye on them and evaporate them on the spot.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Eclipse Phase_:
    -   Some strains of the Exsurgent virus transform people into replicas of Starfish Aliens the virus has previously encountered. From fleshy tubes with whiplike tentacles to featureless blobs.
    -   Members of the "Exhuman" movement seek to become the Übermensch by leaving behind their human "weaknesses", usually sleeving in custom morphs that either invoke the Uncanny Valley or look like nothing natural.
-   _Mage: The Ascension_ has Threat Null, former members of the Technocracy who got caught in the depths of the theoretical space known as The Umbra and spent too long there, turning into spiritual reflections of their worst qualities. From cybernetic monstrosities to avatars of transhuman perfections to the world's worst nightmares of capitalism, they are trying to make their way back to reality and "convert" their former brethren in the Technocracy, who they see as unable to do what needs to be done to preserve the state of reality.
-   _Werewolf: The Apocalypse_ features the Maeljin. Each one represents the will of an Urge Wyrm, the various thrashing instincts that define the Wyrm in its captivity, and has been chosen because it's capable of directing that urge. Every single one of them was human at one point, but managed to ascend to the Wyrm's side through sheer bastardry.
-   _Warhammer_, _Warhammer: Age of Sigmar_ and _Warhammer 40,000_:
    -   Daemon Princes are formerly human servants of the Chaos Gods who "ascended" to the status of daemons of their respective patrons. They undergo mutations to better suit their transformation into supernatural beings, at the end being virtually unrecognizable beings of Chaos.
    -   _Warhammer 40,000_ takes this even further, as Daemon Primarchs of Chaos Space Marines actually have _more_ authority than their plain-old daemon counterparts.

    Video Games 

-   _Annventure_: Tyrannia is an unfathomably powerful demon with the power to tear apart entire universes, was once a mortal witch before turning herself into a lich and making a deal for demonic power.
-   _Axiom Verge_: All the various giant, inhuman, bosses were originally cloned from a human, Athetos, and mutated by his pathogen.
-   _Bloodborne_:
    -   Rom, the Vacuous Spider is a spider/caterpillar-esque Great One that the Hunter encounters hiding on the Moonside Lake at Byrgenwerth College. Also known as the "Byrgenwerth Spider", in-game text all but confirms that Rom was originally a scholar at Byrgenwerth before eventually ascending into a Kin of the Great Ones. The method in which she achieves this is unknown, as "true enlightenment need not be shared".
    -   Several enemy types are 'Kin', humans who've transformed into something Great One-esque. Usually with a lot less success than Rom herself. These include the Celestial Emissaries, artificial Great Ones created by the Healing Church.
    -   It's also implied that Ebrietas, the Great One the Healing Church contacted, was herself once a human or Pthumerian. Her transformation seems to have gone much better than any of the others seen, with the possible exception of the last.
    -   In one of the endings, by consuming three "One Third of Umbilical Cord" items, the Hunter is transformed into a newborn Great One.
-   _BlazBlue_: There are two noticeable examples in the series. Circumstances are different but at its core, it's the same.
    -   Ragna the Bloodedge can and has suffered from this Trope. First was during _BlazBlue: Calamity Trigger_, thanks to a never-ending Time Loop. Every time Ragna failed to defeat Nu, both he and she would fall into the Cauldron and Nu would fuse together with Ragna's Azure Grimoire to become the Black Beast. In _BlazBlue: Continuum Shift_, Ragna's Bad Ending has him overload his Grimoire and turn him into the Black Beast.
    -   Arakune is a more straightforward-looking example. Initially a normal, if intellectually gifted, human being by the name of Lotte Carmine, aka "Roy". But with repeated exposure to the Boundary and it's information both his body and mind have completely deteriorated. Now his physical body can best be described as a living pile of goo that also acts as a hive body for mutant insects. Interestingly, we learn in _Continuum Shift_ that he's a failed attempt at a Black Beast, which actually explains a bit. What's more, we learn in _BlazBlue: Central Fiction_ that his soul is completely safe, fine, and content in the Boundary, still currently doing research. He does ask Litchi to do something about his former body Arakune, as it's far too dangerous to be left alone.
-   _Cultist Simulator_: Many of the Hours, specifically the Gods-From-Flesh look like traditional Lovecraftian deities but are actually ascended humans. The player character might attempt to join them by sacrificing followers.
-   _Dark Souls_: Manus, the Father of the Abyss, was apparently a primeval human sealed deep within a grave under the earth, then the people of Oolacile Dug Too Deep, and paid the price. In the time of the _Artorias of the Abyss_ DLC, he is a a giant monkey-like monster with curved spikes lined with glowing red eyes and a massive hand lined with octopus-like suckers. On top of looking otherworldy, he resides deep within the Chasm of the Abyss and is hell-bent on corrupting the entire land, drawing further parallels to Lovecraft. He also introduces the terrifying concept that Humans Are Cthulhu upon analysing the bits of lore he brings.
-   The Envisioned, as seen in _Dishonored: Death of the Outsider_, are ascended cultists that only exist in the Void in the form of a sort of constantly shifting rock monster. They serve as Demonic Spiders that can blink around the map, are hard to hide from, and are even harder to kill.
-   _Doom_:
    -   Towards the end of _Doom³_, Sergeant Kelly, your commanding officer, becomes Sabaoth, a mutant torso fused to a tank. He also has a BFG9000, which was stolen from Campbell.
        -   The Big Bad, Dr. Malcolm Betruger, transforms into a giant skull-faced dragon after escaping to Hell. He eventually comes back in the _Resurrection of Evil_ expansion as the Final Boss.
    -   The final boss of _Doom (2016)_, the Spider Mastermind. Olivia Pierce traded her soul and betrayed humanity to Hell for eternal life and power. She probably didn't anticipate gaining that power by transforming into a giant brain-like demon which, while extremely powerful, appears to be utterly mindless.
    -   It's arguable whether or not Valen's son from _Doom Eternal_ would qualify as a 'human', but what he becomes is certainly an abomination. He was made host to the Icon of Sin, transforming him into a skyscraper-sized demon which exists to kill, and whose mere presence threatens reality around it.
-   In the _Dragon Age_ video games, broodmothers are nightmarish creatures that create the hordes of darkspawn, soulless monsters who are driven to kill and destroy. As is revealed in the course of _Dragon Age: Origins_, the broodmothers were once female humans, dwarves, elves, or qunari before they were corrupted against their will into these monstrosities.
-   _Final Fantasy VII_: Sephiroth starts off as the ultimate super-soldier, created by implanting a human fetus with Jenova cells and pickling him in mako. He was originally a nice guy, but after going insane he seeks to follow in Jenova's footsteps by becoming a god. By the time he's resurrected in _Final Fantasy VII: Advent Children_, he's comprised entirely of Jenova cells and corrupted Lifestream, and has lost so much of his humanity he doesn't blink or even breathe.
-   In _The Forest_, the "creepy mutants" are hideous, fleshy monsters that used to be human children before they were corrupted by an Artifact of Doom buried beneath the peninsula.
-   Every monster in the first two _Dead Space_ games is made, in some way, from human flesh, reanimated and mutated by the Markers. This includes the tentacled, baby-like Lurkers, the bat-with-a-proboscis Infectors, and especially the ship-sized, writhing Hive Mind.
-   In one fan-made campaign for _FreeSpace 2_, _Transcend_, the Big Bad is a being known only as "the Transcendant", who distorts the laws of reality itself just by being there and unconsciously evokes human souls to play out particular roles. It turns out that the Transcendant was originally human and was somehow expelled from the physical universe, growing into an Eldritch Abomination, then attempted to return home only to very nearly break the universe in the process. He did none of this on purpose either, being pretty well insane by the time he attempted to re-enter reality. All you hear from him directly is his static-broken voice over your radio begging for help... and thanking you when you finally kill him.
-   The Stalkers from _Half-Life 2_ are withered, stumpy-armed cyborgs made from captured human subjects, used by the Combine for slave labor.
-   _Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords_: Darth Nihilus Was Once a Man but, through sheer hatred and hunger, became effectively a vampire feeding off of Force energy, wiping out (nearly) all life on at least one planet by his sheer presence, and it is implied that he would eventually grow in power to the point where he could kill everything.
-   _League of Legends_: Lissandra was a human who sold herself to primal ice spirits and turned into a horrific elemental who, with their help, nearly brought about the end of the world centuries ago. Unlike most other examples of this trope, she is perfectly aware of what a mistake this was and spends all her time trying to keep the abominations she's beholden to from awakening, even though she knows she's only buying time.
-   _The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_: The recurring Big Bad of the series, Ganondorf, has mutated over the tens of thousands of years separating this game from the previous adventures. While once he was merely a Gerudo, which resemble taller than average humans, he has since taken on a form made up entirely of his own dark magic, first resembling a cloud with a boar's head, then a spider-like creature. All that remains of his old body is his hair and a nightmarish skeleton. In this form, he is known as Calamity Ganon.
-   _Mass Effect_: The Reapers are a race of Mechanical Abominations made from the remains of entire species they've harvested, condensed into one mind and locked in a giant mechanical shell. They were created when an AI was given the task of "preserving" life and took a very specific definition of that task as the only option. At least some Reapers genuinely think they're doing organic life a favor.
-   _Neverwinter Nights 2_: The entity now known as "The King of Shadows" was once a human who willingly allowed himself to be transformed into a golem-like creature known as "The Guardian" for the purpose of protecting his homeland of Illefarn. When its source of power, the Weave collapsed due to the death of the goddess Mystra, the Guardian was forced to switch its power source to the Weave's Evil Counterpart, the Shadow Weave, which in turn corrupted it into the King of Shadows, a Walking Wasteland that, by the time the game takes place, threatens the stability of the planes.
-   The Hecatomb from _Phantasmagoria: A Puzzle of Flesh_, turns out to be the real Curtis Craig, who was sucked through a dimensional portal and ended in an alien world. Being exposed to the hostile atmosphere of the world and experimented on by its inhabitants has warped both his body and mind and given his Psychic Powers. His ultimate goal is to drive the clone Curtis insane so that he can seize control of his body and return to Earth.
-   _Resident Evil_, given that its overarching villains are pretty much all Evilutionary Biologists, has at least one per game, especially the Big Bads/Final Bosses, from the Tyrant to Mother Miranda.
-   Almost all of the enemies and NPCs in _SOMA_, being humans kept alive by the WAU.
    -   The Flesher is a drowned, naked human corpse with its head converted into a mass of eyes and cables.
    -   The Proxies are blind, armless masses of structure gel and tumors.
    -   Jin Yoshida is a diver trapped in his suit with a head made of almost nothing but metallic tentacles.
    -   The Robot Girl is a sobbing female corpse reconstructed into a mechanical monster.
    -   Terry Akers is an eyeless, humanoid mass of tumors that howls like a banshee with bronchitis.
    -   Simon Jarett, a.k.a. _you_.
-   The Archfiends of _Soul Sacrifice_ are humans who turned into horrific monsters by making a deal through sinister objects (the Sacred Chalice, in this case). They're both physically imposing and magical, and animals aren't immune to these devilish deals. However, none of them hold a candle when compared to Magusar's Draconic Abomination forms, one of them being a result of Magusar trapping the game's Jerkass Gods who are responsible for the game's horrors and plot.
-   _Sundered_: In the Embrace ending, Eshe merges with the Shining Trapezohedron and is overtaken by her Lovecraftian Superpowers, transforming into a Humanoid Abomination.

    Webcomics 

-   _Romantically Apocalyptic_:
    -   Mr. Snippy becomes this after agreeing to merge with the Biomatrix. At first, it merely gives him a Lovecraftian Superpower, but after he's killed, it revives him as an undead Humanoid Abomination due to its spotty knowledge of human anatomy.
    -   A later arc revealed that the Biomatrix itself was an AI clone of Snippy that was merged with various computer programs, a computer virus, and alien technology.
    -   The Lunar Overmind is a horrific, undead hybrid of man and machine that was originally a clone of Engineer, who decided to connect himself to the Moon's technological network in his attempts to warn the G-Directorate of Earth's impending destruction. The process has not had the best effect on his mind or temperament, and resulted in him orchestrating the apocalypse himself.

    Web Original 

-   _hololive_ has Ninomae Ina'nis, who was a normal human before she picked up a Tome of Eldritch Lore that heavily mutated her as well as giving her the ability to control tentacles. She is still basically just a normal girl aside from that, of course.
-   _THE MONUMENT MYTHOS_: It's revealed late in Season 2 that people who are stranded in "Wonderland" by a Special Tree will be _severely_ warped, looking "stretched and burnt", if they actually try to climb the Trees in the middle of a shift. But if they stay there long enough, the effects apparently pile on to the point the people involved stop cooperating with normal space or biology... the Liberty Lurker, also known as the Horned Serpent, is the most promiment example of such. Once, he was _George Washington_, and now it's a gigantic corpse-eating creature whose head alone must be kept stuck in the Statue of Liberty's pedestal, and whose body length may span the entire United States.
-   In _Orion's Arm_, transapients who transcend past a level of The Singularity become utterly incomprehensible to those sophonts who remain below that singularity. However, the Queen of Pain — possibly the most disturbing transapient in the Terragen sphere — is not transhuman, but rather a transcended _cat_.
-   In the _SCP Foundation_ universe, Sarkic cults often involve Eldritch Abominations made of flesh, usually human.

    Western Animation 

-   _Amphibia_: Andrias' master, the Core, is a mechanical sphere with tentacles and many eyes that contains the minds of the greatest thinkers in Amphibia's lost civilization. It then decides on a more mundane host — namely, Marcy.
-   _Final Space_: In Season 3, the Lord Commander succeeds in his goal of becoming a Titan by merging with the Titan fetus at the Earth's core.
-   In _Men in Black: The Series_, Alpha was once a regular human before he started grafting alien body parts onto himself. As the series wears on, he becomes progressively less humanoid in appearance.
-   _The Owl House_ has a somewhat downplayed example. Emperor Belos _appears_ to be a normal witch, save for some strange facial deformities stemming from a curse. However, it later turns out that Belos is the 17th century human Philip Wittebane, who managed to survive long past his natural lifespan by consuming the life essence of Palismen. This took such a toll on his body that he relies entirely on a magical Glamour to keep his form stable — his true form is a 9 foot tall skeletal beast covered in liquefied necrotic flesh, able to regenerate from a single glob of goop by taking over the bodies of other creatures and consuming them from the inside out.
-   _What If…? (2021)_: In "What If... Doctor Strange Lost His Heart Instead of His Hands?", Supreme absorbs countless mystical, demonic, and otherwise supernatural entities into himself in order to gain the power to save Christine — including a few tentacles belonging to an Eldritch Abomination implied to be Shuma-Gorath. The end result is that when he uses his full power he transforms into a vaguely humanoid entity with tentacles, fangs, and multiple glowing eyes... but even this power isn't enough, and he ends up being the Sole Survivor when his actions cause his universe to melt and implode.
-   _Young Justice (2010)_: The eldritch Lord of Order Nabu/Dr. Fate is revealed to be one in _Outsiders_, with _Phantoms_ further elaborating. Nabu was born a metahuman thousands of years ago, and after he died, the Lords of Order retrieved his soul, obtained an oath of fealty to Order from him, and turned his helmet into his anchor to the mortal plane while explicitly making him a Lord of Order in his own right.

___