**Priest:** If there is anyone here that would oppose this holy union, speak now or forever hold your peace.  
**Lucifer:** Excuse me. Yeah, I have a problem. Has anyone else noticed how incredibly, jaw-droppingly, loin-stirringly beautiful this young woman is and how short, sweaty and altogether fugly this homunculus is? I mean, what is this... a wedding or a kidnapping?

A very common trope, particularly in animation and sitcoms, is for a woman to be far more attractive than her significant other, even when the husband does not have a prestigious, high-paying job. This is largely a result of Hollywood Beauty Standards.

The trope both reveals and helps maintain one of the most wide-spread cases of a Double Standard around with regards to acceptable levels of attractiveness for leading actors and actresses. While actors are generally held to a high standard of attractiveness, there are still some leading roles available for plain looking guys, funny fat guys, cool old guys, and average joes. The beauty standard for women, however, is much higher. In order to be a leading lady it is an unspoken prerequisite that you are at the very least physically attractive. Women who are plain looking, overweight, past a certain age or any combination of the above rarely get to portray main characters. In many cases, they even struggle to land roles as side characters or extras. Even female characters who are supposed to be unattractive in-universe are often portrayed by supermodel-class women who have undergone some type of Beauty Inversion. Therefore, the reverse (Hot Guy, Ugly Wife) is almost unheard of. And if it is present, it is usually played for laughs. Basically, it's positive discrimination for men in-universe while remaining plain old-fashioned discrimination out-of-universe.

This is very common in Dom Com situations (Oftentimes because the star of the sitcom is also the creator or executive producer, thus has say in which actress gets to portray his partner). It also pervades in cartoons and comic strips due to Tertiary Sexual Characteristics; the men can liven up the artists' art styles, but the women have to be differentiated. This requires round hips, big bosoms, full lips, and exquisitely-designed hair (and often an abstract shape), resulting in a beautiful woman and a cartoonish husband.

A popular use of the trope is to have the hot wife be beautiful on the outside only, and on the inside she's a manipulative, materialistic, spiteful shrew who doesn't deserve her Henpecked Husband's kindness, especially if he is just a Meal Ticket for her. This could lead to An Aesop that looks aren't everything and that appearances are often deceptive.

See also Beast and Beauty, Give Geeks a Chance, Nerd Nanny, No Accounting for Taste, Hot Consort, Attractiveness Isolation, What Does She See in Him? and Kavorka Man; and don't forget that Most Writers Are Male. May overlap with Age-Gap Romance or May–December Romance, if the man is old on top of being ugly (or is ugly simply as a result of being old). It can also overlap with either Huge Guy, Tiny Girl (if the guy is a misshapen hulk or even a literal monster) or Tiny Guy, Huge Girl (if the guy is a shrimpy troll of a man). This trope often gives birth to The Ugly Guy's Hot Daughter and both Monster Brother, Cutie Sister. Contrast Model Couple and Hot Guy, Ugly Wife. Messy Male, Fancy Female is a similar trope involving animals. This trope plus Bizarre Sexual Dimorphism equals Sexy Dimorphism, where male members of a fantasy race are monstrous or otherwise inhuman, but females look like attractive women.

Contrast The Schlub Pub Seduction Deduction, when a guy is so unattractive that the beautiful woman who's coming onto him must be interested in him for ulterior motives rather than for his sex appeal.

Note that it's **Ugly** Guy, not Average Guy <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . Also note that this trope's name is not _Scary_ Guy, Hot Wife. Being scary is not the same as being ugly. Although it may still count if it is mentioned in-universe.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

-   Lampshaded and celebrated in an ad campaign for fast-food chain Del Taco: "Here's to every 4 who married a 10."
-   In a line of beer commercials featuring football referees, one poor guy was penalized for "Disproportionately hot girlfriend!"
-   An ad for Kohler depicts a beautiful young woman grappling with the attention of several handsome young men, but unable to chose between them. She comes home one evening to find that her scrubby, balding plumber has installed an exquisite Kohler faucet in her kitchen. The next scene is of them getting married, with the man absolutely ecstatic and the three young men she had shunned looking completely flabbergasted. Apparently Red Green was right - "If the women don't find ya handsome, they should at least find ya handy."
-   An ad for Evian is narrated by a rich old tough, with an Italian-American accent, who describes how drinking Evian his whole life had kept him virile enough for his young, beautiful wife, but then ends with the suggestion that his wife has been swapping his Evian with water from the fish tank.
-   A German ad for dish detergent _Palmolive_ famously featured a Hollywood Homely woman worried about her chances with her newest flame. Fortunately she could be helped since using the correct detergent made her hands that much smoother. In the end, her friend entered - a small, overweight, balding man with thick glasses about 15-20 years her senior. (Who was not a professional actor and just accidentally happened to be working for _Palmolive_)
-   A Progressive ad has spokesman Jamie (not exactly ugly, but definitely geeky with very little going for him) hosting a party at his house — where his co-workers meet his smoking-hot Latina wife.
-   A 2021 commercial for the TiVo Stream began with an attractive young couple watching TiVo together, then the boyfriend fast-forwards and speeds time up to the future. He compliments how well his girlfriend has aged, but the girlfriend is disappointed to see her boyfriend is now fat and balding.
-   A series of Compare the Meerkat commercials has Sergei, a scrawny nerdy old meerkat, somehow score a date with the beautiful blonde Nicole Kidman.

    Anime & Manga 

-   In every single work by Mitsuru Adachi, the heroine's parents are this. The heroine gets all of her looks from her mom since it just wouldn't make sense for anything male to want to get in your pants when you get your looks from "that." Sometimes it would only make sense if the mom had cheated somewhere in their marriage. This would make the heroine The Ugly Guy's Hot Daughter.
-   As a Take That! to the massive amounts of Mr. Fanservice in most Yaoi Genre manga, a particular one-shot features a gay man who has had a penchant for ugly men since his youth, seemingly oblivious to society's take on beauty throughout. When the story begins he is fondly reminiscing (Shoujo Sparkles and all) his first love (a towering, awkward, acne-faced sports freak of a teenager)... Not a few pages later, he runs into said first love. Who has, amusingly, turned into a rather attractive beautician (_not_ heartstoppingly gorgeous; he seems to have gotten over his teenage awkwardness, instead choosing to be cheerful, and as a beautician, has certainly learned about style). Soon after, the main character has a Freak Out over how gross-looking his first love has become, and Hilarity Ensues.
-   _Air Gear_: In the manga, the incredibly ugly Onigiri proves a huge hit with the ladies in an air trek aerobics program, and has an incredibly attractive and borderline obsessive girlfriend. Then she dumped him... for the gigantically fat Buccha. And then she dumped _him_ for a guy who was somehow even _fatter_. Little parts of Onigiri and Buccha died after the experiences. This example illustrates yet another potential problem with this setup. If you're a big fat guy who manages to land a hot girl with a fat fetish, you're in serious trouble when somebody bigger comes along.
-   _Angel Densetsu_: Two generations worth. This trope seems to run in the Kitano family and plays it straight in that the Kitano men may look scary but both have the hearts of saints.
    -   Ryuichiro is a giant of a man with intimidating looks that has caused him to be mistaken for a Yakuza on several occasions. His wife is incredibly attractive in a Morticia Addams way.
    -   His son Seiichiro looks like a demonic cocaine addict but has a very attractive girlfriend as well as several good-looking female admirers.
-   In _Astro Boy_, Ochanomizu/Elefun/O Shay builds robotic parents for Astro Boy. The mother is a tall, svelte, elegant 60s mother type. The father is a short, fat and buffoonish man with a large nose and lined face. This is downplayed in some later adaptations where the father is a little less goofy looking.
-   _Azumanga Daioh_: Played with on the personality axis — the creepy Ephebophile teacher Kimura-sensei is revealed, to his students' amazement, to be married... and his waifu is lovely, to boot. As the students theorize that she must be a real harpy, Yukari-sensei instead predicts — correctly, as it later turns out — that she must be a saint in order to put up with him. It also helps that she is a Cloudcuckoolander.
-   _Bamboo Blade_: While not married, worth noting is Danjuro Eiga & Miyako Miyazaki. Miyako is a bombshell, while Danjuro has a head shaped like an acorn. To top it off, "Miya-Miya" (as Danjuro calls her) is very loyal to her man, having joined the kendo club solely to be with him, and also deathly afraid of letting the darker side of her nature become known to him. Kojiro has stated that an ugly man should have a hot girl.
-   _Case Closed_:
    -   Juzo and Midori Megure. While Juzo isn't exactly Gonkish, Midori is quite attractive. They met when Midori was in high school and Juzo was in his early to mid 20's.
    -   Daisuke Torakura and his wife Etsuko from the Dracula's Villa case. Daisuke isn't freakishly ugly, and doesn't look very old (he's very much in his 50's), but Etsuko is **that** hot-looking and at very least 20 years younger than her husband. Torakura actually married Etsuko through a rather cruel Scarpia Ultimatum, in which he threatened to destroy Etsuko's father's business and put her family into destitution.
-   _Doctor Slump_:
    -   Senbei (short, fat, and schlubby) does manage to win over Midori (the beautiful Hot Teacher of the village) and he's as surprised as the rest of the cast. They are Happily Married in the second half of the series and this trope is lampshaded all the time.
    -   A less extreme example, but this applies to the parents of the Tsun family. Tsuruten is a short and bald guy, while his wife is taller, and more stylish and attractive.
-   _Doraemon_:
    -   Played straight in the original manga with Nobita being plain while Shizuka is highly attractive but gradually downplayed when Art Evolution of the animes, movies and even the manga itself as Nobita is later drawn less plain and more adorable as boy at his age can be. Recent anime episodes and movies also has Nobita's eyes become like Shizuka (minus eyelash of course) whenever he isn't wearing glasses. He aged just fine too as an adult. That Shizuka becomes Nobita's love interest and, ultimately, wife in the future is thanks to his Identical Grandson, who send Doraemon back in time to help change his fate which, originally, would have him marry Jaiko (Gian/Jaian's beloved little sister who looks exactly like him) and lead a life of poverty and misery.
    -   Nobita's parents are a downplayed version with Tamako is actually very beautiful when she doesn't wear her glass but Nobisuke isn't a gonk either. That being said, Tamako, like other mothers in the series, still have a Strong Family Resemblance with her son, who of course resembles his father, grandfather, future son and future grandson (all as children). Unlike other mothers, however, Tamako looks sufficiently distinct from her husband probably because the men of the Nobis apparently stop looking like Nobita once they're adults. On the other hand, it's the norm for Suneo and Gian's family to have wives who look exactly like their husbands, sons and daughters.
    -   Doraemon himself and his former girlfriend Noramyako (after her Art Evolution). Sure Doraemon's not unappealing, but he's still your standard stout and chubby robot cat model compared to the tall, curveacious female bot.
-   _Dragon Ball_:
    -   Bulma's mom and dad embody this trope — the dad is old and wrinkled (looking like Albert Einstein), and the mom is ridiculously cute. Dr. Briefs was, however, rich and famous.
    -   Krillin and Android 18 in _Dragon Ball Z_ — she's an attractive blonde, and he's five-feet-tall and has no nose (at best he's Ugly Cute). It also helped when he stopped shaving his head. Krillin was apparently a very persistent Dogged Nice Guy, although his sparing her life out of "she's cute" probably helped.
        -   This gets discussed in _Dragon Ball Super_ when 18 fights Ribrianne, a Love Freak Magical Girl from another universe. She's utterly mystified at the idea that someone as attractive as 18 would marry someone like Krillin ("He's not beautiful at all! He doesn't even have a nose!"), but their devotion to each other gives 18 the resolve to defeat the stronger Ribrianne, who admits afterwards that she was being narrow-minded.
        -   It gets _inverted_ in the manga, however, where Ribrianne considers _Krillin_ the beautiful one and 18 ugly.
    -   Kami only knows what Mr. Satan's wife looked like to have a daughter like Videl — he's muscular, but exceptionally hairy and weird-looking.
    -   Doctor Gero also embodies this trope with the reveal in _Dragon Ball FighterZ_ that he was married to Android 21 — Gero was elderly with long gray hair, while 21 is a beautiful young woman. The contrast was best shown in _Dragon Ball Super: Super Hero_ via a diagram of Gero's family tree, which incidentally makes 21 (or rather, the human woman she was based on) a Canon Immigrant.
-   _El Cazador de la Bruja_: Antonio is average looking and a bit portly, though he does have blond hair and blue eyes. Margarita is drop dead gorgeous, sexy, exotic, and always dressed stylishly and made-up impeccably.
-   _Eureka Seven_: Greg and Mischa. They were divorced prior to Greg's initial appearance, apparently.
-   _Eyeshield 21_: Hatsujo, who is sort of unattractive, has a very beautiful girlfriend, just like every member of his team. Whenever the Cupids lose, we all know they're the _real_ winners there.
-   _Fairy Tail_: Jude and Layla Heartfilia (Lucy's parents). The latter is rather attractive, the former, while not hideous, is still rather ordinary looking.
-   _Galaxy Express 999_: Like in other works by Leiji Matsumoto, the eye-meltingly beautiful Space Pirate Queen Emeraldas is hopelessly in love with the impossibly ugly Tochiro.
-   _Hajime no Ippo_:
    -   Hilariously subverted. Ippo's sempai Masaru Aoki has a penchant for _ugly_ women. At first it's just a consequence of his beautiful ex-girlfriend Miyuki having cheated on him when in highschool, but once he _does_ settle down with female Gonk Tomiko (Kumi Mashiba's workmate), he _does_ get to like her for the very supportive Genki Girl she is. To mark on the point even more, when Aoki finally got to challenge the champion of his boxing class, it turned out that Katsukata Imae had _exactly_ the same penchant for ugly-looking girls. Just look at his girlfriend Sachiko.
    -   Played straight with the Itagaki family, the mom's a smoking bombshell while the dad is, well, probably the biggest Gonk in the series. And a real Gonk, unlike Tomiko who is more realistically plain, papa Itagaki is honestly freakish. Justified in that, aside of their looks, the Itagaki parents share very similar personalities and horrible senses of humor.
-   _Inuyasha_:
    -   The gorgeous Princess Tsuyu, a minor character who appears in a one-off arc, was somehow attracted to a, let's say just a little too pedestrian, daimyo. Maybe it was an Arranged Marriage and she just had to try to develop affection, who knows, it was feudal Japan after all? But to top it off, he was possessed by a disgusting frog Youkai, and then in secret, kidnapped young women in the region, trapped them in frog eggs until their body dissolved into tadpoles, and swallowed them, and he was about to turn the princess into his next victim. Thankfully with the help of Inuyasha's gang and (?) Nobunaga, the evil frog was expelled and the couple lived happily ever after much to Nobunaga's saddened disappointment.
    -   In a much later chapter when Miroku had just joined the gang, there was another decent-looking woman who Miroku was about to hit on, but unfortunately she was married to a man whose league she shouldn't have been in. This mildly shocked the whole gang.
-   _Itazura Na Kiss_: Chris, a beautiful English lady of noble blood, marries Kinnosuke, a not-so pretty Osakan chef. Most people wonder how a guy like Kinnosuke could have gotten a girl like Chris - likely because he's a decent guy despite his looks... and because Chris herself seems to have a thing for weird-looking dudes.
-   _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure_:
    -   _Phantom Blood_: Dario Brando is a bald man in his 50s whose appearance makes him look even older. When compared to his wife (assuming she _is_ the woman the audience saw when Dario robbed the Joestars' carriage), it's pretty obvious where Dio got his good looks from.
    -   _Diamond is Unbreakable_: In the _Crazy Diamond's Demonic Heartbreak_ spin-off, Mariah, a woman very easy on the eyes with pronounced legs, ended up getting together with Kenny G., who is a short, imp-like man.
    -   _Steel Ball Run_: Stephen Steel is a middle-aged man who barely manages to lean into Gonk territory, while his wife, Lucy, is a 14-year old Ms. Fanservice. This is Subverted, however, when it's revealed they're not actually married.
    -   _JoJolion_: How a man like Tamaki Damo ended up becoming the boyfriend to Hato Higashikata is a question even the rest of the Higashikata family asks.
-   _Kenichi: The Mightiest Disciple_: Kenichi's parents are a downplayed example. Mototsugu Shirahama looks fairly average for a guy in his mid-forties and has the lines in his face that show his age. His wife Saori, on the other hand, has a buxom and curvaceous figure comparable to most of the younger cast, and looks no older than her twenties despite already being pushing forty.
-   _Legendz_: This is not only explicitly spelled out, but the ugly guy in question is himself concerned about the obvious disparity. "What the Hell does she see in me?" In fact, Meiko's Yandere-style obsession with the extremely fat and Gonky Jerkass Hosuke is all around extremely questionable; NOBODY has a clue what she likes about him.
-   _Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha StrikerS_: Even when young, Genya Nakajima, the father of Subaru and Ginga is average-looking at best. Meanwhile, his wife is a female in a Moe anime series.
-   _Magical Princess Minky Momo_: Minky Momo's mother is much better-looking than her short, pudgy father.
-   _Mazinger Z_: In episode 89 we meet an impersonator of Kouji and Shiro's mother. In episode 92 we meet Kouji and Shiro's supposedly late father that would be one of the _Great Mazinger_ main characters. His wife was definitely beautiful. He... not so much. Although maybe he was more handsome when he was younger and not a cyborg.
-   In _Miracle Girls_, Mr. Kageura ends up married in volume 5. He is a rather bland and a bit raggedy looking fellow with Messy Hair and Nerd Glasses. His wife on the other hand is gorgeous. Mika is surprised by how pretty she is.
-   _Mobile Suit Gundam_: Dozle Zabi and his wife, Princess Zenna. Just look at the guy. To his credit, he's a loving husband, a doting father to his daughter Minerva, A Father to His Men _and_ pretty much the closest to an Only Sane Man in the Royally Screwed Up Zabi clan.
-   _Nana & Kaoru_: Kaoru _knows_ he's not much of a catch (short, plain, introverted and bad-tempered), which is why he takes every effort to prevent Nana, his gorgeous childhood friend, from discovering his attraction. Yet she's falling for him regardless. The frequent bondage/S&M sessions between them are, oddly, how she discovered he's a good person.
-   _One Piece_:
    -   Wapol is a short, fat and generally absurdly looking guy (and that's only his appearance, not speaking of his personality) who marries with the One Piece world's equivalent of freakin' Miss Universe (might just be her name, though, as Boa Hancock later proves to be the One Piece world's true Miss Universe) after becoming a rich corporate business executive.
    -   King Nepture and his wife Princess Otohime. We can see where Princess Shirahoshi gets her looks from.
    -   Adding to the fishmen and merfolk concept; Keimi and Hachi. They aren't technically a couple, but Keimi - a cute mermaid - does seem to have a crush on Hachi, who is a six armed octopus fishman and far older than her. This is one of the few canon crushes, by the way.
    -   Every fishman/mermaid and so far merman/mermaid couple falls under this. Also considering the almost random nature of seafolk genetics, and the fact that Queen Otohime was somehow able to give birth to Shirahoshi, this might also fall under Bizarre Alien Reproduction and Bizarre Alien Biology. It should also be noted that the Fishmen probably have different views of beauty than humans.
    -   Sanji's parents, Judge and Sora, were like this as well: Judge was huge and brutish while Sora was small and sweet-looking. Their children clearly inherited HER looks, too.
-   _Overlord (2012)_ features a particularly interesting example with Lizardmen couple Zaryusu Shasha and Crusch Lulu: he's enormous, muscular and almost monstrous in appearance, while she's smaller, slender and far more pleasing to the eye. This however turns out to be subverted in-universe: Zaryusu is considered very attractive according to Lizardmen standards, while Crusch is considered freakish among her people because of her albinism. This didn't stop Zaryusu from instantly falling in love with her, though.
-   _Pokémon: The Series_:
    -   _Pokémon: The Original Series_: The character of the day's parents in an episode called The Kangaskhan Kid (Pictured here<small>◊</small>). The mother, called "Mama" is a normal anime woman, while "Papa", is a very short, stout fellow, with a bowlcut, Skintone Sclerae, swirly marks on his cheeks (which his son inherited), and a proportionately large head. Papa is shown as a rather dopey fellow as well, holding their baby out the window of their helicopter, and then dropping him, resulting in their child getting raised by pokemon. Afterwards Papa blames Mama for letting him hold him.
    -   _Pokémon Adventures_: Pretty Wanda and her Gonk boyfriend eventually end up Married at Sea. At the very least, we know that the boyfriend is a sweet guy since he made sure not to disrupt the easily scared Whismur when digging at Rustboro cave.
    -   _Pokémon Horizons: The Series_: The ugly guy part is downplayed with Liko's father Alex, who is a painter. While not ugly at all, he's rather plain-looking compared to his more attractive wife Lucca.
-   Harundo and Kurume from _RaButa_ are a textbook example of this (their cameo in a later work shows that they got married). Harundo is Gonk, overweight, balding and wears glasses. Kurume is the School Idol. Harundo used to be a Bishōnen when he was younger until he got in an accident (the same one that killed Kurume's parents), but Kurume says that she finds his current look far more attractive.
-   _Ranma ½_:
    -   Genma somehow ended up married to Nodoka Saotome (pictured together here). Lampshaded when Ranma, upon hearing this, punches his father in the face for having the gall to even suggest the possibility. However this is Downplayed, Rumiko Takahashi mentioned in an interview that Genma was better looking as a young man with hair. His ugliness is exaggerated by fans as he's stout and muscular rather than obese, it's stated having a headful of hair would make him attractive. Finally, Nodoka is just as eccentric, and unpleasant, just in a different way.
    -   It's implied in the manga, and confirmed in the anime, that Happosai once had a relationship with Cologne in the past. Back then, he was a barely knee high midget with both a thievery and perverted streak (pictured here<small>◊</small>), while she was a tall, and beautiful amazon (pictured here<small>◊</small>) with a pleasant disposition. Of course in the present, they're both shriveled, and tiny.
-   _Rurouni Kenshin_: Big Bad Shishio and his (consort?) Yumi. His entire body is burned and charred, and he goes around almost completely covered in bandages. She's really beautiful and devoted to him. (Though _before_ he was burned and charred, he wasn't exactly ugly.)
-   _Slayers_: Given the looks of Gracia aka Naga and Amelia (the former is a Statuesque Stunner, the latter is rather cute, and both are well-endowed) one would have to ponder how the bulky and ogre-looking Phillionel won over whoever their mother was.
-   _Space Patrol Luluco_: Luluco's parents (although they're not married anymore). Keiji is rather rugged looking while Lalaco is ridiculously hot and wears a Stripperific outfit.
-   _Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann_: Following a timeskip, Dayakka and Kiyoh are married. Also, Makken is the husband of the scientist, Leite. They even have three kids together.
-   _Tenjho Tenge_: Played with. While Souchiro's mother Makiko Natsume is naturally beautiful, the horrible scars marring her face make for a strange inversion of the trope since her ex-husband Sohaku is now more attractive than her.
-   _Tokyo Ghoul_: The Mado family sees this trope all the way through. Kureo was a pasty-faced dude with stringy white hair, perpetual Mad Eye, and a slight hunch. His beloved wife, Kasuka? An elegant, blonde Lady of War that was apparently a dead ringer for their beautiful daughter, Akira.
-   _Urusei Yatsura_: Lum's father is stout and rather brutish-looking, her mother...considerably less so. Their green-haired bombshell of a daughter, Lum, definitely takes after her mother. It's revealed in flashbacks to his youth, while Lum's dad was never a pretty boy, being a plain-looking guy at best, he was always tall like a professional basketball athlete and indeed had the body of one. He only grew so obese because he allowed his wife to constantly feed him all of her cooking, as she enjoyed watching him eat her homemade handcooked dishes.
-   _Yandere Kanojo_:
    -   Ran and Kouichiro. The gag is Ran attracted to Kouichiro at first because she thinks he's a total badass (He's far from that). Then he smiles at her, and....
    -   The Principal and his wife.

    Art 

    Asian Animation 

-   _Pleasant Goat and Big Big Wolf_: Wolffy has noticeably scraggly facial hair and is ugly-cute at best compared to his wife Wolnie, who wears makeup and is overall easier on the eyes.

    Comic Books 

-   In the _Asterix_ comic books, the 93-year old Geriatrix has a young and beautiful wife.
    -   It's subverted, however, in that Geriatrix is completely whipped, with him constantly doing all of her household chores, spoiling her, and following her every command, in spite of his advanced age. Since Asterix is a cartoon for adults, it's also implied that his wife is freed from the usual "wifely obligations." So it's something of a trade-off.
    -   Or probably not, given how the comic shows Geriatrix being perfectly able to fight Romans, party, drink and chase skirts as soon he gets out of his wife's eyesight.
-   _The Avengers_; The Black Order take after their boss Thanos. Their dog-faced leader Corvus Glaive is married to the Order's lieutenant, blue-skinned Statuesque Stunner Proxima Midnight. Turns out in the Black Order miniseries, that Corvus wasn't the only ass-ugly to be in love with Proxima. The team muscle, Black Dwarf was also in love though he's happy for the pair and now has his sights set on the beautiful Black Swan, who's the team's powerhouse.
-   _Batman_: Not married, but The Joker and Harley Quinn can count. While not conventionally ugly, The Joker certainly looks twisted and freakish. Harley, on the other hand, is a Sexy Jester.
-   Cerebus and Red Sophia, Astoria, Jaka (in a what-if story) and New Joanne.
-   Deadpool and his girlfriend Vanessa, aka Copycat. (She's a shapeshifter, though...) Also Deadpool and Siryn, although they never even really got past mutual attraction towards one another.
-   Doctor Octopus and his lover Stunner were an odd Subversion. Doc Ock was an overweight, unattractive man, while Stunner seemed to be a blonde, busty woman who truly lived up to her name. As it turned out, however, Stunner was actually a virtual avatar of a woman named Angelina Brancale, created using Ock's technology, and in truth, her true body wasn't very attractive at all. (Stunner seemed to be a fantasy that the VR machine was letting her live out.)
-   Obadiah Horn and Sahara from _Elephantmen_. She's a tall, slim, curvy African goddess, and he's a rhino-human hybrid.
-   Made official in _Fantastic Four (2018)_ between the blind artist Alicia Masters and test pilot turned 'idol o' millions' Ben Grimm; whatever can be said about his character, even she will not call him _conventionally_ attractive.
-   Snake-Eyes and Scarlett, in the _G.I. Joe_ comics. Though he possesses near-superhuman athletic potential and muscles like a fitness model, he's horribly scarred, at least on his face. (In one example, _most of his face was cut off_, and he deliberately stopped the bleeding by _igniting gunpowder on his face_.) Meanwhile, she's a smokin' hot redhead who arguably puts up with way too much of his weird shit than can be justified by ninja sex.
-   In _Judge Dredd_, Otto Sump, the ugliest man in Mega-City One, eventually marries a ridiculously gorgeous exotic dancer. She makes no bones about marrying him for his money and never pretends to love him, but she does really like him as a person and is genuinely upset when he dies.
-   The Kingpin — fat-looking and monstrous in size, has his gorgeous wife Vanessa and is devoted to her. (She isn't blindly loyal to him, however. She has threatened to leave him frequently, and actually has on more than one occasion.) Also, once when he was separated from Vanessa, the Kingpin had a brief relationship with Typhoid Mary, a supervillain who might be considered sexy - though she was clearly insane.
-   Implied to be the future case in _The Legend of Zelda_ comics, based on the two NES games in the franchise. Link and Zelda are teenagers, so not married yet, but it's all but stated that they will be eventually; and while Link isn't exactly ugly, he's sort of goofy-looking, with a longish nose and somewhat dorky mannerisms. Standing next to the stunningly beautiful princess doesn't help his case. But she loves him anyway.
-   In _Love and Rockets_, Fritzi's two-time husband and "one true love" is Scott the Hog. He's fat, snaggle-toothed, and apparently has a short penis that barely works. She's beautiful, has huge breasts, a slim waist and curvy hips.
-   A villanous example from Marvel Comics: the Absorbing Man (originally a member of Thor's Rogues Gallery) and Titania (She-Hulk's archenemy and Evil Counterpart).
-   _Monstress_ has perhaps the ultimate comic book example with the god Zinn and the Shaman Empress. Zinn is a multi-tentacled, multi-eyed, hermaphroditic Eldritch Abomination of horrific appearance, while the Shaman Empress is a very beautiful woman who's completely indistinguishable from a normal human despite being a Half-Human Hybrid. Their relationship would result in a hereditary line and the main character is a reincarnation of their daughter.
-   Michael Morbius says people snicker behind his fiancée Martine's back for loving "one as hideous as \[him\]self". Martine on the other hand is quite good-looking.
-   Red Ears: In this erotic comic strip series, the women tend to be drawn more attractive than the men.
-   _Shazam!_: Mad Scientist Doctor Thaddeus Sivana, nemesis of Captain Marvel, could be charitably described as a hideous little troll of a man who makes Dennis Kucinich look like Fabio. His wife Venus Sivana, on the other hand, lives up to her name. By way of an explanation, the Golden Age version of Sivana was characterized as a kind, benevolent man who was driven to villainy and madness after his wife's death and the scientific community's rejection of his ideas. This was the pre-Crisis origin, it makes less sense with the latter versions who seem to always have been mean.
-   _Sinister Dexter_ has crime lord "Holy" Moses Tanenbaum and his stunning Trophy Wife, Demi Octavo. He's basically a Kingpin Expy, while she's a smoking hot nightclub singer. Of course, given his position as the biggest mafia boss in Downlode, this is almost certainly a marriage of convenience for Demi, which eventually leads to her taking out a contract on her husband's life. Interestingly, the inciting incident for her actions was Moses ordering the murder of her lover, Max Vactor, a Serkis Folk movie star who's a geeky-looking dweeby guy that she was head-over-heels in love with.
-   _Wonder Woman_
    -   Aphrodite and Hephaestus are treated as such just like in mythology, though whether they're still married or not tends to depend on the writer, also just like mythology.
    -   Zeus usually looks like an old hardened man with permanent frown lines and a squared off nose while Hera still looks like a beautiful young woman in her twenties despite the fact that Zeus is her younger brother. Apparently Immortality Begins at Twenty is only for female Greek gods given that Hades and Posideon also look decades older than their sisters.
    -   _Wonder Woman (1942)_: Deconstructed and P Layed For Drama. Dr. Cyril Psycho is a man with dwarfism with an exceedingly oversized head and eventually, bulging eyes, while his fiancee Marva is a blonde bombshell. Marva is obivously not attracted to Psycho and is secretly attracted to Ben Bradley, a traditionally handsome man. After Bradley frames Psycho for a crime he didn't commit to remove him as a rival for Marva, Psycho reaches the conclusion that Marva masterminded the scheme. When Psycho is finally released from prison, he forces Marva into an intentionally abusive marriage as revenge. Marva leaves him as soon as she's freed of his mental control by Wonder Woman.
-   In _Ziggy Pig - Silly Seal Comics_, Silly Seal is married to Roxanne, a sexy brunette supermodel-Nobel-winning CEO of Silly Seal Enterprises.

    Comic Strips 

-   The main couples of _Adam@home_ and _Mister Boffo_ feature balding overweight guys married to pretty blondes.
-   Alley Oop, who looks-wise is your stereotypical caveman, has a smoking hot, devoted wife in Ooola.
-   _Blondie (1930)_: Even going back to their flapper days, Dagwood has no business with a beauty like Blondie. This was an Enforced Trope — prior to their marriage, Blondie was portrayed as a fun-loving single woman with a few suitors lined up... then the stock market crashed, and Real Life Writes the Plot, at which point she picked Dagwood because he was the most stable (or rather, most relatable) of her beaus.
-   In _Bloom County_, Opus and Lola Granola would have become this trope had their much-hyped marriage not been annulled by Reset Button:
    
    **Opus**: You look beautiful.  
    **Lola**: You look handsome.  
    **Opus** _(thinks)_: She looks beautiful.  
    **Lola** _(thinks)_: He looks like a toadstool.
    
-   Henry and Alice Mitchell from _Dennis the Menace (US)_ as well as Hi and Lois are just another of the moderate "funny-looking (and somewhat dorky) guy (with some personality issues early on) with a stereotypical post-war bombshell wife" examples that populate the Dom Com\-style Newspaper Comics.
-   A similar example pops up in _Dustin_ with the main character's parents: His dad is a portly 50-something dork (who pretty much looks like the aforementioned Walt) while his mom is still quite the looker despite being in her mid-40s. (The age gap - actually quite small - tends to be exaggerated in-universe.)
-   _For Better or for Worse_:
    -   The unstudly Anthony married the lovely Elizabeth.
    -   Anthony was also this with Thèrése, a lovely and cultured French-Canadian woman. _Nobody_ in or out of verse was sure why she married him. Although Anthony's backstory implies that it might've been an Arranged Marriage.
-   In _Garfield_, Jon and Liz are also a good example of this; although at the moment, they're just dating. Jon is not particularly ugly, but he's incredibly dorky and has a horrible taste in clothes.
-   MacManus' couple was actually preceded by over a year by F.M. Howarth's _The Love of Lulu and Leander_ on the rival Hearst chain, Lulu being probably the funny pages' first Ms. Fanservice, drawn as a "Gibson Girl".
-   One of the earliest examples (in the modern sense of the word) are the main characters of _The Newlyweds_, a turn-of-the-century comic made by George MacManus for the Pulitzer chain, more famous for creating _Bringing Up Father_. In the 1940's, _The Newlyweds_ were revived as a complementary Sunday comic to Jiggs and Maggie (although this time focusing on their baby Snookums).
-   Another early example can be found in _Toots and Casper_: Casper was small and balding, while Toots was a forerunner to Blondie.
-   _Zits_: Walt is extremely fat and bald, while Connie is drawn in the style of the teenage girls seen on the strip (not exactly a stunner given the strip's loose art style, but still).

    Fan Works 

-   _Always Visible_: Delia's father is described as a huge, lumbering man who has been compared to a gorilla, while his wife is twenty years his junior and quite beautiful.
-   In the _Better Bones AU_, Cloudtail and Brightheart are considered this by Clan beauty standards. Brightheart, as a powerful-looking bicolor cat with scars that show her toughness, is considered very attractive, while Cloudtail is considered a "boring" pure white cat.
-   Discussed in _If Them's the Rules_, when Melania is reflecting upon her marriage; she says that it's better for a beautiful woman to have an ugly husband. Because the woman is beautiful, the man would do a lot more for her and be easier to control due to the beauty disparity. Unfortunately for her, since her husband is beautiful, he doesn't give her a thing.
-   In _The Peace Not Promised_, Severus Snape is well aware of his unimpressive appearance, with the added kick that he knows he won't particularly improve with age, and most of Lily's friends are incredulous at the idea that she'd ever consider dating him (especially in preference to James Potter). He himself sometimes has difficulty believing it. Lily has to discreetly dispose of piles of Valentines each year if she wants to avoid hurting the feelings of most of the male population; Severus receives none at all. But she knows that he's really a Jerk with a Heart of Gold.
-   _Vacation from the Norm_ features several cases of this trope, most notably Drew Lipsky/Vivian Porter.
-   _The Vow_ features the tragic love between Lord Shen and Lady Lianne that has this trope invoked. Shen is a pale peacock who looks unhealthy and abnormal to the opposite gender of his species, while Lianne is regarded as a beautiful swan even by her own species' standards. It should be noted that they become engaged and are almost married before they're separated for the following thirty years. They're married near the end of the story.

    Fairy Tales 

-   _Beauty and the Beast_ has this between the titular Beauty and the Beast, although it takes quite some time for Beauty to fall in love with him. Of course, this trope is subverted when the Beast changes into a handsome prince right after Beauty confesses her love for him or agrees to marry him, but it's still played straight in adaptations like _Heart's Blood_ or _Rose Daughter,_ which either portray the Beast's ugliness as something he was born with instead of magically cursed with or have him remain a Beast in the ending.
-   The protagonists of Charles Perrault's _Riquet of the Tuft_. Prince Riquet is an incredibly ugly guy with a tuft, quite the wit and a kind heart; the Princess he's interested in is a Dumb Blonde with a big inferiority complex towards her ugly but much smarter and more popular sister. Then it's averted: the Princess has a gift that will make the man she falls in true love with very handsome, and when she has her Love Epiphany regarding Riquet, the "gift" kicks in and makes him much better looking. Since Riquet had previously used a "gift" of his own to make the Princess smarter and help her with her troubles, it all works out fine in the end. Or perhaps it's played straight: Perrault says at the end that some chronicles insist she merely stopped seeing his disfigurement as ugly.

    Film — Animation 

-   _Atlantis: The Lost Empire_ has Milo and Kida. Kida is a Nubile Savage. Milo is a scrawny, stuttering dork... Though he's still drawn to be cute in an awkward way.
-   _The Angry Birds Movie 2_ has Red and Silver. While Red wasn't explicitly ugly, but Silver is just extremly gorgeous, even so more what she used to be in the game continuity.
-   Xibalba and La Muerte from _The Book of Life_. They are currently estranged, but still married. La Muerte is a beautiful goddess of the dead made out of sweet candy, but Xibalba is basically a skeleton with wings, armor, and a Sickly Green Glow, made out of tar and everything icky in the world. It's mentioned that only she can love someone like him, and even someone like him would love her.
-   King Fergus and Queen Elinor from _Brave_. She has preserved her looks and her figure quite well for a greying mother of four (including triplets!). But he... remains strong and in excellent condition. Justified as theirs was an arranged marriage, but it seems to have worked out okay (and, considering how young Merida is expected to marry, it isn't impossible that Elinor is only in her thirties).
-   _A Bug's Life_: Manny and Gypsy, respectively. Not hard to see why, given that Manny is older than Gypsy and Gypsy is possibly the most attractive character in the film.
-   _Cars 2_ has Mater and Holley. Pixar has a bit of a thing for pairing rusted male characters with sleek female ones.
-   The _Despicable Me_\-franchise has Gru and Lucy Wilde (introduced in the second movie), although "Ugly Guy, Average Looking Wife" would be more correct - still, Lucy is fairly attractive compared to the bald and overweight protagonist.
-   _How to Train Your Dragon 2_ has Hiccup's parents. Though it is debatable whether Stoick is ugly or just big and burly while still good looking.

-   At the start of _The Incredibles_, both Bob and Helen are physically fit and in their prime, but the outlawing of superheroes means in the following years Bob gains weight and has some signs of male pattern baldness. In comparison Helen, although she ages, seems a lot more attractive with the stereotype being a "Pixar Mom" very _very_ much at play. Bob does try and get back in shape through the course of the movie, but its still clear by the end of the film he is far from his peak physical condition of his youth.
    -   Highlighted more in the sequel _Incredibles 2_ where Helen is chosen as the public face of a campaign to rehabilitate the superhero image. Admittedly Bob's culpability in the train accident at the start of the first film which _lead_ to the ban in the first place is a reason why Helen is chosen over him.
-   In _Peter Pan_, the Darling parents fall under this trope, with the father drawn more cartoonishly to go with his angry boorishness, and the mother drawn more realistically with elegant features befitting a Proper Lady of The Edwardian Era.
-   Played with in _Shrek_, as Princess Fiona — a beautiful young woman who is cursed to turn into an ogre at night — opts to become an ogre all the time after she falls in love with Shrek.
-   Fairy princess Marianne and the Bog King from _Strange Magic_. Marianne is obviously what would be considered Fairy Sexy, although she dresses differently and is considered odd. The Bog King is a goblin who looks like a cross between a dead tree and a mosquito, and is convinced no one can love him because he's so hideous - but is really more similar to Marianne than many of her own people. They end up falling in love.
-   In _Turning Red_, we have Ming and Jin. While Ming is a beautiful woman, Jin is rather nerdy and plain looking.
-   _WALL•E_ and EVE, being a rusted trash compactor and a sleek, top-of-the-line scout droid, respectively. Although WALL•E may be rusted, you gotta admit that he's pretty adorable!
-   Felix and Calhoun from _Wreck-It Ralph_ are an Ugly Guy, Hot Girlfriend example. Though Felix isn't _ugly_ (he's actually widely considered to be very cute), he's rather goofy-looking, especially compared to Calhoun. This is played straight when Felix and Calhoun get married in the epilogue of the movie.

    Film — Live-Action 

## Actors

-   French actors Louis de Funès and Claude Gensac played in ten movies together, including seven times as husband and wife, usually with De Funès as the short, ugly and nervous husband and Gensac as the beautiful _bourgeoise_ wife. The films included _Oscar_, _Les Grandes Vacances_, _Le Gendarme se marie_, _Le Gendarme en balade_, _Le Gendarme et les Gendarmettes_, _Hibernatus_ and _Jo_.
-   In several comedies starring Adam Sandler, his generally schlubby protagonists near uniformly have love interests that are played by conventionally attractive actresses.
    -   Salma Hayek plays his character's fashion designer wife in _Grown Ups_. None of his friends can believe that she'd settle for a "blob of crap" like him, until it's revealed she married him for his personality.
    -   In _Click_, Michael Newman's wife is played by Kate Beckinsale. Marty, the clerk who sells Newman the remote, cannot believe they're married and is in awe of her beauty.
    -   _50 First Dates_, _The Wedding Singer_ and _Blended_ all feature People Magazine's "Most Beautiful Woman" winner Drew Barrymore as the romantic lead opposite Sandler.

## Films

-   _2012_. Russian oligarch Yuri and his girlfriend Tamara. She acknowledges that Yuri will likely never make her his wife. And, as it turns out, Tamara was having an affair with their pilot, Sasha.
-   _21 Jump Street_ and the sequel _22 Jump Street_ have _Jonah Hill_ hooking up with Brie Larson and Amber Stevens West. It probably helped that Hill also co-wrote and co-produced the movies.
-   _The Adventures of Baron Munchausen_ played with the mythological ur-example by having Vulcan (Hephaestus) played by a 20-pints-over-the-hill Oliver Reed and Venus (Aphrodite) by the then-18-year-old Uma Thurman.
-   _American Hustle_: Irving is overweight and balding, with a combover that doesn't help much, but is married to a gorgeous blonde while dating an equally gorgeous redhead. Sydney even says in her narration that while Irving wasn't very attractive, she was still drawn to him because of his confidence.
-   Lampshaded all the time in the case of Austin Powers. Austin has dorky glasses, bad teeth and an excessive Carpet of Virility, but women treat him like a sex god. Mrs. Kensington notes that physical perfection wasn't as important in the sixties, and it's Austin's personality that makes him so irresistible.
-   _Before the Devil Knows You're Dead_ paired the overweight Philip Seymour Hoffman with the shapely Marisa Tomei. Ironically, it's _she_ who is extremely insecure and in constant need of his assurance that he loves her.
-   An in-universe example appears in _The Brass Teapot_, where several characters are baffled by how John Macy ended up married to someone as hot as Alice (Juno Temple), acting as if this trope was in play - even though John is played by Michael Angarano, who is not exactly ugly.
-   _Couples Retreat_ featured an extreme version of the trope, with the overweight Faizon Love and his hot twenty-year old floozy of a girl, played by Kali Hawk (he wasn't even rich — but he acted like he had money, buying her a motorcycle). Lesser examples include the pudgy, slobby, older Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn being hooked up with the gorgeous Kristin Davis and Malin Akerman, respectively. Only one couple in the four featured in the movie could be described as a pair of attractive people — Kirsten Bell and Jason Bateman.
-   In _Death Becomes Her_, Madeline Ashton (played by Meryl Streep) takes a potion that makes her permanently young and beautiful, while her husband Ernest (played by Bruce Willis) ages worse than normally, being an alcoholic. Madeline makes up for it, however, by being pure evil. Ernest's ex, Helen Sharp (Goldie Hawn), has also taken the potion, and uses it to seduce him back. The rest of the plot has Madeline and Helen, two drop dead gorgeous women, fighting over poor over-the-hill Ernest.
-   _Deck the Halls_ featured a tremendous example with the famously portly, ugly and bald Danny DeVito being married to Kristin Chenoweth, who, while short like Danny, is very beautiful, and portrayed as such.
-   _The Dilemma_. Vince Vaughn and Kevin James are average-looking at best and are both overweight, but their ladies are played by the lovely Jennifer Connelly and Winona Ryder, respectively.
-   In _Fast Times at Ridgemont High_, the ugly, creepy science teacher played by Vincent Schiavelli turns out to have an astonishingly hot wife (played by Lana Clarkson).
-   _Flashdance_: Tina tends to wear more revealing clothing than the other cabaret dancers, while her briefly seen boyfriend is bespectacled and balding.
-   Frankenstein's monster and his lovely Bride. In the film itself, this is something of a tragic plot point: the original male creature is crudely and rather hideously manufactured from various corpses, while the female is created with the help of a more experienced Mad Scientist and from a combination of one beautiful woman and some unexplained alchemy, resulting in a dazed, frightened Cute Monster Girl who wants nothing more to do with the ugly brute she's been presented to than any ordinary woman would.
-   In _Gothika_, Halle Berry finds herself in a mental asylum accused of murdering her husband. Her husband _Charles S. Dutton_.
-   Played for laughs in _Harold & Kumar Go to White Castle_; the title characters are picked up by a disfigured man called "Freakshow" who is married to a rather beautiful girl. When Harold and Kumar ask her about this, she explains that they met in a church choir, and he has a lovely singing voice. They're also swingers, so that probably helps some too.
-   The entire plot of _Hitch_ centers around a pick-up artist who coaches unattractive men on how to win the hearts of their dream women. The film actually ends up justifying the trope, with the overweight, bumbling Albert succeeding in winning over the beautiful Allegra due to his charming earnestness and personality, as opposed to any of Hitch's actual dating tactics.

-   _Horrible Bosses_: Harken's wife is a very beautiful glamorous seductive blonde with a massive set of cleavage as opposed to him being very ugly walking on a hunchback semi-bald and very grumpy.
-   The baker (played by James Corden) and his wife (played by Emily Blunt) from _Into the Woods_.
-   _James Bond_ villains naturally have their Paid Harem or Femme Fatales, but there's also a Running Gag where the head of the KGB always turns out to have a hot lingerie-clad mistress in his bed.
-   In _The Jerk_, Steve Martin's boss (Jackie Mason) introduces his hot wife, carefully explaining how vital his business is to him. Without its profits she'd leave him in a second. She nods.
-   In _Johnson Family Vacation_, Mr. Johnson is overweight and average looking Cedric The Entertainer. Mrs. Johnson is _Miss America 1984_ Vanessa Williams.
-   _Jurassic Prey_: This is Andy<small>◊</small>, and this is his wife<small>◊</small>.
-   In _Knocked Up_, the premise is that Seth Rogen's character gets a girl who is way out of his league pregnant and manages to turn it into a real relationship.
-   French movie _La Lectrice_ is typical of French cinema in the seventies and eighties, where it seems a universal rule that French women in cinema are beautiful, elegant and timelessly chic. But the _men_... In this movie, the beautiful Miou-Miou hooks up with a man who is nerdy, neurotic, and in physical appearance, would make Serge Gainsbourg look like a clean-cut Hollywood hero. This is not untypical of French cinema of The '70s and The '80s.
-   _Mad Max: Fury Road_: Sort of, The Big Bad Immortan Joe has 5 wives (Or in this case, breeders), Joe is a fat, sickly, disgusting-looking old man being held together by machines, his wives however are gorgeous supermodels dressed in revealing white rags
-   _Magnolia_ has the elderly and rather withered movie executive dying of cancer played by Jason Robards married to a gorgeous trophy wife several decades younger than him played by Julianne Moore. The twist is that it started as a typical 'marrying him for his money' arrangement, but then she genuinely fell in love with him to the extent that out of guilt she even tried to have his will changed so that she would no longer be his heir.
-   _My Cousin Vinny_: The titular Vinny is portrayed by the short, rough-looking Joe Pesci, while his fiancée Lisa is played by Marisa Tomei, who is taller than him and much more traditionally good-looking. Despite the difference in looks, the two couldn't be more suited for each other, being tough, street-wise working class New Yorkers.
-   _Mystery Science Theater 3000_ featured _Attack of the Giant Leeches_ has Dave and Liz Walker. Between this trope and Liz' complete lack of affection for Dave, it comes as no surprise when she's caught cheating.
-   The _National Lampoon's Vacation_ films pair Chevy Chase with Beverly D'Angelo as Clark and Ellen Griswold. While Clark is no worse than average-looking, he definitely falls under both the 'dorky acting' and 'personality issues' elements, being not only a Bumbling Dad but also Mr. Serious Business when it comes to family events. Ellen, on the other hand, is not only very beautiful but a total sweetheart with a _ton_ of patience.
-   Oh Dae-su and Mi-Do in _Oldboy (2003)_. It turns out that they've been hypnotized into falling in love with each other. And that's not _nearly_ the worst revelation... turns out they fulfill The Ugly Guy's Hot Daughter, too.
-   Parodied in _The Other Guys_, where Will Ferrell's character is married to the smoking-hot Eva Mendes but doesn't seem to notice how gorgeous she is ("You'll have to excuse my wife, she's a _battle-axe_"). His partner played by Mark Wahlberg, on the other hand, does notice, and is baffled at how Ferrell's character snagged such a hot wife. Apparently Ferrell's guy is just a natural chick magnet (as pointed out by Wahlberg). Specifically, the hotter the woman, the more attracted to Ferrell's character she is.
-   The Bollywood movie _Partner_ takes this to a ridiculous extent with the beautiful heiress Priya and the goofy dork Bhaskar getting together in the end.
-   _Plan 9 from Outer Space:_ he's an aging, withered Bela Lugosi, she's Vampira.
-   In _The Postman Always Rings Twice (1946)_ and its 1981 remake, beautiful Cora, the main female character, was married to an ugly, old, boring husband. She was played by Lana Turner (1946) and Jessica Lange (1981) respectively, two of the most sexy women of their time.
-   At the conclusion of _Rear Window_, the pretty and nubile ballet dancer who has spent the film fending off the advances of numerous male model types is seen joyfully welcoming home her short and stocky lover.
-   The drunk couple in the beginning of the horror movie _The Refrigerator_. One is a fat hairy guy who looks to be in his 40s, while the other looks like she is in her 20s. It almost turns to Fan Disservice when they (almost) have sex, before the guy dies of a heart attack.
-   Subverted with _Shallow Hal_, in which the schlubby Jack Black _thinks_ he's the "Ugly Guy" because he sees his girlfriend Rosemary as the lovely and svelte Gywneth Paltrow, when in reality, she's considerably overweight. Played straight by Hal's disabled friend, who has a sickly thin old woman for a girlfriend. She's actually pretty but rotten on the inside. Disabled isn't ugly, though, at least not the way the trope uses "ugly." Walt, the disabled character has spina bifida, but he actually isn't bad-looking. He's very athletic, and while he's older than the woman he's dating, and probably than Hal, he's not bad-looking at all. He's stinking rich, too, which is why the woman is dating him. It's not the fantasy mismatch of the truly ordinary-in-every-way guy with the beautiful woman.
-   In _Stand and Deliver_ the craggy-faced, potbellied and bald math teacher played by Edward James Olmos has a beautiful wife. This shows that his intelligence and self confidence have allowed him to get what he wants out of life, just as he wishes for his students.
-   George and Cindy Stone in _The Suckers_. Cindy looks like a model (and, as a fashion photographer, she could even be an ex-model; although that's probably giving the film more credit than it deserves). George looks like he works manning the token booth at a peepshow. Their sex scene borders on Fan Disservice.
-   In _Time Bandits_, the group encounters an old, broken down and hideous ogre whose wife is, inexplicably, Katherine Helmond. Helmond's character was originally supposed to be a female ogre until Helmond suggested that she be a normal woman, with no explanation.
-   Partially deconstructed in _Tucker & Dale vs. Evil_, where Dale has two things going for him<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . However, his gentle nature and quiet encouragement of Allison's dreams, coupled with treating her as an actual person leads to their going out on a date by the end of the movie.
-   _Vamps_: Dr. Van Helsing is short, elderly and balding. His wife is at least twenty years younger, tall, blonde and attractive.
-   _The Victors_ suggests that Craig (Eli Wallach) had a fling with the French woman (Jeanne Moreau), at whose house he spent the night. Craig isn't bad-looking, but he's decidedly plain, and the French woman is very much out of his league. Plus, it's implied that he's cheating on another woman.
-   The John Wayne western movie _The War Wagon_. The youngest member of the gang gets snarled at when he smiles at what he thinks is the grizzled old codger's pretty daughter. It turns out she's his wife, whom he bought off her parents in exchange for a horse. But the old codger gets killed and the kid forgoes his share of the gold to ride off with her instead.
-   _Who Framed Roger Rabbit_: Jessica is a sexy, glamorous toon-human while her husband Roger is a goofy toon-rabbit. The movie plays with this a bit, since _Jessica_ is considered to be the lucky one by other toons (humor is the foundation of toon culture, and Roger is an A-List star on equal standing with the likes of Bugs Bunny and Mickey Mouse). When Eddie asks her what she sees in Roger she answers "He makes me laugh".
-   In _Zombieland_, Columbus was a geeky shut-in with no friends, while Wichita was a beautiful popular girl. They hook up, aided considerably by their lack of options.

    Literature 

## By Author

-   This is the case with James Joyce's major protagonists: Gabriel Conroy, a "portly", plain and middle-aged English teacher, is paired with Greta, who is described as a classically Gaelic beauty; Leopold Bloom with the Mediterranean and exotic Molly; and HCE, an aged publican, with Anna Livia Plurabelle, the beautiful personification of the river Liffey.

## By Title

-   _Baccano!_: _Drugs and Dominoes_ reveals that Keith Gandor (who, while not exactly ugly, is a very sinister-looking mafioso) is married to a gorgeous and talented pianist named Kate — who loves him despite his less-than-legal activities, no less. He is aware of his thuggish looks and is kind of defensive about it when it is brought up.
-   _Bas-Lag Cycle_: _Perdido Street Station_ has Isaac dating Lin who has a very attractive body, minus the scarab head.
-   Nikolay Karamzin's story "The Beautiful Princess and the Happy Dwarf" (1792) has the Princess, due to listening to the Dwarf's stories and knowing his heart, coming to loving his appearance, until ultimately, it appeared to her that any guy without two humps and taller than four feet is ugly, while the Dwarf is beautiful. One can imagine the king's reaction when he found out, but ultimately he relented.

-   Fiancé example: Zephaniah Cromwell and Emily Gibson in _Cloud of Sparrows_. Emily is strikingly beautiful (at least by American standards), while everybody in the novel considers Cromwell incredibly ugly.
-   In _Confessions of Felix Krull_ this is the case with Monsieur and Madame Houpflé, although we only have her word for it as her husband is never seen. It does not help that she is an aesthetically pretentious writer of novels and he is a manufacturer of toilet bowls.
-   Romain Gary's _The Dance of Genghis Cohn_ has an utterly ugly gardener who's actually the personification of Death and his hot nymphomaniac wife who happens to be the personification of Life.
-   Derk and Mara in Diana Wynne Jones' _Dark Lord of Derkholm_. She's the 'glamourous enchantress', he's... middle-aged, overweight and balding. In fact, his concerns that she's going to leave him are one of his primary character drives. In truth, she loves him immensely, and they go back to being Happily Married in the end. The sequel, _Year of the Griffin_, even shows (by the presence of two new children) that they're still busy.
-   _Discworld_: Nobby Nobbs gets this once, or possibly twice.
    -   First, in _Thud!_ with exotic dancer Tawneee (yes, that's Tawneee with three Es,) and Nobby Nobbs, who requires signed papers from the Patrician to certify that he's _human_<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . It's later explained that no man had ever asked her out before, all of them assuming she'd be out of their league, which led her to believe she was unattractive. Nobby, on the other hand, is so used to rejection (as EVERYONE is out of his league) that he asks her out expecting rejection she's so desperate that she accepts. Despite this, she actually _likes_ him. And he is later implied to have dumped _her_ — she couldn't cook.
    -   Later Played for Laughs in _Snuff_; Nobby's relationship with a _goblin_ is described this way.
-   The first woman Lord Byron's 16-year-old _Don Juan_ sleeps with is the 23-year-old frustrated hot wife of a 50-year-old ugly guy.
-   Joplaya and Echozar are regarded as this in _Earth's Children_. Joplaya is considered "exotically" beautiful, whilst Echozar is half-Clan (Neanderthal) and so is considered very unattractive by Cro-Magnon standards. Many people find it bizarre that a woman as beautiful as Joplaya would choose to mate Echozar of all people when she could theoretically have have any man she wants, although Ayla thinks to herself she can never have the one man she truly wants and so settled with a man she knows loves her. It's also worth noting that Ayla, having been raised by the Clan and so being more used to their appearances, finds Echozar to be rather handsome.
-   _Eleanor & Park_: Richie Trout and Sabrina Douglas, Eleanor's stepfather and mother. She's a stunning woman in her late thirties married to a younger man who's described as "the human version of a rat."
-   David Eddings's _The Elenium_:
    -   Grizzled, weather-beaten and broken-nosed old knight Sparhawk marries the beautiful and considerably younger Queen Ehlana. Note that she almost has to _order_ him to marry her - not because he doesn't love her, because he very much _does_, but because he doesn't want to saddle her with an old, battered husband.
    -   Short, scarred, bandy-legged nomad Kring ends up with Ehlana's bodyguard, the Amazonian Beauty Mirtai.
-   _Empire from the Ashes_: Colin MacIntyre is consistently described as "homely", with a Gag Nose and prominent ears. His eventual wife Jiltanith is gorgeous. However, both of them are roughly the same height, just under 190 cm tall.
-   _Endgame Trilogy_: Jago being ugly is constantly mentioned. His girlfriend Sarah, however, is described as inhumanly pretty.
    -   _Jago is ugly and menacing_ Jago's description
    -   _It means "ugly"_ \- Jago about his nickname "Feo"
    -   _You are so fucking ugly._ - Maccabee to Jago
-   Played tragically in _Eva Luna_, where Nice Guy with cleft palate Riad Halabi marries a pretty girl named Zulema, who accepted him only because she was getting into an Old Maid category. Their marriage is _very_ unhappy since she refuses to see the kindness under his deformity.
-   In the chapter of _The Faerie Queene_ dealing with pure and unpure sex, Edmund Spenser attacked this trope, mercilessly showing all the problems it would, in the medieval viewpoint, lead to (paranoid jealousy from the guy and cheating by the wife). The hideous Malbecco is so insecure that he prevents his beautiful, wife, Hellenore, from leaving his manor and refuses to let any handsome traveller into his home, Sacred Hospitality be damned. This nearly gets his house burned down and fully gets his wife to jump ship and abandon Malbecco for the first handsome man who takes a pass at her.
-   _Fengshen Yanyi_: the couple Tuxingsun and Deng Chanyu: while the latter is always described as a very beautiful swordswoman, the former varies in depiction, ranging from a not-to-ugly mustachioed man to a dwarf-like midget to a downright mole-man thing and Chanyu isn't very happy to marry him, though she accepts the Arranged Marriage as the most convenient thing she can do for the time being.
-   _The Girl Who Drank the Moon_: Husband Antain's face is horrifically scarred. Wife Ethyne is universally judged gorgeous. They only met after his injury.
-   _Gravity Falls: Journal 3_: Ford believes Probabilator's elf henchman's parents must be this because the henchman is "too good-looking to be pure elf".
-   Mr. and Mrs. Delacour in _Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows_. The latter is descended from a humanoid species that take the form of the most beautiful women to walk the earth, whereas former is a plump, black-bearded, but pleasant everyman.
    -   Initially averted completely with Fleur, their daughter who inherited her mother's looks, and her fiancé Bill Weasley, who is actually pretty handsome. Later downplayed when he's slashed in the face in battle by a werewolf, and its curse means the scars will never fade. However, Fleur doesn't reject Bill because the scars mean nothing except "that \[her\] husband is brave," which is proof enough for the formerly wary-of-her Weasley family to accept her.
-   Mercedes Lackey's _Heralds of Valdemar_ books present petite, sweet faced, and generally harmless-looking Queen's Own Herald Talia; and the love of her life, Herald Dirk, who is big, strong, has a lovely voice and (at least in Talia's opinion) beautiful eyes... but beyond that is explicitly described as homely at best. A major complication during _Arrow's Fall_ was his inability to realize that she would prefer him over his far more handsome highborn friend Herald Kris.
-   Though the goblins in the _Hollow Kingdom Trilogy_ see their ugliness and deformity as a sign of strength, they always choose beautiful wives, whether they are elves or humans.
-   _In Death_ series: Belle and Douglas Skinner from _Interlude In Death_. It seems averted at first because while Belle is definitely attractive, Douglas is not so hard on the eyes himself considering that he is a lot older than her. Then it gets played straight when a life-threatening illness he's been struggling with finally proves to be too much for him.
-   In _Incarnations of Immortality_, Thanatos (aka Zane), the incarnation of death, is described as a fairly ugly man; the woman he dates, Luna, is described as one of the most beautiful women of her generation (this is stated as fact and recognized by immortal powers such as Satan, not a subjective opinion). It helps when the Incarnations of Fate & Time team up to do some match making.
-   A major conflict of the Thai Literature _Khun Chang Khun Phaen_ kickstarts when an extremely ugly guy _steals_ the protagonist's hot wife, the deed which nobody likes. However after a Time Skip, Chang has gotten his wife warmed up to him due to the incredibly large amount of money he has and his sheer Dogged Nice Guy attitude.
-   Once upon a time in _The Kingdom of Little Wounds_, this was King Christian and Queen Isabel. Isabel has lost her looks since then, but Christian always looked a bit like a sheep.
-   _Land of Oz_: In _The Patchwork Girl of Oz_, the protagonists encounter a giant named Mr. Yoop, locked up in a mountain cell; he's the typical giant, big, ugly, dumb, crude, and a cannibal, the last one being the reason he's locked up. In a later book, they meet his wife, who's a knockout. (Unfortunately, while not a cannibal, she's just as evil, using magic to turn victims into animals and keep them as pets.)
-   John le Carré's George Smiley (described in his earliest appearances as a "frog" or a "toad") and his much younger wife, Lady Ann. As things turn out, Ann spends most of the marriage sleeping with other men.
-   _The Malloreon_ by David Eddings:
    -   The series ends, among other things, with Beldin, a deformed, short hunchback with a bad temper who is always described as incredibly dirty, finally going off with Vella, a Nadrak dancer. True, they both changed into hawks, but she was still in love with the guy from day one.
    -   A subversion of the trope may be Poledra and Belgarath. Though she appears little, she's described quite favourably. On the other hand, her husband is an old wrinkly man whose grooming habits only seem respectable in comparison to his aforementioned associate Beldin. Then, near the very end of the series, he appears in a loincloth and every woman in the party who isn't his daughter notices just how well the 7000-year-old man has taken care of himself.
-   Ludovico in _Palimpsest_ isn't exactly ugly, but he's certainly nobody anyone would look twice at with his bad posture and thinning hair. Lucia on the other hand is a very attractive, very sensual woman.
-   Tokita and Atsuko in _Paprika_. She's a sexy scientist; he gets stuck in standard size elevator doors.
-   _Le Père Goriot_: The titular Old Man Goriot is accused of being a Dirty Old Man in relationships with innumerable women young enough to be his daughters. It turns out they actually _are_ his daughters, both of them being married to very rich men and coming by to see him in different dresses every time.
-   In _Nineteen Eighty-Four_, Winston Smith, a 39-year-old man, somewhat over the hill by Oceanic standards, physically bent out of shape, and sporting what is apparently a highly unsightly varicose ulcer, manages to have a 4-month affair with Julia, almost ten years younger, described as being in much better physical condition, notably possessing stunning hair and breasts. Considering that both suffer crushing sexual repression and have borderline nymphomaniac traits as well, they seem suited for each other. Julia's a member of a harsh chastity brigade, and sees sex as her best way of sticking it to The Man. So she's not terribly picky. Winston even tries to _discourage_ her from banging him, asking why she hasn't chosen somebody her age. Julia replies that honestly, she couldn't care less.
-   In _The Pillars of the Earth_, the lovely Aliena had Jack Shareburg, who was described as being 'unsightly' with carrot colored hair and pale skin. Although they never really stated if they were married or not and later their son Jack who looks like the father is described as being handsome and while in France, he runs into his grandmother, who mistakes him for his father.
-   _Red Seas Under Red Skies_: Requin is described as looking like a puppet put together by a particularly inept puppeteer. Selendri was drop-dead gorgeous before a botched attempt on Requin's life left her severely scarred. The fact that Requin was obscenely wealthy may have helped start their relationship, but at the time the novel rolls around the two are completely and utterly devoted to each other.
-   _The Reynard Cycle_: The stout, elderly Count Dindevault and his lovely young wife, Belicent. This was the result of an arranged marriage. Their daughter, Soredamor, is an extremely beautiful The Ugly Guy's Hot Daughter.
-   _Sisterhood Series_ by Fern Michaels: Played straight with Elizabeth "Lizzie" Fox and Cosmo Cricket. Lizzie is stunningly beautiful. Cosmo... well, he has feet as big as canoes (maybe even shaped like them), he has a big nose on a flat face, he has ears as round as pancakes, and he is apparently so fat or bulky that he needs to have his clothes tailored for him.
-   _A Song of Ice and Fire_:
    -   Tyrion Lannister and Sansa Stark. Although it was an Arranged Marriage, the contrast is given much emphasis, especially as Tyrion is a deformed dwarf and Sansa is lauded as one of the greatest beauties of her age. It only serves to make the both of them even more miserable.
        -   This is one of several relationships between characters for which the song "The Bear and the Maiden Fair" is used as a motif, including Sandor Clegane/Sansa, Jorah Mormont/Daenerys Targaryen, and Brienne of Tarth/Jaime Lannister.
    -   Robert Baratheon and Cersei Lannister didn't _start out_ like this, but years of drinking, whoring, and laziness have taken their toll on Robert, while Cersei retains her famed beauty despite their awful marriage. When Ned and Catelyn meet them for the first time in years, the contrast is not lost on them.
-   In _Stardust_, the protagonist blindly chases after a fallen shooting star for the girl he likes, who had become pregnant with an ugly old rich man's child not long before (with even her friends being aware of it).
-   _Stray_: Pufftail tells a story about how he once tried to woo a pretty Persian named Princess. One night he went to see her, but came across a fat, slobbery, greying tabby who also wanted Princess. Pufftail got into a fight with the tom however it turned out that Princess was actually in love with the old tabby. She thought _Pufftail_ was the annoying Abhorrent Admirer.
-   In the Charlotte Brontë novel _Villette_, Lucy Snow meets a group of three men and three women while traveling. She is absolutely flabbergasted to realize that the most unattractive man in the group (in terms of looks AND personality) is married to the prettiest young woman (proving that even back then, people found such a pairing highly unrealistic), and further stunned to realize that the woman is quite happy and content.
-   In Lois McMaster Bujold's _Vorkosigan Saga_, both Count Aral Vorkosigan (stocky, thick featured, scarred... the author once described him as Mussolini with hair) and his son Miles (under five feet, hunchbacked, and having a disproportionately large head) both managed to marry women who are quite attractive in addition to their other positive attributes.
    -   It should be pointed out: though each man is or will be a count, just heartbeats from the throne (or serving as Regent), they each marry their considerably-more-attractive wives for love. This is especially clear in Cordelia and Aral's case, since the reader learns his best and worst traits along with his future wife.
-   _War and Peace_:
    -   Pierre is awkward, stout, and clumsy in addition to being kind and intelligent, and upon inheriting his fortune he is immediately manipulated into marrying Helene Kuragin, one of the most beautiful women in Moscow. It's described how beautiful she is nearly every time she makes an appearance. It's not a happy marriage.
    -   Pierre again, this time with Natasha Rostova, another extremely beautiful girl and about eight years younger than he. However it turned out, their marriage is basically the cultivation of the whole, thousand word novel about Pierre's search for meaning.
    -   It's mentioned by Prince Vasili Kuragin that Countess Rostova used to be beautiful, and he couldn't understand why she married Count Rostov, who was always stout and red-faced. Their marriage seems happy.
-   In _Water Margin_, Wu Song's elder brother Wu Dalang is married to Pan Jinlian. She is beautiful and skilled and called "Golden Lotus". He is ugly and short and called "Three Inches of Mulberry Bark". The neighbors know this trope as "a rose placed on a pile of cow dung" and "a luscious piece of meat landing in a dog's mouth", and since Wu the Elder is an Extreme Doormat they even use such language to his face. Golden Lotus is not happy at all with the arrangement, which ends very badly for everyone; brother Wu Song is a loyal sort, and he's capable of beating a tiger to death.
-   Though Birgitte and Gaidal Cain of Robert Jordan's _The Wheel of Time_ aren't actually married, they have an eternal Reincarnation Romance. Cain is not as handsome as the legends about him say, while Birgitte is described as very attractive. It helps that she's attracted, as Mat figures out, to dog-ugly men (whether this is a cause or an effect is unstated).
-   _The Wolfhound_: The ugly, hunchbacked jeweler Uloiho and his gorgeous wife Viona whom he marries the moment he sees her at a slave market. Everybody is shocked that she passionately loves him back.
-   Good Magician Humphrey of _Xanth_ and all five and a half wives (long story)<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . Humphrey, even as a young man, has always been short, gnome-like, and grumpy, while his wives have ranged from "merely" pretty (Sofia Socksorter) to inhumanly beautiful (Dana Demoness).

    Live-Action TV 

-   _3rd Rock from the Sun_: Don and Sally. Played with in that Sally, being an alien, has no idea Don is supposed to be ugly (despite the fact that he's played by _Wayne Knight_), and finds his power as a police officer sexy. In fact, Sally thinks _everyone_ in society is just as smitten with Don's "good looks" as she. One episode has Sally thinking she is too _unattractive_ to believably be with someone like Don.
-   _30 Rock_: Played with after the one-night stand between Frank and Jenna in "Retreat to Move Forward", where the slovenly Frank is embarrassed to have slept with the attractive Jenna. He had his reasons...
-   _According to Jim_: Jim Belushi as Jim and Courtney Thorne-Smith as his wife Cheryl. The end of this show prompted TV Guide to do a Top 10 Fat Guys with Hot Wives list.
-   _The Amanda Show_: "Melody and Thad" sketch (which involves Innocently Insensitive professional singers who sing very rude and personal songs) once took place at a wedding where there was a blonde and pretty bride with her Neanderthal-esque groom; they decide to sing this ditty:
    
    **Melody**: _(singing)_ You married an ugly guy. We all do wonder why.  
    **Thad**: Must be insane.  
    **Melody**: His nose is too big.  
    **Melody and Thad**: He looks like a pig. Yes, you married an ugly guy.  
    **Melody**: This marriage will never last.  
    **Thad**: Divorce will come very fast.  
    **Melody and Thad**: You'll both be alone.  
    **Thad**: So say adios.  
    **Melody**: Your husband is gross.  
    **Melody and Thad**: Yes, you married...an ugly guy.
    
-   _Arnie_:
    -   Balding, middle-aged Herschel Bernardi and blonde stunner Sue Anne Langdon.
    -   Eleanor, played by reasonably attractive Margaret Colin, gets married to a guy played by Wallace Shawn. Blair is outraged at having such an ugly stepfather, until she discovers his conniving personality makes them a good match.
-   _Arrested Development_:
    -   Tobias (David Cross) married to Lindsay (Portia de Rossi). It's made clear that Lindsay isn't attracted to Tobias physically and doesn't like him personally (plus she thinks he's gay), she just married him to annoy her parents.
    -   Lucille (Jessica Walter) and George/Oscar (Jeffrey Tambor) ... she's only married to one of them, but she's slept with both, and while her relationship with George is somewhat explicable because of George's money, Oscar has pretty much always been a penniless bum. They were both in or approaching their 60s when the show started so the discrepancy is less shocking, but Walter was at one time leading-lady pretty (and still fairly attractive for her age), while Tambor has pretty much always looked like Jeffrey Tambor.
-   _Bewitched_: Successful advertising career or no, Darrin (regardless of who played him) never really had any business being married to Elizabeth Montgomery's Samantha. This is somewhat justified for Dick York's Darrin, in that his _terrible_ health problems, which is what ending up causing him to leave the show, took its toll on his appearance. For that matter, Darrin's wealthy, catty ex-fiancee was played by Nancy Kovack,<small>◊</small> real-life winner of eight beauty titles.
-   _The Big Bang Theory_:
    -   Bernadette is _way_ out of Howard's league, given that he's also a perverted creepy loser as well as being far less attractive than sweet, beautiful Bernadette. Often lampshaded by Penny, who wonders What Does She See in Him?. On the other hand, they are equally intelligent, and Howard also becomes a much better person once he starts dating her. It helps that Penny also once pointed out that he's the luckiest man alive and he'll never get anyone better than Bernie.
        
        "If you let her go, there is no way you'll find anyone else. Speaking on behalf of all women, it's not going to happen. We had a meeting."
        
    -   The Leonard/Penny pairing qualifies. Leonard is quite dorky and isn't _that_ bad looking (although he's still short, socially awkward, horribly dressed and has a receding hairline), but compared to the stunning Penny sure looks that way. The catch is, after dating a string of handsome but dumb or insufferable guys, Penny appreciates Leonard's kindness and intelligence. It's actually deconstructed over time, since Leonard is hopelessly insecure about his flaws and gets jealous when Penny is around better-looking guys, while Penny feels insecure about Leonard's intelligence and passion, fearing that she brings nothing to the table in their relationship besides her good looks.
-   _Billions_: The dumpy and balding Chuck Rhoades, played by Paul Giamatti, is married to the classically beautiful Wendy Rhoades, played by Maggie Siff. There's no acknowledgement of the appearance disparity in the first season, but in the second, Chuck reveals that he's quite insecure about people wondering What Does She See in Him?. Wendy thinks that he insists on always wearing suits to social events out of vanity for his politically important position, but he's really just trying to not look so inadequate beside her.
-   _Boardwalk Empire_:
    -   Agent Van Alden, alias George Mueller, is in his late forties and has "a mug you don't forget," while his second wife is an attractive, young Norwegian woman he'd initially hired as a wet nurse for his illegitimate son.
    -   Nucky Thompson is in his fifties and no beauty, but has a much younger, pretty wife, in addition to an array of stunningly attractive and usually very young mistresses. In his case, money and power probably are the main attractions, though he has a very nice and charming personality as long as you don't cross him.
-   _Bob Hearts Abishola_: The titular Bob and Abishola. Bob is middle-aged and obese (though he has lost weight over the course of the series), Abishola is younger and very stunning. Bob is a wealthy businessman, but it is made clear that Abishola is not interested in his money, especially since her ex-husband Tayo is implied to be wealthier than Bob is (and is also not much of a looker himself). Bob is kind, gentle and has a great sense of humor. Abishola, on the other hand, has a lot of issues beneath her beauty. Some due to her difficulty adapting to American culture, some due to childhood abuse. But she does genuinely like Bob, flaws and all. Bob's ex-wife Lorraine was also out of his league looks-wise, but seeing as how she cheated on him with his childhood best friend, he's more beautiful than her where it matters.
-   _Bones_: Angela and Hodgins borderline it. Angela is very attractive and while Hodgins isn't truly ugly per se, he's much more plain looking than the rest of the guys, especially when he lets his hair and beard get longer. Walter even invokes it in the Poorly Disguised Pilot episode "The Finder". He says Angela is a 10 and Hodgins is around a 6 and asks if Hodgins is rich, saying it would explain the discrepancy. Of course Hodgins prefers not to talk about actually being rich, so they don't really answer.
-   _Charité at War_: Doctor Margot Sauerbruch is a Statuesque Stunner scientist, her husband Professor Ferdinand Sauerbruch several inches shorter, a great deal older, going bald, and even without that average-looking at best, and he has an explosive temper to boot. They don't seem to be aware of this.
-   _CSI_: Played with on the Three Shorts episode, "Toe Tags." Turns out that neither married person in the relationship felt good about the looks of the other (the "hot wife" had depression - but no info is given if it was in response to the marriage or not - while the "ugly guy"...well, he pushed his wife off a cliff, stomped down on her fingers _hard enough to break bone_ when she managed to hold on to the ledge, and then tried to convince the police that she had committed suicide because she was fed up with him, finally giving a Motive Rant that his life had become hell ever since he married her once he's caught, supposedly because of this trope).
-   _CSI: NY_:
    -   This show also played with it a bit in their ninth season Three Shorts Valentine's Day Episode, "Blood Actually." In the second of the stories, from the hot wife's perspective _she_ was the lucky one to find such a great guy, which made her (overweight) husband's "betrayal" that much worse. Unfortunately the only thing he was guilty of was acting suspicious in front of his apparently insecure wife while secretly planning their dream vacation. She thought he was cheating, and killed him for it.
    -   The couple's appearances and attitudes in the b-plot of "The Fall" were almost exact replicas of those. The main differences were that the husband was a true Jerkass and his death was accidental.
    -   The couple in the Compass Killer arc is a pretty strawberry blonde woman married to a guy with one whole side of his face scarred up from a shotgun blast.
-   _Curb Your Enthusiasm_: Both Larry and Cheryl, and Jeff and Susie. Larry is bald, lanky, and the little hair he has left is long since gray. Cheryl is much younger than Larry and very beautiful. As for Jeff and Susie, Jeff is very overweight, and his wife, while not attractive personality wise, is quite pretty. This is a natural reflection upon their success and wealth. When Cheryl leaves Larry in season 6, he dates several attractive women, including Lucy Lawless.
-   _Daddio_: Schlubby Michael Chiklis plays househusband to a pretty attorney.
-   _Dinosaurs_: Earl Sinclair is overweight, short-tempered and a sexist boor. Fran by contrast is in better shape despite being a full-time housewife, much more approachable and in one episode gained a Stalker with a Crush.
-   _Doc Martin_: Ellingham and Louisa had a difficult on-again-off-again relationship, conceived a baby, almost married, and reconciled in the final episode of season 4.
-   _Doctor Who_: While Rory isn't exactly _ugly_, more plain-looking, the Doctor is still surprised when he turns out to be the beautiful Amy's fiancé, and not a much more attractive man he'd already met. Rory is clearly insecure about the appearance gap in their relationship. Several times, it appears that Amy gets cold feet about their impending marriage and seems to transfer her affections onto others, but she really does love him above all.
-   _Dollhouse_: Implied in the episodes "Man in the Street" and "A Love Supreme" in the Internet tycoon Joel Mynor's relationship with his late wife, Rebecca, who Joel recalls "was beautiful and she knew it."
-   _The Drew Carey Show_ features an endless parade of incredibly beautiful, intelligent women throwing themselves at Drew, who is perhaps the biggest "fat loser-dork" in TV history (despite the fact that the real Drew Carey used to be a _Marine_). Eventually he marries, and has a child with, perhaps the most beautiful one of all — accomplishing _both at the same time_ no less. Although, the show wasn't afraid to show him in relationships with less glamorous women either, including Wanda Sykes. One arc in particular had him start a relationship with a beautiful woman who was Formerly Fat; being with Drew incited her own Big Eater tendencies and she gained a significant amount of weight over the course of the season. She eventually breaks up with him because she's ashamed of her own appearance, and in a Tear Jerker Drew pleads with her that he still loves her.
-   _Everybody Loves Raymond_:
    -   The uncharming, flabby, big-nosed Raymond played by Ray Romano is paired with decidedly better-looking Debra played by Patricia Heaton (especially notable in later seasons, when Ray wasn't aging so gracefully, and Patricia had used a bit of surgical help to maintain her appearance). This was directly addressed in one episode, which had Debra accidentally implying that she was more attracted to the tall, dark, handsome, and well-groomed Robert played by Brad Garrett, much to Ray's consternation. It also got Flanderized in later seasons, as the characters shifted and Ray became stupid in addition to unattractive, and Debra became cruel and shrill in addition to beautiful. According to Heaton, she helped her cause in her audition by being one of the few actresses who was willing to kiss Ray Romano during the test reads.
    -   Their best friends, Bernie and Linda, are perhaps an even more extreme example of the trope. Bernie was played by homely overweight Tom McGowan while Linda was played by thin gorgeous Maggie Wheeler.
-   Season 3 of _Fargo_ gives us balding, portly Ray Stussy (Ewan McGregor sporting a lot of face makeup) and his much more attractive girlfriend Nikki Swango (Mary Elizabeth Winstead).
-   _The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air_: Uncle Phil is played by the portly James Avery, while Aunt Vivian is played by the gorgeous and svelte Janet-Hubert Whitten (and later Daphne Maxwell-Reid), although an episode that flashed back to over a decade previous showed that Avery's character was slimmer and more conventionally attractive before he got into the wealthy world of high-powered law—and Vivian makes it abundantly clear to Will that Phillip's weight does not affect her feelings for him. It's also worth noting that while Phillip is a large man, it's because he is a _large_ man who could snap other guys in half over his knee if he wanted. This is also true of his actor, 6'4" former Navy man James Avery.
-   _Game of Thrones_:
    -   Plain and heavy-set book nerd Samwell Tarly enters a relationship with the beautiful Wildling Gilly; one of the most touching romances on the show.
    -   Robert and Cersei, via Arranged Marriage. Cersei explained that at the time of the marriage she was very enamored of the then handsome and dashing Robert. But that quickly changed on their wedding when he came to her quite drunk and going on about his true love, Lyanna Stark, the idealized dead woman with whom Cersei could never compete with.
-   _The George Lopez Show_: Plump Lopez has a wife that's slightly out of his league. He seems entirely aware of how lucky he is, and it's lampshaded often. George's best friend Ernie has had a crush on her since high school, and she knows it.
    
    "I married her (points at Angie). I got nothing left to prove."
    
    **Angie:** "I used to be head cheerleader and very popular and well liked."  
    **George:** "Yeah. But you married the weird kid with a big head. Face it honey. You peaked."
    
-   _Get Smart_: Agent 86 Maxwell Smart and Agent 99.
-   _The Goldbergs_: Portly, rumpled comedian Jeff Garlin's character is married to the blonde and gorgeous Wendi McClendon-Covey.
-   In _The Goes Wrong Show_, Dennis mistakenly thinks Vanessa has proposed to him so he goes to call his mother. He returns saying that she didn't believe him, because Dennis is "a 2" and Vanessa "a solid 8".
-   _Good Luck Charlie_: Attractive nurse as the mom? Check. Fat, balding guy as the dad? Check. The contrast between Bob and Amy becomes somewhat of a subversion in Season 3, due to Eric Allan Kramer (Bob)'s dramatic weight loss giving him somewhat of a muscular look, albeit evened out by a haircut that made his already thinning hair more apparent.
-   _Hazel_: The title character works as a maid for the Baxters, played by doughy Don DeFore and mom Whitney Blake (almost 13 years his junior in real life).
-   _Henry Danger_: Henry and Piper's mom and dad, Jake and Kris match this trope quite well. Henry and Piper's mom, Kris, is a gorgeous blonde that Ray Manchester/Captain Man, the superhero who is Henry's (and eventually Piper's) boss on the show, can't resist having an obsessive crush on despite the fact that he's fully aware that she's married. Henry and Piper's dad, Jake, on the other hand, is not extremely ugly, but he is considerably plain and average-looking compared to his stunning wife. And as far as being dorky is concerned, he has a tendency to be quite eccentric and quirky compared to her on top of the fact that he's not as attractive and appealing as her.
    -   This is even lampshaded in a couple of episodes where in one episode, Piper actually asks Kris "What did you see in this guy?", to which Kris replies, "Right now, I don't even know."
    -   In another episode, Ray similarly asks Henry how on Earth did his dad end up with his mom, to which Henry replies he has no idea.
    -   Considering that Jake is not quite the best looking guy on the show and is not as conventionally attractive and appealing as the other male characters on the show, compared to his son Henry, once Henry gets older and hits puberty in the later seasons of the show, Jake and Henry start to turn into a gender-inverted case of "The Ugly Guy's Hot Daughter."
-   _The Honeymooners_:
    -   Ralph and Alice Kramden. The original sketches in Gleason's variety show were an aversion, with Alice being played by a much older actress (Pert Kelton). After Kelton was forced to leave the show due to Cold War blacklisting, Mr. Gleason changed it to a hot wife in the series for 1955 made-for-TV Fanservice. Audrey Meadows wrote in her autobiography that she wanted the part of Alice but Gleason, seeing her stills, decided she was "too attractive." So she arranged for a friend to bust in with a camera very early in the morning to take her picture, no makeup, bleary eyes and all. Gleason liked the photos and Meadows' willingness to go the extra mile to get the part. The movie version plays this trope straight also. Ralph Kramden is played by Cedric The Entertainer. Alice? The _insanely_ gorgeous Gabrielle Union.
    -   Upstairs neighbors Ed and Trixie Norton, especially since Trixie's backstory says she was a burlesque dancer before falling for the sewer worker.
-   _Homicide: Life on the Street_: Interestingly enough, we never see the man in question. When a beautiful woman reports her husband's disappearance and presumed murder, suspects include his equally gorgeous mistress (who's innocent). One of the detectives expresses complete shock and confusion as to how a "2", as he describes the victim, was able to not only snag two "10s", as he describes the women, but was also able to string them both along when they both could have easily dumped the cheating lout.
-   _House_: Plot point in an episode when the title character can't understand why a smoking hot woman is married to his overweight patient of the week. Turns out the wife was part of a hallucination House suffered after being shot by a former patient.
-   _iCarly_: Short, chubby Gibby has a tall, pretty and thin girlfriend named Tasha, played by actress/model Emily Ratajkowski.
-   _I Love Lucy_: Fred (William Frawley) & Ethel (Vivian Vance). Vance may not have been strict supermodel material, but she was twenty years younger than Frawley - and it shows even with Vance playing down her own attractiveness to avoid ticking off Lucille Ball. Incidentally, before she took the part of Ethel, Vivian Vance often played the role of Femme Fatale in her movie career and was seen as quite beautiful.
-   Lampshaded in "The Immortal (1969)", where the guy was extremely old, sick and bed-ridden, and the wife was played by the very attractive Jessica Walter. At one point a henchman comments on the disparity, she agrees, acknowledges she's in it for the money, but says "I'm worth it to him".
-   _Kevin Can F\*\*k Himself_: The titular Kevin with protagonist Allison, and to a lesser extent Molly who he dates after Allison fakes her death.
-   _The King of Queens_: Star Kevin James is average in the looks department and overweight. Hot wife is Leah Remini, who is a Maxim cover-girl worthy model. They do Hand Wave it by making the wife enough of a bitch to counterbalance her looks, with the implication that her husband is one of the few people who would put up with her. One episode accentuates this into absurdity—Kevin James loses a noticeable but not extreme amount of weight, and one of Carrie's friends seriously suggests that he's now as physically attractive as she is, and Carrie doesn't seem too happy to hear this.
-   _Law & Order: SVU_: An episode featuring the murder of a Romanian immigrant had her model-like twin sister (actually her, but that's a whole other posting) married to a very average-looking and overweight guy. It's never a plot point, but the disparity in looks is noticeable
-   _Life in Pieces_ has Tyler and Clementine. On the episode she's introduced, Tyler's family assumes she'll be a mousy and geeky teenager, and are surprised when the beautiful Hunter King shows up. Tyler is well aware of the disparity, and rushes to marry her when he turns eighteen.
    -   Marrying women out of their league might run in the family - Tyler's fat, bald father Tim managed to marry beautiful Heather (Betsy Brandt). He's implied to have a Gag Penis.
-   _Mad About You_: The beautiful Leila Kenzle and Richard Kind, who bears a marked resemblance to Magilla Gorilla.
-   _Mad TV_: Examined in a sketch, where Dr. Phil asks the fugly husband of a beautiful (but dumb, though that was presented as a positive) woman how it happened: "Are you crazy rich? Are you a registered hypnotist? Do you have a freakishly large penis?"
-   _The Magicians (2016)_: It's something of a Running Gag that plain, nerdy Josh routinely scores with women out of his league with his natural charisma, and he eventually begins a long-term relationship with Margo that lasts the rest of the series.
-   _Married... with Children_ had Al Bundy, a typical balding, overweight Jaded Washout, and Peggy Bundy, who while drawn back by the tacky clothes and enormous hair, was buxom and cleaned up well (to the point that when she disguised herself as a belly dancer, Al said she was out of his league, and she probably lived with "some loser who didn't appreciate her").
-   _Merlin (2008)_: Tristan and Isolde, introduced at the end of the fourth series. Isolde was young and hot. Tristan looked at least ten years her senior and was rather small and shaggy looking.
-   _The Mighty Boosh_: Recurring character Dennis the Shaman is bald, has beady glowing eyes and a bizarre fashion sense. He's also married to an extreme sports calendar model.
-   _Modern Family_: Jay and Gloria. Constantly lampshaded in the show, and many of the other characters (particularly Claire) assume she is a Gold Digger until they get to know her better.
    -   Averted by Phil and Claire. Phil is very handsome (though his goofiness often detracts from this) and while Claire isn't a bombshell like Gloria, she's still drop dead gorgeous.
-   _Mr. Belvedere_: George Owens, played by Bob Uecker, who frequently jokes about his homely appearance in real life, paired with gorgeous Marsha played by Ilene Graff. She is beautiful and appears to be a generation his junior.
-   _The Munsters_: While they look like people from a Halloween party, Herman is a Frankenstein-type monster and Lily is a hot vampiress. Lily sees Herman as gorgeous and worries about other women stealing him away due to this. And considering how they all consider their pretty niece as 'odd-looking', their view of beauty is skewed from the cultural norm.
-   _My Name Is Earl_:
    -   Randy and Catalina. Originally he chased her, until a green card marriage led to them sleeping together. Using advice from Joy, Catalina makes herself extremely unattractive to him, while Randy proceeds to be the best lover she ever had. Afterwards she fails to keep him interested because he is turned off by how bad she was.
    -   When Earl is working in a fast-food restaurant, his Jerkass boss keeps abusing him. Earl then visits his house and discovers he has a hot wife who even has a mug labeled "World's Best Lover". But as luck would have it, Earl discovers he has _two_ hot wives. By punching the boss in the face, he puts him in hospital, where both hot wives go to join him at bedside, see each other and dump him in disgust. Hilarity Ensues!
    -   Reverend Greene and his wife. He's obese and, before his Heel–Faith Turn, a psychotic gangster nicknamed "Hash Brown", while his wife is thin and gorgeous. She must have been in to bad boys back then.
-   _NCIS: Los Angeles_: An episode involves a very fat man and his hot Mexican girlfriend whose relationship goes south when it's revealed that he's part of a scam to defraud the US government. And he's willing to kill her and her family when they find out.
-   _Night Court_: Zig-zagged in the episode "Dan's Escort" with Sonja, the wife of Yakov (Yakov Smirnoff). The audience doesn't see the pictures Yakov shows the gang, but it's enough to get Dan to compare her to livestock (and to get Harry to back down when admonishing him for said crack). She was badly injured in an accident while traveling to reunite with Yakov and everyone fears that the injuries will make her even uglier. When she does arrive, she's played by attractive actress Diana Brookes. Turns out the doctors who worked on Sonja had no idea what she was supposed to look like, assumed her ugliness were a result of her injuries and proceeded to turn her into a stunner.
-   _No Ordinary Family_: The large Michael Chiklis is paired with the smoking hot Julie Benz.
-   _NYPD Blue_: Andy Sipowicz. _Twice._
    -   Wife #2 - Sylvia Costas (Sharon Lawrence). The age difference isn't mentioned in-show, but the actress is seventeen years his junior.
    -   Wife #3: Connie McDowell (Charlotte Ross) — more than twenty years younger and so out of his league they might as well be different species.
    -   In between Sylvia and Connie he briefly dates Gibson's niece, Cynthia. She is described as plain and lonely and seems fairly desperate. She seems to be in her late thirties (her actress, Juliana Donald, was in her mid-thirties) so it's not impossible for her to have a little Old Maid anxiety — but she is certainly not bad-looking, so to act like an overweight bald guy fifteen years her senior was the only person willing to date her (and that mostly as a favor to Gibson) is a bit ridiculous. If anything she is out of _his_ league (but she is portrayed as somewhat socially insecure, and probably doesn't realize that).
-   _The Outer Limits (1995)_: The episode "First Anniversary" subverts this: the "hot wife" is actually a hideous-looking alien using Mind Control to _appear_ to be a beautiful woman. They're really _nice_ aliens, though, so when the control breaks, we'll all learn that True Beauty Is on the Inside, right? Not a chance.
-   _Parks and Recreation_: Overweight and goofy-looking Jerry is married to the extremely hot Gayle (played by Christie Brinkley) and has a stable of hot daughters who all adore him. Everyone at work who sees his family is stunned. This all goes along with the Running Gag that Jerry's life outside of the office is exactly as wonderful as his professional life is miserable. At home, Jerry is fun, kindly and cultured and also has an extremely large penis.
-   _Red Dwarf_: Spoofed when Lister takes part in a virtual-reality medieval tourney, and demands a night and a day in the Queen's bed if he wins. The King is played by Brian Cox; the Queen is a young and beautiful French woman (played by Sarah Alexander) who instantly accepts the conditions.
    
    **King:** My lady, I think we should discuss this matter in private...  
    **Queen:** Do you not 'ave faith in your good knight, to cut this dog down where 'e stands?  
    **King:** I do! Sort of...
    
-   _Rescue Me_: This trope gets lampshaded in an episode when Billy (one of the firefighters) dies. At his funeral, they find out that he'd had 2 ex-wives, both of supermodel quality. The episode had a sub-plot of a measurement contest, which Billy had declined to take part in. After having talked with the ex-wives, the chief declared Billy the posthumous winner, stating "Our friend Billy... was packing 10."
-   _Rome_:
    -   Kevin McKidd's rather handsome by modern standards, but in-universe Lucius Vorenus and Niobe are seen as this. Doubles as Hollywood Homely; the Romans had different ideas about male beauty, which didn't really include the rugged look.
    -   Caesar's former slave Posca and his much younger wife Jocasta. Who is shown to have married him because she has been raped and her family killed and their wealth confiscated.
-   _Saturday Night Live_: The trope is the entire basis for this sketch, starring the nerdy "Matt Shatt" and his extremely attractive wife.
    
    **Neil**: She's a _Kennedy_... and she put a _Shatt_ on it!
    
    -   Matt apparently remarried later on, and even the Camp Gay interior designer is utterly baffled by it.
-   _Schitt's Creek_: Mayor Roland Schitt is oafish, mulleted and beer-gutted, and he's rather obnoxious. The Roses are surprised, therefore, when they meet his attractive and kind wife Jocelyn, who inexplicably is madly in love with her husband.
-   _Scrubs_:
    -   The trope is discussed with the Patient of the Week being a smoking hot woman married to a rather large guy. What does she see in him? He was the only guy there was, after she dated the attractive jerky guys.
    -   J.D. often gets accused of this by watchers of the show, but he's not actually ugly — it's just Hollywood casting for hot girls that makes everyone a model.
    -   An episode had J.D. play a classic TV trivia game with his friends and girlfriend Kylie, the topic being being fat sitcom husbands and the crazy hot women that marry them.
-   _Seinfeld_: While Jerry infamously dates a spate of beautiful women (many played by before-they-were-famous starlets) throughout the show in spite of not being a chiseled hunk himself, he's supposed to be a decently attractive guy. However, other characters really _are_ supposed to be rather unattractive and date above their level.
    -   Short, stocky and balding George Costanza date models and other hot, thin women, and while his eventual fiancee, Susan, was not quite a supermodel, she was still a bit out of his league. Subverted in that George was always painfully aware that these women were out of his league (how he managed to hook up with them is still a mystery) and always ruined the relationship with his crippling insecurity and generally idiotic behavior. One example (which seemed to be lampshading this trend) has him being approached by a gorgeous woman who had initially mistaken him for her boyfriend. Already stunned at the idea that a man like him could end up with a woman like this, George is further gobsmacked when the woman indicates that he's BETTER looking than her boyfriend, saying that George appears to be both taller and in better shape than the man in question.
    -   Kramer is the trope-namer of the Kavorka Man. Whatever your thoughts on the appearance of Michael Richards, Kramer is a weird, jobless loser with strange fashion sense and absurd hair and yet manages to date attractive women.
    -   Jerry's nemesis Newman (played by Wayne Knight, also of _3rd Rock from the Sun_) was occasionally seen dating very attractive women. In fact, in one episode, Jerry was stunned to discover that his girlfriend of the week used to date him—and that HE dumped HER, because HE didn't feel that SHE was pretty enough to suit HIM. Utterly discombobulated by this, Jerry dumps her.
-   _Sex and the City_: Charlotte (played by the beautiful Kristin Davis) finds the love of her life (and the best sex of her life) the second she stops going for handsome boy's club types and lowers her standards for her divorce attorney, the chubby and bald Harry. This being _Sex and the City_, he's still rich.
-   _SOKO Potsdam_: Christoph is not traditionally attractive (tall and skinny with a big nose and glasses), and when the other detectives find out he has a girlfriend, they rib him a bit over what she might look like. When he brings her to a squad cookout, she turns out to be gorgeous to the point of stunning everyone else into silence for several seconds.
-   _The Sopranos_: Almost every single male character is married or in a relationship with insanely hot women, while usually also cheating on them with other even _hotter_ women. Bad boys with lots of money can do that kind of thing. Subverted with Johnny Sack: due to his high rank in the New York crew it's assumed that like all the others he has a hot wife with affairs on the side. In season 4, however, we see that his wife is an obese woman whom he loves deeply and does not cheat on.
-   _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_:
    -   At least to human eyes, Rom is goofy-looking even for a Ferengi, albeit nicer than most. By the end of the series, he has married the Bajoran Dabo girl Leeta.
    -   Odo and Kira also qualify after they fall in love.

-   _Still Standing_: The overweight, balding, lazy, drunken, Manchild Bill (played by Mark Addy) and the thin, buxom Judy (played by Jami Gertz). They've been together since high school, and since Bill was a former football player, he was likely in better shape then. It's particularly egregious in the High School Class Reunion episode, when Judy is worried about not measuring up to the Alpha Bitch. She inexplicably abandons her usual tight shirts and jeans to wear unflattering, baggy clothing and a bad hairstyle. The Alpha Bitch, played by the already-pretty Beth Littleford, wears the wife's usual clothes. The next episode has the wife right back to her usual clothes and hair.
-   Karen and Ted Wheeler, the unhappily married parents of Nancy and Mike Wheeler from _Stranger Things_. Ted Wheeler is a mediocre-intellect, incurious, oblivious man whose fashion sense and appearance isn't very remarkable and is shlubby, while Karen is a Trophy Wife who is a young middle-aged housewife with elaborate brown hair, a tall and lean figure, and was hot enough to get Don Draper to sleep with her. An early episode has Nancy explain their marriage as that of a very young woman seeking comfort and respectability through a marriage to an older, mediocre man from a good family and a six figure salary; the discrepancy in their appearance gets broader as the series goes on and her look gets Hotter and Sexier with more skin showing, brighter colors and lipstick, and blonder hair.
-   _Tales from the Crypt_:
    -   In the episode "Dead Right," Gold Digger Demi Moore marries the slovenly Jeffrey Tambor, but only because a fortune teller had assured her that he he would inherit a fortune and then die. The prediction comes true, but not in the way she'd expected.
    -   The episode "Two for the Show" has David Paymer married to Traci Lords.
-   _Taxi_: Arnie Ross (Wally Shawn) and Elaine Nardo (Marilu Henner, ex-model) in the last season.
    -   Also discussed in one episode. Louie (played by short, bald, unappealing Danny DeVito) has been dating a blind girl, and she elects to get surgery that could restore her sight. Louie is terrified that she'll dump him once she sees what he actually looks like. But he stands by her side, and true to the trope, when she first sees him she says that he's everything she imagined.
-   _That '70s Show_: Bob Pinciotti not only started the series with a hot wife (played by Tanya Roberts), but also had a romance with Jackie's mother (played by Brooke Shields). At some point he even was seeing both of them at the same time. It's even lamp-shaded when he hooks up with Shields. The boys realize Bob's track record with smoking hotties that should be way out of his league and gain a newfound respect for him.
-   _The Thundermans_: The parents of the Thunderman kids, Hank and Barbara (Barb) Thunderman (_Thunder Man_ and _Electress_) match this trope, given the fact that since they're retired from their superhero work and since he doesn't get to exercise and work out as much as he did when he was a full-time superhero, Hank gains a considerable amount of weight compared to Barb who is pretty slim. Although he's not obese, it is clear that Hank is slightly overweight and that he doesn't pay too much attention to healthy dieting and exercising like Barb does. And besides his weight, even though he's not ugly per se, he's not nearly as good-looking as Barb who's played by former model-turned-actress Rosa Blasi.
-   The pilot of the anthology series _Weird City_ on YouTube features a rare gay example, with a young man played by Dylan O'Brien falling in love with a chubby 70-something guy played by Ed O'Neill (see _Married with Children_ and _Modern Family_ above). They do seem to love each other truly, even when they're forced to separate.
-   _Welcome Back, Kotter_: Gabe and Julie Kotter, ladies and gentlemen.
-   _What We Do in the Shadows (2019)_ has Laszlo and Nadja. He's a portly, generally-unappealing Jerkass; she's a gorgeous Goth vamp. Despite this, the two are still crazy about one another.
-   _Will & Grace_:
    -   Parodied. Jack and Karen were searching for a new sitcom after the finale of _Sex and the City_. Whilst they are channel hopping, they spin through several "Fat guy, skinny wife" shows before hitting upon a "Ugly guy, skinny wife" show.
        
        **Karen:** "Ugly guy, skinny wife? _\[shakes head\]_ No, America is not ready for that just yet."
        
    -   Karen and Stanley. We never actually see Stanley on camera, but everyone on the show says he's a whale (as well as "a doughy thing with squat little legs and a bad case of recurring psoriasis"). He's also bald and wears a toupee (that he never washes).
-   _Young Sheldon_:
    -   Sheldon's parents, the overweight George Cooper and the thinner, more attractive Mary. It helps that Mary isn't drop-dead gorgeous, but definitely someone you wouldn't necessarily expect to be married to someone like George. However, he was said to be a fit, leather-jacketed motorcycle-riding wild guy when he was younger. We also know from _The Big Bang Theory_ that their marriage was not a healthy one and George cheated on Mary. Indeed, their marriage was of the shotgun variety as they conceived Georgie out-of-wedlock. They fought a lot more as _Young Sheldon_ went on and they have nothing in common. In the season 4 finale, George ran into Brenda Sparks at a bar after a big fight with Mary, implying that Brenda is the other woman. She not only has more in common with George than Mary, but is closer to George's level when it comes to looks.
    -   Sheldon's Meemaw Connie (played by Annie Potts) is rather attractive for her age and began dating Sheldon's professor Doctor John Sturgis (played by Wallace Shawn) who looks like a human turtle, but Sturgis is so Endearingly Dorky that Connie falls head-over-heels for him. Dr. Sturgis eventually broke up with Connie due to not wanting to burden her with his progressing dementia and she took it really hard. Connie was also previously involved with a rather homely furniture salesman named Ira Rosenbloom (played by Richard Kind).
    -   Pastor Jeff, a rather mousy-looking dork, was married to a gorgeous Spicy Latina named Selena. However, their marriage was not a healthy one and she ends up leaving him. He then meets a Fair Cop who finds him irresistible, to the point where they have a Fourth-Date Marriage just so Jeff can have sex with her ethically.

    Music 

-   In George Formby's comedic song "Why Don't Women Like Me," the singer laments at the sight of "lovely girls, attractive little dears, arm in arm with ugly men with cauliflower ears."
-   In Joe Jackson's "Is She Really Going Out With Him?", the singer marvels at the "pretty women out walking with gorillas down my street".
-   Sparks' "Ugly Guys With Beautiful Girls" is all about this trope.
-   Tripod's "Ugly Men" is also all about this.
-   Van Halen's "Sucker in a Three Piece" is a combination of this and Meal Ticket, inspired by such a mismatched couple Sammy Hagar saw in a resort.
-   The music video for Meat Loaf's "I'd Do Anything for Love (But I Won't Do That)" has an explicit "Beauty and the Beast" theming, with Meat Loaf playing "the Beast" in makeup to make him look hideously deformed and monstrous. The "Beauty" is played by the gorgeous Dana Patrick, miming the vocals from the track by Lorraine Crosby.

    Myths & Religion 

-   The Ur-Example might be Hephaestus of Classical Mythology, the ugliest god — even outright deformed or crippled.
    -   He married Aphrodite, the Goddess of Love and Beauty herself. The Greeks weren't exactly shy about exploring the consequences, either — Aphrodite was constantly cuckolding her husband, who, like most immortals (except Hera), just mostly put up with it (he _did_ ask for her) and spent as little time around her as possible. He _did_ play several relatively harmless pranks on Aphrodite in revenge for illicit affairs, such as trapping her and Ares (her lover) in an indestructible net that he constructed. One story claims that he puts up with it because she can become a virgin again by bathing in the ocean. There are multiple versions, however:
    -   In Homer's account, Hephaestus divorces Aphrodite and marries another beauty: Aglaea, one of the Graces.
-   Aztec Mythology gives us Tlaloc, who was The Grotesque by our standards...and was also married first to Xochiquetzal, then to Chalchiuhtlicue—both of whom were Love Goddesses, and as beautiful as that implies.

    Pinball 

-   Done with Frankenstein's Monster and the Bride of Frankenstein in _Monster Bash_. She is horrified to find that she's been paired up with a (literal) monster, and proceeds to vent her displeasure with a Frying Pan of Doom.

    Professional Wrestling 

-   Kane had this as a face while with Tori, as he was a giant masked monster.
-   Christian, who was nicknamed the Creepy Little Bastard due to his ratlike appearance, once dated Trish Stratus onscreen...
    -   May have been played up for that storyline though<small>◊</small>: Trish DID turn heel for him...
-   Hornswoggle and A.J. Lee when they were on NXT. She's a beautiful Diva, he's a wrestling Leprechaun.
    -   No wonder she went crazy...
-   The Missing Link had this with Sunshine in World Class and with Dark Journey in Mid-South. They were beautiful valets, he was a face-painted monster.
-   Completely out of Kayfabe, Mick Foley (who, while one of the nicest guys alive and much better-looking when he was younger<small>◊</small>, really _looks_ like a guy who's earned the tile 'the Hardcore Legend') is married to the lovely Colette<small>◊</small>, and has been for 25 years. In fact, when a WCW storyline required Mick's character Cactus Jack to have a wife, Eric Bischoff got an actress to portray her rather than letting Colette do it herself because he didn't think anyone would buy Cactus Jack attracting such a beautiful woman (Colette was _not_ flattered by this cringe-inducing assessment).
-   Toward the end of 2019, WWE started pairing the beautiful and confident Mandy Rose with Heavy Machinery's Otis — a short, stocky, hairy, and slightly awkward slob of a man known for his love of "steaks and weights."

    Science Journals 

-   This is apparently Truth in Television. According to this article http://www.livescience.com/7483-beautiful-women-marry-attractive-men.html, women tend to marry men who are less attractive and, in some cases, not as smart. At the very least, it would lead to a happier marriage or long term relationship. The reason is because men value beauty and women value emotional support. If a man finds his wife beautiful, or at least more attractive than him, then he will be happier and dote on her more, giving her emotional support, which makes her happier as well. A more attractive man is more likely to feel he can do better or be more tempted to seek other women as he knows they find him attractive. Because of that, he becomes unhappy and gives his wife less support, resulting in her being unhappy as well.

    Tabletop Games 

-   In _Dungeons & Dragons_ cosmology, Glasya, the daughter of Asmodeus, was once the consort of Mammon, the ruler of the Third Layer of Hell. She was a gorgeous temptress devil, while _he_ was a hideous monster, very much resembling a pit fiend. Eventually, they were forced to annul their marriage as part of Mammon's punishment for his part of the Reckoning, a political struggle that spanned all of Hell; _however_, after Glasya became far more powerful and became the ruler of the Sixth Layer, one rumor claims they might have rekindled their romance. (Although, another rumor claims she despises him for not defending their relationship in the first place. This being Hell and both being devils, a race that revels in grudges and double-dealing, it's entirely possible _both_ are accurate.)
-   _Scion_ gives us Surtr and Sinmora. Sinmora is an eight-foot-tall fire giant. Her husband Surtr is a mile-tall humanoid form made of lava. _Scion: God_ sums it up with "The less said about \[their sex life\], the better."

    Video Games 

-   _ANNO: Mutationem_: Dr. Alan Doyle is an absolute Genius Slob living in a mess of his own lab, his clothing down to being a pair of camouflage boxers and his bare, metallic legs, he still got together with a well-mannered woman that became his wife. However, he ended up regressing into a bigger slob after his wife and child died.
-   _Assassin's Creed II_: Bartolomeo D'Alviano has seen many battles in his lifetime, and his heavily scarred face - and scratchy voice that sounds like he's been gargling sand - reflect that. Ezio is understandably surprised when he sees that his wife Pantasilea; A) is a woman and not a sword and B) is very attractive.
-   Ryu (the main character) and Patty's parents in _Breath of Fire II_. Their mom is a hot young winged woman who can turn into a gigantic dragon, while their dad, while not necessarily ugly, is a normal old human.
-   _Crash Bandicoot_ has Crash and Tawna, but only in the first game. Crash is designed very much like a _Looney Tunes_ character, with stubby proportions and wacky facial expressions, while Tawna is designed to be the attractive Jessica Rabbit to his Roger Rabbit. While she disappeared in the second and third games including in the remakes/reboot, she makes her reappearance in the _Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled_ and it's implied that she and Crash are still a couple.
-   Adell's parents in _Disgaea 2: Cursed Memories_. Even with the extra eye and tail, Mom is hot enough to attract the attention of _far_ younger men. Dad, on the other hand, is a zombie "but without the stench."
-   _Dragon Quest_:
    -   Chubby Torneko Taloon and his hot wife in _Dragon Quest IV_. One NPC even complains about how unfair it is.
    -   _Dragon Quest V_ has Rodrigo and Romana Briscoletti. He is fat and bald, and his wife is considered to be very beautiful; though Rodrigo is kind, charismatic and rich, so the marriage isn't that unbelievable. Also, he went through quite a lot to win her hand in marriage.
    -   Two examples in _Dragon Quest IX_. In both, the male is the usual "old man" sprite. In the couple that appears in Coffinwell, the wife is a bunny girl. In the Dourbridge couple, she's a dancer. They're treated differently, though: in Coffinwell, they seem to genuinely care for each other. In Dourbridge, the wife is an obvious Gold Digger, and her husband overcharges outrageously in his store to keep her happy.
-   _Dynasty Warriors_:
    -   Meng Huo, fat king of the Nanman barbarian tribe, is married to a hot babe Zhu Rong, daughter of the god of fire. Granted, Meng Huo is also a badass Large Ham who probably has another large ham between his legs.
    -   More "Ugly Guy, Hot Mistress," but the games follow the novel which describes a relationship between Dong Zhuo and Diaochan, the beautiful dancing girl sent to sabotage his relationship with Lu Bu. While she clearly wasn't thrilled to be at Dong Zhuo's side, she does it because she knows that this is for the good of the court (and it works, as a wildly jealous Lu Bu would end up assassinating Dong Zhuo because of Diaochan).
    -   Inverted in a way, but only if you read the character info. Zhuge Liang was never described as anything noteworthy in regards to his looks, but his wife Yue Ying, despite being given a very stately and beautiful character model in the game, was supposedly a very _un_attractive woman.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Zhuge Liang isn't exactly Mr. Fanservice, but he's certainly not as ugly and off-putting as Meng Huo or Dong Zhuo.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_
    -   In the series backstory, St. Alessia, the "Slave Queen", was a Beautiful Slave Girl before escaping slavery and starting a rebellion to free her people from the rule of their cruel Ayleid masters. During the rebellion, known as the Alessian Revolt, Alessia prayed to the Aedra for divine aid. As part of a Bargain with Heaven, they answered, and sent her assistance. One being they sent was the demi-god Morihaus, the "Man-Bull''. Morihaus fell in love with Alessia, and became her consort, despite warnings from the other Aedra. However, Morihaus felt that his form was too ugly for Alessia, especially when she disrobed for him. Still, they stayed together until Alessia's death, and their progeny became the first Minotaur.
    -   The Bosmer (Wood Elves) were originally designed<small>◊</small> for this to be a trait of their race. Downplayed in their final designs for _Morrowind_ and _Oblivion_, where the Bosmer males are much shorter than the females and generally uglier, but not to the extent their early designs called for. By _Skyrim_, any disparities between the males and females (attractiveness, height, or otherwise) are dropped completely.
-   Caesar and Cleopatra from _Fate/Grand Order_ are this. Cleopatra is named one of the most beautiful women in existence, while Caesar is an Adipose Rex. However, they care for each other very deeply, and Cleo's (mostly) gotten over the fact that her old lover isn't as much of a looker as he once was. Considering that their greatest regret is that they were unable to spend their lives together, it seems like an extra hundred pounds are a pretty minor obstacle (not to mention, Caesar is so charming and charismatic that it's a party buff skill for him).
-   _Final Fantasy_:
-   _Fire Emblem_ series:
    -   Whenever the player pairs a guy who is of the warrior, pirate, or armor knight class (though there are exceptions, especially among the warriors). Most of the characters of these classes can't even pair up with the, almost exclusively hot, girls anyways. The only real exception is Dart from _The Blazing Blade_, who looks fairly handsome if a bit rugged, and he can score with the very lovely-looking Farina.
    -   Anyone Arden ends up with in _Fire Emblem: Genealogy of the Holy War_. All of the women in your army are very pretty, while Depending on the Artist Arden is anywhere between homely and Gonk.
    -   In _Fire Emblem: The Blazing Blade_:
        -   Bartre and Karla, though to be fair Bartre's not so much ugly as he is homely (especially compared to most of the handsome faces in this particular army!)
        -   Dorcas is more homely than Bartre, and he has a beautiful wife, Natalie, whom you only meet once in Lyn's tale.
        -   Brendan and Sonia Reed are a straighter example. She's a buxom, leggy, raven-haired beauty with a penchant for tight leather. He's an enormous, hairy, scar-covered axeman who seems about twice her size and age. Unusually, this is an instance of the Ugly Guy being more moral than the Hot Wife, as he's noble but easily manipulated, while she's one of the main villains.
    -   Any woman who marries the knight Benny in _Fire Emblem Fates_ will be the hot wife to his ugly guy _and_, save for Princess Camilla, the tiny girl to his huge guy. To be fair, Benny himself is a total sweetie.
-   _God of War_ series:
    -   Hades and Persephone. Even though Hades _isn't_ portrayed as an evil god, he's pretty dumpy, covered in spikes and hides his disfigured face with an intimidating helmet. Persephone, meanwhile, is a beautiful queen who tries to destroy the world in revenge for being stuck as Hades' wife.
    -   _God of War Ragnarök_: The game features Thor in all his beer-bellied hobo brawler finery, including a mop of shaggy red hair that almost obscures his face. Just like the myths, he's married to Sif, who is a beautiful blonde goddess.
-   Seen in _Grand Theft Auto IV_, with the short, fat, unsuccessful Roman Bellic and his attractive longtime girlfriend (later wife), Mallorie.
-   Sergeant Allen O'Neil's wife in _Metal Slug_. However considering Allen is an unkillable, manly, Badass, with an incredible physique, its Justified.
-   _Neverwinter Nights_: In the "Where Are They Now?" Epilogue of _Hordes of the Underdark_, it's revealed that the stunning Fiery Redhead Sharwyn eventually became a famous bard among the nobility. There, she fell in love with a hideous man and fled a chance at a life of riches for the chance to be with him.
-   Downplayed in _Rakuen_. In the fantasy world Kisaburo's counterpart is a goofy looking fishman creature, while his wife Kazuko's counterpart is an elegant lady whose only inhuman features are colorful hair and fins on the side of her head.
-   Gen-An Shiranui of _Samurai Shodown_ is one of the ugliest Fighting Game characters in history. His wife Asami is a Jungle Princess. One of his win quotes is even "No one calls me a freak and lives! ...except my wife, that is."
-   _Shotgun King: The Final Checkmate_: Both the Black and White King resemble chess pieces with cartoony faces that would be Gonk by human standards. The White Queen (formerly the Black Queen) in contrast is depicted as a beautiful human woman instead of a cartoon-faced chess piece.
-   _Street Fighter II_:
    -   A rather tragic version: Vega's parents, according to his backstory. A teenage Vega saw his very ugly father go Yandere and murder his beautiful mother under the belief that she was cheating on him. Vega went Ax-Crazy and became a Self-Made Orphan by killing his dad to avenge his mom, this being his Start of Darkness.
    -   Dhalsim and his _very_ Moe wife Sari are a very odd case, as Dhalsim's looks _seriously_ depend on who draws him. In some CG and hand-drawn portraits he looks young and<small>◊</small> rather<small>◊</small> handsome<small>◊</small>... but in others, he looks<small>◊</small> frankly weird<small>◊</small>.
    -   Also, Rufus and Candy, though not married, probably count as well. Apparently he saved her from an angry waiter and according to a win quote she likes his belly.
        -   Necro and Effie too, though in this case, the attraction is justified by the fact that they have mutually saved each other's lives and probably are each other's only loved ones: In the first _Street Fighter III_ as well as _2nd Impact_, Effie rescues Necro from being disposed of by Gill, and in _Third Impact_, Necro returns the favor by using his stretching arms to rescue Effie from a fall.
    -   Huge red Turkish oil wrestler Hakan and his smoking hot wife Melike have seven _adorable_ daughters. While Hakan's face is quite scary, he is a muscleman who routinely pours oil all over his shirtless chest. Plus he's rich, famous, and, judging by his ending and quotes, an EXCELLENT dad and husband. Justified: that Hakan and his family are Turkish, where being a good father/provider counts for a _lot more_ than merely good looks.
-   The _Super Mario Bros._ series:
    -   Mario with Peach, his Implied Love Interest. Mario, being one of the world's most iconic characters in games, has a pleasant and decent physical appearance, and could hardly be called ugly. But safe to say, he is more cartoonishly designed than the absolutely stunning Peach.
    -   Wario, who is considerably more grotesque than Mario, and is often said or implied to smell bad as well, isn't usually shown to be involved in romantic relations. He does, however, receive a kiss at the end of _Wario Land 4_ from Princess Shokora, who is very beautiful... or at least, she is in two of the endings, anyway. In one of them, it's a case of Ugly Guy, Ugly Wife.
-   _Tekken_: Downplayed with Heihachi and Kazumi Mishima in _Tekken 7_. Although Heihachi is still well-muscled, he clearly looks like he's in his 70s, what with his gray hair and dour facial expressions. Despite being around the same age, Kazumi is much more fresh-faced and youthful, to the extent that she can be easily mistaken to be Heihachi's daughter rather than his wife. Justified by the fact that Kazumi has been dead for decades.
-   _Total War: Warhammer_ has the vampire couple Vlad and Isabella Von Carstein. He has an extremely decayed appearance<small>◊</small> (as a result of his botched resurrection) with his hair limp and stringy and his nose has either rotted away or has deformed into vampire bat-like nostrils, while she eerily resembles a doll<small>◊</small> without a single blemish in her body. Despite this stark contrast in their looks, the two are very much in love with each other and gain special bonuses by fighting side by side. They also start out able to recruit the other right off the bat, and at a discount. Every other faction in the game need to do something to unlock whatever Legendary Lords they didn't start with.
-   _Umineko: When They Cry_: George Ushiromiya's parents are Hideyoshi and Eva. Eva still looks good despite pushing 50, while Hideyoshi looks his age and is quite pudgy. However, this is played with in that Eva is a Rich Bitch and Hideyoshi is a Nice Guy who married into the family. The surprising part? They _actually love each other a lot_.

    Web Comics 

-   _Flork of Cows_ has Conneticut Clark, a shrimpy, badly-drawn fellow with Black Bead Eyes and a big nose, and Malfina the witch, a tall, busty, much more realistically-drawn woman who's literally about four times taller than Clark.
-   _I Don't Want This Kind of Hero_: Bidan is a beautiful winged humanoid figure who looks like an angel. She ends up dating Gregor, a _giant cockroach,_ although he is a nice guy.
-   Luk River and Hala from _Irregular Elis_, a lucky man married with a hot mom alien.
-   _League of Super Redundant Heroes_ has Lazer Pony, a blind superhero with a rather silly costume including a horse bit in his mouth, in a relationship with blonde bombshell Supergirl-clone Mary Sue. In-universe it works because while Lazer Pony is a genuinely good, kind, and well-meaning person and hero, he's so pathetically incompetent as _either_ that _everybody's_ out of his league. Just staying in a relationship with him without horrible things happening (possibly to the entire universe) demands somebody so sweet and hypercompetent she can ignore what should be relationship-enders (or life-, world-, universe-...). Out-of-universe, reader comments suggest the fans recognize this is what it takes to give Lazer Pony a girlfriend, they like him having a girlfriend, and when Mary Sue's insistent glaring perfectness is mostly occupied (on-panel) by being his girlfriend she's actually likeable.
-   _Overcompensating_: Parodied in a television pilot Jeff tried to pitch, "Fat Jerk And His Attractive Italian Wife".
-   Pip in _Sequential Art_ — and if the penguin looked dorky _in glasses_, he looks plain ludicrous without them — and... Hilary "have become _good_ friends". Quoth Kat when she saw a kiss, "Oh, _God_... For the love of all that's good and holy, _don't_ do that again..." It later turned out that she was using him, and she dumped him as soon as she had what she wanted.
-   Jason and Aubrey from _Something\*Positive._ Before they got together, Jason was also quite the lady's man, apparently due to some mathematical formula that lets him seduce anyone he wants. Also, he's implied to have a Gag Penis.
-   _Ziggy Pig and Silly Seal (2022)_: Continuing from the _Ziggy Pig - Silly Seal Comics_ 2018 one-shot, Silly Seal (a goofy-looking cartoon seal) is married to Roxanne, a sexy brunette supermodel-lawyer.

    Web Original 

-   James Rolfe takes his wedding ring off while he's playing The Angry Video Game Nerd, but leaves it on while playing the Bullshit Man. This implies that the Bullshit Man is married. We don't know what his wife looks like, mind you, but _any_ woman would look hot next to someone whose face is made out of literal bullshit.
-   _Dad_: Dad has a "dad-bod", a balding head, and looks like an average middle-aged man. Mom looks young and attractive, with long dark hair and a good physique.
-   Gremblo, the horrific-looking down on his luck Everyman internet character has a stunningly attractive wife named Margie. Lots of fanart implies she think's he's awful looking, but keeps their marriage for unknown reasons.
-   _Manic Pixie Dream Wife_: Chance is almost too chubby and decidedly less attractive that his wife Simone. Lampshaded by Lane, a guy from the park listening to and admiring Simone's music, who wonders how a guy like Chance scored a woman like Simone... and he and viewers are berated for thinking that looks are that important. Chance claims that ladies love a funny man.
-   Aphrodite and Hephaestus of _O-Cast_, based on the aforementioned Ur-example in Greek myth. Though the actor for Hephaestus is Hollywood Homely.
-   In _Thalia's Musings_, how Aphrodite sees her Arranged Marriage to Hephaestus. Hephaestus is considered the least attractive of the Olympians, especially compared to his brother Ares. However, it's implied that this designation is highly relative.
-   In the _Whateley Universe_, supervillain Gizmatic is a short, nerdy, ugly dork with a 'shy chin' who has a still-hot wife.

    Western Animation 

-   _The Amazing World of Gumball_: Nicole Watterson is considered quite the looker by most fans of the show. Richard, on the other hand...
    -   The show did at least explain what exactly Nicole saw in Richard in a very charming episode; while she was suffering from her overbearing parents' expectations, Richard showed her genuine kindness and she fell for him. When she had enough and left her parents' house Richard stuck with her through thick and thin. Better explanation than a lot of other examples on this page.
-   _American Dad!_: Averted with Stan and Francine Smith. Stan is just as, if not more, attractive than her. He just hasn't slept around as much as Francine.
-   _Batman: The Animated Series_: From the episode "See No Evil", Lloyd Ventrix is drawn with a perpetual scowl, along with reddish brown eyes, huge lips and visible pock marks. His ex-wife Helen, while not Catwoman or Poison Ivy level good looking, is a much more pleasant looking person that their daughter takes after.
-   _Bojack Horseman_: Lampshaded. Wanda reads a script titled "Fat Guy Hot Wife".
-   _Bonkers_: Lucky Piquel is a comically overweight male with a face drawn more cartoonishly, while his wife Dilandra is much thinner and drawn to look more conventionally pretty.
-   _The Cleveland Show_:
    -   Subverted. Cleveland is very overweight and has a child-like demeanor while Donna appears to be pretty with a very pronounced butt. However, on several occasions, it was shown that Donna does a lot to make herself look pretty. Donna wears a wig to cover her short and gray hair, wears makeup, wears a push-up bra that keeps her breasts from sagging, and wears certain clothing to smooth her figure, to which she would look very overweight without it.
    -   In one episode Cleveland and family were stupefied that Junior, a short fat nerdy boy, was able to get Cecilia, a gorgeous Mexican girl, to be his girlfriend. It turned out that it was because he was the spitting image of her father (with the exception of a thin moustache).
-   _The Crumpets_: The parents of the Crumpet children. Pa, the overweight pacifist and flora-loving Caring Gardener, and Ma, the slim, capably belligerent, and intelligent Gadgeteer Genius.
-   _Cybersix_ is slender and attractive as both a man and a woman. Lucas, on the other hand, is rather chunky and muscular. He does get better as the series goes on, though, and his personality and loyalty are his most attractive features.
-   _Dan Vs._: Chris is occasionally described as rather homely (though mostly by Dan, so Your Mileage My Vary), while Elise is a hot Action Girl. The Action Girl part may have something to do with it; Elise seems enough of an I Work Alone person that a nice doofus who genuinely loves her, focuses on pleasing her, and stays _fairly_ safe and doesn't question her inconsistent "job" is probably exactly what she wants in a husband. She might be more attracted to a lot of men, but she wouldn't be marrying any of them.
-   _Danny Phantom_: Jack and Maddie Fenton. Jack is not exactly ugly but he is heavyset.
-   _Darkwing Duck_: Fat, balding Herb Muddlefoot and his thinner, younger-looking wife Binkie.
-   _El Tigre: The Adventures of Manny Rivera_: Municipal President Rodriguez is a short, balding, old man with yellow teeth, while Mrs. Rodriguez is a lovely young woman. She also gets way more mileage out of the "bachelor charity auctions" he sets up, something he's aware of but can't seem to do anything about.
-   _The Fairly OddParents!_:
    -   A.J.'s parents, with his dad being a Fat Slob and his mom being an attractive businesswoman.
-   _Familia Tipo_: The portly and, at most, average Hector has a Ms. Fanservice wife.
-   _Family Guy_: Peter and Lois Griffin, with a little Lampshade Hanging, as the couple was once described in an in-universe news report as "a fat man inexplicably married to an attractive redhead", along with an artist's impression of what they might look like - Fred and Wilma Flintstone. Lois came from a ridiculously wealthy family and could have hired a different gigolo every night, if she were looking for a hunk.
-   _The Flintstones_:
    -   Fred's not egregiously ugly, but he is a pretty homely-looking guy. Wilma, in contrast, is a slim-figured, gorgeous redhead.
    -   Betty and Barney do uphold the trope, much like Wilma and Fred. He's short and homely while she's a raven-haired stunner.
    -   Betty and Wilma expected this trope to hold true of their new neighbors, the Gruesomes, after meeting Mr. Gruesome. It didn't.
-   _Futurama_: Hermes isn't much to look at (Fry was initially unaware that Hermes was human, believing him to be "an outer space potato man"), but his wife LaBarbara is quite stunning. It's mentioned that Hermes used to be a competitive limboist - and, if LaBarbara's ex-husband Barbados Slim (with Olympic medals in both limbo and sex) is anything to judge by, the sport keeps a body in shape.
-   _Gargoyles_: Angela and Broadway. Since gargoyles aren't into the whole money and power business, it had to be his sweet and charming personality that won her over. There are possibly different standards of attractiveness at work, though the show makes it pretty clear that she fell for him because of his deep love of classical literature, and simply for the fact that he can read, a rare trait among gargoyles from their time.
-   _Goof Troop_: Peg has an Impossible Hourglass Figure and is hot _enough_ that she, a woman in her late thirties, can pass for a teenager. Her husband, Pete, is not only fat and ugly, but has a personality that's just as ugly as he is.
-   _The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy_: Billy's parents. Billy's mother, Gladys, is considered quite attractive by some, while Billy's dad, Harold, looks almost exactly like an older, fatter version of Billy.
-   _Hercules_: Hephaestus is only _engaged_ to Aphrodite (far from the only difference in the adaptation) but is fiercely protective of her, in one episode beating the crap out of Hades for making a pass at her.
-   _Hey Arnold!_:
    -   The Kokoshkas. Oskar is short, middle-aged, potbellied, balding and has a large, long nose (to say nothing of him being a lazy, selfish con-artist and a terrible husband overall) while Suzie is a fairly attractive blonde.
    -   The Patakis. Big Bob has a Big Ol' Unibrow, a big nose, gray hair (and by _Hey Arnold! The Jungle Movie_, has a bald spot) and a bit of a gut, and like Oskar has a very unpleasant personality. Miriam is a blonde Meganekko who, despite being drunk as hell most of the time, is a total stunner when she tries.
    -   The Wittenbergs. Jack is overweight, while his wife Tish is a good looking blond. It helps that they're both Competition Freaks and jerks with hearts of gold who speak in malaproper.
-   _The Jetsons_:
    -   George is, at best, an average-looking guy. Jane is a slim-figured, gorgeous redhead.
-   _Jorel's Brother_:
    -   Danuza is a very pretty muscular woman with a curved body; Jorel, who's deemed an extremely attractive boy and a Chick Magnet, clearly got his beauty from her as the two are very similar. Edson, on the other hand, has a more caricate face, a wide chin and large mouth.
    -   Applies to the teenage son Nico as well, as he is so ugly he hides half of his face with hair. As of Season 2, he's dating a pretty teenage girl named Rita, who is much more attractive than him.
-   _Kaeloo_: Stumpy is considered in-universe to be absolutely hideous. His girlfriend Ursula is never shown onscreen, but the other characters all say she's very beautiful.
-   _King of the Hill_:
    -   Luanne Platter is an attractive but mostly dumb blonde who eventually married an ugly bucktoothed middle aged hillbilly known as Lucky.
    -   Dale and Nancy. Dale is scrawny (but "flexible" as Nancy puts it), with a gut, beady eyes, and bald ("and not in that attractive way, like Sean Connery"), and Nancy's a frequent Ms. Fanservice target with her string bikinis. But it's his staggering idiocy, devotion to absurd conspiracy theories, and all around giblet-headedness that make you wonder how the two ever got together. That said, Nancy spent over a decade cheating on Dale with John Redcorn and primarily kept married to Dale for the sake of their son (who is quite obviously John Redcorn's son) and her career. She eventually falls back in love with Dale after a Heel Realization makes her see he's more beautiful than she is where it counts.
    -   Bill and his ex-wife Lenore fits this...nowadays. In her sole appearance, Lenore was shown to be very attractive, while Bill is fat, bald, has poor hygiene, zero self-confidence, and a stalker-like crush on his best friend's wife. However, flashbacks show that in high school Bill was handsome, fit, confident, and popular, and it's all but outright stated that being crushed by the woman he loved made him stop caring and enter a downwards spiral into suicidal depression.
    -   Maybe the most extreme example is Cotton Hill and his two wives, Tilly and Didi. Tilly was a woman with a lot of class who was quite pretty as a young lady and Didi is a Brainless Beauty. Cotton was quite fit and handsome as a young man, but by the time Hank was born had already lost most of his looks and was an enraged, screaming, shinless madman who started fights with no provocation, treated both of them like garbage, openly cheated on both of them with strippers, and was an objectively terrible father (neglectful to G.H. and outright abusive toward Hank). It's taken almost to the point of Deconstruction, since Cotton's marriages are very clearly shown to be abusive relationships that take their toll on his wives' self-esteem and sanity. Tilly divorced him and ended up better for it, and Didi (rather quickly) married a wealthy pro wrestler after his death.
-   _Miraculous Ladybug_:
    -   Chloé's father is a somewhat overweight older man, while her mother is a glamorous woman who looks more like she could be Chloé's older sister.
    -   Marinette's paternal grandfather is a rather plain-looking old man, while his (ex?) wife is a Silver Fox.
    -   Alya's father is a portly man with bushy, unkempt hair, while her mother is more conventionally attractive.
-   _Moral Orel_: Principal Fakey and his wife Millie. This also applies to him and his mistress, Nurse Bendy.
-   _Phineas and Ferb_: Dr. Doofenshmirtz is a Gonk whose unflattering appearance has been pointed out in several episodes, while his ex-wife Charlene is far more conventionally attractive. Their daughter Vanessa, fortunately, takes after her mother.

-   _The Proud Family_:
    -   Oscar and Trudy Proud. Not ugly, but Oscar is _very_ skinny compared to Trudy's curvaceous body.
    -   Felix and Sunset Boulevardez. He's short and overweight and she is a beautiful Spicy Latina.
-   _The Replacements_: Richard "Dick" Marion Daring and Karen Jane "K" Mildred Daring, as Dick is a big, pudgy, hairy, bufoonish stuntman (though not nearly as bad as many other cartoon examples), and his wife K is a hot, crafty spy.

-   In _Robotboy_ Doctor Moshimo is a very old and ugly man who has a hot fiancé named Miumiu. She's also a Cute Mute and to date has only spoken in one or two episodes.
-   _Rocky and Bullwinkle_: Boris and Natasha fit the "cartoonish husband/realistic wife" version of this trope; they also double as Tiny Guy, Huge Girl.
-   _Rugrats_: Chas Finster is very awkward and nerdy, but both Kira and the late Melinda have been shown to be much more conventionally attractive.
-   _Samurai Jack_: In the episode "The Good, the Bad, and the Beautiful", there was the Outlaw Couple Zeke and Josephine Clench. Although they were actually divorced, and while Zeke was clearly ugly and Josephine was a knockout (and a Femme Fatale, using her skills as a temptress to lure victims close) this Trope was clearly _not_ the reason their marriage failed. _He_ had a restraining order against _her_, clearly suggesting the falling out was her fault.
    -   The way the Scotsman talked her up, it sounded like this trope was going to be the case with her. Man, what a subversion. He's merely butt ugly, _she_ is an affront to God. Implied to be a case of No Accounting for Taste, as he rejects the unnaturally beautiful Sirens in one episode, and at the same time hates their supernatural singing, while he's previously states he loves his wife's singing, despite her gruff and shrill voice. And to be fair, his wife makes up for it with her personality... as long as she's in a good mood.
        -   Amusingly this is _not_ the case with their daughters, who we meet after the Time Skip. There is no less than twenty-nine of them, and each and every one is a bona-fide Amazonian Beauty.
-   _The Simpsons_:
    
    -   Homer and Marge, although Marge's attractiveness has been played up over time and Homer has usually been shown as either average-looking or conventionally handsome in his younger years when he started dating Marge. The episode _The Italian Bob_ seems to reference this trope, when the end of the episode shows Marge and Homer taking a romantic gondola ride, the gondolier providing his services for the evening puts his own spin on the song "That's Amore", much to Homer's annoyance.
    
    **Gondolier**: _\*singing\*_ When a wife looks like that and her husband's so fat, that's immoral!
    
    -   Homer has managed to attract several bombshells over the course of the show. They seem to see him as hot. Or maybe it's his personality, which is odd, given the way he acts the _rest_ of the time.
    -   Milhouse grows up to be balding with a gut and Lisa grows up beautifully in "Holidays of Future Passed."
    -   Homer's mother, as seen in flashbacks in some episodes, was somewhat of a looker when she was young and Homer was a toddler; Homer's dad, however, looked about as unappealing as he does now, and was also somewhat of a slob with an unsightly flat-top haircut. Though before Homer was born he was shown to be handsome.
    -   Jeff Albertson (The Comic Book Guy) is obese, middle-aged, rude, and generally not good-looking. Eventually, however, he meets, dates, and finally marries a much younger and far more attractive Japanese girl named Kumiko.
    -   Just to show how much the show adores this trope, even if couples are an exception to the rule, either the wife's attractiveness gets played up over the years, or her husband's attractiveness gets played down! Just look at Nelson's parents. Originally Nelson's father was tall, muscular, and rather youthful, what with him being the local football coach. Later episodes that have him alongside Nelson's mother, who was introduced later in the series, just make him an older, fatter version of Nelson.
    -   The Flanders are an interesting parody of this trope: During the show's earlier seasons, Ned was portrayed as being not that far from Homer in the looks department while Maude was probably the most attractive recurring character at the time. Starting with season 4's "A Streetcar Named Marge" however, Ned would be sometimes portrayed as being rather athletic; an aspect that would become permanent in later seasons as Maude was killed off and Ned turned from his "religious milquetoast" characterization into his later "bitter fundamentalist" persona (in turn inverting the "guy becomes uglier as the series progresses" rule.
-   _South Park: Post Covid_ & _South Park: Post Covid: The Return of Covid_:
    -   Future Cartman is as fat as he ever was, complete with patchy facial hair and a pig nose. He's also got a thin, pretty wife who is completely devoted to him.
    -   Future Stan is played with. Since he's somewhere between 48 and 50, he looks about typical for a man of his age. His Alexa - which is now a holographic simulation of a nagging wife - looks young and attractive. Played straight in the final scene where he has some Ship Tease with Future Wendy, who looks quite striking despite being a similar age.
-   _Superman: The Animated Series_:
    -   Mr. Mxyzptlk (who is a tiny, bald, beady eyed imp) has Gsptlsnz, a hot wife; a _really_ hot wife; a really hot wife who would (and probably could) do anything to get a little attention from him. Oh, yes. (They are both natives of a five-dimensional universe, so they may have different views of what is considered attractive than humans do.)
    -   In the comic books, pretty much _all_ the men from the Fifth Dimension are big-headed little imps, and all the women are dropdead gorgeous redhead bombshells. Apparently it's so common for them that it's lost the appeal it would have in our dimension.

-   _Teen Titans (2003)_:
    -   Blackfire attempted to marry her sister Starfire off to Glgrdsklechhh, an alien that can only be described as a cross between Shrek, Jabba the Hutt, and an elephant. More recently, this short depicts him married to Blackfire.
    -   Not a married couple, but there's Kitten and her boyfriend Fang. Despite being a Spoiled Brat, she's attractive, while he clearly isn't even human, having a spider for a head. (After she breaks up with him and tries to use Robin to make him jealous, it actually works; he comes back and offers to make up... Unfortunately, what would normally be a romantic reconciliation scene becomes rather unpleasant due to his appearance.)
    -   Raven's parents. Her mother Arella is a pretty and otherwise normal human woman, while Trigon, her father, is a giant horrifying demon. Though not brought up in the show, if you know your comic history, you'd know the relationship wasn't consensual.
-   _Timon & Pumbaa_: Subverted in the episode "Beauty and the Wildebeest", where Rafiki helps an ugly wildebeest improve his looks and manners so that he can romance a beautiful gazelle that he has a crush for. In the end the gazelle, touched when the wildebeest is willing to reveal his hideous visage to scare of a rival at her birthday party, removes her makeup and reveals herself to be just as ugly as he is and they both share a kiss before the end credits. In this case it's Ugly Guy, Ugly Wife.
-   _Tripping the Rift_: Chode, a disgusting purple alien and incredibly hot Six. Then again, Six is a sex robot that he owns, and we have no definition of Chode's relative attractiveness by the standards of his own species (as opposed to us humans, who aren't really qualified to judge). Also, an episode claimed that men and women are both held up to unreasonable standards for attracting the opposite sex; it's just that with women it's looks and men it's money. Six's interest in Chode is also explained in that he had her upgraded beyond being merely a sex bot allowing her to become the ships science officer and treats her with the closest he can manage to respect. Apparently, he's treated her better than anyone else has and she's perfectly capable of walking away if she wants to.
-   _The Venture Bros._ has super-villain Red Death. Who despite looking like a skinless Red Skull, is married to a complete babe.<small>◊</small>
-   _The Wild Thornberrys_: While Marianne's design is still stylized, she is still conventionally attractive. Nigel on the other hand has a more Gonk design.

___