They were, um... stolen.

A character is rendered unconscious and upon waking up, finds out that their clothes have been removed. They may be naked (usually under a Modesty Bedsheet or blanket), in their underwear, covered only in bandages or even wearing an entirely different outfit.

The reason for their unconscious state varies, but it's common for the character to be ill or injured and to fall unconscious, maybe in a Post-Victory Collapse or Power-Strain Blackout, only to be found and rescued by someone and have their clothing be removed in order to get treatment (After-Action Patch-Up or After-Action Healing Drama may be in effect). Or if they almost drowned and their clothes are wet and their clothes need to be removed to avoid Catch Your Death of Cold, maybe even having to resort to Intimate Healing. Or they were a victim of Instant Sedation or Knockout Gas. The act of stripping itself normally occurs off-screen.

Usually, the character will be Waking Up Elsewhere from the place from where they passed out; it can be someone's room, a medical room, a cell, the morgue or even an improvised bed on the floor.

Upon waking the character may react in various ways, such as acting confused about their surroundings if they're Waking Up Elsewhere and can't remember how they got there. They may be startled and wake up in a panic or be drowsy and confused about their surroundings. It may take a while before they notice their clothes and/or equipment were taken/changed. Their reaction to their undressing can range from embarrassment to nonchalance. If the person who undressed them is in the room, they may angrily demand their clothes or calmly query about them. If they're alone, expect them to wrap themselves up in a Modesty Bedsheet and to wander around in search of some clothes, which may be in a nearby closet, hanging out to dry or even be neatly folded right beside them.

The character who performed the undressing can also get different reactions. Sometimes, such as if the character is a servant or medical staff, it probably won't be a big deal. Other times some awkwardness and sexual tension can be expected.

This trope can be done for several reasons, such as putting the character in a vulnerable state, adding Unresolved Sexual Tension and Ship Tease between the unconscious character and their undresser (Florence Nightingale Effect may be in effect) or for pragmatic reasons such as ridding them of any equipment or MacGuffin they previously had on them.

Sister Trope to Shameful Strip (a conscious character is forced to undress against their will) and Take Off Your Clothes (when a conscious character is _asked_ to remove their clothing for similar innocent reasons). See also Sleeps in the Nude for characters that _prefer_ to sleep unclothed of their own volition.

This trope often overlaps with Bathe Her and Bring Her to Me (when the villain orders an unconscious character to be bathed), Dude, She's Like in a Coma (if the one doing the undressing takes advantage of the situation or stares too much), Go-Go Enslavement (if the character is changed into an embarrassing and revealing outfit), Intimate Healing (when a character has to strip another before cuddling for warmth) and Mugged for Disguise (when a character renders another unconscious with the intention of taking their clothes and pose as them).

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Berserk_:
    -   Guts wakes up naked and bandaged after his first fight with Griffith, with fuzzy memories of Casca also laying naked next to him. He's later told she was ordered to do so by Griffith since Guts body needed to be warmed.
    -   When Guts and Casca fall down a cliff into a river, he drags her unconscious body into a cave and has to strip her so she won't die of hypothermia. When Casca wakes up naked and realizes that it was Guts took her clothes off, she punches him in the face and drives him out by throwing bits of their equipment and armor at him in a rather cartoonish fashion.
-   _Bleach: Fade to Black_: After Homura and Shizuku knock out Rukia and erase her memories, they change her out of her black Shinigami uniform into a colorful kimono. This is partly due to their hatred of Shinigami and partly their plan to make her forget she was a Shinigami.
-   _Blood+_: After Amshel chokes out Saya and is about to kill her, she's rescued by Solomon who picks her up and flies away. The next episode opens with Saya awakening naked in a strange apartment, with all her wounds bandaged. She wraps herself in a Modesty Bedsheet and walks around the window until Solomon comes in and says he prepared a change of clothes for her in the closet... which turns out to be a dress, displeasing Saya who Hates Wearing Dresses and she changes into it simply because she doesn't want to be naked.
-   _Burst Angel_: After Meg and Jo escape an R.A.P.T. ship by diving into the ocean, they end up on an island and Meg strips off hers and Jo's clothing and leaves them out to dry so they won't get sick.
-   In the _Campione!_ manga and anime, but not the light novel, after Yuri is captured by Duke Sasha Dejenstahl Voban, she awakens to find herself dressed in the same Stripperific outfit he forced on his other enslaved Mikos.
-   In one episodes of _Cardcaptor Sakura_, Sakura wakes up at Yukito's house in different clothes; apparently, his unseen grandmother changed her. The thing is, Yukito's grandparents never existed, and he lives alone. Yukito has some heavy memory magic placed on him, so while he was definitely the one to change Sakura, it's not certain whether he forgot or lied.
-   _Case Closed_: In chapter 830, Kaitou Kid knocks Sera Masumi unconscious and strips her for a disguise. She is actually such a Bifauxnen that even _after_ he stripped her down to her boyish underwear he _still_ mistook her for a boy and is baffled when Conan says she was a girl.
-   _Change 123_: In Chapter 29, Kosukegawa is bitten in the crotch by a viper and passes out. Panicked Tsukishima, Fujiko and Hino strip off his shorts in order to Suck Out the Poison. But then they notice he doesn't have any bite marks and that viper actually missed him only managed to bite his shorts and Kosukegawa only passed out from the shock. He wakes up moments later, pantless with all three girls staring at commenting on his Teeny Weenie and gets a massive Naked Freak-Out.
-   _Dragon Ball Z_: Inverted in _Gohan Goes Bananas!_, where after Gohan became unconscious after going beserk as the Great Ape and hence, his clothes were destroyed, Piccolo uses his clothes beam to give him some new clothes.
-   _Dragonaut: The Resonance_: In the second episode, Jin is knocked unconscious by Sieglinde's Battle Butler and awakens in a bunker room with all of his clothes gone. He wraps a bedsheet around his waist and starts looking around, until Sieglinde enters the room and startles him, causing his sheet to slip down the floor and giving her a Naked First Impression. She promptly nicknames him "Little man".
-   _Fairy Tail_: Whenever the demons of Tartaros kidnap people, they tend to wake up tied up and naked. In the anime, this was changed to them waking up tied up and in their underwear, with the exception of Mirajane, who was put in a fluid-filled pod naked for experimentation and her nudity hidden via Scenery Censor.
-   Happened to Yanagi Sakoshita in the sixth episode of _Flame of Recca_. This was due to her clothes being dry cleaned after the Battle in the Rain between her friends and her kidnappers in the previous episode. Notably, the original scene from the manga instead has Kaoru Koganei delivering her food instead of her freshly dried clothes.
-   _Fushigi Yuugi_: Happened to lead character Miaka Yuuki twice. First was when she and her Love Interest Tamahome wake up in Taiitsukun's domain. The divine entity and her charges had the lovers' clothes cleaned up after arriving from their brief battle with the Seiryuu team. When Tamahome wakes Miaka up, she's understandably aggressive. The second was after Miaka wakes up after her Bungled Suicide by drowning, which leaves Hotohori flustered when she wakes up since she's unaware her wet clothes were removed.
-   _Golgo 13_: In Episode 42, Golgo is hired by the CIA to kill a Double Agent in a snowy area of Canada and uses this trope as part of a Batman Gambit. He captures a female agent guarding the man, drugs her, strips her naked and confines her to a cabin so that she can't escape without freezing to death. Before leaving, he tasks a local girl with watching the prisoner, and pays her with an expensive red coat. When she awakens, the henchwoman quickly knocks the girl unconscious and steals her clothing in order to escape, and heads off to find her boss. While the two of them are fleeing, the woman realizes too late that Golgo planned _all of this_, and that the red coat was meant to make her stand out as a target against the white backdrop of the terrain. They're both sniped by him before she can do anything about it.
-   _Heat Guy J_: Happens to Clair while he's hiding out after having been ousted from his position of Vampire, and drifting in and out of consciousness. Some guys try to steal his silk shirt so they can sell it (though it looked like they were trying to do something entirely different), but Giovanni comes and fends them off before putting it back on him.
-   _If I See You In My Dreams_: Inverted and zigzagged. At one point, a sick Hamaoka barely reaches for her phone to call Masuo for help, and when he arrives to her apartment, he finds her lying on the floor, wearing only a towel. The poor guy has no choice but to place her on her bed and then put her pajamas on, all the while covering his eyes with his tie to avoid looking at her.
-   _Imadoki!_: Tanpopo overworks herself in the rain while already under the weather and collapses. Her Love Interest Koki finds her and takes her back to her apartment, since she hates hospitals. When he gets her inside, he realizes that her clothes are soaked and may worsen her condition, and he ends up being the one to change her clothes while she is unconscious.
-   _Inuyasha_: In "Fateful Night in Togenkyo Part II", when Kagome is captured by Tokajin she wakes up naked in a big cooking pot bath to clean her, since he plans to feed her to a man-eating tree (or in the original manga, he just planned to eat her himself). Soon after, Inuyasha barges into the room and Kagome bolts out of the water, happy to see him... until she realizes her nudity and squeals in embarrassment before diving back down. Inuyasha gives her his fire-rat-hair kimono for her to wear, which she does for the rest of the episode.
-   _Jigoku no Gouka de Yakare Tsuzuketa Shounen_: When an exhausted Prima and Aishera conk out before Flare can ask for their sizes while shopping for clothes, Flare takes matters into his own hands and strips them naked in their sleep so he can accurately measure them with a tape measure. As a result, the clothes he picks out for them are a perfect fit, but they're none too happy when they find out what he did.
-   _Kill la Kill_: In episode 2, when Ryuko regain consciousness from her "fight" with Omiko Hakodate, she noticed that Senketsu is hanging by a wire. Aikuro Mikisugi actually removed Senketsu from her when he found her unconscious.
-   In _Knight Hunters_, Sakura Tomoe is introduced waking up covered only in a Modesty Bedsheet in the middle of an ice rink after an organ trafficking ring has kidnapped her and removed her kidney.
-   _Linebarrels of Iron_: Kouichi loses consciousness due to Linebarrel going out of control and is taken into custody by JUDA. When he next comes to, he's in a medical bed wearing only a sheet with Yui looking down on him. Startled he jumps out of bed, accidentally exposes himself to her.
-   In _Made in Abyss_, after Riko gets vomit all over her clothes and faints, Reg takes off Riko's clothes in order to clean them.
-   Subverted in _Meru Puri_. Airi is abducted by Jeile and wakes up in a fancy Gothic dress with her hair in baby doll ringlets. She immediately panics at the thought of being undressed by him while she slept until his fairy Maruru explains that _she_ was the one who dressed her with her magic.
-   In _Moriarty the Patriot_, _someone_ undresses Sherlock and William and bandages them up after _The Final Problem_ before Sherlock woke on the steamship. Presumably Billy, but it's not entirely clear who provides the entirety of their medical treatment. At least Sherlock has pants on (this time).
-   Ichijo Raku from _Nisekoi_ rescues Tsugumi Seishiro from the school's swimming pool and takes the victim's clothes off in the male locker room, supposedly to prevent chills. At the time Tsugumi is thought to be a male student; as Ichijo starts unbuttoning Trugumi's shirt, _she_ regains consciousness, and severely objects to Ichijo's first aid. It's a reverse-trap scenario Played for Laughs.
-   _One Piece_:
    -   After Luffy crashes in the women-only Amazon Lily Island, he eats some poisonous mushrooms that makes mushrooms grow all over his body and passes out and is rescued by a trio of women who happen upon his unconscious body, who bring him back to their village where he's stripped and washed to remove the mushrooms. Once Luffy awakens, he's completely naked in a cell right in front of the curious female populace, who have never seen a man before. They eventually give him some new clothes to wear, however, they turn out to be rather girly looking, much to his displeasure.
    -   When Absalom kidnaps Nami, he brings her unconscious to his zombie tailors and orders them to change her into a wedding dress because he plans to marry her.
-   In episode 2 of _Queen's Blade Grimoire_, Alicia and Tiina are attacked by Liliana and her Ghost Pirate crew and are knocked out. When Alicia wakes up, she finds herself naked and tied up, hanging by a rope on the ship's mast.
-   In the anime version of _Ranma ½_, after being hit with the "Cat's Tongue" pressure point (which makes her unable to withstand hot water, and, therefore, unable to change back into a man), the episode ends with Ranma falling into a bathtub and presumably blacking out from pain, since the next episode opens with her waking up in the care of the Tendo sisters—and she immediately freaks out at the female underwear and negligee they put on her, since she _was_ already naked when she first passed out.
-   Episode 10 of _Rave Master_ has female lead Elie passing out in the middle of the rain due to her Fear of Thunder. When she wakes up, she finds her clothes being dried and is only covered by a Modesty Bedsheet.
-   In the final arc of the _Rurouni Kenshin_ manga, Enishi kidnaps Kaoru and she awakens in his remote Island base wearing only a robe because he used her clothes to dress up a fake doll corpse in order to make Kenshin think she's dead.
-   _Sailor Moon_: Prince Demande kidnaps Sailor Moon. She wakes up in a dress that resembles the one her future self, Neo Queen Serenity (whom Demande is obsessed with), wears.
-   In _Slayers Try_ episode 15, after a confrontation with the Big Bad knocks her out, Lina awakens to find herself in a strange land and changed into clothing to simulate Alice from the _Alice's Adventures in Wonderland_ story. She actively dwells on the fact someone must have undressed her to change her into those clothes.
-   _Time Stop Hero_: Kuzuno Sekai suffers a broken leg and passes out. When he wakes up to find his leg has healed due to the Life Stone, he is shocked to find himself in bed with Ranga, and they are both naked. It is not really clear why Ranga did that since she is not attracted to him, unless she wanted to freak him out.
-   _Totsugami_: In chapter 3, Tasaku awakes in the school's infirmary after being strangled unconscious by the mermaid totsugami he was trying to help seal away. He panics when he realizes he's naked and wonders who undressed him. Chikage then tells him that Kozuka did it.
-   _Uzaki-chan Wants to Hang Out!_: When Shinichi gets wasted at the Uzaki family Christmas party, Hana and her sister Yanagi strip him down to his underwear and take pictures while he's unconscious. Fujio is understandably shocked when he comes back home from the store and orders them to put Shinichi's clothes back on him. The next day at work, Shinichi doesn't remember anything, so Hana and Ami show him a picture.
-   _Variable Geo_: After being knocked out by Satomi, Chiho wakes up hanging by a rope with only her underwear. Siritahi then strips those off and gives her A Taste of the Lash, before using a mind control serum on her.
-   _Vexille_ have the titular character being knocked out by an explosion and waking up after she's rescued by Maria, before realizing she's no longer wearing her military-grade armour, but is instead barefoot and wearing a T-shirt and pajama pants. When Vexille turns around angrily at the first person in her sight, which is Maria's kid brother, the boy quickly said, "It's my sister who undressed you, not me!"

    Comic Books 

-   _Druuna_: Towards the end of the first album, Druuna is rescued from the wastes by a patrol after she loses consciousness, then wakes up in the captain's bed stripped of her clothes. He's intending to make her his concubine, so he'd obviously do this, and also make her try on lingerie that he kept in storage.
-   In _Gen¹³_ Bootleg #13, the team is rendered unconscious and captured by Dr. Monstreau. While most of the team are being turned into his Beast Man, Ms. Fanservice Kat awakens to find herself chained up and wearing a sexy costume. She actively dwells on the fact that this means he's seen her naked.
    
    **Kat:** Hey! What happened to my clothes? Did you see me naked?  
    **Dr. Monstreau:** A villain my dear, does have certain responsibilities.  
    **Grunge:** Dude!
    
-   Happens to Green Arrow when he comes Back from the Dead; Batman knocks Oliver out, takes him to the Batcave, takes off his clothes, and performs a full medical examination on him—to make sure he's not an imposter.
-   _Spider-Man_: In _The Amazing Spider-Man (2018)_ story arc _Hunted_, after being beaten unconscious by Kraven's cloned son, Spider-Man wakes up to find himself in Central Park wearing his old black costume (Kraven is intentionally trying to recreate the events of _Kraven's Last Hunt_, where Spider-Man used his black costume).
-   In _Thunderbolts_ #25, The Thunderbolts defeat and knock out some of Crimson Cowl's Masters of Evil members then strip them for their costumes. They're all left unconscious in their undies, which the exception of Joystick who is naked due to her Going Commando.
-   In Top Cow's _Tomb Raider_ #10, Lara falls into a whirlpool and almost drowns, losing consciousness. When she wakes up, she's nude on a luxurious bedroom, with all her clothes, equipment and weapons nearby. As she dresses, she concludes that whoever rescued her is confident enough that they don't see her as a threat.
-   During one of her storylines in _Wonder Woman vol 1_, Huntress is escaping Arkham Asylum and succumbs to the effects of being shot with a very potent hallucinogen by Professor Fether. After her Journey to the Center of the Mind, Helena wakes up in the flat of her fellow inmate she escaped the Asylum with, Gary Minelli. She also finds herself nude and unmasked and confronts him wearing a Modesty Bedsheet, although she's more worried about her Secret Identity being compromised than her modesty.
-   _Wonder Woman_:
    -   _Wonder Woman (1942)_: After getting knocked out by Giganta while trying to arrest Queen Clea Steve Trevor wakes to find the villainesses have stripped him and bound him to a wooden stake.
    -   _Wonder Woman (1987)_: Sangtee Empire pumps Knockout Gas into Diana and Natasha's sabotaged spacecraft before boarding, stripping them, dressing them as slaves and shipping them off to "Hope's End" for trespassing. The gas didn't work very well on Diana so they resorted to shooting her in the head at point-blank range which did knock her for a loop.
-   _X-Factor (2006)_: After Darwin is captured by Project Karma, he awakens naked in a huge tank full of liquid where they keep him imprisoned while planning to experiment on him.

    Comic Strips 

-   _Jucika_: In one strip, Jucika is saved from freezing to death by a man. He takes off her clothes to warm her up, but once she wakes up, she's... not too pleased with him and kicks him out.

    Fan Works 

-   _Dungeon Keeper Ami_: Subverted in _Dealing with the Blockade Ship_, from Dandel's examination of herself:
    
    Clearly, someone had rescued them, but who, and for what reason? Suddenly worried, she looked down at herself, and was relieved that her familiar costume was still in place, even if was slashed in places and stained with coagulated blood.
    
-   _Fate: Kill_: When Akame is injured and passes out, Selka and Elaine remove her bloody clothes and put her in a hospital gown.
-   Averted in the _Arrow_ Queencest fic _The Forest_ by Dalphinia. Thea notes that Oliver hasn't changed her clothes while she was injured and unconscious, and finds this shyness endearingly sweet, given that they've already had sex.
-   In the _Marvel Cinematic Universe_ fic _A Little Red and Blue_, Sharon is inadvertently sent to the year 1944 by Wanda and is later found by the past Steve and Bucky. At one point, Sharon and Steve save people from a burning building and Sharon has to jump out of a window in order to escape, getting some injuries that require stitches. Later, Sharon's stitches open leading to Steve ripping her coat and shirt off while she's unconscious so he and Bucky can restitch her wounds. Steve becomes somewhat embarrassed when Sharon notices her missing clothing after waking up.
-   _My Huntsman Academia_: Shoto has to strip an unconscious Weiss to get her cold, wet clothes off of her after she got caught in a frigid blizzard. When Weiss learns this, the idea he saw her naked leaves her so embarrassed that she faints.
-   A downplayed example in _New Stars_. After Maxx is injured and knocked out in the Krill attack, Dr. Finn and Isaac take him to the _Orville's_ med bay. She removes his armor to treat him, but leaves his blacks on. Still, he reacts pretty badly when he wakes up in a strange place with neither armor nor weapons.
-   _Path of the King_: Shirou finds Caster slumped against a wall unconscious in the rain and brings her back to his house. He has to remove her all wet clothes for her health, a task he finds incredibly embarrassing and does his best to do with his peripheral vision and trying not to touch her, which is rendered pointless when he realizes he also will have to _dry her_ while she's completely naked.
    
    Undressing Caster had been bad enough: her heavily wet clothes had clung to her body like a glove, making it all the more difficult to remove them without touching her... _improper_ places. In hindsight, all his efforts to keep his hands to himself as much as he could were for naught, seeing how the next step was drying her very naked body.
    
-   _The renegade hero!!!....Invader Zim?_: After Zim and Betty crash in Hawaii and are taken in by the Pelekais, they remove the latter's damaged uniform to treat her injuries, leaving her in just panties and a loaned shirt. Understandably, Betty's quite embarrassed when she wakes up and finds herself in this state.
-   _Super Sentai vs. Super Sentai_: After being dropped into the sea, Youhei rescues the unconscious Miki and has to take off all her wet clothes for her health. He actually dwells on the idea of her waking up to him undressing her and misinterpreting things but does it anyway.
-   In _Total Drama Comeback,_ Harold and Geoff hung out a lot in the Time Skip between seasons. At one of Geoff's parties, he blacked out and Harold changed him into nothing but a tutu, as revenge for when Geoff and the other guys moved Harold's bed outside when he was sleeping naked. Naturally, Geoff himself has a good sense of humor about this.
-   _Twelve Red Lines_: Chopper and Kureha cut Jones' clothes off in order to treat her wounds, leaving her in just her underpants when she eventually wakes up. As Chopper points out when she expresses her displeasure at the situation, her clothes were so shredded and bloodstained that they weren't wearable anymore anyway.
-   Downplayed in _The Ultimate Evil_; after Valerie is nearly killed by Hak Foo and passes out, Shendu, who has a Villainous Crush on her, removes her shirt to treat her wounds. He leaves her bra on, though he does have to keep a reign on his urges before he puts a new shirt on her. Valerie is understantably shocked to wake up wearing a different shirt, but the realization of her still having everything else on reassures her nothing uncouth was done to her.
-   _Were In Hyrule Stupid_: This _Ocarina of Time_ Self-Insert Crack Fic has it Played for Laughs in the sixth chapter, _HEY! THEY'RE ALL TEENAGERS! Awesome man!_. Everyone except Nicole and Link have awkwardly grown out of their clothes during the Plot-Relevant Age-Up, and Nicole explains that she randomly woke up and, after changing her own clothes, noticed that Link looked uncomfortable and decided to change him as well.

    Film — Animation 

-   Done in reverse during the "Taarna" segment of _Heavy Metal_: Taarna has been captured by the barbarians, and stripped naked. Their chief then horsewhips her into unconsciousness. Taarna awakens naked on a ledge in a bottomless pit, and has her outfit thrown down to her.
-   Happens to Susan Murphy/Ginormica twice in _Monsters vs. Aliens_, done first by the government and then by Galaxhar. Both times she wakes up in a different outfit to the one she was wearing before rendered unconscious. An impressive feat considering it's difficult enough to undress and redress a regular unconscious human and Susan is a 50-Foot tall giant.
-   In _Mulan,_ this never occurs onscreen, but it is how the army finds out that she is really a woman (specifically, after burying the Hun army and rescuing Shang, Mulan passes out from the effort and an injury that she received; one of the soliders happens to have medical experience has to take off her clothes to treat her, and she wakes up in some sarashi-like bandages that do little to hide the truth).
-   Cale Tucker from _Titan A.E._ narrowly escaped a Drej attack in part by a ship-to-ship transit through hard vacuum (Captain Korso helped a lot.) Cale loses consciousness in the _Valkyrie's_ docking bay, and awakens naked in ship's sickbay. Akima gives Cale the once-over, and snarks, "We rescued the window washer?" Still, it's a cheerier greeting than Preed's "Is he dead? Can we eat him?" Cale is clearly uncomfortable and flustered at being naked on an exam table among strangers.

    Film — Live-Action 

-   In _Ant-Man,_ one scene goes from Scott falling to his apparent death to him waking up in Hank Pym's house, watched over by Hope and an army of ants. He's wearing the same sort of shirt/pajama pants combo that many men would wear to bed, but when he asks who they belong to he isn't given an answer.
-   In _Back to the Future_, 1955 Lorraine removes Marty's pants while he's unconscious in her room.
    
    **Marty:** Where are my pants?!  
    **Lorraine:** Over there... on my hope chest.
    
-   _Black Cat_: The protagonist, Erica, after being shot at and allegedly dead, turns out to be alive and waking up in a government facility... in a sleeveless vest and panties. She spends the next four minutes running all over the facility wearing only those, because Fanservice.
-   _Dune (2021)_: When Duke Leto Atreides is knocked out by a poison dart, he later wakes up to find his enemies stripped him naked in an attempt to humiliate him.
-   In the 1956 western film _Fort Dobbs_, after being rescued from drowning by Walker, Ms. Mayo awakens to find herself naked under a blanket. She slowly puts 2 and 2 and 2 when she sees her wet clothes on a clothesline and realizes with horror and embarrassment that he must have stripped her.
-   In _Get Smart_, while attempting to use a knockout dart on a guard so that they can infiltrate their target's mansion, Max accidentally sucks in the poisoned dart, knocking himself out. When he wakes up, he finds that Agent 99 has changed his clothes for him, including his underwear.
    
    **Max:** Am I wearing boxers? Just so you know, I prefer briefs. For their security, and peace of mind.
    
-   _Halloween: The Curse of Michael Myers_: When Kara Strode is kidnapped by the Cult of Thorn, she wakes up in a white dress, since they plan to sacrifice her.
-   _Hannibal_: Clarice is rendered unconscious by a gunshot wound and then taken by Hannibal, and wakes up wearing an evening gown (specifically a Sexy Backless Outfit with a Navel-Deep Neckline) instead of the casual clothes she was wearing.
-   _Jupiter Ascending_: A recurring bit in the film is Jupiter waking up to find herself dressed in something she wasn't wearing when she passed out in prior scenes, to which she responds with shock and sometimes annoyance at being made to wear something way fancier than she's used to.
-   _Knight and Day_: After being sedated by Roy, June wakes up in a bikini on a tropical island. She confronts him, pointing out that he must have done this to her at one point. In the end of the movie, June does the same to Roy.
-   _The Legend of Zorro_: Alejandro is awakened by a maid in a hotel and is perplexed to find he's naked. She explains she had to remove his wet clothes since he went swimming at their fountain after he got drunk. Alejandro uncomfortably covers himself with his hands as she explains since she's also obviously Eating the Eye Candy, until Padre Filipe walks in and sternly tells her he will be expecting her at confession.
-   _Murder by Proxy_: After the soaking wet Phyllis passes out in Casey arms, Maggie gets him to lay her down on the couch and then sends him out of the room to make some tea while she takes of Phyllis's wet clothes.
-   _Naked Fear_: Diana has a rather rude awakening once she realizes that she's been dumped in the wilderness wearing only her necklace.
-   _Naked Killer_: This Fanservice-laden action film had its protagonist, Kitty, being rescued by an elder, more experienced hitwoman, Cindy, after a botched assassination attempt, before waking up in Cindy's mansion... only in her underwear.
-   After Angela is chloroformed and kidnapped by her Stalker with a Crush in _P2_, she wakes up wearing a white dress.
-   _Phantom Thread_. Incensed by a customer's disreputable behavior while wearing a dress he designed for her, Reynolds Woodcock asks his lover Alma to take it off of her, even though she's gotten drunk and passed out.
-   Played With in the 1953 Romantic Comedy _Roman Holiday_ where Princess Ann gets drunk one night and ends up in Joe's apartment where she jumps into Joe's pajamas before falling asleep. Of course, the next morning she doesn't have any recollections of that and reacts with shock to the fact that she is now wearing a man's pajamas and not knowing how she got into them. She quickly reaches under her blanket to check if her undies are still there and is relieved when they are. All of this is played quite subtly due to the production code of the time. Watch the scene here.
-   _Sherlock Holmes (2009)_: Holmes blacks out after he drinks the doctored wine Irene Adler offered him. When he awakens, he finds she stripped him naked and handcuffed him to a bedpost. She is kind enough to leave a pillow strategically placed to cover his privates... but also mischievously leaves the key to his cuffs _below_ the pillow, leading to an awkward moment when a maid finds him.
-   _Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow_: After Joe Sullivan, Polly Perkins and Kaji Out Run The Fireball of the explosion in the uranium mine, they are knocked unconscious. Polly Perkins wakes up naked in bed in an unknown location, and realises a naked Joe is also with her under the covers. An embarrassed Polly tells him to turn around, which a grinning Joe does, only to find he's also in bed with an equally naked Kaji.
-   _Star Wars_: _The Empire Strikes Back_ has Luke Skywalker lose consciousness on the icy plains of Hoth. Han Solo finds him, and keeps Luke warm until an Alliance patrol can ferry them back to base. Luke awakens in a bacta tank (basically, an aquarium with an air supply) mostly undressed except for a modesty diaper.
-   _Vertigo_: Scottie undresses Madeleine and puts her in his bed after she jumps into San Francisco Bay and loses consciousness.

    Literature 

-   _Aesthetica of a Rogue Hero_: The story begins with Akatsuki carrying a naked, unconscious Myuu in a sack. When he reaches his destination and wakes her up, she has a Naked Freak-Out and demands to know what happened to her clothes, meaning he undressed her offscreen.
-   In Scott Sigler's _Alight_, Em awakens in a coffin-like med-chamber after passing out, now wearing some black overalls that perfectly fit her. She blushes when she remembers O'Malley brought her there and must have been the one who stripped her and questions Smith about it who explains it was actually the med-chamber.
    
    **Em:** Who, um ... who undressed me?  
    **Smith:** Don't worry, the med-chamber did it. It removed your old clothes, cleaned you up, treated your wounds, fed you intravenously, handled your waste and fixed your hair. It even put on your new clothes for you.
    
-   _The Belgariad_: in the second book, Garion is kidnapped and drugged by Queen Salmissra and awakens wearing a short Loincloth while her servants are giving him make-up.
-   _The Bronze Horseman_ by Paullina Simons. An exhausted Alexander falls asleep on top of the stove (designed to double as a bed, as he's in Russia) and wakes up to find Tatiana has removed all his clothes, which she claims that she did by removing them while he was covered with his blanket.
-   _A Brother's Price_: Jerin strips off the wet clothes of an unconscious, injured Odelia after he rescues her, picking her out of the river.
-   In _The Case of the Baker Street Irregular_ by Robert Newman, the young boy Andrew is mugged by "skinners," Victorian-era thieves who steal clothing from children and then sell it second-hand. When he wakes up in a friend's home, all he has left are his drawers and his boots - and the latter is only because the laces were too hard for the thieves to undo before help could arrive.
-   _The Daevabad Trilogy_: Ali is mortified to realize that Nahri, with whom he has mutual Unresolved Sexual Tension, was the one to bathe and change him during his illness. She tries to brush it off because she's The Medic and he's "...well-formed", and they quickly change the subject.
-   _Discworld_:
    -   _Carpe Jugulum_: Waking up after being knocked unconscious in a fight with vampires, witch Agnes Nitt demands to know who put the poppy seeds down her bra and threatens that if it wasn't a woman who took her stockings off, somebody is going to be in real trouble.
    -   _Mort_: Ysabell did this when putting an exhausted Mort to bed, but says that she looked away. When he wakes up he starts to get out of bed in front of her without realizing that he's naked.
-   In _Dracula_, the first proof Jonathan gets that his rescue by Dracula from the three female vampires wasn’t a nightmare is that someone has undressed him and folded his clothes differently than his habit. This does nothing to lessen the sinister forced intimacy between them, and the only silver lining is that the Count was apparently in too much of a hurry to find the diary hidden in his pocket.
-   _Inheritance Cycle_
    
    -   _Eragon_: After rescuing Arya, Eragon and Murtagh attempt to move the comatose elf to a bed, but her sleeve gets caught in a branch and tears (it eventually gets mended), revealing numerous cuts and bruises on her arm. Worried, they both start lifting up her clothes (they stop short of actually undressing her) to check on her other wounds, and find her entire body has been beaten, whipped, branded, and scarred from long periods of Cold-Blooded Torture. Eragon is then forced to use his magic to heal her and uncomfortably notices how attractive she is.
    
    Although he tried to preserve the elf's modesty, he could not help but notice that underneath the disfiguring marks, her body was exceptionally beautiful. He was exhausted and did not dwell upon it — though his ears turned red at times, and he fervently hoped that Saphira did not know what he was thinking.
    
-   _The Familiar of Zero_: Luctiana kidnaps Saito and Tiffania and holds them prisoner in a house to study elf and human interaction. When the pair awakens, Saito's outfit is untouched but Tiffania is now dressed in a traditional Elfin garb.
-   In the Stuart Woods novel _Fast and Loose_, Stone Barrington has an accident at sea and passes out. When he next comes to, he's in a luxurious bedroom with a beautiful woman. When he notices he's naked, he queries her on who undressed him and she laughs and tells him "That pleasure was all mine".
-   _Gate_:
    -   The JSDF finds Tuka Luna Marceau unconscious in a well. They remove her soaked and filthy clothes and cover her with a blanket. After she wakes up, they provide her with a new outfit.
    -   When Lelei falls asleep after a long hard day of work, Itami carries her to her bed and strips her to her underwear before tucking her in and bidding her good night.
-   In _Gorky Park_, Arkady undresses Irina after she's been attacked and drugged by KGB agents, and puts her in a cold bath because the drugs the KGB agents used raised her temperature dangerously high.
-   _The Greatest Demon Lord Is Reborn as a Typical Nobody_: In the light novel and manga, when Ireena is kidnapped by Elzard, she wakes up to find herself in restraints and stripped naked. In the anime version, she wakes up restrained, but fully clothed.
-   _Haruhi Suzumiya_: When the SOS Brigade makes a film for the school festival, one of the scenes has Mikuru's character thrown into a lake and then nursed back to health by Itsuki's character, who puts her in bed now wearing a nightshirt. Kyon is not happy with the implications, and he nearly goes _berserk_ when he realizes that Haruhi got Mikuru drunk so she'd go along with the scene.
-   _His Dark Materials_: In _The Amber Spyglass_, after Lyra and Will start to sleep, Mary Malone removes their dirty and tattered clothing and clothes them in linen.
-   In "The Horse-Dealer's Daughter" by D. H. Lawrence, Mabel wakes up naked and wrapped in a blanket after being rescued from an attempt to drown herself by the town doctor's assistant, Jack Ferguson. She immediately assumes he's undressed her because he is in love with her (not because, you know, her clothes were soaked with cold water after she walked into a pond).
-   _How Not to Summon a Demon Lord_: Horn falls into a river and passes out, but Diablo pulls her out before she drowns. Diablo makes a fire and strips her of her wet clothes so she doesn't catch hypothermia. Amusingly, Horn was disguised as a boy and Diablo didn't hesitate to strip her because he thought that seeing a fellow boy naked isn't embarrassing. When he sees Horn naked and realizes she is actually a girl, he freaks out. When she wakes up, she is embarrassed until he provides her with new clothes.
-   _InCryptid_:
    -   In _Midnight Blue-Light Special_, Verity is captured by the Covenant and wakes up to find out they took all her clothes and weapons while she was down, and all she has on is a thin bathrobe. _And_ she's tied to a chair.
    -   Happens twice in _Spelunking Through Hell_,
        -   The first is after Alice loses consciousness while enduring the Flaying Alive process at Naga's estate. She awakens naked on the same metal table, and finds a robe nearby to cover herself up.
        -   The second time is after Alice passes out due to magical overexertion. When she next wakes up in the Autarch's compound, she finds herself in a bed, having been stripped out of all her clothes and weapons, and is now only wearing a filmy, diaphanous robe. Although she's worried about her Hidden Weapons being gone, she figures the fact she isn't being restrained is a good sign.
-   _Johannes Cabal and the Fear Institute_: Miss Smith was a Necromancer who died by mob and whose stolen corpse was broken down for Human Resources by Johannes. When he meets her spirit in the Dreamlands, she appreciates the professional courtesy he showed her remains, then has the horrified realization that he had to undress them first.
-   _Last Herald-Mage Trilogy_: In _Magic's Price_, after Vanyel's Gift channels are blasted open, he's eventually sedated and taken to a Hawkbrother Vale for healing. He wakes up in bed, nude under a bedsheet, and Moondance freely admits to undressing Vanyel on his arrival.
-   _The Man In The Mirror 1910_ by Hudson Douglas has Baxendale meet with Prince Juric to scope out one of Princess Ingrid's pretty servants. The Prince has thoughts of wooing this lovely lady, but needs to know if her demeanor is true, or merely a facade. Baxendale's tongue gets lubed with a goodly amount of booze, which ultimately makes him pass out. He awakens in another room of the palace, so thoroughly dressed and groomed that he doesn't recognize his own reflection in a mirror.
-   In _Providence Of Fire_, a lightning bolt strikes Adare, killing many nearby her but only knocking her out. When she awakens, she's naked in bed with Lehav nearby who explains they had to cut off her clothing since the lightning seared it to her skin in places, which prompts her to survey her body and notice she's now covered in intricate lightning scars.
-   _Queen of the Tearling_: When the man who calls himself "the Fetch" has captured the protagonist and she wakes up from unconsciousness, discovers someone stripped her of her clothes, bathed her and dressed her in something else, she is understandably upset. The Fetch then essentially tells her, "That was me, but don't worry, you are too plain for my tastes." She is hurt by the statement that she's plain, but does not for a moment think about the fact that he essentially told her he would have raped her if she was prettier.
-   _Sky Wizards Academy_: After Yuri is curb-stomped by a hooded Real, Kanata takes her injured and unconscious body to the room where the E601 members are staying. Later, Yuri is sleeping in bed, while the girls are asking Kanata for details about what happened, when Yuri suddenly awakens and bolts up, startling the girls who rush to cover Kanata's eyes, which causes Yuri to take notice of her nudity and that the Modesty Bedsheet that was covering her fell off when she sat up and she has a Naked Freak-Out while covering herself back. Kanata tells the flustered girl not to panic as it was the girls who undressed her because they couldn't let her remain in those tattered clothes, but when she asks if he saw her just _now_, he avoids answering and just laughs awkwardly before making a hasty exit and Yuri laments she's now Defiled Forever.
-   _Spellfall_: It's implied, though not outright stated, that Hawk was involved in taking Natalie's clothes while she was unconscious.
-   In Jack Chalker's _Soul Rider_ series, Cassie is abducted by the male-dominated society of New Eden, waking up from unconsciousness to find herself naked, gagged and handcuffed. The abduction is a prelude to an extended period of "re-education."
-   In Nell DuVall's _When Lilacs Bloom_, after Libby passes out from illness she awakens in a room wearing a nightgown and soon takes notice of her lack of underwear under the gown, meaning whoever changed her clothes must have seen her naked.
-   _Whateley Universe_: In _A Single Fold_, Folder, during his medical emergency that renders him unconscious, is said to be wearing a white robe, and after a while, when he wakes up in the Doyle Medical Center, he has a gown.
-   _Zero Sight_: After a bloody fight in a warehouse, Dieter starts to Freak Out in Rei's lap due to the carnage and eventually faints. When he next comes to, he's on the floor, naked and clean, having been stripped and washed by Rei. He barely has time to register she gave him a sponge bath before he notices she's actually still showering in the stall next to him. He can only see her Toplessness from the Back due to her having her back to him and Censor Steam concealing most of her, but it's enough to cause his body to react and he rushes into another stall to take a cold shower.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Daredevil (2015)_: In "Nelson v. Murdock", Matt Murdock finds himself only in his briefs, as he had just received the beating of a lifetime, and his friends had to undress him off-screen to treat his wounds.
-   _Dark Skies_: In "The Warren Omission", John is ambushed fresh out of the shower by Juliet while he's only wearing a Modesty Towel. After being beaten up by her as a warning, she gasses him and once he's out, she rips off his towel and leaves him naked on the floor, seemingly just to humiliate him further.
-   Played With in the pilot episode of _Eureka_. Carter is sleeping naked in a room in Beverly's inn and wakes up to find his clothes are gone. He wraps himself in a Modesty Bedsheet and goes in search of Beverly and is uncomfortable to find out she went into the room while he slept naked to take his clothes in order to wash them.
-   _Farscape_. In the premiere episode after being knocked out by D'argo's tongue, John Crichton wakes up in a cell sometime later and realizes he has no clothes on. Turns out Zhaan wanted to examine him while he was unconscious (Crichton is somewhat alarmed as to what kind of examination it might have been). Fortunately an undershirt and pants have been left in his cell and he rushes to put them on. This is even replayed in the Season 4 episode "Unrealized Reality", where John—while jumping through past events and alternate realities—wakes up laying on the floor in the cell, realises where he is and hopes he's not naked this time (turns out, he's lucky and he's not).
-   _Haven_: In the pilot episode, Duke rescues an unconscious Audrey from the water and removes her wet clothes so he can launder them and puts her to bed. When she wakes up, the only clothing available is his shirt, obviously for his perverted enjoyment. When she finds him, she angrily pulls a gun on him.
-   _Life on Mars_. Happens to Sam Tyler after he's slipped a mickey by a prostitute in a Frame-Up. He wakes up naked and Chained to a Bed with Gene and Annie soon breaking into the room, much to his embarrassment.
    -   The American remake _Life on Mars (2008)_ also has the same scene, but with Ray instead of Gene and using Scenery Censor instead of the Waist Up Nudity shot of Sam that the original used.
-   _Miss Fisher's Murder Mysteries_: After Jack accidentally gets knocked out in Phryne's house, he's put to bed in a spare pair of pyjamas, doing nothing to alleviate their Unresolved Sexual Tension.
    
    **Jack:** Who put me in pyjamas?  
    **Phryne:** Mr. Butler, of course. After I undressed you.
    
-   _A Passion for Revenge_: While arguing with Samuel, Andrea accidentally falls off her horse and bumps her head, passing out and is taken by Samuel back to his room. While she's out, she has an Erotic Dream about him and wakes up in a rush and is mortified to find herself in his bed in only her underwear and is thoroughly peeved at Samuel for supposedly undressing her. It was actually Soledad who undressed her and he just came in to check on her, but he has no time to explain it as she starts throwing things at him.
-   _Pretty Little Liars_: In "Game On, Charles", The Liars fail to escape A's dollhouse and get hit with a Knockout Gas. They wake up later in a morgue-like room with a Modesty Bedsheet draped over their naked bodies, looking like they are corpses. Spencer theorizes A took photos of them like that to send to their families so that they would stop looking for them.
-   _Simon & Simon_: In the Halloween Episode "The Skull of Nostradamus," both brothers and their dog are gassed by the bad guys who steal their clothes and leave them unconscious in caskets that have been lowered into open cemetery graves.
-   _Smallville_:
    -   In "Crusade", after touching the Mark of Transference symbol in Countess Isobel's tomb, Lana blacks out. When she next wakes up, she's in her bed back in her room, completely naked and drenched in sweat, with no memory of what happened. Later when she showers, she finds the same symbol is now tattooed on her bare back.
    -   In "Facade", Dr. Fine gasses Lois after she notices Lois had been investigating her kryptonite plastic surgery operation. When Lois wakes up, she finds she's been stripped down to her underwear and is strapped in Dr. Fine's plastic surgery machine. Clark arrives shortly after and frees her from it.
    -   Subverted in "Committed", after getting wasted, Lois wakes up in the Kent's farm wearing only Clark's football jersey and freaks out for a bit thinking they either slept together or he undressed her, but Clark reassures her that nothing happened and she changed into his clothes on her own while she was drunk.
    -   In "Conspiracy", Vala and the other Kandorians are kidnapped and stripped down to their underwear by Dr. Chisholm.
-   In _Stranger Things_ episode "The Sauna Test", Hopper wakes up naked under a blanket on his couch after being beaten into unconsciousness by a Russian muscle in the previous episode. He is nursed by Joyce who apparently brought him home and undressed him. Hopper only realizes that fact when he gets up and feels himself without clothes. He looks at Joyce and sternly asks for his clothes while Joyce turns her head.
-   _Supernatural_: In the season 7 episode "Season Seven, Time for a Wedding!", when the Love Potion Becky has been using to trick Sam into loving her wears off, she knocks him unconscious. He wakes tied to a bed and gagged. When Becky un-gags him, he demands to know where his pants are. She explains that she took them off so he'd be more comfortable. She then says has a bottle and offers to help him "tinkle".
-   _Wynonna Earp_: In the Season 3 premiere "Blood Red and Going Down", Wynonna gets knocked out by a Brainwashed and Crazy Nicole, Waverly and Jeremy and they decide to put her into a coffin to be a sacrifice. When Wynonna next wakes up upon being let out of the coffin by Dolls, she finds out they _also_ dressed her up in new fancy clothes.
    
    **Wynonna:** I really hope it was Waverly who dressed me but the gloves _scream_ Jeremy.
    
-   _The X-Files_: In "Anasazi", after his father is seemingly murdered, Mulder goes to Scully's apartment and quickly passes out as she gets him into her bed (Scully later finds out he was being drugged). When he next wakes up, he's only wearing his underpants. He finds his clothes nearby but notices Scully has taken his gun while he slept.

    Theatre 

-   _Can-Can_: The first act ends with Aristide being dramatically rejected by Pistache and his career being derailed by a manufactured scandal. The second act begins with him waking up in an unfamiliar bedroom in an artists' studio loft, wearing unfamiliar nightclothes and no memory of the intervening period. The artists explain that they rescued him after he got blind drunk and picked a fight with an entire nightclub full of people who already had a grudge against him.

    Video Games 

-   _BLUE GUARDIAN: Margaret_: In the Underground Laboratory level, should Margaret be spotted by the patrolling enemies, she will be captured and wake up naked in a cell. She must then break out and continue sneaking through the base to recover her clothes and weapons in a Save Point.
-   _Crisis Core_: When Zack Fair escapes from Professor Hojo's lab with a comatose Cloud Strife, he notices Cloud's clothes are soaked in poisonous Mako, so he changes Cloud into a SOLDIER uniform, leading to Cloud's iconic outfit.
-   _Dead Rising 2_: If Chuck is knocked out by looters, he will awaken in the nearest bathroom wearing only Goofy Print Underwear, having had all his other items taken.
-   _Dragon Age: Origins_:
    -   After the Warden is rescued by Flemeth during the disastrous battle of Ostagar, they awaken in their undergarments in Morrigan's bed, having been nursed by her on Flemeth's orders.
    -   If the Warden is defeated by/surrenders to Ser Cauthrien, they are imprisoned in Fort Drakon with a cutscene showing them waking up in their cells wearing only their undergarments.
-   _Fallout 3_:
    -   Happens to the Lone Wanderer when he/she is captured by the Enclave. They are knocked out and wakes up in a stasis field wearing only their Pip-Boy and their unmentionables and about to be interrogated by Colonel Autumn.
    -   The Mothership Zeta DLC also starts like this, and leaves you that way until you can find your gear in a conveniently close storage container.
-   _Haunting Ground_: After a car crash, Fiona Belli is taken to a dungeon and wakes up naked in a cage except for a Modesty Bedsheet.
-   _Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords_: After the Exile blacks out after the attack on the _Ebon Hawk_, he/she awakens in a Kolto tank in Peragus wearing their undergarments and have to explore the mining station without any gear or clothes for a while.
-   _Hitman_: A staple of the franchise, Agent 47 can undress people while they're unconscious (or dead) to use their clothes as his disguise, leaving them in their underwear. If the NPC is found by another, it will usually make 47's disguise not work anymore and the stripped NPC will hurry to the nearest closet to get dressed.
-   _Metal Gear_:
    -   _Metal Gear Solid_: Meryl knocks out a guard named Johnny and strips him naked to steal his uniform. Ironically, the two will end up married in _Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots_.
    -   _Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty_: Near the end of the game, Raiden is knocked out and captured by Olga Gurlukovich and has his clothes and items taken from him. The next time he comes to, he's strapped naked to a table in a room, with only Scenery Censor preserving his modesty while Solidus and Ocelot discuss his past and torture him. Even after Raiden escapes, he still doesn't get his clothes back, so he's is forced to sneak through the next section naked while unable to defend himself as he is covering himself with his hands. Later, he finds Snake who finally gives him clothes to wear.
    -   Snake can knock out Major Raikov and undress him to steal his outfit and assume his identity. Snake can also kill him for it, in which case he will be one of the dead enemies in The Sorrow's river battle, still naked and shamefully clutching his crotch just like Raiden in 2.
-   _Outlast_: In the Whistleblower DLC, Waylon is knocked unconscious by Gluskin who has him stripped and Strapped to an Operating Table, planning to _castrate him with a buzzsaw_. Waylon manages to escape before it happens.
-   _Postal 2_: When The Postal Dude is knocked out and kidnapped, you wake up in a brewery dressed in an assless Gimp suit. After escaping and getting your weapons back, you then have to go to the laundromat to change back to your regular clothes.
-   _Rimworld_: Any pawn is capable of stripping another when they're unconscious, including Raiders or neutral NPCs. Due to the mechanic where clothes and armor getting a "Tainted Apparel" debuff when the pawn wearing them dies, this had the unintended side effect of players prioritizing their pawns to strip downed enemies during Raids and then leaving them to bleed out naked on the floor, while hauling off their clothes and equipment back to base. Rescuing them is also possible, but players and unlikely to do that unless they have good stats.
-   _Saints Row_:
    -   _Saints Row: The Third_: During the "Pimps Up, Hos Down" Stronghold mission, The Playa wakes up inside a Morningstar BSDM club naked and drugged up and goes on a Full-Frontal Assault against them.
    -   _Saints Row IV_: After getting abducted by the Zin, The Playa then wakes up alone and naked in a tank on the Zin mothership. Once again, they go on a Full-Frontal Assault for the rest of the mission upon escaping.
-   _Tormented Souls:_ Caroline Walker sets out to investigate the mysterious Wildberger mansion, but is knocked out upon entering. She wakes up naked, in a bathtub, and with one eye removed. Her clothes are nearby. The game explains how she lost her eye, but not why she was naked.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Kenka Bancho Otome_: After the Sweet Polly Oliver Hinako is stabbed by Tatsuo, she falls unconscious and Totomaru has to remove her clothes to tend to the wound and finds out Hinako is a girl in the proccess.
-   In _Tsukihime_, Shiki gets knocked out cold on his first night at the Tohno residence, and he wakes up next morning to find himself in pajamas. Hisui firmly tells him she changed him out of his clothes... including his underwear.

    Web Animation 

-   _Dead Fantasy_: A preview for a future episode before the series was cancelled shows that after Tifa Lockhart was beaten up and extremely bloody from her battle with Hayate and his ninjas, she wakes up naked with a Modesty Bedsheet.
-   A big question in _The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time_ is how Link changed his clothes (or pierced his ear!) during his seven-year sleep in the Sacred Realm. This fan video by Laura Kerger is based on the idea that Rauru did it. Rauru also decided that Link should have pierced ears, apparently.

    Webcomics 

-   _Dragon Mango_:
-   Inverted in one strip from _Ennui GO!_, when a family of creepy rednecks kidnap Izzy while she's deep asleep and naked after a night of wild sex. When she wakes up in their shack, they've dressed her in a white nightgown, which she wonders about once she's escaped them.
-   _Freefall_: To sneak Florence out of the hospital, Sam removes her hospital gown and dresses her up in Mr. Kornada's clothes, leaving a confused Florence to awaken wondering why she's wearing his pants.
-   _Girl Genius_:
-   _Kill Six Billion Demons_: Allison wakes up in fresh clothes after being Trapped in Another World, crashing into a gang fight, and passing out. It contributes to her Rage Breaking Point when White Chain starts interrogating her.
    
    **Allison:** I'm exhausted, my face is on fire, and I'm _pretty sure_ you've seen me naked—you, a person made of stone who is _lecturing_ me in a different language which _somehow_ I understand. _What the fuck is going on?!_
    
-   In chapter 3 of _Mias and Elle_, when letting Elle sleeping on his bed, Mias strips her down to her undergarments because he didn't want her dirty peasant clothes in his bed.
-   _Narbonic_: After Nick Cricetida is knocked unconscious, he awakes in the villainess Dr. Narbon's bedroom naked after she had her Iguana-Man Mook strip him.
-   _Outsider_: After his ship is destroyed, Jardin is adrift in space, until he's rescued by the Loroi, who bring him to their ship. When he awakes he's in the sickbay, naked, shackled to a bed and being questioned by the crew. After an unsuccessful attempt to Mind Probe him leaves him unconscious again, he awakens in a cell, this time fully clothed.
-   _Questionable Content_: Faye wakes up in Marten's apartment, confused about what happened last night and why she's not wearing any pants. It turns out Marten took them off since she vomited all over her pants and he didn't want vomit all over his bed.
-   _Unsounded_: Quigley wakes up after a Near-Death Experience to find that his son and an ally have brought them to safety and that his injuries are bandaged. He doesn't remark on his nudity at first, but over breakfast...
    
    **Quigley:** For your generosity, madam, we are indebted.  
    **Iori:** Oh, you paid your debt last night when I stitched that head of yours. I haven't had my hands all over a man so pretty since...
    
-   In _Yokoka's Quest_, when Yokoka passes through Betel's barrier, she changes back from being a cat to an adult person, in the same clothes she last wore, and passes out; her ripped child-sized clothes are removed by the time she wakes up in Yin's house. When Yokoka is beaten unconscious by Hurricane, her ruined clothes are removed and replaced with bandages when she wakes up being cared for by Grace.

    Web Original 

-   Quest Den: At the start of _Enclosed Curtains_, Lilly wakes up in an unknown room wearing pyjamas clearly not hers. After piecing together that she was rescued at sea, she meets Arthurius who quickly points out he had his sister change her clothes.

    Western Animation 

-   Played For Black Comedy in the _American Dad!_ episode "Vacation Goo." The rest of the family wake up in the goo, stripped to their underwear, because Steve wanted to get rid of them, leading to this exchange:
    
    **Hayley:** You _undressed_ me?  
    **Steve:** Uh, no, Toshi did.  
    **Toshi:** <I was not gentle.>
    
-   _Amphibia_: In "The Root of Evil", Anne and the Plantars (and Loggle) are knocked out when their wagon crashes, and they wake up in a village with their clothes having been replaced with white robes with a foral pattern (although Polly wasn't wearing any clothes aside from her bow to begin with).
-   _Batman: The Animated Series_:
    -   In "Mad as a Hatter", Mad Hatter kidnaps and hypnotizes his secretary whom he crushes on then dresses her up as the title character of _Alice's Adventures in Wonderland_.
    -   In "Baby-Doll", Baby-Doll goes after her old co-stars so they can "be a family again" kidnapping them by knocking them out and they all wake up at the studio where they had filmed their television program, all now wearing their old costumes.
-   _Batman Beyond_: Max gets kidnapped and wakes up in an Egyptian-esque tank top, skirt, and gold jewelry.
-   _Ed, Edd n Eddy_: In "Nagged to Ed", The Ed's get lost into a forest and end up falling into the mud and faint in terror when the Kanker Sisters come to help them. The Eds then wake up in the sisters' trailer to find the girls undressed them and put them into bathrobes that belonged to the Kankers' fathers, and their clothes are hanging to dry outside.
-   Book 4 of _Infinity Train_ reveals that this used to be the case for passengers, with them being dressed in uniforms in addition to having their memories made into tapes and being given their numbers during preparation. Though we only see the two protagonists wearing the uniforms, Word of God has confirmed that all passengers were dressed in them before Amelia convinced One-One, who was still known as One at the time, to return all the passenger's belongings to them and let newer passengers keep theirs so that they would be more individual. Judging by the fact that people continued to keep their belongings even after One-One returned as conductor, it seems to have been a positive influence.
-   _The Legend of Korra_: After Korra's knocked out during the penultimate episode of Season 3, she wakes up not only chained by all limbs but with a good deal of her outfit missing.
-   _The Powerpuff Girls (1998)_: The big twist of "The Bare Facts" is that Mojo Jojo removed all of the Mayor's clothes after knocking him out and kidnapping him. Mayor doesn't notice.
-   _Superman: The Animated Series_:
    -   In "Fun and Games", Lois Lane answer her door wearing a bathrobe and receives a box with a Creepy Doll that sprays Knockout Gas on her and she blacks out. When Lois wakes up, she's dressed like an old-fashioned cupie doll in Toyman's warehouse.
    -   In "Legacy" After rescuing an unconscious Supergirl from her military cell, Superman takes her to Professor Hamilton in the S.T.A.R. Labs. The next time we see of her, she's naked on an examination table while Hamilton and the others doctors check on her condition, with only Scenery Censor preserving her modesty.
-   _Young Justice (2010)_: In "Bereft", after an encounter with Psimon, the whole team has their memories of the last 6 months erased. When Artemis and Kid Flash wake up in a shack, Artemis is confused about her hero outfit (she wasn't a superhero 6 months prior) and suspects she's undergoing some sort of training mission from her father, Sportsmaster, and all but outright says Waking Up Elsewhere in a different outfit frequently happens to her whenever he pulls such stunts.

___