Rule of thumb for Klingon-Human hybrids: the more bony and pronounced the rubber forehead, the more purebred the Klingon.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 

Due to the prevalence of the Interspecies Romance, half-human and other varieties of interspecies hybrid children are fairly common in fiction. These characters may in turn conceive or sire children with pure-blood members of either parent's species, producing a second generation with a majority of one species and a minority of the other.

Such individuals are likely to demonstrate various traits from their minority ancestor, though such traits are likely to be more subtle the farther back said ancestor is.

Despite the general belief that hybrids are always sterile, this is actually not uncommon in real life. It even has a name: "introgression"; the resulting mixture of DNA is known as "admixture."

Compare Half-Human Hybrid and Non-Human Humanoid Hybrid for simple half-and-half combinations. Once three or more species get involved, you're dealing with a Heinz Hybrid. May overlap with Semi-Divine. For human/nonhuman examples, compare But Not Too Foreign, where a foreigner has their nation of residence's ethnicity somewhere in their ancestry.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   In _Beastars_, after myriad veiled hints, it's revealed that the reason why Legosi has been estranged from his paternal Grandfather (who helped raise him) is because of shame Legosi feels over being the result of an interspecies marriage. It comes to light that his grandfather is a komodo dragon who married his grandmother, a wolf. Though his negative feelings for his grandfather seem to have to do more with his mother’s suicide after she molted and grew scales than for his mixed heritage. Physically, he appears to be pure wolf, but is immune to komodo venom and his teeth can grow back.
-   _Claymore_: Claymores are humans implanted with Yoma mutagens. Claire is a 2nd-generation Claymore, implanted with the mutagens of a previous Claymore, making her 'one-fourth-Yoma'. This ends up a general advantage; while her power level is generally lower than that of first-generations, she doesn't run the risk of going berserk or turning into an Awakened abomination, meaning she can unleash her powers and mutate herself at least _four_ times without going insane. Later on, the Organization catches onto this and makes a new batch of 2nd-generation kids. According to them, the tests were extremely promising.
-   Couvert from _Dog Days_ comes from a race of squirrel people and has a human ancestor several generations back. As a result, she has a second pair of human ears hidden under her hair.
-   In _Dragon Ball_, Pan is three-quarter human and one quarter Saiyan through her grandfather Goku.
-   _Dragon Quest: The Adventure of Dai_: Dai is eventually revealed to be the child of the Dragon Knight (a human-dragon-demon hybrid created directly by the gods) and a human woman, effectively making him a second Dragon Knight (2/3 human, 1/6 demon, 1/6 dragon). Because Dai is mostly human, his blood lacks the healing properties of a true Dragon Knight, and he cannot enter their One-Winged Angel form which "discards the human heart". However, his uneven nature also has one bizarre and unprecedented side effect - when his human heart generates sufficient Heroic Willpower it can displace his demonic and draconic energies, forcing them to concentrate in one part of his body and granting him total control over their power. This has the visual effect of Dai's Dragon Crest moving from his forehead to his fist. In the final arc, after the true Dragon Knight forgoes reincarnating in order to bequeath all of his power to Dai, a second Dragon Crest appears on Dai's other fist, allowing him to access the power of the Dragon Knight's battle form without transforming.
-   _Genesis of Aquarion_: Silvia de Alisia and her brother Sirius are distant descendants of the Shadow Angel Apollonius and his human lover Celiane.
-   Moroha from the _Inuyasha_ sequel _Yashahime: Princess Half-Demon_ is three-quarters human and one-quarter demon, as her father Inuyasha is half-demon while her mother Kagome is fully human. Because her demon blood is so thin, she looks almost like a human. She has round ears, and her eyes and hair are ordinary human colors. Instead of fangs, she only has slightly enlarged canine teeth, and she also has small claws. Moroha is the only known quarter-demon, and although she is three quarters human, she is still superhumanly strong.
-   _Macross_:
    -   This becomes increasingly common in later series, as humans interbreed more and more with Zentraedi and other humanoid alien species:
    -   _Macross Frontier_: Ranka Lee is one quarter Zentraedi. This isn't brought up too often, but it is used to explain why her hair is naturally green, as well as why it moves (apparently a rare Zentran trait). She also chalks up being unharmed by a brief exposure to vacuum to her heritage (Zentraedi have been known to survive up to several minutes in vacuum unprotected).
    -   _Macross Delta_: Mirage Jenius is also quarter-Zentran (being a granddaughter of Max and Millia from _Super Dimension Fortress Macross_), and Reina Prowler has Zolan ancestry.
-   Marry Kozakura from _Mekakucity Actors_ is 1/4 Medusa on her mother's side, and as a result ages slower than a human (she's physically 14 but 140 chronologically) and possesses a weaker version of The Paralyzer power of her mother Shion and grandmother Azami, except hers isn't strong enough to turn people to stone (and the former only managed it at great cost to herself). And while she lacks the actual snake hair of her grandmother it does show Prehensile Hair tendencies and move when she's excited.
-   The premise of _Nura: Rise of the Yokai Clan_ is that the protagonist is the heir to a youkai yakuza family but is only one quarter youkai, and three quarters human.
-   In _One Piece_, minor character Chimney is a quarter mermaid through her grandmother, Kokoro. She looks entirely human, but she's a good swimmer.
-   _Ranma ½_: Herb, Lime and Mint of the Musk Empire are the distant descendants of animals cursed into humanoid women shapes and mated with human males. As a result, they've inherited animalistic traits and powers.
-   Angelica from _Superior_ is 1/4 bear demon via her paternal grandfather (represented by having a single demon eye that she keeps hidden behind her bangs). Her son with Lakshri is 1/8 demon.
-   You need a diagram to figure out all the Uneven Hybrids in _Tenchi Muyo!_. First, we start with the Juraian Emperor Azusa. He marries the mostly-human Funaho,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and they have a son, the 1/4 Juraian, 3/4s human Yosho. Later Azusa marries the half Jurain Misaki (her mother is from an unknown alien species) and they have two daughters, the 1/2 Juraian 1/4 human 1/4 other Ayeka and Sasami. Yosho disappears and, centuries later, has two daughters, Minaho and Kiyone, who are 1/8 Jurian, 3/8 human, and half Airain (another alien species) from their mother Airi. Kiyone then has Tenchi, who is 1/4 Airian, 1/16 Jurain and 11/16 human. _At least_. And Tenchi's dad Nobuyuki is _also_ a descendant of Yosho removed by several generations, so he's at least partially Juraian too. The problem here is that there is 700 years of history between Yosho's disappearance on Earth and when the story begins that we just don't know how much has been altered since Yosho's arrival.
-   _UQ Holder!_
    -   Isana Konoue is implied to be 1/8 tengu. Honoka might be as well, but she hasn't shown the ability to manifest wings.
    -   Touta considers himself to be Japanese, but his actually ancestry is a bit more complicated. He's 1/4 Welsh and 3/4 Ostian due to being an Artifical Human made from Negi and Asuna's DNA, the woman who gave birth to him as a surrogate is Japanese with potential tengu ancestry (either 1/4 or 1/8), and he was raised by a Scotswoman.
-   _Yuuna and the Haunted Hot Springs_: Nonko Arahabaki is descended from the infamous oni Shutendoji. This manifests as Super-Strength, an oni horn when she uses her power, and an inordinate fondness for alcohol.
-   _YuYu Hakusho_: Yusuke Urameshi is distantly descended from Raizen, a demon, and a human woman. He's far enough removed from Raizen that his demonic powers don't awaken the first time he dies until it happens again in his battle with Sensui.

    Comic Books 

-   _Invincible_:
    -   Mark "Invincible" Grayson is half human, half Viltrumite. He later fathers a daughter with Atom Eve, who is 3/4 human, 1/4 Viltrumite.
    -   In addition, when he is raped by the Viltrumite Anissa, she becomes pregnant with a son who is 1/4 human, 3/4 Viltrumite.
    -   Mark's half-brother, Oliver "Kid Omni-Man" Grayson, is a half-Viltrumite, half-Thraxan Non-Human Humanoid Hybrid. He later marries a shrimp-like alien named Haluma and has Non-Human Humanoid Hybrid children with _her_.
-   In _Superman_ stories:
    -   Pre-Crisis stories had Klar Ken, direct descendant of the first Superman living in the 30th century -later changed to 25th century-. He is the twentieth member of his family to take up the name. _The Dominus Effect_ storyline revealed he has a little sister named Kara, named after the first Supergirl.
    -   _Legion of Super-Heroes_: Before her nature -and eventually her very existence- was retconned out, Laurel Kent was the 31st century descendant of Clark Kent and Lois Lane.

    Fan Works 

-   _Bait and Switch_ has a minor character named Corpsman Watkins working when Eleya visits sickbay after a battle. Human name, but Eleya's narration says Watkins has some Betazoid blood. In a separate one-shot starring the same characters, Watkins says the proportion is about a third.
-   _Code Geass: Paladins of Voltron_: Revelations done in several chapters heavily imply that Lelouch (and by extension Nunnally) are one-quarter Galra on their mother's side.
-   _Eigengrau Zwei: Die Welt Ist Grau Geworden_: Blackbird Coffyn is the daughter of a hippogriff -half-pony, half-griffon- and a pony.
-   _Engie Main Multiverse_: _Pokemon Orange_ has a mostly-human, slightly-Pikachu Ash Ketchum.
-   _Guardians, Wizards, and Kung-Fu Fighters_:
    -   Many of the humans on Meridian have Galhot blood somewhere in their ancestry. This is why Wong looks for teens from Earth for his shapeshifter experiment trials.
    -   Galgheita is mostly Galhot, but has some Shapeshifter blood.
-   In _Hellsister Trilogy_, Superman's son, grandson, great-grandson, great-great-grandson _and_ great-great-great-grandson -respectively 1/2, 1/4, 1/16, 1/32 and 1/64 Kryptonian- join the Legion of Super-Heroes to fight Mordru and his army of superpowered villains.
-   _The Many Dates of Danny Fenton_: Regardless of the real or alternate endings, Danny's kids will have uneven genetics. Their father is half-human and half-ghost. His chosen girl, Kara Kent, is a Kryptonian. Marrying a ghost like Phantasma would make his child 1/4th human, marrying a human like Kim Possible makes would make them 1/4th ghost.
-   _Signs of Snow_ has a mostly-Andorian Harriet Potter. Courtesy of Bizarre Alien Sexes, she has _four_ genetic parents and the human one is the mother who carried her to term, so she inherited her mitochondrial DNA at least. However, her having magic and Lily's green eyes implies her human genes are a bit more numerous.
-   _The Silver Raven_: Nero is half witch, one quarter human, and one quarter demon.
-   In _Superman of 2499: The Great Confrontation_, the descendants of Superman and Supergirl have been marrying and breeding with humans and even Amazons during twenty generations. As a result of it, each member of the House of El has different strengths and even powers. Hence, Kath's brother getting crippled because he's super-strong but not invulnerable.
-   _The Twilight Man_: It is revealed in _Blood Obligation_ that Jonathan Joestar is one quarter nightman (the Pillar Men's race) on his mother side.
-   The _Star Trek (2009)_ fanfic _Written in the Stars_ has a _Three-Quarter_ Human Hybrid in Amanda Georgiana Kirk, born of Half-Human Hybrid Spock and full Human Fem!Kirk. It's mentioned in the first chapter that Amanda Kirk goes on to marry a human and have a daughter of her own, making Ama's kid a _very_ uneven hybrid (Seven-Eighths Human versus One-Eighth Vulcan).

    Film — Live-Action 

-   Martin Brundle, the Spin-Offspring protagonist of _The Fly II_, is 75% human and 25% fly due to his ill-fated father being a Half-Human Hybrid. Initially he looks completely human (though subject to Rapid Aging), but once the insect genes fully kick in he undergoes a Metamorphosis into a monster. Because he's born with the genes he's much stronger and faster than his father was, and because he's uneven he retains his human morals and intellect. In the end, spoiler:he manages to become fully human by swapping his fly genes with the human genes of the Big Bad, much to the latter's dismay.
-   At the end of _Little Nicky_, the title character (half-angel, half-demon) has kids with his human girlfriend, making them half-human, a quarter-demon and a quarter-angel.
    
    **Bystander:** Such a little angel!  
    **Beefy:** Only a quarter, ma'am.
    
-   Sil and her ilk from the _Species_ films are the result of mixing the DNA of a non-terrestrial lifeform with human, making them Half Human Hybrids. They are driven to procreate with humans in an attempt to outbreed them, but this actually creates quarter-alien offspring who are sterile.
-   _Splice_ features the gene mutant Dren. She is (probably) mostly human, but has many different strands of DNA from different animals. Ultimately, she is a humanoid with gills, wings, and a prehensile tail.
-   Eve from _Underworld (2003)_ is a combination of the vampire strain, the lycan strain and the Corvinus strain due to her mother being a vampire-Corvinus hybrid and her father a lycan-vampire hybrid.

    Literature 

-   Mikhail Akhmanov's _Arrivals from the Dark_ series is mainly focused on various descendants of Paul Richard Corcoran, whose mother is impregnated with the seed of a Faata while she is abducted. All of Paul's descendants fit this trope, although not all tend to manifest Faata Psychic Powers and unusually long life (the so-called "Corcoran Curse"). In fact, with each generation, the chances of the latent abilities manifesting are reduced, as the Faata genes get even more diluted by human blood. The _Trevelyan's Mission_ series takes place about 1000 years after the death of Paul Richard Corcoran, and the protagonist eventually finds out that he is one of Corcoran's descendants. By that point, the "Curse" has long been forgotten, as it hasn't manifested itself through Corcoran's countless descendants for a long time. And yes, Ivar Trevelyan ends up developing Psychic Powers himself.
-   _Discworld_:
    -   There are some families with a trace of elf blood (explaining why some early books had occasional references to "elves" who weren't _entirely_ sadistic monsters). This just gives them pointy ears and a tendency to giggle and sunburn easily.
    -   In _Soul Music_, one of Susan's classmates had a great-grandmother who was seduced by Blind Io, and is therefore a hemi-semi-demigoddess.
    -   It's also mentioned in some of the witch books that, while dwarf/human hybrids are rare, they are just common enough that some Lancrastrian families have a bit of dwarf blood. This _possibly_ explains why the Ogg family have natural talents towards magic and ironwork, as well as Nanny Ogg being a couple of heads shorter than most people. Nanny has suggested it may also explain Granny Weatherwax's "skills" at baking, but she was probably being sarcastic.
-   In _Dragon Bones_, there is Axiel, who is half dwarf, but doesn't look much like it, which results in most people thinking he's talking nonsense when he's drunk and claims to be the dwarf king's son. He's not. Also, the blood line of Hurog contains some dragon blood, which causes the typical blue eyes. Most of them don't even know about it, as it doesn't affect their everyday lives. Oreg, who is quarter dragon, seems to be the only one who can turn into a dragon, though.
-   The children of Tanis Half-Elven and Laurana in the later _Dragonlance_ books are 3/4 elf, 1/4 human. It's also mentioned that some of the Kagonesti or "Wild" elves have a small amount of human ancestry that Tanis can see in their faces.
-   The Tates from the _Garrett, P.I._ novels have a bit of elf blood on both sides of the family, although it's not obvious from their looks.
-   In the novels _Goblin Moon_ and _The Gnome's Engine_, Lord Skelbrooke is strongly implied to have a bit of fey blood. The Duchess is secretly an inversion, with a substantial degree of fey blood from both sides of her family.
-   _Harry Potter_:
    -   Fleur Delacour and her sister Gabrielle are quarter-Veelas through their grandmother. They lack a full Veela's ability to transform into a harpy-like form, but have inherited the supernatural beauty of their Veela ancestors. Word of God says that Fleur eventually has two daughters and a son with Bill, who would thus be 1/8th Veela.
    -   Similarly, Professor Flitwick has some distant goblin ancestry. As a result, he has a small stature, but otherwise looks exactly like a normal human.
    -   Madame Olympe Maxime is part-giantess, though she loathes to talk about it.
-   _The Heroes of Olympus_: When demigods and humans have children together, that child is called legacy. Legacies' children are also considered legacies regardless of whether the other parent is demigod, human, or legacy, although most legacies are quarter-gods. There are so many legacies in New Rome that almost every resident has some divine blood in them. But the further away the divine ancestor is, the weaker the legacy's powers. When Nico di Angelo sees Octavian (a legacy of Apollo) and Will Solace (a son of Apollo) together, he realizes that the divine, which makes Will special, is utterly absent from Octavian. Frank Zhang, despite being already a demigod, is also a legacy, as he is a distant descendant of Poseidon on his mother's side.
-   _InCryptid_: Fran was half-human and half-Kairos, and her descendants carry some of their unconscious luck powers, though it diminishes with each generation. The current generation is only 1/16 Kairos, though two of them (Elsie and Artie) are also half-lilu.
-   _Homecoming_: The lyquor (human/greatcat crosses) and maquor (human/dragon crosses) can both go down to one-eighth strength in either bloodline and retain their ability to change shape without a dedicated spell and access to both racial powers. However, the further the bloodline is from half-and-half the more painful the cross's non-dominant form is, the weaker their access to the non-dominant racial power, and the longer it takes to shift forms.
-   Late in the _Labyrinths of Echo_ series, Max learns that most of his colleagues have non-humans down their bloodlines: Juffin, like most Kettarians, has some werefox blood in him; Shurf is descended from the elves; Melifaro has both dwarven _and_ giant ancestors; Melamori has a lot of elven and faff blood. In fact, the only pure-blooded humans in Secret Investigations are Kofa and Max himself (insofar one disregards his birth in an entirely different world).
-   _Log Horizon_: There is lore about the MMO _Elder Tale_ saying that since the Alvs had a very low population, and since they historically intermarried with humans they've basically become extinct. However Alv genes live on in Humans in the present day. Their genes are plentiful enough that occasionally a Half Alv will be born to a human family due to the Alv genes being recessive.
-   The German booklet series _Maddrax_ has the mendrites, which are the children of hydrites and humans. Later there is also a whole city, in which humans, hydrites and mendrites have common descendants. As a result, most mendrites have different proportions of human and hydritic DNA. Some of them look almost like humans, while others look almost like hydrites.
-   _Malazan Book of the Fallen_: Though Clip appears to be mostly Tiste Andii, by his own admission he's also part Nerek (who in turn are themselves questionably human), Letherii and D'rhasilhani (which are both human ethnicities).
-   _Mushoku Tensei: Jobless Reincarnation_:
    -   Sylphiette has a half-elf as her father. Her mother was not fully human, but had beast race ancestry, which is why Sylphiette is not a pure quarter elf. She eventually has two children with the fully human Rudeus, named Lucy and Sieghart. Although both have only one-eighth elven blood, they still have Pointy Ears.
    -   Cliff Grimoire looks like a pure human. However, it is later revealed that he is a quarter halfling.
-   _October Daye_: Toby is an unusual case who was born half-human half-faerie, but whose bloodline was magically skewed towards human by her mother. Zig-zagged over the course of the series as Toby needs to alter the balance of her bloodlines; by the latest book, she's more fae than human.
-   _Oddly Enough_:
    -   In "In the Frog King's Court", main character Dennis discovers one of his ancestors was actually a frog who turned into a human, meaning he's mostly human but part frog himself from over twenty generations back. It's still enough to show through, giving him bigger eyes and a feeling of home whenever he's in a swamp.
    -   In "The Hardest, Kindest Gift", the main character is one eighth Fallen Angel; his father and uncles were each a quarter fallen angel, and displayed unusual features, with one having different-colored eyes and another a boar-like fang, as well as having a fearsome temper.
-   _Phantastes_: Anodos and some of the Fairy Land inhabitants are part-fairy:
    
    “You have fairy blood in you,” said she, looking hard at me.
    
    “How do you know that?”  
    “You could not have got so far into this wood if it were not so; and I am trying to find out some trace of it in your countenance. I think I see it.”  
    “What do you see?”  
    “Oh, never mind: I may be mistaken in that.”  
    “But how then do you come to live here?”  
    “Because I too have fairy blood in me.”
    
-   _The Reincarnation of the Strongest Exorcist in Another World_: Yifa can see elementals that are normally invisible to humans. She later learns that she is descended from the elves and that is why she has this ability. However, she looks completely human, which means her elf ancestor must be a long time ago.
-   _Re:Zero_: Frederica is the daughter of a human woman and a half-beast man. Because of this, she is three-quarters human. However, one visible sign of her non-human ancestry are her fangs. She can also take the form of a giant lioness.
-   In the _Sabina Kane_, series humans with red hair have a trace of vampire ancestry. (All vampires have red hair.)
-   _The Saga of the Noble Dead_:
    -   The half-elf Leesil meets a young woman in a village who is three-quarters elf and one-quarter human. Her elven grandmother was raped by three human bandits, and gave birth to a daughter shortly thereafter. This half-elf was the mother of said three-quarter elf, and she left the elf village because the elves considered her _too human_ and didn't get along with her.
    -   A later volume shows a noble family. Some of their ancestors belonged to the merfolk. For this reason, in every generation of her family, there is one person who feels a longing for the sea and slowly turns into a merman or a mermaid. Usually, the one who is affected is locked in the dungeon for some time, then there is a chance that they will turn back into a human. Other nobles are reluctant to marry into this family because they see it as a flaw that there are humans who are related in small part to the merfolk.
-   _The Shadowhunter Chronicles_:
    -   Tessa Gray is a warlock (demon-human child) who ended up marrying into the Herondales, a Shadowhunter family. This means that all of her Herondale descendants, including Jace Herondale, are part-demon. The Blackthorns may also be her possible descendants, as her daughter, Lucie, married a certain Jesse Blackthorn.
    -   Kit Herondale has some amount of faerie ancestry, since he's descended from the Lost Heir, the eldest daughter of the Seelie Queen and the Unseelie King.
    -   Sebastian Morgenstern is a shadowhunter who is partly a demon. His blood is demonic enough to set off a spell in Alicante that requires demonic blood. He is also much stronger than a regular shadowhunter. However, his demonic origins have completely tainted his personality, which angers Valentine.
    -   Helen and Mark Blackthorn are the children of a shadowhunter and a fairy. They are one quarter angel, one quarter human, and one half fairy. However, because the angel blood is dominant, they are still nephilim, like the other shadowhunters.
-   The Ohmsford family in the _Shannara_ books. The story starts with the half-elf, Shea, then continues with his descendants, whose elven blood becomes increasingly diluted through intermarriage with humans. Eventually, one of their lines marries back into the elves (Wren is a prominent example), and the main line marries an elf, though the resulting children, Redden and Railing, still consider themselves mostly human.
-   _Spinning Silver_: Irina has one Staryk ancestor, whose magic attenuated with each generation until she was left with only mild Supernatural Sensitivity. However, her Staryk silver jewellery amplifies that remnant enough to let her travel to and from the Staryk world.
-   _Star Trek_ novelverse:
    -   In the _Star Trek: Titan_ novels Will Riker and Deanna Troi try several times to have children. Deanna miscarries twice, then manages to carry a quarter-Betazoid daughter to term. The _Star Trek Online_ novel _The Needs Of The Many_ states in turn that Natasha Riker-Troi married Rene Picard (son of Jean-Luc Picard and Beverly Crusher) and had three children with him.
    -   Commander Phillipa Matthias, a minor character appearing in the _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine Relaunch_ series, is mostly human with a Vulcan grandfather. She in turn is married to a Bajoran and has two children with him. (Matthias also appears in _Star Trek Online_ as ship's counselor of the _Enterprise_\-F.)
-   In _The Stormlight Archive_, the Horneaters are the descendants of human and Parsh intermarriage. They look mostly like humans with stark red hair, although they have throat-teeth that let them eat horn and shells, hence their name. Vedens are an even more straight example, since they look entirely human with only their red hair being an indicator of their descent from the Horneaters. Herdazians are also descendants of human and Parsh intermarriage, though in their case it manifests with them having hardened, carapace-like fingernails.
-   Both _Theirs Not to Reason Why_ and _First Salik War_ feature several of these thanks to Feyori deliberately breeding their genetics into all possible sentient races over thousands of years.
-   _Tolkien's Legendarium_:
    -   Aragorn has distant elven and Maia (angel) ancestry by virtue of being descended from Elros Tar-Minyatur, the half-elven first King of Númenor. Elros was technically more elven than human,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and started out immortal, but chose mortality later in life. Elros' brother is Elrond, who remained immortal, and his elven children, Elladan, Elrohir, and Arwen, are thus part-human and part-Maia.
    -   Boromir and Faramir also have distant elven ancestry, as their late mother, Finduilas, was descended from Galador, the first Prince of Dol Amroth, whose mother was a Silvan Elf.
-   In the _Wild Cards_ series, Doctor Tachyon's grandson Blaise, who is three-quarters human.

    Live-Action TV 

-   The series _Angel_ has the half-demon Groosalugg. However, he is not really a half-demon, but simply a demon with human ancestors. In a kind of atavism, the human genes have come back to him so that he looks almost like a human being. Unfortunately this was a great disgrace to his folk.
    -   The comics show a half-demon named Mal Fraser. He claims to be three-quarters of a demon. Whether it is really so is not known, but the demonic characteristics are more pronounced in him than in most half-demons.
-   A major component of The Reveal in the _Babylon 5_ episode "Atonement". After Jeffrey Sinclair went back in time and became Minbari, he married a Minbari and had children. By the present day the number of Minbari with a touch of human ancestry is uncountable, and includes Delenn.
    -   A canonical comic based on the series implies that he actually married a time-displaced Catherine Sakai, and thus their children were more human than Minbari, which explains their being ostracized by Minbari culture-at-large, though by the present time the human DNA in their descendants was negligible after interbreeding with other Minbari.
    -   Sinclair/Valen himself qualifies, since after his Chrystalis Device transformation he looks fully Minbari, unlike Delenn who became visibly half-human half-Minbari, but "Atonement" establishes that he retained some human DNA.
    -   By the end of the series, Delenn and John Sheridan have a son named David, who thanks to Delenn's metamorphosis is mostly human but partly Minbari.
-   _Doctor Who_: Every aspect of this has been Retconned so often that it's hard to say, but assuming that it's still canon that the Doctor is "half-human on \[his\] mother's side", and that Susan really is his granddaughter, _and_ that all Susan's other grandparents were Time Lords, this would make Susan 7/8 Gallifreyan and 1/8 human. Alex, her son with David Campbell in _Big Finish Doctor Who_ would therefore be 9/16 human and 7/16 Gallifreyan. However, it's stated his genome is 93% human. This can probably be explained by "Gallifreyan genetics is _weird_".
-   In _Roswell, New Mexico_ Maria's great grandmother was an alien.
-   In the _Stargate SG-1_ episode "Space Race" the humans of the planet Hebridan were freed from the Goa'uld by the reptiloid Serrakin many years ago. The two species interbred, resulting in many individuals with varying degrees of human and Serrakin features.
    -   Michael from _Stargate Atlantis_ was once a Wraith (which are already a cross between humans and Iratus beetles), but was subjected to various genetic experiments by the Atlantis expedition that first turned him into a human, and then into one mixture of human and Wraith. Angry at this treatment, he subsequently became one of the worst opponents for the Atlantis expedition.
    -   Teyla learns that one of her ancestors fell victim to some genetic experiments by the Wraith. This makes her a small part Wraith. At first she is shocked, but later takes advantage of this fact when she realizes that she can communicate telepathically with the Wraith.
-   _Star Trek_ has a large number of Rubber-Forehead Aliens living alongside each other, sometimes leading to multigenerational hybridization:
    -   _Star Trek: The Next Generation_:
        -   In "The Drumhead", Simon Tarses, an enlisted man in the _Enterprise's_ medical department, is hounded by an admiral on a Witch Hunt on suspicion of being a spy because he has a Romulan grandfather. Tarses had claimed on his entrance application that his grandfather was Vulcan.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
        -   Worf's son Alexander Rozhenko is one quarter human, from his half-human mother's side.
        -   Devinoni Ral from "The Price" is 1/4 Betazoid, having minor empathetic abilities.
    -   _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_:
        -   A number of the descendants of the time-displaced Defiant crew in "Children of Time" have Klingon (Worf) and/or Trill (Dax) ancestry. Given that they are several generations removed from the original crew, their alien traits are fairly diluted (though still visible)
    -   _Star Trek: Voyager_:
        -   In the backstory to the two-parter "Year of Hell", Annorax's timeship does a Cosmic Retcon to erase the Krenim's rival species, the Rilnar, from history. This proves the undoing of the Krenim Imperium, because Krenim/Rilnar interbreeding in the distant past apparently introduced a crucial antibody to the Krenim genome, which the Cosmic Retcon cancels out. Annorax spends the next while trying to undo his mistake by erasing yet more species from history, which eventually brings him into conflict with Janeway and _Voyager_.
        -   In the final season, B'Elanna Torres, a human/Klingon hybrid, gets pregnant by her human husband Tom Paris. Their daughter Miral is born in the series finale. This becomes a problem for a Klingon cult that encounters the _Voyager_ in the Delta Quadrant in the episode "Prophecy". Their leader believes that their sacred scrolls indicate that the as-yet-unborn Miral will lead their people to their promised land (they've been flying around space since Kirk's time and didn't even know that the war was over). However, some of the followers don't look too kindly on the fact that Miral is only one-quarter Klingon.
        -   In a fourth season episode, Neelix explains that he's not 100% Talaxian as one of his great-grandparents was Mylean.
    -   _Star Trek: Enterprise_:
        -   Many of the descendants of the time-displaced Enterprise crew in "E" have mixed ancestry, ranging from Half-Human Hybrid Lorien to Phlox's part-Denobulan descendants and Archer's 1/8-th Icarian granddaughter.
        -   The time traveler Daniels is "more or less" human - genetically he is mostly human with various non-human markers.
    -   In _Star Trek: Picard_ William Riker and Deanna Troi have a daughter named Kestra Troi-Riker, who is 1/4 Betazoid. They also had an older son named Thaddeus, who has passed away by the time of the show.
-   Mel in _Tracker_. Her grandfather was supposed to have been Cirronian by Word of God, although it never was officially revealed onscreen before the show was axed. That makes her 3/4 human and 1/4 Cirronian.

    Mythology and Religion 

-   This is Older Than Dirt. King Gilgamesh from _The Epic of Gilgamesh_ was said to be two-thirds divine, one-third human. How this worked isn't clear; needless to say, they didn't exactly know how genetics worked when that was written.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   Classical Mythology:
    -   The story of Theseus, the legendary hero (he's the guy who killed the Minotaur) and King of Athens, who was 1/3 god and 2/3 human. Like the Sumerians with Gilgamesh, the Greeks thought they had this worked out: Aegeus, the childless King of Athens, doesn't understand the Oracle's prophecy on how he would have an heir. On his way home from Delphi, he drops in on his old friend Pittheus, the King of Troezen, who understands the prophecy. He therefore gets Aegeus dead drunk and has his (Pittheus') daughter Aethra seduce Aegeus. Shortly after Aegeus falls asleep, Aethra gets a vision of Athena guiding her to wade across a shallow strait to an island, where Poseidon rapes/seduces her. The result of this night is Theseus, who is reckoned to have two fathers (Aegeus and Poseidon), and therefore be one-third the child of Aegeus, one third of Poseidon, and one-third of Aethra. Descent from Aegeus gave Theseus the right to rule Athens; descent from Poseidon gave him power over the sea—thereby "explaining" why the Athenians were such good mariners.
    -   Achilles is usually described as the son of a human father and sea nymph, but that is an oversimplification. His father Peleus was a paternal descendant of Zeus, giving him and Achilles Olympian and Titan ancestry. In addition to Zeus, a few of Achilles' female paternal ancestors were nymphs like his mother and some accounts even say his grandfather the centaur Chiron (who mentored him and several other heroes), which gives him quite the heritage. To top it all off Achilles was also the heir to the Myrmidon throne. While the king was not descended from ants the way the rest of the Myrmidons were,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  it's not recorded whether Peleus' ancestors had ever married locally or not.
-   According to Japanese Mythology, all Japanese emperors are part-divine, as their mythical ancestor King Jimmu was descended from a couple of gods, most notably Amaterasu, but also Oyamatsumi and Ryujin.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Ars Magica_: The Virtue "Faerie Blood" signifies distant faerie ancestry, granting a longer lifespan and a bonus specific to the type of fay (e.g.: to Craft skills, for the Dwarf-blooded). "Strong Faerie Blood" has greater effects (and a Mark of the Supernatural) but tends to signify a Half-Human Hybrid.
-   _Dungeons & Dragons_
    -   In 2nd edition _AD&D_, products of elf/human interbreeding with claim to 50% or more elven blood always had the characteristics of half-elves, while those with less than 50% elvish ancestry were functionally human.
    -   The various types of Planetouched are individuals that are mostly a mundane species (human, elf, orc, etc.) but have some blood from an ancestor at least one generation removed who was of extraplanar origin, sometimes even a deity. The most iconic are the Tieflings (fiendish ancestry), Aasimar (celestial ancestry) and Genasi (Elemental ancestry), but there are myriad others. Even tieflings have their own subraces such as the Fey'ri (elf/demon), Tanarukk (orc/demon), Baphitaur (minotaur/demon) and Worghest (barghest/goblin).
    -   In the _Forgotten Realms_ setting in particular there are a lot of tieflings and aasimar in Mulhorand and Unther, since those nations were ruled directly for centuries by avatars of their gods (imported versions of the Egyptian and Sumerian pantheons) who frequently took human concubines.
    -   The _Forgotten Realms_ setting is full of planetouched in general; genasi are common enough that rules for playing them in Dungeons & Dragons 3rd Edition and Dungeons & Dragons 4th Edition appeared exclusively in Realms sourcebooks, whereas aasimar and tieflings had appeared in the core Monster Manual of third edition. The Realms also introduced all of the aforementioned tiefling subraces, as well as some aasimar (celadrin; elf/firre eladrin) and genasi (djinn/halfling d'hin and azer/dwarf azerblood) subraces.
    -   The 3.5E supplement _Expedition to the Demonweb Pits_ introduces "cambions" (normally a generic term for half-fiends) as a reverse uneven hybrid born when a male demon mates with a female planetouched of any kind. There are also noble cambions born when a demon lord or prince mates with a female half-fiend.
    -   Sorcerers getting their inherent magical powers from a distant ancestor (usually draconic) has been at least an option, if not the default assumption, in terms of their lore since their debut in 3rd edition.
    -   The 3.5E supplement _Planar Handbook_ introduced heritage feats that allowed characters to have a tinge of extraplanar blood, granting various bonuses.
    -   3rd edition's Celestial, Draconic, and Fiendish templates were often used to represent the offspring of the assorted "Half-" templates with other members of their base race.
    -   Spellscales were a Draconic Humanoid race introduced in 3rd edition who are spontaneously born to humanoids with distant draconic ancestry, especially sorcerers. As a result, they look like (half-)elves with brilliantly colored scaly skin, whereas most of the Draconic Humanoid races look more like humanoid dragons.
    -   An article in _Dragon_ #313 introduced the four half-undead races; the Khatane (half-vampire); the Fetch (half-ghost); the Ghedan (half-zombie) and the Ghul (half-ghoul). It also introduced the Mortif, the result of half-undead interbreeding with living beings, essentially their equivalent to the Tiefling, Aasimar and Genasi.
    -   The Eneko from _Eberron_ are a result of crossbreeding between half-giants (the product of human/giant unions) and either ogres or ogre magi, resulting in a race that is 3/4ths giant to 1/4th human.
-   _Leviathan: The Tempest:_ As the source material puts it, the titular leviathans are God/Monster hybrids with a trace of humanity. There are also the Lahmassu, who are more like Human/Monster hybrids with a trace of the divine.
-   _Pathfinder_:
    -   Tieflings and aasimar show up again as mortals whose ancestry includes a fiend or celestial, respectively, somewhere way back in their family tree, further divided into various subtypes depending on which specific type of fiend or celestial they trace their ancestry to. Likewise, there also the sylphs, undines, oreads, ifrits, and suli, humans whose distant ancestors had children with creatures from the elemental planes. There are also aphorites (artificial hybrids of humanoids and Lawful Neutral axiomites), ganzi (Chaotic Neutral mixes, although these more are more commonly children of humanoids who have been exposed to elemental chaos), and fetchlings (Plane of Shadow). Human characters also have options to be descended from _any_ humanoid species mixed in among their ancestry to represent this trope (the more even hybrids are treated as separate races).
    -   The Racial Heritage feat from the _Advanced Player's Guide_ allows a human character to qualify for feats specific to other races on grounds that they have an ancestor of that race (e.g. a dwarf grandfather).
    -   Half-elven "Round Ears" (half-elves that look nearly entirely human) are _mechanically_ half-elves, but in terms of parentage they are often the children of humans with only faint traces of elven ancestry.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_: This is fundamental to how Genestealers infiltrate planets. Early hybrids are obvious, often having extra arms, claws, scales and so on. Later generations are often able to pass for human with small efforts at disguise, and by the fourth generation they are indistinguishable from real humans. All offspring of a fourth generation hybrid will always be purestrain genestealers so you will never have a hybrid less than 1/16 genestealer.

    Video Games 

-   In _Arcanum: Of Steamworks & Magick Obscura_, one of the possible backgrounds for a custom human PC is Elven Ancestry, which gives them a higher magical aptitude at the start of the game.
-   Throughout the _Assassin's Creed_ series, some Assassin members who can use Eagle Vision are the descendants of Those Who Came Before.
-   _Devil May Cry 4_ has Nero, who is implied to be a quarter-demon, with all the perks that come with it like Super-Strength. Though his exact parentage went unconfirmed for a while, the story does point out that he has Sparda's blood within him, and both the _Devil May Cry: 3142 Graphics Art_ artbook and _Devil May Cry 5_ confirm that he's the son of Vergil.
-   In _Dragon Ball Online_, all human characters were confirmed to be direct descendants of Goku or Vegeta, giving them at least some Saiyan blood within them.
-   Possibly in _Dragon Quest IV_, the hero is half-Zenithian, but what is implied to be their grandfather at the Woodcutter's Hut is depicted with a dwarf sprite, possibly making them 1/4 human, 1/4 dwarven and 1/2 Zenithian.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_
    -   This is the case for all mixed-race hybrids in the series, averting All Genes Are Codominant. Throughout the series, several in-game books and backstory details indicate that each race of Men (Imperial, Breton, Redguard, Nord) and Mer ("Elves" - Altmer, Dunmer, Bosmer, Orsimer) can indeed interbreed, with the race of the offspring usually being virtually identical to the mother, with a few of the father's traits potentially sprinkled in.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  For example, if an Altmer father and Nord mother produce a child, it wouldn't be a Magic Knight combination of each race. Instead, the child would be almost entirely Nord with the potential of having some Altmeri traits, such as slight points to his ears, higher cheekbones, or a slightly different skin tone.
    -   The Bretons are the most famous hybrid race in Tamriel. Their (human) ancestors were Breeding Slaves to the Direnni Altmer of High Rock. Over the course of many generations, some of the Elven traits started to come through with greater dominance. This has led the Bretons to be the most magically inclined race of Men in Tamriel at the cost of some of the Humans Are Warriors traits of the other races of Men. It still isn't accurate to call the Bretons "half human" hybrids, however. They are still almost entirely human with _some_ Altmeri ancestry. It's noted that some elite noble Breton families still have slightly pointed ears.
    -   The Bosmer are said to be result of ancient hybridization as well. When the Aldmer (Precursors to all of the modern Elven races) first settled in Valenwood, they started to take "Mannish wives," leading to the modern Bosmer. It is worth noting that out of all the races of Mer, the Bosmer are the ones who look closest to humans and have the most human-like skin tones. In the exact opposite of the Bretons, the Bosmer are still almost entirely Mer.
-   Ceodore Harvey in _Final Fantasy IV: The After Years_ is the son of Cecil, a Half-Human Hybrid with a human mother and Lunarian father, and Rosa who is an ordinary woman.
-   _Fire Emblem_
    -   In _Fire Emblem: The Blazing Blade_, one of Eliwood's potential brides is Ninian, who is half Ice Dragon. This can make his son, Roy, 1/4 dragon. It doesn't come up in either game, though.
    -   Morgan can be this in _Fire Emblem: Awakening_, but only in the case of a male Robin marrying the half-Manakete Nah or a female Robin marrying the half-Taguel Yarne.
    -   Corrin from _Fire Emblem Fates_ is half-dragon. This means that their child, Kana, is 1/4 dragon by default, as will any other children they have. Bonus points if Corrin marries Kaden or Keaton, since it will make Kana 1/4 dragon, 1/4 human and 1/2 Kitsune or Wolfskin, along with their sister Selkie or Velouria. If Corrin marries the latter two, or a Shigure fathered by one of the former two, Kana will be 1/4 dragon, 1/2 human and 1/4 Kitsune or Wolfskin.
-   In _Jurassic World Alive_: Some superhybrids resemble this tropes, with more dominant genes and body plans taking over and recessive DNA becoming vestigial or straight-up lost between subsequent fusions.
-   _League of Legends_ has a human-adjacent race known as the vastaya, who are ostensibly a chimeric race of humanoid animal people naturally empowered with magic ability (technically, they're descendants from humans once empowered with spirit magic that allowed them to shapeshift into various living creatures, presently possessing a greatly diluted form of said magic influencing their bestial forms). Sett the Boss was born from a human father and a vastaya mother, and leans towards being a human with wolverine ears and a few patches of fur, as well as a small amount of vastaya magic (though he just prefers simply punching his opponents to smithereens).
-   Samus Aran from _Metroid_ was born full human (albeit space-faring) before having her DNA spliced with two different species of Chozo as a young child, making her 1/3 human, 2/3 Chozo. After being infected with the X Parasite in _Metroid Fusion_, she is then fused with Metroid DNA, making her at least partially a Metroid, able to absorb X Parasites and life force from others.
-   This is the way that the mixed-breed monsters in _Monster Rancher_ work - you've got the main breed, which determines what family the monster belongs to, and then the sub breed, which incorporates aspects from that breed and adds them onto the main breed. The original game explains this as being "an X made from a Y" - for example, a Rover/Hare Hound is a Tiger/Hare and has the appearance of a Tiger with long ears instead of horns and the Hare's brown and tan color scheme, while a Pulsar/Blue Hare/Pulscorn is a Hare/Tiger and has the appearance of a Hare with a horn on its head and the Tiger's blue and white colour scheme. Combining monsters usually results in a roulette of LEGO Genetics: the resultant monster could even be a member of one of the parents' sub-breed's families instead of one of the parents' families.
-   Atrus of the _Myst_ games is one-quarter D'ni, making his sons, Sirrus and Achenar, and daughter Yeesha, a local Messianic Archetype, one-eighth.
-   _Neverwinter Nights: Hordes of the Underdark_ has Valen Shadowbreath, a tiefling with very strong demonic blood.
-   _Neverwinter Nights 2_:
    -   Tieflings (human/fiend) and aasimar (human/celestial) are playable races in the original campaign. _Mask of the Betrayer_ adds four kinds of genasi (human/elemental).
    -   Original campaign:
        -   Neeshka, the party's rogue, is a tiefling stated to be 1/4 devil. Mephasm, a pit fiend in the game's recurring cast, makes various suggestions that he's her grandfather.
        -   Recurring NPC Light of Heavens and her twin Joy are a pair of aasimar (humans with celestial blood) serving Lathander. Light of Heavens is a Divine Champion, while Joy is a dancer.
    -   _Storm of Zehir_:
        -   The background feats "Fey Heritage" and "Fiendish Heritage" allow respectively non-lawful and non-good player characters to have a tinge of fey or fiendish blood. Turns into Heinz Hybrid with half-elves, half-orcs, and planetouched, or if you use them both on a human.<sup>*&nbsp;</sup> 
        -   Belueth the Calm is a Neutral Evil aasimar rogue who is Only in It for the Money.
        -   One sidequest has the party investigating the theft of the Hammer of Ironfist by a group of genasi bards. Another has a genasi from Sigil who is gathering items for a museum there.
-   Ayn's children in _Phantasy Star III_ are destined to be this, as he is half-Layan, and he must marry either a pureblood Layan (Thea) or a pureblood Orakian (Sari); Sean is three-quarters Layan, and Crys is one-quarter. This basically results in Sean having a much more diverse range of techniques at his disposal than Crys.
-   _StarCraft II_: The Protoss-Zerg Hybrids come in two varieties: The close-combat Reaver has more zerglike features like external mandibles and huge claws, the Destroyer looks much more like a protoss, with psionic tendrils and psychic abilities.
-   _Star Ocean_:
    -   _Star Ocean_ has Roddick Farrence. It's revealed at the end of the fourth game to have Earthling ancestry around three hundred years back.
    -   Emmerson Kenny in _Star Ocean: Integrity and Faithlessness_ is implied to be descended from Claude Kenny and Rena Lanford, the protagonists of _Star Ocean: The Second Story_. Claude and Rena were an Earthling/Nedian couple, making Emmerson an Earthling with Nedian ancestry, which he passes on to his own descendents such as his granddaughter Marielle in _Star Ocean: The Divine Force_.
-   _Star Trek Online_: Admiral D'Vak, a Klingon NPC who commands the USS _Houston_ as part of Star Fleet Battle Group Omega, is the son of Alexander Rozhenko by a Klingon woman according to _The Path to 2409_. This makes him 1/8 human. Miral Paris from _Star Trek: Voyager_ and Phillipa Matthias from the novelverse also make appearances, and Miral's hybridized genome proves key to curing the Augment virus that ravaged the Klingon Empire from _Enterprise_ through the original series.
-   _Star Wars: The Old Republic_:
    -   In ancient times, the Sith species interbred with human slaves. The result is the so-called Sith Pureblood player race, red-skinned Rubber-Forehead Aliens. (_Actual_ pure Sith went extinct long ago.)
    -   The Sith Inquisitor PC, no matter their species, is revealed at the end of their Dromund Kaas arc to be a descendant of the ancient Sith Lord Aloysius Kallig, whose Force ghost is human-shaped. Twi'leks and Zabraks are among the free-to-play race options for this class.
-   Half-elves are prominent in _Tales of Phantasia_, its prequel, _Tales of Symphonia_, and related spin-offs. This naturally leads to further interbreeding with their parent races, usually humans. Characters confirmed to have diluted elven blood include Sheena Fujibyashi, whose elven blood allows her to use Summon Magic; Seles Wilder, the daughter of a half-elf and a pure-blooded human; Marta Laudi, whose distant elven ancestry allows her to use magic; Trinicus D. Morrison, the descendent of a famous half-elf; and Lenios, the magic-wielding mayor of Belledam. To note, quarter elven blood and further divisons allow for magic use, but seemingly not longevity that allows Elves and half-elves to live for hundreds of years.

    Webcomics 

-   Chloe in _Angel Down_ states that her most recent demonic ancestor is many generations back, and as such she is mostly human. Because of this her Psychic Powers are rather weak.
-   The three Klownikov children of _Cirque Royale_—the twins Claudette and Charlie, and their little sister Red—are 3/4th clown and 1/4th mime; their father Kingston is half Mime from his mother. Mime genes are more dominant than clown so they have a lot more mime traits.
-   Brent in _Daughter of the Lilies_ is one-quarter orc, and looks mostly human save for Pointed Ears and pronounced canines. Except when he gets angry, his eyes turn black.
-   The Drowolath and Drowussu of _Drowtales_ only rarely intermix, with such unions being discouraged because of their differing cultures, but given that certain physical traits known mostly in one race can show up in the other it's likely there are far more uneven hybrids of the two than anyone really wants to acknowledge. As recounted in the story's prologue the Dutan'vir clan was once largely composed of them, but after their clan fell in a Trauma Conga Line they've largely been scattered. Drowussu uneven hybrids among the Kyorl'solenurn tend to downplay their ancestry, while Drowolath don't seem to care as much. Once such character who's the latter, Kery'awa, is described as having a small amount of 'ssu ancestry that mostly manifests in her curly hair.
-   In _El Goonish Shive_, it's eventually revealed that all Wizards are part Immortal which comes as a shock to the Immortals themselves, who had made themselves believe their own offspring (called Elves) were sterile, to prevent them from forming attachments that would prevent them from "resetting" themselves after several centuries.
-   In _Gunnerkrigg Court_, Antimony discovers she's descended from a fire elemental. Aside from giving her access to some magic, she also apparently inherited her mother's "flame" meaning that after Annie was born, she suffered a sort of delayed Death by Childbirth as her vitality was transferred to her.
-   Human mages in _Inverloch_ are descendants of half-elves. Since the races haven't mixed for generations, mages have lost their pointy ears, and gained a lot of redheads as their ancestors kept the blood in the family.
-   In the D&D comic _The Order of the Stick_ the Draketooths were descended from a black dragon and a human. Said black dragon was a relative of the one Vaarsuvius had cast Familicide on in the previous book, which meant the Draketooths were killed too.
-   In _Scurry And Cover_, Beasts and humans can mix. The protagonist, Nozomi, is a three-quarters human, one-quarter rat girl. She is very visibly more human-like than her half rat mother, or her full rat grandfather.
-   _xkcd_ has scientists creating a hybrid between a spoon and a spork, and proposing that they could create fork/spoon hybrids in other nontraditional combinations. Turns out there are things man was not meant to know about sporks.

    Web Original 

-   _Chakona Space_: When Chakats interbreed with compatible species such as wolftaurs or foxtaurs the cubs are usually Chakats with some of their other parent's coloration. Though with newer species like Skunktaurs and Stellar Foxtaurs it depends on which was the mother, and since those species are either Hermaphrodites or Sex Shifters that could be either one of them.
-   _Lioden_: Hybrids that are second-generation and onward (having a majority of lion DNA) have a lower chance of passing their mutation onto their cubs than first-generation hybrids do. Additionally, later generation hybrids inherit fur colors and markings from their parents as all lions do, while first-generation hybrids are born with unique genetics that come from their tiger or leopard parent.
-   _Serina_:
    -   As the tundra gravediggers were forced south by the growing ice age, they entered the territory of the southern gravediggers and for the most part forcibly displaced them, driving them extinct except for a smaller group that retreated onto marine ice shelves. Before this happened, some tundra gravediggers forcefully mated with southern gravediggers, creating hybrids that afterwards bred back with both surviving populations. Eventually, the resulting descendant species were both primarily descended from one ancestor group, with a small contribution from the other — the savage gravediggers descend primarily from tundra gravediggers with a small southern contribution, while the icefishers descend chiefly from southern gravediggers and a few southern-tundra hybrids.
    -   The woolly wumpos are descended from hybridization between the closely-related desert wump and wooly trunko species, but as the trunkos were more common they also contributed more of their genome — about eighty percent of the final total. Further, natural selection favored the persistence of different traits from each parent species, so that the trunko's genetic legacy mostly came in the form of their larger size, higher intelligence, and social behavior, while the wumps' mainly passed down physical traits for more efficient digestion and resource use, physical endurance, and a stronger sense of smell.
-   _Subeta_: Councillor Connor Rainsong's vitiligo indicates that he is this, as Subetan natives don't have any of the mutations that cause it.

    Western Animation 

-   _Ben 10: Alien Force_: In season 1, it's revealed that Gwen and Ben are both 1/4 Anodite, courtesy of their grandmother, Verdona Tennyson. She met Grandpa Max when he saved her from some aliens and she got together with him. Gwen can take advantage of this, Ben apparently cannot.
-   _Dan Vs._: Chris is 1/16th Canadian. It should be noted that in this series, Canadians are werebears.
-   _DuckTales (2017)_: The series finale reveals that Bradford Buzzard (and by extension his magical clones Buford and Bentley) is one quarter finch via his maternal grandmother Isabella Finch.
-   _Gargoyles_ features Alexander Xanatos. His mother is half human and half fairy (even the daughter of the fairy queen Titania), and because his father is a human, he is one quarter fairy. Still, he is able to use magic.
    -   The new Olympians are hybrids of humans, animals and fairies. Fairies can change they shape and mate with any other creature. And somehow that's how the new Olympians came about, who look largely like various beastmen.
    -   Delilah is a lab-created gargoyle with ten percent of Elisa's DNA. Essentially, she's just a gargoyle with a human complexion.
-   _Hilda_: Hilda’s maternal grandfather Phinium is revealed to be a fairy, making Hilda 1/4 fairy . This also explains her unordinary blue hair color, which she inherited Phinium as well.
-   _The Owl House_: It implied during the show (and confirmed in a post-series livestream) that Caleb Wittebane was an ancestor of the Clawthorne family, which means that Eda, Lilith, and their father Dell are all part human (if only by a very small percent, given that he died around 300 years before either of the sisters were born).
-   _Steven Universe_: The title character is a Half-Human Hybrid that can fuse with humans or gems. Since he's the only hybrid known to exist, any of his fusions will be an uneven mix, outside the low probably of fusing with another human and gem at the same time: Stevonnie (Steven+Connie) and Steg (Steven+Greg) are 1/4 Gem and 3/4 human, Smoky Quartz (Steven+Amethyst) and Rainbow Quartz 2.0 (Steven+Pearl) are 3/4 gem and 1/4 human, Sunstone (Steven+Garnet) is 5/6 Gem and 1/6 human, and Obsidian (Steven+Garnet+Amethyst+Pearl) is 90% Gem, 10% human.

    Real Life 

-   As the other Wiki discusses, this is basically the difference between modern _Homo sapiens_ and our early _Homo sapiens_ ancestors. Members of different species of the _Homo_ genus are known to have interbred. Today, pretty much every human outside of ancestral Africa has a small percentage of Neanderthal DNA, and probably at least two others: _Denisovans_ and a "ghost member" of _Homo_ (which is known _only_ by its genetic footprint, unlike _Denisovans_). Ancestral Africans also have admixture, although the species involved are basically unknown, due to the rapidity of human evolution there during the period.
-   Although male mules are always sterile, despite what Encyclopedia Brown thinks, female mules are sometimes fertile. There have been approximately 60 documented cases where female mules have been bred to male horses or donkeys and produced viable foals. The opposite cross, the hinny, while much less common, has at least one confirmed fertile case (like the mule, the males are sterile). Interestingly, the resulting progeny are not actually "uneven", despite uneven ancestry: it depends on the sire. A mule will produce a horse with a horse and another mule with donkey; a hinny will produce a donkey with a donkey and another hinny with a horse. That said, there have been typical uneven hybrid results from backcrossing... a mere 3 out of 60 cases.
-   African Wildcats are prone to it because their descendants, domestic cats, are so widespread. There’s worry that pure wild cats will become more rare if they keep interbreeding. This is also the case for the Scottish Wildcat. To make matters more complicated, Wildcats are a species complex, meaning that the lines between the species involved are vague. There have also been other examples of the domestic cat producing fertile offspring with other small wild felines, both naturally and by human prompting.
    -   Bengals are a cat breed produced by breeding a domestic cat with an Asian leopard cat, a type of wild cat. These hybrids are bred with other, pure domestic cats to produce a more manageable (and widely legal) pet. Similarly, the Savannah is a cat breed produced by crossbreeding a serval with a domestic cat. As with the Bengal, the offspring are typically bred with full domestic cats.
-   The same also sometimes happens with wolves and domestic dogs; people want a dog that looks like a wolf but behaves like a dog. A half wolf, half dog is usually too much for most people, but breeding it with another dog is done to produce dogs that behave more like dogs. Meanwhile in Australia, dingos and domestic dogs frequently interbreed, and there aren't many purebred dingos left. Worth noting, all three animals are technically the same species, _Canis lupus_, but they're different enough to be considered separate subspecies (the timber wolf is _C. lupus lupus_, the dog is _C. lupus familiaris_, the dingo is _C. lupus dingo_). Wolves have also been known to produce fertile hybrids with a number of other species in the genus _Canis_; in fact the eastern wolf, _C. lupus lycaon_, has been theorized to have originated from a timber wolf/coyote cross. This can also happen naturally.
-   As with mules, it's a little-known fact that although the males are sterile as a rule, female ligers (ligresses) are sometimes fertile, and can cross with male lions or tigers to produce li-ligers and ti-ligers.
-   Many North American buffalo herds have a small percentage of domestic cattle DNA. In fact, only about four buffalo herds are pure buffalo.
-   A wholphin is a cross between a female bottlenose dolphin and a male false killer whale. The first captive wholphin to survive to breeding age, a female, produced three offspring with male bottlenose dolphins, although only one survived to adulthood.
    -   Dall's porpoises and harbor porpoises interbreed fairly often, and there is at least one documented case of a fertile female hybrid producing offspring with one of its parent species.
-   The modern domestic chicken is the many-thousand-generations' Uneven Hybrid descendant of the red junglefowl (_Gallus gallus_), but with some admixture of grey junglefowl (_Gallus sonneratii_). The latter ancestry is why chickens have yellow legs rather than black.
    -   Meanwhile, the _actual_ red junglefowl is in the same boat as the North American bison, having interbred with feral chickens throughout virtually all of its native Asian range. The purest known bloodline is actually being maintained in captivity, having been brought to North America in the early 20th century and kept isolated from domestic fowl.
-   In addition to the other threats it faces, the sable, _Martes zibellina_, also has a tendency to breed with pine martens, resulting in frequently fertile offspring (known as "kiduses").

___